
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Minority decision causes diverse reactions 
Last week's Student Senate vote against making ad-hoc MAC a recognized part ofstudent government angers, prompts action 
"The number one issue is Boyd said she was angered The committee was formed in MAC chair Destinee DeLemos 
By KAREN LANGLEY that MAC represents 20 per­by the amendment's defeat -a April 2005 with the goal of giv­met to compose the amend­
Associate News Editor cent of the student body," said vote she said she had not ing a voice in student govern­ment, which would have estab­
Rhea Boyd, who chaired MAC expected. ment to racially underrepre­lished the committee perma­
The Student Senate's defeat this past year. "To have that But the issue will soon resur­sented groups. Before that nently as a "means of expres­last Wednesday of an amend­huge of a 
face. Student body president time, issues of race had been sion for racially and ethnically ment to make the ad-hoc constituency Lizzi Shappell said Friday she addressed by the permanent marginalized students." Minority Affairs committee without a expects a new resolution to be Senate Diversity committee. Last Tuesday -the night (MAC) a constitutionally-recog­voice in stu­ready within a few weeks after That committee now under­before the Senate meeting ­nized part of student govern­dent govern­review by a newly established takes issues related to religious Baron, Shappell and Liu met ment has angered some stu­ment is un­task force. affiliation, sexual orientation with Boyd. At that meeting, dent leaders and prompted oth­fathomable. "In no way are we eliminat­and socioeconomics. they suggested the amendment ers to accelerate the comple­People's ing MAC," she said. "It's a mat­In March, then-student body be taken off the Senate agenda tion of a revised amendment. racial and ter of articulating it best." president Dave Baron, then­until it could undergo further 
The issue at hand, leaders ethnic identi-The Senate's Wednesday student body vice president revision. said, is the attention given to ties are such Boyd meeting was the last of the Lizzi Shappell, then-MAC chair "There was no attempt to the minority voice within the a huge part of their Notre 2005-06 student government Rhea Boyd, then-Diversity com­student body. Dame identities." term, which ended Friday. mittee chair Sarah Liu and new see MAC/page 6 
Students find Facebook insecure forutn for postings 
SMC professors access personal messages ND students attempt to enhance security 
classmates immediately thought By LIZ HARTER and of the popular Web site. 
MEGAN O'NEIL 
"I had no idea professors 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writers 
could be on Facebook at all ... 
News Writer 
that was a real shock to me," In early March, Saint Mary's Rizzo said. 
Kristin, a Notre Dame 
senior Angela Rizzo posted the Rizzo said the lecture left her 
sophomore living on campus
following message on her feeling guilty. She logged on to 
who has asked that her last
Facebook.com profile. her profile to check if it con­
name not be disclosed, felt
"To my nursing faculty secret­tained any postings or photo­her privacy had been violat­ly trying to spy on us ... posing graphs that could be deemed 
ed after she was approached 
as students on Facebook -ya inappropriate and activated the 
by members of her dorm's 
found me!! I'm not as interest­site's option to restrict who 
hall staff concerning a
ing as you'd think ... No secrets could view it. She discovered 
Facebook.com group she 
here!! You guys should start that Zoeller and several other 
belonged entitled Shower 
asking us to be your friends ... professors were listed, some as Power Hour -a group cen­make it into a joke, please ... " undergraduates. 
tered drinking in the dorm 
The disclaimer came in "The first week everyone was showers. 
response to a lecture she and mad ... I know of girls who took Kristin and other members fellow nursing majors received all of their pictures off 
of the group were repri­
from nursing department chair Facebook. It kind of ruined it 
manded by their rectress for 
Linda Zoeller earlier this semes­because facebook was a fun being in the club and told to 
ter on unacceptable Internet way to keep in contact with 
remove the profile from
postings. Rizzo said staff mem­friends," Rizzo said. 
Facebook. No pictures of any
bers never mentioned Facebook specifically, but she and her see FACEBOOK/page 8 see SECURITY/page 8 

Rayn1ond lectures on Catholics in Tinseltown 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Hollywood -a town known for its scandals, sex and violence -is being made safe for Catholics. 
In a lecture titled "Young Catholic Hollywood," Rev. Willie Raymond, national director of Family Theater Productions, told a group of about two dozen stu­dents, faculty and community members in the Hayes-Healy Center Tuesday night how Catholic newcomers to I lollywood can embrace popular filmmaking without sacrificing their spiritual values. 
"Young people, because they are artists and think a lot about the important things, are more open to expressing their faith in film," Raymond said. 
According to Raymond, Family Theater is a production company helps young filmmakers settle in Hollywood and allows them to make films that present moral values -eschewing Hollywood's tendency to make movies rife with sex and violence. 
"So much of what is out there is driven by money, power, trying to be edgy and impressing peers," Raymond said. ''I'm not standing outside Hollywood throwing a grenade and con­demning all of it, because there 
see HOLLYWOOD/page 4 

Parents reflect on kids conling out 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Senior Staff Writer 
Nancy Mascotte -a Saint Mary's alumna ­was surprised by her own reaction when her then college-aged son told her he was gay. 
"I cried a great deal," Mascotte said. "I was upset. In retrospect, it wasn't because [my son] was gay, it was because [I was afraid of] what he would have to face as a gay man." 
In an event Tuesday night sponsored by the Saint Mary's Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) and the Community 
see PFLAG/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Oh, hovv the tirne flies 
People say that the older you get the faster time passes, and I'm start­ing to believe them. As of today we only have a month left before this school year draws to a close. It feels 
~~~ ~~~~;e,-!~t day Laura 
wnek, but shortly Baumgartner 
we'll all have to 
News
start worrying 

about moving Wire Editor 
out. 

When I first started applying to col­leges, Saint Mary's was the last place on Earth I thought I would end up. I didn't even consider it as an option until the school I had planned on attending sent me a letter saying they had mistakenly accepted too many freshmen and had randomly selected me as one of the "lucky" students being asked to find another school. 
After waging a battle to be reim­bursed for my room deposit, reality struck, it was June and I had no plans for the fall. I had already turned down offers of admission to the other colleges I had applied to, and staying at home for a semester was not an option I was willing to consider. 
Family members encouraged me to apply to Saint Mary's, and because I had no other choices, I relented. My application was turned in and processed with record speed, and a saintly woman in the admissions oiTice helped me to arrange classes for the fall. Despite her kindness and my first campus visit, I was still less than thrilled to know I would be spending four years of my life in South Bend. 
Some days, when the weather is ridieulously awful or I'm just in a grouchy mood, I still curse myself for not going to sehool somewhere else. 
The thing is, though, as the end of my junior year gets closer, I find myself thinking about next year and how much I will not want to leave. 
I don't want to have to grow up and live in the real world. Finding a job and paying bills just seems like too mueh stress. I've watched some of my friends go through the strug­gles of off-campus life and having to provide for themselves, and watched others as they strive to stand out in the increasingly competitive job mar­ket. 
None of it looks like much fun. 
There are things I will not miss at all about this place when I leave ­like forcing myself to eat dining hall food, showering with shoes on and sleeping in a loft. 
This list pales in comparison, how­ever, to what I will miss. 
Most of all, I'll miss my friends. Never again will I be able to live in a plaee where I can have a lifestyle like I do at Saint Mary's. This school has given me the opportunity to meet some of the most fascinating people, and to make some of my best friends. 
It turns out spending four years in South Bend hasn't been as awful as I thought it would be, and spending 24 hours a day at an all-women's col­lege hasn't killed me. 
Who would have thought? 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and mives for the highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW OFTEN DO YOU USE YOUR DORM PHONE? 


Cristina Tallarico  Colleen Ferreira  Biz Stohl  Eugene Nam  Sharon Lam  Erin Heck  
freshman Pangborn  sophomore LeMans  sophomore LeMans  junior Stanford  freshman Pasquerilla East  sophomore LeMans  
"Never-we  "To have my  "/ have a room  "Whenever the  "Let's just say  "When we  
get scared when  friends call me  phone?"  little light is  I've never set  prank call  
it rings. "  from Jimmy  blinking. "  up my  people on the  
John's and  voicemail. "  death phone  

Papa John's to pick up food. " 

Teen banks on time change 
FORT WAYNE -An indus­trious teenager is hoping time is money. 
Eighteen-year-old Evan Kelso offered to change every digital clock in a customer's home or car after all of Indiana went to daylight sav­ing time this weekend for the first time in more than 30 years. His fee: $10. 
Kelso, a senior at Bishop Luers High School, said he came up with the idea as Indiana lawmakers sniped about time zones and day­light-saving time. 
His offer includes ehanging the time on microwaves, ovens, answering machines, 
TODAY 

..... 
c:r: 
(.) 
0 


KIRSTEN HOELMER!The Observer Students Erika Qurrola, left, and Danielle Espinoza serve as mock "border patrol" agents at a fence In the middle of South Quad. The MECHA display brought attention to the dangers faced by Immigrants crossing the border and stated "No human Is illegal." 
OFFBEAT 
long, strange trip continues for Jerry Garcia's toilet. 
Police say the Grateful Dead leader's commode wa<; stolen recently from a drive­way along with three other toilets and a bidet. 
Garcia's salmon-colored toi­let was the subject of a legal battle before it was finally moved to Sonoma, to await shipment to a Canadian casi­no. 
It's unclear if the toilet was swiped by a wayward Deadhead or a thief remodel­ing a bathroom. Police have no suspects or leads. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
cars, computers, watches and VCRs. For an extra $1, he'll also install new batter­ies. 
Kelso expects the time­change predieament to affect senior citizens the most. He planned to work from Sunday into this week ­which is his spring break from school. 
The biggest challenge is changing VCRs. 
"There are so many makes and models. God knows, they are impossible to do any­way," Kelso said. 
What a long, strange trip it's been -for Garcia's toilet SONOMA, Calif. -The 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 



system. " 
IN BRIEF 

The Fighting Irish Battalion will host a blood drive today from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Pasquerilla Center. All donated blood will be given to United States soldiers. 
Barry Sharpless, the 2001 Nobel Prize winner in ehemistry, will speak on "Organic Azides: Later Bloomers" today at 4 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science HaJl. 
The SMC Tostal, sponsored by Student Activities Board, will begin at noon Thursday in the Student Center. The event will include chair massages, carica­ture and henna tattoo artists, an indoor picnic in the Noble Family Dining Hall and a concert featur­ing Phantom Planet. The doors to the O'Laughlin Auditorium will open at 5:30 p.m. for the opening acts, with Phantom Planet taking the stage at 8:30. 
Henowned American Chemist and 2001 Nobel Prize Winner in Chemistry K. Barry Sharpless will speak on Thursday at 4 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
Madison Center is sponsoring Alcohol Screening Day, a one-day outreach, education and screen­ing event designed to educate the public about alcohol and allow individual<> to seek help in a non­threatening, easily accessible manner. Free, anonymous screen­ings will be held aJI day Thursday at the Center in South Bend. 
Saturday from 3:00-7:00p.m. O'Neill and Lyons HaJls will host recess on South Quad. Bring back your childhood days with free food, inflatables and school­yard games all afternoon. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@ruiedu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


56 38 

HIGH 49 HIGH 42 HIGH 57
...I 

HIGH LOW 


-----------------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sparks' initiative helps authors get published 
Special to The Obs~rver 
Among notable Notre Dame alumni, best-selling author Nicholas Sparks often tops the list in the literary category. With novels such as "Message in a Bottle," "A Walk to Remember" and "The Notebook" made into major motion pictures, he is something of a household name. 
Sparks is the benefactor for what is fast becoming a legacy of significant authors to emerge from the Creative Writing Program. 
It has been nearly five years since Sparks, who graduated in 1988 with a finance degree, established a $1.5-million initiative to sup­port aspiring writers. The Sparks initiative underwrites a three-tiered program that includes a fellowship, intern­ship opportunities and the annual Sparks Prize. The prize awards $20,000 to a new graduate of the two­year master's program, who then can stay at Notre Dame for a year to focus on com­pleting a book. 
Since its inception in 2001, the Sparks initiative has become a key component of the Creative Writing Program, whose young authors are experiencing "more success in early pub­lishing than ever expected," according to William 
O'Rourke, director of the program. 
"Three students from the past five years are going to be published by major hous­es," O'Rourke says. "That level of success matches us with any program in the country." 
The 2005 Sparks Prize winner, Angela Hur, achieved what O'Rourke describes as the Sparks "tri­fecta." The fellowship placed her as an editorial intern on Notre Dame Review, the University's award-winning national literary journal. As a Sparks intern, Hur com­pleted a stint at a New York publishing house. Using the Sparks Prize Hur completed her novel, "The Queens of K­Town." O'Rourke predicts it will soon have a publisher. 
Past Sparks Prize winners who have published works include 2004 winner Kelly Kerney, the first to ink a deal with a major house. Her novel, "Born Again," is forthcoming by Harcourt. It is described as a comedy of a girl who secretly reads Darwin and becomes caught between her faith and her intellect in a family of evan­gelicals, charismatics, and speakers-in-tongues. 
Sara Swanson, who won the prize in 2003 and has since had short stories pub­lished in Tampa Review and Connecticut Review. 

SMC Tostal to feature popular band 
Phantom Planet will headline Saint Mary's largest annual social event 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Students will not have to travel to Orange County, Calif. to experience warm weather, good times and "the real O.C." on Thursday evening when all three will invade Saint Mary's campus. 

SMC Tostal -the College's largest social event of the year -will play host to henna tat­too and caricature artists, an indoor picnic and an evening concert featuring Phantom Planet, the band most com­monly known for singing "The O.C." theme song. 
Students from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, Holy Cross, IUSB and Bethel are invited to attend. The event is hosted by the Student Activities Board (SAB). 

Sophomores Cassie Calion and Noelle Whiteside, co­chairs for the event, decided to deviate from the typical events of the festival -such as fire works and canoe races -and refocus the event around a major concert series. 
"We decided to do a concert series in the evening with small activities during the day," Call on said. 
This year's concert features the band Phantom Planet along with west coast rock band Delaney and Saint Mary's Battle of the Bands winner Slap Bracelet Suicide. 
Calion said SAB began to 

plan the event last October. 
"We wanted to bring some­one rather well known to campus that obviously fit into our budget," Callon said. "We chose Phantom Planet for their smooth California sound 
and the extreme popu­larity for the show 'The O.C.'" 
Student Activities B o a r d President jun­ior Megan Cahill said the date and venue of the event had to be changed in order to bring a big name like Phantom Planet to Saint Mary's. 
"SMC Tostal 
students since it was announced that Phantom Planet was com­"We've been ing, which makes us excited as
receiving e-mails 
well."

from students since 
Saint Mary'sit was announced freshman Nikki Badalamenti said
that Phantom Planet 
she was excited 

was coming, which 
Saint Mary's gotmakes us excited as such a big name well., to perform. "I was really happy when I 
Cassie Calion 

heard that SMC Tostal co-chair Phantom Planet 
traditionally occurs in late April and includes a picnic dinner and games on the library green." Calion said, "Because of scheduling con­flicts, the event date had to be moved up, moving most of the activities indoors to avoid weather issues." 
The events of SMC Tostal, however, are not entirely cen­tered on the concert series. Tostal festivities, such as chair massages and henna art, will t"ake place in the student cen­ter starting at noon, with an indoor dinner picnic in the dining hall that evening. 
Callon and Cahill said they feel a "positive buzz" around campus. 
"The· students seem very excited," Callon said. "We've been receiving e-mails from 
was coming," she 
said. "I definitely 
plan on going." 

O'Lauhglin Auditorium doors will open at 5:30 p.m. with the opening act, Slap Bracelet Suicide, scheduled to go on at 6:30 p.m. Delaney will perform at 7:20 p.m. and Phantom Planet will take the stage at 8:30 p.m. 
Tickets are on sale now for $5 with a student ID at the O'Laughlin Auditorium Box office and LaFortune Student Center. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
the group because it had both receive and give sup­become too emotionally port, he said.
PFLAG 

painful. "We really Jove our three continued from page 1 That didn't stop her from children and we will contin­
continuing her support of ue to do so," Tony Garascia Leadership Team (CoLT) on homosexuals in the South said. "We are all mysteries soxuality, Mascotte. Hank Bend area. in a sense and we continue Mascotte, Beth Garascia and Sixteen years ago, she to unfold." Tony Carasci<t shared their founded the South Bend A priest in the Port experiences of' chapter of Wayne-South Bend Diocese being the par-Parents, Family for 30 years before marry­ent or sibling and Friends of ing Nancy and Hank
"I was upset. In
of' a gay or les­Lesbians and Mascotte said religion could bian individual. retrospect, it Gays (PFLAG). be a difficult obstaele for N a n c y wasn't because /my PFL/\G is a family members to over­Mascotte said national organi­come in accepting gay chil­
son/ was gay, it
she worried zation that dren of siblings. her son's sexu­was because /1 was seeks to sup­Beth Garascia said she al orientation afraid of/ what he port, educate and her husband experi­might lose him and advocate for enced feelings of fear and
would have to face 
a job or dam­the families of guilt over their son's homo­age his rela­as a gay man. " gay and les­sexuality. tionship with bians. "Tony and I both won­his rather and Beth and Tony dered if we had done some­
Nancy Mascotte 
grandparents. Garascia, also thing wrong," Beth Garascia
PFLAG member
With the help members of said. of the counsel-PFLAG, said The acceptance process ing center at they suspected can be long and trying, Notre Dame, she began edu­their son might be gay since Nancy Mascotte said. cating herself on homosexu­he was in high school. As a "The thing that I have ality. She was determined to college freshman found with find "healthy" role models he came out to one the young -gay people she would like of his sisters, and people I
"The thing that I 
her son to associate with. then later. to his know that
have found with
"I began to educate myself parents over the have eome and I had realized I had telephone. They the young people I out is that it absorbed through the cul­were not sur­is hard for
know that have 
ture many myths about prised, Beth them to
come out is that it 
homosexuality," Nancy Garascia said. realize that Maseotto said. !\ more recent is hard for them to it is a /\s she learned more, announcement was realize that it is a process and Nancy Maseotte grew angry unexpeeted, how­not an event
process and not an
at thn difTieult realities gays ever. it can and lesbians face in soeiety "Our youngest event ... it can take take 15 or -and she began taking daughter just actu­I 5 or 20 years. 20 years, action. She ally told she said. 
founded the us a N a n c y
"We really love our Nancy Mascotte
first support couple Mascotte group for IIIV three chilrden and 0 f PFLAG member said being positive men will continue to do weeks the parent of in South Bend. ago that a gay child
so. We are all
Some indi­she is dating a has propelled her to grow in viduals in the mysteries in a girl and that was ways she could never have group. she sense and we a little bit more imagined. She has also been discovered, of a surprise," encouraged by the progress
continue to
struggl11d Beth Garascia of other parents in learning more with unfold." said. to accept their gay children. telling their When a child "I think what happens families they comes out, Tony often when a child comes
Tony Garascla 
were gay than Garascia said, out is the parent has the
PFLAG member
informing the parents must opportunity to grow," she them of their go through a said. illness. /\s members began coming out process of their dying, she stopped working own. PFLAG provides the Contact Megan O'Neil at with context in which they can onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Hollywood 
continued from page 1 

is a lot of good work and a lot of good people there, but it's impor­tant to be discerning." 
Family Theater provides many services for young people in the film industry, including Masses, educational services, RCIA pro­grams and a special night once a month called "Prayer and Pasta." 
"It's something reliably Catholic they know they can come to the third Wednesday of every month," Raymond said. "There are a lot of ways to go wrong when you first come to Hollywood." 
The lecture was a part of a series called "Hollywood: Mission Field or Mission Impossible?" sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture. The Center brought the series this spring because it recognized the importance of film's impacts on society. 
"Film is so powerful that it's shaping pop culture and even high culture," Raymond said. "People around the world may not know the Secretary General of the U.N., but they know all the big names in Hollywood." 
Family Theater Productions was started in 1947 by Father Patrick Peyton, an Irish immi­grant who graduated from Notre Dame in the late 1930s. Father Peyton made radio shows featur­ing Catholic celebrities. Today, Family Theater is committed to producing films that embody strong values. 
"It's reaJly important to have people who love the truth in the media and in the ftlm industry," Raymond said. "It's important to have people who will not distort the truth." 

Haymond said one of Family Theater's most important contri­butions to the film industry are the Angelus /\wards, a yearly international film festival for film students. Last year, the festival garnered over 700 entries, and during the lecture Raymond showed a lilm called "Christmas Wish List," a story of a generous doctor who teaches a stingy lawyer about Christmas spirit. 
"We never expected the Angelus Awards to grow the way they have," Raymond said. 
In a question and answer ses­sion at the ended of the leeturn, Raymond advised students to be cautious when moving to Hollywood, and he also fielded questions about Notre Dame's ongoing academic freedom debate. 
"What happens at Notre Dame is very important to other Catholics in the country," Raymond said. "I was glad to see [President Jenkins] was not afraid to take on these ques­tions." 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 


2006 is a good year for n1ushrooms 
Lizst year's mild wildfire season brought good cropfor hobbyist hunters 
Associated Press 

BOISE, Idaho -Last year's mild wildfire season in the Northwest may bn bad news for commercial mushroom hunters, but hobbyists are already salivating at the thought of spring morels. 
More than 8.2 million acres of state and federal lands nationwide burned during the 2005 wildfire season, and mushrooms typically thrive in the year after wildfires. But many of last year's fires were in grass and rangeland instead of fon~sts, where the mush­rooms are most often found. 
"Commercial hunters follow the burns, because at peak season they can make $1,000 a day," said Orson Miller Jr., a prominent mycologist who lives in McCall, Idaho. "They'll probably be in other states this year." 
However, pothunters -hob­byists who collect enough of the wild mushrooms for dinner and perhaps some extras for drying -will likely be in luck, Miller said. 
"This year looks particularly good because we got quite a bit of moisture in the soil before the freeze up last fall, and that really gives the morels a chance to grow," Miller said. 
Morels are an aromatic fun­gus with a distinctive cap that looks a bit like a peach pit or pinecone. They are highly prized by gourmet cooks and fine restaurants, and can fetch $30 a pound or more for pick­ers. 
The high prices have led to a competitive commercial pick­ing industry, largely made up of traveling outfits that go from burn site to burn site. For pothunters, nothing is more frustrating than arriving at a favorite mushroom site only to find it's already been picked clean by a commercial outfit. 
"For mushroom hunting in general, this should be a good year because the commercial pieking may be concentrated to a few very small burn areas," said Genille Steiner with the Southern Idaho Mycological Association. 
Marjie Millard, owner of Millard Family Mushrooms in Waldport, Ore., used to travel to burn sites throughout the Northwest to ensure a good spring haul. But these days she spends most of her time pick­ing in her home state. 
"Last year it was Alaska; they had a ton of wildfires up there. People I've talked to this year plan on staying closer to home, maybe in Oregon or Washington," Millard said. 
Lori Carris, a resident mycol­ogist at Washington State University in Pullman, said would-be mushroom gatherers can find morels even without the forest fires. They just have to know what to look for. 
"We can find morels eoming up when there's been con­struction, or on campus here at WSU in the spring when they put new planting beds around a building or shrubs and woodchips," she said. 
The mushrooms also occur naturally, without disruption. 
Finding those fungus flushes is just a matter of timing, she said. 
IOnll!•ra Notre Dame presents a scandal ofepic nr,nnnr"'"'" 
April 7 and 8, 2006 7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Tickets ($5-1 0) availableat LaFortune Box Office orby phone at (574) 631·81 
~~~--------------------------------------------------------, 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite leader refuses call to step aside 
BAGHDAD -An Iraqi vice president called Tuesday for the embattled Shiite prime minister to step aside so a new government can be formed, becoming the most senior Shiite official publicly to endorse demands for a leadership change to halt the slide toward civil war. 
Vice President Adil Abdul-Mahdi told the 

British Broadcasting Corp. that he met with 
Prime Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari on Monday 
and urged him to give up the nomination for a 
second term because he had lost the confidence 
of the Sunnis and Kurds. 
But Abdul-Mahdi said al-Jaafari refused, insisting he wanted to take his case to parlia­ment, which must approve the new prime min­ister and his Cabinet by a majority vote. 
Asked whether al-Jaafari should withdraw 

his nomination, Abdul-Mahdi said: "Yes, after 
such a time of naming him. not getting approval 
from others now in UIA I the dominant Shiite 
political bloc], there is some rejection so I think 
he should step aside." 

Violence mars French job law protests 
PARIS -Rioting youths swarmed across a downtown Paris plaza, ripping up street signs and park benches and hurling stones and chunks of pavement at police at the end of the largest of massive but mostly peaceful protests Tuesday across France against a new jobs law. 
Riot police fired tear gas and rubber pellets and made repeated charges into the crowds of several hundred youths at Place d'Italie on the Left Bank. carrying away those they arrested. 
The clashes came as more than 1 million 

people poured into the streets across the coun­
try, including 84,000 in Paris, according to 
police. Union organizers put the figure in the 
capital at 700,000-and 3 million nationwide. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Mass. passes health insurance bill 
BOSTON -Lawmakers overwhelmingly approved a bill Tuesday that would make Massachusetts the first state to require that all its citizens have some form of health insurance. 
The plan -approved just 24 hours after the final details were released -would use a combination of financial incentives and penalties to dramatically expand access to health care over the next three years and extend coverage to the state's estimated 500,000 uninsured. 
If all goes as planned, poor people will be offered free or heavily subsidized coverage; those who can afford insurance but refuse to get it will face increasing tax penalties until they obtain coverage; and those already insured will see a modest drop in their premi­ums. 
Bush's AIDS efforts under scrutiny 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration's $15 billion global AIDS initiative is emphasizing sexual abstinence and fidelity more than Congress intended, and that focus is undermin­ing prevention efforts in poor countries, con­gressional investigators said Tuesday. 
U.S. teams on the ground in Africa and other poor areas told Congress' Government Accountability Office that the requirement that they spend a specific percentage of their money on abstinence is hurting some efforts to tailor prevention programs to countries' needs. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Dem. party chooses new Gary mayor 
GARY, Ind. -Democratic Party commit­teemen on Tuesday chose Lake County Commissioner Rudy Clay to complete the final 21 months of former Mayor Scott King's term. 
King resigned last month after 11 years in office to return to his private law practice and do consulting work. 
Three people were in the running for the position -Clay, Acting Mayor Dozier Allen Jr. and Gary attorney John Henry Hall. Vote totals from the about 130 committeemen were not immediately available. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
IRAQ 


Hussein faces genocide charges 
Iraq files charges against former ruler for the 1980s killings of 100,000 Kurds 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Iraqi authori­ties filed genocide charges against Saddam Hussein on Tuesday, accusing the ousted ruler and six others in a 1980s crackdown that killed an estimated 100,000 Kurds in northern Iraq. 
In alleging Saddam sought to exterminate the Kurds, the prosecutors are for the first time accusing him of the sort of far-reaching crimes that the Bush administration has used to justifY the war in Iraq. 
The former Iraqi president returns to court Wednesday in his current 6-month-old trial, facing a possible death sentence if convicted in the killings of more than 140 Shiites. Defense lawyer Khamis al-Obeidi said Saddam plans to make a statement to the court. 
But that case involves a rel­atively small number of vic­tims, and the scope of the allegation pales in compari­son to the crackdown against the Kurds or the suppression of the Shiite uprising in south Iraq in 1991. 
Investigative judge Raid Juhi told reporters he submit­ted the new case against Saddam and the others to the Iraqi High Tribunal -a legal step that is the equivalent of an indictment under Iraqi law. 
His move paves the way for a second trial, which could begin any time after 45 days. Juhi said charges also include crimes against humanity. 
Legal experts said the deci­sion to accuse Saddam of genocide is controversial because the charge is difficult to prove. An international convention following the Nazi Holocaust of World War II defined genocide as an effort "to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group." 
The latest charges involve Saddam's alleged role in Operation Anfal, the 1988 military campaign launched in the final months of the war with Iran to crush independ­ence-minded Kurdish militias and clear Kurds from the sen-sitive Iranian border area of northern Iraq. 

Saddam had accused Kurdish militias of ties to Iran. Thousands of Kurdish villages were razed and their inhabi­tants either killed or dis­placed. 
A memo released by the tri­bunal said the Anfal cam­paign included "savage mili­tary attacks on civilians," including "the use of mustard gas and nerve agents ... to kill and maim rural villagers and to drive them out of their homes." 
"These people were sub­jected to forced displacement and illegal detention involving thousands of civilians," Juhi said. "They were placed in different detention centers. 
The villages were destroyed and burned. Homes and houses of worshippers and buildings of civilians were lev­eled without reason or a mili­tary requirement." 
In the Kurdish city of Sulaimaniyah, Othman Hassan, 72, said he lost two sons and 26 other relatives in Anfal. 
"When I last saw my sons, it was as if I had lost the light of my life," he said. "It was a terrible day when they were taken away. They don't need to hear from any witnesses. Just come here and see the thousands who never knew their parents and the widows who lost their husbands." 
The operations against the Kurds included the March 1988 gas attack on the village of Halabja ·in which 5,000 people, including women and children, died. However, Juhi told The Associated Press that the Halabja attack would be prosecuted separately and was not considered part of the charges filed Tuesday. 
Others accused in the Anfal case include Saddam's cousin, Ali Hassan Majid, or "Chemical Ali"; former Defense Minister Sultan Hashim Ahmad; former intel­ligence chief Saber Abdul Aziz al-Douri; former Republican Guard commander Hussein al-Tikriti; former Nineveh provincial Gov. Taher Tafwiq al-Ani; and former top mili­tary commander Farhan Mutlaq al-Jubouri. 

DeLay departs from an uneasy GOP 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Tom DeLay leaves a troubling legacy for Republicans as they face re-election. 
The Texan, once one of the most pow­erful and feared leaders of Congress, joined Newt Gingrich in helping to lead Republicans to power in 1994. But he became a symbol of the widening ethics scandal that now clouds GOP prospects for continued control. 
Republicans face voters weary of cor­ruption allegations and the heavy-hand­ed tactics DeLay came to personify. At the same time, GOP candidates are fur­ther weighed down by President Bush's low approval ratings and the unpopu­larity of the war in Iraq. 
"It's hard to believe that in just 12 years, Republicans could end up in the same situation that it took Democrats 40 years to get in," said Republican strate­gist Frank Luntz. 
Luntz, who was once Gingrich's poll­ster and who helped orchestrate the 1994 "Contract With America," a set of unifying GOP policy initiatives, said the GOP majority now seems "tired" and those speaking out for change and inno­vation "are just not being noticed." 
Republicans hold 231 of the 435 House seats. Democrats have 201. There is one independent and two vacancies. 
DeLay said Tuesday he would resign from Congress rather than seek a 12th term so as not to hurt Republican chances. He acknowledged his re-elec­tion prospects were threatened. 
The voters of his Houston-area district "deserve a campaign about the vital national issues that they care most about and that affect their lives every day, and not a campaign focused solely as a referendum on me," DeLay said. 
He had stepped aside as House major­ity leader last fall after a grand jury in Texas indicted him, accusing him of fun­neling illegal corporate contributions into state legislative races. In January, he decided against trying to get the leadership post back amid a spreading election-year corruption scandal. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
immediately." and distinct committees to deal "The main dilemma is divid­this university and their Shappell said the amend­with racial issues and other ing them in a logical way so lifestyles here."
MAC 

ment's defeat was likely due to issues of diversity. they both have a clear pur­The amendment seemed to the Senate's experience with "The structure this amend­pose," Brown said. have undergone more strenu­
continued from page 1 

the problems caused by ment calls for is one I think is Brown said students ous criticism than other covnr up Ithe amendment!." unelear committee definitions. appropriate," Boyd approached her amendments to make commit­Baron said. "WH wanted to "Senators lived this term with said. "To have one after the Senate tees pPrmanent, Laws said.
"The amendment is 

make sure thH best proposal the Diversity committee and big committee meeting to ask "I've never seen this much was put forth, but if Hhea MAC and the confusion that undermines the more than just a why the amend­hesitation with any other thought this was the best pro­ensued," she said. "They recog­importance of MAC piece ofpaper. It's ment had been amendment," he said. "You posal, that was it." nized the need for clarification being a separate rejected and have to be careful about the
about the 

Boyd asked that the amHnd­and research and student opin­voice." what would hap­message you send not just to ment be kept on the agenda, ions brought forth on how the Boyd also ques­experiences ofall pen to MAC. the student body but also to the and so it was presented to two overlapped." tioned the necessi­minorities here at Though initially minority community." Senate the following afternoon. Boyd said MAC's fate is "too ty of delaying rati­concerned, the As a candidate for student
this university and

"I wanted this amendment to tied" to that of the Diversity fication based on students reacted body president in the 2006 go before the current StudHnt committee, a particular prob­the name of MAC, their lifestyles positively "once election, Laws campaigned on Senate, who lem given that which she said was here." they heard what a platform that included the knows what !MAC committee's a "superficial" con­the real con­creation of a Black Student hasl done through­"! unequivocally "nebulous cern when com­cerns were ... Union. lie is now in discussions
Jason Laws

out the year," she nature." pared to the impor­going back to to investigate creating such a
want a permanent MAC member 
said Monday. Liu also attest­tance of making make sure it was group, whose eventual name Baron and voice ofminority ed to the prob­MAC permanent. really done and form remain undecided. Shappnll's con­students lin lems in defini­Though the senators' concern right," she said. The group would create a corns centered on tion. about creating long-lasting Jason Laws, a current MAC community in which black stu­
student

the amendment's "The two com­amendments is legitimate, this member and former president dents could develop a sense of articulation of the government]." mittees go hand­amendment would not require of the class of 2007 freshman identity, communicate issues 
• differences in-hand," Liu any more revision than others and sophomore years, with other student government between MAC and said Tuesday. that have been recently passed, expressed frustra-groups and

Lizzi Shappell

the Diversity com­"You cannot she said. tion at the out­become more

student body

mittee -an ambi­change one with­Shappell immediately granted come of "As ofnow, there's active in the 

president

guity that, accord­out changing the MAC continued ad-hoc status Wednesday's not a strong black Notre Dame and ing to Shappell, other." when she took over as student meeting. wider communi­
voice in student 

has caused some conflict this While Liu said her committee body president at 12:01 a.m. "At the meeting, ties. 
year. "experienced a lot of frustra­Saturday. She then established l just don't know if government. " Laws said the The usn of the word "minori­tion in [its] role," she denied a a task force of minority and people had their passage of an ty" in the committee's name lack of direction. non-minority students to dis­eyes open," Laws amendment mak­
Jason laws 

also caused some eoncern, as it Along with Baron and cuss how to best revise the said Tuesday. ing MAC perma­

MAC member 

is not used on the national level Shappell, Liu had decided at amendment with regards to its "There were [sen­nent and the cre­
and eould cause further confu­the pre-Senate meeting that wording and the structure of ators) who just ation of a group 
sion whnn contrasted with the perhaps the amendment should the two committees. wanted to get out of the meet­tailored specially to the needs 
name of the Diversity commit­wait, as she was uncertain "I unequivocally want a per­ing." of black students would fill a 
tee, Baron said, adding that about the structural specifics. manent voice of minority stu­Laws said the senators would gap in student government. 
hesitation about the name is She and the rest of the dents [in student government)," have done well to consider the "As of now, there's not a 
sufficient reason to delay con­Diversity committee thought a she said Monday. significance of MAC to a large strong black voice in student 
sideration of an amendment. strong option would be to once Former Cavanaugh senator portion of their peers and con­government," Laws said. 
"A lot of what we do in stu­more combine the two commit­and new chief executive assis­stituencies before rejecting it. "That's a fact." dent government is dependent tees while allowing for various tant Liz Brown will be respon­"The amendment is more upon the perception of people," subcommittees. sible for overseeing MAC and than just a piece of paper," he said. "It is essential you But Boyd supported the the Diversity committee in the Laws said. "It's about the expe­Contact Karen Langley at have a name that makes sense amendment's call for separate new term. riences of all minorities here at klangle I @nd.edu 
May 16-June 17,2007 ~All returning ND & St. Mary's undergrads eligible ~Study in London ~Travel in Europe ~Earn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! Information Session for 2007 & 2008 Programmes: We n s i I Drop in anytime • II :45 to 12:35 P.M. or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. • 231 Hayes Healy Hall Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edu/-sumlon  

\Yednesday, April 5, 2006 




Dow 

11,203.85 +58.91

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,897 154 1,363 2,193,472,780 

AM£X 
NASDAQ 
NYSE S&PSOO NIKKEI(TokYQ). 1 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,004.70 +19.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.55 +0.23 42.21 INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.26 -0.05 19.30 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-0.39 -0.02 5.11 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.29 +0.08 27.64 JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) 
-4.17 -0.17 3.91 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE +0.04 +0.02 48.72 13-WEEK BILL +0.55 +0.25 45.52 30-YEAR BOND +0.20 +0.10 49.13 5-YEAR NOTE +0.35 +0.17 48.25 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.51 66.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.70 590.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -3.00 78.33 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
117.4600 EURO 
0.8158 POUND 
0.5698 CANADIAN$ 
1.1638 

IN BRIEF 
Delta pilots vote to authorize strike 
ATLANTA -Delta Air Lines Inc. pilots, angered by management's effort to throw out their contract and impose deep pay cuts, voted by a wide margin to authorize a strike, union leaders said Tuesday. 
The 94.7 percent vote in favor of authorizing a strike gives union leaders the authority to set a strike date. They didn't set a date immediate­ly and gave no indication when they might act. 
The results were announced in a memo to pilots from the chairman of the union's execu­tive committee, Lee Moak, and first reported by The Associated Press. 
An arbitration panel must decide by April 15 whether to void the pilots' contract. The union has said it will strike if its contract is rejected. 
The nation's third largest carrier, which is operating under bankruptcy protection, has said a strike would put it out of business. 
Any strike would likely prompt a court chal­lenge by the company, which would almost cer­tainly seek a restraining order. Moak said in an interview the union will "do what is legal." 

CEO says Delphi will avoid a strike 
DETHOIT -The chairman and chief executive of Delphi Corp. said Monday that he is confident the troubled auto parts supplier will avoid a strike that would devastate General Motors Corp., Delphi's fi>rmer parent and largest customer. 
Speaking to the Detroit Economic Club, Robert S. "Steve" Miller said the bankruptcy court motion the company tiled Friday, asking a judge to void its labor contracts, was "an insurance policy" he hoped the eompany would not have to use. 
The United Auto Workers has warned that a long strike would be inevitable if the judge agrees to void the contract<; and Delphi imposes its most recent proposal, which would have lowered wages from $27 to $22 through 2007, and then to $16.50. The offer was rejected by the UAW and other unions. 
Asked after the speech whether Delphi would be able to avoid a strike, Miller answered: "Absolutely." 
"We are determined to work this out," he told reporters on his way out the door. 
Delphi has about 6,000 employees in Indiana, most of whom work at the company's Electronics & Safety Division headquarters in Kokomo. 
THE 0HSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

IBM supports teaching careers 
Company helps interested employees move from Big Blue into the classroom 
Associated Press 

RESEARCH TRIANGLE PARK, N.C. -After more than three decades at IBM, Larry Leise and Susan Luerich could be planning a leisurely retirement. Instead, the married couple are headed back to college, with plans to start new careers in retirement as high school science teach­ers. 
"Seeing the proverbial light bulb come on [in a stu­dent!, there is no better feel­ing," said Luerieh, 54. "It's a way to give back." 
And their bosses at International Business Machines Corp. are only too happy to help. 
Luerich and Leise, 58, are among the first batch of IBM employees taking the company up on its offer to pay for the college classes needed to leave Big Blue behind for a math or sci­ence classroom, where a shortage of qualified teach­ers concerns a company that thrives on high-tech innovation. 
"We're only as successful as our innovation is and we have to have future talent that will bring that kind of innovative thinking and help us as future employees," said Rick Falknor, a commu­nity relations manager at IBM. The company believes it is the first to help workers tuition reimbursements and that those are the same peo­and science than ever make the switch into a stipends. ple who will be valuable in before, Seeley said, and IBM teaching career. About 65 IBM employees schools." cites federal statistics pre­
So far, hundreds of have been picked so far for Such a commitment from dicting a need for more than employees of Armonk, N.Y­the 100 spots in the pilot business and industry can 260,000 new math and sci­based IBM have expressed program. All must have really make a positive ence teachers by 2008. interest in the program, worked at IBM for ten years impact on schools, especial­"If you are a math and through which the company and ideally would have had ly as the nation's schools science teacher in this coun­will financially support to have a bachelor's degree continue to struggle with a try, you can choose many employees as they earn in math, science or a higher shortage of math and sci­different places where you teaching credentials. degree in a related field. ence teachers, said Cathy can go teach," Seeley said. Employees will continue to "The IBM program is Seeley, president of the Clearly, it's not about the work for IBM while taking designed to attract high per­National Council of money. The average classes part-time, with a formers," Falknor said. "We Teachers of Mathematics. teacher's salary was leave of absence for time want people that are valu­The shortage is growing $47,808 last year, according spent student teaching, sup­able to the company to par­because students are now to the National Association ported by up to $15,000 in ticipate because we know expected to take more math of Educators. 

Ameristar offers cash bid for Aztar 
debt, the bid values Aztar at about the Nasdaq Stock Market on concerns
Associated Press 

$2.25 billion and tops the reported a three-way bidding war could make 
offer from real estate investment the final buyer pay too steep a price. 
LAS VEGAS -Ameristar Casinos fund Colony by $1 a share. "I think the concern is that, in Inc. said Monday it has offered about Aztar's holdings include Casino order to actually dose on the acquisi­$1.5 billion in cash to acquire Aztar Aztar, a riverboat on the Ohio River tion, they might have to come in with Corp., a Phoenix-based casino opera­at Evansville, Ind. Pinnacle owns the a higher bid," said analyst Ryan tor, trumping previous offers from Belterra Casino at Vevay in south­Worst of Brean Murray, Carret & Co. Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. and eastern Indiana. Colony said it has seen the value of Colony Capital LLC. Aztar said in a statement late its Aztar holdings increase. 
Ameristar said the move would give Monday that its board approved "Colony is already a significant it prime real estate in the nation's top negotiations with Ameristar and shareholder in the company and wel­gambling markets in Las Vegas and Colony. Those talks put in jeopardy a comes the additional interest," Atlantic City, N.J., and move it from March 13 deal it made to be bought Colony spokesman Owen Blicksilver the ninth-largest publicly traded U.S. by Las Vegas-based Pinnacle for $38 said. casino company to fifth. per share in cash. A Pinnacle spokeswoman declined 
"Ameristar's proposal is clearly "Each of the unsolicited proposals to comment . superior to all previous proposals," ... is, or is reasonably likely to result Ameristar runs seven casinos in the company's chief executive, Craig in, a superior proposal," Aztar said. Missouri, Iowa, Colorado, Nevada, Neilsen, said in a conference call Aztar shares rose $2.61, or 6.2 per­and Mississippi. The proposed merg­Monday. "We're looking at this as a cent, to close at $44.60 Monday on er would double its revenue to some very strategic move." the New York Stock Exchange, a sign $1.9 billion annually and expand its 
Las Vegas-based Ameristar said it that market players expect the bid­presence from six markets to 11. The bid $42 a share for Aztar, which ding will continue higher. new company would operate roughly owns the Tropicana casino hotels in Ameristar Casinos shares lost 21,000 slot machines, 650 table Las Vegas and Atlantic City. Including $1.78, or 6.9 percent, to $24.01 on games and 7,000 hotel rooms. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
employers arc looking at it and people are making judgments

Facebook 
on Y~.u based on your pic­continued from page 1 tures. 
Students' concerns about fac­llcr intention, Zoeller said in ulty and staff members' use of an e-mail Tuesday, was to alert Faeebook has caught the atten­students to the faet that sites tion of' student government olli­sueh as Faeebook and cers. It was briefly discussed at Myspaee.eom are easily acces­the Feb. 27 Board of' 
sible. Governance meeting and was 
"For example, some of the addressed directly this past senior nursing students are weekend at the student govern­applying for graduate sehool ment retreat. and others are applying for Student activities director professional nursing positions George Hosenbush said throughout the country," Monday she does not have time Zoeller said. "It was important to browse Facebook but is to let tlwm know that Facnbook aware of the sort of content and Myspace are essentially some students choose to open to that audience, includ­upload. She advised those on ing their potential grad school the retreat to be cautious with or their next employer." the information and images 
Students were encouraged to they make available on the reexamine what sorts of per­internet. sonal information and images Students are "misleading they displayed on themselves" if the Internet, they believe Zoeller said, and Facebook is a
"/Professors/
whether it made secure forum,
should not make
them vulnerable Hosenbush said. to predators. comments to Further. they are "I have to taking "a risk"
students and they
believe that some when they
should not make
of' the students include inappro­really had not judgments on priate content by thought about it jeopardizing
students based on 
this way," Zoeller future employ­
f/acebook."
said. "Now thny ment opportuni­have anothnr ties. perspective from Angela Rizzo "I want them to someonn who be able to present
senior 
cares about them themselves in the as individuals light they want, and about their safety." and to be careful," Hosenbush 
.Junior Irene Bayudan first said. heard some professors were Senior Alicia Heimann said accessing student's profiles she was not surprised that from a friend. Although she non-students were accessing does not feel she is bning tar­student profiles because any­geted in any way, Bayudan one with an ".edu" address can said, shn nevertheless views it register on Facebook. She said as an invasion of privacy. she has nothing to hide from 
''I'm contemplating pulling her professors and was not out my whole profile now overly concerned about their because it's reaching the extent use of the site. that it is," Bayudan said. "It's "I don't think they're doing it not fun anymore. To know that for punishment reasons. I think 

t:~~· 
~ 
they're doing it overall as eon­cern for us as a person ... that and curiosity." Heimann said. 
What she does on the week­ends should be of little interest to her professors, freshman Lauren Mangiaforte said. She also does not want to know how they spend theirs. 
"I feel like Facebook is more of a social network than it should be a phonebook and I don't want to Facebook my professors," Mangiaforte said. 
Facebook can't be taken too seriously, freshman Lauren Momenee said. 
"You can't make judgments on what you see on Facebook because a lot of it's [a joke]." she said. 
.Junior Nicole Korte is rela­tively unconcerned that profes­sors or future employers may attempt to look her up on the Internet. 
"I think it is ridiculous. People need to find something better to do. I'm not really con­cerned about it.·· Korte said. 
Hizzo said she found it ironic that employers are prohibited from asking questions about religion or family in interviews, but can scope out future employees on sites such as Facebook. She called this a "huge" invasion of privacy. 
She and classmates originally· thought faculty members had accessed Facebook only once, Rizzo said, but later realized they have logged on multiple times -some as recently as two weeks ago: Students respect faculty members who have chosen not to create pro­files, she said. 
"[Professors] should not make comments to students and they should not make judg­ments on students based on Facebook," Hizzo said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Megan O'Neil at saintmarys.edu 

College of Arts and Letters University of Notre I)ame 
Invites Nominations f()r the 



Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named f(>r a former dean of the college of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and f~teulty are invited to submit nomination letters fc>r this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies I(}1-O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline 1\'londay, I 0 April 2006 
Security 
continued from page 1 
member of' the group drink­ing in the showers appeared in the group profile or on the rest of the website. 
Kristin said the actions of her hall staff invaded her personal space and strained her relationship with them this year. 
"The fact that they're going through our profiles and looking at all of this stuff and kind of going into our per­sonal space ... made me feel attacked, almost," she said. 
Since the girls removed the group from Facebook, the incident stayed within the dorm and was not sent to HesLife. 
"I almost wanted to chal­lenge them and tell them to bring it to HesLife, because I want to know how this group proves that we did anything wrong," Kristin said. 
Occurrences like Kristin's are becoming increasingly common as col­
she was not surprised to read in a March 29 Observer arti­cle that both the Office of Hesidence Life and some rec­tors maintain Facebook accounts. 
"It seems pretty expected actually," Mering said. 
Mering said she uses the available security settings to make her phone number, addrnss, and pietures visible only to her friends, making sure people she does nl)t know are not able to view her personal information. 
"I'm more worried about the outside people than I am about HesLife," Mering said. 
Sophomore Luke Cieslewicz just recently became a Facebook member and was disappointed to discover that the site is more than a way to exchange information with friends. 
He said even though stu­dents post their pietures and information on a fairly public website, it is a "low blow" that HesLife and rectors use the site to incriminate stu­
dents. 
"On the one 
hand these peo­

"The fact that I hall 
lege and univer­ple do have to sity administra­staffis] going realize these are tions across the through our images that nation are other people are
profiles and
accessing going to see ... Facebook as a looking at all this but on the other means of crack­stuffand kind of hand I think it is ing down on ille­kind of shady
going into our
gal activities and dealings to have campus viola­personal space ... these adminis­tions. made me feel tration 
The Shower accounts,"
attacked, almost. " 
Power Hour Cieslewicz said. 
Facebook group Junior Tim was created as a Kristin Masterton also joke the previ­sophomore called the 
ous year, Kristin said, and she had not given it much thought since its creation. 
"It was very innocent, and the entire situation was just misconstrued and blown way out of proportion," Kristin said. 
After this incident, Kristin and the other members of the group tightened the security on their accounts to prevent administrators and graduate students from seeing infor­mation and pictures on their profiles. 
"Now it's only my friends that can see it," Kristin said. "After the article I was like, I'm not even taking any more chances. this is happening everywhere." 
Freshman Kim Mering said 
actions by 
HesLife "intru­sive," but says he can under­stand why they would make use of Facebook. He said he thinks students can avoid the threat of incrimination through Facebook by enabling the security set­tings. 

"l would say it just seems that you can make your pro­file visible to only your friends so that would kind of eliminate the problem," Mastcrton said. "A lot of peo­ple are concerned about it just being out for the public Ito see]. but you can control who sees it." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


RE'·E'''~~~~~q
• • • lt~,('"& 


anc~ Testing (I 

~~1 t. lA ~Allt AVt. lJ~·~JoJ 
l~~~ IRONWOOD CIRClt l1J·~~~o 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
VV~nt to write News? Call 
A%M 


tglaryik Kate at 1-5323. 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 9 
The Office of Student Affairs would like to congratulate the following graduating seniors who are award recipients 
for outstanding service and leadership: 




Peter J. Quaranto, 
John W. Gardner Student Leadership Award 

David M. Baron, 
Rev. A. Leonard Collins, C.S.C., Award 
Daniel L. Carey 
Ray Siegfried Award for Leadership Excellence 
Claire S. Heininger 
Denny Moore Award for Excellence in Journalism 
, 

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
Deportation flights cost U.S. millions 
Immigration department struggles to send back illegal immigrants 
Associated Press 
SAN SAI.VADOH. El Salvador 
-U.S. marshals unlock the 
prisoners' leg shackles, body 
chains and handcuffs when 
grnnn jungle and turquoise 
sna come into close view. 
As tlw U.S. government's MD-83 airliner bumps to the ground at the small San Salvador airport, the 44 men and fiv•~ wonwn being deport­ed horne to El Salvador cheer. Orw man belts out a few bars of a Tom Petty song: "I'm rrne-ee...... 
For a growing number of migrants picked up in the United States for immigration violations or eriminal o!Tens­os, this is the way their American experinnce ends: a free !light home. 
As Congress debates how to overhaul the nation's immi­gration system, the U.S. gov­ornmnnt is spending about $56 million to lly illegal immi­grants home or to new loca­tions within the U.S. 
Last year, the government !lew 60,000 people -mostly Contra! and South Americans -to thoir home countries for about $600 per person. An additional 35,000 were moved inside the U.S., mostly to be closer to thn Mnxican border in preparation for deporta­tion. 
Orlkials want to double the deportations in the next year as tho U.S. ends its practice of froeing some illegal immi­grants until they can be returned to their native coun­tries. 
Less than an hour after arriving in San Salvador, the men and women on this 11ight were lnd blinking into the tropical sunshine. 
At tlw back of the line, two young men glanced around with curious expressions. Thoy wore t1~enagnrs whnn t.hny loft HI Salvador. A docade later. thoir home eountry is now just a memory. Family nwmlwrs havn grown, died or moved to tho U.S. 
In an interview the day bnforo in a Floroneo, Ariz., detention c1~nter, ono of the nw n , An to n i o M o d i n a , 2 8 , summarized their situation. "I don't know what I'll do whon I got thero," he said through a translator. "Whnn I get to El Salvador I'll docide." 
U.S. Immigration and Customs 1\nforcement officials have collaborated since 1998 with the Justice Department, which flies U.S. prisoners throughout the country. But immigration officials are step­ping up the number of flights as they come under increas­ing pressure to ensure all ille­gal immigrants caught in the 

U.S. arc deported. An estimat­ed 11 million immigrants live in the U.S. illegally. 
Hundreds of captured immi­
grants arc released each 
week and asked to return for 
a court hearing, a request 
many ignore. 

The government hopes to end that practice on the Southwest border by Oct. 1 and across the rest of the country by next year. To do that, officials have been speeding up the timetable to de port foreigners who arrive without papers. 
Scores of non-Mexican 
immigrants now need to be 
shuttled out of the country 
each week. Almost all 
Mexicans caught without 
papers in the U.S. are driven 
to the border by immigration 
officials and dropped off. Last 
year, that was almost 1 mil­
lion people. 

The people on this flight were caught because they committed crimes in the U.S. 
Medina fought with his girl­friend and was arrested for domestic violence. Another, Jose Cabrera, was arrested six or seven times for auto theft, drug possession and other crimes. 
The government doesn't keep statistics on how many of the deported immigrants return to the United States. There's almost no way of knowing unless they are picked up again, but officials guess there are many. 
Om~ man on the El Salvador !light told a guard he was on his third trip home this year. llo earns $24 an hour work­ing as a carpenter in the U.S., earning in one hour a little more than 1 percent of the avorage annual per capita income in El Salvador. 
Many immigrants build lives in the U.S. and have reasons to return. Medina, for exam­ple, was injured on the job in California. lie still has a daim against his employer and needs surgery to repair his knee. 
A couple of years ago, he was picked up by immigration 
$10,000 -1st Place 
,EXAS HOLD'EM 
Tournament -No Limit!! 
Sunday April 23... 2 pm 
at Brentwood Bingo Hall 
3900 Lincolnway West (U.S. 20) South Bend Near the Airport. Doors Open 11 :00 am $100 Buy-in (includes $25 registration fee) Limited Re-Buys Available. Food & Beverages & ATM. Organization: S.B.H. Day School License #107570 
Register Now Online: www.PokerSouthBend.com 
or Phone: (574) 251-8100
4!:J61U.!01 
and deported for not having papers. He told officials he was Mexican, so they dropped him off across the border in Tijuana, south of San Diego. Within a year, he had found his way back into the United States. 
Asked if he thinks he can 
come back illegally, Medina 
said in Spanish, "Es possible." 
It's possible. 
John Torres, acting director of the immigration agency's office of detention and removal, said that for now the best way to deal with the almost 1.2 million people who are caught in the U.S. illegally each year is to send them back as quickly as possible, as most are. 
"The more people we arrest and the more people we return to their country serves as a deterrent to others think­ing of coming," he said. 
The Department of Homeland Security is pushing several countries to take back thousands of their citizens, with department Secretary Michael Chertoff saying Tuesday that a deal with China was near. 
But some fear the govern­ment is denying migrants their rights in its rush to deal with a backlog of immigrants. 
Immigrant advocates say some government screeners are not following regulations, and that some people with legitimate claims for asylum in the U.S. may be deported. 
Foreign governments also struggle to absorb hundreds of their own citizens. 
In El Salvador, returning migrants are placed in a "Welcome Home" program to help them find family and -if possible -a job. 




Police, arllly involved in Columbia drug ring 
Group flew cocaine shipments into U.S. 
Associated Press 

BOGOTA, Colombia Active and retired police and army officers working for one of Colombia's largest cocaine cartels used commereial cargo planes to ship drugs to the United States, authorities said Tuesday in announcing seven arrests. 
U.S. officials, who are seek­ing the extradition of the seven, said the case illus­trates the reaches of Colombia's notorious drug rings and the danger posed by corruption among the country's security and trans­portation workers. 
Among those arrested are a retired police major and cap­tain, a former army lieu­tenant, two police officers and an employee of Colombia's national airline, Avianca. The seventh suspeet was described as a liaison between the active and for­mer police officials and the Norte del Valle cartel, one of Colombia's largest drug traf­fickers. Police said the cartel used Avianca's cargo plans to transport the drugs. 
"There is a national securi­ty component to this case," said Boyd Johnson, chief of the international narcotics trafficking unit at the U.S. Attorney's Office in Manhattan. 
Authorities said the seven would be extradited to New York to stand trial on charges they smuggled more than 900 pounds of cocaine bound for the United States. Police said they seized 1,200 pounds of cocaine linked to the cartel in a warehouse in northern Bogota on Monday. 
The arrests, beginning Monday night, were based on a U.S. indictment in New York that alleges the Norte del Valle cartel recruited the airline worker and police involved with security at El Dorado Airport. 
It alleges the ring shipped the cocaine in October through Avianca's cargo facility after an airline employee approved false paperwork. The drugs were allegedly destined for the United States via Mexico. 
Two patrolmen let the ship­ment go through security and guarded it for three days at the airline cargo area, the indictment alleges. The cocaine noted in the indict­ment was seized in Mexico City by Mexican law enforce­ment agencies on Oct. 17, it adds. 
If convicted, the defendants could face anywhere from 1 0 years to life in prison, though the United States has assured Colombia that it will not seek life sentences for defendants extradited from there. 
Colombia is the world's largest producer of cocaine. In the last four years, nearly 350 Colombians have been extradited to the United States to stand trial on drug trafficking charges. 
The Norte delVallc cocaine cartel is considered to be one of the largest mafias operat­ing in Colombia. One of its leaders, Diego Montoya, sits alongside Osama Bin Laden on the FBI's ten-most-wanted list. 


Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Intelligence officers 
discuss Iraq's future 
Arab countries, Turkey make civil war plans 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt -Top intel­ligence officers from several Arab countries and Turkey have been meeting secretly to coordinate their govern­ments' strategies in case civil war erupts in Iraq and in an attempt to block Iran's interference in the war-torn nation, Arab diplomats said Tuesday. 
The meetings came after several Arab leaders voiced concerns about possible Shiite domination of Iraq and their alliance with Iran. 
The four diplomats said intelligence chiefs from Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and non-Arab Turkey held a series of meetings over the last few weeks to assess the situation in Iraq and work out plans to avoid any regional backlash that may result from sectarian con­11ict in Iraq. 
The diplomats in several Middle Eastern capitals, speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue, said Iran and Syria have been excluded from the talks. 
One diplomat whose coun­try is involved in the talks said the officials are focus­ing on the proposed U.S.­Iranian dialogue on Iraq and the implications on Arabs and Turkey of any "American-Iranian deal." 
Government officials in Egypt and Jordan declined to answer questions on the meetings. 
Reports in the Arab press have suggested that any agreement between Washington and Tehran will be at the expense of Arabs. 
Arab nations, mostly Sunni and traditionally sus­picious of Iran, are deeply concerned about what they see as Iran's growing influ­ence in Iraq. Turkey, also a key Sunni Muslim nation, is worried about Iraq's split into sectarian and ethnic entities that will give rise to Kurdish ambitions for inde­pendence. 
Last year, Jordan's King Abdullah II accused Shiite­dominated Iran of trying to influence events in Iraq. He warned that Iran was seek­ing to create "a Shiite cres­cent" that would disrupt the balance of power in the region. 
Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al-Faisal made similar warnings. 
Before Iraqis voted on their new constitution last year, both Arab League Secretary-General Amr Moussa and Abdul Rahman al-Attiya, head of the Gulf Cooperation Council, lobbied to include a clear reference about Iraq's "Arab identity" in the document. 
Elections held in January produced a parliament dom­inated by Shiites and Kurds, and a ruling coalition by both groups is bound to have close ties to Persian and Shiite Iran. 
Many Arab governments say that sidelining the Sunnis would increase Iran's influence in Iraq and the whole region -anathema for Sunni Arabs and a night­mare for many Washington policy-makers. 
At least one meeting of the intelligence chiefs was held in Cairo in late March, shortly after the U.S. admin­istration said it wanted to open contacts with Tehran about Iraq, the diplomats said. 
They said further meet­ings are planned, including at least one in Cairo this month to finalize the strate­gy. 
Since the ousting of Saddam Hussein three years ago, officials from Iraq's neighbors have held scores of meetings on Iraq but the discussions have not yielded concrete efforts to help restoring stability to the beleaguered nation. 


Become stronger. smarter and more prepared to lace any challenge. With over 150 careers to choose !rom, the Army is your chance to make a difference in your lite and in the future ot your country. Find out more al GOARMY.COM or call 1-800-USA-ARMY. 
Where: 413 W. McKinley, Mishawaka, IN When: Monday-Friday, 9am-6pm 



Exposed British spy killed 
Secret agent served as Sinn Fein legislative chief in Northern Ireland 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN, Ireland-A former Sinn Fein official recently exposed as a British spy was found fatally shot Tuesday after apparently being tortured, police said -a slaying certain to send shock waves through Northern Ireland's peace process. 
Denis Donaldson was Sinn Fein's former legislative chief in the failed power-sharing govern­ment of Northern Ireland. He admitted in December he had been on the payroll of the British secret service and the province's anti-terrorist police for two decades. He went into hiding because the traditional Irish Republican Army punish­ment for informing is death. 
But the IRA denied responsi­bility in a one-line statement. "The IRA had no involvement whatsoever in the death of Denis Donaldson," the outlawed group said. 
Irish Justice Minister Michael McDowell said the 55-year-old Donaldson had been tortured before being killed -apparently with one or two shotgun blasts to his head -inside his isolated home near Glenties, County Donegal, in northwest Ireland. He was last seen alive Monday while walking in the village, McDowell said. 
"His right forearm is almost severed," McDowell said. "He was shot in the head and mutila­tion was done to his body. It's a murder we're dealing with." 
Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and British Prime Minister Tony Blair both con­demned the murder. 
The killing comes at a pivotal moment in Northern Ireland's 13-year-old peace process. 
On Thursday, Blair and Ahern are to travel to Northern Ireland to reveal a new blueprint for reviving a Protestant-Catholic administration, the intended cornerstone of the province's 1998 peace accord. 
The plan -3 1/2 years of diplomacy in the making _ would call for Northern Ireland's legislature to reconvene in mid­May and face a Nov. 24 deadline to elect an administration. 
The killing appeared certain to harden Protestant opinion against cooperating with Sinn Fein, the IRA-linked party that represents most Catholics in Northern Ireland. But officials in both governments said Thursday's announcement would go ahead anyway. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams -who in December initially defended Donaldson as an inno­cent man, then outed him as a British spy -said he did not know who killed him. But he suggested it might have been the work of IRA dissidents opposed to Sinn Fein's peacemaking efforts. 
"It is likely that his death at this time is intended to under­mine current efforts to make political progress," Adams said. "Those who carried out this murder are clearly opposed to the peace process." 
But Ian Paisley, whose Democratic Unionist Party rep­resents most of Northern Ireland's British Protestant majority, said someone within IRA ranks was the most likely culprit. "There is a fmger-point­ing tonight at IRA-Sinn Fein," he said. 
A Catholic-Protestant adminis­tration for Northern Ireland fell apart in October 2002 because of an IRA spying scandal involv­ing Donaldson. 
Donaldson and two others were charged with pilfering doc­uments that identified the per­sonal details of thousands of potential IRA targets. Protestants accused the IRA of plotting a potential resumption of its violent campaign to oust Northern Ireland from the United Kingdom. 
But British prosecutors myste­riously dropped all charges in early December. A week later, Adams announced that Donaldson had confessed to being a paid British spy. Within hours, Donaldson admitted the same in a television interview. 
During its 27-year campaign, the IRA's internal security unit tortured scores of IRA members suspected of passing information to British intelligence. Typical IRA methods included drowning the interrogation victim in a bathtub, applying electric shocks, and administering ciga­rette burns. 
Those who admitted informing had their confessions audio­taped before being shot in the head; their bodies were usually dumped ±-naked and with hands tied behind their backs ­on rural roadsides. 
The IRA last year declared it was renouncing violence for political purposes and backed the pledge by handing over its weapons stockpiles -moves supposed to spur a revival of power-sharing involving Sinn Fein. 
But Paisley has refused to cooperate with Sinn Fein, citing the IRA's refusal to disband and its alleged involvement in crimi­nal activities. 

page 12 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
Brother of '111ilkshake
Senators add 111oney to Iraq bill 
Republicans worry $107 billion figure will increase on Senate floor 
111urder' victi111 killed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A bill to fund the war in Iraq bal­looned by more than $10 bil­lion Tuesday after a Senate panel added funding for everything from fighting bird nu to repairing oyster beds. 
The extras are sure to pro­voke a reaction from GOP conservatives already com­plaining about their party's recent record on spending. But the temptation for using the must-pass bill containing $67.S billion for the Pentagon's mission in Iraq _ and some $27 billion in addi­tional hurricane relief along the Gulf Coast -as a loco­motive to drive even more spending proved too diiTicult for senators to pass up. 
Overall. the bill would cost about $107 billion. 
That's still not enough for Gulf Coast senators like Mary Landrieu, D-La., who marchnd from the Senate Appropriations Committee vote to the Senate Press Gallery to demand another $5 billion-plus to rellect new Army Corps of Engineers estimates of what will be needed for Louisiana levees. 
Landrieu vows to block Senate confirmation of every Bush administration appointment until President Bush supports the new and higher figure. 
Senators piled the extra money into the bill on a series of voice votes -at a pace of almost $100 million per minute of debate -with high-ranking Republicans such as Majority Whip Mitch McConnell of Kentucky sit­ting by in silence. 
The addition a! funding includes: 
+ 
$4 billion for farmers hit by drought, floods and high energy costs. Top supporters were Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., and Conrad Burns, R-Mont. 

+ 
$2.3 billion to combat the avian flu. lt was offered by Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, as championed but not officially requested by the White House. 

+ 
$1.1 billion for various projects to bring back Gulf Coast fisheries, replace fish­ing equipment and facilities 



and provide aid to workers than $4 billion in foreign aid 
Associated Press 

and fishing companies. The is also included, including funding, pushed by Sen. $3.1 billion for Iraq. 
GREENWICH, Conn.-The Richard Shelby, R-AJa., The Congressional Budget 
brother of an investment includes $100 million to Office has estimated that 
banker poisoned in Hong Kong rehabilitate damaged oyster $320 billion has been spent 
in what became known as the and shrimp beds. on Iraq and Afghanistan 
"milkshake murder" was found 

+ $648 million for port since the terrorist attacks of 
stabbed to death in his home,

security projects, obtained Sept. 11, 2001, including $50 
police said. by top panel Democrat, Sen. billion that Congress sent 
When movers found the bodyRobert Byrd of West Bush in December. 
of 46-year-old Andrew M. Virginia. The Senate measure drops 
Kissel on Monday, his hands 

+ $594 million to repair language passed by the 
and feet were bound, a manag­highways damaged by earli­House to block DP World, a 
er for JB Moving Services in er disasters but put off after corporation owned by the 
Stamford said. There were no aid was focused on the Gulf government of Dubai, from 
signs of forced entry or burgla­Coast. Obtained by Sen. taking over operations at six 
ry, Police Chief James Walters Patty Murray, 0-Wash., with U.S. seaports. The company 
said. full backing from Sen. has promised to sell off the 
"This was not a random act," Christopher Bond, H-Mo. its U.S. operations. 
he said. "We do believe that Senate Budget Committee For hurricane relief, the 
Mr. Kissel was the intended Chairman Judd Gregg, H­underlying biii also boosts 
target of this assault." 
N.H., cast the only "nay" vote, in absentia. Even 

"The Senate 
before the $10 

committee's funding 
billion in add­ons, Gregg said level is significantly the $96.7 billion 
higher than the 
version drafted 

president's request, 
b y 

Appropriations and that's a cause Chairman Thad for serious concern." 
Cochran, H-Miss., had "ballooned 

Scott Milburn
out of control." 

But even Gregg White House Budget is poised with a Office spokesman floor amendment to add more than 
$1 billion for border securi­apartments destroyed or 
York. The federal case charged 

ty, though he'd tap other damaged by storm surges 
him with real estate fraud, and 

funds in the bill to pay for it. and levee breaks. 
state prosecutors charged him 

The White House supports With hurricane season 
with grand larceny, alleging he 

the overall bill, but Budget looming, the bill also con­
stole nearly $4 million from his 

Office spokesman Scott tains $2 billion to repair and 
Manhattan apartment coopera­

Milburn said "the Senate rebuild levees and other 
tive. 

committee's funding level is flood-control projects, which 
"We're certainly aware of the 

significantly higher than the comes on top of $2 billion 
criminal and civil. problems he 

president's request, and approved last year. That's 
was facing, and they will play a 

that's a cause for serious $600 million than requested 
role in the investigation,"

concern." by Bush but far short of the 
Walters said. 

The driving force behind $5.9 billion the Army Corps 
Kissel's attorney Philip

the measure is the need to of Engineers says is needed 
Bush's 
He was last seen alive 
request for 
Sunday afternoon by an 
$4.2 billion 
acquaintance, police said. 
in community 
Greenwich police were inter­
development 
viewing friends and family
block grants 
members, including Kissel's 
by about $1 
wife, Hayley, police said. No 
b i I I i o n . 
immediate arrests were made. 
Louisiana is 
Walters would not comment 
expected to 
on a motive, whether a weapon
receive the 
was recovered or whether 
bulk of the 
there were suspects. Police 
money, which 
began searching the home for 
would gener­
evidence and drained the 
ally go 
swimming pool. , 
toward 
At the time of his death, 
rebuilding 
Kissel was facing federal and 
houses and 
state criminal charges in New 

provide funding for the ris­on top of the Bush request. ing costs of the U.S. missions Meanwhile, Texas in Iraq and Afghanistan, and Republican Kay Bailey that makes it a tempting tar­Hutchison obtained $350 


NCAA head criticizes 
get for senators' pet proj­million to help school dis­ects. tricts defray the costs of On Iraq and Afghanistan, educating students displaced 

men's lacrosse party
$67.8 billion goes to the by the storms. About 38,000 
Defense  Department  for  Katrina victims  are  being  
operations and logistics, fuel, replacing equipment  taught in Texas schools. The bill heads to  the  Associated Press  
lost in battle or damaged by harsh conditions, supporting Iraqi forces and classified intelligence activities. More  Senate floor the week of April 24 and GOP officials are worried it will balloon even more there.  BOSTON -NCAA president Myles Brand said behavior at a Duke men's lacrosse party last month was inappropriate,  

regardless of whether the alleged 
assault of an exotic dancer 
results in criminal charges. 
The dancer, a student at a

Official arrested for online actions 
nearby university, told police she 
was raped at the party by three 
men who restrained and choked

Homeland Security press secretary charged with seducing minor 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The deputy press secretary for the U.S. Department of Homeland Seeurity was arrested Tuesday for using the Internet to seduce what he thought was a teenage ~-,rirl, authorities said. 
Brian J. Doyle, 55, was arrest­ed at his residence in Maryland on eharges of use of a computer to seduce a child and transmis­sion of harmful material to a minor. The charges were issued out of Polk County, Fla. 
Doyle, of Silver Spring, Md., had a sexually explicit conversa­tion with what he b(llieved was a 14-year-old girl whose profile he saw on the Internet on March 14, the Polk County Sheritrs Office said in a statement. 
The girl was an undercover Polk County Sheriff's Computer Crimes detective, the sheriff's office said. 
Doyle sent the girl pornograph­ic movie clips and had sexually explicit conversations via the Internet, the statement said. 
During other online conversa­tions, Doyle revealed his name, that he worked for the Homeland Security Department and offered his office and government issued cell phone numbers, the sheriff's office said. 
Doyle also sent photos of him­self to the girl, but authorities said they were not sexually explicit. 
On several occasions, Doyle instrueted her to perform a sexu­al act while thinking of him and described explicit activities he wanted to have with her, investi­gators said. 
Doyle later had a telephone conversation with an undercover deputy posing as the teenager and encouraged her to purchase a web camera to send graphic images of herself to him, the sheriff's office said. 

He was booked into Maryland's Montgomery County jail where he was waiting to be extradited to Florida, the sheriff's office said. 
There was no immediate response to messages left on Doyle's government-issued cell phone and his e-mail, and he could not be reached by phone at the jail for comment. 
Homeland Security press sec­retary Russ Knocke in Washington said he could not comment on the details of the investigation. "We take these allegations very seriously, and we will cooperate fully with the ongoing investigation," Knocke said. 
Russell said Kissel had planned to plead guilty Thursday in connection with the federal case in New York. 
"Andrew did bad things," his father, William, told The Associated Press Tuesday. "He took money from a lot of peo­ple. He was killed in an extremely vengeful, angry way." 
William Kissel said his son was killed in the basement of the house. 
"Someone got in there in a very narrow timeline," William Kissel said. "Someone had to know something." 
Andrew Kissel's brother, Hobert, was killed in 2003 after his wife, Nancy, fed him a drug-laced milkshake and beat him to death with a statuette. She was convicted of murder and is serving a life sentence. 
Andrew Kissel and his recently estranged wife tem­porarily cared for his brother's three children before the youngsters were formally handed over to the custody of the Kissels' sister. 
In divorce papers, Hayley Kissel said her husband had sought treatment for a drink­ing problem and had commit­ted fraud against her, including forging powers of attorney to transfer property she owned in Vermont and converting assets for his own use in violation of court orders. The couple have two children. 
Joseph Martini, her attorney, had little comment. 
"Right now, she is focused on her children and trying to get them through what is obviously a tragic ordeal for them and trying to get herself through it," Martini said. 
Kissel also was being sued by a former business partner. 
news conference at which he dis­cussed women's basketball before Duke played Maryland in the national championship game. 
He said the Duke women's team should not be drawn into the discussion over what hap­pened at the lacrosse party. 
"I think the Duke basketball team is a terrific team," Brand said. "I don't think that's in the least bit overshadowed or taken anything away from the women. In fact, I think by pushing the women to answer something that they have no role to play, that strikes me as misleading to read­ers. I know some journalists have done that." 
Brand also said he thought Duke president Richard Brodhead was correct in sus­pending the lacrosse team's sea­son until the university learns more about what happened at the party. The lacrosse team's co­captains have denied that anyone was sexually assaulted or raped at the party. 
'Tm pleased to see they're tak­ing strong steps until they get to the bottom of it," Brand said of Duke's administration. 
Several campus demonstra­tions have criticized Duke for not doing enough, but Brand called Brodhead's decision "evidence that the administration and facul­ty are treating it very seriously and not ignoring it." 
her as she struggled to free her­self from a bathroom. Investigators have collected DNA evidence from team members but no charges have been filed. A spokeswoman for North Carolina's attorney general's office said Tuesday the state's crime lab is still analyzing those samples. 
Brand said no assumptions about guilt or innocence should be made before the case runs its course. 
"Nonetheless, the situation that arose was inappropriate at best," he said in Boston, where he is attending the NCAA women's basketball championship game. "It is inappropriate that we should have any group of young men, let alone those who play on our athletic teams, inviting a stripper, underage alcohol and that kind of environment." 
Brand's comments were in response to a question during a 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS page 13 
Musicians displaced by hurricane 'sing back' to city 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN -The music of New Orleans is huddled in an old Austin recording studio. 
Some of the Crescent City's musical legends have returned to this Texas city where -just six weeks after Hurricane Katrina ­they cut a therapeutic album dedi­cated to their ravaged hometown. 
At that post-Katrina recording session, names synonymous with New Orleans-Neville, Porter, Nocentelli, Rebennack -gath­ered to channel their raw emo­tions into the bittersweet tribute, "Sing Me Back Home." 
On a recent evening, a few weeks before the release of their album, they reconvened. 
"The music lives on in those players, no matter where they are," says George Porter Jr., the bassist and band leader of the New Orleans Social Club, the name the collective has adopted. 
The great talents of the New Orleans music scene had been accustomed to living minutes away from each other in the Ninth Ward, but Katrina scattered them across Texas, Colorado and else­where. 
"I think I live in South Austin," says Cyril Neville, still trying to get his bearings on his new home. On the album, released this week, he passionately sings Curtis Mayfield's "This Is My Country." 
In the weeks after Katrina, pro­ducer Leo Sacks assembled the New Orleans Social Club -a five­piece band led by Porter, best known as one of the founding members of the Meters. Fellow Meter Leo Nocentelli joined on guitar, as well as Ivan Neville on organ, Henry Butler on piano and Raymond Weber on drums. 
Many guests were brought in. Dr. John (whose real name is Mac Rebennack) plays "Walking to New Orleans"; John Boutte covers Annie Lennox's "Why"; and Big Chief Monk Boudreaux sings the specially composed "Chase." 
"I knew as soon as you got New Orleans cats together you were going to have the spirit and sound of the city," says Sacks. "We could address all the emotions of the moment." 
As much of the album proves, those emotions were running high. Between songs, many were busy tracking the damage to their homes, looking at old photos or speaking to family members dis­persed by the storm. 
"It helped me to be with these guys and be busy, take my mind off of it," says Weber, who has migrated to Austin with his family. "It was like being back home." 
Since portions of the proceeds from "Sing Me Back Home" will benefit the Salvation Army, the New Orleans Musicians Clinic and Music Cares, Weber says he's in the funny position of raising money for his own cause -to rebuild his home. 
''I'm part of the project as well, because we did it for Katrina vic­tims who want to come on back home," he says, laughing heartily. "I want to go back home[" 
Ivan Neville is the son of New Orleans icon Aaron Neville, whose house was ruined in the floodwa­ters of Katrina. Like countless New Orleans residents, Ivan feels the government has let down his city and his people, and expresses that by covering Creedence Clearwater's "Fortunate Son." 
"A song like 'Fortunate Son' 


was pertinent when it was out during the Vietnam War," says Neville, who is currently living in Austin. "And the fact that that's still relevant now is ridiculous." 
Like "Fortunate Son" (which Rolling Stone called "outraged funk"), much of "Sing Me Back Home" is imbued with political protest. 
"Too many have died protecting my pride, for me to go second class," Cyril Neville (brother to Aaron and Art) sings on "This Is My Country." 
Brooks releases DVD collection 
Director discusses the eight comedies included in his $100 box set 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Mel Brooks would love to see a run on the new DVD collection of eight of his gleefully manic movie come­dies, including "Blazing Saddles," "Young Frankenstein" and "High Anxiety." 
"I think people should buy 20 of them. Buy 20 and save a lot of them for Christmas presents. Who knows how many of these they make? They might be gone," Brooks said, and not entirely in jest. 
It's not that Brooks, 79, who turned his 1968 film "The Producers" into a Broadway money machine, could be fman­cially strapped. Profit isn't the issue, he said. 
"I want these movies to be seen. Nobody has seen 'The Twelve Chairs' or 'Silent Movie,"' he said, naming two of the hard-to-find titles in the boxed set out this week. 
Brooks is especially fond of 1970's "The Twelve Chairs," based on an early 1900s novel by two writers in the new Soviet Union who "were like me ­they were crazy. They were tongue-in-cheek comedy writ­ers," he said. 
He recognized back then that the film, made in Yugoslavia for less than $1 million, was "a great indulgence, because I did­n't think anybody would go for it." Time has proved him wrong. 
"Through the years, I keep getting letters: 'My favorite 
movie of all the movies you've done is "The Twelve Chairs." . Not only is it funny but it's mov­ing, it has heart,"' Brooks said, 
reciting a typical mash note. 
"You never know. You never 
know," he mused. 
He is certain about what 
helped shape his approach to 
comedy. As a newcomer he 
shared writing duties on Sid 
Caesar's classic '50s sketch 
series, "Your Show of Shows," 
with other humorists destined 
for fame, among them Neil 
Simon, Larry Gelbart and Carl 
Reiner. 
They were heavily influenced 
by the show's producer, Max 
Uebman, Brooks recalled. 
"It was like Liebman 
University. He taught us the 
best humor comes out of the 
human condition, out of the 
weakness of people, their greed, 
their broken promises," he said. 
"We didn't write jokes. We 
wrote little stories with charac­
ters, which prepares you to 
write screenplays. Our sketches 
were mini-movies. They weren't 
situation comedy, where they 
ride on a very thin premise, like 
an angry neighbor, for 30 min­
utes." 
If there's a theme that con­
nects his movies, he said, "it's 
greed or love, love or greed.... 
Do you want to be good or want 
to be rich? You can't be both." 
The jacket of the DVD set is 
decorated not with critical 
praise but with snippets of his 
movie dialogue. 
There's "What a dramatic air­port" from "High Anxiety"; "I hate people I don't like" from "The Twelve Chairs" and "How womantic" from "Blazing Saddles," which Brooks afi­cionados will know to pro­nounce with an overheated Marlene Dietrich accent. 

Other films in the collection (Fox Home Entertainment, $99.98) are "Robin Hood: Men in Tights," "To Be or Not to Be" and "History of the World Part 1." 
Reviewers rarely had kind words for his parodies of film genres including Hitchcock thrillers, Westerns and disaster dramas. "The Producers," for instance, about two sadsacks trying to swindle investors by staging a musical with Hitler as the hero, was panned by one critic as "an almost flawless tri­umph of bad taste, unredeemed by wit or style." 
(The Zero Mostel-Gene Wilder film is excluded from the DVD set because it's to be released along with last year's musical version, based on the stage play and starring Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick, Brooks said.) 
If critics didn't appreciate Brooks and his singular, some­times sophomoric work, his tar­get audience did. 
"When we did 'Young Frankenstein,' we knew we could get the college crowd. They loved the Mary Shelley novel," Brooks said. "If you did­n't get the references, you couldn't enjoy my movies." 
Much of the album, though, is full of toe-tapping optimism. The Mighty Chariots of Fire perform "99 1/2 Won't Do" and Irma Thomas and Marcia Ball sing "Look Up." 
"Music always takes the place of anything that's negative," says Nocentelli; who lost an office space to the hurricane, and whose mother and sister lost everything. "Even though the negativity was there, the music overcomes that." 
"The music heals," echoes Cyril Neville. 
Everyone in the band is con­cerned that the culture of New Orleans will never come back, even ifthe city does. Over 250,000 residents -more than half of the pre-hurricane population, many of them black -remain scattered all over the country. 
"It's never going to be the same because a lot of the poorest people who had to leave are not going to be able to make it back," says Ivan Neville. "To me, that's a major part of the heart and soul of the city: the people." 

Couric 111ay leave NBC for nightly ne-ws sho-w 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Katie Couric may mark her 15th anniversary as "Today" show anchor this week by making the decision to leave. 
She's talk­ing with CBS about taking over as "CBS Evening N e w s " anchor, according to a non-net­work person 


close to the Couric negotiations, and neither CBS nor NBC is dis­puting reports that she could announce a deal as early as this week. There are still some issues left 
to be resolved before a deal is reached, said the person who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Couric's contract with NBC ends in May, and she reportedly needed the network's permission to begin negotiations with another network before next month. NBC's decision to grant it could be an indication that the network expects her to leave, or at least that it wants a decision before outlining its fall program­ming plans to advertisers next month. 
Couric's first day as "Today" anchor was April 5, 1991, and the morning show plans to mark that anniversary on the air Wednesday. Her tenure, with Couric paired the last nine years with Matt Lauer, have brought the morning show unparalleled ratings and financial success. 
Representatives for NBC, CBS and Couric would not comment Tuesday on the discussions. 
Meanwhile, Meredith Vieira of "The View" has emerged as the leading candidate to succeed Couric at "Today" if she leaves, according to people familiar with NBC's thinking. Vieira, a former CBS News reporter who won a Daytime Emmy as host of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," has previously turned down offers to return to news since joining "The View." 
"Today" weekend host Campbell Brown is also a candi­date, along with NBC reporter Natalie Morales and "Today" newsreader Ann Curry. 
Couric, 49, would be the first woman to be named as a sole host of a network evening news­cast -even though Elizabeth Vargas frequently has done that job alone at ABC's "World News Tonight." 
That designation -and the desire to try a new challenge after 15 years of early wake-up calls -is said to be a powerful motivation for Couric. NBC's offer to keep her is reportedly several million dollars more than CBS's offer, but it doesn't include the anchor slot at NBC's "Nightly News," said the person close to the talks. 
She likely would begin at "CBS Evening News" in September. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

A marriage question 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikcGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
Ass·J; MANAGING EDITOil: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EmTOR: Robert Griffin 
NEws EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWI'OINT EDITOil: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Rrian Ooxtader SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PH<rro EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Rrown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLI.f.ll: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRAffiR; Damian AlthofT SYSTEMS ADMINISI'RATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
{574) 631-7471 FAX {'>74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
{'>74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinl.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @'nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene. l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on conrem. The ntws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of rhe majority of tlw F.<litor in Chief; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem rhe views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all re-.tders. The free ~"Xprt\'Sion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to 1ht• Editor must he signed and must include contact information. 
Qutstions regarding Observer policies should be dirmed to F.ditor ilz ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l'hr O'*::rvcr (USPS 5~1 l...ofOOOl is pu!Jli.dlcd M~md;~y r/~rough Frid~y uup1 during rum and vac.llillll pcm»ds. A •ub.urpll(m ro The Ol~crver b $ll)fl ((,ronea..:adcmic ytar: $~~ fur nnr ~ITlnter. 
'M1c: OM-rver i• puhli~hcd at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining ll.tll Stud addreM corr~iE:Jm w: 
Nmrt' flame:. IN 46S~-on9 Thc Observer 
l'criOOi~l P'-'lit~c: p.1id .u Nuue Dame 1~0. ~)X 779 .m.J.u!Jidtm.tl mailing ufficcs. 024 South Dining llall 
Nmrt Damr. IN 16556-on9 
The { )b\ctver i.• .am~mhcr of tlu: ~ttillf«< Pret.li. All n:pmd.uL'tion righrll J.re rc,ctvcd. 

It has been observed by some well­known political columnists and bloggers that members of the neo-conservative right, which is famously fond of denounc­ing traditional marriage and civil rights f(>r gay and lesbian couples and families, rarnly, if ever, say what rights and social structures they favor for them to provide the support given by these proven institu­tions. Yet the fact of the matter is, accord­ing to the Urban Institute, there arc at least 250,000 same­sex families raising children across the nation. Some of these children arc the product of legal adoption in those states that permit it, like California and Massachusetts. Others are born through artificial insemination (pos­sibly carried by a willing surrogate moth­er) or are "Brokeback Mountain" cases where a gay parent retains child-custody after legal separation. 
It is odd, and more than a little dis­tressing, that the defenders of "family values" and the coiners of the phrase "no child left behind" have remained entirely closemouthed about their policy toward this growing segment of the population. It is almost as if they wish that these fami­lies, and these children, would vanish without a trace. Yet any social historian can tell you that legal marriage has always been primarily about the legit­imization of children and provisions for their protection. Therefore, arguably any national institution that willfully ignores the neod to legally and socially protect a nontrivial cross-section of its children has no real claim to the name "marriage" at all. 
Looking at marriage through the lens 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

of its larger pragmatic goals, and setting aside any questions of its underlying meaning (although I argue that its mean­ings and its goals are aspects of the same thing), one begins to wonder, given its track record, if the institution of marriage is even suitable for the modern world. 
After the 18th century the entire con­cept of marriage was stood completely on its head, as a major segment of the popu­lation began to believe (against all tradi­tion, mind you) that people should marry for the sake of love. This was the first great sexual revolution, and the mother of every lesser moral revolution that has come since, from Dr. Huth to Dr. Phil. Frankly, the theology of marriage, and indeed of human sexuality, has also not yet caught up with this reality. The strain shows in the disconnect between what Christian religions teach and what peo­ple, by their own common-sense morality, hold to be true. (Start up a discussion of condoms at lunch and see what I mean.) 
Can we even honestly claim that mar­riage is doing its job anymore, and are we even certain what the job of marriage should be? Both are valid questions. Besides the aforementioned problem of providing legal protection to the children of gay couples, half of all marriages in the United States end in divorce, millions of children are born to single mothers and millions more are terminated before birth by those who feel unable, emotion­ally or fmancially, to support them. Meanwhile, the failure of many couples to understand the basic mechanics of stable relationships has given rise to a booming relationship self-help industry. 
Something is clearly missing from our implementation of marriage, and as the empirical evidence shows, the institution of marriage is becoming less and less able to fulfill its given role. With this most excellent track record, is it any wonder that more and more couples are choosing to forgo marriage altogether? Perhaps they have taken the smarter road. 
The situation is laughably depressing, and it is hard to construe otherwise. What's more, the conservatives arc very much aware that the institution of mar­riage is not healthy in this country, and that it is neither fuiJilling its larger social purpose nor meeting the nends of those who seek it out. lndend, they arc always quick to enumerate the goals and bnnefiL'i of marriage-protection of children. th11 long-trwm economic stability of society, the physical and emotional health of cou­ples and the physical and emotional health of children. 
Yet the neo-conservatives have already committed themselves to the li>rm of a solution to this problnm -marriage, exactly as it is today, with no compromis­es, no adjustments and no questions asked. The argument has becomn the social science equivalent of creationism, where one side is pre-eommitted to an untouchable ideal handed down from on high. Even when the institution has become self-contradictory, as with its inability to protect the children of gay couples, they remain unwavering. Unchangeable sanctity, they say, even if the institution it totally broken. Meanwhile everyone else is controlling their bladder and trying not to giggle while the old priest from "The Princess Bride" mutters on about "Marwahge." 
What we have lost sight of is the reality that what ultimately sull'ers from all of this neo-conservative rhetoric is marriage itself, along with its loftier goals and all those who have come to depend upon it. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofthe Uni/Jersity ofNotre Dame. lie can be con­tacted at comments@tidwaterblues.com, or, ifhe is standing close by, semaphore works just as well. 
The lJiews expressed in this column are those oftbe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler Nicolo Zook Jack Thornton Kaitlynn Hiely Chris Hine What do you think of the Maureen Mullen Scene 
academic advising system? 
Viewpoint Tae Andrews Laura Sonn Brian Doxtader Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graham Ebetsch 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Jell' Albert 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
',"' t'' b . 1 
''There is nothing like returning 
!~u Jmt ar etter 
to a place that remains unchanged to find the ways in which ,!;JOU yourself ha/Je altered. 
i 

to the Editor at 
Nelson Mandela civil rights leader

Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
History validates University's nickname 
As a member who comes from Irish ancestry, I feel compelled to stand up to those who are claiming that the nickname Fighting Irish is offensive -I do not find it offensive one bit. The Notre Dame Athletic Website has written the history of the Fighting Irish nickname. The Web site states that although there are may stories of how the nickname came about, most seem to center around the Notre Dame football team in the early 20th century and how the team was comprised mostly of Irish Catholics. The nickname was drawn from opposing fans who referred to the Notre Dame football team as the Fighting Irish. Before that, the team was known as the terriers, with an Irish terrier named Clashmore Mike as the mascot. Then University president Rev. Matthew Walsh, an Irish-Catholic priest, officially adopted "Fighting Irish" as the Notre Dame nickname in 1927 mainly because the sports team that Notre Dame was known for, its football team, had earned a reputation as Irish­Catholic college students who could play football very well. 
If either of the previous two writers had bothered to do any research in regards to the "Fighting Irish" nickname, they would have found that it had noth­ing to do with the University seeking out to bad­mouth or harm Ireland or Irish People or any con­spiracy on the part of the United States to profit from supposed symbols of the country of Ireland. The nickname came from how hard our football teams played, not out of any "violent" Irish history. If Sinead Howley wants to believe that the University chose the nickname out of spite to Irish history, then I ask the question: If you find it so "offensive," then why are you here? There are hun­dreds of students worldwide who see the nickname Fighting Irish for what it actually is -tradition. If Sinead Howley has a problem with leprechauns, then why does the University allow us to play schools like Canisius, who also sports a mascot that is a mythological creature? The next thing I am hoping for is for guys with beards to start writing into The Observer complaining that the leprechaun unfairly represents their beards. 
Finally I had a problem with Howley stating that the United States is essentially using the country of Ireland and that the United States has great control over the tourism industry and economy of Ireland. Ms. Howley, did you know that Ireland has been reported to have the second highest per capita income of any country in the European Union next to Luxembourg, the fourth highest in the world? Did you also know that during the Celtic Tiger period of economic success in Ireland that Ireland's historic trend of emigration was stopped and Ireland even started to become a destination for many immi­grants? Did you also know that many worldwide countries began to build their businesses in Ireland because of its economic success? Finally, did you know that unemployment in Ireland fell from 18 percent in the late 1980s to 4. 9 percent by the end of the Celtic Tiger period? If Ireland is so dependent on American money, then how do you account for the increase in jobs, the economy and the livelihood of the Republic of Ireland? Ireland's economy is one of the best in Europe, I hardly doubt that one of the best economies in Europe is solely dependent on American money. 
This argument, while intellectually stimulating and interesting enough to stir up conversation, is pointless if the people complaining about it do not fully understand the meaning. Fighting Irish is tra­dition, it is who Notre Dame is. Nobody before the 1900s ever heard of Notre Dame but our football opponents put us on the map by referring to us as a bunch of "Fighting Irish." It has nothing to do with Ireland's nation as a whole nor does it have to do with Irish history. It has to do with the fact that the football team was primarily composed of Irish­Catholics from the Chicago area. If you find it offen­sive, then that is fine, you have that right, but do not argue that it is offensive without understanding its meaning. I do not find it offensive, I understand that it is tradition, and I urge all students of Notre Dame to say loudly and proudly with me, "Go Irish!" 
Patrick Rigney junior Siegfried Hall March 27 
Broken clock 
shames quad 

In Monday's edition of Jockular there was a panel making fun of the fact that the O'Shaughnessy clock is constantly broken. When I was an undergraduate student here there was a comic called 4th and Inches which I recall on a least one occasion also made fun of the fact that the O'Shag clock was perpetually bro­ken. This was some four years ago. So what is my point? It has been four years and they still haven't fixed the O'Shag clock. This is an embarrassment to the university. We spend thousands upon thousands of dollars every year to make everything on this campus look immaculate, and yet we have a massive broken clock which is visible from the whole of South Quad. 
What must visitors to our university think of us when they see this clock? So what exactly is the problem with this clock? Have all the clock engineers transferred to the business school? Is this clock possessed by a demon? In any case, if it is beyond repair for some reason, why don't they just remove it from the building, seeing as in its broken state it is nothing more than a massive eyesore (and don't tell me even a broken clock is right twice a day!). Or, if it is not beyond repair, please fix it! 
Terence Stomp alumnus Class of 200 I April3 

Saint Mary's is losing 
•

proven Winner 
As a former member of the Saint Mary's varsity basketball team, I am deeply disap­pointed in the Saint Mary's athletic depart­ment for not renewing coach Steve Bender's contract. In only his first year at Saint Mary's, Coach Bender and his assistant coaches accomplished Saint Mary's' best record in the MIAA. He brought increased recognition and respect to Saint Mary's in the conference when he was named MIAA Coach of the Year. 
The MIAA is one of the oldest and most competitive Division III conferences in the 
U.S. The MIAA consistently sends two to three women's basketball teams to the post­season NCAA tournament. This year, Hope College, a member of the MIAA, won the NCAA Division III National Championship. Not only was Coach Bender able to over­come the challenges of being a first year coach, but he was able to do so in the nationally competitive conference that is the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's will be losing Coach Bender and his assistant coaches, particularly coach Jill Bodensteiner. Having personally been coached by her, I can attest to her loyalty to Saint Mary's, her team and her players. 
Players have expressed their disbelief and surprise openly at Coach Bender's dismissal. While briefly speaking with current players, they reported that they are committed to taking an active role to reinstate coach Bender. 
In recent years, the Saint Mary's Athletic Department has experience increased suc­cess due to the quality of its coaches and support from the Saint Mary's community. I have no reason to believe Coach Bender acted in any way that would cause Saint Mary's to ask him not to return. By not renewing the contract of Coach Bender, the Saint Mary's Athletic Department is jeopard­izing the future success of the Saint Mary's basketball team. 
Julie Malone junior Holy Cross Hall March 27 

U-WIRE 
Why you should care about Darfur 
Since 2003, the Sudanese government has been waging a campaign of geno­cide against targeted African communities in Darfur. Brutal murders and rapes continue as government-backed militias attack refugee camps. Disease and malnourishment are rampant in the camps. More than two million people have been displaced, and 400,000 people have died. 
The United States acknowledged that genocide is taking place in Darfur in Sept. 2004 but has yet to take the action necessary to stop the violence. The African Union is failing to keep the peace with its limited number of poorly trained and poorly armed troops. The United Nations continues to talk about supporting AU troops with its own forces without taking action. Meanwhile, 500 people continue to die every day. 
I want to share why I think it is important to take action on this genocide and on all injustices and hatred in the world. 
We need people to fight injustice because it is those people who have been changing the world for the better throughout history. There's always an alarmist notion that society is going downhill, but the opposite is true. Think of how far our own country has come since our own genocide and the enslavement of our brothers and sisters. Our progress is the direct result of the hard work of millions of dedicated people who refused to give up. 
We need people who triumph over hatred with love. We need individuals with a passion within them that drives them to keep fighting, even though the world may never see a day when hatred doesn't exist. It drives them to keep going when they fail over and over again, when change seems impossible, when the world calls for their crucifixion. 
We can all be one of these people. It requires a conscious decision to strive to love others and ourselves. It requires a commitment to continue fighting hatred with love any way that we can until our death. It takes practice, patience, persistence and sacrifice. There will always be the temptation to give up. It is never easy, but it is always worth it. 
April 6 will mark the 12th anniversary of the Rwandan genocide. More than 900,000 people were slaughtered as most of the world looked on and did nothing. The worlc\ needed people to step up-but few did. 
Genocide is happening again, but you can step up. 
This column originally appeared in the April 4 edition of the Daily Michigan, the daily publication at the University ofMichigan. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
STORIES B y 
MARRIED To THE Moe: MAFiosos IN THE MEDIA 
When "Jhe Sopranos"'debuted on Jan. 10, 1999, Tony Soprano ~ the show's ursinc, amoral e,(mtcr -did more than just gnt himsf'lf a gun. He became the stone eold vcnePr of HBO's cable empire, helping thn eompany whack its competi­tion en route to instant cult-hit status, bloekbustcr ratings aug 17 Emmys over the next five years. 
Along the way, Tony and his cre\W joined a long lineage of notable Mafia families, gangsters who've l:!een immor­tali zed in pop culture loru. Names like Capone; f..otti and Corlcone ·....,..some fie~ tional, others not-have become :i.Qsep~ arabiG from tho publk's fascin«.tl('m:wl:ti:t . tho dangerous, but enticing, world of organized crime. . .. ·... .. ·. ·. ... ·. ·•.·.·.•··· .··• ..•··.· 
Hollywood is no di!tereti~. Mob .stotit)$ > . · p;pt:n\~.~a;e~ film's merits. During have been popular destinations foil · oeeasiQU; Tony reveals that he Hollywood's caviar dreams sln~e th~ ll;" poirt.ting to the segmAnt 1940s, when the crirrte noif genre of·. . . .. goes b(tck to Don Cheeeh;s 
blaek and white films' rose in popularity . following World War ft Over the next f'ew decades, Western outlaws outfitted· with cowboy haL<; and six-shooters were slowly replaced by Tommy guns ant;). trench coats in audience imaginations~ The new folk ru1ti*heroes had arrived ....,­members of "La Cosa Nostra." 
Arguably the most influential depiction of the Matla in popular culture is direc* tor Francis Ford Coppola's "The GodfathHr" trilogy, based on works by author Mario Puzo. Populated by colorful characters, Coppola's tllmic glimpse at the Corleone crime family -about as close to privileged Mafia royalty as they come -has withstood the test of time and continues to be one of the most revered American lllms ever made. 
While} Coppola's crime opus is essen~ tially tht'l story of Michael Corleone ~the promising college graduate and World War II veteran who is initially sheltered from the family business ..,..... tht:l most complex and beloved character!$ his father, Vito. With his strong moralcode and an unwavering devotion. ··· · ··· the Corleone family every second of his· time. As regal as he Vito did .more than _just and respect from his New ·crime kingdom. He laid the tracks for Tony. Soprano as a devoted family .man and a eh;;trismatk friend. inspiring loyalty from both his families -dorunstie and erirui­oal. · 
Played by two different scroen giants ---it Marlon Brando and Robert DP Niro­Vito was the heart and soul of the first two installments of the trilogy. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences apparently agreed, awarding both 6rando and ))e Niro respective act­ingOscars for their efforts -the--only time two actors have won separateOsears for playing the same character. 
"The Sopranos" is replete with loving fei&:t;e:nees to Coppola's classics. Aside · · · (lutirtg.cla.<isic lines from thntrilo* 
j;al times It.. season, Tony and hi,s ¢re.w'Ji~tye. enwred into passionate dis­
vill. . . ily as his favorite scone from tlletrilogy. .
In that same episode, Tony's crew gathers around a TV set to test out an adVan,ce bootlegged copy of "The Godfather" on DVD. Alas. the DVD shorts out and produces a "no disc" error. This prompts crewmember Paulie Gualtieri to quip, "Somebody should tell Paramount Pictures to get their (stuft1 together. We'tegonna be stealing thousandsmore of these things" -a elHver tongue-in­chffl3k reference to the crew's honest day jobs. 
If. ''The Godfather" glamorized Don Corleone's white collar operation, direc­tor Martin Scorsese took his view of crime directly to street level in "Goodfellas." Releas~ in 1990, the t'ilnt follows tbe · of Jimmy Conway himself once more to which all other tic­· are measured), Henry Tommy DeVito (Jof'"' of New York mob-low level hoods to 
in the '60s and '70s. .. afilm showed how · · · · operated, includ~ · · trafficking and their for:. 
stately Corleones are the . rony and his soldiers aspire to bP. thfl l'olons in "Goodlellas" are thni most direct an1:.e!>tors. In fa~t. "Th SiJpranos" and "Goodlilllas" shar1l more than a fpw eommtmalitins. Rn.-iidHs the eonunon blue-collar n'ime rooJ..<; or bot! ' dramas, "Sopranos" lifers Christopher Moltisanti and Dr. Jennifer Melfi arq played by li)rmer "Good.iellas" cast mem · bers Michar1l lmperioli and Lorraine Braeco, respe1~tively -a coincidcrwe• that the 11130 drama exploits with comi­cal repercussions. 
Midway through Scorsese's J'ilm, lmperioli -who plays an ill fated bar­t•mder named Spider -gets a bullet in the foot from ri.n irktld Pesd for being slow with the drinks. Almost a decade later, h0p11rioli repays the favor in a first season episodi~ of "The Sopranos," shooting a bakery clerk in the foot due to1 a perceivfld slight -a dear·cut homag~ to S<:orseStl'S Malia classic. That style of dark humor -prevalent in many of Scorsese's fi.lms. but especially in "Goodftlllas" -is echoed in many "Sopranos" episodes. 
Mob stories are never in short supply in Hollywood, and every decade boasts a Mafia gem of its own. While films like'\ "The See Also Godfather" romanti­
"A New Addition
cized the seedy, yet tight knit, underbelly of to the Family"crime, others -1983's 
page 18
''Scarface," 1987's "The Untouchables" and 2002's "Road. to Perdition" come to mind -have painted this same world in blood-red hues that belie the respeetf'ul kl'lSes and aiTeetionate epithets of gang­ster solidarity. 
Into this lineage stflps "The Sopranos." At once alluring, provocative and dis­turbing, the series represents an evolu­tion of the genre as rnueh as a vivid new interpretation. When Tony says to his nephew, ''Once you're into this family, there's no getting out." he voices his binding avowal to the Malia's past and, present. 
Fortunately for Vito, Michael, Henry' and the rest of their cadre, the future of La Cosa Nostra in the media is assured -it lies in Tony's burly hands, tapering down to tho gun bart·el nestled between; his fingers. 

Carmela {Edle Falco), the her husband's 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

Wednesday, April 5, 2006 page 17 
A GOTTUMU 
SEASON SIX PREVIEW 
Tho last time audiences saw Tony interference or com,rn·"'""'"'''"" Soprano, he was fleeing fr'hm FBI "Sopranos"' series creator u 9.... ~"'''~""'''"'' •), VtllntluP•:r ag~nts on foot through an icy patch of and his crew have Bl~tl;lli•~ttll ,New Jersey woodlands. Not exo,vt!Y the show. Tony:and his crew ... · l,Jecome 
, most dignified image of one of the most larger-than~life pop culturf1· ittlYis; as feared mafiosos in th~ imaginative closely linkl"d'lo television in th.e past world of "The Sopranos." "Be of,.good decade as, "Jhe Godfather" was to cheer," advis~s Neil Mink. Tony's I lollywood in lhe 1970s. lawyer, for tho hulking mobster had With the) s'll;p shining down !)n the skirted his way past more than }ust jail erown jewel pf HBO original prggram­time -fortuitously, he hadn't even ming, it's a sure bet that this sea$9P will been named in an indictment sting that push the boundaries past anything landed one of Tony's colleagues, ~'9 that's come before. If the cast an(t,erew prison. , ,' , manage to pull this ofl', it will be ;,t nar~ 
For once, a "Sopranos" season'· fina\e rative coup for the ages -as singularly ended more with a whimper thaR:a identifiable as the blood,soaked conclu­bang. as Tony gingerly trod bont~ sions to )'The Go~~~th(lr~ <.and through the snow. Fifteen months late~, "Scarface." ·s :.;;;i'c •: . / ' the highly anticipated sixth -and flna1 At least tha.t's where Ttiey's dark path -season of the HBO drama is her(!, is heading, based on the events of the and the excruciating wait is over. As jf: last seasoft, Season five of ... The ... culminating the legend of Tony Soprano Sopranos" ~as a milestone fo~ the · -one of the most charismatic, danger­series. In a~:era when shows average ous and formidable mob boSses to ever only a seasoilor two before being swept extort fiction -isn't enou under the r~g. "The Sopranos" looked this season 'is being her it..'lelf in the iJUrror and refused to'yield same fanfare that, has nl"<'~""''~~"rt to a creativ~'mid-life crisis -a period season ofthe show marked by cl:taracters hardening and 
A critical losing their ~ppeal, and stories running •· Sopranos" dry while meandering over beaten respect from the paths. Instel;td, the show's er~ators garnering four slipped anotq~r magazine into their 
Outstanding" Dr<ili:ql'~···~)ert~ Glock 23 and came out firing. ..·. · had eluded it On top of ·.• routine headaches from tentpoles James UQ.llU'VIIJlJU', quelling Falco had both won ffiuneiUI"'' "the lJWHllt'"":lf,­Acting Emmys fof their Mafia monarchs of New the first year that "The ,,q upnliltu:~.<,,:.;r::.uu. reversed the trend of falling 
"The West Wing~· in the r~(J Outstanding Drama honor·;;;,:.::. and . ac,¢ompanying industry resp~t. 
Moreover•. 2004'sJ3mm;ys.•·.,···"''.. n;..m· the status othhc show' as an · effort. one that perceives, the crime through more t9;m n sibgle of heavyset eyes. Michael Imperioli Drea Matteo both picked up awards .. Best Supporting Actor and Best · Supportingoc'-ctress, respectively, for their deeply aU'ecting turns as ill-fated lovers Christopher Moltisanti and Adriana La Cerva. 
Very rarely can a:.~levision series dic­tate its own terms With as little network 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
page 18 
By TAE ANDREWS and CHRIS 
McGRADY 
Assistanr Scene Editors 
Tae: Prior to the video game release of "The Godfather," fan speculation about its quality was high -would it do justiee to the film. or was it just a money-making addendum to the film series, in pursuit of the almighty dollar'? After a March 21, 2006 n~lease, tlw final verdiet is out: jus­lien is snrvnd, although thn game is hardly a masterpiece. 
The EA Games' vidno game n~ndition of tlw dassie film follows the precedent set by the Hoekstar Gamns hit series, "Grand Theft Auto." Basnd primarily on the "GTA" format. the player has virtually unlimited fmn reihTJl to explore the city map of 1940s New York. 

llowever, the game's strength lies in il'i storyline missions. Players can name and ernate their own chara!'.ters, then pimp them out with customizable features such as musta!'.hes. li~dora hal<> and line Italian suits. fPerhaps the most hilarious part of' the game is h1mring a college dorm room packed with heterosexual guys arguing the finer points of a created gangster's wardrobe and hearing lines such as. "Piek tlw tan tit~. it goes better with his shoes!") 
The player-crnated character is periph­erally woven into the plot of the film ver­sion of "The (;odfather." For example, when Miehael Corleonn uses a planted pis­tol to knock off some mob leaders in a restaurant, the player is responsible for stashing said assassination weapon. In addition. the lilm 's cut scenes are excel­lent. The pixilated versions of the film's eharaeters are for the most part very good, with the exception of Michael Corleone's video game self. who fails utterly to look or sound like AI Padno. Especially well-ren­dered are the hot-headed Sonny and the Godfather himself. Don Corleone. The vidno game Corleone resembles late actor Marlon Brando down to a T, with that same dead stare, preposterous jowls and r<L<>py mumble. 
Photo courtesy of ea.com 

"The Godfather" video game provides plenty of scintillating car chases, machine gun shootouts and criminal activity for those looking to become Mafia dons. 
While it remains faithful to the film, the game's true fun lies in allowing the player to embrace his or her inner gangster. Tired of being a "button" for the powers-that­be? Feel free to take to the streets and dodge the coppers en route to achieving capo status. Again, like "Grand Theft Auto," 'The Godfather" encourages play­ers to both beat their way down and shoot their way up to the top of the criminal food chain. 
While piloting his or her self-created Slim Shady around town, the player is required to earn his or her dishonest living by shaking down local businesses for their hard-earned cash. Having the freedom to rule with an iron fist quickly goes to the player's head, as he or she hustles, extorts and intimidates the various denizens of New York City. 
Should the locals refuse to comply with diplomacy, do as any true Godfather fan would -simply make them an oft'er they can't refuse. Like Don Corleone, it helps in the game to speak softly but carry a big stick. Or a lead pipe. Or a tommy gun. To rustle up some cash, a veritable armory slash-hardware store is available for use 
as instruments of destruc­

tion. However, if gamers get tired of using the tools
The Godfather 

of the trade, they can sim­ply lose the jackets, roll up
PS2, XBox, Gamecube 

those sleeves, and get their hands dirty with an 
Electronic Arts 
innovative fist-fighting sys­tem. Remember, spare the rod, spoil the child. 
~. 
Unfortunately, despite all 
il'> fun, the game has defi­
-'·· 

nite drawbacks. The 
game's playing aesthetic has a knaek for the arcade -after special gangland-style executions, different catchphrases flash on-screen. For example, after whacking a guy with a baseball bat, the player is rewarded with the words "Grand Slam Execution" flashing onscreen. Also, button instructions advising players to "Press Triangle to Extort" and "Press R2 for Execution," while humorous, fail to cap­ture the grave and somber nature of the classic film. 
While the game has good graphics. it recycles the same character models and building interiors over and over again, to the point where wandering around feels like the film "Groundhog Day" -every backdoor gambling ring and back alley hustler on the street looks identical. 
Despite its shortcomings, "The Godfather" video game is a solid enough effort for fans of the film series to reaffirm a lesson worth learning from the film "Office Space" -damn, it feels good to be a gangster. 
Chris: Here's a simple rule: tread with caution when remaking a classic film. Rule number two: be even more careful when remaking said classic film into a video game. However, Electronic Arts does a sin­cerely impressive job ofjust this task in its video game "remake" of "The Godfather." 
Although any avid -or even novice ­"Godfather" fan can tell that the game strays from the plotline of the original film, there are similarities that are poignant and necessary. Don Corleone looks very similar to Marlon Brando and sounds almost exactly like him, the cut scenes are nearly identical to the films in some cases and the general feel of the game is very 
much like the movies. llowever. Electronic 
Arts (EA) did not strive to make a replica 
of the movie, but rather a game based on 
the general premise of the film. While this 
may irk the "Godfather" aficionados, the 
game is still beyond entertaining. 
This game's impressiveness hinges on il<> playability. Rather than follow a linear plot line, the gamer can feel free to roam about the New York/New Jersey area (think of classics like Hockstar's "Grand Theft Auto" series). The player can exhort shop own­ers, shake down back alley rackets and generally cause mayhem on the streets. 
The gamer starts off as a lowly street thug, taken under the wing of the mob. Customized to look however the player desires -from eyebrow intensity to hair color to style of clothing -th1~ fully per­sonalized character makes his way through the hierarchy of the organized crime family, ultimately ascending to the lead role as Don while avoiding police and other gang vendettas. This task requires skill, streets smarl<; and a little bit of luck, but comes together for a fun experience. 
However, the game is not without its faults. Although the map is huge, many of the areas are vague and lack detail. The game would have a more realistic feel if specific landmarks were more recogniza­.ble as aetual places. 
In addition. what is meant to be New York Cty is filled with large areas with nothing in them. While driving from place to place, oftentimes there is nowhere to go but straight. In this sense, the game is a bastard.ized version of "GTA," taking away much of the freedom that was allowed to the gamer. This game would have been served well by spending another six months in development, increasing the variety of the scenery. The game lacks in detail and tries to make up for it in quanti­ty. It doesn't work. 
However, what is unique about this game compared to the slew of other games in the genre, such as "GTA" and "True Crime," is the fact that it was adapted from a previously existing -and beloved ­film. The plot line is more substantial, albeit not as complex as the movie, and provides the gamer with a bit more inter­est in the actual outcome of the story. 
At times over the top, the game is defi­nitely not for those fans of "The Godfather" movie looking for an exact replica. However, the entertainment value is too much to pass up. So don those pinstripes and fedoras and ascend to Mob greatness. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu and Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of ea.com To hustle up some quick cash in "The Godfather," players can beat up, shake down and intimidate the local businessmen living in 1940s New York City. 
.---------------­
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 19 

ERHU: HOLDING HANDS WITH THE WORLD 
WITH YANGOIN MUSICIAN BOER PANG
NEW COLORS FROM CHINA 
AND PERCUSSIONIST ZEKROLLAH AFLATUNI 
. 

FEATURING GUEST PIANIST JACQUELINE SCHMIDT WED. APR. 12 AT 7:30PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL TICKETS: $18/$15/$10 CALL 574.631.2800 performing arts. n d. edu 
HIROHUI HR 
A  
 
THURS.  APR. 20 AT  
TICKETS:  $18/$15/$10  


-

1"'--------------------------------------------~-­
page 20 The Observer +. CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
NBA 

Nets hold off Havvks to vvin 13th straight, clinch division 
McDyess scores a season-high 26 points and grabs 14 rebounds off the bench for the Pistons in win over Hornets 
"Tonight was one of those one-game suspension for
Associated Press 

nights. We have to understand receiving 16 technical fouls. that we have to play 48 min­While McDyess took most of his 
East Hutherford, N.J. -The utes." minutes, it was Dale Davis who New .Jersey Nets had the The Nets (45-28) had already started, ending Detroit's NBA­Atlantic Division wrapped up clinched the division title before record streak at 73 straight and were coasting to their 13th the end of Tuesday's game, games with the same lineup. straight win before they got courtesy of Philadelphia's 124-''I'm superstitious," said complacent and needed to light 91 loss to Cleveland. New McDyess, who is averaging 17 oil" the Atlanta Hawks. Jersey's starters were on the points in Detroit's last four 
The Nets tied the longest win­bench early in the fourth quar­games. "I didn't want to start ning streak in the NBA this sea­ter before Atlanta (22-51) ral­and mess up my rhythm." son and clinched their fourth lied behind Johnson, who fin­The Pistons have won five division title in five years ished with 33 points, and sub straight, and need four wins in Tuesday night with a win over guard Anthony Grundy, who their final eight games to break the Hawks. was signed to a 10-day contract the 1988-89 team's franchise 
Despite blowing all but one last week. record of 63 wins. point of a 23-point fourth-quar­"We're not going to chase that ter lead, the Nets were able to Detroit 101, New Orleans 93 record, but if it comes, it prevail behind 27 points and Antonio McDyess doesn't want comes," Saunders said. "Our some eluteh foul shooting from any part of the starting lineup. focus right now is health and Vince Carter. Luckily for the Detroit Pistons, staying sharp. We're going to 
New .Jersey unraveled on that's the only thing he won't rest some guys and give our offense as the young Hawks, do. bench extended minutes to get who were without three play­With Hasheed Wallace side­them ready for the playoffs." ers, went on a 24-2 run and lined Tuesday night, McDyess The Hornets had their three­almost stole the game. An ofl'en­had a season-high 26 points game winning streak snapped sive foul on Joe .Johnson with and added 14 rebounds to help as they lost their fourth in a R.<J seconds left ended Atlanta's the Pistons win their 60th row to Detroit. last chance. game, beating the New Orleans "That's a championship 
.Jason Kidd, who finished with Hornets. team," New Orleans coach 11 points and 13 assists. feels "Antonio was great tonight," Byron Scott said. "Being so that the Nets eould benefit from Pistons coach Flip Saunders young, we knew it was going to the dose eall. said. "He's been playing like be difficult going against the 
Streaks "can be dangerous, that for a while now. He has a Pistons, even without Rasheed." bneause you can get complacent lot of confidence in himself." and feel like you can turn it on Wallace missed the game Miami 115, Milwaukee 89 and otT at any time," Kidd said. after picking up an automatic As Pat Riley requested, the the ball. If we continue to do the regular season, the Raptors 
Miami Heat gave Dwyane Wade this, we'll be all right." will miss the playoffs for the plenty of help. Charlie Bell had 20 of his sea­fourth straight season. They 
Shaquille O'Neal had 24 son-high 29 points in the first finished 33-49 last season. points and 10 rebounds, and half for Milwaukee, which came "It seems like tonight was the five other Miami players in averaging 110.8 points in its same story, different day," reached double figures as the previous five outings. Michael Peterson said. "We had the lead Heat defeated the Milwaukee Redd had 16 points and Toni down the stretch, we didn't Bucks on Tuesday night to Kukoc added 13 for the Bucks. win." maintain control of the race for "It was one of those nights the Eastern Conference's sec­when nothing went right," Bell Washington 105, New York ond-best record. said. "We tried to get back in 90 
Udonis Haslem scored 16 the game. We just didn't have it Washington Wizards coach points and Wade had 14 points, in the tank." Eddie .Jordan was coneerned eight rebounds and eight assists that his team would play down before sitting out the final 11 Boston 124, Toronto 120 to the level of the woeful New 1/2 minutes for Miami, which The Toronto Haptors are out York Knicks. shot 62 percent and won for of the playoff hunt. The Boston No worries there. Knieks only the fourth time in eight Celtics are still clinging to thin coach Larry Brown said he's games. postseason hopes. reached the point where he's 
"That's one of the better Paul Pierce and Wally "begging guys to play," and games, more complete games Szczerbiak scored 22 points Steve Francis was on the verge that we've played in a long apiece to help the Boston of tears. time," Riley said after his team Celtics beat the Toronto Raptors A game against the worst opened with a 13-0 run and Tuesday night. team in the East turned out to never trailed. "I don't think you're going to be the ideal homecoming for 
Wade accounted for 41 per­draw art from this game at all," the Wizards, who got 13 points cent of Miami's offense in its Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. and a season-high 13 assists previous three games. But with "It was not a beautiful game in from Gilbert Arenas in a 105­the Heat securing control early, any way." 90 rout Tuesday night. Wade needed to take only 10 Morris Peterson had 32 points "New York is a team that is shots-his third-lowest total of and eight rebounds to lead the not playing well, and we didn't the season. Raptors (26-48), who lost their play down to their level," 
"It was a matter of everybody fifth straight game. Mike James Jordan said. "I thought we moving the ball and getting added 25 points and Matt played very well, especially everybody involved," Wade said. Bonner had 16 points and a Gilbert, with how he got his "Defensively, everybody making career-high 13 rebounds. teammates involved early. We the rotations and rebounding With eight games still to go in played the right way." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 BED-HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. ROOM HOMES 2800 s/f+base.LR w/fp,4 WANTED MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full 
appliances+ WID. 3 porches. 413 Dance and Music Teaching 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574­Positions Area s largest dance site:mmmrentals.com Contact: Gary 2322167 or 574·2613184 school is expanding. Part time posi· 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb-www.xog.com/property/413WestNa lions available for summer and spot. net varre.html 
2006·07 school year. Fax qualifica­tions to 574-633·2160. Just 1 block from campus! For 
lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con-Nanny to care for our toddler. Full dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per time weekdays during summer. Part month. 574-243-4554 ext.203. No time or full time in the fall. Previous utilities included. experience required. Fax resume or letter to 574-251-1898. 4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus. 
$1350. 220-8666. 
FoR RENT Looking for lodging for home foot­ball games? Call574-276·8417 for 
NEWI http://ndrental.tripod.com details. 

1.5 blks to NO -626 Peashway. Very nice, clean newly painted & carpeted, 2 bdrm brick ranch 1 blk. west of new IU Medical Ed.Ctr. Large living room, 2 large bdrms, large closets, one full bath, large kitchen & 1-car attached garage. Private, fenced-in backyard,quiet & safe area. Neighborhood ordi· nances apply. $1125/mo. 57 4·272·9944 or 574·272·4796 eve. 
1·bdrm apt. $400 + utilities. A/C,security system,fenced yard,carpeted, laundry,on bus route. No smoking or pets, lease deposit required. 574-289-9365. 
Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 SF at $10 PSF NNN on SA 23 east of Ironwood, Near NO. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Noah Davey 574·271·4060 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  
FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  
FoR SALE  CALL 277-1659.  
4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $87,000. 220·  PERSONAL  
8666.  
Bored now...what is that buzzing  
Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come  noise? Eurydice  
see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from NO  
Campusl Make your dream of  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
homeownership a reality. 1232 sq  not go it alone. If you or someone  
It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993­ you love needs confidential support  
5060.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  

Gude, CSC at 631·7819. For more  
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN.  TICKETS  information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Walking Distance to NO. Contact  
Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett,  O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James  "If you tremble at every human  
Tony Davey  Taylor.  injustice, then you are a comrade of  
574-271-4060.  Call 272· 7233.  mine.·-Emesto Che Guevara  



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's wrRE sr:RvrcEs page 21 
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record OT points 
NY Rangers 41-21 12 94 
Philadelphia 41-23 10 92 
New Jersey 39-27 9 87 
NY Islanders 33-36 5 71 
Pittsburgh 19-42 13 51 

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT points 
Ottawa 50·17 7 107 
Buffalo 46·23 6 98 
Montreal 38-27 9 85 
Toronto 35·32 7 77 
Boston 28·34 13 69 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Carolina 49-20 6 104 Tampa Bay 40-30 5 85 Atlanta 36-32 6 78 Florida 34-32 9 77 Washington 25-38 11 61 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record OT points 
Detroit 52-15 8 112 
Nashville 43-24 8 94 
Columbus 32-40 3 67 
Chicago 23-40 11 57 
St. Louis 20-40 13 53 

Western Conference, Northwest DMsion 
team record OT points 
Calgary 42-24 9 93 
Colorado 41-26 8 90 
Edmonton 38-26 12 88 
Vancouver 40·30 1 81 
Minnesota 34-34 7 75 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Dallas 49-21 5 103 
Anaheim 39-23 12 90 
San Jose 37-26 11 85 
Los Angeles 40-31 5 85 
Phoenix 36-35 4 76 
NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 
Team conf. overall 
St. John's 6·0 16·1 
West Virginia 5-1 10·3 
NOTRE DAME 5-1 15-5 
Connecticut 6·3 13·2 
Louisville 4-2 13·2 
USF 5-4 11-0 
Cincinnati 3-3 14-6 
Rutgers 2-4 18-1 
Pittsburgh 2-7 13-2 
Seton Hall 2-7 16-1 
Villanova 1-5 16-3 
Georgetown 1-5 11-2 
MIAA Softball 
Team conf. overall 
Alma 4-0 15·5 
Hope 2·0 11-4 
SAINT MARY'S 2-0 13·5 
Albion 2-2 10-12 
Calvin 0-0 5-7 
Tri-State 0-0 9-9 
Kalamazoo 0-2 3-11 
Olivet 0-2 14-6 
Adrian 0-4 9-11 

around the dial 
NBA 
Washington at Boston, 7 p.m., ESPN Sacramento at San Antonio, 9:30 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

BOSTON -Overtime belongs to Maryland. So does the NCAA champi­onship. 
Freshman Kristi Toliver hit a 3-pointer at the end of regulation to cap a 13­point comeback, then made two free throws with 35 seconds left in overtime Tuesday night to give the Terrapins their first NCAA women's bas­ketball title with a 7 8-7 5 victory over Duke. 
Maryland (34-4) is 6-0 in overtime games this season -the first five on the road and the last in the championship to com­plete the second-largest comeback in a women's final. It was the first time the title was determined in overtime since Tennessee beat Virginia in 1991. 
The Maryland players stormed the court twice ­once after Toliver's basket forced overtime and again when Blue Devils guard Jessica Foley's despera­tion, well-covered 3-point attempt nicked the front of the rim at the overtime buzzer. 
Piling up on tbe court, hugging and bumping chests, the Terrapins rev­eled in the youth that had been the biggest doubt surrounding them coming into the tournament. 
"Age is just a number," Maryland coach Brenda Frese said. "When you got kids that believe and they believe in each other and they got that kind of confi­dence, you can accom­plish anything as a team." 
Foley made two free throws with 18 seconds left in regulation to give Duke a 70-67 lead, then Frese called timeout to set up a play. 
Toliver, who had 12 turnovers in the semifinal victory over North Carolina, brought the ball down and veered over to the right before putting through the 3 with 6.1 seconds left and Duke's Alison Bales in her face. 

"And I even felt her fin­gertips as I was holding my follow through," Toliver said. "So, she did a great job contesting. I just had a lot of confidence. And I knew I wanted to take the big shot so I just took it." 
Duke (31-4) opted not to call a timeout; Lindsey Harding brought the ball down the court and put up a desperation leaner from the right baseline that went off the rim. 
After that, the usually frenetic Frese just let her players take over. 
"I didn't have to say a word," Frese said. "They just know that overtime is their time." 
IN BRIEF 

Dodf!ers place Nomar on 15­
day ilisabled list 
LOS ANGELES -The Los Angeles Dodgers placed first baseman Nomar Garciaparra on the 15-day disabled list Monday and recalled James Loney from Triple-A Las Vegas. 
The 21-year-old Loney was in the lineup Tuesday night against Atlanta, batting fifth and playing first. His big league debut, however, was in jeop­ardy because of daylong rain. 
The 32-year-old Garciaparra, signed as a free agent during the off­season, was injured while swinging in his first-at-bat Sunday in the Dodgers' exhibition finale against the Los Angeles Angels in Anaheim. 
When Garciaparra returns he will be playing first base for the first time, having been a shortstop most of his career. 
"I believe it's only going to be a two-week thing," Garciaparra said. "Let's get this right so we can put this behind us." 
Ratings for title f!ame slip 25 
percent from lasfyear 
NEW YORK-The NCAA tourna­ment championship game between Florida and UCLA drew an 11.2 Nielsen rating for CBS Monday. That figure was down 25 percent from last year's final. 
Florida's 73-57 victory over UCLA on Monday at the RCA Dome in Indianapolis was watched by 12.31 million households. Last season, North Carolina beat Illinois in the final and the game drew a 15.0 rat­ing. 
But the Gators and Bruins did slightly better than the 2004 champi­onship game, when Connecticut's vic­tory over Georgia Tech drew an 11.0 rating. 
CBS's 26 tournament telecasts averaged a 6.3 rating-with an average of 6.959 million households watching -down 9 percent from last season (6.9), but up 2 percent from 2004. 
White Sox receive World 
Series rings 
CHICAGO -The Chicago White Sox received their World Series rings Tuesday in a pre-game ceremony, and the loudest ovation went to a player no longer on the team. 
Aaron Rowand, the popular center fielder traded in the offseason to the Philadelphia Phillies for Jim Thome, got a rousing greeting as he walked onto U.S. Cellular Field in a suit and tie to get his ring. 
Rowand waved to the crowd as he approached the area between the mound and plate where commission­er Bud Selig assisted White Sox owner Jerry Reinsdorf and general manager Kenny Williams in passing out the rings. 
Rowand got big hugs from Reinsdorf and Williams and then another from World Series MVP Jermaine Dye when he went to the third base line to join his former teammates. 
---------------~-,-----­
page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
University Libraries of Notre Dame 

Tell Us..... LlbQUAL+ We are listening! 
Answer the Library Survey Online April14, 2006 is the last day! 
http:IIsurvey.libgual.org/index.cfm?ID=863738 
You could win one of six Apple Video iPods! 

I .,. 

Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 


THE 


levvis crush 
Indiana here we come....and you're coming with us! 
These are the lucky boys who have been invited to the Lewis Crush 
Patrkk Allan~ 
John FHndhbaugh 
Brian Klein 
~fau Poslu.<jznv 

l\·ikh.ae1 \landenlxx>m Curtis Ballard JuHan Flc,res John Klein Erik Pt:n..vers ~ Charlie Vogelheim Joey Benitez Sam Fraru:is Jeff Koch Dermis Rankin Jake \Vebb 
. Ll R' L. tt ~ 
~,1ark Bennett Christian Galvan Kevin Lashlee 1Novre ou1ne ..e Thoma., \'Veiler Joe Berndt Joe Gadt:>ck Greg L<)pez Chrit; Rodriguez David \·Vilbur 'Ibm Bodcut :Michael Garrison Paull'vfucias Antire"v Romanc> Dan \VilUamson 1\like Bogdan Adrian Gonzalez Sergio .M~artinez Brian Sajdak Jack \·Vibon 
Erk Buergler J0(~ Gt,)rnlan Kevin ~-tarvina(~ 'I'ekla Sauter .f&r DanVVolff Evan Buntrock Jast)n Gott David ~de Bride Jeff Scarafia Jorge Castro Karol Grzesiak Scott i\,kBride Luke Seib(llt Joaquin Cigarn1a ChrL.;; flaU Dan i\·fcGlvnn r>eter Seil;.el 
,j 

Keith Creasy Tom llarkins ~·fatt !\·1einig ~-iark Skylling D.:~vid Curtis ChrL'i lliggins Josh 1\·ieyer JetlSmith Frank DiRon:o Pat lliggin'<'i Trey ~-1(>hr Brand<)n Sparks Rob Ougas Nkk lliuler Josh ~1<lrrL<; Brad Springman Zach Eberbach Nate l·logau Ste·ve Nadeau Andrew Stapleton 
J .s
~,fkhael Erdei Ben llowell Joe N(1hner on~.·teven~ f{avi Fernando Kenny Jackelen Jeff Paramore Zach Stewart Kevin Fitzgerald Peter Kellv ·' Nick Perrill{) ·rom Stiles Kyle Fleegf~ Chri"i Kenney Andrew P<',lkh ~,fi•ch.ael Valluzz<' 
NFL 
Culpepper cleared of charges 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS -Quarterback Daunte Culpepper was cleared Tuesday of misdemeanor charges stemming from a boat­party sex scandal. 
A judge ruled there wasn't probable cause to determine a crime was committed by Culpepper, one of four Minnesota Vikings accused of misdemeanor lewd conduct dur­ing the cruise last fall on a sub­urban lake. Culpepper has since been traded to the Miami Dolphins last month. 
Culpepper issued a statement through the Dolphins saying he was "delighted" at the ruling. 
"I was confident when the legal process began that the truth would come out, and I am glad that my innocence has been proven," he said. 
Culpepper testified last month that he merely played dice on the cruise. That, plus backing testimony from a friend, was enough to convince a judge to toss out the charges. 
"Since no evidence was pre­sented to refute this testimony, this Court is compelled to find" lack of probable cause, Hennepin County District Judge Kevin Burke ruled. 
"I greatly appreciate Judge Burke's sensitivity to the damage that can be done to a person's reputation when they are wrongly charged," Culpepper said. 
Ilis attorney, Earl Gray, said, "It vindicates him from being involved in any sexual miscon­duct on the boat." 
Prosecutor Steve Tallen said he thought Burke had "applied things wrong," but said he had­n't had time to fully digest the ruling. He said it was possible he might re-flle the case. 
Burke denied a motion to dis­miss charges against running back Moe Williams. His trial is scheduled for April18. 
The other two players charged, cornerback Fred Smoot and tackle Bryant McKinnie, weren't part of Tuesday's ruling. 

Their next hearings were sched­uled for Thursday. 
Williams' attorney, Joe Friedberg, said he was disap­pointed. 
"I disagree with him, but that's what makes horse racing," Friedberg said. 
Both Culpepper and Williams had denied any improper con­duct in a hearing before Burke last month. Culpepper, who was accused of touching a dancer's buttocks, testified that he spent the cruise playing a dice game in the back of a boat and rejected offers from several women. 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Wooden scheduled for release fro111 hospital 
73-57 on Monday in the
Former UCLA coach 
national men's basketball suffers diverticulitis championship game. He was disappointed that his former -----------team didn't win but knew the Associated Press Gators would be a tough 
matchup. 
LOS ANGELES -Former "Before the game he said it UCLA basketball coach John was a toss-up," Muehlhausen Wooden may be released said. "Much to our chagrin it from a hospital as early as didn't work out the way we Wednesday after suffering planned." from diverticulitis, his daugh­Although he had some ter said Tuesday. offers to attend the Final 
The 95-Four, there year-old Hall were no
"His spirits are very good 
of Fame plans of coach was and he's doing fine. He's returning to admitted to a ready to get out [of the his home 
hospital near state of
hospital]. " 
his home in Indiana for the San the games. Fernando His
Nancy Muehlhausen most 
Valley on recent public
John Wooden's daughter 
Sunday for 
diverticulitis, an inflamma­tion of the area around the colon. 
"His spirits are very good and he's doing fine," Nancy Muehlhausen said. "He's ready to get out [of the hospi­tal.]" 
Muehlhausen said her father needed several blood transfusions. Other tests per­formed on Wooden showed the former coach was healthy, she said. 
Wooden watched with his family as UCLA lost to Florida 
appearance 
was last 

week in San Diego for the McDonald's high school All-American games. 
Muehlhausen also said that Wooden had to cancel a cou­ple of speaking engagements this week. 
Wooden retired from UCLA in 197 5 with a record of 620­14 7 in 27 years as coach. The Bruins won 10 national titles under the "Wizard of Westwood," including seven in a row. The streak included 38 straight NCAA tournament victories. 
Meet your date at the BBQ Thursday~ 5:30pm in the lewis Courtyard~ 
page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT Wednesday, April 5, 2006 


= 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart ­
Holy Week 2006 
Palm Sunday of the Lord's Passion, April 9 
5:00pm (Saturday)  Vigil Mass  
*9:45 am  Solen1n Mass  
* 12:00 noon  Sunday Mass  

*Special Mass times for Paln1 Sunday only 
Tuesday, April 11 
7:00pm 
9:15pm 

Holy Thursday, April13 
9:00 atn 5:00 pn1 *6:30pm 
11:00 pm 

Can1pus-wide Stations of the Cross (Procession departs from the Grotto) Opportunity for individual confession follows Stations in the Basilica 
Morning Prayer Evening Mass of the Lord's Supper Adoration in the Lady Chapel Tenebrae 
*Basilica of the Sacred Heart will remain open from 6:30 pm until 12:30 am 
Good Friday, April14 
9:00am 12:00 noon-3:00pm 3:00pm 7:15pm 
Holy Saturday, April 15 
9:00am 9:00pm 

Easter Sunday, April16 
+8:00 am 
10:00 am 
12:00 noon 7:15 pn1 

Mon1ing Prayer Silent Hours of Prayer Celebration of the Lord's Passion Stations of the Cross~ 
Mon1ing Prayer The Paschal Vigil 
Easter Sunday Mass Solernn Mass Easter Sunday Mass Soletnn Easter Vespers 
+This is an additional Mass only for Easter Sunday. 
Confessions durin~: Holy Week 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Holy Thursday Good Friday Holy Saturday 11 :00 mn, 4:45 pm & 7:00pm 11:00 atn, 4:45pm, 7:00pm & 9:15pm 11:00 am, 4:45 pn1 & 7:00pm 

ll :00 am to Noon & 7:00pm to 8:00pm 
11:00 
am to 1:00pm & 7:00pm to 8:00pm 

11:00 
am to Noon & 3:30 pm to 5:00pm 


Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
McNair sent ho111e as contract is rew-orked 
Tennessee Titans owe franchise quarterback $9 million for 2006 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Tennessee Titans told Steve McNair they don't want him working out in their building until his contract is reworked, the quarterback's agent said Tuesday. 
McNair was told to go home Monday when he showed up at the team's headquarters for the start of the third week in the Titans' offseason condition­ing program. The team's gen­eral counsel had called agent Bus Cook earlier Monday and informed him McNair would be told to leave. 
A team trainer told the 11­year veteran to leave, Cook said. 
"You tell the guy who's the mainstay of the organization, the leader, to get out, that he's not wanted, that's pretty rough," Cook said. "I don't know what Steve will do or won't do. I imagine he would have a hard time going back over there." 
McNair, the NFL's 2003 co­MVP, is due $9 million in salary in 2006 -but his salary cap number is $23.46 million. 
The Titans declined last month 
to pick up a $50 million option 
to stretch the deal through 
2009, leaving McNair with 
nearly a quarter of their cap 
space. 
"We have no choice but to 
protect the club and its future 
from the possibility of having a 
significant amount of our 
salary cap at risk in a single 
player should he sustain a 
major injury," the team said in 
a statement. "This is entirely a 
risk management problem." 
Cook said the Titans' gener­al counsel told him the team doesn't want McNair working out on team property until his contract is reworked. 
General manager Floyd Reese and coach Jeff Fisher were in Los Angeles following 
·a private workout of Southern California quarterback Matt Leinart. The Titans said in a statement that they look for­ward to McNair returning once his contract is resolved. 
"It was unfortunate the way this played out yesterday, but we think both Steve and Bus understand the team's posi­tion," the Titans said. "Other clubs facing the same dilemma have arrived at the same con­clusion we did." 
McNair is the franchise's 
winningest quarterback with a 
record of 81-59. He started 15 
games in 2005 and threw for 
3,161 yards. 
MLB 

Indians put Sabathia on DL 
Strained right oblique muscle sidelines ace for three to five weeks 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Cleveland Indians ace lefty C.C. Sabathia was put on the 15-day disabled list Tuesday and is expected to be out three to five weeks with a strained right oblique mus­cle. 
The 6-foot-7, 290-pound Sabathia was hurt in Sunday night's season opener against the Chicago White Sox and had to leave in the third inning after throwing just 37 pitches. His injury is similar to one he had a year ago, when he began the season on the DL after hurting the muscle in spring training. He missed six weeks but still finished 15-10. 
"It's not as bad as it was last year," Sabathia said before Tuesday's game against the White Sox. "It feels good today. I feel zero pain. Last year it hurt for about a week or so. I woke up yesterday and it felt a little sore. Today I feel no pain." 
But Sabathia's absence will likely hurt the Indians, who hoped to get off to a quick start this season in hopes of dethroning the White Sox in the AL Central. 
"It's clearly disappointing and it's also part of the game," Indians general manager Mark Shapiro said. "Part of the abili­ty to be a championship team is how you deal with setbacks during a 162-game season.... It's part of the-deal." 

Indians trainer Lonnie Soloff said Sabathia's weight is not a problem, and Shapiro noted that Sabathia had made at least 30 starts for five straight seasons. It is just Sabathia's second trip to the DL in a major league career that began in 2001. 
"The fact that it has hap­pened back-to-back years is a cause for some concern at a low-level," Soloff said. "But once again, he's a rotational athlete and he generates some pretty intense torque around his front side. His rotational velocities are probably the highest in the game, just from his height and his size. 
"I would say that his size plays into that, not his weight. We are comfortable where he is from a weight standpoint." 
Sabathia said he's been steadfast with his conditioning. He pulled out of pitching for the U.S. team in the World Baseball Classic so he would be ready for the season, another sign of his resolve to be the Indians' No. 1 starter. 
''I'm working hard and doing everything I can to stay on top of that. I have been for the past two years," he said. 
"Conditioning has always been an important part of C.C.'s game, mainly more than most because he's such a big guy," manager Eric Wedge said. "He's been consistent with it and as strong as he's ever been.... As electric as it was other night, he probably tried to reach back and do a little more and tweaked it." 
Soloff said that Sabathia's arm should be ready to respond from the layoff sooner than a year ago because he pitched in spring training. In 2005 he was hurt warming up prior to his first spring start on March 6 and wasn't activated until April 16. 
The Indians called up 6-foot­6 reliever Jason Davis to take Sabathia's roster spot. Cleveland doesn't need a fifth starter until April 15 because of off days so will get by with four starters until then and then find a spot starter. The rest of the rotation is Jake Westbrook, Cliff Lee, Jason Johnson and Paul Byrd. 
Sabathia felt the muscle grab when he delivered a pitch to Tadahito Iguchi in the third inning Sunday. He tried some warmup pitches but had to leave the game after just 2 1/3 innings. 
"I was watching the game in the clubhouse, just watching video and I was throwing the ball harder than I thought I was," he said. "I was going up there trying to throw nice and easy, go 90, 91 and it was more like 93, 94. It was just being pumped up, I guess, because of the circumstances in the game." 


The Notre Dame Law School 
Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2006 Natural Law Lecture 
i'Jat-u.ral J-u.stice 

~ otre Dame La-w School C=:ou_rtroom 

page 26 
MLB 

Rollins' hit partly due to Cards coach 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S lACROSSE 
NCAA president decries Duke 
Behavior of lacrosse team 'inappropriate at best/ Brand said 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -NCAA president Myles Brand said behavior at a Duke men's lacrosse party last month was inappropriate, regardless of whether the alleged assault of an exotic dancer results in criminal charges. 
The dancer. a student at a nearby university, told police she was raped at the party by three men who restrained and choked her as she struggled to free her­self from a bathroom. Investigators have collected DNA evidence from team mem­bers but no charges have been filed. A spokeswoman for North Carolina's attorney general's office said Tuesday the state's crime lab is still analyzing those samples. 
Brand said no assumptions about guilt or innocence should be made before the case runs its course. 
"Nonetheless, the situation that arose was inappropriate at best," he said in Boston, where he is attending the NCAA women's basketball ehampi­onship game. "It is inappropri­ate that we should have any group of young men, let alone those who play on our athletic teams, inviting a stripper, under­age alcohol and that kind of environment." 
Brand's comments were in response to a question during a news conference at which he discussed women's basketball before Duke played Maryland in 
WE'VE GOT THE 



the national championship game. 
lie said the Duke women's team should not be drawn into the discussion over what hap­pened at the lacrosse party. 
"I think the Duke basketball team is a terrific team," Brand said. "I don't think that's in the least bit overshadowed or taken anything away from the womnn. In faet, I think by pushing the women to answer something that they have no role to play, that strikes me as misleading to readers. I know some journalisL<> have done that." 
Brand also said he thought Duke president Riehard Brodhead was eorrect in sus­pending the lacrosse team's sea­son until the university learns more about what happened at the party. The lacrosse team's co-captains have denied that anyone was sexually assaulted or raped at the party. 
''I'm pleased to see they're 
taking strong steps until they gnt to the bottom of it," Brand said of Duke's administration. 
Several campus demonstra­tions have eritieized Duke for not doing enough, but Brand called Brodhead's dedsion "evi­denee that the administration and faculty an~ treating it very seriously and not ignoring it." 
Also Tuesday, the North Carolina ehapter president of the National Ac.;soeiation for the Advaneement of Colornd People said the group plans to keep watch on the investigation and has asknd to meet with thn dis­trict attorney who would prosn­cute any charges. 
"Our position as an organiza­tion whose mission is dvil righlc.; and community justicn is that the investigation of the allnga­tions are fair, meticulous, com­prehensive, aggressive and thor­ough," said the Hev: William Barber II. lie did not immediate­ly rnturn calls Tuesday rlVfming. 
With 3-0 count in last at bat, LaRussa made reliever throw strike 
Associated Press 
PIIILAI>ELPIIIA-Tony La 
Hussa watdwd too many teams 
pitch around Mark MeGwire to 
let it happen to Jimmy Hollins. 
Hollins' hitting streak was on the linn wlwn lw eame to the plate with two ouLc.; in the eighth inning and the Philadelphia Phillies trailing the St. Louis Cardinals 13-5 in Monday's sea­son opnrwr. 
Helinvnr Adam Wainwright's first thrnn pitdws wnre out of the slrikn zorw, and thosn remaining among the Stdlout crowd of 44,614 at Citizens Bank Park booed nach 0110. 
Bnforn the next pitch, La Hussa got catcher Yadier Molina's attention and signalnd for a strikn. The right-handed Wainwright threw a fastball down the middln and Rollins rippt~d it down the right-field line li1r a doubln to nxtlmd his hitting strnak to :u games. 
"You have to play the game. Wn card walk him in that spot," La Hussa said. 
It was the eighth limn during his streak that bt~gan against San Franeiseo last Aug. 2:{ that Hollins kept it going during his last at-bat. lie ought to thank La Bussa for giving him a chanee this time. 
La Hussa was in his third year managing Uw Cardinals in 1998 when McGwire hit 70 homers to break How~r Maris' single-season rneord of 61. It was frustrating for La Hussa to sen MeGwire often get nothing to hit from pitchers, especially in tight games. lin didn't want Hollins' streak to end with a walk when his team had an eight-run lead. 
"Some of that is him, but most­ly it's about us," La Hussa said. "I wouldn't want the St. Louis Cardinals to walk him in his last at-bat. That's not what we reprn­Stmt." 
Hollins went 0-for-3 with a sac­rifice fly before getting his hit. lie hit two hard liners at center linlder Jim Edmonds, grounded out to first base and fouled out his first time up when shortstop David lkkstein made a speetacu­lar, sliding cateh near the railing down the lnl"t-lield line. 
If the score was dose, Hollins probably wouldn't have swung at a 3-0 pitch in the eighth inning. But Wainwright's fastball was too good to pass up down eight runs. 

"If he had thrown a ball and I 
couldn't get to it, I wouldn't have 
swung," Hollins said. 

Phillies manager Charlie 
Manuel had conflicting thoughts 
about Hollins swinging ahead 3-0 
in the count. 

"You usually don't have to give .Jimmy the take sign if we're los­ing the game," Manuel said. "I wanted to see him have every chance. lie got a good ball and hn hit it. But the question will always be there about swinging 3-0." 
Wainwright had no problem challenging Hollins. 
"Obviously a guy who plays as hard as he does and gets a streak going like that, I respect that," Wainwright said. "It's kind of a pitcher's duty if a guy has something going like that to give him a chance at it." 
A three-time All-Star short­stop, Hollins ended the 2005 sea­son with a 36-game hitting streak, the ninth-longest over one snason in big league history, and tlw longest in the majors sin en 11JR7. when Paul Molitor hit safely in 39 consecutive gamns. 
Hollins' pursuit of Joe DiMaggio's major league record 56-game hitting streak has a catch, however. 
DiMaggio accomplished his fnat in the same season in 1941. The major league marks for longest hitting streak in one sea­son and longest hitting streak spanning two seasons are sepa­rate records. 
DiMaggio holds both with his 56-game streak in 1941, but there is a difference in the NL records: Pete Rose (1978) and Willie Keeler (1897) share the NL mark at 44 games. However, Keeler got a hit in his final game of 1896, so his run of 45 games overall is the first record Hollins is chasing. 
The pnwious Phillies franchise record of 31 was set by Ed Delahanty in 1899. 
Hollins is a notoriously slow starter with a .227 batting aver­age in April over the last two years. But he had several good swings against reigning NL Cy Young Award winner Chris Carpenter and relievers Handy Flores and Wainwright in his first game. 
"You don't get rewarded for good swings," Hollins said. "I wasn't worried. As long as my swing is there, I know I'll get a hit somehow." 
Hollins goes for 38 on Wednesday against tough lert­hander Mark Mulder. If he keeps going, Hollins could tie Keeler at 45 next Thursday in Atlanta. 
Happy 21st Beth Hatch! We love you, Your Family 


citing Renovations Inside &Out 
traordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! 
We're giving away anew ~ox 360 Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 
Office Hours: 

M-F:  9:00 AM-6:00 PM  
Saturday:  10:00 AM-5:00PM  
Sunday:  1:00 PM-5:00 PM  


tremely Close to Campus
FACTOR 
Stop In and Register to Win! 
1710 E. Turtlecreek Drive South Bend, Indiana 
Drawing held on 03/31106 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
~~-------~------­

-----------------------------------------------------...., 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles take one of tvvo fro111 Eagles 
Team captures first game 5-2 before dropping nightcap 6-1 
By DIERDRE KRASULA 
Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's split a home doubleheader with Hobert Morris Tuesday, winning the first game 5-2 but dropping the second 6-1. 
"Our intensity going into the first game was excellent," Belles head coach Erin Sullivan said. "We were relaxed going into the second. We didn't have enough time to come back." 
Saint Mary's took an early lead in the first game, capital­izing on an error by Hobert Morris shortstop Nichele Hatliff. Sarah Miesle reached second on the miscue and third baseman McKenna Corrigan drove her in with an RBI dou­ble. 
Belles right fielder Calli Davison and center fielder Audrey Gajor made it 3-0 in the third inning with a pair of RBI singles. 
Saint Mary's freshman Kristin Amram strong off the mound in the opener. She struck out 11 and allowed six hits. The win was Amram's seventh of the season. 
"We pulled together at the clutch time," said Amram. "[We hit] when we needed to hit." 
Saint Mary's infielder Megan Marenkovic added an RBI dou­ble in the fourth and Davison scored on a fielding error by Robert Morris second baseman Katelyn Contreras in the fifth to give the Belles a 5-0 lead. 
The Lady Eagles cut into the lead in the sixth when right fielder Jesse Hazim's sacrifice fly and third baseman Jen Long's an RBI single. But that was all Robert Morris could muster, as Amram pitched a perfect seventh to secure the win. 
In the second game, power­ful left-handed pitcher Bethany Toyias kept the Belles in check en route to a 6-1 Robert Morris victory. Toyias struck out 11 from the mound in the com­plete game. Long went 2-for-4, scoring two runs and designat­ed player Shauna Robertson drove in two. 

Miesle knocked in the only run for Saint Mary's in the sixth with an RBI single that scored Davison from second. 
Saint Mary's committed four errors in the loss, and all but one of the five runs Belles sen­ior Bridget Grall surrendered was unearned. 
"We had much better defense in the first [game]," Sullivan said. "We made too many men­tal errors [in the second]." 
Robert Morris jumped ahead in the top of the third of game two when Ratliff and Robertson scored on errors 
Amram said that the Belles were not prepared for the Robert Morris' speed in the nightcap. 
Robert Morris finished off the game in the seventh inning with a four-run barrage to put the game out of reach at the decisive score of 6-1. 
Saint Mary's plays Hope in a home game today at 3:30p.m. 
Contact Dierdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
MLB 
Selig stands by Mitchell decision 
Commissioner defends choice to head baseball steroid investigation 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Commissioner Bud Selig defended his choice of George Mitchell to head base­ball's steroid investigation, saying the former Senate Majority Leader has independ­ence. 
Selig brushed off criticism that Mitchell is too much of an insider for the job -Mitchell is a director of the Boston Red Sox and chairman of The Walt Disney Co., which owns ESPN -a national broadcaster of baseball and the network airing Barry Bonds' new reality show. 
"It's important for somebody who understands what I call the mores of culture of this sport as well as he does. That helps in the investigation. That doesn't hurt it," Selig said Tuesday after helping hand out World Series rings to the Chicago White Sox. 
"He has complete autonomy. He wouldn't have taken this without complete autonomy. I mean the fact that we're friends had nothing to do with it .... He doesn't come back and talk to me. I don't want to hear from him. And he can do whatever he wants with whomever he wants. So I don't know how anybody could have more inde­pendence than Sen. Mitchell," he said. 
The investigation is already under way and has no time limit. It was launched after a book detailing allegations that Bonds, who is approaching Hank Aaron's career home run record, used performance­enhancing drugs for five years starting in 1998. The probe will be limited to events since September 2002, when baseball banned steroids, but Mitchell can expand the investigation if he feels it is necessary. 
"What I said to Sen. Mitchell was that, 'Look, we've done now everything we can do.' We have the toughest program in American sports. We've banned amphetamines, which I think a lot of people don't understand the significance of that," Selig said. 
"And while the book trig­gered, as I said last week, some of this because of the specificity of things, I think it's fair -and I've thought a lot about it since -that we've taken care of the present, we've taken care of the future and now I think it's important to look at the past," he added. "We'll see what hap­pens.... There's no sense in me speculating." 

Selig emphasized that Mitchell was not looking into just Bonds. He's looking at the entire game. 
"For anybody who thinks this is just a singular investigation is just wrong," Selig said. "It's incorrect. I don't know how much clearer I can be." 
Selig was saddened by the fans' response to Bonds in San Diego on Monday night, when a syringe was tossed in the direc­tion of the Giants' left fielder. 
"I guess none of this is unex­pected. I'm saddened by it in the sense that Opening Day was such a good, positive day," Selig said. "Every game was sold out. It was really a great baseball day. But controversy will spawn with that type of activity, whether I like it or not." 
Bonds began the season with 708 homers and trails only Babe Ruth (714) and Aaron 
(755) on the career list. Selig said baseball currently has not made plans for a celebration should Bonds move past Ruth's mark but could do so in coming weeks. 
NHL 

Rangers put end to drought in win 
3-2 shootout victory clinches first playoff bid since 1997 season 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Kevin Weekes was still holding court with a small group of reporters in the New York Hangers dressing room when a friendly face stopped by to congratulate him. 

Henrik Lundqvist, the rookie who wrested the Rangers No. 1 goalie position away from Weekes, was all smiles after New York's 3-2 shootout victory over the Philadelphia Flyers lift­ed the Rangers into the playoffs for the first time since 1997. 
Michael Nylander scored in regulation and the shootout, and Martin Straka added a goal for the Rangers, who are three points ahead of the Flyers with each team having seven games left. 
"This isn't the only goal we have, but it's certainly part of it," general manager Glen Sather said. 
Once the Rangers got into overtime, the NHL's longest active playoff drought ended. But New York, a club some picked to finish last in the 30­team league, isn't content with just reaching the postseason. The Rangers are gunning for the division title, too. 
"We're speaking kind of casu­ally now that we did clinch a playoff berth, but when you stop and think about what that means and how that looked in August and how that looked in September ... to now be in this position it's very gratifying," Weekes said. 
Usually it is Lundqvist who is tucked in the corner of the dressing room after a Hangers win. But his sore hip put him into a suit instead of the net on this night, and left New York's biggest game of the season in the hands of Weekes-who has become a bit of a villain to the home fans who want to see Lundqvist play. 
Boos rained on Weekes when New York's 1-0 lead turned into a 2-1 deficit by the end of the second period. But he held his ground in the third, made sev­eral key saves -including breakaway stops -and heard his name cheered. 
"The fans have supported our team all year long and fallen in love with some of our players, certainly my partner Henrik, and that's fine," said Weekes, who earned his first home victo­ry since Nov. 19. 

University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
COM--fT1'££ ON GAY AI<U i.UIU<I>I 
S"fliDIII<'f Nltfi:J>$ 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ML. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty .3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
Dem Keenan Boyz' offensive flow HalfWay through the game, one games were supposed to be seri­all-male squad We're Big in by getting in the passing lanes of the players on Team 50 ous as well as fun but we're very Europe were thankful to have
Bailers 

and forcing turnovers. engaged in some trash-talking, disappointed that the game got escaped to play in the seeond 
continued from page 32 
Five Hot Girls Who Will the team's cohesive play was Probably Lose in the First enough to knock oJr its first toe. Round But are Hoping to Get 

"We were the ninth-to-last Lucky 21, Runis 15 ratnd team, so we have a lot to Defying the team name, Five prove in this tournament," !lot Girls used advantages in size Unfortunate Draw eaptain Fritz and quickness to defeat Flunis Shadley said. 21-15 Tuesday at McGlinn 
Tnam 161 eaptain Pat O'Brien Courl'i. was not surprised by the game's "We have some quiek big guys outcome, as he thought going in that really helped out on the fast his tnam was outmatehed. break," Hot Girl junior Joe 
"Wn wnm hoping to play a girls O'Connell said. team that wasn't taking it snri­Five !lot Girls used its transi­ously," O'Brien said. tion offense to seal the contest 
Arter an t~arly 1-1 tie, towards the end. The game was Unfortunate Draw ripped off neck-and-neck through the first snvnn straight poinL'i en route to half, as Flunis employed a 2-3 an Il<{ halftimt~ lt~ad. The team zone, often doubling five Hot used its strenJ.,rth and athleticism Girls' big men underneath. The to ereate seeond-ehanee opportu­Hot Girls led 11-10 when the nities with oll'ensiw rebounds. teams switched ends. 
The ehairmnn of the boards "We tried to limit their shots were eaptain Fritz Shadley and inside with the zone, but they got Erie "Thn One Who Goes by some put-backs and easy transi­Churninator" Cherney, who both tion buckets," Flunis player 
fed outlet passes to  Brandon Reichardt  
tnammates for fast-break poinL'i. The Churninator  "We have some quick big guys that  said. "We hung in there, but then we got tired, and they  
donned a Wiseonsin t-shirt and seored a  really helped out on the fast break. "  pulled away." While Hot Girls had three players  
game-high  six  that  were  taller  
points, badgering  Joe O'Connell  than  the  tallest  
Team ·16l's dnfense with a shot  Hot Girl junior  Flunis member, the 2-3 zone kept  
that was a  hybrid  Flunis in the game.  

Karemn skyhook and one-handed But llot Girls began hitting their toss. Every playN on Unfortunate midrange jumpers after the half seornd at least three points. and increased its lead to 16-13. 
Shadley said the tournament is "We tried to attack the open a personal mission for him spol'i and get the closest shot as 
"I felll like I'm going to have to possible, then use our size to get stand up fo~. peopl~ n:~~ed Fritz putbacks." O'Connell said. twerywhem. he smd. Cause we The Hot Girls pulled away can play basketball." using fast break opportunities 
ernated by an aggressive man-to­1997 All European Team 21, man defense to seal the victory. Dem Keenan Boyz 9 
An mulless arsnnal of Euro-fab­Team 50 21, ulousness was too lorei!-,'11 for the Fetching Fivesome 2 nbonieally eonl1ned "Boyz" of Despite eccentric clothing, the Keenan to stop. Fetehing Fivesome could not 
Dem Keenan Boyz sufl"ered sud­overeome the wind, a talent dis­den culture shock, as All Euro advantage and an "inept" coach­opened up with a 7-1 run their ing stan· in a 21-2 loss to Team opponent never came back from. 50 Tuesday. 
All Euro captain Ben Chupp "I think our lack of ability said his team had to replace its stems from our coaching," original starting lineup of former Fivesome member Maureen Bulls forward Tony Kucoc, Sefton said. Hornets eenter Vlade Divae, Using a coach-designed offen­Blazers center Arvydas Sabonis, sive strategy, Fetching Fivesome Celties guard Dino Hada and had more than 10 passes inter­Sonies forward Detlef Schrempf eepted by Team 50 near the half­dun to the fact they had no allili­eourt line. ation with Notrt~ Dame. "In our defense, we did score 
But Chupp dealt with the line­-twice," Fivesome coach Meg up ehanges and tied a game high Ditsworth, said. "To be honest with six poinL'>, a feat matched by though, we're in it for the teammate Anthony Obering. money." 
Both Chupp and Obering Fetching Fivesomfl's tactic of played physical games rnllecting wearing distractingly bright a style more Ameriean than undergarments over regular European, as Chupp's Grant Hill clothes worked wonders on the jersny suggnsted. defensive end of the court as 
Chupp complimented ()bering's Team 50 missed more than a play. dozen layups. 
"We used our big man pretty "We caused them to miss all well," Chupp said. "Everything those lay-ups," Sefton said. "But kind of went through him. [Hel the rest of us were just too lazy to was a dominating foree." get back down there and 
On defense, Chupp disrupted rebound." 
Fivesome player Chrissy Perocchi said. That lit a fire under the team. 

Perocchi said she her one of her opponents quip, "You guys paid $20 for this?" 
She responded by scoring the first of her team's two buckets. After the game, resentment remained among the Fivesome. 
'Tm not going out with any of those guys," Fivesome guard Laun)n Shuttleworth said. 
Middle School MVPs 21, Team 183 9 
Middle School MVPs topped Team 183 21-9 at the Bookstore courts Tuesday in a game much closer than the final seore indi­eates. 
The contest was a hard-fought battle between two teams com­prised entirely of women that saw countless dives for loose balls. Players on both teams said the intensity level was higher than expected. 

"There was definitely a lot of aggressive play," MVP senior Erika Gurrola said. 
Members of Team 183 said the high-contact game resulted in many abrasions and bruises on their teammates. 
"We knew that Bookstore 
so brutal," Team 183 sophomore forward Meghan Paladino said. All five members of Middle School MVPs are seniors. 
"We knew we could take on a bunch of sophomores," MVP Liz Berry said. 
Berry said the win was impor­tant to legitimize the team's name. 
"Middle school was the last time we were legit," she said. "Until now." 
We're Big in Europe 21, Team UBS 17 
We're Big in Europe defeated Team UBS -Build Up Your Assets 21-1 7 at the Bookstore courts yesterday in a game that remained close throughout. 
"We're definitely lucky to have won," We're Big player Patrick Starr said. 
We're Big led 19-13 but Team UBS, which was composed entirely of female players, fought back to cut the delkit to 19-17. But to the dismay of a vociferous crowd, We're Big thwarted the Team UBS come­back attempt. 
"It was a pretty tough loss," UBS freshman guard Alison Heyden said. 
Meanwhile, members of the round. 
"We faced some good players today," We're Big point guard Andrew "Conan" Digan said. "They definitely gave us a run for our money." 
Digan said the two teams were evenly matched in terms of bas­ketball talent. 
His teammate, Tim "Let's Get Physical" Harmon, said the squad is looking forward to its next game, a contest Saturday against Coogle Maps Are the Best, True That, Double True. Harmon said his team must improve upon its performance in the first contest. 
"We have to rebound a lot bet­ter than we did," !Iarmon said, referring to the physical play of Team UBS' players in the paint. 
Despite not advancing to the second round of the open tour­nament, Team UBS will play again. 
"We still get to play in the women's tournament, so we're not that upset." Hayden said. "This was a very good warm-up for us." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu, Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu and Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

TU€SOa(f aJ'RfL4 W€0l)€SOCI(} QPR(L_~ 
vs.. cljcaqo srare VS.. BafLSTaT€ 
~:0~ P(l) ~:0~ l'(l) 
-----~-----~----------­
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
Cats 
continued from page 32 
1 after sweeping the doubles matches and earning three wins in singles. Irish junior Christian Thompson attributed the victory to the collective efforts of the team. 
"The strength of our team comes from the depths of our hearts," Thompson said. "And it's only going to get stronger as we get closer to the NCAA !Tournament)." 
The nationally ranked No. 3 doubles pairing of Thompson and Irish junior Catrina Thompson downed Purdue's Brooke Beier and Mallory Voelker 8-2 at No. 1 Sunday. The Thompsons were followed by the Notre Dame's No. 29 pair of Buck and Kelcy Tefft, who defeated Randi Schuler and Stephanie Wooten 8-4 at No. 2. The final doubles win came from seniors Lauren Connelly and Kiki Stastny when they beat Anna Dzeva and Brittany Minna 8-4 at No.3. 
Notre Dame is determined in continuing their flawless streak this season of earning the dou­bles point against Northwestern. 
"We feel secure as we should [win the point against Northwestern]. but we shouldn't be overconfident because they have good doubles [teams] too," Buck said. "Everyone is going to have to play well tomorrow, and I have full confidence we will." 
The Irish have failed to secure the victory just once this season in singles -a 4-3 loss to Vanderbilt March 29. Notre Dame is hoping not to repeat that loss. 
"We lost and it was a tough match, but it wasn't like we weren't fighting until the last point, and our coaches realize that," Buck said. "That day, Vanderbilt was a better team than we were. I think it was good for us, because we hopefully learned form it and use it to play well against Northwestern." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 32 
powered offense will contin­ue to produce against Ohio State. The Irish have already surpassed last year's season total of goals scored (145) with 158 goals in 10 games for an average of 
15.8 per game , good for second in 
the  na­ 
tion.  
But  Footethe  
Irish  are  

looking to continue to mount offensive attacks. 
Notre Dame freshman Jill Byers enters today's game five goals shy of the single­season Irish record for a freshman. Her 33 goals and 45 points are second on the team this year only to senior attack Crysti Foote. 

Foote, who was named Big East play.er of the week for the third time this year Tuesday, has 41 goals and 20 assists. 
Despite an overall losing record, the Irish have faired well against Ohio State recently. Notre Dame has won three out of its last four games against Ohio State. In 2002, Notre Dame's first NCAA Tournament appear­ance in program history, the Irish were defeated by Ohio State in regular season play before beating the Buckeyes in their post-season run. 
Ohio State dropped its first eight games of the season before beating Davidson 16­5 at home Sunday. 
Buckeyes senior midfielder KC Carter and sophomore attack Jessica Patane lead the Ohio State offense with 21 and 17 points, respective­ly. 
Ohio State sophomore attack Kristen Slahor is the team's most efficient threat 

in the starting lineup. Slahor has eight goals on 15 shots and has added seven assists in nine games. 
Buckeyes freshman Kristen Gilwee leads Ohio State in the net with a 10.34 goals against average. 
In the next few weeks, the Irish face a gauntlet of tough opponents. Duke, Georgetown, Vanderbilt and Syracuse are all ranked and noble opponents to the resurgent Notre Dame squad. 
Notre Dame and Duke clash Sunday at 1 p.m. at Koskinen Stadium in Durham, N.C. 
Georgetown hosts the Irish April 15 in Washington, -. D.C., and Notre Dame ends its regular season at home against Vanderbilt May 7. 
The Observer was unable to contact tenth-year Irish head coach Tracy Coyne Tuesday. 
Contact Chris Williams at cwilli11@nd.edu 

The Office of Information Technologies is looking for ND students who can provide after-hours cornputer support to students who live in ND Residence Halls. RCAs work between eight and 20 hours per week after receiving training from the OIT. 
Irish SL>ftb£0111 
Tuesday, 

esday, .April 5th 
vs. Eastern DoubleH First Pitch 


page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
Cooper 
continued from page 32 
Phnlps and Kyle Weiland to close out tlw game. But Chieago State's bats forced Maininri to keep Graffy in the game until the Weiland pitehed the ninth. 
"(GralTyl was pitching so well that I just let him keep going," Mainieri said. "I thought (;rally pitehed with a lot of emotion out thnre and a lot of fire, made some big pitehes." 
The Irish did not waste Cooper's leadotr 
double after a ''I've always liked a deflected dou­s e o r e I e s s hitter in the leadoff spot ble in the sixth 
Chicago State and was
that was a slugger.
first inning. immediately Dressman (3-Because ifhe leads off followed by a 
for-4, one HBI. the game with a double Dressman RBI 
one walk) single to left
or a home run or
pu lied a single field to score 
to right field to something, right away it Irish catcher 
move Cooper to puts pressure on the Cody Rizzo third base. that gave
other team. " 
Notre Dame Notre Dame a shortstop 6-3 lead. Jeremy Barnes' Paul Malnierl The Cougars 
walk loaded thn Irish head coach were able to 
bases bnfore designated hitter Sean Gaston scored Coopnr on a fielder's ehoiee to third base. 
Notre Dame seeond base­man Hoss Brezovsky (2-for-3, 2 HBis, onn walk) followed (;aston with a two-run triple to right centerfield -giving Notre Dame a 3-0 advantage. 
Irish left fielder Steve Andres' onn-hop single to right over the hnad of 6-foot-5 Cougar first baseman Haven Jaekson scored Brnzovsky and extendnd thn lnad to 4-0. 
"In all honesty, we had a eouple of basn running mis­takes, but other than that I thouglit we played a pretty deennt ganw," Mainieri said. "I thought Chieago State is a mueh improvnd program, and thny played nxtremnly well and madn it a tough game." 
Chi eago State pitehe r Jonathan Kohn pitched an eight-inning eomplete game, allowing six earned run!'), 11 hits, fivn walks and three strikeouts. Kohn threw 137 pitehes against Notre Damn after a 161-piteh outing in 7 1­3 innings against Kansas State Mareh 2H. 
"That's amazing," Mainieri said of Kohn 's piteh totals. "lie was a real ehallenge for us. 
We get teams pitching their ace against us, and we're using our guys that are young kids that are trying to get nxperience. So I thought our kids really met the challenge very well today." 
The Cougars cut into the four-run deficit in the second inning on an HBI groundout by eatcher Cody Sandzimier with runners on second and third. 
HBI singles by Bernosky and center fielder Chris Goya forced Gruener from the mound in the third inning with Notre Dame leading 4-3. 
Cooper drove Notre Dame center fielder Alex Nettey home with his 
muster a one­run seventh but could not secure a hit against Graffy in the eighth or Weiland in the ninth. Sandzimier scored the run on an HBI groundout by John Torres to move the tally to the final of 6-4. 
Cooper helped the Irish escape further damage in the seventh inning when Cougar shortstop Roc Latino popped up near the first base dugout. After making the catch, Cooper doubled up the runner tagging from second. 
Weiland secured his seventh save on the season with a per­fect ninth inning, striking out the first two Cougars faced. 
The Irish pitcher was roughed up in an eighth inning appearance last Saturday 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May 18-21, 2006 
Need a place for your family to stay, Try the Sacred Heart Parish Center [Building 1185 on your campus maps.] 
We set a $100.00 per person donaion for the weekend. 
"COME EARLY [Thursday]-STAY LATE [Monday]"-same low price. 
For reservations please call Paul Eddy at 574-631-7512 or Mary Fonferko at 57 4-631-9436 

against Pittsburgh when he allowed two earned runs on two hits before working out of the jam. 
"He just hasn't gotten on the mound enough times," Mainieri said of Weiland. "So we were definitely going to throw Weiland today no mat­ter what, and we want to see if he can bounce back again tomorrow and pitch an inning against Ball State." 
The Irish head back into action today against Ball State at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notes 
+ 
The Kohn breaking ball that hit Rizzo in the second inning was the 75th time the catcher has been hit by a pitch in his Notre Dame career. That vaulted him into sole posses­sion of third place in the all­time NCAA career hit-by-pitch tally, surpassing Texas' Jeff Ontiveros (74). Gabe Somaribba of Florida Atlantic holds second place (81) and San Francisco's Tony Hurtado is the career leader (92). 

"They try to jam him some­times and he doesn't back down," Mainieri said of Rizzo's record. "He just takes it for the team. Believe me, I don't encourage him to do it-I don't even like him to do it ­but it's just one of those parts of the game. Thank goodness he doesn't get hurt." 

+ 
Notre Dame starter Wade Korpi and Cooper were named to the Big East Weekly Honor Roll this week. Korpi pitched a three-hit, 11 strikeout, com­plete game shutout of Western Michigan on Mar. 29 to earn recognition. Cooper hit .529 with a home run, two doubles and three HBis in five games last week. 


Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Shutouts 
continued from page 32 
"Heather's ehangeup was on fire and Brittney's curve was menacing." 
The pitching staff's domi­nance was especially impor­tant in Tuesday's doublehead­er since the offense could muster just three runs on ten total hits in both games. 
The Eagles pitching shut down Notre Dame's hitters, and the Irish drew no walks in the first game and two in the second. 
"I don't think we really lacked offensive production today, the hits just weren't going where we needed them to go," Irish center fielder Alexandra Kotcheff said. 
But when the hits did land where the Irish needed them, good things happened for Notre Dame. 
In the first game, Irish sec­ond baseman Katie Laing led off the bottom of the second with a triple to the wall in cen­ter field. Notre Dame shortstop Sara Schoonaert drove in Laing for the team's first run with a ground ball to second. 
With two outs in the fourth, Irish first baseman Linda Kohan knocked a 1-2 pitch to the gap in right for a double. Notre Dame designated player Erin Glasco then stepped up and drove a ball over the head of Eagles centerfielder 

Heather Giroux for  an  HBI  
double  and  insurance  run  
Booth wouldn't need.  

The biggest hit of the second game came in the bottom of the sixth inning with neither team on the scoreboard. Kotcheff led off the inning with a double to center and then moved over to third on a sacri­fice bunt by Irish senior cateh­er Mallorie Lenn. Notre Dame third baseman Meagan Ruthrauff then stepped up and drove in Kotehef'f for the win­ning run. 
Huthrauff, who was 2-for-3 in the game before Sarah Smith pineh ran for her, said the Irish lacked a certain intensity on offense. 
"We had some intensity, but we could bring a lot more," Ruthrauff said. "If we would have done that, we would have been able to score a lot more runs." 
With slim leads in each game, the defense stepped up to provide Booth and Bargar with support. Notre Dame's infield played well, preventing potential hits from getting through the infield. 
"We had very solid defense today," RuthrauiT said. "Laing in particular was flawless, showing her range not only to the hole but also to her left." 
The outfield also showed its range, not allowing an extra­base hit. 
The sweep of Eastern Michigan was the Irish's eighth and ninth consecutive wins, during which they have allowed only three runs to opposing hitters -ineluding three consecutive shutouts and two no-hitters. 
Notre Dame next faces Akron today at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
The Zips (11-14) are lead by freshman outfielder Cali Stratton. who enters the con­test with a .295 batting aver­age, one homer and seven HBis. Akron freshman pitcher Julie Boyes is batting .284 with one home run and nine RBis. 
Gumpf feels the Irish can beat Akron. 
"We definitely have to piek it up-a notch," Gumpf said. "They'll bring it and we have to be ready." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 5 
THEOLOGY ON TAP 
Presents 

Gary Anderson, Professor, Dept. ofTheology 

Last 

Get tapped in at Legends
TheolOgy 

Doors Open at 9:30pm,On T.-pof Speaker starts ... 1O:OOpm the Year! Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
JOCKULAR 
WH'j A.R£. 
TH£.t:l£. FouR 
OF '/OU IN 
IH£.~£? 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Klutzes 65 Sample cycles? 1 Turn 37 Fingerprint part 68 Cap site 6 Wall St. deals 40 Some try to 69 Iron, for one 
make them meet
10 Polish, as text 70 Out in the open -41 "Peer Gynt 
71 Gets firm14 To have, in Le Suites"
Havre 72 Soccer star Mia
composer15 The last Mrs. 73 Toadies' replies
43 "Heartburn"
Chaplin 
author Ephron 16 Matter of 
44 Something you DOWNcontention make standing 1 Wander 17 Royal recorder? up 
aimlessly 19 World capital of 46 Portrait on a 
2 "Ars Amatoria" 
1949-1990 coin of A.D. 64 
poet 20 School in 47 Blame bearer 
3 Wild hogMadison, N.J., 
48 Dates 4 Broadcaster for short 
50 G.l.~s troupe grp. 
5 Wry humor21 Had second 52 Abbr. in an apt.
thoughts about 6 Late crooner 
classified Rawls23 Carnaval site 53 Finalized 7 Transvaal 24lranian decree? 
settlerschangemaker? 
58 Round figure a Slightly ahead 27 "What ?" 
59 Dial in the in a game 30 "What ...?" bathroom 
9 How the rational 31 Dingbat 60 Just beats behave 

35 "Bah!" 49 Foil 32 Hera's mother 63 Wanton sneer 10 Fall back 
36 Red Cross 51 Chap, in 
11 Tough way to supply Chelsea ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE sell 
38 Fat unit 53 Just plain 12 Certain belly people
39 Takes inbutton 54 Papas of "Zorba 64 Low-_image42 Preacher's

13 Lohengrin, for the Greek"
preaching 66 1972 treaty one 55 "Cheers" subj.
45 Events where
18 Tasty clam barmaid
white gloves 67 Urban grid: 22 Stylish Christian may be worn 56 Poppy product Abbr. 
8B~-:+.;,=.f!!I!IPI!I-:+.-:+.=;-fl!l-i:+-:+±:-l 25 Get smart 1-;;-lr.:t-:+:;:;-• ......,.+=+=-..,._..-:-:+-=+:-+:,.,..._,::-! 26 Failing to win or For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a lose credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 27 Fingerboard part Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
28 "Darn it all!" 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
~-:+.~:-! 29 Obviously 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
embarrassed 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ___.___._.......__. 33 Good point solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

"/OU THINK IH IS , :jo€, \5 €. P..'S't , 'DONI '/CYJ. , \'u N \<..­.  "/ou. BE-TTE...~ WAlCH VVH AI 'j ou SA'-\ 0~ '/ ou 12-.'~ C:toNNA C:lt:-1 SHOT No \tJ f-1\0\1 €:.  
WILLSHORTZ  

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ___________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
ALLIC 
1 

rJ I I 
@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YAPEE 


rJ 
~ She's very objective --)"i.
1 
...And easy to -~?), ..-: look at ~'· ''""'

tSNUFIL j WHY THE: Bl-OND NE:WSC.ASTE:RJ r I I
1 

www.jumble.com MOOE:RATE:O 
THE: Oe:BATE:. 
SOCHOR 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
[ J I [ J

.____J...,_....LJ'------'----1------'-::......LJ suggested by the above cartoon. 

I I JWAS .. rI I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PROBE AGING JUMBLE BOUGHTYesterday's Answer: 
What the drivers did in the demolition derby­A"BANG-UP" JOB 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jamie Lynn Spears, 15; Heath Ledger, 27; Robert Downey Jr., 41; Craig T. Nelson, 62 
Happy Birthday: Trust and believe in yourself ifyou want things to happen this year. You are the one in control. You do have wonderful ideas and what it takes to finish what you start. Your numbers are 2, 14, 24, 28, 36, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't expect things to run according to plan in your personal life. You may take things the wrong way or overreact emotionally. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Use your charm and you'll be able to talk someone into telling you a secret. Social activities can open up doors to potential new partnerships. Short trips will enhance love. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's time you spoke up and let everyone know what you are thinking. In so doing, you rid yourself of the people who have been taking advantage of you. Clear up old feuds and move forward. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 2I-July 22): Don't let the little things bother you. A chance to do something you enjoy and make a little money at the same time should be your goal. Discuss your options with someone you admire. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep your Secrets to yourself today. The less said and the more done, the further ahead you will become. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful not to give too much ofyour time or money today. lfyou are too accommodating, someone will take advantage ofyou. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone will be out to get you one way or another. Don't set yourself up for disappointment. Instead work diligently on a project you can do by yourself. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your interest in what's going on around you will result in your joining a worthy cause. The people you meet and the contributions you make will bring promising results. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have plenty ofenergy so put it to good use. A chance to get involved in something with friends or relatives will pay off. Money can be made if you are smart with your investments. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get busy doing the things you know will pay offand you will excel today. Your moneymaking ability will kick in and those who want to do business with you will get what you are trying to accomplish. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Ifyou try to start too big, you will end up becoming discouraged. Baby steps will ensure you make progress. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M arch 20): Fun and games are apparent today. You can make some very important changes around your home. They may not please everyone but the ones who are in favor will back you every inch ofthe way. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a dreamer with big vision. You are positive, aggressive and progressive. You are thoughtful, kind and generous with people you love. You are open, trusting and true to your beliefs. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April 5, 2006 
page 32 
BASEBALL 

Cooper's double ignites Notre Dan1e offense in victory 
Dame first inning. He followed .769 at the top of the order 
By KYLE CASSILY 

it up in the sixth with an HBI with five doubles, one home 
Sports Writer 

line drive oil' the glove of diving run, three walks and a hit by 
Chicago State third baseman pitch. 
Notre Dame first baseman Handy Bernosky to extend "''ve always liked a hitter in Craig Cooper pulled two dou­Notre Dame's lead to 5-3. It the leadoff spot that was a slug­bles down the left field line and was Cooper's 40th career dou­ger," Irish head coach Paul ignited a first-inning rally to ble. Mainieri said of Cooper. propel Notre Dame (18-8) over With Cooper's first inning "Because if he leads off the Chicago State (3-17) 6-4 double, he reached base safely game with a double or a home Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. for the 14th time in 17 leadoff run or something, right away it 
Cooper's double to open the at-bats this season (.823 on­puts pressure on the other game sparknd a four-run Notre base percentage). He is hitting team. 
-BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Opening tips 
Annual spring games started Tuesday on courts across campus 
By TIM DOUGHERTY, CHRIS HINE and FRAN TOLAN Sports Writers 
Thn 35th edition of Bookstore Basketball tipped off Tuesday on the pavement of the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstorn and two other sets of courl'i as teams bat­tled in the preliminary round of the tournament. 
You Surely Heceived an Unfortunate Draw began its tournament with a 21-5 ·victory over Team 161. 
Unfortunate Draw's name is a refernnce to past champions and 200(> No. 1 seed U Got a Bad Draw, though the spin-ofT team Jacks a starting quarterback. But 
sec BALLERS/page 28 


WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish and Bucks to tangle in Ohio 
No. 10 Notre Dame faces OSU today before traveling to No. 4 Duke 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
No. 10 Notre Dame meets a familiar opponent today as the Irish (9-1) travel to Columbus, Ohio, to take on the struggling Buckeyes (1-8) at Jesse Owens Memorial Field, in Columbus, Ohio. 
It will be the 11th match between the two programs -a Notre Dame team record. Ohio State has won six of the previ­ous 10 meetings. 
Notre Dame hopes its high-
see BUCKEYE/page 29 


"It kind of sets a tone for the game that you've got an aggressive team that's going to attack the opposition." 
Notre Dame freshman Brett Graffy earned his first career win after 5 1-3 innings of work in relief of lefty starter David Gruener. 
Graffy entered the game in the top of the third with two outs and runners on first and second as Notre Dame held to a 4-3 lead. He allowed one run in the relief appearance. 
Graffy worked out of the jam by forcing Cougar left fielder Chris Freshour to fly out to Notre Dame right fielder Danny Dressman. 
Mainieri originally planned to pitch Gruener for three innings and give Graffy the same work­load before going to David 
see COOPER/page 30 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Courtney to host top-10 showdown 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
After a 4-3.-road victory over Purdue Sunday, Notre Dame returns home to face No. 9 Northwestern at the Courtney Tennis Center at 3:30p.m. today. 
Despite facing one of the nation's top teams, the Irish are not allowing the pressure to get the best of them. 
"This [match] is different than most because they are an incredibly tough team," Notre Dame sophomore Brook Buck said. "But we arc going into the match with the same mindset las any other match)." 
In the win over Purdue, Notre Dame improved its record to 18­
see CATS/page 29 

ND SOFTBALL 
Booth and Bargar shoot down Eagles 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame starting pitchers Heather Booth and Brittney Bargar led the Irish to two shutout victories Tuesday as Notre Dame swept a double­header against the Eastern Michigan Eagles with 2-0 and 1-0 wins at Ivy Field. 
Booth and Bargar each pitched complete game gems, combining for seventeen strikeouts while giving up only seven hits in the two shutouts. 
Booth was able to work all her pitches in the first game ­forcing hitters to chase after her fastball while fooling them with the changeup. Bargar dominated the Eagles lineup in game two, striking out 11 bat­ters with her overpowering fastball and baffling curve. 
"[Booth and Bargar} showed up more than anybody else tonight," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
see SHUTOUTS/page 30 
MLB-NL

U) SMC SOFTBALL 
NHL 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
NFL 
WOMEN'S BASKETBAU
LLII 

t: 
Co) 
Legendary UCLA 
A judge dropped 
Maryland 78
Rangers 3
z 

head coach John Wooden 
charges against
Flyers 2 (SO) 
Duke 75 (OT)
The Belles split a 
Tony LaRussa's deci­

was scheduled to be 
Minnesota Vikings
doubleheader with 

sion to have his pitcher 
::5 
The Rangers clinched 
The Terrapins used the 

released from a Los 
quarterback Dante
= 
c,:, Rober Morris, winning 
throw Jimmy Rollins a 
extra frame to beat the
their first playoff berth 

Angeles hospital today 
Culpepper stemming
game one 5-2 but losing 

strike on a 3-0 count
a.. !; c:t 
since 1997, ending the 
Blue Devils and capture

after being admitted 
from a boat-party sex
kept Rollins' hit streak 
the second 6-1. 
leauge's longest drought. 
their first national title. 
Monday. 
scandal.

alive Monday. 
page 21
page 23

U) page 27 
page 23
page 27 
page 27 

"­





