
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 21 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER20, 2006 
Men charged with ticket counterfeiting 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The St. Joseph County Prosecutor's office flied charges Tuesday against three New York men related to the sale of coun­terfeit Notre Dame football tick­ets. 
Arnold Conyers, 27, Denne! Friday, 27, and Timothy Lang, 22, of the Bronx, N.Y., were each charged with forgery and could face up to eight years in prison. 
They were arrested Saturday and will remain in the St. Joseph County Jail until their arraign­ment at 1 p.m. today in the St. Joseph County Superior Court, according to a supplemental affi­davit filed by St. Joseph County Deputy Prosecuting Attorney Joel Gabrielse. 
Associate Athletic Director John Heisler sent the affidavit along with a press release to members of the media Tuesday. 
Friday and Lang were both caught selling "very good quali­ty" counterfeit tickets before the Notre Dame-Michigan game Saturday, Gabrielse said in the affidavit. 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) plain-clothes officers apprehended Friday, and Lang was caught after Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk witnessed him selling coun­terfeits. 
The tickets Friday and Lang sold matched the counterfeit tickets that NDSP gathered after the Sept. 9 Notre Dame-Penn State game. Altogether, police have recovered roughly 170 counterfeit tickets for the last two home football games. 
While Conyers was arrested Saturday, he was charged in con­nection with counterfeit ticket sales before the Penn State game one week earlier. Gabrielse said Conyers sold three counterfeit tickets Sept. 9 to a football fan who was not aware they were invalid. The fan took a picture of the seller after he bought the tickets, which allowed police to identify Conyers as he walked near Dorr Road and U.S. 31 
see TICKETS/page 8 
University lags in low-income study 
ND ranked 49th for percentage of students with Pell Grants; administrators defend policies 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Out of the 59 wealthiest pri­vate institutions, The Chronicle of Higher Education ranked Notre Dame 49th in its ability to enroll low-income students. 
But that low ranking might not accurately portray the University, said administrators who criticized the method researchers used to create the 2004-05 report, which exam­ined institutions with endow­ments of $500 million or more. 
The publication used the number of students holding Federal Pell Grants -which, unlike government loans, do not need to be paid back -as an indicator. 
In the study, Notre Dame's 9.7 percent of students holding Pel! Grants lagged far behind Berea College in Kentucky, the No. 1 school. where 80.8 percent of students reportedly receive those loans. 
Berea College's unique admis­sions policy only accepts stu­dents that "fall below a certain income," said Luke Hodson, assistant director of admissions at Berea. But other academical­ly elite colleges -Smith College 
(25.9 percent), Columbia (16 percent) and Stanford (13 per­cent). as well as p0er schools like Georgetown (1 0.4 percent) and Boston College (10.3 per­cent) outranked Notre Dame. 
Director of Financial Aid Joe Russo noted that Notre Dame is still "pretty close to its peers." 
But Tom Mortenson, a senior scholar at The Pel! Institute for the Study of Opportunity in Higher Education, thinks the University can do better. 
Mortenson has published extensively on low-income stu­dents in post-secondary educa­tion. In a December 2005 study, which also used the percentage 
see PELL/page 6 


Football lawn parking debated 
City commission calls resolution unfavorable 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Proponents of lawn parking during Notre Dame football games received a minor victory Tuesday when the South Bend Area Plan Commission decided a resolution to prohibit most forms of lawn parking-save for eity­approved exceptions -would likely present more problems than it could solve. 
The commission passed a motion to forward the resolution to the South Bend Common Council with an unfavorable rec­ommendation. 
What it came down to. a 
see PARKING/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students register to vote 
'Rock the Vote,' CSC plan political events 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
With Election Day just seven weeks away, Rock the Vote is revving up to increase turnout at the polls. 
Junior Mike McKenna, director of Rock the Vote operations at Notre Dame, said the group has already registered 200 voters and hopes to have 1,000 signed up by mid-October. 
Also taking part in the effort to "rock the vote" is the Center for Social Concerns, which is spon­soring a series of political lec­tures and events to involve stu­dents and support the aims of the campus Rock the Vote cam­paign. 
Rock the Vote's "principal goal is to mobilize students to be responsible voters and to increase the level of political engagement on campus," McKenna said. 
A national non-partisan organ­ization founded in 1990, Rock the Vote is designed to help young people exercise their rights as citizens and to make a positive difference in the com­munity. 
McKenna will address the pro­gram's goal this fall both by edu­cating students on the issues and candidates of the election and by registering eligible voters. So far, McKenna said he has spent most of his efforts registering eligible 
see VOTE/page 4 

Core Council structure encourages dialogue 
Group reaches out to homosexual students 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
NewsWrirer 
As members of the recently restructured Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Studenl'i look at the new academic year, many see it as an opportunity to improve communication with the student body-an essential task that will include the creation of a eoalition composed of representatives from student government and student groups. 
"I think the largnst thing that can be done is simply raising awareness that there are gay and lesbian stud1~nl'i on this campus," council co-chair Andy Magee said. 
Magee, a fifth-year senior who 
served on the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs for two years, said the new layout of the coundl. with 'a coalition to bridge the gap between the council and the stu­dent community, will allow the group to reach out to morn stu­
dents. 
"We arP in the process of build­
ing the coalition. contacting inter­
ested student groups, student gov­
ernment, et n~tera. and trying to 
solidify that group so we ean start 
meeting and figure out wlwrP .to 
go from here," Maw~e said. 
The Core Council's WPb -site 
describes tlw history of the 
University's approar.h to address­
ing needs of gay and IPsbian stu­
denl'i. Notre Dame first organized 
see COUNCIL/page 6 

,..-------------------~-----­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
But I like 

n1y bubble... 
It was my golden birthday yesterday. I spent it sexing fruit flies and writing 500 words to fill some space in today's newspaper. Ifyou were to ask me a year ago ifI were bitter about my unfortu­nate weekday birthday, I probably 
Jessica Lee 
would have responded in lan­guage unsuitable 
Photographer
for Observer cen­sorship. However since my last birth­day, I've come to realize that studying is only one of many inevitable components of life as a student at Notre Dame which. despite my whining, really just makes this year a little more golden. 
In the past year, I've learned that col­lege is the great equalizer-a rudimen­tary form of intellectual socialism, ifyou will. It's a celebration of the average, where you've been displaced from run­ning in the academically/socially/athleti­cally elite circles to being a dot smack in the middle of your (insert class) first exam bell curve. And if you're anything like me, you don't like that dot. So as a necessary matter of consequence, studying is the only remedy for college mediocrity. 
In the past year, I've also learned that studying isn't everything, and that much like your physical nutrition, your mental health in general needs generous allot­ments of playtime. For instance, I've learned that there's nothing quite like slugging, kicking, bunting or setting a ball around to take your mind off of that first exam. And there's nothing quite like running or walking the lake figure­eight to mull over the deeper issues in life. 
I've learned that there's nothing quite like going out on the weekends to dis­cover the various quirks of your friends. For instance, ifyou lay down in a dorm room with other people in it, you will be mounted -the proof of which will be publicized on Facebook. Here, there's no room for being even remotely homo­phobic as spooning and butt-grabbing among friends are expected Friday events and token signs of mutual affec­tion. 
I've also learned that certain issues on campus will always be perpetuated to bring about the politically incorrect sides of everyone -for all to experi­ence. I really do try not to be so negative about things like academic freedom, but there's only so much I actually want to hear about other people's genitalia. Sorry, advocates of "The Vagina Monologues," but sex was meant to be far simpler. 
Likewise, I'm still a little unclear on what diversity at Notre Dame is or ifit's actually an issue. I could be wrong, but I believe it was an old, old wooden ship used during the Civil War era. 
In the end, it doesn't matter ifyou're the bum who gets thrown out of Recker's for not wearing shoes or ifyou are the student who sets his or her mind to excelling academically. The two, after all, are not in conflict, but in complement, because in the end, all these components serve to define you as a student and a person here. 
I still have 12 more words, so make good choices, and you stay classy, Notre Dame. 
Contact Jessica Lee at jlee13@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highest standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please comacr us ar 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD CHANGE YOUR NAME TO ANYTHING, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 


Brian Hagerty Elizabeth Berger Jackie Mirandola Lisa Floran Nick Kovachevich Tara Gilbride Mullen
freshman sophomore sophomore sophomore freshman 
freshman

Keough Walsh Lyons St. Ed's Lewis 
Howard "John Jacob "I'd change my "I'd change it to "Nick "Brady
"Preferably

Jingleheimer first name to Lauren, because Kovachevich. If Zbikowski. It's
something that

Smith, because Youwanna, my last name is it ain't broke, the best ofboth
actually fits in

then his name because who Floran. " don't fix it ... worlds, ignoring 
standardized

really would be doesn't?" Serb power!" the fact that I'm 
test forms. " 

my name, too." 

CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer Hannah Youh, left, and Yurianna Kim set up a table in LaFortune to promote Asian Allure. Sponsored by Notre Dame's Asian American Association, the event will take place Nov. 16 and 17 at Washington Hall. 
OFFBEAT 
NJ doctor accused of stealing cadaver hand 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J.­A doctor has pleaded not guilty to stealing a hand from a New Jersey medical school cadaver and giving it to an exotic dancer, authorities said. 
Ahmed Hashed, a 2005 graduate of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, was charged Monday after voluntarily returning from Los Angeles, where he is in a residency program, said his lawyer, Hassen Abdellah. 
Rashed, 26, is fnie on $1,000 bail. The dancer, Linda Kay, 
kept the hand in a jar of formaldehyde in her bed­room. Friends have said she called the hand "Freddy." 
Man sentenced in urine coffee case 
AKRON, Ohio-A former postal worker who poured urine into his co-workers' cofl'ee must serve six months in a jail work-release pro­gram. Thomas Shaheen, 50, of suburban Springfield Township, also must pay $1,200 to the people he used to work with to cover their cost of making a secret video of his role in tainting the office coflee. 
"J don't know what became of me," said Shaheen, a postal employee for 13 years fired from his job at a post office vehiele maintenance facility in Akron. 

The tainting occurred over several months. When work­ers realized what was going on, they told supervisors and an investigation began. When nothing came of the probe, workers had a video camera installnd in thn room whnre staffers made coffee. 
Shaheen was videotaped on two occasions in July 2005 pouring urine into a coffee pot in a break room. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 

,:J).···.···,·... ::· ~
~-.·.:··· •.
·' ': .•·.· •.· .·:' :··:. ·. :·•.· .:·=·.·. :..=·.··· "· ': :::.:.: : . 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
., ' ·. ·::· 
...... <C 

··········:·... !'!?!>····:·· 0 
(.) 


HIGH 58 HIGH 47 HIGH 65 HIGH 68
...I LOW 37 LOW 37 LOW 48 LOW 58 
a girl." 
IN BRIEF 
The Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning is spon­soring a conference entitled "The Ardent Search for Truth and its Unselfish Transmission" today from 1:30 
p.m. to 5 in the Hesburgh Center. This conference marks Notre Dame's launching of OpenCourseWare, which makes materials for eight Notre Dame courses available online, free of charge, to any user in the world. 
Pizza, Pop, & Politics, "The Midterm Elections: Key Races, Key Issue, What's at Stake?" with faculty Lou Ayala and Jack Colwell and responses by col­lege political parties will be held tonight at 5:30 p.m. in Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
The Irish men's soccer team takes on Northern Illinois tonight at 7. p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Dalloway's Board and the Student Activities Board will host a Murder Mystery at Dalloway's tonight at 8 p.m. at the Dalloway's Clubhouse at Saint Mary's. Limited space is available. 
A panel discussion on "The Recent Supreme Court Decision, Hamdan v. Rumsfeld," will take place in room 121 of the Law School on Thursday at 5 p.m. Panelists will discuss the implications of the June 29 Supreme Court rul­ing which rejected the Bush administration's argument that AI Qaeda suspects were "unlawful combatants." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 70 HIGH 67 LOW 53 LOW 45 
Atlanta 75 I 55 Boston 73 I 60 Chicago 62 I 44 Denver 72 I 45 Houston 89 I 64 Los Angeles 80 I 61 Minneapolis 63 1 38 New York 72 I 64 Philacfelphia 71 I 59 Phoenix 89 I 74 Seattle 62 I 49 St. Louis 69 I 43 Tampa 83 1 74 Washington 71 1 61 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS pag~ 3 

More parking tickets issued 

Students happy vvith nevv cable, vvireless 
included in room and board
0 IT has received few 
charges. Channels range in service complaints variety from Fox News 
Channel to VH1 to Telemundo, 
and students can order 
By EVA BINDA expanded channel packages 
News Writer through Comcast. 
Satellites are now officially 

Many Notre Dame students banned on campus. welcomed the technological Although most appreciate improvements they found in the added amenities, some their dorms at the students ques­beginning of the tioned their semester -and a quality.
'7 generally find I
month later, that "The wireless 
can multitask so I
sentiment is still is not bad. It's strong. can watch TV while just sporadic, Included in a at least in
I'm doing my
variety of other Pangborn,"
homework. '' 
changes to cam­freshman pus technology Emily Harig over the summer Patrick Bears said. "The was the comple­cable is good
freshman
tion of Comcast though." cable and wireless Steven Ellis, Internet installation in all 27 director of Integrated dorms. Currently, about 60 Communication Services for different channels are avail­the Office of Information able in the standard channel Technology, said the com­line-up, the cost of which is plaints have been few. 
By LAURA WILCZEK 
News Writer 
While most students tend to worry about parking tickets only on space-scarce game days that force drivers to get cre­ative, Captain Jeff Korros of the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) warned the current number of tickets issued per regular week is almost twice the expected level. 
Korros said police have issued around 500 tickets every week this semester -far more than the normal 200 to 300 NDSP hands out. The majority of them were issued in the D2 lot, where many students park. This rise in citations is primari­ly because of student neglect, Korros said. 
"The reason for the higher amount [of tickets] right now is ... [because students] have no decal and/or expired decals," Korros said. 
However, Korros said he is confident the number of tickets will slowly decrease as the year continues and as more students purchase decals. Parking per­mits cost $95 and give student cars access to specific lots. 
So far this year, NDSP has issued approximately 1,700 stu­dent decals, Korros said. 
Parking fines can range any­where from $10 to $50, depending on the violation ­plus possible additional fines from the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
Korros said NDSP is not out to get student drivers and under­stands it can be hard to find a spot in an approved lot. First­time violators will often receive a warning without a fine. 
If a student does get ticketed, he or she is permitted to appeal through the Traffic and Parking Appeals Board. The board is composed of faculty, staff and students, with no member from NDSP or Parking Services. 
Contact Laura Wtlczek at lwilczek@nd.edu 

"There haven't been any more complaints than expect­ed under these conditions. Cable TV has been very good," Ellis said. "As far as the wireless, it is just a matter of people getting used to shar­ing it. Unlike at home [ ... ], more people are accessing it in the dorms and the use is different." 
Ellis recommends students use a wired connection for downloading large files so as to not slow down the wireless connection for other people in the dorm. 
Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish mentioned the same problems within the men's dorm. 
"The only wireless com­plaint is some people are using high band width and it slows [the wireless] down," Parrish said. "We've been telling people to plug it into the wall and things have been getting better." 
Now that students can obsessively check Facebook and watch "Laguna Beach" without leaving their dorms, it remains to be seen if this will affect study habits. 
"I generally find I can multi­task so I can watch TV while I'm doing my homework," freshman Patrick Bears said. "It doesn't really affect me." 
Personal habits aside, cable and wireless in the dorms has had an effect on the socializa­tion of students within the dorms -both positive and negative. 
"Last year, when we didn't have cable, people would go to the section lounges and watch popular shows togeth­er," Welsh Family sophomore Clarissa Negrete said. "Now there isn't anyone in there. People stay in their rooms." 
Parrish offered a different perspective. He said he noted an "increase in use of the lounge." Amenities in the common areas such as ping pong, pool tables and pizza also attract students. 
In addition, dorms host activities to bring students into the lounges. Cavanaugh Hall recently hosted a movie night with Zahm and Knott Halls in its basement lounge after the Michigan game Saturday. 
Fine Art Lecture Series Sponsored by Multicultural Student Progratns and Services 
~~1.\(~Iii I~ c;IJI~ lllli.\ 
Comedienne, civil rights activist, entrepreneur, and actress who portrayed Selena:os sister in critically acclaimed movie ,;'Selena:>:> 

When: Wednesday~ September 20~ 2006 Where: Hesburgh Center Auditorium (CIOO) When: 7:00 pm Cost: FREE 
Motivational speech regarding leadership and positive image issues 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
Visiting fellows discuss Asian cultural identity 
Groups can survive in midst of globalization 
By DANA GUSKY News Writer 

The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies brought together three visiting fellows, distinguished for their extensive fieldwork, for a panel discussion on Central Asia Tuesday night. The lec­tures focused on three differ­ent local cultures within Asia 
including those of Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and the area's female Muslim popula­tion -and how that culture survives despite the influence of outside forces. 
John Heathershaw, a Kroc Institute Visiting Fellow, spoke first about the "surprisingly" consistent peace found in the country of Tajikistan. Heathershaw, who received his Ph.D. in International Relations from the London School of Economics and Political Science, went over the key points of his disserta­tion "Peace as Complex Legitimacy: Politics, Space and Discourse in Tajikistan's Peacebuilding Process, 2000­05." 
The lecture concentrated on different forms peacebuilding can take, including global, local and elite outlooks. Specifically, Heathershaw looked at the authoritarian government currently control­ling Tajikistan and the lack of resistance found in its general population. 
The cause of such accept­ance, he said, could be found in the low expectations of the locals, the legitimacy given to this regime and "a spectacle of 
Vote 
continued from page 1 

voters this fall. He described stu­dent reaction to his efforts as extremely positive, especially among underclassmen. 
"Since many of Notre Dame's freshmen and sophomores were not eligible to vote in 2004, this is the first major election in which they can participate, so many are interested in getting registered," he said. 
Students are encouraged to register in their home district, not in Indiana, McKenna said. While some students believe that their vote might "count more" in the tight congressional race in Indiana's second district, McKenna said he believes stu­dents "will be most familiar with the regional issues and the can­didates" in their home states. 
Rock the Vote will continue helping students register until the second week of October, when the registration period concludes in most states. In con­junction with Rock the Vote, the esc has made the national voter registration form available on­line and is also providing state­specific absentee ballot request forms. Both forms can be mailed postage paid from the esc. 
The CSC urges students to reg­ister and request an absentee ballot as soon as possible, in order to meet the state-specific consent" manifested by the government, he said. 
The second speaker was David Montgomery, a Rockefeller Visiting Fellow, whose area of study centered on the way behavior affects religious and cultural views. Montgomery began his lecture by telling the story of two very different believers of Islam in Kyrgyzstan. Montgomery went on to explain how each Muslim's upbringing and local culture affected the way he or she practiced their religion. 
"We construct a net of hap­penings in order to create knowledge," Montgomery said. 
The final speaker was Svetlana Peshkova, another Rockefeller Visiting Fellow, who spoke about the Otinchalar, or Muslim female religious practitioners. 
Peshkova explained how changes in the local culture allowed women to enter a path previously only chosen by men. While information and practices used to be passed down hereditarily, preventing women access, it is now given from teacher to student in spiritual schools. The per­centage of women in such schools is still low, she said, but women are. slowly enter­ing the field through both the spiritual fields and home schooling. 
The discussion panel ended with questions from the audi­ence, mainly focusing on why all three approached their issue from a local viewpoint instead of a more global per­spective. Panel members agreed that they wanted to represent the local beliefs, untouched by global attention. 
Contact Dana Gusky at dgusky@nd.edu 
deadlines. 

The second goal for Rock the Vote is to educate registered vot­ers on the issues and the candi­dates of the election, McKenna said. The CSC is sponsoring both formal and informal educational events, including a debate on the war in Iraq moderated by a for­mer White House speechwriter, a lecture on immigration reform given by a national leader, a con­cert featuring student bands, a discussion series titled "Pizza, Pop and Politics" and a T-shirt giveaway in LaFortune. 
The kickoff event for this fall will be a "Pizza, Pop and Politics" discussion held tonight at 5:30 in the Coleman-Morse Center. The College Republicans and College Democrats will be on hand to outline their party plat­forms. 
"It's helpful to work with [these organizations] because all the political groups on campus are concerned with the same goals," McKenna said. The series of edu­cational events will conclude on Nov. 9 with an analysis of elec­tion results. 
While Rock the Vote primarily stresses participation in national election years, McKenna said he hopes "the energy and interest in the political process that grows out of this campaign will carry over into non-election years so people will continue to follow politics." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
resolution. She also doesn't see a problem with giving people the


Parking 

choice to open their lawns to vis­itors -or with them receiving a 
continued from page 1 

few bucks in return. 
"If other people want to let majority of the commission people park in their yard, let members said, was that the res­them -it's their yard," she olution encompassed two prob­said. lems: the city-wide lawn parking But for Jane Hobing, a that damages both property val­Wooded Estates resident, the sit­ues and quality of life, and the uation on football Saturdays has temporary floods of out-of-town worsened to the point where the fans scrambling for spots on city's intervention is necessary. football weekends. "We have a problem in our 
"What you're trying to do is area," she said. "What I would kill two birds with like to stress is one stone, and it ain't the enforce­
"If other people 
working," commis­ment of this sion member John want to let people ordinance.... McNamara told 4th The Code
park in their yard, 
District Council Department is
let them -it's
Member Ann Puzzello unavailable in and Director of Code their yard. " the eveningsEnforcement for the and weekends, City of South Bend when many of
Jessica Payne 
Catherine Toppel, these offenses
South Bend resident 
who co-sponsored the resolution. 
The proposed reso­lution -which would prohibit all "front setback" parking not on a "durable, dust-free surface" -comes after a Sept. 7 Common Council debate on the issue 
But, more importantly, it comes after decades of football seasons -decades in which res­idents have either grown accus­tomed to or grown to hate the parkers. 
Jessica Payne, who has lived on N. Francis Street for more than 40 years, has learned to weigh the good aspects of game days (the excitement, the atmos­phere) with the bad (the beer bottles and trash that inevitably end up on her lawn). 
And the bad isn't going away anytime soon, she said. 
"If you tell people they can't park on your lawn, it's not going to make the problem go away," Payne told the commission. "It has always been a problem." 
That's why Payne opposed the occur." 

She also underlined the importance of "very stringent" criteria neces­sary for a resident to apply for a special parking permit. 
"You can't just hand out per­mits to whoever wants one, for whatever reason," Hobing said. 
The permit issue resurfaced frequently during the discussion. When questioned about the cri­teria to receive a permit, Puzzello said those details hadn't been worked out yet, but said requesting an exception for an appropriate time limit and ensuring "neighborly behavior" would be necessary. 
"Certainly, parking Friday night to Saturday night is proba­bly a bit much," she said. 
Payne said the special excep­tion rule would "open a flood of applications to problems the city's not capable of handling." 
"We're almost nitpicking on things we can't control," she said. 
While Toppel said she was "concerned" about the enforce­ment and logistics of the resolu­tion, she came back to the "need to start somewhere." 
"Right now, we have nothing," she said, explaining that the City's May 2D04 zoning ordi­nance had removed the section that formerly addressed the lawn parking issue. 
While Tuesday's session ended with the commission siding against the resolution, it was still a start. Since the commission's job is to evaluate but not former­ly approve resolutions, it's now up to the Common Council to decide what action to take. 
The Area Plan Commission also approved a resolution pre­sented by University architect Greg Hakanen and Barnes and Thornburg attorney Richard Deahl regarding the zoning of the area just south of campus that the University plans to develop. 
The petition to rezone the 26.2-acre site -bordered by Eddy Street in the west, the realigned Angela/Edison Boulevard in the north and Twyckenham Drive in the east -was "part of a broader peti­tion ... to bring this property within the city limits for future development in collaboration with the City of South Bend," Deahl said. 
If approved by the Common Council, the resolution will rezone the area -which includes the Eddy Corridor, where the University plans to develop a new retail neighbor­hood -from University District "County" to University District "City." 
The next step, Hakanen said, is not yet decided. 
"Our plan for the development of the land is evolving," he said. 
The Common Council will meet-at 7 p.m. Sept. 25 on the fourth floor of the County-City Building. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

LIVE AND STUDY 

5-6 PM Wednesday, September 20 129 Hayes-Healy or 
5-6 PM Tuesday, October 3 129 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
~------------------­


ORLD & NATION 

Wednesday September 20, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Army to maintain Iraq troop levels 
WASHINGTON-The U.S. military is likely to maintain and may even increase its force of more than 140,000 troops in Iraq through next spring, the top American commander in the region said Tuesday in one of the gloomi­est assessments yet of when troops may come home. 
Gen. John Abizaid. commander of U.S. Central Command. said military leaders would consider adding troops or extending the Iraq deployments of other units if need­ed. 
"If it's necessary to do that because the military situation on the ground -requires that. we'll do it," Abizaid said. "If we have to call in more forces because it's our military judgment that we need more forces, we'll do it." 
Protesters gather for a third night 
BUDAPEST, Hungary -Hundreds of riot police streamed into the capital Tuesday as protesters massed again after a night of rioting over the prime minister's leaked admission that his government repeatedly lied about the health of Hungary's econo­my. 
By nightfall, some 10,000 people had gathered for a third night in Kossuth Square, the vast plaza outside the nco­Gothic parliament building. Dozens waved Hungarian flags, and some demonstrators set up tents, signaling they intended to stay at least overnight. 
Several said they would remain even longer -until tlw resignation of Prime Minister Fnnmc Gyurcsany -whose taped comments set off the country's worst vio­lPnrP sinrn its failPd anti-Soviet rf'volution 50 years ago. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Two men charged in dance shooting 
PITTSBUHGH -Police charged two men Tuesday with shooting five Duquesne University basketball players after a school dance, and they accused a 19-year-old soph­omore of helping six men into the dance despite knowing some were armed. 
Brandon Baynes, 18, was arraigned on five counts of criminal attempt at homicide. Prosecutors also filed charges of aggravated assault, criminal conspiracy and weapons counts against him and William Holmes, 18. A reckless endangerment charge was also filed against Holmes, who is still being sought. 
Three players remained hospitalized fol­lowing Sunday's shootings after the dance. The most seriously wounded, junior forward Sam Ashaolu, 23, was in critical condition with bullet fragments in his head. 
Loose object delays space shuttle 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -NASA post­poned the return of Atlantis for at least a day and examined the shuttle for damage that could prevent it from making the journey home after a mysterious object apparently fell ofT the ship in orbit Tuesday. 
Space agency officials wanted extra time to establish whether the object was a vital piece of the shuttle -such as the tiles that protect it from thfl blowtorch heat of re-entry -and whether it harmed the spacecraft when it fell away. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hospital to compensate baby deaths 
INDIANAPOLIS -Methodist Hospital has otTered to financially compensate families of two premature infants who died after being given an overdose of a blood thinner, the hospi­tal CEO said Tuesday. 
Two girls less than a week old died Saturday at the Indianapolis hospital's Neonatal Intensive Care Unit after being given adult doses of heparin, which is often used to prevent blood clots that could clog intravenous tubes. Four other premature babies were still being treated after being given too powerful a dose of the drug that a pharmacy technician acciden­tally stored in the NICU's drug cabinet. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
THAILAND 

Nation's army stages quick coup 
General ousts Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra, pledges loyalty to king 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK -Thailand's army commander staged a coup Tuesday night and ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra while he was in New York, circling his offices with tanks, declaring martial law and revoking the constitution. 
Gen. Sondhi Boonyaratkalin, who is known to be close to Thailand's revered monarch and is a Muslim in this Buddhist-dominated nation, took power without a shot being fired. He will serve as acting prime minister, said army spokesman Col. Akara Chitroj. 
Thaksin, who was first elected in 2001, has faced calls to resign amid allega­tions of corruption and abuse of power, and the coup came on the eve of a major rally -the t1rst in months -that was sched­uled for Bangkok by a coali­tion of his foes. 
"'Thn armed forces rom­mander and the national police commander have succnssfullv taken over Bangkok and the surround­ing area in order to main­tain peace and order. There has been no struggle," the new leaders said in a state­ment on national television. "We ask for the cooperation of the public and ask your pardon for the inconven­ience." 
As soldiers and armored vehicles moved through drizzly Bangkok, the mili­tary declared a provisional authority loyal to King Bhumibol Adulyadej, calling itself the "Council of Administrative Reform." 
The council, it said, soon return power to a demo­cratic government but did not specify what reforms they would carry out. 
The military ordered all troops to report to their duty stations. There was no sign of resistance to the coup in the hours after it was announced late Tuesday. said Chitchai and Defense 


The coup leaders also said Minister Thammarak schools, banks and the stock Isaragura na Ayuthaya ­market will be closed two Thaksin loyalists -had Wednesday. Civil servants, been arrested. including permanent secre­"The government is no taries of ministries, heads of longer administering the state agencies, and heads of country," universities in the Bangkok Akara said. metropolitan area were Thaksin was in New York ordered to report to the at the U.N. General council on Wednesday Assembly, and he declared a morning. state of emergency in an 
Akara said Deputy Prime audio statement via a gov­Minister Chitchai ernment-owned TV station Wannasathit had been in Bangkok in a vain removed from his post. attempt to stave off the 
An army general, speak­coup. ing on condition of Thaksin, who had been anonymity because of the scheduled to ·address the sensitivity of the situation, General Assembly, canceled his speech. 
Government spokesman Surapong Suebwonglee, who was with Thaksin in New York, said the coup leaders "cannot succeed" and was confident they would fail "because democ­racy in Thailand has devel­
oped to some ... measure of maturity." 
At least 14 tanks sur­rounded Government House, Thaksin's office. A convoy of four tanks rigged with loudspeakers and sirens rolled through a busy commercial district of Bangkok, warning people to get off the street for their own safety. 

Bush refutes extremists' charges 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS -President Bush sought to blunt anti-Americanism across the Middle East Tuesday, asserting that extremists are trying to justify their violence by falsely claim­ing the U.S. is waging war on Islam. He singled out Iran and Syria as spon­sors of terrorism. 
Bush, in an address to world leaders at the U.N. General Assembly, tried to advance his campaign for democracy in the Middle East against a backdrop of turmoil in Iraq, Afghanistan and other nations that have embraced the very changes he seeks for the region. 
Solidly aligned with Israel, the United States is viewed with anger and suspicion by Muslims across the Middle East. 
Addressing that hostility, Bush said, "My country desires peace. Extremists in your midst spread propaganda claiming that the West is engaged in a war against Islam. This propaganda is false and its purpose is to confuse you and justify acts of terror. We respect Islam." 
Bush's address was the latest in a series of speeches on the war on ter­ror, linked to last week's fifth anniver­sary of the Sept. 11 attacks and aimed at setting the tone for the fmal weeks of U.S. elections that will determine control of Congress. 
Bush said past stability in the Middle East has been achieved at the expense of freedom, and he disputed critics who claim his push for democracy has destabilized the region. 
"The reality is that the stability we thought we saw in the Middle East was a mirage," Bush told the more than 80 prime ministers and presi­dents assembled in the cavernous hall of the U:N. headquarters. 
"For decades, millions of men and women in the region have been trapped in oppression and hopeless­ness. And these conditions left a gen­eration disillusioned and made this region a breeding ground for extrem­ism." 
While praising Bush's freedom refrain, Madeleine Albright, secretary of state under President Clinton, said in an interview that the U.S.-led war in Iraq, not democratic reform, has destabilized the Middle East. · 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 

Pell 

continued from page 1 
of students holding Pell Grants as an indicator, he ranked the most class-exclusive universi­ties of the 696 private four­year institutions in the United States. 
Notre Dame was the 19th most exclusive. 
"For a Catholic school, I thought that was appalling," said Mortenson, mentioning the Catholic mission of reach­ing out to all members of the community. 
But according to Russo and Assistant Provost for Admissions Dan Saracino, a study that only measures the number of Pell Grant recipi­ents a University enrolls is "very simplistic." 
"It disappoints me that a ranking would be done in this manner," Saracino said. 
Rather, Notre Dame meas­ures its socioeconomic diversi­ty in the number of students who are on financial aid (80 percent) and the number of students who graduate holding Pell Grants, Saracino said. 
Because, as Saracino pointed out, enrolling students is one thing -retaining them is another. Notre Dame's overall retention rate of 95 percent places the University in the top three of all institutes of higher learning. 
"To admit [underprivileged students], but not help them persist, is itself access denied," Saracino said. "It's easy to use the federal government to give the student a Pell Grant, then wash your hands of any moral responsibility to help them graduate." 
The ranking also doesn't take into account the commit­ment the institution is making out of its own pocket, Saracino said -like the estimated $68 million Notre Dame awarded this year in University scholar­ship assistance. 
Notre Dame evaluates appli­cants on a need-blind basis ­meaning ability to pay does not factor into acceptance. While this is a "longstanding tradi­tion the University is very proud of," Russo said, he did mention that the Office of Financial Aid does not create such policies -that job belongs to the Board of Trustees. 
Once Notre Dame accepts a student, it piedges to meet the full, demonstrated financial aid, Russo said. The University is one of less than a dozen col­leges that do that. 
"We can look a student in the eye ... and say, your ability to pay will play no role at all in your admission," Saracino said. "If you deserve to be admitted, we will admit you. And then, we will meet your full need. 
"Those two things together are very powerful as we reach out to students who could not afford it." 
But Notre Dame's incoming classes, Mortenson insisted, are "absolutely unrepresenta­tive of the population of the U.S." Mortenson's answer for increasing socioeconomic diversity at the University was quite simply the opposite of Notre Dame's policies. 
"How about being need-sen­sitive?" he asked. "Go seek out the poorer, underprivileged students." 
Need-sensitive admission is "nothing Notre Dame would be proud to espouse or adopt," Saracino said. Such policies at other universities have created bad situations, where the insti­tution ends up refusing a stu­dent who cannot afford tuition because the institution has maxed out its yearly funds, he said. 
Notre Dame does seek out and encourage underprivi­leged students to apply, though. University representa­tives have targeted high schools with a high number of ethnic minorities -"and/or students on the free lunch pro­gram," Saracino said. The Notre Dame Club of Chicago has also initiated a program to match an alumnus to each of a group of Chicago public high schools to "adopt that school and reach out to those stu­dents," he said. 
"We are try­ing to increase 
ethnic· diversity "Ifyou deserve to be afford that," as well as those admitted, we will Saracino said. 
students who Saracino
admit you. And then,

would be, obvi­and Russo ously, first-gen­we will meet your full also felt it was eration college need." more impor­attendees tant to evalu­and the likeli­ate an institu­
Dan Saracino

hood, too would tion's overall be that they assistant provost commitment would be Admissions to the commu­a commitment to public serv­ice," he said, and Saracino noted the academic profile of a legacy student is "virtually the same" as the overall student. 
Nor can the benevolence of alumni be ignored. 
Notre Dame's endowment, including alumni donations ­along with other monetary sources like bookstore reven).le and the funds from the football TV contract with NBC -is what subsidizes tuition to make it affordable for the average student, on top of pro­viding financial aid, Saracino said. 
"You do need the generosity of alumni and benefactors to help keep costs down, and pro­vide financial aid for those that can't 

extremely poor," he said. 
And the need-blind policy, he said, still leaves the Admission Office's eyes open to certain factors. 
"If we see [on applications] students coming from the Chicago PubHc School system, we ... we don't know for cer­tain, but we can assume stu­dents from those schools will be poorer than students from a suburb like Oak Park or Evanston," he said. 
Notre Dame isn't blind to its legacy students, though -a policy Mortenson took issue with. 
"You have to try hard to avoid poor people, to have so few Pell Grant recipients on campus," he said. "Whereas, what is [the average percent­age of legacies], 25 percent? I think Notre Dame's an odd school." 
In fact, children of alumni make up 24 percent of the class of 2010, the highest per­centage of any university in the nation. But, Russo said, Notre Dame is "proud of such a commitment" to the children of alumni. 
"They bring academic cre­dentials, a strong desire to be at Notre Dame, Catholicity and nity. 
Notre Dame has a "culture of service," Saracino said. More than 90 percent of incoming freshmen were involved in community service during high school, he said; more than 80 percent of Notre Dame students are involved in it during their four years; and 15 percent of Notre Dame graduates go immedi­ately into public service after graduation (five percent of those being ROTC students). 
"There is no reason to apolo­gize for what's going on at Notre Dame," he said. 
When asked if the University would like to place more high­ly in the aforementioned rank­ing of Pell Grant-holding stu­dents, Russo didn't hesitate. 
"Of course. Are we commit­ted to diversity? Yes. The high­est level of diversity," he said. "But can we be better? Of course. We're trying." 
That, Mortenson said, will require the University to take action. 
"If Notre Dame retains its current admissions policies," he said, "its ranking won't change." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

Council 
continued from page 1 
an ad hoc committee to discuss this issue in 1995. This committee of administrators, faculty, staff and students suggested the cre­ation of a standing committee to advise the vice president for Student Affairs. 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs expanded on the ad hoc commit­tee starting in the 1996-97 school year, and in 1997, the Officers of the University issued a statement describing Notre Dame's commit­ment to promoting a "spirit of inClusion." This statement said the University welcomes and val­ues gay and lesbian students and condemns harassment of these students. 
Last spring, the committee was 
restructured to "When they are actually ally confronted expand its stu­with a gay or
confronted with a gay
dent element. lesbian stu­
or lesbian student, most
While the new dent, most stu­council remains students are quite dents are quite 
an advisory accepting. " accepting." 
board to Vice The core President for COWlCil is cur­
Andy Magee 
Student Affairs rently giving Father Mark co-chair CommUnity Poorman, it has Core Council presentations 
icantly lower number of homosex­ual students compared to other schools. 
"I think people do not feel as comfortable being open in this environment, because there are not as many signals that it's okay to be open," Lafferty said. 
The Princeton Review consis­tently lists Notre Dame high on its "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" ranking. This year, Notre Dame was number one. 
Magee said while many stu­dents are surprised to find there is a gay and lesbian population within the student body, he dis­agrees with the Princeton Review's assessment of the Notre Dame community's attitude toward homosexual students. 
"I find that the student body here is quite receptive in general to Lgay, lesbian, bisexual, and transsexual] students," Magee said. "When they are actu­

increased its stu­dent representa­tion, making eight members of the 12-person council students, with one of these students hetero­sexual. 
"[Having a heterosexual student on the council] broadens our per­spective on dialoguing more on how we can advance this whole 'spirit of inclusion' at Notre Dame," said Sister Susan Dunn, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. Dunn is co-chair of the council. 
Father Richard Warner, the director of Campus Ministry, Maureen Lafferty, a psychologist at the University Counseling Center and Heather Rakoczy, the director of the Gender Relations Center, also sit on the council. 
Lafl'erty said college is generally a challenging time for students who are gay, lesbian or bisexual or. who are confused abut their sexuality. 
"There may be particular chal­lenges when you are in a reli­giously-based institution," Lafferty said. 
She said though the gay and lesbian population at Notre Dame is not highly visible, she does not believe the University has a signif­
to freshmen. 
These sessions discuss what the Council's Web site called a "creative tension"­Notre Dame's dual views that each person is a child of God but also that the teachings of the Catholic church on sexuality and homosexual activity must be fol­lowed. 
The council has also continued with the standing committee's NETWORK initiative to teach members of the Notre Dame com­munity how to encourage dia­logue about gay and lesbian issues and how to create a safe environment, Magee said. They completed NETWORK training with the new resident assistants before classes started this fall. 
The council plans to continue events the standing committee held last year, Magee said. One Tuesday a month, the council hosts a reception for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning stu­dents, Dunn said. Solidarity Sunday, a retreat, and an event to celebrate National Coming Out Day in October are all in the plan­ning stage, Magee said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
~-------------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
Dow 
11,540.91 -14.09
jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,419 154 1,826 2,404,658,020 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+-0.65 -0.26 39.85 
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.17 -0.23 19.42 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 0.00 0.00 5.12 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.26 +0.07 26.86 
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) -1.38 -0.03 2.15 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -1.52 -0.073-4.737 
13-WEEK BILL +0.31 +0.015 4.820 
30-YEAR BOND -1.38 -0.068 4.859 
5-YEARNOTE -1.70 -0.081 4.692 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.14 61.66 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -9.60 583.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.60 89.20 
Excha Rates 
YEN 117.335 ( 
EURO 0.788! 
POUND 0.531 ( 
CANADIAN$ 
1.126! 

IN BRIEF 
New home construction falls sharply 
WASHINGTON -Housing construction plunged in August, falling to the lowest level in more than three years as the once-booming industry showed further signs of a dramatic slow­down. 
The Commerce Department reported Tuesday that construction of new homes and apartments fell by 6 percent, the third consecutive decline and a much bigger setback than analysts had been forecasting. 
The weakness pushed the annual rate for con­struction down to 1.665 million units, the slowest pace since April 2003. 
Meanwhile, wholesale prices edged up a mod­est 0.1 percent in August, and outside of energy and food, prices actually fell for a second straight month. That hadn't occurred in more than three years, the Labor Department said. 
Analysts said the slowdown in inflation should reassure the Federal Reserve that it can continue to keep interest rates on hold. Fed policymakers meet on Wednesday for their first discussions since they voted in August to leave rates unchanged after 17 consecutive rate hikes. 
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial aver­age fell 14.09 points to close at 11,540.91 after investors grew concerned about the economic fallout from a military coup in Thailand. 
Gore urges action on climate change 
NEW YORK -Former Vice President AI Gore stepped up his call for immediate action to halt global warming, urging politicians on both sides of the aisle to "have the courage to do bet­ter." 


"Each passing day brings yet more evidence that we are now facing a planetary emergency, a climate crisis that demands immediate atten­tion," Gore said Monday. 
In an hour-long speech at New York University Law School, Gore, who narrowly lost the 2000 presidential race to George W. Bush, framed the pursuit of renewable energy as an economic and national security issue as well as an environmental imperative. 
"When we make big mistakes in America, it is usually because the people have not been given an honest accounting of the choices before us," Gore said. "It also is often because too many members of both parties who knew better did not have the courage to do better." 
THE 0HSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks drop with Thailand coup 
Baht falls in value; incident reminiscent of Asian currency crisis in 1997 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Stocks dropped suddenly Tuesday after Thailand's military launched a coup against the country's prime minister. While the major indexes recovered most of their losses in late afternoon. all closed lower. Tech stocks smarted from Yahoo Inc.'s news that slower ad sales would depress its third-quarter results. 
Traders watehing Thailand closely are certain to remem­ber how trouble in the king­dom had worldwide implica­tions in the past: The Asia currency crisis that erupted in 1997 began with the devaluation of the Thai baht, then snowballed into a cur­rency crisis in emerging mar­kets around the world. 
The baht fell sharply Tuesday, as did Brazil's real, whieh also tumbled in the '97 crisis. 
Thailand, usually one of Southeast Asia's most stable countries, has been in a state of politieal flux this year after massive rallies forced Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra to dissolve Parliament. Thaksin, who was in New York attending the United Nations General Assembly, has faced calls to step down amid allegations of corrup­tion and abuse of power. 

The news hit the market on a day stocks had been drift­Standard & Poor's 500 index $2.14, in trading on the New Wednesday. ing lower following a sharp dropped 2.87, or 0.22, to York Mercantile Exchange. Investors would have drop in the pace of U.S. hous­1,318.31, and the Nasdaq Stocks dropped due to a embraced those dipping ing starts in August. Housing composite index fell13.38, or confluence of events, said inflation numbers a few starts fell 6 percent, twice as 0.60 percent, to 2,222.37. Chris Johnson, manager of months ago. But now the fear fast as expected. New hous­The index was hurt by a 11 quantitative analysis at is that the eeonomy is tread­ing construction notehed its percent drop in Yahoo Inc. Schaeffer's Investment ing on the edge of a recession fifth decline in six months, and what investors call "the Research in Cineinnati. "It's and eould be pushed over by hitting its lowest point in flight to quality," a tendency just an opportune time for either something long brew­more than three years. to sell riskier tech stocks the market to kind of sell off," ing, like the housing slow­
Stoeks are coming off a heavily during political crises. he said. down, or something sudden, strong summer rally, poised Bonds, considered a rela­The day's housing data like a hedge fund meltdown near old record highs. "Now tive safe haven, surged as overshadowed the Labor or another currency crisis. we're at the top of the moun-· stocks fell, with the yield on Department's report that News that hedge fund tain saying, 'Ew. Is this as the 10-year Treasury note at core inflation, which excludes Amaranth Advisors lost $5 nice an environment as we 4.73 percent, down sharply food and energy, fell for the billion last week on natural thought?',"said Jon Brorson, from 4.81 percent Monday. second straight month. Both gas trades, halving its assets head of growth equities at The U.S. dollar dropped the housing and the inflation under management from $9 Neuberger Berman in against most other major data reaffirm the consensus billion to $4.5 billion, sobered Chicago. eurrencies. Gold prices fell. on Wall Street that the traders, some of whom have 
The Dow Jones industrial Crude oil futures plummet­Federal Reserve will not been watching the large ­average fell 14.09, or 0.12 ed after OPEC played down raise the nation's benchmark and largely unregulated ­percent, to 11,540.91. the likelihood of a production short-term interest rate hedge fund business for an 
Broader stock indicators eut. A barrel of light crude above its current level of 5.25 implosion that could have were also lower. The settled at $61.66, down percent when it meets market-wide repereussions. 

Government wants records saved 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Attorney General Alberto Gonzales said Tuesday that Congress should require Internet providers to pre­serve customer records, asserting that prosecutors need them to fight child pornography. 
Gonzales and FBI Director Robert Mueller have met with several Internet providers, including Time Warner Inc.'s AOL, Comcast Corp., Coogle Inc., Microsoft Corp. and Verizon Communications Inc. 
The law enforcement officials have indicated to the companies they must retain customer records, possibly for two years. The compa­nies have discussed strengthening their retention periods -which currently run the gamut from a few days to about a year -to help avoid legislation. 

During those meetings, which took place earlier this summer, Justice Department officials assert­ed that customer records would help them investigate child pornog­raphy cases. But the FBI also said during the meetings that such records would help their terrorism investigations, said one person who attended the meetings but spoke on eondition of anonymity because the meetings were intended to be pri­vate. 
Testifying to a Senate panel, Gonzales acknowledged the con­cerns of some company executives 
who say legislation might be overly intrusive and encroach on cus­tomers' privacy rights. But he said the growing threat of child pornog­
raphy  over  the Internet was  too  
great.  
"This is  a  problem that requires  

federal legislation," Gonzales told the Senate Banking Committee. "We need information. Information helps us makes cases." 
He called the government's lack of access to customer data the biggest obstacle to deterring child porn. 
"We have to find a way for Internet service providers to retain information for a period of time so we can go back with a legal process to get them," he said. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
IRAQ 

Shiites ambush U.S. army with children 
AP 

Iraqi children sit at the edge of Sadr City in Baghdad after throwing rocks at U.S. soldiers Monday. 

Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Shiite militias are encouraging children ­some as young as 6 or 7 -to hurl stones and gasoline bombs at U.S. convoys, hoping to lure American troops into ambushes or provoke them into shooting back, U.S. soldiers say. 
Gangs of up to 100 children assemble in Sadr City. strong­hold of radical anti-American cleric Muqtada al-Sadr and his Mahdi Army militia, and in nearby neighborhoods, U.S. offi­cers said in interviews this week. 
American soldiers have seen young men, their faces covered by bandanas, talking with the children before the rock-throw­ing attacks begin -and some­times handing out slingshots so the volleys will be more accu­rate, the troops said. 
"It's like a militia operation. They'll mass rocks on the last or second-to-last vehicle" in a U.S. patrol, said Capt. Chris L'Heureux, 30, of Woonsocket, 
R.I. "There's no doubt in my mind that they're utilizing these kids in a deliberate, thought-out way." 
AI-Sadr's followers insist they are not organizing attacks by 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Saturday. 

Conyers, too, sold "very high quality" tickets. The only differ­ence between the recovered counterfeit tickets and authentic tickets was "a lack of details in the Notre Dame hologram," according to the affidavit. 
Neither Conyers, Friday nor Lang admitted to selling counter­feit tickets, though Lang said he knew "something might be wrong" with the tickets he was selling. 
All three men have been con-children. 
"Such behavior by Iraqi chil­dren is spontaneous and the natural reaction from innocent children who are witnessing horrible deeds committed by the occupation forces in Iraq," Ali al-Yassiri, an aide to al-Sadr, told The Associated Press. 
Militants have used children before. Marines in the volatile city of Ramadi say Sunni Arab insurgents often send children to check out U.S. defenses or warn of approaching patrols. And Israeli troops have long faced stone-throwing Palestinian kids. 
But the increased use of chil­dren in the high-profile Baghdad battle poses a new challenge to American troops seeking to curb Iraqi militias. The tactic also shows the lengths to which militants will go in confronting U.S. troops in a high-stakes fight for control of the capital. 
The incidents have seemed to increase since U.S. soldiers moved their security crackdown into Shiite neighborhoods sur­rounding eastern Baghdad's Sadr City. The U.S. crackdown in the capital is aimed at curbing the power of the Mahdi Army and other sectarian militias. 
nected to recent counterfeiting schemes around the country. Conyers was convicted in two separate cases of forgeries involv­ing Madison Square Garden in New York, and the National Football League is currently investigating both him and Lang for forged tickets. Also. Friday told police that he traveled with two men who were under investi­gation by the NFL. However, the affidavit did not specify if Friday's travel companions were Lang and Conyers. 
The three men are each being held on a $5,000 cash bond. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Senator acknowledges Jewish roots 
George Allen questioned in debate abouts his family's heritage 
Associated Press My religion? Jim's religion ... " 
he said as applause drowned 
RICHMOND, Va. -A day out his remarks. after being asked in a debate "My mother is French-Italian about his immigrant mother's with a little Spanish blood in heritage, Sen. George Allen her," Allen told the panelist, fired back in a written state­but did not mention any Jewish ment Tuesday confirming his heritage. Jewish ancestry. On Tuesday, Allen said his 
Allen, a Republican seeking mother, Henriette "Etty" Allen, re-election in a close race, grew up in the Christian faith. denounced the reporter's ques­She is a French-speaking tion as "repre-native of hensible" and Tunisia. irrelevant and Allen and said he only his siblings 
recently learned "/ embrace and take also were 
that his mater­raised as
great pride in every
nal grandfather Christians. was Jewish. aspect ofmy diverse He said he 
"Whenever we heritage.'' became would ask my aware only mother through recently
George Allen 
the years about that his 
our family back­Virginia senator grandfa­ground on her ther, Felix side, the answer Lumbroso, always was, who had 'Who cares b e e n about that?"' Allen wrote in the imprisoned by the Nazis, was statement. Jewish. 
During a debate Monday with "I embrace and take great Democrat Jim Webb, Allen was pride in every aspect of my indignant when a panelist diverse heritage, including the asked him whether his fore­Lumbroso family line's Jewish bears included Jews. An audi­heritage, which I learned of ence of about 600 business from a recent magazine article executives booed and hissed at and my mother confirmed," the question from Peggy Fox of Allen said in the statement. WUSA-TV in Washington, D.C. Allen campaign manager 
"To be getting into what reli­Dick Wadhams would not spec­gion my mother is. I don't think ify when Allen's mother told it's relevant," Allen tersely him about her ancestry. As a replied to Fox. "So I'd like to child, Allen knew Lumbroso, ask you, why is that relevant? who is now deceased, Wadhams said. 
Allen accused Webb's cam­paign of peddling the notion that he is embarrassed by his heritage, a claim Webb spokes­woman Kristian Denny Todd rejected as "completely, totally false." 
Fox defended her questions. She said she wanted to deter­mine if there was a political reason Allen was not forthcom­ing about a Jewish ancestor. "I don't know why it would be so upsetting to him," she said in a telephone interview Tuesday. "I was shocked at how he took offense to the question." 
Fox had also asked Allen whether he had learned the word "Macaca" from his moth­er. Allen had applied the word to a Webb campaign volunteer of Indian descent during an Aug. 11 rally before a mostly white crowd. In some cultures, including Tunisia, the word is considered a racial slur. 
Allen glared at Fox for a moment, then said, "I hope you're not trying to bring my mother into this matter." 
References to the nationality of Allen's mother prompted the first report of his Jewish ances­try on Aug. 25 in The Forward, a Jewish daily newspaper, said its editor, Ami Eden. 
"There was some talk at that time that perhaps he picked this up from his mother, and it was an easy way to get to the story behind the headlines," Eden said in a telephone inter­view from New York. 

Virulent E. coli may be in spinach 
High frequency ofserious illness could indicate more potent strain 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Federal health officials are investi­gating whether a more potent strain of E. coli is behind an outbreak linked to fresh spinach that has sick­ened at least 131 people, half of whom have been hos­pitalized. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday that fully 50 per­cent of those reported sick in the outbreak were hospi­talized. That's more than the 25 percent to 30 percent seen in other E. coli out­breaks, said Dr. David Acheson of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. 
"We're running higher than that," Acheson told 

reporters in a conference call. "One possibility is this is a virulent strain." 
Also unexpected was the 15 percent of food poisoning victims who developed a type of kidney failure called hemolytic-uremic syndrome. Five percent is more typical, Acheson said. 
He cautioned that the numbers could be skewed by underreporting of less severe cases of illness: "It's too early to say at this point," he added. 
Reports of illness contin­ued to trickle into the CDC -the tally was up from Monday's 114 sickened, though the death toll remained at one, a 77-year­old woman from Wisconsin. Officials said that the cases appeared to have occurred earlier but were only now being reported and that con­sumers were no longer being exposed to contami­nated spinach. No one appears to have fallen ill since Sept. 5, according to the CDC. 
Still, the FDA continued to warn people not to eat raw spinach. 
Natural Selection Foods LLC, a San Juan Bautista, Calif., company whose multi­ple brands many people reported eating before falling sick, has recalled spinach products distributed throughout the United States. The company also distributed spinach to Canada, Mexico and Taiwan. 
River Ranch Fresh Foods of Salinas, Calif., recalled spring salad mixes contain­ing spinach purchased from Natural Selection. 

BURRITOS 100% OFF' THAfS RIGHT, FREE. 
Visit our restaurant at Main & Douglas, and we'll give you a FREE BURRITO Thursday, September 21st, II AM -8 PM. 
BIG BURRITOS. 0 Ckipotle. 
MAIN & DOUGLAS 
r----------------~----------·------·---­
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
EVERY ENGINEERING MAJOR I INTERNSHIPS I FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Thursday, September 21 
Networking Reception Joyce Center, Monogram Room 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Thursday, September 21 
Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 5:30-9:00 p.m. 
Friday, September 22 
Flanner Hall and Other Selected Locations 
INDUSTRY DAY 
8:00a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Engineering Industry Day sponsored by 

IERCE 

SSOCIATES 
LOCKHEED 
MAR-·~ 
VEDDER PHICE 
Customer Sua:ess Is Our Mission 

PARTICIPATING COMPANIES 
Accenture Federal-Mogul Corporation SQA Labs Aggregate Industries Garmin International State of Indiana Alliance for Catholic Education General Electric Stepan Company American Consulting, Inc. Gilbane Building Company Stryker Instruments Anning Johnson Co. Hewlett-Packard Teach for America ARCO/Murray National Construction Company, Inc. Hoist Liftruck Mfg., Inc. Technology Services Group Bank of America IBB Consulting Group, LLC The Walsh Group Belean Advanced Engineering & Technology ITT The Whiting-Turner Contracting Co. Biomet Kiewit Western Co. Traylor Bros., Inc. Boeing Company Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. Turner Construction Company Boland Lutron Electronics United States Steel Corporation BP Manhard Consulting University of Saint Thomas CapitaiiQ Marine Officer Programs · University ofTennessee Space Institute Capital One Microsoft Corporation US Patent and Trademark Office Carrier Corporation Modine Manufacturing Company Westinghouse Electric Company Central Intelligence Agency NAVSEA Warfare Centers WilsonMiller, Inc. Citigroup NEMCOMED, Inc. Woodward Clarity Consulting Northrop Grumman Xerox Clark Construction Group Parsons Zimmer, Inc. Clark, Richardson and Biskup Consulting Engineers, Inc. PPG Industries Cowhey Gudmundson Leder, Ltd. Praxair,lnc. Companies listed in bold Deloitte PricewaterhouseCoopers will be interviewing Friday. Delphi Corporation Progressive Insurance Eli Lilly and Company Rolls-Royce Corporation Epic Systems Corporation R.W. Armstrong ExxonMobil Sentry Insurance Federal Bureau of Investigation SPX Corporation 
ORGANIZED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL,THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
Form.er concentration cam.p guard deported 
Woman stood watch while thousands died 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -An 83­year-old woman who admitted she had served as a guard at a concentration camp during World War II was deported to Germany, federal officials said Tuesday. 
Prosecutors would not say how they learned about Elfriede Rinkel. but a depart­ment spokeswoman said inves­tigators routinely compare guard rosters and other Nazi documents to U.S. immigration records. 
Rinke! admitted in court doc­uments that she worked as a prison guard at the Ravensbrueck camp near Furstenberg from June 1944 until the camp was abandoned by the Nazi government in April 1945. According to the 
U.S. Department of Justice, she worked with an SS-trained attack dog but was not a mem­ber of the Nazi party. 
"Concentration camp guards such as Elfriede Rinke! playPd a vital role in the Nazi regime's horrific mistreatment of inno­cent victims," said Alice Fisher, a Justice Department lawyer. "This case retlects the govern­ment's unwavering commit­ment to remove Nazi persecu­tors from this country." 
As part of her June agree­ment with prosecutors, Hinkel gave up her green card, moved to Germany and agreed never to return to the U.S., according to the court documents. The government agreed to not release information about Hinkel's case, which began in April, until after her depar­ture. She left this month. 
A call to her lawyer Tuesday wasn't immediately returned. 
Hinkel's husband, a German Jew whom she married after coming to the U.S., died in 2004. Her brother and sister­in-law, when reached at their Northern California home, said they were unaware of Hinkel's past and believed her husband had been, too. The couple asked not to be identified by name because they feared a backlash from friends and family. 
More than 130,000 women passed through Havensbrueck's gates between 1939 and 1945; an estimated 
40.000 survived, according to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. 
OPENCOURSEWARE WEBSITE LAUNCH 
WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 20TH 
HESBURGH CENTER AUDITORIUM 
PLEASE VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR SCHEDULE OF EVENTS http://kaneb.nd.edu Information: (57 4) 631-9146 *Snite Museum Tour at 10am 
r;:;i;]UNlVERSlTY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
HEWLETT 
FOUNDATION
Kaneh Center &.>r Tcadung and 14'llrnin!l 

AUSTRALIA 

'Croc hunter' memorialized 
Thousands gather at Australian Zoo for service, more watch on TV 
Associated Press 
BEEHWAH -"Crocodile Hunter" Steve Irwin was rmnembernd Wednesday for his "great zest for life" at a public memorial service for tlu1 bnloved conservationist and entertainer. 
"We have lost a friend, a champion," actor Russell Crowe said in a recorded tribute. "It will take some time to adjust to that." 
Prime Ministnr John lloward, among the 5,000 in attm1dance at the Australia Zoo li1r the cere­mony, rmnembered Irwin lor his love of Australia. 
"Steve Irwin touched the hearts of Australians and touched the hearts of millions around thn world in a very spe­cial way," said Howard. "lie did that becausP he had that quality of being genuine, of belng authentic, of being unconditional and having a great zest for life. 
"Throughout his all-too-short life he demonstrated a love for thn two things that ought to mat­tfw more to all of us than any­thing nlse-his love of his fami­ly and his love of his country." 
ThPrn was one empty seat. at Irwin's personal stadium -the one set aside for the late and hugely popular "Crocodile Hunter" himself. On the stage sat Irwin's widow. American­born Terri, and their two chil­dnm, Bindi 8, and Bob, 2 -all dressed in Irwin's favored khaki outfit. It was their first public appearance sinee Irwin's death. 
A exuberant television enter­tainer and conservationist, Irwin, 44, died Sept. 4 when the barb from a stingray pierced hi<> chest while he was filming for a TV show on the Great Barrier Reef. !lis family held a private funeral service for him on Snpt. 9 at Australia Zoo. 


Flags on the Sydney Harbor Bridge flew Wndnesday at half­stall', and giant tPlnvision scrmms were set up in Irwin's honH1 statn of Queensland for people to wat.eh the service. Three of Australia's main tPlevision net­works carried the hour-long cer­emony, which was to be made available to U.S. and internation­al networks and which family ollieials said eould be watched by as many as 300 million peo­ple. 
Crowds began lining up Tuesday night for the start of the memorial service. Later, under sunny skies just before the start of the ceremony, dozens of tele­vision satellite transmission trucks parked outsidP the zoo, a flora and fauna park that has bnen owned by the Irwin family sinee 1970. 
I lis doath set ofl' an unprece­dnntnd outpouring of grief. Tens of thousands traveled to the zoo near Brisbane to drop oil" flow­ers and othnr mmnentoes. manv of them signing Irwin-stylPd khaki shirts instead of a eondo­lence book. 
Since Irwin's death, his con­servation charity Wildlife Warriors has seen a surge in donations and its Web site has received millions of hits. 
John Williamson, one of Irwin's favorite Australian coun­try singers, sang his trade­marked 'True Blue" song that Irwin loved. 

Information Meeting 
Perth, Australia 

Thursday, Sept. 21,2006 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 5:30pm-7:00pm 
*For: ALPP, College of Science & College of Engineering Students. 
Application deadline: November 15, 2006 Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Voting law ruled unconstitutional 
Photo ID not required to cast ballot, judge says 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA-A judge Tuesday struck down as unconstitutional the latest version of a new Georgia law requiring voters to show photo ID. 
State Superior Court Judge T. Jackson Bedford Jr. ruled that the photo ID requirement 
deprives other­"Judge Bedford wise qualified 
obviously understood 
voters of the right to cast a that at the end of the 
ballot and adds a day, you don •t play 
new, unconstitu­
politics with the most
tional condition to voting. fundamental right ­
"Any attempt the right to vote. ,, by the Legislature to 
Jennifer Jordan
require more than what is co-counsel 
required by the express lan­guage of our Constitution can­not withstand judicial scrutiny," he wrote. 
The judge took issue with the burden placed on voters to prove their identity using photo ID. Even if voters are allowed to cast ballots without the required identification, they must return within 48 hours with photo IDs or their vote is forfeited. 
Bedford noted that a photo ID is not required to register to vote in Georgia. 
The case is expected to go to the Georgia Supreme Court before the Nov. 7 general elec­tion. 
Russ Willard, a spokesman for the state attorney general's office, said it would appeal "as quickly as possible." 
Supporters of the photo ID law, including Republican Gov. Sonny Perdue, have said it is needed to protect against voter fraud. Opponents argue it dis­enfranchises poor, elderly and minority voters who are less likely to have a driver's license 
or other valid government­issued photo ID. 
Former Democratic Gov. Roy Barnes chal­lenged the law in the state case on a voter's behalf. Several civil rights groups filed a similar lawsuit in feder­al courL 
"Judge Bedford obvious­ly understood 
that at the end of the day, you don't play politics with the most fundamental right -the right to vote,'' said Jennifer Jordan, co-counsel with Barnes on the case. "The right to vote is actu­ally the one thing that makes us all equal." 
The new law took effect July 1, but its enforcement was blocked by state and federal judges during the state's July primaries and August runoffs. 
Last October, federal Judge Harold Murphy struck down an earlier version of the law, say­ing it amounted to an unconsti­tutional poll tax. 
Mother of m_an charged in abduction arrested 
Woman helped son to hide, survive in woods 
Associated Press 
CAMDEN, S.C.-The mother of a man accused of abducting and assaulting a 14-year-old girl who eventually was able to send a text message for help was charged Tuesday with helping her son elude authorities and survive in underground bunkers, a sheriff said. 
The man, Vinson Filyaw, 36, was charged this weekend with kidnapping and raping a 14-year­old girl and holding her in an underground bunker. She was rescued Saturday. 
On Tuesday, Sheriff Steve McCaskill said Filyaw's mother, 55-year-old Ginger Nell Cobb, was arrested after police learned 
~ she was working with Filyaw's common-law wife to provide him food, water and other supplies. Filyaw's common-law wife, Cynthia Hall, was arrested last week. Police had been looking for Filyaw since November, when an arrest warrant was. issued in the sexual assault of a 12-year-old girl. But he used an elaborate system of bunkers in the woods near his home to elude authori­ties and survived on supplies he received from the two women, the sheriff said. Cobb would bring the items to Hall, who would then leave them 
for Filyaw to retrieve from an abandoned vehicle near his bunkers, McCaskill said. 
"He would come out of the woods and get it ... at night or whenever," the sheriff said. 
Cobb would not answer ques­tions as she left the sheriff's office Tuesday. She was being held in jail, and a bond hearing was scheduled for Wednesday. 
Filyaw was captured early Sunday and was being held at the county jail without bond. He also faces charges of possession of an incendiary device and imperson­ating an officer. 
Police say Filyaw, wearing a shirt with the image of a sheriff's badge on it, abducted the girl as she walked home from a school bus stop Sept. 6. The teen was found 10 days later in a booby­trapped, roughly 8-foot-deep hole carved out of the side of a hill. 
Authorities said the girl sent a text message to her mother on her captor's cell phone as he slept: "Hi mom," it read. ''I'm in a hole across from Charm Hill where the big trucks go in and out. There's a bomb. Call police." 
According to an incident report released Tuesday in the suspect­ed November assault on the 12­year-old girl, Filyaw woke the girl. who was sleeping in the same bed as her mother, and threatened to hurt the mother if she said anything. He then took the girl to another room and sex­ually assaulted her, the report said. 
Schools consider cell ban 
More than 50 percent ofteens carry phones, causing class interruptions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Alabama was lifting the cell phone ban for its public schools just as New York City was imple­menting a crackdown. 
Just about every school system in the nation is facing the same conundrum, with little consensus, about how to balance a modern reality against the need to maintain order in the classroom and the hallways. 
With more than half the nation's teens now carrying them, cell phones have become an appendage that 
. many refuse to leave at home, and which many par­ents want them to carry at all times for emergencies and general peace of mind. At the same time, teachers and school administrators complain of growing disrup­tions, from phones going off in class to improper use of text messaging and cell phone cameras. "Electronic bullying was starting to emerge. They were text messaging threats, sending intimidating mes­sages to each other," said Randy Clegg, superintendent for the Clinton Community School District, an Iowa com­munity about 30 miles from Dubuque and 190 from Chicago. "We're putting sophisticated stuff in the hands of teenagers and you deal with all the typical teenage stuff." In July, the district adopted a policy where its 4,500 stu­dents are allowed to carry a phone, but risk having it con­fiscated until the end of the day if they use it or it goes off during school. A second infraction requires a meeting with a parent. Since the start of the new term, about three or four phones have been confiscated, said Clegg, esti­mating that more than three quarters of his system's mid­dle and high school students -and a growing number in elementary school -now carry phones. Wireless companies view school-age children are a key source of growth in a market where the number of first­time users is fast dwindling. While many are signed on through family plans that only generate an additional $10 or $20 a month in base charges, kids often ring up extra fees for text messag­ing, ringtones and video games. At last count, nearly three­quarters of the nation's pop­ulation had cell phones. By contrast, 53 percent of Americans aged 12 to 17 have them, according to a recent survey by Simmons Research. That figure, which Simmons extrapolates to roughly 13.1 million teens, is up from 39 percent in late 2004 and 33 percent in 2002, suggesting the trend has begun to accelerate. "Part of the reality is that they're going to have it," said Clegg. He noted that he too found it comforting when his daughter, now in college, had a cell to call home from extracurricular activities, including long bus trips returning well after midnight from high school band com-


petitions. A few years ago, a surprise 
"I don't think it's appropri­search at Ramsay High ate in this day and age to do School in Birmingham meant an outright ban," he said. to uncover contraband also "What are you going to do, led to the confiscation of 235 check every kid who comes cell phones, said Rep. Oliver into school? That's not prac­Robinson, a state legislator tical." serving that city. 
But that's precisely what After parents complained, New York City has been Robinson introduced a bill doing with greater frequency that took three tries to pass since April, when officials before it became law in June. decided to more rigorously The new law leaves it to each enforce a 17-year-old ban on school system to set policy, 
portable  and most have  
electronics  moved  away  
as part of a stepped-up  "/ don •t think it•s  from an outright ban, he said.  
s w e e p against weapons in schools.  appropriate in this day and age to do an outright ban. What are  "I didn't want the administra­tors to be breaking the  
Now police units are setting up m e t a l  you going to do, check every kid who comes into school? That's not  law, because they were breaking the law by allowing  
detectors at different  practical. ,,  phones on cam­pus," said  
locations in the 1,400­ Randy Clegg  Robinson, adding that he  
school sys­ school superintendent  sympathizes  

tem each day, a move t h a t prompted a lawsuit by a group of parents. 
From late April through the end of summer school, nearly 5,350 cell phones were confiscated, or more than twice as many as during the entire school year before the random screening began, said Keith Kalb, a city spokesman. Each school is left to set its own policies for returning confiscated devices, he said. 
There are other big cities that are taking a similar zero-or low-tolerance approach: Detroit, for exam­ple, also bans the devices. 
Many school systems across the nation officially ban phones -often under no-gadget rules adopted in the 1980's to combat beeper­toting drug dealers -but don't enforce those policies rigidly. 
That type of disconnect prompted legislative action in Alabama, where a state law predating the cell boom had made possession of a phone in school punishable by suspension or expulsion. 
with parents 
who want chil­
dren to have phones. "When we were growing up, I could walk six miles home and never worry about anyone bothering me. We didn't know at that time there was such a thing as a sexual predator." 
Freed of Alabama's state ban, the Jefferson County Board of Education decided in August to allow phones so long as they remain stashed away. 
"I can certainly see after 9/11 why people would want to be able to communicate with their children," said Pam Weed, the board's direc­tor of student services for the 40,000-student system. 
Some educators take an entirely different approach, leaving it to students to police themselves. At Seattle's private Lakeside School, once attended by Microsoft Corp. founder Bill Gates, students are free to use their phones. 
"I try and remember to put it on vibrate before I go into class," said Nate Benjamin, a 17-year-old senior who's had a cell since he was 12. 

-~--~~~~~~--------------. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
The art of tailgating 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama GottumukkaJa AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxrader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
·FAX 

(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313. 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenl3 ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemenl3, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisementS based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gitloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tb: Ol:l$e;rve;r (USPS S99-2--4000} ~published Monday throu!;h Friday ~J.R during cqm and-vacation periods. A subs<;ription lQ The Ob5erv.er i,s $100 for om: ~ernie ye:~-r. $ss m~ <Jru~· scincstcr. 
The Obsrrver is published ac::-POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall &ndaddres~~~ (:()(t«'-~;ions-w: 
NQtre Dame. JN -465-56-0779 The Obs<rv« 
Periodial postage paid ar Notre Dante l'O. ilo•779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Damt, lN 46:5-56-0779 
The Observer is :a_ member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction righu are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler Kaitlynn Riely Fran Tolan 
Ryan Sydlik Chris Wilson . Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany 
Graphics Jeff Albert 

Surrounded by big screen TV's, La-Z­Boys and state of the art grills you would think I was walking through Sears. But I'm not. I am standing in the middle of the Joyce Center parking lot on a football Saturday. Custom painted vans and Coach buses line the aisles as well. What's not to love? Sitting down in an air condi­tioned bus with my best friends, listening to the Fight Song and enjoying some deli­cious fried chicken made fresh in Chicago this morning, I began to think I would love to host my very own tailgate with my family and friends. A Palmitier Family Tailgate, if you will. 
I continued to fantasize about the amazing tailgate soiree I could throw, but knowing in the back of my mind it would be next to impossible to obtain a game day parking pass, it was a pretty safe fantasy. Then I received THE phone call. My mom called me to say that the family indeed received a parking pass to tailgate for the Purdue game. I could hear the excitement in her voice when she told me I was to be in charge of get­ting everything ready, with great food and perfect presentation. From the beautiful state of South Dakota it is next to impossible to transport a grill, buffalo burgers, and rotisserie pheasant by plane, and so is toothpaste, shampoo and Evian, but that's another column. I've attended many a tailgate in my day, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Katie Palmitier 
A Word to the Wise 

but being a "first generation Domer" and new to the Notre Dame tailgating scene as of last year, I have never had the opportunity to host. Being in the hostess hot seat now, I do not even know where to start. Creating the per­fect Irish smorgasbord is a difficult task to undertake, and after what I experi­enced while tailgating these past two home game weekends, my fantasy began to turn into a nightmare. 
Not only did I see the big screen TVs, I also had the luxury of dining in an air­conditioned bus, complete with kitchen and toilet. I feasted on bakery fresh cookies, rotisserie hot chicken, and warm, homemade Polish sausage sand­wiches, fresh from the Chicago South Side. White tents tower over Escalades and hundreds of custom made tlags tly high overhead. Come next Saturday, none of the above will be featured at my tailgate. My family is not from Chicago and I will be doing my gourmet shop­ping at Meijer; I hope they are not out of Easy Cheese. I will be featuring a homemade Bags set, custom painted by yours truly, and perhaps a bumpin' Game Day mix blasting from the rent-a­car stereo. 
Friends are on my mind, too. Will they even come? With all the other options available that Saturday, what will lure them to mine? 
However, when it comes down to it, it is not the impressive food or the elabo­rate electronics that matter. Being sur­rounded by friends and family is what is important, together sharing in the Irish spirit and tradition. It is your true friends that will stand beside you regardless of what your tailgate fea­tures. I have also decided not to have envy towards those with cooler tailgates than my own. We are all just trying to have a good time, which is evident when walking up and down the aisles of the parking lot, hearing the sound of the band playing in the background, seeing ! good friends reuniting and listening to chants of "Snaggletooth" as an alum relives his glory days cracking open a beer with his own teeth. Tailgating is a time when memories are made and tra­ditions are continued, both of which are sure to be passed down to our "Little Domers" countless times in the future. 
Next Saturday I get to experience this with my own family and friends. We will start a new tradition, and I will be able to share what I love the most -football Saturdays at Notre Dame -with the ones I love the most. The football sea­son at Notre Dame is almost like the Christmas season, a time for family and friends to come together and share in tradition. Where on Christmas it is not the presents that matter, rather cele­brating the birth of Jesus, on football Saturdays it's not the tailgating ambi­ence that matters, it's coming together to support the Irish. 
So this next Saturday, if you do not already have an invitation to an extrav­agant tailgate featuring caviar and champagne, or awesome food from Chicago, feel free to stop by mine. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How will Notre Dame finish the football season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Iffifty million people say a foolish thing, it is still a foolish thing." 
Anatole France novelist 


---------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 page 13 
Serve in post-Katrina New Orleans 
Almost 13 months after Hurricane Katrina, New Orleans is still drowning. But if you don't know this already, I'm going to have a hard time convincing you in an editorial piece. I can't pick you up and put you in the middle of the Ninth Ward, so you can see the damage in an inescapable 360­degree panorama. I can't person­ally introduce you to residents liv­ing with their six grandkids in a small; cramped trailer on a never­ending camping trip in an empty, toxic neighborhood. I can't show you the effect on the soul of spray­painted body counts on every sin­gle house, or tell you what it smells like when a hundred thou­sand houses are inundated with toxic black mold. and the garbage piles up on the streets with no one to collect it. 
I can tell you that it takes over 24 hours to see a doctor at any ER in New Orleans, but until you know people with no health insurance and how you'll have to beg the doctors to give them decent treat­ment, you'll have no idea what the medical crisis means. I can tell you about the suicides and the drug wars and the National Guard occu­pation, but you won't know what it means to live there -to see that in your home, your city. 
Luckily, there's a solution to all this. Come and see it for yourself. 
Come, and help struggling fami­lies gut their houses so they can start to get back on their feet. Come, and stand in solidarity with residents, because no one else is on their side. Come, and bear wit­ness to one of the greatest tragedies of our generation, meet some of the most resilient people in the world, and do your part to end their suffering. 
The CSC's Gulf Coast Student Task Force is putting together a trip, from Oct. 14-20. One week isn't a lot of time, but the more people that make the trip, the more work that can be accom­plished. 
If you need further reason to go, I ask you to think about this. Imagine if your city, Chicago or Dallas or New York, wherever you're from -imagine everyone leaving, and not knowing who was coming back. Imagine your entire life -your elementary school, the corner where you used to get ice cream with your friends, the movie theatre where you had your first kiss, your entire life's memory map -all under 15 feet of the most toxic sludge you can conjure in your mind. 
These people lost everything, and it's our duty, our obligation as members of the human race, to do everything we can for them. Because I know if it was my city, and my family and my history, I would want as much help as possi­ble. We owe it to New Orleans. We owe it to ourselves as Americans. 
If you are interested, and I hope you are, please contact me at ade­jong@nd.edu or Caity Schneeman at cschneem@nd.edu as soon as possible. 
Alii DeJong semor offcampus Sept. 18 

Population question deserves 
greater attention 
The three critical responses printed Sept. 18 to Liz Coffey's properly concerned col­umn on population growth are all short on facts and long on wishful thinking. They show how urgently we at Notre Dame need to educate ourselves on this issue, arguably the most important one facing the current generation of college students. 
Global population now increases at the rate of a little over 200,000 a day, or about 8, 700 each hour. That's over a million new humans on earth every five days, or, to take a familiar image, think of filling Notre Dame Stadium every nine hours with newcomers. 
The first thing to grasp about these trends is that they are unprecedented. Pointing out that Malthus was wrong in predicting immi­nent food shortages at the end of the 18th century, when the population was less than one billion, is irrelevant to today's ecological and social condition, when the population is approximately 6.5 billion. Conservative esti­mates project a population of about 9 billion by 2050. That's an increase of 2.5 billion over the next four or five decades. To put this number in historical context, it took homo sapiens until 1950 to reach a total population of 2.5 billion. 
The point is that the earth has seen noth­
oint. 
.edu 

ing like our recent population growth throughout the history of humankind. Of course, the earth does not "see." We, who must be its eyes, need to use our best sci­ence (and here that means ecology, not eco­nomics), our circumspection, our moral imagination, and our humility to understand our place and our responsibilities. Two of the respondents to Coffey acknowledge that resources may be finite while insisting that human resourcefulness is infinite. But noth­ing human is infmite. Ethical coherence begins in the recognition of limits. 
The biologist E. 0. Wilson wrote recently that "the time has come for economists and business leaders, who so haughtily pride themselves as masters of the real world, to acknowledge the existence of the real real world." It seems just as clear that at Notre Dame the time has come for faculty and stu­dents to put our minds-and our curricu­lum -to work Dn understanding the responsibilities of stewardship. If not here, where? 
John Sitter professor department of English Sept. 19 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Practical step against global poverty 
Having heard the experts and think. What can the Notre Dame com­depressing stats from the Notre Dame munity, as a moral consumer, do? Forum on global health and poverty, Among many good options remains the question remains what are we to do one simple and effective action: about it? increase our commitment to fair trade 
The Forum's official Web site recom­products. mends reading Paul Farmer and Jeffrey Many other campuses around the Sachs' latest books. I would like to sug­country, secular and religious, have gest something far more concrete. done precisely this. Coffee is where this 
Though Dr. Sachs was correct in typically starts. Catholic Relief Services pointing out the limitation of markets estimates that less than 2 cents of an for those so desperately poor that they average $1.50 cup of coffee reaches the cannot pa;rticipate in them, he did not farmer who grew the coffee. Under fair go far enough in his analysis of markets trade provisions farmers are guaran­as mechanisms for human develop­teed over one dollar a pound for their ment. Contrary to what many of us harvest. Notre Dame consumes over 35, have been told, markets are not univer­000 pounds of coffee a year, only a sally good means to raise populations small part of it fair trade. We should do out of poverty and toward better health something about this. and prosperity. A number of years ago, students 
Unfortunately. due to the ominous worked to have fair trade coffee avail­threat of falling back into destitution able on campus as a consumer choice. and the disproportionate power of large It's time now to make a moral, rather corporate and market forces, many than a market choice as the Notre small farmers and other workers -Dame community. Let's make the around the world -are kept in states switch, collectively, to a better brew, so of near indentured servitude by the that we can do something everyday very markets understood by many to be toward alleviating the world's their saving grace. poverty/health crisis. 
We should all be more mindful of where our dollars go and what activi­Christopher Morrissey ties they support. The ties between our grad student dollars and the lives of millions are far offcampus more real and powerful than you might Sept. 18 
Limit visitor's tribute to pre-game 
As the final whistle blows, Michigan's ended, let alone stayed for the band's players run on the field to celebrate performance. The majority of the fans the most disappointing loss that I have hearing the Penn State fight song were ever witnessed. They weave in and out Notre Dame supporters who could care of our band to go through the tunnel. less about this song and would rather Once they exit the stadium, our band celebrate the victory by hearing Notre strikes up the Alma Mater. · Dame tunes. 
It was enough to see how badly our Then take the few Penn State fans team was dominated on the field. To who heard their song being played top that off, I'd had enough of hearing after the game; they might have seen that annoying Michig~n "Victors" fight the performance as a slap in the face song played by the Michigan band all instead of a'respectable tribute. day. Then the unthinkable happens. However, our band playing the visi­After a rendition of "Down the Line," tor's song after a Notre Dame loss is our own band, our glorious, historic, much worse. It sickens me inside to unbeatable marching band. turns away hear our own band, a source of inspi­from the student section and starts to ration and pride, play the worst fight play it. Yes, they start playing "The song in the world after just suffering Victors." the worst defeat in the world. On 
I understand that it is a point of Saturday, I stayed until the game fin­respect to play the. opposing team's ished in order to join arms and sing, fight song. Many teams do not do this, "Notre Dame, Our Mother" because I and it makes me proud to be a fan of a love this University. I, along with the team with great sportsmanship. countless Notre Dame fans and sup­However, this needs to be reserved for porters, did not need to hear "The the festivities before the game when it Victors." We might as well have played is announced what songs and marches that dreadful song throughout the our band is performing. entire game if we were going to play it 
Playing the visitor's song for a second then. time after the game is both unneces­sary and wrong, even if Notre Dame Pat O'Brien wins. For instance, look at the Penn junior State game. Most of their fans had left Siegfried Hall the building before the game even Sept. 17 






THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
e.oe 
+ 0 Thinking Differently i 
2:05 



Source Name Time Artist 


.~,;..;.~~~~,:.;pijt.,;,;?~.;~;.,,.;.·-·,·7i!.',i{~"-.1'.<ii-:·;:F'~~~ci;:~-·' %1 ··;''"i;titiri::~~'' ·(i~···i·~·;·. ·. 
HISTORY OF APPLE COMPUTERS IPOD fEATURE 



diction, but in 1985, Gates intro­
By MARTY SCHROEDER By SEAN SWEANY
duced the first incarnation of 
Assistant Scene Editor Assistant Scene Editor 
Windows. Using many of the features found on the Macintosh OS, Gates 
It's that bohemian style of comput­was able to secure a lion's share of They are everywhere. From college ing that no self-respecting artist, the computing market, which he has campuses to city streets to airports designer or anyone who wants to kept until the present day. around America, the distinctive white look hip is without. Where Apple Apple, having lost many of the per­earbud cords of the iPod dangle from Computer came from though, is a sonal computing market to ears spanning nearly every age and complex maze of innovation, design Microsoft, turned to other areas of background. Whether connected to a and conflict. Always in the shadow of innovation and came out with the Mini, Nano, Shuffle, Video or just an Bill Gates and his Windows PowerBook 100. This portable 'com­old-school, first generation iPod, leviathan, Apple has returned and is puter (Apple's second attempt at the these little white cords show that the source of the must-have, techno­portable computer) proved to be a Apple's mp3 player has taken over the logically innovative gadgets. Godsend for Apple. The PowerBook world. 
Conceived in 1976, Apple was one 100 brought much needed revenue The quest for portable, personal of the pioneers of personal home and established the basic layout of music has consumed society since the computing. The first major Apple laptop and notebook computers. days of Sony's Walkman and Discman. product was the Apple II microcom­The Goliath to Apple's David, The spread of these portable tape and puter, sold for a then hefty $970. One Microsoft and Intel teamed to create CD players in the 1970s and 1980s of the first computers that could be easy to use software with relatively revolutionized the music industry and used in the home, it was a response low cost hardware. Many people, made entertainment as attainable a to the Apple I. The first model was finding Windows easier to use, commodity as magazines or radio. designed for electronics enthusiasts turned to PCs, and Apple again lost The advent of digital technology led but the Apple II brought computing ground. In the early 1990s, Apple's to the creation of the first mp3 play­power into the home. This computer civil suit against Microsoft for theft ers in the late 1990s. These were ran the first ever spreadsheet pro­of intellectual property dragged on downright bulky and unattractive by gram -VisiCalc -and became the for years. Apple poured money into today's standards. Thanks to further standard in American education and lawyers and courts instead of finding technological advances, the market business during the 1980s and ways to effectively counter Microsoft. was ripe for the taking if a player 1990s. At the end of its production in A blossoming with the right look and advertising 1993, more than two million units In the late 1990s, Apple began to came along. had been sold. work on products of its own rather Enter Apple's iPod. The iPod began 
One of the innovations of this com­than what what Mierosof't was doing. as a project intended to integrate puter was its appearance. Instead of The 1998 release of the iMac was a Apple into the market of digital con­looking like a piece of complicated watershed for Apple and brought the sumer devices. It was developed and electronic hardware, it could have company its first profitable year designed by Tony Fadel! as a portable passed for an ordinary appliance. since 1993. hard drive capable of playing mp3 The Apple computer could be used This was only the beginning. Using music files. He sold his idPa to Apple almost anywhere and would not look interesting and differentiating in February 2001 and the first 5 GB, out of place. Although a dinosaur designs for its products, Apple intro­1000 song iPods became available to today, the computer once looked duced software packages among the the public in October 2001. fashionable and functional -a motif best in the industry. Final Cut was From the start, Apple made its mp3 Apple keeps today. purchased from Macromedia and players compatible with its media 

The early 1980s marked tlw begin­Astarte's DVDircctor was rnmade player, iTunes. In doing this, the com­ning of the Apple-PC battle for per­into iDVD and DVD Studio Pro for pany guaranteed a large consumer sonal computer supremacy. IBM consumers and profnssionals. base for iTunes, which it hoped to used an open hardware standard Ilowever, the rock that hit Goliath develop into a major portal for legally and bundled its hardware with was the introduction of' the iPod and downloading music for iPod play. Microsoft's new MS-DOS operating tlw iTunes music store. This revital­By the end of 2002, the second gen­system. Due to over-heating issues izPd Apple into the fashionable and eration of iPods was in stores and fea­with the new Apple III, a wary con­technologically sound comp<tny it is tured dramatic improvements over sumer market developed and many· today. the previous version. Not only was people shifted to PCs with Microsoft From an electronics company in capacity doubled, but also the look software. the late 70s to now having U2 do its and interactivity of the player had 
A resurgence commercials, Apple's journey has been streamlined. In 2004, Apple rev­
One of the most famous commer­been convoluted. It seems that Apple olutionized what had bncome its own cials ever aired in 1984. Directed by has finally hit its stride, focused on market with the introduction of the Ridley Scott, Apple used George its products and not the competition. iPod mini. Orwell's famous "1984" as its basis The future appears as bright and An even smaller vnrsion of the and people wokn back up to Apple. promising as thH day when the first already tiny iPod, the iPod mini fea­Steve Jobs knew that personal com­Apple computer was reloasnd. tured a sl~eker design, custom colors, puters were headed the way of the longer battery life and cheaper priees. Graphic User Interface IGUI). Appln Contact Marty Schroeder at Further miniaturizations led to the developed the Lisa basnd on this pre-mschroel@nd.edu iPod nano and the iPod shuffle, even 

-OCX) 
a10) 
~0)
·-,.... 
\ 


¥~;~_: ;-."-~-+~: 
-: ~~~ i~~~~~~~I~~~~:·;t~~:: ,~~~::~·~.i~}~~':j;~·:-~ ... . . _, --~ ~~;:~~~f~i~~~l~~t~~~1:~~;~:::~~:~-~·'~ 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
page 15 
rid of Apple the 21st Century 

~···· 

-2 46 
Search Browse 


LO(O ­

(!JO
0 
""OC\1 
0 


c.. 
.. ~--· 

·­
·­
·­

• Genre 
NEW APPLE TECHNOLOGY 
maller players intended to reach 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
iche markets. 
Scene Writer 
Apple's designers at the same time used to let their flagship, the regu­r iPod, be outdone. Utilization of Once again, Apple is quickly phas­ash memory in 2004 gave the iPod ing out previous generations of its 
o moving parts, meaning that the sleek iPod devices, sending them to ayer can be shaken or dropped to a the refurbished department and rtain extent without causing serious. replacing them with new, sleeker 
ones to tempt our wallets and com­
o in 2004, Apple redefined the plement our lifestyles. But we all t yet again by including a video know that the new additions and fea­n on all iPods. Thanks to a star­tures -from hardier materials to size of 60 GB, this meant that full better video capability -will make gth movies or television shows us want them anyway and smile in ld be downloaded and viewed on joy when they show up in their beau­
go. The unveiling this fall of the tifully packaged boxes. Here's a look h generation, 80 GB iPod repre­at what Apple has just released. 
the latest improvement in tech­iPod Shuffle ology and promises to bring a Declared the "world's smallest dig­hange to how the world watches ital music player," the new iPod ntertainment. Shuffle is definitely diminutive at just 
The iPod 's success is due in large half the length of the first generation to the clever advertising devel-model (1.62 inches long -slightly 
d by Apple. The "silhouette com­larger than a quarter). The still­ercials," which depict black silhou­screenless second generation is now tes of people dancing with their . brushed with silver aluminum, mak­
iPods and earbuds, have been a ing it much more durable than its 
aple since the player's launch. predecessor. It also comes with a dditionally, they gave Apple the built-in clip that allows you to wear pportunity to promote artists on it almost anywhere. ownloadable on iTunes such as The iPod Shuffle still holds 1 GB minem, The Gorillaz and U2. This worth of music (about 240 songs) 
art advertising led to the distinc­and uses an iTun·es autofillfeature to white earbuds becoming a symbol randomly load the player with music status in many countries around from the owner's library. The shuffle e world. battery lasts 12 hours. The second EvPn though the iPod controls 80 generation Shuffle still uses a USB ercnnt of the mp3 player market, flash drive to store music, but it now mpctitors do exist. Many companies connects to the computer through a ·luding Sony, Dell, Samsung and Rio dock, making it somewhat less useful 
av1~ all tried emulations of the iPod in carrying files. Still, it should be ith varying degrees .of success. skip-free and ultra-portable. Apple ierosoft recently announced its own Price: $79 p3 player, Zune, in an attempt to iPod Nano 
rPak Apple's stranglehold on the The new iPod Nano is also a hair ark1~t. but. only time will tell smaller, being less than .26 inches Microsoft can compete with thick, 3.5 inches long and 1.6 inches !e. wide. There are three capacity sizes ntil then, Apple ~tands at the fore­-4GB, 6GB and 8GB -that can nt of the mp3 player market with hold between 500 and 2,000 songs wildly popular and successful iPod. and up to about 25,000 snapshots. the course of several years, the . The 4GB now comes in five colors 'od has improved a great deal and (silver, pink, green, blue, and black), ranched out into other realms with while the 2GB is available in silver 
e Nano and the Shuffle. The iPod and the 8GB in black. 
as revolutionized the way our cul­More importantly, the second gen­e entertains itself. With technology eration Nano comes with a much ecoming more sophisticated and stronger finish of high luster proving almost daily, one can only anodized aluminum (like the iPod der what new and exciting revo­Mini) that is much less likely to tinns the iPod will bring next. scratch. The display is 40 percent 
brighter. The battery life lasts about :ontact Sean Sweany at 24 hours. Like the shuffle, the new JWeany@nd.edu Nano uses a USB flash drive, so it is 
My Rating Play Count 
non-skip. Apple Price: $149-$199­$249 
iPod 

Not wanting to be outclassed by its younger siblings, the iPod received a few new updates as well. It now has more game capability including games such as Texas Hold 'Em, Mini Golf and PAC-MAN. 
While the screen is 60 percent brighter than before, the battery can last through 20 hours of music or six hours of video, an unprecedented battery life. The new iPod is offered as either a 30GB or an 80GB, getting rid of the 60GB version. Perhaps what is most appealing is that it is now $50 cheaper. Apple Price: $250­$350 
The new iTunes 


iTunes received a facelift as well. The display is a little cleaner, but about the same as before. Better is the more inclusive iPod summary that is provided whenever the device is synched. Now you can easily see such things as what the space on your iPod is being used for and whether the version needs to be updated. 
In a step toward reintroducing the album cover to downloaded music, you can automatically load covers and then t'lse the new Cover Flow feature to flip through them on the screen to choose your music. The iTunes store also now sells videos (compatible with video capable iPods and playable in iTunes) and games (only compatible with the fifth-gen­eration iPod and not playable in iTunes). As always, iTunes is free to download. 
iTV 

Steve Jobs and Apple also dropped a tantalizing hint about its upcoming product release currently called iTV. The device will plug into the TV and wirelessly pull video and music from either a nearby Macintosh computer or the Internet. 
This announcement was met with much anticipation for the possibili­ties offered by iTV. The idea has been tried before with other compa­nies, including Microsoft with its Media Center PC, and iTV will debut about the same time as some other similar products, such as a set-top box from Netflix. Only time will tell, however, if Apple will dominate this market as well. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

Last Played 

Shuffle 
$79 

9ofl2 
-no.~ ~. f"*rSMI ;;::.. '·· '" P<llooll....wlot 

-
iPod Nano 
$149-249 

iTV 

JEFF ALBERT/Observer Graphic 

l t 
f 
l 


..._ ---..--llll;.~f;;'; 

-
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
NDTV FEATURE 

NDtv trains media students, delights fans 
Campus television station returns with new season 


By BRIAN DOXTADER  The programming on NDtv ranges from serious news to sketch comedy, as  "NDtv is completely run by students," said Melinda Leonard, executive pro­ schedule, they can easily turn on the TV while sitting at their desks working  
Scene Editor  evidenced by "The Mike  Peterson  ducer of "NDtv News." "We have  an  on a paper."  
Show," which is the first show premier­ advisor, Laurie McFadden, but she  And that's a benefit for the students  
NDtv, Notre Dame's own student  ing on NDtv's fall 2006 schedule. The  never gives us instructions or orders,  behind the TV, too -they hope the  
- broadcasting channel, kicks off its fall season tonight with the season 4 pre­ program features the eponymous host in a variety of situations and has been  only advice or guidance when we ask her."  increased accessibility will grant them greater exposure throughout the Notre  
miere of "The Mike Peterson Show."  running for nearly two years, though  This complete technical and creative  Dame community.  
NDtv began as the collective idea of  Peterson temporarily took a hiatus  control has benefited those involved,'  NDtv is a unique and rewarding  
several Film, Television and Theater  while studying abroad in Santiago,  allowing them to try exciting projects  experience for those involved, but  
(FTT) majors. With the help of a faculty  Chile.  and showcase their enthusiasm for tel­ Leonard and Peterson emphasize that  
advisor,  Christine  Becker,  and  a  "It's kind of like  a  cross  between  evision  and  broadcasting.  Both  the programming is for the Notre Dame  
Student Activities advisor, Laurie  Conan and Saturday Night Live, but  Leonard and Peterson stress that NDtv  student body. Not only do they want  
McFadden, the channel was launched in October 2002. At that time, it was  with a very specific topic for its humor -Notre  "! love that NDtv  provides real-world technical experience for  their content to reach more of a mass audience thanks to campus-wide cable,  
only a half-hour-long show that ran every two weeks. In its initial run, the show featured five distinct segments. By fall 2004 and spring 2005, NDtv had  Dame," said Peterson, a senior FTT major. "We also feature campus celebrities and student musical acts  provides a venue and a community that can't be found  students that often can­not be found in class­rooms. For those seeking a job  but they also hope that audience finds their work both informative and enter­taining. "I love that NDtv provides a venue  
grown into a full channel with two shows -"NDtv News" and "The Mike Peterson Show." Each was a half-hour­ each week." Previous guests have included various campus  anywhere else at Notre Dame."  in the media world, working on the channel gives them a head start  and a community that can't be found anywhere else at Notre Dame," Peterson said. "Students who want to  
long program broadcast once each  bands and football players  in understanding what  be anything from producers to comedi­ 
week.  like former Notre Dame  Mike Peterson  goes into television pro­ ans to SportsCenter analysts all come  
In its current incarnation, NDtv con­sists of four programs-"NDtv News,"  football captain Brandon Hoyte. The show occasion­ NDtv host  duction. Perhaps most impor­ together under our room and really work hard to provide quality program­ 
"NDtv Sports," "The Mike Peterson  ally broadcasts live from  tantly for Notre Dame  ming in a way that only we can - for  
Show" and "The Final Cut," a movie  Legends, which allows for a live audi­ students, the University mandated  ND students, by ND students."  
review show focusing on the DeBartolo  ence.  installation of free cable television in  NDtv premieres this evening at 7 p.m.  
Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC)  One aspect that has made NDtv par­ every dorm room makes it possible for  on North Quad. It will feature Robbie  
and films shown by the Student Union  ticularly unique is the high level of stu­ almost anyone to watch NDtv from the  Hazen as a performer and will show  
Board (SUB). What started as a handful  dent involvement. Students handle  comfort of his or her home.  clips of each of the channel's four pro­ 
of FTT majors broadcasting out of  every facet of the show, from the tech­ "In the past, NDtv has just been too  grams. More information can be found  
South Dining Hall has exploded into a  nical aspects of pre-production and  difficult and inconvenient to watch,"  at www.nd.edu/-ndtv  
complex production that consists of 90  post-production to the creative deci­ Leonard said. "But with cable in the  
members, its own studio and nonstop  sions of programming and script writ­ dorm rooms, people can access our  Contact Brian Doxtader at  
programming over campus cable.  ing.  programming easily. If they know our  bdoxtade@nd.edu  



Photo courtesy of nd.edu/-ndtv A view of the NDtv office in Washington Hall shows video mixing and mastering equipment. NDtv is produced and broadcast entirely in-house on campus. 
-
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
The Rider Named Death (2005) Nanovic European Film Series Directed by Karen Shakhnazarov Russian language with English subtitles Not Rated, 106 minutes Thu, Sept 21 at 7 and 10 pm 
Army of Shadows (1969) Directed by Jean-Pierre Melville French language with English subtitles Rated R, 136 minutes Fri, Sept 22 at 7 and 1 0 pm Sat, Sept 23 at 7 and 1 0 pm 
Battleship Potemkin (1925) Directed by Sergei Eisenstein Not Rated, 75 minutes Sat, Sept 23 at 3 pm 
The War Tapes (2006) Directed by Deborah Scranton Not Rated, 94 minutes Producer Steve James (Director of Hoop Dreams) will be present at the 7pm screening Sun, Sep 24 at 4 and 7 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 


page 18 The Observer + . SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
-
MLB 
Morneau leads streaking Twins over Red Sox 
the disabled list with a stress
Phillies, Mets also 
fracture of the rib cage. It was only the fourth time in 152
win as NL playoff 
starts at Fenway Park that he picture grows clearer didn't pitch more than 3 1-3 innings.
Associated Press 
The Twins teed off on 
BOSTON -Justin Morneau Wakefield in the second when had a career-high five hits, Morneau led off with a double Jason Bartlett and Torii Hunter and scored on Randell White's homered and the streaking single. After a walk to Phil Minnesota Twins beat the Nevin and a wild pitch by Boston Red Sox 7-3 Tuesday Wakefield, Bartlett homered to night to move closer to a playoff left field. berth. 
The Twins got their ninth win Phillies 4, Cubs 1 in 11 games with solid pitching Jamie Moyer pitched seven from Matt Garza (2-5). They solid innings and Abraham began the night 1 1/2 games Nunez had a two-run single to behind Detroit in the AL Central lead the Philadelphia Phillies and 4 1/2 ahead of Chicago in over the Chicago Cubs Tuesday the wild-card race. The Tigers night. played at the White Sox later Jimmy Rollins hit a solo Tuesday. homer and David Dellucci. 
The Red Sox cut a 6-0 deficit added an RBI double for the in half but got no help from Phillies, who entered the night David Ortiz, who went 0-for-5 1 1/2 games behind San Diego with three strikeouts and in the NL wild-card standings. remained one homer short of Moyer (3-2) allowed one run the Red Sox record of SO, set by and six hits in his sixth start Jimmie Foxx in 1938. since the Phillies acquired the 
Garza allowed just one hit in 43-year-old left-bander from the first four innings. He left Seattle. He didn't walk a batter with two outs in the sixth and and has pitched at least six Minnesota leading 6-2. Dennys innings in each outing with Reyes pitched 1 2-3 scoreless Philadelphia. innings while a misty rain grew Geoff Geary retired the side in heavier and has allowed just the eighth after Aaron Fultz one earned run in 35 appear­allowed a leadoff single to Juan ances since the All-Star break. Pierre. Tom Gordon pitched a 
Joe Nathan pitched the ninth scoreless ninth for his 32nd as the Twins improved to 76-0 save in 36 chances. when leading after eight Matt Murton homered for innings. Another mark of their Chicago. Wade Miller (0-2) gave solid pitching is their 27-1 up two runs -one earned ­record in their last 28 games and four hits in 4 2-3 innings. when they score four runs or The Cubs, who have the NL's more. worst record, had won six of 
Boston's magic number for eight after a 2-14 stretch. elimination in the AL East was Ryan Howard, who leads the Rollins hit his 22nd homer off sharp innings and the newly Julio Franco made his first start cut to two, and its magic num­majors with 57 homers and David Aardsma in the eighth. crowned NL East champion at third base since 1982, while ber for elimination from the again heard "M-V-P!" chants Miller, making his third start New York Mets, fielding a Tucker played first base and wild-card berth dropped to four. each time he came to the plate, since right shoulder surgery, makeshift lineup in a game that broke in Carlos Delgado's back­
Morneau entered the game in started a two-out rally in the struck out eight and pitched out mattered little to them, rallied up mitt. an 0-for-11 slump but he went fifth with a single to left. He of trouble early in the game. to beat the fading Florida "We got our A-minus squad 5-for-5 to raise his batting aver­scored on a headfirst dive after The Phillies loaded the bases Marlins Tuesday night. out there today," Mets manager age to .326, hitting two doubles Dellucci hit a liner into the left­in the first inning, but Miller Lastings Milledge and Michael Willie Randolph kidded before and three singles while scoring center field gap that chased froze Burrell with a slow curve Tucker hit HBI singles in the the game. twice and driving in the Twins' Miller. on a 3-2 pitch to end the threat. eighth that gave Glavine (14-6) Glavine, however, shined in last run. Roberto Novoa came in and Burrell, who leads the majors in his 289th career victory. what essentially was a tuneup 
Bartlett hit his second homer walked Pat Burrell. Chris Coste taking called third strikes, The Marlins' fourth straight for the playoffs in two weeks. of the season, a three-run shot then reached on shortstop heard loud boos after he failed loss was a damaging one -He went eight innings for the in the four-run second inning Ronny Cedeno's fielding error to yet again in a clutch situation. they began the day 4 1/2 games first time since April 19, limit­off Tim Wakefield (7-10). load the bases. Nunez followed Burrell is hitting .160 (12-for-behind San Diego in the wild­ing the Marlins to four hits. Hunter added a two-run shot with a bloop single to right-cen­75) with two outs and runners card race. Billy Wagner pitched the ninth that made it 6-0 in the third. ter that scored two runs for a 3-in scoring position. The Mets' lineup did not for his 39th save. 
Wakefield lasted just 3 1-3 0 lead. include anyone who started Marlins rookie Scott Olsen innings in his second start since Murton connected with two Mets 3, Marlins 2 Monday night's clincher, and it shut down the Mets on five hits spending nearly two months on outs in the sixth to cut it to 3-1. Tom Glavine pitched eight had six guys hitting under .210. for seven innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at tbe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves tbe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND home games rental. 1 mi to ND.  . 2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
WANTED  FoR SALE  Sleeps 2. Full accommodations. $900 3  $275 ND Football Wkends; $200 Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400.  TICKETS  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs  
nights.  confidential support or assistance,  
Students to do minor work in house  Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  Call574-532-8718  Lake Front cottage for rent ND  WANTED:  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ 
on ND Ave. owned by alumni.  269-445-2765  home games.  Notre Dame tickets.  7819.  
Good pay!  11 bdrm house available for 2007­ Monthly or for winter season. 269­ 251-1570  For more information, see our bi- 
Email Loretta800@aol.com  Investment homes for sale near  2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens,  699-5928.  weekly ad in The Observer.  
or call954-921-1413.  ND. 866-521-8989.  5.5 baths, large common areas and  FOR SALE:  
backyard. Contact  White Pigeon, Ml lake house near  NDTICKETS.  Spring Break 2007 Celebration  
INTERNET WORK!  MacSwain@ gmail.com  toll road. 3 da wkend. Home games  232-0964  20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash  
$9-$150  FoR RENT  $1k. 260-768-4422.  Tours  
/Hr!FT/PT/Summer.  One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30  WANTED:  Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1.  
$21 Bonus!  2 bdrm home football weekends.  miles fr SB.  45 minutes from Notre Dame  FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Free Meals & Parties,  
Walk to ND.  www. Eastofedenatunionpier.com.  Stadium. $125.00/night.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  Hottest Deals Ever.  
Studentsurveysite.com/notre  Call 574-287-6395.  $350 wkend. 513-697-7766.  Year round cabins sleep six. Call  Group Discounts on 6+.  
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt.  Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181.  NOBODY WILL PAY MORE.  Hottest Spring Break Destinations.  
Flexible schedules, no exp. need- BLUE & GOLD HOMES, ott-cam­ 2 rooms in private home w/separate  574-288-2726.  1-800-426-7710.  
ed. customer sales/service, condi­ pus homes & weekend rentals.  entrance for football weekends.  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  www.sunsplashtours.com  
lions apply, all ages 17+,  Bluegoldrentals.com  Bedrooms  FOR SALE:  
Call Today  Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­ www.NDstudentrentals.com  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Burt Reynolds chews Wrigley's  
57 4-273-3835.  Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to  259-8603.  BEl2T PRIQEl2.  Spearmint.  
ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208.  Big house on ND Ave. owned by  I'm just sayin.  
Looking for kind, responsible & playful female to occasionally watch  Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk  1 bdrm apt. 1 mi. to ND. Laundry. Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester.  alumni available for every home game. Very reasona~le. Email  PERSONAL  In order to remain healthy, eat lotsa  
my 2 kids(9&5yrs).  to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930­ Quiet area. $550/mo. Call 574-532­ Loretta800@aol.com or call954­ carrots today.  
Call Jill288-7118.  8038. swmient@qtm.net  8718.  921-1413.  www.ndgamedayroom.com  LOTSATHEM!  

.
. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


.------------------------~-------~------~----­
AP Oklahoma's Malcolm Kelly battles Oregon's Brian Paysinger for an onside kick late in Saturday's Ducks victory. This was one of the controversial calls that led to the suspension of the PAC-10 officials who worked the game. 
Stoops remains steatned over replay 


around the dial 
MLB 

Cincinnati at Houston 
2:05 p.m., ESPN 
Detroit at Chicago White Sox, 
8:05 p.m., ESPN 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
Associated Press Poll Top25 
team record previous. 
1 Ohio State (59} 3·0 1 2 Auburn (2) 3-0 3 3 usc (2) 2·0 4 4 West Virginia 3-0 5 5 Florida 3-0 7 6 Michigan 3-0 11 7 Texas 2-1 8 8 Louisville 3-0 12 9 Georgia 3-0 10 10 LSU 2-1 6 11 Virginia Tech 3-0 14 12 NOTRE DAME 2-1 2 13 Oregon 3-0 18 14 Iowa 3-0 16 15 Tennessee 2-1 13 16 TCU 3-0 20 17 Oklahoma 2-1 15 18 Florida State 2-1 9 19 Clemson 2-1 NR 20 ·aoston College 3-0 23 21 California 3-0 21 22 Arizona State 2-1 22 23 Nebraska 2-1 19 24 Penn State 2-1 25 25 Boise State 3-0 NR 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Top 25 
team Record previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 2 Florida State 3 UCLA 4 North Carolina 5 Santa Clara 6 West Virginia 7 Portland 8 Tennessee 9 PennState 10 Wake forest 11 Colorado 12 Boston University 13 Texas.A&:M 14 Cal Stafi!fuUerton 15 -Connecticut 16 Texas 17 Auburn 13 William &Mary 19 Illinois 20 California 21 Virginia 22 Missouri 
23 BYU 24 Florida 25 Purdue 
MIAA Volleyball Standings 
teague overall team record record 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERvrcEs page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

IN BRIEF 

GY.mnastics coach P.leads 
guilty to sexual assault DALLAS -A former coach at an elite gymnastics academy was sentenced to 15 years in prison Tuesday after pleading guilty to sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. 
Christopher Wagoner, 33, was accused of fondling and raping the girl in 2002 and 2003, when he was her coach, He pleaded guilty to two felony counts of sexual assault. Each charge carries a 15-year penalty, which he will serve concurrently, 
The girl's family filed a lawsuit this month alleging Wagoner repeatedly assaulted the girl and encouraged her to use bulimia and cocaine to lose weight 

The lawsuit also accuses the own­ers of the World Olympic Gymnastics Academy -the father of national champion Nastia Liukin and the coach of Olympic gold medalist Carly Patterson -of failing to screen and supervise Wagoner. 
Laila Ali booked for 
Veteran's Day Garden fight NEW YORK-Another Ali will box at Madison Square Garden, 
Laila Ali, the daughter of boxing great Muhammad Ali, will make her debut 35 years after her father lost to "Smokin" Joe Frazier at the Garden. 
She'll be on the Nov. 11 undercard of the IBF heavyweight bout between champion Wladimir Klitschko and undefeated Calvin Brock. All three appeared at a news conference Tuesday at Madison Square Garden, 
Ali, the WBC light heavyweight champion, is 22-0 with 19 knockouts since her pro debut in 1999, 
''I'm excited to be at Madison Square Garden, the mecca of box­ing," Ali said, "There's a lot of pres­sure being Ali's daughter, but I always try to do my besL I've got to do my thing -he's already done his thing." 
Ali's opponent will be determined soon, 
Dungy explains leaving
offensive starters In game INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy tried to get his starters out of Sunday's blowout in the fourth quarter, Houston didn't give him a chance, 
Many people outside the organiza­tion wondered why players like two­time MVP Peyton Manning and seven-time Pro Bowl receiver Marvin Harrison were still in the game until the end, so Dungy offered an expla­nation Monday. 
"The problem we had is that we were up 30-3, so that was about four scores, and we substituted on defense and you'd like to hold them," he said. "But they went right down the field and scored, and then we're three scores up. So we told our guys one more drive." 
The offense responded with anoth­er touchdown drive, to make it 37­10, and Dungy again sent out many of his defensive backups -hoping to pull his offensive starters. 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -A phone call from Oregon coach Mike Bellotti was nice, but it did absolutely nothing to soothe Oklahoma coach Bob Stoops over an incorrect officials' ruling that likely cost his team a victory over the Ducks. 
"He just apologized and said that it's unfortunate that the two of us have got to be in the middle of it," Stoops said Tuesday at his weekly news conference, "I said, 'Well, you didn't do anything wrong but play hard, and that's the same thing we were trying to d0," 
Stoops still was speaking out after Saturday night's 34-33 loss in Eugene, Ore., a game in which a blown call on an onside kick led to Oregon's winning touch­down in the final minute. 
The Pacific-10 Conference admitted Monday the onside kick was touched by an Oregon player before it traveled the required 10 yards, and, therefore, possession should have been awarded to Oklahoma. The league suspended the officials responsible for one game, and commissioner Tom Hansen apologized for the mistake. 
Had Oklahoma been given the ball, the offense 

could have run out the 
clock for a 33-27 win. 
At Oregon, Bellotti said 
some might view the win 
as tainted, 
"I feel very fortunate for 
us to have won that foot­
ball game, not for the offi­
cials' errors, but for how 
our team played," he said. 
"We were lucky, we made 
plays and we never gave 
up, It's unfortunate that 
any team had to lose, or 
the efforts of my players 
are questioned, because of 
officials' errors." 
Bellotti told Stoops when · officials determine the out­
come it's not good for 
either team. 
"And I can understand 
their frustration," Bellotti 
-
-, 
said. 
Although Stoops said his team could have done things differently to pre­vent the game from becoming so close, he was still upset at the result. 
"We can't sit here and say OK," Stoops said. "It's unacceptable and inexcus­able, to them (the players) and to us, because we can't get it back, and they earned it. That's the hard truth of it, and now our situation is severely altered." 
Stoops said he was addressing the issue "for the last time" so his 17th­ranked Sooners (2-1) could get ready to play Middle Tennessee this Saturday, 

1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
Calvin Hope Adrian Saint Mary's Tri-State Kalamazoo Alma Albion Olivet 
3-0 2-0 2-1 2-1 2-2 1-1 1-2 
1-4 
0-3 

10·1 6·4 
'H 
9-2 5·9 4·6 
4-7 
5-6 
0•11 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 20, 2006 

. ­
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
. 
. 
..• ­
~EGEN OS 
F NOTRE DAME
.
.
• 

' 
. ' ' ' -­•.
• 


Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Trio charged in Duquesne shooting Tuesday 
Three players still hospitalized after near-fatal incident 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH Police charged two men Tuesday with shooting five Duquesne University basketball players after a school dance, and they accused a 19-year-old sopho­more of helping get the men and their friends into the dance despite knowing some were armed. 
Brandon Baynes, 18, was arraigned on five counts of criminal attempt at homicide. Prosecutors also filed charges of aggravated assault, criminal conspiracy and weapons counts against him and William Holmes, 18. A reckless endangerment charge was also filed against Holmes, who is still being sought. 
r-----------------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------. 

• 

our 1 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance. manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Visit gecareers.com/notredame 
an equal opportunity employer 

ecomagination 
CHALLENGE 


Come learn more about GE's full-time and intern leadership programs. All majors/years welcome! 
Engineering Career Fair 
September 21, 2006 Joyce Center 5:30 -9:00 PM 
~ imagination at work
~ 

Take the challenge 
ecocollegechallenge.com 
Three players remained hos­pitalized following Sunday's shootings after the dance. The most seriously wounded, jun­ior forward Sam Ashaolu, 23, was in critical condition with bullet fragments in his head. 
Brittany Jones, accused of helping get some young men with guns into the party. was arrested Monday on charges of reckless endangerment, carry­ing a firearm without a license and criminal conspiracy. She was arraigned and posted bond Tuesday morning. 
According to the criminal complaint, Jones -who is active with the Black Student Union, which sponsored the dance -got a call from a man asking whether he and his brother could attend. They arrived with four others, including Baynes and Holmes, about midnight, according to police. 
While walking to the party, Jones told police, she became aware that several of the men had guns, authorities said. 
They asked Jones whether they were going to be "patted down" before entering, offi­cials said. The doorman reportedly told Jones partygo­ers weren't being searched, and the men went into the dance. police said. 
According to the criminal complaint against Baynes, a witness at the dance reported hearing an argument and saw two men firing guns at the vic­tims. Using driver's license photos, the witness identified one man as Baynes. 
Baynes did not speak during the brief court hearing. His father said the teen was not guilty. 
"My son never fired a gun in his life," A.J. Baynes said. He said his son knew Holmes, but he would not discuss what his son told him about the shoot­ing. 
Sumner Parker, an attorney 

eas 

Brandon Baynes, a suspect in the shooting of five Duquesne basketball players, leaves police headquarters Tuesday. 
representing Baynes, denied his client was the gunman but said Baynes had identified the shooter in a statement to police. Parker said Baynes had gone to the dance with three friends, none of them part of the group believed involved in the shooting. 
In interviews Monday with The Associated Press, several 
players said the shooter was a non-student unhappy that the woman he accompanied to the dance had talked with a play­er. 
The shooter and at least one other man followed the players when they left the dance to walk to their dormitory, they said. 
Jones' attorney, James Ecker, would not confirm Tuesday whether she was cooperating with authorities and would not comment on reports that authorities may ­drop charges if she provides information to the police. 
"I can say she's spent a lot of time with police in the last couple of days. Sunday and Monday," Ecker said. 
"Until this case goes to a hearing or trial, she's pre­sumed innocent," he said. 
University president Charles Dougherty said he was grateful to police for the "swift arrest of the individual who may have been the shooter in the vicious attacks on Duquesne University students last Sunday morning." 
A university spokeswoman said the school was examining the allegations against Jones and would act in accordance with school policy. 
Besides Ashaolu, the other injured players were junior guard Kojo Mensah, 21; 6-foot­7 forward Stuard Baldonado, 21; junior center Shawn James, 23; and Aaron Jackson, 20, a guard who is one of only two returning players from Duquesne's 3-24 team last sea­son. 
Baldonado was in fair condi­tion Tuesday with arm and back injuries; he likely won't play this season because his back injury will require two to three months of rehabilitation. He was expected to be released from the hospital by the end of the week. 
Mensah, shot in an arm and shoulder, was kept at a hospi­tal to receive additional injec­tions of antibiotics but was expected to be discharged later Tuesday. 
In an interview with The Associated Press on Monday, Jackson said he and teammate Stephen Wood dropped to the ground when shots rang out. Mensah, Baldonado and Ashaolu were the first players hit in the attack. 

. ... 


!•
t page22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2006
•
•
•
• 
• Gators quarterback Chris 
• ~ 
Leak won a big road game 
t Hope
• against Tennessee last week­end. But he has never been a
continued from page 28 
big-game quarterback after another job -righting the ship being the top recruit at his of the Cleveland Browns. Weis, position coming out of high of course, found a home in school. Expecting Leak to get
-
South Bend. through four straight difficult 
And after Saturday's drub-games is unlikely. Figure them bing at the hands of Lloyd Carr for at least one loss by the end -Weis must've been thinking of the season. about the huge differences Georgia plays three ranked between the league he once opponents from here on out ­dominated and the one he is No. 15 Tennessee on Oct. 17, just beginning to figure out. Florida on Oct. 28 and Auburn 
He said before the 2006 sea-on Nov. 11. It also must deal son that 9-3 is not good with a rivalry game at home enough. He was right. against Georgia Tech on Nov. 
But guess what'? That same 2";), winning percentage in the pros Unlike the Gators. the means a likely first-round play-Bulldogs have the luxury of off's bye. spreading their games across 
Yet nothing will change the their difficult schedule. But 
fact that in college, some play-that game at Auburn looms as off games come in September. a huge challenge, especially if The best a one-loss team can Georgia squeaks by a fired-up do in college is pray -knowing Tennessee team -who is also fate rests in its ability to win playing for its season after los­the remainder of its games and ing at home to Florida get a bunch of help from other Saturday. teams around the country. Georgia is probably the 
Oh, and it also must win out. weakest of the four SEC top-10 
Because if Weis' Irish are teams, and despite its annually going to somehow climb their stellar recruiting classes, head with injuries. mately come down to its Nov. will enter Columbus undefeat­way back from the depths of coach Mark Richt has never No. 4 West Virginia and No. 8 25 game at USC. It will help if ed. Saturday's devastating loss, sniffed the title game. Its last Louisville shouldn't even be in the Trojans are undefeated The Buckeyes need to smoke Notre Dame will have to begin big game was a 38-25 loss consideration for a BCS heading into that game -the Wolverines in this game ­its own similar streak. Twenty-against West Virginia in the Championship spot because of which should be a safe bet. ending the Michigan regular one games would be unneces-2006 Sugar Bowl. their weak schedules. Once USC is a young team that will season and any real national sary. The Irish just need nine. LSU and Notre Dame are in either team loses, they will be continue to build confidence championship aspirations. With 
But at any level, nine straight similar situations having lost left out of consideration. with each game. Junior quar­a late loss, Michigan would not wins is a lot to ask -especially early in the season. The BCS It's likely Louisville will slip terback John David Booty be the highest ranked one-loss from a team having shown no polls always seem to favor up in its remaining nino games looked impressive against team in the BCS -especially if life or spark in its most recent teams who lose early and then even though it plays just one Nebraska, and with the combi­Notre Dame beats USC on the game. However, things aren't rebound the rest of the way. ranked opponent (West nation of wide receiver Dwayne road, Texas wins the remain­as grim as they appear, and And guess what? LSU's sched-Virginia). Cardinals coach Jarrett and a running attack der of its games and LSU earns Notre Dame has a legitimate ule is fairly easy other than its Bobby Petrino is talented and that includes Emmanuel Moody those two tough road wins shot at making a run-provid-Oct. 7 game at Florida and a has done a great job building and Chauncey Washington­against Florida and Tennessee. ed a few things fall into place. Nov. 14 game at Tennessee. the Louisville program. But no Pae 1 0 team should stand a Sure, Ohio State would likely 
Weis will just have to dupli-But road games are road with an inexperienced quarter­chance. be undefeated with a win cate a little of the magic he had games, and the SEC is too back (Hunter Cantwell) leading Two November dates-Nov. against Michigan, but there has two years tough to the way until Brohm returns in 11 against No. 13 Oregon and to be at least one team taking a
-ago. expect LSU 4-6 weeks, Louisville should Nov. 18 against No. 22 perfect season into the BCS Because to win both lose at home to West Virginia California-are noteworthy. Championship.
It's going to take a lot for 
even after of those on Nov. 2. Biggest problem? Both will be The Buckeyes, who play their
Notre Dame to sneak its way
the Patriots matchups The bigger problem for Notre played at the Coliseum. toughest games at home lost to into the BCS Championship against Dame is West Virginia. The But that's a good thing for against No. 24 Penn State this Pittsburgh game -no question. teams who Mountaineers, like Louisville, the Irish. Notre Dame fans Saturday and at No. 14 Iowa to end their will also be play only one ranked opponent need to pray that USC is unde­Sept. 30, have shown balance
But weirder things have 
streak they playing for the rest of the season feated when the Irish fly to Los on both sides of the ball so far bounced happened, and should their sea-(Louisville). West Virginia has Angeles. this year. They've already won back pretty Notre Dame regroup and sons. an explosive offense led by Of any team outside the SEC, their biggest game of the sea­nicely-as If the running back Steve Slaton and Texas might be the biggest son after defeating Texas on
win the remainder ofits
New Tigers do will present problems for any obstacle standing in Notre the road and should run the England contests, the season is win out, one-loss team if they arfl unde­Dame's way-even if the Irish table. won its not a lost cause. they feated at the end of the season. are an 11-win team in late third Super deserve to Best-case scenario? Louisville November. What does this mean? Bowl in four be ahead of knocks off West Virginia at Like Notre Dame and LSU, It's going to take a lot for years. Notre Dame -provided the Papa John's Cardinal Stadium Texas lost early. But the team Notre Dame to sneak its way 
Heading into this weekend, Irish are 11-1 as well. and then slips up the following who beat Texas (Ohio State) is into the BCS Championship there are 11 teams ranked That leaves Auburn -by far week at Rutgers. · the most complete team in the game-no question. But higher than Notre Dame in the the scariest team in the confer-Maybe Weis can give fellow country with the best chance of weirder things have happened, AP Top 25. They are Ohio ence with arguably the easiest Jersey native and Hutgers head being undefeated at the end of and should Notre Dame State, Auburn, USC, West schedule. That's not a good coach Greg Schiano a call the season. If the Irish and regroup and win the remainder Virginia, Florida, Michigan, combination, and Irish fans before that Nov. 9 matchup to Longhorns are both one-loss of its contests, the season is not Texas, Louisville, Georgia, LSU should be watching three spark a little Jungleland magic. teams, Texas should have the a lost cause. and Virginia Tech. Most face Auburn games carefully -the higher BCS ranking. Notre Dame is not thinking huge obstacles to undefeated aforementioned games against Virginia Tech, USC and Texas The coaches will respect the about these scenarios yet. The seasons, and if Notre Dame Florida on Oct. 14 and Georgia The No. 11 Hokies, No. 3 Longhorns if their only loss Irish can't with the amount of somehow manages to beat Nov. 11. Trojans and No. 7 Longhorns was against Troy Smith's work they have to do for the Michigan State this weekend, Auburn will play both of have nothing to do with each Buckeyes -even if the Irish remainder of the season. then run the table until its those games at home. It will be other aside from the fact they knock off USC. Because after all, a loss this Thanksgiving matchup with the favored in each of the games each represent a conference The one regular season chal­weekend against Michigan Trojans-things could get and should end its opponents where they should be the only lenge Texas faces is an Oct. 7 State -or in any other game, interesting. chances of winning the nation-teams competing for a spot in game at No. 17 Oklahoma. The for that matter -and the Irish 
Here's how it breaks down. al championship in each. the BCS Championship. Sooners remember last season are done. Plain and simple. The biggest test for Auburn Virginia Tech plays a tough when the Longhorns dominated But the Irish do play an easi­The SEC might actually come at schedule with a home game them 45-12 and will be looking er schedule than any of the For a team to emerge unde-Alabama on Nov. 18. The Iron against Georgia Tech Sept. 30, to repay the favor. And this other BCS contenders outside 
\.. feated from the SEC, that Bowl is a big deal every year, a road game against No. 20 year, the best player will be West Virginia and Louisville. squad will face the biggest bar-and the Tide will bring its best Boston College Oct. 12, a home standing on the Oklahoma side­While the SEC beats up on riers of anyone in the country. performance, especially if its game against No. 19 Clemson lines-I-Ieisman hopeful run­itself in October and November, The SEC is the toughest confer-in-state rival is undefeated and Oct. 26 and a Nov. 4 matchup ning back Adrian Peterson. Notre Dame will have dates ence in the nation -with four playing for a title bid. at Miami. with the service academies. teams in the AP top 10 (No.2 Oh yeah, and should a team It's conceivable the I-lokies The Big Ten So while it might be a reach, Auburn, No. 5 Florida, No. 9 emerge undefeated in confer-could run the table, but very No. 1 Ohio State and No. 6 don't count the Irish out just Georgia and No. 10 LSU). ence play-it will also have to unlikely. Virginia Tech has Michigan will play the biggest yet. There's still too much sea­
Florida faces the toughest win the toughest conference played nobody so far -and its game of their seasons Nov. 18 son remaining. battle. Urban Meyer and the championship in the country. 3-0 record proves that. in Columbus, Ohio. And as And as Notre Dame learned Gators have a murderous four-Good luck. Blowouts over Northeastern, funny as it sounds, Irish fans against Michigan -sometimes game streak that begins with a North Carolina and Duke are better start practicing their 0-the unexpected happens in col­Sept. 30 matchup at home with The Big East not a strong measure of this J-1-I-0 chants. lege football. Alabama. The Crimson Tide Let's quickly shift from the team's abilities. It's possible Michigan loses will likely be ranked in the top best conference to the worst Keep in mind quarterback bflfore this game, and if that The views expressed in this 25 before that game. conference in the country-Sean Glennon is a sophomore happens, this matchup column are those ofthe author 
From there they host LSU on especially now that both with no big game experience. becomes less significant. But and not necessarily those of Oct. 7, travel to Auburn on Oct. Louisville quarterback Brian Expecting an undefeated sea­given the spark the Wolverines The Observer. 14 and then return home for a Brohm and running back son from this group is a reach. offense had in South Bend Contact Bob Griffin at date with Georgia on Oct. 28. Michael Bush are on the shelf Notre Dame's season will ulti-Saturday, it's more likely they rgriffi3@nd. edu 
.-. 

Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
-


Would you hate your alarm clock less if you had a job you loved more? 
This is your wakeup call: Imagine how much better your day would start off if you actually enjoyed your job. If you could look forward to working with a great team of people. If you felt you were making a real contribution -with a company whose products are industry leaders in design, performance, value and innovation. Garmin International offers careers like that. We produce the world's top-selling GPS navigation and wireless communication products for aviation, marine, automotive, pEM and outdoor recreation customers. To make the coolest products, we need the best and brightest on our team. So, we're always looking for talented self-starters with proven leadership skills and work experience. Fact is, we have openings right now in the following areas: 
Software Engineer • Software Test Engineer • Linux Embedded Software Engineer 
Macintosh Software Developers • Mechanical Engineer • Design Certification Engineer 
Software Quality Engineer • Flight Control Systems Engineer • Aviation Program Coordinators 
Design Engineer • Aircraft Systems Designer-Electrical • Aviation Software & Systems Engineer 
Stop by Garmin'~ booth at the Job Fair 9/21106, 5:30 p.m.-9:00 p.m in the Joyce Center Ballroom. 
l ~ l 
1 ~ 
l 

Garmin offers competitive pay and excellent benefits, including a401 (k) plan. Send resume and salary requirements to: Garmin International, Human Resources, 1200 East 151st St., Olathe, KS 66062 e-mail: engineeringjobs@garmin.com 
-

I
~ ~ 
I 
For more information on open positions, see the job opportunities section at www.garmin.com 
19235 Notre·Dame Alarm Clock Ad (1 0.188" x 16") B& W -ian 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 2006 
NFL 

Steelers, Jags regroup after MNF showdown 
-
Jacksonville moves to 2-0 after win; Pittsburgh falls to 1-1 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Ben Roethlisberger may have been feeling a little sick. He certainly was a little rusty. He could have used either one as an excuse.lnstead, he took all the blame. 
Wearing protective padding around his midsection, Roethlisberger returned to Pittsburgh's lineup Monday night, barely two weeks after an emergency appendectomy. The Jacksonville Jaguars made him pay for his courage, harassing the quarterback and stopping the defending Super Bowl champions' nine-game winning streak with a 9-0 victo­ry -the lowest-scoring game in Monday Night Football histo­ry. 
"A lot of it was my fault," said Roethlisberger, who was 1 7 -of­32 for 141 yards with two interceptions. "I told Coach I'll be OK. When I get some more practice and get on the same page with the receivers, we'll be good." 
Pittsburgh couldn't run either, managing only 20 yards on Willie Parker's 11 carries. The Steelers finished with 26 yards rushing -the lowest in Bill Cowher's 15-vear temu·P. 
"'If vou come in lwre with thP mind~set of running tlw ball on us. you may want to rNhink that philosophy," Jags defensive end Paul Spicer said. "It ain't going to be that easy." 
Josh Scobee kicked three field goals for the Jaguars (2-0), who improved to 4-0 against the Steelers in September and 3-0 against them on Monday night. 
The Steelers (1-1) kept it close and got the ball back with about five minutes to play, down 6-0. But Rashean Mathis intercepted Roethlisberger's slant pass and returned it into field goal range. 
Scobee kicked his third field goal, a 42-yarder with 4:26 left. He had a 31-yarder late in the third and a 32-yarder earlier in the fourth, and that's all Jacksonville needed. 
"We moved the ball well, but we did a bad job of scoring points," quarterback Byron Leftwich said. "To move to the 
CitI on cam us 

SEPT. 20 TLP Open House Please visit your Career Center details. 
SEPT. 21 Engineering Industry Day Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
4:30 to 9:00 pm 

Be a part of a team that reinvents technology solutions for a world leader in financial solutions. 
Majors: 

CIT, CS, MIS, IM, CE Plus all other IT related majors are welcome. 


next level, we've got to have more than nine points. But, we played a tough team, man, the Super Bowl champs." 
r· Sports. Call Ken at 631-4543. 
Mathis picked off another pass with 1 :44 remaining. 
WED. SEPT. 20TH@ 7PM 
NoTRE DAME vs. NoRTHERN ILLINOIS 
*FIRST 200 FANs RECEIVE ANoTRE DAME APRoN &FREE FOOD 
WHILE SUPPLIES LAST! 
FREE ADMISSION WIND, HCC &SMC lD 

Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Hospital 
continued from page 28 
0 lead. She would add two more touchdown passes before half­time, both to her favorite target, Kelly Bushelle. Welsh shut out Lyons, 21-0. 
"I have total confidence in Kelly," Gargula said. "I know she's going to come down with the catch even if she's triple cov­ered." 
Defensively, Welsh Family was equally strong, not allowing a first down in the first half, and coming up with two interc.ep­tions. 
For Lyons, a team made up of mostly freshmen, the game was a learning experience. 
''I'm proud of the way we played today," said Lions coach John Harrington, "regardless of the score." 
Walsh8, PEO 

On the opening drive of the game, Walsh defensive back Julie Campbell intercepted a pass from Pasquerilla East quarter­back Laura Adams and returned it 50 yards for the game's only touchdown in the Wild Women's 8-0 win Tuesday over the Pyros. 
Walsh's secondary dominated the game, forcing seven intercep­tions, including one on each of the Pyros' first four drives. Campbell was the player most responsible for the picks, as she caught three in the first half and tipped another to Emily Wilson to end the half. 
"I thought we played spectacu­lar [defense]," Walsh coach Brian Fallon said. "And we have great defensive backs and they helped us get the ball back on offense." 
Things were just as bad for Pasquerilla East's offense in the second half. Three more inter­ceptions stifled every scoring threat the Pyros could muster. 
"When you give up that many turnovers, you're going to lose the game," Pyros head coach Nate Dyer said. "When the other team has that many turnovers, there's nothing else we can do." 
The one highlight for the Pyros was their defense, which was able to shut out the Walsh offense. Pasquerilla East's defense made multiple key goal line stands, including a forced turnover in the end zone that gave the Pyros a late chance to score. 
"We just need to practice some more [to improve the offense]," Pyros captain and linebacker Molly Fox said. 
Despite the defensive effort put up by Pasquerilla East, Walsh easily won the field position bat­tle all game long. 
"We really came together as a team our defense played a very strong game," Walsh co-captain 

Consider the Carmelite 
Would you think ofjoining an BOO year tradition of walking in the footsteps of Jesus Christ? 
As Carmelites today, we have made a choice we treasure, emulating the contemplative spirit of Mary and Elijah, we build our relationship with God thru prayer, service and in community. We invite you to walk with us! 
Fr. William Wert, 0. Corm. Phone: 202-526-1221 Cc:u·melite carmelites@carmelites. net 
FHars
www.carmelites.net 


Mary Anne Lukeman said. "And our offense did a good job mov­ing the ball down the field." 
Cavanaugh 13, Badin 0 
Cavanaugh weathered the ele­ments to earn its first win at Riehle West, shutting out the Badin Bullfrogs Tuesday. The Chaos sealed the deal with a Katie Dunn touchdown pass with only a minute remaining. 
In the first half, both defenses would bend but neither would break. Each team failed to con­vert on red zone opportunities. However, the hairs best scoring opportunity came on a near interception from Badin captain Meghan Charlebois. 
"I was probably five to 10 yards from making it all the way," Charlebois said. "Sometimes it just doesn't hap­pen." 
Starting with their first drive in the second half, the Chaos went to the option -much to the delight of their quarterback. · 
"I love running the option ­it's great," Dunn said. "We want­ed to keep the ball on the ground." 
Keeping the ball on the ground, Cavanaugh marched down the field and capped off an impressive drive with a touch­down run from Dunn on an option keeper. But she was quick to pass on the credit. ­
"My offensive line led the way all night," she said. "When I wanted to run I could run; when I wanted to pass, I had time." 
The Bullfrogs remained per­sistent, even when facing a 6-0 deficit. On the first play of the next drive they went deep down the sideline and completed a pass to wide receiver Courtney Raines, but the Cavanaugh defense stalled that drive. 
Chaos captain Kerri Bergen loved what she saw from her team. 
"This was a big statement for us," she said. "It shows people the direction our season is going." 
Contact Vmce Keneally at vkeneall@nd.edu and Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles' tough season continues with loss 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Playing in a pouring rain, Saint Mary's fell once again Tuesday, losing a tough game to undefeat­ed Calvin. 
The cold and wet field condi­tions made for a sloppy 6-1 victo­ry for the Knights (6-0). 
"The weather made it a tough game but both teams had the same conditions," Belles assis­tant coach Maja Hansen said. "It was a tough day we somethings well but certainly have some room for improvement," 
Hansen -a first team All­American at the New Hampshire in 1995 -is now in her third year with the team. 
The Belles (1-4) started off well as sophomore forward Lauren Hinton notched her fourth goal of the season less than 15 min­utes into the contest. I-linton worked the ball up the field win­ning several tackles along the way and let a shot rip from just 
Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meetlng 
VVednesday,Sept20,2006 5:30 pm-7:00pm 102 DeBartolo 
!students in the College ofAL & BA onlyj 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 for Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
outside the 18-yard box. 
Hinton and senior sister Ashley Hinton worked hard on offense but were unable to put together any more quality scoring oppor­tunities against the frugal Calvin defense. The Knights have a 0.5 goals against average through their first eight games. 
Calvin registered its first goal midway through the first half when senior Sarah Weesies received a pass from junior mid­fielder Kate Otten and beat Saint Mary's goalkeeper Laura Heline. The Knights were able to strike twice more before the end of the half to take a 3-1 lead into the intermission. 
The second half did not get much better for the Belles who were seemingly overpowered by the powerful Calvin attack. 
The young Saint Mary's defense struggled to keep up and allowed three more goals in the second half on a few defensive miscues. Weesies, Knights soph­omore Elizabeth Ribbens and senior Jill Capel all added goals. 
"It was the usual people we are familiar with at Calvin that put up the points, they have a very fast and experienced team," Hansen said. 
The Knights were able to get off a flurry of shots, many of them from quality scoring posi­tion. Despite the score, Hansen said, Heline played a solid game in net for the Belles, coming up with big save after big save to keep the score from getting out of hand. 
"The biggest positive of the game was definitely Heline, she got a couple of very nice compli­ments from the Calvin coaching staff at the end of the day," Hansen said. 
Calvin, the defending MIAA champion, will be the team to beat once again in the conference this year. The Belles were ipti­mistic following the game, know­ing that they had seen the best. 
"I don't think that this is dis­couraging," Hansen said. "The team knows that this season is a process and we will be ready the second time around." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
page 26 
The Observer + SPORTS 
NIU 
continued from page 28 
senior captain and All­American Greg Dalby, who is a semifinalist for the Missouri Athletie Club IIermann Trophy, presented annually to the best collegiate soceer play­er. 
The Irish will also feature forwards Joseph Lapira and Justin MeGeeney, who lead the team with seven and four goals, respectively. 
Both increased their scoring totals this past weekend, as McGeeney tallied Notre 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
drama. 
"This match is very important -we need to focus and tighten up our own game and play our best," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We have very high goals we're trying to accomplish-one match at a time." 
The match is the Belles first at home since Sept. 7. 
"The team is looking forward to playing at home again," Schroeder-Biek said. 
The road swing consisted of five matches -four at the Maria French Memorial Tournament hosted by Baldwin­Wallace and one league match up at Albion. 
The Belles scored dominating 3-0 vietory over Albion Sept. 13, a win that continued the team's strong start and improved its record to 9-2. Saint Mary's recorded a .270 hitting percent­age in the contest while holding the host Britons to a negative hitting pereentage of -.079. 
Schroeder-Biek was 

------~-~--~---------~---------------, 
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 

Dame's lone goal in Sunday's well in the last three games, loss to Cincinnati while Lapira so you can read into that added both Irish what you will," goals in the win he said. over Louisville. "There's not much For the squad, 
After sharing Clark is confident
to do except tidy 
goal keeping that the way the
up a few things. " 
duties with soph­Irish have prac­omorB Andrew ticed these past Quinn for the Bobby Clark months will pay first five games, off.
Irish coach 

-
Weis 
continued from page 28 

that he rarely makes public comments during the summer, when he allegedly made the statement to which Smith and the Tribune alluded. 
"It's funny because in the summertime I don't talk to any­body," Weis said. "Somebody told me this summer I talked to somebody. Unless they were talking about my wife, I don't talk to anybody in the summer­time. I go on vacation with my family." 
While Weis downplayed his confidence in that manner, he also said he remained con­vinced his squad could perform well this week under his leader­ship. 
"After you lose like that, your confidence is always in ques­tion, [but] not mine personally," Weis said. "The best thing that happens after a game like that is practicing." 
Weis also said he would not use last year's flag-planting incident as a motivational tool this week. After Michigan State's 44-41 overtime victory at Notre Dame Stadium a year ago, Spartan players stuck their school flag in the turf at Notre Dame's 50-yard line. 
"I think we have to put the flag incident ... behind us," Weis said. "When you use something like the flag incident, try to use that as your motivation for the game, that lasts for about five minutes once the game starts. Once you start hitting each other in the mouth a few times in the game, that stuff is over with." 
Weis said he will once again focus solely on the opponent Notre Dame is about to face and little of the media attention sur­rounding the game -much like his game plan before the Michigan contest. 
''I'm not going to talk about flags, I'm not going to talk about beating Michigan State, I'm not going to talk about mega­phones," We is said. ''I'm not talking about any of that stuff." 
The winner of the Notre Dame-Michigan State game receives a megaphone trophy. 
To keep himself isolated from the outside noise, Weis said he has limited contact with media outlets. He said the few Web sites he plans on visiting this week are weather.com, accuweather.com and HannahAndFriends.org, the official site of Weis' charity for developmentally disabled chil­dren. 
"I make sure that I don't get info by outside sources when things go too well or when they go too poorly," Weis said. "The only thing I need to do is I need to be aware of some things that come up, like [the alumni rumor].... This has been a very poor week for me on the Web." 
Contact Ken Fowler kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Holy Cross College 
is seeking comments from the public in preparation for its evaluation by the regional accrediting agency, the Higher Learning Commission. 
The college will undergo acomprehensive evaluation visit by ateam from the commission on October 23 to 25. The team will review the College's ongoing ability to meet the commission's Criteria for Accreditation. 
The public is invited to submit comments regarding the College. Comments should be addressed to the following: 
Public Comment on Holy Cross College The Higher Learning Commission 30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 2400 Chicago, Illinois 60602 
Comments must address substansive matters related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Comments must be in writing and signed, and will not be treated as confidential. 
All comments should be received by September 23. 
senior Chris Cahill has started between the posts for the Irish in each of the last three games. Clark, however, wouldn't explic­itly state whether or not Cahill would extend his games-started streak to four. 
"He's done exceptionally 
impressed with the team's per­formance. "We challenged our­selves by not lowering our 
"You've got to 
keep the team moving forward," he said. "Every time you take the field you got to get a little better, and if we do that we'll be fine." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
conference play. Kalamazoo visits fresh off a 3­

"We have very high 
style of play and never goals we're trying to relaxed," she 
accomplish -one 
said. 
match at a time. " 
Senior Kristen Playko recorded her Julie Schroeder-Biek ninth double­
Belles coach 
double of the season with 10 kills and 17 digs, and libero Anne Cusaek tallied 29 digs. 
Freshman outsider hitter Lorna Slupczynski also added a 10-kill performance to the effort, the Belles second win in 
~ 
0 sweep of 
Olivet,  the  
team's  third  
win in  a  row.  

The Hornets are 5-6 overall, 1-1 in MIAA play. 
The young team has had an up-and­down year, but 
has a reputation for playing up to the level of tough oppo­nents. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

~{i)vl 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 



It~~ REDEEM THIS COUPON FOR 
, 

I ·~(!ill OOXffi) tJ(!) i1JYP 
. 
(574) 675-9999 
ONUNE COUPON CODE= (1696203 
www.dineinonline.com 
..-------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 20, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
LIFUD 

rJ 
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FLEAY 
j 
1 
ri I I 

THAILG 
± 
www.jumble.com 
SULTYS 
j 
WHAT THE: BOWL-­lNG DISPUTE: TURNe:D INTO. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: 
AN"[ I I I I]"[ I I I I J 
(Answers Monday)  
Jumbles:  RAJAH  TOKEN  YELLOW  BOTTLE  
Yesterday's  Answer:  When the famed composer wrote a new score, it  
was-"NOTEWORTHY"  

EUGENIA LAST 

HoRoscoPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Zegers, 21; Alison Sweeney, 29; Jimmy Fallon, 31; Trisha Yearwood, 41 
Happy Birthday: You will suffer some limitations ifyou aren't well organized or ifyou take on too much this year. Pace yourself and be practical about what you can and can't do. Make the changes you know will give you more quality time with friends and family. Your numbers are 7, 26, 28, 33, 40, 46 ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will overreact at an emotional level so, before you let that happen, back away from whatever or whoever is driving you crazy. Control your life instead of letting others do it for you, and you will achieve what you set out to do.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone will withhold information that you 
--· 

really need. Don't put up with anyone who gives you the runaround. Dealing with large companies, institutions or authority figures will prove to be difficult ifyou don't have all the facts. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may try to push you in the wrong direction. Your ability to do things spontaneously will be what keeps you in the lead. The more expressive and creative you are, the harder it will be for others to disregard your plans. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may know what you have to do, but getting down to business and making things happen won't be that easy. You can expect opposition. Don't hold yourself back by refusing to take orders or accept suggestions. * * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Traveling about will lead to the most gains. Both business and personal matters can be cleared up with a little Leo charm coupled with a little elbow grease. Listen to what others have to say, and take control to make sure everything goes according to plan. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The onus will be on money, health and legal matters today. Just do what you have to do. The sooner you get everything in order, the better you wi II feel and the more apt you are to succeed. * * * LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will do everything in a big way today, but make sure that you don't also complain about things that you know little about. Think about any emotional matter, but don't criticize or blame others. Money matters can be resolved today.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a look at your options. Ifyou want to make a change that will ensure a better future for you emotionally and creatively, now is the time. Don't hold back because you aren't sure. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are in control and ready to take action. Travel, learning and communications will be your best bet. A competitive event will allow you to show your skills and endurance.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have some fabulous suggestions, but someone will be jealous ofyou and may try to take credit for what you do. Emotional matters at home must be dealt with in a very understanding and compassionate manner. * * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll be eager to learn all you can about someone who interests you. Taking on a creative project may end up costing you more than you can afford. Someone who wants to get to know you better will reveal how he or she feels.**** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money matters can be resolved with a little creative bookkeeping. The chance to make a change for your future and your career path appears to be positive. A partnership will be to your benefit and bring financial relief. *** Birthday Baby: You are constant, creative and ready for whatever comes your way. You can adapt quickly and yet remain stable, steadfast and loyal. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Stow 5 Door sign at a 
saloon 10 Mil. training grp. 14 Author Bagnold 15 Ancient 
assembly area 16 Early Oscar winner Jannings 17 Creation on the 
sixth day 18 Starchy tubers 19 Title girl of a 
1953 million-selling record 20 Pianist who lost her score? 23 Not mad 24 Saucy 25 Cover girl who was replaced? 32 W.W. II service member 35 Dumbbell 
36 Turned up 
37 Jillions 
39 Imparts 

42 Computer image 
43 Bete 

45 Prevented from 
swelling, maybe 47 Collect splinters, so to speak 48 Office worker who lost his 
cabinet? 52 Pyramid part 53 They're caught 
in pots 56 Soldier who lost his bed? 63 Busting one's back 64 Salmon River 
locale 65 Eurasian goat 66 Delivery area 67 Corsica locale: 
Abbr. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 "Scream" star Campbell 
69 Two slices of a loaf 
70 Degree­seekers' hurdles 
71 It goes tirelessly 
DOWN 1 Galena extract 2 El Misti's range 3 Goddess of the 
hunt 4 Oscar winner 
O'Brien 5 Stadium take 6 "Oh, golly!" 7 Name for an 
average guy? aThey get the show on the road 

9 Dissed, in a way 10 Meltdown sites 11 Present 
opener? 12 A Turner 13 Kiltie's group 21 Sore, with "off" 22 Cookery's 
Rombauer 26 Smoke-filled 
room figure 27 Flowery words 28 Like some 
booms 

29 Test conductors 30 Morales of "La Samba" 
31 Time to give up? 
THE OBSERVER 
WILLSHORTZ 


32 Fairy's prop  49 Nunavut native  57 Harrow rival  
33 Soothing stuff  50 Property  58 Tough spot  
34 Salon creation  transferrer  59 Man Ray's  
38 Roasts, really  51 Spacey and  genre  
40 Mid-seventh­ namesakes  60 Punxsutawney  
century year  54 Tag  name  
41 "Get it?"  55 Canyon in the  61 Raises a stink?  
44 Zing  comics  62 Marked, in a  
46 Koln crowd?  56 Knock silly  way  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic yearObserver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint D Enclosed is $55 for one semesterMary's Community. 
Name ____________________________________________Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City ______________ State _______ Zip__________ 
two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesaday, September 20, 2006 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Picking up the pieces 
Weis remains confident after beating by Michigan 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis had to play to the middle of the field Tuesday. 
Weis denied a nagging rumor that he boasted to a group of alumni that he would never again lose to Michigan State while also insisting that Notre Dame's 26-point loss to Michigan did not shake his confidence in the team and his own coaching abilities. 
On Monday, the South Bend Tribune reported that Michigan State coach John L. Smith reacted to comments Weis allegedly made about the two teams' rivalry. The Tribune reported that Smith said the comments would motivate his coaching staff in the week leading up to the game. 
Weis said the rumor was false and 
see WEIS/page 26 
MEN'S SOCCER 


Notre Dame not yet out of BCS championship picture 
Sometime during the fourth quarter of Saturday's blowout against Michigan, Charlie Weis' mind might have wandered back to that 21-game winning streak his Patriots put togeth­
er in 2003-04. 
It was a magical streak. From week to week, nobody could beat New England. Weis, along with head coach Bill Belichick and defen­sive coordinator 

Romeo Crennel  Bob Griffin  
solidified themselves  
as the best coaching  Sports Writer  
trio in the NFL ­ 

maybe in league history. 
The following season, Belichick was the lone remaining coach in New England of the three. Crennel took 
see HOPE/page 22 

Irish hope to find rhythn1 of success starting vvith NIU 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 

It's back to square one. 
That's where Notre Dame (4­3-1, 2-2-0 Big East) stands heading into today's home game against Northern Illinois (5-3) after another 1-1 week­end. The Irish topped Louisville 2-0 Friday but fell to Cincinnati 2-1 Sunday. After splitting the weekend games, the Irish fell out of the top-25 in both the NSCAA/adidas poll and the SoccerTimes.com poll for the first time this season. 
"It's not the way we wanted, [but] it's a tough schedule," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "You're up to two [wins] in a row then down to scratch again. You're back to one day at a time, but that's the nature of the beast." 
Clark, however, has not seen much in the team's play that discourages him. 
"We've been playing pretty steadily -it's not like we've been playing badly," he said. "There's not much to do except 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles hope lightning strikes twice 
Kalamazoo visits Saint Mary's for conference matchup 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hopes history will repeat itself Wednesday ­with one minor modification. 
When Kalamazoo traveled to the Angela Athletic Center last season, Saint Mary's escaped with a nail-biting victory in five games. Tonight at 7, the team hopes for the same result, just without the 
see BELLES/page 26 tidy up a few things. [There's] nothing terribly wrong but a few things and little things that. cost you games." 


The Huskies are also coming off a 1-1 weekend after they fell to Washington 5-0 Friday but beat Portland 1-0 Sunday. Their coach, Steve Simmons, was excited about taking on the Irish. 
"This matchup against Notre Dame is a big game for us, as well as another opportunity to see where we measure up to a traditional power," he said in a statement released by the Northern Illinois athletic department. 
Notre Dame will be led by 
see NIU/page 26 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Bloodied and bruised, Gargula torches Lyons 
By VINCE KENEALLY and 
JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
To say Welsh Family quarter­back Jenni Gargula had a gutsy effort would be a dramatic understatement. 
On her team's first drive, Gargula was scrambling out of bounds when she had a head­on-head collision with Lyons defensive back Joanna Collins. Referees stopped play for 15 minutes as both players were examined and instructed to go to the hospital to receive stitc"hes. 
Because of persistent bleeding, officials forced Collins to be taken to Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center. She received treatment for a "deep temple laceration" and was released Tuesday night. But Gargula managed to convince officials that she could continue to play. 
"Coming out wasn't an option," she said. 
Gargula immediately returned to the game -medical tape cov­ering her chin -to throw a touchdown pass on the very next play to give the Whirlwinds a 6­
see HOSPITAL/page 25 
~CAA BASKETBAll

SMC SOCCE~ 
~Fl 

NCAA fOIJfBAU. 
MLB-Al

BOXING 
w 

Officiating
c.,:) Calvin 6, Belles 1 
International 
Twins 7 

-
z 
Steelers quarterback 
Police charge three 

Boxing Federation 
c~ntroversy 
Red Sox 3 

s 
Saint Mary's falls to 1­
The Pac-1 0 suspends
Ben Roethlisberger 
suspects in connection 
Justin Morneau has 

Layla Ali agrees to
4 with a loss to the 
takes the blame for 
with the Sunday shoot-

referees from Saturday's 
five hits for Minnesota 

fight at Madison Square 
= 
Knights in a driving 
Pittsburgh's 9-0 loss 
ings of five players at 

Oklahoma-Oregon game 
as the Twins retain their 
cc 

Garden in Veteran's Day 
rain. 

Monday to Jacksonville. 
Duquesne. 

after questionable calls. 
wild card lead. 

t£ 
bout. 
page 21
page 25 
page 24 

page 19 
page 19 
page 18 






