~--------------------­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Missing soldier, -wife of ND grad found 
Newly-married Air Force major returns to family, friends after ordeal in Kyrgyzstan 
ByJOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
U.S. Air Force Captain Joshua Mayo, Notre Dame Class of 2002, was looking forward to his honeymoon in Jamaica when he heard the dismaying news. 
Married on April 8 of this year, Mayo was expecting his new wife, U.S. Air Force Major Jill Metzger, to return home this September. 
Instead, on Sept. 5, Metzger 
was reported missing in Bishkek, 
Kyrgyzstan. 
Mayo's close friend and Class of 2002 gradu­ate Maren Diamante said she got a call from 

Mayo that Metzger day. The news came as a complete 
shock. "I had no words, I couldn't even think," she said. "[Mayo] was obviously very upset." 
Diamante had only met Metzger recently, but was left with a strong impression. 
"I actually only met Jill when I went to their wedding in April, and she's a fabulous girl," she said. "She's beautiful and incredibly nice." 
Diamante found the details of the story confusing and difficult to follow during the days Metzger was missing -a situa­tion partially due to problems with translation and communi­cation between Kyrgyz officials and U.S. officials and media outlets. 
"I tried following it through the media and through the papers, but nobody could seem to get any sort of story straight," she said. "There was no clear idea of what was hap­pening." 
Metzger's father, John Metzger, told the Associated Press he was hoping and pray­ing for her return. 
see METZGER/page 4 
University develops off-campus 
Faculty, staff members purchase recently constructed homes on Notre Dame Avenue 

By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
While the University moves forward with major construc­tion projects on-campus, it has been quietly extending its reach into the neighborhood just south of Notre Dame's boundaries. 
The stately new homes lining Notre Dame Avenue are hous­ing Notre Dame faculty and staff and their families, who purchased the lots from the University. 
With their manicured lawns, spacious porches and fresh paint, the new homes are evi­dence of a redevelopment effort taking place in a neigh­borhood previously riddled with dilapidated homes. 
The University's Department of Asset Management has been directing the purchase of prop­erties along Notre Dame Avenue and selling them to faculty and staff under the condition that the buyers will build a new home fitting cer­tain architP~"tural guiclelines. 
The University has acquired property off-campus since the late '80s, but only in the last four years has it started selling the properties to full-time fac­ulty and staff, said Vice President for Business Operations Jim Lyphout. 
ln the last four years, 17 properties on Notre Dame Avenue have been sold to full­time faculty or staff members. Of those, 15 were empty lots and two were houses that needed to be rehabilitated. 
Two more properties are currently available on St. Peter Street as well -one is an empty lot and the other is a house that needs to be rehabil­itated. 
The University's housing effort, known as the Notre 
see AVENUE/page 4 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Me111bers discuss student issues 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL 
News Writer 
A reduced wait time before pep rallies, work on the disor­derly house ordinance and a new club promoting interracial awareness were among the top­ics of discussion at Tuesday's Council of Representatives (COR} meeting in LaFortune. 
In response to last week's dis­cussion surrounding racial insensitivity, student body pres­ident Lizzi Shappell brought in senior Chris Wagner to talk to COR members about the new club, Sustained Dialogue. 
Sustained Dialogue's goal is to "get people from different 
see COR/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
St. Mary's introduces 
• 

new lllaJor 
Italian major expands on current program 
By VALERIE KORNFIELD 
News Writer 
After decades of Saint Mary's students spending a semester abroad in Rome, a piece of the country is finally coming to the College with the institution of a new Italian major. 
According to Peter Checca, counselor for Saint Mary's Rome Program, the Italian major has been a long time coming. The Rome Program has been in place since 1970, .and with strong courses in Italian offered both home and abroad, the main impediment to introducing an Italian major was the shortage of personnel, Checca said. 
An initial step to remedying to this problem came six years ago, when Umberto Taccheri joined the ranks of Saint Mary's profes­sors of Italian. 
The driving force behind the inception of the new major was, however, the students them­selves, who continued "asking, inquiring [and] demanding" that it be made available, said Checca. Two especially instru­mental students were former Rome Program attendees Jessica Sloan, class of 2005 and Maria Francesca Muscarello, class of 2006, who put together surveys of the first-year students studying Italian and of the returnees from the Rome Program. 
These surveys showed whole­hearted support of the Italian major, Checca said, especially from those who had already 
see MAJOR/page 4 

Conference to address eating disorders issues 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Saturday Night Live may poke fun at a suspiciously thin Nicole Richie -and everywhere, view­ers enjoy the jokes -but in reality the subject of anorexia and other eating disorders is no laughing matter. 
That is precisely why Student Body President Lizzi Shappell and the Student Senate Gender Issues Committee, who are tak­ing this matter very seriously, are organizing a three-day con­ference in February that will address eating disorders at Notre Dame. 
Valerie Staples, Coordinator for Eating Disorder Services at the University Counseling Center, says that up to 17 per­cent, or roughly 150 of all stu­dents who go in seeking guid­ance are afflicted with eating concerns such as anorexia, bulimia, binge eating disorder and muscular dysmorphia. 
These figures do not take into account those students who deal with eating disorders in private and don't go to the UCC for help. 
Junior Ashley Weiss, chair of the Gender Issue Committee, said one of the conference's most important objectives is to create awareness among administrators and faculty members who seem reluctant to address an issue that affects so 
see DISORDERS/page 3 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Saturday sell-outs 
I woke up Tuesday morning to perform one of the proudest deeds of my life. Since I'll be covering Saturday's game from the press box, I told my dad that I would exchange my stu­dent ticket for a Tim Dougherty regular admis­sion ticket with 
Sports
which he could 
Production
enter the game. 
Editor
No big deal. You know, just a little thanks for the 21 years of lessons he's taught me about the value of hard work, integrity and the impor­tance of Notre Dame football. 
He's not an alumnus. Actually, he graduated from Ohio State. Before you start booing, I must say I'd never seen a man so sad to see his alma mater win when the Buckeyes defeated the Irish in '95 and '96. In our house there was never any question as to allegiances: God, Country, Notre Dame. The way it should be. 
Not to mention, he really hates Michigan. 
Everyone has a favorite part in 'Rudy.' For many, it's when Rudy reads his acceptance letter by the lake. Sure, my eyes start to well, but the tears don't really start to flow until the next scene-when Rudy comes home to tell his dad the good news. 
"My son's going to Notre Dame. You hear that my son's going to Notre Dame." Every time, I realize how proud my own dad is of me and the "charmed life" I've been living in a place Jim Caveizel told me at halftime last Saturday "is heaven." 
But amid all the excitement, sometimes he's got to wonder what it'd like to be me. So I was going to give him that chance -and more importantly, that third ticket he needed to bring my two brothers (one still studying at Ohio State­we REALLY hate Michigan) to the game this Saturday. 
But when I got to the Joyce Center at 8:30 a.m., I was informed that in less than two hours, 300 shameless students already exchanged their tickets -most, no doubt, to turn around and illegally sell to the highest bidder at upwards of $400. 
At a university founded on a relentless Notre Dame spirit so embodied by our storied football team over the ages, I hadn't fath­omed the possibility that so many schmucks that chose to attend this school would rather whore out their treasured place in this community that they apparently don't deserve than to participate in one of its most inspiring traditions. 
Notre Dame continues to police for those who scalp tickets for prof­it because taking advantage of one's privileged position for mone­tary gain is antithetical to the goals of this Catholic institution. Unfort­unately, they're not the ones failing us. They're not the ones who cleared them through admissions. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu . 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, the article "ND Cross Country: Irish start season with win as men rake first ar Valparaiso" in the Sepr. II edition of The Observer failed to mention rhe fourth medalist for the women's cross country ream, Becca Bauman, who finished in ninth place. The Observer regrets rhis error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE DINING HALL ALTERNATIVE? 





worth a lick. " 
IN BRIEF 
Dalloway's Board will host "Wheel of Fortune," a student run game show, today from 8 to 9 
p.m. at Dalloway's Clubhouse on the campus of Saint Mary's. 
An exhibit entitled "Caras Vernos, Corazones No Sabernos: The Human Landscape of Mexican Migration to the United States" is on display at the Snite Museum of Art until Nov. 12. Museum hours vary by day. Admission is free. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform "Hamlet" in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. from today until Friday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $16 for seniors/Notre Dame facul­ty and staff and $12 for students, and are available for purchase through the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. 
"Let Your Sister Pick Your Mister" social mixer will take place on Thursday from 8 p.m. to 11 in the Saint Mary's student center ballroom. Admission is $5 per couple. 
Saint Mary's will celebrate Constitution Day on Thursday with a panel on "The War on Terror, National Security, and Civil Liberties," from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 in the West Wrng of the Dining Hall. 
Former U.S. Rep. 11m Roemer will present a talk titled "Safeguarding America: National Security in the 21st Century" on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 
~ 


HIGH 80 HIGH LOW 65 LOW 
Ben Queen Cymone Wilson Denise Pineda Erin Smith Michael Devitt Sean Salinas 
freshman junior sophomore senior senior senior 
Stanford Welsh Family BP off-campus Dillon Morrissey 
"Subway's the "Sbarro's "My most "Buen Provecho "Subway "Golden 
best alternative because they favorite thing in because it's because it's not Dragon, but because it's put pepperoni the world is my really cheap as fattening as their drivers close to my on everything!" grandmother's and the lines Burger King. , can't drive 
dorm and it's cooking." are usually good food. " short. Oops. I guess the secret's out. " 


10 stingrays killed since Irwin's death 
SYDNEY, Australia -At least 10 stingrays have been killed since "Crocodile Hunter" Steve Irwin was fatally injured by one of the fish, an official said Tuesday, prompting a spokesman for the late TV star's animal charity to urge people not take revenge on the ani­mals. 
Irwin died last week after a stingray barb pierced his chest as he recorded a show off the Great Barrier Reef. 
Stingray bodies since have been discovered on two beaches in Queensland state on Australia's eastern coast. 
Two were discovered Tuesday with their tails lopped off, state fisheries department official Wayne Sumpton said. 
Michael Hornby, the exec­utive director of Irwin's Wildlife Warriors conserva­tion group, said he was con­cerned the rays were being hunted and killed in retalia­tion for Irwin's death. 
Police embarrassed by porno film 
MADRID, Spain Spanish police officers set­tling in for a video presenta­tion on how to get promoted to sergeant were instead shown footage from a hard­core pornographic film, offi­cials said Tuesday. 

Howling laughter rippled through the auditorium where 120 Madrid city police officers had gathered Monday to see the video on operations at an academy where they are to study, the Madrid regional justice and. interior ministry said. 
A ministry official said computer technicians have blamed the glitch on a Trojan Horse computer virus that activated when the computer containing the video was turned on. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 

::c 
!;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...... 
<C 
(,) 

..... 0 HIGH 70 HIGH 65 HIGH 77 HIGH 80 
LOW 55 LOW 55 LOW 52 LOW 57 

Atlanta 76 1 66 Boston 72 I 51 Chicago 70 I 58 Denver 88 I 51 Houston 89 I 70 Los Angeles 83 I 64 Minneapolis 75 I 50 New York 72 156 Philadelphia 72 I 54 Phoenix 95 I 76 Seattle 70 I 52 St. Louis 74 I 58 Tampa 86 I 74 Washington 70 I 57 
~
~ 

Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Webeams transmit 
images of campus 
Cameras send views ofquads and buildings 
Special to The Observer 
It used to be that if you want­ed to "reach out and touch someone," you used the tele­phone, e-mail or, even (gasp!), snail mail. 
Today, there's another way to make contact from the Notre Dame campus, courtesy of a collection of cameras that broadcast images on the World Wide Web. They have a loyal following in cyberspace, where people check regularly for campus views, keep an eye on loved ones, or catch a glimpse of the weather. 
"A lot of people use them for weather if they're stuck in a basement office or an office that doesn't have a window," said Wes Evard, the photo­graphic/multimedia specialist who manages the Webcams for the University's Office of Information Technologies (OIT). 
Beyond knowing whether to pack an umbrella, the cameras also have become popular as a way to keep in touch with off­campus friends and family. 
"Godspeed, Capt. Jeff DeBerry and all military deployed. Go Irish!" read a sign held up to the Webcam in the Engineering Learning Center. Evard recalls one stu­dent from England who would stand in one particular spot and wave to her "Mum" back home every day. 
E-mails from parents confirm the value of just a quick peek of campus, with or without a student in the frame. 
"It makes me feel a little closer to my daughter to be able to see the campus live," writes one mother of a fresh­man. "It is comforting to see the Quad when I am missing my son," says another. 
Jeffrey Miller, manager of videoconferencing resources in OIT and himself the father of a new college freshman, under­stands the benefit to parents of catching a regular glimpse of their child. 
"Just to be able to see her and know she's okay," he said. "I can talk to her anytime, but it's good to actually see her." 
Images from the cameras are available via the "Visitors" link on the University's main Web page (http://www.nd.edu/) by clicking on "Dome Cam" in the box marked "Virtual Campus" in the lower left-hand corner. 
There, viewers get a bird's­eye view from each of 10 cam­pus Webcams, which update every two minutes. Visitors to the Webeam site most fre­quently check the views of the Golden Dome and Basilica of the Sacred Heart; the North, South and DeBartolo Quads follow in popularity. 
Concession Stand Training 
Part 1: Food Service Trainin Thursday **September 14th **spm 
Part 2: Mana er Trainin 
Thursday *·*September 14th **5:3opm 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
*At least two members ofall groups must attend Food Service Training. (Manager can attend and count as one ofthe two) 
*At least one member ofgroup must 
attend Manager Training. (Manager 
does not have to attend Food Service 
Training) Questions? Amy Geist 
StudentActivities Office 
ageist@nd.edu 



Disorders 
continued from page 1 
many students from both sexes. 
"As a transfer student, I know I was surprised with the way eating disorders and body images disorders are present among the Notre Dame student population," Weiss said. ''I'm used to finding vomit on the toilets in my dorm, or seeing girls wake up obsessively at 6 am to go running." 
Senior Kevin .Gimber, Co­chair of the Gender Issues 
Committee, knows that female stu­dents aren't the only ones struggling. 
"Guys have their own issues too," he said. "I've seen guys get together to measure their biceps, and modify their eating ·habits and go to the gym at all will take a comprehensive out­look towards eating disorders, by taking "both an academic and [a] practical approach, addressing first what creates an environment conducive to eating disorders from a socio­logical, biological and psycho­logical perspective." 
The organizers said they hope bringing these conditions to light will encourage the University to dedicate more resources to the research of eating disorders among college students. 
Another key organizer of the event, senior Allison Wishon, is currently in Washington D.C. at 
"We tend to trivialize eating disorders and view them as superficial, but for the people who have them they are actually coping mechanisms to deal with the pressures of life. ,, 
Valerie Staples coordinator for eating disorder services 
grounds, including Harvard Medical School. 
"It's important for everybody to get out of the mindset that eating disorders are just about weight and body images," Staples said. "We tend to trivi­alize eating disorders and view them as superficial, but for the people who have them they are actually coping mechanisms to deal with the pressures of life." 
Freshman Bridget Mahoney saw this happen to one of her male friends. 
Mahoney said her friend had recently faced romantic prob­lems, and in the last year he lost roughly 50 pounds. 
"He's over six feet tall and his wrists are smaller than mine. It's really scary," she said. "The worst thing is that he's in com­plete denial about being bulim­ic -even when it has gotten to the point where he doesn't need to gag himself to throw up because he does it so often it's normal for him now." 
Besides heartaches, Staples also said students in highly competitive universities like Notre Dame often have diflicul­ty learning how to balance aca­demies, athletics and their social lives -and they may sometimes turn to unhealthy 

hours of the day to get bigger. They may not be prime candi­dates for anorexia or bulimia, but they certainly have other kinds of body image disorders that require attention." 
Weiss and Gimber said the first thing that needs to happen to really tackle these problems is the identification of the cir­cumstances and the environ­ment that leads to the develop­ment of eating disorders in col­lege students. 
Shappell said the conference a national p a n e I a b o u t eating disorders in prepa­ration for this win­ter's con­ference. 
"I am going to 
D.C. to deter­mine who the lead­ers in the field of 
eating disorder research are, and what they feel the 'hot top­ics' in this research are, and to make connections with individ­uals at other universities who are doing the same work," Wishon said. 
The speakers for the confer­ence in February are yet to be determined, but organizers are narrowing down the list of can­didates, which include renowned medical experts, published authors and psychol­ogists from different back-
eating habits to release some of 
the stress they are experienc­
ing. 
Pennsylvania State University 
and Brigham Young University 
already sponsor seminars and 
events that address these 
issues, but Shappell said this 
would be first time undergrad­
uate students take the initiative 
to work on a conference of this 
kind. 
Contact Marcella Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
Avenue 
continued from page 1 

Dame Avenue Housing Program, is one component of an extensive rehabilitation program driven by the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization, which was developed in 2003 and 2004, said Gregory Hakanen, Director of the Department of A s s e t 
Management. 

"There are still sev­properties on
Notre Dame is Notre Dame 

one of five insti­eral properties we'd 
Avenue, resi­
tutional sponsors like to acquire. " dents in the areaof the NNRO, 
have been large­
which seeks to ly receptive to

Gregory Hakanen 
revitalize the 
the idea.

director
area that stretch­

"People 
es from the edge Department of Asset 
learned that the
of campus south Management 
University is 
to South Bend Avenue, west to Hill Street and east to the edge of Notre Dame woods. 
"When you look at the over­all redevelopment plan for the neighborhood, by no means is it just Notre Dame," Hakanen said. "I.t's the city, it's other local institutions, it's residents ... getting together to plan for redevelopment of the neigh­borhood." 
The Notre Dame Housing Program focuses on just one zone within that area -cover­ing Notre Dame Avenue, Frances Street and St. Peter Street. 
The program is popular among faculty and staff, Hakanen said, and his office already has a waiting list of faculty and staff interested in purchasing a lot from the University. Likewise, his office is always looking out for poten­tial properties to purchase. 
"There are still several prop­erties we'd like to acquire," Hakanen said, noting that sometimes his office will approach property owners who appear to be interested in sell­ing. 
"What happens is if a 'For Rent' sign goes up in the win­dow, we might say 'Hey; is it time to sell your property?"' 
Lyphout said that in the years since the University 
began purchas­
ing and re-selling 
interested in that 
area [on and around Notre Dame Avenue] and many times they call my office and let us know that they were going to sell their home," Lyphout said. 
If the University can pur­chase the home for its appraised value, they might "strike a deal" with the home­owner, Lyphout said. 
Specific atchitectural requirements for the new homes vary from house to house, Hakanen said, but the goal for each new home is the same. 
"We want the homes to look like they've been there and fit the architecture of the homes in that neighborhood," Lyphout said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Metzger 
continued from page 1 
"We've got a prayer chain all the way across the nation, and it's our hope that God will return her safely," he said. 
Those prayers were soon answered. 
On Sept. 8, Kyrgyz law enforcement officials found Metzger. 
Initial investigations indicate that Metzger may have been abducted after a shopping trip, according to a statement by 
U.S. Embassy officials as reported by the Air Force Print News. Further details are not 


Major 
continued from page 1 
experienced Rome. Many stu­dents felt that the Rome Program could provide an ideal opportunity to those double majoring in Italian and political science, communications, French, or other areas of inter­est -if the Italian major was made available. 
The visible interest in an Italian program at Saint Mary's is on track with national trends, according to Nancy D'Antuono, professor of Italian at the College. 
Enrollment in Italian in American colleges and universi­ties has grown 29.6 percent since 1997, D'Antuono said. Unlike the strategic urgency pre­sented by languages like Chinese and Spanish, the marked growth in Italian seems to spring largely from positive reactions of being released without confir­mation. 

Mayo called Diamante to tell her the good news, which came as a happy shock. 
"I nearly dropped the phone," she said. "I was laughing and felt sick at the same time because I was so relieved." 
Diamante said Mayo and Metzger are currently in a hos­pital in Germany and cannot yet be reached for comment. The two met several years ago when they were both stationed at Ramstein Air Base in Germany. 
Metzger, chief of personnel for the 376th Air Expeditionary Wing, is said to be one of the best runners in the Air Force, 
tourists or from Italian descen­dants desiring to rediscover their heritage, she said. 
According to Christian Moevs, professor of Italian at Notre Dame, globalization has taken prominence away from lan­guages once considered 'presti­gious', like French, and opened the door for the learning of all languages. 
"No single language stands out," Moevs said. 
Seven students will be able graduate in 2008 with the major, and the College will continue to work toward an increased vari­ety of courses in the area. 
Italian majors are required to take two language courses as well as six of a list of varied liter­ature, cinema and writing courses, all of which are taught in Italian. Participation in the Rome Program is not required. 
Many of the Saint Mary's stu­dents working toward the Italian major plan to pursue work in Italy, teach Italian, or in some having won the 2003 and 2004 women's division of the Air Force Marathon, held in Ohio. 
Metzger's parents told the Air Force Print News that Metzger still wants to run in the Air Force marathon. 
Thanks to Metzger's return, her friends and family will be able to breathe easier -but that does not mean the tale should be forgotten, Diamante said. 
"I think it's an important story for people to hear, if only so that for a second they may appreciate the people in their lives a little more." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 
way incorporate their knowl­edge of Italy into their careers. 
For Muscarello, who helped usher the program into exis­tence, the major will attract a certain kind of student. 
"This major needs and will thrive upon people who are in love with Italian culture; people who essentially bleed green, white and red," she said. 
Italian major Christina Palella is one of those students. 
"Italian culture has always been a part of my life because it is my heritage," she said. 
For Emily Skube, also major­ing in Italian, the language is a source of inspiration and its institution as a major will affect future Saint Mary's students. 
"Italian is not just a major, it's a passion, and ... Saint Mary's is passing that fire down to a new generation, one that will carry it with pride." 
Contact Valerie Kornfield at vkomfie@nd.edu 





LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2007 & SPRING 2008 Wednesday, September 13, 2006 101 DeBartolo 6:00 pil1 
SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME! 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 CoMPILEn FROM THE OBSERVER's wJ RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Over 50 die in stadium stampede 
SAN'A, Yemen-A stampede broke out Tuesday in a stadium packed with thousands of people for an election campaign rally for Yemen's president, killing at least 51 people and injuring more than 200, including youths bused in for the event. 
The tragedy came as President Ali Abdullah Saleh -tn power for nearly 30 years -is campaigning in the oil-rich nation's first competitive presidential elections, set for Sept. 20, against a single rival who has drawn tens of thousands to his rallies. 
The president has been eager to show he has broad popular support -even announc­ing last year that he would not run for re­election, then reversing himself, citing appeals from the public for him to stay. 
Saleh, who has allied himself with the U.S. in the war on terror, offered condolences to the families of the victims of the stampede, which occurred at a rally where he was speaking in the town of Ibb, 120 miles south of the capital, San'a. 
Prime Minister Maliki visits Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran-Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki made his first official visit to Iran. a close ally, asking the Islamic regime on Tuesday to crack down on al-Qaida mili­tants infiltrating his country and seeking new deals to help Iraq's troubled oil industry. 
The visit rel1ncted the complex relationship bPtwPen Iran, a mostly Shiite Muslim coun­try, and Iraq's governmPnt, now dominated in tlw post-Saddam llussnin era by Shiite allit>s of TPhran. Sinen Saddam's fall in 2003, Iraq has sought bPttPr n~lations with Iran and to lwal srars IPI't by tlw 19iW-R8 war that killPd mort· than 1 million pPopln on lllllh -,jd,-.. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Democrats acknowledge tape leak 
SACHAMI·:NTO. Calif'. -The campaign of (;ov. Arnold Srlnvarznnngger's DPmocratie rival acknowiPdged Tuesday that it down­loaded -and leaked to the media -a rnrording of a privatn mePting in which the governor dnscribed a llispanic legislator as having a "very hot" personality. 
But Cathy Calfo, campaign manager for Democrat Phil Angelides, said the cam­paign had done nothing wrong because the l'ile was available publicly on the gover­nor's Web site. 
"No onP hacked," Calfo said at a news conference to address the role played by tlw Angf'lidns campaign, first reported by The Sacramnnto Bee. "They accessPd infor­mation that was available to the public." 

Smith's son dies during hospital visit 
NASSAU. Bahamas -Police invnstigating tlw death of Anna Nicole Smith's 20-year-old son said Tuesday that they had no evidence that he had suffered a heart attack or that drugs were involved. 
The 38-year-old reality TV star and former Playboy playmate found her son, Daniel, unresponsive Sunday morning in a chair in her hospital room, where she was recuperat­ing from giving birth to a baby girl, and called for help. according to police. 
A hospital official said medical personnel applied CPR and other measures to try to save the young man. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Barbara Bush raises funds for Sodrel 
SELLERSBURG. Ind. -President Bush's family on Tuesday gave Republican Rep. Mike Sodrel another fundraising boost -this time from former first lady Barbara Bush ­in one of the most closely watched congres­sional races in the nation. 
Mrs. Bush told those at the fundraiser that Sodrel had immersed himself in matters cru­cial to the country, including job creation, eliminating the inheritance tax, making pre­vious tax cuts permanent and backing legis­lation to promote alternative fuels. 

Attack on U.S. embassy stopped 
Syrian guards kill four terrorists; ten civilians, Chinese diplomat wounded 
Associated Press 

DAMASCUS, Syria ­Syrian guards foiled an attempt by suspected al­Qaida-linked militants to blow up the U.S. Embassy on Tuesday, exchanging fire outside the com­pound's walls with gunmen who shouted "God is great" and tried to storm in with automatic weapons and hand grenades. 
The brazen, midmorning assault in a heavily guard­ed neighborhood of the capital could highlight the Syrian regime's weakening grip on militants, who have battled Syrian security forces repeatedly in recent years. 
The attack, which left at 
least 10 civilians and a 
Chinese diplomat wounded, 
also quickly brought to the 
surface entrenched differ­
ences between the United 
States and Syria, such as 
the Palestinian-Israeli con­
flict. Damascus' ties with 
Iran and llezbollah and tho 
war in nPighboring Iraq. 
Tlw Bush administration 
praLPd Syria's ·:prurity 
fon·:·s l'or their proi'Pssion­
al IT~:t::liJS(1 but thPII ('ldlnd 
,; ~. :hP •·ount.rv I•• pb1y :r 
n:·--:.~ructive rj,. iJ1 lighting 
i.HlTtlf'IS"L 

·· I do t hi n k t hat t h!' 
Svrians rPactnd to this 
attack in a way that hPlped 
to secure our p<'ople, and said in a statl~ment. "The litt!P-known al-Qaida ofT­on." 
we very much appreciate U.S. should ... start looking shoot called Jund al-Sham, ThrPP attackPrs and a 
that," Secretary of State at the root causes of ter­Arabic for Soldiers of Syria. Syrian guard were killed in 
Condoleezza Rice said. rorism and broker a com­Syria's ambassador to the attnmpted bombing of 
White llouse spokesman prehensive peace in the the U.S., Imad Moustapha, the embassy, located in the 
Tony Snow also thanked Middle East." told The Associated Press it same neighborhood as 
Syrian officials and called It curtly said that Syria was too early to say but President Bashar Assad's 
for Damascus to "become "performed its duties" "it's logically possible"Jund office and residence. A 
an ally and make the under the Geneva al-Sham was responsible. fourth attackf\r was 
choice of fighting against Conventions to protect the If confirmed. it would be woundPd and arrested. 
terrorists." embassy. the boldes-t and most The attackers came in 
But Syria responded with Anti-American sentiment sophisticated attack yet by two cars, one of tlwm an 
a sharp criticism of the has been rising across the Jund at-Sham. explosivns-ladon pickup 
United States. blaming its Middle East since Israel's At the State Department. truck. The first 1~ar pulled 
policies in Lebanon. Iraq 34-day blitz of Hezbollah in deputy spokesman Tom up in front or the 
and the Palestinian territo­LPbanon that ended nearly Casey said: "Clearly. it was embassy's entran1·e and 
ries for increasing Islamic a month ago, on top of tur­an organized terrorist thrf\e gunmen burst out. 
militancy. moil in Iraq that many attack on our embassy. But Shouting "Allahu akbar" ­
"It is regrettable that U.S. here blame on the United exactly who was responsi­"God is great" -they 
policies in the Middle East States. ble for it and who they threw hand grenades and 
have fueled extremism. There was no immediate might be affiliated with and fired automatic weapons 
terrorism and anti-U.S. claim of responsibility for what their motives are, are toward the gate and a 
sentiment" the Syrian Tuesday's attack, but suspi­things that we'll just have Syrian guard post, spark­
Embassy in Washington cion immediately fell on a to look at as the days go ing a 15-minute gunbattle. 


Astronauts begin ISS addition 
Associated Press wires or tubes and tightening or loos­mechanism, officials said they are ening 167 bolts. certain that the bolt flew off into 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -Two Astronaut Joe Tanner was working space harmlessly. spacewalking astronauts Tuesday with a 1 1/2-inch bolt with an "It's pretty trivial," McCullough began installing the first big addition attached spring, when the washer said. "It didn't go inside." to the international space station in holding it in fell off. The bolt and Space debris can be dangerous if it more than 3 1/2 years, and NASA spring floated over the head of astro­punctures space station walls or pronounced the outing a success, naut Heidemarie Stefanyshyn-Piper spacesuits and can jam crucial mech­even though a small bolt floated off and skittered across the truss. anisms. However, spacewalkers have and got lost. While the washer went out into a long history of losing things in 
"I felt today like this is what NASA space harmlessly, Tanner worried space. In July, Discovery spacewalk­is supposed to do," lead space station the bolt and spring could get into the ers lost a 14-inch spatula that floated flight director John McCullough. truss's wiring and tubing and cause away. "This is what we're here to do." problems. Two more spacewalks will be con­
Wearing bulky suits and gloves, the "I just hope that bolt is on its way ducted during the 11-day mission to two Atlantis astronauts ventured out­to Mother Earth right now and not finish hooking up the new addition to side to begin attaching a new 17 1/2-on its way" to a crucial joint, Tanner the half-built space station. ton box-like truss section that the said. Construction of the space station had space shuttle delivered earlier this Even though NASA didn't have any been on hold since the Columbia dis­week. The job involved connecting 17 video showing the bolt missing the aster in 2003. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
COR 
continued from page 1 

groups who wouldn't normally socialize to interact," Wagner said. 
The club consists of about 60 students committed to meet once per week in groups of 10 to 12. Trained student modera­tors lead a discussion about important issues affecting stu­dent life, particularly racial relations on campus, Wagner said. 
"What we do is provide a space for students to talk with people who honestly do care about race relations so that those with concerns can feel like their voices are being heard," he said. 
While COR members applaud­ed Sustained Dialogue for brain­storming answers to difficult problems, they also urged the group to act on the issues at hand. 
"It would be great if you went to hall councils and gave dorms an opportunity to come and par­ticipate," chief executive assis­tant Uz Brown said. "It could be a one time thing -not manda­tory -but still getting the name of the group out there." 
As for community relations, Shappell acknowledged South Bend Common Council member Karen White's invitation to meet with student leaders during the Common Council meeting Sept. 27 to discuss the disorderly house ordinance. 
Shappell, alongside other stu­dent government leaders, said she continues to work toward changing the ordinance enacted in the summer of 2005. 
Ideally, Shappell said, she'd like to see a warning given to students before the possibility of eviction. 
"We don't feel eviction fits the crime in this case," she said. 
While changing the ordinance may solve some problems, Shappell urged students to first and foremost be polite neigh­bors. 

"Introducing yourself to oth­ers and becoming a member of the community rather than a temporary resident is crucial," she said. 
Off-campus president Spencer Feran encouraged students to take up an equally polite atti­tude when confronted by the police. 
"The number one thing the South Bend Police Department said to me was for home owners to come outside and be polite when the police arrive at a party," he said. "Most of the time they are just looking to set­tle you down, and complying makes a big difference." 
"Being a good neighbor can go a long way," he said, as a neigh­bor is more likely to come to students first if there's a prob­lem if they have a friendly rela­tionship. 
Also during the meeting, Hall Presidents Council co-chair Bryan Lowery said this week­end's pep rally entry schedule will be tightened to cut down the waiting period between stu­dent entry and the start of the festivities. 

This Friday's pep rally will also be in the stadium, Lowery said, and with an excess of 35,000 people present, he deemed last week's "a great success." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

Barbara Bush speaks at fundraiser 
Former first lady backs Ind. Republican Sodrel 
Associated Press 
SELLERSBURG, Ind. -As a resident of Louisville, Ky., Dottie Frank can't even vote for Indiana Republican Rep. Mike Sodrel. 
But she likes Sodrel and traveled 20 miles north to attend a Tuesday fundraiser featuring former first lady Barbara Bush that the Sodrel campaign said netted $50,000 in one of the most closely watched races in the nation. Bush's appearance was delightful, Frank said. 
"She has 
Bridge Golf Course. "It is very important that we give him a chance to stay in Washington and finish what he started. Electing Mike is selfishly, 
•hugely important to me." 
Sodrel, the millionaire 
owner of a Jeffersonville­
based trucking company, is in 
his third consecutive campaign 
against former Democratic 
Rep. Baron Hill in southern 
Indiana's 9th district. Hill won 
their first matchup in 2002 but 
Sodrel won the 2004 election 
by fewer than 1 ,500 votes. 
Sodrel remained in 
Washington and did not attend 
Tuesday's event hosted by Bill 
and Teresa Boyd, the latter a 
friend of Sodrel's wife, Keta. 
It was yet
"Mike Sodrel is as
always been another big such a sweet­close to a 'Mr. Smith name to stump 
heart," she said. Goes to Washington' for Sodrel as 
Mrs. Bush said separate
as you can get. " 
Sodrel had fundraising visits immersed him­by President self in matters Barbara Bush Bush and first crucial to the former first lady lady Laura Bush 
country, includ­ing job creation, eliminating the inheritance tax, making previous tax cuts permanent and backing legis­lation to promote alternative fuels. 
She also said that although Sodrel, like everyone, wants American troops now in Iraq to return home "he also knows we cannot cut and run." 
"Mike Sodrel is as close to a 'Mr. Smith Goes to Washington' as you can get," Bush told about 230 people at golfer Fuzzy Zoeller's Covered 
netted about 
$700,000. Vice President Dick Cheney and his wife, Lynne, and GOP congres­sional leaders also have helped Sodrel raise money. 
Former President Bill Clinton held a fundraiser for Hill in July that his campaign said brought in about $250,000. 
Abby Curran, a spokes­woman for Hill's campaign, said Barbara Bush's visit was the latest in a parade of national Hcpublicans to stump for Sodrel and a sign that he was in "serious trouble." 
"Mike Sodrel continues to hope that his friends in Washington will come visit his district to bail him out," she said. 
The Sodrel-Hill race could be among the hardest-fought nationwide as Democrats try to gain control of the U.S. House. A new poll for Indianapolis television station WISH released Tuesday found Hill with a 46 percent to 40 percent lead over Sodrel. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. 
Campaigns in the neighbor­ing 8th District and the South Bend area's 2nd District also are considered to be key races. 
Hill and Sodrel are each air­ing television commercials now. Sodrel had raised about $1.74 million and had $1.13 million left as of June 30, according to Political Money Line, a nonpartisan clearing house for fundraising and lob­bying data. Hill had raised about $1.17 million and had nearly $968,000 as of June 30. 
Libertarian Eric Schansberg is also running for the 9th District seat. 
The cost for Barbara Bush's fundraiser was $250 a couple. Several people paid $1 ,500 to attend an exclusive reception and have their photos taken with Bush. She spoke earlier Tuesday in Connecticut on behalf of Rep. Chris Shays, and has held a fundraiser for a congressional candidate in Vermont. 



Wednesday, September 13, 2006 



Dow 

11,498.09 +101.25
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,484 I 18 808 2,883,888,327 
+44.70 

COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  + 1.85  +0.72  39.68  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.80  +0.35  19.75  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +4.01  +0.20  5.19  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.08  +0.02  25.93  
JDS UN I PHASE CP QDSU)  +4.81  +0.10  2.18  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.54  -0.026­ 4.773  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.62  -0.030  4.780  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.71  -0.035  4.905  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.53  -0.025  4.708  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.85  63.76  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -3.00  594.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.80  89.45  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  11.8650  
EURO  0.7887  
POUND  0.5343  
CANADIAN$  1.1202  

IN BRIEF 

Nation's trade deficit at all-time high 
WASHINGTON -Soaring global oil prices sent the U.S. trade deficit to an all-time high, and Democrats hoping to take control of Congress said the figures showed Republican policies have failed. 
The trade deficit increased to $68 billion in July as record oil prices pushed America's foreign oil bill to the highest level in history, the Commerce Department reported Tuesday. 
Democrats said the worse-than-expected show­ing was evidence that President Bush's trade poli­cies were failing to protect American workers from unfair foreign competition that they said had contributed to the loss of nearly 3 million manu­facturing jobs since Bush took office. 
"These record trade deficits are proof positive that the current trade agenda is not working for America," said Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., who is in line to become chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee if Democrats take control of the House. 
"America's trade policies are a miserable fail­ure," said Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D. "We are choking on debt, a substantial portion of which we owe to China and Japan." 

THE 0HSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Kroger's earnings rise 6 percent 
Experts say profit increase aided by families eating out at restaurants less 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Kroger Co., the nation's largest traditional grocery chain, said Tuesday its profit rose 6 percent in its sec­ond quarter, aided by higher fuel prices that has consumers looking at supermarkets -instead of restaurants -to feed their families. 
Kroger shares tumbled 6 percent though as it confirmed its earnings guidance for the full year at a level slightly below Wall Street's expecta­tions. On Monday, shares hit a 52-week trading high on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Profit for the quarter ended Aug. 12 reached $209 million, or 29 cents per share, from $196.5 million, or 27 cents per share, in the year-ago period. Results include 3 cents per share for legal reserves recorded in the first quarter. Analysts expected a profit of 29 cents a share on revenue of $14.73 billion, accord­ing to a survey by Thomson Financial. 
Revenue rose 9 percent, to $15.14 billion, from $13.87 billion a year ago. 
Kroger executives told analysts in a conference call that efforts to build customer loyalty, price discounts and cost-cutting have helped boost profits, along with consumer belt­tightening amid higher gasoline prices in the summer. Some casual­dining restaurants have reported lower sales recently. 
"A family can be fed much more economically at the supermarket," said David B. Dillon, Kroger's chairman and chief exec­utive officer. "Fuel costs are higher and people are feeling the pinch." 
Kroger, with its many stores, offers convenience for gas-conscious shop­pers, he said. The compa­ny also has been luring customers with loyalty cards that enable them to earn sharp discounts on gasoline and groceries. 

But Dillon said such promotions are only a piece of Kroger's overall strategy, which won't be changed by the recent decline in gas prices. The company said it has cut costs by using more ener­gy-efficient lighting and managing transportation to reduce gas usage. 
Kroger  also  has  been  
investing  in  store  
improvements.  

Same-store sales in the quarter grew 6.2 percent. Including sales of gaso­line, same-store sales grew 8.2 percent during the quarter. 
Same-store sales, which Kroger calls identical­store sales and defines as sales in stores not sched­uled to be closed that have been open five full quarters, are a key gauge of industry performance. 
Kroger in recent years has faced increasing com­petition from discounters led by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and higher-end natu­ral-food stores such as Whole foods Market Inc. 
HSBC Securities analyst Mark Husson recently downgraded Kroger shares to "neutral" from "overweight," saying he didn't see a catalyst for stock growth. He suggest­ed last month Kroger might consider buying more stores. 
Kroger executives said on Tuesday that any acquisition would have to add growth opportunities and fit with Kroger cul­ture, and that protecting its investment-grade credit rating is a priority. 
The company Tuesday confirmed guidance of 2006 earnings per share growth of 6 percent to 8 percent, implying 2006 earnings expectations of about $1.39 to $1.41 per share. But that was below analysts' expectations for 
a  profit  of  $1.43  per  
share.  
Kroger  shares  fell  

$1.33, or 5.5 percent, to close at $22.75 in trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock reached $24.15 during Monday trading and has traded as low as $18.05 in the past year. 
Regulators caution BP on pipeline 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators warned BP PLC on Tuesday that it must sup­ply detailed and credible evidence that a temporary fix to resume oil production on Alaska's North Slope can be done without environmental risk. 
BP must show it "can manage corrosion going forward," Thomas Barrett, chief of the Transportation Department's pipeline safety agency, told a Senate hearing at which oil company executives said they hope to pres­ent such a plan, possibly this week. 
"We must be assured that even a tempo­rary limited restart can be operated safely before it can proceed," said Barrett, who took over the DOT pipeline agency this year. 
Robert Malone, president of BP America Inc., a subsidiary of BP PLC, said the com­pany planned to request within days that it be allowed to reopen the pipeline's eastern leg so more thorough tests -using a so­called "pig" device -can be run through it to ascertain if the line again can be used to send oil south. 

Stocks rise on Goldman Sachs news 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street rallied for a third straight session Tuesday, pro­pelling the Dow Jones industrials up more than 100 points after Goldman Sachs Group Inc. reported results that beat expectations and investors grew more confident that the continuing drop in crude oil prices would boost consumer spending. 
After seven days of oil price declines, investors pushed shares of consumer­oriented stocks higher. Companies such as General Motors Corp., home improvement chain Home Depot Inc. and Best Buy Co. all showed strong gains. 
"I think the concerns about September that led the market lower last week are basically waning because oil prices are declining," said Scott Fullman, director of investment strate­gy at Hapoalim Securities USA. 
"The major benchmarks are per­forming extraordinarily well. What we've been seeing is the movement of assets out of commodities stocks and into more traditional growth stocks such as health care and technology," he said. 
Investors also saw momentum from financial services stocks after Goldman Sachs reported better-than-expected third-quarter results, although profits fell as its trading business slowed. Not only did Goldman's earnings bode well for rival investment banks due to report this week, but also signaled that com­panies have not pulled back from going to the markets with equity deals. 
The rally helped lift the Dow to a four-month high and the Nasdaq com­posite index and Standard & Poor's 500 index to three-month highs. 
The Dow rose 101.25, or 0.89 per­cent, to 11,498.09, while the S&P 500 was up 13.57 or 1.04 percent, at 1,313.11. The Nasdaq composite index rose 42.57, or 1.96 percent, to 2,215.82, its highest point gain since Aug. 15, when it rose 45.97. 
Bonds also advanced, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.77 percent from 4.80 percent Monday. The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices declined after falling below $600 an ounce Monday for the first time in more than two months. 

~~~------~-------~­
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
The Mendoza College of Business and The Career Center Present 
FALL CAREER EXPO 2006
*

JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
Sears Holdings Corporation 
Silver Point Capital 
SIRVA 
SMART 
Speedway Super America 
Spot Trading SPX Corporation 
Starbucks Coffee Company 
State Farm Insurance 
State of Indiana BMV 
State of Indiana Personnel Department 
Steve & Barry's University Sportswear 
Stockman Kast Ryan +Co. 
Stout Risius Ross, Inc. 
Stryker Instruments 
Talbots 
Target Corporation 
TATA Consultancy Services 
Teach for America 
Textron Financial 
The Bradford Group 
The Kroger Company 
Travelers UHY Advisors, Inc. 
Uline .-
Umbaugh 
University of St. Thomas MBA Program 
U.S. Probation & Pretrial Services Vanguard Virchow Krause & Company Volkswagen Credit Wachovia Securities Walgreens Wealth & Tax Advisory Services Whirlpool Corporation Wolverine World Wide Work and Travel Ireland Young Innovations Zimmer, Inc. Zurich North America 
The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Mendoza College of Business 
September 13/ 2006 
4:00 pm -8:00 pm 
AAR Corp 
Abbott 
Abercrombie & Fitch 

Abercrombie & Fitch (Home Office) 
Accenture 
Aflac 

A.G. Edwards Alliance for Catholic Education Allstate Insurance Company American Eagle Outfitters American Transport Group Ameriprise Financial Anheuser-Busch Compa~ies, Inc. Aon Corporation Apparatus Ashton Partners AT&T Bain & Company BASES Baxter Healthcare BDO Seidman Bearing Point Becker Professional Review BMO Capital Markets Boston Consulting Group BP Energy Company Capital One CareerBuilder.com CCA Strategies Central Intelligence Agency 
C.H. Robinson Worldwide Chevron Products Company Chicago Apartment Finders CIBC World Markets Citigroup Clarity Consulting Cochran Caronia Waller Comptroller of the Currency Countrywide Financial CRA International Credit Suisse Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte US Firms Delta Air Lines, Inc. Deutsche Bank Driehaus Capital Management E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications Ecolab Edelman Eli Lilly and Company Enterprise Rent-A-Car Epic Systems Corporation Ernst & Young FactSet Research Systems Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Federated Media Federated Mutual Insurance First Investors Corporation Fisher Scientific Follett Higher Education Group Ford Motor Company FTI Consulting GElCO General Electric General Mills Goldman Sachs Governor Orr Entrepreneurial 
Fellowship Grant Thornton Grosvenor Capital Management Hampton Roads Youth Center Harris Williams & Company Hewlett-Packard Hillstone Restaurant Group Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin Huron Consulting Group IBM Indiana INTERNnet lnfosys Technologies Japan Information Center Johnson & Johnson Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions Kellogg Company Kirkland & Ellis KPMG LaSalle Bank Liberty Mutual Insurance Group LightPoint Capital Management Lincoln International Liz Claiborne Maersk, Inc. Marine Corps Officer Programs McGiadrey & Pullen Morgan Stanley Morningstar National City Corporation Navigant Consulting News America Marketing NIBCO Northern Trust Northwestern Mutual Financial 
Network/The Holter Group Novogradac & Company Ostrow Reisin Berk & Abrams Peace Corps PepsiCo PNC Financial Services PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Prudential Capital Group Pulte Homes Raytheon Robert W. Baird & Co. Rolls-Royce Corporation Ryan & Company Schneider Downs & Co. Score 
EVERY COLLEGE • EVERY MAJOR • INTERNSHIPS • FULL-TIME POSITIONS 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Michigan requires new­cervical cancer vaccine 
Sixth grade girls will get FDA-approved shots 
Associated Press 
LANSING, Mich. -Michigan !-,rirls entering the sixth grade next year would have to be vaccinated against cervical cancer under leg­islation backed Tuesday by a bipartisan group of female law-· makers. 
The legislation is the first of its kind in the United States, said Hepublican state Sen. Beverly llammerstrom. lead sponsor. 
The vaccine was approved by the Food and Drug Administration in June for use in girls and women and has been hailed as a breakthrough in can­cer prevention. It prevents infec­tions from some strains of the sexually transmitted human papilloma virus, which can cause cervical cancer and genital warts. 
A government advisory panel said that ideally, the vaccine should be given before girls become sexually active. 
The American Cancer Society estimates that cervical cancer will be diagnosed in 9,700 women nationwide, and that 3, 700 will die. 
"We believe we can save the lives of these girls," llammerstrom said. 
Some critics around the country have expressed concern that schools would make the vaccine a requirement for enrollment. They have argued that requiring the vaccine would infringe on par­ents' rights and send a message that underage sex is OK. 
As with other vaccines required for schoolchildren, the bills have a provision allowing parents to opt out of the HPV vaccine requirement for medical, moral or philosophical reasons. But some critics are still concerned. 
"We don't feel using school attendance as a form of coercion to get parents to vaccinate their child is appropriate, simply because this disease is not trans­mitted through casual contact the way other diseases are that are subject to school mandates," said Peter Sprigg, vice president for policy at the Family Research Council in Washington, D.C. 
"Parents should be able to opt in rather than opting out," he added. 
The three-shot vaccination costs $360. Hammerstrom said that most Michigan employers will cover the vaccine, and that uninsured girls could be covered through the federal government's Vaccines for Children program. 
Health officials estimate that 20 million people are infected with HPV, with 6.2 million new infec­tions occurring every year. About 80 percent of sexually active women will be infected by age 50, but for 90 percent of those infect­ed, the virus is naturally cleared from the body and becomes unde­tectable. 
Fonner governor on Oprah 
McGreevey will discuss new book, announcement of homosexuality 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Former New Jersey Gov. James E. McGreevey, who had been publicly silent since announcing two years ago that he was gay and was resign­ing, made "The Oprah Winfrey Show" the first stop on his nation­al book tour Tuesday. 
But what he said will remain a mystery until the show airs. 
Audience members who attended the two-hour-long tap­ing said they were instructed not to discuss the show or McGreevey's comments. The tor­mer governor's book, "The Confession," has been cloaked in secrecy and will be released Sept. 19 -the same day the show L'i to air. 
Winfrey landed the exclusive­interview with McGreevey because of her sense of faith and spirituality, according to friends of the former governor. McGreevey is said to be a fan of Winfrey's education and anti-poverty work, two issues to which the former governor is devoting more time in hL'i post-political life. 
The 49-year-old Democrat drew national attention when he called a news conference in 2004 and, with his wife at his side, publicly declared, "I am a gay American." The couple have since separated, and McGreevey lives with his partner, Australian financial adviser Mark O'Donnell, 42. 
About a dozen friends accom­panied McGreevey and O'Donnell to Chicago for the taping Tuesday afternoon. Some segments of the show, ineluding clips from the New Jersey home McGreevey shares with O'Donnell, were filmed previously. 


Julie Everett, a Cincinnati nurse who attended college with McGreevey, said before the taping that she and her friends submit­ted old college photographs to Winfrey producers. 
"We're here to support him as his friends," Everett said. "His courage, his humility, he has been unbelievable since this ordeal. He's an inspiration to·ine." 
McGreevey waved and smiled at reporters from a sport utility vehicle as he arrived at the studio Tuesday but did not speak to the media. 
"The Confession" traces McGreevey's life through two failed marriages, his rise to the governor's office and the sudden, public implosion of his political career. 
McGreevey, a Democrat, announced his homosexuality and his impending resignation in the same speech on Aug. 12, 2004, and acknowledged that he had been involved in an affair with a man. 
State Sen. Ray Lesniak, who was interviewed by Winfrey's staff in preparation for the pro­gram, said the show was interest­ed in how McGreevey is now, compared with how he was as governor. 



What are you doing next summer? 



May 16-June 17,2007 
./All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ../Four and one-half week study in London ./Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ../Earn 6 credit hours ./Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Sessions f~r 2007 & 2008 Programmes: 

11:30 to 12:30 P.M. DeBartolo lOt or 5:00 to 6:00 P J\tf. DeBartolo 136 
Applications are available at 223 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.edul-sumlon 
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 





Nonaligned nations seek new 'terrorisf definition 
North Korea, Iran, among countries that want to see violent actions of powerful nations characterized as terrorism 
Associated Press 
HAVANA-Iran, Syria, North Korea and more than 100 other nations are pushing to broaden the world's definition of "terrorism" to include the 
U.S. occupation of Iraq and the Israeli invasion of Lebanon. 
Converging on Fidel Castro's communist Cuba for a summit this week, members of the Nonaligned Movement com­plain of a double standard: powerful nations like the United States and Israel decide for the world who the terror­ists are, but face no punish­ment for their own acts of aggression. 
A draft of the group's joint declaration condemns "terror­ism in all its forms," especially violence that targets civilians. 
Terrorism should not be associated with any religion or nationality, says the draft. It singles out a favored phrase of President Bush in declaring that member countries "totally reject the use of the term 'axis of evil' by a certain state to target other states under the pretext of combating terror­ism." 
A Cuban official said sarcas­tically on Tuesday that the U.S. could one day accuse the entire Nonaligned Movement of supporting terrorism. 
"Reading some news reports ... I'm left to believe that the axis of evil is growing," said Abelardo Moreno, Cuba's vice foreign minister. "Soon, the (axis of evil) will be made up of 118 countries." 
Cuba says the U.S. is particu­larly hypocritical in the case of a former CIA operative and Castro foe wanted in Venezuela in the 1976 bombing of a Cuban jetliner from Caracas that killed 73 people. 
On Monday, as the U.S. sought global support for its response to the Sept. 11 attacks five years ago, a feder­al magistrate in Texas said Luis Posada Carriles should be released while he waits to be deported anywhere but Cuba or Venezuela, where the U.S. fears he could be tortured. 
The draft declaration con­demns Israel's invasion of Lebanon, with no balancing comments about Hezbollah's missile attacks on Israel. 
It also hails the Lebanese people's "heroic resistance to the Israeli aggression" and demands that Israel compen­sate the Lebanese government and people for the deaths, injuries and destruction the war caused. 
Despite the recent spotlight on Lebanon, many representa­tives from nonaligned coun­tries said much of the world's terrorist activity won't end until a solution is found for the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian territories. 
"This issue is at the core of so many problems that it would help stop some terror­ism if it were resolved," said Khalid A. al-Akwa, a Yemeni Foreign Ministry official. 
If Israel and its neighbors respect each other's borders and recognize the right of both states to exist, Palestinian resistance groups could even­tually disappear, he predicted. 
Many Arab officials say al­Qaida is in a different category, one representing true terror­ists. Al-Akwa agreed. 
"They target civilians, they lack the cause and the justifi­cation, they don't distinguish ty because he was not author­ians in Iraq are also con­with the West called for less among anyone -they're even ized to speak to journalists. demned in the summit docu­labeling and more cultural sen­attacking us Muslims," he said. And while many Arab diplo­ment, which offers support for sitivity, citing racial profiling "And they have a different mats privately describe the the current Iraqi government and discrimination against political agenda, to extend an military actions of the United -also backed by the United people from Middle Eastern Islamist system that doesn't States and Israel as examples States. But many nonaligned and Asian countries. really have anything to do with of "state terrorism," a specific countries have sharply criti­Debate is expected to get our religion." reference to this was eliminat­cized the invasion of Iraq, and particularly lively after the 
The document could be ed during Monday's discussion, the current U.S. occupation is arrival of outspoken anti­muted in this week's debate. A according to al-Akwa. sure to be addressed this week. American leaders including North African diplomat He said he did not know why Iraq has a delegation to the presidents Mahmoud described the section on ter­the section was taken out, but summit, though it was not Ahmadinejad of Iran, Bashar rorism as "alphabet soup," he didn't hear very much immediately clear who was Assad of Syria, and Hugo because it tries to include all objection, "not even by the leading it. Chavez of Venezuela. North members' perspectives. He Palestinian delegation." Even India and other coun­Korea is sending its No. 2 spoke on condition of anonymi-Terrorist acts against civil-tries that have good relations leader, Kim Yong Nam. 
Full speed ahead. 
We remove the barriers, so you can accelerate your career. We've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're recognized for our inclusive culture that expects everyone to contribute and everyone to grow. Stop just long enough to visit us on campus, or at ey.comjustcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
2006 Fall Career EXPO Wednesday, September-"13, 2006: 4 p.m.~ 8 p.m. ..Ioyce Center North Dome Organization  "0 Cl'l.... e' Q) "0 c ::l  0 .r:. ~ ... Q)-Ill Cl'l :!!  Q) E i= "5 u.  Ill .9­.r:. Ill c... Q)-..5  ~ i -~ s .E ...... l; 0 a.  
AAR Corp Abbott Abercrombie & Fitch Abercrombie & Fitch (Home Office) Accenture Aflac  * * * * * *  * *  * * • • .  * *  . .  LightPoint Capital Management Lincoln International Liz Claiborne Maersk, Inc. Marine Corps Officer Programs McGiadrey & Pullen  * * * * * *  * * *  . . * • *  * . * * *  * .  
A.G. Edwards Alliance for Catholic Education Allstate Insurance Company American EaQie Outfitters American Transport Group  * * * . *  . * *  * * • . *  . . * *  Morgan Stanley Morningstar National City Corporation Navigant Consultinq News America Marketinq  * * * . .  *  * * * * *  
Ameriprise Financial  *  *  NIBCO  •  *  
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.  *  *  *  *  Northern Trust  *  *  
Aon Corporation  *  *  *  Northwestern Mutual Financial Network!The Holter Group  *  *  *  *  
Apparatus Ashton Partners AT&T Bain & Company BASES Baxter Healthcare BOO Seidman Bearing Point Becker Professional Review BMO Capital Markets  * * * * . * * * * *  . * • * . *  * * * . . . * • *  * * * * * .  • .  Novogradac & Company Ostrow Reisin Berk & Abrams Peace CorQ_s PepsiCo PNC Financial Services PricewaterhouseCoopers Procter & Gamble Progressive Insurance Protiviti Prudential Capital Group  .  * * . * . * * . . .  * . . •  * . * . * * * * * *  . * . . . *  * *  
Boston Consulting Group  *  *  *  Pulte Homes  *  *  
BP Energy Company  *  *  Raytheon  *  *  *  *  
Capital One  *  *  *  Robert W. Baird & Co.  *  *  *  
CareerBuilder.com CCA Strategies Central Intelligence Agency C.H. Robinson Worldwide  * . . .  * *  * * * *  • * *  *  Rolls-Royce Corporation Ryan & Company Schneider Downs & Co. Score  * * * *  *  * * . *  * * * *  .  
Chevron Products Company Chicago Apartment Finders  * *  * *  * *  * *  *  Sears Holdings Corporation Silver Point Capital  *  * *  * .  *  *  
CIBC World Markets  *  *  SIRVA  *  *  *  
Citiqroup  *  *  *  SMART  *  *  *  
Clarity Consulting Cochran Caronia Waller Comptroller of the Currency Countrywide Financial CRA International  * * * • *  .  * . . * *  •  Speedway SuperAmerica S_Q_ot Trading_ SPX Corporation Starbucks Coffee Company State Farm Insurance  * * • . . . * .  * * * * *  * • •  *  
Credit Suisse Crowe Chizek and Company Deloitte US Firms Delta Air Lines, Inc.  * * * *  * *  * * * •  *  • *  State of Indiana BMV State of Indiana Personnel Department Steve & Barry's University Sportswear Stockman Kast Ryan + Co.  * . . .  * *  * * • .  * * * *  
Deutsche Bank Driehaus Capital Manaqement E&J Gallo Winery EchoStar Communications Ecolab  * . * * *  *  * * * * *  * •  * * *  Stout Risius Ross, Inc. Stryker Instruments Talbots Target TAT A Consultancy Services  • * * * .  *  * . . . *  • *  * . .  
Edelman Eli Lilly and Company Enterprise Rent-A-Car Epic Systems Corporation Ernst & YounQ  * . • • .  • • •  * * • • *  • * *  *  Teach for America Textron Financial The Bradford Group The Kroger Company Travelers  • * * * .* . . .  * * * * *  * *  * . .  
FactSet Research Systems Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  * *  * *  *  *  UHY Advisors Uline  . .  * *  * *  
Federated Media  *  *  *  *  Umbaugh  *  *  *  *  
Federated Mutual Insurance First Investors Corporation Fisher Scientific Follett Higher Education Group Ford Motor Company FTI Consulting GEICO General Electric  * • . . * * * •  * * *  * . • • . . •  * * *  • * • • *  University of St. Thomas MBA Program U.S. Probation & Pretrial Services Vang_uard Virchow Krause & Company Volkswagen Credit Wachovia Securities Waklreens Wealth & Tax Advisory Services  * * . * * • . *  * * . * * . . * * * *  . • . * *  
General Mills Goldman Sachs Governor Orr Entrepreneurial Fellowship Grant Thornton Grosvenor Capital Management Hampton Roads Youth Center  * * * . • *  * * * * *  * . * * .  * *  Whirlpool Corporation Wolverine World Wide Work and Travel Ireland Young Innovations Zimmer, Inc. Zurich North America  * * * * * . * • * . . . .•  * * * .  . *  
Harris Williams & Company Hewlett-Packard  * .  *  * *  *  
Hillstone Restaurant Group  *  *  *  *  *  
Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin  *  *  
Huron Consulting Group  *  *  *  
IBM  *  *  
Indiana INTERNnet  *  *  
lnfosvs Technologies  *  *  
Japan Information Center  *  *  
Johnson & Johnson  *  *  *  
Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions  *  *  *  
Kellogg Company  *  •  *  
Kirkland & Ellis KPMG  * *  .  * *  *  
LaSalle Bank  *  *  
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group  *  *  *  

page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
GERMANY 


Pope urges Muslims to end jihad, begin dialogue 
Benedict said violence incompatible with God, spreadingfaith in his speech about faith and reason at German university 
Associated Press 
REGENSBURG Pope Benedict XVI said Tuesday that Islamic holy war was against God's nature and invited Muslims to join in a peaceful cultural dialogue. 
In a speech at Regensburg University, Benedict made an unusual reference to jihad, or holy war -a concept used by today's Islamic extremists to justify suicide bombings and other attacks. 
Benedict's address was about faith and reason, and how they cannot be separated and are essential for "that genuine dialogue of cultures and religions so urgently needed today." 
Citing historic Christian commentary on holy war and forced conversion, the 79­year-old pontiff quoted from a 14th-century Byzantine emperor, Manuel II Paleologos. 
"The emperor comes to speak about the issue of jihad, holy war," the pope said. "He said, I quote, 'Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his com­mand to spread by the sword the faith he preached."' 
Clearly aware of the sensi­tivity of the issue, Benedict added, "I quote," twice before pronouncing the phrases on Islam and described them as "brusque," while neither explicitly agreeing with nor repudiating them. 
"The emperor goes on to explain in detail the reasons why spreading the faith through violence is something unreasonable," Benedict said. 
"Violence is incompatible with the nature of God and the nature of the soul," the pope said, issuing an open invitation to dialogue among cultures. 
The Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, said the pope was not giving an interpretation of Islam as "something violent" although he said the religion contains both violent and nonviolent strains. 
Benedict did not touch directly on the current con­troversy over Islamic extrem­ism, although it is an issue he follows with concern. Last year in Cologne, Germany, he urged Islamic leaders to take responsibility for their com­munities and teach their young to abhor violence. 
Last week, he told a gather­ing of Christian, Muslim and Jewish representatives in Italy that no one can "use the motive of religious difference as a reason or pretext for bel­
licose behavior toward other human beings." 
Benedict will make his first visit to a Muslim country in November, when he is sched­uled to travel to Turkey. 
Gerlinde Axmann, a 40­year-old social worker, watched Tuesday's speech on one of the large screens set up in a square near the cathe­dral. 
"That was a very important start to dialogue with Muslims amid the terrorist threat," she said, calling Benedict's appeal to reason "a building block toward finding a way to argue with each other without using weapons." 
"I think it's very important for him to bring these things up in society," she said. "Muslims aren't going to take us seriously until we become conscious of our own values. For example, they take the pope much more seriously than others in the West." 
Benedict earlier celebrated Mass for some 230,000 peo­ple, the second-largest crowd of his six-day homecoming tour, which ends Thursday. 
From atop the altar plat­form, the pope looked over a throng dotted with blue-and­white Bavarian flags and the yellow-and-white Vatican banners. 
In discussing faith and rea-

Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreux Professor ofPolitical Science  
~  1114-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, john M. Regan Jr. Director oftiJejoan B. Kroc Institute for lntern,1tional Peace Studies John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute A. Rashied Omar, Assisttmt Professional Specialist;. Kroc Institute  'i: ~. ........._  

Discovered between 1947 and1956, the Dead Sea Scrolls 
~ ll/18-Army "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance 
include approximately 240 Hebrew and Greek biblical 
Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic manuscripts that illuminate a previously undocumented John Blacklow, Assistant Pn~f'essor ofMusic period in the history of the books of the Bible. This 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, lecmre will examine how these manuscripts illustrate the Snite Museum ofAn (unless otherwise noted). development of the biblical books and raise questions For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu about revelation, inspiration, and the canon. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

"The Impact ofthe Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" 
Eugene Ulrich 
Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
12:00 Noon 
Saturday, September 16 1 0 1 DeBartolo Hall 
son, Benedict in his sermon at Mass scoffed at the idea of a "mathematically ordered cos­mos" without any hand of God. He said this would mean "nothing more than a chance result of evolution." 
"We believe in God. This is a fundamental decision on our part." 
Eva Renz dozed in the sun as she waited for the pope, having been on the road since 3 a.m. with her husband and 
1' 
six children. 
"His presence is important because he is a representative of Christ," she said. "I brought all the children because it's important for them to see this huge crowd and all the joy." 
Some people turned out in spite of disagreeing with Benedict's conservative stands such as his opposition to ordaining women and mar­ried men. 
Fall 2006 Schedule 
E:xverience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/9-Penn State "More 'Ihan aMovie? Assessing lhe Da 'lind Code" (l 01 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, lelcvision, and lheatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor of1heology Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Ar1 History, and Design 
~ 9116-Michigan "The Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor of1heology 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, Chriir and Profi'ssor ofPrychology 
~ 10/7-Stanford "1he Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associrtte Profes.wr ~(Anthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: 'lhe 14th Amendment" .W 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 


Den1ocrats say Bush used 9-11 speech to advance agenda 
Bush did not intend nationally televised remarks about recent U.S. foreign policy to be controversial, White House said 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Republicans and Democrats tore into each over war policy Tuesday, set off by a presidential speech the White House insisted was nonpo­litical. A GOP leader said Democrats seemed "more inter­ested in protecting the terrorists" than shielding fellow Americans. 
The Democrats contended the president had used a prime-time address commemorating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks to make partisan arguments bolstering support for the Iraq war. 
"I wonder if they are more interested in protecting the ter­rorists than protecting the American people," said House Majority Leader John Boehner, R­Ohio. "They c~rtainly do not want to take the terrorists on and defeat them." 
Trading barbs, House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi, who had criticized the president's speech as inappropriately politi­cal, called Boehner's criticism "cynical tactics." 
"Rather than try to defend their own failed record, Republicans have resorted to the desperation politics of fear," said Pelosi, D­Calif. "It is long past time for Republicans to be honest with American people and stop ques­tioning the patriotism of those· who recognize that the presi­dent's Iraq policy has not worked, is making us less safe and must be changed." 
The White House tried to steer clear of the tussle. In fact, Bush spokesman Tony Snow took issue with Boehner's contention that Democrats may be looking out for the terrorists' interests. 
Snow said it was unfortunate but perhaps inevitable that "there will be some name calling" in the months before this fall's election as Republicans and Democrats battle for control of Congress. 
At the same time, the White House vigorously defended Bush against Democratic charges that the president inappropriately used Monday's televised speech, marking the fifth anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, to try to bolster support for the divi­sive war in Iraq. 
Snow said very little of the president's 17-minute address contained controversial state­ments, and that "this was not an attempt to stir the hornet's nest." 
Democratic leaders called the speech a political argument try­ing to justify the war by linking it to the terrorists responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks. The Democrats contend mismanage­ment of the war calls for a change in congressional leader­ship. 
"The president spoke for his administration, not for the nation," said Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev. "This was a political move, designed to tap the overwhelming public sen­timent to destroy al-Qaida as a way to bolster sagging public sup­port for the war in Iraq." 
Reid and Pelosi circulated a let­ter they sent to the television net­works and cable news channels asking for equal coverage of Democratic viewpoints on terror­ism and Iraq. "There has been a complete absence of balance in the news coverage of national security issues," they wrote. 
In response, representatives for ABC and CBS said the networks cover news fairly and accurately and will continue to do so. 
Bush's address paid tribute to the nearly 3,000 victims of the Sept. 11 attacks and described the enemy as a global network of extremists who hate freedom and tolerance. "The war against this enemy is more than a military conflict," he said. "It is the deci­sive ideological struggle of the 21st century, and the calling of our generation." 
Much of the speech described the administration's foreign policy following the attack and the deci­sion to go after enemies before they could harm Americans. 
"I am often asked why we are in Iraq when Saddam Hussein was not responsible for the 9/11 attacks," Bush said. "The answer is that the regime of Saddam Hussein was a clear threat." 
Bush contended disaster could result if the United States pulled out of the war, emboldening ter­rorists. 


The liberal MoveOn . .org planned to air a cable television ad this week accusing Bush and congressional Republicans of politicizing Sept. 11 by exploiting the attacks to invade Iraq and win re-election. Two conservative groups, Progress for America and the Center for Security Policy, started running their own ads last week backing Bush's policy and telling viewers to vote "as if your life depends on it." 



NBC launches video website 
Company is trying to access YouTube users 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Hoping to reclaim some ground won by Internet sites, NBC Universal launched a venture with its affiliated TV stations on Tuesday aimed at providing a legal and profitable way to distribute video online. 
The venture, which was originally announced in April, will also include video clips from third parties such as CSTV Networks Inc., The History Channel and others. 
Based loosely on the model of the hugely popular YouTube site, members of the venture will be able to add video to the system and also select which clips to play on their own site. 
Advertisers will be able to buy ads by programming cat­egory but not by specific video clip, a measure that NBC hopes will eliminate any potential conflict with the ad sales efforts of its own affili­ates and other parties that contribute content to the sys­tem. 
And unlike YouTube, which has won a wide following with homemade video clips that any Internet user may post, NBC officials said their ven­ture will have tight controls over which parties can become participants in the network. Clips will also be reviewed to ensure objection­able material isn't shown, they said. 
The venture between NBC and its affiliated stations, which will own about 30 per­cent of the company, seems aimed at easing frictions between networks and their affiliates over how to share the spoils from new ways of distributing video online. 
Many network-affiliated TV stations were angered after being left out when networks started selling hit prime time shows -the lifeblood of TV ratings -through outlets such as Apple Computer Inc.'s popular iTunes service. 
NBC officials say the net­work will focus on short clips that will retain high quality standards. At the same time, to participating sites, such as NBC's New York affiliate WNBC. 
NBC got a taste of the power of online video distribution several months ago when "Lazy Sunday," a satirical rap video that had aired on "Saturday Night Live," became a huge hit online, but initially through YouTube and other video-sharing sites. 
"In the future, when you have a 'Lazy Sunday' kind of clip, it will end up here and we'll make a lot of money 
NBC clearly wants tap into the thriving video-sharing activities that have made 
sites  like  
YouTube  so  
popular.  One  

early partner in the venture is Break.com, which features user-generat­ed video clips. 
"We know that video should be 
"In the future, when you have a 'Lazy Sunday' kind ofclip, it will end up here and we'll make a lot ofmoney from it." 
Randy Falco chief operating officer NBC Universal 
from it," said Randy Falco, chief operat­ing officer of the NBC Universal Television Group. 
A number of parties are participating in the network at its launch, including some owned by other media outlets: CBS Corp.'s 

shared organically," Brian Buchwald, the general man­ager of the venture, said at a news conference at NBC's headquarters in New York. NBC Universal is 80 percent owned by General Electric Co. and 20 percent by Vivendi, the French media and telecommunications conglom­erate. 
The new venture will be called the National Broadband Company or "nbbc" -a play on NBC's original name, the National Broadcasting Co. But the name is not likely to be" widely seen by consumers because the venture will sim­ply supply the video and ads CSTV; News Corp.'s IGN Entertainment; A&E and The History Channel, which are co-owned by NBC, Hearst Corp. and The Walt Disney Co.; and About.com, which is owned by The New York Times Co. 
Mike Steib, who will run the venture, said that nbbc would be a "completely agnostic marketplace," and open to anyone interested in joining, including YouTube. A YouTube representative didn't ·immedi­ately respond to requests for comment. NBC has already said it would provide promo­tional clips to YouTube for its fall television lineup. 
\-,. F".t'>:""-~..,.f.. ~----­

Safety board looks at motorcycle accidents 
Older riders, alcohol increase death rates 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger's near-fatal crash on a motorcycle this year reflected a troubling trend: More bikers are getting killed on the road. 
Roethlisberger's June 12 accident was one of three with­in two days that the National Transportation Safety Board looked into. The accidents, which killed seven people, were the first the safety board ever investigated. 
"This trend is very trou­bling," said NTSB member Debbie Hersman, who chaired a two-day forum on motorcycle safety that began Tuesday. "The number of fatalities is outpacing the increase in rider­ship." 
Late-blooming motorheads are part of the problem. The average rider is older now, and the average age of riders killed 
· is also on the rise. In the last 10 years, there has been a 230 percent increase in fatalities among motorcycle riders who've reached their 40th birthday, according to Umesh Shankar of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. Fatalities are also on the rise for seniors on hogs, according to Shankar. As ridJlrs get older, motorcy­cles get bigger. The number of 50-plus riders killed in a crash involving a bike with a 1,001­1,500 cc engine rose 540 per­
cent in the past decade, Shankar said. 
Alcohol continues to kill motorcycle riders. Of those who died in a solo crash in 2004, 41 percent had a blood alcohol concentration above the legal limit of .08, Hersman said. 
Ted Miller, a safety economist with the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, blames the rise in motorcycle deaths on plummeting helmet use. 
At one time almost every state required all motorcycle riders to wear helmets, accord­ing to the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety. Now, only 20 states and the District of Columbia require riders to wear protective helmets, according to the institute, which is funded by the insur­ance industry. 
Pennsylvania repealed its mandatory law in 2003, which is why Roethlisberger, 24, was­n't wearing a helmet when he crashed on Second Avenue in Pittsburgh. 
James "Doc" Reichenbach, a bearded and tattooed biker who lives in Silver Springs, Fla., said better statistics are needed to show whether or not helmets protect riders. 
He said helmet laws infringe on his rights. "I did three tours in Vietnam," he said. "I have a right to decide for myself whether I wear one or not." 
Motorcyclists are often the victims of drivers who don't see them. Roethlisberger came close to death in such an acci­dent. He rammed into a 1996 Chrysler New Yorker that failed to yield when making a left turn. 
---------'------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
'l'1n lmkpnulnrt, Daily f'*wspapr Servi1Jg Notrr Dame ~md Sairu Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre D;une, IN 465515 
024. South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kitihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumuk.kala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
... 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (57 4) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR­
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK · (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK ­smc.l@nd.edu 

11 Sex Grandma'' not so sweet 
The subject matter I am about to address makes me very, very nervous. I am, you remember, the writer who was too squeamish to print the first letter of the [expletive] word in her last column. Let me say up front that this col­umn will include the word "sex" as well as occasional references to the male anatomy. Somehow, I feel bet­ter if everyone knows I'm ashamed. 
Here it goes: Every Sunday night after Mass, I watch the tel­evision program "Talk Sex With Sue Johanson." For those of you living under a rock, Sue Johanson is an elderly Canadian nurse/ma.rital relations counselor who hosts a weekly cable television program during which she answers viewers' questions about sex. As for the nature of t]1e questions ­well, we had fine sex education in my parochial schools but Sue takes it up a notch. Augmenting the Sue experience are commercials advertising assorted conjugal playthings. Lovely. 
Every Sunday my roommates turn it on, and every Sunday I die a little. Okay, so it's not that bad. But Sue's digressions on artificial methods for the enlargement of the male anatomy are not my background music of choice when cramming The Canterbury Tales. Or writing columns. Actually, I must admit that I do not protest nearly as much as I used to. 

Kimberley Burkart 
It sounded better in my head 

The last time it was on I could even tell it was a rerun. 
Sue Johanson's charm, as it were, is that Sue Johanson may well have been present when God invented sex. The woman is at least sixty-five years old. She looks like -well, she looks like a grandmother, and according to her Web site she is one. Evidently there are some young men among us suffer­ing from a deformity known as "bent penis." Sue can discuss this with the same candor and earnestness that my own grandmother has when she talks about dress patterns. I swear they have some of the same turtleneck sweaters. 
The show becomes a viewer's sick fascination and I, for one, believe that Sue exploits this reality shamelessly. Anyone who styles herself the Sex Grandma has got to know what she's doing. Heck, she can claim people like me as regular viewers, and the infor­mation she gives is of no use to me. But that's another column. 
Even though I watch it, I do not, in any way, shape or form endorse Sue Johanson's program. I do not want to turn this column into a commercial for Talk Sex With Sue Johanson, Incorporated, and I do not particularly want anything nice to happen to Sue Johanson. 
Humor or medical value aside, some of the stuff she deals with is just indicative of greater societal problems. When this sort of thing comes up it renders debates over whether she belongs on Comedy Central or the Discovery Channel immaterial. Like the father who called in asking what to do about his 12-year-old wanting to have sex with a high school-age girl­friend. Sue's answer: Condoms. It seems that afterward she received so many e-mails questioning her judg­ment that she had to give an !-was­just-answering-the-question disclaimer in her next show. Classy. 
Or the time a caller reported some nasty goings-on in her nether regions. Apparently she was with a cheating boyfriend and made sure to use con­doms. Sue's diagnosis? The caller was allergic to those particular condoms and should try a different kind. Maybe that's why women love Sue so much ­she almost never tells them to see a gynecologist. Or a counselor. 
Sex sells. It sells so well that grand­mothers can make careers out of hold­ing up plastic models of assorted body parts on cable TV and solemnly sug­gesting that a woman may be allergic to her boyfriend's ejaculate. She claims, of course, that her only goal is to educate the public at large, and many people buy it. According to her Web site, the Canadian government has even officially recognized her for her contributions to sexual health awareness. 
But personally, I don't think that catchphrases like, "Before you bang, cover your thang" count as sex ed. 
Kimberley Burkart is a sophomore English major at Saint Mary's College. She can be contacted at kburkaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 ~ 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com PotrcrEs 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directedto Editor in Chief Mike Gillcon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ~(USPS 599 1--4000) is published Mond;ly through Pt-iday ~c-(pt d.wing exam and va-catio11 periotk. A subsc.riptiou ro The Oh~rver Is $100 for on~ academic year;$55.furoru:semesler. 
The Observer is pubtished ae POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Stud a~dri!SII co-rrt"Cd()m w: NOtre Dame, IN46556-0779 The Observer P-eri~ poStage paid ol.t Not;:~ O.;une P.O. Box779 and addidorW mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hail 
Now: Dame. IN 46-556-0179 

The Observer is a member ofthe: A¥ociated Ptess. Ali reproduction rights are reserved. ' 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler Kaitlynn Riely Fran Tolan What will be the most testing Ryan Sydlik Jay Fitzpatrick 
football game for the Irish? 

Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Jeff Albert 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
ISubmit a1rtterI "The power ofaccurate observation is commonly ca.lled cynicism by those who have not got it."to tbe Editor. at , George Bernard Shaw Irish dramatist 
www.ndsmcobserver.com t 
(: 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Police priorities still in 
doubt 
.To protect and serve the community is the heart of a polic~ department's mission; how­ever, recent events have led many among the student body to doubt that protecting and serving Notre Dame students is a priority of the South Bend Police Department. It is debatable how much a loud party ofmostly underage drinkers taking place in a student neighborhood affects the non-University members of this city. 
That is not the point. The ceaseless dispute that Notre Dame students are a hazard to South Bend is irrelevant. The point is that raids demonstrate how authorities in South Bend feel the necessity to target students; what is relevant are the recent crimes com­mitted against students. Some members of the South Bend community physically harmed some members of the Notre Dame community. The city has targeted students, and in the meantime, failed to act in their defense. 
Although I would like to believe no part of South Bend wishes harm on students, it speaks volumes about the mission ofthis city's government that resources are being spent to reprimand students instead of pro-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Think safety first 
This time it is expert-Observer-letter-writer Professor A. Edward Manier who needs to rethink his position (Letter to the Editor 9/11/06). Is he seriously opposed to a "clean, well lit and safe path on which to walk home"? Why? 
Underage drinking by college students is at worst a viola­tion, akin to speeding, jaywalking, "rolling stops" or the lately-created offense of smoking too close to a doorway. It is not a violation of the natural law to be dealt with accord­ing to Exodus. Like any other violation, underage drinking is common and the prohibition is enforced sporadically for good reason. There are serious crimes to spend resources on and not many Americans want to live in a country where all the laws are enforced all of the way, all ofthe time. 
The physical safety of Notre Dame students, on the other hand, should be a paramount concern for the administra­tion and faculty alike, as they are in loco parentis. The Observer's position that the underage drinking laws should be enforced strategically, so as not to increase the danger of off-campus situations is eminently reasonable and one that Professor Manier need not address sarcastically. Twenty-five or 30 years ago, a Notre Dame student could go down to the common area of a dorm and pour a beer or three. Does Professor Manier have social science evidence or even an argument from first principles, that demon­strates that Notre Dame is better off with the more aggres­sive alcohol enforcement of the last few years? If so, per­haps he'll share it in a future letter reflecting the "deeper thought" he expects from the editorial board ofthe student newspaper, instead of dismissing the measured view ofthe paper out of hand. 
Let's formulate the question: Should 6,000 underage Notre Dame drinkers be lightly reprimanded and sent home to bed (or even, horrors, go free), so that just one or two will not be run over by an SUV at 3 a.m. on Rt. 23, or be stabbed to death on the way home from the Lafayette Apartments? Or should justice be "swift and sure", no mat­ter how hard? After "thoughtful" consideration and desir­ing to be "helpful", I'll take the former. After all, tipsy col­lege sophomore co-eds and their overly loud freshman boyfriends are not exactly heroin dealers taking over LaFortune, or murderous highwaymen on North Quad. How about we keep them safe, and maybe they'll outgrow it. 
Christopher Regan alumnus Class of 1997 Sept. 12 
teet them. Had funds been directed toward better security at Turtle Creek, rather than last weekend's raids, the female resident may never have been assaulted in her own apart­ment. Had police been patrolling the streets of the city rather than busting student par­ties, the Notre Dame student may not have been robbed on his walk back to campus. 
The change that needs to be made will not result because ofmy Viewpoint editorial, or with a thousand more letters to the editor. The distressing thing is what ultimately will cause change will be something far worse than a robbery or an unsuccessful breaking­and-entering. It is just like the dangerous intersection that needs a traffic light: no mat­ter how many mothers write letters to the councilman, it isn't until a fatal car crash that the light will be constructed. My only hope is that someone who can make a difference will step in and do something before the two cars collide. 
Kaitlin .Devine junior Walsh Hall Sept. 7 

Remembering 9I 11 
Five years ago this week, I was sit­ting in French class when just a few miles away from my high school the Twin Towers of the World Trade , Center fell on lower Manhattan. 
They say that everything can change in a New York minute. On the morning of Sept. 11, it did for me and many of my classmates. Several of us lost neighbors, friends and coaches. Some lost parents. One lost her brother -a firefighter with Engine Company 26. 
The Greek tragedian Aeschylus warned even in our sleep pain that cannot forget, falls drop by drop upon the heart until in our despite, against our will, comes wisdom to us by the awful grace of God. 
Five years removed from the attacks, the horror and violence which descended upon our part of the country that September morning has ceased. The pain, however, has not. For so many in our local parish­es and towns, this week -just like every week since -marks indelibly the magnitude of personal loss. 
On Monday, we commemorated the lives of our neighbors, colleagues and family who perished in the Towers by reciting their names to the world at Ground Zero. On Tuesday and there­after, when the world returns again to everyday life, their absence -like the gaping hole in our New York sky­line-will linger at the-forefront of our minds and hearts. 
Today, we have no concrete memo­rial for our dead. But in shared grief, pain has nonetheless revealed that the most fitting way to commemorate lost life is to celebrate it. 
This fall, as you pursue your stud­ies at Notre Dame, I ask you to do so with vigor and purpose. Look at our world through a global context, but always keep sight of the smaller things in life. Enjoy afternoons cheer­ing our Irish on to victory and, above all stolen moments spent with family and friends. 
As you do so, hold in your hearts all, those who lost that privilege on the morning of Sept. 11. 
Pray for them daily, and pray for their families. 
Michelle McCarthy alumnus class of 2006 Sept. 12 
U-WIRE 

Women's college uproar shows 
what it is like to be unwanted 
It has been an incredibly slow news week. No one managed to do anything especially ignorant, dan­gerous or wacky. Even the presi­dent kept his idiotic mouth shut for the 
Chuck
most part, 


Lippstreu

coming out of his hole University of 
just long Nebraska enough to Dailygive the Nebraskan 
obligatory weekly radio address. 

It was on my last sweep of CNN that I happened upon the tale of some collegiate women in Virginia who are involved in an epic strug­gle with the powers that be. 
At J.:landolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., last week, the college's Board of Trustees, with 27 members, voted to begin admitting men in 2007. This, explained the trustees, was meant to counterbalance the vast attendance drop and subsequent financial trouble the college has faced recently. 
According to the Associated Press, over 400 alumni, students and supporters booed trustee board President Jolley Christman throughout her entire explanation of the decision to invite men to the party. The AP reported that shouts of "traitor" drowned out a signifi­cant portion of the speech. 
Even if I wasn't standing in the crowd, the article was a touch chilling. 
But before I go any further, let's make something crystal clear: In the little town of Politics, I am the guy that stumbles around in the streets drunk on liberalism and strung out on social equality. I know women worldwide still struggle to overcome gender inequality, and I have quite a lot of respect for the women who put up with all they do from "traditional" patriarchal society. 
I couldn't help but wonder as I read the news that protesting the inclusion of men at a college is an ineffective, counterproductive method for closing the gender gap. Sure, there's tradition at stake and these students came to school and wrote checks with the expectation that it would be a women's col­lege. 
But would it really be that bad to have a man or two? 
Horrified at the thought that I might have some sort of problem with the women's rights move­ment in general, I turned to my only real friend, the Internet, for answers. I ended up at the school's Web page about the whole crisis. 
There, by a stroke of luck, I actually found the video from the board's announcement last Saturday. It turned out that even the seasoned veterans at the AP hadn't effectively conveyed the anger of these women. 
As Christman gets to the part about "inviting young men" to the college, the most horrifying, angry, collectively hostile shriek I have ever heard in my young life surges throughout the crowd. You'd have thought Christman had showed up to announce a new university pro­gram called "Undernourished Tigers Hungry for Warm, Tender Human Flesh Wander Freely on Campus." 
I have never, never felt smaller as a person. I'm serious. I can't help but feel totally inferior when the words "young men" evoke such an enraptured cry of disdain. For all accounts, it looked as if the women in the crowd stopped thinking of men as men and start­ed imagining a takeover of their college by an army of compulsively violent, chain-smoking pornogra­phers. 
Which, actually, might be a legit­imate concern if my friends and I really were violent, chain-smoking pornographers. In reality, I am much too timid to shoot pornogra­phy, and, aside from an instance this summer where unpaid Monopoly rent led to knives being pulled, my chums and I aren't vio­lent. 
If I were a student at an all­female college, I would go to class, take tests and stand in lines. I would be given a piece of paper in a picture frame that would entitle me to a job. But a butt-slapping chauvinist I would not be. 
Unfortunately for me, the only women's college I could theoreti­cally get into has several hundred alumni screaming "traitor" in the face of the trustees who wanted to invite me. 
So the trustees may have opened the doors, but with all due respect to the "nice" young ladies at Randolph-Macon, I'll pass on the invitation. I'll ask, though, yelling through a megaphone from a safe distance: How is it, time and time again, completely impossible for people to get along or at least acknowledge the legitimacy of one anothers' existence? 
This column originally appeared in the September 12 edition ofThe Daily Nebraskan, the daily publication at University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
----------------. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
SEASON ONE DVD REVIEW 
Although "Prison Break" met with a great deal of skepticism at the begin­ning (9nlyJ3 episodes were initially ordered by F.()){), ·it quickly developed into one ofthe best new shows during the 2005 television season. 
Se n one began with Michael Scofi ··•·· ...•.· (Wentworth Miller, "Undel:'\Ngl·ld") plotting to break his brqt};j~t,c~jllcoln Burrows (Dominic P~t;ell, t<Eiji:tilibrium"), out of tho ..Fox River penitentiary where he was on death row for the murder of the vice president's brother Lincoln claimed that he was innocent and was framed. In hopes of freeing him. Scofield attemptedto rob a bankin order to get placed in the same prison as his broth­er so that they could break out togeth­er. Scofield's elaborate plan is revealed slowly episode-by-episode as he enlists the aid of other inmates and continu­ously works his way past the various obstacles that arise with each new
tWist. · · . "Prison Break" was developed in light of the latest trends to base shows, 
Prison Break Season One 
':l;,20th Century Fox 
such as <>Lost" or "24," around intelli· gent. although rather ridiculous, plot­line$~ str~mg characters and exciting and shoclc.ing plot twists to keep the .audieul§i anticipating the next episode. "Ptiso:rt" Break" evoked this intense anticipation and build up through such tools asi\Schofield's body tattoos with all ofhjsplansfor escape. 
. Se~n~ne of!<Prison Break" is now ~ ••;wa · · I~· in a DVD set with all 22 ep on six>discs. Along with the ephiodes are 10 audio commentaries frtf ~dca~:t,~rid the cr~w. also Br~fRatner (director,• "X~ 
Men: The Last Stand") who serves as an executive producer for the show and directed the pilot • episode of the series. The commentaries ar~ excel­lent, especially forfans of the show, as they highlight wher~ );hey initially thought the plot was gQln~fto.··go, .. t.tnd point out many of tbartges to the plot that had to be ...· ~ ~bile they were filming. < ( ;: •• • 
One such exampl¢ls.the. character of C-Note (Hockmond Dunbar, "Kiss Kiss Bang Bang"), who was only supposed to appear in two episode!>. but once the show became extended to a full season was made a much more central cast member. There are also a number of hints as to what could happen and what to look for during season two. 
Also included in the DVD set are three featurettes. The first, "If These Walls Could Speak: Profile of the Joliet Correctional Center," goes inside the correctional facility where the showds 
' filmed. One interesting tidbit gleaned from this feature is that many of the scenes are filmed on location in the actual cell that housed John Wayne Gacy. The second fea~ ture, "Beyond the Ink: Tattoo Featurette," focus­es on the exten:si've "map~~ tattoo ·· oil Michael Sc d's back· that pl:iys a key role in the' series. It not:pnl}' g9es into d~tttiloi1 the pieces of the map, hut also what actor Wentworth Miller had w do in order to have the tattoo plaeed(}nhim. Finally there il) one of Foxrs "Inside Look" previews at the beghining of season two ofthe series. All in all, Season 1 of "Prison Break" is an exceptional package of e,X~ra.s included with all of the action·pa.d(ed episodes from theJlrst season tha(will deflnitely,ma.ke.this'set worthwhilefor both new.fa.lls and .· · that have ,been following the its premJere last yeat as· 
E S B Y 
SEASON Two PREVIEW 
Moving into its second season. cur­rently airing Mondays at 8 on FOX, "Prison Break" has evolved into a crosS between "The Fugitive" (1993) and 
:I 
' 
"Rat Hace" l2001). With some oftlie. prisoners having escaped Fox River, they are now on the run from tbe feds as well a..<> trying to beat each other to Utah in order to find the millions of dol.: larsleft there by another inmate_ All of the cast members return from season ·.• one, with one notable addition­William Fichtner as FBI Agent 1 Alexander Mahone, head of the search · for the escaped convicts. 
Fichtner, who was most recently in the dropped ABC show "Invasion," has; been around as a popular character actor in movies (including both· "Equilibrium" and "Armageddon" 1which also cast other "Prison Break" : stars) and video games (the voice of l Ken Rosenberg in the Grand Theft Auto games). While Fichtner failef:i, to become a ·household name through "Invasion," he makes a big impression as the clever FBI agent who is always a half-step behind Scofield's plans. While Fichtner's FBI agent is the brains after the inmates. returning chara¢ter. Brad Sellick (Wade Williams) moves from prison guard to bounty hynter as he hunts down Scofield. 

Each episode focuses.• 
l···n·os'UV Scofield and lincoln, and between them and the ing the other inmates 
·. rated after breaking out Although the setting plot have been altered. still remains a tautly written acted series. rt is still as ext~utng watch the prisoners. escape FBI agents as it was to watch plan their prison escape. Much like ~arlier episodes which showed the of the inmates before ending up in River, having the action switch bet:ween;• the characters is interesting and ~c.,..,,...,.,!. the pace of the show moving quickly it able to move from action to As of now, "Prison Break" is end its run at the end of this which has caused cries of u<tpp.l!l~ and arigtiisb from its fans. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
page 17 
MCGINN 

"PRISON BREAK" FEATURE 
"Prison Break" might have one of the most unbelievable television. but after moiViiillt improbable premise, this new Fox television series is. the best. .. ·. ·...·. 
Starting with the pre.fUis~ 9fbi"e~'k/' ing out of prison is not ~.e~l'l$!>&.rily the best idea for the longevity of a television series. At sotil~> p9int, it must come to an end .......; either with Bang"). tends to the escape or a long time i1l solitary Another eentral Fox at odd· confinement. However, "Prison River is the prison do.pt'Pr/Sara< the Break" not only emerged as one of Tancredi (Sarah Wayne' . /''Law itself. the best new shows on television dur-and Order: Special Viet s Unit") Although these references to politi­ing the 2005 network season, but who early on becomes interested in cal conspir · · re ,irit · ·· ing, they showed that there are enough hooks, .. ;Scofiel~'spase and tries to determine are not con enoug 'tlij:n. the to possibly deman4 future seasons.of · why he ended up in prison. Sara show in tenus its importance;t9,.)t>e the show. , eventually becomes an ally of the enjoyabl~~ except to the mosf ···.· ····· 
The show's mai)l pJot revolves prisoners and aids in their escape core faqs; around two brothers ,:_ Michae;l plans, .. .. E Of the actors does a s Scofield · (Wen Millet, In tli;l;l outaide although most of the s 9 
1 "Underworld") · Burrows · brothers in their .are inmates, they genera ­·~<~ (i>ominiG Pur ~·}. ,,~r·Ytih a'bOiUt Li deal Qf sy1npan1y 1 Lincoln was the /Veronica · 
brother of the the United States and s~n1tenic~Lto row in the Fox River 
just outside of · · · ·· · Michael. claims of mJlt>(~el1Jee elaborate break his River Prison the intention g~tting same prisof,l as LiiiC(}ln; 
Once Sco.ft0ld is.tn•· Prison, he·· liis· following the1 b~'uep1rtnts 
fOr escape n.l I'V .J1o:t:IJ 
body.An to create the the prison,....... among . things, the complete blueprint of the peniten­tiary is hidden witht1Jl the elaborate creations tattooed.QUFbis body. 
One of the besta;6:9:Iriost ""'"'"'"'"" elements of the shriW'is the ration of the::tat · ·and the 
that they give td' ... field •uu•""'"'' the next step h~ ~eeds to order to esc~p()J}J~ prison brother. · \;>,) 
Along the ..wa,y, J.l~ runs into des and must tUtU to other for help. His· ¢'~Hmate, 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 18 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
'Hollywoodland' glamorous to some, garish to others 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
On June 16, 1959, Superman died. 
George Reeves, the actor who por­trayed Superman in the television seri­al, committed suicide in his home, three days before he was to get mar­ried. A seemingly open-and-shut case was complicated by the absence of a suicide note and the unfinished proj­ects that could have reignited the flag­ging star's career. 
Over 40 years later, director Alan Coulter reopens the case in "Hollywoodland," which traces the detective Louis Simo (a composite of real-life people, played by Adrien Brody) as he investigates the possibility of foul play in the suicide of Superman (Ben Affleck). 
Nominally, 

"Hollywoodland" Hollywoodland seems that Coulter is a murder 
has lost interest in movie, an investi­the plot and is more gation about the concerned with possible killing of Simo's character. a celebrity, but it's Director: Alan Coulter "I-Iollywoodland" not ultimately Writer: Paul Bernbaum is anchored by fan­about that. Starring: Adrien Brody, Ben Affleck tastic acting, most 
Instead, the film and Diane Lane 
· poses more ques­tions than it answers, presenting at least three dif­ferent scenarios that could have occurred. Did Reeves actually commit suicide or was it murder? If it was murder, who was the killer and why? And as the plot thickens, was it the wealthy old benefactor? The angry husband? The jealous fiancee? Simo becomes entrenched in the times of Reeves, to 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
When "L.A. Confidential" was released in 1997, it was hailed as the rebirth of the noir film. "Hollywoodland," released last week­end, could very well be the death of it. 
Directed by Allen Coulter, who has directed episodes of both "Sex and the City" and "The Sopranos" among many other shows including "The X Files" and "Golden Years" in q prolific direc­torial career, "Hollywoodland" is a bloated monstrosity of a movie that cannot decide what it wants to be about. 
Paul Bernbaum's script moves through a detective story in which pri­vate investigator Louis Simo (Adrien Brody, "The Piano") digs deep into the mysterious death of Superman actor George Reeves (Ben Affleck, "Pearl Harbor", Daredevil"). 
However, "Hollywoodland" is a film that does not know who or the extent that it begins to take a toll on his own personal life. Thankfully, the film never collapses into a typical whodunit, framing the investigation around Reeves' life and Simo's own personal demons. 
"Hollywoodland" gets its noir-ish period piece quality exactly right -it's not inconceivable to believe that this film and "LA Confidential" exist in the same narrative world. Coulter gets all the little touches correct, from the cameras to the cars to the clothing, and it all adds to the atmosphere quite nicely. 
The film continuously cuts back and forth between Reeves' life and Simo's investigation. This is a little problemat­ic, since Reeves' life is more compelling than Simo's, though Brody's command of the screen hasn't diminished. The final scenes are affecting, even if it 
notably the sub­
dued (as always) 

Brody and a sur­prisingly affecting Affleck. Reeves, as a character, is given the most emotional weight and Affleck delivers, proving that Kevin Smith isn't the only one who can direct him. 
Affleck doesn't look or sound any­thing like the real Reeves, but he does show the same heroic charisma and machismo that propelled the actor to television fame. 
However, the film does not follow this narrative line and denies the audience a story that develops and portrays a singular character. 
Contrasting this, "Hollywoodland" moves back in time following the life of George Reeves before his death, as Simo investigates the death in the pres­ent time of the narrative. The time of the film that is devoted to these sec­tions would make it seem that the pri­mary focus of the film is the rise and fall of Reeves. 
His life is traced from his beginning in the industry through the television serials of "Superman" through his fall and eventual death. Reeves' character, similar to Jake LaMotta in Martin Scorsese's "Raging Bull," moves to the top of his profession and then falls hard into a depression and a misguid­ance meant to explore the cut-throat nature that exist in the glamour and glitz of Hollywood. 
The two lines of narrative, by them­selves, are told relatively well, howev­
er, the writer and 
director should 

what it wants to have chosen either
Hollywoodland
be about. to focus on one or 
It follows Simo 
figure out a way to through his merge both. The investigation in combination of the 
such a way as to make the audi­ence think that "Hollywoodland" is about this charac­ter as the script takes great pains to explore the intricacies of Simo and the relationship he has with his dysfunc­tional family. 
His relationships with his wife, Toni Mannix (Diane Lane, "Unfaithful", "Under the Tuscan Sun") -with whom he is separated -and his son are explored in depth and seem to provide the backbone of the narrative. 
two leads to a con­
fusing and aimless 
narrative. 

The family situations seem irrelevant if Reeves is intended to be the center of the narrative and the scenes which depict Reeves before his death are excessive if Simo is the focus of the film. The narrative is mediocre and does not endow audiences with the same satisfaction of "L.A. Confidential," with its ensemble cast and tight narrative focus. 
Narrative structure aside, Adrien 
Accordingly, Affleck won the Best Actor Award at the highly respected Venice Film Festival, a turn of events which is sad and ironic, considering Reeves' own tragic career. 
"Hollywoodland" is the first of two major films this year that deal with Tinseltown murders -the other is Brian DePalma's upcoming "The Black Dahlia." 
Coulter's approach is ambitious, and though he doesn't fully hit the mark, the film is moving and transcends its simplistic origins. His choices manage to avoid cliche -and though brave ­cause the film to drag at times. 
Not everything in "Hollywoodland" works, and this is easily attributable to lack of focus, though the film could have alleviated this had Coulter under­stood that it is Reeves, not Simo, who is the heart of this picture. 
The best parts of "Hollywoodland" are about Reeves, and the film might have been better if it were only about him, a fallen, all-too-human icon whose sad death was a tragic reminder that no man is invincible, no matter_, how Super. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Brody and Ben Affleck put in fine per­formances in their respective charac­ters. This is by far the best perform­ance that Affleck has produced and it would be no surprise if his name is on the Academy Award's list of Best Supporting Actor nominees, given the Best Actor Award he already won at the Venice Film Festival. 
Brody also delivers a very fine per­formance as the troubled detective Simo. Although not as outstanding as Affleck, Brody's acting is solid nonethe-. less, in keeping with his propensity to deliver fine performances throughout his career. 
The fact the narrative of "Hollywoodland" does not follow typi­cal noir conventions may have been an effort to create a film that deals with the dark side of celebrity without being an outright sequel to "L.A. Confidential." 
However, the corpulent narrative relies too heavily on Brody and, as fine an actor as he is, it collapses under its own weight. This would have been bet­ter as a character film about Simo or a murder mystery about Reeves, but it can't be both. 
If you want good neo-noir, go watch "L.A. Confidential," and if you want to see some amazing performances go to waste on a bad narrative, watch "Hollywoodland." 
Contact Marty Schroder at mschroel@nd.edu 
Wednesday, September-13, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

WITH GUEST 
KENNE-DY'S 
THE "BARD OF ARMAGH~'. 


. .. . 
PAUL TAYLOR 
ORGANIST 

CHRISTOPH KEGGENHOFF WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 AT 8 PM REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL Mr. Keggenhoff will perform works by Nicolaus Bruhns, Georg Muffat, Hans Leo Hassler, J. S. Bach, and Gustav Merkel on the Fritts Organ in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall. TICKETS: $10, $8 FACULTY/STAFF, $6 SENIORS, AND $3 All STUDENTS 
MUSICIANS 
KITCHEN 
. DAME FOR A NIGHT OF IRISH MUSIC KENNEDY'S KITCHEN 
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 at 8:30 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKETS: $30 I $25 FACULTY, STAFF, AND SENIORS $15 ALL STU DENTS 
COMPANY 
EL GRAN COMBO WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4 AT 7:30 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL Making music for decades and known for hits such as "EI Menu" and "Timablero;' Puerto Rico's legendary El Gran Combo brings the spice of salsa to the Leighton Concert Hall. TICKETS: $36, $30 FACUlTY/STAFF/SENIORS, AND $10 All STUDENTS 
page 19 

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
ANEW COMEDY fROM IRE IJIRECTDB Of "Olll SCHBOl" 
r--------------------------, 
! SCHOOL FOR .l 1SCOUNDRELS l 

LEAR~~~~I~~~!·__ _j 
SII.LY SOB 
THORNTON 
JON HEDER 
FREE 
SNEAK PREVIEW PROMOTIONAL SCREENING TICKETS ARE REQUIRED 

DIRECTED BY TODD PHILLIPS PG-13, 101 MINUTES 
WED, SEPT 13 AT 7 PM 

DIRECTED BY PATRICK CREADON RATED PG, 94 MINUTES  
THU, SEPT 14 AT 7 AND 10 PM FRI, SEPT 15 AT 7 AND 10 PM  - 
DIRECTOR PATRICK CREADON WILL BE PRESENT AT ALL SCREENINGS. 'll, AI .I. /U'  - 
Fantasia (1940) PAC Classic 100 Directed by Samuel Armstrong Rated G, 120 minutes Sun, Sept 1 7 at 4 pm  
The Rider Named Death (2005) Nanovic Film Series Directed by Karen Shakhnazarov Russian language with English subtitles Not Rated, 106 minutes Thu, Sept 21 at 7 and 10 pm  
FILM  LINE:  631-FILM  



page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
MLB 
Abreu's seven RBI, Matsui's 4-for-4lead Yanks 
bottom of the upper deck in
Detroit, Kansas City 
right field. 
manage close wins Coming to the plate as the 12th batter of the inning, Abreu doubled off reliever Brian
Associated Press 
Stokes to make it 9-0, the ball. going just over the outstretched 
NEW YORK -Bobby Abreu glove of left fielder Carl finished off the Devil Rays all by Crawford deep in the left-center himself-in the first inning. gap. 
Abreu hit a three-run homer and a three-run double in a Tigers 3, Angels 2 nine-run first and finished with Carlos Guillen hit two solo a career-high seven RBis on homers, including the game­Tuesday night in the New York winner leading off the ninth Yankees' 12-4 Iaugher over inning, to lift the Detroit Tigers Tampa Bay. to a win over the Texas Rangers 
Abreu became the first on Tuesday night. Yankees player with six RBis in Guillen, who also homered in an inning since Gil McDougald the second inning, was greeted in the ninth on May 3, 1951, at at the plate by his teammates the St. Louis Browns, according and manager Jim Leyland. to the Elias Sports Bureau, and Marcus Thames tied the score the first major leaguer with six with a solo shot in the seventh RBis in the first since Oakland's for the slumping Tigers won for Matt Stairs had a grand slam just the sixth time in 19 games. and a two-run single against Detroit, which had a 10-game the California Angels on July 5, lead over Chicago and 10 1-2 1996. over Minnesota in the AL 
In his first game since break­Central when play ended Aug.
' 
' ing his left wrist on May 11, 7, began the day 1 1-2 games
I 
Hideki Matsui was 4-for-4 with ahead of the Twins. but he was stranded at first. 11-game losing streak at Jacobs
I' 
four singles and a walk, tying Fernando Rodney (7 -3) Carlos Lee was caught trying Royals 5, Indians 3 Field, where the Indians are
I 
I 
his major league high for hits in pitched a perfect eighth and to advance to second base on Kansas City pitcher Runelvys 570-430 since the ballpark
I 
a game. ninth to pick up the win. Mark DeRosa's long fiy ball to Hernandez and catcher John opened in 1994. Kansas City! Mike Mussina (14-6) pitched 6 Guillen was the only batter left field in the second inning. Buck exchanged punches in the had not won in Cleveland since I Ron Mahay (1-3) faced. 
I 1-3 shutout innings to win for The Tigers turned a double dugout Tuesday night, but the July 20, 2005. the first time in six starts, and Texas' Gary Matthews Jr. hit a play in each of the· first three Royals regrouped for a victory Esteban German went 4-for-4
I 
' the Yankees lowered their tiebreaking single in the top innings, and Rogers helped his over the Cleveland Indians in and scored three times for the
'I 
magic number to nine for seventh, but Thames hit his caused defensively when he the 1,000th game at Jacobs Royals.
' 
' clinching their ninth straight AL 26th home run of the season in made a sliding stop along the Field. He doubled leading off the
I 
East title. the bottom half. first base line to throw out After striking out Ryan Garko ninth, went to third on a foul
' 
I 
New York (87 -56) won its Tigers starter Kenny Rogers Nelson Cruz at first in the third. with two runners on to end the out and scored on a throwing
' 
~ 
fourth straight and moved 31 gave up two runs and 10 hits in Michael Young hit his 13th third inning, error by right fielder Shin-Soo games over .500 for the first seven innings for his second homer on the year in the fourth Hernandez (6-9) jogged to the Choo to make it 5-3. time this season. The Devil Rays straight no-decision after four for the Rangers to' tie the score dugout, pointed at Buck iwd German is batting .351 (39­
'I 
(56-86) dropped 30 games straight wins. at one. began yelling. The players for-111) in his last 43 games
' 
' under .500 for the first time this Vicente Padilla allowed two With two on in the fourth, charged each other and began following a 2-for-27 (.074)
' 
' 
year. runs and five hits in seven Hank Blalock singled to left throwing punches before being streak. 
Abreu, who has 31 RBis in 41 innings. He got out of a two-on, field, but Monroe threw out Lee separated by teammates and Joe Nelson pitched the ninth games since the Yankees no out jam in the fourth, with at home plate. coaches. for his seventh save as the acquired him from an inning-ending double play. Monroe later reached first on Both players remained in the Royals got their 23rd road win, Philadelphia, homered off Padilla gave up six earned runs a throwing error by Texas third game, and Hernandez allowed surpassing last year's total. starter Tim Corcoran (4-8) for a in each of his last two starts. baseman DeRosa. The replay three runs over five innings to Mark Grudzielanek drove in 3-0 lead, a drive off an adver­Wes Littleton gave up a walk appeared to show that Mark earn the win. two runs and Buck hit an RBI tisement board attached to the to Craig Monroe in the eighth Teixeira made the tag. He helped the Royals snap an single. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House 4 sale. 3bdrm,2.5 baths,  WEEKENDS & SCHOOL  One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich.  1bdrm apt 1 mi. to ND. Laundry.  Travel with STS to this years top 10  
WANTED  dormer 2nd fl. Finished basement 7 blks to ND. Estate auction. Sunday,  YEAR. 57 4-329-0308.  30 miles fr SB. www. Eastofedenatunionpier.com.  Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester. Quiet area. $550/mo. Call574-532­ Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com- 
Supervisor -Market Research.  9/17, 12:30 p.m. 1430 E. Madison.  www.geocities.com/gillis  $350 wkend. 513-697-7766.  8718.  missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or  
Opinions, Ltd. seeks detail oriented  574-291-7746.  realty@ sbcglobal.net  call1-800-648-4849. Great group  
- supervisor for our office in  Need a place like home to  ND home games rental. 1 mi to ND.  discounts.  
University Park mall. Night/weekend  Weekend rental: 3 BR  stay for ND football Weekends?  Sleeps 2. Full accommodations.  
flexibility a must $8.50/hr. Call574­ FoR RENT  Home, walk to stadium, Terrace Ln.  $900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718.  Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets  
243-5719.  269-930-8038. swmient@qtm.net  Bed& Breakfast 4  to the NO/Purdue game for family.  
3-4 bdrms.  Bedroom/3Bath home,  B&B, 1/4 mile to stadium. Free  Call Blaine & leave message at  
Interviewer-Market Research.  Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep.  House for home games. 4 doors  parking & ND tix.  219-324-3241. Local pickup  
Opinions, Ltd.  if rented by 1 0/1.  from ND.  newly built available for  geocities.com/ndbandb@ sbcglob­ 
255-7000.  Call Gary at 574-993-2208.  rent! $850.00 per night Call 286­ al.net for more info. Book your  Will swap 2 Purdue GA tix for 2  
seeks confident people to approach  6715 or 299-0745.  game today! 574-302-7888.  UCLA GAs. Call Bob 574-277-2510.  
mall shoppers for market research  Rent a home ND football  House for Rent PSU/UM  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
surveys at University Park mall.  weekends. 574-784-8638.  weekends.  2 rooms in private home  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  
$8/hr. Call574-243-5719.  25 min.away-2 blcks frm Lake  TICKETS  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  
BLUE & GOLD HOMES,  Mich.  w/separate entrance for  
FoR SALE  off-campus homes &  Sleeps 11. Kit,2 bath,grill. Call708-525-4293.  football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­ WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570  PERSONAL  
weekend rentals.  
Enchanting 2-story 2-3 bdrm cot­ Bluegoldrentals.com  Rooms for ND home games.  259-8603.  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
tage on 3/4 acre lot across from  57 4-273-5035.  232-0964  not go it alone.  
Warren Golf Course. Low taxes &  2 bdrm home football  Deluxe Motor Home rental for ND  If you or someone you love needs  
utilities. $145,000. Call 574-277­ Apt for home games.  home games.  Need ND tix & parking pass all  confidential support or assistance,  
2684 or mascotte@comcast.net  weekends. Walk to ND. Call 574­ 1.5mito ND.  NOT FOR TRAVEL.  home games.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ 
523 Howard St. 4 blocks off cam­ 287-6395.  57 4-386-6014.  Close to campus.  574-276-8507.  7819. For more information, see our  
pus. 2 BDRM Home. 1000 sq. ft.  Couple or small family.  bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
basement/garage. Everything new.  Rental homes 3-6 bdrms.  11 bdrm house available for  574-272-6857.  TOP$ PAID FOR ND FOOTBALL  
$65,900. 574-257-9683.  2007-2008.  TKTS 289-9280  www.ndgamedayroom.com  
Close to ND. Call Gary 574-993­ Just renvated,  4-bdrm 2 bath house w/jacuzzi, pool  
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  2208.  2 kitchens, 5.5 baths, large  table, 2 big screen TVs for ND  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK- If you're looking for a REALLY,  
269-445-2765  common areas and backyard.  home games.  ETS.  REALLY hot date after the win over  
Investment homes for sale near ND.  2-6 BDRM HOMES &  Contact  1/3 mi to ND.  BEST PRICES.  Michigan, contact Fran "StudMaster  
866-521-8989.  ROOMS NEAR CAMPUS  MacSwain@ gmail.com  57 4-532-8431.  57 4-232-2378.  Flex" Tolan at (845)729-0367.  
AVAIL FOR FOOTBALL  

.----------------------~----------------------­
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Raiders look to
Seahawks deal for Branch 
Patriots finally move disgruntled receiver for first-round pick 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND, Wash -Even 
sore ribs couldn't contain Matt 
Hasselbeck's excitement over 
having former New England 
Super Bowl MVP Deion Branch 
to throw to as his newest 
Seahawks receiver. 
Branch's arrival had 
Hasselbeck laughing Monday 
through ribs that hurt enough 
from the battering by the 
Detroit Lions a day earlier, he 
held them while jogging 
through a short conditioning 
session. 
"It's going to be that much 
harder to defend our offense," 
Hasselbeck said of a unit that 
also has 2005 NFL MVP and 
rushing leader Shaun 
Alexander. 
As happy as the Pro Bowl 
quarterback was, he thought 
of his father Dun's reaction at 
the family home in Westwood, 
Mass. 
"Oh, my dad loves the 
Patriots. If he had a fantasy 
draft, he'd pick Tom (Brady) 
over me," the younger 
Hasselbeck said. 
Hours earlier, Seattle 
acquired Brady's favorite tar­
get-turned-holdout for a first­
round draft choice in 2007. 
"We still have to figure out 
how to get all the people on 
the field," coach Mike 
Holmgren said, smiling. 
"That's the chess game for our 
coaches right now." 
The last time the Seahawks 
traded their first-round pick 
for a veteran player was 
March 2, 2001, when then­
general manager Holmgren 
traded for Hasselbeck. 
While the Patriots now are 
without their two top receivers 
from last season, every 
Seahawks player was grinning 
about getting Branch. He had 
been entering the last season of the five-year contract he signed as a rookie, but will be getting a new, long-term deal in the coming days. 
"His representatives are fly­ing in today," Seahawks gener­al manager Tim Ruskell said. "Obviously, we wouldn't have done this without the gist of the deal getting done." 
The league has given the Seahawks a two-week roster exemption for Branch to learn Holmgren's intricate offense. Branch will begin practicing this week, but Holmgren said he was unsure when Branch might make his Seattle debut. 
"It's all good for us," Holmgren said. 
Even members of Seattle's already crowded receiving corps thought so. 
Sort of. 
"l don't have no reaction," leading receiver Darrell Jackson said. 
But then Jackson acknowl­
edged the defending NFC champions are better with Branch. 
"Anytime you get a player of his caliber, it makes you bet­ter," he said. 
Jackson, who missed the preseason, had not practiced until last week following his second knee surgery in four months, in February. He 
L_ 

played far more than expected in Sunday's 9-6 win over the surprisingly rugged Lions. The Seahawks also have veteran Bobby Engram, former Minnesota receiver Nate Burleson and 2005 surprise 
D.J. Hackett. 

"Oh, man, I love it," said Burleson, signed in April to a $49 million, seven-year con­tract as a free agent. 
Burleson played the 2003 and '04 seasons with Vikings superstar Randy Moss. He said that's when he learned the les­son that "there's always enough food on the plate for everyone to eat. 
"It's going to be tough for defenses," Burleson said. "I can't even imagine putting four receivers on the field at a time and a defense focusing on one guy." 
The Patriots at least get something out of the Branch impasse than fme money. 
Branch held out of the Patriots' mandatory minicamp in June and all of training camp. He had been subject to a $14,000 fine for each day he held out from July 28 through Monday. 
"It's been a long process," Patriots coach Bill Belichick said. "I think we tried hard to make it work out. I think Dei on tried hard. We tried." 
regroup after loss 
Oakland took 27-0 thrashing from San Diego Monday night 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA, Calif. -Art Shell was brought back to the Oakland Raiders to return the team to its level of the old days. 
Only those days weren't sup­posed to be 1961, the only time the Raiders were blanked in a season opener before Monday night's 27-0 loss to the San Diego Chargers. 
"I thought it was embarrass­ing the way we played," Shell said Tuesday. "We had all those fans out there rooting for us, and we didn't play good foot" ball." 
A new coach, new quarter­back and new attitude were supposed to restore Oakland's pride, but after one week it looks like the same old Raiders who won just 13 games the past three seasons, leading to coach­es Bill Callahan and Norv Turner getting fired. 
LaDainian Tomlinson ran through the defense with ease, as usual, the Raiders were unable to pressure San Diego quarterback Philip Rivers in his first start, and worst of all, the offensive line looked lost on the field against Shawne Merriman and the Chargers. 
It added up to Oakland's first shutout since a 30-0 loss to Kansas City on Dec. 7, 1997, second shutout ever at home (along with a 17-0 loss to Denver in 1981), and first in an opener since a 55-0 loss to Houston in 1961. That game came two years before AI Davis even joined the franchise, and in a bad omen was followed by a 44-0 loss the next week at San Diego. 
"As bad as we played tonight, there really is no way but up," running back LaMont Jordan said after the game. ''I'm not concerned with what the out­siders think. Once we do go out there and play well, those out­siders they're going to be sup­porting us. What I can say is, it's the first game of the sea­son." 
The biggest problem was the offensive line. With four players starting in different spots than they played last season, includ­ing rookie Paul McQuistan at right guard, the line looked overmatched. 
The influence of Hall of Fame linemen Shell and assistant Jackie Slater was supposed to help young blockers like Robert Gallery flourish. But Gallery struggled as much in the open­er at his natural position of left tackle as he did last year on the right side. 
Aaron Brooks was under pressure all night and half of his six completions came on quick passes to Randy Moss after one-step drops. 
"We didn't give our quarter­back a chance last night," Shell said. "If you got breakdowns up and down the line of scrim­mage, then you got problems. We have to go back and see what we can do schemewise to make sure we take care of some of those things as we move forward." 
The Raiders allowed nine sacks in all, one more than the number of completions Brooks and backup Andrew Walter threw, and had only 67 total yards until a game-ending drive against mostly backups raised the total to 129. 
That's a shocking number for a team with Moss, Jordan and Brooks on offense. 
"We have talent here, but the talent has to play," Shell said. "You can't talk about it, you have to go on the field and do it and we didn't do it last night." 
To make matters worse, the Raiders now have a short week before flying cross-country to face Baltimore's dominating defense. Ray Lewis and the Ravens are coming off a 27-0 victory of their own against Tampa Bay. 

---------------------------------------------------., 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
NHL 

DiPietro inks huge deal with Islanders Tuesday 
Goaltender re-signs for 15 years and 67.5 million dollars 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y.-The New York Islanders have become the NHL's version of a three-ring circus -and the spotlight keeps shining on the guys in net. 
"I guess it's pretty beneficial to be a goaltender on Long Island right now," Rick DiPietro said Tuesday, moments after signing the longest playing con­tract in NHL history. 
One week shy of his 25th birthday, the brash netminder from New England grabbed a pen and confidently inked his name to a 15-year deal that will pay him $4.5 million each season until 2021, totaling $67.5 million. 
"Well, 15 years seems like a long time," he said before a deep sigh. "It is a long time." 
Standing next to him was Garth Snow, his 37-year-old former teammate and backup, who hung up his skates earlier this summer the same day he took over as Islanders general manager. If that was strange enough, he was replacing Neil Smith, who had been on the job a little more than a month. 
Snow's biggest priority sud­denly became negotiating the deal to keep the Islanders' most popular player in the fold until he's nearly 40. 

"At first it was a little awk­ward," DiPietro said. 
And so it goes for the Islanders, who always seem to make more news and noise during the offseason than in winter. 
"This is not a big deal," owner Charles Wang said. "You have to have a commitment to who you're working with. I've done this all my business career. Now I'm doing it in sports and everybody is like, 'Oh my God. How could he do that?"' 
He's been hearing that a lot. The Islanders missed the play­offs and then led the league in summer news conferences. 
Since they last played, the Islanders have hired a coach (Ted Nolan) who was out of the league since being dismissed by Buffalo in 1997; a GM (Smith), in NHL exile since he was fired by the Rangers in 2000; and then his replacement (Snow), who was set to play another season. 
DiPietro's landmark deal topped the one given to enig­matic teammate Alexei Yashin in 2001, a 10-year, $87.5 mil­lion contract that sent NHL salaries soaring and led to the cap that ended last year's lock­out. 
It also saddled New York with a player who is nearly impossi­ble to move and takes up a big chunk of the team's $44 million maximum payroll. 
"We have to do it together," said Yashin, one of several Islanders at the news confer­ence. "The contract is the con­tract, and we have to keep focus on the game now." 
But with the Islanders, the focus is often elsewhere. Wang acknowledged that some people might think he's "crazy," yet he is undeterred. 
DiPietro's deal is believed to be second only in length in North American sports to the 2 5 -year pact Magic Johnson signed with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1981. 
"Clubs are free to make their own decisions" within the rules, NHL deputy commissioner Bill Daly said. "Time will tell whether this will be a good decision or a bad one for the Islanders." And for DiPietro. 
The Islanders will save money at the front end and won't have to worry about DiPietro becoming an unre­stricted free agent down the road. DiPietro risks losing a future big payday, but he isn't looking at it that way. 
"I hope at some point I'm underpaid," DiPietro said. "That means I'm playing really well and becoming an elite goaltender." 
The contract is guaranteed. DiPietro will be paid in full should he retire because of injury; if he ends his career otherwise before the deal 

expires, he would forfeit the remaining dollars. 
He will be the eighth highest­paid goalie in the NHL. Chicago's Nikolai Khabibulin and Vancouver's Roberto Luongo top the list at $6.75 million. 
DiPietro was 30-24-5 with a 
3.02 goals-against average in 63 games last season. He is 58­62-13 with a 2.85 GAA in 143 NHL games. 
"I don't really think that salaries are going to go up that much more. How much higher can they go?" DiPietro said. 
DiPietro and Wang talked about a 15-year deal last sum­mer. 

SENIORPOR~ ITS! DUE TO OVERWHELMING DEMAND SENIOR PORTRAIT SESSIONS HAVE BEEN EXTENDED FOR ONE FINAL WEEK TILL 9/22!!! Sign up on the internet@ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2007 full color DOME Yearbook Who: Class of 2007 Students When: Pictures taken Now till-Sept. 22 ONLY! Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2007 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook _::::::----­-­Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios. com (800) 888-5155  

:----------------------------------------------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 23 

CYCLING 
CSTV / AVCA Volleyball Top25 
team record previous 
1 Nebraska (47) 7·0 1 2 Penn State (12) 8·0 2 3 UCLA (1) 9-0 3 4 Washington 8-1 5 5 Texas 5·2 1 6 Florida 6·1 6 7 Stanford 6-1 8 8 Santa Clara 6·1 4 9 usc 9-0 10 10 California 9-0 13 11 Wisconsin 6-1 11 12 Hawaii 5·3 9 13 Tennessee 8·1 12 14 Purdue 9·0 14 15 Ohio State 8·0 19 16 Ohio 6·2 17 17 Missouri 6·3 15 18 LSU 8·1 22 19 BYU 7·1 16 20 Pepperdine 4·4 18 21 Utah 6·2 24 22 Michigan 10·0 NR 23 Cal Poly 6·3 25 24 Arizona 7-2 21 24 Kansas Slate 8·2 NR 
NCAA Div. 1-AA Top 25 
team record points 
1 New Hampshire 1-0 2513 2 Appalachian State 1-1 2469 3 Cal Poly 2-(J 2230 4 Furman 2-0 2221 5 Montana 1·1 2058 6 Youngstown State 2·0 1952 7 Illinois State 1·4· 1901 8 Richmond 1·0 1828 
g 
Massachusetts 1-1 1699 10 Hampton 2·0 1469 11 Delaware 1·0 1303 12 Northern Iowa 1-1 1208 13 Portland State 2·0 1129 14 McNeese Slate 1-1 1101 15 James Madison 1-1 1083 16 Southern Illinois 1·0 1061 17 North Dakota State 1·0 1026 18 Eastern Illinois 1·1 799 19 Eastern Kentucky 1-1 688 20 Montana Slate 1-1 670 21 UC Davis 1,1 653 22 Lafayette 2·0 476 23 Texas State H 390 24 Georgia Southern 0•1 328 25 AlabamaA&M 2~0 207 
World Golf Ranklngs 

Name Country Pts.Avg. 
1 Tiger Woods 2 Jim Furyk 
3 Phil Mickelson 4 VijaySingh 
5 Adam Scott 6 Relief Goosen 1 Ernie Els 8 Sergio Garcia 9 Geoff Ogitvy 10 luke Donald 11 Henrik Stenson 12 David Howell 13 Trevor lmmelman 
around the dial 
MLB 
Rangers at Tigers 7p.m. ESPN White Sox at Angels 3:35 p.m. WGN 
WOMEN'S SOCCER Mexico at USA 8 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 
Lance Armstrong bris­tled Tuesday at a report that two former team· mates admitted using per­form an c e-e nh anc in g drugs, calling it "a hatchet job ... to link me to doping through somebody else's admission." 
Frankie Andreu and another former Armstrong teammate who requested anonymity because he still works in ·cycling told The New York Times they used the endurance-booster EPO to prepare for the 1999 Tour de France, when Armstrong won the first of his seven titles. 
Neither rider has ever 

tested positive for per­formance-enhancing drugs and both said they never saw Armstrong take any banned substances. 
"I think it's a pretty nasty attempt by The New York Times to link me to doping through somebody else's admission. You have to read way down in the article until Frankie says, 'I never saw Lance do any­thing.' 
"To me, this is a story about Frankie Andreu," Armstrong said during a telephone interview with The Associated Press from Los Angeles. "The fact he took drugs has nothing to do with me." 
The Times first reported 
IN BRIEF 
FIFA to have Materazzi,
Zidane apologize in 2010 
File this one under silly ideas taken way too far: 
Soccer king Sepp Blatter is working on a plan for the two to get together and resolve their differences in South Africa, where the 2010 World Cup is scheduled to take place. Actually, the meeting would be off the coast of South Africa on Robben Island. 
If you haven't heard of Robben Island, it's never been known as a place for jolly summits. For the bet­ter part of four centuries, it served as a prison for political troublemakers and social outcasts. 
Its most famous inmate was Nelson Mandela, who spent more than 20 years locked up there in a tiny cell that's now a museum. 
The perfect place, it seems, for two soccer players to shake hands and maybe even exchange a hug or two. 
"We are working on bringing together Zidane and Materazzi and the story on its Web site Monday night. Armstrong could not be reached for comment by the Times because he was attending a meeting of the Presidents Cancer Panel in Minneapolis. 
"We feel the story is completely fair. It says in the eighth paragraph his teammates never saw him take drugs, and in next paragraph, that he always denied using performance­enhancing drugs," Times sports editor Tom Jolly said. 
"They are two of his for· mer teammates. Obviously, he was the star of that team and that's their claim to fame. The story never 
accuses him of using drugs." 
Andreu admitted taking EPO for only a few races and said he came forward now because he's worried doping is having a nega­tive effect on the sport. 
"There are two levels of guys," he told the paper. "You got the guys that cheat and guys that are just trying to survive." 
Armstrong has devoted considerable time and money fighting doping allegations in the past, both during interviews and with lawsuits. He said any implication that he used performance­enhancers was "ludi· crous.'' 
to bring to end this story," Blatter said Monday. 
USA topJ.lles China to open
2006 Women's World 
Basketball Championships 
Sue Bird led all scorers with 20 points and Candace Parker had 12 points and 10 rebounds Tuesday to lead the two-time defending champi· on United States to a 119-72 victory over China on the opening day of the Women's World Basketball Championship. 
Tina Thompson and Diana Taurasi had 17 points each and Seimone Augustus addep. 10 as the Americans recorded the most lopsided victory of the opening day. 
Earlier in the day, Amaya Valdemoro scored 17 points and led Spain to an 87-57 win over South Korea. 
Elisa Aguilar had 15 points, Marta Fernandez added 13, and Ana Montanana chipped in with 12 in the nearby city of Barueri as the Spanish, whose male counterparts won the men's championship earlier this month, overcame 50 percent field goal shooting by outrebounding the South Koreans 39-18. 
Top seeds advance in first 
round of China Open 
Third-seeded Marcos Baghdatis came back from a 4-1 deficit in the last set to beat Germany's Denis Gremelmayr 4-6, 6-1, 7-6 (5) in the first round of the China Open on Tuesday. 
Baghdatis, the Australian Open run· ner-up, was also behind 5-3 in the tiebreaker. 
Top-seeded Ivan Ljubicic led two other Croatians -No. 4 Mario Ancic and Ivo Karlovic -into the second round. 
Ljubicic defeated Go Soeda of Japan for his 50th win this year on the ATP tour. The world No. 3 entered the China Open late to help his bid for one of the six remaining berfhs in the season-end­ing Masters Cup. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL MLB 
Hoeppner's MRI worrisome 
Tigers trapped in 

Indiana head coach will have potential brain tumor removed 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. ­Wins, losses and quarterback controversies can wait. For now, life weighs more heavily on Indiana's football program. 
Hoosiers coach Terry Hoeppner is to undergo brain surgery Wednesday morning in Bloomington to remove a possi­ble tumor from the right side of his head. 
Hoeppner is expected to miss two to four weeks. Assistant head coach Bill Lynch will fill in for Hoeppner. 
It's the second time since in less than nine months Hoeppner has needed surgery, and doctors fear its a recur­rence of the tumor they removed in December from his right temple. But nobody's sure whether the growth detected in a routine scan Friday is can­cerous. 
"We're hoping it's scar tissue, that's what our prayer is," Hoeppner said during a Tuesday evening news confer­ence. "These tests, as I've come to find out, give them a pretty good indication whether it's enough of a possibility either way. But we don't want to sit around and see what it is three to six months from now." 
The 59-year-old Hoosiers coach has had periodic check­ups and scans since the first surgery. 
On Friday, he went in for another MRI. Doctors got the results back over the weekend, but Hoeppner said they waited to meet with him until Monday -after the Hoosiers beat Ball State 24-23, their biggest comeback since 2002. 
Neurosurgeon Marshall Poor said in a written statement there was evidence of a possi­ble recurrent tumor, and Hoeppner's medical team offered several options. . 
"I said 'Can we do this in January or February?"' Hoeppner said while his wife, Jane, assistants and a few boosters watched. "And they said that's probably not a smart thing. So I'm deferring to their expertise." 
The news was a surprise. 
Since having surgery last winter, and taking time off the recruiting trail, Hoeppner had eased his way back into coach­ing. In June, he told The Associated Press he felt great, and when fall practice began, his wife, children and grand­children joined him on the sideline. 
Ohio State coach Jim Tressel said Tuesday that Hoeppner appeared to be doing well dur­ing a coaches meeting in May and seemed better when they met again in July at the funeral for Northwestern coach Randy Walker. Walker, one of Hoeppner's close friends and his predecessor at Miami of Ohio, died of a heart attack at age 52. 
"He's real positive, upbeat, he's a player's coach, highly competitive," Tressel said of Hoeppner. "When the game starts, he's as excited as any­one in the stadium." 
Even Tuesday, Hoeppner said he felt well -a vast difference from the headaches that first prompted him to seek medical treatment in December. 

"They're going to clean out the area, which means to cut something out," he said. "The good news is that they can do that area again without caus­
ing some peripheral side effects." 
Hoeppner held his usual weekly news conference on Tuesday but never mentioned the illness after telling his assistants in the morning. He said he wanted inform his play­ers personally, which he did before their afternoon practice. 
Afterward, receiver Lance Bennett, one of the team's cap­tains, gathered the team in prayer on the field. 
"We walked into the locker room and saw a sign up that said team meeting at 2:30, so we didn't know what to expect," Bennett said. "When we got in there and heard that news, it was shocking.... But he's upbeat, so it doesn't make it as depressing." 
Hoeppner's health problems began late last year, after enduring his first losing season as a head coach. While on a trip to Cleveland to watch his prized pupil, Pittsburgh quar­terback Ben Roethlisberger', Hoeppner began having headaches. Hoeppner coached Roethlisberger at Miami. 
After returning to Bloomington on Dec. 26, Hoeppner underwent tests and had surgery the next day. 
Roethlisberger was nearly killed in a motorcycle accident in June and recently had an appendectomy. 
"Ben is the only person I called outside the family," Hoeppner said Tuesday, his voice quivering slightly. "He first said congratulations on the win and get another win this week. And call me when you get out of the hospital." 
The Hoosiers' were 4-7 in Hoeppner's first season and 
late-season swoon 
Tigers manager Jim Leyland insisted he and his players are not panicking. He also acknowl­edged that they are, to a degree, watching the score­board. 
"We're in a position to take care of our own fate," said Leyland, who helped Florida win the World Series in 1997 and was a two-time NL Manager of the Year in Pittsburgh. "We have to take care of our own business, but are you hoping (Chicago and Minnesota) get beat? Sure. To say it's not in the back of your mind, you're lying." 
The truth is, Detroit is in dan­ger of the worst free fall in a decade. 
The Tigers were 84-51 after play Sept. 1, 5 1-2 games ahead of Chicago and six games ahead of Minnesota. If Detroit does not finish first in the division, it would be the largest flop enter­ing the final month of the sea­son since 1995, when the California Angels lost a 7 1-2­game lead, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
"If you're scared about what might happen, you shouldn't be here," pitcher Jeremy Bonderman said. 
"We've been scuffling for the first time this year, but we still have the same guys that were here when things were going better." 
They just aren't hitting as well. In the 32-game slide, the Tigers averaged just 3.6 runs and had a mere .247 batting average. 

are 2-0 for the third straight year. It's the first time Indiana has opened three straight sea­sons with back-to-hack wins in 100 years. Hoeppner is 54-32 in seven-plus seasons as a head coach. 
Lynch has an overall record of 81-67-3 as a head coach. 
The Society for Human Resource Management & The Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 

Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Peg Neuhauser 
" Cross-Functional Collaboration: Bridging the Territorial Gaps" 
Friday, September 15 12:30 -1:45 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Detroit's bats have lost their pop after team's fast opening 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT -The Motor City skyline was draped in elouds, and a steady rain pattered on the tarp-covered field at Comerica Park. If things weren't gloomy enough in Detroit on Tuesday, the Tigers only needed to look at the AL Central standings. 
One of the biggest stories of this baseball season has been the Tigers' surprising turn­around. With the playoffs just three weeks away, Detroit finds itself as the focus of another story line -its collapse. 
At the end of the day on Aug. 7, Detroit was 76-36, eight games better than any other team. Their closest AL Central rival was Chicago at 1 0 games behind, with Minnesota faeing a 10 1-2 game deficit. 
Since then, the Tigers were 10-22 -only the Chicago Cubs were worse during that stretch in the majors -entering Tuesday's games. Their division lead had shrunk to 1 1-2 games over Minnesota and three games ahead of the White Sox. 
Fans in Detroit, who finally have something to cheer about after years of lousy baseball and a team that's been largely ignored, are understandably worried. 

Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish close in on team goals, finish 12th in S.C. 
Team hovers around 300 in three rounds ofCougar Classic, can't crack top-10 ofcompetitive tournament 
holes on day one, ending the "Overall, I was pleased withBy CHRIS HINE second round at No. 11. The how I played in the tourna­
Sports Writer 
low round for Notre Dame on ment," she said. "But there Monday came from sopho­are definitely some things I Notre Dame posted scores more Lisa Maunu, who fired a need to work on, such as my near its team goals but man­1-under par 71. short game. For our first tour­aged only a 12th-place finish Maunu finished the tourna­nament of the year, we played out of 18 teams at the Cougar ment tied for pretty well, Classic at Yeaman's Hall Club No. 20 overall but we can in Hanahan, S.C. Monday and with a score of "Overall, I was pleased still play a lot 
Tuesday. 222 (71-75-with how I played in the better." 
The Irish (301-300-305; 42-76; plus 7). Freshman
tournament.,,

over par) finished 33 strokes "[Lisa's] atti­Kristen behind tournament winner tude was very Wetzel (239, Florida State. g 0 0 d ' " Annie Brophy 83-75-81; 
"We were happy with our Nakazaki said. Irish freshman plus 23) and team scoring," senior Noriko "She has senior Stacy Nakazaki said. "It's just that improved a lot Brown (243, the.. other teams played bet­over last year and shot a great 80-78-85; plus 27) also con­ter. first round. She wasn't happy tributed scoring rounds for 
Nakazaki led the way for the with her final two rounds the Irish. Irish, posting though." North Carolina's Lauren a 220 (76-72-"I can definitely improve. On Tuesday, Hunt led all individual scorers 72; plus-4) to Nakazaki's 72 with a 6-under par 210, while
I shot a 3 -under on the

tie for No. 14 was the low Florida State's Caroline
front nine in my third

overall in the round for the Westrup shot the low round of tournament. round. I should have been Irish. the tournament on Tuesday "I can defi­In her first with a 6-under 66.
under-par [Tuesday]. It 

n i t e I y tournament, Next on the Irish schedule is 
was upsetting."

improve," she freshman the Notre Dame Invitational at said. "I shot a Annie Brophy Warren Golf Course Sept. 23 3-under on Noriko Nakazaki compiled an and 24. the front nine 11-over 229, Before that begins, newly
Irish senior 

in my third good for a tie named head coach Susan Holt round. I should have been for 45th. will join the team for the first under-par [Tuesday]. It was She compiled 11 birdies, tying time. upsetting." her for No. 10 overall in the Holt is replacing former 
The Irish completed 36-tournament in that category. coach Debby King. 
Assistant coach Kyle Veltri, as the team was flying back to who has led Notre Dame in South Bend. the interim, will stay on as an assistant. Veltri could not be Contact Chris Hine at reached for comment Tuesday chine@nd.edu 
CLASSIC ROCK PARODIES 
The Electric Amish 
as heard on the ...Bob & T'orn " sho"»'. 
I 

I 
J 
j • 

Saturday, September 16 
Showtime 7:00PM 
Tickets $14, $16, $18 
-ALSO APPEARING-Voted "Best Blues Band" by l'Vhatzup readers for 6 years in a row! 
Pop -..r A ash REVIEW 
Blues -Rock -Originals FEATURING:
ELCC> ''J.hR J.~ ,, 
PERFOR\IING ARTS CENTER 
410 S. MAIN ST•• ELKHART. IN 
574-293-4469 • 800-294-8223 • www.elcotheatre.corn 
NOTRE DAME FORUM© 
Dr. Paul Farmer International public health activist 
Jeffrey Sachs Author T11e End ofPoverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time 
Dr. Miriam Opwonya Director, Ugandan AIDS clinic 
Dr. David Gaus '84 Keri Oxley '04 Michael Dewan '07 Ailis Tweed-Kent '07 
Moderated by Gwen Ifill, ofThe NewsHour with Jim Lehrer 

Joyce Center 
Classes will be canceled between 1:00 and 3:30 p.m. All faculty, staff and students are encouraged to attend. 
Visit: forum.nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 2006 


Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, Sept. 13, 2006 116 DeBartolo 
7:00-8:00 PM 
Pre-med program fall semester in Puebla Engineering and business courses in Monterrey Elementary Spanish in Monterrey Summer Program for Engineers and others in Puebla 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 FOR FALL, SPRING AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8; MARCH 1 FOR SUMMER 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/rvintlstud/ 
SMC VoLLEYBALL 
Squad hopes second 111atchbrings same end 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
After a runner-up finish in the Baldwin-Wallace tournament last weekend, a confident Saint Mary's team will travel to face Albion tonight in a MIAA match. 
The Belles started fast this season, winning eight of their first ten matches. Over the weekend at Baldwin-Wallace, the team swept all three of its matches in pool play before falling to the host and eventual champion Yellow Jackets 3-1 (30-27, 16-30, 
opponent this year, in the Tri­State tournament. The Belles finished strong after a slow start, winning the match 3-2 (30-16, 27-30, 17-30, 30-10, 15-6). 
Saint Mary's senior Kristen Playko led the winning effort with 15 kills. Libera Anne Cusack starred defensively with 19 digs and freshman Lorna Slupczynski added 12 digs and 11 kills. The win was one of four consecutive St. Mary's vic­tories that led to winning the Tri-State tournament title. 
Albion has not fared as well 
as the Belles, 

30-19, 30-28).  "We've had a really  however, losing  
Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek  balanced offensive attack and solid defense  five of its first six matches. The Britons  
was impressed  behind them."  are led by sen­ 
with the team's  ior  Kristen  
performance. "We were able to play a strong  Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach  Slamer, who has tallied 53 kills on the sea- 

and consistent game throughout the tourna­ment and dominated the group play," Schroeder-Biek said. "The strength we showed in the tournament did wonders for our confidence." 
Before the tough loss to Baldwin-Wallace, the Belles defeated John Carroll 3-0 (30­19, 30-23, 30-20) to finish undefeated in group play and advance to the final. St. Mary's easily defeated Lake Erie 3-0 (30-16, 30-8, 30-10) and Case Western 3-0 (30-22, 30-11, 30­
23) on Friday. 
The team faced Albion once already this season -the Britons were the Belles' first 
son. Albion coach Melissa Walton and the Britons look to turn their sea­son around with a league victo­ry at home. 
Schroeder-Biek believes her squad will be up to the chal­lenge. 
"We've had a really balanced offensive attack and solid defense behind them," she said. "We still have things to fine tune, but our team now really knows our potential and believes that they can accom­plish the high goals we have set for ourselves." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan2@nd.edu 


Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance staff  • Lawn service  


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032rcelll (574) 234-2436rofficeJ 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
last event -the non-confer­last week," Hamilton said. doing and can bring the indi­ence Ferris State Invitational Belles sophomore Katie vidual and team aspects of
Belles 
-Hamilton says the Belles Mcinerney said Saint Mary's golf together, we should win have a lot on their plates as has a strong chance of placing our conference again," she
continued from page 32 
they seek their fifth-consecu­at the top of the conference said. said. "I just need to focus on tive MIAA championship in both this week and for the Hamilton said he is consid­staying positive and staying on 2006. season. ering playing freshmen in this the fairways." "We are looking to hit more "If the team continues to and upcoming events. 
After finishing 15th in their consistently and improve from work as hard as we have been "The freshmen are improv-
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS 
ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
ing every week," he said. "They are still adjusting to playing at the college level but the team is very pleased with their progress." 
But for now, the Belles will have to concentrate on the task at hand, beating Tri-State and the seven other MIAA teams. 
Sei believes the squad's hard work will translate into an improved performance today. 
''I'm going to focus on my game," she said. ''I'm not intimidated by any opponent. I'm just there to beat the course." 
Contact Becki Slinger at rsling{) 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 28 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 13, 2006 

. 
•
' 
•
: 
' 
: 
' 
' 
• 
: ~ ! 
! 
' 
' 
' 
I ' 
' 
! ' 
' ' ~ 
I r 
. • ' ' 
' 
' 
' 
'•
' 
' 
t 
~ 
t 
~ 
I' 
-
. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
'.' 
.' 
! f ­
' 
' 
t 
' 
' 
~ 
•
•
' ...,
t 
• 
the S 0 L EM N I T Y of 
OUR LADY of S 0 RRO S 
PAT R 0 N E S S of the C 0 N G R E G AT I 0 N 

.~ 
•. r.,.... Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
Weis 
continued from page 32 
Notre Dame focus will be shut­ting down these receivers while limiting a Wolverines rushing attack that has been strong in two games· this season (249 yards per game, 4.9 yards per attempt). 
Michigan coach 1,-loyd Carr has opted for a more run-domi­nated offense this year, using quarterback Chad Henne as a secondary option. The Wolverines 
Manningham will pose different challenges. Breaston presents multiple threats as a receiver, kick returner and punt returner. He leads the team with six catches and 91 yards in two games this season. The senior also has two carries for 39 yards. 
Manningham has one of two Michigan receiving touchdowns this year, and has five catches for 71 yards. He had three catches and 44 yards in the Wolverines' opener against Vanderbilt. 
Weis said Tuesday his defen­
sive backs are 
have controlled "Last year people got constantly the time of pos­handling the
mad because [Tom Brady]
session battle pressure of -averaging had to wear a Notre proving them­over 35 min­Dame hat, so I won ,t call selves on a utes per game. game-by-game
him this year.,, 

But Notre basis. Dame head "The players coach under­Charlie Wels have taken on stands how Irish coach the responsi­
dangerous both receivers can be after experiencing them first hand in last September's 17-10 Irish win in Ann Arbor. 
"We got indoctrinated by [Manningham]," Weis said about the Michigan sophomore in his press conference Tuesday. 
Manningham (6-foot, 182 pounds) and Breaston (6-foot-1, 180 pounds) are both smaller receivers than Johnson, who Notre Dame limited to two catches for 16 yards in the sec­ond half. Johnson (6-foot-5, 235 pounds) was a much more phys­ical threat than Michigan's pair. 
And as a result, Breaston and 
bility of being consistently better ... because that one issue was playing one game, now it's can you do it another game," Weis said. "Now we're going into game three, can you do it another game because everyone is, 'Well, it's just two games,' and that's not the way they're thinking about things." 
Notes: 

+ Weis spoke Tuesday about the number of recruits that will be in town Saturday for the Michigan game. Being a Notre Dame graduate, Weis has a unique perspective on what to show high school prospects when they visit. 
He makes a point of giving recruits his own personal tour of campus -highlighting his own preferred parts of the University. 
"My favorite part of the cam­pus happens to be the Grotto and the lake to tell you the truth," Weis said. "For me on my golf cart, this is one spot where I get off the golf cart because for me ... it's some­thing that always has great sig­nificance." 
+ It's no secret that Weis and New England quarterback Tom Brady have a tight bond -one that traces back to their three Super Bowls together with the Patriots. 
But when Weis was asked Tuesday if the two will be dis­cussing this week's game ­Brady is a Michigan alumnus who lost a bet to Weis and was forced to wear an Irish hat during an interview last season -the Notre Dame coach offered an unexpected answer. 
"We e-mail on a regular basis but we won't talk," Weis said. "Last year people got mad because he had to wear a Notre Dame hat, so I won't call him this year. I don't want to get myself in trouble like I did last year. 
'Til just e-mail him. I think he's more about getting ready for the Jets than he is worrying about Notre Dame and Michigan playing." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Spartans 
continued from page 32 
freshmen so as the season goes on we will continue to improve and work better as one unit," senior goalkeeper Nicole Leach said. 
Both teams carry nine.fresh­men on their rosters and 
rely on the "We need to work assisted all three· of younger play­on staying more Hinton's goals, ers to make a along with getting
organized in the 
big impact in off five shots of her
back.,,
the games. own from the mid­
Manchester field position. freshmen The duo threat­
Caryn MacKenzie 
Stacey Jerke ened to score sev­
Belles coach 
and Paige Koomler lead the Spartans in scoring with three goals each. Koomler began her collegiate career with an overtime game-win­ner in the 99th minute of the Spartans victory over Kalamazoo Sept. 2. 
That's something that does­n't get past Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie. 
"We need to work on staying more organized in the back," she said. "That is where we have a lot of inexperience and I think we will gain confidence as the year goes on." 
The young defense will have to improve quickly in order to shut down Koomler and Jerke this afternoon. 
Sophomore Laura Hinton scored Saint Mary's lone goal against Albion. The strike came from 10 yards out early in the first half. Hinton also had two goals in a scrimmage against Anderson College Aug. 26. 
Senior tri-captain 
Ashley Hinton 
eral other times in 

the game but was not able to connect in the sec­ond half. Last year the pair combined for 18 goals. 
The team will try to step up their offense against Manchester to keep control of the ball and give the young defense a chance to keep the game close. 
"I think that just by having played our first game and gaining that experience we will show significant improve­ment," Leach said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd;edu 

RESUME SUBMISSION DEADLINE THURSDAY 


SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Thursday, September 21 
Networking Reception Joyce Center, Monogram Room ·4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Thursday, September 21 
Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 5:30-9:00 p.m. 
Friday, September 22 
Interview Day Flanner Hall and Other Selected Locations 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Engineering Industry Day sponsored by 
RESUME SUBMISSION DEADLINE THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, AT MIDNIGHT FOR MORE INFO ACCESS GoiRISH THROUGH THE CAREER CENTER WEBSITE 
ORGANIZED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL, THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
VEDDER PRICE 



page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, Se-ptember 13, 2006 
games in his first Buccaneer sea­son. Des Moines' fourth-leading
Recruits 
continued from page 32 
Mich.), Billy Maday (Burr Ridge, IlL) and Calle Ridderwall (Stockholm, Sweden) round out the class of 2011. 
The class will be joined in the 2008-09 season by U.S. Under-17 team forward Patrick Gaul of Pittsburgh, Penn. Gaul is the first verbal commit for the class of 2012. 
"[Gaull is one of the best in his recruiting class right now," Ruth said of his Under-17 counterpart. 
Ruth, Phillips and Cole played on the same U-17 team, a squad that won the North Division of the North American Hockey League -a top-tier junior league -before losing to Cleveland in the second round of the playoffs. 
Maday and Ridderwall will not be strangers when they join the Irish. The two forwards played· last season on the top line of the Chicago Chill points-scorer committed to the Irish on July 8, 2005. 
"He's the kind of kid that I have to get him off the ice," Buccaneers head coach Regg Simon said. "He stays out extra on his own, does the extra work -the kind of guy you want to be your leader." 
Simon said that Ryan is a com­plete center with good two-way skills and "excellent hockey smarts". Ryan chose Notre Dame over Michigan and Michigan State after Jackson attended one of his tryout camps and the cen­ter was able to discuss it with Simon. 
"I believe Ben chose Notre Dame for the whole experience," Simon said. "To get the ND expe­rience and to get the high-end academics. And to play for one of the best coaching staffs in the country." 
Maday was selected No. 2 overall in the 2006 USHL entry draft by the Waterloo Black 
Hawks, where 


Midget Majors. The Chill lost 2­1 to the Boston  "[Ben Ryan] the kind of kid that I have to get  he will play one junior season before joining  
Jr. Bruins in the 2006 USA Hockey Under­18 National  him offthe ice. He stays out extra on his own, does the extra work - the Irish. The right wing -opposite left w i n g  
Championship. "It was the first year they  the kind ofguy you want to be your leader."  Ridderwall -had 38 goals and 87 assists  
played together,  in 7 4 games for  
but it was one of those things where it looked  Regg Simon Des Moines coach  the ChilL His 125 points put him at the top  
like they played  of  the  AAA  

with each other since they were midget Mid America Hockey young kids," Chicago Chill head League leaderboard last season. coach Anders Sorenson said of Chill coach Sorenson said that Maday and Ridderwall. "Last Maday was a set-up man with a year at the midget level they "great set of hands" and a were two of the best players out superb ability to see the ice and there-that's for sure." anticipate the play. The 5-foot­
11, 185-pound winger was Elite junior talent unable to play more than five 
Ryan is the lone recruit to shifts in the Chill's 2006 national enter his second season in the title loss to the Jr. Bruins due to a USHL, which is the premiere deep thigh bruise -an injury he American Tier 1 junior league. fought and played through in the He will return to the league quarter and semifinals: champion Des Moines "I wouldn't say it was why we Buccaneers, where he scored the lost, but it was a big reason," game-winning goal to win the Sorenson said. · 2006 title over the Sioux Falls Maday committed April 7 of Stampede. this year to Notre Dame on the 
The 5-foot-11, 180-pound cen­same day as RidderwalL ter was selected No. 17 overall in Ridderwall however will not the 2005 USHL entry draft and join Maday on Waterloo -the 5­had 14 goals and 23 assists in 60 foot-11, 165-pound left wing was taken No. 19 overall by the Tri­City Storm in the 2006 USHL draft. 

Ridderwall is a natural goal­scorer with a strong work ethic Sorenson said. 
"He's got a really accurate and quick shot," he said. "A really quick shot." 
lie had 52 goals and 66 assists last year with the Chill. 
"They both have the talent to do it," Sorenson said of Maday and Ridderwall succeeding at the collegiate level. "Both should be fairly successful but it's a big step from midgets to juniors and jun­iors to college. It's going to depend on how much they're willing to sacrifice on· the ice and on the iee." 
Irish sophomore Garrett Began played for Waterloo, while jun­iors Brian D'Arcy and Mark Van Guilder, sophomore Christian Hanson and frnshman Kyle Lawson played their junior hock­ey with Tri-City. 
· Stars and Stripes 

The three U.S. NTDP recruits -Phillips, Cole and Huth ­committed to tho Irish separate­ly, but will enter Notre Dame with two years as tnammates ­ones that will havn played a more demanding schedule than most Division I eolleges. 
The U.S. Under-18's will play Michigan, Michigan State, Colorado College, Boston College, New Hampshire and North Dakota this season in a mixed · schedule of junior and collegiate teams. 
"I think in all three of those players right away its going to definitely infusn a lot of desire and passion in those players into [Notre Dame]." Holston said. "Basically, !the Irish] have got players who are good leaders that have bmm through a lot of wars. especially playing in the college schedule this season." 
Phillips, a 6-foot-1, 145-pound goalie, will enter Notn~ Dame to take the place of graduating sen­ior goaltender Dave Brown. Phillips had a 21-14 record in 38 games and held a 2.39 goals against average with a .922 save percentage for the U.S. Under-17's last season. 
"I talked with someone that said !Phillips] was a ridiculous goalie," Gaul said. 
Holston said that Phillips was a very athletic goalkeeper who uses his size well. Phillips was a strong positional goalie with loads of talent, he said. 
Phillips committnd Nov. 11, 2005, but is not the first member of his family to attend Notre Dame. His grandfather and uncle -former Irish quarterback Terry Andrysiak -are both graduates. 
"[Andrysiak] told me the truth, everything about the school ­the good, the bad -but overall it was my decision," Phillips said regarding his undo's advice. 
Phillips chose the Irish over Boston College in part because Jackson and his stall' pursued the national team goaltender harder. 
The first commit of the class was 6-foot-1, 210-pound defenseman Ian Cole, who com­mitted May 30, 2005. 
Cole received a scholarship offer for Notre Dame as a high school freshman -from former Irish head eoach Dave Poulin ­but chose not to commit until several weeks after Jackson took over the team. lie committed after he rriade a visit to Jackson in South Bend and was con­vinced that Notre Dame was the right school to choosn. 
"I tried to work on [Phillips and Huthl a little bit and make a good impression on them to put Notre Dame in a good light," said Cole of the advantage of being the first in the class. "So I guess it worked pretty wnll." 
Cole had four goals and 12 assists in 70 gaJ;IleS for the Under-17's and collected 103 penalty minutns -a sign of his dominating 
"To be honest, Notre Dame is an amazing school," he said. "The education is top-notch, and I absolutely love Jackson, [assis­tant head coach Paul] Pooley and Slaggert. I just wantnd to play for them." 
Gaul is the newest verbal com­mit for the Irish -he gave his word to the team Aug. 9 to enter in the fall of 2008. He made his decision a week before the Under-17's won the Three Nations Tournament in Rochester, New York 
The 5-foot-8, 165-pound for­ward played for the midget major Pittsburgh Hornets before he entered the NTDP this season. 
"Whenever I'd talk to [Jackson] about committing and all that. he would be like, 'I'm not trying to put pressure on you -it's a big decision and I don't want you to make a decision you will regret'," Gaul said. "You could tell they weren't just trying to recruit me -they wanted me to make the right decision." 
Gaul and his parents talked about the school and docided that Notre Dame was a better lit than Denver, Boston College and New Hampshire. Gaul knows all about the older, Under-18 commits and the USHL recruits, several of. whom he played against at the 
midget level. 

-physical pres­ence on the ice. Holston said  "Both [Billy Maday and Calle Ridderwall] should  "I . played against Calle I Hidderwall]  
Cole was big and strong, but a puck-moving defenseman  be fairly successful but it's a big step from midgets to juniors and  and [Maday] they're just  Billy and both great  
that can con­tribute offense  juniors to college. "  offensively tal­ented players,"  
from the point as well. lie chose the Irish  Anders Sorenson Chicago Chill coach  he said. "And when you throw in the  
over defending  good  two  

national champion Wisconsin defensemen and the goalie ­and Miami, Ohio. it's looking good for Notre 
Ruth is a very similar player to Dame's future." Cole, Holston said -a large Notre Dame's future appears defenseman with ollcnsive capa­promising to not only Gaul and bilities. The 6-foot, 190-pound the Class of 2011 recruits, but player had three goals and eight to someone far more intimate assists with 82 pnnalty minutes with Jackson and his hockey last year on the Under-17's. philosophy. 
"[Ruth and Cole] will probably "As far as [Jackon'sl reputa­generate most of their offense tion in the game and ability to coming in late into the play," coach and win championships Rolston said. "On offense, both -just having somebody of that have good vision with the puck stature will help recruiting," -[they]·make a good outlet Rolston said. "And the name ­pass." everyone knows in Canada, the 
Ruth committed May 10 and States -everyone has heard of chose Notre Dame over CCI-lA Notre Dame." rivals Michigan State and Miami. And if Jackson, Slaggert and He was the latest player for the Pooley continue to bring in elite 2007-08 class to give his word to recruiting classes yearly, every­the Irish. one will know Notre Dame for a 
However, the prior commits of new reason -hockey. Phillips and Cole were not the main influence for him to choose Contact Kyle Cassity at Notre Dame, Huth said. kcassily@nd.edu 
-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
JOCULAR 
Ok. you need your resume with your GP A and contact information, a good suit, and a good fake. yet endearing smile. 
CROISSANTWORLD 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Euripides drama 
1 Dennis the 35 "_a gun!" Menace-type 
36 Late, as akids 

payment 6 Luxuriates 
39 Incited 11 "Just 
43 Street-smartthought!" 

45 Spine-tingling14 Love to pieces 

15 Maine college 46 Agree town 51 SSE's opposite 16 Stanley Cup org. 
52 "This won't hurt 17 Start a " negotiation 
53 Seen once in a 19 Dover's state: blue moon Abbr. 
54 Korean soldiers 20 Minor setback 
55 To the point 21 Raises canines? 
58 Nick and Nora's 23 Body parts with 
dog of story and claws 

film 26 Pizzas 
60 -tac-toe 28 Mrs. Chaplin 
61 Shake on it 29 Miner's 
66 Put into service 

discovery 67 Jazz great Shaw 
30 Give a little, take a little 68 cum laude 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
69 Basic version: Abbr. 70 Atwitter, with 
"up" 

71 Fork feature 
DOWN 1 "Kapow!" 2 Nutritional inits. 3 "All systems go" 4 Lock of hair 5 Actor Connery 6 Dance 
energetically 7 Terrier's sound 8 Tap dancing 
without taps 
9 Patella's place 10 Achy 11 "You said a 
mouthful!" 12 Singer Easton 13 "Amen!" 18 Back of the 
neck 

22 Chewy candy 23 Ceremonial splendor 
24 Square footage 

27 UFO occupants 30 Angry with 31 "The Ice Storm" director Lee 
32 Theater seats 
yadda, yadda" 
37 One, in Madrid 38 Petition 40 First 007 film 
ALEC WHITE 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
Nc\ u"EA.i. M'\ 

I WA":. A(.-rUAU-i f..E ::.uH~ HAS A \.OT 
TA\-\<.INu ,11..~\..fT T~E. o~ A-riAAL"T\-.JE. 
1'\-\0N"" ISol:>'j P,b.ll··lf 
C.U(> M.T ON tr, \ 

~SO-----------~
(:lo-r 1'-\'\ HA\~ c.uT. A~... N<m-\1Nt:l . 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kendall Twigg  
41 Pigpen cry  48 Chopped into  57 Parched  
42 Front page fill 44 Nay's opposite  small pieces, as food 49 Not suitable for kids, as a movie  59 Office worker just for the day  
46 It has points in  50 Go well  62 Commit perjury  
Arizona  together  63 Sense of self  
47 Double-reed woodwind  54 Speeder spotter 56 "Out of Africa"  64 Raggedy doll  
player  author Dinesen  65 Fall behind  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TOQUA 
t
I I I ~IJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
I I 
All Rights Reserved. 
GEELY 
J 
rJ r 
www.jumble.com 
Jumbles: 
Yesterday's 
Answer: 
HOROSCOPE 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT THE: SE:AM­STRESS E:NJ0/£:0 ON HE:r< WE:ODING 
DAY. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers Monday) BUILT PATCH MUSKET DELUXE Why the orchestra functioned like clockwork-IT 
KEPT"TIME" 
EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ariana Richards, 26; Brad Fischetti, 30; Harry Connick Jr., 38; Earl Holliman, 77 
Happy Birthday: Stop talking about what you want to do this year and start actually following through with your plans. Personal and professional change is needed in your life. Things have become stale. so spice them up. Someone will help you if you share your dreams. Your numbers are 7, 13, 19, 29, 33, 38 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You have the discipline and the drive to take a creative idea and tum it into something great. The person you love will encourage you and contribute to your plans for the future. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may wish to make some changes to your residence, but now is not the time. Set aside some time to create a plan and set a budget. You'll come up with a solution that is within your means. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will feel tom between two choices. Don't make a decision based on what other people want. You have to decide for yourself. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Consider what you can do to change your routine. Decide what is healthy and what isn't. Now is the time to make a to-do list and stick to it. You will gain respect. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have an attitude that everyone wants to mimic and an approach to life that is riveting. Practice what you preach and your life will be as wonderful as you portray. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you want to avoid opposition today, forget about discussing your plans. Someone you least expect will do something totally out of character. Decide whether or not this person is good for you. ** 
.LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may try to take advantage of you financially. Don't lend, borrow or get involved in joint financial deals. Love and romance are in the picture, so plan an exciting evening for two. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get involved in an activity that will bring you closer to your dream of the past. If you do something connected with an industry you long to be in, it could lead to something great.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be hard to pin down and even more difficult to keep up with. You will excite those who meet you and exhaust those you have known for some time. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The quieter you are about your plans, the less opposition you will have to contend with. Watch what everyone else is doing and you will know who is capable of getting involved in your plans. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb.18): You can come up with a great idea that can tum into a prosperous future if you stick to it and tum this rather unorthodox project into something tangible. Your trendy style and unique way of doing things will entice potential business partners today. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Let the dust settle before you decide to deal with emotional issues. Take acloser look at your financial position and make adjustments. Making changes to your living arrangements will do you some good. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, clever, unique, adaptable and open-minded. You are courageous and have the stamina to finish what you start. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com forfun, eugenialasr.com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address ________________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______, 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 13, 2006 
page 32 
HOCKEY RECRUITING 
Magnificent 7 
Standout prospects tell Irish coach they'll play for Notre Dame 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 
Jeff Jackson's rebuilding plans for Notre Dame have taken him back to his roots. 
The second-year Irish coach and the team's recruiting spe­
. cialist, Andy Slaggert, have secured three verbal commit­ments from players on the U.S. Under-18 national team ­where Jackson served as coach and senior director of the National Team Development Program (NTDP) for four years -and three more from the country's top junior hockey league. And that, one recruit says, has given the Irish "the top one or two" recruiting class for the 2007-08 season. The four years Jackson spent with the NTDP wasn't the only connection he had to a program that produced current Irish sen­iors Josh Sciba and Michael Bartlett and past Irish stars Brett Lebda and Rob Globke. Ron Rolston, current head coach of the U.S. Under-18 team, served as associate head coach during Jackson's 10-year tenure at Lake Superior State from 1986 through 1996. 

Patrick Gaul Aug.. 19. 2006 U.S. Under-17 
Rolston is also the brother of Brian Rolston -the star of Jackson's 1992 national champi­on Lakers and now a center for the Minnesota Wild. 
"With [Jackson] being [with the NTDP], he knows the envi­ronment the kids are put in here," Ron Rolston said of the NTDP, located in Ann Arbor, Mich. "l-Ie knows that if he gets a player out of here, they're going to be ready to go as fresh­men and be able to contribute right away just from the sur­roundings and environment they're put in there." 
Goaltender Brad Phillips (Farmington Hills, Mich.), defensemen Ian Cole (Ann 
fOOTBALL 
Weis aw-are of receivers' talent 
Coach prepares for fast Manningham, versatile Breaston 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame's highly scruti­nized secondary heading into 2006 has turned a few heads so far this season -shutting down Georgia Tech wide receiver Calvin Johnson in the second half of a 14-10 win Sept. 2 and holding Penn State quarterback Anthony Morelli to 189 yards passing Sept. 9. 
Saturday's matchup with Michigan will serve as anoth­er test. Given the dynamic receiving combination of Steve Breaston and Mario Manningham -a major 
see WEIS/page 29 Arbor, Mich.) and Teddy Ruth (Naperville, Ill.) committed to Notre Dame from the U.S. Under-18's prior to the Nov. 8­15, 2006 early letter-of-intent signing period. 

United States Hockey League forwards Ben Ryan (Brighton, 
see RECRUITS/page 30 
SMC SoccER 
Spartans open road schedule 
Saint Mary's looks to avenge 2-1 loss to Albion in first game 
By DAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
It's back on the road again for Saint Mary's today as the Belles travel to North Manchester, Ind., to take on the Manchester Spartans. 
After beginning the season with a 2-1 loss to Albion Sept. 6, the Belles look to even their record at one against the Spartans. 
Manchester (2-2) also comes into the contest after a tough loss in its last game. The Spartans fell to Marian in overtime Saturday. Marian forward Casey Williams knocked in a goal two min­utes into the extra period to break the scoreless tie. 
Saint Mary's will look to build on the experience gained in last week's loss as the young team continues to build chemistry and confi­dence. 
"Almost half the team are 
see SPARTANS/page 29 

SMC GOLF 
Belles take on fatniliar opponents in Jamboree 
Team hopes to start MIAA title defense with a strong showing 
By BECKI SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton is looking for some payback when the Belles com­pete in the MIAA Jamboree today at The Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich. 
Although Albion is hosting the tournament, Hamilton said the Britons aren't the Belles main concern. 
"Albion is a strong oppo­nent, but Tri-State is our big competition," Hamilton said. "They've beaten us twice so 
we are looking for a little revenge on them." 
Saint Mary's will send six players to the 6,000-yard, par­72 course, and three of the golfers have played The Medalist before. 
"In the past the course has given us some trouble," Hamilton said, referring to the club's layout. 
The Medalist course, fea­tures a hole that requires a tee shot over a hill and anoth­er hole, nicknamed "The Little Terror," because it is bordered by wetlands. Sophomore co­captain Alex Sei said she must take the course one shot at a time. 
"I can't concentrate ·on the difficulties of the course," she 
see BELLES/page 27 


ND WOMENlS GOlf CYCliNG
SMC VOI..lEYBAll 

NHl 
NFL 
MlB 
LLI 

Steroid Allegations Yankees 12(,) Belles at Britons Cougar Classic 
z 
Devil Rays 4

The Islanders sign 24­The Seattle Seahawks New York outfielderSaint Mary's takes on The Irish score close Lance Armstrong once year-old goalie Rick acquire wide receiver
::5 

DiPietro to a record 15­Deion Branch in a trade 
Bobby Abreu has six second time this year.
= 
Albion tonight for the to their goal of 900 but again denies doping RBis in the first inningfinished 12th in the after two of his former year contract worth $67.5 

with the New England
cs: 
The Belles won the first teammates admit to million. 

as the Yankees rout !; meeting 3-2. 
competitive tournament. 
Patriots Tuesday. 
using illegal drugs. 
Tampa Bay. 

page 22 page 21page 26 page 25 
page 23 
page 20 







