
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41 : ISSUE 25 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2006 
NO to continue using early action 

Princeton and Harvard eliminate early admissions programs, University encourages students to apply when best prepared 
•47% (1.241] of early applicants were admitted 

Source: Office of Admissions JARRED WAFERfThe Observer 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
A few days before Christmas 2005, freshman Chris Holland arrived at his Louisville home to see that his mom had posted a Notre Dame flag in his front yard. Inside was an official acceptance letter granting him admission to the University's Class of 2010 via the Early Action program. 
"I was ecstatic," he said. "Not only because Notre Dame was my dream school, but because the whole college admissions process was finally over." 
Just as Holland's white-knuckled 
months of sleepless nights ended, his cur­rent roommate, Conor Troy, discovered his Early Action application was deferred to the regular decision pool. 
"I was clearly discouraged at first because Notre Dame was my first choice," Troy said. "But I also realized it was a big application pool and I was hopeful for the regular decision results, so I focused on working hard senior year and keeping my grades up." 
Both Holland and Troy's scenarios point to the ambiguity involved in the college­admissions process -and, more specifi­cally, the debate sparked by Princeton 
see ACTION/page 4 

Ne-w dortn construction remains priority 
Four dorms still waiting for approval, locations pending 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
The issue of overcrowded residence halls continues to plague Notre Dame -espe­cially with the record size of this year's freshman class ­and the construction of four new dorms remains a top pri­ority of the University's Residential Master Plan, University officials said. 
"Nothing has been approved by our trustees, but we are hoping to make an announce­ment in the near future," Vice President of Business Operations James Lyphout said Friday. 
The four proposed dorms ­which could potentially be built east of Pasquerilla East and Knott Halls as well as on West Quad, Lyphout said -are part of the University's 10-year Residential Master Plan, craft­ed in 2003 and authorized by trustees. 
But at this point, some key specifics of that plan are uncertain. The actual construc­tion of each dorm is not yet approved, Lyphout said, and Associate Vice President for Student Affairs Ann Firth said funding has not been resolved. 
There's also the question of the precise location of the new halls. While Firth said "a num­ber of campus sites are under consideration," she also point­ed at the area on the eastern edge of campus -an area that has recently opened up, thanks to the closing of Juniper Road before the school year began. 
Though the closing of Juniper Road was not directly related to any single new building or residence hall, "it is 
Student football ticket 


exchange held today 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
With this weekend's fourth­quarter show in Spartan Stadium, football tickets in today's student exchange are likely to sell out -just like Penn State and Michigan tickets did ­officials said. 
"Demand for exchange tickets this year is consistent with previ­ous seasons," said Josh Berlo, Director of Ticket Operations. 
Today's ticket exchange for­Saturday's Purdue game is the third of seven exchanges for the 2006 football season and will allow up to 300 students to exchange a student ticket for a regular ticket. 
The exchange will take place from 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. at the Gate 10 Box Office of the Joyce Center. 
The football ticket exchange is sponsored by Student Government and the Athletic Department and "provides stu­dents the opportunity to exchange a game ticket from their student booklet for a non­student ticket for the same loca­tion printed on their booklet," according to a letter written to students by the ticket office in
• 

see LOTTERY page 4 
part of the University's larger plan to expand the campus in that direction," Firth said. 
The idea of new dorms has become an increasingly large part of campus discussion dur­ing the past year. At a Student Senate meeting Feb. 22, 2005, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves included the topic of new dorms while out­lining the University's exten­sive future development plans. 
While the campus will expand, Affleck-Graves told senators the University's popu­lation would not increase. 
The University's goal, Firth said Monday, is to preserve the best current and traditional features of residence halls in the new dorms. Of the four proposed dorms, she predicted two would be for men and two for women. 
Plans for the new dorms aim to incorporate "those elements that promote a strong and cohesive community life ... 
while also providing the space and some of the amenities cur­rent students would like to have," she said. 
As the new halls are con­structed, the University plans to uncrowd and renovate the existing halls, decreasing the number of students assigned to a given room and creating more study and social space within the halls. 
The University hopes to offer a greater variety of rooms ­especially for junior and senior students -so that students can look forward to having progressively better rooms as they advance through their undergraduate careers, Firth said. 
"As has been true for the past few years, some first-year students are currently housed in study lounges or in very small rooms, which is obvious­ly not an optimum situation," 
see DORM/page 6 

N DSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SBPD to heighten presence 
Excise police willfocus on Washington and St. Peter's Streets 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
A meeting of the Northeast Neighborhood Council of South Bend (NENC) two weeks ago prompted Notre Dame's Off­Campus Council to send an e­mail Thursday warning students that police are heightening their presence on Washington and St. Peter's Streets, said Josh Pasquesi, Senate Community Relations committee chair. 
"It has come to our attention that there have been numerous complaints from neighbors on Washington Stand St. Pete's St.," the e-mail read. "The South Bend Police Department is planning on taking an increased presence in the area and Indiana State Excise has been notified that this has been a problem area." 
Captain Wanda Shock of the South Bend Police. Department (SBPD) spoke to the NENC Sept. 11 in a special presentation on the relationship between off-cam­pus students and South Bend res­idents, said Krystal Hardy, the student representative on the NENC. 
Shock acknowledged that the neighborhood had a history of noise violations and the police continued to receive complaints from neighbors about student parties. 
"The last two weeks of August and the first few weeks of September, we had a lot of wild party complaints," Shock said Monday. 
see EXCISE/page 6 

Starbucks announces price hike 
By JENNIFER METZ News Writer 
Starbucks announced Thursday that coffee-drinkers nationwide will have to fork over an extra nickel for drinks bought at any of their 8,614 locations, including the LaFortune Student Center shop. 
In the first price change since 2004, all drinks will cost an extra five cents and all pound bags of whole bean coffee will go up by fifty cents, David Prentkowski, Director of Food Services, said. 
The increase -which Prentkowski said was "not unusual" -was necessary to cover increasing labor, product 
see STARBUCKS page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
..

Alternate histories 

A fascinating type of entertain­ment is alternate history. 
It is written to address current policies, like New York Magazine's counterhistory of a world without 9/11. It exists for dark humor Ryan Sydlik such as in Kevin Wilmot's mocku­
News Wzre 

mentary "C.S.A., 
Editor

Confederate States of America." At other times a possi­ble future, such as in Tom Clancy's "Red Storm Rising," becomes alter­nate history when global realities change. And still at other times, it exists for mere curiosity, such as in the famous "What If' series. 
However, one aspect that is com­monplace in all alternate histories is a point of divergence, as this is what links alternate history to real history. The point of divergence is when the author changes, adds or eliminates a single event from real history. From this point on is when the author's imagination takes over and the alternate histo­ry begins. 
The classic alternate history case is in World War II. 
The real history: German bombers go off course and mistak­enly hit women and children instead of factories. In response England bombs German cities. Hitler is outraged and German bombers go after civilians instead of strategic targets. England's war machine is left intact and wins the Battle of Britain. A frustrated Hitler invades Russia instead and the Allies end up winning the war. 
The fake history: The bombers stay on course. Germany contin­ues bombing industrial and mili­tary targets, crippling the English war effort. England surrenders. Germany, satisfied with its victory, sits back building jets, nuclear bombs, and other wonder weapons. Hitler invades Russia and annihilates America. Those of us left end up speaking German. 
Sometimes, real history can even repeat itself but diverge in a simi­lar way. On two occasions, a President named Bush faced the prospect of war with Iraq. One proceeded cautiously consulting with his generals and the other did. not. One had a three day ground war and was surprised to find Saddam Hussein had a nuclear program. The other had a three year ground war and was sur­prised to find that Hussein did not have a nuclear program. 
This brings us to the topic at hand. There were two ND coaches facing MSU who had had 9-4 records two games into their sec­ond season. One lost and ended up walking into mediocrity. The other won one an intensely close game. Where the second's career will go is not set, but history tells us that we have a good reason to hope for a better future. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a production error, information in rhe head­line ofan article in rhe Sept. 25 edition ofThe Observer incorrecdy stared rhe MCAT will be administered "online-only." While rhe exam is com­puterized, smdems do nor rake rhe exam via rhe lmerner. The Observer regrets chis error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH SONG BEST DESCRIBES YOUR PERSONALITY? 


Michelle Carlisle  Nisha Sherry  Liz Mclaughlin  Mike Kaiser  Mary Clare McGregor  Eric Shappell  
freshman McGlinn  senior Pasquerilla West  sophomore Pangborn  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Pangborn  sophomore Dillon  
'"!Wear My Sunglasses At Night.' Yup."  '"! Wish I Was a Little Bit Taller, by Skee Lo  '"Crash Into Me' by Dave Matthews Band  '"Call On Me' becaues that video is just like  '"Still Tippin' by Mike Jones ... No, seriously. "  '"Stacy's Mom' by Fountains of Wayne. You  







can ask Mary Clare why. , 
IN BRIEF 
Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow Juliet Hooker will deliver her rescheduled lec­ture entitled "The Institutional Design of Multicultural Citizenship in Nicaragua: Effects on Afro-descendant & Indigenous Collective Identities and Political Attitudes" today from 12:30 
p.m. to 2 p.m. in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
University President Father John Jenkins' Annual Address to the Faculty will take place today at 4:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The lecture "What Difference Does It Make What Media We Consume?" will be given by Dr. John Pauley Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. Pauley is professor of Communication Studies at Saint Mary's College 
"Politics and Security in Central Asia: Opportunities for Peacebuilding," a lecture by Anna Matveeva, associate fellow in the Crisis States Research Centre in the London School of Economics, will be held Wednesday at 
12:30 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
Robert Lane, Chairman and CEO of John Deere, will be delivering the Berges Lecture at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATUDAY 

HIGH 58 HIGH 59 LOW 44 LOW 46 
because I because 'I wear my life." appreciate his nothing but I 
concerns. , wear it so well." 

The Notre Dame Chorale practiced Monday at Lei,prton Concert Hall in the Debartolo Center for Perfonning Arts. The four-part mixed group IS preparing for its Nov. 18 concert. 
OFFBEAT 
PETA upset about Six Flags roach contest 
GURNEE, Ill. -People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals wants Six Flags Great America to scrap its Halloween­themed cockroach-eating promotion. 
A spokeswoman for the animal rights organization says the contest at the amusement park's FrightFest is "gratuitously cruel." 
The park in Gurnee, Ill., is joining other Six Flags parks in offering unlimit­ed line-jumping privileges to anyone who eats a live Madagascar hissing cock­
roach. The bugs are up to three inches long. The contest begins next month. 
Skunk supporters gather in northern Ohio 
NORTH RIDGEVILLE, Ohio -People from as far away New Mexico and the Netherlands were in northern Ohio over the weekend, getting up close and personal with skunks. 
Skunk owner Jeri Lynn Poling says others may not understand, but skunks make great pets and are soft and cuddly. She thinks having a rat or a lizard or a snake is weird. 
Poling and other polecat enthusiasts gathered in North Ridgeville, about 25 miles southwest of Cleveland, for the sixth annual Skunkfest. 
The event raises money for Skunk Haven, a non­profit group that saves and rehabilitates injured skunks. And, pet skunks compete in beauty, per­sonality and costume con­tests. 
By the way, they all pass the sniff test, because those domesticated skunks are deodorized. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY c:: 
LLI ::1: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..... 
~ 
cs: 
(.) 

0 HIGH 71 HIGH 58 HIGH 67 HIGH 56
...I LOW 60 LOW 54 LOW 48 LOW 40 
Atlanta 79 I 55 Boston 72 I 53 Chicago 72 I 59 Denver 75 I 48 Houston 87 I 61 Los Angeles 81 I 60 Minneapolis 72 I 52 New York 75 I 57 Philadelphia 74 I 53 Phoenix 102 I 77 Seattle 76 I 54 St. Louis 78 I 56 Tampa 89 I 72 Washington 76 I 58
. 

Tuesday, September 26, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
New resolution postponed 
Wireless and cable services in need ofaddressing, problems increasing 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) decided Monday to delay voting on a resolution that would point out problems with and recommend improvements to new technology -particu­larly wireless and cable servic­es -in residence halls until further discussions take place. 
Student Senate Residence Life Committee chair Pat Knapp presented the Residence Hall Technology Report to the CLC. 
"The reason we produced this report was ... overall it's a call to action to solve the tech­nological problems," Knapp said. "Rather than have to go and inventory everything on their own, we feel we have done that to make their job easier." 
After Knapp presented the report to council members, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David Moss recommended the CLC first meet with Robert Guthrie, pro­gram manager for strategic ini­tiatives planning and programs at the University and overseer of new technology installation project. Moss recommended that the group ask Guthrie about the process for fixing deficiencies in the new technol­ogy. The CLC should question him about complications he has encountered with the new wireless and cable service and the enhanced cellular service, Moss said. 
Welsh Family rector Candace Carson moved to postpone a vote on the resolution until the council talked to Guthrie at the CLC's next meeting Oct. 9. 
The report listed problems students had encountered with wireless Internet availability and connection speed, cellular service and cable television feed in 17 dorms. Knapp and his committee collected the information in the report through their own personal observations and by communi­cating with the members of each dorm's hall council and hall senator. The information they compiled was current as of Sept. 5. 
"I should stress that the Residence Life Committee ­and particularly myself -are not experts in these technolo­gies," Knapp said. "We just know these problems exist." 
The committee found slow wireless service in many of the dorms, particularly at the end of hallways. Some halls, like O'Neill and Pasquerilla East, reported slow service through­out the dorm. The committee recommended the installation of additional routers to enhance the wireless signal. 
Cell phone reception grew progressively worse in dorms farther away from the cell tower located behind South Dining Hall on West Quad, Knapp said. North Quad and Mod Quad also reported poor cellular reception, he said. The committee recommends an additional cell phone tower, he said, unless there is a better solution. 
The committee found few problems with cable television. The only dorms that reported difficulties were Badin, Fisher, and Keough, Knapp said. The report recommended dealing with these problems on an indi­vidual basis. 
In other CLC news: 
Student Voice and Input Task Force chair Liz Brown said her committee discussed student involvement in planning the college town, how to address global health issues stemming from the academic forum and decided to work on compiling a tentatively titled "Du-Lac for Dummies" -a summarized version of the important ele­ments of the student handbook. 
At their meeting, the Conduct Awareness task force discussed alcohol-related problems asso­ciated with dorm "Dis­Orientation" activities in the beginning of the year, chair Bill Andrichik said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Leaders replace vveek' s n1eeting with lecture 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members joined the Saint Mary's resident assistant staff in a diversity workshop with diversity lecturer Bryant Smith in lieu of their reg­ular meeting Monday night. 
"We felt in order to [increase awareness of diversity at Saint Mary's], we need to educate BOG on matters of dealing with diver­sity on a leadership standpoint," student body vice president Maggie Siefert said. 
The trip was Smith's second visit to Saint Mary's, having visit­ed campus in March to present at the Diversity Student Leadership Conference. He will return to the College to discuss the culture of hip-hop Wednesday evening. 
"You are about to participate in what I call a cultural confidence course," Smith said to the group. 
Smith does not like to call his lectures diversity workshops because there are different defi­nitions of diversity, he said. He changed the name to cultural confidence courses because he thinks people lack the assurance to put themselves in uncomfort­able situations -such as learn­ing about other cultures. 
The group participated in question and answer activities that are normally avoided in everyday conversation -such as, "If you could make everyone one race what would it be?" 

Students said they avoided ask­ing this question to others in the workshop because they weren't sure how to answer the question themselves. 
Smith then asked if anyone in the room was a card-carrying member of any racist, sexist or ageist groups and presented a list of words that can be consid­ered offensive. 
"People use words that can sometimes be offensive," Smith said. "I don't want you adding these words to your vocabulary." 
Smith ended his presentation with a quote from Dr. Benjamin 
E. Mays. 

'"If you are ignorant the world will cheat you, if you are weak the world will whoop you, if you are a coward the world will keep you running,'" he said. 
Smith said that this quote is important to college students because they will encounter the real world shortly and need to be prepared for some of its realities. 
"[Smith] was an energetic speaker who was able to keep are attention while making us aware of many different issues on dealing with diversity," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SIT Progratn in Uganda 


m IIltereste<l ill challeilges and issues of develoJJing nations? 
mm 
IIIterested iii Holv (~ross l\rork iii 
E,ast Afric11? ~· 
Don't Iniss this stnd)7 abro~1d opportunitJ· 
tiiroue:h the School foi· Intern;.1tional
·­

TI'ilining! 
Information Meeting: Wednesday, September 27, 2006 Room 125 Hayes-Healy At 5:30p.m. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
Action 
continued from page 1 
University and Harvard 
College, two schools that just 
cut their early admission pro­
grams for classes entering in 
the fall of 2008. 
With the rising competition to gain admission into highly selective universities like Notre Dame, the University's Early Action program is not just a method to increase yield, said Son Nguyen, assis­tant director of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 
"The hype for American col­leges is increasing, and peo­ple want more and want to know sooner," Nguyen said. "But here at Notre Dame, we want our Early Action pro­gram to be a service to our students." 
Notification under Early Action gives students ­whose credentials are consid­ered in the context of a small­er application pool -a clear admissions decision early in their college application process, even if it causes unhappiness, said Assistant Provost for Admissions Dan Saracino. 
"Under the Early Action program, to notify denied stu­dents before Christmas allows them more time to start focusing on other colleges," Saracino said. "High school counselors have called us and asked for us to keep it because it really works towards students' advan­tage." 
Applicants who wish to be considered under Early Action typically submit their completed application file by Nov. 1 and receive a response by mid-December about whether they were admitted, deferred to the regular deci­sion pool or denied. 
Notre Dame's unrestrictive Early Action program differs from those of other institu­tions, which typically offer either a binding Early Decision agreement or Single­Choice Early Action. 
While the other two choices generally prohibit students from applying early to more than one institution, Notre Dame's program permits Early Action students to apply early to as many schools as they wish. 
"With regards to Notre Dame, the Undergraduate Admissions office wants a stu­dent to apply early when they feel that their profile is at its best," said Associate Director of Undergraduate Admissions Gil Martinez. "It's the fairest and kindest method available for them." 
But it's likely that Notre Dame's Board of Trustees and admissions officers are taking note of the Princeton and Harvard decisions. 
In a statement released on Sept. 18, Princeton President Shirley Tilghman said Princeton's binding Early Decision program "advan­tages the advantaged" and a single admissions process would insure greater equality in determining each class. 
As a result, colleges nation­wide have found themselves scurrying to re-evaluate their systems and decide whether they should follow suit. Ivy League schools in particular -like Cornell -are under pressure to begin monitoring the pros and cons of their respective programs. 
Senior Tim Chlon, who was accepted under Early Action during his senior year of high school, said the early notifica­tion and the non-binding commitment was convenient for him. 

"I don't think that Early Action benefits the advan­taged anymore than anyone else, because it's just an application, and it doesn't require any more money to send it in earlier or later," Chlon said. "Instead, it gives you as many options as possi­ble." 
Martinez also said the process of Early Action does­n't put any students at a dis­advantage. 
"While it's true that upper class applicants may have more resources than lower class students, the choice is usually up to the students," he said. "If they understand the process, they make the choice." 
Nguyen said students who can no longer apply early to other schools may look more into places like Notre Dame that retain the Early Action program. 
"We like where we stand by offering our applicants a lot of flexibility compared to other schools," he said. "Then again, for now, we're only dealing with Harvard and Princeton, so we'll wait to see what's going to happen later on." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
Starbucks 
continued from page 1 
and fuel costs associated with the procurement of coffee beans. 
As a licensed store, the LaFortune branch will follow the practices recommended by the company, Prentkowski said. 
Analysts say that the price change -which is set to take place sometime this week ­comes at a good time for the company because "the average price of gasoline has declined 16 percent" in the last month alone, according to Reuters. Though there are many eco­nomic pressures facing con­sumers, a decrease in gas 
Lottery 
continued from page 1 
August. 
Students must know the first and last name of the person using his or her exchange ticket at the time of purchase -a new policy being implemented by the ticket office this season. The per­son to whom the exchange ticket is going must show photo J.D. to enter the stadium on game day. 
"Thus far this year, we have seen a decrease in the abuse of student exchange tickets," Berlo prices always alleviates some of the pressure from consumer wallets. 
In July, Starbucks posted its weakest monthly same-store sales increase since 2001, which it blames on the high demand for Frappuccino drinks that take a longer time to prepare, according to a Sept. 22 Reuters article. Customers are becoming unwilling to wait on long lines for these drinks, taking a toll on overall sales. 
Notre Dame freshman Courtney Ball said she isn't happy with the price increase on her tall vanilla latte, which already costs $3.00. 
"It seems like [Starbucks] makes a significant profit ... I don't see why they need to raise their prices ... it's already 
said. "However, we have still had problems with students reselling their exchange tickets for prof­it." 
Under du Lac policy, students are prohibited from selling tick­ets above their face value or to a ticket broker or agency who will resell the ticket at an above face value price. Students found in violation of this policy will "lose his/her ticket privileges for a minimum period of one year and reimburse the University for the amount greater than face value," according to du Lac. 
Students who wish to exchange a student ticket for a 'designer coffee,"' she said. 

While students may not be pleased with the price hike, those on Wall Street were pleasantly surprised, telling Reuters that the move "is sure to boost sales and earnings, but unlikely to spook cus­tomers who see a trip to the chain as an affordable luxury." 
The company's management has also said that Starbucks stores are unlikely to be effect­ed if the economy takes a turn for the worse. 
"I don't see anything that indicates in the near future that Starbucks is going to be susceptible to the economy," chairman Howard Schultz told Reuters on Monday. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

non-student ticket must pay the difference between the student price and regular admission price for a home game, which is $30 for Notre Dame students and $20 for Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
The number of student exchange tickets available for home games is capped at 300, with the exception of tickets available for the UCLA game which falls at the end of fall break. The number of tickets will be increased to 750. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 


*** Free pizza and refreshments at the end of the presentation. Mark your calendar and come to find out about this exciting opportunity! 
Why: Opportunity for ND students to work with ''The Mexico internship program is a great opportunity to put your MBA skills in action. Working as a consultant to a small agribusiness in Mexico requires skills ranging from Marketing to 
Mexican students in agribusiness pr~_jects 
Financial Management to Business Strategy, The Mexico program is also an excellent opportunity to experience a new culture and business environment." 
When: Tu~~y. September 26th, 3:30pm-5:00pm
'······ ···~>%::· ·: 
Larry Mullen-ND MBA '05, Summer 2005 Intern
Where: d~io3 Resburgh Center 
Questions?-Prof. Juan Riverajri'l'erilf.filn4,e<1u or Prof. David Hayes ILPJit!Ye~)i'@nd.ed\• 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language 

u roa r rams 
Brazil 
Mexico Chile Spain 

Tuesday,Sept.26,2oo6 
spm 
101 DeBartolo Hall 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shanghai's top leader dismissed 
SHANGHAI, China -Shanghai's top leader was dismissed Monday for alleged corrup­tion, the highest level official to be sacked in more than a decade as President Hu Jintao consolidates his power. 
Chen Liangyu was fired as Shanghai's Communist Party secretary, kicked off the party's powerful Politburo and is under investigation by its anti-graft watchdog, the official Xinhua News Agency said. His dis­missal "demonstrates the party's determina­tion to fight corruption," Xinhua said. 
The move ends a potential challenge to I-lu, who has been targeting political opponents through an anti-corruption crackdown in the run-up to a key party congress in 2007. That meeting will reapportion jobs among the political elite, with Hu, who heads the party, expected to install favored leaders for his second live-year term. 
Canadian Air India Inquiry opens 
TORONTO-The long-awaited Air India inquiry opened Monday with emotional testi­mony from families of some of the 329 people killed in a plane bombing 21 years ago ­Canada's worst case of mass murder. 
Mark Freiman, chief counsel of the probe, said testimony from relatives and rescue per­sonnel involved in the 1985 crash of an Air India passenger jet off Ireland would be excru­ciatingly painful for the families, but would put a human face on terrorism. 
"It takes a great deal of courage to speak in a public forum about matters that reach into the innermost parts of one's being," Freiman told the opening of the commission in Ottawa. 
Air India Flight 182 from Toronto to London, originating in Vancouver, exploded and crashed off Ireland on June 23, 1985. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. rejects visa for Muslim scholar 
NEW YORK-The government has rejected a prominent Muslim scholar's application to enter the country, contending that he gave support to a terrorist group, but his attorneys allege the 
U.S. is using charitable donations he made as a pretext for stifling his views. 
Tariq Ramadan, a Swiss citizen who teaches at Oxford University, was denied a temporary business and tourism visa Thursday "based sole­ly on his actions, which constituted providing material support to a terrorist organization," said Janelle Hironimus, a State Department spokeswoman. 
Hironimus said she could not reveal specifics about Ramadan's case due to confidentiality rules regarding visa applications. 
Ports, transit systems to get millions 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administra­tion doled out nearly $400 million Monday to help protect seaports, commuter trains and other transit systems from terrorists, boosting money to high-risk cities that saw funding cuts earlier this year. 
Major winners included New York City, which won $79.5 million to secure its port, subways, bus and rail systems -up from $50 million in 2005. 
Losing cities that got no money for 2006 after being on the Homeland Security Department funding list last year included Memphis, Tenn., and Tampa, Fla., which lost funds for ports. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Child services cost taxpayers millions 
CORYDON, Ind. -The state attorney general's office is suing to stop a Democratic-leaning group from making automated phone calls just one week after he filed a similar lawsuit to stop a group from calling on behalf of Republicans. 
The lawsuit was filed Monday in southern Indiana's Harrison County against Washington, D.C.-based American Family Voices, accusing it of violating state law by making prerecorded phone calls for political purposes. 
"Again, this is an instance where citizens have stepped up and provided us with concrete infor­mation which allows us to take action," Attorney General Steve Carter said. 
Retired officers criticize war 
Fonner officials bluntly accuse Rumsfeld of mismanagement at Democratic hearing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Retired military officers on Monday bluntly accused Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld of bungling the war in Iraq, saying U.S. troops were sent to fight without the best equipment and that critical facts were hidden from the public. 
"I believe that Secretary Rumsfeld and others in the administration did not tell the American people the truth for fear of losing sup­port for the war in Iraq," retired Maj. Gen. John R. S. Batiste told a forum conduct­ed by Senate Democrats. 
A second military leader, retired Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, assessed Rumsfeld as "incompetent strategically, operationally and tactically." 
"Mr. Rumsfeld and his immediate team must be replaced or we will see two more years of extraordinari­ly bad decision-making," Eaton added at the forum, held six weeks before the Nov. 7 midterm elections, in which the war is a central issue. 
Sen. John Cornyn, R­Texas, a member of the Armed Services Committee, dismissed the Democratic­sponsored event as "an elec­tion-year smoke screen aimed at obscuring the Democrats' dismal record on national security." The conflict, now in its since the attacks of Sept. 11, four retired generals that 
"Today's stunt may rile up fourth year, has claimed the 2001. said, "(W)e do not believe the liberal base, but it won't lives of more than 2,600 Along with several mem­that it is appropriate for kill a single terrorist or pre­American troops and cost bers of the Senate active duty, or retired, senior vent a single attack,"Sen. more than $300 billion. Democratic leadership, one military officers to publicly Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Sen. Byron Dorgan, D­Republican, Rep. Walter criticize U.S. civilian leader­in a statement. He called N.D., the committee chair­Jones of North Carolina, par­ship during war." The group Rumsfeld an "excellent sec­man, told reporters last ticipated. "The American included two three-star gen­retary of defense." week that he hoped the people have a right to know erals, John Crosby and 
Senate Judiciary Comm­hearing would shed light on any time that we make a Thomas Mcinerny, and a ittee Chairman Arlen the planning and conduct of decision to send Americans pair of two-star generals, Specter, speaking Monday at the war. He said majority to die for this country,""said Burton Moore and Paul the National Press Club, said Republicans had failed to Jones, a conservative whose Vallely. election-season politics may conduct hearings on the district includes Camp But Batiste, Eaton and be what's standing in the issue, a?~g, "if they won't Lejeune Marine base. retired Col. Paul X. Hammes way of finding a solution to ... we will. It is unusual for retired were unsparing in remarks the insurgency in Iraq. Since he spoke, a govern­military officers to criticize that suggested deep anger at 
"My instinct is, once the ment-produced National the Pentagon while military the way the military had election is over, there will be Intelligence Estimate operations are under way, been treated. All three a lot more hard thinking became public that conclud­particularly at a public event served in Iraq, and Batiste about what to do about Iraq ed the war has helped create likely to draw widespread also was senior military and a lot more candid obser­a new generation of Islamic media attention. assistant to then-Deputy vations about it," said radicalism and that the over­And Senate Republicans Secretary of Defense Paul Specter, R-Pa. all terrorist threat has grown circulated a statement by Wolfowitz. 

ISRAEL 
Palestinian unity talks called off 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Rivals l-lamas and Fatah called off top-level talks Monday on forming a Palestinian unity government that might ease crippling international sanctions, the latest indication of difficulties in bridging their ideo­logical differences. 
With the Palestinians stuck, another channel for Mideast progress appeared to open when Israeli media reported that Prime Minister Ehud Olmert had a secret meeting with a senior official from Saudi Arabia. Both sides pre­dictably denied the reports, as they have no official relations. 
Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, the head of Fatah, post­poned his planned trip to the Gaza Strip for talks with Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of l-lamas, and both sides said no new date has been set. 
Since a l-lamas government took office last March, a cutoff of Western aid has brought the Palestinian Authority to its knees, leaving most public sector work­ers without pay for months and shutting down vital projects. Israel and the West insisted that l-lamas must recognize Israel, renounce violence and accept pre­

vious peace accords, but the Islamic militant group has refused to comply. 
l-lamas trounced Abbas' Fatah in January parliamentary elections, a reflection of voter dissatisfaction with decades of inefficiency, cor­ruption and high-handed rule rather than an endorsement of the l-lamas ideology rejecting the exis­tence of Israel. 
Thrust into power for the first time, l-lamas has refused to bend its main goal -an Islamic Middle East without a Jewish state. During the past decade, dozens of l-lamas suicide bombers have killed hundreds of Israelis. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
out alleviates the problem, then will never build relationships his roommates introduced them­that's all the better," Cleveland between the students and the res­selves to almost all their neigh­
Dor01sExcise 
said. idents," Kramer said. bors when they moved in to 716 Shock said informing students Even though they have his num­E. Washington Street. He said 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

about complaints, rather than ber and can reach him at any most of them seemed accepting of Shock told The Observer that sending police in to break up par­time, neighbors have not called the faet that students were living 
she said. Turtle Creek Apartments and ties without warning, is a new him, Kramer said. lie said he in the neighborhood and was "a 
The process behind the Lafayette Square are also consid­approach the SBPD is trying this received one complaint by phone little surprised I by the e-mail]." 
Residential Master Plan ered problem areas for excessive year. a month ago and got out of bed at Hansen and his roommates 
began in 2003, when Vice partying and underage drinking, -Mark Kramer, the owner of midnight, went over to the house were out of town for the Michigan 
President for Student Affairs although she did not single them Kramer Properties and the land­and lbund it was not a legitimate State game last weekend, so they 
Father Mark Poorman cre­out at the NENC meeting. lord for approximately 60 houses complaint. didn't have to worry about the 
ated a committee to advise First Sergeant Tim Cleveland of in the South Bend area, has been "There are two particular resi­ramifications for hosting noisy 
the University's approach to the Indiana State Excise police working with the SBPD to settle dences on Washington Street that parties. In the future, they may 
the construction of the new said they have received numerous complaints without police involve­just don't like students in the tell their neighbors before they 
dorms. complaints about loud parties and ment. Kramer gave his phone neighborhood," Kramer said. "But have a party and ask them to call 
This Ad Iloe Committee on trash in the streets in this neigh­numbers to many South Bend res­I own the majority of the neigh­ifit gets too loud, Hansen said. 
the Future of Residential borhood, both from anonymous idents who live near his student borhood and they wore fully Stu Stypula, who lives with 
Life, which was comprised callers and the SBPD. houses so they can reach him at aware studenl'> were there when Hansen, said he was both sur­
of students, faculty mem­"Along with the wild parties and any time with complaints. they moved in." prised and upset by the e-mail. I le 
bers, administrators and the noise offenses, there are com­Shock said the new tactic Despite the concern about said none of their neighbors have 
residence hall rectors, plaints of minors consuming alco­seemed to be working. Washington and St. Peter's personally approached them 
helped formulate a strategic hol," Cleveland said. "It sounds "What we thought was, if the Streets, complaints about off-cam­about any problems with noise. 
plan for the formation of the like that neighborhood's probably landlord can handle it in a short pus students are low this year, "[I hope] that it's another house, 
new dorms, Firth said. a little out of control." period of time, and the residenl'i Shock said. She recommended but it could very well have been 
Now, funding for the reno­Senior Ryan Keckley, who lives are happy, then the police don't that students -if they are 21 -one of our neighbors who never 
vation of existing halls is on St. Peter's Street, said the need to be involved unless there i...:; improve community relations by said anything Ito us I and just went 
among the University's chief neighborhood can get noisy and a possibility of serious injury and talking to their neighbors and tell to the police," Stypula said. 
priorities. The sooner the he understands why neighbors other damage," Shock said. them that they will keep their par­While the police have come by 
University can begin to would complain. She said she still wanted resi­ties under control. senior David D'Onofrio's house at 
address these "critical resi­"I would say that it is pretty loud dents to call her the next business That advice was central to the 815 E. Washington Street on sev­
dential needs," Firth said, most nights just because on our day to clarify that the issue was Off-Campus Council's e-mail, writ­eral nights, he and his roommates 
the better. block alone, from Colfax [Street] properly resolved. ten by Pasquesi and student body have not received any noise viola­
"Given the University's to Washington [Street]. there are But that preventative plan may president Lizzi Shappell. tions. 
rich tradition of residential four student houses right in a not work with students, Keckley "We want to reinforce our mes­"We just talk to them nicely, 
life and its importance in row," Keckley said. "And then on said. sage of living together as neigh­they tell us what to do, and we do 
the lives of Notre Dame stu­Washington, between Notre Dame "Until it actually becomes a bors," Pasquesi said. it," D'Onofrio said. 
dents, we are very hopeful Avenue and St. Louis [Street], problem, until the cops come, The e-mail advised students liv­And that's what police are hop­
that the University will be there are probably 10 or 15. And people aren't going to change ing ofl' campus to introduce them­ing for. Shock said as long as stu­
able to identify benefactors they all like to have parties and behavior because of an e-mail," selves to their neighbors and invit­dents keep the parties inside, 
who will fund the construc­have kegs." he said. ed them to get to know members under control, and do not serve 
tion of the new halls," Firth No one house is the problem, And residents. Kramer said, of the community Friday at the alcohol to minors, they should not 
said. said Keckley, who thought the may also be hindering the police's Northeast Neighborhood Picnic. have a problem with the police. 
From the time a benefac­combination of all the student new approach to dealing with stu­"Students are starting to realize "We really do not have the 
tor indicates his or her houses led to noise complaints. dents. He said the complaints to that this city is cracking down on intention to go out and bust stu­
interest in underwriting the Cleveland was not aware an e­the police are persisting -partic­some of the bigger parties and I dents and arrest them," Shock 
construction costs, Firth mail was sent out to students noti­ularly on Washington Street, hope that they are becoming more said. "We want students to live 
said it will take two to three fying them that the Excise Police where he owns most of the houses invested members in the commu­happily in the area and be safe." 
years to design and build a had been informed the -because South Bend residents nity," she said. 
new hall. Washington Street neighborhood are not willing to compromise. Many students, like senior was a "problem area." "I think they have a vendetta Stephen Hansen, have taken that Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
Contact Meghan Mullen at "lf the e-mail that they've sent and with that sort of attitude we idea to heart. Hansen said he and kriely@nd.edu 
mmullenl@nd.edu 


The Opu.-; Prize is a$ I million award bl'jven annually by the Opus Prize Founuation to an unsung hero working on the from lines ofthe most dire social problems ofour day. The recipient is an individual whose lillth-hlL~ed, entrepreneurial leadership helps people tnmsformtheir lives. In conjunction with this award, the University ofNotrc Dame will select astudent to receive a35,000 award to he donated to an organization that he or she has f(mndcd. 
Tf1e (!/lice qfllze P1r~wdenl qfllw llniver.Jt~Jl qf!VoLrelJame is ,J'eeking rwmirLalionj:fiJr Ll1e concurrent Jtudenr award. Jt7eJ-eek nomtna/l(Jns (!fany currenl ,jtudetll commilledlo lhe valueJ' (!/social enrrepreneut~rhip, rraniformationalleadep;/zip, .re!f~.w{/ficietuy~faith, and,ren;ice to or/1er.r, andwho l1a!' developedan organization baredonthe.5<: valul-?.t 
Nomination forms um be picked up at the Ollice ofthe President (~WO Main Building) or at the Center for Social Coneems. Please retum completed nominations by OctobtT 2. 2006, to: 
The Office ofrhe Presidem Attn: Opus Prize Review Comminee 400 Main Building Notre Dlune, IN 46556 
The University ofNotrc Dame, on behalf'of the Opus Prize Foundation. will award the 2006 Opus Prize on November H. The student prize will also be awarded at that time. 

Tuesday, September 26, 2006 

Dow 
11,575.81 +67.71

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,234 130 1,053 2,746,990,140 

AMEX 
~DAQ&pt~~·ilJI!iilf~~i~.~~~;lil\iJ~IIIIJII

S&P 500 I ,326.37 +11.59 
NIKKfi(Tokyo);;fu@,;;J:I,~I@J,II:II,IIIilllili~l;;,llliil 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,822.30 -74.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) +1.76 +0.70 40.57 
INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.78 +0.34 19.41 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +2.19 +0.11 5.13 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.09 +0.29 26.95 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) + 1.38 +0.03 2.20 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.91 -0.042 4.555 13-WEEK BILL -0.42 -0.020 4.770 30-YEAR BOND -0.89 -0.042 4.696 5-YEARNOTE -0.73 -0.033 4.514 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.90 61.45 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.50 595.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.00 86.50 
Excha Rates 

YEN 116.3500 
EURO 0.7839 
POUND 0.5256 
CANADIAN$ 1.1168 
IN BRIEF 
Political risks abound in new markets 
NEW YORK -When investors size up emerg­ing markets, booming economic growth often trumps underlying political risk. Instead, they should be thinking the opposite way. 
Look at how political instability has rocked parts of the developing world in recent weeks. In countries including in Thailand, Poland, Hungary and Ecuador, seemingly stable financial markets suddenly sold ofT. 
That should remind investors to proceed with caution when plunging money into white-hot emerging markets because just a bit of unrest can certainly shake things up. 
It's easy to see what has drawn investors to emerging markets in recent years -opportunity that they often can't lind elsewhere. In many developing countries, industrialization is still small relative to population size. 
Places like China and India are great engines of economic growth. The International Monetary Fund forecasts India's growth for this year to be 
8.3 percent, while estimates for China are 10 per­cent -that's sharply higher that the expectations of 2 percent to 3 percent growth in the United States. 
Feds say slow growth reduces inflation 
NEW YORK -Stocks rose smartly Monday after Dallas Federal Reserve President Richard Fisher suggested inflation would be dampened by a slowing economy and said that while the hous­ing and auto sectors are economic weak points, the rest of the U.S. economy is doing "extremely well." 
The bond market, however, seems convinced an economic downturn -and cuts in the Fed's bench­mark short-term interest ratf1, are on the way. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.54 percent from 4.59 pP.rcent Friday. The yield on the 1 0-year Treasury bill has plummeted quickly and now stands at a seven-month low. 
Fisher's romarks pushed stocks higher in what had been a session of seesaw trading, with investors first bidding stocks higher on lower oil prices, then sending them lower on falling hous­ing prices. 
Investors, alert to any sign of a sharp economic slowdown. have been especially skittish in recent sessions as data has shown a slow­ing housing market while bond yields and oil prices have fallen hard. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Prices of existing homes tumble 
August decline is the first in eleven years, sales drop for the fifth straight month 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Annual 
existing home prices 
declined in August for the 
first time in more than a 
decade as sales fell for a fifth 
straight month. 
The year-over-year drop in median sales prices repre­sented a dramatic turn­around in fortunes for the once high-flying housing market, which last year was posting double-digit price gains. 
"Pop goes the housing bubble," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors. He pre­dicted prices will tumble far­ther as home sellers struggle with a record glut of unsold homes. 
The National Association 
of Realtors reported Monday 
that sales of existing single­
family homes and condo­
miniums dropped 0.5 per­
cent last month to a season­
ally adjusted annual rate of 
6.30 million units. That was the fifth straight monthly decline and left sales 12.6 percent below the pace of a year ago. 
The slowdown in sales meant that the inventory of unsold homes rose to a record 3.92 million units at the end of August. At last month's sales pace, it would take 7.5 months to clear out the backlog of unsold homes, the longest stretch since prices downward in light of attracted few interested buy­it would mirror the bursting April1993. the inventory glut. ers. of the stock market bubble in 
The median price of a "This is the price correc­"l am sitting here thinking 2000, which helped push the home sold last month fell to tion we've been expecting," maybe if I buy a car and country into a full-blown $225,000. That was down Lereah said. "With sales sta­park it out front with a bow recession. That is something 
2.2 percent from July and bilizing, we should go back on it, that will help," he said. Federal Reserve Chairman down 1. 7 percent from to positive price growth early The drop in existing home Ben Bernanke and his col­August 2005. That marked next year." sales in August was not as leagues are monitoring care­the first year-over-year drop But some home sellers steep as expected and some fully. in home prices since a 0.1 around the country, worried said the recent declines in On Wall Street, the Dow percent fall in April 1995. that cutting prices may not mortgage rates may help Jones industrial average 
Last year, when the five­be enough, have been offer­keep the housing market gained 67.71 points to close year housing boom was ing incentives to attract buy­from falling off a cliff. at 11,575.81 as investors reaching its peak, median ers, including in some cases Bolstered by the lowest were reassured by com­prices posted a string of dou­new cars. mortgage rates in more than ments from Richard Fisher, ble-digit gains on a year­Dave Armon, who lives in four decades, housing set president of the Dallas over-year basis. The median the New York City suburb of sales records for both new Federal Heserve Bank, that price is the point where half Pelham Manor, said he start­and existing homes for five inflation was likely to be the homes sell for more and ed out asking $1.6 million for consecutive years through dampened by a slowing half for less. his six-bedroom Tudor-style 2005. However, this year, economy. 
David Lereah, chief econo­home three months ago -analysts are forecasting that Fisher said that while mist for the Healtors, pre­below the $1.82 million a sales are likely to fall by 10 housing and autos were eco­dicted price declines would neighbor received -but has percent. nomic weak points, the rest continue for the rest of this slashed the price by The worry is if the decline of the economy was "healthy year as sellers adjust asking $300,000 because he has could become so severe that and robust." 

Juror e-mails cited in corruption case 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. -Jurors in the corruption case against former Gov. Don Siegelman and ex­HealthSouth CEO Richard Scrushy discussed the ease in e-mails before convicting them, violating the judge's instructions, defense attorneys said in a motion Monday seeking a new trial. 
The motion cited a sworn state­ment from a juror, who was not identified, and copies of e-mails that attorneys said they were anonymously mailed. In those e­mails, jurors express confusion about evidence and indicate they discussed the case among them­selves over the Internet, the motion says. 
"We expect to get what every defendant is guaranteed by the Sixth Amendment and that is a fair trial," said David McDonald, one of Siegelman's attorneys. 
Chief federal prosecutor Louis Franklin said he had not read the motion and had no immediate com­ment. 
Siegelman and Scrushy were found guilty after a two-month trial on bribery and conspiracy charges. Prosecutors said Scrushy arranged $500,000 in contributions to Siegelman's campaign for a statewide lottery in exchange for being appointed by Siegelman to a seat on an influential hospital regu­latory board. 

U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller warned jurors not to discuss the case among themselves, except during formal deliberations at the end of the trial, at the end of testi­mony every day during the trial and before jurors left the court­room for lunch and other breaks. Jurors were also told repeatedly that during deliberations they should only discuss the case if all 12 jurors were present. 
The motion for a new trial said two jurors wrote e-mails to one another on May 2!), a month before the trial ended. The motion said the e-mails identified two other jurors as being "still off trac," and that one says "some of the kounts r con­fusing 2 our friends." 
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Examining Benedict's remarks 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PoLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor. Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsuvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published. Monday through Friday accpt during: exam and v:acariou pcriuds. A subscription m l11c Observer is S I 00 for on.~ academic yrar; $55 for one srmcster. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame. IN 46S56-0779 ThcObsaver Pcriodic.ll postage paid at None Dllmc P:O. Boxn9 and addi!iona.l mailing offices 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nmrc Dame. IN 46556-0779 
The ObscrVI::r ~ ;1; member ufthe A$sodatcd Pri!SS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The original New York Times story on the Pope's University of Hegensburg address was headed, "Pope Calls West Divorced from Faith, Adding a Blunt Footnote on Islam." That footnote, three paragraphs in a 30­minute academic speech, prompted the violent response in the Muslim world. 
Let's look at what Benedict XVI actually said. The address was essentially on the West's divorce of rea­son from religion. Benedict first noted that when he began teaching at the University of Bonn in 1959, it was "accepted without question," within the university as a whole, that one could "raise the question of God through the use of reason ... in the context of ... the Christian faith." Ile said that he was "reminded of all this recently" when he read the fourteenth century dialogue between the Byzantine emperor Manuel II Paleologus and "an educated Persian on the subject of Christianity and Islam, and the truth of both." 
"[T]he emperor," said Benedict, "touches on the theme or the jihad (holy war). The emperor must have known that sura 2:256 reads: 'There is no compulsion in religion.' It is one of the suras of the early period, when Mohammed was still powerless and under [threat!. But naturally the emper­or also knew the instructions, devel­oped later and recorded in the Koran, concerning holy war." Benedict stated that the emperor put to the Persian, "in these words ... the central question on the relationship between religion and violence: 'Show me just what Mohammed brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
preached.'" 
"The emperor," continued Benedict, "goes on to explain ... why spreading the faith through violence is ... unrea­sonable. Violence is incompatible with the nature of God and the nature of the soul. 'God is not pleased by blood, and not acting reasonably ... is contrary to God's nature. Faith is born of the soul, not of the body. Whoever would lead someone to faith needs the ability to speak well and to reason properly, without violence and threats ... To con­vince a reasonable soul, one does not need a strong arm, or weapons of any kind or any other means of threatening a person with death ... ' The deeisive statement in this argument against vio­lent conversion is this: Not to act in accordance with reason is contrary to God's nature." 
Benedict then stated that Theodore Khoury, editor of the dialogue, observed that "for Muslim teaehing, God is absolutely transcendent. llis will is not bound up with ... rationality.'' Benedict did not state this, or the emperor's view, as his own opinion. 
Benedict went on to note that God acts with "logos," which "means both reason and word." God is reason, which is not the same as saying that reason (our reason) is god. From "Christian faith" and ... "Greek thought now joined to faith," said Benedict, "Manuel II was able to say: Not to act 'with logos' [with reason] is contrary to God's nature." 
The dialogue between Manuel II and the Persian was relevant to Benedict's main theme, a critical analysis of the Western divorce, dating from the late Middle Ages, of reason from faith and religion. Benedict discussed the "sola scriptura" approach of the Heformation; the later distinction between "the God of the philosophers and the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob"; the pres­entation of Jesus as merely "the father of a humanitarian moral message"; and the "modern concept of reason" with "mathematical and empirical" certainty as the measure even of the "human sci­ences, such as history, psychology, soci­ology and philosophy." That method "excludes the question of God [as] unscientific or pre-scientific." Therefore questions of religion and ethics have nothing to do with "reason as defined by 'science.'" They are "subjective.'' 

Benedict's intent is one of "broaden­ing our concept of reason and its appli­cation ... We will succeed in doing so only if reason and faith come together in a new way, if we overcome the self­imposed limitation of reason to the empirically verifiable ... [T]heology rightly belongs in the university and within the ... dialogue of seiences ... as inquiry into the rationality of faith." 
Pope John Paul !I described Faith and Heason as "like two wings on which the human spirit rises to the contemplation of truth." Benedict's address gave a new dimension to that insight. "I am deeply sorry," Benedict said, "for the reactions in some countries to a few passages ... which were considered offensive to the sensibility of Muslims. These were a quotation from a medieval text which do not in any way express my own personal thought ... lMJy address ... in its totality was and is an invitation to frank and sincere dia­logue, with mutual respect." 
Those who react with violence to this address validate Emperor Manuel II's opinion of Islam. Benedict, as the Vicar of Christ, has done the world an impor­tant service. It would be a good idea to read this address. And anything else Benedict says. 1-Iabemus papam. Deo gratias. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is a member of the Law School faculty. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at rice.l @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kate Antonacci Kyle Cassity Katie Kohler Fran Tolan Should Notre Dame continue Katie McDonnell Michael Bryan 
early action admission? 
Viewpoint Scene 
Joey King Analise Lipari 

Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Jeff Albert 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1Submit aLetterI
.,., ............... ,•..: .....'• ,., ....., '·::.::··· ..·. ··:·: ··::. ,,,, 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
......·....·............·.......·................................................,..·:··:::·;::-::::;:·::::-:-:·~:::=·: 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Patriotism is your conviction that this country is superior to all other countries because you were born in it. " 
George Bernard Shaw Irish dramatist 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 page 9 
Osama bin Laden, U.S. foreign policy & AI Qaeda 2.0 
As of this writing, rumors of Osama bin Laden's death are once again circulating throughout the news media. This is at least the third time that rumors of this sort have made the rounds, and in all likelihood they will once again prove to be exaggerated. But, true or not, the rumors do provide an opportunity to voice a provocative question: what would happen if Osama bin Laden were to die today? How would AI Qaeda and the face of global terrorism be changed if it's appar­ent leader were removed? This is not just an intellectual exercise, it is a critical policy question for those nations that stand in opposition to AI Qaeda. 
There is not a consensus among the intelligence community as to exactly how wide-spread AI Qaeda actually is, or how much direct influence bin Laden has, if any, over the activities of individual ter­rorist cells. Most accept that the relative strength of AI Qaeda is due to its decen­tralization and network-based structure, rather than its core hierarchy of leaders. Understood in this light, AI Qaeda seems more than capable of surviving the death· of its leader, and in deed seems designed to do so. However it would still be greatly weakened by his death, since his person­ality binds the network. 


But this is only one model of AI Qaeda. A growing number of commentators are beginning to see a new kind of AI Qaeda, .one which has evolved in reaction to the opposition being directed against that organization by the Western world. They have coined the term AI Qaeda 2.0 to describe this new incarnation of an old enemy. 
The defming characteristic of AI Qaeda 
2.0 is that the term "organization" cannot adequately describe it. Unlike the original AI Qaeda, version 2.0 is foremost a methodology and an idea. Although its core attributes are inherited from its par­ent -a puritanical approach to Islam, the widespread use of information tech­nology and an amoral willingness to use any weapon to achieve its ends -AI Qaeda 2.0 has no ties, formal or informal, to its parent organization. Because it is an idea rather than an entity and because, consequentially, it has no definable bor­ders, AI Qaeda 2.0 could take the death of Osama bin Laden without blinking. 
The global anti-terrorism strategy of the United States and its allies, even if it is effective against the first generation of AI Qaeda (which is highly debatable), does not stand a chance against AI Qaeda 2.0. 
The American strategy is grounded on the fundamental yet incorrect assumption that it is fighting a concrete entity, when in fact it now finds it-self facing an idea. 
The collective opinion of the intelligence community, recently leaked in The New York Times, is that the actions of the United States in Iraq and Afghanistan have aided, rather than hindered, the psychological efforts of AI Qaeda. Based on this evidence it is clear that America is utterly unequipped to wage an effective war against a non-concrete enemy. 
There are exactly two ways to destroy a powerful idea. The first way is to demon­strate empirically to its believers that the idea is incorrect. The second way is to replace it with a better idea. These were two strategies that the United States used successfully against communism during the Cold War. When America fought wars against communism, it created the humil­iations of Korea and Vietnam. It was only by exporting its capitalism, its ideals and its freedoms to the rest of the world that the United States undermined its opposi­tion from within. 
Today, America has again employed the exact opposite of this wining strategy. When it should be reaffirming its morals and visions, instead it tries to degrade them through unconstitutional imprison­ment and the use of torture against its enemies. When it should be demonstrat­ing the foolishness of AI Qaeda's fears, it justifies them by destroying and abandon­ing Afghanistan and by invading Iraq to create an impotent democracy that lends no confidence to the strength of the sys­tem. When it should fight a war of ideas, it can only understand a war of arms. And as the nature of AI Qaeda changes, unless U.S. policy changes as well, it will be utterly unable to cope with an AI Qaeda that, at its heart, is a deadly idea. 

Retraction: In paragraphs three and four of my Sept. 15 colunm, "The incredi­ble shrinking university press" I made claims about academic publishing that, after introspection, proved to be based not on perspectives gained from that industry but on a strong personal bias against academics in general and their ability to make fair judgments. Since this is precisely the attitude I am opposed to, I retract those paragraphs as hypocritical and apologize for their inclusion. 
Lance Gallop is a2005 graduate ofthe University ofNotre Dame. He can be con­tacted at comments@tidewaterblues.com. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial­ShareAlike 2.5 License. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Best serving 
global health? 

Emmanuel Levinas once said of enjoyment, "There are times when one is ashamed of it, as of feasting during a plague." 
On Thursday, I attended the global health forum. Two physicians and an economist starkly presented the plague to us -AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and hunger. Our African sisters and brothers die daily, for they cannot afford medicines costing just a few dollars, and they have no food. I felt ashamed, but proud-what a wonderful community Notre Dame is that we would educate ourselves about such dire issues, and launch an initiative to solve them. 
Later the same day, while passing the new Jordan Hall of Science, I noticed a crowd of well-dressed people entering it. I followed them, and found inside an opulent feast-lobster, crab, shrimp~ scallops, lamb chops, asparagus in puff pastry-complete with ice sculptures of our famed gold dome, dis­played as a seal of approval for this ostentatious dis­play of wealth. I ate three scallops, and I under­stood anew Paul's words from 1 Corinthians regard­ing eating and drinking condemnation on oneself. What I consumed cost the same amount as malaria treatment for one child of God in Africa. I scored a free snack; another person died. Paul's words need not concern the Eucharist alone. All food becomes holy for one dying. All eating condemns us if we feast during a plague. 
Surely we should show gratitude for donors' gen­erosity. But how do Catholics give thanks -by feast­ing during a plague? The wisdom of the world man­dates fleshly, sensual extravagance as the suitable response to gifts. But do not we Catholics subscribe to the folly of the Cross? 
The University intentionally scheduled Thursday's two events -the forum and the hall dedication -on the same day, so we might identify the problem and venture toward a solution by educating tomorrow's health care professionals. I applaud this. But why did Thursday's feast happen? Will we, with hearts frozen like ice sculptures (Satan in "Dante's Inferno"?). prepare for a better future while forget­ting those dying at present? Ought we not to feel shame? Ought we not to change how we thank our benefactors? 
Peter Fritz grad student Department ofTheology off campus Sept. 17 
Looking into ticket distribution 
Complaints ill-founded 
My, my, Sue Grant is sure feeling sorry for herself hav­ing to walk a long way to the stadium. Guess she hasn't heard about the shuttle from the White field on the north where anyone can park. Alumni that give a little, those in the middle and those who give a lot help each other with tickets all the time. Anyone who stays in touch can get tickets for games -maybe not all-but for most games. Quit whining, girl! You are part of a great community of people who are dedicated to helping others and each other. Most of your fellow citizens and residents of this country can only dream about what you have done and are doing. Notre Dame is unique and the world knows it. 
Pat Moran 
alumnus 
Class of 1970 
Sept. 25 

Commending school spirit, band 
Community emphasis reaches beyond Notre Dame shattered both watching football games in South Bend and attending my wife's class reunion. There 
It isn't just about winning. College football is I learned that Notre Dame is not merely about win­about school spirit. What sets Notre Dame's spirit ning, it is about community -not just its own, but apart from other schools is its emphasis on commu­the world beyond. That is something to be nity; not just Notre Dame's, but that of the world immensely proud of, even when the breaks are beyond. beating the boys. Stay to the end. Sing the alma 
The Fighting Irish football team [properly] mater. Don't be "me." Be Notre Dame. remains one of the great meeting places for that community. It brings together students and alumni David Beach (including the subway kind) and provides an event San Francisco, CA to celebrate their shared experience. Whether it is Sept. 22 expressing pride for the University, countering anti­Catholic bigotry or just having something to cheer 
Band delivered praiseworthy performance 
for, football is part of the Notre Dame experience; it is part of believing that the world is bigger than I don't know what everyone else thought, but thejust "me." 
performance of the Notre Dame band at theThose who would walk out when it isn't going Michigan State was truly amazing. Despite the hardwell do not understand. Both as individuals and as rain throughout the second half, the band camecommunities, we all have pride, and we all suffer through as loud as could be on television, and itfalls. Those who abandon the collective when the just never seemed to stop playing. Great perform­group suffers are not truly members. By insulating ance, guys and gals! I am certain your inspired play themselves from the fall, they show they care only in the second half helped the team rally to victory.
about "me." That is not the Notre Dame way. I am not an alum, not even the subway kind, nor Jim Blase am I Catholic. Having gone to school in the Big Ten, 
alumnus

I sharpened my stereotypical dislike for Notre 
Class of 1982

Dame over the years, only to have that stereotype 
Sept. 25 

'Corporate' jobs favored 
Amen to Sue Grant's letter ("Questioning ticket distribution," Sept. 25). I graduated in '58. I made a contribution virtually every year. Not a large one, as Army offi­cers did not make a lot of money either. I requested tickets probably 24 times. Got tickets 3 times to second-tier games. When I last got tickets, I also received an advertisement for Corporate Tent sales ­which included game tickets. 
I have often wondered if the Corporates participated in the Lottery. 
Gerald W McCabe alumnus Class of 1958 Sept. 25 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 

Celebrity babies hold media, public attention 
I have absolutely shocking news. It turns out that nearly four months ago, the world was introduced to Baby Cruise. Yes, celebrity personalities and occasional couch-jumpers Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes combined their genes into an offspring named Suri, and on that fateful May day, the Scientology heiress was born. 
Actually, this most likely will shock no one other than maybe Mimi Rogers. Unless you currently reside underneath a rock, you will have heard about the birth of little Suri. Considering that near­ly every major publica­tion and news channel featured a countdown to her birth (com­plete with unnecessary details such as Tom's unsettling focus on the placenta), avoiding hearing about the spawn of TomKat would be pretty much incredible. 
But Suri is not the first among the latest tidal wave of pop culture progeny. Apple and Moses Martin, Coco Cox-Arquette, Shiloh Nouvel Jolie-Pitt and Sean Preston Feder line are among the recent crop of celebrity babies whose omnipresence is puzzling and more than a little obnoxious. 
"What? Obnoxious?! No one hates babies, you soulless fiend," defenders say. Yes, I've heard it before. And I of all peo-

Analise Lipari 
Assistant Scene Editor 

ple certainly do not hate babies. They're extremely cute, even if they occasionally smell funny. 
However, I can't say I'm a fan of the fact that each time a celebrity mom pops out a new kid, the world (or at least, the ever­realistic world of entertainment news) feels the need to stop dead. 
Even so, that won't prevent me from peering through the pages of the latest issue of"Vanity Fair," in which Suri Cruise has a multi-page spread. She looks just like her dad! Seriously, look at that face. Adorable. 
Celebrity babies are an addiction. We want to know the London boutique where Mama Gwyneth bought their onesies, the formula brand of choice in the Cruise or Federline household, even the maker of their designer bassinettes. If we had access to the doctor's ultrasound images, we'd want those too. Framed, and with captions. 
If this sounds more than a little extreme, consider the case of baby Shiloh Nouvel. The product of the union of A-listers Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, Shiloh became an international sensation while still in utero. The world watched with rapt attention at the diplomatic power of the Jolie-Pitt fetus undoubtedly impressed that she could revolutionize the Namibian tourist economy without actually being born yet. Would Angelina give birth in Paris or Namibia? 
The debate raged for weeks, with angry defenders on both sides of the "Us Weekly" Letters to the Editor page. 
Extreme? Nab. 

What's also both impressive and more than a little terrifYing is the clout that these babies have obtained in the media. For the public, the emergence of the formerly enig­matic Suri in the pages of a major publica­tion trumps any story about Iraq that MSN.com may feature on its front page. Even I shamefully admit glossing over Iraq and Katrina headlines to check the status of Britney Spears' latest Cesarian. 
We just can't help ourselves. 
Maybe it's the allure of their glamorous lifestyles that draws us in like moths to the $1,000-Manolo-Blahnic-bootie-wearing flame. Or it might be the proverbial image of new life entering the world. If someone is a little happier in this crazy world because Gwyneth Paltrow named her son after a Coldplay love song written by her husband, well, worse things could happen. 

They could be Mimi Rogers. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Iscii'&fiRn I 
Nickelodeon classics remain fondly remembered 
Submitted for the approval of the Midnight Society, I call this story The Tale of the Nick Kid Who Never Grew Up. 
I wanted to be a Blue Barracuda. I am not ashamed to say that I was afraid of the dark. Camp Anawanna is where I wanted to spend every summer. And I will still swear to this day that Clarissa really can explain all. 
There is a reason why at campus events -such as the Dillon Pep Rally or the Keenan Revue -old Nickelodeon theme songs never fail to be played. Or why the whole audience continues singing the songs long after they have been turned off. We were all Nick kids. 
Aside from those poor souls who had no cable-access growing up, our childhoods revolved around excursions up the Aggro Crag, trips out to the Bar None Dude Ranch and watching the mischievous Wrigley brothers. 
And now, thanks to the respective glo­ries of Comcast and Netflix. I can be a Nick kid whenever I want. 
Thanks to cries of outrage and a steady stream of demand from our generation, it is now easier than ever to submerse your­self in nostalgia and take procrastination to new heights by watching these Nickelodeon treasures. 
Nickelodeon (Ch. 31 in the dorms) now 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 

has timeslots that they classify under "NICK Rewind" during their regular schedules. In these programming blocks, they show some of the old cartoon shows 
that we so fondly remembm. Recently "Rewind" has shown episodes of "The Angry Beavers," "Ren and Stimpy," and 
"AMHH!!! Real Monsters." Nickelodeon has also recently had marathons where they will show some of the shorter-lived series in their entireties -like this sum­mer's complete run of "Salute Your Shorts." 
If you splurge towards the next level of Comcast pleasure, you gain access to both Nicktoons Network and Nickelodeon Games and Sports (Nick GAS, for short). This is where Nickelodeon excels in rais­ing the dead. Nicktoons has "Rocko's Modern Life," "Ren and Stimpy" and "Invader Zim" built in to their daily schedule. And more frequently than the regular channel, Nicktoons has specials where they resurrect some of the other cartoons Oike "Kablam!") for a day or two. 
Nick GAS brings back the amazing game shows that we would spend our every minute wishing that we could play. Shows like "Legends of the Hidden Temple," "Family Double Dare," "GUTS" and "Nick Arcade" are on each and every day. Not only are the shows themselves treasures, but they have the additional bonus of letting you relive your childhood consumerism by remembering how badly you wanted those Hush Puppies sneakers or the super sweet mountain bike. Plus, Kirk Fogg is a pretty good-looking guy. 
But what about the creme de la creme of the Nickelodeon opus -the live-action shows? Although slow in the follow­through, Nickelodeon has been releasing these masterpieces in their Nickelodeon Rewind DVD eollection. The first two sea­sons of "The Adventures of Pete and Pete" have already been released, with the third on the way. 

Now you can watch "Petunia" dance, watch random items attach themselves to the plate in Mom's head and watch little Pete go head to head with Pitstain when it starts getting too cold to h!md out to the Backer. 
Also in this collection is the first season of "Clarissa Explains It All." This is espe­cially important to us Domers, because Jason Zimbler-who plays Clarissa's brother, Ferguson, or "Ferg-face"-is a 1998 graduate of Notre Dame. Future claimed releases in this series include "Are You Afraid of the Dark?" and "Salute Yqur Shorts." 

Whether your passion is unlocking Olmec's secrets, laughing at Donkeylips or playing with a Log, it's easier than ever to relive that passion each and every day. So until next time, I declare this meeting of the Midnight Society closed. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
page 11 

MESMERIZING LEADS ANCHOR 'ILLUSIONIST' 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
Renowned illusionist David Copperfield once opined, "The real secret of magic lies in the performance." Director Neil Burger seems to have taken note of Copperfield's wisdom when fashioning "The Illusionist," an impressive foray into the mind and methods of a gifted conjurer at the turn of the 19th century. 
Supported by stellar performances, the film works, even as it makes rapt audi­ences wonder -iJ only at the far comers of their minds -as to why it does. 
At the center of this supernatural mys­tery stands Eisenheim (Edward Norton), a cabinetmaker's son whose innocent child­hood romance with duchess Sophie von Teschen (Jessica Biel) ends in heartbreak. Setting off to explore the Far East, Eisenheim returns 15 years later to his native Vienna as an esteemed illusionist, adored by the masses for his charm and mystical talent. 
But a chance encounter with Sophie dur­ing one of Eisenheim's stage performances reignites their passion, drawing the ire of Sophie's recent fiance, the powerful and conniving Crown Prince Leopold (Rufus Sewell). Hiring his longtime friend Chief Inspector Uhl (Paul Giamatti) to discredit the magician, Leopold prepares to dispatch a rival he sees a minor nuisance, despite Eisenheim's growing influence over the citi­zens of Vienna. 
Based on a short story entitled "Eisenheim the Illusionist" by Pulitzer Prize-winning author Steven Millhauser, Burger's cinematic adaptation succeeds on multiple levels, despite a number of plot twists that are anything but unordinary. Burger recognizes the importance of style in a film such as this, 
placing the onus of the The Illusionist the quiet humanity he picture's emotionality 
instills in each of his on two of the finest ubiquitous "every­actors of their respec­man" roles. tive generations -Sadly, Biel is left Norton and Giamatti. Director: Neil Burger with almost nothing The two carry the film Writers: Steven Millhauser and Burger to do, the victim of a from start to finish, Starring: Edward Norton, Jessica Biel, script that utilizes her and Burger wisely Rufus Sewell and Paul Giamatti as a damsel mas­
chooses to shine the spotlight on their combative but respectful relationship. 
Norton's quiet, regal and slightly aloof performance allows Eisenheim to remain as much of an enigma as each of his illu­sions. He commands every scene he appears in, allowing for an all-too-rare opportunity to see the thespian embrace his talent as a leading man. The last few years have been lean for Norton, who has twice been nominated for an Academy Award. Lately, he's been relegated to back­seat roles in films like "Kingdom of Heaven" and 'The Italian Job." But here, he's as magnetic and as watchable as he was in Spike Lee's 2002 drama "25th Hour," the last entry on Norton's filmogra­phy worthy of mention. 
Playing opposite Norton is the equally charismatic Giamatti. In the past, he's been a quirky wino in "Sideways" and a quirky superintendent in "Lady in the Water." There's nothing quirky about his role in 
"The Illusionist," just 
querading as plot device. None of the memorable scenes in the film involve her character, perhaps fur­ther perpetuating the typecast that Biel belongs firmly entrenched in 20th century American suburbia, not some long-gone countryside in Vienna. 
The film's biggest flaw has nothing to do with magic, artifices or even the dark arts. Rather, "The Illusionist" builds a full head of steam and then hits an emotional brick wall two-thirds of the way through the journey. Instead of further mining his largely fascinating characters, Burger chose to pull off a narrative sleight of hand -the plot putters along for another 20 minutes before dropping a stunning fmal­act denouement. 

Burger's ploy doesn't quite work. The characters in this film are paramount, the plot secondary -a shame considering the impending arrival of Christopher Nolan's "The Prestige," the story of rival magicians dueling in turn-of-the-century London. Given the star power involved in that film -Christian Bale, Hugh Jackman, Scarlett Johansson and Michael Caine-it's hard to imagine "The Illusionist" standing the test of time, given its decidedly ordinary plot saved by effective execution. At the very least, Burger's film has launched an impressive opening salvo in a duel between the year's two magic-driven period pieces. 
"The Illusionist" is a fine film, even enchanting on occasion. In a day and age where solid films are all too rare, it stands head and shoulders above the tripe cur­rently laying waste to America's multiplex­es. Like any great magic trick, it lingers in the mind, leaving audiences gasping for more. But if Burger and his crew had pushed the envelope, they could have left audiences with an achievement worthy of remembrance for years, rather than months. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Eo OF ALL TRADES 
By ERIN MCGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
Most movie stars of today rely on their personalities shining through in the roles they play, regardless of whether or not that fits the characters. Actors like Tom Cruise or Matthew McConaughey, in whatever film they star, always essentially play the same character-themselves. 
Then there is another class of actors who never seem to do the same thing twice, and instead completely lose themselves in the characters they are playing. Johnny Depp is often mentioned at the forefront of this category. And although he has only been in the movie business for ten years, Edward Norton is quickly rising in his own right, treading a career path similar to Depp's. 
Even after seeing all of his films, it is enormously difficult to say what a typical "Ed Norton-type" is like. Norton immerses himself so deeply into each of his charac­terizations that his own personality disap­pears. 
AJter spending his adolescent years in Maryland, Norton graduated from Yale University in 1991 with a degree in history. It was at Yale that Norton became heavily involved in theater, taking as many classes as he could in his free time. Actors Ron Livingston and Paul Giamatti were class­mates and fellow collegiate actors. 
AJter working in Osaka, Japan for his grandfather, Norton decided to move to New York and begin his acting career in off-Broadway theater. Shortly thereafter he began working in film, and found success with 1996's "Primal Fear," in which he played a young man accused of murder. This role won him both a Golden Globe and an Oscar nomination. 
Norton continued to build up his impres­sive and diverse body of work with an incredible performance in "The People vs. Larry Flynt" (1996), and then was nominat­ed for the Best Actor Academy Award for his role as a reformed neo-Nazi in 1998's "American History X." Continuing on his upward spiral, Norton co-starred with Matt Damon in "Rounders" (1998) and with Brad Pitt in the 1999 adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk's novel "Fight Club." He also received a great deal of critical acclaim for his starring role in Spike Lee's "25th Hour." 
Norton, not limited to starring in intense dramas, has also found success with come­dy. Norton films in this category include "Keeping the Faith" with Ben Stiller and the dark-comedy favorite "Death to Smoochy" with Robin Williams. Norton has covered everything from action ("The Italian Job") to thrillers ("Red Dragon"), and has even dabbled in musicals (Woody Allen's "Everyone Says I Love You"). 
Aside from acting, Norton has become heavily involved with film in a variety of ways. Following his success directing "Keeping the Faith," he's directing the upcoming film adaptation of the novel "Motherless Brooklyn," as well as writing the screenplay. The film "Frida," for which he wrote an uncredited screenplay, was nominated for six Academy Awards and won two. He also recently won the Obie Award for his off-Broadway performance in "Burn This" by LanJord Wilson. 

Norton also recently created Class 5 Films in partnership with his brother, Jim Norton. Class 5 has produced numerous films which have aired on PBS and the Sundance Channel. Class 5 is currently working with Brad Pitt's Plan B and National Geographic to produce a ten-part series for HBO based on "Undaunted Courage," Stephen Ambrose's acclaimed book about the Lewis and Clark expedition. 
Norton is also a committed social and environmental activist. The actor serves on the Board of Trustees of the Enterprise Foundation, which works to move families out of poverty and develop decent housing. He also created the Solar Neighbors pro­gram in Los Angeles, an initiative in which a solar energy company will donate full home energy systems to low-income fami­lies each time public figures purchase one. 
A unique and admirable individual, Ed Norton is an inimitable actor, an entertain­er who continues to be a respectable force in the movie industry. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 


Eisenheim (Edward Norton}, right, reveals the method behind one of his tricks to an admiring Chief Inspector Uhl (Paul Giamatti), left, in "The Illusionist." 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
MLB 
Griffey homers in return to lead Cincinnati 
Arroyo threw 43 of his 113
Reds center fielder 
pitches in the first inning. Aurilia broke up the shutout
even with Jackson on 
with a two-run single to rightall-time dinger list off of reliever Michael Wuertz with the bases loaded in the 
Associated Press 
seventh inning. 
CINCINNATI -Ken Griffey Jr. Indians 14, White Sox 1 moved into lOth place on base­The Chicago White Sox are ball's career home-run list with closer to an early winter vaca­a three-run, pinch-hit shot in tion than any of them expected. the eighth inning Monday that The defending World Series lifted the Cincinnati Reds to a 5-champions, overtaken by two 4 victory over the Chicago Cubs. teams in their division this sea­
Griffey, in his first appearance son, were shoved to the edge of after missing 1 7 games with a elimination from the AL playoff toe injury, hit a 1-1 pitch from race as Cliff Lee pitched seven left-bander Scott Eyre (1-3) into strong innings in Cleveland's the right-field seats for his 27th win Monday night. homer this season and 563rd of One season after they ended his career, tying Reggie Jackson ao. 88-year title drought by on the home run list. It was the storming through October, the fifth pinch-hit homer of his White Sox might have to watch career. the postseason unfold this fall 
Griffey hadn't played since along with 22 other teams. dislocating the second toe of his Chicago's most lopsided loss right foot while trying to catch a of the season meant a win by homer by Barry Bonds on Sept. Minnesota at home over Kansas 4 at Great American Ball Park. City would ensure the Twins of 
Scott Schoeneweis (2-0) got a postseason berth-and elimi­two outs in the eighth inning to nate the White Sox. earn the win. David Weathers Casey Blake hit a grand slam pitched the ninth for his team­-Cleveland's major league leading 12th save in 18 oppor­record-tying 14th this season­tunities. to highlight an eight-run sixth 
Griffey's homer cost Wade inning that finished off Jon Miller his first win since beating Garland (17 -7) and the White Kansas City 8-5 for Boston on Sox on this night -and maybe Aug. 3, 2005. The right-hander, for all of 2006. in his fourth start after missing After adding Jim Thome to the first five months of the sea­their already powerful lineup son after offseason shoulder during the winter, Chicago surgery, allowed three hits and came into the year picked by three walks with two strikeouts. most to make another run at a 
Cincinnati put at least one championship. But things didn't runner on base in every inning go well from the start. the final weekend of the season sacrifice fly made it 6-1. homered for the Blue Jays, who against Miller, but none got past The White Sox first found to end the Indians' playoff The Indians blew it open in are a half-game ahead of second base. themselves chasing the surpris­quest. the sixth against Garland, who Boston. Toronto has finished 
Bronson Arroyo lasted seven ing Detroit Tigers and then After Guillen pulled Garland came in with a major league­third in the AL East seven of the innings, giving up only four hits couldn't keep pace with the and headed back to the dugout, leading 11 road wins. Andy past eight years, the exception and no earned runs with two Twins, who passed them in the fans seated near the field mim­Marte had a run-scoring dou­being a last-place finish in walks and five strikeouts. He final few weeks and haven't icked the choking gesture ble, Martinez hit an RBI single 2004. fell short in his second try at a looked back since. Chicago's animated manager and Garko doubled in two. The Red Sox have come in career-high 15 wins. He won 14 Chicago was done in by its made toward them as the Garland was rocked for 12 second behind the New York with Boston last season. shaky bullpen and what so far Indians collapsed in 2005. runs, eight earned, and 12 hits Yankees for eight straight sea­
The Cubs took advantage of is a 9-15 record in September. Just as the Twins and Royals in 5 1-3 innings. sons. Cincinnati errors on back-to­"It was a bunch of different were getting underway in With one out in the sixth, Toronto hadn't had sole pos­hack batters to score four things, errors, strikeouts and Minneapolis, the White Sox Blake connected for his slam off session of second place since unearned runs on two hits in lately we struggled as a team to made two errors on one play in reliever Boone Logan as the April26. the first inning. Shortstop Rich put everything together," man­the fifth, helping the Indians Indians tied the major league Marcum (3-4) allowed only Aurilia was unable to make a ager Ozzie Guillen said before score twice and open a 6-1 record for slams in a season. Alex Cora's infield single in the barehanded grab of Matt the series opener. "We weren't lead. They share it with the 2000 sixth and Eric Hinske's single in Murton's slow grounder, loading consistent." Jason Michaels walked lead­Oakland Athletics. the eighth. the bases. The next batter, Lee (13-11) limited the White ing off and Victor Martinez The rookie right-hander Angel Pagan, hit a one-hopper Sox to one run and four hits. dropped a single in front of cen­Blue Jays 5, Red Sox 0 struck out a career-high 10 and back to Arroyo, but catcher Dan The Indians, whose season ter fielder Brian Anderson, who Shaun Marcum and Jason walked one in a career-best Ross dropped Arroyo's throw, was as disappointing as misplayed the ball and let it roll Frasor combined on a two-hit­eight innings, the 13th start of allowing Juan Pierre to score Chicago's, had the satisfaction by. Michaels scored all the way ter, and the Toronto Blue Jays his career. the first run. of possibly ending the White from first and when Jermaine moved into second place in the Before the game, Toronto 
Aramis Ramirez scored on Sox's postseason hopes. A year Dye's one-hop throw was mis­AL East with a victory over the manager John Gibbons said the John Mabry's groundout, and ago, the opposite was true as handled by shortstop Juan Boston Red Sox on Monday team didn't know what Henry Blanco lined a two-run the White Sox swept a three­Uribe, Martinez went to third. night. Marcum's role would be next single to left field. game series from Cleveland on One out later, Shin-Soo Choo's Alex Rios and Bengie Molina year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Investment homes for sale near 2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. Home game lodging 20 min.to ND WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ND. 866-521-8989. $275 ND Football Wkends; $200 in a B&B log home in the woods. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY not go it alone. If you or someone WANTED Non-Game Wkends. 630·238·0400. $200 for the weekend. 269-362-WILL PAY MORE. 574-288·2726. you love needs confidential support 
0300. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. FoR RENT Lake Front cottage for rent ND FOR SALE: Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Flexible schedules, no exp. need· home games. Monthly or for winter Houses 4 Rent: ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. BEST information, see our bi-weekly ad in ed, customer sales/service, condi-BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam· season. 269-699-5928. W/Es-Home Fbaii,Sr PRICES. 574-232-2378. The Observer. lions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today pus homes & weekend rentals. Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER­574-273-3835. Bluegoldrentals.com White Pigeon, Ml lake house near Spring/Summer. Wanted: Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th 
toll road. 3 da wkend. Home games Mike:312-618-4722 UNC Tix. (574)273-9845 Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours $10 itunes or Burger King gift card · Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to $1k. 260-768-4422. Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1 . 4 your tips on how to do well in col-ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 2 rooms in ND staff home. 1.2 miles NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK-Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals lege 4 book by pub.wr. One 15 45 minutes from Notre Dame to ND. ETS FOR SALE Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. min.ph.interview 9/28,10/1. em 2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round Grad student preferred. HOME or AWAY games.Call517-Hottest Spring Break Destinations. sallybums@hotmail.com for appt. NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack 574-876-9467. 351-1992 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash-
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS & Resort 269-646-2181. or order online 24/7 at tours.com SCHOOL YEAR. 574-329-0308. WWW.JAMESTHETICKETMAN. FoR SALE www.geocities.com/gillisrealty@sbc HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 TICKETS COM Don't recycle. That only deprives 
global. net Bedrooms we have tickets local or nationwide. can monkeys of what society owes 1999 HONDA CIVIC. www. NDstudentrentals.com WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-them (DIMES!!!) Blk. 78K miles. 2 rooms in private home w/separate 1570 
1 owner. Sporty. entrance for football weekends. Upscale Football Weekend House -Father Corneilius, Watch over us on Runs great. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-Escort Optional. 574-993-8333 FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. this glorious Tuesday. That is all. .. $6,600.286-1861. 259-8603. keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net 232-0964 www.ndgamedayroom.com OOHOOHAAHAAH 
PERSONAL 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WlRE SERVICES page 13 
Major League Baseball American League East 

team record perc. last 10  GB  
New York 93-62 .600 4-6  
Toronto 83-73 .532 7-3  10.5  
Boston 83·74 .529 4-6  11.0  
Baltimore 68-88 .436 5-5  25.5  
Tampa Bay 60-95 .387 3-7  33.0  
American League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Detroit 94-62 .603 7-3  
Minnesota 92-63 .594 7-3  1.5  
Chicago 87-69 .558 3·7  7.0  
Cleveland 72-83 .465 4-6  21.5  
Kansas City 58-97 .374 3-7  35.5  
American League West  
team rt~cord perc. last 10  GB  
Oakland 90-65 .581 7-3  
Los Angeles 84-71 .542 6·4  6.0  
Texas 78-78 .500 4-6  12.5  
Seattle 75-81 .481 6-4  15.5  
National League East  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
New York 93-62 .600 3-7  
Philadelphia 82-73 .529 8·2  11.0  
Florida 76-80 .487 3·7  17.5  
Atlanta 75-81 .481 5-5  18.5  
Washington 68-87 .439 5-5  25.0  
National League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
St. louis 80-74 .519 3-7  
Houston 77-78 .497 6-4  3.5  
Cincinnati 77-79 .494 5·5  4.0  
Milwaukee 73-83 .468 7-3  8.0  
Pittsburgh 65-91 .417 5·5  16.0  
Chicago 63-94 .401 4-6  18.5  
National League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
San Diego 83-72 .535 7-3  
los Angeles 82-74 .526 5-5  1.5  
San Francisco 75-80 .484 2·8  8.0  
Colorado 74-82 .474 6-4  9.5  
Arizona 73-82 .471 5·5  10.0  

Wild Card Standings National League 
team record GB Philadelphia 82-73 Los Angeles 82-74 0.5 Houston 77·78 5.0 Cincinnati 77-79 5.5 Florida 76-80 6.5 
American League 
team record GB 
Minnesota• 92-63 
Chicago 87-69 6.0 Los Angeles 84-71 8.0 Toronto 83-73 9.5 Boston 83-74 10.0 
*Clinched Wild Card Monday 

around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL Southern Miss at Central Florida 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 
White Sox at-Indians 
7:05 p.m., Comcast 

NFL 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -The Superdome got a new roof after Hurricane Katrina. The New Orleans Saints did their best to blow it off again. 
In an earsplitting return to their rebuilt stadium, the Saints gave the Big Easy something to cheer about -an undefeated football team that made it look easy with a 23-3 victory over the Atlanta Falcons on Monday night. 
This one couldn't have been seripted any better for a team that spent all of last season on the road, and it couldn't have come at a better time for a city that is still struggling to overcome the devastation of Katrina. 
After a Super Bowl-like pregame show that includ­ed a performance by super­groups U2 and Green Day, the Saints wasted no time turning their welcome­home party into Mardi Gras: The Falcons' first drive stalled, and special teams demon Steve Gleason sliced through the middle of the Atlanta line to smother Michael Koenen's punt. 
The ball skidded across the goal line, where Curtis Deloatch fell on it for a touchdown -the first given up by the Falcons this season. Just 1 1/2 minutes into a homecoming that was over a year in the making, the Saints sent an emphatic message to the NFL and the entire country. 
New Orleans is back. 
DeLoatch ran over to the stands and pointed at the crowd of 70,003, as if to say, "Take that Katrina!" Undoubtedly, many more were cheering around this still-recovering city, some of them vowing to set up tele­visions outside govern­ment-issued trailers that pass for homes more than a year after the storm blew ashore, the levees broke and the water poured through. 
The Saints (3-0) poured it on against the Falcons (2­1), who fell behind 14-3 in the first quarter and never recovered. Devery Henderson scored New Orleans' second TD on an 11-yard double-reverse, taking a handoff from Reggie Bush and cutting inside the pylon with help from a gutsy block by quar­terback Drew Brees. 
John Carney kicked two field goals in the second period, including a 51­yarder that cleared the crossbar as time ran out. The Saints trotted to the locker room with a 20-3 lead and a rousing ovation ringing in their ears. The Faleons straggled off in the opposite direction, as if they already knew this wasn't going to be their night. 

IN BRIEF 
Bengals linebacker Odell Yzerman named Red Wings Brother of Colts WR Wayne
Thurman out for season Vice President dies in car accident 
CINCINNATI -Coach Marvin DETROIT-Steve Yzerman joined INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis' Lewis expects middle linebacker the Detroit front office on Monday, victory celebration turned somber Odell Thurman to be suspended for becoming the vice president of the Monday. the rest of the season following his Red Wings. The usually boisterous locker room arrest early Monday on a drunken Yzerman, the former captain, noise was replaced by emotional. driving charge, making him the helped guide Detroit to Stanley Cup thoughtful reflection as Colts players sixth Cincinnati Bengal arrested this victories in 1997, '98 and 2002. He offered support to their grieving year. retired in July. receiver, Reggie Wayne. 
Thurman, already serving a four­"After retiring as the longest serv­Wayne's older brother, Hashad. was game suspension for violating the ing captain in NHL history and the killed in an automobile accident NFL's substance abuse policy, could on-ice leader of our franchise for 23 Sunday -something Colts players get an additional one-year suspen­years, it is only fitting that he join our didn't learn until well after Sunday's sion from the league. management team," Red Wings game ended. After hearing the news, 
The arrest came less than a week owner Mike Hitch said in a statement. Wayne flew back to his home state of after commissioner Roger Goodell Yzerman ranks eighth all-time in Louisiana so he could help the family visited Cincinnati and reminded the NHL record books with 185 play­make funeral arrangements. players of their responsibility to stay off points. The 10-time All-Star led all "I was at dinner and I was in a big out of trouble and represent the active players last season with 1,755 state of shock, I almost started cry­league honorably. It also drew regular-season points, a total that ing," said Aaron Moorehead, another Lewis' most stinging comments trails only five others in league histo­Indy receiver and one of Wayne's since reeeiver Chris Henry was ry. closest friends. ''I'm really almost in arrested last Deeember, starting the His No. 19 jersey will be retired tears right now. He said he wanted streak of eourt appearances by Jan. 2 and hoisted alongside Gordie us to pray for him and that's what Bengals players. Howe's No. 9. we're going to do." 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
NFL 
Simms out indefinitely after being hospitalized 
Bucs have not ruled out allowing QB to return this season 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Chris Simms 
took hit after hit, responding 
the way football players are 
taught. 
He endured the pain and kept 
on playing. 
"In the huddle, he was gasp­
ing for air," Buccaneers receiv­
er Michael Clayton said 
Monday, a day after the Tampa 
Bay quarterback's spleen was 
removed following a 26-24 loss 
to the Carolina Panthers. 
"He'd call part of the (pass) 
routes, then gasp for air and 
finish it. ... Everybody was say­
ing: 'Chris, are you OK?' You 
could tell he was fighting it." 
Simms is out indefinitely, although coach Jon Gruden has not ruled out his playing again this season. 
In the meantime, rookie Bruce Gradkowski becomes the starter. Tim Rattay will be the backup, and the Bucs will explore signing a veteran to fill in as the No. 3 quarterback until Luke McCown comes off the physically-unable-to-per­form list. 
The Bucs initially thought the 26-year-old son of Super Bowl­winning quarterback Phil Simms had difficulty breathing because of sore ribs and dehy­dration, but rushed him to St. Joseph's Hospital when it became apparent the injury was more serious. 
"He got hurt early in the game and was able to complete the first half. He went into the locker room, was diagnosed carefully and had no symptoms whatsoever of a spleen injury," Gruden said. "He got an IV. ... He was persistent about playing and was confident he could fight through it." 
It was not clear if Simms was hurt on a particular play or if the injury resulted from an accumulation of blows. Gruden felt the most damaging may have occurred late in the fourth quarter when Carolina's AI Wallace hit Simms on a pass play and landed on top of the quarterback. 
Gruden thought Wallace should have been penalized for roughing the passer. Two plays later, Matt Bryant kicked a 28­yard field goal that gave Tampa Bay a 24-23 lead with five min­utes remaining. 
Simms attempted one more pass after that, overthrowing Joey Galloway on a deep route Gruden called on third-and-5 from the Tampa Bay 25. A first down would have given the Bucs an opportunity to burn more time off the clock. 
Instead, the Panthers drove 48 yards in the final 1:41 to set up John Kasay's winning field goal with 2 seconds left. 
Despite dropping to 0-3, Gruden was encouraged by the way the team battled back after trailing 17-0. 
Simms was a big part of that, overcoming his seventh inter­ception in three games to give Tampa Bay the lead twice in the second half. 
"He's a tough guy. There's been people out there that have questioned his toughness," Gruden said. "Those people hopefully were silenced yester­day." 
Gruden said he didn't learn Simms was in the hospital until he was driving home from the stadium and received a call from the team trainer. He visit­ed the quarterback early Monday and found him in good spirits. 
"He's going to be just fine.... His football career is in no jeop­ardy," Gruden said. 
"He said it's the first time he's ever been knocked out with a sleeping pill and he didn't think it would work.... He's a great kid. He's obviously very frus­trated, very disappointed that physically he can't play." 
Teammates were shaken when they learned Simms had surgery. 
Some heard about it from tel­evision reports, while Simeon Rice -who rarely reads the newspaper or watches NFL highlights on TV when the Bucs lose -didn't find out until he walked into the locker room Monday. 
"I just really had a sick feel­ing," center John Wade said. 

"I didn't even know what a spleen was," rookie guard Davin Joseph said. "Talk about toughing it out for the team." 
Clayton said anyone who knows Simms knows that's the type of individual he is. 
"No matter how hurt he is, he's going to want to play," Clayton said. "Sometimes that can work not in your best inter­ests." 
Texas coach Mack Brown related a story about Simms facing Nebraska in 2002, when the former Longhorns quarter­back had an ugly looking dislo­cated finger on his throwing hand. Simms went to the side­line, had it popped into place and finished with 419 yards passing, still a Texas regular­season record. 
"He wouldn't let us pull him out of the game. He said 'Please call timeout so they can pop it back in.' 111~ didn't want to miss a play," Brown recalled. 


Next T-u_esday 
Live, learn, and "\vork in the nation's capital 
during the fall or spring setnester with the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

:ASHINGT·. N R, GRAM 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, September 27, 2006 215 Hayes-Healy 6:00p.m. 
Deadline to apply for Fall2007 or Spring 2008 is November 15,2006. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. www.nd.edu/~wp Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu 163 Hurley, 631-7251 
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Tea111s prepare for season's final stretch 

September 28 
You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study 
Introduction of the Fellowship Office 
119 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 
ATHENS, GREECE 

INFORMATIONMEETING 
*************************************************** 
Thursday,Sept.28,2006 
5:30pm-7:00pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 For Fall 2007, Spring 2008 & Academic Year 07-08 ~ Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
By MIKE BURDELL and BILL 
BRINK 
Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh and Walsh -both desperately needing a win -will continue their heated rivalry Tuesday at 9 p.m. on Riehle West Fields. 
The Chaos (2-0) could gain a playoff berth with a victory, while the Wild Women (1-1) must win to stay in contention. 
The Wild Women lost their season opener to Welsh Family 8-6, but bounced back with a victory over Pasquerilla East. A win Tuesday would provide momentum for a playoff run. 
"We had a shaky start against Welsh Family Hall, but we're really starting to gel more as a team," Walsh halfback Laurie Wasikowski said. "We have a stellar defense and our ofl'ense is looking better each game." 
While the Wild Women look to their offense for consistency, the Chaos will rely heavily on defense -one that's allowed just one touchdown all season. 
"Our defense has been great so far," captain middle linebacker Kerri Bergen said. "Everyone has done a great job of working together and helping each other out. We have a bunch of return­ing players as well as some new upcoming players, all of who contribute." 
Bergen emphasized the excite­ment surrounding the rivalry. 
"It's always a big match-up when we play Walsh," Bergen said. "I think there is defmitely a lot of hype. It's been a great rivalry and every time you have the big hype like this against a good opponent there's a lot of excitement. Everyone's just real­ly anxious and pumped and ready to play." 
Wasikowski agreed with Bergen about the rivalry but emphasized overall consistency as the team's focus. 
"We've played [Cavanaugh] so many times. They're probably our biggest rival," Wasikowski said. "We need to focus on exe­cution. We know our offense is capable of doing well, but we need to really just get the ball in the end zone." 
With perhaps the biggest game of either teams' season tonight, players can feel the tension mounting. 
"Some [of Cavanaugh's] play­ers were trash talking to our coach in DeBartolo today," Wasikowski said. "I think they're overconfident and looking past us." 
Badin vs. Lyons 
It's been a rocky start to the season for both the Bullfrogs and Lions. 
Badin started ofT strong with a win against PE, but then lost two straight to Cavanaugh and Welsh Family. Lyons is still looking for its first win after also losing to Cavanaugh and Welsh Family. 
But despite each team's recent lack of success -they can both fix their problems tonight at 7 
p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Lyons freshman Claire Connell stressed the development of her young, inexperienced team as a reason for the slow start. The Lions are maturing together on the field with each game. 
"Our team has a lot of fresh­men and young players, and they need more experience," Lyons freshman quarterback Claire Connell said. "But even in the second game, we were showing improvement. We work well as a team and have a lot of fun." 

Badin, on the other hand, has all the pieces in place to be suc­cessful, but needs to utilize them more efl'ectively. 
"We have a lot of talent and skill, but we need everyone focused," Bullfrogs captain Meghan Charlebois said. 
Both teams have the ability to perform, but need to put it together for the entire game. 
"We came out against Welsh Family at the beginning and drove down the field well, and we were connecting," Charlebois said. "But we came out flat in the second half, when they got most of their points." 
"We were moving the ball down the field in the first half, but ran out of time," Connell said. 
Offense will be the key to tomorrow's game. 
"Our defense has been doing well, they had some big stops last game," Connell said. "We need to keep the ofl'ense going, and I need to get passes ofT more quickly." 
P.E. vs. Welsh Family 
Pasquerilla East has its work cut out when it takes on Welsh Family at 8 p.m. tonight at Riehle West field -in a match up that could either cement the Whirlwinds' place atop the Blue League or put the Pyros right back in the race. 
Lyons and Badin both have two losses, so a Pasquerilla East (PE) win may allow it to climb back into the playoff picture. And against the strong Whirlwind ofl'ense led by Jenni Gargula, the Pyro defense will need to be solid. 
"We have a strong defense, we stopped Walsh," Pyro captain Molly Fox said. "They only scored on an interception return." 
But even a strong defense will be tested against Welsh Family. Whirlwind captain Brittany Scott knows her team competes regardless of the score. 
"We come to play," Whirlwind captain Britany Scott said. "We play when we have a lead, or we can come from behind like we did against Badin. We always play like the score is 0-0." 
PE has not scored a touchdown yet this season. Against a high­powered offensive team like Welsh Family, it will need to put some points on the board. 
"Our ofl'ense is young, and the first two games have been neces­sary practice," Fox said. "We need to complete our offensive plays." 
The versatile Whirlwind defense will not be easy to move the ball against, however. 
"We can play either man-to­man or zone, sometimes a com­bination of the two," Scott said. "It depends on what we're seeing from the ofl'ense." 
PE has its own versatility to counter the different defensive looks. The Pyros lost running back and wide receiver Tara Pillay to a sprained ankle, but have two options at quarterback -Mora Adams and Caroline Nally. 
"We have depth at quarter­back, and we want to utilize dif-
Contact Mike Burdell at burdell.2@nd.edu and Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
Aldridge 
continued from page 20 
offense that has gained just 299 yards on the ground all year, led by Darius Walker's 243 yards on 63 attempts. Excluding sacks, Notre Dame is averaging only 3. 72 yards per carry -compared to 5.27 yards per rush for Irish opponents. 
But Weis isn't blaming Walker for the ground game woes. 
"I definitely do not find Darius as being a problem," Weis said. "I think Darius is running hard. I think this problem is more of an offen­sive problem. It's a problem that we're going to have to work to rectify." 
But in the past two games, Notre Dame hasn't had time to try to rectify the problem against its opponents. Notre Dame fell behind 30-7 in the first half against Michigan and 17-0 after one quarter against Michigan State. 
'Td like to run the ball 40 times every game," Weis said. "If I had my druthers, I'd like to run it 40 times. It just doesn't play out like that. 
Discounting yardage lost on sacks, Notre Dame gained just 23 yards against the Wolverines. Against the Spartans, the total was 58 yards. 
"I also am not ignorant to the fact that if things aren't working ... why keep calling them?" Weis said. "You got to be willing to go off the plan, to find something that's going to give you a chance of winning the game, because if not you lose a game like [Saturday's]." 
Notes: 
games, Notre Dame will face another undefeated squad to continue the team's tough opening stretch. Purdue enters the contest 4-0, with wins over Indiana State, Miami (Ohio), Ball State and Minnesota. 
In this week's Sagarin Ratings -one of the com­puter polls used in the Bowl Championship Series rank­ings formula -the Irish have the No. 1 strength of schedule in the country. Thanks to that, Notre Dame is ranked No. 7 in the ver­sion of the ratings -the highest of any team with a loss. By comparison, Sagarin lists Purdue No. 154 in strength of schedule and No. 27 in the BCS-used ranking. 
+Irish quarterback Brady Quinn was named the Walter Camp Foundation National Player of the Week award Monday. Quinn com­pleted 20-of-36 passes for 319 yards and five touch­downs. 
A week ago, the Irish were on the other end of the award. The foundation hon­ored Michigan wide receiver Mario Manningham Sept. 18 after his three-touchdown performance against Notre Dame in Week 3. 
+Notre Dame was named the Tostitos Fiesta Bowl National Team of the Week for the 16-point deficit the Irish erased in the final 8:18 of play. The award is voted on by members of the Football Writers Association of America who vote in the Grantland Rice Super-16 poll. 
+ ESPN Classic will broad­cast an "Instant Classic" replay of Notre Dame's 40­3 7 comeback victory over Michigan State Wednesday at 9 p.m. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles look to bounce back 
Saint Mary's hosts Tri-State in league play 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
After a disappointing loss Friday against Calvin, the Belles will need to recover before playing another confer­ence foe -Tri-State. 
With a record of 3-3 MIAA conference record (6-10 over­all), Tri-State is right behind the Belles in the conference standings at fifth place. The Belles, who have a record of 3-2 in the MIAA and are 10-3 overall, are ready for the chal­lenge. 
Senior setter Amanda David had encouraging words for the Belles. 
"The team has been working really hard in practice and in games to achieve our high goals," she said. "Every game we always aim to play with no regrets left on the court. This 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
Colleen Courtney said. "The first six games haven't gone exactly as planned, but that does not matter in the long run." 
Alma, who has lost its last three games, comes into the contest with a 2-6 overall record. The Scots lost their first conference game this sea­son 2-1 in overtime against Concordia College. 
attitude will continue to con­It's the second time Cusack tribute to our success in the has won the award -she also matches we play." earned the award at the end 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek of the 2005 season. The tri­explained what the Belles captain and libero is averag­needed to ing 7.31 digs a improve upon for game in confer­Tri-State. ence matches and 
"We need to re­5.74 overall. focus on our goal "We need to The Belles take to finish in the re-focus on our on Tri-State at 7 top four of the p.m. in Angela
goal to finish in the
conference," she Athletic Center said. "And move top four ofthe for the first of on determined to conference.'' three conference always be matchups this focused competi­week.
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
tors when we "As always,
Belles coach 
step on that every single court." match that we 
The Belles will play is very have some help important," from this week's MIAA Schroeder-Biek said. "It is one Specialty Player of the Week step at a time toward accom­-senior Anne Cusack. plishing our goals. Tri-State is 
Cusack received the honor a good team. In league play, after her strong effort against they are right there with us. Kalamazoo and Calvin. This will be a good match." Cusack averaged 7.3 digs and 
1.2 service aces against the Contact Samantha Leonard at two teams. sleona@saintmarys.edu 
Junior Kelly Walsh, who leads Alma with four goals on the year, had the lone goal late in the second half. 
The Scot offense spreads the ball around effectively, with five different forwards com­bining for their 12 goals. In comparison, sisters Ashley and Lauren Hinton have all but one goal for the Belles this year. Senior Caroline Stancukas has the other tally for Saint Mary's. 
The team will have to pro­duce a little more offense in order to compete with Alma and the rest of the MIAA. In the Belles last game, they were only able to get two shots on net in a 4-0 loss to Illinois Wesleyan Sunday. 

Saint Mary's coach Caryn Mackenzie installed a new offense for the game, but the team struggled to adjust which allowed Illinois Wesleyan to get out to an early lead. The team is still unsure whether it will stick with the new offense or return to its old style. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurph6@nd.edu 
+After facing unbeaten Contact Ken Fowler at teams in the first four kfowler I @nd.edu 
T/je


Princeton Revievv 
BetterScores. BetterSchools. 
invites you to a: 
Free MCAT CBT ln"fo Session & Mock Class 
Find out more about prepping "for 
the nevv computer-based test 
• September 27 at 6:30pm 
• '102 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Reserve your seat today! vvvvvv.princetonrevievv.com

Sponsored btJ: Campus Mini,.tt:y, FOG Graduate Residences, Gr..duate StudentUnion, International StudentService<~ & i\c.tivitie<~, Universit_tj Village, and ND Muslim Student Association 
C-M 

800/2-REVIEVV 
Tuesdaay, September 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
five. On the ensuing drive, the
Chaos 
Bullfrogs turned the ball over continued from page 20 on downs. The Whirlwinds took 
over and threw an 18-yard was an issue, as Cavanaugh touchdown to take the lead. was able to put pressure on the The Bullfrogs were able to get quarterback throughout the off to an early lead thanks to game. effective play calling by the 
Numerous penalties against coaches and precision-passing Lyons, indicative of their inex­by quarterback Katie Rose perience, stifled many drives­Hackney. but Cavanaugh head coach Badin began the game strong John Harrington has confidence on both sides of the ball, estab­in his ever-improving team. lishing a zone defense that 
"Our game is would not allow definitely an Welsh Family to evolving establish any­process," he said. thing offensively. "Looking back on The Bullfrog
"Our game is 

last week, we are passing attack definitely improv­definitely an was polished in ing. We are trying evolving process. " the first half, 
to pick up the showing no signs tempo with of weakness.
John Harrington

quicker passing Receivers ran and play-calling. Cavanaugh coach tight routes, var­We made ied patterns and improvements on were consistent both sides of the with their recep­ball." tions. Hackney 
Harrington also added the was sharp with her passes, hit­Lions need to improve the play ting a variety of receivers all of their secondary. Lengthy over the field. passes set up all three Chaos Not to be outdone, the touchdowns. Whirlwinds defense increased 
Cavanaugh's back-up quar­their intensity in the second terback Aileen Wu saw a good half, intercepting two passes ­amount of playing time and had one for a touchdown -and an impressive performance created a turnover on downs. Sunday. "At half time we got it togeth­
"Our girls were excited and er," Whirlwinds freshman Demi ready to play today," Wu said. Hueth said. "We adjusted and "The girls on our offense are our defense played great. We amazing. They got down early, played good and but our team hard. You can showed we can expect to see "We got down still be tough." more of what we Hackney credited
early, but our team

showed today in the coaches of
showed we can still

the weeks to Welsh Family and come." be tough.'' the persistence of Cavanaugh's the entire defense was Whirlwind team. 
Demi Hueth

equally impres­"I would like to 
Whirlwind freshman 

sive against point out the Lyons. The Chaos excellence of stopped a driving [Bullfrog receiver1 Lions offense on multiple occa­Kelly Daniels," she said. "She sions and allowed six points had a great touchdown catch throughout the game. and adds a lot to our offense, 
especially as a freshman." 
Badin 28, Welsh Family 18 
Two late interceptions by the Pangborn 20, Howard 6 Whirlwind secondary helped A dominating performance by erase a 12-point halftime deficit the Pangborn offense -led by to beat Badin Sunday -clinch­Meghan Bescher -propelled ing a playoff berth in the the Phoxes to a victory over process. Howard Sunday on West Quad. 
The Whirlwinds began the Pangborn quarterback Katie second half with an intercep­Mooney led the offense on two tion that was returned for a scoring drives, one resulting in touchdown, cutting the lead to a Meghan Bescher score and the other a Brynn Johnson controversial penalties. down the Tara-Tara combina­touchdown reception. In the first half, the Finest tion. 

But Bescher made her pres­drove the ball into Purple Senior Tara Johnson and ence felt more in the defensive Weasel territory threatening to sophomore Tara McCarron backfield, where she picked off score, when an unsportsman­combined for three touchdown five errant passes. like foul on a Farley fan receptions as Breen-Phillips 
With Pangborn leading 14-0 derailed the drive's momentum. rolled to a victory Sunday over in the second half, the Ducks "We all felt that penalty con­an inexperienced Shamrock attempted a trick play, which tributed to our inability to con­team. The Babes used a Bescher turned into six more vert on offense," Farley captain methodical, potent short-pass­Phox points. After a quick Kim Crehan said. "We had just ing attack to pick apart the screen to the right sideline, marched down the field and underneath coverage of the Howard's receiver took a step would have most likely scored, McGlinn defense. back with the ball and looked to given our great field position." Melissa Meagher led the heave a deep pass Pasquerilla West offensive onslaught for Breen­downfield. converted on a Phillips, completing 13-of-24 
Flushed out of key Spring inter­passes for 173 yards, four her pocket by a "When we get the ception late in the touchdowns and one intercep­tenacious kinks worked out, first half when she tion. Pangborn and quarterback The Babes struck early and
we're going to be a

defense, she had Cara Davies con­often, as Sarah Ball intercepted no other choice scary team.'' nected for a 10-McGlinn quarterback Stephanie but to run to her yard strike to Grandits on the opening drive left and throw a make it 7-0. of the game. On the ensuing
Tom Holder

deep ball across The score could play, Meagher connected with
Pangborn coach

her body. Bescher have been higher Johnson from 18 yards out. was there, picking had the Purple McGlinn tried to answer, driv­off the pass, zig-Weasels converted ing close to midfield on their zagging across earlier in the next possession. But Grandits the field and finally crossing the game following an interception was intercepted again, this time goal line. by senior Annie Brusky. But by Christie Golubski. 
"It's key that we were putting Farley answered back with an On the Babes' first play fol­pressure on the quarterback," interception by freshman lowing Golubski's interception, she said. "We played tight cov­Chrissy Andrews. Meagher hit McCarron on what erage and it's been working so A controversial play occurred seemed to be a harmless check­far." late in the second half. With the down pass. But the shifty Each team scored only six score still 7-0 and the Purple receiver avoided several points in their week-one victo­Weasels deep in Finest territo­Shamrock tacklers and scam­ries and knew more points than ry, Davies was intercepted by pered for a 52-yard touchdown. that would be necessary to win Megan Hurt in the end zone. In just two offensive plays, this game. Farley's defense was then the Babes led 12-0. In a battle 
Howard's offense was neu­called for a rare "bull rushing" of two young teams, that early tralized for the majority of the penalty that gave Pasquerilla edge proved vital. contest, but a scoring drive in West a first-and-goal. "We have a young team," the game's final minutes put Several plays later, Spring Breen-Phillips captain Megan the Ducks on the board. made a tremendous catch in Ohlenforst said. "We learned 
Pangborn coach Tom Holder the corner of the end zone, from our mistakes in our earli­noted that his team's offense adeptly dragging one foot to er games, and were able to struggled in the first half but make the diving catch. click in this one." were able to recover. He also "The quarterback gave me a McGlinn captain Maddie knows that after today's domi­tremendous pass," Spring said. Boyer had similar feelings nating victory, his team's poten­"I wasn't really thinking about about her team. tial is nearly limitless. where I was on the field. I just "Everyone's young and we're 
"When we get the kinks wanted to make sure that I mainly freshmen," she said. worked out, we're going to be a caught it." "We haven't had time to get in scary team," he said. After stopping the Finest on a groove. Last game our 
Pangborn will try to notch their ensuing possession, the defense was able to score for another victory against McGlinn Purple Weasels embarked on us, but this week they could­at 9 p.m. Thursday, while another scoring drive led by n't." Howard will try to get back to Davies, who finished 9-of-21 for Breen-Phillips forced two their winning ways against 98 yards and two scores. interceptions in the first half, as Farley at 7 p.m. Davies converted a key first Golubski pulled in her second 
down with a 28-of the day, and Pasquerilla West 20, Farley 0 yard completion freshman Sam Earlier in the week, inside the Farley Vadas snagged Pasquerilla West's captain 10-yard line and one before the
"We learned from 
Maureen Spring called her capped off the half. The latter defense the team's "rock." final scoring drive our mistakes in our set up a late Sunday against Farley, they with a four-yard touchdown pass
earlier games, and
lived up to that billing, shutting scramble. from Meagher to 
were able to click
out yet another opponent as the "Although it Ohlenforst, Purple Weasels pulled out a vic­wasn't a great in this one. " stretching the tory over Farley. game, the score lead to 18-0 at the 
The defense was able to con­definitely did not Megan Ohlenforst break. 
tain Farley's short passing reflect how we Meagher found 
played today," Breen-Phillips captain 
attack, limiting quarterback Johnson one more Brittany Baron to 11-of-19 Crehan said. "We time in the second passing for 73 yards and three take consolation half, this time interceptions. out of the fact that from 26 yards 
"The key to the game was the it was 7-0 the majority of the away, making it 25-0. defense," Spring said. "Without game." "This was our first win in a them, we wouldn't have had Farley will try to rebound while," Ohlenforst said. "Once such great field position to Thursday against Howard. we got the first interception work with throughout the Pasquerilla West will have to and touchdown, they felt the game." wait until Sunday to play Lewis. taste of success and built off of 
But perhaps the thing that it." stifled Farley's upset bid the Breen-Phillips 25, McGlinn 6 Despite the disappointing per­most were a pair of critical and McGlinn simply couldn't shut formance, McGlinn rallied late 

to get an eight-yard touchdown pass from Grandits to end the shutout. It was one of the few bright spots for the quarter­back, who finished 10-for-20 for 81 yards. 
"We have to have our corners stay in our zone," Boyer said. "Everyone's talented and eager to play, but most of them are new to the game. This was a learning experience." 
Both teams are in action Thursday as Breen-Phillips tan­gles with Lewis and McGlinn faces Pangborn. 
Contact Michael Burdell, 
Andrew Kovach and Colin 
Reimer at burdell.2@nd.edu, 
akovach@nd.edu and 
creimer 1 @nd.edu 
.-----­ 
I•  
page 18  The Observer+ SPORTS  Tuesday, September 26, 2006  
Fisher  "Their defense played better in the second half, and with the lead we got conservative," Knott  girl's dorm, it's not that hard." Morrissey 18, Alumni 0  field to prevent Keough from gaining any ground. After being forced to punt,  field position. "[We knew Dillon would be] running up the middle and  
continued from page 20  captain Matt Crosson said. Burke was all over the field,  The gridiron battle between Alumni and Morrissey Sunday  Keough looked for a big defen­sive stop. It looked like the 'Roos  throwing over the top," McQueary said about his team's  
catching the winning touchdown  was dominated by the complete  were going to be able to stall  halftime preparation.  
we feel we can stop the run with  pass, intercepting Betz on  Morrissey defense in an 18-0  O'Neill's drive, but the Mob run­ The second half began with  
six men," Fisher coach Ryan  defense in the fmal minutes and  Manorite win.  ning back saw a hole and  the Big Red on offense and a 14­ 
Bradel said. "That allows us to  running a reverse.  Despite four offensive  dashed 20 yards into the end  play series that ended in a field­ 
play a rover back in the defen­ The point-after attempt on  turnovers, the Manorite defense  zone.  goal attempt. Dillon tried to con­ 
sive secondary who can clean  Burke's touchdown was blocked,  was able to prevent Alumni  Keough couldn't catch a break  vert the fourth down with a fake  
up plays. We're not big, but  making the score 9-6.  from crossing the goal line.  as O'Neill intercepted quarter­ field goal but was unsuccessful  
we're quick."  Young was 5-of-9 for 79 yards  After last week's bye, Morrissey  back Matt Bruggeman's pass  -the pass was incomplete in  
A Fisher fumble gave Zahm  and a touchdown. Siegfried was  showed up ready to play, and  intended for a receiver down­ the end zone to Kuppich.  
the ball on its own one-yard line  held to just 21 yards rushing,  they never let up.  field. O'Neill took full advantage  Stanford took the field with  
at the end of the third quarter,  but its defense held Knott to  On its first possession,  of the turnover and quickly  enough time for three plays  
but three plays later the ball  only 35 yards passing.  Morrissey marched down the  added seven points for a 19-0  before the third quarter ended.  
popped out of Rabid Bat run­ field and was able to drive the  lead at halftime.  After a mix of handoffs, pitches  
ning back Cory Brisee's hands  Sorin 6, St. Ed's 0  ball into the end zone on a short  The Keough defense com­ and passes, the Griffins found  
and was recovered by O'Connell  Sorin running back Rob Gallic  run. The extra point missed  posed itself at the beginning of  themselves on the Big Red 13­ 
in the end zone.  had 13 carries for 46 yards as  wide right, but the Manorites  the second half, and the Mob  yard line with six minutes left in  
"We weren't playing the type  part of a rushing attack that led  had an early 6-0 lead.  offense was unable to make any  the game.  
of football we should be play­ the Otters to a 6-0 win over St.  The pressure was on the  plays. The Kangaroos, encour­ Dillon called a timeout to  
ing," Zahm captain Sean  Ed's.  Dawgs to put some points on the  aged by a strong defensive stop,  regroup and design a defensive  
Weiland said. "We need to come  The only touchdown of the  board, but they were unable to  made their first big move  attack to keep Stanford from  
back in two weeks and play four  game was scored by Otter quar­ make significant gains against  toward the end zone.  tying the game.  
good quarters of football."  terback Casey McGushin on a  the fierce Morrissey defensive  But O'Neill recovered a fum­ The Griffins' Tregg Duerson  
Penalties also killed the Rabid  10-yard run in the first quarter.  line. After having to punt the  bled on the goal line after a  and Rick Loesing ran in the next  
Bats. An interception return for  The point after was no good.  ball away, Alumni rallied when  Keough drive and sealed the  two plays, leaving Stanford on  
a touchdown was negated by a  Gallic helped sustain Sorin's  it recovered a fumble on  'Roos' fate.  the two-yard line with just  
pass interference call, and a  drives in the first half, averaging  Morrissey's next drive.  The Angry Mob offense man­ under five and a half minutes  
dead-ball personal foul in the  3.5 yards per carry and keeping  The Dawgs were unable to  aged to score another touch­ left to play.  
end zone gave Fisher a first­ St. Ed's undersized defense on  take advantage of the turnover  down with a 15-yard run before  Loesing scored the Griffins'  
and-goal on the four-yard line.  the field.  because once again the  time expired, making the final  first touchdown on a handoff on  
"It's always good to beat the  "My offensive line was making  Morrissey defense proved to be  score 26-0.  the drive's 17th play. However, a  
defending champions," Bradel  holes, and all I had to do was  too tough for the Alumni  Keough will look for its first  fumbled pitch to Duerson on the  
said. "We played inspired ­we  find daylight," Gallic said. "Our  offense.  win of the year against Stanford  two-point conversion left  
played with a fire in our hearts."  line got great push off the ball."  Morrissey's next offensive  next week, while O'Neill hopes  Stanford down 7-6 with 3:20 left  
While the running game  series seemed like deja vu.  to continue its stellar defensive  in the game.  
Siegfried 16, Knott 6  played well, the Otter defense  The Manorites had a long,  effort Sunday against Keenan.  Dillon's next possession would  
A 25-yard touchdown pass  also shut down the Stedsmen. In  steady drive down the field, but  lead to a turnover on downs  
from Siegfried quarterback Max  St. Ed's first possession of the  on first-and-goal Alumni inter­ Stanford 13, Dillon 7  from a failed fake punt. With  
Young to wide receiver Gary  second half, running back Zach  cepted the ball on the one-yard  Stanford and Dillon both  1:24 left to play, Stanford ran a  
Burke with 1:39 left in the  Labrecque was stopped four  line. The Morrissey defenders  sought first wins of the season  reverse with Matt McQueary  
fourth quarter proved to be the  consecutive times.  were forced back onto the field  Sunday, but it was the Griffins  throwing a long pass broken up  
go-ahead score for the  When Sorin was forced to  again, but they kept the Dawgs  who emerged victorious.  by two Big Red defenders at the  
Ramblers as they beat Knott.  punt in the fourth quarter, the  scoreless heading into the half  "[Our motivation is to] get  20-yard line. One of these  
The touchdown pass was set  ball was downed on the St. Ed's  with a 9-0 lead on a field goal.  some wins this year and get into  defenders, Josh Stull, suffered a  
up by a 30-yard completion to  two-yard line. After three  Morrissey was determined to  the playoffs," Stanford's Matt  full-break to his left tibia during  
Kevin Kelly that put the end  incomplete passes, Sorin inter­ not rest on its lead, and it came  McQueary said.  the play.  
zone within reach.  cepted the fourth-down throw to  into the second half looking  After working hard all week in  He was taken to St. Joseph's  
A snap over Juggerknott quar­ seal the victory.  even sharper than they did in  practices, putting in new forma­ Hospital for treatment.  
terback Justin Betz's head was  St. Ed's was hampered by the  the first two quarters. The  tions and plays, each squad was  The Griffins' offense continued  
recovered in the end zone by  loss of starting quarterback Jon  Morrissey defense continued to  hungry for a victory. The  driving after the game moved to  
Tom Martin to seal the victory  Brewis last week to a broken  stop Alumni's runs and the  Stanford offense took the field  a new field and scored another  
"We were dominated defen­ fmger. Backup quarterback Nick  defensive backs played strong  first.  touchdown on a short pass to  
sively," Siegfried head coach  Strom got the start Sunday.  man-to-man coverage.  On the third down of the first  McQueary with a minute left.  
Patrick O'Brien said. "We made  "Strom was great for us last  The Alumni defense put up a  series, Ryan Shestak came up  The extra point attempt was  
big plays, Kelly had a huge play  week and good for us today," St.  good fight, but the Manorites  with an interception to give  good with a run by Duerson to  
and we made a great play in the  Ed's head coach Jon Heintz said.  were able to capitalize on their  Dillon the ball.  make it 13-7 Stanford.  
end zone and pulled it out."  "He hadn't had much time play­ mistakes. The Morrissey quar­ After a long complete pass to  The Stanford squad would not  
The first three quarters were  ing with St. Ed's though."  terback found his receiver deep  Brian Coughlin, a first-down run  let up one inch after this score  
characterized by mistakes. Betz  McGushin was pressured but  in the end zone for a 16-0  by Alex Duffy and a recovered  and Huguelet recorded his sec­ 
was intercepted by defensive  he made many plays out of the  advantage.  fumbled snap, Big Red quarter­ ond sack of the game with 56  
back Nick Harper, which led to a  pocket, usually rolling to his  Morrissey earned a safety to  back Joseph Garigliano complet­ seconds left for a loss of three  
25-yard field goal in the first  right when he felt backside  set the final score at 18-0.  ed a 14-yard touchdown pass to  yards. The Big Red offense felt  
quarter.  pressure. However, he also  Morrissey takes on Dillon  Coughlin. The extra-point was  the pressure, completed two  
Young was intercepted by  threw two interceptions, includ­ Sunday, while Alumni has a bye  earned on a run by Duffy to put  quick passes for a first down  
defensive back Joe Raupp, but  ing one in the end zone ­both  next week.  the Big Red up 7-0 in the first  and spiked the ball for some  
on the very next play Harper  to defensive back Matt  quarter.  time. With 11 seconds left,  
came down with his second pick  Posluszny.  O'Neill 26, Keough 0  The ball changed hands four  Garigliano threw a long pass  
of the game.  The second pick, on fourth­ O'Neill dominated both sides  more times before, with one  intercepted by Stanford's  
Penalties and fumbles were  and-goal, ended a possible scor­ of the ball in its 26-0 victory  minute left in the half,  McQueary to end the game.  
also prevalent. Knott scored its  ing drive.  Sunday over Keough.  Stanford's Bob Huguelet sacked  "We played well the first half  
only points in the first quarter  After the second interception,  The Angry Mob managed to  Garigliano for a loss of four  and did not make much adjust­ 
-coming from a 12-yard pass  Strom threw a 44-yard pass to  push through the end zone on  yards.  ment during halftime," Dillon's  
to Jeff Skorup in the corner of  Labrecque down the left side­ every possession during the first  After a timeout, the Big Red  Alex Duffy said. "But they did,  
the end zone.  line. St. Ed's could not capital­ half. The Mob offense scored 19  converted on a fourth-and-inch­ so that is why they were able to  
The Juggerknott running  ize, however, and were shut out.  points by the end of the second  es for a first down on the 26­ move the ball on us."  
game was led by Trey Patrick,  "Sorin controlled the line of  quarter -in addition to the  yard line. With just over 30 sec­ Dillon will play Morrissey  
who had 17 carries for 53 yards.  scrimmage and got great pene­ shut-out of the Roos' offense - onds left in the half, Dillon's  Sunday, while Stanford faces  
In the second half, however, the  tration on defense," Heintz said.  to give O'Neill momentum.  Garigliano threw a series of  Keough.  
Rambler defense keyed on the  "We went to a passing attack,  O'Neill started the game with  incomplete passes, beginning  
run and slowed down the rush­ but we had trouble stringing  the ball and marched down the  with a dropped pass in the end  Contact Bill Brink, Katherine  
ing game.  plays together."  field for an early touchdown.  zone by Paul Kuppich. The  Donlin and Sarah Thomas at  
"We sent more guys at  "We played hard," Sorin cap­ The extra point was wide right,  Stanford defense ended the half  wbrink@nd.edu,  
[Patrick]. especially corner­ tain Pete Lavorini said. "But  but the defense was pumped by  without allowing the Big Red  kdonline@nd.edu and  
backs," O'Brien said.  when you're playing against a  the 6-0 lead and stormed the  offense to capitalize on their  thomas.200@nd.edu  



Tuesday, September 26, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
t-:::-t-:-11-i"-1~----:+.::-t:::-t-=ilillt-:-t=+-:'-1 26 Write on glass, 

e.g. 
28 Raven-colored 
30 Marcus who 
co-founded 
63-Down 

-::rl-o:+~:'i"t::.i 31 Hamburg's river ..;...~..;;..&..;..!..;.;,b,;;.,l 32 Orbital period 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
____.______.:....______________________ _____
. ----·· ----·--·­
62 Fabrics manufacturer? 64 Hefty volume 65 Daughter of Lear 66 _ onto (grab) 67 Otherwise 68 With regard to 69 Hess who was a dame 
DOWN 1 Up and about 2 Jerky sort 3 Oprah's 
production company 4 Cousin of a cassowary 5 Often-unpaid worker 6 Wilson's predecessor 7 Blue toon 8 Madrid mister 9 Peculiar 10 Killer tulip? 11 Lulu 12 Old Italian money 13 Midterm worry 18 Glasses, informally 22 Pursue 24 Trio running the Mafia? 
CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


5ot{E.'"fl-\l~lr. ,0..4'~e.N"T 
WILLSHORTZ 


33 Norms: Abbr.  44 Evaluated, with  54 1965 march site  
34 "Dies 35 Double agent 37 Director Jean-Godard 38 Territory  "up" 47ldiot 49 Pale with fright 50 One reporting to a looie 52 Post with good  55 Fill beyond full 56 Teen fave 57 Pinup's legs 59 What Mrs. Sprat couldn't eat  
40 Goat-man of myth  etiquette 53 Some sports  62 Refrain syllable  
43 Debtors' notes  commentary  63 Big film inits.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
·­
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 

to form four ordinary words. I'm studying 

subvers1ve 
CUNEL 
± 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NEFTO 
± 

J [J 
WHY TH~ SPI~S 
www.jumble.com 
W~NT TOT~ 
UNIV!::RSITY.

tENCHIL Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
IJ I 
A: 

FOR"( I I I I I I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: FLUID LEAFY ALIGHT STYLUS 
Saturday's 

Answer: What the bowling dispute turned into­AN "ALLEY" FIGHT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Catherine Zeta-Jones, 37; Will Smith, 38; Aida Turturro, 44: Heather Locklear, 45 
Happy Birthday: Don't wait and ponder over what you should do this year. Use your head, your talent and your ability to communicate with others to get projects off the ground. Rely on yourself and you will have far better luck with friends and lovers. The year ahead will be full of both good and bad surprises. Your numbers are 10. 17. 24, 32. 44.47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A change going on around you will lead to a way out of a sticky situation. Be quick to take advantage and make your move. Someone who feels the need to direct you will ask questions. Do what you consider most beneficial for you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Emotional, over the top and not too clear about what's going on around you should be reason enough to keep things plain and simple today. Avoid getting into any deep discussions with a partner. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): By changing your attitude to suit the people around you, it will be easier for you to get things done your way. An emotional reaction from someone you have to deal with can be avoided if you listen and compromise. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's important for you to talk about your ideas and share your insight and vision with the people around you. Good suggestions will be made and a partnership is likely to form. Love will take on an interesting twist. Don't get angry or upset. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may think you are getting your point across but lhe people who actually have to get it are questioning what you are trying to do. Expect conflict and even some deception. This is not the time to open up about your feelings. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be wondering how you can align yourself with people who are walking down a different path. A draw toward a different profession or a need to explore an interest you have in more depth must not he ignored. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If you see a career opportunity, jump at it. A change may not be what you want initially but, once you make your move. you will realize you did the right thing. Don't let laziness or procrastination stop you from moving forward. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Don't feel limited by the changes that are taking place around you. Watch what's going on but don't let insecurities put you in a vulnerable position. An emotional change shouldn't overshadow what you are supposed to be doing. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be sitting in the line of fire if you have been pushing everyone around you to do things your way. Back down and worry about your own future, not everyone else's. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your good will may help out when it comes to doing business but, if you are overly helpful. you will be taken advantage of. Charity begins at home, so don't overlook where you can do your best work. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on deals, health and legal matters. You will come into something you don't expect. An idea you have will pay off. Exaggeration will get you into trouble no matter whether it's you or someone else stretching the truth. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money is heading your way --collect old debts, make an insurance claim or ask for a loan. A love connection may take on an interesting new direction. You will attract exactly what you are looking for from your partner. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have charm, grace, determination, luck and a relentless courage. You are interested in a variety of hobbies, pastimes and vocations. You are creative, original and a wonderful conversationalist. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 1968 U.S. Open winner 
5"_Easy" ( 1977 Ronstadt hit) 
10 Big name in pineapples 14 Shell game, e.g. 15 Appointed 
16 Popular computer operating system 
17 Dollars for rocket research? 19 Trillion: Prefix 20 Sitter's handful 21 Prefix with dollars 22 "Vamoose!" 23 Housetop laborer 25 Former F.B.I. chief Louis 27 Clearasil target 29 Lipton competitor 
33 Ex-Giants quarterback Phil 36 Nothing can escape from one 
39 "Star Trek: T.N.G." counselor 
40 Kind of club appropriate for this puzzle? 
41 Country singer McEntire 42 Dawdling 44 Waste conduit 45 "Ta-ta!" 
46 Largest continent 48 Yellowfin and albacore 51 Montezuma's people 55 Sounds of relief 58 Soothing stuff so Curly's assaulter 61 Month before Nisan 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 26, 2006 
page 20 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Fisher defense shuts out Zahm 14-0 and ... forces two turnovers 
By BILL BRINK, KATHERINE 
DONLIN and SARAH 
THOMAS 
Sports Writers 
Fisher's defense held Zahm scoreless and forced two turnovers in the Green Wave's 14-0 victory over the Rabid Bats Sunday. 
Fisher Quarterback Kevin Rabil was 8-of-13 passing for 106 yards, including a 20-yard completion to the Rabid Bat one-yard line on the team's opening drive. That set up sen­ior Tom Bessert's one-yard touchdown run on fourth-and­goal. 
Fisher safety John O'Connell intercepted a pass on the three­yard line near the end of the first half and also recovered a fumble in the end zone for the Green Wave's second touch­down. 
The Green Wave defense is not physically imposing, but with their nickel defense, they don't have to be. 
"We swarm to the ball, and 
see FISHER/page 18 

Seperation Sunday 

Cavanaugh utilizes zone coverage to beat Lyons 30-6 Sunday 
By MICHAEL BURDELL, ANDREW KOVACH and COLIN REIMER Sporrs Writers 
Cavanaugh looked impressive on both sides of the ball Sunday as they defeated Lyons Hall 20-6 Sunday. 
With great quarterback pro­tection, Cavanaugh's 
offense blew See Also by Lions' 
"Teams prepare

zone defense, 
completing lor season's pass after 
final stretch"

pass en route to 13 first­page 15 half points. The Chaos were able to take advantage of shallow-zone coverage to complete long passes when they needed them most. 
The Lions showed improve­ment from last week, driving down field three times and threatening the Chaos defense. But a lack of pass protection 
see CHAOS/page 17 

FOOTBALL 
Aldridge ready to hit holes 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
With the Irish rushing game stuck in a rut, Charlie Weis will get some help today in the form of freshman running back James Aldridge. 
One of three freshmen who enrolled in January, Aldridge suffered a knee injury in spring camp and has not seen action in Notre Dame's first four games. But Weis said the 6-foot, 209-pound product of Crown Point, Ind., would suit up with the first two offen­sive units this week, starting with today's practice, and likely be ready to play Saturday against Purdue. 
"He's going to start practic­ing for real this week," Weis said in his press conference Sunday. "He's been practicing now. We just have not repped him with the first group up there." 
Aldridge will join an Irish 
see ALDRIDGE/ page 16 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles kick off MIAA season against Al111a 
Saint Mary's brings 1-5 record into match 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The Belles will finally join the party. 
Saint Mary's will begin its 2006 MIAA conference sched­ule this afternoon against Alma College. The Belles will be the last member of the nine-team conference to start -most teams began league play Thursday. 
So far, Saint Mary's has accumulated a 1-5 record and it is 0-2 against opponents in the MIAA. The Belles lost to Calvin and Albion earlier in the year, but neither game counted towards the teams' conference records. 
This year will be the first time the MIAA will hold a tournament to decide its 

champion at the end of the season. The conference has existed since 1989, but until this point the first-place finish­er was decided from regular season wins. 
Saint Mary's and its senior leaders are confident going into this year's schedule that they will be able to compete with everyone in the MIAA and make a run at the conference title at season's end. 
"I feel that the team is going to do very well this year," sen­ior goalkeeper Nicole Leach said Sept. 6. "We hope to at least finish within the top three teams of our confer­ence." 
Despite the slow start, the senior corps is still confident that they will be able to improve as a unit and chal­lenge anyone they face. 
"Against Alma we start with a clean slate," senior captain 
see BELLES/page 16 

~Fl
IIUERHAU FOOTBAll
Cl) SMC VOlLEYBAll 
MLB
MlB 
MlB 
w 

Buccaneers quarter-
Cavanaugh and
1m-
C.) Tri-State at Saint 
Indians 14 
Blue Jays 5
Reds 5 

Walsh meet tonight at 9 
back Chris Simms is out 
White Sox 1
z Mary's 
Cubs 4 
Red Sox 0

.... 
p.m. on Riehle West 
indefinitely after rup-
Chicago inches closer 

Cincinnati outfielder 
Toronto pitchers

a: ::5 

field in a crucial battle 
turing his spleen in
= to playoff elimination as 
Shaun Marcum and
tonight, 7 p.m. 

Ken Griffey Jr. moves 
Tampa Bay's 26-24 loss
for the playoffs. 
Cliff Lee gets the win 

into lOth place on all-
Belles look to rebound 
Jason Frasor combine to 
=: cc 

to Carolina. 
for the Indians. 

time home run list with 
two-hit Boston. 
from Friday loss to 
No. 563.
Calvin. 
page 14

page 14
page 16 
page 12 
page 12

page 12 



