
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students show-less passion despite -win 

Enthusiasm lower than usual in game against winless squad 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Writer 
October began on a positive note for the Irish and their fans, as Notre Dame emerged Saturday with a respectable 4­1 record through five games. 
But while the Irish came out on top of the winless Cardinal of Stanford with a score of 31­10, for some students, the vic­tory could have been much 
see GAME/ page 4 
ROHAN ANAND!fhe Observer 
Students from Knott Hall engage in pushups at the pep rally Friday as part of a student contest. 
Pep rally attendance mediocre compared to previous years 
By ROHAN ANAND 
News Writer 
It seemed that most dorms on campus were offering some extra incentive to encourage students to attend Friday's pep rally at the Joyce Center. 
Siegfried Hall offered its resi­dents free pizza. Men from St. Edward's Hall dressed up in togas. Zahm Hall marched in car­rying its mascot dressed in a 
see RALLY/page 9 
Veteran ushers uphold tradition 

Ushers Dave Sayers and Jim de Arrieta hold a conversation during Saturday's game against Stanford. 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
It's 9:30 a.m. on a Friday, and deep in the bowels of Notre Dame Stadium, Cappy Gagnon is deploying his troops. 
"Stanford will be here at two [for a walk-through], and they want no one in the bowl," says the coordinator of stadium personnel. 
Gagnon points, relaying the men to their posts, and five bright gold brims nod back at him. 
They are not widely acclaimed, and most never even earn a penny. But each home football weekend, 857 men and women still migrate from 21 different states to South Bend to be Notre Dame Stadium ushers. 
Seen from above on a Saturday, the stadium crowd 
SIBC advisor endures Ku-wait 
Former staffmember misses times with family, Notre Dame students 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
Waking at 5:30 a.m. each day to a blazing sun in 130-degree weather, taking a quick shower on rotting floors and enduring both the stench of outdoor bathrooms and a 16-hour workday is the reality that Susan Soisson now faces. 
A mother of four from South Bend who served as a former assistant program manager for the Mendoza College of Business and advisor to Notre Dame's Student International Business Council (SIBC), 
see KUWAIT/page 8 is dotted with gold-jacketed ushers -they're stationed on the field, in the press box and every five to six rows in between. Outside the brick walls, they line the perimeter of the stadium, guard entrances to campus and oversee parking lots. 

From taking (valid) tickets to spying secret imbibers to escorting football recruits on and off the field, Gagnon said, each usher's duties are as sig­nificant as the next's. 
"Everybody's job is critical," he said. "Any usher could have a situation occur which would make him the most important usher that day." 
Usher William "Red" Clynch proved essential during the soggy Sept. 30 Purdue game, when a man in his section fell. 
"I saw him coming out of 
see USHERS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Queen to honor educator 
Royal Society of Arts to induct SMC prof 
ByKIMABEEL News Writer 
Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly is getting the royal treatment. 
Next February in London, Queen Elizabeth will induct Pullapilly, a history professor at Saint Mary's, into the Royal Society of Arts. 
The Society honors those who make major contributions in lit­erature, arts, science, philoso­phy, politics and social uplift. Pullapilly will be inducted by merit of his extensive work in a number of qualifying fields. 
At Saint Mary's, Pullapilly developed the Semester Around the World program in 1983, offering students the opportuni­ty to travel and study through­out Europe, Asia and India. Pullapilly has also organized three major world conferences at the College. 
"[Pullapilly] writes intensively in several disciplines and is absolutely a great guy to work with," said Dr. William Svelmoe, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's. "It will take me decades to even come close to accomplishing what he has." 
Pullapilly also founded a pub­lishing company and published one of the first inclusive-lan­guage New Testaments, Svelmoe said. Pullapilly is cur­rently a senior academic visitor at Cambridge University in 
see HONOR/page 8 

Lecturer scrutinizes judicial independence 
Personal beliefs deemed unacceptable in court 
hers of the South Bend com­By MEG HAN WONS munity Friday about the histo­
News Writer 
ry, myths and implications of judicial independence.

In the appropriate setting of 
His talk, entitled "The 
Notre Dame 


Federal Judiciary Today,"
Law School's 
explained judicial independ­
courtroom, 
ence -a difficult-to-explain
9th Circuit 
concept, he said, that is neces­
Court of 
sary to support "our great
Appeals 
nation and our great tradi­
J u d g e tion." 
Diarmuid 
O'Scannlain recalled the 
O'Scannlain 
founding fathers' intention to 
spoke to keep the three branches of

Notre Dame O'Scannlain 
government -executive, leg-

Law School's Federalist Society and ~e~--___________s~e)~DGE/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 9, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 




Forever young(and online) 
The other day I was shocked when my dad asked me how I did on my Constitutional Law midterm. 
It wasn't the question itself that sur­prised me. It was the fact that he asked me over Instant Messenger. Kaitlynn Riely 
My siblings and I have used IM prac-News Writer tically since we learned how to use the computer. We've mastered the lingo, we've perfected the art of the away mes­sage, but we did not expect our parents to enter the AIM domain. My sister IM'd me the next day. "Dad has a screen name now," she said. I told her I knew. "Weird, huh?" she replied. It did seem strange at first. But the fact that my father has successfully jumped the generational divide into the land of "lois" and "ttyls" has made me think about whether I will still be online when I am his age. I am sure I will keep using AIM during college. How else am I going to find out when lilY fiiends down the hall are going to dinner? Why walk 20 feet when I can send out an IM and get a quick response? It's so convenient to have it now, even if I don't need to know how each and every one of my buddies are feeling, where they are and what they are doing every minute of the day. I think I will still use AIM after I gradu­ate. I want to be able to keep in touch with my fiiends. In a few years I won't ask them what time dinner is, but I can find out what's new in their lives. Will I ever sign off for good? Maybe not. But what will my away messages and online conversations look like in the future? For the college student, the away mes­sage -sometimes informative, some­times vague -usually just gives mun­
dane information. I am studying. I am at the dining hall. It is Friday night, I am not here. 
But will our generation turn the away message into a documentation of life's defining moments? 
Moving into my first apartment, leave me a message. Getting married, be back after the honeymoon. At the hospital having my first child. Retirement! 
These away messages are causes for celebration, but what do you say to a fiiend whose away message for the past two weeks has been "mid-life crisis?" 
Once you needed a letter, a phone call, an invitation, or just a conversation to convey this information. With the away message, "Buying my first house" or "I got a promotion" can be posted on the same spot where once was "At class" and "Studying for finals." 
Away messages can be changed quick­ly, but a screen name is more permanent. 
Can a screen name transcend 60 years? In 2050, will our children's chil­dren 1M Sportygurl77 and LaxGuy08 to tell grandma and grandpa thank you for their birthday presents? 
Who knows what the future holds, but it may only be a matter of time before children get a new screen name and add their parents to their buddy list, and not the other way around. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU LIKE TO TRADE PLACES WITH FOR ONE DAY AND WHY? 


Steve Tortorello  Kirsten Elazic  Molly Smith  Joe Maciuba  
junior O'Neill  freshman Walsh  freshman Walsh  freshman O'Neill  
"Benjamin Franklin, because he got ,all the ladies.  "The people I'm stalking for 'Assassins' because then I'd finally know where they , were.  "Professor Seth Brown, because I'd love to be that smart for once.  "Molly Smith, because she can actually come up with answers for these ,questions.  


"Snakes on a Plane" references were rampant as 200 animals from the local zoo were shown at halftime of the Notre Dame women's volleyball game Saturday, which the Irish won 3-0 over Syracuse in the Joyce Athletic Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Thai snake charmer puckers up to cobras 
PATTAYA, Thailand -A Thai snake charmer kissed 19 highly poisonous king cobras in an attempt to set a world record Saturday. 
One by one, the cobras were released onto a stage set up in this Thai beach resort town, as the snake charmer, Khum Chaibuddee, kissed each beast and then moved on to the next. 
Four additional snake charmers flanked the stage at each comer and a medical team waited on the sidelines with serum in case one of the snakes snapped, said a state­ment from Thailand's Ripley's Believe It or Not Museum, which organized the event. 
The museum's manager, Somporn Naksuetrong, said Ripley's planned to submit the record attempt to the Guinness Book of World Records to overtake a previ­ous record set in 1999 when American Gordon Cates of Alachua, Florida, kissed 11 venomous snakes in 1999. 
Sports fan names newborn son ESPN 
BILOXI, Miss. -Leann Real promised her husband, an avid sports fan, that if they ever had a son he'd get to pick the name. ESPN Montana Real was born this week at Biloxi Regional Medical Center. 
Rusty Real, of D'Iberville, chose ESPN (pronounced Espen) after the sports net­work and Montana after football legend Joe Montana. 
Baby ESPN isn't alone. 
Three others were cited in a 2005 report on tivocom­munity.com about the net­work's 25th anniversary. They are Espn Malachi McCall in Pampa, Texas; Espn Curiel in Corpus Christi, Texas; and Espn Blondeel in Michigan. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
...J 
~ 
ct 
(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 69 HIGH 63 HIGH 54 HIGH 57 LOW 48 LOW 48 LOW 51 LOW 36 



Candace Montgomery Lauren Wicke! 
freshman sophomore McGlinn Badin 
':4 kindergartner, 'The Rock's because then I'd wife, because he have nap time is the most and a much perfect lighter work-specimen of 
load." man there is. , 
IN BRIEF 
Professor of French Studies and Comparative Literature Pierre Saint-Armand of Brown University will present a lec­ture entitled "The Pursuit of Laziness: Idleness and the French Enlightenment" today at 5 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Former president of Honduras Ricardo Maduro Joest will present a lecture entitled "New Democracies, Poverty and Governance" at 6 
p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Director of the National Center for Photovaltaics Dr. Lawrence Kazmerski will pres­ent a lecture entitled "Energy: Can Technology Help Save Our World?" Tuesday at noon in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Author, professor and recipi­ent of the Freedom and Human Rights Prize Naomi Chazan will present a lecture entitled "Can the World Afford to Abandon Africa?" Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be followed by a reception. 
The Bayanihan Philippine National Dance Company will perform diverse music and dance traditions of the Philippines Tuesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students, $30 for faculty, staff and sen­iors and $36 for the general public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 41 HIGH 43 LOW 30 LOW 33 
Atlanta 76 I 56 Boston 75 I 55 Chicago 65 I 51 Denver 43 I 33 Houston 87 I 68 Los Angeles 73 I 55 Minneapolis 53 I 38 New York 76 I 56 Philadelphia 77 I 54 Phoenix 82 I 64 Seattle 67 I 44 St. Louis 78 I 56 Tampa 84 I 63 Washington 77 I 58 
Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Brazilian activist a-warded prize 
Special to The Observer 
Dr. Zilda Arns Neumann, a pediatrician who founded and leads Pastoral da Crianc;a {the Pastoral of the Child), an innova­tive public health program that works with more than 265,000 vol­unteers to help poor families in her native Brazil, will receive the third annual Opus Prize in a Nov. 8 ceremony hosted by the University of Notre Dame. 
The $1 million Opus Prize is affiliated with the Opus Group, a $1.4 billion national real estate development company head­quartered in Minneapolis, and is given annually to honor a person who "combines a driving entre­preneurial spirit with an abiding faith to combat poverty, illiteracy, hunger, disease and injustice." The award is annually presented by a Catholic college or university in partnership with the Opus Prize Foundation to provide stu­dents with inspiring exemplars of humanitarian work rooted in religious faith. 
Neumann began to organize the Pastoral of the Child in 1983 at the urging of her brother, Cardinal Paulo Evaristo Arns, then archbishop of Sao Paulo, Brazil. Although an ecumenical project, it takes advantage of the Brazilian Catholic Church's eccle­sial infrastructure, uniquely com-bining local community organiz­ing and large-scale public health initiatives to promote the health of children and to reduce infant mortality. 


"Children are the seed for peace or violence in the future, depending on how they are cared for and stimulated," she says of her work. "Thus, their family and community environment must be sown to grow a fairer and more fraternal world, a world to serve life and hope." 
Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize Last year, Neumann has received numerous other honors for her work, including special awards from UNICEF, the Pan American Health Organization Prize, Brazil's National Order of Educative Merit, the University of Sao Paulo's Human Rights Prize, Lions Club International's Humanitarian of the Year Prize, Rotary International's Jean Harris Prize, B'nai B'rith's Human Rights Medal, the National Council of Brazilian Women's Tribute of Respect, the Simon Bolivar Medal and the United Nations Association's Human Hights Prize. 
Enlisting some 265,000 volun­teers, most of them poor women working in their own communi­ties, the Pastoral of the Child annually serves more than 100,000 pregnant women and nearly two million children in every state in Brazil. In the impoverished communities it serves, the infant mortality rate has been reduced to 15 deaths per thousand, roughly half the national average. 
The Pastoral's numerous and varied activities include educa­tion, counseling and support of pregnant women; breast-feeding incentives; nutritional guidance and monthly weight monitoring of small children; instruction on the preparation and consumption of inexpensive, but highly nutri­tional products and often dis­carded leaves, peels and seeds; the control of preventable illness­es such as diarrhea and respira­tory diseases through the use of homemade serums and the organization of community phar­macies; vaccination programs; natural family planning instruc­tion and counseling; educational programs for the prevention of AIDS and other sexually trans­mitted diseases; literacy and recreational programs for chil­dren and parents; and catecheti­cal programs to encourage non­violence in families and commu­nities. 
Other exemplars of entrepre­neurial community service receiving honors from the Opus Prize Foundation during the Notre Dame ceremony will be the Office for Farmworker Ministry (OFFM) in Apopka, Fla., and the Cristo Rey Network. Since 1971, the OFFM has established sever­al nonprofit organizations ­including health care clinics and a credit union -to support some 6,000 farmworker families in the rural Apopka area. The Cristo Rey Network, founded in 2001, is a national association of Catholic high schools providing college preparatory education to economically disadvantaged young people through work study and other programs. 
University plans to enhance coursevvor k 
Undergrad research opportunities to increase 
Special to The Observer The Carnegie Academy for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning {CASTL) has selected the University of Notre Dame, along with 86 other higher education institutions and net­w o r k s worldwide, to partici­pate in a program to improve undergraduate and gradu­ate education. Notre Dame's area of focus will be on enhancing undergradu­ate research. The CASTL Institutional Leadership Program is a three-year partnership between Carnegie and selected colleges, universi­ties and organizations with a strong commitment to the examination of teaching and learning. Participants were selected for their abil­ity to influence work in 12 areas, ranging from assess­ment and accountability to undergraduate research. All selected institutions have developed and imple­mented innovative strate-

gies to strengthen teaching and improve student learn­ing on their own campuses. Through participation in the Carnegie program, they will collaborate with other institutions to further examine that work and expand activities in those same areas. 
. "Our participation in the Carnegie program provides a wonderful opportunity for us to explore and document the distinctive value that undergraduate research adds to a Notre Dame edu­cation," said Dennis Jacobs, Notre Dame vice president, associate provost and pro­fessor of chemistry and bio­chemistry, who was named the Carnegie U.S. Professor of the Year in 2002. 
Notre Dame offers numer­ous effective undergraduate research programs, includ­ing laboratory research projects within science and engineering, the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP) in the College of Arts and Letters, communi­ty-based re-search and international study grants that allow students to pur­sue abroad a line of schol­arly inquiry in collaboration with Notre Dame faculty. 

YOURS WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF 21.50 OR MORE 
FREE CLINIQUE GIFT 
PLUS, FREE 1O-DAY SUPPLY OF YOUR IDEAL LIQUID FOUNDATION 

Meet your match. Your FREE 7-pc. Gift 
Enjoy an expert foundation fitting and receive a 1 0-day supply of your ideal liquid foundation-FREE. No purchase necessary. With Any 21.50 Clinique Purchase Includes: 
•NEW High Impact Mascara • Blushing Blush Powder Blush and Blush BrushThree To Meet: 
CLINIQUE

• Superfit Makeup. 19.50 • Perfectly Real 'M Makeup. 22.50 • Glosswear For lips • NEW Super City Block Oil-Free daily Face Protector SPF 40 
Allergy Tested. 

• Superbalanced Makeup. 19.50 
• Rinse-Off Eye Makeup Solvent •Travel Bag with handle • A $42 value 100% Fragrance Free. 
For Flawless Application One gift to a customer, please. While supplies last. Any returned merchandise Try Clinique's new Foundation Brush. $28. must include purchased item and any FREE or BONUS items. To order calll-800-528-2345. 
Help support your community 
*THANKS and Earn 10% Rewards 
for shoring 

on almost all your Macy's Card purchases for the rest ofthe year! 
(Some restrictions apply; see store for details or to enroll.) 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 9, 2006 
goal line. On fourth down, a position to women when he open, smiling at people," According to Gagnon, who field goal would win the game was hired in 1995. Since his Adent said. "I help people love has spoken with ushers from
Ushers 
-but the wind was blowing continued from page 1 hard against kicker Harry 
Oliver. row 36, and the stairs are "The minute they lined up, pretty slippery. He just went the wind died down. It really down headfirst and hit his did! The flags fell still," Zink head on the concrete," Clynch said. said. "I signaled for medical Oliver kicked the field goal attention and kept everybody and Notre Dame won the clear of the way till the medics game. 
came."  "That was prob­ 
When  the  ably  the  most  
game was over, Clynch returned to his room at  '1 guess [ushering} is mainly just being  amazing thing I've seen," Zink said. And while Zink  
the Motel 6, where he stays between consec­ what Notre Dame should be­ 'has seen mar­velous things, other ushers - 
utive  home  friendly and open,  like Ajax Arvin - 
games -worth  it's not going  smiling at people. "  have done them. A 44-year veteran  
back  to  his  who  drives  156  
hometown  of  Sue Adent  miles to usher on  
Durby, Conn. for  usher  game days, Arvin  

such a short time. 
While Clynch has four years under his belt, Morris Zink has nearly 50 more. 
Zink cut his teeth as an usher in 1953, the last year Frank Leahy coached the squad. An unplanned half­century later, Zink remains. 
"I didn't know l'd be here for this many years, but I've enjoyed it, so I'm still here," he said. ''I'm still enthused about working and I have no plans to retire soon. 
"Cappy's going to have to put up with me for a while yet." 
Of all the games Zink has seen, one stands out in his memory. In 1980, Notre Dame played Michigan. Down two points with very little time left, the Irish drove to within several yards of Michigan's 
recalls the medi­
cine  bottle  he  
once  found  in  
post-game litter.  

"It was quite important for a terminal disease. But it had the address on it, it was some­where in Pennsylvania, so I mailed it," he said. "I got a call thanking me because the medicine was so expensive." 
While Arvin signed up to usher because he couldn't buy football tickets and wanted to see the game, usher Sue Adent just wanted an excuse to return to Notre Dame Stadium after her son Joseph, a football walk-on, graduated in 1996. 
"We wondered, what do we do on game weekends? We heard Cappy was hiring women ... hence, here I am, almost 10 years later," Adent said. 
Gagnon opened the usher 
The Irish are now ranked in the top 10 going into their bye

GaiDe 
week. With students looking forward to a fall break of their

continued from page 1 
own, the entire Notre Dame community will have a chance more decisive. to return with renewed enthu­
"We played well, but we siasm. could have done a lot more," "With the bye week coming freshman John Altenberger up, both the Notre Dame fans said. "It looked like Stanford and team will be able to rest was overmatched but we just and come back for the UCLA couldn't capitalize as much as game with much more ener­we wanted or expected." gy," Newcomb said. 
The game was still very much in question after a close Contact Patrick Cassidy at first quarter, in which pcassidy@nd.edu Stanford showed an unexpect­ed ability to drive down the field on the Irish defense, which senior George arrival, he's also established stricter uniform rules -all ushers wear white shirts and ties (or for ladies, "neck­wear") -and depending on where they're located, they wear either a yellow vest or a yellow jacket. All wear col­ored hats signaling their ranks; gold is reserved for the highest-ranking ushers. Ushers said Gagnon has also established "Welcome to Notre Dame" as the official usher phrase, and asks his staff to say it as often as possible. 
"I guess [ushering) is mainly just being what Notre Dame should be -friendly and Notre Dame just as much as I do. I want them to go home and say, 'I had a great time there.'" 

However upbeat today's ush­ers may be, they'll find it hard to compete with the original ushers Knute Hockne hired when the stadium opened in 1930. 
The crowd was rarely more than 20,000, Gagnon said, but Rockne hired 1,000 ushers. 
"This was a big deal when Rockne started it," Gagnon said. "It was the Depression. People didn't have a lot of money, so these men could go to the game." 
that era, Rockne gave them a pep talk on the field before their first game. He showed them how to lead a lady to her seat: grasp her hand and her elbow and guide her up the steep stairs. 
"It was a courtlier time back then," Gagnon said. 
Sixty-six years after it began, Clynch says he's thrilled to be a part of the tra­dition of greeting people in a friendly atmosphere. 
"It's like being in heaven," he said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM Snite Museum ofArt, University of Notre Dame Wednesday, October I I, 2006 7:00 pm Free Admission 
,,:;.;~
,tl~omm. <>f ART 
-..,.\.¥/,.,. 

f.iTtl!JO Sludu~ 
Heidkamp saw as a sign of 
Professor Naomi Chazan to Speak
weakness. "The key to our defense is the play of the front four," 
at the University of Notre Dam.e 
Heidkamp said. "If they can penetrate and put some pres­sure on the backfield it makes up for our lack of athleticism 
Professor Chazan is the Nl) Provost's
and experience in the second­
Distinguished Vv'mna.11 Lecturer. She is a
ary." 
reno\'lrned protessnr of Political Science
Freshman Andrew Saville 

;md Afi-ic;ul Studies ;u1d heads the School
expressed concern over Notre 
of c;ovenunent and Society, Acadentic
Dame's failure to answer College ofTel Aviv. From 1992-200~~,
Stanford's trick play -a half­she was a IUeinher ofthe Israeli Knesset.
back pass that wound up in the end zone. 
i\n author of n\uncrous publications, 
"It seemed that in the fourth Professor Chazan received the Freedo1n quarter we were a little more :u1d I hunan Rights Prize fn>Ill the hesitant than usual," Saville Foundation for Freedont and I hunan said. "I would have liked to Higl1ts in S"vitzerland in 2005. answer their trickery with a couple more touchdowns and assert ourselves more." 
With the combination of low · attendance at the weekend's pep rally and a winless oppo­nent, some said the student section seemed unenthusiastic. .Sponsored hy the Notre lJan1e 
"We [the students) didn't I Iolocause Prqject and the Kroc Institute seem into the game -maybe because it seemed like an easy win," freshman Jenna Newcomb said. 


ORLD &NATION 
Monday, October 9, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Denmark grapples with anti-Islamism 
COPENHAGEN -Denmark's prime minis­ter on Sunday condemned members of an anti-immigrant party who appeared in Web videos mocking the Prophet Muhammad, prompting renewed protests from Muslim leaders around the world. 
The videos, first reported by the Danish daily newspaper Nyhedsavisen on Friday, came in the aftermath of violent protests around the Muslim world after 12 drawings of the Prophet Muhammad were published last year by another Danish newspaper. 
In the video clips posted online this past week. a group of young politicians was shown conducting a drawing contest during a camp meeting in August. One woman pre­sented a drawing of a camel with the head of Muhammad and beer cans for humps as the group laughed. 
In another clip, a man held up a drawing depicting a bearded man wearing a turban next to a plus sign and a bomb that equals a nuclear mushroom cloud. The politicians appeared to have been drinking. 
Iran undeterred by sanction threat 
TEHRAN -Iran called the threat of interna­tional sanctions over its disputed nuclear pro­gram a "rusty" weapon and repeated Sunday that it would not abandon uranium enrich­ment. 
The six countries at the center of efforts to persuade Iran to drop uranium enrichment ­a key step in the production of nuclear weapons -said Friday they have agreed to pursue possible sanctions. 
However, all five permanent security council members -the U.S., France, Britain, Russia and China -stopped short of demanding Iran be punished by the U.N. Security Council. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Lettuce recalled after E. coli scare 
SAN FRANCISCO -Less than a week after the Food and Drug Administration lifted its warning on fresh spinach grown in California's Salinas Valley, a popular brand of lettuce grown there has been recalled over concerns about E. coli contamination. 
The lettuce does not appear to have caused any illnesses, Salinas-based Nunes Company Inc. said in a statement. 
The company initiated a voluntary recall Sunday of green leaf lettuce purchased last week under the Foxy brand name. Foxy is one of the nation's largest suppliers of lettuce, cel­ery, broccoli, vegetable platters and stir-fry mixes. The recall covered lettuce sold in seven Western states. 
Curiosity seekers descend on Amish 
NICKEL MINES, Pa. -Curiosity seekers left flowers and messages of sympathy Sunday near the one-room Amish schoolhouse where a quiet milkman killed five young girls and wounded five more. 
Along the road leading to the West Nickel Mines Amish School, authorities posted dozens of "No parking or standing" signs to encourage people to keep moving. 
Ken Urbany, 57, a prison guard from Philadelphia, had hoped to stop at the school to offer a prayer for the victims but kept driv­ing because of the restrictions. He said, "It doesn't matter. The Lord will hear my prayer in my hotel room." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Stores clamor for liquor licenses 
MUNCIE -More Indiana convenience stores are seeking permits to sell beer and wine -a move the store owners say will help them expand sales, but the package liquor industry says could essentially deregulate the sale of wine and beer. 
So far this year, 142 convenience stores in Indiana sought grocery store permits that allow beer and wine sales. Only 46 stores sought beer and wine permits from the Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission in 2005. 
Some convenience store owners may want to get permits now in case the legislature tries to limit such permits during future sessions of the General A<>sembly. 
GOP loses ground with mothers 
Latest polls show married women with children evenly divided between parties 
Associated Press 

NEW ALBANY, Ind. ­After winning over moms in back-to-hack elections, Republicans have lost their advantage among married women with children this year. 
The Hepublican Party has seen the support of people like Jeannette Hopkins evaporate. 
A 30-year-old married mother of two and a Republican, Hopkins voted for President Bush in 2004. But she says she probably will support the Democrat in her congressional dis­trict this fall "because of the way that everything's been handled" with the GOP in charge of Congress and Bush in the White House. 
"We're in a really scary place right now," Hopkins said recently. She vented about what she called the gone-on-too-long Iraq war, a .sluggish economy, th~ bungled Hurricane Katrina response and a continuing terrorism threat. 
She blamed Republicans as she hustled down an alley to the office she man­ages in this Louisville, Ky., suburb. 
Votes like hers could decide which party con­trols the House ·and Senate after the Nov. 7 vote. 
Poll results and inter­age points in 2002 and the chance or whether she later, in a presidential elec­views with political ana­Bush won it by 14 percent­would vote with her party tion year, married moms lysts indicate the GOP has age points in 2004. next month -a sentiment preferred Bush over lost ground with a voting The shift among married echoed by others. Democratic Sen. John group that helped the moms was reflected in the For years, the GOP has Kerry by 56 percent to 42 party keep hold of anxiety-laden voices of held a slight advantage percent. Congress and the White several in the Ohio River with this group of voters. That GOP advantage has House in 2002 and 2004. Valley, a conservative Republicans made addi­evaporated. Married moms have region home to several tional gains leading up to In the AP-Ipsos poll, become a volatile swing competitive House races. and through the 2000 married women with chil­group just as Democrats "People have no money. presidential election, in dren split evenly on the need to gain 15 GOP-held The economy is not going part because, according to question of whether they House seats and six in the well," said Michele Huber, analysts and exit polls, would vote for or lean Senate to win control of 29. A married mother of married moms were toward the Democratic or Capitol Hill. three, she gave the country attracted to Bush's empha­Republican candidate in 
An Associated Press­a "poor to fair" rating as sis on social conservatism their congressional district. lpsos poll this month found she speed-walked in a sub­and had a general fond­The frustration in this that support is now evenly urban Cincinnati park with ness for the man himself. group of voters is a reflec­divided between Dem­one of her children, a niece In the 2002 congression­tion of the broader popula­ocrats and Republicans and a nephew in tow. al elections, more than half tion, now down on the among married women A Republican, she voted -of married moms sided president and Congress as with children in the house. for Bush in 2004. She said with Republicans while the unpopular Iraq war Republicans won this vot­she was not sure whether only 35 percent voted with drags on and economic ing group by 18 percent-she would again if she had Democrats. Two years growth has slowed. 

IRAQ 

U.S. operation kills 30 militants 
damaged when it was hit by rocket­violence by clearing the city of
Associated Press propelled grenades, but no casualties weapons and fighters. BAGHDAD -The U.S.-led coalition were reported among the U.S. or Iraqi At least 14 Iraqis also died in other said it killed 30 fighters in a battle forces. violence around the country Sunday, Sunday with the country's most pow­However, the military announced including a Shiite woman and her erful Shiite militia amid growing the deaths of five U.S. troops else­young daughter who were killed American impatience with the Iraqi where in the country. Two soldiers when gunmen opened fire on their government's inability to stop militias were killed Saturday -one in the minivan in Baqouba, northeast of responsible for escalating sectarian capital and the other northwest of Baghdad. violence. Baghdad -while three Marines were Police also found 51 bullet-riddled The clash was the second with the killed Friday in western Anbar bodies in various parts of Baghdad Mahdi Army in the predominantly province, the military said without during a 24-hour period ending Shiite southern city of Diwaniyah in as elaborating. Sunday morning, police 1st Lt. many months. Officials from the party The deaths brought to 29 the num­Mohammed Khayoun said. They were of radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al­ber of Americans killed in Iraq this all apparent victims or the sectarian Sadr, which heads the militia, denied month -many of them in Baghdad death squads that roam the capital, any of their fighters were killed. as part of a district-by-district crack­with many of the bodies showing A U.S. Abrams tank was seriously down aimed at reducing mounting signs of torture. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 9, 2006 
himself." minds can differ. O'Scannlain said he can bring temic change only after apply­A question and answer peri­"Hopefully criticism can be it to the attention of the legis­ing sentencing guidelines as
Judge 

od followed the lecture, done in a climate of maturity lature. A judge can also defined by law. 
continued from page 1 extending the conversation to and in a way that respects the recuse him or herself from a 
topics such as judicial strip­institution." islative and judiciary -sepa­ping, the effect of criticism on Personal con-
rate as a means of balancing powers. 
One of the biggest com­plaints from judges serving under King George was that they felt their 
livelihood and salaries were sub­ject to how well they followed his 

judges and what victions should 
role personal not affect how a 
convictions or judge applies the
"Judges are 
morality plays in . law, he said.
independent, but 
the professional "There are lots not independent lives of judges. of laws with Expanding on which I disagree
from the law. " 
earlier comments that I have to he made about enforce on a daily Diarmuid O'Scannlain criticism directed basis.... I don't judge towards the judi­have the power to 
opinions, O'Scannlain said. The founding fathers wanted to safeguard against this non­independent judiciary found in Great Britain. 
But the system set up in the Constitution was not impene­trable, said O'Scannlain, who explained that judicial inde­pendence has been threatened in the past and is still threat­ened today. 
Justice Samuel Chase, the only Supreme Court justice to date to have been served with articles of impeachment, was charged -and eventually acquitted -of "political bias" in the handling of the trial of John Fries, O'Scannlain said. 
"The early impeachment of Justice Chase may have been the first attack on the judici­ary, but it certainly wasn't the last," he said. 
More than 100 years later, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt proposed a bill that would allow him to replace justices over the age of 70 even if they did not want to step down. If passed, this bill would have allowed Roosevelt to "stack the court" and guar­antee support for New Deal legislation, O'Scannlain said. 
The bill was not passed, but with the "switch in time that saved nine" -the name given to Justice Owen Roqerts' shift from the conservative to the liberal wing of the Supreme Court in a Case decided sh·ort­ly after Roosevelt's court stacking bill proposal -many believe feelings of threatened judicial independence may have led to Justice Roberts' switch. 
O'Scannlain said there is still an "enduring political power on judicial independ­ence." 
Two "myths" about judicial independence, O'Scannlain said, is that it "protects judi­cial activism" and "protects judges from criticism of other opinions." 
Judicial activism is opinion based ori politics or personal opinion, O'Scannlain said ­not the faithful upholding of laws. He said judicial activism and judicial independence are "wholly incompatible. 
"Judges are independent," he said, "but not independent from the law." 
In regards to the second myth, O'Scannlain said criti­cism of judges must be pro­tected by the First Amendment. 
"It is a prized American ideal to speak one's mind," he said. 
Judges must not, however, bow to public criticism. In cases where judges do seem­ingly succumb to criticism, "appellate review should -occur," he said. He stressed that "fidelity to the law should exist in the first instance." 
In his concluding remarks, Judge O'Scannlain quoted another judge: "Leave to the people an independent judici­ary and they will prove that man is capable of governing 

e i a r y , strike it down 
''There are lots of laws with which I disagree that I have to enforce on a daily basis." 
Diarmuid O'Scannlain judge 
O'Scannlain said, unless it is not within the "The courts are not immune Constitution," O'Scannlain from criticism.... It is impor­said. tant because reasonable If he believes a law is unjust, case if he or she feels there is a conflict of inter­est. 


In response to a question about judicial activism, O'Scannlain said he viewed the judge as a "neu­tral applier of the law." 
He said it would be appro­
priate for judges to provide data to Congress regarding opinion on certain legislation or make suggestions for sys-
O'Scannlain was appointed to the 9th Circuit Court by President Reagan and con­firmed by the Senate in 1986. 
Notre Dame law professor Anthony J. Bellia Jr. intro­duced O'Scannlain Friday. 
"He has been a leader in working to ensure the quality of opinions on the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ... and he has been a tremendous friend to the University," Bellia said. 
O'Scannlain received an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 2002. 
Contact Meghan Wons at Mwons@nd.edu 


CJ)C:O '"1'1
.,
I"TI:::z! I"TI:t'l 

C) 
a
-c-,;, Q:t'l C:I"T1 

n 
:r
.,
-~'"" 
==
1"1'1-1 

=c:o ~· 
1"1'1, 
•-.) 

U. So Ceilular "gets me... .~c 1 ,;an get through Ia~-v school. 
Alex 
Illinois 

Samsung a850 
• 
FREE CALL ME Minutes•• 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
Unlimited Night and Weekend 


Minutes (starting at 7 p.m.> 
• 
iDatebook (life, organized) 

• 
Fox Sports Mobile Pro (Your sports lifeline!) 


Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
•

f<U.~. Cellular 
\\-"e C01U1''· -• 1c ·,, -_: '· 

getusc.com •1-888-buy usee 
Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes .~;~:.i }~1 r: t. :.. :·: k~ ~ 1<1 =.C'= . 7 ;rp_:":' :r, t:::~·=~:~ :; r:: ~(J<J;t;r::J~=~·,·; en r-l·;r:; (££! (·" ·!·1:: .:~tU.E~~.iY ~-,·, ·= • ::,-: j'~:::r.: ':' Text Messaging: ::::.( ::•,;..;, :'j~~~..~r, · -=:>:;;=~_;.-f, ~ :c<: !:,:.:::z;;~;!f=:~ f.-f!:~! ::....:;.·~::~~ hfr. 4C:f:--~lu.'OC!~} :::1n::. ::·>.~:.-1>;::r.> :::..;y t.'f: CJ'<!=-~1-l::M.: :;.;.; 3fnrf.>J!" =::-= • 
. ·.:·<i: :·:~!."•; ,~,:::-· i·i) :r::~pl:ff I[ f:·~~~·:,;,:~:-n. ·r:-:;-';.<;n;u~ \X:f;{;~::. :(1,.kt-.'l:f::'; ~(;:.( 1/{/:t.; (~;!'i~};{ r:u~ r;; l(:j_~~;-r:_:;:J t'~; ~~.rr.l f.:'/~~": (· ~;-t{l l;_~tr.,.~~-\J:~~} ?.'!:! :~~~;-:· . !l'k}l~i;t,l ~'fQ. !::.~ :·f:l.i~?": :··. ,"j-:;_·; n:.~:_>:r~J;i 1_. ~.{::·j br:x::-J B'Ji¥_~ rr:l-{:~,~;~~\l i':;~:,>i!; ')It; ~k_: ,,_,n_:-J•·;: rq.\~~-; ."f f:·5~~-'~-':"•-<{~;::· (.'{.~ii."i." ~off(; 'il; 'iJ:.!'h -:'. '=-~---._, ~ .• ·:·-· '·'
""''"u."'''"'""·'"' """'"' ''"'·'"·""'·""""'·"·"'' 30-Day Guarantee: 


Monday, October 9, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
11,850.21 -16.48
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I, 2 0 3 156 2,028 2,535,833,060 

NASDAQ
NYSE . 
-'I!IIJ~!2Jil·~~6~lfi# 
S&PSOO 1,349.58 -3.64 NIKKB(Tol<yo} ti;IJ1I~~l6.: 1 li!i,l;4t:J,itl 
FTSE. IOO(London) 6,001.20 -3.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) -0.22 -0.09 41.41 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.72 -0.15 20.63 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.00 -0.05 4.97 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.18 -0.05 27.87 
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) -2.27 -0.05 2.15 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +1.91 +0.088 4.696 13-WEEK BILL +0.21 +0.010 4.810 30-YEAR BOND + 1.60 +0.076 4.837 5-YEAR NOTE + 2.16 +0.098 4.644 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.27 59.76 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) + 1.30 576.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.35 88.58 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.8800 
EURO 0.7941 
POUND 0.5345 
CANADIAN$. 
1.1264 

IN BRIEF 
MySpace to organize benefit concerts 
NEW YORK -The online hangout MySpace.com will organize 20 concerts featuring bands promoted on its site as part of a campaign to raise awareness and money for humanitarian relief in Sudan. 
The site, which grew in popularity thanks to its early adoption by emerging bands and their fans, has in recent months taken a more active role in promoting social causes, such as environmental awareness and voter registration. 
"The crisis in Darfur is a global concern and as a global community we have a responsibility to take action," Chris DeWolfe, MySpace's chief executive, said in a statement. "MySpace's reach gives us an extraordinary opportunity to spread the word and empower individuals to help address the horrors in Darfur." 
Some 2.5 million people have been made homeless by three years of fighting between the Sudanese government and rebel groups in the vast, arid Darfur region of western Sudan. At least another 200,000 people have been killed since hostilities erupted. 
Just last week, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan warned that Darfur is creeping ever clos­er. to catastrophe, with rape and violence on the rise and humanitarian access at its lowest level since 2004. 
Goodyear, union prepare for strike 
AKRON, Ohio-Legend has it you used to be able to smell the rubber in this blue-collar city, home to the world's third largest tiremaker. 
But these days the most noticeable scent near Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co.'s hulking head­quarters is the smell of wood burning in metal barrels that keep striking workers warm from the unusually chilly fall air. 
As of Saturday, days after United Steelworkers union members walked off the job, no new talks had been scheduled between the company and the union. 
"We're in the beginning stages. We're in this for the long haul," said Eric Pirogowicz, 50, a 33-year Goodyear employee who most recently made race car tires in Akron and was among more than 12,000 union members from 16 plants in the United States and Canada who went on strike Thursday. 
Analysts say the strike could cost Goodyear up to $2 million a day. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Booksellers seek niche markets 
Independent store owners struggle to attract customers from chains, online outlets 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO -Adam Brent 
knew his 11-year-run selling 
best sellers and new releases 
was over when mail carriers 
started walking into his 
building to deliver books 
from Amazon.com to the 
tenants upstairs. 

"literally, they didn't walk 
downstairs or take the time 
to make a phone call/' Brent 
said of the neighbors of 
Brent Books & Cards in the 
city's business district. · Brent's experience is 
shared by scores of inde­
pendent bookstores around 
the nation that have been 
knocked out of business by 
huge chains like Borders 
Group Inc. and Barnes & 
Noble Inc., massive retailers 
like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. 
and most recently Internet 
sites like Amazon.com. 
But Brent is also part of a 
growing number of inde­
pendent bookstore owners 
refusing to give up. He's clos­
ing his store this month but 
plans to reopen as a discount 
book store. Others are luring 
customers by putting in 
cafes or opening specialty 
shops that cater to a specific 
audience, like mystery 
lovers. Some are following 
the lead of public television 
and selling memberships. Or 
they're being saved by 
investors who can't bear the 
idea of losing these local 
institutions. 

Not only that, but even as 
200 to 300 independent 
book stores close a year, the 
number of independent book 
stores opening is creeping 
up. 

"For a long time, from 
1992 to 2002, you literally 
could count on two hands 
the number of openings," 
said Oren Teicher, chief 
operating officer of the 
American Booksellers 
Association. "In the last 
three years there are 60, 70, 
80 stores opening" each 
year, he said. 

That's welcome news for 
an association that's 
watched its membership 
plummet from 4,000 to 
about 1 ,800 since the early 
1990s. 

"There are a lot of ways to 

make money in the busi­ness," said Brent, whose father, Chicago bookseller Stuart Brent, closed the city's most famous bookstore after a half century in 1996. 
Gary Kleiman, who owns BookBeat in the northern California community of Fairfax, decided the way to do it was to get rid of the clutter and make his store a gathering place. 
"We had 10,000 or 13,000 books in the store," said Kleiman. "Now we have maybe 1,500." 
Last fall, Kleiman gave all but a handful of his used books to charity. Then he tore down shelves and in their place put tables and chairs and a small stage for live performances. He start­ed offering free wireless Internet access. And to help convince people to take advantage of it all he got a beer and wine license. 
As for the books, most of the ones left are new and they're confined to the perimeter walls. While he's selling about the same num­ber of books as he used to, new books are selling better. And his store has a lot more customers -eating, drink­ing and listening to music ­than he did before. About 60 percent of the store's profits come from the cafe. 
Kleiman's drastic move after six years of business is irl large part the result two things he came to under­stand about the Internet. 
The first was that there were just too many used books online and they were just too cheap -far cheaper than he could afford to sell them. 
The second was that for all the talk about the speed of ordering books online, he could be faster. 
"I can order today and they will be here tomorrow," he said -one reason cus­tomers choose him instead of the Internet. 
Some bookstores have sur­vived by giving their cus­tomers what they say chain stores often do not: Employees who know what they're talking about. . 

"You can discuss books I 
I with us. We are all readers." I I said Arlene Lynes, who opened Read Between the j Lynes in Woodstock, Ill., in I 2005. "To me, that's what's I I bringing people back." I I 
l 
Stocks drop from all-time highs 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a record-breaking week quietly Friday, edging lower after the Labor Department said employers added far fewer jobs than expected last month. The major indexes all scored big gains for the week. 
While the jobs report gave investors further confirmation that the economy is slowing -employers created just 51,000 jobs last month, well off the 120,000 Wall Street expected-the market is now concerned that the economy might be moderating too much. 
Even the prospects· of a rate cut by the Federal Reserve came as little com­fort Friday. 
"We've had a market that wants to see bad news as good news with respect to the Fed," said Bryan Piskorowski, a market analyst at Wachovia Securities LLC. "(Now the) economy is slowing, the housing mar­ket is slowing, consumer spending is starting to slow. You run that tightwire where bad news eventually becomes bad news." 
Investors concerned about the jobs report Friday were also disappointed by news of the resignation of a General · Motors Corp. board member who lob­bied unsuccessfully for an alliance with other automakers. 
But hopes for a Fed rate cut as well as a further decline in oil prices helped drive the 30-stock Dow Jones industrial average to three straight record high closes this week. The blue chips also set new intraday highs. Broader index­es also showed robust gains, though remained well below their all-time highs. 
The Dow was down 16.48, or 0.14 percent, at 11,850.21 Friday, slightly below the record close of 11,866.69 set the day before. 
Broader stock indicators also fell Friday. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 3.64, or 0.27 percent, at 1,349.58, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 6.35, or 0.28 percent, to 2,299.99. 
The week was a memorable one for investors, with the Dow finally recover­ing from the dot-com meltdown early in the decade, recession and then the Sept. 11 , 2001, terror attacks. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 9, 2006 
Honor 
continued from page 1 
England, working on his fourth book on the Catholic Reformation entitled "The Intellectual History of the Catholic Reformation." 
Pullapilly received several Fulbright Grants and one grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. He founded several organizations in India for the education and welfare of youth and the politically oppressed. 
"I am always amazed at the extent of Cy's contacts around the world," Svelmoe said. "He has had personal meetings with 
Kuwait 
continued from page 1 
Soisson is on military leave in Kuwait as a lieutenant colonel 
in  the  U.S.  Army's  336th  
Transportation Group.  
While  stationed in  Camp  

Arifjan, Soisson's transporta­tion unit performs missions in Iraq. Most of Soisson's tasks are computer related, and while she has become accus­tomed to frequent power out­ages in her camp, she may never get used to missing her family. 
The greatest challenge she faces every day, Soisson said, is being so far away from her husband, Tom, and children Allie, Adam, Claire and Annelyse. 
"I miss impromptu hugs with my husband and kids, I miss having dinner together ... watching a video on a Friday night and especially, lately, fall and. Notre Dame football," Soisson said. "It is the normal part of life that I crave." 
But aside from her husband and kids, it is the small ameni­ties -like indoor plumbing ­that Soisson misses most. 
"The temporary bathrooms here really stink, and there is no 
a wide array of world leaders -from popes to presidents." 
Pullapilly said he is honored to be a member of the RSA and is enjoying his opportunity to interact with other scholars at Cambridge. 
He hasn't forgotten South Bend, however. 
"I look forward to getting back to my students and col­leagues at [Saint Mary's]." he said. "RSA members are allowed to continue working in their current professions, but are expected to contribute to the maximum extent in their fields for the welfare of the society at large." 
Contact Kim Abeel at kabeeiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
indoor plumbing "/ believe that God Soisson said her in the work or has a plan for us faith provides 
sleeping areas," her with strength
all and I am still
she said. "to make each In November trying to fully day a possibility." 2005, Soisson was understand my Her fellow notified to transfer service members,
role here. '' 
to Camp Arifjan. Soisson said, are Initially, she didn't what keep her think the deploy­Susan Soisson strong during her 
ment would lieutenant colonel time in Iraq and 
said, how fortunate she was to have kind and devoted co­workers at Notre Dame ­something she doesn't encounter in her current work environment. 
"I work with some nice peo­ple, but I would say this has been an experience of isola­tion," she said. 
While Soisson attributes this sense of isolation to the intensi­ty of the mission that the serv­ice members endure each day, she is not willing to accept it. In addition to her regular duties, she receives quarterly training as the "Consideration of Others" program officer. 
"This is a real program, which reminds people to remember we are all of value," Soisson said. "The message may get out, but the practice of kindness is far from perfected." 
Given the lack of facilities in Arfijan and the intense working conditions that constantly chal­lenge Soisson, she said it is dif­ficult to be certain whether her sacrifices are truly improving the world. 
"I would like to believe that I am making a difference in the units we serve, [but] I am total­ly unclear on the strategic level if we are making a difference," she said. 
During these 
trying times, 

become a reality. She had received similar notifications several times before, and usually the circumstances didn't require her to leave. 
But after four months of training, Soisson arrived in Kuwait in July. Reflecting back on her deployment, Soisson said, "I believe that God has a plan for us all and I am still trying to fully understand my role here." 
Soisson joined the Army in 1980 as a scholarship cadet. She later left active duty to move to South Bend with her husband so that he could open his pediatric practice. In 1992, she joined the Army Reserves as a way of meeting people and making some extra money. 
Besides longing for an Irish football game, Soisson also misses her contact with the Notre Dame community. In her role with the SIBC, Soisson said she enjoyed working with some of the University's most dedi­cated and intellectually gifted students. 
And she realizes now, she 
Kuwait. 

"The service members I work with are my heroes in many ways," she said. "Most risk their lives for their country every time they leave post, and they are com­pletely dedicated to their mis­sion." 
Two members of Soisson's group have died, and she said attending the memorial servic­es for these soldiers would be "a real test of emotions." 
Soisson plans to return to her family in July 2007, just in time for her youngest daughter's 11th birthday. She said she hopes to continue working at Notre Dame in some capacity, if not directly with the SIBC, and plans to apply for a Kroc Fellowship. 
"I have learned here we can all serve humanity on different levels and finding the right place for your service is essen­tial," she said. "We will see about God's plan for the next phase." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
October 10 What Really Happens in Graduate School and How do I Get There? 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. 
131 Decio 

Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studi·es 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098.. 
~ ~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 10 
BOOIC SIGNING 
8:00 · 9:00PM 
IN THE BOOKSTORE 
So that we can accommodate the greatest number of people during Coach's limited visit with us, the following guidelines will apply: 
• 
Book signing only; no additional memorabilia will be signed. 

• 
Name personalization only. 

• 
Pre-sales cannot be accepted for this event 

• 
No photos with Coach due to time constraints. 



Alimited number of line numbers will be distributed with purchase of No Excuses beginning at Spm on Tuesday, Oct. 10. One (1) copy per line number will be signed. Must be present to receive a line number. 
NorREMoAME ~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: !5741631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 
Eve.nts are subject to change. Please call (574) 631-5757 to confirm. 

Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Siegfried Hall, agreed there were free time is limited and class-free demanding academic workload. or we can try to keep it to a team "definitely more" participants on Fridays afternoons are their only "I have a ton of work to do," factor.
Rally 
Friday compared to Purdue's rally chances to relax. sophomore Mike Hawking said. "In the end it's about the team continued from page 1 -but he also said the overall ''I'd rather be playing soccer or. "So why should I go ifthe pep ral­and about Notre Dame, which 
planning and execution of the taking care of other things," lies have been so lackluster?" includes everybody involved in the giant moose outfit. Nearly every events have caused a decrease in Gochicoa said. "Pep rallies are fun At about 6:30 p.m. Friday, just Notre Dame community." hall engaged in push-up contests popularity. for freshman year, as the football team made its The next three pep rallies will to get the fans riled up. Part of the prob­but after a while entrance, the students in atten­feature three of Notre Dame's 
But the efforts haven't been suf­lem, Martin said, is "Pep rallies are fun they become the dance grew progressively louder Reisman Trophy winners -Paul ficient to drum up more Irish that pep rallies are for freshman year, same." in anticipation of the speakers and Hornung for the UCLA game, enthusiasm. Lately, a decline in "becoming more But even fresh­recognition of former alumni. John Huarte for the UNC game
but after a while
student attendance at pep rallies tailored to the pub-men have Irish running backs coach and Tim Brown for the Army 
..

has been apparent. lic. they become the expressed apathy. Michael Hayward and defensive game. Director of Foothall Operations "They make stu­For Shea Bettwy, coordinator Rick Minter organized Despite the waning interest
same. 

Chad Klunder told The Observer dents come an hour pep rallies are the foothall team's portion of the that's grown increasingly perva­that just 1,700 students attended and a half before "becoming too pep rally and recognized sive among students, those who
Pedro Gochicoa
the Purdue pep rally, even though the pep rally starts much of a hassle." deceased Notre Dame Reisman love the rallies won'tbe absent 4,000 seats were reserved. so that they can fill . junior "It takes up a Trophy winner Leon Hart, whose anytime soon. 
Klunder did not have atten­up all the seats," he major chunk of family was attending the event. "We can't take our football team dance numbers for the Stanford said. "The extra _ . your Friday Teammates Darius Walker and for granted," freshman Larisa pep rally available this weekend, down-time makes students less evening," Bettwy said, "and we Maurice Crum Jr. spoke, along Esmilla said. "And we have to although he thought there was an interested. Plus, right now they're don't get as pumped up for them with head coach Charlie Weis and support Notre Dame football by "increase in student participation playing 'Switch' by Will Smith, as we do for the games." leprechaun Kevin Braun. preventing the lack of participa­at [Friday's] pep rally [compared which isn't good." Other students said attending "I think that everybody has to tion spread." to] the one before the Purdue Upperclassmen like junior the pep rallies is not worth sacri­embrace the tradition here," game." Pedro Gochicoa are less interested ficing their commitments to other Klunder said. "We can try to get in Contact Rahan Anand at 
Junior Tom Martin, president of in participating, explaining that extracurricular activities or a a celebrity to speak every week, ranand@nd.edu 
Navigation syste111 adapted to aid the visually i111paired 
Associated Press And the range of GPS is limited help distinguish between indoors develop the system, said in a few cues can signal bathrooms, indoors, and it can't on its own and outdoors. Cameras gauge years it could be used to help restaurants, stores, and other 
ATLANTA -Satellite-based differentiate between a path and how far away objects and obsta­guide blind people, first-respon­attractions. navigation gadgets can guide a wall. cles are. A compass establishes ders to emergencies or soldiers The sounds are sent throughmotorists from high above, saving Georgia Institute of Technology direction. And an inertia detector through unknown territory. bone-c~mducting headphones, bumbling drivers countless hours researchers are trying to pick up tracks the roll, pitch and yaw of "It's going to take time," Walker specialized devices that are worn and extra trips to the gas station. where GPS leaves off. Its System the user's head. said. "But getting floor plans for behind the ears to appease users But directing people on a much for Wearable Audio Navigation, or All the data are crunched by a buildings is possible. We're trying reluctant to have their ears cov­smaller scale -such as inside an SWAN, consists of a wearable computer in a backpack, which to show that given a map, we can ered. office -is a much greater chal­computer connected to a head­relays high-pitch sonar-like sig­show the blind how to get places." ''This is not intended to replace lenge. band packed with sensors that nals that direct users to their des­Like a sonar device, the SWAN a guide dog or a white cane," 
Locator equipment based on help sight-impaired users know tinations. It also works with a system sends out audible blips Walker said. "This just supple­Global Positioning System satel­where they are and how to get database of maps and floor plans that quicken as users move closer ments it." lites is accurate to about 10 feet where they're going. to help pinpoint each sidewalk, to a preprogrammed target and Besides university research, a -fine for drivers searching for Besides a pendant-sized wire­door, hall and stairwell. slow as they get farther away. handful of companies have tack­the next right turn but not for less GPS tracker, there are light Bruce Walker, an assistant psy­The sound of a hinge opening led the tricky business of helping pedestrians seeking a front door. sensors and thermometers that chology professor who helped plays as it passes by a door, and people navigate on a small scale. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 9, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Chase like a champion today 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Roberr Griffin 

NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kare Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: .Alejandro Gerbaud 
·OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574} 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.cDm 

The non-ESPN national media delights in chastising Division I colleges for their over-emphasis on the latter half of the phrase "student-athlete." These criticisms have ranged from a recent New York Times piece on the unbalanced spend­ing on athletic facili­ties at Rutgers University to the annual mockery of the pathetic gradua­tion rates of all top­25 football teams not named Notre Dame to the downright embarrassing class schedules of all for­mer USC quarter­backs named Matt Leinart. 
While many of these attacks on America's universities are undoubtedly merited, there is a crucial aspect of this lopsided treatment at "jock schools" that gets about as much press coverage as the war in Afghanistan. Yes, this devious system of unseen rewards for athlete-students is so sinister and mani­acal that even the lofty ideals of the utopian NCAA fail to acknowledge its existence. Like steroids in baseball before the late 1990s and the entire female gender under the Taliban, these things are known to exist but never spoken of, and, for the most part, ignored entirely by the authorities. 
I'm talking, of course, about jersey chasers. 
Defined by the always-reputable online Urban Dictionary as "a girl that only goes for guys on a certain sports team," these strumpets of the sidelines get their kicks not by watching an ath­letic competition and cheering for their peers. but by blatantly attempting to hook up with said peers after their game-day heroism has solidified their greatness in the eyes of the cheering thousands. 

At some schools, the primary activi­ties of these institution-of-higher-learn­ing Lolitas are purely sexual in nature. At the University of Miami -the Harvard of south Florida, if you will ­former football stars like Tavares Gooden, Darnell Jenkins and our own Greg Olsen achieved cult-sensation sta­tus for bravely exposing the lewd and disgusting activities that these jersey chasers often forced helpless athletes into doing in their pseudonymous "7th Floor Crew" rap. 
At other schools, these varsity-letter vixens are not always as libidinously motivated, and even waiting outside of a locker room with a plate full of baked goods or doing an athlete's laundry and homework on a daily basis are frequent forms of acceptable jersey chasing. 
Still, the mysterious and underhanded world of jock adulation does not end there. Perhaps the most disturbing cases of this obsession can be found in college classrooms, even at Notre Dame, where the most dogged and determined jersey chasers are not sit­ting at student desks wearing black mini skirts and red snakeskin boots. but standing behind podiums giving aca­demic lectures. Professors across cam­pus-and particularly in several ath­lete-loaded classes in the Mendoza College of Business -are famous for spending half an hour on Mondays and Fridays either praising players for their previous week's victories or gearing them up for their upcoming games. Some go so far as to bring in newspa­per clippings highlighting a star play­er's performance-as if these con­stantly glorified individuals did not already realize that Googling their names would yield more than four mil­lion results. 
Clearly, the fervor and passion with which these sport-star stalkers go about their business deserves greater acknowledgment than that which the traditional news media currently gives them. For that reason, the time has come for the NCAA to finally recognize jersey chasing as an official varsity sport. Perhaps then these adoring fans will at last be legitimized in the eyes of a cruel America who currently views them as the crud of the collegiate cos­
mos. 

Imagine: Scantily clad girls stepping across the mound of lost XXXL hooded sweatshirts on their apartment floors, reaching above their front doors, and slapping a gold "Chase Like a Champion Today" sign before they head out for a night of drinking at the athlete Mecca of Finnegan's. Sports reporters sending in their ballots every Sunday to decide which school's jersey chasers put up the most impressive numbers over the weekend. Replay officials analyzing a girl's pathetic pickup line to a basket­ball player from an upstairs booth, then throwing a yellow flag after determin­ing that "You can bounce your balls off my backboard any day" is an unaccept­able use of athletic sexual metaphor. 
Yes, when this great day arrives and legitimacy is at last restored to the recreational activities of these misun­derstood students (and professors), all of our lives will surely change for the better. 
I already know where I'll be: sitting at a table in Finnegan's, patiently awaiting my chance to become America's first jersey chaser chaser. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. He can be reached atifalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
·POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by pblicies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed w Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 24000) is published Monday through Friday c~teept during nam and YaCil(imt periods. A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 for Qne semmcr. 
The Observer is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall ~nd address cortttrions co: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Th< Oh>m-<r Periodical pouag..: paid.at Nou¢ O.amc: P.O.Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024: Somh Dining Hall 
Nor.tt Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The: Observer is a m~mbcr ofthe Associated Press, AU reproduo:ion rights .ue.
.
~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Joe Piarulli Kate Gales Laura Dan Murphy 
·1·;i 

"''ve always believed that ifyou put in the work, the results will come. I don 't do
Baumgartner Michael Bryan Are you following the 
is·llb';liD'.. ta,~eLtt r :er 
Steve Kerins Scene No. 1-rank.ed Notre Dame 
things half-heartedly. Because I know ifI
Viewpoint Cassie Belek 
do, then I can expect half-hearted 
women's soccer team? 
results."
Lianna 

1to the Ed1tor at 
Brauweiler 
Michael Jordan

Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
11 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
basketball player
')

Madeline Nies at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, October 9, 2006 page 11 
GUEST COLUMNIST 
Cruel, unusual and unethical 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Harry Blackmun, in his famous dissenting opinion of February 1994, expressed dismay over capital punishment in America's judicial system. "From this day forward," Blackmun wrote, "I no longer shall tinker with the machinery of death." Almost 20 Andrea years after the 1976 reinstatement Laldman of the death penalty in the U.S., Blackmun believed he was "morally Guest and intellectually obligated simply Columnist to concede that the death penalty experiment has failed.'' 
Yet 12 years later, as "the death penalty experiment" continues to prove a procedural and legal nightmare; Justice Blackmun's reference to capital punishment as the "machinery of death" has become literal. 
In April of this year, the execution of North Carolina inmate Willie Brown was monitored by machinery alone, with no supervision of assigned medical person­nel -a method of killing illegal to administer to dogs in all but two states. 
While 48 states maintain a veterinarian must be present at the euthanizing of an animal, a federal judge ruled that in North Carolina a man could be killed by lethal injection under the watch of a brain wave monitor. Both the manufacturer of the monitor­ing device and the American Society of Anesthesiologists protested the use of the device as a stand-alone means, insisting that its purpose was to assist anesthesia professionals rather than replace them. 
The debate is complicated by the reason for the absence of medical officials at executions. Medical codes of ethics, under the American Medical Association, prohibit doctors and other health profes­sionals from participating in executions -a position that makes a statement about morality and the death penalty. 
The ethics of medical participation in executions reveals one of the many complexities of capital pun­ishment in the U.S. In an effort to maintain ethics within the legal system, judges are increasingly calling for medical personnel to supervise executions. However, with medical ethics in mind, doctors and anesthesiologists assert that physicians are healers, not executioners, and therefore cannot participate in the administration of lethal drugs. 
If states, like North Carolina, feel they must pur­chase devices to carry out the death sentences of their inmates, can this punishment be considered ethical and humane? Medical codes of ethics aside, I believe that the reluctance of a state or a judge to employ any human being in taking the life of another person reveals the inherent aversion to killing that has been present as long as capital punishment itself. 
In recent months, states are stalling and abandoning executions due to a flood of lawsuits framing lethal injection, especially without a medical practitioner present, as a violation of the rights of a U.S. citizen. The execution of Joseph Clark in Ohio in May demon­strates some of the issues surrounding lethal injection that are currently being examined. Prison technicians had trouble finding a suitable vein through which to administer lethal chemicals to Clark. After multiple attempts, the lethal dose began, but minutes later Clark raised his head and said, "It's not working." Another vein was painstakingly located, and drugs administered, in an execution that lasted almost 90 minutes in all. 
As residents of the United States, we currently live in a nation that provides more humane treatment to dogs than to citizens imprisoned on death row, despite our position as a leader of international progress and jus­tice. In August, the United Nations Human Rights Committee issued a report recommending that the United States impose a moratorium on executions. While this UN statement bears no penalty or enforce­ment beyond international scrutiny, it does raise the 1966 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights as a document long endorsed by the United States. The United States' 1992 ratification of the treaty (a hard-law update of the 1948 Universal Declaration on Human Rights) included a number of reservations-notably, provisions on the death penal­ty. 
Similar to the ever-increasing presence of domestic campaigns against the death penalty, the U.N.'s rec­ommendation can do little more than appeal to law­makers and judges and request a closer examination of the procedural flaws and injustices of capital pun­ishment -an evaluation that can only fully be achieved through a moratorium. 
The current ironic reality is that it requires outra­geous mistakes and questionable rulings (such as the prolonged execution of Clark or the debate over Brown's machine-monitored death) to bring the insti­tutional injustices and problems of capital punishment in America under scrutiny. 
In working towards a moratorium in the state of Indiana, we can prevent additional, unnecessary injus­tices from occurring, and utilize already existing and sufficient evidence and research to confirm Judge Blackmun's 12-year-old stance that the death penalty has failed in the United States. 
Andrea Laidman is a junior political science and Peace Studies major. She is co-president ofNDASK, a new campaign against the death penalty. She can be reached at alaidman@nd. edu. This is the first in a three-part series ofcolumns examining capital punish­ment. 
U-WIRE 
Violence in schools out of hand 
During the course of the last week there have been three school shoot­ings. All have left innocent people dead, yet we are no closer to answers that might prevent similar tragedies in the future. How can Adrian we see these Martinez things coming? How can we 
Texas Tech

make schools 
University

safer? In retro­
Daily Toreador 

spect, police have found cause for concern in all of the perpetrators, but hindsight is always 20/20. What can we do now to stop this from hap­pening tomorrow? 
It's easy to see why schools make such easy targets. Sure, most schools and districts have strict policies requiring visitors and employees to wear identifying name tags. But such precautions can only work ifboth the teachers and the students are con­stantly vigilant about unauthorized people wandering in and out of the school. Such expectations are unreal­istic and virtually impossible to enforce. 
Schools are more like shopping malls than anything else. There are dozens of easily accessible entrances and exits, most of which are usually unlocked and unsupervised. There are hundreds, or sometimes thou­sands, of people roaming free in the hallways -a crowd large enough to easily hide in. But unlike shopping malls, the overwhelming majority of a school's occupants are children and young adults, easily intimidated vic­tims that will not fight back when confronted with a deadly weapon. 
It's difficult enough to try to keep a school safe from outside aggressors that might be looking for easy prey, but what about when the aggressors are among the very students you are trying to protect? Last Friday in Cazenovia, Wis., a school principal was killed by his own 15-year-old student. The student, Eric Hainstock, told police that he shot principal John Klang because he was upset for being reprimanded earlier that week. How are principals supposed to do their jobs, and occasionally cor­rect bad behavior, ifthey have to worry about these kinds of repercus­sions? 
I'm both lucky and unlucky enough to have public school principals as parents, and they've come home with some pretty incredible stories (although the most incredible ones tend to involve parents more than students). My father's first school administration job was at one of the most gang-infested high schools in San Antonio. You could say he's pret~ ty much seen it all. He's seen teenagers firing fully automatic weapons out of a moving vehicle's passenger-side window. He's seen the drugs. He's seen a gang-member's younger sister brutally murdered in crossfire. Yet he still went to work every day and did his best for the other students. He did what he could. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 6 edition ofthe Daily Toreador, the daily publication at Texas Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, October 9, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
El Gran Combo spices up evening at DPAC 
Salsa band energizes student-filled crowd with song and dance 

Photos by CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer Left, El Gran Combo entertains a relatively full audience with its energetic beats and flavorful salsa sounds. The group tours all over Latin America and made a spe­cial stop at the DPAC on Wednesday. Right, lead singers Charlie Aponte and Jerry Rivas sing and dance for the interactive audience. 
Maldonado on trumpet and Victor 
By LAURA MILLER 
Roderigues and Moises Nogueras on the Scene Writer 
trombones) created a big band classic atmosphere. The use of the conga Internationally acclaimed salsa band (Miguel Torres), timbales (Domingo El Gran Combo offered a lively and Santos) and bongos (Mitchell Laboy) stimulating performance at the modernized the music while allowing DeBartolo Center for the Performing the band to direct each song to embody Arts last Wednesday. the salsa culture. Also included on the El Gran Combo has rocked the world jam-packed stage were a piano (Rafael of Latin music ever since its formation lthier, musical director), alto saxophone in 1962. After the (Eddie Perez), saxophone release of its first (Freddie Miranda) and
El Gran Combo has
album in 1963, the bass (Freddie Riviera). group quickly rose in rocked the world of The three vocalists stature, touring all (Charile Aponte, Jerry
Latin music ever since 
over Latin America. Rivas and Papo Rosario)
its formation in I 962.
Despite a somewhat had strong, steady voices, constantly changing After the release ofits which only added to their membership, the band general likeability. Their
first album in I 963, the 
has managed to over­willingness and ability to
group quickly rose in 
come internal prob­connect with a much 
lems and continues to stature, touring all over younger audience -which produce good music. It Latin America. included taking song was awarded the requests -made the show "Agiieybana de Oro" especially enjoyable. 
prize in 1969, indicating its status as The three also had choreographed the best music group in Puerto Rico. dance moves that partially explain their Since then, it has continued to produce success in the entertainment industry. 
business was clearly evident in its abili­about seeing El Gran Combo, which was ty to produce a captivating perform­apparent in their participation. Not only ance. They successfully engaged a col­was the performance vibrant, but the lege-aged audience -a crowning Notre Dame students also reflected and achievement considering the young age intensified the energy coming from of the group itself. Many of El Gran onstage. During the first song, most of Combo's members are middle-aged or the students had stood up and were older, but the dancing by their seats. By the group had the second, most moved down in
Between the 

talent to bridge front of the stage, around the
top-of-the-charts

generational aisles and to the box seats in gaps and made performance from El order to show their salsa skills or the performance have a good time learning some
Gran Combo and the 

entertaining for moves.
energy from the

people of all Although most of the older ages. audience, Wednesday members of the audience This was very night was more like a remained seated throughout the well reflected in performance, it was apparent
party than just one of

the diversity of that they enjoyed watching the age in those the days before students dance. For the final attending the song, El Gran Combo requested
midterms. 

concert. Student everyone to join in the dancing. attendance is a The DPAC felt alive and electri­consistent problem at the DPAC. This fied. problem was partially remedied for El Between the top-of-the-charts per­Gran Combo's performance, because formance from El Gran Combo and the unlike other !WAC events, free tickets energy from the audience, Wednesday were available through several venues night was more like a party than just for students who took the time to pre­one of the days before midterms. El 
songs that top the charts. 
Considering the band's unique sound, its long-lasting success is less than sur­prising. An amazing conglomeration of vocal and instrumental talent embodies the spirit of the famous Combo. 
On Wednesday, its brass (Taty 
These days, it is unusual for popular music groups and singers to fully understand how to produce a good con­cert. Dancing is usually either distract­ing or barely enough to keep the audi­ence interested. 
El Gran Combo's expertise in show 
order -and the difference in atten­dance was astounding. While the DPAC was not sold out, there was a larger amount of students present than in many sell-out crowds. 
Beyond the numbers, the students in attendance were all extremely excited Gran Combo drew out Notre Dame stu­dents' love of dancing by letting the Latin music flow and added spicy flavor to an otherwise typical weekday evening. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 


Left, Aponte snaps to the rhythm as Miguel Torres beats the conga in the background. Aponte has been a vocalist with the band for more than 25 years. Right, Torres performs a solo on the conga. His beats contributed to the modernized sounds of El Gran Combo's salsa music, inciting movement throughout the audience. 
--~-~ --------~-~-----------'---'---' 

-----------------------------, 
NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, October 9, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 31, Stanford 10 
Win at the half 
Quinn throws three touchdowns to three receivers as Irish drop the Cardinal 

By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor  sacked five times. "We weren't able to make the plays we needed to make  to receiver Jeff Samardzija for the touchdown. It was the longest drive of the season for  a 15-yard pass from Quinn to senior Rhema McKnight to take a 14-3 lead into the lock­ with a 57-yard halfback pass from Kimble to junior wide receiver Kelton Lynn on the  
when we needed to make them  Notre  Dame  in  terms  of  er room. It was the fifth time  second  play  of the  fourth  
Junior  tailback  Darius  to keep it  a  closer game,"  yardage, plays and time.  in six games that Notre dame  quarter,  but  Notre  Dame  
Walker ran for 153 yards on  Stanford coach Walt Harris  The Cardinal responded with  has scored on its last posses­ answered with a 78-yard drive  
25 carries as No. 12 Notre  said.  a 71-yard drive of their own  sion of the first half.  to follow, culminating in a one­ 
Dame improved its record to  The  Cardinal,  who  have  that ended in a field goal by  "Every time we  go to [the  yard touchdown pass from  
5-1  with  a  31-10 win  over  struggled running the ball this  junior Aaron Zagory to make  no-huddle],  it  Quinn  to  tight  
Stanford Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. "It was a good team collec­ year, managed 72 yards on 38 car­ries, led by 64  "We weren't able to  the score 7-3 at the end of the first period.  seems like we make something happen," Quinn  "Every time we go to {the no-huddle],  end John Carlson. Carlson made a one handed, div­ 
tive effort," Walker said. "Everyone played really well, especially the offensive line. It was good day all around for  yards on 15 car­ries by junior Anthony Kimble. Stanford was 1­ make the plays we need to make when we needed to make  Neither team scored for most of the second quar­ter.  said. "It's not a 'go-to' thing for us, but we know when we use it  it seems like we make something happen."  ing catch for the score. "That was phe­nomenal. It was a  
us." As a team, the Irish rushed for a season-high 204 yards on 39 carries.  of-8 on third down for the game. Notre Dame converted  them to keep it a closer game."  "I was really pleased with that long meticulous drive to start the  we can be suc­cessful." Notre Dame extended its lead  Brady Quinn Irish quarterback  heck of a catch," Weis said of the play. "Of course, when he came to  
"I'd always like to call a game that's balanced 50-50," Notre Dame coach Charlie  7 -of-13 attempts. "That's where you win games  Walt Harris Stanford coach  game, but then they had a drive of their own,"  to 21-3 on the team's first possession of the third quarter, going 7 6 yards  the sideline I said, 'Two hands next time, please.'"  
Weis said. "It puts the defense  and that's where  Weis  said.  "It  on six plays. Walker scored  The Irish have  a  bye week  
in  a  mental bind when they  you lose games,"  seemed like  our  the touchdown on a  32-yard  next  week  before  playing  
know you can run or pass."  Harris  said.  "We've  been  offense kind of fell asleep after  run, his longest carry of the  UCLA at home Oct. 21.  
Irish  quarterback  Brady  struggl~ng  with [third downs]  that and there was kind of a  season.  "Getting a win before a bye  
Quinn completed  27-of-37  all years."  lull in the action."  The Irish added a  field goal  week is always good," Walker  
passes for 232 yards and three  The Irish opened the game  With the score still 7-3 with  with 1:02 left in the quarter  said. "You get to feel good  
touchdowns. His counterpart,  with a 17 -play, 91-yard drive  three minutes left in the first  with a 1 0-play, 4 7 -yard drive  about it for two weeks."  
Stanford signal-caller Trent  that took more than seven  half, the Irish switched to their  that included five rushes by  
Edwards was 7-of-13 for 68  minutes off the  clock  and  no-huddle offense and drove  Walker for 24 yards.  Contact Chris Khorey at  
yards.  Edwards  was  also  ended with a pass from Quinn  68 yards in 9 plays, capped by  Stanford got a  ray of hope  ckhorey@nd.edu  

player of the game stat of the game play of the game 

quote of the game 

"That was phenomenal. I thought the 
Victor Abiamiri 
9 

Rhema McKnight's touchdown 
ball was overthrown, to tell you the truth. Ofcourse when he came to theThe senior defensive end had three The number of tackles -five The wide receiver's touchdown recep­sidelines I said, 'Two hands, please.'" 
sacks and a tackle for a loss as solo, four assisted -made by 
tion with :29 seconds remaining in the Notre Dame shut down the Cardinal 
freshman strong safety Ray .first halfgave the Irish a comfortable 
Charlie Weis 
offense. 

Herring. 
II-point lead 
Irish coach 

--------------------------, 
page2 The Observer-+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 9, 2006 
report card 
A 
A­
8 A A 
A­A­
c 
8+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn had another solid per­formance. He completed 73 percent of his passes and threw three touchdowns. His yards weren't as important as the steady pace he brought to the offense. 
running backs: Walker started slow but 
wore down Stanford to the tune of 150 
yards. Prince and Aldridge also saw 
some action, but Stanford did enter with 
the worst rush defense in the country. 
receivers: Despite a few drops, Samardzija, McKnight and Carlson all had touchdowns. But Quinn's 6.1 yards per attempt show the receivers weren't getting open deep. 
offensive line: Quinn was sacked just once, and Weis called it a "cover­age sack." Notre Dame also ran the ball for 220 yards, the team's best total of the year. 
defensive line: Notre Dame's lineman collected five sacks, led by Abiamiri's three. Landri and laws stuffed the mid­dle, and Frome and Talley played well on the right end. Stanford gained just 
2.3 yards per attempt on the ground. 
linebackers: Joe Brockington once again played a solid game as Travis Thomas' backup. Maurice Crum played well against the run, and Trent Edwards did not find many receivers over the middle. 
defensive backs: Mike Richardson is qui­etly becoming a shut-down corner, and Terrail Lambert played well for the third straight week. Edwards passed for just 68 yards, and Stanford's only touchdown came on a hallback pass. 
special teams: George West made good decisions on punt returns and Ryan Burkart had two touchbacks. But Darrin Walls misplayed the opening kickoffand a holding penalty cost a big kickoffreturn. 
coaching: Weis worked the clock and pound Stanford with the rushing game. The strategy started well on the opening drive, had a few hiccups in the second quarter and then put the Cardinal away. 
3.48 
overall: Notre Dame didn't stomp all over Stanford but did a good job at keeping the game out of reach. 
adding up the numbers 
Times under Charlie Weis the Irish have scored over 30 points -out of 18 total 
14 

games. 
The first time since 1998 Notre Dame has started a season with this record.
5-1 
The time of possession for the Irish on their opening drive -the 
7:10
longest of the season. 
Stanford's time of possession on a 14-play, 71-yard drive that
6:35 
ended in a field goal -the longest by an opponent this year. 
Interceptions by Terraillambert in the fourth 
2 

quarter, the first two of his career. 
32 
length of Darius Walker's third-quarter touchdown run -his longest run of the sea­
son. 

Sacks recorded by the Irish -three by Victor 
5 

Abiamiri-for aseason high. 
2 
Tmes this season the Irish have scored a touch­
down on their opening drive. 


Charlie Weis brought one thing with him two years ago. One thing that's more important than his Super Bowl 
rings, his big playbook or his talented coach­ing staff. It's the one thing that ensured Notre Dame of a win over Stanford and 

assured those in the stands 
Mike Gllloon 

that they didn't have to suffer 
Sports Writer 

from frayed nerves or chewed finger­nails as they filed out of Notre Dame Stadium Saturday evening. 
That one thing is confidence ­the belief that Notre Dame doesn't have to worry about losing to Stanford anymore. 
The Cardinal was less talented, less motivated and not as prepared as the Irish. In between dropping passes and playing asphalt to Victor Abiamiri's steamroller, Stanford managed to get run over by a Notre Dame team with no time for 0-5 football teams. 
It wasn't always this way. Back in 2004, Notre Dame was fresh off a huge upset of Michigan, a road win over Michigan State and a blowout of Washington. Former coach Tyrone Willingham and the Irish looked like they were on their way toward a successful sea­son as they awaited that week's game with Purdue. 
Forty-one points and four Kyle Orton touchdowns later, Notre Dame had suffered its first home loss to Purdue in 30 years and saw its season take a nose dive. It had caved in front of 80,000 home fans to a team with less talent but a better coaching staff. It had failed to execute and forgot how to tack­le. It did everything this year's Notre Dame team doesn't do. 
Against the Cardinal, the Irish played smart. They didn't throw interceptions. They didn't make many mental errors. And, except for one fluky double pass, they didn't give up a big play. 
Weis deserves credit for keeping the team focused in the face of a winless PAC-1 0 opponent and a tempting fall break. He and Quinn are the biggest reasons for Notre Dame's success-that's obvious. 
But there's another guy that shouldn't be forgotten. The guy who does nothing spectacular and nothing wrong -Darius Walker. 
Notre Dame's tough, spunky run­ning back squirted, scratched and strained for every inch of his 198 total yards of offense against the Cardinal. That's with no runs over 32 yards and none of his six recep­tions going for more than 14. 
Everything Walker gets he earns. 
It didn't matter Saturday if Jeff Samardzija or Rhema McKnight were covered-Walker was usu­ally open a few yards away from Quinn for nice little five-yard pick­up. 
It didn't matter if the offensive line opened a hole -Walker churned out at least a little room. 
It didn't even matter if a Cardinal defender laid a big hit on No. 3-Walker wasn't going to fumble. 
Without Walker, maybe Stanford would have pulled the upset. It's unlikely, but if Cardinal receivers would have come up with a few more grabs and if Notre Dame made a few miscues, the outcome could have been different. 
Of course, give credit to Weis. The Irish came out focused and made sure the more talented team won the game -a completely dif­ferent performance than the one two long years ago against Purdue. 
Just don't forget about Walker. 
Because, in calmly grinding out 153 unspectacular yards on an early October afternoon, he moved the Irish one step closer toward a pretty spectacular game in early January. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer +-IRISH 'INSIDER page'3 
Abiamiri devours Cardinal passers 
Senior defensive end torches Cardinal 0-line for second straight year 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Stanford quarterbacks can breathe 
a little easier knowing that Victor 
Abiamiri has faced them for the last 
time. 
In Notre Dame's final regular sea­
son game last season, the 6-foot-4, 
270-pound senior defensive end 
recorded four sacks against Stanford 
-as many as he had recorded in all 
10 games up to that point. 
A year later, Abiamiri once end 
again performed well against the 
Cardinal, collecting three sacks and 
two quarterback hurries in the 31-10 
Irish triumph Saturday. 
"He turns into a pass-rushing 
demon when we-play against 
[Stanford]," Irish coach Charlie Weis 
said after the game. 
But Abiamiri said "nothing in par­
ticular" about the Cardinal spurred 
his strong play. Instead, he said, he 
was determined to put forth a fierce 
effort because of Notre Dame's 
upcoming bye week. 
"Knowing we had a bye coming up, 
I just wanted to leave it all on the 
field," he said. 
Stanford coach Walt Harris is 
relieved that his team will not have to 
face Abiamiri again because the line­
man is due to graduate at the end of 
the year. 
"I just think he's a good football 
player," he said. "He can't wait to 
play us -that's what it looks like." 
But for Abiamiri, last week was 
more important than last year. 
A week after Notre Dame failed to 
sack Purdue quarterback Curtis 
Painter as he threw for 398 yards on 
46 attempts, Abiamiri and the Irish 
defense never allowed Stanford sig­
nal-caller Trent Edwards to feel com­
fortable in the pocket. 
"Getting to the quarterback was 
definitely a point of emphasis for us 
this week," Abiamiri said. 
Abiamiri served as Notre Dame's 
defensive leader with seniors Tom 
Zbikowski and Travis Thomas 
injured. His front four set the tone for 
the rest of the defense, which surren­
dered few big plays after Stanford 
drove for a touchdown on its first 
possession. 
"The line's playing great," defensive 

tackle Trevor Laws said. "We got challenged by Coach Weis and we've really picked it up." 
The defensive front responded to that challenge, registering five sacks and hounding Edwards throughout the game. 
"It wasn't a big blitz day today, and I thought that [the line] had sustained good pressure on them, on the quar­terback, for most of the day," Weis said. 
The front four was also responsible for squashing a fourth quarter Stanford drive that would have given momentum and a trace of hope back to the Cardinal. 
Trailing 31-10 with just over five minutes remaining in the game, Stanford left its offense on the field to attempt a conversion on fourth-and­two. Several Irish linemen won their one-on-one battles, and tackle Derek Landri was the first to sack Edwards. 
"Once the defensive line gets after them, you can sense the other team gets their rhythm thrown off," Abiamiri said. 
Abiamiri, who now has five sacks this season and 16 for his career, said he realized that he and the rest of the defensive front needed to set the tone for the Irish, especially since the sec­ondary has been weakened by injuries lately. Along with starters Zbikowski and Thomas, cornerback Ambrose Wooden was also sidelined Saturday. 
Weis said this game could help Abiamiri springboard into a strong second half of the season. 
"We might just try to get him to see a psychologist and see if we can put an S on all these helmets we're going against," he quipped. 
But Abiamiri is not fully satisfied with the way his teammates played. 
"We have yet to play our best game," he said. "It was a good day. But I'm going to evaluate the film tomorrow and find some things wrong with the way I played." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
•

scoring suiTIInary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  7  7  10  7  31  
Stanford  3  0  0  7  10  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Stanford 0 
Jeff Samardzija 8-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 7:50 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 17 plays, 91 yards, 7:10 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Stanford 3 
Aaron Zagory 19-yard field goal with 1:15 remaining. Drive: 14 plays, 71 yards,6:35 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 14, Stanford 3 

Rhema McKnight 15-yard reception from Quinn with 0:29 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 9 plays, 68 yards,2:26 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 21, Stanford 3 
Darius Walker 32-yard run with 9:25 remain­ing. (Gioia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 76 yards, 2:32 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Stanford 3 
Gioia 35-yard field goal with 5:50 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 46 yards, 4:30 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 24, Stanford 10 
Kelton Lynn 57-yard reception from Anthony Kimble with 14:27 remaining. (Zagory kick) Drive: 4 plays, 80 yards, 1:35 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Stanford 10 
John Carlson 1-yard reception from Quinn with 
9:12 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 12 plays, 77 yards, 5:15 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 226 rushing yards -,;, 72 


passing yards 

Zbikowski sits after Purdue 'late hit' 
Weis files complaint with Big Ten conference over knock to safety's helmet, Thomas sits also 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame strong safety and captain Tom Zbikowski did not play in Saturday's 31­1 0 win over Stanford after suffering a shoulder injury returning a punt against Purdue Sept. 30. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said he complained to the Big Ten conference about the play, which he described as a "late hit." He said Zbikowski was hit in the helmet on the play but he did not have a concussion. 
"I just didn't feel he had total strength back," Weis said. "I think he· could have played but I wanted to all I could to save him so he can be back after the two weeks off." 
Weis said Zbikowski, who was dressed for the game and walked out for the coin toss with fellow captains Brady Quinn and Travis Thomas, wanted to play. 
"Zibby, I know, will he never tell me the truth when it comes to how he's feeling," Weis said. 
Injury bug bites 
Several other injured play­ers did not see action Saturday. Weis said line­backer Travis Thomas, cor­nerback Ambrose Wooden and kickoff specialist Bobby Renkes could have played but were held out for precau­tionary reasons. 
In addition, offensive tackle Paul Duncan did not dress for the game due to illness. 
"All those guys were pretty close to being able to play, but I thought I'd bite my lip and see if I couldn't buy some extra time, which for­tunately worked out okay," Weis said. 
Even if he expected the game to be close, Weis said, he "still would have [erred] on the side of caution." 
Aldridge sees first playing time 
Freshman tailback James Aldridge saw his first colle­giate action Saturday, rush­ing for 25 yards on four car­ries. 
Aldridge had been expect­ed to contribute right away for the Irish, but missed the first five games of the year with a knee injury he sus­tained in spring practice. 
"I thought it was a good idea to get him in there, get his feet wet, and let him get tackled by the bad guys for a change," Weis said. 
Aldridge had carries of -1, 5, 10 and 11 yards. 
Fellow first-year running back Munir Prince also saw increased playing time, get­ting six carries for 21 yards including a career-long 11­yarder in the first half. 
Nineteen freshmen saw the field for the Irish, including seven at once on Notre Dame's last offensive posses­sion. 
End of half efficiency 
Notre Dame used its no­huddle offense to score a touchdown with a 9-play, 62­yard drive on its last posses­sion of the first half. It was the fifth time in six games that the Irish have scored on the last drive before half­time. 
The only game Notre Dame in which hasn't scored right before the half was Purdue Sept. 30. 
Coin Toss 
Stanford won the coin toss but deferred the option to the second half. Notre Dame elected to take the ball and now have received the open­ing kickoff in every game this year. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

I 

39-204  rushes-yards  31-72  
27-38-0  comp-att-int  10-18-1  
3-117  punts-yards  5-171  
0-0  fumbles-lost  0-0  
4-37  penalties-yards  7-47  
29  first downs  14  

passing 

Quinn 27-37-0 Edwards 7-13-0 Samardzija 0-1-0 Ostrander 2-4-1 
rushing 

Walker  25-153  Kimble  15-63  
Aldridge  4-25  Gerhart  6-28  
Prince  6-17  Ostrander  1-11  
Quinn  4-9  Nnoli  1-1  
receiving  

Samardzija Walker Carlson McKnight  7-50 6-45 6-38 5-62  Lynn Yancy Dray Kimble  4-86 3-30 2-19 1-19  
tackles  

Herring  9  Okwo  12  
Laws  8  Lofton  11  
Crum  7  Snyder  10  
Ndukwe  6  Sims  7  
Abiamiri  5  Hooper  7  
Brockington  5  Osaisai  5  
Landri  5  Udofia  5  
Richardson  4  Harrison  4  
Bruton  3  Egboh  3  
Price 3-117 OHovegio 5-171 


punting 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 9, 2006 

CARDINAL SEE RED 
Notre Dame scored a touchdown on its opening drive for the second time this season and never relinquished the driver's seat. Brady Quinn threw three touchdown passes and Darius Walker rushed for 15 7 yards as the Irish offense tore through the Cardinal defense for 436 total yards. Victor Abiamiri sacked Trent Edwards three times as the defense limited Stanford to a first-quarter field goal and a fourth-quarter touchdown. 


Photos by JENNIFER KANG, PHIL HUDELSON and TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer 
Top left, Stanford safety Trevor Hooper barely misses out on an interception. Top right, Notre Dame running back Darius Walker makes a cut and finds an open lane in the second quarter. Center, Cornerback Darrin Walls is brought down by Hooper on a kickoff return. Bottom left, Irish wide receiver Rhema McKnight drops a Brady Quinn pass. Bottom right, Cardinal quarterback Trent Edwards is sacked by Victor Abiamiri, Ray Herring and Joe Brockington. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 9, 2006 
page 13 

By SHELDON DUTES and LESLIE 
SHUMATE 
Scene Writers 
This is the true story of a group of subur­ban teenagers picked to dress well, engage in staged melodrama and have their lives taped to fmd out what happens when tele­vision stops being "scripted" and starts getting "real." 
In 1992, MTV and Bunim/Murray Productions made television history when they launched one of America's first reality television series, "The Real World." Compared to the popular sitcoms and prime time soap operas that dominated television during the early 1990s, "The Real World" was innovative and ground­breaking. 
However, as MTV became a teenager, its reality programming became less socially conscious and more of a perpetual Spring Break in Cancun. While now dominated by series such as "Laguna Beach" and "My Super Sweet 16," MTV reality was once good -and "The Real World" led the way. 
To produce "The Real World," a camera crew rigged a house and taped its seven diverse occupants as their interpersonal relationships evolved. While the camera crew documented the roommates' behav­ior, the production crew interviewed them to cultivate potential story lines. After sev­eral months of taping and interviews, the footage was edited into half-hour weekly installments for MTV's target audience. 
Aside from its novel production scheme, "The Real World" was also innovative in its content. Young adults -not actors ­from diverse backgrounds dealt with con­troversial issues of race, religion, politics and sexuality in a raw, unprecedented manner. From race debates in season 1 to accusations of rape in season 2 to the death of an openly gay HIV positive cast mate, Pedro Zamora, in season 3, viewers were constantly exposed to contemporary issues. 
However, somewhere between the early season's groundbreaking episodes and Teck's naked escapades in the first episode of Hawaii's season the show took a sharp turn -arguably, for the worst. Long gone were the average-looking cast members with compelling stories to share. They were instead replaced by promiscuous, attractive airheads who desired nothing more than to have their 15 minutes of fame. 
While 'The Real World" still deals with such contemporary issues as eating disor­ders, sexuality and aleoholism, these prob­lems have been clouded by its cast mem­bers' salacious behavior and melodrama. All of the show's meritorious attempts at social commentary are often overlooked or hard to find amid the hot tub hook-ups show's central character and the "girl we love to hate." 

Audiences remained faithful to the show throughout its first two seasons, despite that its "documentary-style" filming seems more scripted than reality. Many situations seem altered and contrived with thorough editing. Nevertheless, MTV producers and executives firmly defend the authenticity of their documentary, acknowledging only minor interference on behalf of produc­tion. 
Following the success of "Laguna Beach," MTV created the spin-off, "The Hills," which chronicles Lauren's new life in Los Angeles. The reality show, which premiered in May 2006, follows Lauren as she attends the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising and works as an intern for "Teen Vogue." 
While "The Hills" highlights the new aspects of Lauren's life, it also integrates old components of her "Laguna Beach" days. Lauren's ex-boyfriend, Jason, reemerges as a main character when he surprises her by moving to L.A. The show's plot is refocused around Lauren and Jason's rocky relationship, which becomes the main allure to audiences. 
"The Hills" is similar to "Laguna Beach" in many aspects, but it lacks the spark that made "Laguna" so popular. While Lauren's new life provides fresh and more interest­ing situations that relate to an older audi­ence, the comparatively smaller east of 'The Hills" limits the number of subplots that made "Laguna Beach" so irresistible. 
The saving grace of the show is the audi­ence's pre-invested interest in its protago­nist, Lauren. As viewers follow her through the ups and downs of early adult­hood, they share in her embarrassment, and binge drinking. 
As much as "The Real World" was a rev­olutionary series in its fledgling years, it has sent the rest of American television ­especially MTV -down a slippery slope. Due to the success of "The Real World," reality series have saturated the network's lineup and continue to cheat their audi­ences out of wholesome entertainment. 
Reality television has marred MTV. Instead of attempting to make social com­mentaries through documentary-style filming, MTV has opted to focus on the lives of melodramatic suburban teenagers in television shows like "Laguna Beach: The Real OC," "The Hills" and "My Super Sweet 16." 
In 2004, the success of FOX network's "The O.C." led MTV executives to adapt the hit show into their own reality series, "Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County." The show documents a group of gorgeous, wealthy, Orange County teenagers throughout the course of a year. Viewers are privy to the backstabbing and heartache that characterize the lives of these privileged adolescents. 
The first season focuses mainly on the heated love triangle between Stephen Colletti, Kristin Cavallari and Lauren Conrad. The gossip, feuds and juicy love triangles that pervade the show's plot made "Laguna Beach" an immediate suc­cess. 
The show's second season keeps most of the same characters while introducing some new ones. Most of the same dramatic situations and relationships· continue into the new season, but one noticeable alter­ation in the second season is the shift in the show's narration from Lauren to Kristen. Accordingly, Kristen becomes the heartache and shining moments 
while witnessing decisions that 
make them want to pull out their 
hair (namely, Lauren's decision to 
rent a beach house with Jason 
rather than work in Paris for the 
summer). 
The next step in the digression 
of MTV reality shows is its cre­
ation of "My Super Sweet 16." The 
series features subjects that are 
spoiled and narcissistic, lifestyles 
that are unrealistic and memo­
rable quotes such as, "Stop telling 
me the world doesn't revolve 
around me because today, it 
does!" Overall, "My Super Sweet 
16" cannot relate to its audience 
-the original hallmark of reality 
TV. Yet, viewers are still intrigued 
by the over-the-top lavishness and 
colorful characters. 
Each episode follows a privi­
leged teenager who plans and 
attends her 16th birthday party. 
The show begins with an introduc­tion of the featured teenager as she takes the cameras on a tour of her hometown, mansion and her designer-packed closet. Viewers accompany the bratty birthday girl as she hands out invitations, previews the hall and shops for the perfect dress. Predictably, her favorite rap artist and a brand-new Mercedes show up as surpris­es. An average "Sweet 16" can cost upwards of$100,000. 
It is clear that "My Super Sweet 16" has completely deviated from any resemblance of reality. However, MTV has successfully ascertained what its target audience wants to watch -how the other half lives. Riding on the success of such shows as "The O.C." and "Laguna Beach," MTV aims to expose the lives of the young, beautiful and wealthy. Viewers don't want to watch the reality that they live everyday -they want drama and extravagance. This is the type of "reality" that "My Super Sweet 16" and other MTV reality shows now present to an eagerly accepting audience. 
Regrettably, this type of reality television has established itself as a main staple in this network's lineup of shows. While some of its documentary shows, like "True Life," have some merit as reality series, the net­work has digressed tremendously from the innovative documentary-style genre that started it all. The new wave of MTV reality may be a passing fad, but for now, the net­work has forced viewers to sacrifice music entertainment and personal edification. 
Gone are the early days of "The Real World." Lauren and Kristen will make sure they never return. 
Contact Sheldon Dotes at sdutes@nd.edu and Leslie Shumate at lshumate@nd.edu 


,. 
Photo courtesy of mtv.com 

The triplets throw an $80,000 "Sweet 18" after never having a "Sweet 16." The trio spends the entire jealousy-filled episode bickering and trying to upstage one another. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 9, 2006 
NFL 

After consecutive losses, Jaguars pummel Jets 
Manning leads Colts' escape, Giants shut down Redskins offense 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -The Jacksonville Jaguars must have been in a hurry to end their two­game losing streak. 
The Jaguars scored touch­downs on four of their first five possessions, quickly rebounding from consecutive losses and beating the New York Jets on Sunday. 
Maurice Drew ran for two touchdowns, Fred Taylor added another and Byron Leftwich capped the fast start with a 1­yard TO pass to George Wrighster. 
The Jets (2-3) provided plenty of help along the way. 

Chad Pennington threw two interceptions that Jacksonville (3-2) turned into touchdowns, Ben Graham had a punt blocked that resulted in a score and two questionable roughing the passer penalties made it even worse. 
The result was exactly what the Jaguars wanted after losses at Indianapolis and Washington. The offense, almost nonexistent in the second half against the Colts, came up with several big plays against New York's woeful defense. Jacksonville's defense, embarrassed after giving up 481 yards and 36 points to the Redskins, clamped down on Pennington & Co. 
Pennington finished 1 0-of-17 for 71 yards. He was picked off three times and sacked three times. His friend and former col­lege teammate fared much better in their third meeting. Leftwich was 9-of-20 for 140 yards and two touchdowns. 
Leftwich had the better sup­porting cast, too. Taylor ran 21 times for 111 yards, and Drew added 59 yards. 

Colts 14, Titans 13 

Peyton Manning has mastered 
the great escape. 

Now the Indianapolis Colts 
want to make things a little easi­
er for their quarterback. 

For the third straight week, the two-time MVP led Indianapolis on a late touchdown drive, this time throwing a 2-yard touch­-down pass to Reggie Wayne with 
5:10 left to give the Colts a victo­ry -and avoid Tennessee's improbable upset bid Sunday. 
"You can't end up relying on that, falling back on it," coach Tony Dungy said. "We've just got to play better and I think we 
will." 

Manning used an unorthodox 
strategy, scoring twice on touch­
down runs, to beat Jacksonville 
and the New York Jets the previ­
ous two weeks. 

Against winless Tennessee (0­
5), Manning used a more conven­
tional method. He connected 
with Marvin Harrison and Wayne 
for second-half scores that ral­
lied the Colts from a 10-point 
deficit. The win kept the Colts (5­
0) unbeaten and in control of the AFC South, even if it was far from perfect. 
Manning fmished 20-of-31 for 166 yards with one interception. When it mattered most, Mr. Reliable pulled another one out. 
Giants 19, Redsklns 3 

Don't write off the New York 
Giants' defense just yet. For that 
matter, don't write off the 
defending division champions, 
either. 

Shrugging off intense criticism and the always treacherous bye week, the Giants rediscovered the team that won a division title a year ago. For at least a week, New York also renewed its own hopes that this team is still capa­ble of big things. 
Michael Strahan and the much-maligned defense limited Washington to 164 total yards, and Eli Manning threw a touch­down pass and set up three of Jay Feely's four field goals with long passes to lead the Giants to a victory over the Redskins on Sunday. 
"It's something to build on," Strahan said after the Giants (2­
2) dominated Washington (2-3) in every phase in their first game since tight end Jeremy Shockey said New York was outcoached in a loss to Seattle. "It's some­thing to get excited about. It's about we time we came out as a team and defensively played the way we're capable of playing. We just went out there today and played good football." 
The victory was only the Giants' fourth in 18 post-bye week games. It snapped a five­game skid in the week after the bye and was only their second in the last 11 post-bye games. 
Even $49 million linebacker LaVar Arrington made a rare big play Sunday, knocking down and almost intercepting a screen pass by Mark Brunell. 
Saints 24, Buccaneers 21 

With a few waves, Reggie Bush beckoned the crowd to its feet as he awaited a critical punt. Soon, he would have all of them in ecstasy. 
Shut out of the end zone in his first four games as a pro, Bush 

AP 
Jaguars safety Gerald Sensabaugh ( 43) blocks Jets punter Ben Graham's punt in the second half of Jacksonville's 41-0 victory over New York at Alltel Stadium Sunday. 
took the punt 65 yards with under five minutes to lift the New Orleans Saints to a victory over Tampa Bay on Sunday. 
Bush escaped the Buccaneers' initial pursuit by scampering across the field to his right, then accelerating quickly as he cut upfield, leaving several defend­ers grasping for air as bedlam erupted in the Louisiana Superdome. He pointed at the fans in the end-zone seats as he scored. 
"When you see Reggie take those high steps, you know he's bound to make something hap­pen," Saints defensive end Charles Grant said. "I knew he was gone." 
The celebration was interrupt­ed briefly while referees sorted out a flag thrown against the Buccaneers, then fans jubilantly chanted "Heg-gie! Reg-gie!" as the score was made official. Bush was hugged by numerous team­mates as he made his way back to the sideline. 
Panthers 20, Browns 12 

Keyshawn Johnson sneaked off to the side of the tunnel, got onto his knees and genut1ected as Julius Peppers was introduced to the crowd before the game. 
It was fitting, because Peppers and the Carolina defense bailed out the offense Sunday. 
Peppers had a sack, forced a fumble and hit quarterback Charlie Frye five other times, and Hichard Marshall returned an interception for a touchdown as the Panthers beat Cleveland Sunday, even though Johnson and Steve Smith failed to have big games against the Browns' banged-up secondary. 
"Steve and I were using the restroom and as we came out, the team was already on the field," Johnson said. "We were stuck in the tunnel, but I thought maybe we should go out with them. So I thought we would go out there and mess with him and praise him." 
For good reason. Coming into the game tied for the league lead with five sacks, Peppers was a nightmare for Frye, who was 26­of-43 for 173 yards and two interceptions, the last by Mike Minter that iced it. The Browns managed only four field goals by Phil Dawson. 
Vikings 26, Uons 17 

Trailing by 14 points to start the fourth quarter against hap­less Detroit, somebody on the Minnesota Vikings had to put the ball in the end zone. 
The offense sure wasn't having much luck, so the defense took over, delivering an effort that would make the old Purple People Eaters proud. 
The VIkings scored two defen­sive touchdowns in the fourth quarter to rescue the struggling offense, turning a 17-3 deficit into a victory. 
"Every time we take the field, we try to score or get the ball back," defensive coordinator Mike Tomlin said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Rental Homes for Sale in good con-45 minutes from Notre Dame 2 rooms in private home FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­
dition_ Make $100 to $400+ per Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round w/separate entrance for football ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­
month per home. Own up to 19 cabins sleep six_ Call Lumberjack weekends. TICKETS 2378_
WANTED 

homes with little money down with Resort 269-646-2181. Shared bath. 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. good credit. Call Kathy w/Preferred Close to ND. Travel with STS to this years top 10 FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-0964 
Flexible schedules. no exp_ need-Properties at (574) 292·8177 or HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 57 4-259-8603. Spring Break destinations! 
ed, customer sales/service. condi-email PreferredSB@ aoLcom 2-6 Bedrooms Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep Need UCLA tix. Call816-560·2856. 
tions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today www.NDstudentrentals.com Undergrad/grad student (1), turn, commissions. Visit 
574-273·3835. clean 3 room apt. close to ND, www.ststraveLcom or call 1-800­Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Quiet wooded setting. 648-4849. PERSONALS Fbaii,Sr Dad.JPW,Grad,B&G; Minimal domestic assistance, Great group discounts. 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-SEMESTER-Spring/Summer. If preferred, will reduce rent. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do
FoR SALE 

.... pus homes & weekend rentals. Mike:312-618-4722 272-6377. WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-not go it alone. If you or someone Home for Sale: 531 W. Angela near Bluegoldrentals.com 1570 you love needs confidential support ND, $98,500. 2 BR w/den,base-Home for Rent: 3 BR,garage, Rooms for rent for football or assistance, please call Sr_ Sue ment,garage. Call Barb Weekend rental: 3 BR Home. walk McKinley Terrace. $775 month, weekends. WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819_ For more Foster,ReMax 100 (574)968-4208 to stadium, Terrace Ln_ 269-930-lease, no pets. Broker Owned. 574· Close to campus. TOP DOLLAR PAID_ NOBODY information, see our bi-weekly ad in or (574)271-0111. 8038. swmient@qtm_net 968-4208 or 574-271·0111-Call 574·243·0658. WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. The Observer. 
FoR RENT 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 9, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB 
team 

1 Ohio. State{63} 6~0 
2 Rotida e.o 
3 usc 5•0 4 Michigan .6·0 5 west VIrginia (2) .. 5~0 · 4 6 Texas 5~1 :>l:'i''.. 7 Louisville 5·0 .. . an 8 Tennessee 54 13 9 NOTRE DAME 5·1 . J2 10 California 5-1 1(117 .:, 1~ 
.. 943. 2
11 Au bum 5-:1> 
12 Clemson ~J :876 1ll 
13 GeorgJa TeJ:b 5·1 ' 739 •.····:.:: : 13 
14 LSU 4•2 693 . 9 ~61 > ,,,,. 19 '' 
15 Iowa 54.·. 16 Georgia 5~1 .6Ul 10 482 NR
17 Arkansas H 
r· ·:· 
18 Dragon 4·1 474· '"11 19 Missouri 6-0 
20 Boise State 6·0 ::······· ··~~··::···· i·.. : 
21 Nebraska 5~1 431 22 
22 Virginia teth 4-1 360 21> 
23 Oklahoma 3·2 
24 Rutgers 5·0 
25 Wisconsin 5~1 

NCAA Football USA Today Coaches Poll 


potnts previous 
·,::t:' 
AP
2. 

Cardinals first baseman Albert Pujols, right, celebrates with second baseman Ronnie Belliard after scoring on a triple
5 '" .:.4 :: 

by outfielder Juan Encarnacion in St. Louis' series-clinching 6-2 win over San Diego Sunday. 
Cardinals finish off Padres in NLDS 
1 2 
3 
4 5 6 
7 
8 
9 10 11 12 
13 
14 15 
16 17 
18 
19 20 21 
22 23 24 25 
1 
2 3 
4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 
11 12 
13 
14 15 
team 
Ohio Slate {62} 
usc 
Florida (1) West Virginia Michigan Texas Louisville NOTRE OAME Tennessee Auburn California Clemson Iowa 
Georgia Georgia Tech LSU Virginia Tecb Oteonn 
record 
6-0 5•0 6·0 5·0 6·0 .5"1 5·0 fH 
5·1 
54 
5-1 
5~1 
s.;t 54 54 
Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -Just like last year, the St. Louis Cardinals breezed by the San Diego Padres and into the NL championship series. 
Chris Carpenter recov­ered from a shaky start for his second victory of the series, Juan Encarnacion hit a tiebreaking triple and the Cardinals beat the San Diego Padres 6-2 Sunday night to win their best-of­five first-round NL playoff 3-1. 
St. Louis nearly wasted a seven-game lead in the final two weeks of the sea­son but rebounded against the Padres, a team they swept in the first round in 2005. Escaping trouble in each of the last two innings, the Cardinals sealed the win when Adam Wainwright got Dave Roberts on a ground­out with two on, with Albert Pujols stepping on the first-base bag for the final out. 
Back in the NLCS for the third straight year, the Cardinals open the next round Wednesday night at the New York Mets, who won the season series from St. Louis 4-2. While the Cardinals won the NL pennant in 2004 before getting swept by Boston, the Cardinals lost last year's NL championship to Houston in six games. 
San Diego manager Bruce Bochy, whose team won the division for the second straight year, dropped to 1-9 in the post­season against the Cardinals, who also swept the Padres in the opening round in 1996. The Padres were 2-for-32 (.063) with runners in scoring position in the series. 
Carpenter, who won Tuesday's opener 5-1, fell behind 2-0 in the first inning when he walked Russell Branyan with the bases loaded and Mike Cameron followed two pitches later with an RBI grounder. 
But that was all the NL West champions would get off him. Carpenter got Josh Barfield to hit into a forceout and followed with six innings of shutout, five-hit ball, leaving him at 2-0 in the series with a 
2.02 ERA. Because Cardinals manager Tony La Russa pitched him Sunday instead of saving him for a possible fifth game, he likely won't be available until the third game of the NLCS. 
Ronnie Belliard, 6-for-13 in the series, tied it in the bottom half with a two­run, two-out single against Woody Williams. The game stayed tied until the four-run sixth. 
Boise Statit .. ·.:· .c:::: .::,....:::•::.. 
Nebraska Mmouri Oklahotna 
team 
Ohio State (112} USC(1) . Florida {1) Michigan West Virginia Texas Louisville Tennessee NOTRE DAME Auburn California Clemson Iowa 
Georgia Georgia Tech 
record 
6..0 
6..0 
5..0 
6..0 5..0 
5·1 5·0 5,1 5·1 5·1 54 5·1 
5·1 4•2 5-1 

2$99 :·.::.:···:/:¥·••.\}.,,•••,:.:,· 2557 
IN BRIEF 
2434 
2246 

Loaiza to start Game 2 for
2181 

A's against Detroit
.1959 

Ten of Oakland's top decision mak­
1917 .. 1728 

ers held a closed-door meeting in the . 1712. 
manager's office Sunday and cast ...14!19 . 
their votes on who should start for ... 1244 
the Athletics in Game 2 of the AL 1150 
championship series -Rich Harden .... ·. 1084. 
or Esteban Loaiza. The tally: Harden 5, Loaiza 5. Loaiza won the tiebreaker based 
on his health, recent results and reli­ability. Harden has only pitched 
three times since missing more than three months with an elbow injury. 
around the dial 
As expected, the A's named left­bander Barry Zito the starter for Game 1 on Tuesday night in the Coliseum against the wild card Detroit Tigers, who lost the ALDS
NFL 

opener before rallying to win three 
Baltimore at Denver 

straight and eliminate the New York 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

Yankees on Saturday. 
"There was a lot of debate," gener­al manager Billy Beane said. ''I'm not sure there was a clear answer." 
Vickers steals crucial win 
from contenders 
Brian Vickers isn't allowed to attend Hendrick Motorsports team meetings. 
Now he might not even be allowed in the building. 
Vickers stole his first Nextel Cup vic­tory Sunday by nudging teammate Jimmie Johnson into race leader Dale Earnhardt Jr., then skirting by the two spinning cars on the last lap at Talladega Superspeedway. 
It robbed what looked to be a victo­ry for Earnhardt and a solid chance for Johnson to resurrect his fading Nextel Cup title hopes. And it certainly spoiled what should have been a crowning moment for Vickers, who has just six races left in his Hendrick ride before his impending defection to a Toyota team. 
"I got into Jimmie and I hate it," Vickers said. "The last thing I wanted to do was wreck either one of those guys, but what happened, happened." 
Ochoa earns first LPGA 
win in native Mexico 
Mexican star Lorena Ochoa won her first LPGA Tour title in her home country Sunday, closing with a 4­under 69 to hold off Julieta Granada and Paula Creamer in the Corona Morelia Championship. 
Ochoa, who never trailed after shooting a course-record 64 in the second round Friday, won for the fourth time this season to tie Karrie Webb for the tour lead. The 24-year­old Ochoa finished at 20-under 272 on the hilly, Jack Nicklaus-designed Tres Marias course, five strokes bet­ter than Granada. 
Granada, the 19-year-old up-and­comer from Paraguay, shot a 71. The 20-year-old Creamer had Sunday's best round, a 65 that left her third at 14 under. 
Ochoa began the round three strokes ahead of Granada, but things got a bit tense after Ochoa bogeyed the 161-yard, par-3 third hole. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 9, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Huskies fail to runfinal play, lose to Trojans 
Tennessee topples Georgia with second-half surge, Georgia Tech holds offMaryland, Jvavy beats Air Force in thriller 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -No. 3 Southern California held on again and resurgent Washington came up just short of its biggest victory in years. 
John David Booty threw for 243 yards and a touchdown, Mario Danelo kicked four field goals and the Trojans outlast­ed underdog Washington 26­20 on Saturday. 
The Trojans' last loss at the Coliseum was to Stanford in 2001, when current Washington coach Tyrone Willingham was the Cardinal coach. And Willingham, in his second season trying to rebuild a once-great program that won only three games the past two seasons, nearly pulled it off again. 
USC scored the first time it had the ball and never trailed, but the game wasn't decided until the final play. 
The Huskies (4-2, 2-1) had moved from their own 20 to threaten in the closing moments. Isaiah Stanback completed a 19-yard pass to Sonny Shackelford to get Washington a first down at the USC 15 with 2 seconds left and the clock stopped to move the chains. 
Officials huddled before spot­ting the ball and finally start­ing the clock. Then before Washington could get a play off, officials signaled the game was over. 
Danelo's final field goal, a 21-yarder with 1:34 remain­ing, gave the Trojans (5-0, 3-0 Pac-10) some room after Stanback's 6-yard touchdown pass to Johnie Kirton had 
closed the gap to 23-20 with 
10:06 left. 
A week earlier, USC had escaped with a 28-22 victory at Washington State when the Trojai}S intercepted a pass on their 3-yard line on the final play. 
Despite the narrow victories, USC could move up in the polls -No. 2 Auburn was upset 27­10 by Arkansas earlier Saturday. USC routed the Razorbacks 50-14 in Arkansas in the season opener. 
No. 13Tennessee 51 No. 10 Georgia 33 
Erik Ainge and Tennessee shredded the nation's stingiest defense, becoming just the sec­ond team to put up 50 points on Georgia between the hedges. 
Ainge threw for two touch­downs and ran for another to lead the No. 13 Volunteers to a wild victory Saturday night that defied the norm in the defensive-minded Southeastern Conference, which had three Top-10 teams lose on the day. 
Arian Foster scored three times for Tennessee (5-l, 1-1 SEC), all on 1-yard runs. The Vols piled up 383 -yards and 27 first downs, going a perfect 6­for-6 scoring TDs each time they got inside Georgia's 20. 
The lOth-ranked Bulldogs (5-l, 2-1 SEC) went down to the same fate as No. 2 Auburn, knocked off by Arkansas 27­10, and No. 9 LSU, which lost 23-10 to fifth-ranked Florida. The Bulldogs hardly looked like a team that was allowing a nation's-best 6.8 points per game -only 34 all season. 
Tennessee scored more points than that in the second half, finishing with the second­most ever by a visiting team at Sanford Stadium. Only Florida, which won 52-17 in 1995 dur­ing the height of Steve Spurrier's Fun-n-Gun offense, scored more points on the Bulldogs in Athens. 
No. 5 Florida 23, No. 9 LSU 10 
Florida doesn't have a quar­terback controversy. It's more like a quarterback coalition. 

Backup quarterback Tim Tebow threw two touchdown passes, including one on a play that could have came from basketball coach Billy Donovan's playbook, and ran for a score to give the fifth­ranked Gators a win against No. 9 LSU on Saturday. 
"You've got to be creative in this league;" Gators coach Urban Meyer said. 
Florida improved to 6-0 for the first time since 1996 -the school's lone national champi­onship season -and extended its home winning streak to 13 games. 
The Gators (4-0 Southeastern Conference) also beat the Tigers for the first time in three years and won their 18th straight homecom­ing game. 
Tebow made it look relative­ly easy. 
The highly touted freshman, who teams with starter Chris Leak to give Meyer maybe the nation's best quarterback combo, ran nine times for 35 yards, including a 1-yard plunge on fourth down that evened the score at 7 in the first quarter. 
major upset of the college foot­ball season look easy. 

With a swarming defense and unstoppable tailbacks, the Razorbacks knocked off No. 2 Auburn in a stunningly one­sided victory Saturday that rearranged the top of the rankings. 
Arkansas (4-1, 3-0 Southeastern Conference) entered as 15-point underdogs and left with the SEC West lead. 
"We want people to respect us," said tailback Darren McFadden, who ran for 145 yards and a 63-yard touch­down against a defense that hadn't allowed a TD on the ground all season. 
"We came out here with the mentality that we were going to earn that respect." 
Auburn (5-l, 3-1) becomes the first top-1 0 team to lose to an unranked opponent this season, a huge blow to its national title hopes. The Tigers leave with questions about a defense abused for 279 rush­ing yards and an offense that totaled 213 yards. 
"They beat us to the punch on both sides of the ball," Tigers coach Tommy Tuberville said. "We've got to find ways to get it done, espe­cially at home. We're disap­pointed but this is not over. This was the first half of the season." 
Navy 24, Air Force 17 
A late stand by Navy's defense and the inside-outside rushing attack of Adam Ballard and Brian Hampton guided the Midshipmen to a Force games, this one went down to the wire. Air Force, trailing 24-7 midway through the fourth quarter, pulled to within a touchdown with 3:06 left and recovered the onside kick. · 


win  over  Air  Force  on  
Saturday.  
Like  all  recent  Navy-Air  

However, the Midshipmen defense held as Rashawn King broke up a pass by Shaun Carney to Victor Thompson on a fourth-and-6. 
Navy (5-1) takes its first step toward retaining the Commander-in-Chief Trophy, given annually to the best of the three service academies. Navy has won three straight. 
Navy's senior class is one step away from becoming the first in school history to go 4-0 against both Air Force (2-2) and Army. All that stands in the way is a win over Army on Dec. 2. 

Hampton bounced off Falcons tacklers all afternoon, rushing for 105 yards and two touchdowns. His 1-yard touch­down dive in the second quar­ter marked the sixth straight game he's scored. It's the fifth­longest streak in the nation. 
Ballard had 27 carries for 134 yards, all on fullback dives. 
For a change of pace, the Midshipmen gave the ball to Reggie Campbell, who had 58 yards. 
The last three Navy-Air Force games have been decid­ed by three points, but this one 
No. 18 Georgia Tech 27 Maryland 23 
Chan Gailey already knew his Georgia Tech team was tal­ented. 
Against Maryland, he learned something else just as important. 
"This football team has a lot of character," he said. 
The No. 18 Yellow Jackets rallied with 13 fourth-quarter points behind Tashard Choice and Reggie Ball, then survived a last-minute scare to beat Maryland Saturday. 
"These guys in here know that they didn't play their best," Gailey said. "We were very fortunate to win the foot­ball game, and it says a lot about our character, in my opinion." 
A mistake-prone Georgia Tech trailed Maryland 23-14 through three quarters, show­ing little resemblance to the team that won at Virginia Tech last week. 
Tech rallied for the lead with fourth-quarter touchdown runs by Ball and Choice, but then came another stress test. 
Maryland's Sam Hollenbach completed a 57-yard pass to Darrius Heyward-Bey for a first down at the Georgia Tech 7 with a minute left. Backup defensive end Michael Johnson saved the Yellow Jackets by sacking Hollenbach on third and fourth downs. 
Johnson, a 6-foot-7, 250­pound sophomore, had only one sack for the season before the two big plays. 
Arkansas 27, No. 2 Auburn 10 
Arkansas made the first 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 
htn0~MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXVII 
' BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

DBPARTME.NT Ol' MUSIC ADMISSION FRH; OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 

9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11, 2006 

Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray leads Belles to fourth-place finish 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Megan Gray built upon her strong season this weekend, fin­ishing s.econd overall at the Eagle Invitational. Her effort was part of the reason the Belles finishd fourth overall in the event, held in lisle, Ill. and host­ed by Benedictine College. 
The six-kilometer race ran through scenic lisle Community Park. The race featured 23 women's teams and 25 men's teams. The women's first-place team was Division-! Northern Illinois. The individual first-place finisher was Goshen College's Petrana Petkova, who came in at 
22:45.5 minutes. Gray finished with a time of 
23:18.6 to lead the Saint Mary's squad. Sara Otto was 19th over­all, coming in at 24:45.0. 
Megan McClowery finished with the 27th best time of 
25:15.3. Alicen Miller was 41st with 26:02.2 and Caitline Stevenson clocked in at the 26th minute, with a 26:34.6 -good for 48th overall. 
Rounding out the Saint Mary's finishers were Kelly Biedron and Emily Gr_af. Their placements went down to the wire. Beidron captured 52nd place with 
26:44.9 minutes, and Graf recorded a 26.47.7 minute finish. 
The total team score of 137 put Saint Mary's behind Northern Illinois, Goshen and St. Joseph's. The Belles were the only participant from the MIAA conference. 
The total team time was 125:58, good for a Belles aver­age time of 25:12. 
The strong showing at the Eagle Invitational follows a 17th overall team finish out of 33 teams at the Sean · Earl Lakefront Invitational. Saint Mary's was fifth overall at the first MIAA Jamboree of the sea­son on Sept. 23. 
Next up for the Belles is the Manchester College (Ind.) Invitational, starting at 8 a.m. on Oct. 14. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Fulls ahead. 
We remove the barriers, so you can accelerate your career. We've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we're recognized for our inclusive culture that expects everyone to contribute and everyone to grow. Stop just long enough to visit us on campus, or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE~ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
Quality In Everything We Do 
MEN'S GOLF 
ND will playhost this week 
After three weeks off, Irish welcome 12 teams to Gridiron Classic 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
The Irish will host the Gridiron Golf Classic today and tomorrow on a course they know very well -their own. 
After finishing ninth in a field of 12 at Minnesota's Gopher Invitational Sept. 17, the Irish hope to rebound with a strong showing at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
The 12-team field includes four squads ranked among the top 50 by Golfweek, including No. 28 Lamar, No. 31 Florida State, No. 44 Augusta State and No. 49 Vanderbilt. But even though these teams are ranked high­er than Notre Dame, Irish coach Jim Kubinski believes that his team has a distinct edge. 
"The home course gives us a big advantage," he said. "[This is true] in golf, even more so than other sports." 
Senior co-captain Cole Isban agreed and said playing at Warren is a significant bene­fit. 
"It's a huge plus to know the course," he said. "Realistically, I think that this week we have a good chance to win." 
Kubinski said he hopes his team can record one of the top three scores for two rounds of play. 
"If you get in the final group Tuesday, there are 18 holes to go and anyone can win," he said. 
The Irish are very balanced, Kubinski said, optimistic that his team will be able to remain near or on top of the leader board throughout the event. Senior Adam Gifford, the team's number five player, holds the lowest stroke aver­age at Warren. 
While the Irish will be on their own course today, they understand the possibility of the three-week break affect­ing their play in this tourna­ment. 
"The problem is we're not tournament-sharp," Is ban said. "Hopefully, we aren't too unsettled out there." 
Teams will play two rounds of 18 holes each today, with the opening round teeing off at 9:15 a.m. The second round will begin within an hour of the conclusion of round one. The third and final round will be held tomorrow morning. 
The Irish are eager to return to competition in the only event they will host this season. 
"We're excited to be close to school," said lsban, who will play in his final home tourna­ment. "We're looking forward to having some fun." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 9, 2006 

I..· 


n ncer*
• 

n 1sseur 

Learn more about Xavier Flores and tell us more about you. Visit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 

*connectedthinking 

t} 2006 ~t~ LlP. All ri!)hts ~~-tiC. 'Prlc;;wat~~">p$'$· rol-ers to f'r~W.:\1~ lt.P {.;t fle!;w.iilft> tm!t«l ~ ~~ <IS 0-.e ~ ~-~ Pncewat~.«>pe~s global netw011< or ome. rr.-oo>t'6f firms of tna ~ 9i!oCh cl ~., IS a $E>plltat., l:ind ~!$gal efflity_ ~~.sa tx~ Gl pr.;.__~-s U.P (US). "Wt= are proud to c-e an Affumativ~ .A;;:;ti..-.n and E.QUQl Opwrtunitv Emp~oy,.;.-_ 
Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOCCER 
Hinton takes down Olivet 
Saint Mary's scores two late goals to come from behind Saturday 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Senior captains Colleen Courtney and Ashley Hinton both scored clutch second­half goals in a come from behind victory against Olivet Saturday. 
The 3-2 win boosted the Belles to second place in the MIAA with a 3-1 conference record. 
Saint Mary's has now won three of its last four games, bringing the team's overall record to 4-6. 
The hot streak dates back to a 2-1 victory over Alma College Sept. 26. In that time the Belles have cemented themselves as a legitimate contender in the conference with wins over Kalamazoo, Alma and Olivet. 
After falling behind early in the second half, Saint Mary's took control of the game and clawed their way back. 
Courtney scored her first goal of the season in the 64th minute on a pass from Hinton. 
Hinton found the net herself 10 minutes later on a shot from over 30 yards out. The midfielder lobbed it over the head of Comets goalie Shane Brady to regain the lead for good. 
Hinton also started the scor­ing for the Belles with 15 minutes remaining in the first half. Like the game-winner, she was unassisted on a long shot. 
Her five points in the game put the senior in first place in the MIAA in that category. She also leads the conference with four assists and is tied for the lead in goals with three. Hinton also caught her sister Lauren Hinton with six goals on the season including non-conference play. 
Olivet sophomore Megan Reardon answered less than three minutes after to tie the score at one going into the half. The goal was her first of the season. 
Senior Kristin Dickinson started off the second half with another Comets goal 
when she received a pass from Katie Wolf and buried a shot in the top right corner of the net out of the reach of goalkeeper Laura Heline. 
Heline finished with four saves as the Belles defense was able to hold Olivet to 12 shots -only six of which were on net. And the defense, which struggled early, seems to be coming together at the right time. 
Saint Mary's offense also turned out a strong perform­ance in Saturday's game. The team out shot the Comets 14­12 including nine shots from sophomore forward Lauren Hinton. Hinton put eight of her nine on net but wasn't able to get one past Brady for her seventh goal of the sea­son. 
The Belles play Hope College Saturday in another MIAA matchup. The Flying Dutch are 3-6-2 in 2006, and they are still searching for the first victory in the conference. 
No members of the team were available for comment following the game. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees· of the program 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes-Healy 
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2006 SAME TIME AND PLACE 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 
For Academic Year 2007-2008 
Fall2007 and Spring 2008 
Applications-available: www.nd.edu/"'intlstud 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish cruise to easy vvin at Dennis Stark Relays 
ND sets four records, scores 264 points in weekend domination 
By DAN MURPHY Spores Writer 
The Irish picked up where they left off last season with a dominating victory in the Dennis Starks Relays at the Rolfs Aquatic Center Friday night. Notre Dame blew the competition out of the water, outscoring all five other teams by at least 100 points. 
The team racked up 264 points by winning 11 of the 13 relays. The next closest school, 
. Oakland College, registered 158 points to sneak past Ball State and he should really help us out this year," Tallman said. 
The fifth meet record came from diving duo sophomore Michael Bulfin and junior Sam Stoner. Their synchronized div­ing score of 244.20 placed them in the record books. The pair -who each received All­Big East honors last year ­also combined for 643.35 points in the diving relay to win that event for Notre Dame as well. 
The most impressive streak of the night came when the Irish swimmers rolled off seven con­secutive first-place finishes starting with the 800-yard freestyle relay. Sophomore transfer Jeff Wood joined fellow sophomore Daniel Lutkus and juniors Jay Vanden Berg and Rob Seery to finish in just 

by two points for "We just wanted to under seven second place out minutes.
give every guy a
of the six teams "We are pretty in South Bend. chance to race in that deep now," "We just want­environment before Tallman said. ed to give every "We have been
we got started with 
guy a chance to able to bring in 
our dual meets. '' 
race in that more quality environment guys over the before we got Matt Tallman years which has started with our made each relay 
Irish assistant coach 
dual meets," assistant coach Matt Tallman said. "It worked out well, and we were pretty happy with the results." 
The 200-yard freestyle team of Louis Cavadini, Tim Kegelman, John Lytle and Ray Toomey started the season off with a victory with a record­setting time of 1:25.46. The race was one of five record­breaking. performances for the Irish in the meet. 
The swimmers also set new marks in the 400-yard butterfly relay (3:23. 76), 400-yard back­stroke relay (3:28.36) and the 400-yard freestyle relay (3:07.01). Toomey, a freshman, was on three of the four relays in his collegiate debut. 
"We are expecting [Toomey] to keep doing more of the same and just work hard everyday 
a little bit 
stronger." 
Vanden Berg and Seery also finished off Notre Dame's streak with a win in the 1000­yard freestyle race. They raced to any easy victory, finishing 20 seconds ahead of Ball State's Kyle Hembree and Ben Karwoski. 
Oakland College, the only other club to win a race, stopped the hot streak with a win in the 200-yard medley by beating out the Irish team by less than a second. 
The win was Notre Dame's 1Oth in the past 11 years at the Dennis Stark Relays. The annu­al meet has been held in South Bend for 38 years, and the Irish have been the top squad in 22. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Students 
FlvCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to:  Sample Fares from Chicago to:  
Washington DC $151  Rome  $367  
New York  $202  Barcelona  $384  
$202  Melbourne  $1188  ··.-.-;:.......  

I C:• StudentUniverse.com 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 9, 2006 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take care of business 
Saint Mary's collects first win over Alma since 1999 
The Belles improved their wins. We are in the home 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD record to 13-6 overall and 6-4 stretch with some tough
Sports Writer 
in the MIAA conference. matches ahead of us. We just 
need to take things one game 

Two big conference matches Saint Mary's 3, Alma 0 at a time and finish strong." for Saint Mary's led to two For the first time since the Alma fell to 8-10 overall and league wins this weekend 1999 season, Saint Mary's 5-5 in the MIAA conference. against Olivet Friday and Alma posted a win Slupczynski Sunday. over Alma­recorded a 
Olivet provided little chal­and did so in "We are in the home stretch double-'dou­lenge until the final game. The a convincing ble with a
with some tough matches 
Belles knocked off Olivet 3-0 fashion with match-high (30-14, 30-17, 30-26) Friday a 30-21, 30-ahead ofus. We just need to 1 7 kills to go evening. 25, 30-15 vic­take things one game at a with her 16­
Senior outside hitter Kristen tory Sunday dig effort. 
time and finish strong."
Playko was on fire with 15 afternoon. Playko kills. She was aided by senior The Belles played libero Anne Cusack, who con­snapped their Julie Schroeder-Biek another tributed a match-high 29 digs. 13-match los­Belles coach strong game 
"Well. we ended the week on ing streak posting a a very positive note in terms of against Alma double-dou­conference play," Belles coach and improved their record to ble with a 16-kills and 18 digs Julie-Schroeder-Biek said. 14-6 overall and 7-4 in the performance in the win. "Beating Olivet and Alma in conference. Cusack, the MIAA leader in three-game sets each was "We are pushing hard to digs, tallied 24 in the winning something accomplish effort. that we real­"Beating Olivet and Alma in our goal of The Belles will take on ly needed at being a host another conference foe, Hope
three-game sets each was
this point in site for the College, Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. the season." something that we really MIAA tour­at Saint Mary's. Freshman needed at this point in the nament," Saint Mary's will honor sen­outside hitter ,, Schroeder­iors Carpenter, Cusak and
season.
L o r n a Biek said'. Playko at the game. Slupczynski "At this Hope is second in the MIAA added 11 Julie Schroeder-Biek point, we conference with a 7-1 MIAA digs to the Belles coach have three record, and Saint Mary's win. teams stands at fourth after the 
The Belles H o p e , weekend's action. played superbly against Olivet, Adrian and 'us -all with who is now 0-9 in the MIAA seven wins behind Calvin, who Contact Samantha Leonard at Conference and 0-18 overall. is undefeated and with 10 sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Freshmen Dan Kissel, Ryan Thang and Kyle Lawson got their first career starts Friday. Fellow first years Kevin Deeth and Brett Blatchford also saw playing time. Kissel and Thang scored goals. 
"The things that are impor­tant [for fresh­men] are, num­ber one, under­standing the game, number two, competing, and number 
"The doors were open all "The things that day, but I under­stand there was a
are important [for 
compressor prob­

freshmen] are, 
lem," Jackson 

number one, said. "Some of the machinery
understanding the 
broke down. This 

game, number two, 
place is gettingcompeting, and too old." Sophomore left
number three, 
wing Garrett

skating skills. I 
Regan extended saw a lot of the Irish lead to positives tonight. ,, 3-0 5:07 into the 
second period with Notre 

Jeff Jackson 
Dame's first 

Irish coach even-strength score of the young season. 
sophomore Jeff Cutter. 
Cutter fared no better than his predecessor. Less than five minutes later, Irish defenseman Dan VeNard took a pass on the right side and chipped the puck over Cutter's pad to give Notre Dame a 5-0 advantage. 
Kissel scored his first colle­giate goal with a little over a minute left in the second peri­od, punching home a rebound on an Irish power play to put Notre Dame up 6-0. Five minutes into the third period, Thang intercepted a pass and beat Cutter for his first goal in an Irish uniform to extend the lead to 7-0. 
Barely a minute later, Notre Dame was up by eight on White's first Irish goal. 
With 9:40 left in the game, Notre Dame scored its ninth goal on power play shot by Kissel. The score resulted in the second goalie change of the night for the Lancers, who brought in junior Kris Gabriele. 
Thursday's contest with the Mavericks will begin at 7:30 in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Wins 
continued from page'24 
primary goals. I know we have a lot of tough matches ahead of us, but it's a good start." 
Junior captain Adrianna Stasiuk led the Irish in kills with 28 for both games and tallied 31 digs, including a 20-dig match against Marquette. 
"She is our best all-around player," Brown said. "Both matches this weekend, I think she's leading with a lot of confidence, a lot of passion and just being very competi­tive." 
Notre Dame is now 9-0 and 
14-1  all-time  against  
Marquette  and Syracuse,  
respectively.  

Notre Dame 3, Marquette 1 
The Irish beat the Golden Eagles (7-9, 3-2 Big East) 30­17, 30-17, 21-30, 30-24 in a match prior to the pep rally Friday. 
The score was tied at 1 7 in the third game, before back­to-hack blocks allowed Marquette to put together a 

THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
presents 
FORMER PRESIDENT OF HONDURAS 
Ricardo MaduroJoest 

New Democracies, Poverty, and Governance 
-A PUBLIC LECTURE 
Monday, October 9, 2006 at 6:00 pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
OKELLOGG INSTITUTE 
kcllogg.nd.cdu 
five-point run for an 18-24 lead. After a kill from sopho­more Mallorie Croal and blocks from both Croal and freshman Justine Stremick, Marquette scored four more points to seal the game. 
Marquette recorded six unanswered points to begin the fourth game. With Marquette leading 12-10, a kill from Stasiuk kicked off a six-point run that would put Notre Dame ahead for the rest of the game. Croal's ninth kill of the evening gave Notre Dame its fourth Big East vic­tory. 
Notre Dame came out strong at the beginning of the first game, establishing an 8­3 lead early. A 5-l run that ended with a Stasiuk kill closed the first game. 
Trailing 12-5 in the second game, Marquette took a time­out to reorganize. 
Immediately following the timeout, a kill from freshman Megan Fesl reversed the game's momentum. Another Fesl kill ended it. 
Stasiuk, who led with 13 kills and was second with 20 digs, recorded her 11th dou­ble-double of the season and scored six service aces. Senior Danielle Herndon led the team with 23 digs. The dominant offensive perform­ance also benefited from seven kills from Stremick -a hitting percentage of .538. 
Notre Dame 3, Syracuse 0 
The Irish defeated the Orange (7-17, 1-4 Big East) 30-25, 30-22, 30-23 in a matinee sweep that saw freshmen Serinity Phillips and Fesl each put on 11-kill per­formances. 
Phillips had three kills and one block for a point in a back-and-forth third game, and Fesl added several cru­cial kills to end a late Orange comeback. 
"The whole match Serenity played really, really well," Brown said. "She's obviously our best blocker. She hit very efficiently and smart. I think she was our most consistent player throughout the day today." 
The two teams exchanged the lead numerous times in the first part of the third game and Syracuse called its final timeout with the Irish leading 21-19 to regain its composure. Instead, Notre Dame came out of the timeout with the momentum and went on a 9-2 run to take the match. 
Phillips had kills on the 23rd and 26th Irish points before Notre Dame took the game point on a ball hit out of bounds by the Orange. 
"The girls were really talk­ing to me, and first of all the passing was there, the set was there," Phillips said. "We were meshing really well." 
Syracuse took a 13-11 lead halfway through the third game, but the points were taken away when it was ruled that the Orange served out of rotation. The call reversed the Syracuse run and knotted the game at 12 apiece. 
A Stasiuk kill ended a first game that had been close until the Irish went on a nine­point run after the score became 12-10. 
Stasiuk put away the second game as well with another kill against the Syracuse defense. 
Notre Dame will next play Friday against DePaul at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu and Devin Preston at dprestol@nd.edu 

Hat trick 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame's starting goalie, made eight saves in two peri­ods before he was replaced by sophomore Jordan Pearce. 
count in the stats because the contest was an exhibition. 
Jackson said the ice quality was poor Friday due to the relatively warm weather out­side, a football luncheon ear­lier in the day and a mechani­cal problem in the Joyce Center's cooling system. 
three, skating skills," Jackson said. "I saw a lot of positives tonight." 
Sophomore Justin White also scored his first goal in an Irish uniform, but it won't 
Just a little over a minute later, the Irish crashed the net on a rebound, and Condra put in his third goal of the night. Kalleitner was pulled immediately after in favor of 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 9, 2006 
from 12 yards out. Rellas has assisted on the first Irish goal
Hoyas 
in three consecutive games. continued from page 24 Georgetown responded in 
the 30th minute when for­about its performance has ward Ricky Schramm changed. received a pass from Daniel 
"We've played all year, but Grosso, eluded Irish goal­we're just taking our _chances keeper Chris Cahill and now," Clark said. "This team deposited the ball into the deserves a lot of credit for net. believing in themselves and Schramm's goal was the their teammates. A lesser first scored on Cahill in 342 team would have folded and minutes, who has allowed lost confidence, but things only four goals in his nine seemed to have games since defin­turned right for "My only concern itively assuming us." the team's starting
right now is 
Notre Dame did­goalkeeper
Michigan State. 
n't wait long to responsibilities open the scoring We're taking it one Sept. 10 against Saturday as senior game at a time.,, DePaul. Cahill's forward Justin record on the sea­McGeeney gave son stands at 8-2­
Bobby Clark 
the Irish the lead 1. in the 13th Irish coach "Confidence and minute. It was calmness are the McGeeney's fifth goal of the best things to describe season, but his first since he [Cahill]." Clark said. "He's scored Notre Dame's lone goal been there before, and he against Cincinnati Sept. 17. knows what he's doing. A 
The play started when soph­goalkeeper needs to have a omore rnidfielder Cory Rellas calming effect on the defense, slotted a through ball ipto the and Chris's experience gives path of an onrushing him a calmness." McGeeney, who fired the ball Notre Dame didn't wait long into the corner of the net to respond to Georgetown's goaL Less than five minutes after the Hoyas tied the game, Lapira gave the lead back to the Irish as he one-timed a low hard cross from freshman Justin Morrow into the net. 
"Our opening 25 minutes were as good as we've played all year, so for them to get their goal took a little wind out of' our sails," Clark said. "To get one back quickly helped a lot." 
Lapira would double Notre Dame's lead in the 60th minute ol'f a misplay from Georgetown keeper Joe Devine. Irish defender Jack Traynor sent a long ball towards the lloya penalty box, but Devine's clearance rebounded off Lapira, who proceeded to collect the ball and deposit it into the empty net. 
Lapira, who entered the game leading the nation with 15 goals, now has 17 on the year. 
Senior co-captain Greg Dalby scored Notre Dame's final goal when he headed a Lapira corner kick into the corner of the net. It was Dalby's second goal on the season. 
Notre Dame will return to 

action this Wednesday at home when it plays Michigan State at 7 p.m. The team has just four regular season games remaining, but Clark refuses to look too far ahead. 
"We're obviously getting 

better every day, but my only concern right now is Michigan State," Clark said. "We're tak­ing it one game at a time." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Irish win. to put together another produc­tory over Santa Clara seven national championship then I'll Hanks' two first half goals tive performance for her team. games ago, creating four shots, dance," he said. 
Solidify 
marked the most the Irish had "It's just awesome not only to though none found the net. + Sunday's game, which was continued from page 24 scored since netting six during score but to win," she said. Waldrum said he was pleased played before just over 3,000 a 9-0 win in the "Just for our team with her play considering the people, was the last regular rnent. season opener to succeed and for time she has missed. season horne game for the Irish. "As long as we're winning, against Iowa us to keep winning Buczkowski capped the scor­Notre Dame has four more reg­
''As long as we're 
that's all that's important right State. keep being num­ing in the 66th minute, placing ular season games before the
winning, that's all 
now," she said. Eighteen min­ber one, we want an upper shelf shot over the Big East and NCAA 
Waldrum said he was utes in, Bock that's important to continue having reach of the keeper from 18 Tournaments, both of which impressed by Rutgers and received a pass right now. ,, this number one yards out. might include contests at expects to see the team again in from senior mid­ranking, so when it Alumni Field. the conference tournament. fielder Jill comes to lthe tour­Notes: + The Irish will return to 
"They'll be right there at the Krivacek just out­Kerri Hanks nament] we can + Among the Goshen-led action next week, traveling to end in the Big East standings," side the 18-yard Irish forward play at home as cheers were chants for various UConn on Friday and he said. box. With her long as possible." people to "do a dance," which Providence on Sunday. 
The Irish outshot the Scarlet back to the net, Freshman mid­included the entire Irish team Knights 31-3 and had 10 of Bock danced around her fielder Courtney Rosen saw her after the game. Despite an invi­Contact Chris Khorey at those shots on target to defender and found Hanks first action since suffering a foot tation, Waldrum refused. ckhorey@nd.edu and Tim Rutgers' none. Since allowing a screaming down the left side injury in Notre Dame's 3-1 vic-"I told them if we win the Dougherty at tougher@nd.edu 
score against West Virginia Sept. 29, the Irish have allowed just two shots on goaL 
"[Our back four have] really started to gel and come togeth­er," Waldrum said. "I don't keep tracks of streaks or shot totals, but I know our keepers haven't had much to do in the last cou­ple of games." 
Senior defender Christie Shaner credited the defensive success to chemistry. 
"A lot of that comes from the great leadership that we have in the back," she said. 
Sophomore forward Brittany Bock opened the scoring for Notre Dame, taking a centering pass from Hanks and drilling it past Rutgers keeper Erin Guthrie in the 35th minute of the first half. 
Early in the second half, jun­ior forward Amanda Cinalli extended the lead to 2-0. Taking a similar pass from Hanks, she blasted a shot into the corner barely three minutes after the break. 
Although the Irish scored con­siderably less than the five goals they had put up in their previous two contests, Waldrum was happy with the offensive effort against a Scarlet Knights squad that had allowed just four goals all season corning into the rnatchup. 
"You worry about these Sunday games, being tired, but I thought we played with great energy today," he said. 
Notre Dame 5, Seton Hall 0 
Hanks helped No. 1 Notre Dame jump ahead of Seton Hall early with two first half goals before adding another score and an assist en route to an before smashing a low left-foot­ed shot past Pirate keeper Amanda Becker for the first score. 
"The last week and a half we've been working with [Bock] on [playing with her back to the goal]," Waldrum said. "She's just so good at holding the ball. You saw it on the first goal how she screened her player. She made a great play to get Hanks in there." 
Krivacek hooked up Hanks six minutes later, sending a ball just between two Pirate defend­ers that the forward tracked down and slipped underneath a charging Becker. 

Given Notre Dame's second biggest first-half lead this year and a boisterous crowd of 3,000 plus, the game was never in doubt. In addition to a strong show of support from O'Neill Hall, the Irish received a boost of noise from Goshen College men's soccer coach Tavi Mounsithiraj and his players, who brought drums and organ­ized chants to energize the crowd. 
It certainly energized Hanks, who added her third score of the game and an assist minutes into the second half. 
In the 55th minute senior rnidfielder Jen Buczkowski sent a cross to the back post, where Hanks put a leg on it and redi­rected it just inside the near post. Minutes later, Buczkowski crossed another gem to Hanks, who passed it off to freshman forward Michele Weissenhofer in the box, who touched it past Becker. 
Coming off a two-goal, one­assist game last Sunday against Pittsburgh, Hanks was excited 


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOT-RE DAi\1E 
The Notre Dame Prelaw Society presents: 
"Capital Punishment: American Law, Catholic Perspective" 
Monday, October 9 
6:00 p.m., Debartolo Hall, Rootn 126 
Professor Howard ]. Bromberg, Ave Maria School of Law 
About the speaker: Professor Bromberg began his law career as Legislative Counsel for United States Congressman Thomas Petri of Wisconsin. He then worked as an Assistant District Attorney in the Appeals Bureau of the New York County District Attorney's Office. He has taught at the University of Chicago Law School, Stanford Law School, Harvard Law School, and the University of Michigan Law School. He served as the founding Director of Ave Maria School of Law's three­semester Research, Writing, and Advocacy Program and 
currently teaches Property, American Legal Histoty, and Origins of the Constitution. Professor Bromberg holds a Bachelor of Arts with high honors from Harvard College, a Juris Doc.tor with honors from Harvard Law School, and a Master of the Science of Law from Stanford Law SchooL 
Monday, October 9, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
J~~rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VAMUE 
I I I tJ 
©2006 Tribune Media ServiCes, Inc. 
tr~~-t j 
UPCOLE 


WHAT TH~ E:NJOYE:D
rJ t J 
AT THE: R.E:5TAU­
www.jumble.com 
RANT BUFFE:T.

tBLOFIE 1 Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
1 J I I I 
suggested by the above car-
Print answer here: 

"[I I J'[ I 1 I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: TARDY DALLY CURFEW CANINESaturday's 
Answer: The model looked perfect walking down the aisle because she was-WELL·"TRAINED" 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 Casino 67 One with a dish supervisor towel
1 The "C" of 
U.S.M.C. 38 Cambridge sch. 
6 Opinion tester 41 Stocking's end DOWN 42 "_hooks" 1 Dot follower
10 "That's enough!" 
(box warning) 

2 Son_gun
14 France's Joan 44 CPR giver 
3 Bit of sunshine 47 Antes
15 Samoa's capital 4 Request a 50 "Me, too" hand?
16 Spy Mata _ 
52 Pixies 5 Barely gather17 City chief together, as53 Hoodwink 
funds18 Lady's escort 57 On the way 6 Chinese temple20 Bit of 58 Wrinkled citrus 
encouragement 7 Dentist's 
fruits request22 Bent over 62 Barbara of "I a remover 

25 Frankie of the Dream of 9 Plaster backing
Four Seasons Jeannie" 10 Queen of_,
26 Stephen King 63 Cries of surprise biblical V.I.P.
novel 64 Poor 11 Mexican dish30 Wide shoe width 65 Georgia and 12 SoothsayerLithuania, once:31 "Farewell" Abbr. 13 Little finger 32 The WB rival 

66 Corduroy 19 Impose, as a tax 33 Old draft letters feature 
21 President pro 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1":'11":'1-::T..,...,..,:-r:=-r::::T":-r::T:':'r.:-,...,...,1":'1-::T':"' 22 RestfuI resorts 

Turner 
Regrets" 27 Centers of Christmas 
28 G.l.'s address 29 M.D.'s associates 
36 Wee one 
~~~~~~~~+=~~~~ 
..__....__.___.........._.__._......__.__.__..__...__....__.___.__, 37 Envelop 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
38 Competition 46 Rag 55 Fed. workplace with shot putters watchdog
47 coladaand hurdlers 56 Six-stringed
48 Infectious fly
39 As to, in legal instrument memos 49 Kind of financing, for 
59 Hula hoop?
40 Use a Frisbee short so Suffix with43 Bee or wasp 

51 Daybreaks chlor-or suit­44 Catches sight of 
54 Plenty, to. a 61 Damascus' 45 Piles poet land: Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Carradine, Jesse Jackson, Paul Hogan, Sigourney Weaver, Chevy Chase 
Happy Birthday: Don't deviate from what you know and do well. Others may try to lead you astray, but if you are true to yourself and your beliefs, you should be able to stay on course. Your numbers: 2, IS, 21, 33, 47, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will find it difficult to get the rest you require. A long, quiet walk by yourself or a drive in the country may just do the trick and help you avoid the trouble brewing at home. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Travel should be encouraged. You will be in a high-energy mode, and you must have an outlet if you wish to accomplish the most Someone close to you may need help.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your high energy and competitive nature will put you in the driver's seat Go after your goals and don't let others hold you back. Don't get involved in joint financial ventures. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Proceed down new avenues. Sign up for courses if you are having a problem keeping a job. Financial problems are causing friction at home. You may have to settle for a job you don't want to take.**** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can expect those you live with to have their own ideas about how they want things done around the house. Don't argue; just work on your own space and avoid getting into heated debates. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Introduce yourself to new people who are attending the same function that you are. If you are interested in someone you meet, don't be shy; ask him or her out *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't have too much luck trying to keep things harmonious on the home front Don't be too disheartened·, make plans to go out with friends who appreciate your company. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): In-laws will have good suggestions, but if you let them interfere with your personal life, you will live to regret it. Solve your problems on your own and tell your relatives when all is said and done. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make money, but someone is likely to talk you out of it as fast as you make it You should consider making a move. Real estate investments look positive. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You must try to get along with your partner. You haven't been seeing things in the same light fur some time now. Do a bit of backtracking, and you'll find that you are both to blame. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You must plan those career moves that you've been contemplating for the longest time now. You know what your monetary goals are, so focus on what you have to do in order to reach them. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Tum your attention to hobbies and creative endeavors that give you pleasure. You may want to teach children some of the unique skills you've developed. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good sense of who you are and what your capabilities are. You're advanced in your thinking and willing to work hard to realize your aspirations. You are skillful with your response to those who challenge you. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, October 9, 2006 
page 24 
ND SoccER 

The comforts of home 
By CHRIS KHOREY and TIM By GREG ARBOGAST 
DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Sports Writers 

It's only mid-October, but No. 1 Notre Dame just keeps Notre Dame is in post-season on winning. form. 
The Irish (13-0, 6-0 Big East) The No. 8 Irish won their moved into first place in the Big fifth consecutive game on East's National Division with a Saturday, beating 5-0 win over Seton Hall Friday Georgetown 4-1 at Alumni and a 2-0 victory over Rutgers Field behind two goals and Sunday at Alumni Field. one assist from junior for­
"The last two weekends ward Joseph Lapira. we've really started to come With the win, Notre Dame into our own," Notre Dame improved its record to 9-3-2 coach Randy Waldrum said. {6-2-0) and kept pace with "Before we were playing well Providence to remain tied for enough to win, but now I think setond place in the Big East's we're playing up our potential." blue division, one point out of 
The Scarlet Knights (11-2-1, first. 5-1-1 Big East) came into The Irish are currently Sunday's game in first place in enjoying a season-high six­the National Division by one game unbeaten streak ­point, thanks mainly to having twice as long as their next played one more game than the highest unbeaten streak of Irish. Sunday's victory moved three games. But despite his Notre Dame into the top spot, team's newfound consistency, but sophomore forward Kerri Notre Dame coach Bobby Hanks downplayed the achieve-Clark doesn't think much 
ALLISON AMBROSE and JENNIFER KANG!The Observer 

Right, Irish forward Amanda Cinalli protects the ball from Rutgers midfielder Nicole Aquila in Notre see SOLIDIFY/page 22 Dame's 2-0 win Sunday. Left, Irish forward Justin McGeeney wins a header in Notre Dame's 4-1 victory. see HOYAS/page 22 
HOCKEY 

Irish start strong in exhibition victory 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Sophomore right wing Erik Condra recorded a hat trick Friday as Notre Dame beat Windsor 9-0 in an exhibition contest. 
The game was the first of the year for the Irish, who open the regular season Thursday against 


Min n e s o t a Condra S t a t e -Mankato at the Joyce Center. 

"Tonight was about evalua­tion," Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said. "It was good for me to see something tonight, but I'll see more on film later tonight." 
Two of Condra's goals came shorthanded on turnovers that happened while he was "concentrating on defense." 
"The bounce went my way and I found myself on a breakaway," he said. 
Condra's first shorthanded tally came at 10:56 of the first period. During the Windsor power play, Condra intercept­ed a pass at center ice and skated in untouched on Lancers goalie Reese Kalleitner and beat him top shelf. 
Six minutes later, Condra added his second shorthanded goal of the night off another turnover, this time at the Notre Dame blue line. Condra skated down ice and again beat Kalleitner over his shoul­der to make the score 2-0. 
Condra's third goal came six minutes into the second peri­od. To his dismay, no hats flew onto the ice. 
"We have to teach our fans some of the classics of the game, I guess," he said. 
Senior Dave Brown, return­ing for his second season as 
see HAT TRICK/page 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Tea111 records tvvo vveekend wins 
Irish drop one game against the Orange and Golden Eagles 
By KYLE CASSILY and 
DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writers 

Notre Dame returned home this weekend after more than a month on the road, dominating Marquette and Syracuse in two confer­ence matches to remain tied with St. John's for first place in the Big East. 
The Irish (12-4, 5-0 Big East) defeated Marquette 3­1 Friday and followed it up with a 3-0 win Sunday over Syracuse. It was the first match in the Joyce Center for the team since a 3-0 loss Sept. 3 to Santa Clara. 
"It's a tough thing where St. John's is the only other team that is undefeated right now and every match is critical to win the regular season," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "And that is certainly one of our 
see WINS/page 21 


en 
MEN'S SWIMMING
SMC SOCCER

SMC VOLLEYBAll MEN'S GOlf 
w 
Irish win Dennis 

Irish to competez Olivet, Alma 
li: 
c.,:, Saint Mary's tops 
Saint Mary's 3 
Starks relays in Gridiron Golf Classic 

Olivet 2 
=::3 

Notre Dame racks up fourth in the MIAA 
A comeback victoryThe Belles improve to 264 points by taking 11 
The final men's event with two wins this 
secures the crucial 
of the 13 relays this 

of the season at the weekend. 
MIAA conference points 
weekend. 

Warren Golf Coursefor the Belles. 
a.= 

starts today. 
page 19 page 17page 19en page 20

-
-



