
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 129 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26,2006 
Panel discusses immigration refonn 
Speakers present opinions, offer solutions 
that would attempt to tackle 
By KATIE PERRY 
the status of the nearly 12 Assisram News Ediror 
million undocumented immi­
grants living in the United 
On a day when President States. Proponents of the bill George W. Bush convened -which would also create a with a bipartisan group of guest worker program -said senators to discuss the hotly they would like to revive the debated immigration reform issue on the Senate floor as bill. panelists at Notre Dame early as Memorial Day. held their own forum Tuesday Speaking at the Hesburgh to address legislative initia­Center for International tives and the possibility of Studies, Hodolfo "Hudy" such reform in the United Monterrosa, a local attorney States. who specializes in criminal 
Entitled "The Immigration and immigration law, said Debate: Issues and though there is no perfect Prospects." the event centered answer to the problem, law­on the contention surrounding makers should not be hasty recent congressional propos­when drafting immigration 

als for immigration reform. 
At today's White House meeting, the president showed support for a package 
Pulitzer Prize goes to '71 grad 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Ediror 
Adding to a growing list of award-winning journalists from Notre Dame, 1971 grad­uate Jerry Kammer was one of two lead writers on an investigative project that won the 2006 Pulitzer Prize for national reporting. 
Journalism's highest award was given to the staffs of the San Diego Union-Tribune and Copley News Service (which owns the Union-Tribune). Kammer and his colleague Marcus Stern both reporters for Copley -were noted by The Pulitzer Board for "their disclosure of bribe­taking that sent former [Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, R-Hancho Santa Fe, Calif.] to prison in disgrace." 
"We were not the only two reporters involved, but we had the lead role," Kammer said Tuesday. 
Kammer and Stern's stories examined and uncovered the dealings of Cunningham, who "traded lucrative defense con­tracts for millions of dollars in cash. lavish antiques and other payoffs," according to an April 18 story in the Union-Tribune. Cunningham initially denied any wrongdo­ing but later resigned from his 'office and plead guilty to accepting $2.4 million in bribes. lie was sentenced to eight years and four months in prison and the investigation into his corrupt dealings with defense contractors is ongo­
see PULITZER/page 8 

reform legislation. "I believe the time to reform 
see PANEL/page 6 

Deans promote 4 year track 
Majority of Notre Dame students continue to graduate on time 
four-year institution, and it ness law classes left and half the 
By JOE PIARULLI 
seems that everyone wants to freshman class hasn't regis­
News Writer 
keep it that way," Gaglio said. tered. In business ethics there's "Our commitment to the stu­only around 20 spots left," he 
With a price tag of nearly dents is four years." said. $40,000 for one year of educa­The overwhelming majority of According to Gaglio, there's no tion at Notre Dame, college Notre Dame students graduate reason to panic. deans are keenly aware of the on time-93 percent, according "If you don't get business law four-year time table for gradua­to the office of undergraduate in the sophomore year the way 
tion -taking special care to admissions Web site -and both it's scheduled, that's not the end ensure that every student earns administrators and students of the world," he said. "Our goal a diploma as quickly and effi­want to keep it that way. is to get everyone to graduate in ciently a.<> possible. "It's very important to me to their four-year window." 
In the Mendoza College of graduate in four years because According to Gaglio, schedul­Business, a.<>sistant dean Samuel that's what I've planned for," ing ha.•;; never impeded a student Gaglio said no student is guar­freshman James Zenker said. from graduating on time. anteed to snag the professor or "College is meant to be four "We've never had a student class time they want. However, years and I wouldn't want it any not graduate in the year they Gaglio said, the four year track other way." want unless they have deliber­to graduation is not going to be Zenker plans to go into the ately dropped a course," he said. lengthened because of it. Mendoza College of Business "The only reason a student 
"I can't tell you every student next semester, where classes wouldn't graduate in four years gets exactly the courses they have filled up quickly. want. ... [But] Notre Dame is a "There's only three more busi-see GRADUATE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Freshman hospitalized overnight 
Officials offered few details of emergency 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saim Mary's Editor 
Campus authorities and local medical personnel responded to a medical emer­gency involving a Saint Mary's first year student at approximately 10 p.m. Monday at McCandless Hall, College officials said Tuesday. 
A McCandless Hall resident assistant notified hall direc­tor Shay Jolly and Saint Mary's Security of the emer­gency just before 10 p.m., Director of Residence Life Michelle Russell said. 
Neither Russell nor College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald would comment on the details of the emergency. 
College Security was the first to arrive, McDonald said. At 9:54 p.m. Saint Mary's Security placed a call to 911 at Jolly's request. 
Jolly was unavailable for comment Tuesday. Saint Mary's Security declined to comment Tuesday. 
Notre Dame Security/Police, St. Joseph County Police and a South Bend ambulance immediately responded to the call, McDonald said. The ambulance was at the scene for 15 minutes, McDonald said, before taking the stu­dent to St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center. 
Russell said Tuesday the student "is in fine condition." 
"She has been released from the hospital," Russell said. "At this point I am not sure when she is returning [to Saint Mary's] ... it is up to 
see HOSPITAL/page 8 


ROTC will perfor111 review 
according to Captain Tim Dukeman,
Jenkins to observe annual 
Tri-Military operations officer. 
performance inside Loftus Although it is Jenkins' first year at the helm, Dukeman said there will be no special additions to the cere­
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
mony. News Editor 
The approximately 300 members of the Army, Navy and Air Force NO With the Blue Gold game, AnTostal ROTC will present themselves to 
-and even the design of the new Jenkins, who is expected to address The Shirt-'tradition' is undoubted­the group after the ceremony. ly the watchword of the week. And In addition, 10 of the cadets and tonight, another long-storied event midshipmen are being honored for 
will take place on Notre Dame's either national or University military campus as all the branches of the awards. This year's Navy awardees ROTC program come together at are Gregory Hiltz, Laura Joyce,
5:15 p.m. in the Loftus Center to Bryan KreHer and William Sullivan. perform the annual Presidential The Air Force awardees are Colin Pass In Heview. Barcus, Caitlin Diffley and Matthew 
As per tradition, University Dvorsky. The Army awardees are President Father John Jenkins will Tanner Fleck, Shane Larson and be in attendance, to be honored as 
the "distinguished dignitary," see ROTC/page 8 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Pinstripe 
•


passion 
My namn is Chris lline, and I am a 
Yanknn fan. 

Evnn though non-Yankees fans give 
mn dirty looks whenever I say that, I 
remain a Yankee fan. and even though 
Dnrnk .Inter made 
the atroeious mis­

Chris Hlne 
take of kicking 
Mariah Carey to 
the curb a few 

Sports Writer 
years back, I 
rnmain a Yankee 
fan. 

So, why in the face of so mueh eon­
tempt, do I remain a Yankee fan'? The 
first rnason is simple. They are the 
greatest franchise in the history of 
sports, and the hate they generate is 
proof that other people just wish they 
had a sliver of that success, much like 
Notre Dame. The second reason is 
more pnrsonal-it's all in the family. 
I can still remembnr vividly Game 6 
of tlH~ 1<J96 World Series. As soon as 
Tnrry Pendleton hit a single otr with 
two outs oil" John Wetteland to cut the 
Yankne lead to 3-2, my father leapt up 
ofr tlw couch and threw a purple and 
blun nnrl' basketball as hard as he 
could into the floor, yelling "Damn it, 
Wnttnland!" Normally my father is 
vnry carnful with his words, espeeially 
around his 10-year-old son. 

It was tlw first time I had ever heard 
my father say anything that msnmbled 
swnaring. Never had I seen him more 
animated in his life than that hit. 
Thnn, whnn Charlie Ilayes caught 
Mark Lmnkn's popup to soalthn vieto­
ry, my fathnr pieknd mn up and did 
not. put mn down until Wade Boggs 
had complntnd his vietory lap around 
Yanknn Stadium on a horsn. What 
inspirnd this passion in him'! It was 
not until a few years later that I really 
found out. 

I rwwr mel my grandfather on his si(ln, hut as I get older, my dad tnlls mn stories of he and grandpa watch­ing thn Yankens. For about 15 years aftnr my grandfather died, my fathnr didn't have a bnst friend with whom he could watch the Yankees. Nothing can come dosn to th1~ experienee of a father watching a game with his son. 
Only now, as I went through this past posl-;nason and the beginning of the nnw season did I realize how much dill'erent it is to watch the Yankees without my dad there. I was on the phone with him every time something happened in one of the playofr games. 
We share a common loathing of Jorge Posada's inability to hit with runners in scoring position and radio announeer John Sterling's lack of depth perception. (That ball is high, it is far, it is ... caught at the wall). 
Wn also have memories of the games we went to, such as Game 1 of the '96 ALCS when Jefl"rey Mayer rnadwd over the wall and snatched Jeter's home run from Tony Taraseo. Not to mention the great games we've watehed on TV, whether they ended in Aaron Boone-like euphoria or Gonzalezian disappointment (see Game 7 of the 2001 World Series). 
No, Hed Sox fans, you can't even take eredit for the Yankees most dev­astating defeat. That is why every night over the summer you'll probably lind me in the same plaee -on the couch, with my father, watching the Yankees. God knows where I'll end up when I graduate in three years, so I had better enjoy as many games with him as I can now. 
Even though time will one day take away my father as it did his father, it will not take away the numerous hours we sat watching the Yankees. 
My name is Chris lline, and I am, and will always be, a Yankee fan. 
Contact Chris Hines at chine@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ITEMS WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ADDED TO GRAB AND Go? 


Kerry McGuire freshman Welsh Family  Dan McMahon freshman Sorin  Anne Reilly senior off-campus  Geoff Hoppe senior Alumni  Micki Cascio senior Lyons  Michael Quisao senior Morrissey  
"Soup."  "/don't use  '7 can't  "This hottie. "  "Free candy. "  "Zena treats."  

Grab and Go. " remember the 
last time I went to Grab and Go." 

PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer 

Kevin Carrier, left, Chris Carrington, center, and John Boyle compete in a pie eating contest Tuesday as part of Section Wars during Fisher Hall's Fred and Sally Week. 
OFFBEAT 
Man caught In awkward position 
HAYWAHD, Calif. Poliee in California, who had thought they had a botched burglary on their hands, have instead found a naked man wedged in its chimney. 
"He didn't have a stitch on,': Lieutenant Gary Branson of the Hayward police department said. 
Michael Urbano, 23, came home early Saturday morning and finding him­self locked out and without his keys, tried to enter the single-story house through its chimney. 
"He told us he took off 
TODAY 

his clothes because as he was going down the chim­ney -the elothes would rub up against it and slow him down," Lt Branson said. 
"If it was skin on cement he felt he would go down easier." 
Mr Urbano's effort ended disastrously when a cable television wire he used to lower himself snapped. 
British couple ties the knot on the run 
LONDON -A British eou­ple has given a new twist to the idea of running away together by compet­ing in the London 
marathon in their wedding elothes and getting mar­ried halfway around the course. 
Katie Austin and Gordon Fryer from Homsey in southern England ran the raee with the bride's par­ents, who gave her away at the ceremony in the Bridge Master's dining room on Tower Bridge. 
The groom and his father-in-law wore tradi­tional waistcoats, wing­collared shirts and cravats, but with long shorts instead of trousers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
_, 
<
(.) 0 

..... HIGH 64 HIGH 60 HIGH 64 HIGH 65 LOW 41 LOW 38 LOW 43 LOW 48 IN BRIEF 


Notre Dame softball will take on Purdue at 4 p.m. today at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Bowling Green at 5:05 p.m. today at Frank Eek Stadium. 
The world premiere of the opera "Witness" will be at (dO 
p.m. today in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. It will run through the weekend with performances 

at  7::{0  p.m.  Friday  and  
Saturday  and  2::{0  p.m.  
Sunday.  

Thn f'ilm "Top Gun" will be shown today at 9 p.m. on North Quad as part of' AnTostal festivi­ties. 
A'isistant professor of political science Dan Lindley will give a lecture titlnd "Shoot First, Ask Questions Later. Preventive and Preemptive War" Thursday at 12:30 p.m. in C103 of the Ilesburgh Center. 
Barbara Nicolosi, founder and dirnctor of Aet One Inc., will give a leeture Thursday titled "Why Docs God Care about Ilollywood'? The Role of Entertainment in Human Life." The lecture, which will begin at 
7:30 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Ilall, is part of the Center for Ethics and Culture's Spring Catholic Culture Series "Hollywood: Mission Field or Mission Imposible?" 
The SMC Irish Danec Club will perform at 4:30 p.m. Saturday and 7:30 p.m. Sunday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 62 HIGH 
63 

LOW 48 LOW 
49 


Atlanta 84 I 63 Boston 68 I 46 Chicago 51 I 40 Denver 48 I 29 Houston 83 I 71 Los Angeles 69 I 55 Minneapolis 58 135 New York 67 I 53 Philadelphia 73 I 52 Phoenix 90 I 58 Seattle 63 I 44 St. Louis 61 I 48 Tampa 86 1 71 Washington 75 1 51 

Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Bush, UN prosecuted in mock Uganda-CAN trial 
LAURIE H Junior Stephen Murray lays out his case against Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni during mock trials Tuesday. 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE'S CATHOLIC CULTURE SERIES PRESENTS: 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Members of the Uganda Conflict Action Network urged students to work to aiiPviatn thn humanitari­an crisis in northern Uganda as part of t.lw Uganda-CAN mock trial Tuesday. 
Thn event, sponsored by the Africa Faith and Justice Network and the Center for Social Concerns, plaeed Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, U.S. President Ceorge W. Bush, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and the Notre Dame community on trial for failing to take respon­sibility for the people of northern Uganda, and found them guilty of abandoning their duties to help northern Uganda. 
"Today we gather here to call our leaders to accountability," senior Peter Quaranto said. 
lie called the civil war in Uganda and its resulting second­ary effects the world's worst unacknowledged humanitarian crisis. 
"More than 30,000 children have been abducted by this war and 1. 7 million have been dis­placed," he said. 
The 1,000 deaths occurring weekly in northern Uganda make it one of the world's largest humanitarian crisis. 
The first defendant was Ugandan President Museveni whose case was read by junior Stephen Murray. Museveni failed to deal with the realities of the 
• conflict and ignored dealing with the ongoing violence, the prosecu­tion argued. 
"Nearly two million people live in internal displacement camps which are cesspools of disease and violence," Murray said. 
Murray then said that 41 per­cent of those who perish are under live years of age and that the death rate from the conflict is three times higher than the death rate in Iraq. 
Murray accused Museveni of banning relief agencies not asso­ciated with the government from doing work and of withdrawing military escorts to humanitarian aid workers for their protection against the Lord's Hesistance Army. 
Murray also addressed the fact that Museveni has attacked the institution of democracy in his country. 
"He had his primary opponent arrested on bogus charges of treason. And as the world stands by, Museveni is allowing democ­racy to slip by," he said. 
"Museveni is failing to uphold the most important role of his office, ignoring the protection of the Ugandan people," Murray said. 
"I urge you to find President Museveni guilty," he said. 
The case against UN secretary General Kofi Annan was present­ed by sophomore Shannon Heabe. 
"The Conflict in northern Uganda represents a categorical failure of the UN's mission. The UN has deliberately avoided tak­ing responsibility resulting in con­tinuing unrest," she said. 
Heabe then said that the UN has never passed a resolution to address Uganda's 20-year war and that Annan never declared northern Uganda a humanitarian crisis zone. 
"We must find him guilty of wanton neglect and unrespon­siveness. It is only by realizing shared culpability of tho world body, we can address the crisis," she said. · 
Junior Nicole Steele read the case against President Bush. 
"President Bush has abdicated his responsibility as a world leader," she said. 
"He has never pushed for a UN Security Council revolution and he has never made it a priority," she said. 
Steele said that Bush has not condemned Museveni for his gross mismanagement of the cri­sis and has instead largely endorsed Museveni's policies. 
"President Bush has shown ignorance on the subject, refer­ring to the Lord's Hesistance Army as the Lord's group," she said. "We cannot allow compla­cency and complicity to deny peo­ple the aid that they so desperate­ly need.... It our responsibility to urge President Bush to take responsibility for the crisis in northern Uganda." 
Finally, Quaranto addressed the responsibility of the Notre Dame campus in failing to do all that it can. 
"We thought about President Museveni, Kofi Annan and President Bush. But then we said, you know, we cannot excuse our­selves, ways that we haven't taken responsibility as an ND family and as individuals," he said. 
Quaranto cited Notre Dame's Catholic mission as set forth by the University. 

"Have we lived up to this mis­sion of solidarity and justice, par­ticularly regarding our solidarity with brothers and sisters in north­ern Uganda?" he said. 
Notre Dame is one of the most active campuses in the world for northern Uganda, Quaranto said, and many of the key actors involved in the peace process have visited in the last year. He said that Notre Dame should be proud of what it has done. 
"Yet we have to admit that we have failed to do more," he said. 
"Our administration; our lead­ers and ourselves have failed to stand in solidarity with the people of northern Uganda," he said. 
Quaranto suggested that mak­ing phone calls and writing letters to those in the U.S. government is one way to make a difference. He also mentioned reading the 10 things you can help the people of northern Uganda, which is posted at http://www.ugandacan.orgl. He also encouraged students to pray and fast for Uganda. 
Quaranto ended the event say­ing that students must do what they can to end the conflict. 
"Take the responsibility to pro­tect life wherever it might be under threat," he said. "Take the steps to make 2006 the historical year as the last for the crisis in northern Uganda." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Nun, activist advocates eco-friendly measures 
Gonzalez calls for a 'green' Saint Mary's 
By JEN MALL News Writer 
Sister Paula Gonzalez, a well­known environmental activist, made a two-day visit to Saint Mary's this week teaching classes and lecturing on the Earth Charter. She also made an infor­mal review of the level of environ­mental rnsponsibility on campus. 
A member of the Sisters of Charity of Cincinnati, Ohio, Gonzalez wa'i invited to visit Saint Mary's by the Center for Academic Innovation's Community Leadership Team (CoLT) for Earth Coalition. 
Over 60 students, faculty, administrators, nuns and commu­nity members attended her cam­pus-wide lecture Monday. Each lecture attendee wa'i given a copy of the Earth Charter, of which Saint Mary's and the Sisters of the Holy Cross are signatories. Its main principles are respect and care for the community of life. ecological integrity, social and economic justice as well as democracy, nonviolence and peace. 
"Without a vision for the future, people perish," Gonzalez said. "I believe the Earth Charter is our 
Graduate 
continued from page 1 
is that they don't want to take the 
load it would require to do it." 
Mitchell Wayne, a<;soeiate dean 
of the College of Scienee, said that 
the College is always trying to 
accommodate students' needs. 
"This is my fourth year a'i asso­ciate dean and I ean't remember a single ca'ie of someone not being able to graduate in four years beeause they couldn't get the da'ises they need," he said. 
"The only issues that come up ocea'iionally are when courses are for a given major and other majors need them as electives. Often we have to make sure the majors that really need it that semester get it first, and then the studenl'i that need it for electives eome in afl.er that." 
In the School of Architecture, where students generally gradu­ate in five years, scheduling is even less of a concern. 
"The courses that are needed to graduate are guaranteed ... so that the biggest [problem! that (studenl'il have is an issue of get­ting the section that fits their schedule," a<;sistant dean Richard Bullene said. "'TYPically it's a pret­ty mundane operation." 
Bullene said architeeture classes hover between 45 and 55 stu­dents, so adjustments are rather ea'iy to make, and students have some advantages when it comes to scheduling. 
"They have the luxury when they register of worrying about their University requirements ... the things inside the school are taken care of for them," he said. 
Bullene cited academic difficul­ties as the only reason a student would not graduate on time, call­ing such a situation "very rare." 
''I'm not worried at all about graduating in f(JUr years, but it's annoying to deal with trying to make a perfect schedule," Zenker said. "I just hope something like going to Australia won't screw things up." 
Going abroad is never a prob­lem in the College of Business, vision. We need desperately to follow these guidelines in order to make our unsustainable 20th century a sustainable 21st centu­ry." 

Gonzalez, who has lectured around the world on the topic of sustainable development, said that although most of Catholic Soda! Teaching deals with human virtues, there is also a sense of caring for God's Creation, the Earth. She expressed her concern about the extinction of organisms. 
"We are losing yet another way to know God and his great works," Gonzalez said. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Eva Tonsing-Carter thought the lec­ture was very informative. 
"I really am amazed at how much of the world's resources the United States consumes every day," Tonsing-Carter said. "Sister Paula showed me that I should be more informed about products I use everyday, take for example bottled water. One bottle of water costs as much as 1 ,000 gallons of New York City tap water and uti­lizes petroleum products to make the bottle which takes an unbe­lievably lo~~ amount of time to decompose. 
Gonzalez spent Tuesday morn­ing visiting two classes. In the afternoon, after conducting a 'walk-through' assessment, she met with a small group of stu­dents, faculty, administrators, grounds crew and maintenance 

Gaglio said. 

"Before a student can go abroad we make them fill out what we call a program of study," he said. "That program of study identifies the courses they're taking in the semester before they go, the courses they're going to take in their abroad semester, and then ... we make them plan out all the way to graduation and layout every course so that there is a sys­tematic plan that makes sure they can graduate." 
Representatives from the College of Arts and Letters and the College of Engineering were not available for comment, but both Colleges offer advising for students with regard to scheduling and requirements. 
Gaglio's office at the College of Business has five advisors, and students are able to choose with whom they want to meet. 
"You can call for an appoint-to discuss her suggestions and ideas to make Saint Mary's a more eco-friendly place. 
"Although Saint Mary's is a magnificent and beautiful earn­pus, it could be much 'greener'," Gonzalez said. "Everywhere you look there is always something that can be made better, after all, nature reuses everything." 
She said Saint Mary's is average in its efl'orts to "live.lightly" but hopes that in the future, the College can become a model 'green' campus for students, alumnae, the community and the world. 
Gonzalez was critical of the windows in many of the buildings on campus that lacked double­paned glass. The insulating prop­erties of double-paned windows prevent heat loss and significantly decrease heating costs, Gonzalez said. 
lighting at the College was also a concern to Gonzalez. Many buildings were built or remodeled in the 1960s when it was com­mon practice to install "a ceiling made of lights," Gonzalez said. 
To make Saint Mary's more eco-friendly Gonzalez suggested old toilets and sink fixtures be updated. She said leaky sinks like those in Le Mans are blatantly wasting resources. Toilets with lower flush volumes should also be invested in, to conserve water usage on campus. 
Using turbines to capture wind 
ment because we value students' time as much as we value our own time, or you can walk in here," he said. 
Gaglio's advice to students struggling with scheduling is sim­ple-"Talk to us." 
"If you came in here in September or February ... it i'i the perfect time to come in," he said. 
While it's possible not to gradu­ate in four years due to dropping a class or not passing due to the many prerequisites, there are almost always options, Gaglio said. 
"We have a domino effect. However, during summer school at Notre Dame we always offer the sophomore year courses so that students can pick up the course they had difficulty with," he said. 
Eaeh year around 500 students -plus or minus 50 -are expect­ed to enroll in the College of Business. According to Gaglio, power was another suggestion. 

"This is something you can't afford not to do," Gonzalez said. "With turbine technology improv­ing almost daily, it will be well worth the initial investment and serve as a money-maker in the future." 
Lastly Gonzalez recommended the campus raise its own fruits and vegetables. Through a com­munity-supported agriculture garden, Saint Mary's could grow organic food that could then be used in the dining hall and sold to the community, Gonzalez said. 
they try to offer enough courses to take care of incoming sopho­mores, and even try to offer some classes to the rest of the University, though "not as many as they would like." 
While most students aim to graduate after their fourth year, exceptions do exist. 
"The norm at Notre Dame is that everyone wants to graduate in four years, but there are a few that want to stick around ... nor­mally to complete a second major," Gaglio said. "The next most common reason is that they graduate with two degrees." 
According to Gaglio, no student has ever -in his 16 years at the College -asked him to have their schedule spaced out for five years just to ease the load. However, it is not unheard of at other schools. 
"In California, it's actually quite common that you can only pick up three courses each semester at 
Gonzalez said she was impressed by the widespread interest the Saint Mary's commu­nity expressed in environmental issues because every individual can make a difference. 
Gonzalez lauded Saint Mary's for composting leaves and brush collected from campus grounds. She was also complimentary about a new position created at the College to oversee energy and resource usage. 
Contact Jen Mall at j mallO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
the major institutions," he said. "If you look at the statistics, there are schools that average between five • and five and a half years for the average undergraduate to reach graduation." 
With nearly 90 percent of stu­dents graduating in four years, Notre Dame does not appear to be headed in that direction. 
"We can validate that every sin­gle senior that has told us they want to graduate will graduate on time," Gaglio said. 
Despite the certainty of having the required classes, individual scheduling tends to be much less comforting. 
One of the best ways to ease frustration, Gaglio said, is to get requirements out of the way, because juniors and seniors have first pick of electives. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 
Arts and Letters Forum on Attending Graduate School 
Thursday, April 27, from 7-9 P.M. in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
A paJ1el ofthree curreJ1t Notre Dame studeJ1ts will address those factors aJ1d people who iJ1flueJ1ced them to eJ1ter Ph.D. programs J1ext year. A Notre Dame alum, now a 4th-year graduate studeJ1t at MichigaJ1 State UJ1iversity, will offer her perspective on applying to and succeeding in graduate school. 
Refreshments will be provided. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
30 arrests made in Egypt attacks 
DAIIAB. Egypt -Egyptian authorities, already struggling with elusive terror cells in the rugged Sinai Peninsula, moved quickly Tuesday -arrnsting 30 men in the triple bombings that ripped apart a resort town on a tranquil holiday evening. 
Radical Muslim groups moved just as rapidly to distance themselves from the Dahab attacks, which killed 24 people. The leader of Egypt's banned Muslim brotherhood condemned them as "aggression on human souls created by God." 
The militant Palestinian I lamas organization called them a "criminal attack which is against all human values." 
Many frightened tourists fled Sinai coastal resorts where two previous bomb attacks -like the Dahab blasts -bore the hallmarks of al­Qaida-linked groups that appear to have a free hand to continuo operations in the barren, backward and extremely rugged Sinai Peninsula. 
Iran warns hidden nuclear program 
TEIIHAN, Iran -Iran rateheted up its defi­ance ahead of a U.N. Security Council dead­line to suspend uranium enrichment, threat­ening Tuesday to hide its program if the West takes "harsh measures" and to transfer nuclear technology to chaos-ridden Sudan. 
Ali Larijani, the top Iranian nuclear nego­tiator. also renewed a vow to end coopera­tion with the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency and said increasing pressure on Iran would only stifl'en its resolve. 
"If you take harsh measures, we will hide this program. If you use the language of force, you should not expect us to act trans­parently," Larijani said. adding that Western nations "have to understand they cannot resolve this issue through force." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mayors attend gun control summit 
NEW YORK -The mayors of more than a dozen U.S. cities gathered at a summit aimed at purging the streets of illegal guns, with organizers saying the federal govern­ment is not doing enough to stop the prob­lem. 
"If the leadership won't come from Congress or from the White House, it will have to come from us," said New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, who led the summit with Boston Mayor Thomas Menino. 
The mayors -from cities including Washington, Philadelphia, Dallas, Milwaukee and Seattle -gathered to exchange ideas, consult with experts and promote law enforcement cooperation among their cities. 
Families advocate Flight 93 memorial 
WAS! IINGTON -Family members of those killed on United Flight 93 are urging a North Carolina congressman to lift his hold on funding for a memorial planned for the Pennsylvania site where the plane crashed on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Nearly a dozen family members are sched­uled to meet with their members of Congress on Wednesday to encourage them to sign a letter that asks Rep. Charles H. Taylor, R-N.C., to support $10 million for the project. 
It was not clear if they would also meet with Taylor. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police apprehend escaped inmate 
NOHTII VEHNON. Ind.-Authorities have captured one of four inmates who smashed a first-lloor window to escape from the Jennings County jail over the weekend. 
Marion County Sheriff's deputies arrested David Fields, 36, Monday at an Indianapolis motel, said Mary Ristucci, the Jennings County jail commander. IIe had been serving time on a burglary conviction. 
The three other escapees, Jeffery D. Boggs, 39, Robert Scott Pickett, 39, Gerald G. Perkins, 30, remained at large Tuesday morning, she said. 
Bush eases environmental policy 
President halts filling ofoil reserves, urges clean air code waiver to fight gasoline prices 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Under 
election-year pressure to 
reduce surging gasoline 
prices, President Bush on 
Tuesday halted filling of the 
nation's emergency oil 
reserve, urged the waiver of 
clean air rules to ease local 
gas shortages and called for 
the repeal of $2 billion in 
tax breaks for profit-heavy 
oil companies. 
Still, experts said Bush's 
actions wouldn't have much 
impact on prices at the 
pump. The president 
warned that motorists 
would have to dig deep into 
their pockets all summer 
long. 
Bush urged lawmakers to 
expand tax breaks for the 
purchase of fuel-efficient 
hybrid automobiles, a politi­
cally popular measure that's 
also supported by environ­
mentalists. He also directed 
the Environmental 
Protection Agency to use its 
authority to temporarily 
waive air quality laws in 
states if that would relieve a 
local gasoline supply short­
age. 
The White Hous_e was 
unable to say how much 
Bush's actions could affect 
the price of gas. 
Bush said, "Every little bit 
helps." 
Wholesale gasoline 
futures prices for June 
delivery dropped 8 cents a encouraged, I would say -Democrats sought to turn When his 2004 presidential 
gallon to $2.10 on the New by this administration." gas prices -like Hurricane opponent, Sen. John Kerry, 
York Mercantile Exchange The country's three Katrina and the Iraq war -D-Mass., suggested the 
right after Bush's remarks. largest oil and gas compa­into an issue to undermine same idea during the cam­
May gasoline futures settled nies were expected to Bush's standing with voters. paign, Bush called it "play­
at $2.1291 a gallon, a report combined frrst-quar­"What happened to Iraq oil, ing politics." 
decline of 4.48 cents. ter profits later in the week Mr. President? You said On Tuesday, Bush said the 
Democrats, eager to in excess of $16 billion, a 19 Iraqi oil would pay for the nation's 685-million barrel 
blame Republicans for high percent surge from last war. Ain't seen no money. petroleum reserve had 
gas costs ahead of the year. Bush, a former oilman, Ain't seen no oil," said Sen. enough fuel to guard 
November congressional asked his administration to Barbara Mikulski of against any major supply 
elections, said Bush has had investigate possible price Maryland. disruption over the next few 
five years to find a way to gouging and said Congress The suspension of oil pur­months. 
lower prices and has should revoke about $2 bil­chases for the federal emer­The president said 
favored big oil companies lion in tax breaks that gency oil reserve until the Democrats in the past have 
over consumers. Congress approved and he fall is likely to have only a urged higher taxes on fuel 
"It's crystal clear that the signed into law to encour­modest impact. The halt in and price caps to control 
current spike in gas prices age exploration. deposits involves only 12 fuel expenses, but he said 
is at least partly due to an "Cash flows are up," Bush million barrels -less than neither approach works. 
act of greed," said Sen. Bob said. "Taxpayers don't need the 20 million barrels of oil Instead, he called for 
Menendez, D-N.J., who pro­to be paying for certain of used every day in the United increased conservation, an 
posed a 60-day suspension these expenses on behalf of States for transportation. expansion of domestic pro­
of the federal gas tax. the energy companies." Bush resisted calls for a duction and increased use 
"Greed that has been Menendez spoke at a suspension of shipments to of alternative fuels such as 
enabled, abetted -even press conference where the reserve in the past. ethanol. 

IRAQ 
Terror chief shows face in video 
It also followed a high-profile audio­attempt by the leader of al-Qaida in
Associated Press tape from Osama bin Laden and Iraq to rally Iraqis and foreign fighters BAGHDAD -Terror mastermind seemed a deliberate attempt by al­to his side at a time when U.S. and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi revealed his Zarqawi to reclaim the spotlight follow­Iraqi officials are touting political face for the first time Tuesday in a dra­ing months of taking a lower profile progress as a setback to insurgents. matic video in which he dismissed amid criticism of bombings against Al-Zarqawi appeared in the 34­Iraq's new government as an American civilians. It was his first message since minute Internet video, which he said "stooge" and called it a "poisoned dag­January. was made Friday, dressed head-to-toe ger" in the heart of the Muslim world. A U.S. counterterrorism official, in black with a black scarf around his The video, in which he also warned speaking on condition of anonymity in head and a beard and mustache. of more attacks to come, was posted on compliance with. office policy, said ana­He seemed healthy, shown in one the Internet only days after a break­lysts believe al-Zarqawi is showing his scene standing and firing a heavy through in Iraq's-political process face to demonstrate that he is still machine gun in a flat desert landscape allowing its Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish engaged as a leader of jihad, or holy that resembled the vast empty stretch­leaders to start assembling a govern­war. es of western Iraq, where he is believed ment. The message also appeared to be an to be hiding. 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
this nation is way past due," 
Monterrosa said. "We have 
twelve million people here 
who are seeking a better way 
of life. !but lawmakers! need 
to do tlwir research because 
Itlw Iaws I are not only going 
to impad those 12 million 
individuals." 
Timothy Heady, director of 
research for tlw Institute for 
Latino Studies, prPsented sta­
tistics from tlw l'ew llispanie 
Center that said undocument­
ed immigrants involve snven 
million families, whose mem­
bers total 15 million in sum. 
Houghly two-thirds of children 
in these families arn born in 
the United States. 
All1~rt Brown-Gort, associate 
director of the Institute for 
Latino Studies. said current 
immigration law is "seriously 
out of whack from reality" 
and tends to "promote an 
atmosphere of law breaking." 
"To me the state of immigra­tion law is starting to look more and more like the law that gave us prohibition, he said. "The largest problem with that law is that it was so seriously out of synchronicity with reality." 
Brown-(;ort said the undoc­umented immigrants who cross thn border to secure jobs and a better life for their families are needed. 
"Immigrants aren't taking jobs away from Americans, they're just doing jobs that no one else wants," said Father Daniel <;roody, director of the Center for Latino Spirituality and CulturP in the Institute for Latino Studios. "Tiw prob­lem is not only with the immi­grants -it's also with their nmploynrs." 
(;roody said throughout his­tory immigrants havP h!HH1 valund for tllf'ir rapacity to providn rhPap labor, hut have randy rPcnivNI adnquatn pro­tection or tlwir basic rights. 
"ITlw l'nforcPmPnt of immi­gration law! occurs of'len nnough so peopiP will accept poor conditions, but nnvnr enough to really hurt the Pmploynrs who are exploiting tlwsn vulnerable workers," said assistant professor of anthropology Karen Hidunan. 
Though sonw employers are "unscrupulous and gn~edy," otlwrs are mPndy "trying to rPmain rompntitive," Brown­Cor[ said. 
Hi c h man said re c~~ n t protPsts -ineluding an April I 0 demonstration in South B1~nd -suggest a "tnnnnn­dous galvanizing moment" for immigration law activists. 
" W h a t h a p p P n !HI a t t h e march I in South Bend I is what wn're seeing happen through­out the country," Monterrosa said. .. wp e a Ill~~ 0 u t 0 f the woodwork ... and it was so beautiful." 
Beady said "a sleeping giant has awoknn with the very large numbPr of folks who have mobilized" -undocu­menl!~d immigrants and U.S. ritiznns alikn. Individuals from Hwanda, Nigeria and Bosnia also participated in the South Bend 1went, Mon terrosa said. 
Croody said he hopes protests lead to "a greater sense that tlwre is something wrong lwrP that needs to be rhangPd." AmPrieans must "cross th1~ borders of I tlwirl own minds and lwarts" when rontPmplating thn issun of i111111 igration. 
"When it comns to rnf'orm, tlwn~·s a lot to b1• said about the politics, but I'd like to see all of us have the capacity to go beyond our [own] needs and desires," he said. 

"We have the opportunity at this University to bring facts, knowledge and learning and to have facts form a very strong value perspective," Heady said. "This is a Catholic university and let's think about all the values involved in the current immigration issue." 
Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies, Kellogg Institute for International Studies and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies eo-sponsored the event. 
Contact Katie Perry at 
kperryS@nd.edu 


Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you_ 

otter valid on twrvearservice agreement on local and reglooal plansof S39.95 or higher.All service agreamet~ts subject 1o an earty termioatlon fell. Credit approval fliQuired. $30 activation fee. $15 eQUIPment change fell. Roaming Glwges, fees. SU/tharges, overage Cllar!JeS and taxes apply. $0.96 Regula1D!y Cost Rerovely Fee applies. This Is not atax or (p\'tltllment-requlfed charge. LooaJ network COI'Illal)e and reli­ability may Yilt)'-Usage rounded up to ll1e next full minute. Usa of service conslltutes aaceplance of our toons and conditioos. Free CAll. ME Mlnu!Bs"' are not deducted from pac1<age mnrutes and are only availallle when rer.aiving calls .in YOIJf local calling area. Local calling area dilfurs from nallollal calling area. Promollonal phone Is sullject to Change. $50 mall-10 retmte and purchase of $9.95 unlimited enyedge..access plan fliQulnad.Avllilallle on new aciNat!OflSor renewal ot serMe. $9.95 unlimited IIIISYedge accass plan must be on acoount ot mtnimum of 00 days. Allow 1()-12 weeks lor tebate process­illg. Umited time offer. See store a Wllbsite for details. Offer nol available on TalkTracker" acw.mts. U.S. Cellular and eai~Jlldlle are proprietary marlls. All ottler IIMemar11s are the exdusMl property of their f1lSil6CilVII owners. CUstomers rnay ooly use the 88!iyedge unlimited plan for access 1o 88!iyedge applications. All other usage iS stnctJy prohibited. Text Messaging -a charge ol $.10 per 01rtgoing massage applies ~ no messaging package iS selectBd or existing pad<age Hmlt Is exceeded. By using U.S. GeHular's text messaging you agree to be bOUnd by all terms and coodlbons at loWIW.uscellula!:com/MesSagingb)m1s. PicWm Messaging reqllires U.S. Ccllular®-apprcMld phone and usage plan. Pid.Ure Messaging onty available in~ coverage area (see bmchum fur delalls). You may be d1allled fur plciUro messages sent from yoor pllone, llll!ltl if not delivered in H111 inl\lnlf6d recipient due 1n sys~&m 111 compatibility Issues. U.S. CellUla!® !!>not rooponslble tor content of pictures. 30-Day Guaranllle: Customer Is respooslblo lor any d!aryes Incurred prior to rel!lm. All rlgtlts reserve~~. 01!1f:lr reslllctions apply. Sea store fur details. Umlted time offer. @2006 u.s. Ciltlular Col)lorallon. 
THE 0HSIRVER 

USINESS
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
11,283.25 -53.07
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,234 140 2,021 2,399,238,230.00 
AMEX .;irtQ.tJilll~~m1~~~!IIIIIIIIJII!11Jil~l~lllllllll:l: NASDAQ 2,330.30 -3.08 NVSE ·· ···· s;41~!~1ilw!1li,IIIII!Jitll S&PSOO 1 1.74 -6.37 
NIKKEI(T.,.) 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,086.60 -12.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR(QQQQ) -0.21 -0.09 41.87 
INTEL CP (INTC) 
+ 1.27 +0.24 19.15 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+0.20 +0.0 I 4.99 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
0.00 0.00 27.11 JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) 
0.00 0.00 3.57 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +1.73 +0.86 50.71 13-WEEK BILL +0.71 +0.33 46.55 30-YEAR BOND +1.78 +0.90 51.54 
5-YEAR NOTE + 1.55 +0.76 49.71 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.45  72.88  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +I 0.30  634.20  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  82.38  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  114.8500  
EURO  0.8045  
POUND  O.:'i591  
CANADIAN$  1.1314  

IN BRIEF 
Criticized SBA administrator resigns 
WASHINGTON Small Business Administration chief Hector Barreto resigned Tuesday after a tenure marked by criticism of the agency's response to the Sept. 11 terror attacks and the Gulf Coast hurricanes. 
President Bush immediately announced a new agency chief, Steven C. Preston, an execu­tive vice president for The ServiceMaster Co. The appointment requires Senate confirma­tion. 
Barreto, a California businessman, was appointed head of the agency in 2001. After the Sept. 11 terror attacks that year, his agency provided nearly $5 billion in economic disaster recovery loans to small businesses across the country. 
The Associated Press reported last year, however, that many of the businesses that received loans said they neither wanted nor knew they were receiving money earmarked for terror victims. Companies receiving aid ranged from an Oregon winery to a Virgin Islands perfume bar, drawing outrage on Capitol Hill. 
Steelmakers report decreased profits 
PITTSBURGH -Steel producers United States Steel Corp. and AK Steel Holding Corp. posted lower first-quarter profits Tuesday as weaker sales and reduced operations hampered growth. Shares of both companies slumped. 
U.S. Steel, the world's seventh-largest raw steel producer, said net income -after paying preferred dividends -fell to $252 million, or $2.04 per share, for the three months ended March 31 from $455 million, or $3.51 per share, in the year-ago period. 
The Pittsburgh-based company's sales dropped to $3.73 billion fr-om $3.79 billion in the same quarter last year, as revenue from flat-rolled products and its European operations declined. But tubular product sales jumped to $177 million from $122 million in the prior-year period. 
U.S. Steel's results surpassed Wall Street expectations. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected earnings of $1.48 per share and sales of $3.65 billion. 
The company said lower natural gas prices and the return to service of its newly rebuilt No. 14 blast furnace in Gary, Ind., helped its results. 
Lay blames media for downfall 
Enron Corp. founder points finger at publicity as cause of company's crash 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Enron Corp. founder Kenneth Lay blamed the media Tuesday for undercutting his com­pany's strengths in the weeks before it crashed by highlighting problems at Enron that he said were already cleaned up. 
Yet he said more prob­lems, including restate­ment of previously announced earnings that wiped out nearly $600 mil­lion in profit for the previ­ous four years, further pushed Enron toward bankruptcy protection as investor confidence eroded in October and November of 2001. 
The restatement is unre­lated to criminal counts against Lay, but he noted that it added to the firestorm he said was ignit­ed by the media. 
"Obviously, that was a devastating blow to the finanCial markets and us," an agitated and sometimes bristling Lay told jurors in his fraud and conspiracy trial. · 
The former chairman and chief executive appeared to be trying to control the examination by defense l-awyer George Secrest in his second day on the stand, saying, ''I'm not sure where you're going with that," when Skilling, Lay's co-defendant questioning and charting Tuesday he may lengthen Secrest asked him to differ­in the federal criminal his own course" to "rein­the court day or cut the entiate strategic from non­trial, finished nearly eight force his version of reality," daily 90-minute lunch strategic assets. Lay then days on the witness stand while Skilling let his lead break to pick up the pace, affably explained that a last week. attorney, Daniel Petrocelli, which seemed to drag as strategic asset is consid­Hilder's ex-Enron clients guide his testimony. Lay and Secrest often ered to be strategic to a include Sherron Watkins, a Testimony in the three­switched subjects without certain business. former executive who won month trial could last apparent organization. 
"He and [former Enron fame for trying to warn Lay another three weeks, "I respect the court, but I Chief Executive Jeffrey] of the financial peril facing lawyers on both sides told have a constitutional obli­Skilling could not be more the company days after he U.S. District Judge Sim gation to my client. I don't different in their stepped back into the CEO Lake Tuesday after jurors take it personally," Secrest demeanor," said Philip role after Skilling's abrupt were dismissed for the day. said outside of court. He Hilder, a former federal resignation in August The judge told the panel said Lay has "waited a long prosecutor who represents 2001. last month that the case time to testify. He's only several ex-Enron execu­Hilder said Lay appeared could wrap up before the been on [the witness stand] tives, outside of court. to be "taking control of the end of April. He said for two days." 

Home sales barely increase in March 
Associated Press double-digit gains turned in last year for a gradual slowdown in housing 
as the housing boom was peaking. that would result in a drop of around 
WASHINGTON-Sales of previously Analysts predicted that home prices 6 percent in home sales this year and owned homes edged up in March, but will come under more pressure in a slowing in price gains to around 6 the backlog of unsold homes still hit a coming months if sales slow more and percent, compared with the double­record high, raising concerns that the the inventory of unsold homes keeps digit gains in prices in recent years. once-booming housing market could rising. He said the fact that home prices be in for a rougher landing than The number of unsold homes on the have shown increases in the past two expected. market at the end of March hit a months was a good sign that sales are 
The National Association of Realtors record of 3.19 million units. At the stabilizing after the five consecutive reported Tuesday that sales of exist­March sales pace, it would take 5.5 monthly declines. ing homes advanced by a tiny 0.3 per­months to eliminate the backlog of "This is additional evidence that we cent in March compared with unsold homes, the longest period are experiencing a soft landing," he February, rising to a seasonally since 5.6 months in July 1998. said. adjusted annual sales rate of 6.92 mil­Some analysts expressed concern By region of the country, sales were lion units. that the rising level of unsold homes up 1. 7 percent in the Northeast and 
The March increase followed a big­would soon start putting more down­1.2 percent in the Midwest but fell 0.7 ger 5.1 percent jump in February, ward pressure on home prices. percent in both the South and the which had been boosted by milder "So far,' the cracks in the housing West. than normal weather this winter. market are not that great, but with This year's rise in mortgage rates is Those gains followed five consecutive inventories skyrocketing, that may not dampening sales of both existing and monthly declines in sales. last long," said Joel Naroff, chief econ­new homes and forcing builders to cut 
The median price of a new home omist at Naroff Economic Advisors, a back on construction of new homes. rose to $218,000 last month, a gain of private consulting firm. Housing has been one of the standout 
7.4 percent from a year ago. That David Lereah, the Realtors' chief performers in the current four-year­price increase was far slower than the economist, said he was still looking long economic expansion. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
Pulitzer 
continued from page 1 
ing. 
The stories, which stirrod 
nalional debate over the usn 
of oarmarks in Congress, worn 
pubIislwd in tlw San Din go 
Union-Tribunn, Copl1~y's f'lag­
ship rwwspapnr. 
"Thny got a lot of reaction," Karnmnr said. "If tlwy. wnron't rnprintnd, thny worn citod. Thoy got a lot of allnntion." 
Kamnwr began working for Coploy's Washington D.C. burnau in 2002, and was assigrwd to the Cunningham story in mid-2005, aceording to Kammer's biography on Pulitzer.org. Kamnwr said he wrote in-depth stories about tho earmarking process. which Cunningham had used in his deals with defense con­traelors. 
Copley and the Union­Tribune shared the national reporting Pulitzer with James ltisnn and Erie I.ichtblau of tho New York Times for their invostigation of President Goorge W. Bush's post-Sept. 11 secret wiretapping pro­gram. 
Kammer, .an English major and former elub la.crosse play­er at Notre Dame, began his journalism career in 1974 at the Navajo Times in Window Hoek, Ariz. lie earned a mas­ter's d()gree in American stud­ies at the University of New M()xico and later worked for the Arizona Hepublic as the paper's northern Mexico cor­respondent. In 1998, he joined the paper's investigative team in Phoenix, where he spent four years writing award-win­ning stories about Phoenix fin­ancier Charles Keating, who eventually became the symbol for the nationwide savings and loan scandal. 
II() said good journalism is about "looking beyond the immediate facts and digging 
Hospital 
continued from page 1 
her." 
Hospital ofl'icials confirmed the student was r!Jleased Tuesday. They would not deeper to l'ind the underlying facts ... All reporters should have ian I investigative mind­set and set of investigative tools for digging out informa­tion through public records and source development." 

Al'ler two years as the ltepublie's correspondent in Washington, D.C., Kammer joined Copley N()ws Service, where lw specialized in immi­gration and U.S.-Mexico rela­tions. 
Noting his 16 years of Catholic educalion, Kamm1~r said the atmosphere at Notre Damn fostered his S()nse of duty to snrve the public. 
"One of the things that was pervasive in that education was a s()nse of that obligation to the community and to soci­ety and I think I absorbed that and that value is central to journalism in a democracy," Kamnwr said. "The best thing journalists can do in a democ­racy is tell the people how power is being used in their name, particularly when it's being abused in their name." 
"I definitely value tremen­dously my Notre Dame educa­tion and the friendships I develop(Jd there that rein­forced the value system that is implicit [at Notre Dame I." 
For the Cunningham project, Kammer and Stern were also awarded the 2005 George Polk Award for political reporting, and the Edgar A. Poe Award -which they will receive Saturday in Washington at the annual din­ner of the White House 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
Michael Willard. 
"[The Pass in Hevicw] is an excellent opportunity for the ND HOH: programs to show the Notre Dame family and greater South Bend commu­nity thn impressive nature of one the most elite HOTC pro­grams in the nation," said Lt.Col Hachael Waters, this· year's Tri-Military · Commander. She added that the parade also gives the cadets and midshipmen the opportunity to share their accomplishments with the community, and thank them for support and encourage­ment. 
According to Dukeman, the Pass in Heview has its roots in the Middle Ages, when "rulers held reviews in order to show their strength to others." The American mili­tary picked up the tradition after the Hevolutionary War, and Notre Dame has held the ceremony since the 1940s, he said. 
In the past, the Pass in Review has been a source of controversy, not just its gen­eral presence on campus, but its specific location as well. The event has been marked with protests by the groups Pax Christi and the Catholic Peace Fellowship, 

who broadly objected to the South Quad as a return to University's sponsorship of­tradition or the past when the HOTC program. Notre Dame was a large 
Then in 2001, the ceremo­commissioning source for ny was moved to the Loftus the military," he said. Center from its prior loca­Waters concurred, empha­tion on South Quad, due to sizing that the decision to potentially inclement weath­hold the Pass in Heview in er. It has stayed inside ever the Loftus Center was a joint since, despite several peti­decision by University and tioning efforts from the stu­non: officials. dent body to have it held "As always many locations once again on South Quad. WIHe possibilities and con­
Many of those against sidered, to include Loftus, keeping the the !Joyce p a~ r a d e Center I, indoors "/The Pass in Review/ is DnBartolo claim that Quad and
an excellent opportunity 
the move South Quad.
for the ND ROTC
was made And after dis­as an effort Programs to show the cussions with to minimize the HOTC
Notre Dame family and 
conflict programs and
greater South Bend com­
between t h e protesters munity the impressive University, all and partiei­parties
nature ofone the most 
pants. agreed to
elite ROTC programs in 
Dukeman, Loftus as the however, the nation," loeation for disagreed. this year's "Due to Pass i n
Lt. Col. Rachael Waters
uneertainty Heview," she
Tri-Military Commander 
in weather said. at this time Also taking of the year, part in this it was agreed upon by HOTC year's ceremony will be the and University officials to Great Lakes Naval Marching hold the event in Loftus," he Band, who will be perform­said. · ing all the parade's music as 
There are those, Dukeman well as a short concert added, that still would like immediately l'ollowing the to see it returned to the out­event. doors. 
"Several of the students Contact Amanda Michaels at would like !o see it held in 
amkhael@nd.edu 
Correspondent's Association. Kammer said President Bush is expected to hand him the award. 
"Maybe [the annual dinner] is a good tradition [but] I think we should be more 
They first met 80 years ago ... 
interested in keeping an eye 
Since then, 14 Reisman Trophies & 20 National on [the politicians! than 
Championships.have changed hands. This year, there's 
socializing with them." 
more than just a Shillelagh at stake. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 
ND vs. USC: 
comment on her condition at the time of admittance or release. 
THE DEBATE 
McDonald said the girl's family was notified of the medical emergency. 
Come watch ND debaters Tim Fiorta and Corey Mehlos Contact Kelly Meehan at 
tackle USC debaters Michael Smith and fullback kmeehaO 1 ~saintmarys.edu 
Brandon Hancock as they argue the issue: 

RESOLVED: That Notre Dame should win its 2006 football game against USC 
Friday, April28@ 4 P.M Live at the Decio Theatre Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Free tickets can be picked up at the DPAC box offiCe. Students are encouraged to wear "The Shirt" 
Sponsored by The William T. and Helen Kuhn Carey Chair In Modern Communications, the Office of Student Affairs, and the Notre Dame Debate Program 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE B: STORAGE 3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
S10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH,S RENT AND FREE LOCK with purchase of Unit 
valid with student /D expires 515106 

Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
CUBA 
Guantanatno prisoner refuses to attend trial 
Al-Qaida member may face up to life in prison 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL 
BASE -An alleged al-Qaida 
militant facing a military trial 
chose Tuesday to boycott the 
proceedings, dismissing the 
legal process ·and saying his 
fat11 was in the hands of God. 
Jabran Said bin al-Qahtani 
did not return to the courtroom 
after an hour-long recess. His 
lawyer, Army Lt. Col. Bryan 
Broyles, said only force would 
get him back before tho military 
judge. 
In a brief earlier session, al­
Qahtani, a Saudi detainee who 
was making his first appear­
ance before the military tribu­
nal at this U.S. military base, 
told the court he 
had no interest in 
participating in "/ would prefer to be 
has bushy
the proceedings. 
ignorant of these black hair and
"You judge me, 
and you sentence matters. I don't care." a thick beard, 
told the judge
me the way you 
Jabran Said that a lawyer
want, if this is 
couldn't help
God's will," he bin ai-Qahtani 
him, saying
told the judge. Guantanamo Bay 
the U.S. can
Al-Qahtani, who 
prisoner 
was arrested with senior al-Qaida lieutenant Abu Zubayda and other alleged mili­tants on March 28, 2002, at an alleged al-Qaida safe house in Faisalabad, Pakistan, is charged with conspiring to attack U.S. military and civilian targets. The Department of Defense says that, among other things, he helped to prepare explosives for use against U.S. troops in Afghanistan. 
Broyles had said he planned to argue that conspiracy to attack U.S. troops is not a war crime and that he hoped to have the military judge, Navy Capt. Daniel O'Toole, removed from the case for an unspecified conflict of interest. He also told 
storage space 

*Lighted & Paved 
*Free Lock with Every Unit 4 Month Special: May through August for Notre Dame Students 
5x10... $149 + DEP 
10x10...$199 + DEP 
Call 574.247.7805 

Between Notre Dame and Airport at the corner of Mavflower and Edison 
reporters that he believed some evidence against his client was obtained through torture, but declined to provide details. 
It was clear as soon as al­Qahtani sat down that things would not go smoothly in the windowless courtroom with thick burgundy carpeting, leather-padded chairs and a varnished railing separating trial participants from specta­tors. 
When O'Toole began to explain the legal process, al­Qahtani responded, "This is nonsense." 
The judge then explained the benefits of having a lawyer, but al-Qahtani was not interested. 
"I would prefer to be ignorant of these matters," he said. rest­ing his head on his hands. "I don't care." 
At another 
point, the 
detainee, who 
"either kill me 
or imprison 
me or God will provide me with rescue, and then you will regret every­thing." 
Broyles asked the court to delay the proceedings so he could research what his ethical obligations were to a client who did not want his assistance. When the hearing resumed, al­Qahtani was absent. The defense attorney then asked to rescheduled the hearing, which O'Toole denied. 
Al-Qahtani, who according to his lawyer is in his mid-20s and has a wife and two children, is one of 10 detainees at Guantanamo Bay who have been charged and are facing a military tribunal. He faces up to life in prison if convicted. There are about 490 prisoners at the Guantanamo Bay detention cen­ter. 

UKRAINE 

Survivors retnetnber Chernobyl 
Country observes 20th anniversary ofworld's worst nuclear disaster 
Associated Press 
KIEV -Ukrainian mourn­ers carried single red carna­tions and flickering candles during a solemn ceremony early Wednesday to remem­ber the 1986 Chernobyl explosion, an event that con­tinues to scar this ex-Soviet republic 20 years later. 
The April 26, 1986, pre­
dawn explosion became the 
world's worst ever nuclear 
accident, ripping off the 
nuclear power plant's roof 
and spewing radioactive fall­
out for 10 days over 77,220 
square miles of the then­
Soviet Union and Europe. It 
cast a radioactive shadow 
over the health of millions of 
people; many believe it also 
contributed to the eventual 
collapse of the Soviet Union. 
"My friends were dying under my eyes," said Konstantyn Sokolov, a 68­

Ukraine president Viktor Yushchenko lays flowers on a memorial
year-old former Chernobyl 

to mark the 20th anniversary of the Chemobyl explosion. 
worker whose voice was hoarse from throat and lip cancer. Sokolov was among recovered. Twenty-nine res-washing the long-term hundreds gathering for a cuers, firefighters and plant effects of the accident in middle of the night ceremony workers died later from radi-order to restore trust in the Wednesday in the Ukrainian ation poisoning and burns, safety of atomic power. 

capital, which V i k t o r Yushchenko attended. 
Sokolov said his memories of that time "are very terrible." 
In Kiev, bells tolled 20 times starting at 1:23 a.m., marking the time of the explosion at 

President and another person died of Around 350,000 people an apparent were evacuated forever from heart attack their homes, leaving the M y k o l a whole city of Pripyat and
The whole country 
Malyshev, now dozens of villages to decaygrieves and the 66, was working and rot away. Experts say in the control some may not be habitable
whole worldjoins 
room of again for centuries. 
us in this grief'' 
C h e r n o b y I 's Some 5 million people live Reactor No. 1 at in areas covered by the Lena Makarova the time of the radioactive fallout, in explosion. He Ukraine, neighboring
Ukranian citizen 
Reactor No. 4 at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. Orthodox priests led the mourners in a somber procession. 
Closer to Chernobyl in Slavutych -the town built to house Chernobyl workers displaced in the accident ­the commemorations began an hour earlier to coincide with Moscow time, which was used in the then-Soviet Republic of Ukraine at the time of the accident. 
Residents laid flowers and placed candles at a monu­ment dedicated to Chernobyl as sirens blared. 
Death tolls connected to the blast remain hotly debat­ed, as do the long-term health effects. 
At least 31 people died as a direct result of trying to keep the fire from spreading to the plant's three other oper­ating reactors. One plant worker was killed instantly and his body has never been 

said the lights Belarus and Russia. 
went off and on Valentyna Abramovych, ana the room shook. The now 50, her husband and workers were ordered to the their infant son were forced destroyed reactor, but when to evacuate their home in the they got there, their co-Chernobyl workers' city of workers ordered them to flee Pripyat, leaving behind all 
and save them­selves. "They told us, 'We are already dead. Go away,"'
M a I y s h e v recalled at the Kiev ceremony. 
Thousands have been diag­nosed with thy­roid cancer, one of the only internationally 
their belong­ings. They were "Every day, I would shuffled around, watch television first to a nearby and expect to hear village then to a 
relative's house. when we could "Every day, I 
come back." would watch tel­eviSion and expect to hear 
Valentyna Abramovych when we could 
evacuee come back," V a I e n t y n a Abramo v y c h 
accepted illnesses linked to said. "When they said we Chernobyl, and the U.N. could never come back, I health agency said about burst into tears ... We feel 9,300 people were likely to like outcasts. No one needs die of cancers caused by us." radiation. Ukraine hosted competing 
Some groups, however, scientific conferences on including Greenpeace, have Tuesday as this nation of 4 7 warned that death tolls could million and the international be 10 times higher and community tried to make accused the U.N. of white-sense of the catastrophe. 



Graduation Weekend: Your reservation is waiting. 
Start your graduation celebrations someplace where you do not need to hove your hand stomped to get bock into the party. Your parent's will thank you! 

N• 

Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops • s e a f o o d 


page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
U.S. citizen convicted for supporting al-Qaida 
Prosecutors suspected man may plan attacks 
Associated Press 

SACHAMENTO, Calif'. -A federal jury on Tuesday con­vietnd a 2:~-year-old man of supporting terrorists by attending an al-<)aida training camp in Pakistan three years ago. 
llamid llayat, a snasonal farm worker in Lodi, an agri­cultural town south or Sacramento. was convicted of one eount of providing mate­rial support to terrorists and 
thriHl  counts of lying to  the  
FBI.  
The  verdict  came  hours  

af'ter a separate jury hearing a ease against the man's fatlwr deadlocked, forcing the judge to declan1 a mistrial. 
The fatlwr. 4H-year-old ice 
l: rea rn truck d r i v n r Umer llayat, is charged with two counts of lying to the FBI about his son's involvement in tlw training camp. l>nfense attorneys and prosncutors will nwet in court May 5 to decide whnthnr hn will be retrind. 
Both men are U.S. citizens and stood trial in federal court bdore separate juries. They havn bnen in custody sinen their arrests last June. 
Both cases initially generat­ed widespread interest because they raised coneerns about a potential terrorist cell centered in the wine-produc­ing region about 35 miles south of tho state capital. But the government presented no evidence of' a tnrror network during the nine-week trial. 
Instead, the case centered on vidnotaped confessions the men gave to FBI agents and a government informant who secretly reeorded hundreds of hours of conversations but whose credibility was ehal­lenged by the defense. 
Prosecutors described llamid llayat as having "a jihadi heart and a jihadi mind" who returned from a two-year visit to Pakistan intent on carrying out attacks. Possible targets included hos­pitals, banks and grocery 
stores. 
Thny presented no fWidence to show that such attacks were imminent or even planned. But in dosing argu­nwnts, a prosecutors said the ease was intended to prevent terrorist attacks "long before anybody is hurt." 
l>nfense lawyers for both men argued that the govern­ment didn't have a case against their clients because it had produced no evidence that tho son ever attended a terrorist training camp. 
Their biggest hurdle was trying to persuade jurors to discount the men's videotaped eonfessions. The statements were given separately last June during lengthy interro­gations by the FBI in Sacramento. 
Defense lawyers said the eonfessions were made under duress, after the men had beAn questioned for hours in thn middle of the night. 
The father and son eventu­ally told the agents merely what they thought they want­ed to hear, without realizing the legal consequences, their lawyers argued. 
The trial is the result of 

what the government initially thought might be a much larger case. Its investigation into Lodi's 2,500-member Pakistani eommunity began after agents received a tip in 2001 that Lodi-area business­es were sending money to ter­rorist groups abroad. 
That investigation ultimate­ly fizzled, but it did lead agents to Naseem Khan. The 32-year-old former Lodi resi­dent was working a variety of' fast-food and convenience store jobs in rural Oregon when agents approached him in October 2001, just a month al'ter the terrorist attacks. 
Khan, a Pakistani native who moved to the U.S. as a teenager, was reeruited to infiltrate Lodi's Pakistani community. 
lie initially investigated the money laundering allegations and then targeted a pair of local imams before finally bnfriending Hamid Hayat. The llayats grew to eventually consider Khan almost a mem­ber of the family. 
After II amid llayat left I'or Pakistan in spring 2003, Khan kept in touch and recorded their telephone calls -some of which show Khan urging Hayat to attend a jihadi camp. 
In one conversation, Khan exhorted Hayat to "be a man -do something!" 
Hamid Hayat's lawyers seized on such conversations to show that the FBI inform­ant pushed llayat to attend a training camp, but ultimately produced no evidence that he had. 
They also questioned the informant's credibility, in part because of his own testimony. Khan said that just before he was recruited, he told FBI agents he had seen Osama bin Laden's physician and two other international terrorists living in Lodi during the late 1990s. At the time, they were wanted for attacks in the Middle East and Africa. 
Defense attorneys and ter­rorism experts said it was highly unlikely they would have been in the U.S. at that time, a point prosecutors eon­ceded later in the trial. 
Bush elevates port security 
Homeland Security to conduct background checks of400,000 workers 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Seaport workers will undergo back­ground checks for links to ter­rorism and to ensure they are legal U.S. residents, the Bush administration said Tuesday. 
The announcement came 
after months of' scathing criti­
cism about security gaps at the 
nation's ports. 
The heightened scrutiny ­which will begin immediately ­drew praise from some lawmak­ers and port associations that said the ehecks were long over­due. Others jeered the security measures as either too weak or too invasive or workers' privacy rights. 
Names of an estimated 400,000 employees who work in the most sensitive areas of ports will be matched against govern­ment terror watch lists and immigration databases, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoll' said. They will be among roughly 750,000 workers -including truckers and rail employees -who have unrestricted access to ports and will be required to carry tamp­er-resistant identification cards by next year. 
"What this will do is it will ele­vate security at our ports them­selves so that we can be sure that those who enter our ports to do business come for legiti­mate reasons and not in order to do us harm," Chertofl' said. lie called the safeguards part of a "ring of security" around U.S. ports. 
The background checks will not examine workers' criminal history, although ChertofT left open that possibility for the future. 
How much the background checks will cost was not imme­diately available. 
The Bush administration has been under fire for months for what critics call holes in securi­ty measures at ports, which were highlighted after a Dubai company's purchase of a British firm gave it control or six American ports. An outcry in Congress led the Dubai compa­ny, DP World, to decide to sell the U.S. operations to an American firm. 
Congress is considering port seeurity legislation this week, prompting some to question the sincerity and timing of Chertoll"s announcement. 
"It appears that DHS steps up to the plate to protect our national security only when the cameras are rolling and the whole world is watching," said Hep. Bennie G. Thompson, D­Miss., the top Democrat on the llouse Homeland Security Committee. lie gave tepid praise lor the push for ID cards, which 

"What this will do is it 
he said should spokesman for have been will elevate security at t h e 
issued years our ports themselves so International 
ago. Longshoreman
that we can be sure
In 2002, Union, which Congress that those who enter mpresenl<> East 
ordered the our ports to do Coast port 
Transportation workers and
business come for 
Security said it wel­Administration legitimate reasons and comed steps to issue biomet­"to secure our
not in order to do us 
ric ID card to ports in any
harm."
workers who way possible." passed criminal Since the DP background Michael Chertoff World furor, checks. Those homeland security secre­Democrats cards were sup­have lambast­
tary
posed to be issued to port workers beginning in August 2004. By that December, the Government Accountability OITice said, bureaucratic delays and poor planning were ham­pering development of the card. 
Cargo industry officials have worried that a federal ID system aimed at boosting security could cost many port workers their jobs -leading to bottlenecks in the flow of goods destined for virtually every U.S. community. 
"It seems to us that the biggest security threat is coming from the outside, and not from the workers who live and work in those communities," said Steve Stallone, spokesman for the San Franeisco-based International Longshore and Warehouse Union. 
The added scrutiny "looks a lot like harassment of' the work­ers," Stallone said. Because some truck drivers are illegal immigrants who would quit rather than face identity checks, that could "seriously cripple" major ports, he said. 
Still others questioned the 


wisdom of checking for terror links without also examining a worker's criminal history. 
"While today's announcement is an important and necessary first step, eriminal background cheeks must eventually become a part of the screening proeess," said Anthony Coseia, chairman of' the Port Authority of' New York and New Jersey. 
Some workers already have their criminal baekgrounds cheeked by loeal authorities, said Jim MeNamara, 
ed Homeland 

Security for failing to screen and inspect all cargo that enters the United States at seaports. Senate Democrats an~ pushing legisla­tion to require Homeland Security to outline how it will scan all cargo containers within five years. The department cur­rently inspects 6 percent or cargo containers that enter U.S. porl<>. 
Homeland Security treats port security like a "neglected stepchild," said Sen. Charles Schumer, 0-N.Y. 
ChertoiT said two-thirds of all containers will undergo radia­tion screening li>r nuclear mate­rials by year's end and that 80 percent of cargo entering the United States eomes from for­eign ports with rigorous inspec­tion standards. But he said it is impossible to physically inspec:t every cargo container without snarling port commerce. 
"To call for all physical inspec­tion of every container is like saying we're going to strip search everybody who gets on an airplane," he said. 
MCAT LSAT GMAT GRE DAr· 
Days Left to Beat the Price Increase 
DBLUXB FOOTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Onfv :mo ReservMions AvailcJble! 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 AIRLINE TICKETS (AA} O'HARE TO LAX 
•2 f\IGHTS HOTEL RESERVATIOf\S . 
•GROUND TRAVLL TO/f-ROM COUSf:LL\~ 
•CATERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 JWr reservation (Check or Cash) 
The prices of our Classroom and Premium Online Courses are going up. Enroll by May 1st to lock in the current price!' 
Call 1-800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com. 
Higher test scores guaranteed ~ or your money back;· 
TEST PREP AND ADMISSIONS 

6POAOOI4 'Tett names. are reg1r.lereo trademarlo.s of their re~Ne OWI'Ien\ "'Condttk>nt. and ~rctlorn. apply FDI" comp!ete guarat~lae eligibility -.q:.:lwnents vdl\aploet.comPlsg The Hlgller Sa~re Guar~an\eo!-apiJI~M only 1o K<lpl<ln courwn taKen and compleled wttrun the Unl!ed Statet. Canada Mexico. the Un:t!td Klng<lom. And F•11noo. 'Price, an.:reaie! app1~ to Classroom. E>:trefTN!. ana Premium Online Coursot. 
GO IRISH! 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
Pope enedict I "Hens live so packed together that they become just caricatures of birds, this degrading of living creatures to a commodity seems to me in fact to contradict the relationship of mutuality that comes across in the Bible." 

Notre Dame Food Services continues to use eggs from hens confined in barren, batte cages. Unable to perch, dust bathe, walk on solid ground, or even spread their wings, hens raised in battery cages are arguably the most abused animals in modern agribusiness. In fact, each hen is afforded only 67 square inches of space ­
that's less than one standard sheet of paper.  
NOTRE DAM  FOOD SERVI  S­ 
PLEASE SWI  CH T  G  -F  EE  
EGGS.  

Paid for and placed by concerned ND students. wwtv.nd.edul-anitnals 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
Fond farewell 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 465% 024 South Dining Hall, Notre J);Hnc, IN 46556 
EDITOII IN ClllEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EmTOI! BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna l'aub Garcia 
A.~s·I; MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala ASS'!; MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NI·:WS EDITORS: Amand,t Michaels Mary Kate Malone S!•ORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SCENE EDlTOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's Eorron: Kdly Meehan PHOTO EDITOII: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'Il!CS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
AovutTISING MANAGfR: Sharon Brown 
AD Dr,~IGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CON'lltOl.l.ER: Jim Kirihara 

WEll ADMINISTIIATOII: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS AnMIN!STRATOR Alejandro Gcrbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6'.>27 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observ<!d@nd.edll EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@'nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 6.31-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom. l@nd.edu ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 63I-S839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the smdents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's Colle-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refitse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported ,ts accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediwr in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily thnse ofThe ( )bscrver. 
Viewpoint space L' available to all readers. The free exprt·ssion of all opinion.' through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must lw signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom re,garding Obsrrver policies should be dirrcted tu Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

I he {)\)IICtVI:'t (US!'~ 5'l'l 1·'10011) '' puhlbhcll Mund;•y ~hrnu~l. l<r«i.ly ncq.Jr duri11g ('JI..IIIIilll<l V;liJtiun prrmrb. A \llll!IUlpllllll ro Thl' ()hJI;'rv~:r i\ $\00 rur OllC.h.:ildC!I11\. 
yt'14t: $~~ tur u1w \t'lllrsfrr. 

Tht" Oh.t.et~r ill puhJi,hcd .tt: I'O>TMASTER 024 Sotuh llinm~ li.lil Send addre!Wi corr~niunll ro: Num Dilmc. IN <tM'5b·0779 rht'Ol)ilervc:t 
l'triudic:JI pm1-11Kc p.uJ .u Nouc l>.:unc P.:O.Ruxn"J md Jddwomtl m.tiliu~ offica. 024 Snurh Dining llitll Notre Do~1nc, IN 'ifl556·0779 
Ttn: l )hst'l Y't'r i.!l .a mt-mbcr ul Lh<.' ~'od.uai P1cu. All repmductiun ri~ts o~n: ft'~CtVtd, 


I low many of us follow God's call for us? Leadership on Civil Hights. She marched their communities. I low many of us can Pven sec it clearly? I alongside the thousands for racial justice. They rnturnnd to Chicago in tho 19/SOs, see our f.'Teatest mandate in life as to Local fights were also important to her. In working for the Archdiocese Olliee of "Love each other as I have loved you." The Chicago, she was involvod with the I Iuman Hnlations and Ecumenism and at 'T' being Jesus. This is a special calling to Contract Buyers Loague, a group trying to DePaul University. Hoach rntired whnn love, perhaps distinct stomp out raeist realtors who would intim­Egan died in 2001, but kept in contact with to loving one another idate or prey on whites moving from the frinnds in their eirdes. She was known fiJr as we love ourselves. city, buy their houses for cheap, then sell her notes and e-m ails of encouragemnnt to Our scriptures tell of to black families for inflated prices. A-; young people and former collnagues, God's unfaltering help Chicago faced its race question and more always keeping them in hor prayers and 
· to us, eoncern for the people left the city unwilling to integrate, giving them advice for the journey. Peggy least in a soeiety, and people like Peggy Hoach workfJd to stop Hoach took a !iffJ-long journey seeking and action taken to relieve the work of exploiters in hopes for peace­lighting for social justice, while touching pPople from sull'ering. ful raco relations. the liVflS of people from all dif1immt g£li10r­This is our challenge Hoach is most well known as assistant to ations and walks of Iii(~. She teaches us today. Yet, far l'rom Monsignor Jack Egan, a social justice how to live out Jesus' tnachings with the days of model priest in Chicago. This is indeed how I met courage of will and humble naturn. I am saints, we need mod­Hoach last October. I was writing my sen­reminded or a quoin by anothllr rnodnl or els of this existence to Black, Red and ior essay on Msgr. Egan and eager to do Christian existence, Cesar Chavez, "When show us the way to Catholic some original interviews. I called her up we are rnally honest with ourselves we love each other. One and she happily agreed to meet me in the must admit that our livtJS are all that rnally modnllaywoman, Margaret "Peggy" city to talk about Egan. I loved listening to belong to us. So, it's how we use our lives Hoach, who has inspin'ld so many even on her stories, because the work that I want­that determines what kind ol'!peoplel we this mmpus, has left this earth. Yet her ed to investigate of Egan was her work too. are. It is my deepnst belief that only by giv­legacy lives on in the aetion she took for Egan was said to have the ideas and Hoach ing our lives do we lind lifo." Hoach's dedi­tho Kingdom of God. the know how to get them done. Thny were cation to Christian love and a bettor world 
Peggy B.oaeh served the U.S. ehurch as a a dynamic duo. Egan ncodcd someone to for us all is stirring. Shn will be missed, yet laywoman. mentor and toacher. Last week organize hin1, in order to do his organizing. she challenges us to mmmnber her she died of cancer in the company of When Egan left Chicago for Notre Dame, through our actions -lighting injustice friends and family. This week we celebrate one of his initial questions to Fr. Hesburgh whenwer we find it. hor life in Chicago. Hoach workod at the was whether he could bring Peggy Hoach. Archdiocese Council of Catholic Women in During their 13-year stint under the Dome, Kamaria Porter is a senior history major. Chicago, then later at the national oflice in Egan and Hoaeh started the Catholic Thanks for the memories, angry e-rnails. Washin).,rton D.C. fighting for social and Committee of Urban Ministry. Basically nice notes and the chance to talk and rant radaljustice issues. She was at the right pulling together their dual talents in net­for three years. Bye. place and time-in D.C. in the early 60s working, CCUM hosted conferences, The views expressed in this column are -and representod Catholic women at retreats and other programs to feed the those ofthe author and not necessarily meetings of the National Council of people who do the Kingdom building in those ofThe Observer. 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clarifying role of speechw-riter 
As someone whose byline graced the commentary pages of The Observer nearly three deeades ago, I enjoyed the front­page article on my recent visit to campus. In an otherwise line story, reporter Marcela Berrios stated that "speechwriters that are acutely opposed to one of the President's stances are gen­erally assif,>ned to work on an unrelated issue, to avoid a con­flict of objectivity." 
The reporter is, I believe, confusing what I had said about being an editorial writer with what I said about being a Prosidential specchwritor. I had said that when I was at the Wall Street Journal, on some issues-especially social issues -we had a range of strong opinions among the writers, and no one would be asked to write an editorial taking a stand he disagrcod with. Partly this is simple common-sense-no edi­tor seeking to persuade people of his newspaper's view wants an nditorial written by someone who does not believe what he is writing. 
A presidential speechwriter has a slightly difl'erent role. He or she serves a president who has been elected by the people to implement his vision, and we are here to serve him and help him explain that vision to the public. It is a high privilege, and it comes with corresponding obligations. There arc always going to be policy diflerences within any administra­tion. But if a speechwriter does not support the agenda of the president he serves, the answer is elear-he should get another job. 
William McGurn Assistant to the President for Speechwriting alumnus Class of 1980 April25 
Jenkins' decision fulfills obligation 
Professor Charles Rice, once again. proves that bigotry and close-mindodncss are common, ovon at a prnmier university like Notre Dame. In his latest diatribn, Hiee aetually has the audacity to compare "The Vagina Monologues" and the lliJrmnrJ Queer Film Festival with anti-Semitism. I le goes on to question why such forwns get an "easy pass" at Notre Dame. 
The short answer, Professor Hice, is that Univorsity President Father John Jenkins understands that raising awareness and allowing lbr opnn discussion about important issues has a cru­cial place in a university setting. I Ie malizes that limiting such discussion does nothing to promotn moral values, rather it f(Js­ters bigotry and ignorance. 
Unlike acts of anti-Semitism which promotp, hate, "The Vagina Monologues" and lli)rmerl Queer Film FPstival provide venues for honest and candid discussion about tolorance and human dignity. This is not a contradiction of the valuns of Notre Dmne, but rather the truest manifestation of academic freodom and Catholic teachings. 
Fortunately, most of the Notre Dame community, inducting Jenkins, understands that the integrity of Notrn Dame will only be undermined by the kind ofintolnrance represented in Hice's comm~mts. While those guided by such limr might eonsider forums like the llormer] Queer Film Festival to be "substantive defects," others realiz1~ that giving a voice to those who aro dis­criminated against and subjugated is a moral responsibility. 
Jenkins -please know that many of us in the Notre Dame eornrnunity commend you for your braV<~ry. Hiee-it is you who should resign. 
Ken Seifert 
alumnus 
Class of2002 
April25. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Ken Fowler Kaitlynn Hiely Eric Retter Do you agree with CLAP's 
Maureen Mullen Joe Quinn proposal to raise the hourly Viewpoint Scene 
wage for campus workers to Laura Sonn Tae Andrews 
$12.10 per hour? 
Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Molly McAuley Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Perhaps thefeelings that we
Submit aLetter I 
experience when we are in looe represent a normal stale. Being
~'l:.•. 

in love shows a person who he should be. "
to tbe Editor at · 
Anton Chekhov

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Russian author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
1 Monologues' produce confusion, not good 
Dear Father Jenkins, 
I graduated from Notre Dame in 2004. At that time "The Vagina Monologues" was just beginning to reach its zenith on our campus. I particularly remember a day in LaFortune when I was studying for an exam. I was on my way out and as I was walking toward the back entrance, I was accosted by a young woman wearing only some flimsy crime tape around her in the shape of a bikini, telling me that as a woman I should be one of the first in line to attend this year's rendition of "The Vagina Monologues." I looked down at her "bikini" -the words wrapping around her said "Date Hape Free Zone." I looked up again into her eyes and asked, "Have you ever been raped?" Almost puzzled by the directness of my question, she cocked her head to the side before answering "no." I asked all the girls there-not one of them had actually been raped. I turned and walked away, feeling rather violated all over again because two years prior to graduation, I had been the victim of rape. 
A little about me: I consider myself a very "liberated" woman. Growing up, I lived in 14 different states; cities as different as Los Angeles, Calif. to Paducah, Ky. In other words, I've been around. I can easily say words like vagina and clitoris. I don't really see this as a major accomplish­ment. I am a recent convert to Catholicism. I do not see myself as an "arch liberal," "arch conservative" or "arch anything." I do not pass judgment on an idea until I think I understand it. 
When I was raped in 2002, I made a point to take a closer look at gender relations because I wanted to understand my own experience and be able to help others in similar circumstances. I read and watched "The Vagina Monologues" performed by Eve Ensler herself. I read books by Elizabeth Wurtzel, Betty Friedan and Jennifer Baumgardner, and I attended as many talks as I could on campus on the topic of violence against women. What I found was a mass of confusion, pain and bitterness. Only one talk on campus throughout my two years of avid, per­sonal research touched me in any real way-that talk was given by Katie Koestner in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium about her horrible experience as an undergrad­uate at the College of William and Mary. Her speech was not overly dramatic or explicit, but it was real. The pain was real, the feelings were real and because it was so hon­est, respectful and simple, the discussions afterward on the topic of violence against women were more poignant and encouraging than any others I engaged in at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, this talk did not receive as much press as "The Vagina Monologues" that year because Koestner did not use words like vagina and cunt to describe her experi­ence. She only used words like emptiness and fear. 
So why am I against "The Vagina Monologues?" You would think that as a woman who has been sexually violat­ed that I would want to further my cause at any cost; but that is just the point-I believe "The Vagina Monologues" does not further my cause or the cause of women. After many hours of reading and many hours of talking with oth­ers on this topic, I believe that despite the fact that Ensler's 
War and peace 
The Pass in Heview celebrates and memorializes the legacy of ROTC at Notre Dame. We, the co-presidents of the Notre Dame Peace Fellowship (NDPF), would like to personally acknowledge the dedication, hard work and courage of our ROTC cadets and officers. 
As you may know, NDPF has a history of protesting the annual Pass in Review. Although we take i<;sue with this current war and look to the traditions of non­violence and Just War as guides, our club is not organ­izing a protest this year. We wish to both show our respect and build bridges of communication. We recog­nize that we are all working toward the same goal of an increasfl of peace and justice, and often within the same Christian framework. 
This day let us commit to understanding each other's common goals and aspirations for a more peaceful world. Division and stereotyping only alienates and ommds. We likely agree that in order to make peace in the world, we first have to make peace among our­selves. Last semester, you may have attended a few dialogues bfltween NDPF and ROTC. They will start up again in the fall, providing us all with an opportunity to understand each other's ideologies and collaborate in an efl(Jrt to find common ground. We look forward to dialoguing with you next semester. 
Clare Feeney 
sophomore 
off-campus 
April25 

play has garnered tremendous publicity, it has caused far more confusion about the true dignity of women than it has ever clarified. This is a cost that I am not willing to pay. 
Before "The Vagina Monologues" became such a hot issue on campus, it was easy to see the real and unre­hearsed reaction of students to the play. You would see some men coming out of Washington Hall either laughing hysterically because some woman was screaming cunt over and over again or a few others walking rather shamefully and awkwardly back to their dorms because the visual and anti-woman, anti-feminist and to be framed as an ultra-legalistic conservative -afraid of sexuality, crude words and scantily clad women -a fact that I think has con­tributed to much of the success of "The Vagina Monologues." I am not afraid of my sexuality. I will be mar­ried this fall and I look forward with anticipation to a happy and frequent sex life. I am not afraid of crude words. I have a very quaint grandmother who when given the proper provocation can make even a truck driver blush. And I am certainly not afraid of scantily clad women, fighting for 
audio stimuli was more like a free peep show. Some men~-~women's protection or raising awareness for true femi­
just felt plain anger because of the absence of any significant story about a good experience that involved a man. Of course, the play generat~ ed conversations among women because, unfortunately, many of us have experi­enced some form of inappropriate sexu­al aggression, but I never found the conversations constructive no matter how open I tried to be. It was more like a group of women trying to out do each other with how horrific and miserable our experiences had been. 
The only people on campus who seemed to truly "understand" this play and its direct correlation to helping stem the tide of violence against women were the faculty endorsing it and the small group of students dedicated to seeing the pro­duction through. Being a philosophy major, I had to ask myself, "why?" As I became acquainted with most of the faculty and students involved with the production of "The Vagina Monologues," I quickly noticed a rather common trend. Despite being dedicated to the protection of women, most of the women I encountered who were directly involved with the production of "The Vagina Monologues" held a very limited and sometimes even warped understanding of a woman's true beauty and power. They simply equated sexual forcefulness with Iibera­tion and_ healing. In essence, they advocated a position that it is healthy for women to act in a similar manner to the men who had hurt them -domineering, insensitive and completely self-absorbed. It was hard for me to warm up to this idea. 
During my final years at Notre Dame, I began to read Pope John Paul II's Theology of the Body. I also took a the­ology class on this topic and participated in conferences and talks given by Christopher West, a Catholic scholar on the Church's teaching of sexuality. I wanted to ensure that I was seeing both sides ofthe gender dialogue at Notre Dame, and I think it really did help me to see the difference between constructive and destructive dialogue. 
Standing against "The Vagina Monologues" is a hard thing to do because to do so is to risk being persecuted as 
nistic issues. However, despite the author's good intentions, "The Vagina Monologues" clearly trivializes the dignity of women because it 
gauges the health of a woman's sexuality by her ability to personify her vagina, not to mention the blatant misandry throughout the dialogues making it seem more like a work of hate than of love. 
Am I saying that "The Vagina Monologues" should be banned from the campus in any form? No, I would never place such a restriction on academic freedom, and I believe that any book or media with aca­demic interest and merit should be 
available for study at Notre Dame. What I am saying is that I am shocked and very sad to hear that you, a Catholic priest and philosopher, choose to keep a spotlight on t"The Vagina Monologues" and claim that "The Vagina Monologues" is not, "overt and insistent in its contempt for the values and sensibilities of this University, or of any of the diverse groups 
that form part of our community." I refrained from writing earlier because I believed given your initial state­ment on academic freedom that I would really have nothing to worry about. Your recent statement on "The Vagina Monologues" shocked and, quite frankly, depressed me. To say that "The Vagina Monologues" does not violate our Christian identity or show contempt for part of our commu­nity is to cross over onto very thin ice. As Catholics we are not allowed to do even a small amount of evil so that good may be obtained. I believe that "The Vagina Monologues" does more than a little evil by further confusing the dignity of women and obtains only an infinitesimal amount of good through its efforts to raise awareness of violence against women. There are much better ways to accomplish this goal while still preserving an open, academic environment. 
You remain in my prayers. 
Amelia Marcum alwnna Class of 2004 Aprill2 

Respect education program 
I would like to dispute the opprobri­ous and shabbily written "salute" offered to the education majors of Saint Mary's in last Friday's Inside Column by Laura Baumgartner, "Student teachers." As an education major, I felt that it was demeaning on several levels. The first of these was the outright criticism of the faculty of our esteemed institution. I feel that the professors of any education depart­ment have an especially daunting task when it comes to the field of education, simply because of its nature. The edu­cation of children, or, for that matter, of adults, is not an exact science. Here at Saint Mary's, we are very fortunate to have a department that is filled with teachers who are competent, under­standing and, most importantly, pres­ent us with new challenges daily. They push us to explore the latest and best practices and present us with opportu­nities to push ourselves to new levels both in and out of the classroom. 
When it comes to your promulga­tion, I would like to agree with you on one point. You are dearly in no posi­tion to judge any member of this facul­ty, as is clearly evidenced by your poor writing and thoughtless public presen­tation of your own thoughts. This leads to my second point of dissension. Your writing is atrocious. I read your article several times over, pausing and rereading to ensure that it was no trick of the imagination or computer screen. I find it difficult to believe that an attendee of this College would be so impudent as to insult tenured staff in the midst of writing littered with run-on sentences, misspelled words and blatant syntax errors. You can rest assured that your teachers and professors -present and past­would be less than pleased with your latest literary venture. 

And finally, I speak for many of the women who share your campus when I express displeasure at your seeming­ly backhanded concluding statements. While it may be true that you meant no offense to the student-teaching body, how is it that you conceived the idea of undermining our entire major and department as being complimen­tary of our future roles as educators? In one sentence you debased the entire core of our education, and in the next you thank us for devoting our time to tasks you have already deemed worthless. And, for someone who so clearly stated that she could "only imagine the challenges" that educators face on a daily basis, you are quick to point out faults in a sys­tem with which you claim to have no firsthand experience. The focus of your column is so unclear that it leaves me wondering what your point was. Were you looking to uncover an education program that is in derelic­tion of its duties? Was your column an underhanded strike at pre-service educators? Or was it simply a poorly planned lament spurred by junior­year stress and the bellyaching of close friends? Whatever the case may be, I certainly hope that the many readers of The Observer can look past this misinformation and poor repre­sentation of our st.udent body so that the true value of our institution, its professors and all of its student<; will not be overlooked. 
Kate Keating 
senior 
LeMans Hall April25 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
While HD-DVD may have jumped the gun wtth earlyreleases of both HD-DVD pla~ers and titles, Team Blu­ray is hoping to pia~ the tortoise to HD-DVD share and prove the old adage that •tt's not how y_ou start the race, it's how you finish it."' With the upcoming release of Playstation 3, Blu-ray is hoping to hit the afterburners anct outstrip the rival HD-DVD technology. 
Evil CorporateConllomerataon Backing
Blu-ay: Ihe Blu-ray Oasc Assocaation. 
Corporate Muscle: With member compames Apple and Hitachi. in addition to film studios 20th Century Fox,MGM Studios and Dtsney, Blu­ray holds a decided advantagein terms of the movie titles which will be available in Blu­ray. Also. video game ringerSony has jumped ship ana joined the Btu-ray Disc Association. ln addition, popular video game developerElectfonicJuts ts in the Btu­ray fold. alth-ough HD-OVO boasts computer software behemoth Microsoft. 

A ,:h this age of technical 
i'advancement and weekly 
eehnologieaJ breakthroughs, 
being equipped with the .most 
up-to-date gear has become a 
desired goaL With the arrival 
of HD-DVD and the forthcom• 
ing release of Sony's Blu-ra,y 
system, the next step in tech• 
nology upgrades has arrived: 
Now . that · 

a dElcision. Unfortunately, movi~ studios have split opin­ions over whieh format to back in production of their newest titles. Major support­ers .of HD-DVD are .Paramount, Universal and New Line Entertainment, while.studios like Disney, 20th Century? · n Home ··· .•., . . ~ .. :pt 
~~~~ty ~~i~~ It is alm····ost~e.i'taih'~F';ii'+%.~~·4Uu 
players are only one format wzll ray discs ol1Wt>1,,~o · rht now is waiL Many 
available for survive and prosper in more . copy-sale, COB-the mark t [ protectiOn fea­
sumers must · · e P ace. tures -a 
soon deeide . .. . . .. which type of player to,;lJ'i:w Willa regular DVD pla~r still do thfl trick'! Is it a better decision to buy an· HD-DVD player or aBlq-ray? What is tho rightplan of aetion? 
One,~ertainty is that regu­tar f)VDS, will eventually go tha way: of the eight~track r.ecord. :Buying a high~end DVD player or thousands of t.novio titles lor a ·· 

·. waste · at this · 
over the B Another !'actor price. Blu-ray play cost about $1,000 while end IID-DVD player runs under $500. Obviously, b these prices will drop over time, but the lower initial price of HD-DVD could help lt capture more of the market.· 
For anyone eager·to own.·. one of these systems immedi4i · ately, the support ofvanqus ; •·. movie studios could influence .· 

factor Sony used to gain support from various ftlm companies. 
Currently, the only IID-DVD titles available are "The Last Samurai," "Million Dollar Baby," "The Phantom of the Opera," "Serenity," "Apollo 13" and "Doom." The first Blu-ray movies will go on sale in May, although Blu-ray players are not expected to be 
late June. The be sold for sumer. It is almost certain that only one format will sur­vive and prosper in the mar­ketplace. Some forecasts pre­diet IID-DVD will win beeause of its lower price, early release and backward eom­patibility with regular DVD. Others believe Blu-ray will become standard mainly due to the Playstation 3 and the 
. incre~~~~t~~~{y~1~(~a&~~~z~ing 
.stores. the 

battle wi!l . vs. VHS: an old· , rage until 
scltoot technology
·.. ,.(Jn~ &)'Stem 
battle" 
.. a.ch ioves 

. dofuinanc¢ page16 . 'm.themar­· . .k,etplace. that happens, 
.• :Pticej; w . • · and evc1·y 
to thH to take fun · , high (~apad­
. aftm· thL<> will it 
..· .· · se!lsl'fto PJ.lrchase whichever playe:r,cbecomes the. standard. Tfils new for­
mat war will demonstrate that goodtblngs eome to those whQ V\li!-1( 
· · Contact~ ~ean}r at 
ssweany~t\~u 

· · laye_rs in use have 
JttChOS that ma~ 
requir, · · .. 'to· · 
fix. So fe ently 
available th use . ·' 
trying to buifd .~ Vll 
library. Also, tJ ... . '""' ent 
titles feature very few '(!:£_the 
functions HD·DVD l~'~pn.ble 
of perl(wming sim~c the ;teaq~ 
nology is largely unteste&. 
HD-DVD is basically a mon~.;··: 
expensive version of DVD at 
the moment, with a barely 
notieeable 

quality dif.. See Also 
ference. 

"Home Video
0 n c e Blu-ray Players In arrives in Context: Betamax 
CORPORATE 
vin . 
f~t~ 
rel •·
;.%tr 
< H 
rh 

Bluo.ray·backers are New HO.OVD titles are already out system controllers --·'" ........ 
pictured above •. HD·DVD beat Blu-ray 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
page 15 
M A R T Y ,.,.~,.s C R R 0 E D E R In the corporate arms race 
currently enveloping the new-wave DVD technology
MERATES COMPETE FOR DVD DOMINATION market, it would appear lhat the HD-DVD camp has
rkcts in founding member Sony has joined the first Playstation. The PSP~ 
jumped out to an early lead, 
crs and the Blu-ray Disc Association. This hand-held console has also helped! 
witti HD-DVD titles and 
~~ra of is significant for two reasons .,­Sony garner brand loyalty andl Greater the Playstation 3 (PS3) home open its markets. As a result of players al~eady out there for · marked game console will be using Btu­thedominance that began in 1995 consumption. 'However, t OV(1r tho ray technology and shice Sony with the release of the original concerns over film title at. Small. owns the entirety of the massive Playstation, companies interested availability may cut down nits could MGM film library, all new home in Blu-ray are paying attention. HD-DVD's lead, even though and pros­releases from this extensive cata~ Of all the major Hollywood stu­software giant Microsoft is a better Iogue will be released on Blu-ray dios, only Universal has said it 
on board. 

DVD has instead of HD-DVD. will support HD-DVD exclus HD-DVD and Paramount and Warner 
Evil Corporate
Blu-ray are mov­in non-exclusive deals
The end ofthe DVD is Con81omeration Backing
ing forward by and will be re.vu.cau,.
nigh and, in its place, improving on on both forma HD-VD: The DVD Forum the High Definition­··"itlrcady existing will gi'tt:l"'·the
t.hoice ht th Corporate Muscle: While
DVD (1/D-DVDJ 
MGM, Universal Stud1os is the only
Blu-ray system . 
major filll} company to sign 
for uv•••"~'""' an exclus1ve contract to present their DVDs in HD-DVD format, the DVD Forum still boasts heavy­hitters Microsoft, Intel, Toshiba and AOL/TimeWarner. Controlling over 90
an 

This u es percent of the client allows the operating system market, irtformatlori on . Microsoft lends HD-DVD a 
er density, inr.1•~>:h'<:;itHt .,..,.,...,..,., decided advantage in terms of the disc. of the computer market. The multi· I ·. ··...··• •. • · ·• ·.•.•.·•. ·• .·· ·.. · 
DVD is' alsd' b(l!ng . ·· ·..•. , 
Stora~e Caoaclty: Single­
th no clear-cutfront~

is currerlt1y .able"'to stor{('1"5 gig~" 
layer D·DVDs can store up
bytes (GB)'"on~ ..single ~~~n·'c!s runner, it will take a 
to 15 gigabytes of
opposed to 8.5 liB for dti~Flayer 
major release to give information, up from 8.5
DVDs. Dual-layer HD-DVDs in 
one the advantage gigabytes on conventional
development are already moving the capacity to a ceiling of 30 GB. over the other. auai.. Jayer DVDs. Dual-layer Blu:;Lay. on the other hand. is able HD-DVDs currently in 
ing mem­to n(Hd~.') GB per layer. This development are expected Toshiba, means 5/fr·Gij, for the already to store 30 gigabytes. nr. ThesP developed duiil"il?Jer. One hun­
r become dred (,B four lay~r%il-nd 200 GB DVD Laser Size: 405 sidns of the eight layer discs are a:l~ current-
nanometers.
ly in development. '''W/ 

Laser Color: Blue-violet.
Sony is arguably the moSt,Jligh profile member of th~>Blu Disc Association with it$ influ 
-

~~n1!~l:~Jl~r~~o~f·T~box
in the home console mar only live years and nin.e n~on,ths 360, currently available for its release, Sony;·had shiiPPe>d purchas~h wHI eventually million Playstation 2 have an MD·DVD add-on This broke the previous thrown in as part of its nine years and six mouths package. 
Out now: HD-DVD players are already available on the market, as are HD-DVD titles including_ uThe last Samurai,,$ 11 Million Dollar Baby," and "Apollo 13" amon~ others. Blu-ray titles won t hit shelves until May and Blu­ray players aren't expecteduntil late June. 
less is more: A low-end Toshiba RD-DVD player costs around $500, as compared to a much higher asking price for Blu-ray players, which 
,. Photo courtesy of xboxgazette'~i~~ ' figure to run nearly twice as technology. Xbox 360 .......·. much at around $1,000.
purchase; such as "The 
the punch with faster title reiE~as~~s. an HD-DVD add-on•. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Dreamz' film fails to capture imagination 
By CASSIE BELEK Sct"n<" Critic 

(;oil() movin satires nngage rip11 and sometimes (:ontrovnrsial topics with hilariously witty dialogue that guaran­tees not only a good laugh, but a gen­~inn social.. (:~Hnnwnta~.Y: Think.."J.)r. Stmngolove hrst. then Uuelnss. fol­lowed by "This is Spinal Tap" and "OI"ficn Space." Unfortunately, "American Drnamz." written and direet­ml by Paul Weitz, fails to live up to its prmlncessors' calibnr despite a spectacu­lar ensomblo cast and a juicy inspiration -more people votn in thn "American Idol" eompntition than vote in the U.S. prnsidnntial nlnetions. 
"American Dreamz" follows a number of charadnrs. including President Staton (D(HJnis Quaid). a dimwittnd leader of tlw frm) world con-
enough and when they do, they linger in an abyss. The first half of the movie drags on as we wait for the "American Dreamz" competition, where the real excitement starts. 
On the way there, "Tweedy" finds someone as heartless and miserable as himself in Sally, and decides to help her through the competition. Enter the sexu­al tension that isn't quite there. Grant and Moore make an odd combination, and despite Grant's dashing looks, his age shows against Moore's youthful glow. Both characters could be more sin­istnr, and don't hold a candle to Simon Cowell's cruelty. In fact, Cowell is an exaggerated version of Tweedy instead of the other way around. 
Shining stars include Golzari as Orner, the budding suicide terrorist, and Chris Klein as William Williams, Sally's dedi­eated Iraqi war veteran ex-boyfriend. 
Omer's assignment 

trolled by his power­is to blow up the
American Dreamz
ful Chinf of Staff president, but he's (Willnm Dafoo). 
starting to quite l'rnsidnnt Staton suf­enjoy his singing fors somewhat of a fame and life with breakdown, causing his spoiled cousins. him to actually read Director: Paul Weitz Meanwhile, Sally is newspapPrs and non-Writers: Paul Weitz pretending to be in fietion books. Arter Starring: Dennis Quaid, Willem Dafoe, 
love with William disappearing from Hugh Grant and Mandy Moore in order to garner 
lhn publie eye, his Chief of Staff encourages him to be a guest judge on the singing eontest show "American Dreamz," hosted by Martin Tweed (llugh Grant). Contestants of "American Dnmmz" include white-trash starlet Sally Kendoo (Mandy Moore) and secret Arab terrorist Orner (Sam Golzari). 
It's a brilliant plot combination that falls 11at. The jokes don't come quick 
more votes on the show. Golzari successfully portrays a reluctant terrorist seeking a normal life filled with song and dance and Klein plays the red-blooded, devoted, high sehool sweetheart with just the right amount of exaggeration. 
With its talent-heavy ensemble, "American Dreamz" is guilty of not using all its resources. Judy Greer settles for her typical high-strung sidekick part when we know she is capable of more, especially after her stint in "Arrested Development." Jennifer Coolidge is another underutilized comedic force, playing Sally's mother -a very uninter­esting part. These are roles that could have easily gone to unknowns but instead were wasted on quality actress­es. It's doubtful either will be remem­bered in their roles, a fault not of their own, but of the movie's. 

"American Dreamz" is funny, but not funny enough to rank high on satire lists. With so many different plot threads, the movie doesn't eompletely gel until it's time for the competition, and it eomes too late in the action. The Bo Bice look-alike is priceless and Mandy Moore has perfeeted the blonde brat routine, but "American Dreamz" lacks the meat and potatoes of a quality comedy. The movie is good for a laugh, but doesn't break any new ground in the field of satires. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
HOME VIDEO PLAYERS IN CONTEXT 
Betamax vs. VHS: an old-school technology battle 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Writer 

In a limn bnfore DVD, Dolby Surround Sound and digital movie pro­jection -when hair bands and disco rulml our culture-a format war nver­whnlmnd the nntnrtainment world just as the IID-I>VD vs. Blu-ray conlliet does today. Known today mostly to older gmwrations and collectors, it was the
-light bntwnen Betamax and VIIS. In thn early 1970s, home videocas­sette nH:ordnrs becamn available to the public at chnap prices. The first sue­cnssful syslnm was tho Sony-produced Bnlamax. It was named "Betamax" bm~ause thn shape of the tapn running through tho cassntto looked like the Crenk letter "Beta." Onn ynar aftnr tlw debut of Betamax, .IVC inlrodueod a rival product, the VIIS, or Vidno llome System. VIIS works by running a magnetic: tape botwnnn two spools, whieh is then passnd ovnr various playback and roeording !wads in a Video Cassette Hewrdm (VCHI to produee an image. The original Belamax systems fea­tured a high reeording quality but only lwld one hour's worth or footage ­that's loss than a foaturn film. VIIS, on llw ollwr hand. lost some quality, but could managn two hours of recording thanks to largnr cassnttes and slownr tapn spfwd. Bntamax madn changos to its (~assnltns to nvPnlually have sp<u:e for ovPr thrnP hours. but VIIS could nmploy a "Slow Play" program to rncord Pight hours of footag(~. In t.lw hPginning of its production. 
Betamax cornered the market and held 
nearly 100% market share because of 
thn incompatibility of other formats. 
However, VHS sales quickly overtook 
those of Betamax for several reasons. 
First was the superior recording time of VIIS eompared to Betamax. In spite of numerous product revisions by Sony, VI IS always enjoyed a longer recording time. Along with this, both VHS tapes and recorders were available at prices cheaper than those of Betamax. Bntamax machines eventually became easier to rent, but by that point VHS had already cornered nearly 70 per­cent of the market for recordable tapes. 
Sony again made a crucial mistake in the marketing of its Betamax product. Whereas 40 eompanies utilized the VIIS format by 1984, only 12 used Betamax. Sony's refusal to sign licens­ing agreements with movie studios and cassettn hardware companies led to a further reduction in market share. By contrast, VIIS became more widely available. 
By the late 1980s, nearly every street corner store held a rack of VIIS tapes available for sale, while Betamax tapes were almost impossible to find. In 1988, Sony began to manufacture VIIS n~corders, conceding defeat in the for­mat war. VIIS went on to dominate the industries of home recording and movie distribution until the introduc­tion ol' tho DVD in 1997. 
Whiln Bntamax di(~d a silent death in the horne video market. it lived on for a time in personal eamcordnrs and a dnrivativn callnd Betaeam is now oJHl of tlw standards in the professional and broadcast video industry. Nevertheless, the public popularity of Betamax dwin­dled through the 1990s, except for sev­eral niche groups. Sony finally gave up on the dying brand, producing its last Betamax player in 2002. 
The format war between Betamax and VIIS is a classic ease of market competition and has been applied to many battles in the eomputer industry, including Apple vs. IBM, Macintosh vs. Windows and Mierosoft vs. Netseap(~. 
While marketing competition existed as one dimension of this format war, lhe major rnasons Bntamax failed wnre the decisions made by Sony concerning the length and licensing of its product. If different decisions had been made, DVD may have phased out Betamax instead of VIIS. 

However, as it turned nut Botamax fell hard, while VIIS wont on to domi­nate tho markotplaeo for over a deeade. While tlwre have been numnr­ous formal wars in various industries throughout history, the Betamax vs. VIIS eonfliet is one of the most wnll known and studind, thanks to its enor­mous and lasting effects on the (llltN­lainmenl industry. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

Directed by Stergios Niziris 


Directed by Spiro N. Taraviras 

Directed by Angelos Frantizis 
Greek Cinema Now! Festival 

Greek Cinema Now! Festival 
Greek Cinema Now! Festival 
Rated R 

Not rated 
Not rated 
Fri. Apr. 28 at 4 pm and 

Fri. Apr. 28 at 7 pm and 
Fri. Apr. 28 at 10 pm and 
Sun. Apr. 30 at 7 pm 

Sun. Apr. 30 at 10 pm 
Sat. Apr. 29 at 7 pm 
.. 

Directed by Antonis Kafetzopoulos Greek Cinema Now! Festival Not rated 
Sat. Apr. 29 at 10 pm and Sun. Apr. 30 at 4 pm 

NBA PLAYOFFS 

Wizards fight back to even series with Cavs 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 26, 2006 

Associated Press  postseason game as a pro.  team playoff record. "I missed a  
He finished with 26 points on  lot of shots, layups that I usually  
CLEVELAND The  7-of-25 shooting, and matched  make. They did a great job. I  
Washington Wizards got mad,  his career high with 10  didn't come to play."  
then got nven.  turnovers. James also made  The series shifts to the Verizon  
Angry at allowing LeBron  some mental errors, including a  Center for Game 3 in the best­ 
.James to dominate them with a  costly one late when he made  of-seven series on Friday night.  
tripln-double in Came 1, the  an out-of-bounds save under his  Drew Gooden scored 24 points  
Wizards roughed up Cleveland's  own basket that was picked ofT  on 11-of-12 shooting and added  
superstar and downed the  by Arenas for an easy layup.  16 rebounds, and Larry Hughes  
Cavaliers 89-84 Tuesday night  The Wizards, who returned to  had 16 points for the Cavaliers,  
to tie their Eastern Conference  Washington after Game 1 to  who trailed 85-77 with 1:34 left  
series at a game apiece.  regroup, came up with all the  following Arenas' gift layup and  
Gilbert Arenas scored 30  right adjustments and snatched  free throw.  
points, Antawn Jamison added  away Cleveland's home-court  A free throw by James and  
21 and Caron Butler was the  advantage.  two by Gooden got the Cavs  
primary defender on James,  "We destroyed ourselves in  within 85-80, and Cleveland  
who wasn't the same after he  Game 1," Arenas said. "So we  was still alive when Arenas  
got wrapped up by massive  decided to come out and play  missed an ill-advised 3-pointer.  
Wizards 1:enter Brendan  better basketball."  
!faywood in tlw first quarter.  The Wizards stopped James  Nets 90, Pacers 75  
"Actually, that wasn't the plan  and also snapped Cleveland's  The Indiana Pacers know  
going in," Arenas said of  12-game winning streak at  what to expect from Vince  
llaywood's hack. "Brendan just  home. Instead of double-tnam­ Carter and the New Jersey Nets.  
deeidncl he was going to give a  ing tlw 6-foot-8 Jamns, who dis­ They don't quite get the offi­ 
hard foul to let him know he  sected them with passns to open  cials.  
was there. For some reason.  teammates in Game 1,  Cartl~r rebounded from a dis­ 
that just threw him ofT a little  Washington coach Eddie Jordan  mal shooting performance to  
bit."  let Butler and Jan~d Jeffries  score 33 points Tuesday night  
.lames got 32 points, 11  guard him with no assistance.  and lead the New Jersey Nets to  
rebounds and 11 assists in his  "They had a grnat schnme by  a victory over the foul-plagued  
playoll" dnbut, but he played like  playing me 1-on-1," said James,  and undermanned Pacers,  
a mere mortal in his second  whose 10 turnovers were a  evening their first-round series  
at a game apiece.  
"Maybe it came ofl' as a chip,  
it was just focus," Car·ter said Pacers' center Rick Foster, middle, pulls down a rebound over  
when asked if had a chip on his Nets' guards Jason Kidd, left, and Lamond Murray.  
shoulder for Game 2. "l wanted  
to get my first win here. They  
brought me 11fwe not to just win  both of us are out, it's hard. Our  overtime by a 3-pointnr from  
49 games but to win playoff  teammates play ofl" us a lot, and  Brent Barry that hit the rim  
games. That was my goal. It was  it dido't make it no bettor that  twice, wont high and J'PII  
important for me to come out  Peja wasn't playing. It's hard to  through with 4 seconds left in  
and just be Vince."  win a game like that."  rngulation.  
Carter had plenty of help.  The Pacers' trio averaged a  Then Manu Cinobili carriPd  
Hiehard Jefferson added 21  combined 56 points during the  the defPnding champions to a  
points and Nenad Krstic had 20  regular season. Jackson had 10  victory TuPsday night in Game 2  
points and 10 rebounds as New  points before fouling out in the  of their first-round series.  
Jersey avoided losing the first  fourth quarter. O'Neal finished  <;anw 3 is Friday night in  
two games at home.  with 12 points on 3-for-12  Sacranwnto. With so many days  
Game 3 is at Indiana on  shooting and live fouls.  ofl". Kings fans might start won­ 
Thursday night.  Both O'Neal and .Jackson  dnring whether the Spurs could  
Jason Kiclcl added six points,  chose their words carefully  possibly find another way to  
I 3 assists and 11 rebounds in a  when asked about the ol'ticiat­ bn~ak their hearts.  
game the Pacers probably felt  ing.  San Antonio had its way with  
was decided a little too much by  "I don't quite understand it,"  Sacramnnto in the opener,  
an ol'lieialing crew that included  O'Neal said. "This is my 1Oth  breaking things open in the sec­ 
Violet Palmer, the first female to  year. These are the same moves  ond quarter and winning by 34.  
rd'eree a postseason game.  I made the previous four or five  Perhaps thinking this one would  
The crew called two fouls  years that made me an All-Star.  bn just as 1msy, nspeeially with  
apiece on Indiana's Jermaine  On the flops, they're holding  Kings forward Hon Artest serv­ 
O'Neal and Stephen Jackson in  onto me. They're not calling  ing a one-garm~ suspension, the  
the first quarter, and the Pacers  them on the other end."  Spurs came out flat and were  
were never able to find their  clown by five at halrtime.  
oll'ense on a night forward Peja  Spurs 128, Kings 119  Although San Antonio  
Stojakovic was also sidelined  Maybe the Sacramento Kings  snapped out of it and went up  
with a sore right knee.  would've preferred another  by 10 in the third quarter, Bonzi  
"It's hard when both of us arc  trampling over what the San  Wells, Shareef Abclur-Hahim  
AP  in foul trouble," Jackson said.  Antonio Spurs did to them.  and Artest's replacement, Kevin  
Cleveland Cavaliers' forward Drew Gooden, left, looks to make a  "If one of us is in foul trouble,  Dominant early and resilinnt  Martin, refused to let  
pass while guarded by the Washington Wizards' Antawn Jamison.  the other can play. But when  late, the Kings were l'orcnd into  Sacramento go away.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially 97 Honda wagon, EX Accord. Large house for rent. 3-6 BDRM responsible, entrepreneurial. go-105,000 miles. 1-owner,red,asking 18285 Dunn Rd. HOMES. WANTED getters with desires to make a $4800. Car on campus. 269-445-Walk to class @ ND. $195/PER PERSON MO. PERSONAL 
meaningful impact on transforming 1437 or 631-5962. 4 huge bedrooms, WALK TO ND.06/07 OR SUMMER. Paid Summer Internship. the international business world 3 full baths, 574-329-0308 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Kymanox,LLC is seeking 1-2 stu-while making a large amount of Huge fenced yard. Do not go it alone. dents with energy, talent & a desire $$$$. I am an alum based in FoR RENT Call317-431-9508 2 BDRM HOME.$590 MO. If you or someone you to learn about the Biopharma indus-Jackson Hole and arn looking for 272-6306 love needs confidential support or try. Engineer/technical majors pre-students for part time. full time. or Retail/Office Space 4 BR,1.5 BA, assistance, please call !erred. Highland Park,IL. Go to summer employment to work for For Lease fenced back yard, 2 bdrm/2bath apt. Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at http://www.kymanox.com/intern for commission. 1800 SF at $10 PSF <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. Sub-let at discounted rate, 631-7819. For more information, 
more info. Mr. Perry will be on cam-Can work from home. NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, $795/mo. with option to stay longer. see our pus 27-28APR06 for possible inter-www. Near ND. 269-663-2299. $555/mo. bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. views. effectiveexecutivecoachinlj.COm Contact Down from$ 
Grubb & Ellis/ 4 bdrm,2.5 baths house. 705 for Jui-Aug. Happy Birthday Kate. SUMMER WORK $15.50 base-Cressy & Everett, Noah Davey Call Judy 257-0659. Remember, drink lots of water. appt. FT/PT schedules,customer FoR SALE 57 4-271-4060 574-298-6217. sales/service,no experience neces-Ken has cooties. sary, all ages 17 & older, conditions Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at Room available anytime but 1st TICKETS His girlfriend told me. apply. Call Now. Slart After Finals! see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking renter gets 1st South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835 Campus! Distance to ND. month free. $350/mo. TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. One of these days ..... Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort Make your Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Beautiful & very clean home. 574-232-0964. Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington dream of Everett. Close to ND. Happy 22nd Kiki McCall. 812-330-1104 Evansville 812-477-homeownership a reality. 1 Tony Davey 574-271-4060. Parking available. I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR 2702 Lafayette 765-449-41 00 232 sq 11, 3+car garage. Call Bill FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. Diana can legally drive at midnight. Housemate: 3 guys need 4th in 4br Call Donna Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at 574-246-0872 or PLEASE CALL house. 309-3105. @993-5060. $595. Call 277-9372. cell574-386-7272. 277-1659. Good luck with your exams Juan J. 

Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL PLAYOFFFS 
Senators defeat Lightning, grab 2-1 advantage in series 
Quick goals by McCarty and Regehr lift Flames over Mighty Ducks in game dominated by power play scoring 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -The Ottawa Senators are determined to shake their reputation as playoff failures. 
Two nights after a third-period collapse at home revived talk about past postseason disap­pointment, the top-seeded team in the Eastern Conference regained control of its first­round series against the Tampa Bay Lightning with an impres­sive 8-4 victory on Tuesday night. 
Ottawa leads 2-1 in the best­of-seven matchup. Game 4 is Thursday night in Tampa. 
Martin llavlat scored his third and fourth goals of the playoffs, and defenseman Wade Redden had a goal and two assists after missing Game 2 to fly to Saskatchewan to be with family following the death of his moth­er. 
Antoine Vermette also scored twice for the Senators, who got another solid performance from goaltender Hay Emery. The rookie stopped 35 shots and again showed why Ottawa is confident it can go deep into the playoffs, even without injured goalie Dominik !Iasek. 
The Senators have been one of the top two seeds in the East four times since 1999, but have yet to advance to the Stanley Cup finals. They entered this series as heavy favorites after sweeping four regular-season meetings and taking 17 of 20 games from the Lightning over the past five years. 
Paul Ranger scored twice and Martin St. Louis once for the Lightning, who trimmed a four­goal deficit to 5-2 on Ranger's unassisted goal just 20 seconds into third period. But any realis­tic chance to make it interesting faded when Tampa Bay's Chris Dingman gave the Senators a 7­minute power play by drawing penalties for instigating and fighting. 
Dany Heatley and Zdeno Chara scored during the stretch for Ottawa to make it 7-2. Tampa Bay came back with power-play goals by Ranger and Pavel Kubina, but by that time the game was well out of reach. 
Heatley and Chara didn't make it to the end as they were part of a brawl with 2:17 left. 
Heatley squared off in a fight with Nolan Pratt, and Chara locked up with Vincent Lecavalier. Ottawa's 6-foot-9 defenseman cocked his right arm and held it menacingly over Lecavalier, who was down on the ice, but restrained from throw­ing the big punch. 
The melee, sparked by Vaclav Varada's boarding penalty against Tampa Bay's Ruslan Fedotenko, capped a physical game that featured 139 penalty minutes -79 for Tampa Bay ­five fighting majors, and seven misconducts. 
Despite winning Game 2 to even the series and end a nine­game losing streak against the Senators, Lightning coach John Tortorella insisted earlier Tuesday that the pressure to win the series remains on Ottawa because of expectations created by a stellar regular season. 
The Senators answered ques­tions about how they would respond by scoring three times in their first 11 shots, with Havlat finding the net for the third straight game and Redden and Patrick Eaves adding their lirst goals of the playoffs. 
The Lightning were fortunate to only trail 3-1 after one period. 
Tampa Bay has been putrid on the power play in the first three games of the series, going 4-for­23 with two of the goals coming in 5-on-3 situations, including St. Louis' shot that got through Emery late in the first period. 
The Lightning yanked goalie John Grahame after Havlat's second goal made it 5-1 midway through the second period. Backup Sean Burke yielded goals to Heatley, Chara and Vermette in the third. 
Flames 5, Mighty Ducks 2 
Darren McCarty and Robyn Regehr scored 34 seconds apart in the third period to break open a tight game and lift the Calgary Flames to a playoff victory over the Anaheim Mighty Ducks on Tuesday night. 
Calgary took a 2-1 lead in the first-round Western Conference series. Game 4 of the best-of­seven matchup is Thursday night in Anaheim. The teams will return to Calgary to play the fifth game on Saturday night. 
McCarty scored his second goal of the series 4:59 into the final period, then Regehr quickly added his first goal of the play­offs on a power play to give the Flames a three-goal pad. 
Chuck Kobasew's goal at 15:34 of the second period snapped a 2-2 tie. 
Calgary scored five times on only 24 shots against goalie Jean-Sebastien Giguere. Miikka Kiprusoff faced 29 Anaheim shots. 


Kristian Huselius had a goal and two assists for Calgary. Daymond Langkow also scored for the Flames. 
Defenseman Francois Beauchemin provided all the Ducks' scoring, becoming the first Anaheim rookie to notch two goals in a playoff game. 
McCarty got the puck just behind the Ducks' goal line, cir­cled toward the crease, reached around and poked the puck past Giguere for a 4-2 lead. Regehr scored off a faceoff, falling down as he got off the shot from the circle that sailed past the Anaheim goalie. 
Only two goals were scored at even strength. 
The first four came during power plays _ two by each team _ and included Beauchemin's second-period goal with the Ducks holding a two-man advan­tage. 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and atremendous business experience;~ 
... Or asophomore or iunior looking to use vour Web design experience to build aresume;~ 
If so, Get aJob at The Observer! The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller and Web Administrator. 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
-----------~----­


OUND THE NATION 
page 20 

NCAA Baseball Rankings 
team rerord prev. 
1 Cal State-Fullerton 31-10 1 
2 Rice 35·9 2 
3 

North Carolina 34-8 3 4 Nebraska 32-6 4 5 Oregon State 28-9 9 6 Alabama 31-12 11 7 Texas 28-15 5 
8 Georgia Tech 32-9 13 9 Clemson 29-13 6 10 Oklahoma 32-10 15 11 Arkansas 30-12 12 12 NOTRE DAME 32-8 18 13 Kentucky 30-10 21 14 South Carolina 30-11 7 15 Florida State 33-10 8 16 Arizona State 28-14 10 17 College of Charleston 33-8 19 18 North Carolina State 31-13 14 19 Houston 28-15 NR 20 Virginia 34-10 NR 21 Vanderbilt 25·16 16 22 UCLA 23-16 NR 
23 Mississippi 26-15 NR 24 Mississippi State 29·11 17 25 Old Dominion 35-8 20 
NCAA Women's Softball Top 25 
No. team record prev. 
1 UCLA 36-4 1 2 Texas 45-5 2 3 Arizona 34·8 3 4 Alabama 40·7 4 5 Stanford 33-10 5 6 Tennessee 47-6 7 
~ 7 Arizona State 41-7 8 8 California 38·8 6 9 Oregon Slate 33·7 9 10 LSU 44-7 11 11 Georgia 46·11 10 12 La.-LafayeHe 39·8 13 13 Michigan 31-12 12 14 Northwestern 33·10 16 15 Washington 29-15 14 16 Nebraska 35·8 15 17 Texas A&M 32-13 17 18 Baylor 33-17 19 19 Auburn 31·13 18 20 Fresno State 31·13 20 21 North Carolina 46-13 22 22 Louisville 30·8 23 23 Oklahoma 29-18·1 21 24 San Diego State 27·8 NR 25 Virginia Tech 33-14 NR 
NCAA Women's Softball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall 
NOTRE DAME 13·1 31-13 USF 11-1 41·20 Louisville 9-3 30-8 Syracuse 12·6 30-19 DePaul 9-5 24-15 Providence 9-7 26-14 PiHsburgh 8·10 27-24 St. John's 6-10 23-23 Connecticut 5-9 18-22 Seton Hall 6·12 28-24 Rutgers 4-14 12-34 Villanova 2-16 13-32 
around the dial 
NBA 

Milwaukee at Detroit, 7:30 p.m., NBA TV Memphis at Dallas, 8 p.m., TNT LA Lakers at Phoenix, 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL New Jersey at New York, 7 p.m., OLN Dallas at Colorado, 9:30 p.m., OLN 
MLB 

Atlanta at Milwaukee, 1:05 p.m., TBS 
CoMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER's w1 RE SERVICES Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
NFL 

Associated Press 
MIAMI Miami Dolphins running back Hicky Williams was sus­pended for the 2006 sea­son by the NFL on Tuesday for violating the league's substance abuse policy for the fourth time. 
The league announced the suspension after Williams' appeal of his lat­est positive drug test was denied. Williams met with NFL counsel Jeff Pash on April 10 in an attempt to have the league overturn the test. 
''I'm disappointed with the decision, but I respect it," Williams said ·in a statement released by the team. ''I'm proud of my association with the National Football League and look forward to returning to the Dolphins in 2007." 
Williams' previous posi­tive tests were for marijua­na, which he acknowl­edged using. The latest test apparently involved a drug other than marijua­na. 
Williams had been par­ticipating in the offseason training program at the Dolphins' complex and was there working out shortly before the league announced its decision. 
The 1998 Heisman 
Trophy winner at Texas and 2002 NFL rushing champion, Williams retired and sat out the 2004 sea­son, then returned last year to play for new Miami coach Nick Saban. 
Williams served a four­game suspension at the start of the 2005 season for his third violation of the drug program, then ran for 743 yards and averaged 4.4 yards a carry while sharing playing time with rookie Honnie Brown. 
News that Williams had failed another drug test surfaced in February, while he was in India studying yoga and holistic medicine. 
Saban repeatedly has praised Williams' conduct and performance last sea­son and supported him in the appeal process. 
"This is a league deei­sion, and we are disap­pointed in what it means for Hicky and the team," Saban said in a statement. "Hicky did an outstanding job for the Dolphins, not only as a player but also what he added as a person to the team's chemistry and to our overall sue­cess." 
Attorney David Cornwell represented Williams in his appeal. 
"We raised substantial and legitimatn issues." 

IN BRIEF 
Duke lac.rosse player to face Judge John Bayly also set a 9 p.m. 4. Including his first ATP title in charges m separate case curfew, ordered him to report by Valencia as a qualifinr, Almagro has 
WASHINGTON A Duke phone to court ollieials every Friday, won 10 straight matches on clay. University lacrosse player charged and required that he stay away from lle'll next face third-seeded with raping a stripper in North 2Jaces that sell alcohol. Guillermo Coria, who beat Spanish Carolina was ordered Tuesday to Federer beats Murray to wild card Galo Blanco 6-7 (4), 6-0, 6­stand trial in Washington on an advance to third round 2. Coria made 11 of his total 16 dou­unrelated assault charge from last BAHCELONA, Spain -Fifth-seeded ble faults in losing the first set, then fall. · David Ferrer withstood a strong chal­breezed through the next two sets. The assault charge against Collin lenge from British teenager Andy Earnhardt to drive replica 
Finnerty, 19, eould have been dis­Murray, winning 4-6, 7-6 (4), 6-1 to of father's car at Talladega missed if he completed 25 hours of reach the third round of the Open CHARLOTTE, N.C.-The one thing a community service and stayed out of Seat Godo on Tuesday. NASCAH driver nevr~r wanted to sen trouble, but a Washington judge Ferrer took 65 minutes to win the was the black No. 3 Chevrolet closing on decided his arrest in the rape case second-set tiebreaker, then eased his rear bumper. One glanee of the car violated that agreement. through the final set. in the rearview mirror was enough to Finnerty and two friends are accused The second-highest ranked Spaniard send tremors through any competitor. of punching a man after he told them after No. 2 Hafael Nadal, No. 12 Dale Earnhardt Jr. hopes to achieve to "stop calling him gay and other Ferrer is streaking after reaching the that same eiTeet this weekend at derogatory names," according to semifinals at Key Biscayne and the Talladega Superspeedway, where he'll court documents. quarterfinals at Monte Carlo last mark his late father's birthday by driv­Finnerty remains free pending a July week, losing both times to Roger ing a replica of the litmnd ear. 10 trial in the Washington case. He Federer. Junior's trademark red Chevy will be could get up to six months in jail and Also cruising into the third round painted predominantly black, with a fine of up to $1,000 if convicted of was Nicolas Almagro, who beat 13th­white lettering and silver and red simple assault. seeded Gael Monfils of France 6-2, 6-stripes. 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Chipper Jones hits tvvo-run clinger in return to lineup 
grounder by Jeff Francoeur and
Jeter hits homer and 
lost the ball in the seventh inning, but the play was ruled a
drives in three runs 
base hit Brewers manager Nedin 9-1 Yankees win YDst said before the game that he will continue to take a patient Associated Press approach with Weeks, who is considered one of the team's ris­
MILWAUKEE -Prince Fielder ing young stars. took advantage of an inlield shift by the Atlanta Braves, singling in Reds 6, Nationals 5 the go-ahead run in the sixth Edwin Encarnacion drove in inning to lif't the Milwaukee · four runs, and the Cincinnati Brewers to a 4-2 victory Tuesday Reds took advantage of night. Washington starter Billy Traber's 
The Brewers trailed 2-1 going wildness to take an early lead into the sixth, but scored two Tuesday night, the!) held on for a runs with two outs to take the victory over the Nationals. lead. The Reds have won six of their 
Gabe Gross doubled with one last seven to improve to 14-7, out, then advanced to third when their first time seven games over Braves starter Tim Hudson had .500 since July 4, 2004. to duck a broken bat on a Washington, meanwhile, groundout by Geoff Jenkins. dropped to 1-6 at home. Traber 
Carlos Lee singled sharply to (1-1) lasted only 1 1-3 innings, center field, scoring Gross to tie an.d the Nationals had to go deep the game. Lee stole second with into their bullpen, using five Fielder batting. relievers. 
The Braves are using an infield Cincinnati starter Dave shift on the left-handed Fielder, Williams (1-2) wasn't brilliant but moving their shortstop to the good enough for the win, allow­right side of second base. But ing four runs and nine hits in Fielder chopped a 2-1 pitch five-plus innings. He gave up through a gaping hole into left rookie Ryan Zimmerman's two­judge the ball, moving forward pitchers have allowed only one seventh on a two-run homer by center field, scoring Lee to give run homer in the second and before having to backpedal, and run in four of their past five Jay Gibbons, who is 9-for-17 the Brewers a 3-2 lead. Alfonso Soriano's solo shot in the the ball sailed over his glove. games. (.529) against Chacin. 
Chipper Jones, who came off fifth. Pitching at home for the .first Rodrigo Lopez (1-2) walked the disabled list Tuesday after Traber faced 11 batters, and Yankees 9, Devil Rays 1 time this year, Mussina (3-1) Russ Adams leading off the bot­missing 13 games with a seven reached base -four hits, Derek Jeter homered and yielded only a solo homer to tom half, and Jim Brower sprained right knee and ankle, two walks and a hit batsman. A drove in three runs, Mike Yankees nemesis Jonny Gomes in relieved and walked Frank hit a two-run homer that put the night after scoring three first­Mussina had another strong out­six-plus innings. The right-han­Catalanotto with one out. Wells Braves ahead 2-0 in the fourth. inning runs off Livan Hernandez, ing and the New York Yankees der allowed four hits, struck out doubled for a 4-3 lead, Troy Jones, who hit into a double play the Reds scored four in the open­got off to a much better start seven and did not walk a batter Glaus was intentionally walked, in his first at-bat, added a single ing inning off Tralrer, who against the Tampa Bay Devil for his fifth solid outing in five John Halama came in and pinch­in the sixth. walked in a run and gave up Rays this season with a victory starts this season. hitter Shea Hillenbrand hit a 
Brewers starter Torno Ohka (2-Encarnacion's two-run single and Tuesday night. , He left with an 8-1 lead and two-run single. Bengie Molina 
1) gave up two runs and seven Brandon Phillipst sacrifice fly. Jason Giambi also knocked in improved to 14-5 against the added a two-out RBI single. hits in seven innings. Derrick Traber began the second by three runs to give him eight RBis Devil Rays with his 227th career Turnbow pitched the ninth for walking Williams, drawing some in two games. Jeter finished with win. Cubs 3, Marlins 1 his seventh save in as many boos. After Felipe Lopez followed three hits and scored three Dontrelle Willis lost for the first chances. by singling to center, Traber was times. He has 16 hits in his last Blue Jays 7, Orioles 3 time in April, with rookie Sean 
Hudson (1-2) gave up only one removed. 30 at-bats (.533). Vernon Wells doubled home Marshall pitching seven scoreless hit in the first three innings It was· a big falloff from Mussina beat 22-year-old lefty the go-ahead run in four-run sev­innings on a cold night to lead before Jenkins hit his fourth Traber's debut with the Nationals Scott Kazmir and shut down a enth inning, backing Gustavo the Chicago Cubs over the home run of the season, a solo last week, when he gave up two depleted lineup missing Carl Chacin and leading the Toronto Florida Marlins Tuesday. shot in the fourth inning that cut hits in 5 2-3 innings in a win over Crawford, Jorge Cantu, Aubrey Blue Jays over the Baltimore Willis (1-1) allowed three runs, the Braves' lead to 2-1. It was Philadelphia. That was the lefty's Huff and Julio Lugo. The Devil Orioles Tuesday night. five hits and three walks in seven the second home run Hudson first start in the majors in more Rays, swept in Texas last week­Chacin (4-0), who has won innings, striking out six. He had allowed in five starts this year. than 2 1/2 years, because he end, have dropped four straight. each of his starts this season, been 9-0 with a 2.20 ERA in 14 
Damian Miller's RBI single in missed all of 2004 after having Last-place Tampa Bay won the allowed three runs and six hits in April starts. the seventh put the Brewers reconstructive elbow surgery the season series a year ago, going seven innings. He lowered his Willis also began the night 2-0 ahead 4-2. previous September. 11-8 against New York -includ­ERA from 5.60 to 5.11. with a 1.01 ERA in four starts at 
Struggling second baseman The Reds went up 6-2 in the ing 6-3 at Yankee Stadium after Justin Speier and Scott Wrigley Field. He was selected by Rickie Weeks, who had two fifth on Encarnacion's two-run finishing 0-10 in the Bronx il) Schoeneweis each followed with the Cubs in the eighth round of errors for Milwaukee on Monday double off Felix Rodriguez. Left 2004. The Devil Rays were the a hitless inning. the 2000 amateur draft, then night, tried to backhand a fielder Soriano appeared to mis-first team since the 197 4 Detroit Rodrigo Lopez (1-2) gave up was traded to the Marlins in May 

Tigers to finish last and beat New York 11 times. 
But the Yankees had f!.n easy time in the first of 18 meetings this year. They have outscored their opponents 22-3 in winning three in a row, and New York


POM SQUAP fRYOUfS 
workshop 1: Thurs Apr 27 &:3D-9:30pm 
1st cut: fri 28 6:30~9:30pm 
workshop 2: Sat Apr 29 
tnd"rgmduak F"1mtk oftht• Yt'lU:' Lis:t Rulrer-C~tvanaugh Ht·nther Vanh<.wgankn ··· PW 
Anne Parrdl-Farl~y 
Gmd/F:H·iStatl:h•mal~ of tlw Y~ar hin Ga!lt>wa~ J..:risty Dil'iltono babdk ('~llC 
Team .:Jf t h~ Year St Ed';: ke Hockey Zahm h.><ltball 
PW F0otba!l 

11:00-2:00pm 
final cut: sun r 30 4:oo..J:OOpm 
Trvouts will take place in "the Pif' 01 the JACC 
four runs, five hits and four walks in six innings. The Orioles have lost three straight after win­ning nine of 12. 
Baltimore, which has scored just five runs in its last three games, tied the score 3-3 in the 
bukrgraduate 1htk of the \'eat· Mkhad Ortiz ... {)'Neill 
Joe (H\mnd! -Sorin Brendan M<:Co·thy-St. Ed· s 
(; rad!FadStaff Mal" of tht Ytar 
Deyvdm East Carson Rasmussen 
Fan.,; of til<: YNU' Zatun h:.H)tball PW btg Football AllHJHH kt• Hod;,•y 

2002 as part of a deal that brought pitchers Antonio Alfonseca and Matt Clement to Chicago. 
Marshall (2-0) allowed two hits, struck out seven and walked two in his fourth career start. 
Ryan Dempster pitched a per­fect ninth to complete the five­hitter. It was his sixth save this year and his 25th straight save conversion dating to July 24. 
The gametime temperature was 39 degrees, and the wind was blowing in at 18 mph, but an announced crowd of 38,680 came to Wrigley Field. 
Marshall didn't allow a hit until Chris Aguila singled with one out in the fifth, then got Reggie Abercrombie to hit into an inning-ending double-play. The 6-foot-7 left-bander, using a big curveball to fool the Marlins hit­ters, struck out the side in the sixth. 
Matt Murton's RBI single put the Cubs ahead in the fourth fol­lowing a leadoff walk by Aramis Ramirez. Murton added a run­scoring double in the seventh and scored on a squeeze bunt by Jerry Hairston Jr., sliding home ahead ofWillis' throw. 
Dan Uggla hit an RBI single off Bobby Howry in the eighth. 
Gmnt' of til•~ Year Stanfl>ru vs. St. Ed's t.IH lee Hockey Semifinals) l\m2l,nrn \·s. PW (IH \V-.lm<m'> Fla2 Foothdl Fin~!sl 
S;,{i,rord A •s. Slegtned A (IH !vkii',; S<•<>ter Finals 
Wednesday, April 26, 2006

page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Because someone is raped every 2.5 minutes in the United States. 
*Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network. 
And odds are, one of them is or will be someone you love. Because it is NEVER their fault. 
We are women, we are men; together we fight, to 

A MARCH AGAINST SEXUAL VIOLENCE 
We will not be controlled by fear. 
TONIGHT 
Meet at the Grotto at 7:15pm. March with us to Holy Cross, Saint Mary·' s and back to the Library Reflecting Pool for a Candlelight Vigil and Survivor's Speak-Out. 
FREET-SHIRTS FOR FIRST 200 PARTICPANTS! 
Join us for an experience you will never forget. 
Sponsored by Student Government, Feminist Voice, Campus Alliance for Rape Eliminati~n, Men Against Violence, the Gender Relations Center, the Program in Gender Studies, Saint Mary's Women's Resource Center, Saint Mary's Feminists United, and A Life Uncommon. 
----~----­

Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

started to fall in the second half," hope by keeping the score close During the game, League play­Rocco's Kern Creevey said. "It at 6-4. ers hit several shots from outside was a gutsy performance." But the Boyz went on a 7-0 run the arc, but could not take 
Rocco's also played a 2-3 zone, to make the score 11-4 at the advantage of their 3-point shoot­except for a brief period in the half. ing, as all baskets are worth a second half when it switched to The second half saw more of single point. man-to-man. Rocco's defense, the same, as the Boyz tried to "If they were counting twos, which rotated between a box­show off their "mad skillz" for we probably would've only lost and-one and straight zone at the crowd. The No. 9 team took [by] six or so," League guard times, forced Sparkle Motion to a 15-8 lead and closed on a 6-2 John Roche said. "The refs defi­take a slew of perimeter shots -run to finish off the League of nitely robbed us of the game." the same effect as Sparkle's Shadows. The Bad Boyz were unavail­zone. "We're kind of sad it is over, able for comment after the 
Rocco's just hit those outside but we are very happy that we game. shots when they counted the got this far," the League's Brian most. Moy said. Contact Tim Kaiser at 
"We go_t some unlucky Moy led League of Shadows tkaiser@nd.edu and Chris Hine bounces, some shots went in and with six points. at chine@nd.edu out and they got some easy buckets," Sparkle Motion's Chris Merino said. 
His teammate Zach Ortiz agreed. "There wasn't enough sparkle in our motion," he said. 
The game was the last Bookstore contest as undergrads for four of Sparkle's members, who played together all four years and went 14-4. 
''I'm disappointed [to see it end]." Sparkle senior Ian Ward said. "We had a lot of fun." 
No. 9 Bad Boyz 21 No. 24 League of Shadows 10 
Despite a self-proclaimed advantage in strength, No. 24 League of Shadows fell to No. 9 Bad Boyz 21-10 Tuesday night the Bookstore courts. 
"We definitely had the strength advantage. They just scrapped it out," League player Mike Tallarico said. ''I'm sure we can beat them in a pushing contest." 
Bad Boyz had the maximum quota of three football players on its team, while League of Shadows had none. 
Pat Kuntz led the Boyz with nine points and Derrell Hand added six. 

In the early going, the Boyz Lee Goeddel of Clover Ridge shoots a jumper in his team's game failed to break open the game, against Five Hot Girls Who Probably Won't Get Past the First giving the League a glimmer of Round But Hope to Get Lucky Tuesday. 

FREE Notre Dame Batting Helmets giveaway courtesy of Marathon! 
FREE Fajitas from Betw'eea tile Buns (wiJiJe supplies last) 
Draws 
continued from page 28 
fundamentals," Shadley said. 
No. 20 Huggie's Place 21 No. 10 Hannah's Storm 11 
Huggie's Place -made up of four O'Neill Hall residents and an NDSP officer -upset Hannah's Storm's five athletic department employees to make it to the round of 16. The two teams traded baskets to start, with Buggie's utilizing an ell"ective fast break olrense and the Storm hitting shots from the outside to even the game at four. 
Buggie's won most of the bat­tles in the post, and scored seven consecutive buckets after the early tie to take an 11-4 halftime lead. 
The Storm endured harass­ment from opposing fans but battled back in the second half on the strength of Allen Greene's outside shooting and post defense. But the team was unable to overcome Huggie's inside offense, which drew seven fouls on Storm defenders. Buggie's Tom Martin converted on the foul shot from the seventh foul to give his team a 19-10 lead. 
Martin finished the Storm off a few possessions later with an alley-oop layup. 
"They outplayed us," Storm's Matt Tallman said after the game. "They knew what they had to do. They came to play and we didn't." 
For Martin, the victory offered true satisfaction. "We came out ready to play," he said. "We've lost the past two 
years, so it's great to win this year." Martin also credited his oppo­nents. 
"They really stepped it up and played a great second half," he said. 
No. 13 Rocco's Pizza 21 No. 20 Sparkle Motion 18 
No. 13 Rocco's Pizza erased a six-point second-half deficit with an 8-1 run on its way to a 21-18 victory over No. 20 Sparkle Motion Tuesday at the Bookstore eourts. Rocco's win advanced the team to the Sweet 16. 
With his team trailing 14-8, 
J.P. Lichon spearheaded Rocco's charge with seven second-half points. 
With the score tied at 18, Hocco 's tallied the final three points on two baskets from Lichon, who finished with eight total, and the game winner from Ted Christopher, who tallied four. 
"We shot well in the first half," said Sparkler Dave DiLorenzo, who led his team with seven points in the losing effort. "They were on fire in the second half." 
Rocco's shot 7-for-37 in the first half, but turned in a 14-for­28 performance in the second stanza. Sparkle Motion shot 11­for-32 in the first but just 7 -for­36 in the second half. 
In the first half, Sparkle Motion's disciplined 2-3 zone limited the effectiveness of Rocco's quick ball movement and kept Rocco's out of the paint, forcing them to take most of their shots from the corners. But in the second half, Hocco's got some transition baskets and their outside shots began to fall. 
"We weren't hitting anything in the first half, but some shots 
DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 

U Got a Bad Draw's Chris Devitt, left, drives past We Surely Received an Unfortunate Draw's Rick Loesing during Bad Draw's 21-10 victory Tuesday at the Bookstore courts. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 26, 2006 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles postpone final non-conference ga111e 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sporrs Writer 

Saint Mary's postponed its l'inal non-eonferenen game Tuesday due to inclement weather and rnsehndulnd the eontnsl against Goshen for today at 3:30p.m. 
Bellns head eoaeh Erin Sullivan said that the change will not adversely affect the team's play. In faet, she thinks that it may nven lwlp the Belles. 
Sullivan said Saint Mary's will usn thn extra lime to foetts on improving its play from behind the plate. 
"We are going to work on gulling mon1 <:onsistnney driv­ing through thn ball," Sullivan said. "Get morn power." 
Today's contest against thn Maple Leal's is the last homo game for tho Bollns. Saint Mary's will honor its senior dass as it plays its seeond-to­lasl rngular season matchup. 
l~lnvnn undPrelassmon will roeognizn pitcher and out­fi<1ldnr Bridget Grall, outlield­nr Audn1y Gajor and senmd­basmnan Mnghan Marnnkovie. 
"J<:vorybody is excited to havo a good day and get two wins for the girls." Sullivan said. 
University Libraries of Notre Dame 
c--

Conxratulatitmsto the following winners of the Apple video iPods. Their names were randomly selected from a pool of participants who completed the LibQUAL+ (library) survey conducted over the last several weeks: 
Charles Andrew Bassett, Senior Rhodora Elizabeth Beaton, Graduate Student Kevin Michael Curran. Junior Konrad Kulacki. Graduate Student Stephanie A. Severyn, Freshman Eric Michael Verkuilen, Freshman 
Many thanks to all of you who completed the library survey. We received survey responses from over 2800 students and faculty, for a response rate ofnearly 25 percent. We also received over I 000 written comments from participants. We anticipate utilizing a variety ofoutlets for summarizing the results of LibQUAL+ to the faculty and students. Look for 
more information later this spring.  
Sincerely,  
Shcrri Jones. LibQUAL+ 2006 Team Leader  
University of Notre [)arne Libraries  ·u7~.·~.··~ ~ 
!  

Goshen brings a 21-game losing streak into the contest. The Maple Leafs last played Kalamazoo Saturday in a dou­blehcadnr and lost both games, 6-5 and 2-1. The team has struggled offensively, posting only three hits in 9-0 and 3-0 losses to the University of St. Francis April 15. 
Goshen will rely on sopho­more pitcher Erin Layman. Layman recorded a single against St. Francis and went 1-for-3 from the plate. 
Sullivan said that Belles will look to add two more wins to the season, but arc looking to try people in different posi­tions. Tho team might move l'rnshman Calli Davison to the mound in order to prnpare for the loss of' Grall next season. 
Even with movement around tlw field, Saint Mary's hopes to shut down Goshen's offnnso. 
The Belles head into their match against Goshen with the MIAA tournament only nine days away. Sullivan said the loam wants to finish tho season of'(' strong and look toward the league tourna­ment. 
Contact Deirdre K.rasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish reschedule match up 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Wrirer 

Notre Dame will have to wait until Thursday for its game against Valparaiso. But the Irish won't have to wait for accolades from this past week. 
Inclement weather Tuesday forced the post­ponement of Notre Dame's (31-13, 13-1 Big East) game with the Crusaders {18-25, 5-11 Mid-Continent) to Thursday at 3:30 p.m. (CDT), which will kick off a five­game road trip that includes games against conference rivals Louisville and South Florida -third and second behind the Irish in the Big East, respectively. 
"This postponement won't have any affect on our momentum or anything," Irish pitcher Brittney Bargar said. 
Bargar and her battery mate, catcher Mallorie Lenn, were named to the Big East Honor Holl for their per­formances last week. 
Bargar won three games for the Irish. posting a 1.05 EHA that helped push Notre Dame into the top spot of the conference standings. Lenn led tho ol'fensn in Notre Dame's six gamns, hitting .474 with two doubles, a 
home run and seven HB!s. 
"It's nxciting that both of us were honored this week," Bargar said. "It's pretty cool that it was the pitcher and catcher." 
Notre Dame outscored its opponents 39-12 and posted two shutouts while winning five out of six games, inelud­ing all four of its Big East contests. The Irish moved to the top of the Big East stand­ings, passing South Florida, whose record dropped to 11­1 after the Bulls fell to Syracuse 1-0 Sunday. 
The postponement should have little e!Teet on the Irish, who merely shifted gears quickly for their doublehead­er today against Purdue at Ivy Field beginning at 4 p.m. 
Notre Dame holds a 10-7 all-time series lead over Purdue (27-27, 5-10 Big Ten), and the Irish won the last game in 2005, 4-1. 
"We just have to prepare for Purdue just like every other game," Bargar said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


NBA 

Johnson vvins coach of the year 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -During Avery 
Johnson's playing days, many 
executives and players thought 
the point guard would make a 
great NBA coach. Still, he had 
to be convinced it was time to 
make that transition. 
Now, after his first full season 
leading the Dallas Mavericks, 
Johnson was honored Tuesday 
as the N BA coach of the year. 
Mavericks owner Mark Cuban 
remembers talking to Johnson 
nearly two years ago about 
retiring as ~player and becom­
ing the top assistant-and 
eventual successor -to Don 
Nelson. 
Cuban told Johnson, "I know you can still play, but we want . to start you on the path to being a Ilall of Fame coach." Johnson's response then, "I don't know, I don't know." 
There's no more doubt. 
Johnson is a coaching natural. 
Johnson led the Mavericks to 60 victories this season, match­ing the team record for wins. That mark was first set three years ago, when Johnson was still playing for Dallas. 
"I think I'm gifted to do what I'm doing, that this is what I'm here for," Johnson said. "I felt like a coach when I was a play­er.... In a lot of ways, I know some things are still new to me. But in other ways, I just feel like I've been doing this a lot of time, and a lot of it just comes naturally." 
Johnson retired as a player and became a Mavericks assis­tant coach before the 2004-05 season. After replacing Nelson as head coach on March 19, 2005, he reached 50 wins faster than any other coach (62 games) and recorded the best start by a first-time coach in league history by winning 66 of his first 82 games -the equiva­lent of a full season. He is 76-24 overall and coached the Western Conference All-Star team this season. 
"Avery's making me look real­ly smart," Cuban said. 
Johnson got 63 first-place votes from the panel of 124 sports writers and broadcast­ers. He had 419 points, 172 more than Phoenix coach Mike D'Antoni, last year's winner. D'Antoni had 27 first-place votes. 
Dallas plays Game 2 of its ftrst-round Western Conferenee series against Memphis on Wednesday night. The Mavericks won the first game 103-93. 
Maybe more impressive than his record is how Johnson has transformed the Mavericks into a defensive squad . 
While the 2002-03 team was known only for its scoring, this year's squad ranked in the league's top 10 in scoring and points allowed. 


Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
"We were surprised that The performance propelled after shooting a 281 [that] we Baldwin to a fifth-place over­
Cha01ps 
didn't have the first-round all finish with a three-round lead," Kubinksi said. "It total of 4-under-par 212.
continued from page 28 
opened our eyes and sur­But Baldwin was not the five-stroke win. prised us a bit, and we didn't only Irish player in the red 
Last year, in Kubinski's first play a good Tuesday as season with Notre Dame, the second senior Scott team won the Big East round." "It's a good step for Gustafson Championship by playing Monday fired a S­
the future, but we also
only 18 holes before the final afternoon, the under-par 67,
want to take the next
two rounds were snowed out. Irish carded a senior Tommy This year's victory marks l-over 289 to step now when we Balderston the third straight, and give the team carded a 4­
play at the NCAA
Kubinski is pleased with the a 36-hole under-par 68
[Championships].,,
progression of his program. score of 570 and junior 
"Winning three in a row -11 shots Cole lsban shows we've arrived," he better than Jim Kubinski posted a 1­said. "It's a good step for the the old 36-under-par 71.
Irish coach 
future, but we also want to hole program Although his take the next step now when record of 581 score on we play at the NCAA set at the 1968 Notre Dame Tuesday did not count, fresh­[Championships]." Invitational. man Josh Sandman played a 
Winning its third consecu­But it was only good crucial role in the team's vic­tive Big East Championship enough to put them in third tory as he shot a team-low wasn't the place, 12 score of 141 (3-under) only notewor­strokes behind through the first two rounds, thy accom­"After the first day, we Louisville. in addition to his birdie on plishment for "After the the playoff hole. 
knew we had to get
Notre Dame, first day, we By winning the Big East as the team out to a strong start knew we had Championship, Notre Dame set multiple and make some to get out to a gains an automatic berth in r e c o r d s strong start the Central Regional of the
birdies. Since it was
throughout the and make NCAA tournament, which will 
championship. team golf, the twelve­some birdies," begin May 18 in Chardon, The team's stroke margin didn't Kubinski said. Ohio. first round "Since it was The top four teams in the
seem as daunting.,
score of 281 team golf, the regional automatically Monday morn­twelve-stroke advance to the national ing was the Jim Kubinski margin didn't championship beginning May best postsea­Irish coach seem as 31 at the Crosswater Golf son mark ever daunting. We Club in Sunriver, Ore. for the Irish only had to "We were just out of the and the third lowest score in make up three shots a person top four teams last year," school history. instead of twelve." Kubinski said. "We want to 
But even that score wasn't Senior Mark Baldwin led take the next step this year." enough to give Notre Dame the second-day charge for the first-round lead as Notre Dame, shooting a 6-Contact Greg Arbogast at Louisville opened with a 279. under 66. garbogas@nd.edu 
Nakazaki 
continued from page 28 
ance] was kind of unfortunate," Brophy said. "We shot our­selves out of the tournament." 
Nagasaki's 71 finished a solid week for the junior, who fin­ished second in the individual competition. 
In its first year in the Big East, Louisville .captured the conference title. 
The Cardinals were paced by the event's individual win­
81s. "We're happy with the way we finished," Brophy said. 
The team, however, failed to live up to its pre-tournament No.1 seed. 
"We're disappointed," Irish coach Debby King said. "We felt like we should win it, but we had one decent round, one really bad round and one out­standing round. 
"It just wasn't enough." 
Notre Dame is unsure if it will compete again this season. The Irish will now wait to see if they receive an at-large berth 
par 216 (74­69-73), just four shots ahead of Nakazaki (220, 71-78-71). 
Nakazaki and teammate Brophy, who finished in 
seventh place with a 227 (77­79-71), both earned All-Big East individual honors for the third time. 
Notre Dame rebounded behind the steady play of all its top-three players Tuesday to capture the third-place tie. Seniors Lauren Gebauer and Suzie Hayes rounded out the Irish lineup with third-round 
ner Adrienne "We're disappointed. We to one of three 
White, who NCAA women's
felt like we should win it, 
shot an even­golf champi­
King said 

that her team's strong play in the final round sent a message to the tourna~ ment committee. 
"I feel like they'll look pretty hard at that 294," she said. "[In the third round], we did what we had to do to still have a shot at the NCAA regionals." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
but we had one decent onship region­round, one really bad al tourna­
ments. The

round and one 
tournament

outstanding round., field will be announced Monday, May
Debby King 
1.
Irish coach 


Attention Graduating Seniors!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Adtnissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2006. 
Please complete the Human Resources on-line application to be considered: Requisition #020060193 




WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
Streaks 
continued from page 28 
and walking just one. 

"Early in the eount you focus on getting ahead of hitters, not really stl'iknou ls," Korpi said. "But once you get two strikes you go for that out pitch." 
While Korpi Pxtendnd Notre Damn's winning streak, anoth­er Irish stn~ak eanw to an 1~ncl. 
Notre Damn first baseman Craig Cooper was 0-for-4 at the plate, ending his school­record-tying hit streak at 21 games. 
During the streak. which elated hack to Notfl~ Dame's I 1-IJ victory ovnr Central Michigan March 22, Cooper hit 
.471 with ninn horne runs and 27 HBls. 
"lin's no Joe DiMaggio, and hn 's no Superman," Mainieri said. "!Cooper isl a consummato t1~arn player and I'm sure he's just happy we won and isn't worried about it." 
The Boifer­maknrs (21-15, H-R Big Tenl seornd their 

"/Korpi is/ the consummate crafty left-hander. When he's getting his curve ball and changeup over, his fastball looks like it's coming in at I oo miles per hour. lle was just carving them up tonight." 
Paul Malnieri Irish coach 
another base runner until a walk to Hunter in the seventh inning. 
"I was thinking about it a lit­tle bit in the dugout," Korpi said of the batters-retired streak. "But when I was on the mound it wasn't really on my mind." 
After scoring 11, 15 and 14 runs against Rutgers over the weekend, Notre Dame (33-R. 14-1 in the Big East) mustered just six hits and two runs against the Boilermakers. 
"What I really love about our team is that if we have to win a 2-1 game, we can do it with our pitching and defense and an occasional clutch hit, or if we have to win a sfugfest like we did !against Hutgers) we can do that because of' our hit­ting," Mainieri said. 
"Whatever game gets thrown at us we have to find a way to win." 
Down 1-0 in the bottom of' the second, the Irish scored their only two runs of the game. Catcher Sean Gaston sparked the rally with a sin­gle to right field, and left fielder Matt Bransfield fol­lowed with a plete innings and took the loss in his first start of the season. lie allowed two runs on five hits while striking out six and walking one. 
Notes: 
+ Korpi's 11 punchouts marked the second limn the sophomore has struck out double digit batters this sea­son. 
lie became only the fifth Irish pitcher all-time to record double digit strikeouts multi­ple timPs in one season and the first since Danny Tamayo and Aaron Heilman both did it in 2001. 
+ Korpi may have to pitch again Sunday on short rest in place of' senior left-bander Tom Thornton, who took a sharp grounder off' his leg in Sunday's 14-12 win over Rutgers. 
Thornton had an X-ray Monday that came back nega­tive. The team is awaiting results from an MHI Thornton had Tuesday. 
"lie's a little sore still," Mainieri said. "But we're hop­ing everything we'll come out okay after the tests." 
+ Mainieri said after the game that he had hoped to keep Korpi's pitch count under 80, but with the left bander rolling along, he saw no rea­son to take his starter out until he reached 99 pitches. 
"lie wasn't laboring," Mainieri said. "It was an easy 99 pitches. He'll be fine for Sunday." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
front 

~·-··-..m
,............., 
._._,
•
.............. 
......fill. ..... 
-
{):=...--:_.:..=~ 
....................,.. ... 
...... .,.. ................. _
,...,..._.,..,. __w..,._ 
.........,..*""'-'lfl.llWfo-~
·lflllill!(t·--......... ~<1/A~ 
......,...,..,.,.....,_~~~
.......... __._.,...., 


'W'W"W.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 

• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 

• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 




J&K Card, LLC 
back 

lone run in the lop of the first on an HBI single by third base­man John Hunter -one of only two Purdue hits in the contest. 
Korpi retired the next 17 batters he faced, not allowing single of his own to left field. Two batters later, shortstop Greg Lopez drove in both baserunners on a two-run double to right center field. 
Purdue starting pitcher Trae Douby (2-4) pitched six com­
~~~~----~--~~~--------~------~~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~-----------------------------­
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 29 Take a chance 55 Sustenance for Adam and Eve?
1 Moon of Uranus 30 Pear-shaped lute 58 Alternatives to
6 Daisy Mae's pumpernickels

drawer 31 Passionate 59 Suit to
10 "Take a Chance 33 Penn. place on Me" singers 60 Fall into rows
36 Pretentious 14 "Here, I'll do 61 Can. province37 Battery type 
that" 62 Emmy-and 
38 "Comme ci, Tony-winning15 City NE of Haifa comme c;:a" 

Carter 16 Set foot (on) 39 Fork over 
63 Thicket of trees 17 Third place 40 Gave a fig wagers? 
41 Trixie's best DOWN19 Internet scourge friend in 1950's 1 Priestly garb 

20 Plane's domain TV 2 Stink up the joint 
21 Langston 42 "Who needs Hughes poem ?" 
3Wee 4 911 responder,22 Dam on the 43 Operatives for short Tennessee River 

44 Lunar anti­23 Rounds for prohibitionists? 
5 Assertive type overworked 6 Puts in play?
49 Evocative cops? three-line verse 7 Cause for many 27 "I was home a blessing
50 Be nomadic asleep at the 
8 Work on a galley51 Singer Sumac time of the 9 Place to pray

murder" and 54" that 35 Roll call calls 43 It's loaded 52 Computer others special?!" 10 On the job capacity units, 
37 Babe in the 44 Helicopter
11 Nestful briefly
woods 
soundsANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

12 Endured 53 Diarist Frank 
38 Yellow stick 
":T=-r":'""'"""T"":""I 
45 Soft course

-=+=+:-+=+:=-! 13 Some pitchers 
55 Suffix with 40 Old Chinese 

-::t-::+':+.-:-:t-:-1 18 Looks good on 46 Spearing points Caesar
dynasty -=+-=+=+~,..;.t 22 Like a madras 41 Before now 47 Suite spot 56 Univ. body 
42 Finger wagger's 48 Canvas 57 "Evil Woman"
.;; 24 Online bazaar comment support grp. 
~!ttl···· 
pattern 

'!'t-:::+:==+::+:+-:::+:-:-1 25 Jingle 
!7:-+-=+=+:::-r.iio ~;.:.r.;,.r:.-r.:,. 26 Cardinal, for one --------------------· 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 27 Hurry-up order credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 28 Old Italian coin Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 31 Well-done crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~-=+=+:-:+=+:=+:::-! 32 Boardwalk treat Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:7+-=+~=-past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 33 Swim naturally? Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ....;;..L.;..;...L.~;;..~ 34 Diplomacy solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KORJE 
j 
I [I I I 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NITLE 
j 
SPE:NDING HOURS L-OOKING THROUGH A Tt:L-t:­
tBANDOU 
J [J

t 
SC.OPE: GAVE: THE: ASTRONOME:R A--­
www.jumble.com 

DOLITS I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.
I J I [ J 

A:"[ I I I I II]"[ I I I] 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BRASS LITHE NEEDLE GRATIS
Yesterday's 
Answer:

I What cowboys do on the range ­
STEER STEER 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jacob Underwood, 26: Renee Zellweger, 37; Hank Azaria, 42; AI Pacino, 66 
Happy Birthday: You have added drive and detennination this year so don't let it go to waste. You will be lortunate when it comes to gifts, winnings and investments. Rethink your commitments. Your numbers are 5, 13, 20, 28, 29,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Being on edge will make everyone around you nervous. Travel a short distance if it will help you close a deal. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Do whatever it takes to deal with problems you face with an institution, government agency, bank or large corporation. You will be able to put matters to rest. Don't let anyone pressure you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Working within a group will tum out better than you imagined. Your ability to pick up the loose ends and tie everything together will lead to your victory. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on love not money and work today. You have to let some things go if you don't want to work yourself into a fury. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel, excitement and adventure will highlight your day. Get involved in whatever interests you and you will find a way to make more money doing something you enjoy. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Home, family and building a healthy and strong base should be your goal. Renovations and dealing with contractors is never easy but today you can get things done to your specifications. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stick to your basic principles and you won't go wrong. Someone may try to lead you astray but, ifyou follow your intuition, you will stay on track. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Consider what you can do to make improvements to your lifestyle. Strive for greater balance in your life if you want to feel better. Creative ideas will come to you and must be developed. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your focus should be on yourself, your home and family. Money is headed in your direction --be prudent. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It won't matter how much talking you do, actions will speak louder than words. Stop talking and start doing. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your spark and enthusiasm will ignite everyone around you today. A chance to put one of your creative ideas.to the test will be impressive. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone may question what you are doing. Don't let it cause you to make a mistake. Readdress your goals. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are determined to stay in control. You are quick to respond and unwilling to stop short of success. You are original, expressive and quite entertaining. You are security-minded and business-oriented. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
---------_j 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 26, 2006 

BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Drawn out 
Unfortunate Draw falls to U Got a Bad Draw 21-10 
By TIM KAISER and CHRIS HINE Spons Writers 
You Sun~ly Heceived An Unfortunate Draw jurnpnd out to a 2-1 lead against No. I U (;ot A Bad Draw in this matehup of etdebrities and knock-oil' namers, but the formnr champions rallied for a 21-10 vieto­ry Tuesday night at the Bookstore courts. 
Tho scrappy Unfortunate Draw team used good ball movement to ereatn opnn shots and. dnspite il'i height disadvantagn, played strong post defensn, employing a strategy similar to "hack-a-Shaq" against thn taller players of Bad Draw. 
Unfortunate Draw quiekly committed the snvnn fouls and snnl Bad Draw to the line. Bad Draw sank just one of f'ivn baskets from the charity stripe and held only a four­point l1~ad at hall'time. 
DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

The game attractt~d a huge fan turnout, 
U Got A Bad Draw's Eric Laumann, right, drives past Bill Ehrlich of We Surely Received 
most cheering for the undnrdogs, subject­
an Unfortunate Draw Tuesday night at the Bookstore courts. Bad Draw won 21-10.
ing the Bad Draw players to constant heck­ling. Frustratnd at their lack of sueeess in the lirst half and the way they wern being matehup and a good game to play before and they hap three Division One athletes 
tornwnted by the fans, Bad Draw members heading into the final16." and one potential NFL star in Dave ~~amn out aggressively in the second half, With the win, U Got a Bad Draw advances Fitzgerald." using their size to grab ollimsive rebounds to the Sweet 16 beginning Thursday. "We've been conditioning, so we thought and increase their scoring opportunities. You Surely Heceived An Unfortunate we could outrun them," Unfortunate Unfortunate Draw was ultimately unable to Draw was no doubt happy to have played Draw's Eric Cherney said. overcome the dnlieit. so well against the top seed, but was per­"We thought we were more athletic, but "The other team definittdy came out to plexed at the loss. they just came out here and beat us with play," U (;ot a Bad Draw's Eric Laumann "We kept it close," Unfortunate Draw's said. "They had crazy fans. It was a good Fritz Shadley said. "They were big guys, see DRAW/page 23 

----~ -­
page 28 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Team ends conference tourney3rd 
Nakazaki finishes second in individual competition with 216 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Writer 
After struggling in the second round Monday, Notre Dame ral­lied to shoot a 6-ovnr-par 294 Tuesday -tying tho best team round of the tournament -to finish tied for third place at the Big East Championships in Dade City, Fla. 
Irish senior eo-captain Katie Brophy. freshman Lisa Maunu and junior Noriko Nakazaki each posted a 1-under-par 71 in the third and final round to lead the charge for the Irish. 
Notre Dame posted a 16-over­par team score of 304 in the first round but finished the day in fourth place and well out of contention following a second­round 316 (28-over). 
"(The second-round perform-
see NAKAZAKl/page 25 
BASEBALL 

Korpi continues winning ways 
Irish capture 23rd straight victory, Cooper's hit streak closes at 21 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Spans Editor 
Another day, another domi­nant outing for Wade Korpi. 
The sophomore left-hander allowed just one unearned run in sevnn innings as Notre Dame extended its sehool­rncord winning streak to 23 games with a 2-1 win over Purdue Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"lie just kenps pitching like that every game," Irish eoach Paul Mainieri said of the sophomore. "lie's the con­summate crafty left-bander. When he's getting his curve ball and changeup over, his fastball looks like it's coming in at 100 miles per hour. 
"lie was just carving them up tonight." 
Korpi (5-l) pitched seven complete innings, allowing one hit while striking out 11 
see STREAKS/page 26 


MEN'S GOLF 
Down a dozen, birdie hunters recover to win 
NO erases 12-shot deficit in final round to take Big East title 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hasn't seen a comeback of this magnitude in a long time. 
Down by 12 strokes through 36 of the 54 holes of the Big East Championships at Lake Jovita Golf & Country Club in Dade City, Fla., the Irish shot a Big East record 16-under­par 272 in the final round Tuesday to force a one-hole playoff in which they defeated Louisville by two strokes to win their third consecutive conference title. 
All five players from each of the two teams regrouped to replay the 18th hole with the top four scores from each squad counting. Louisville fin­ished the hole with three pars and a bogey, leaving the door open for Notre Dame. 
Led by freshman Josh Sandman's 10-foot birdie putt, the Irish sank the Cardinals with three pars and Sandman's birdie. 
"Josh's putt was key because it gave us some cush­ion," Irish eoaeh Jim Kubinski said. "It took the pressurn ofT and allowed ljuniorl Cole (Isbanl and (senior( Scott (Gustafson( to relax on their par putts." 
Notre Dame is not a new­co m e r to e i t h e r B i g Ea·s t Championships or dramatic victories. 
In the Big East tournament two years ago at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course, the Irish trailed Virginia Tech by four strokes going into the final 18 holes before emerging with a 
see CHAMPS/page 25 

en 
SMC SOFTBALL 
NO SOFTBALL 
MlB 

NHL Playoffs
NFL 
NBA Playoffs 
lie LLI 

Purdue at 
Yankees 9 
Ottawa 8 

~ Ma~le Leafs at 
New Jersw 90
z Beles 
Devil Rays 1 

Notre Dame 
Tampa Bay 4 

The league suspended 
Indiana 7 

Ivy Field, 4 p.m. 
Miami's Ricky Williams 
..... =:5 
Saint Mary's final 
The Irish take on the 
Derek Jeter blasted a 

for the 2006 season after 
Martin Havlat and 
Vince Carter scored 33
= a. c::5 ti 

non-conference game 
Boilermakers a day after 
homer and had three 

the running back failed 
Antoine Vernette both 
points as the Nets evened 
cs: 

was rescheduled for 
postponing their home 
RBis in New York's first 

the fourth drug test of his 
scored two goals for the 
the first-round series at 
today at 3:30. 

game with Valparaiso. 
night win of the season. 
career. 
Senators in the win. 
one game apiece. 

en 
page 24 
page 24 
page 21 
page 20 

page 19 
page 18 





