
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and'Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 37 FRIDAY. OCTOBER 13,2006 
Students clear out ofBend for break 

Domers participate in service trips for credit 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Over fall break, a record 
472 Notre Dame students will 
travel to sites all over 
America to engage in a vari­
ety of service-oriented activi­
ties, using their time off for a 
work far different than 
studying. 
Most participants will be 
involved in one of the 'five 
one-credit seminars offered 
during fall, winter, and 
spring breaks by the Center 
for Social Concerns. These 
groups are primarily led by 
undergraduate and graduate 
students, according to Angela 
Miller-McGraw, director of 
seminars and educational ·immersions at the esc. 
"The goals of the seminars 
are to foster a diverse and 
community-based learning 
experience," she said. "Our­
student coordinators lead 
great reflections to help 
see SEMINAR/page 6 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer Students use a local bus service to get to and from airports in Chicago during break in this 2005 file photo. 
Weeklong vacation a welcome respite after mid-term exams 
By LAURA WILCZEK News Writer 
For students at Notre Dame, midterms week is a race to reach the semester's halfway point, with fall break as their finish llne. After cramming for the vari­ous political science, biology, organic chemistry and engi­neering exams, students are eager for the week of vaca­tion to arrive. Not all college students across the nation have a fall break, which makes the time even more precious for students. 
Laura Yamartino plans on spending her fall break at Boston College to make it all the sweeter. 
"[I'm going to Boston College] so I can make all my friends there absolutely jeal­ous," she said. 
For many students, like sophomore Monique Rangel, fall break is the perfect opportunity to relax. 
"I plan on sleeping in and spending time with my fami­ly," Rangel said. 
Travel, both international and domestic, is also a popu­lar break activity. 
Hundreds of students on campus will participate in the fall break Center for Social Concerns Seminars. The seminars allow students to travel to places like Appalachia and Washington 
D.C. while engaging in serv­ice projects. 
Several students hope to use the time over fall break 
Chazan discusses w-otnen, peace 
Professor says women crucial to peace process 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Women's involvement and failure in peace movements took center stage in a lecture by professor Naomi Chazan entitled "A Comparative Look at the Role of Women in Conflict Resolution Today" Thursday at the Hesburgh Center. 
"Women are involved in every contemporary peace process I know of," said Chazan, the Provost's Distinguished Woman Lecturer. "They are active peace workers, they have pro­moted conflict resolution ... 
and they are absolutely essen­tial for peace building after the peace process has been con­cluded." 
Chazan described the salient characteristics specific to women's peace movements with several "P's," -political, pioneering, persevering, patient, passionate and prag­matic. The political nature of peace movements, Chazan argued, is essential for success. 
"If you bring antagonistic parties together and you avoid politics you are deluding your­self," she said. "These are political problems." 
Paradoxically, Chazan argued that although women are ubiq­uitous in peace processes, their influence has been "infinitesi­mal, if at all." In fact, in the major peace negotiations of the past 30 years, there have been no women present at all. After "spend[ing] hours, mostly nights trying to figure out [why peacemaking efforts aren't working]," Chazan identified five confounding factors to peace movements in general, referring to them as "five F's," including the inability to con­front failure, fear, frustration, fatigue and friction within the movements. 
Chazan also presented rea­sons as to why women specifi­cally have been unsuccessful in implementing peace, including the onset of violence, which "is primarily, not exclusively, the domain of men," as well as the general perspective that women are irrelevant and inef­
see CHAZAN/page 4 

SMC students use time off to volunteer 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 

For many Saint Mary's students, fall break offers a week of relaxation and escape from college life. For others, break is a time to give back to the community through service. 
This year, over 40 women are volunteering on various service trips through the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, according to OCSE Director Carrie Call. 
Saint Mary's is sponsoring three service trips this year: the Catalyst Trip to Cincinnati, the Habitat for 
Humanity  Trip  to  St.  
Tammany  Parish  in  
Louisiana,  and  the  

Pilgrimage to Mexico. 

Students are responsible for paying for their own food, but the majority of the costs are covered by grant supports from the Center for 
see SMC/page 6 

to experience other cultures around the world. For junior Jessica Jimenez, the vacation is a chance to leave the scenery of South Bend and travel to Italy. 
"I will be in Rome over fall break, and believe me, the only work I will be doing is working to find a hostel," Jimenez said. 
Not all students are lucky enough to escape South Bend or even the rigors of school 
see BREAK/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Religion to be required at Harvard 
Theology already part ofND core curriculum 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
While Notre Dame students are no strangers to required classes in religion, Harvard students will face a similar requirement for the first time in quite a while -a move which brings to light the growing importance of reli­gious studies in American uni­versities. · 
On Oct. 4, CNN reported that a faculty committee recom­mendation at Harvard University proposed require­ments for undergraduates be expanded to include a course in "reason and faith." The "surprisingly bold recommen­dation," as CNN reported, aims to broaden Harvard's core curriculum, whose nar­row academic focus has been criticized in recent years. 
Notre Dame has traditionally emphasized the importance of religious inquiry in under­graduate formation, most noted in the two theology requirements undergraduates must fulfill before graduation. 
Taking into account the inclusion of religion in the core curricula of other Ivy League schools like Columbia and Dartmouth, Harvard's reintroduction of religious material seems part of a pos­sible trend amongst secular schools. 
But while Harvard's new classes include material on religion, its focus seems slight­ly different from that of a reli­
see THEOLOGY/page 3 

Professor Naomi Chazan spoke about female involvement in the peace movement Thursday at the Hesburgh Center. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October i3, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Baseball's irrelevance 
Cory Lidle, a pitcher for the New York Yankees and nine-year veteran of Major League Baseball, died Wednesday when his Cirrus SR-20 crashed into a sky­scraper in Manhattan. He was a human being. 
For the first two hours of nonstop broadcast coverage of the tragedy, the news media focused on the fear of ter­rorism and the pos­sibility of deaths in the building ­


along with the obvi- Ken Fowler  
ous question of how such a tragedy  Sports Editor  
could have occurred.  

The Associated Press had a 900-word, 27-paragraph story rrnming on its news wire at 4:50p.m.-2 hours after the accident -when word broke that Lidle was aboard the doomed flight. 
"A small plane crashed into a 50-story condominium tower Wednesday on Manhattan's Upper East Side, raining flaming debris onto the sidewalks below and rattling New Yorkers' nerves five years after the Sept. 11 attack," the story read at 4:47p.m. "Police said at least two people were killed." 
But after 10 versions of the crash story, the AP scrapped the entire article and began anew with the information about Lidle. 
Here's the entire story as of 4:57p.m. Wednesday: "A small plane with New York Yankees pitcher Cory Lidle aboard crashed into a 50-story condominium tower Wednesday on Manhattan's Upper East Side, killing at least four people, authorities said." · That was it. 
Even though the casualty numbers were the same, the fears had still been flamed and debris still lay on the side­walk near 72nd and York, the story now revolved around who and not what. 
That Cory lidle, a sports figure, was dead was more important than anything else. And it wasn't just the AP who had that thought. Reuters, CNN and even The New York Times all changed the focus on the tragedy and fear to one of the two persons killed. Here at The Observer, I fell right into that sad trap. I was trying to convince the editorial board that the story should run in the sports section instead of the news section because it involved Lidle. As I thought about it today, I realized how wrong I was. 
Whether it was Lidle and a flight instructor, a 31-year-old stock broker and his son or two sight-seeing buddies, the story should have remained the same. Two people tragically lost their lives when their plane hit an apartment build­ing-and luckily no one inside the build­ing was killed. 
But what would have been a much more dramatic story-about two people surviving the plane's impact into their apartment-was lost in the focus on Lidle. 
Buried deep in today's articles is a tale about a doctor and his wife who ran from their apartment as the plane hit their window. Dr. Parviz Benhuri and his wife survived. 
The unnecessary shift of focus might all be part of the human condition, sad as it may be. Next time, hopefully, I'll at least catch my mistake earlier. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
· The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error in the Ocr. 12 edition of The Observer, rhe story "Professors question recruit­ment approach" did not end. The final quote should have read "'I'm participating in something which is cenrral to my religion being in rhe world."' The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR FALL BREAK? 


Cristina Romano  Tricia Daly  Kristen Ploetze  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
Walsh  BP  BP  
''I'm going to  ''I'm going to  ''I'm writing a  
brave the  take a long, hot,  research  
rapids ofWest  shoe less  paper.  
Virginia and go  shower. ,  
whitewater  
rafting. ,  


Baker makes wife cream puff wedding dress 
UZHHOROD, Ukraine -Valentyn Shtefano's pastries were known for attracting stares and giggles as well as lip-smacking murmurs. But even his fiancee was sur­prised when Shtefano told her he was making her wed­ding dress -out of flour, eggs, sugar and caramel. 
The dress -made of 1,500 cream puffs and weighing 20 pounds -took the 28-year­old baker two months to make, and by the end of the wedding reception, bride Viktoriya said she didn't want to take it off. 
Shtefano is a rising star in the field of baking as visual art, earning him a following in this city near the border with Slovakia. His creations have generated a buzz in a place where cake is often lay­ers of heavy cream, wafers and nuts or poppy seeds ­more something to eat than to look at. 
Bra littering causes car accident on highway 
TOLEDO, Ohio-A teenager who put her bra on a car antenna before it flew off and led to a highway accident will be charged with littering, a prosecutor said. Emily Davis, 17, of Bowling Green, told investigators she took her bra off while her friend was driving on Interstate 75. 
Tom Stablein  Francisco  Victor Saenz  
senior Knott  Fernandez del Castillo  sophomore Knott  
freshman  
"Reading a  Fisher  ''I'm going to  
decent  New York to do  
newspaper for  "Going back  a small service  
once.  home to see my  project."  

James Campbell, who was driving behind the girls, said he swerved to avoid the bra and his car flipped several times. Campbell, 37, broke a vertebra in his neck during the Sept. 26 accident. His passenger, Jeff Long, 40, broke several ribs. 
A State Highway Patrol crash report, obtained by The Blade, said that the girls told investigators that before the accident the men were motioning to them to lift up their shirts. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
-1 
c( 
(,) 



35 20 


52 35 


60 40 
0 

HIGH 45
...I 

LOW 30 

new little brother." 
IN BRIEF 

Fall break begins Saturday, and classes will resume Oct. 23. 
The film "Wal-Mart: The High Cost of Low Price" will be shown at 7 tonight in Hesbugh Center Auditorium. 
The film "Unknown White Male" is playing tonight at 7 and 10 in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for senior citizens and $3 for stu-· dents. 
The Irish volleyball team takes on DePaul tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for youth or seniors. 
The film "Moo Oncle" will be presented Saturday afternoon at 3 in the Browning Cinema. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for senior citizens and $3 for students. 
The film "The Bridesmaid" is playing Saturday at 7 p.m. and 10 in the Browning Cinema. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for senior citizens and $3 for students. 
Irish men's soccer will battle Providence Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. Tickets are $5 for adults and $3 for youth or seniors. 
The Irish football team will face the UCLA Bruins Oct. 21 at 2:30p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

57 45 


65 42 
Friday, October 13, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College of Science revises pre-tned advising center 
Initiative will prepare students for careers 
Special to The Observer 
Since 1943, Notre Dame has given special attention to stu­dents whose postgraduate plans included medical or den­tal school. Part of this assis­tance involved the develop­ment of preprofessional pro­grams that pair a strong but general core of science cours­es with classes in the social sciences and humanities. Another part has involved advising and assistance with applications. 
As new as the Jordan Hall of Science itself is a revised approach to preparing those students, and a new director: Rev. James Foster, C.S.C., who also is a physician. In addition to leading the preprofessional program for the College of Science, he is director of the newly named Center for Health Sciences Advising. 
This consolidated service responds to several develop­ments in the health care field. First, says Father Foster, a service that advises only med­ical and dental school appli­cants is a bit narrow in scope. What about students who want to be optometrists or physical therapists? 
Also, the process of building an application for the health services professions is becom­ing more competitive and complex. Students now are encouraged to have a summer service background or an undergraduate research expe­
rience. Future dentists are encouraged to have shadowed a practicing professional, Father Foster says. 
Now, under one roof on the second floor of Jordan, Father Foster shares office space with fellow advisors Kathleen Kolberg, Jennifer Nemecek and the undergraduate research coordinator, Michelle Whaley. Kolberg, an assistant dean of the College of Science, works with science majors who plan to attend one of the professional schools but who are forgoing the preprofes­sional program for traditional majors such as biology. Nemechek advises Arts and Letters majors. Whaley helps coordinate undergraduate research projects for College of Science majors. 
"It's like a home," Kolberg says. "It belongs to everyone who wants to go into medicine and the health professions." 
With their strong interest in service and their clear intel­lectual capacity, Notre Dame students are attractive prospects to health care pro­fessional programs. Some 80 percent of Notre Dame stu­dents who apply to medical school are accepted, com­pared to the approximate 45 percent nationally, Father Foster says. 
The task of helping students become attractive candidates over a four-year period ­candidates who combine strong academics, service and research -draws on Father Foster's skills both as a priest and a former practicing physi­cian. 


escreceives service award 
Catholic group praises center's mission work 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 

Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns (CSC) received a distin­guished award from the United States Catholic Mission Association Oct. 2 at a banquet concluding the USCMA's annual conference held at Notre Dame. 
A network of Catholic organi­zations, religious communities and laity based in Washington, D.C., the USCMA's stated pur­pose is to bring together people across the globe serving Christ through the Church. 
The award was presented to Father William Lies, executive director of the Center, and Father Don McNeill, who found­ed the center in 1983 for "23 years of cross-cultural global mission in service to the Church and the world." 
Since its inception, the CSC has provided educational experi­ences through social service inspired by Catholic teaching. It also assists students, faculty, staff and alumni in reflecting on social issues and responsibilities. 
Throughout its 23 years, the esc has expanded greatly in its abilities and mission. 
''The Center has grown from an organization that originally coordinated local and national volunteer and experiential learn­ing efforts for Notre Dame stu­dents to a nationally-recognized center deeply rooted in commu­nity-based learning, research and service informed by Catholic social tradition," Lies said. 
Lies said students are very involved in service both to the 

Theology 
continued from page 1 
giously affiliated institution like Notre Dame, said theology department chair John Cavadini. 
While Harvard's faculty rec­ommendation calls for courses such as Religion and Democracy, Darwinism, or "Why Americans Love God and Europeans Don't," Notre Dame's required courses focus instead on "faith seeking understanding," he said. 
"Instead of studying religion as if it were an object, we try to rearticulate it, to under­stand the parts of faith ­articulating a tradition based in faith," Cavadini said. 
As far as the approach to religion is concerned, secular schools and Catholic institutes like Notre Dame seem to 
regard religion differently. don't have to confront religion 
If secular institutions regard if we're not religious, but in religion as a cultural artifact the world they [students] will to examine and rationalize, have to." questions of personal faith Cavadini explained the dif­
may  not  be  ference  
appropriate for their class­ "Instead ofstudying  between the secular and  
rooms, Cavadini said. At Notre Dame, "the the­ religion as ifit were an object, we try to rearticulate it, to  religious approach in response to Simmons'  
ology class sub­ject is God," he s a i d "Questions  understand the parts of faith -articulating a tradition based in faith. ,,  quote. "The way the sentence is set up  
about students'  implies reli­ 
own faith are legitimate, they help students have a sophisti­ John Cavadini chair theology department  gion is an uncomfort­able reality we have to  
cated  under- confront,  to  
standing about  make  sense  

what faith teaches." of the irrational," he said. "We 
In a telephone interview with don't use the language of 'con­CNN, Harvard philosophy pro­fronting' religion here. We talk fessor Alison Simmons said "as about a dialect between faith academics in a university we and reason. You don't have to esc and to other organizations. 
"Eighty-five percent of all Notre Dame students are involved in service at least once a year, which is well above the national collegiate average, and also of that, nearly 40 percent engage in at least one to two hours of service weekly," he said. 
In addition, Lies said that 10 from five placements in three countries to 36 placements in 14 countries today. 
The CSC has also engaged in community-based research to enhance the learning opportuni­ties for students and faculty. 
One of the CSC's most recent efforts has been to coordinate the University's response to the devastation of the Gulf Coast 
percent of graduates take part in a year or more of service after gradua­tion. 
The esc has had a number of memorable moments over the years. 
The Center was given the former WNDU build­ing in 1983 to house its 
region after Hurricane

"The CSC will always seek Katrina, par­
to be a leader in the field ticularly focusing on
ofcommunity-based 
long-term

research and 
recoveryservice-learning, while efforts. Lies said
challenging Notre Dame 
the Center is

undergraduates to develop 
seeking to a life-long commitment to add more social justice. ,, one-credit 
seminar placements

Father William Lies as many of executive director them have a Center for Social Concerns very large 
programs. Though many other campus groups were competing for the space, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh gave the building to the esc because he wanted mission and service to have a formal base on campus. 
The CSC promptly created the Summer Service Learning pro­gram, in which students go to sites across the United States to perform service for people in need. The program now sends students to about 200 sites every summer. The esc expanded the program's role in 1996 to include the International Summer Service Learning Program, which extends service to across the world. It has grown 
surplus of 

applicants. The Center also hopes to hold more small, issue-focused semi­nars such as the "Lives in the Balance" seminar, which would examine violence in schools, and to increase the number of inter­national opportunities to stu­dents. Whatever new features the esc adds, it will remain grounded in its original mission, Lies said. 
"The CSC will always seek to be a leader in the field of com­munity-based research and service-learning, while challeng­ing Notre Dame undergraduates to develop a life-long commit­ment to social justice," he said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
leave your faith at the door to be reasonable, it's not baggage that remains outside of the classroom. You can think with­in the faith commitment." 
According to the University­approved rationale for the core requirements of theology, the primary goal of these courses is to "contribute to a student's disciplined reflection on what it means to think about God, God's revelation, and everything else in light of God's revelation." 
The first required course, Foundations of Theology, aims to help students understand the discipline of theology, to encounter the authoritative texts and to become aware of the constitution, transmission and interpretation of the texts as well as to acquire interpre­tive skills of one's own. The focus is not only on the basics of Christian thought but also on improving interpretive skills that can be translated to other disciplines. 
The second required course examines a major theme in the Christian theological tradition and explores its implications through an inquiry of Christian history. 
A spring 2005 survey of stu­dents in the midst of the sec­ond theology requirement found the majority of students to be highly satisfied or satis­fied with the foundations of theology course. The depart­ment, however, is always try­ing to improve the require­ment classes, and often works off student feedback, Cavadini said. 
As for the importance of reli­gious study to the University, "Catholic intellectual life is inconceivable without theolo­gy," Cavadini said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

f11l11Ij Waterford 
estates lvJg<: 
SuNDAY, OcTOBER 15 NoTRE DAME vs. UIC 
3:00PM 

You COULD WIN A$300 GIFf CARD 
FROM THE HAMMES BOOKSTORE! 



page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, October 13, 2006 
women, no table." In addition, Chazan argued
Chazan 

that peace will not be achieved without the means
continued from page 1 

of political power. A woman fective by definition. interested in promoting 
Chazan argued that women will not succeed if they have not been a part of the peace action at the official level. As a solution, she argued that both men 

and women  have to be  a  have to insist on it."  
part of the peace process.  
"You  want  peace?  Contact Sonia Rao at  
Mainstream," she said. "No  sraol@nd.edu  

..,
., 
Q 
a 
("')
:r 
:::l. 
(II 

Gallaudet students protest hire 
Demonstrators want new presidential pick 
Associated Press WASHINGTON -Gallaudet University students blocked access to campus for a second day Thursday, escalating their protest against an incoming president they say lacks the skills to lead the nation's only liberal arts university for the deaf and hearing impaired. "We're in the middle of a crisis here," said LaToya Plummer, 25, a junior from Suitland, Md., who was among the protesters. Students eased their blockade of campus entrances Thursday night after meeting with District of Columbia police and universi­ty officials for three hours. Protest leaders agreed to open one side entrance to avoid being 
arrested.~ 

Other gates, including the main entrance, remained blocked. Students also decided to fill the campus parking garage with their own cars to prevent other vehicles from parking there. 
"We see the police lined up. They are ready to take us, and they can," said Ryan Commerson, a graduate student who took part in the talks. 
The protesters have said they wouldn't let school resume unless the presidential search process is reopened. 
The blockade began around 3 
a.m. Wednesday and forced the university to cancel classes for a second day Thursday as about 200 students protested at the front gate. Some linked arms and formed a human chain to block the main entrance to cam­pus while about 10 police offi­cers looked on from across the street. 
The protests began last spring when then-Provost Jane K. Fernandes was appointed to replace president I. King Jordan, beginning in January, by the school's board of trustees. 
Students intensified their protests on Oct. 5, when they took over Gallaudet's main class­room building -an occupation that was marred by complaints about rough actions by campus police. Since then, the demon­strations have escalated, with students blocking campus gates, forcing school officials to move or cancel classes. 
Plummer, who signed through an interpreter, and other stu­dents and some faculty said they felt shut out of the selection process for the next president. Some also felt the field of candi­dates was not ethnically diverse. 
"They have no idea who we are," Plummer said of the board of trustees. 
Fernandes has said some peo­ple do not consider her "deaf enough" to be president. She was born deaf but grew up speaking and did not learn American Sign Language until she was 23. Those who are against her presidency say she is an unsuitable choice for other reasons. 
"I feel that this institution can­not move forward under Dr. Fernandes' leadership because there are too many disagree­ments about her as a leader," said Mark Weinberger, a profes­sor of foreign languages at Gallaudet and also chair of the faculty's Senate. 
"Women are involved in every contemporary peace process I know of" 
Naomi Chazan professor 

peace "[has) to go into politics even if it is hard." 
And it is hard. 
"No man is going to incor­porate a woman into a negotia­tion process," she said. "It's not going to happen. You 

Break 
continued from page 1 

work this break. For sopho­more Perry Shoemaker, fall break will be filled with work. 
"Basically I am going to work for the [Notre Darnel Sports Information Department and work on some papers, all in the com­fort of [South Bend!." 
The University will have a few activities for those stu­dents like Shoemaker who will stay on campus for the week. 
The Snite Museum will host the exhibit "Caras Vemos Corazones No Sabemos" a free exhibit that addresses "the human landscape of Mexican migration." The exhibit is free and open to the public. 
On Oct. 20, the Notre Dame volleyball team will compete against Connecticut in the Joyce Center at 4 p.m. Later that evening, the comedy troupe "The Capitol Steps" will perform at 8:30 pm at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Last, but not least, the Notre Dame football team faces UCLA at home on Oct. 21 at 2:30 p.m. -probably drawing many students back for an early end to break. 
Contact Laura Wilczek at lwilczek@nd.edu 


!"1"1 ..... 
!"1"1,
== 
.
..., 

U.S. Ceflu:a;· gets me... so I can gP-i through law school. 

Alex Illinois Samsung a850 

• 
FREE CALL ME Minutes•u 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
Unlimited Night and Weekend 


Minutes (starting at7 p.m.) 

• 
iDatebook (Life, organized) 

• 
Fox Sports Mobile Pro (Your sports lifeline!) 



,.__,
. .. ···-.
...._ 

Free CAli ME Minutes"' Unlimited Nightand Weekend Minutes 

Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
-j<;_ US.Cellular 
\\·~---i,_·;~;~n·,.: ,..,_:/r Vtl!t. 
getusc.com • 1~888~buy-uscc 
Text Messaging: 
.=~ ·:; ,-:"';,:·i :,, • • .J'..··; : : ._ ~: · · =··· , r~ ~{; ·.. . . :. :: ~;": ·,;~1t':<'_:·:~r~~ ,r:!r: -::~-:-:<:: :.: · l-. ··':. !:·::.:'· ·!:;.).·. ·,~:~·· ;:. :·. ;~J ! .,._... ·:r_;{ ::~:tt ~ ·, :•.,.:·:it:, ::··:.<r:·~k~:.: t'"~ ;A:· ...~,= ·.:-:: :':"!:::-m.:~.-..;,:'.itrrt''i =.=.. =·~-.. ,~,i~,,~~:~.~:-·. 'i.. •.·· 1. ::::.:::~. ·.''.!'/::tt':.~.::.....~·,~.:=~·g::,-:­,.."~)·.·; ~j,"':-:<. ·. · ·,:·-::-.;:~· ~~,.:.,~·:! ··t~pl:.Fl: 
• 







ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 13, 2006 CoMPILED fROtvt THf ()BSERVER'S Wl RE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British presence in Iraq criticized 
LONDON -Britain's new army commander said British troops in Iraq are making the situa­tion worse and must leave the country soon and he called Prime Minister Tony Blair's policies "naive," according to an interview published Thursday. 
Gen. Richard Dannatt said the British military should "get ourselves out sometime soon because our presence exacerbates the security problems," according to the interview with the Daily Mail released on the tabloid's Web site. 
"Whatever consent we may have had in the first place" from the Iraqi people "has largely turned to intolerance," he said, according to the report. 
The Defense Ministry and Blair's office said they could not immediately comment. 
Dannatt's comments are certain to infuriate Blair, who is President Bush's key ally in the Iraq war. 
New mouse discovered in Cyprus 
LONDON-Using DNA testing, scientists have discovered what is believed to be the first terres­trial mammal found in Europe in decades: a mouse with a big head, ears, eyes and teeth that lives in a mountainous area of Cyprus. 
The mouse was native to the eastern Mediterranean island, survived the arrival of man on Cyprus and could be considered a "liv­ing fossil," experts said. 
"New mammal species are mainly discovered in hot spots of biodiversity like Southeast Asia, and it was generally believed that every species of mammal in Europe had been identified," said Thomas Cucchi, a research fellow at Durham University in northeast England. 
'This is why the discovery of a new species of mouse on Cyprus was so unexpected and excit­ing," he said in an interview Thursday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man arrested in school shooting 
JOPLIN, Mo. -The father of a 13-year-old who fired a shot inside his school in a blood­less shooting was arrested Thursday and charged with being a felon in possession of a gun, authorities said. 
Gregory Lynn White, 44, appeared before a federal magistrate in Springfield after being arrested without incident outside his Joplin home, federal agents said. 
White did not enter a plea and was released on $5,000 bond. If convicted, he could face up to 10 years in prison or fines up to $250,000. 
Amish shooting site demolished 
NICKEL MINES, Pa. -Ten days after the Amish schoolhouse shootings, a demolition crew using heavy equipment tore down the bloodstained building Thursday and obliterat­ed nearly all traces of the place where five girls were killed. 
Only a bare patch of earth was left behind, and it was planted with grass seed, so that eventually even the footprint of the one-room schoolhouse will be gone, too. 
Any kind of plaque or memorial is unlikely. Members of the plain-living Amish community said it would be too showy and would attract too many visitors. 
"They do not want to make it a tourist attraction," said the 27-year-old brother of two of the 15 boys sent out of the schoolhouse by the gunman before the shooting. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Exploratory drilling inconclusive 
MONTGOMERY, Ind. -The state Department of Natural Resources told residents that results of recent exploratory drilling for coal in a south­em Indiana wildlife preserve were inconclusive. 
"We do not have any concept of what may or may not be there," DNR Director Kyle Hupfer said Wednesday during the first of a series of public hearings on the project. 
The Evansville-based Black Beauty Coal Co. was given approval by the Department of Natural Resources last month to drill up to three dozen holes at depths from 130 feet to 180 feet at the Glendale Fish and Wildlife area in Daviess County, northeast of Evansville. 
AFGHANISTAN 


17 Guantanamo prisoners freed 
16 Afghans, 1 Iranian released from long captivity at U.S. prison zn Cuba 
Associated Press 
KABUL Sixteen Afghans and one Iranian released from years in captivity at the U.S. prison in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, arrived in Afghanistan on Thur­sday, an Afghan official said. 
The 16 Afghans appe­ared at a news confer­ence alongside Sibgh­atullah Mujaddedi, head of Afghanistan's reconcil­iation commission, which assists with the release of detainees from Guant­anamo and the U.S. prison at the Bagram military base north of Kabul. 
Mujaddedi said many of the detainees, who are now free, had served up to four years in Guant­anamo. He said "most" of the prisoners were inno­cent and had been turned in to the U.S. military by other Afghans because of personal disputes. 
The released Iranian 
prisoner, who also ar­
rived in Afghanistan on 
Thursday, was handed 
over to the International 
Committee of the Red 
Cross, he said. 
A U.S. military spok­
esman in Kabul con­
firmed that 16 Afghans 
had been released from 

Guantanamo and turned doctor from the eastern pon in his home. tured me like that was over to the Afghan gov­province of Paktia whose "They told me, 'You are four months ago," he ernment. Lt. Marcelo hands shook from nerv­against us, you are anti­said. "They were kicking Calero said he had no ousness when he spoke. American and anti-gov­us all the time, beating information about the "All these people (the ernment and you are us with their hands." Iranian prisoner. other prisoners) and all fighting with us,"' said Sayed Sharif Yousufy, a 
One of the released those Afghans still in Rahman, from Paktia. spokesman for the Afg­prisoners, Sayed Moham­Cuba, they are innocent," "At that time in our area han reconciliation com­mead Ali Shah, said he he told reporters. "All everyone had weapons. I mission, iast month said had been a delegate at were arrested because of was innocent and I had­that between 90 and 110 the country's first loya false reports, and the n't participated in any Afghans were still at jirga, a council of leaders Americans, without in­fighting." -Guantanamo, meaning that helped establish the vestigating, they arrested Rahman said that he that between about 74 interim government in innocent people and put was treated harshly at and 94 would still be 2002 after the U.S.-led them in jail for a long Guantanamo, and that there. invasion to oust the time." one time he was kept One of the released Taliban in 2001. Another former prison­awake for 38 hours while prisoners, Sadir, who 
"For four years they er, Habib Rahman, 20, being questioned about only goes by one name, put me in jail in Cuba for said he was a-rrested ties to terrorists. said 7 4 Afghans rem ain nothing," said Shah, a because he had a wea-"The last time they tor-in Guantanamo. 

Lidle crash alarms NY politicians 
Associated Press East River, which separates Manhattan aviation, flights over the city." 
from Brooklyn and Queens and is lined However, Mayor Michael Bloomberg, 
NEW YORK -A day after the fiery on the Manhattan side by the United a recreational pilot with decades of plane crash that killed Yankees pitcher Nations and scores of other skyscrap­experience, said he believes the skies Cory Lidle, politicians expressed alarm ers. are safe under the current rules. that, five years after Sept. 11, small It is one of the city's busiest and "We have very few accidents for an aircraft are still allowed to fly right up most popular routes for sightseeing awful lot of traffic," he said. "Every next to the New York skyline. pilots, traffic helicopters and execu­time you have an automobile accident, 
"I think everyone is scratching their tives hopping from one business deal you're not going to go and close the head, wondering how it is possible that to the next, and it is largely unmoni­streets or prohibit people from driv­an aircraft can be buzzing around tored, as long as the aircraft stay ing." Manhattan," said Rep. Anthony below 1 ,100 feet. Aviation officials have downplayed Weiner, D-N.Y., who has been lobbying Lawmakers have tried for years to the potential threat posed by light air­for rule changes since 2004. "It's virtu­close the corridor for reasons of safety craft, but FM spokeswoman Laura J. ally the Wild West. There is no regula­and security. Brown said in a written statement tion at all, other than 'Don't run into Gov. George Pataki said Thursday Thursday that the agency would anything." that the Federal Aviation review its guidelines for general avia­
The single-engine plane that carried Administration "needs to take a much tion and flight restrictions as a result Lidle to his death was flying over the tougher line" about private, or general of the Lidle crash. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 13, 2006 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL). 
The Catalyst Trip has been an annual event over the past several years, whereas the Pilgrimage to Mexico and Habitat are relatively new to the college. 
"If there is sufficient interest among students, staff and fac­ulty, then I would love to see these [Habitat and Pilgrimage] become annual trips; although in the future, the exact desti­nation might be different depend-in this country," she said. "We empower women to be leaders in the undoing of racism through workshops led by two exceptional diversity trainers." 

Those diversity trainers are Dorothy Friesen and Rosemarie Harris. Friesen co­facilitates anti-racism work­shops for various churches and social agencies. Harris is a criminal justice administra­tor and formerly served as Saint Mary's Director of Security. 
Nicole Garcia, who graduat­ed from Saint Mary's in 2004, was quick to emphasize the power of the Catalyst Trip. 
"It is impossible to walk 
away from the 
trip without 

ing on the needs," Call said. A weeklong  "It is impossible to walk away from  being trans­formed by the experience," she  
intensive program addressing social issues such as racism, the  the trip without being transformed by the experience.,,  said. Junior Razia Stanikzai, who went on the trip  
Catalyst  Trip  last fall, agreed  
takes  25  to  30  NicoleGarcia  with  Garcia's  
students, facultyand staff mem- Saint Mary's graduate  assessment. "The Catalyst  
bers to engage in  Trip is a journey  
workshops,  lec­ of transforma­ 

tures, art, ritual and dialogue tion and critical awareness. It to explore leadership capabili­is an invitation to become a ties. member of a community who 
Among the participants' des­cares about social justice," she tinations in and around said. Cincinnati are the Grailville Retreat Center, the Peaslee Service on the Gulf Coast Neighborhood Center and the Saint Mary's students also National Underground have the opportunity to work Railroad Freedom Center. in conjunction with Habitat for 
"Our Cincinnati experience Humanity over break. Victims is guided by Dr. Judith of Hurricane Katrina are still Blackburn, a retired women's in need of aid and rebuilding, studies professor and member which is why Saint Mary's is of the Grail and by Bonnie offering "The Gulf Coast Neumeier, a founder of the Rebuilding Project." Peaslee Neighborhood Center, Associate Professor of writer and community Psychology Karen Chambers activist," said Bonnie Bazata, and Associate Professor of associate director of CWIL. Sociology Susan Alexander are 
The main focus of the trip taking 13 students to Slidell in will be workshops on race and East Tammany Parish, La. privilege, with the aim of Brandy Ellison, an adjunct in teaching the women involved the Sociology department, and how to encourage tolerance in Brett Alexander will also be an increasingly diverse socie­supervising the trip. ty. Students will be working 
"We believe racism is a com­with the East St. Tammany plex, enduring social ill that Habitat for Humanity Parish. continues to be a cornerstone This branch of Habitat has set in the structure of inequality a goal of building 100 houses 
each year for the next three that." years for Katrina victims. For Chambers, Alexander 
"This is amazing given the and their husbands, this will fact that pre-Katrina they be their second service trip to [Habitat] had only built 27 ·the Gulf Coast. Last spring, houses since the chapter had they worked on a site where been established in 1992," three houses were being built. Chambers said. "It was such hard work, but 
Slidell was hit hard by at the end of the week, I felt Katrina, sustaining winds of peaceful," Chambers said. 176 mph and up to 190 mph, The group is leaving Oct. 14 according to the National and returning Oct. 21. They Weather Service. will be traveling in two vans 
Chambers has a personal and staying at the First Baptist connection with Hurricane Church in Slidell. 
Katrina  Chambers  
because  she  a  n  d  
was New  caught in Orleans  "I am hoping to practice  Alexander have also  
for much of last  speaking Spanish in a  organized  a  
year's disaster, missing the first couple weeks of  setting where I am also learning about my faith through interacting with  swamp tour to see how animal life was affected  
school. "I feel that I  another culture. ,  by storms.  the  
need  to  do  "I  am  so  
something for  Beth Sands  proud of the  
the  people  of  Saint Mary's senior  students who  
the  New  have chosen  
Orleans  area.  to  spend  a  

So many kind people helped week working hard for others me when their homes were -it says a great deal about gone and they didn't know the hearts of our students at where their families were," Saint Mary's," Chambers said. she said. "I was deeply· touched by how compassion­Personal reflection in Mexico ate people were for one anoth­This year, six students are er during the storm, that peo­also going on a trip entitled ple took care of one another Pilgrimage to Mexico. even when they needed to help Assistant Director of themselves." Multicultural Affairs Larisa 
Junior Katie Cosimano is Olin Ortiz, originally from also heading down to Monterrey, and Judy Fean, Louisiana for a personal rea­Director of Campus Ministry, son. will accompany the students. 
"My grandparents live in Home Depot has also donated New Orleans and are currently tools for the volunteers. rebuilding houses due to the The trip is organized by damage done by Hurricane Sister Michelle Toepp, who has Katrina," she said. "I just been in charge of the Sisters thought it would be a great of the Holy Cross Mission in way to give back to the com­Monterrey mission for the past munity and show how such a 11 years. Fean called the trip, horrible disaster affects every­which is sponsored by CWIL, one." OCSE and Campus Ministry, "a 
Senior Raquel DeLuna said collaborative pilgrimage." she was looking forward to This is the first time a group taking action and finally hav­of Saint Mary's students are ing a hand in the clean-up. going to Monterrey. 
"When I first saw the mass "We are going because it is a devastation in New Orleans, I wonderful opportunity for felt useless and wished I could them to learn about the do something to help," she Sisters of the Holy Cross mis-. said. "This trip is giving me sion and the different services that opportunity to do just that they provide to the com­munity," Ortiz said. 
Pastoral visits to the elderly and youth education programs are among the variety of min­istry programs implemented by the mission. 
The group will be visiting different parishes in the area, but will take residence in the Hospitality House of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"We will be working with the youth groups that the sisters have in Monterrey, visiting parishes, having lunch with the elderly, celebrating wor­ship together, learning about immigration, learning more about Mexican culture [and] having structured reflection sessions on how these experi­ences challenge and shape our faith lives and learning about the Sisters' work in Mexico," Ortiz said. 
The trip will focus on per­sonal reflection, in order to discover the individual's greater impact on the world. 
"Each day will end with the­ological reflection about the daily experiences and how that impacts one's under­standing of a global world, as well as 'What does Catholic Social Teaching have to offer about the situation of the resi­
dents?' and 'Are  we  being  
called  to  action?"'  Fean  
added.  

Senior Beth Sands is a Spanish major and hopes this trip will be a learning experi­ence for her. 
"I am hoping to practice speaking Spanish in a setting where I am also learning about my faith through inter­acting with another culture," she said. 
This trip begins on Monday, Oct. 16 and students return on Sunday, Oct. 22. 
As these students give back over the break, they may find themselves with a greater understanding of Saint Mary's. 
"I think it's important that all the trips reflect the mission and concerns of the College in real, tangible ways," Call said. "All three of these [trips] do exactly that." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Se01inar 
continued from page 1 
other students find their aca­demic interests and their vocation. Overall, they help students find their own voice." 
However, a group of 120 students will take an alter­nate path by heading south to help rebuild New Orleans, operating independently of the esc for no credit. 
Junior Caity Schneeman, chair of the Gulf Coast Task Force that's in charge of the excursion, has led several recovery trips to New Orleans since Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. The group she's taking this week will be her largest yet, Schneeman said. 
"It's ridiculous how there are still hundreds of homes that need to be gutted, so our goal is to remove furniture, take down walls, and repair them for rebuilding," she said. "It's a really effective way of doing service." 
The students will work with Catholic Charities and Operation Helping Hands ­affiliates of the Archdiocese of New Orleans. Funding and student recruitment has been so successful that Schneeman 

is "pleased and excited" experience about the social about the upcoming trip. and economic problems of the 
"I really think we're going region," said student assis­to do a lot of amazing things tant junior Claire Murphy. down in New Orleans," she "The CSC as a whole is said, "and I never imagined focusing on economic justice we'd get so many people to for all as the focal point for come. We might be able to this larger seminar," Murphy gut as many as twenty to thir­said. "Students will be look­ty houses, and it's really ing at the problems and effective and rewarding." issues of the Appalachia area 
Those students opting for through that lens." the esc route will participate Students signed up for the 
in either the  seminar  
Appalachia  h  a  v  e  
Seminar in t h e Appalachian Valley, the  'Tve never been to the Appalachia region, and I expect to do a lot ofwork.  already attended three class­es and lis­ 
Cultural Diversity Seminar in  But Fm really looking forward to closer social  tened to guest speak­ers in order  
Chicago, the  ties with my group and  to  become  
Washington, D.C. Seminar, the Lives in  discovering the positive things about the area. ,,  more famil­iar with the history, cul­ 
the  Balance  ture  and  

Youth, Courtney Klosterman challenges Violence and of the area.
freshman 

Society Students Seminar in also had to Cincinnati and the Gospel of do a series of readings to Life Seminar in Washington, understand "how we're help­
D.C. ing the situation," said fresh­
The Appalachia seminar is man participant Courtney by far the largest in the esc. Klosterman. with around 230 students "I've never been to the traveling to 20 sites through­Appalachia region, and I out Appalachia to build expect to do a lot of work," homes and get a "hands-on she said. "But I'm really look­
ing forward to closer social ties with my group and dis­covering the positive things about the area." 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar, though less service­oriented, will immerse 10 stu­dents in Chicago's ethnic neighborhoods where they will initiate dialogue with various community leaders. They will be studying the demographics and frustra­tions of diversity in Chicago through coordination with the Urban Life Center. 
"Our goal is to ensure that every single person can iden­tify with multi-ethnic back­grounds," said Ashley Williams, sophomore student coordinator. "We want to make it personal for every­body." 
A group of 11 students will head east to participate in the Washington, D.C. Seminar to study foreign relations and international affairs. 
"We'll be meeting with a wide range of think tanks, advocacy groups and govern­mental organizations that span the ideological spectrum to try to get a balanced pic­ture of foreign relations today," said senior student coordinator Christian Hoeffel. 
The Lives in the Balance ­Youth, Violence and Society Seminar will examine how the world of youth is impact­ed by violence. Students will study areas in South Bend and Over-the-Rhine, an inner­city neighborhood in Cincinnati, Ohio 
The Gospel of Life seminar will examine the death penal­ty, euthanasia, abortion, cloning, stem cell research and related life issues, and how they affect election results. Students will travel to Washington, D.C. and meet with Church leaders, elected officials and representatives of agencies that focus on these issues. 

The common thread uniting each of these issues is stu­dents' call to action and faith. Through their involvement in these programs, they will learn to question and gain a basic understanding of social justice issues as American citizens. 
"This will be an education for them," Miller-McGraw said. "When one has the experience to offer himself to another, they are in turn edu­cating themselves. Through the act of serving and giving back you learn much about yourself and the community." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Friday, October 13, 2006 
page 7 

Dow 

11,947.70 +95.57

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE 2,586 127 686 2,533,257,270 
ANEK >M£~1II~Ii'!!llll;ti!;l~! l'illl~ll[l•t~abl1lB.~II
NASDAQ 2,346.18 +37.91 
NVS£ .8,626illfzl!lllllm!DIII~II 
s&P 500 1,362.83 + 12.88 
NJKKEI(Tol<yo) ww . 16:5~ijj.lt!l!li!Jiitii1~i 

FTSEIOO(London) 6,121.30 +47.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.66  +0.04  42.2:  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +2.87  +0.60  21.4~  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.0 I  +0.1 0  5.0!  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +2.47  +0.68  28.2;  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  0.00  +0.00  2.1!  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.13  -0.006  4.778  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.72  +0.035  4.920  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.04  -0.002  4. 91 I  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.15  -0.007  4.742  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.27  57.86  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +3.80  580.3C  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +1.18  90.2C  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.185C  
EURO  0.7952  
POUND  0.5368  
CANADIAN$  1.1329  


IN BRIEF 

Stores lower prices on generic drugs 
TRENTON, N.J.-Consumers are suddenly get­ting a break on the cost of generic drugs as dis­count retailers and some prescription benefit managers start programs that provide a host of popu1ar medications at very low costs. 
In the last month, Wal-Mart stores Inc. and Target Corp. have begun programs at pharmacies in their Florida stores, including Wal-Mart's Sam's Club, offering dozens of generic drugs for $4. Last May, Kmart Holding Corp.'s 1,100 stores began offering generics for $15 for a 90-day supply. 
On Thursday, Medco Health Solutions, one of the largest U.S. prescription benefit managers, announced a plan targeting consumers indirectly through small-and medium-sized businesses struggling to offer employees prescription cover­age. 
Medco, based in Franklin Lakes, will offer its "Generics First" plan through partner health insurers for which it manages prescription claims and shipments from its mail order pharmacies. The plan kicks off this week through the first insurer to sign up, Nationwide Ufe Insurance Co., said John Driscoll, Medco's group president for new business development. 

Filmmaker leaves Wal-Mart group 
A filmmaker whose work praised Wal-Mart has quit a national advocacy group funded by the retailer, saying pay caps adopted recently by the nation's largest employer were unfair to its long-time workers. 
Ron Galloway said Wednesday he left the national steering committee of Working Families for Wal-Mart about a week ago over the pay caps adopted in August. Galloway said the caps, which Wal-Mart has defended as a standard industry practice, would hurt the company by encouraging experienced employ­ees to leave. 
Working Families spokesman Kevin Sheridan r.onfirmed Galloway had left but said it was over environmental policy differences. 
"Hon agreed to depart the committee in order to fully pursue a new film on the so­called myth of global warming, which runs contrary to Wal-Mart's aggressive sustainabili­ty agenda. We thank him for his support and wish him well with his new project," Sheridan said. 


Dow Jones closes at record high 
Index sets intraday high; McDonald's, other companies keep market upbeat 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Dow Jones industrial average broke through 11,900 to close at a record high Thursday, boosted by opti­mism over the health of cor­porate earnings. 
The index's gain marked its fifth record close in two weeks; the Dow also set a record intraday high. 
The markets were upbeat Thursday, with investors focusing on positive news from well-known consumer brands such as McDonald's Corp. and on economic data that indicated the economy was holding up even as it slowed. Oil prices, which remain near lows for the year, also boosted the mood on Wall Street. 
"In general, we're getting friendly reports between oil inventories being up higher than expected and then some bellwether companies that are exceeding esti­mates," said John C. Forelli, portfolio manager for Independence Investment LLC in Boston. "It's kind of a return to the Goldilocks economy." 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 95.57, or 0.81 percent, to 11,947.70. The advance put the 12,000 threshold within investors' sights. The previous record close, from Tuesday, was 11,867.17. The intraday that inventories were higher Kleinwort, said the Beige the offing. high set Thursday was last week and amid doubts Book's tone was more opti­Investors paid less atten­11,959.63, eclipsing an earli­about whether OPEC's mem­mistic than the one issued in tion to a Commerce er record of 11,872.94 bers will be able to agree on August. Department report that reached Monday. an immediate production "They didn't say there was showed the country's trade 
Broader stock indicators cut. The price of a barrel of much of an inflation prob­deficit rose to a record $69.9 also moved higher. The light, sweet crude, which lem. Investors saw this as billion in August, a 2.7 per­Standard & Poor's 500 index settled at a low for the year confirmation that the Fed is cent increase from July. was up 12.88, or 0.95 per­on Wednesday, rose 27 cents on hold," he said. Increased oil imports out­cent, at 1,362.83, and the to $57.86 on the New York Investors have been keep­paced a record level of goods Nasdaq composite index Mercantile Exchange. ing close tabs on the Fed as and services exports. showed the day's biggest Investors got a look at the they try to gauge how quick­Logan said the markets gain, advancing 37.91, or state of the economy with ly the economy is slowing. tend to show little reaction to 
1.64 percent, to 2,346.18. the release of the Federal The central bank left short­the trade data because, in 
Bonds rose, with the yield Reserve's Beige Book, which term interest rates terms of capital flows, for­on the benchmark 10-year summarizes regional eco­unchanged at its last two eign investors still prefer to Treasury note falling to 4.77 nomic activity. The report meetings following a two­hold dollars, which keeps the percent from 4. 78 percent found that economic growth. year string of 17 straight dollar stable. late Wednesday. The dollar appeared to be moderate or increases aimed at curbing "Without a deprecation of was mixed against other mixed -findings that inflation. The Fed has said it the dollar that forces up major currencies, while gold seemed to reassure investors remains concerned about interest rates and inflation, prices rose. looking for the economy to inflation, but the slowing then the equity market is not 
Oil prices hovered near slow at a reasonable pace. economy has prompted sensitive to changes in the year lows following an Kevin Logan, chief U.S. some hopes, however slim, monthly trade balances," he Energy Department report economist at Dresdner that a rate cut could be in said. 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 


Chopper crash kills resort tycoon 
Associated Press Manan, a spokeswoman for the Gonzalez, Manan said. The online 
Dominican airport authority. Dominican newspaper Clave 

SANTO DOMINGO -Resort "It is with great sadness that the Digital identified him as the son of tycoon Howard "Butch" Kerzner entire company mourns the tragic a U.S.-based real estate investor was killed along with three others loss of Butch Kerzner," Kerzner who had worked with Kerzner Wednesday when a helicopter they International said in a statement. International. His nationality was were traveling in crashed into a Kerzner, 42, was surveying not known. building on the Dominican potential development sites when A commission was investigatingHepublic's north coast, an aviation the helicopter crashed on the roof what caused the Robinson 44 heli­official said. of a business that grows ornamen­copter to crash. 
Kerzner, chief executive officer tal plants. Kerzner is survived by his wife of Kerzner International Holdings Two officers in the Dominican and two young children. the com­Ltd., a Bahamas-based casino and armed forces, David Rosario pany said. His father, Sol Kerzner, resort operator, was aboard the Pimentel and Kevelier Matos, also a South African casino tycoon who helicopter when it went down at died in the crash, said civil avia­is chairman of Kerzner 
2:15 p.m. in the popular tourist tion spokesman Angel de Ia Rosa. International's board, was en resort of Sosua, said Yolanda The fourth victim was Delio Luis route to the Dominican Republic. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, October 13, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nocre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574i 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4?40 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu. 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of,the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc:rvrr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through M-Way accpt during cx,am and vacation periods. A ~ubscription ro The Ob5crvcr is $100 for one actd~mic ye.u; $55 for OlK' Sfillt:Ster. 
'The Obscnrer is publishc=d at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Han Send address ooncctions to: 
Notre Doune. IN -46)-56-0779 Thc<J!=v"' 
Pc:riodicai postage paid ;u Noue Damt P:O.&x779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 SoUEh Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a member uf the Associatc:.d Ptes.!i. All n:pmducdon.rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Eileen Duffy Greg Arbogast 
Amanda Michaels Chris Khoney Jennifer Metz Eric Retter Kaitlynn Riely Scene Viewpoint Brian Doxtader Joey King Rama Gottmnukkala Bethany Whitfield Illustrator Graphics Robin Fallon Jarred Wafer 

Faculty recruiting needs shift 
Notre Dame is right in seeking to increase the number of Catholic faculty at the University. Whether it is immediately noticeable or not, more professors bringing more religious con­text into the classroom will help further the University's stated mission. That mission, however, must also inclmle a broad spectrum of opinions that fosters intellectual religious debate. Religion without question is no faith; it is an assumption that bears no imminent influence on your life. Notre Dame's mis­sion wants anything but that. 
In that light, the questions that some faculty members have raised about the University's initiative to increase 
O 
Th
the number of Catholic professors are legitimate. 
oserver 
Though University President Father John schools. 
Jenkins called the contributions of non-Catholic 3) Ensure that Notre Dame does not overreact
Editorial
faculty "indispensable," Notre Dame depart­to the relatively low level of Catholic faculty cur-
stay at Notre Dame rather than searching for jobs at schools where they would feel more appreciated. 
2) Keep Notre Dame's advantage in the recruiting of non­Catholic faculty. As a top-20 American university, Notre Dame is in a position to attract top-line professors of all religions. By actively searching for religious professors -no matter what religion they are -and professors who have genuine opinions on religion they arn not afraid to express, the school can bring an added element that other top universities do not have. By 
embracing serious, continuous religious discussion  - some­ 
thing many people shy away from  - Notre  
Dame can set itself apart from o ther top  

ments creating a database of only top Catholic academics diminishes the importance of Jenkins' message. 
Thus, the University's departments should seek to attract both Catholic and non-Catholic intellectuals that do not fear invoking religion in discussions and debates with students about all fields of study -from bioethics and business to poli­tics and philosophy. 
This religious focus would help in three eoncrete ways: 
1) Minimize the chance current non-Catholic faculty feel unwanted and "less equal." By explaining and putting actions behind words expressing Notre Dame's need for non-Catholic faculty, our top Muslim, Buddhist, Protestant, Orthodox, Jewish, agnostic and atheist professors will be more likely to 
rently. By keeping prominent non-Catholic schol­ars on their radars, department heads will see the top overall candidates, as well as the top Catholic candidates. A specific quota isn't what Notre Dame needs, as Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche pointed out. To indude the bigger picture is essen­tial to keeping Notre Dame as an institution of higher learning with the best possible professors. 
Notre Dame strives to be a top-5 university, period. But it won't -and shouldn't-give up its Catholic character to achieve that status. Through openness about its goals and a commitment to realize them, Notre Dame can and will fmd a place in the upper echelon of higher learning while reempha­sizing its Catholic faith. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'Right to life' not single-issue 
In her letter ("Examining Pro-Life Values," Oct. 11) Mary DeBroeck correctly asserts that "in the Catholic call for social justice," one cannot fight "for an end to abortion while turn­ing a deaf ear to all the rest" of the injustices committed against human life. It is necessary to point out two fallacies that need to be clarified in order for Notre Dame Right to Life to be portrayed accurately. 
Having "attended her first and only meet­ing" of the club two years ago, DeBroeck is unaware of the extent of the activi­ties of the organization. Based on her expansive and sound pro-life convictions, she finds Notre Dame Right to Life at fault for not focusing on issues such as "capital punishment, mistreated and mentally disabled, euthanasia vic­tims, mistreated prison­ers of war, as well as the hungry in Africa." Such an accusation is simply not true. 
Precisely because the club seeks to build an entire culture of life based on the innate digni­ty of every human person, the club cannot and does not overlook the necessity of raising awareness of all the injustices committed against the human person. Last year, the club sponsored a discussion and lecture on the death penalty. Right to Life co-sponsored the Edith Stein Project, a conference that focused on, among other issues, women's eating disorders and violence against women. The club has also invited speakers to discuss issues ranging from stem-cell research, to euthanasia and end-of-life issues, to contraception. Making the claim that the club neglects issues other than abortion is being misin­formed. 
Secondly, Pope John Paul Il reminds us in "The Gospel of Life," "among all the crimes which can be committed against life, procured abortion has characteristics making it particu­larly serious and deplorable." The Second Vatican Council in "Gaudium et Spes" defines abortion, together with infanti­cide, an "unspeakable crime." 
DeBroeck correctly recognizes that Notre Dame Right to Life is decidedly "abortion focused." While every crime against the life of a human being is a deplorable sin that cries out for vengeance to God, the moral gravity and social effects of "thou­sands dying from capital punishment each year" cannot be equated with the one million and six hundred thousand innocent human beings killed yearly by surgi­cal abortion in our country alone. "No one more absolutely 
innocent could be imag­ined. In no way could this human being ever be con­
sidered an aggressor, much less an unjust aggressor," John Paul II reminds us. 
We are grateful to DeBroeck for reminding the Notre Dame communi­ty of the necessity of upholding the dignity of all human life and of fighting to end injustices on many fronts. 

Notre Dame Right to Life fre­quently cooperates with many other campus organizations that 
seek to fight against these injustices. It is the specific goal and mission of this organization, however, to bring to the fore­
front of the public forum the absolute necessity of recognizing that the light against abortion is of fundamental importance to building a culture of life. 
John Sikorski 
sentor Stanford Hall Oct.11 
OBSERVER POLL 


Are you following the #1-ranked Notre Dame 
.Submit aLetterI
4 ·>·.. . '· ,, ., ' .• .· • ,, .• .,, •.•• '""·'" •.. ·>·. ... . . ·' !; women's soccer team? 
A. Yes 
to the Editor at · 
B.No 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
This poll is based on the response of 688 voters at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you would convince a man that he does wrong, do right. Men will believe what they see." 
Henry David Thoreau author 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, October 13, 2006 page 9 
Wisdom and objectivity 
As a freshman in college, I heard a classmate say he did not have time to read the newspaper and so had difficulty keeping up with current events. His solu­tion was to read the editorial page alone. This allowed him, he 
James

averred, to grasp the 
Matthew

complexity of political 


Wilson

happenings in short order, as if an opinion The Treasonous 
piece were the event and its interpretation Clerk at once. 
This memory has remained with me as a parable charting my own ambivalence concerning the nature of journalism and its consequences for our political cul­ture. 
My classmate's attempt to render edi­torial pages as Cliffs Notes for reality expressed what Cardinal Newman con­demned as the "opinionatedness" of modern culture, in which having a posi­tion on every question is not only a right but a necessity. If one lacks leisure to contemplate the stakes of a given ques­tion, finding a shortcut to a firm opinion seems only practical. 
Journalists, in general, are not sophis­ticated thinkers, and that helps in their business. If one can see through the ambiguities of an event and immediately discover the pro or con formula at its core, one would likely make a fine reporter. Never mind that this kind of "seeing through" is in truth a blindness to difficulties. Americans support or oppose the Iraq war for multiple rea­sons. In the world constructed by the news media these reasons are the first jetsam jettisoned and all that remains is a standardized index of favorable and unfavorable sentiments. 
One may attempt to vindicate such 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Africa's problems more complex 
An Oct. 4 op-ed piece in the International Herald Tribune by New York Times columnist Nicholas D. Kristof was titled "Optimism and Africa." In it Kristof highlights the changing situations in some countries on the African continent, with improvements in Governance, in the fight against corruption, in economic reform and in the investment climate. He gives exam­ples of Tanzania, Ghana, Rwanda and Nigeria. 
This pales in comparison to the rather negative tone that your report on Professor Naomi Chazan lecture on Africa conveyed. Particularly striking was the sentence, "she referred to the political breakdown of states due to ethnic fragmentation and conflict, famine and the AIDS epidemic." Currently only Somalia (and maybe Sudan) are breaking apart because of ethnic fragmentation and conflict. Other states such as the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda, Angola and Liberia (and even Cote D'Ivoire) are still single units despite years of varying degrees of conflict. 
The stereotypical image of Africa is changing and while the problems continue to be present, there are numerous positive changes. More than a continent of political breakdown, ethnic conflict famine and AIDS, Africa is a continent suffering from the collapse of infra­structure (particularly roads and power), very unequal and uneven distribution of wealth, the lack of opportuni­ty for skilled labor, the lack of investment in technology, a continued backwardness in its primary economic activity of agriculture and a very slow growth in the institutionalization of politics and political activity in much of Africa. It is also a continent in which political pluralism in its own unique form is taking root with vir­tually every country holding regular multiparty elections and many countries experiencing smooth transitions from one party to another. My hope is that Professor Chazan touched on some of these more modern prob­lems and issues and not just what has been the presen­tation of Africa over the past thirty years. 
Rev. David Kashangaki, C.S.C Jinja, Uganda Oct. II 

dichotomous thinking on the grounds that the ballot box does not consider reasons but rather counts votes, and so our political discourse must pragmati­cally model itself on the instrument of popular suffrage. Some such conception must lie behind the practice in certain college political science courses where the students use small "clickers" to reg­ister their for/against opinion on numer­ous issues at each class meeting. Education in such a course does not attempt to "get behind" the practices of a democracy to explore and interpret them. Rather it seeks to assure its stu­dents that speedy "opinionatedness" goes all the way down. One understands politics as soon as one understands the necessity of having an opinion about everything. 
Studies of the news media's effect on popular opinion suggest that the press does not shape persons' beliefs per se, but rather, frames the categories in which people think through those beliefs. The p-ress may not sway me to support a given immigration bill, but it can and does delimit the menu of responses most people will have to it. 
The deleterious effects of such cate­gorical thinking may not result merely from the coarseness of journalists' intel­lects, however. Journalists generally pursue a professional commitment to avoid "bias," and they often try to do so outside of the greenroom of the editorial page. Their attempt, unfortunately, is constituted by a series of five "objective" tests that determine whether an article is unbiased. The most damaging of these is the test that a story must represent "both sides" of a given topic. The power to decide how a question may be asked, how a debate may be framed, is four-fifths of the terrain of politics. Choosing sides accounts for the last fraction, and is the sorry postage stamp remaining to most of us. 
One should be suspicious of any series of "objective" tests that establish a piece of writing's fairness. While the efforts of journalists to achieve "fair and bal­anced" news coverage are admirable, they have miscarried. This is so not because clarity and honesty are unob­tainable, but because these are goals that can be obtained, as it were, only though a personal commitment to them. The attempt to free oneself of this com­mitment by following five-or five hun­dred -external tests should be an embarrassment almost as sad as the lukewarm citizen who insists he is a "good person" because he has not killed anyone, paid his taxes and stopped at every stop sign. 
To be a good person, one must stu­diously conceive an image of what the "good life for man" looks like and har­ness the will to model one's own life upon it. Strength of will is naturally important, but so is the faculty that matures as one contemplates the experi­ences of a lifetime, namely, wisdom. 
A freshman student of my own once wrote an essay on "bias in the media" and concluded that "tests" do not fair news make. Only wisdom, the practice of honestly evaluating a question in the light of one's accumulated experience, can result in articulate truth. If this were recognized, newspapers would probably have fewer young reporters writing copy, but they might also cultivate editorial writers who could reflect inwardly on the difficulties of a question, drawing on the integrity of their experience, rather than merely excrete an opinion pro or con at every question framed on the front page. 
Before the emergence of journalism programs in America, the popular news presses tended to cater explicitly to its own partisan audience. The journalist had authority with readers because they had a priori trust in his sharing funda­mental beliefs and principles with them. So long as the journalist clung to a stan­dard of honor and honesty, the "interest­ed" perspective of the writing testified to commitment to a certain body of wis­dom. Of late, this kind of writing has reemerged in magazines like First Things, The Weekly Standard, The American Conservative and The New Republic. However much I sometimes disagree with the opinions threaded through their pages, the commitment of their writers to acknowledging the prin­ciples on which, and through which, they argue testifies to their integrity and wis­dom. In contrast, the unacknowledged distortions and infuriating simplifica­tions of The New York Times lead one to conclude that its writers may pass all the "objectivity tests" in the world and still not give us the truth. 
Wisdom may seem an unreliable sub­stitute for the "certainty" of tests that can be taught in journalism courses. But certain tests are not themselves truth and the only path to truth is full of unfortunate but inevitable byways. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin Research Fellow, and recalls daily George Santayana's avowal that "It is not wisdom to be only wise." He can be reached at jwilsonS@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Friday, October 13, 2006 

'THE DEPARTED' MOVIE REVIEW 
Sergeant Dignam 
(MarkWahlberg) 
-.............. 



Captain Ellerby 

(Alee Baldwin) 

By BRIAN DOXTADER and MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critics 
If redemption is the linchpin of past Martin Scorsese films, then "The Departed" is indica­tive of a significant break with tradition. Most of the director's work offers some kind of sol­ace, but this film succeeds in spite (or perhaps because oO its conscious need to turn from the past. 
All Scorsese pictures are volatile, but "The Departed" is as vicious, cynical and nihilistic as any film the director has made. It's also one of his best, which is no small feat considering the magnitude of his oeuvre. 
Based on the popular Hong Kong trilogy "Infernal Affairs," "The Departed" follows an undercover cop, Billy Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio), who infiltrates the gang of Boston mafioso Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Costello, meanwhile. has an undercover agent among the police, Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon). As Costigan infiltrates deeper into Costello's organization, so too does Sullivan rise up the police ranks. Eventually, the lilm becomes a tense, taut cat-and-mouse game between cop and criminal. 
What separates "The Departed" from Scorsese's other well-known works is the eon­temporary nature of the narrative. Unlike his two immediately preceding films -"Gangs of New York" and "The Aviator" -and other pictures like "The Age of Innocence" and "Goodfellas," 'The Departed" is not a period piece. Yet there is still a tension between the past and present that enhances rather than detracts from the film's noirish tone. Seeing classically-styled gangsters conducting busi­ness on their cell phones is initially jarring, but Scorsese adroitly weaves these modern references into the narrative. 
However, "The Departed" is still unmistak­ably a Scorsese picture. Idiosyncratic film­making tendencies, like references to the French New Wave, are sprinkled throughout. More than almost any director, Scorsese cre­ates films that are, above all, cinematic. Nowhere is this more evident than in "The Departed," which is one of his most consis­tently engaging pictures. 
The acting is incredible thoughout, anchored by Leonardo DiCaprio as the tor­mented Costigan. DiCaprio, who has emerged as Scorsese's new DeNiro, gives a fiery, gritty performance that ranks among his best, and Academy Award voters will likely take notice. 
Jack Nicholson is predictably reliable as Costello, though he seems to be having the most fun he's had with a role in years. Nicholson's improvisatory acting style would seem to contrast with Scorsese's meticulous tendencies, but that tension produces fantastic results. Nicholson is given some free reign by the director, who in turn pulls the actor in just enough that his perform­
ance is believable and The Departed Also, the ubi' even downright scary at giosity that ha, times. Scorsese since ' Nicholson's portrayal of lines of 19i Costello ranks up there Streets" ("You[ with other Scorsese anti-up for your sir
····~'~ heroes like Bill the Director: Martin Scorsese You do it in th1 Butcher ("Gangs of New Writer: William Monahan do it at home: York"). Tommy DeVito Starring: Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt becomes a ce: ("Goodfellas") and Travis Damon, Mark Wahlberg, Martin From the openi1 Bickle ("Taxi Driver") in Sheen, Alec Baldwin, Vera Farmiga, young Sullivan, his terrifying unpre­Ray Winstone and Jack Nicholson boy, Scorses1 

dictability, and that very quality is what made those characters so gal­vanizing. 
The most surprising performance belongs to Mark Wahlberg, who dominates every frame he's in. The one-time rapper gets some of the best lines in the picture and he takes full advantage, which makes Dignam, Wahlberg's foul-mouthed cop, one of the most memorable in the film. The supporting cast is incredible, rounded out by Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin, both of whom give effortless, pitch­perfect performances. 
The acting would be wasted if not for a great script, and "The Departed" delivers in spades. William Monahan's screenplay is funny, profane and affecting all at once, full of punchy dialogue and brisk pacing. Taking cues from Mamet, Tarantino and one-time Scorsese scribe Paul Schrader, Monahan brings a darkly ironic mentality to the script, which is one of the best screenpl~, tor has had since "Goodfellas." 1 of the screenplay is startling, es1 sidering that Monahan's only prel credit is "Kingdom of Heaven." 
As expected, the ·music is gre, pulls out all the stops, juxtapos:, The Rolling Stones ("Gimme Shel one particularly beautiful sc1 Loose") with songs by Dropkio (which is appropriate since the b thing of a Boston institution) always been one of the most aspects of Scorsese's films, but rc incorporate it so effortlessly into I and rarely does the stylistic rang• 
so seamlessly. 
again returr' Catholic roots, bringing a biza morality to each scene. 
"The Departed" is a great film 
in the upper echelon of Scorsese • it finally win him that cinemati1 the Best Director Oscar? If there1 in the world (or at least, Ilollywd will. In the past several years, ~ Academy voters wanted to give tl 


-

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 13, 2006 


Stretch will prove where Notre Dame ranks 
record of 6-1-1, sit tied for junior forward Joseph Lapira, always talk about how in ment game, a win over a high­
Irish will learn how 

first place atop the Blue who has scored an astounding September you have to fight ly ranked team the week they measure up after Division with 19 points each. 11 goals during the team's for results, but the better before post-'season play Notre Dame and six-game win­sides start to put things begins. As a group, thefacing division leaders Providence, who ning streak. together once you hit October Mountaineers, Friars and hold identical con­Judging by Notre Lapira, who and November." Huskies, with their combined Eight days, three games and ference records of first made There's no doubting that the conference-record of 18-3-2,
Dame's recent 
one giant reality check. 6-2-0, both enter headlines ear­Irish are a quality side, but are the class of the Big East
performance, other
No. 8 Notre Dame will use the weekend one lier this sea­the question of whether Notre along with the Irish. its fall break to find out how point out of first teams should son with a Dame deserves to call itself Solid results in its three well it matches up with the place. certainly .be giving four-goal one of the nation's elite teams upcoming games would vali­type of team 
Despite the effort against remains-unan­date Notre
full respect to the
it hopes to impressive records in-state rival swered. Dame as one of see in the of Notre Dame's Irish. Indiana, cur-While the Irish the top teams, if
There's no doubting
NCAA tour­next three oppo-rently leads have had what not the top, in 
that the Irish are a
nament. nents, Irish coach the nation Clark calls many the Big East. 
In their Bobby Clark will not be with 18 goals on the season. "measuring quality side, but the A good show­final three approaching the games any Just as important to Notre sticks" on their qu.estion ofwhether ing would also games of the differently. Dame's recent success, how­schedule this sea­help prove that
Notre Dame 
regular sea­"We're going to take it one ever, has been the improve­son, they have the Irish are son, the Irish game at a time," Clark said. ment in the Irish defense. The amassed a pedes­deserves to call capable of 
will take on Greg Arbogast 

"You give every team full team's .33 goals against aver­trian 1-1-1 improving upon
itselfone of the 
Providence respect until you prove other­age over the past six games is record against their Sweet 16
nation's elite teams
at home on wise. We're going to prepare a drastic improvement from teams ranked in appearance in Saturday Sports Writer for every game fully." the 1.12 goals that they the Top 25 remains last year's NCAA before trav-Judging by Notre Dame's allowed on average over their according to the unanswered. tournament. eling to play recent performance, other first eight games. NSCAA/adidas While ques­at No. 6 West Virginia on teams should certainly be giv­During his six-year tenure poll. tions linger Wednesday and at ing full respect to the Irish. at Notre Dame, Clark's teams Furthermore, of their eight about Notre Dame, the one Connecticut on Oct. 21. It just Winners of_six games in a row have been known for their Big East games, only three -­sure thing is that we'll have so happens that Providence, and unbeaten in their last inconsistent starts and strong South Florida, Cincinnati and some answers one week from West Virginia and Connecticut seven, the Irish have finishes, a fact that Clark Seton Hall-have come now. are the three sides in direct outscored their opponents 18-drew upon to explain his against teams with winning competition with Notre Dame 2 throughout their current team's recent success. overall records. The views expressed in this for the Big East's Blue winning streak --averaging "Every year I've been here, Enter West Virginia, column are those of the author Division title. three goals a game while only we've finished strong like Providence and Connecticut. and not necessarily those of 
Currently, West Virginia, conceding one-third of a goal this," said Clark after Notre At No. 6 in the country, the The Observer. with a conference record of 6-per game. Dame's 4-1 win over Mountaineers provide Notre Contact Greg Arbogast at 0-1, and Connecticut, with a The offense has been led by Georgetown Oct. 7. "We Dame with the ideal state-garbogas@nd. edu 

Looking for a career instead of just a job? 
We're RSM McG!adn:y, the professional ·services firm for people on the move, with 

tht challenges and rewards of developing 


businesses. Want a career thafs challenging and inspiring, instead of nHN!f*lfHHnil!? Learn more at rsmmcg!adrey.com. 

RSM McGiadrey 
ACCOUNTING • TAX • BUSINESS CONSULTING 
Friday, October 13, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Better with age 
Striker Joseph Lapira is enjoying tranquil times and an explosive season 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Spons Ediror 
Joseph Lapira is having a breakout season. That much is obvious. 
The Notre Dame junior forward currently leads the NCAA with 18 goals and 39 points, and has been named the Big East offen­sive player of the week three times. He has also received five national honors, among them being named the College Soccer News national player of the week in each of the last two weeks ­making him the first player to ever receive the honor in back­to-hack weeks. 
"He's just an offensive machine, which is terrific," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 'That's why we play him as the first-up striker. He's got tremendous ability in this area, and he's got tremen­dous appetite to get into scoring position." 
The fact that Lapira is an offen­sive threat has come as no sur­prise to those familiar with the Irish program. As a sophomore last season, Lapira led the team in goals, scoring seven in 23 games. 
No one could have predicted, however, that he would have exploded the way he has in recent weeks. In the last six games alone, Lapira has netted 11 goals, and he eclipsed last year's season total in the fourth game of a stretch that began on Sept. 23 against Pittsburgh and saw him score two goals a game for five games in a row. That streak ended Wednesday, as Lapira managed only one goal in a 3-0 Irish win over Michigan State. 
"I had no idea it was going to be like this," Lapira said. "I had no idea it was going to be me who came out, [and) broke out. I've been the one who's been in the right place at the right time." 
Lapira has downplayed the importance of his personal awards and achievements this year, and he said that he didn't fmd out that he had the national lead in goals scored until he read about it in the newspaper. 
"It's more of just something to joke around with in the locker room," Lapira said. "The only dif­ferent thing for me is people back home that I haven't talked to in a long while [have started] calling me or sending me e-mails and IMs saying 'good job."' 
His recent hot streak has pro­pelled No.8 Notre Dame to a 10­3-2 record (6-2-0 in the Big East), and he is a major reason why the Irish ofl'ense, which struggled to consistently score goals early this season, is now ranked in the top­1 0 nationally for scoring offense. Since Lapira began his run, the Notre Dame offense has per­formed more like it expected to all season. 
"We've really developed a con­fidence these last few games," fellow forward Justin McGeeney said. "We don't feel as anxious about scoring goals. We know they're going to come." 

role model, and just what I can do for him to be a leader," Lapira said. "He's coming into his junior year on his soccer team and he's captain and he's looking to me for advice." 
Lapira's family has also influ­enced one of his major pre-game rituals. For each game, Lapira wears a crucifix that his mother gave him as a Confirmation pres­ent. The crucifix has brought him enough success on the pitch that he has begun lending it to his girlfriend Kerri Hanks, a forward on the Irish women's soccer team, for her matches. 
"She claims she can't score unless she has my crucifix on," he said. · 
The junior forward has also created a pre-game ritual with McGeeney, who has become his close friend over the past few years. Before each match, the two share a cup of tea with team­

One of the major "Last year, I had mates at Clark's reasons for the house during pre­
never been so 
spark in the Irish game meal and
stressed in my life.
offense and then write a saying Lapira's personal I tried not to let -which they keep 
hot streak -has people know, I tried private -that has 
been Lapira's non­served as their
to hide my feelings
stop motor. motto for the past "His attitude, his about things last couple seasons on effort is just fantas­their chest. 
year.

tic, and it always "Our defenders has been, since his used to write
Joseph Lapira 
freshman year," something, NGP, Clark said. "He Irish forward [which stood for}, 

new to me," he said. "I hated it." 
Lapira has spent much of the past two years maturing into who he is today, both as a person and as a player. 
On the field, he wizened as a player, especially with regards to budgeting his energy. 
"He used to always run himself to a standstill by doing too much work," Clark said. "I think now he's getting a lot smarter as a player [while] still working very hard." 
Lapira agrees with his coach's analysis. 
"As a freshman, I just got out there and ran around like a chicken with its head cut off, [and] I wasn't a great soccer player by any means," he said. "This year, I've really settled into things, [and) I'm really relaxed in games. 
His greatest strides, however, have come in areas completely outside of soccer. Last year, Lapira's home in Lake Charles was destroyed when a tree fell through it during Hurricane Rita. Lapira remembers how the events brought life into perspec­tive for him. 
"I saw my friend's docks and piers that I had hung out in in the summer just months beforehand, [destroyed on the news, and] it was kind of surreal," he said. "It can happen to anybody and it happened to me." 
While no one in his family was hurt, Lapira struggled to deal with what had happened for much of his sophomore year. 
"Last year, I had never been so stressed in my life," he said. "I tried not to let people know, I tried to hide my feelings about things last year. I got really stressed out during the season, I'd miss class because of it, work would pile up and at the end of the semester, I was just falling apart." 
Lapira also sees the a correla­tion between his mt:mtal state and his play last year, which he felt was not always up to his best. 
"I had let it all build up, putting it down and not letting a.nyone know about it, and I think that just got to me in the end," he said. "As a student, I struggled last year, and maybe that's part of the reason I didn't have such a good season." 
After what happened, Lapira has come out stronger from the experience. His family has begun a transition to Houston, and he is ready to move on. 
"This year, I'm on top of things, if I get stressed out about some­thing ... I'll go talk to coach, talk to my girlfriend, just get it out there." 
'I'd like to play as long as I could' 
As Lapira's family slowly moves to Houston -with his father traveling for the majority of Notre Dame's games-he has refocused his efforts on improv­ing on the field. Over the summer, he worked extensively with sen­ior midfielder Nate Norman to improve his dribbling skills. 
"He's one of the most unbeliev­able dribblers, and [I] tried to start dribbling a little more like him instead of myself," he said. 
Lapira is also having more fun with his environment this season. For the past few weeks, he has worn a mustache which he won't shave while the team remains hot. 
"I don't really like shaving that much, and whenever I'd go to shave, I'd leave ... something stu­pid for the day," he said. "I kind of like it ... and then the goal streak started. Since then, I've kind of been like, 'well, might as well keep the mustache, we've got agood thing going."' 
After leaving school, the junior entrepreneurship major envi­sions a life of professional soccer. 
"I'd like to play as long as I could, [though] I don't know if that would be in MLS or over­seas." 
However, Lapira doesn't plan on pursuing that goal before graduation, and his primary focus at the moment is to help Notre Dame win a national championship. 
"Right now I'll just worry about being a [Notre Dame playerl," he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
wears his heart on his sleeve." 
Despite the fact that he is nei­ther a captain nor a particularly vocal member of the team, Lapira has come forward as a leader of the experienced Irish squad. 
"The first thing a leader's got to do is lead by example, and I think Joseph does that superbly well," Clark said. "I think Joseph's biggest asset is not what he says, but what he does." 
Lapira's emergence as a leader perhaps applies more to life ofT the pitch than on it, and he cred­its Clark with encouraging his development over the summer. 
"Whenever [Clark] talks about it, he puts it in perspective of my little brother looking to me as a No Goal Patrol, so 

we were like, 'lets write something on our chest,"' Lapira said. "We were kind of being immature about it and just wrote something ... We figured why not." 
'You probably want to look at other schools' 
Lapira and McGeeney actually became friends before the former had even enrolled at Notre Dame. While on his recruiting visit, McGeeney hosted Lapira, and the two became fast friends. 
However, had it not been for Lapira's own initiative, he may never have made that trip to South Bend. As a junior in high school, Lapira first came to Notre Dame to visit his cousin, and as part of his visit, e-mailed Clark about scheduling a meeting. While Clark happily agreed to meet with him, the initial encounter wasn't particularly promising. 
"I went in and met with him with my uncle and my dad, and he was like 'you probably want to look at other schools, this is a pretty tough school to get into,"' Lapira said. "[However, Clark said] if you get a chance, come to our camp and send me an e-mail about what tournaments your team is playing in." 
Lapira ended up impressing Clark at the summer camp, and Clark decided to recruit Lapira after traveling that fall to see the striker's club team play at a tour­nament in Iowa. 
With Notre Dame as a suitor, the Lake Charles, La. native recalls that his college decision wasn't too difficult. 
"It wasn't really like I had a whole bunch of schools knocking at my door," he said. "It was Notre Dame or go to LSU to be with my friends." 
Once at Notre Dame, it took Lapira a while to adjust to the new environment. 
"I had never seen snow before, so just getting used to playing in the cold weather was completely 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Irish ready to end regular season against Big East's best 

ference tournament.
By ERIC RETTER Clark and Notre Dame, how­

Associate Sporrs Editor 
ever, have not begun to think about anything but Saturday's Four teams have six wins in game. Big East conference play. "All our focus is really on 
Three of them will play No. Providence and not looking 8 Notre Dame in the next beyond that," Clark said. "I week and a half. think the thing is to focus on 
The Irish (10-3-2, 6-2-0 Big just one game at a time. And I East) -tied for third place in think that's a key to winning the Big East Blue division and all three games, to focus on 
the fourth team with six con­each game one at a time as it 
ference wins -will begin a comes up." 
tough stretch of games The Friars (10-3"-0, 6-2-0 
against the top three teams in Big East) are coming off of a 
the Blue Division Saturday 2-1 upset of No. 14 Brown on 
against second-place Tuesday. They are led by 
Providence. freshman forward Jonathan 
The Irish will then travel Medcalf, who leads the team Wednesday to Morgantown, with six goals. Medcalf is cur­
W. Va. to face No. 6 West rently sixth in the Big East in Virginia, the conference goals scored. leader, before ending the reg­Notre Dame is led by junior ular season against striker Joseph Lapira, who Connecticut in Storrs, Conn. leads the nation with 18 
Notre Dame coach Bobby goals. Clark is hopeful that 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer

Clark said he is excited about Lapira won't be bothered by a 
Notre Dame midfielder Matt Besler, front, dashes past DePaul midfielder Mark Plotkin, left, as
the prospect of playing the hamstring injury that kept 
Irish striker Joseph Lapira follows in Notre Dame's 3-0 win Sept. 10.
league's best to end the sea­him out of most of the first son. half of Wednesday's 3-0 win 
"I always judge a successful over Michigan State. conference opponont in West Dame's remaining three oppo­said. "That never goes amiss." season by Iseeing if a team is] "I talked to his physical Virginia (11-1-2. 6-0-1 Big nents. going into the last game of the therapist, rand] he seems very East). The Mountaineers are "lOur! team has grown, but Note: season with · good this coming ofT 2-1 eomoback win I'm suro these teams have +Clark felt that injured something morning, over American Wednesday, grown as well," Clark said. midfielders Ian Etherington positive to "! always judge a Clark said. and are led by forward Jarrod "They're good teams, and and Alex Yoshinaga were play for, and I "Obviously Smith. Smith is second to good teams continue to grow close to returning to action
successful season by

think there's they're going Lapira in the conference in throughout the season ... for the Irish. no question [seeing if a team is] going to take anoth­numerous offensive categories Anybody on our schedule can Etherington has not played that this year into the last game ofthe er look at him that include goals (12), points beat us if we are not properly since suffering a deep bone we're doing this after­(27) and game-winning goals focused." bruise against Pittsburgh
season with something 

that," Clark noon, but all (4). Lapira has notched seven Clark also said that the Irish Sept. 23, while Yoshinaga has
positive

said. "When early indica­of the latter category this sea­.should win all their games if missed much of the season you play your to play for. " tions say he's son. they keep that focus. after breaking his collarbone final game of going to be Notre Oame will finish its "This has been a very Aug. 27 against Creighton, the the season, 100 percent." season in Storrs, Conn. focused group, and it's been second game of the season.
Bobby Clark 

[you always Notre Dame against Connecticut (8-4-2, 6-very well led by the senior "They're very close lto 
Irish coach

hope] it's a will also rely 1-1 Big East). Huskies for­class," he said. "The senior returning]," Clark said. meaningful heavily on ward O'Brian White, who was class has done a magnificent "We're keeping our fingers game, and that's all you can senior goalkeeper Chris named co-Big East offensive job just holding the discipline crossed, [and] it would be nice ever ask for. You don't ever Cahill, who has six shutouts player of the week along with on and off the field." to have both of these as extra want for your season to end and just nine goals against Lapira la,st week after picking Clark also anticipated that options. I think there's a good early." this season. In his last five up two goals and· an assist Notre Dame would carry one chance of [both of them 
With a good showing games -all of which were and leading his team to wins extra bit of help that would returning before the Big East Saturday and over fall break Irish wins -Cahill has given over Providence and Seton guide his team through the tournament, and] we're hope­and with a little help, the up just one goal. Hall. White leads the team final stretch before the post­ful that that can happen." Irish could potentially end up After Saturday's matchup with s~ven total goals. season. atop the Big East Blue against the Friars, Notre Clark acknowledged the "Obviously, you need that Contact Eric Retter at Division heading into the con-Dame will face its toughest capabilities of each of Notre little bit of Irish luck," he eretter@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S SOCCER STANDINGS 
2 BIG EAST 

DIVISION-I LEADERS 
BIG EAST Overall 
POINTS SCORED 
BLUE DIVIStON vv l T Pts. Pet w L T Pet. 
West Virginia 6 0 1 19 .929 11 1 2 .857 
PLAYER SCHOOL GOALS ASSIST POINTS 
Connecticut 6 1 1 19 .812 8 4 2 .643 Providence 6 2 0 18 .750 10 3 0 .769 
1. JOSEPH LAPIRA NOTRE DAME 18 3 39 
Notre Dame 6 2 0 18 .750 10 3 2 .733 Seton Hail 5 3 0 15 .625 7 6 1 .536 
2. Saidi Isaac Winthrop 14 5 33 
Pittsburgh 3 3 1 10 .500 4 8 2 .357 
Georgetown 2 6 0 6 .250 5 9 0 .357 
3. Joshu Okoampa Wise. -Green Bay 13 6 32 Marquette 0 8 0 0 .000 1 12 1 .107 
4. Charlie Davies Boston College 12 5 29 BIG EAST Overall 
5. Jorrod Smith West Virginia 12 3 27 
BLUE DIVISION V.J L T Pts. Pet. w l T Pet. 
5. Roley O'Neill Kentucky 12 3 27 
1­
7. Daniel Revivo Winthrop 9 8 26 
~ 
I r'fOVICence 1 
-~ 

I 
I Nmre Dame 3 3 2 11 .500 7 4 2 .615 
7. Tommy Krizanovic Jacksonville 12 2 26 Se:cn Hall 3 :) 0 9 _375 4 9 2 .333 o +~s~: ~r-1 .375 4 1 .321 
9. Steven Holloway Monmouth 11 3 25 Ge·~"'getc·!"/r 2 6 0 6 .250 6 7 1 .464 
' -... ~ u ..... , ~· 3 5 0 9 9 
~

\..~ar::·..;;::e 1 ': r ..t .188 6 6 1 .500 .. 9. Jeremy Gold Coli. of Charleston 10 5 25 
JARRED WAFER and KEN FOWLER/Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER




CENE-
Friday, October 13, 2006 
page 11 

t. Scorsese songs by ,"and, in 
e, "Let It Murphys 
streets, you once again tral issue. 
shots of a 
as an altar has once d to his sense of 
's best in a d with 
cus, "The of direc­. One of 
itde@nd.edu l@nd.edu 
MARTIN ScoRSESE: PoRTRAIT OF AN AuTEUR 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
The critical consensus on 'The Departed" is that Scorsese has returned to the mean streets where he belongs, but even a cursory glance at his filmography proves that he never really left. The direc­tor has directed a handful of true classics, many of which rank among the very best films of all time. 
Mean Streets (1973, Warners) 
Scorsese shows off his film school background right off the bat and establishes many of his defining cin­ematic and thematic tendencies in this, his first major critical success. Taking cues from the French New Wave and boasting a fast-paced dialogue style, "Mean Streets" fol­lows Charlie as he attempts to keep his twisted morals straight. Featuring a young Robert DeNiro as Johnny Boy, Scorsese quickly solidi­fied the themes and motifs that would become his calling cards ­religion, morality, gangsters, pro­fanity and (ultimately) a sort of redemption. 
Taxi Driver (1976, Columbia) 
A major critical success, "Taxi Driver" helped vault Scorsese into directorial stardom. A terrifying examination of post-Vietnam, post­Watergate paranoia, the film fol­lows Travis Bickle (DeNiro), an unhinged taxi driver as he attempts to save a young prostitute (Jodie Foster) from her dominating pimp (Harvey Keitel). The most famous scene, in which DeNiro stands in front of a mirror saying, "You talkin' to me?" is one of the great sequences in cinema history. Scorsese's energy and cinematic technique is evident throughout, though "Taxi Driver" hasn't aged quite as well as some of the direc­tor's other films. It is a picture about its time, and as a snapshot "Taxi Driver" is very effective. 

Raging Bull (1980, UA) 

In the late 1970s, Scorsese suf­fered a drug overdose and nearly died. While in the hospital, he was approached by Robert DeNiro, who asked him to make "Raging Bull" about real-life middeweight boxing Jake LaMotta. Scorsese eventually agreed and used filmmaking as an emotional and artistic outlet. The final product is, without doubt, Scorsese's fmest film, which in turn makes it one of the finest films of all time. DeNiro gives the performance of his life as LaMotta, first sparring over 1,000 rounds with the real-life boxer, then gaining nearly 60 pounds to play the former champi­on as a washed-up, middle-age schmuck. Scorsese is DeNiro's equal every step of the way, crafting a pic­ture to match the actor's stunning performance. The most famous scenes are the boxing sequences, which are both impressionistic and artistic. "Raging Bull" was nominat­ed for several Oscars and won Best Actor and Best Editing. 
The Last Temptation of Christ (1987, Universal) 
Oddly one of Scorsese's most per­sonal films, "The Last Temptation of Christ" is a controversial adaptation of Nikos Kazantzaki's equally con­troversial novel of the same name. Starring Willem Dafoe as Jesus and Harvey Keitel as a street-tough Judas, the picture follows the life of Christ up to his crucifixion and death. Scorsese brings his Catholic upbringing into the film, giving a surprisingly pro-religious bent to the proceedings. "The Last Temptation of Christ" was poorly received due to its departure from scripture, though Scorsese received a Best Director Oscar nomination for his work. 
Goodfellas (1990, Warners) 
A wild exploration of "three decades of life in the mob," "Goodfellas" may be the director's most fast-paced and frenetic film. Ray Liotta plays Henry Hill, a low­level gangster whose rise and fall is documented over the course of a driving 150 minutes. Every Scorsese trick in the book is pulled out, from long tracking shots to freeze frames. The best shot may be a long, 181-second tracking shot through the underbelly of the Copacabana that ends onstage. This fantastic shot literally takes the viewer through the privileged life of a small-time gangster. Like most Scorsese films, "Goodfellas" fea­tures great acting, especially by Joe Pesci, whose Tommy DeVito is as terrifying as they come -it won the diminutive actor a Best Supporting Actor. 
From the sacred to the profane, Scorsese's films have run the gamut, but his themes and stylistic tendencies have remained largely the same. As a director and film­maker, he has grown and evolved over the years, which makes the sacred profanity of "The Departed" seem at once effortless and familiar. 
Yet there is a freshness to his lat­est film that proves that, despite his age, Scorsese remains one of the best filmmakers in the world and one of the few remaining auteurist cornerstones of his generation. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com .eonardo DiCaprio (center) and Matt Damon on the set of "The Departed." The film is one of the venerated director's best 1e classics "Mean Streets" (1973), "Taxi Driver" (1976), "Raging Bull" (1980) and "Goodfellas (1990). 
Frank Costello 
(Jack Nicholson) 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 13, 2006 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Despite weather, Keenan too hot to handle 
O'Neill uses strong running game, stout defense, to secure playoff berth with convincing win over Alumni 
By JOHN TIERNEY and KATE DONLIN Sports Writers 
On a night that warmth forgot, Keenan played like a team that remembered its destiny. 
Behind 108 rushing yards and two touchdowns from running back Alex Gonzalez, the Knights beat Morrissey 12-6 in a battle of undefeated teams vying for the Gold League's top seed. 
The Manorites got off to a good start in the first quarter, scoring on the game's opening series. Quarterback Alvin Reynolds went 2-for-2, throwing for 48 yards and a touchdown on the drive, both of his completions coming on third down. After leading the Manorites into Knight territory, Reynolds hooked up with wide receiver Carl Anderson for a 39­yard touchdown to give Morrissey a 6-0 lead. 
Despite his success on the opening drive, Reynolds was pulled in favor of regular starter Joe McBrayer. McBrayer was less successful against the tough Knight defense, as he completed only four of his 13 passes for 73 yards and an interception. 
After the initial Manorite score, Keenan put together a 36-yard drive that lasted into the second quarter but ended in a fumble. 
After a Morrissey fumble two plays later, the Knights took pos­session again at their own 38­yard line. Behind 38 yards on five carries from Gonzalez, including a touchdown run from 12 yards out, Keenan tied the game at six. 
Morrissey had a chance before the half to respond to the Knight touchdown, but that ended with an Anderson interception two plays into the Manorite drive. 
After halftime, Keenan started with the ball and came out strong. Capitalizing on an emo­tional argument with the refer­ees by the Manorite-affiliated chain gang, the Knights put together an 8-play, 65-yard scor­ing drive. Keenan began the drive with a trick play out of the half, in which 10 Keenan players, including Gonzalez lined up near their sideline. Gonzalez received a direct snap from center and ran 25 yards to the Manorite 40­yard line. 

From there, Gonzalez rushed for another 20 yards on the drive, including the eventual game-winning touchdown. 
While the loss was a disap­pointment for Morrissey, the squad is still eligible for the post­season. Meanwhile, the win clinches the Gold League's top seed for Keenan. Both teams will begin their playoff runs following fall break. 
O'Nelll13, Alumni 0 
Despite the falling snow and freezing temperatures, the Angry Mob from O'Neill managed to heat things up on the field. 
The Mob's victory over Alumni secured its spot in the playoffs, meaning O'Neill is one step clos­er to reaching its ultimate goal ­the championship game. 
Just seconds into the contest, O'Neill made sure the Dawgs knew they came to play. Mob running back Mike Mattingly dashed 70 yards into the end zone, dodging tackles and taking advantage of his teammates' blocks. The successful point-after gave the Mob an early 7-0 lead. 
"We knew we were facing a tough O'Neill team," Alumni jun­ior Eddie Villa said. "They have some really good athletes playing for them." 
After a disappointing first pos­session that ended in a punt, Alumni seemed discouraged. As the O'Neill offense made its way down the field, the Dawgs got a surge of hope when they recov­ered a fumble deep within O'Neill territory. Unfortunately for the Dawgs, Alumni quarterback John Lauinger subsequently threw an interception. 
The Alumni defense played tough and forced O'Neill to punt, but the Dawgs' ofl'ensive trouble continued their next possession. 
O'Neill captain Pat Conley picked off another one of Lauinger's passes. This time the Mob capi­talized on Alumni's mistake, and it eventually added six points to its score with a 60-yard touch­down pass, giving the Mob a 13-0 lead heading into the half. 

"We didn't play our best, but we did enough on offense to come out with a win," O'Neill junior Braden Turner said. "Also our defense put up their third shutout of the season." 
The second half was a defen­sive showdown, with neither team managing to get much of an offense going. 
In the end, O'Neill held onto its 13-point margin, giving the Mob a 3-1 regular season record, pro­pelling it into the playoffs. 
"We're really optimistic about the playoffs," Turner said. "We are ready to work hard to make it deep into the postseason." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiemel@nd.edu and Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Opportunistic Boston College forces four turnovers in win 
to 21 yards in the second half, pah-nah-VIH'-chis), ner Doug Flutie. has lost consecutive games Aponavicius played soccer in Virginia Tech was held with­since rising to No. 11 in The high school and was discov­out a touchdown for the first Associated Press Top 25. The ered in Alumni Stadium on the time since the 1998 Gator Hokies also fell to 12-2 in first day of classes his fresh­Bowl, though a 19-yard TD Thursday night games on man year fooling around with pass to David Clowney in the ESPN; both losses were to BC a borrowed football. second quarter was called -one in Blacksburg, one in He was elevated to starter back for holding. Chestnut Hill -11 years when Ryan Ohliger was sus­Glennon coughed up the ball apart. pended following a fight out­early in the third, but was res­
Matt Ryan was. 16-for-29 for side a Boston bar. Ohliger has cued when the play was ruled 17 4 yards and two touchdowns apologized and said he was an incomplete pass on replay despite limping through much defending himself from stu­review. On the next play, of the second half on a previ­dents who heckled him over thought, Albright tipped his ously injured ankle. Kevin his kicking struggles; he pass and linebacker J olonn Challenger caught two touch­missed three extra points in a Dunbar ran the deflection 35 down passes and freshman two-week span this season. yards to the Virginia Tech 26. Alex Albright contributed to Aponavicius' biggest struggle Four plays later, Aponavicius two turnovers, tipping a pass -not counting figuring out converted from 36 yards out to that was intercepted and how to strap on shoulder pads make it 10-3 with 9:11 left in recovering a fumble. -was with kickoffs. Although the third. 
Sean Glennon completed 23-he boomed the opener to the 3, On the Hokies' next posses­vert was perfect on two field of-34 passes with two inter­later efforts were between the sion, Austin Giles hit Glennon
Associated Press 

goals and two extra points, ceptions. 10 and 20 before receiver from behind and Albright and the BC defense forced four BC, which lost to N.C. State Brandon Robinson kicked off recovered the fumble at theBOSTON Steve turnovers to send the Hokies to on Sept. 23 on a 34-yard -out of bounds -in the Tech 30. L.V. Whitworth scam­Aponavicius walked onto the their second consecutive loss. touchdown pass with 8.5 sec­fourth. pered for 14 yards to the 16,field for the first football game Boston College (5-1, 2-1 onds left, plays Florida State in But he made two PATs and then picked up a facemask on
of his life on Thursday night 

Atlantic Coast Conference) is a 10 days. Virginia Tech will field goals from 36 and 20 the next run, bringing the ball
and helped Boston College 

North Carolina State despera­play Southern Miss. yards out, getting mobbed by to the 6.
walk off with a 22-3 victory 

tion pass away from being Called "Sid Vicious" by team­his teammates each time and Aponavicius converted the over No. 22 Virginia Tech. 
unbeaten. mates and coaches who can't cheered by a crowd that 20-yarder to make it 13-3 with The left-footed soccer con-Virginia Tech (4-2, 2-2), held pronounce his name (it's AH'-included Heisman Trophy win-4:50 left in the quarter. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. . 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk 2 rooms in private home w/separate Home for Football weekends. 3 FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930· entrance for football weekends. BR,Full Bsement, ETS.WANTED FoR SALE 8038. swmient@qtm.net Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259-Walking distance to ND. 631-766-BEST PRICES. 8603. 7637. 574-232·2378. 
House for home games. 4 doors FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Rental Homes for Sale in good con­from ND. Rooms for rent for football week­Flexible schedules, no exp. need­dition. Make $100 to $400+ per Call Gary at ends. ed, customer sales/service, condi­month per home. Own up to 19 574-993-2208. Close to campus. 
TICKETS PERSONAL
tions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today homes with little money down with Call574-243-0658. 574-273-3835. good credit. House for rent for football week­
Call Kathy w/Preferred Properties at ends. Sleeps 6-8. Call Kay ROOMS FOR RENT for ND WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do General help needed for tailgate (574) 292-8177 or email evenings at 269-663-8203. games,etc. Visit gardenviewbe­1570 not go it alone. If you or someone 10/21. $12/hr+gratuity. 9 hrs. mini­PreferredSB@ aol.com dandbreakfast.com or you love needs confidential support mum. Can attend game. Call 415-45 minutes from Notre Dame call574-243-0392. Special rates FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 898-1875 or email victoria@warren­Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round available. .0964 Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more capital.com cabins sleep six. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-House Available for 07-08 Year. WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. The Observer. 
FoR RENT

CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN 2181. Close to Campus. TOP DOLLAR PAID. PERSON. UNIVERSITY Just Renovated to Brand New NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-Updated Super Bowl Odds MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE­BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 288-2726. Bears-15:1 LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND pus homes & weekend rentals. Bedrooms Students. Jets-1: 2 NO CALLS. Bluegoldrentals.com www.NDstudentrentals.com Contact MacSwain@gmail.com Need UCLA tix. Call 816-560-2856. Jaguars -1 :678 
II 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 13, 2006 CoMPILED FROM Tn.E OnsERVrR's WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25. 
team record point$ previ()tt$ 
1 Ohio S1ate {63) 6-0 1623 t 2 Florida 6-0 1516 5 3 usc 5·0 1451 3 4 Michigan 6·0 1429,< 6 5 West Virginia (2) 5·0 1416 4 6 Texas 5-1 1294 7 
a:·
7 Louisville 5-0 1247 8 Tennessee 5·1 1159 13 9 NOTRE DAME 5·1 1068 12 10 California 5·1 101'7 16 11 Auburn 5~1 943 2 12 Clemson 5-1. 876 15 13 Georgia Tech. 5·1 739 18. 14 LSU 4•2 693 9 15 Iowa 5·1 661 '1!} 16 Georgia 5·1 615 10 17 Arkansas 4-1 . 482' NR 18 Oregon 4·1 474 11 19 Missouri 6·0 469 23 20 Boise State 6·0 449 20 21 Nebraska 5·1 431 22 22 Virginia Tech 4"2 360 21 23 Oklahoma 3·2 271 14 24 Rutgers 5-0 194 24. 25 Wisconsitt 5·1 86 NR 


' 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches Top 2ict. 
team record points previoiii 
1 Ohio State {62) 6·0 2 usc 5-o 3 Florida (1) 6-0 4 West Vifginia 5·0 5 Michigan 6·0 
It ... 6 Texas 5~1 7 Louisville 5·0 8 NOTRE DAME 54 9 Tennessee 5-1 10 Auburn 54 11 California 5·1 12 Clemson 54 13 Iowa 5·1 14 Georgia 5-1 15 Georgia Tech 5-1 16 LSU 4-2 17 Virginia TeGh 4-2 18 Oregon 4-1 19 Boise State 6-0 20 Nebraska 5·1 21 Missouri 6-0 22 Oklahoma 3-2 23 Arkansas 4-1 24 Rutgers 5·0 25 Boston College 5"1 

.:.::<:-:·· 
NCAA Football Harris Poll Rankings vi team record · p(;i'itt$ pr'/Hfiot.u; 

1 Ohio State {112) 2 USC(1) 
3 Ftorida (1) 
4 Michigan·· 5 West Virginia 6 Texas 7 Louisville 8 Tennessee 9 NOTREDAME 10 Auburn 
11 Galilotnia. if: ;;mr<:~~·········
12 Clemson 13 Iowa 14 Georgia 15 Georgia Tecfl 

around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Cardinals at Mets 
11:11 a.m., FOX 
Athletics at Tigers 8p.m., FOX 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Tom Glavine tossed another gem, Carlos Beltran rocked Shea Stadium with a homer that crashed off the score­board, and the New York Mets jumped in front of St. Louis in the NL champi­onship series. 
Glavine shut down Albert Pujols and extended his postseason scoreless streak to 13 innings, pitching the Mets to a 2-0 victory over the Cardinals in Game 1 on Thursday night. 
"Tommy was the key," Mets manager Willie Randolph said. "He just qui­etly goes about his business and he's a real leader on our staff." 
Beltran, who wore out St. Louis in the NLCS with Houston two years ago, hit a two-run shot off an other­wise impressive Jeff Weaver in the sixth. That was all the offense New York need­ed to win its eighth straight game, dating to the regular season. 
· "It pains me that there's going to be an 'L' next to Jeff's name tomorrow. There's no way that he's a losing pitcher," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. "Jeff was outstanding. We hit too many balls in the air." 
After rain postponed the opener Wednesday night, the Cardinals bumped up ace Chris Carpenter, who will pitch on regular rest Friday night in Game 2. Rookie right-hander John Maine will be on the mound for the Mets. 
Missing injured starters Pedro Martinez and Orlando Hernandez, the Mets are counting heavily on Glavine as they chase their first World Series title in 20 years. The 40-year· old left-bander, sharp and deceptive as ever, has deliv­ered in a big way. 
He threw six scoreless innings in Game 2 of the first round, helping the Mets to a three-game sweep of the Los Angeles Dodgers. And the two-time Cy Young Award winner, who waited 
IN BRIEF 

Riggs takes top starting 
spot for Charolelte 
CONCORD, N.C. -Scott Riggs remained perfect in qualifying at Lowe's Motor Speedway by winning the pole Friday night for the third time this season. 
Riggs posted a lap at 191.469 mph to put his No. 10 Dodge in the top starting spot for Saturday night's race. He also started first in the non­points Nextel Open and the Coca­Cola 600 in May. 
"We knew we had a good car, and we got a good draw going late," Riggs said. "Coming back here we wanted to get back on our streak of qualifying well and finishing well. We can put it right back where it was." 
Riggs edged Kasey Kahne, his Evernham Motorsports teammate, for the pole. Kahne went out early, posting a lap of 190.194 mph to sit on top of the leaderboard for most of the qualifying session. 
Stanton, Smith don't put 
games between friendship 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -They were teenagers, trying to prove them­selves and dreaming of becoming college football stars. 
When Troy Smith and Drew Stanton roomed together at a quar­terbacks camp five years ago, each saw something in the other that drew them closer. 
They were almost inseparable dur­ing seven days of intensive practices. At night, they'd talk about what they hoped to become and how they'd go about getting there. 
On Saturday, they'll be on opposing sides for the last time in their college careers. Smith leads No. 1 Ohio State into Michigan State to take on Stanton and the Spartans. The friendship is bound to go on long after the competition ends. 
"You know what kind of a friend he is from the time you meet him," Smith said. 
four seasons to reach the playoffs with New York after doing so year after year in Atlanta, was just as good against St. Louis. 
"I understand the impor­tance of when I pitch now. At the same time, I'm trying to play mental games with myself and dismiss that," Glavine said. "I don't want to go out there with any added pressure." 
Helped by two inning­ending double plays and a sprawling catch by super sub Endy Chavez, Glavine yielded only four hits and two walks. He struck out Pujols in the first, walked him in the fourth and retired him on a liner to shortstop in the sixth. 

Veterans Sorenstam, Ochoa 
dominate as Wie implodes 
PALM DESERT, Calif. -Michelle Wie didn't exactly steal the show Thursday at the Samsung World Championship. 
If anything, she held it up. 
Starting her second year as a pro, Wie took a half-hour to play the 14th hole at Bighorn with two rulings, a whiff, an unplayable lie from a desert bush and a shot off the cement cart path just to get back to the fairway. She wound up with a quadruple­bogey 8 on the shortest par 4 at Bighorn, sending her to a 2-over 7 4. 
The real show belonged to some familiar names on the LPGA Tour ­Lorena Ochoa and Annika Sorenstam. 
Both waited endlessly along the back nine for the Wie rulings, although it hardly affected their games. Ochoa fired off four birdies in five holes, and Sorenstam caught up with her in the final holes as both fin­ished at 67. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2006 
CHUGGING ALONG 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer 

Saint Mary's sophomore Caitlin Brodmerkel runs during the National Catholic Invitational Sept. 15. Brodmerkel finished the 5K race in 23:19. She and the Belles will compete in the Manchester Invitational Saturday. 
NFL 

Raiders prepare for Rivers 
Bolts' unpredictable quarterback finding success in preparation 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Manny Lawson knows a few helpful guidelines for faeing San Diego quarterback Philip Hivers. 
Don't read his eyes, don't watch his body language _ and definitely don't slack on film study, because Rivers won't. 
Lawson always admired Hivers' meticulous game prepa­ration during the two years they played together at North Carolina State, and the San Francisco 49ers' rookie line­backer learned to expect the unexpectod during thousands of practice faceoffs in Haleigh. Hivers can be tricky, and nobody knows it better than his teammates. 
"Any time that I was in cover­age with somebody, you can think he's going to throw your guy the ball and you're going to get an interception. and he'll throw it ofT," Lawson said. "Or he won't look at you at all, but throw it to your guy." 
Lawson and the 49ers (2-3) will attempt to keep up with the surging Chargers (3-1) on Sunday in their fourth home game in five weeks. While San Diego hits the game on a high after knocking off Pittsburgh last week, rebuilding San Francisco has another chance to measure itself against the NFL's elite before its bye week. 
And Lawson, the 49ers' first­round pick who played defen­sive end at North Carolina State, gets to test his knowledge of Rivers' craftiness for the first time when it counts. 
"He's a smart quarterback," Lawson said. "He knows what his job is, and he tries to find out what the defensive player's job is, too. (That) will make him so successful in years to come: understanding what an outside linebacker's job is, understand­ing what the safety is doing, how they're rotating. He sees all that, and he studies all that." 
thing on the film or in his mem­ory banks to share with the rest of the Chargers. 
"If it was a stone-cold key I found, then maybe," Rivers said. "But you don't want to get caught up watching one guy, because there are 10 other guys. When you know a guy, it's fun to watch them. You enjoy it, because you remember pulling for them on your side, and now you are trying to beat them." 
The Chargers are heavy 
favorites in their 
third visit to the 

Hivers' apti­Bay Area already
"[Philip Rivers is] a 
tude has been this year, follow­
smart quarterback. " 
impressive in his ing a preseason strong beginning game at to his first sea­Manny Lawson Candlestick Park son as a starter. and a trip to
49ers linebacker
But in truth, the Chargers' pass­ing game under ever-cautious coach Marty Schottenheimer is the only aspect of the club that hasn't bPen a dominant force this sea­son. 
San Diego's intimidating defense is ranked atop the NFL in most statistical categories, while the running game has been nearly unstoppable with LaDainian Tomlinson leading the way. 
Hivers, who has completed 67 percent of his passes with five touchdowns, remembers Lawson's disruptive play in col­lege. Lawson blocked a punt and played a stellar defensive game in last week's win over Oakland, and Rivers only wish­es he knew some special trick for stopping his former team­mate. 
He acknowledged watching Lawson's pass rushing on tape this week, but couldn't find any-
Oakland last 
month. 
As if coach Mike Nolan didn't have enough concerns about the Chargers' defense, nose tackle Jamal Williams might have enjoyed the biggest game of his career last week with six tackles and a sack against Pittsburgh, earn­ing the AFC's defensive player of the week award. 
''I'm really glad I don't have to play that guy," Tomlinson said. "I think he's getting better. He's just becoming more and more dominant, and the way he played Sunday night I think showed the world he's the best nose tackle in the game, bar none." 
Williams and the Chargers' daunting front seven will face a San Francisco offensive line that has been surprisingly suc­cessful this season, leading run­ning back Frank Gore to an NFL-best 465 yards rushing in the first five games. 



Notre Dame Pre-Vet Presents: Domer Doggy Walk 2006 
Sunday, October 22, 1:00-4:00 p.m. (Rain or Shine) 
Between St. joseph and St. Mary's Lakes 
on the ND campus join us for a walk around the lakes in support of the animals at the Humane Society of SaintJoseph County. 
Bring your fi·iends, two and four legged, for an aftemoon of fun! Register and walk anytime between 1and 2 pm Prizes av\'arded before -kOO p.m. Registration Fee: $10 per dog 
Every dog receives a goodie bag and IIalloween bandana 

ONE FEE FITS ALL MORTGAGES. 
Short or tall. Big or small. Whatever the size of your 
home, the closing costs are the same.  
For a limited time only, you'll pay  
just $799 in closing costs!  
Let us help you into the home of your dreams.  
Contact us today.  
Stop in at any of our 12 locations or visit us online.  r4 NOTRE DAME  
574/239-6611• www.ndfcu.org  ~  FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  



~ 

Friday, October 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
SMC SoccER 

OPEN SUNDAYSI 
SPRINl STORES· 

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday ..... 12pm-5pm 2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall across Mon.-Fri. .... 10am-8pm 574-277-7727 from McDonald's Sat.. ........ 9am-7pm 
574-243-2100 

CONVENIENT
Se habla Espaiiol 

SUNDAY HOURS 
@ RadioShack. 
PREFERRED RETAILERS 
MISHAWAKA Sprint Store Express University Park Mall 6501 Grape Rd. S74-277-4360 
ALSO AVAilABlE AT 
NILES, Ml Basic Communications 2010 5. 11th St. 269·357-0000 


Belles rested, ready to begin key MIAA stretch 
Saint Mary's to take on conference foes Hope, Adrian, and Calvin with sights sight on overtaking first place 
Athletic Association (MIAA) ting them in second place with outscoring their opponents 44­By DAN MURPHY 
foes Adrian and Calvin later in nine points. 4. Sports Writer 
the week. With a little bit of help from Alyssa Bergsman has been 
The Belles, who have had a Alma, who plays Tri-State outstanding in the net for 
Saint Mary's begins its week off from game action, Saturday, Saint Mary's could Calvin, allowing an average of biggest week of the season will enter this weekend's con­enter next week's Calvin game only 0.29 goals per game. Saturday afternoon when the test well rested. Saint Mary's with a chance to take over first Saint Mary's fell to the Belles take on Hope College in took down Olivet in its last place in the conference. The Knights 6-1 earlier this season one of three conference games game thanks to two goals from Knights are currently No. 5 in in an exhibition. Sophomore over fall break. senior midfielder Ashley the nation in the Division III Elizabeth Ribbens led the way 
The team will take on Hinton. The win was the NSCAA poll, having won all 13 for Calvin with a hat trick and Michigan Intercollegiate Belles' third in the MIAA, put-of their games this season and freshman Allison Boedner 
ALL PHONES ARE FREE! 











added two more. Lauren Hinton scored the lone goal for the Belles as they reached their low point of the season at 1-4. 
Saint Mary's coach Caryn Mackenzie has righted the ship since then as the Belles won three of the next five as MIAA play began to heat up. The team feels it is now ready for a rematch with the veteran Knights. 
But before they reach that point, the Belles have two more big games to worry about against Hope and Adrian. 
Saint Mary's will travel to Holland, Mich first to take on the Flying Dutch, who are coming off of a 7-1 win over Tri-State. The win was the team's first in conference play this year. Junior Ellie Tresslar led the way for Hope with two goals and an assist. 
Three days later the team will be at Adrian College for a showdown with the Bulldogs. Adrian (4-9, 2-2 MIAA) is led by freshman phenom Lindsay Chitwood who has netted seven of the team's nine goals on the season. 
If Saint Mary's can stay on top of its game over this stretch the team will be in per­fect position heading into the season finale and the confer­ence tournament, which kicks off Oct. 28. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

T.ulll 
New, improved coverage-in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Berid, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
••Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are 
taxes or government-required charges. 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all kets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and activation by 10/22/06. 
cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts excluded. Phones Subject to availability. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee 
each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward" logo are trademarks ofSprint 
All other trademarks and imagery are property of their respective owners. 

I_ 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2006 
MEN'S GOLF 
Notre Dan1e looks for steady in1proven1ent 
PGA West Facility, designed by Norman, offers rare challenge 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After a second place finish as host of the inaugural Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic Monday and Tuesday, Notre Dame will travel to La Quinta, Calif. next week to compete in The Prestige at the famed PGA West facility Oct. 16 and 1 7. 
The tournament will be the third for a young Notre Dame team that began to hit its stride with a runner-up finish last week. The Irish defeated several teams ranked higher than them coming into the Gridiron Classic, but are not completely satisfied with their results. 
"Second isn't what we're shoot­ing for," said senior co-captain Cole Isban. "But I think the sec­ond-place finish will be a good thing for us. It should be great motivation and will help us this coming weekend." 
After a poor ninth-place show­ing in Minnesota's Gopher Invitational to start the season, the Irish have now come close to victory and believe they can com­pete with some of the stronger teams in the NCAA. 
"If we play our best we think we'll be up [at the top of the leaderboard] this weekend," lsban said. 
The event will be co-hosted by UC-Davis and Stanford, which won the Gopher Invitational Sept. 17. 
"There's going to be a strong field," !shan said. "It should be a lot offun." 
The Irish finished fifth last year at The Prestige, played on a course designed by PGA star Greg Norman. Isban believes his team will be close to top form and expects a better result this year. 
"We've just finished a tourna­ment so we're more ready than we were [for the Gridiron Classic]." 
After the Gopher Invitational, the Irish were forced to endure a three-week layofl' beforP resum­ing play last weekend. Being rusty will not be an excuse in California. 
"We won't have taken such a long break this time," Isban said. "That will definitely help us." 
In addition to Isban, the Irish roster for The Prestige features senior co-captain Adam Gifl'ord, junior Greg Rodgers, sophomore Josh Sandman and freshman Doug Fortner. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish head west for weekend 
After slow start to season, Holt wants complete team performance 
against 15 schools from the
By CHRIS HINE 

western region of the coun­
Sports Writer 

try. 
"I know BYU and Denver 
On the heels of two are good programs," Holt straight second place tour­said. "But I don't pay a Jot nament finishes, Notre of attention to the rankings Dame will head to San this time of year. We just Diego to try and pull out its need to get better." l'irst victory of Senior co-the fall season captain Noriko Monday and Nakazaki said
"/ don't pay a lot of
Tuesday in the she is one of 36-hole Lady attention to the the golfers that A z l e e to
rankings this time needs 
Invitational at improve. She
ofyear. " 
San Diego State struggled in the University. Marilvnn Smith "We've had Susan Holt Invitational, some solid indi­failing to break
Irish coach 
vidual efforts so far this sea­son," head coach Susan Holt said. "But we haven't had all l'ive golfers step up to give us solid round scores." 
The Irish began the year with a 12th place finish at the Cougar Classie in Charleston South Carolina, then came in second at the Notre Dame Invitational Sept. 12 and 13 and the Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational Oct. 2 and 3. In these tournaments, Notre Dame faced teams primarily from the Midwest. At the Aztec Invitational, however, the Irish will compete 
80 in her first 

two rounds, but rallied to shoot the low round of the tournament for the Irish on day two with a two-over par 74. 
"I definitely struggled, but sometimes that can be good and it shows what I need to do," she said. "I've been working a lot on my short game and self-confidence. It's getting better, but it's not there, so I'm hoping San Diego State is the tourna­ment I break through." 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu, coming off her first team­leading performance in the Marilynn Smith Invitational 
tying for sixth overall, looks forward to escaping the South Bend snow flurries in favor of California sun­shine. 
"Golfing in the snow is cool. Literally, cool, but l'm excited. I've never been to California," she said. "I've been working on my swing and letting my divots go to the right, which means my swing isn't functioning properly. !'in not hitting the ball consistently." 
Junior Jane Lee, who tied for 19th with Nakazaki in the Smith Invitational, will make the trip along with freshmen Annie Brophy and Kristen Wetzel, and senior Stacy Brown. 
Holt said the team is still adjusting since she took over the program in September. 
"We're still trying to get to know each other. We've asked a lot of each other in trying to get a read on our states of mind," she said. "They tend to be self-criti­cal already so I just encour­age them to go out and play their game and we work on what needs to be worked on afterward." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
NFL 

Patriots still class of AFC East 
Despite losses of key players, Belichick has New England rolling 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -The departures of Adam Vmatieri and Deion Branch figured to hurt the Patriots. The presence of Buffalo, Miami and the New York Jets in the team's division has only helped. 

New England's remaining schedule outside the AFC East isn't particularly frightening either. 
But none of that kept coach Bill Belichick from sending his players away on their bye week with an analogy intended to keep them from easing up just five games into the season _ their first season in three years when they're not defending a Super Bowl champi­onship. 
"Bill said we're just a third into the season, kind of like a horse race," cornerback Ellis Hobbs said. "As you go around there might be a horse in first and, all of a sudden, coming around to the finish he's dead last. We don't want to be that team." 
The Patriots charged to the front of the pack with a 4-1 record that includes wins over the three other teams in their division. Buffalo is 2-3 coming off a 40-7 loss to Chicago and tied with New York, which was trounced by Jacksonville 41-0 last Sunday. Miami is 1-4 after losing to New England 20-10. 
The Patriots' first opponent after the bye is Buffalo, and they play only two teams in their remaining 11 games with a record better than 3-2. 
"You could feel good about yourself and you could feel like you've accomplished something by being 4-1, coming back and playing a team that you already beat, and go out there and disap­point yourself and get your butt kicked," strong safety Rodney Harrison said. 
.That certainly could happen if they don't go along with Belichick's emphasis on avoiding overconfidence as much as offen­sive turnovers. 
The Patriots still don't have a solid grasp on what kind of team they'll be as the season progress­es. 
Tom Brady hasn't played up to his usual high level. He's still get­ting used to the four wide receivers who weren't on the team last season. Vmatieri, one of the NFI:s best clutch kickers, went to Indianapolis as a free agent and was replaced by a rookie, Stephen Gostkowski. Branch, their top wide receiver, was traded to Seattle after Belichick refused to give in to his extended holdout. 
But rookie Laurence Maroney has been outstanding, joining Corey Dillon in a strong running attack behind a deep offensive line. The defense, with a powerful front line, has been stingy, allow­ing just seven touchdowns in five games. And the Patriots have five takeaways in the last two games after getting just one in the first three. 
"What we need to do is develop some consistency in certain areas," linebacker Rosevelt Colvin said. "We've gotten a little bit bet­ter these last couple of weeks at doing that." 

The Patriots' breakout game came two weeks ago with a 38-13 win at Cincinnati after a 17-7 loss to Denver. They followed that by holding Miami to 283 yards, their third opponent to fall short of 300. With the loss of Branch and David Givens, now with Tennessee, hurt­ing the passing attack, stopping the opposing offense became even more important. 
If they were distracted by the losses of Branch, Vinatieri, Givens and defensive end Willie McGinest, a free agent who went to Cleveland, the standings don't show it. 
"It may have an effect on you, but as a professional player, you have to be able to put that stuff behind you," defensive end Richard Seymour said. "You still have to prepare to do the things it takes to be a champion in this league." 
Harrison's not surprised the team is 4-1 even with some of last year's best players gone. 
"I think it was a sense of Wlcer­tainty," he said, "but, overall, I think that we still felt like we had the core guys here and we can get it done." 
Two of their next six games are against Indianapolis and Chicago, both 5-0, but those are in Foxborough. Their final five oppo­nents are Detroit (now 0-5), Miami (1-4), Houston (1-3), Jacksonville (3-2) and Tennessee (0-5). 

Friday, October 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Bass 
continued from page 20 
nationally, defeated No. 44 Rodrigues 3-6, 6-3, 6-2 on his way to securing a spot in the ITA All-American Championship Final. Bass moved into the consolation finals with a 6-0 victory over San Diego State's Christian Groh (No. 67) and ultimately fell to Wake Forest's Todd Paul (No. 14) 6-1, 6-2. 
The Midland tournament draws competitors from 15 schools, including the 2005 national champion UCLA, 2004 national champion Baylor, Pepperdine, Texas and Illinois. 
The Irish will face tough competition from these top teams including national No. 1 Benjamin Kohlloeffel of UCLA who won the NCAA men's sin­gle title last season. 
Illinois also poses a threat with its No. 1 ranked doubles team of Kevin Anderson and Ryan Rowe. The duo took the NCAA men's double champi­onship last season and was the second team to do so for Illinois since 2003. 
Notre Dame has its share of ranked players as well as Bass is right behind No. 20 junior Sheeva Parbhu. Notre Dame also has strength in its doubles game -something Irish coach Bobby Bayliss has looked for -with Parbhu and Ryan Keckley at No. 36 and Bass and Brett Helgeson with a No. 46 ranking. 
The Irish will not only be led by Bayliss, but also by the youth and talent of assistant coach Ryan Sachire. 
"[Sachire] has been a tremendous addition," Bayliss said. "His ability to influence our guys has been indispensa­ble." 
The tournament begins today and continues Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Deirdre K.rasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Squad prepares for a busy vveek of tnatches 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will have little time 

to relax this f~ll break as it hits the 
road for matches with Alma, 
Windsor and Kalamazoo. 
The Belles are coming off a 

tough loss on Senior Night at 
home against second place Hope. 
After falling behind following a 
loss in the opening game, Saint 
Mary's took a 2-1 game lead on 
the visiting Flying Dutch. 
Unfortunately for the Belles, Hope stormed back in the final two games, taking 30-28 and 15-8 victories to clinch the victory. Hope's strong performance was led by Nora Slenk, who recorded a team-high 19 kills to go with 12 . digs. Senior Deena VanAssen had 25 digs to lead the team defen­
sively. 
The win improved Hope's con­

ference record to 9-1, 16-6 over­
all. 
For the Belles, Kristen Playko 

and Anne Cusack both put up 
tremendous efforts in their last 
home games -Playko with a 
double-double of 20 kills and 21 
digs, and Cusack tallying 23 digs 
of her own. Freshman Lorna 
Slupczynski netted a match-high 
23 kills and 12 digs for a double­
double of her own. With the loss, 
the Belles dropped to 14-7 on the 
year at 7-5 remained in fourth 
place in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's coach Julie 

Schroeder-Biek said the loss does 
not change the Belles attitude 
toward the rest of the season. 
"Our goals are still very much our goals," she said. "One loss doesn't change that." 
Saint Mary's first match of the road trip will be Saturday with conference foe Alma. The Scots are 8-10 on the season, 5-5 in conference play. Led by senior Kelsee Krull, the Scots will look to avenge their 3-0 loss at Saint Mary's Oct. 8. 
Wmdsor will be the Belles' next opponent as the team heads north of the border to face Windsor in an Oct. 18 exhibition matchup. The Lancers, members of the Canadian Interuniversity Sport Conference, have not played any regular season matches to date. 
The Belles road trip will con­clude with a conference match against 7-12 Kalamazoo. The Hornets are 3-7 in the MIAA, one of those losses a 3-0 sweep at the hands of Saint Mary's earlier this season. 
Although the MIAA tournament is less than a month away, Schroeder-Biek said the team is not looking past its next game. 
"We have very high goals we want to accomplish which include the conference tournament, but we can only achieve these goals one game at a time," Schroeder­Biek said. "We're in the home stretch with some tough matches ahead of us, we just need to take things one game at a time and fin­ish strong." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish hit the road running 
Men look to keep up momentum, women look to bounce back 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sporrs Writer 
After racing consecutive meets at Burke Memorial Golf Course at Notre Dame, the Irish will venture to Terra Haute, Ind., Saturday to com­pete in the Pre-National Meet, another tune-up race before the all-important post­season races begin. 
The men's team is coming off back-to-back top five fin­ishes at home, including a win in the National Catholic Championship (NCC) and a very strong fourth-place tie in the Notre Dame Invitational. Although the team actually finished worse in the latter race, which fea­tured strong competition from a field that included seven top-30 teams. 
The team is led by sopho­more Patrick Smyth and sen­ior Kurt Benninger, both of whom finished in the top 15 of the Notre Dame Invitational -the first race of the season for both runners. 
Although Smyth and Benninger are considered the top runners for the Irish, Notre Dame's most successful athlete so far this season has been sophomore Jake Watson. Watson has been consistent in his two races this season, finishing second in the NCC while finishing 21st against the strong com­petition at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
On the other hand, the Irish women have struggled 

recently to perform up to their expectations. 
After tying then-No. 18 Marquette for first at the NCC, the Irish finished a dis­appointing 12th out of 19 teams at the Notre Dame Invite. The Irish runners were also completely unable to stay in a pack as they had practiced, instead spreading out throughout the runners and falling behind early. 
"Our team was disappoint­ing at the NO Invite. We felt we could do a better job rep­resenting Notre Dame," jun­ior Sunni Olding said. 
Much of the focus in the last two weeks of practice for the women's team has been correcting this inability to run together. 
"We've worked really hard this week in practice," Olding said. "We've really worked hard on running together better as a team and running in a group." 
The team will need to put this practice into effect if they want to prepare for the post season, which begins in two weeks with the Big East Championship in Boston. 
"We are hoping for a much better performance this week," Olding said. "We have prepared to race well and use this as our opportunity to get ready for postseason races." 
Olding believes her team will be able to step up their game this weekend and rebound from the tough loss two weeks ago. 
"We want to show we have what it takes to do well in cross country," she said. "We are going to go and run our hearts out." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles open year against Olivet 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's hopes to make a splash tonight as it opens its season at 7 in a dual meet with Olivet. 
Without the benefit of a div­ing team, the Belles finished the 2005-06 season last in the MIAA but got better as the season went on. Olivet fin­ished third in the league last season, behind Calvin and Hope, and beat Saint Mary's 89-11 in their only meeting. 
But Olivet's only All-MIAA swimmer from last season ­Jill Lingbeek -graduated, and Saint Mary's is looking for a strong showing under first-year coach Ryan Dombkowski. 

With just one senior on the team, juniors Noreen Sherred and Kelly Tighe will lead the Belles into the 2006-07 sea­son. Sherred specializes in the middle-distance freestyle events, while Tighe is a freestyle sprinter. 
Olivet coach Dave Stubbs is in his fifth year with the pro­gram after collecting 531 wins and 31 conference 
championships at the high school level. 
Sophomores Erin Tramper, who holds the school record in the 100-and 200-meter breaststroke, and Amy Johnson, whose 24.50 second 50-meter freestyle time in best in Olivet history, will lead the Comets. 
After today's match, the Belles have two weeks off before taking on the Hope Flying Dutchmen at home Oct. 27. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
VOLLEYBALL:  SOCCER:  
FRIDAY, OcTOBER 13TH@ 1:00PM  SATURDAY, OcTOBER 14TH @1:00PM  
vs. DEPAUL  vs. PROVIDENCE  
FREE WATER BOTTLE TO THE FIRST 300 FANS!  FREE SoccER PoNcHo TO THE FIRST 200  

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 13, 2006 
Hawaii 
continued from page 20 
the nation's No. 8 hitter and this week's national player of the week, leads the Warrior offense. She 
Jessica Isaac with 5.00 digs per game. 
On the Notre Dame side, senior libero Danielle Herndon leads the defense with 5.33 digs per game. 
The Sunday matchup against St. John's will most likely be a battle for con­
averages 5.55 ference domi­
"We're a strong
kills per game nance, with both
serving team. We
at a hitting per­Notre Dame and centage of .250. have the ability to St. John's hold­Junior ing firm as the
put a lot ofpressure
Adrianna Stasiuk's 197 kills (3.4 per game) propel the Irish. Stasiuk also leads the team in serves, a 
team," Brown said. "We have the ability to put a lot of pressure on them with our serves." 
After Hawaii, Notre Dame returns to the Joyce Center for two more Big East matches. The 
only two unde­
on them with our 
feated teams in serves. the Big East. Notre Dame, the conference's
Debbie Brown 
most efficient 
Irish coach 
offense, boasts a hitting percent­
facet of play that may 'help age of .291 and will be pitted Notre Dame upset Hawaii. against the Red Storm's con­"We're a strong serving ference-leading defense, 
"It's an opportunity to· play against a ranked team and really raise our level ofplay.,, 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
which has held opponents to a .140 hitting per­centage. 
B r o w n expressed conn­dence about her team's perform­ance against conference opponents, especially what she has seen 
Irish face 
Connecticut Oct. 20 at 4 p.m. and St. John's Oct. 22 at 2 p.m. 
Connecticut's defense, which has held its opponents to a hit­ting percentage of .173, depends upon freshman libero 
Road 
continued from page 20 
they're undefeated." 
Because the game is the second to last of the confer­ence season, it will likely decide the National Division championship, although both teams need to get through the upcoming weekend first. 
The Wildcats have road games against Pittsburgh and No. 7 West Virginia, while the Irish have to take 
on  the  
Huskies  and  
Friars.  

from her two setters. 
"Ashley and Jamel have done a great job of mixing it up and confusing other teams," she said. 
Contact Devin Preston at dprestol@nd.edu 
ments, we'll have our lineup more set." 
In order to keep his squad focused throughout the sea­son, Waldrum devised a sys­tem of rating each players' practice effort, then posting standings in the locker room. 
"We post the results so they can all look at them," he said. "We don't talk much about it, but they always look at the results." 
On Tuesday, the team 
played  a  four-team  
intrasquad  tournament,  
something  
Waldrum  
said he likes  



Providence "We don't quite have our to do to is in last starting I I set. If we set break the 
place in the monotony of
it too early, then people 
American running 
Division at 3-will just say 'oh, rm not drills. The 
5-5 overall starting,, and they might tournament and 0-5-2 in results were
not work as hard. ,,
the confer­factored ence, and, into the while UConn Randy Waldrum practice has struggled Irish coach standings. 
to a 7-7-1 record (4-3-0 in confer­ence) this year, Waldrum said the Huskies are a very dangerous opponent. 
"They have a very talented team," he said. "They got off on the wrong foot a little bit this year, but they'll be right there in the Big East tourna­ment." 
Unlike earlier in the sea­son, the Irish have few injuries and no players play­ing in tournaments abroad. Still, Waldrum said the start­ing lineup will continue to be fluid from game to game. 
"We don't quite have our starting 11 set," he said. "If we set it too early, then peo­ple will just say 'oh, I'm not starting,' and they might not work as hard. Plus we have two games every weekend, so we want to sub and keep 
players  from  getting  
fatigued.  
"By the time  we  get to the  

Big East and NCAA tourna­
"We like 
to make 
sure they're always competing," Waldrum said. 
Waldrum said focus will be especially important during fall break, when the team will remain on campus while their class and dorm-mates head home. 
"We're going to try to do some team activities, possi­bly catch a movie or go bowling," said Waldrum of the squad's plans over break. "Also, we're going to have some practices in the morning instead of the after­noon -anything to keep them from lying around all day." 
The first round of the Big East tournament begins Oct. 25 at campus sites. If the season ended today, the Irish would be playing the Friars at Alumni Field that day. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Mankato 
continued from page 20 

two each by left wing Garrett Regan and center Mark Van Guilder. 
In the first two games of the season, including a 9-0 exhibition win over Windsor last Friday, the team now has 15 goals -it took the Irish five games, including one exhibition, to reach that total last season. 
"We've been doing a lot of work on shooting and scoring skills," Jackson said. "That's the whole skill sessions we ran for the first month of training camp." 
Last season, Notre Dame dropped a 2-1 home decision to Minnesota State (0-1) but won on the road 3-2 with nine seconds left. . 
Irish goalie Dave Brown made 36 saves and allowed only a power-play goal on a turnover in the Irish zone. 
"My main goal coming into this year was to pick up where I fin­ished last year," Brown said. "And to get that many shots, that many variations of shots, you know it really felt good to make the big saves and keep the guys in." 
The Mavericks entered the sec­ond period down 1-0, but within eight minutes the North Star state team was buried under a four-goal Irish onslaught marked by flashy goals and an even flashier offensive unit -includ­ing three goals on the first five shots. 
Regan scored 44 seconds into the period and knocked Tormey's water bottle of the top of the net with his second goal two and a half minutes later. Van Guilder added two at 4:20 and 8:24 to give Notre Dame the 5-0 advan­tage. 
"Obviously they came out and capitalized," Mavericks head coach Troy Jutting said. "I was just trying to calm them down and make sure we kept our heads in the game." 
Regan's first goal came off the rebound from an initial shot by center Jason Paige. Regan col­lected the loose puck between the circles and turned to wrap a forehand shot around Tormey's right pad. For his second goal and the 3-0 lead, Regan received a pass from defenseman Noah Babin just inside the Maverick blue line and took several strides to the top of the left circle before he sniped the puck top-shelf, glove-side on Tormey. 
"We just wanted to get [the puck] on net," Regan said. "Coach [Jackson] has been talk­ing about shooting and if we get a lot of chances, if we shoot it's going to go in. More of our main objective this year is to drive in on them down low and get the puck on net." 
Four of the six Irish goals came below the circle hash marks and two came while inside the crease. 
Van Guilder gave the Irish the 4-0 lead a minute later on an assist from left wing Ryan Thang when he beat Tormey blocker side from the bottom of the left circle. Van Guilder then put home his own rebound from the top of the crease when he stuffed his second chance around Tormey's right pad. Center Kevin Deeth fed Van Guilder in front of the net with a pass from the right boards to set up the 5-0 lead. 
Minnesota State and Notre Dame exchanged goals in the third period several minutes apart to make the final 6-1. 
Mavericks left wing Jon Kalinski shoved an open-net rebound off Brown's pads while short-handed into the right side of the net after he made the ini­tial save on center Travis Morin's left-side slap shot. The goal cut the game to S-1 at 3:18 into the period and was prec:ipitated by a turnover in the Irish zone on a clear-out by Brown. 
''I'll take credit for [Brown's turnover]," Jackson said. "We're trying to work on breakout situa­tions on line changes, and he was trying to fire it out. We had peo­ple posted up on the far blue line, and he just made an errant pass, so I'll take the fall for that." 
Thang capped of a furious Notre Dame break with a roofed one-timer off the right side of the crease at 6:48. Irish defenseman Wes O'Neill secured the puck at the Irish blue line and made a neutral-zone pass to right wing Dan Kissel, who broke down the left side and lured the Maverick defenseman toward him, open­ing Thang on the far side. 
Irish left wing Josh Sciba scored first in the game with a low shot from the point on the power play 14:05 into the first period, assisted by Van Guilder and O'Neill for the 1-0 lead. Sciba received a cross pass on the right point from O'Neill and fired a wrist shot through net traffic and a screened Tormey. 
The Irish power play went 1­for-1 0 as Jackson swapped numerous players in and out of the man-advantage unit. The penalty-kill unit was a successful 6-for-6. 
"It's about evaluating person­nel," Jackson said. ''I've been try­ing some freshmen on the kill, trying some new guys. The penalty-killing is only as good as our goaltender and David Brown was a big part of our penalty kill." 
The Irish will travel to Mankato, Minn., to play Minnesota State in the finale of the two-game series Saturday night. Notre Dame will then take a brief tour of Hockey East, play­ing at No. 1 Boston College at Kelley Rink Oct. 20 and at Providence College Oct. 21. 
Notes: 
+Irish captain T.J. Jindra had to sit out the game due to a scratched cornea. He is expected to play Saturday against against the Mavericks in Mankato. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  34 Eastern  62 Words of  
1 Dishes prepared  language  clarification  
alia Milanese  35 R&R sites  63 Bridge opening  
9 Some Western gear  36 Santa _, Calif. 38 Abbr. on a  64 Roosevelt and Kennedy  
15 "Heavens!"  French envelope  65 Service station?  
16 Aloe soothes it 17 Call from Rocky  41 Cry during crunch time  DOWN  
18 Lincoln is the  46 Runs into  1 Person of color?  
only U.S. president to have one 19 Point pinpointer: Abbr. 20 Adequate, once 22 Renaissance fiddle 23 Interest 26 Attention-getting headline in a  48 Decada divisions 49 Prefix with graphic 50 "Uh-uh" 52 Brains and beauty, e.g. 53 Skater Rodnina with three Olympic golds  2 Bit of wishful thinking 3 Under the table 4 Citation-filled ref. 5 Climber's prominence 6 One taking inventory? 7 Land with an exclave  
small ad 28 Neighbor of Rhone 29 One of three in eleven: Abbr. 30 Poor 31 Tart bar order  54 Say you'll go, say 56 X 57 Compound used in aviation fuel 59 Roadblock  aTry to stab, e.g. 9 Big party: Abbr. 10 Modern greeting 11 Old empire members 12 Activity for little hitters  33 Bordeaux butters?  42 Ace 43 Kind of soup  52 Sleep clinic study  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  13 Calling up trouble?  37 Teens might try to hide them  44 Out of action, in baseball lingo  55 Grape or watermelon  
14 1957 four-LP  38 Handyman  45 "Uh-uh"  58 A.P. exam org.  
jazz set subtitled "A Musical Autobiography"  39 Words with a nice ring to them?  47 Actress Cusack, who married Jeremy Irons  60 Reason to move forward annually?: Abbr.  
.....II!!  21 "Actually, you're right"  40 Sent free of charge  51 21-season pitcher Darwin  61 Grp. concerned with m.p.g.  
~:+.::~  24 Refuges  
25 Expressed  
:..;;.+.:.+:::+:='"! 29 Assent for un 



Friday, October 13, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
---~---------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

CROSSAINTWORLD 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
COPHE 
j
rx I I
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights ReseiVed. 
LEVVA 
rJ I (] 

www.jumble.com 
Jumbles:

Yesterday's 
Answer: 
WEARY 

Where the connoisseur went for a good cabemet -TO THE WINE "SELLER" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT THF:: SCRAWNY WORKF::R DID IN THE: DARK­
ROOM. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) FLUKE BRIDLE ANSWER 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with auncontained joy 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 27 "Mefistofele" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday role crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).hombre Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-;;t~;t-==-f-rl-:=-1 32 Cartoonist 

solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.Wilson 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 re.aders who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer _, and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City ______________________ State ______ Zip________ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Marion Jones, 30; Kirk Cameron, 35; Martie Maguire, 36; Hugh Jackman, 37 • 
Happy Birthday: Follow through on one of your dreams. You have nothing to lose and everything to gain this year. You have an incredibly creative mind that will guide you in a unique manner. You will only have yourself to blame if you procrastinate this year. Your numbers are 5, 13, 19, 28, 33, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have plenty on your plate. but that's when you do your best work. You will make heads turn. Use your intelligence and personality to enforce your presence as well as your talenr. **** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Someone close to you will try to fool you by not explaining exactly what's going on. You will be in the dark if you just trust in others. A personal problem is likely to develop. Devote your time and effort to making money. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): This can turn out to be a memorable day. You will have a chance to do something spectacular that will make an impact on your future. Travel, knowledge and being creative will all come into play. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may think that you are in control, but chances are very good that someone else is pulling the strings. Focus on your home and the changes you need to make. Living in the past and holding on to what's not really yours is a bad idea. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got a lot more going for you today than you realize. Don't hold back--go after what you want. You will plant a seed in someone's ear that will lead to a great deal in the future. Clear up any misunderstanding. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may know what needs to be done, but doing it will be another story. Bide your time and watch what everyone else is doing before you make your move. A deception of sorts is likely to cause you some grief.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The spotlight can be yours today if you just follow through. You have such a creative way of doing things, it would be a shame if you should miss out on an opportunity. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may know what you have to do to make things right at home, but frankly it won't be easy. There is a good chance someone is not telling you the whole story. Legal matters must be dealt with. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel for business will end up being profitable. You will seal a deal and make new friends along the way. A chance to do something different will make you view life and your future with a new perspective. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything will depend on how you conduct yourself around business associates and people who can influence your future . Success can be yours, but only at the price of some personal problems. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional deception may cause some grief for you today. Be upfront and honest if you want to temper problems with an old lover. Set the record straight once and for all. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can get a lot covered if you decide to spruce up your home. Money is coming your way, but the chance you will overspend is likely. Don't do anything impulsive. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are sweet, innocent and eager to discover new things. You are an adventurer, with an innovative and inventive mind. You can charm everyone around you to follow your lead and help you reach your goals. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations 
---------------------., 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, October 13, 2006 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Talley leaves team; junior's future unknown 
Departure a "mutual decision" with coaches 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 

Irish junior defensive end Ronald Talley has left the football team, Notre Dame Director of Football Media Relations Brian Hardin said in an e-mail sent to local media members Thursday. 
"Notre Dame defensive end Ronald Talley has decided to leave the Notre Dame football team," the e-mail said. "The decision was mutually agreed upon." 
Hardin did not specify the reasons for Talley's departure and said Irish coach Charlie Weis will be unavailable for comment on the situation until Monday during his next scheduled press confer­ence. 

After sitting out his fresh­

Talley

man year; the 6-foot-4, 262-pound native of 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Road tests 
Irish to play four key Big ;East games away from Alumni Field 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

There are only two weeks left in the regular season, but No. 1 Notre Dame still has a long way to go. 
The Irish (13-0, 6-0 Big East) play four road conference games over the next two weekends against UConn today, Providence Sunday, No. 23 Villanova Oct. 20 and Georgetown Oct. 22. 
The Wildcats (13-0-2, 5-0-2 Big East) are second behind the Irish in the con­ference's National Division. Other than Notre Dame, Villanova is the only unde­feated team in the NSCAA Top 25. 
Led by freshman defender Kelly Eagan, Villanova has allowed just two goals this season. 
"Villanova's a good team," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "There's a reason 

Irish midfielder Jill Krivacek dribbles around Rutgers forward Nina Montero during see ROAD/page 18 Notre Dame's 2-0 win over the Scarlet Knights Sunday at Alumni Field. 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Team takes tropical 
trip to play Hawaii 
Irish will also face conferencefoe DePaul in ahome game tonight 
By DEVIN PRESTON Sports Writer 

The Irish have a huge week ahead of them. 
While their classmates are on break, they'll go to work playing five matches before classes start back up next Oct. 23. 
The busy schedule starts with Big East opponent DePaul (5-16, 0-5 Big East) tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. The Irish (11-5, 5-0 Big East) plan to continue their steady streak of victories in conference com­petition. The Blue Demons hope to put an end to their nine-match losing streak. 
On Monday, Notre Dame travels to Manoa, Hawaii., to play No. 11 Hawaii (13-4) in two matches on back-to-hack days. If the Irish win, it will be their first win over a top-25 opponent this season. 
"It's an opportunity to play against a ranked team and really raise our level of play," head coach Debbie Brown said, "We're hoping to win both matches. It's a tall order, but it definitely can be done." 
Sophomore Jamie Houston, 
see HAWAII/page18 

en ND CROSS COUNTRY SMC VOllEYBAlL
• w
... Co) 
• 
After two home The Belles have three 

' ~ cc: :3 z 

competitions, Irish key road matches over = travel to Terre Haute, fall break as they prep
c:z: Ind., for the Pre-for the home stretch of National Meet. the season. 
=: page 17 page 17

en 
HOCKEY 
ND blasts Mankato, 6-1 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson asked Arena Manager Pat Klaybor to make three shooting boards in the off-sea­son to train Irish players to pick their shots high into the corners and over the goalies' shoulders. It showed in the team's season-opening 6-1 win Thursday night over Minnesota State-Mankato at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish (1-0) confounded Maverick goaltender Dan Tormey, who was a late addi­tion after starter Mike Zacharias went down with an injury in warm-ups, with six goals on 28 shots -including 
see MANKATO/page 18 Oak Park, Mich., emerged on the defensive line as a sopho~ more, playing in all 12 games and starting the final six after then-starter Chris Frome suf­fered a knee injury during the USC game Oct. 15. Talley fin­ished the 2005 season with 26 tackles, one sack and a fumble recovery in the Fiesta Bowl. 

Talley split action with 
DANCOOPERrrheObserver 

SMC SWIMMING SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's will The Belles have ~hree open the season tonight important conference with a dual meet at games over fall break. home against Olivet. 
page 17 page 15 
Frome at right end in the first six games this season, playing when Notre Dame is in its base 4-3 defense but sitting in nickel and dime packa.ges. Starting in four of the six games, Talley recorded 11 tackles and one fumble recovery. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Bass eager to head to Midland 
Irish will face Duke in rematch from last week's ITA Invite 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior Stephen Bass triumphed over Duke's Peter Rodrigues only one short week ago. 
This week, Bass and Rodrigues meet again as Notre Dame and Duke face off at the Midland Invitational in Midland, Texas this weekend. 
The Irish senior, No. 21 
see BASS/ page 1 7 


MEN~S INTERHAll MEN'S SOCCER 
Keenan beat Forward Joe Lapira is Morrissey 12-6 and having a break out O'Neill topped Alumni season in his third year 13-0 to end the regular for the Irish. season. 
page 12 Irish Insider 
HY PHAM/The Observer Irish center Jason Paige, left, takes a shot in Notre Dame's 6-1 win over Minnesota State-Mankato Thursday. 



