
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fans butntned by outcotne, but still faithful 
story."
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
Senior safety Chinedum 
News Writer 

Ndukwe gave fans a little hope when he intercepted a
Notre Dame football 

Michigan pass, setting up a
and its fans -underwent 

Notre Dame touchdown.
what many commentators 
But when the game begancalled a "reality check" as 

to deteriorate, so did the
Michigan rolled into South emotion of the student sec­

Bend and walloped the 

tion. When it finally ended,Irish 47-21 Saturday. 
sophomore Andy PauwlesThe team's runaway vic­said he felt "embarrassed,tory over Penn State did confused and scared for 
not prepare students for 

next week."
the Michigan outcome. 
"I've been watching NotreSenior Paul Jacobs called Dame football since 1993,"

the performance "sloppy 

he said, "and that was one
and unorganized," and 

of the worst games I havefreshman Heather Johnson 
ever seen."
said the second play from Sophomore Andrea Ochoascrimmage -an intercep­said the game "forced hertion resulting in a Michigan to leave the stadium."

touchdown -"set the tone 
For freshman Justin
for the whole game." 

Bartkus, there weren't just
"If that had never hap­low points -there was a

pened," she said. "It would have been a different 
see GAME/page 8 

Cancer can't keep pace with professor 
for women and cancer vic­
By KELLY MEEHAN 
tims. Barstis was the first 
Saint Mary's Editor 
American to cross the finish line on Aug. 14, the second When doctors told Toni woman-of only two previ­Barstis "no," all she could ous women competitors in hear was "yes." Not even the history of the Ultraman 
the March 2006 diagnosis of -and perhaps the most stage one ovarian cancer admired athlete at the could hinder the Saint event. Mary's associate professor As she sprinted across the of chemistry's willpower to finish line, hand-in-hand train for the Ultraman with her husband, Dave, Canada Championship. and his brother, John 
Neither a hysterectomy Barstis, "the athletes who nor chemotherapy treat­had already finished, their ments dampened 40-year­crews, the [Ultraman) old Barstis' determination directors and the resort to run 52.4 miles, swim 6.2 personnel were standing miles and bike 260 miles in there clapping, supporting the August triathlon event. me, cheering me on," she 
"It was a miracle I fin­said. 
ished actuallv," she said. "I broke down. Everyone Not only w~s it a personal 
victory, but also a triumph 
see CANCER/ page 4 



Administration details three-part worker plan 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
The Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) is en route to accomplishing some of its goals after meeting twice with administration members last week, member Nick Krafft said. 
"We're not going to stop until we feel like the wage scale is just," Krafft said. "There are definitely steps being made in the right direc­tion." 
An organization of about 20 students, CLAP was estab­lished last fall to secure a $12.10 per hour wage for campus workers. This year, the group hopes to address wages that are too low, an increased workload in the past few years and understaffing. 

On Sept. 12 representatives of both CLAP and student gov­ernment met with administra­tion members including Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Associate Vice President of Human Resourees Bob MeQuade and Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves to diseuss the University's new developments in worker rela­
see CLAP/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Millions on the line for student 
Senior to appear on game show today 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
When Laura Keough told her son Dan to earn some eash to supplement his unpaid summer internship, she didn't mean a mil­lion dollars. 
But that's just what the senior stands to win in his appearance on "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" today at 12:30 p.m. The show, to be aired on WNDU­TV, was taped on July 25, but Keough was prohibited from dis­closing the results. 
Keough nabbed his spot on "Millionaire" by applying online while in New York. At the time, he was interning with New Une Cinema to work on the latest Harry Potter movie. 
Once initially accepted, Keough had to take a trivia test and undergo interviews to actually earn a spot on the show. 
He was one of the 15 out of 100 people who passed both hurdles -a week after, he received a eall and was told his show would be July 24. 
While the "fastest-fmger" ques­tion has been eliminated, getting to the "hot seat" is still nerve­racking, Keough said -contest­ants are given no warning before their names are called. 
"They had us all back stage. They eall you up randomly, one at a time," he said. 
Keough waited an entire day without being called, and was forced to return to the studio the next day. Then. he finally heard the direetor say the magic words. 
"Dan Keough, you're up." 
see SHOW/page 4 


AIDS children suffer unnoticed 
Plight of African youth generally forgotten in world dialogue 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
While African adults afflict­ed with HIV and AIDS are the subject of mueh discussion, the children living with those same diseases need a voice too, Dr. Miriam Laker Opwonya of Uganda said in a Sept. 15 lecture. 
Opwonya is the Research Coordinator for the Infectious Diseases Institute of Makerere University in Uganda and spoke at last week's academic forum. This lecture took plaee in the 
see AFRICA/ page 8 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 18, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A King for all seasons 
"Winter, spring, summer, or fall/all you have to do is call/and I'll be there, yes I will! you've got a friend." 
God, I used to think that song was so corny. That is, until I discovered the wonder of 
Chris Hine 
Carole King's songwriting. She is much more than that lady Sports Writer who sings the 
theme to 
"Gilmore Girls." 
I grew up on the music of the 60s and 70s. It was the only music I heard, because it was all that my dad played. Somewhere around the age of 12, thankfully, my parents finally let me out of my caged existence and let me try something modern. So, for a few years, I listened to "cool" music. 
Then when I was 16, I was in Barnes and Noble and they had a dis­play out of "classic albums." One of those albums was King's "Tapestry." I looked at the back cover of the CD and there were many songs on there I recognized that other people had made famous: "You've Got a Friend," "So Far Away" and "Natural Woman." I figured, why not buy it? These are songs I know, thanks to dad. 
My ears have yet to hear anything resembling the idiosyncratic beauty and deceptive simplicity of Carole King's songs. 
I do not know that much about music, but I do know that King's songs are more than just hooks thrown to together to make a hit. Her songs, (along with lyricist, Gerry Goffin, with whom she wrote most of her big hits) have emotional punch behind them, and the melody and chords complement the lyrics, to underscore the feelings of the singer. Other times, the melody is more iron­ic, revealing emotions the singer does not want to acknowledge. 
In "You've Got a Friend," the verses contain minor chords, to convey sad­ness and depression, and the lyrics of the verses are sad and longing for someone. The chords then become major chords around the chorus, to show happiness to go along with the lyrics that convey the singer's relief that she will always have a friend. 
Goffin!King songs are songs that have no writers. They exist within our consciousness, buried within our memories because we either heard them on TV, in a movie, or on our parent's stereo. Whenever we hear one of their songs, we may not know the singer, but we have heard that song before. They are engrained in our minds and will stay there forever. 
After hearing "Tapestry." I bought many other Carole King albums. The same craftsmanship is present in all of her songs. 
The greatness of Goffin!King was not lost on Lennon!McCartney, who said they wanted to become "the Goffin and King of England." I encourage all of you to buy "Tapestry" or go and download one of the over 500 songs King wrote that were recorded by others. 
If she's good enough for the Beatles, she's good enough for you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error in the Sept. 15 article "Belles split team in half," the jamboree that was originally supposed to have taken place at Albion College was in fact scheduled to take place at Saint Mary's. The jamboree has still been relocated to Hope College, however. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: 00 YOU PLAY INTERHALL OR REG-SPORTS? WHY OR WHY NOT? 




Dan D'Amore  Erin Fitzpatrick  Javier Palomo  Meghan Mulhern  Nick Caprino  Sarah Ponto  
sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore Welsh Family  
"No, I'm not athletic enough to begin with. "  "Yes, Interhall bull riding because I was cutfrom the horseshoe  "No, because I was sick for the soccer tryouts. "  "Football and basketball -it's what I live fior. ,  "Yes, co-recreational soccer, because girls' goals are worth two  "Yes, soccer because I thought I'd be issued sweet gear.  

,
team. 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Jerome Bettis, former Irish fullback and member of the 2005 Super Bowl champion Pittsburgh Steelers, greets Notre Dame fans at the pep rally in the stadium Friday. 
OFFBEAT 
match his hair color is suing the wig shop. 
Paul Lewis claims he suffered a heart attack after refusing to pay for the hairpiece that was not only the wrong size but also the wrong color. He is seeking more than $15,000 in damages. 
Lewis filed a counter lawsuit in Superior Court after Paula's Wig Boutique of Orange filed a small claims action seek­ing $1,200 in payment for the hairpiece. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man Sets Sights on Eye­Popping Record 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -Claudio Paulo Pinto is looking to break an eye-popping record. Literally. Pinto can pop his eyeballs out of their sockets at least 7 millime­ters (0.3 inches), a nation­al record for eye-popping according to RankBrasil, an organization modeled after the Guinness Book of World Records that lists Brazilian records. 
A former driver, Pinto got a job scaring visitors in a commercial haunted house in Belo Horizonte, 210 miles north of Rio de 
TODAY 
a:: 
Janeiro. But he recently was laid off, and now he seeks international recog­nition for his ability. 
"I was measured by an opthamologist on televi­sion in January. I could pop my eyes out 7 mil­limeters," Pinto said by telephone Saturday. "Since then, my capacities have improved over 50 percent." 
Man Who Claims Toupee Caused Attack Sues 
MILFORD, Conn. -A man who claims he had a heart attack during a dis­pute over an ill-fitting hairpiece that dido 't 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


points." 
IN BRIEF 
Nancy Thomas-Moore, the director of Ethics and Business Conduct at the Weyerhauser Corporation, will deliver a lecture entitled "What's Hot in Business Ethics" tonight at 7 in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. All are welcome at the lecture, which is part of the Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics. 
Professor Donald Kommers will teach a public academic course called "Federalism with­in American Constitutional Law" Tuesday at 9:30 a.m. in room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. All are welcome at the course, which is being held in obser­vance of Constitution Day. 
Irene Rizzini of the Department of Social Work at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro and Visiting Chair in the Study of Brazilian Culture will deliver a lecture called "Participat;ao Cidada: Perceptions and Experiences of Citizenship Among Children and Youth in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil" Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
A panel discussion on "New Approaches to Peace and Conflict in Central Asia," fea­turing Kroc Institute Visiting Fellow John Heathershaw, and Rockefeller Visiting Fellows David Montgomery and Svetlana Peshkova will take place at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

67 49 

65 48 
::c 
"' 

"' ~ 

3: 
.... 
c:c 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 68

..... 
LOW 46 

63 40 

64 44 

66 46 

Atlanta 86 I 66 Boston 78 I 64 Chicago 68 I 47 Denver 631 36 Houston 90 I 74 Los Angeles 86 I 60 Minneapolis 66 I 48 New York 82 I 68 Philadelphia 82 I 67 Phoenix 94 I 70 Seattle 66 I 54 St. Louis 75 I 49 Tampa 92 I 74 Washington 86 I 66 
,-------~--­
Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Departn1ent of peace appoints Svvede as endovved chair 
Professor plans on teaching several courses while collaborating with faculty to develop studies currently in process 
Special to The Observer collaborate with Kroc faculty University in November 2001. Institute studies of conflict pre­Board of Directors of the San 
Peter Wallensteen, the Dag on institute research projects, The Stockholm Report vention, comparative peace Diego Padres professional Hammarskold Professor in the supervise graduate students in ("Making Targeted Sanctions processes, and the measuring baseball team. Department of Peace and peace studies, make a major Effective") was delivered to the and evaluation of peace build­A graduate of the University Conflict Research at Uppsala presentation on research in United Nations Security Council ing measures in specified con­of Mississippi, Starmann has University in Sweden, has been progress, teach a graduate on Feb. 25, 2003. The pro­flict settings. lectured at Dartmouth, Purdue, appointed seminar in peace studies gram deepens academic Starmann has specialized in and the Universities of the inaugural research, and offer a series of research on targeted sanctions crisis management in the Nebraska, Denver, Mississippi holder of the lectures to undergraduate stu­with systematic studies as well United States, Europe, Asia and and Notre Dame. At Richard G. dents on the core concepts and as with policy-related reports, the Pacific Basin for more than Dartmouth and Notre Dame, he Starmann Sr. methods of peace research. and it keeps a Website continu­25 years. He was an officer of is a regular speaker in the MBA Research One of the world's leading ously updated on developments McDonald's Corp. for 19 of his programs, and at Notre Dame Chair in peace researchers, Walhmsteen on sanctions issues in the U.N. 27 years with the company and he serves on the Advisory P e a c e is director of the Uppsala Wallensteen is the author of, is a founding member of the Council of the Mendoza College Studies in the Conflict Data Program and among other works, Ronald McDonald House of Business. Joan B. Kroc leader of the Special Program "International Sanctions: International Advisory Board. The Kroc Institute, the Institute for on International Targeted Between Wars and Words," As senior vice president of world's leading research, International Sanctions. "Understanding Conflict McDonald's, Starmann was in teaching and policy center spe­Peace Studies at Notre Dame. The Conflict Data Program, Resolution: Peace. War and the charge of worldwide communi­cializing in strategic peace 
The endowed chair is named established at Uppsala in the Global System," and "Making cations and led the company's building, is celebrating its 20th after Hichard G. Starmann Sr., mid-1980s, continuously col­Targeted Sanctions Effective," global crisis management team anniversary in 2006-2007. a member of the Kroc Institute lects information on armed as well as recent commissioned from 1981 to 1998. In that More than 150 Notre Dame Advisory Council and a trusted conflicts. The definitions and studies of means for the pre­role, he regularly dealt with undergraduates enroll in the friend and colleague of the late categories used by the project vention of genocide, dialogue government. agencies, special peace studies supplementary Joan B. Kroc. The institute is have gradually been refined to and other international strate­interest groups, local and major or interdisciplinary named in honor of Kroc, its fit scholarly requirements of gies for democracy, and the national law enforcement offi­minor offered by the Kroc principal benefactor, who was global comparability, so that U.N.'s post-conflict peace build­cials as well as various media. Institute, which also boasts one of the world's leading phi­the data is useful for systematic ing capacity. His research Starmann has extensive man­more than 400 graduates of its lanthropists, a passionate advo­studies of the origins of con­interests also include the dura­agement experience with master's program in peace cate for the poor and under­flict, conflict dynamics and con­bility of peace agreements, the health issues and food-and air­studies. privileged, and an ardent sup­flict resolution. With the cre­impact of preventative meas­borne illnesses. In addition, Kroc graduates work as con­porter of nuclear disarmament ation of the global conflict ures on the dynamics of dis­he has led the response to flict mediators, human rights and nonviolent conflict trans­database, this information is putes and conflicts, and bombings, terrorist threats, advocates, teachers, profes­formation. now available to anyone in the reforming the United Nations extortion attempts, shootings sors, non-governmental organi­
The Starmann professorship world. as an effective institution for and food tampering cases for zation staffers and government is a named chair held for a The Special Program on international peace and securi­American companies operating officials in more than 40 three-year renewable term by International Targeted ty. in the United States, Europe nations. The Kroc Institute a senior peace studies scholar Sanctions was initiated as the Wallensteen will collaborate and Asia. features research programs in who has built a distinguished "Stockholm Process" by the with other Kroc Institute facul­Starmann was a first lieu­religion and conflict, compara­research and publication Swedish Ministry for Foreign ty in building an Uppsala-Kroc tenant and paratrooper in the tive peace processes, security record in one or more of the Affairs together with the project enhancing and exploit­U.S. Army Special Forces in and sanctions, international sub-fields of peace research. Department of Peace and ing the usefulness of the Vietnam from 1969 to 1970. norms and institutions and con­Wallensteen will consult and Conflict Research at Uppsala Uppsala conflict data for Kroc He is a former member of the flict transformation. 
Dame Faculty, Staff and Students 
Get a Super Cool New BlackBerry® 7130c 


-For $19999 
Plus, get an additional 
$50 Visa Debit Card 
back from RIM 
Ask a sales representative for details. Offer available at Cingular retail locations. 
Visit us at this location: 
University Park Mall 
6501 N. Grape Road 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(574) 243-8016 
Reference Discount FAN #2391191 

~ cingular
raising the barT••11I.... 
Some restrictions apply. Offer good for a limited time only. Subject to credit approvaL 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 18, 2006 

Cancer 
continued from page 1 

was in tears, hugging and celebrating," she said. "It was a celebration of an accomplishment for every­one, but particularly emo­tional and special for myself and my family." 
The three-day race took Barstis and the 11 other Ultraman competitors throughout the "extremely beautiful and peaceful" Canadian Rockies of British Columbia, she said. 
Throughout Barstis' 30 hours, 56 minutes, 21 sec­onds of extreme athletic exertion during the Aug. 12 to Aug. 14 race, she said she felt completely "in commun­ion with God and her family." 
Barstis found the inspira­tion to train and complete the physically grueling event from the women she met while undergoing chemother­apy treatment. 
Because of the extreme minority of women's partici­pation in the Ultraman, Barstis originally "applied to the Ultraman to represent the accomplishments of women." 
"I thought 'I've got to do it'," she said, "purely to show that as women we are tough and we can do these things." 
Never missing a single day of work during her treat­ment, the dedicated chair of the Department of Chemistry and Physics said her attitude and drive also came from her work atmosphere and the support of Saint Mary's women who helped her real­ize she could complete the race despite setbacks. 
Junior biology and chem­istry major Allie Greene has had Barstis as a professor for only one month, but has already witnessed the many "amazing characteristics that she possesses." 
"She motivates her students with her cheerful attitude, and amazing drive in life," Greene said. "She is an inspi­ration to me, because even though she was faced with one of the scariest moments of her life, she was still able to keep her head up and do something to overcome it." 
Senior biochemistry major Katie White also said she could not help but notice how Barstis "lives her life with a vengeance" and "cannot fully express [her] admiration and respect" for the resilient pro­fessor. 
"Her encouragement and support have been invaluable in my own development as a chemist and as a woman," she said. "Saint Mary's College is lucky to have such an enthusiastic, warm, and intelligent woman." 

The admired and revered College professor did not solely receive inspiration from Saint Mary's, but from her personal interaction with fellow cancer patients. 
The women she met during her chemotherapy treatment fueled her passion to train for the Ultraman -complet­ing the race in honor of women who have dealt with gynecological cancer. 
"I was very lucky that my cancer was discovered very early," she said. "I met women who had to receive chemo treatments five days a week just to stay alive." 
Despite being told to mini­mize or terminate training, Barstis used her workout time as a mental release from the tensions of dealing with 
her illness. 

"Every time I would go to receive chemo treatment, the other women would ask me how it was going," she said. "It reminded me of my higher purpose -I was doing this for them. It gave both myself and the other women strength and encourage­ment." 
The key to her success was the willpower to "show up on the starting line everyday," she said. "I did not know if I would finish, but the key is being there and starting the race. I finished every time ­it was a miracle." 
Through competing in the Ultraman, Barstis met many extraordinary athletes whom she described not as competi­tors, but as "family." 
The Ultraman athletes showed their kindness and compassion through their sincere support of Barstis and her family -comprised of her husband, Dave, and childt:en, 9-year-old Elijah and 6-year-old Aviyah. 
"All the competitors accom­plished an amazing feat," she said. "For me it was just under special circum­stances." 
Although Barstis will be monitored for 10 more years, she looks at life in depth now more than ever -never tak­ing anything for granted. 
"I look at how trivial many things in life are," she said. "Everyone is always worrying over stupid things, when the most important thing is fami­ly and family events." 
Barstis will "forever treas­ure the fact that [she] fin­ished the race," but more importantly, she will remem­ber the time spent and the support she received from her family during the race. 
"Being able to run down a mountain hand-in-hand with my little daughter is such a great memory -something I will never forget," she said. 
As for the future, Barstis hopes to run the Ultraman Hawaii or double triathlon in 2007 or 2008, but wherever her life takes her Barstis said she will "live fully." 
"You never know how long we'll be here," she said. "We must celebrate life and live every minute fully." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

including some family members and a friend who was also in the city at the time. However, because Keough was called out a day late, his family unfortu­nately had to return home due to other work obligations and missed his perform­
ance. 
Several people he knew came to New York to watch the taping, 


Show 
continued from page 1 

Keough said walking out onto the main stage was an intense experience with flashing lights, loud music and "!host] Meredith Vieira's make up." 
"They push you 

out on stage and Dan Keough's
"It was the
all of a sudden, mother, Laura you're on TV," he scariest Keough, said she said. ".. .It was the experience ofmy thought the delay scariest experi­was not necessarily
life, but it was 
ence of my life, bad -it gave him a but it was awe­awesome. " chance to relax and some." settle in more com­Keough said fortably on the next
Dan Keough
leaving after the day.

senior
show was even She said she is very surreal when he happy for his appear­walked back out ance on the show. onto the streets of New York. "We are very proud of him," After being thrown into an she said. island of pomp and splendor, he She also said her son had been said, he thought it was strange on a TV game show once before to be back in the real world. in high school, but that it was a 
locally-produced educational show -a far cry from "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?" 
Dan Keough said he prepared for the show by watching old episodes for three weeks and studying other random material that he thought might be useful. 
Though the results remain a mystery, Keough did say what he would do with a million dollars if he won out. 
"I will pay for my college edu­cation and my siblings' educa­tion," he said. 
In addition to hosting "Millionaire," Vieira recently signed on as co-host of the "Today" show on NBC. Notre Dame graduate Regis Philbin ('53) hosted the show when it debuted in primetime to popular acclaim. Philbin returned once thereafter for a 12-show run on its spinoff, "Who Wants to be a Super Millionaire?" 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 



Woman knifed, baby kidnapped 
Associated Press 

ST. CLAIR, Mo. -A moth­er whose throat was slashed and newborn baby kid­napped was released from the hospital Sunday as authorities said they found a knife on property near her home. 
A woman came to 21-year­old Stephanie Ochsenbine's home in the town of Lonedell on Friday, attacked her with a knife and left with her week-old infant, Abigale Lynn Woods, offi­cials said. 
Franklin County Sheriff Gary Toelke said authorities found a knife and other evi­dence near Ochsenbine's home, but would not give more details. 
Heavy rain Sunday forced postponement of a search for more evidence. 
Ochsenbine is not a sus­pect, Toelke said. The attacker was described as a white woman with black hair, 5-feet-8 and 200 pounds. She was believed to be armed. 
Ochsenbine helped police artists with a composite drawing of the kidnapper 
after leaving the hospital. The picture could be released Sunday, Toelke said. 
Fliers showing the baby, called "Abby" by her family, were posted in gas stations and restaurants in neighbor­ing Union. The 6-pound girl, born Sept. 8, has dark brown hair, dark eyes and a strawberry birthmark on her forehead. 
People in the area, about 45 miles southwest of St. Louis, attended prayer serv­ices Sunday for Abby's safe return. 
Search dogs, Franklin County deputies, FBI agents and several Missouri National Guard members combed the area around the home for clues over the weekend. 
Callers continued to offer tips, Toelke said, but none led to a suspect. 
"Any lead is good, but so far there's nothing that has stood out," he said. "There's a lot of information we have, but nothing concrete." 
Ochsenbine told police she did not know the woman who came t? her door Friday and entered the house after asking to use the telephone. 
Ochsenbine 's 1-year-old son, Connor, also was in the house but was unharmed. Ochsenbine's boyfriend and Abby's father, James Woods, was at work. 
Authorities have asked hospitals and doctors to be on the lookout for anyone bringing in a newborn. 
The abductor has been profiled as someone who had a child die recently or as someone who could not have children, told people she was pregnant and need­ed to steal a child so her lie would not be found out. 
From 1983 to 2002, there were 217 reported cases of non-family infant abduc­tions, and all but a few babies were recovered safely within 25 miles of where they had been taken, according to a 2003 study by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. About three-quar­ters of the kidnapped infants were recovered in fewer than five days. 
"We're hopeful that's the case," Toelke said. 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 18, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rebel leader crosses into Sudan 
NABANGA, Sudan -Ugandan rebel leader Joseph Kony has turned up at a neutral camp in southern Sudan as part of a truce to end 19 years of conflict in the east African nation, a rebel official said Sunday. 
Kony, who is wanted by the International Criminal Court for war crimes and crimes against humanity, arrived at Ri-Kwangba camp, just 550 yards north of the border with Congo, said Martin Ojul, the head of the rebel team negotiating a peace deal with the Ugandan government. 
Kony joins his deputy, Vincent Otti, whose arrival at the camp was announced on Sept. 11. 
U.N. officials estimate the rebels have kid­napped 20,000 children in the past two decades, turning the boys into soldiers and the girls into sex slaves for rebel commanders. Otti has told U.N. officials the group would be willing to hand over the women and children. 
' 

Social Democrats ousted in Sweden 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden -A center-right opposition vowing to revamp Sweden's famed welfare state ousted the Social Democratic government in a close parliamentary election Sunday. 
Social Democratic Prime Minister Goran Persson, who had governed for 10 years, con­ceded defeat and said his government would resign after the party's worst election showing in decades. 
With 99 percent of districts counted, the four-party opposition alliance led by Fredrik Reinfeldt had 48 percent of the votes, com­pared to 46.2 percent for the Social Democrats and their two allied parties. 
"It was team work that helped us win," Reinfeldt said in a victory speech. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Duquesne basketball players shot 
PITTSBURGH -Police searched for a man who shot five Duquesne basketball players on campus early Sunday after a dance at the student union, leaving at least two of them in critical condition. 
Two players were walking near a dormitory and encountered a man who apparently had been disruptive at the dance, authorities said. The players tried to calm the man and walked away but were shot. Players who rushed to their aid were also shot. 
The gunman and a group of people with him were not students, a university official said. 
Witnesses reported seeing two guns, said uni­versity president Charles Dougherty, but he couldn't confirm whether both were fired. The second gun was seen on someone in a group with the gunman, Dougherty said. 

Baby kidnapped in violent attack 
ST. CLAIR, Mo. -A mother whose throat was slashed and newborn baby kidnapped was released from the hospital Sunday as authorities said they found a knife on prop­erty near her home. 
A woman came to 21-year-old Stephanie Ochsenbine's home in the town of Lonedell on Friday, attacked her with a knife and left with her week-old infant, Abigale Lynn Woods, officials said. 
Heavy rain Sunday forced postponement of a search for more evidence. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Anger lingers over Toll Road deal 
LaPORTE, Ind. -Gov. Mitch Daniels came to this Northern Indiana city last week to hand out a framed check symbolizing 40 mil­lion reasons he thinks voters there should support the leasing of the Indiana Toll Road. 
Waiting for him outside. City Hall, however, were about three dozen protesters. 
For a few minutes, Daniels verbally sparred with his critics, challenging their assertion that the Toll Road had made money and could have continued to do so in state hands. 
"I don't want to embarrass you," he told one man, "but you're wrong." 

Pope issues apology for remarks 
Mixed reaction from Islamic leaders as Vatican prepares for violent backlash 
Associated Pres.s 

VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI said Sunday that he is "deeply sorry" his remarks on Islam and vio­lence offended Muslims, but the unusual expression of papal regret drew a mixed reaction from Islamic lead­ers as the Vatican worried about a backlash of vio­lence. 
Some Muslim leaders accepted the statement. Others said it wasn't enough, but urged Muslims to avoid violence after attacks on churches in Palestinian areas and the slaying of a nun in Somalia. 
Benedict said he regretted causing offense with his speech last week in Germany, particularly his quoting of a medieval text that characterized some of the teachings of Islam's founder as "evil and inhu­man" and referred to spreading Islam "by the sword." 
He said those words did not reflect his own opinions. 
"I hope that this serves to appease hearts and to clari­fy the true meaning of my address, which in its totality was and is an invitation to frank and sincere dialogue, with great mutual respect," the pope said during his weekly Sunday appearance before pilgrims. words. He said the Vatican was dieted it would subside 
It was an unusual step for Anger was still intense in "following with concern the quickly. a leader of the Roman Muslim lands. consequences of this wave "Our relations with Catholic Church. Benedict's Two churches were set on of hate, hoping that it does Christians should remain predecessor, Pope John Paul fire in the West Bank, rais­not lead to grave conse­good, civilized and coopera­II, issued a number of Ing to at least seven the quences for the church in tive," Mohammed Mahdi apologies during his papacy, number of church attacks in the world." Akef told The Associated but they dealt with abuses Palestinian areas over the Police across Italy were Press in Cairo. and other missteps by the weekend blamed on outrage ordered to step up security Germany's Central Coun­church in the past rather sparked by the speech. out of concern that the cil of Muslims welcomed the than errors on his own part. There was also concern anger could cause Roman pope's comments Sunday as 
Vatican officials had earli­that the furor was behind Catholic sites to become ter­"the most important step to er sought to placate spread­the shooting death of an rorist targets. Police outside calm the protest" and urged ing Muslim anger by saying Italian missionary nun at the pope's summer palace the Vatican to seek discus­Benedict held Islam in high the hospital where. she confiscated metal-tipped sion with Muslim represen­esteem and stressed that worked for years in the umbrellas and bottles of liq­tatives to avoid lasting dam­the central thrust of his Horn of Africa nation of uids from faithful. age. speech was to condemn the Somalia. The killing came Benedict's expression of But others were still use of any religious motiva­just hours after a Somali sorrow for the offense he demanding an apology for tion for violence, whatever cleric condemned the pope's caused satisfied some the words, including in the religion. . speech. Islamic leaders. Turkey, where questions 
While Benedict expressed "Let's hope that it will be The head of the Muslim have been raised about regret his speech caused an isolated fact," the Rev. Brotherhood in Egypt, a whether Benedict should go hurt, he did not retract Federico Lombardi, Vatican banned group but still the ahead with a visit scheduled what he said or say he was spokesman, was quoted as largest Islamic movement in for November as the first sorry he uttered what saying by the Italian news that country, said the out­trip of his papacy to a proved to be explosive agency ANSA. rage was justified but pre-Muslim nation. 


Bush, senators seek compromise 
against terrorist detainees, as Arizona, one of the Republicans not
Associated Press 

President Bush wants. Congress is satisfied with the White House pro­
WASHINGTON -The Bush admin­likely to adjourn in two weeks for posal. "We don't think al-Qaida will istration and holdout GOP senators the fall elections. ever observe those conventions, but expressed confidence on Sunday Bush says CIA personnel should be we're going to be in other wars." they could reach a compromise on able to resume tough interrogation He warned against breaking with rules for CIA interrogations of sus­techniques to extract information provisions of the Geneva pected terrorists. from detainees. Several senators Conventions that protect wartime 
Neither the president's national from his own party are standing in prisoners. "That's what we do not security aides nor some of the law­the way, seeking changes. They say want, because Americans would be makers who are resisting White the United States must adhere strict­setting the precedent for changing a House pressure would say how they ly to international standards in the treaty that has been untouched by can reconcile their deep differences Geneva Conventions and that setting any nation for 57 years," he said. after a week of public sparring. harsher ones could put U.S. troops A Supreme Court ruling in June 
As a result, it is unclear if at risk if they are captured. essentially said the Geneva Congress quickly can pass legisla­"We have to hold the moral high Conventions should apply to suspect­tion authorizing aggressive methods ground," said Sen. John McCain of ed terrorists in CIA custody. 
--------------------, 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 18, 2006 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 
tions, Krafft said. 

The administration has a three-fold plan laid out to improve its relationship with workers. First, the University will send an extensive ques­tionnaire to all workers in order to evaluate its role as employer. CLAP will have an opportunity to alter or add to 
the survey before it is sent and also to see the results. 
Second, the administration plans to have a hotline run by a third party, a neu­tral company for workers, to allow employees to voice concerns. 
"A lot of workers are afraid to go to human resources with concerns," 

"We're glad with the out­come of the meeting because we feel like if we didn't start this dialogue, the changes may not have happened," Krafft said. "But at the same time, we're -still trying to work with them on the issue of wages ­I think that is going to take some more time." 
CLAP member Casey Stanton praised the administration's efforts. 
"They seem to have taken the issues to heart," she said. 
"In all of this, we are recognizing that we have the same interest ­making {Notre Dame] the best for its workers. " 
Casey Stanton CLAP member 
Krafft said. "So this neutral company will give them the opportunity to be heard." 
The third and final initiative will allow workers to feel more a part of campus life by starting town hall meetings in which new University develop­ments will be discussed. Jenkins will host the first meeting at the end of September, and he will offer four different meeting times so that workers from all shifts will be· able to attend, Krafft said. 
CLAP members seem happy with the progress made but stress that the project is ongo­ing. 
"There's a respectful collab­oration going on here." 
Krafft also said the administra­tion stressed that CLAP and the University do have the same goals. 
~'Right now we're just coming at the issue from two different per­spectives, and it's 

just going to take some time so that we can see things from the same vantage point," he said. 
The University feels it's a very fair employer compared to other institutions in the area, Krafft said, but CLAP still feels there is work to be done in terms of the pay scale. He described the meeting as "very collaborative -not at all antagonistic" which should lead to an even stronger part­nership in the future. 
On Sept. 14, CLAP members met with the Staff Advisory Council in order for the groups to discuss their goals and better understand each 
other. "They [the Staff Advisory Council] sort of represent the 
. whole range of workers on campus, all 3,000, and they had some really great ques­tions for us," Stanton said. "They were interested in exactly what we wanted to do and wanted to know how we thought we could do it," Krafft said. "It was really good knowing that this body of rep­resentatives was really throw­ing its support behind us." Krafft also said thn meeting was a good opportunity to gnt worker contaets, as the organ­ization is in tlw process of .assembling a eoalition of workers to movn the projnet forward. As for the futurn, Stanton stressed that any student interested in talking about labor issues should contact a CLAP leader to join the proj­ect. She also said CLAP's next step is to further involve workers in the process. "The most important thing is relationship-building in terms of really getting to know work­ers in a collective effort," Stanton said. "We're trying to figure out how the economics of it works while at the same time getting to know the work­ers and hearing their stories." Stanton praised last week's meetings with the University as steps toward real progress in the collaborative effort. "In all of this, we are recog­nizing that we have the same interest -making [Notre Dame] the best for its work­ers," she said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Sex~offender captured 
after months of hiding 
Kidnapped girl found in underground bunker 
Associated Press LUGOFF, S.C. -A man suspect­ed of kidnapping a 14-year-old girl and keeping her in an under­ground bunker was charged Sunday with raping the teen, Kershaw County Sheriff Steve McCaskill said. McCaskill said Vinson Filyaw had eluded police with an elaborate system of hideouts and bunkers since November 2005 when he was chargnd with criminal sexual conduct on a 12-ynar-old girl. lie surmndemd Sunday morning to police as he walked along Interstate 20 near Columbia, about five miles from where investigators found the teenager. Police say Filyaw, 36, abducted the girl as she walked home from a sehool bus stop on Sept. 6. Investigators arrested Filyaw in neighboring Hichland County about 24 hours after rescuing the girl, who sent a text message to her mother on Filyaw'-s phone while he was asleep Wednesday, McCaskill said. The sheriff·said Filyaw woke up and the girl still had the phone, but she told him she was simply playing with the phone. Investigators used cell towers to determine a general location of the phone and deputies began search­ing for Filyaw on Friday night. Mc:Ca'lkill said the girl cried out as searchers approached the bunker. "This little lady gntting that mes­
sage out was really the break in 
the case," the sheriff said. "She 
helped herself as much as we 
helped her." 

Police say they still have not interviewed the girl, whose name wa'> previously released when she was a missing person. The Associated Press is not using her name beeausP police have identi­fied her as a victim of sexual 
assault. 

The girl was found Saturday about a mile from her home, hid­den in a booby-trapped, IS-foot­deep hole carved out of the side of a !till and covered with plywood. The bunker had a hand-dug privy with toilet paper, a camp stove and shelves made with cut branches and canvas. 
McCaskill said it looked like 
Filyaw was trying to dig another 
bunker under that one as a possi­
ble backup hiding place, but had to 
abandon it when it filled with 
water. 

Filyaw had dug two bunkers in his own yard and two in the woods and had used them to hide out since he was charged in the assault case in November. 
His girlfriend Cynthia Hall has been charged a'> an accessory and with neglect in the earlier ease, McCaskill said. Investigators say she allowed the earlier assault to take place in her home and provid­ed Filyaw with supplies to live in the bunker. 

Tt·iE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Monday, September 18, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,560.77 +33.38
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,932 134 1,344 3,235,509,260 
AMEX NASDAQ 2.235.59
.. . .

NYSE . 
8,363.45 S&PSOO 1,319.87 
NIKKB(Tokyo) 15,86~l~~ fTSE IOO(Lonclon) 5,877.00 -0.20. 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.36  +0.14  40.11  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.37  -0.27  19.51  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.96  +0.05  5.28  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.97  +0.52  26.85  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -2.25  0.05- 2.17  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.1 0  +0.005  4.798  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  4.815  
30-YEAR BOND  0.00  0.00  4.919  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.38  +0.0 18  4.755  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.11  63.33  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  -3.00  583.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.05  89.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.9300  
EURO  0.7894  
POUND  0.5315  
CANADIAN$  1.1192  

IN BRIEF 
Delphi bankruptcy hearings delayed 
NEW YORK -The bankruptcy court hear­ings to determine whether Delphi Corp. can reject its labor agreements and certain supply contracts with General Motors Corp. have been postponed, the company said on Friday. 
Delphi, which was part of GM until it was spun off in 1999, said the court had granted further adjournments in both cases. It has scheduled a Sept. 28 status conference with the judge presiding over its bankruptcy case. 
Friday was also the deadline for a second wave of UAW-represented Delphi employees to accept buyout offers. About 12,600 hourly employees have already taken early retire­ment offers. 
A call to the UAW was not immediately returned. 
Delphi has about 6,000 employees in Indiana -5,200 workers in Kokomo, with about 2,300 of those being union workers, plus operations in Anderson. 
The decision to postpone the bankruptcy court hearings came after GM, Delphi, and its unions met on Thursday with Judge Robert Drain of the Southern District of New York. 

Medicare changes to strain doctors 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Medicare benefici­aries might soon face a shrinking pool of doc­tors willing to see them because the program's payments to physicians will undergo the first of a series of cuts on Jan. 1. 
The cuts of 5 percent in 2007 and 37 per­cent over the next nine years likely will force some physicians to limit the number of Medicare patients they see. 
A recent survey conducted by the American Medical Association found that 45 percent of the doctors who responded said they would either decrease or stop seeing new Medicare patients if the 5 percent cut goes through. 
"It would be devastating to my practice," said Dr. James LaFollette, who has had a Bloomington family practice for four decades. "Thirty to 40 percent of my patients are on Medicare, and 65 percent are over 50." 
If the cuts are made according to what is called the Medicare sustainable growth rate formula, LaFollette predicts many doctors will stop accepting new Medicare patients -and others will simply leave the profession. 



Outbreak affects buying habits 
Shoppers turn to other produce after recall of E. Coli-contaminated spinach 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Shoppers changed their buying habits Saturday as spinach was pulled from grocery store shelves because of the outbreak of 
E. coli bacteria that had killed one person and sick­ened more than 100 others. 
Natural Selection Foods LLC recalled its packaged spinach throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico as a precaution after federal health ollicials said some of those hospital­ized reported eating brands of prepackaged spinach distributed by the company. 
The oflicials stressed that the bacteria had not been isolated in products sold by the holding company, based in San Juan Bautista, Calif., and known for Earthbound Farm and other brands. As the investigation continues, other brands may be impli­cated, officials said. 
At a Safeway grocery in San Francisco's Potrero Hill neighborhood, many bagged produce shelves were empty Saturday. Anna Cairns said she had to settle for bags of iceberg green lettuce and Caesar salad, instead of her nor­mal salad mix, which con­tained spinach. 

"I have a bag of spinach in my refrigerator I need to throw away," said Cairns, About 7 4 percent of the Washington and Wyoming, supermarket in Meriden, 59, of San Francisco. fresh market spinach according to the CDC. Conn., Michelle Bookey 
Marina Zecevic, 49, of grown in the U.S. comes "We are very, very upset said she frequently buys West Los Angeles, shopping from California, according about this. What we do is spinach for salads for her at a Trader Joe's, said she to the California Farm produce food that we want dieting husband but plans made the mistake of serv­Bureau Federation. There to be healthy and safe for to cook it from now on. ing creamed spinach to her have been previous bacter­consumers, so this is a "It worries me. I don't kids the day the story ial contamination out­tragedy for us," Natural even want to buy lettuce," broke. breaks linked to spinach Selection spokeswoman said Bookey, 36. 
"My sons started accus­and lettuce grown in the Samantha Cabaluna said. Earthbound Farm, which ing me of premeditated state. The FDA advised con­claims it pioneered the murder," she said. Wisconsin accounted for sumers not to eat fresh retail market in pre­
She felt the contamina­nearly a third of the 102 spinach or fresh spinach­washed, bagged salads in tion issue was overblown. reported illnesses, includ­containing products until 1986, says its spinach and 
"The minute we get the ing the lone death, a 77-further notice. Some other products are in 7 4 all clear, the spinach is year-old woman who died restaurants and retailers percent of U.S. grocery back on the table," she of kidney failure. may be taking spinach out stores. said. Other states reporting of bags before selling it, so It also sells spinach to 
The spinach, grown in cases were California, consumers shouldn't buy it restaurants and other California, could have been Connecticut, Idaho, Indi­at all, the FDA said. establishments that serve contaminated in the field or ana, Kentucky, Maine, Boiling contaminated food. The National Rest­during processing, accord­Michigan, Minnesota, New spinach can kill the bacte­aurant Association said ing to the Centers for Mexico, Nevada, New York, ria but washing won't elim­members were pulling Disease Control and Ohio, Oregon, Pennsyl­inate it, the CDC warned. items containing spinach Prevention. vania, Utah, Virginia, At a Stop and Shop from their menus. 

Market up as inflation moderates 
economy is in check, and slowing going to take some of the pressure off Associated Press 
enough for a soft landing. Supporting of inflation going forward," said Alan 
this was the Labor Department's Gayle, senior investment strategist 
NEW YORK -Investors sent shares Consumer Price Index, as well as with Trusco Capital Management. 
near their 2006 highs on Friday after Friday's release of the University of "This kind of data is going to be very 
benign inflation data and low oil prices Michigan's consumer sentiment report supportive of that policy strategy, and 
boosted confidence that the Federal and the Fed's industrial production should allow the Fed to keep with a 
Reserve will keep interest rates numbers. state interest rate policy for now." 
unchanged at its meeting next week. Although many stock strategists say In preliminary calculations, the Dow 
Stocks finished the week broadly the markets already expect the Fed to Jones industrial average advanced 
higher in its strongest winning streak keep rates steady, they do suggest the 33.38, or 0.29 percent, to 11,560.77, 
in more than a month, putting the central bank's assessment of the econ­leaving it 162.21 points away from its 
Dow Jones industrial average 162 omy next week could set the tone for high close of 11,722. 98, reached Jan. 
points away from its all-time closing the remainder of the year. Central 14, 2000. 
high. Wall Street remained upbeat bankers refrained from raising rates Among broader indexes, the 
heading into next Wednesday's Fed when they last met on Aug. 8 after 17 Standard & Poor's 500 index added 
meeting, where central bankers are straight hikes in two years. 3.59, or 0.27 percent, closing at 
expected to keep rates unchanged. 'The Fed, in my view, has put their 1,319.87. The Nasdaq composite index 
Data released in recent weeks has stake in the ground with their forecast rose 6.86, or 0.31 percent, to 
increasingly backed projections the of decelerating economic growth is 2,235.59. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 18, 2006 
sub-Saharan Africa, though said. "We also have what are In concluding her talk, "Be a voice for the children. only 10 percent of the world's called SOS villages." Opwonya spoke of what an Foster a child, volunteer time.
Africa 
continued from page 1 
Hesburgh Center for Peace Studies. 
Opwonya began her lecture, which was hosted by the Kellogg Institute's African Working Group, by saying that though she has worked with both adult and children HIV patients, she has "always had a special interest in the chil­dren." 
''I've found out that children that don't have AIDS are lucky children," population resides there. 

A large part of Opwonya's talk consisted of the personal stories of several of her AIDS patients. Opwonya told of young children -some no older than 10 -looking after their dying HIV-positive par­ents. She related specific accounts of the way in which AIDS psychologically damaged certain children. 
One father pulled his son out of school because the boy had AIDS and the father saw no reason to pay tuition fees, Opwonya told the 
Opwonya said.  "Be a voice for the  audience. She also  
"If they fall sick from malaria they are treated  children. Foster a child, volunteer  spoke of families without parents, with several chil­ 
and  they  are  time. Feed or clothe  dren being cared  
fine in five days ... Children with  a child."  for by an adoles­cent sibling .  
pneumonia are treated and in  Miriam Laker Opwonya  Abuse another  was major  
five  days they  Ugandan doctor  topic in Opwonya's  

are OK and go home. Children who get frac­tures are treated and they are fine and go home, but chil­dren with HIV I AIDS are going to be sick everyday and because of that I felt drawn to them." 
The title and theme of Opwonya's talk was "Who will speak for us?" Though scores of African children suffer from AIDS, it is the adults who get the most attention, she said -similar to the situ­ation when free antiretroviral drugs became available in Uganda three years ago. 
At first, said Opwonya, the drugs came in only adult dosages. 
"We had to break the tablets up into small pieces, opening up capsules and measuring amounts for children ... That is because no one has spoken up for the children," said 
lecture. She cited 
one case in whieh 

daughters were defiled by their HIV-positive father. In another instance, Opwonya told of a girl who died from AIDS because her parents stopped administering the proper drugs to her. Still another of Opwonya's stories described an HIV-positive child that died simply because the parents could not afford antibiotics when the child fell sick with pneumonia. 
The heart-wrenching stories that Opwonya told illustrated the injustices that so many African children experience because of AIDS and because they -the children -are often overlooked. 
"It is really important to know that children who are born with HIV can live to grow up," Opwonya said. "We have a number who are now in university ... because they 
These villages, she said, individual in her audience Feed or clothe a child," she hire unmarried single women might be able to do for the said. to head families of' orphaned crisis facing African children, children and bncome a foster cautioning the audience to Contact Maureen Mullen at mother to these children. choose a reputable charity. mmullenl@nd.edu 
LIVE AND STUDY 

5-6 PM Wednesday, September 20 129 Hayes-Healy or 
5-6 PM Tuesday, October 3 129 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Opwonya. "[AIDS] is seen as an adult's problem and not a child's problem." 
Opwonya presented her audience with staggering sta­tistics concerning the num­bers of African children affected by HIV -like the 89 percent of HIV-infected chil­dren in the world living in have been looked after well." 

Opwonya also spoke of all that is being done, the many organizations that are helping to change present conditions in sub-Saharan Africa. In Uganda, "orphanages Nsambya and Sanyu Babies' Home -are looking after many AIDS orphans," she 

GaiDe 
continued from page 1 
low points -there was a lowest point. 
"The worst was when the backups came in and showed no pride," Bartkus said. 
The season, however, is far from over. Students have been able to retain some hope in the face of defeat. Ochoa said she is still "very excited for the season." 
And Saturday's loss marks just one chapter in a large 2006 football novel -the Irish will write the next one at Michigan State next week. For Bartkus, the season rests on the Nov. 25 University of Southern California game. 

"Although there is business to take care of beforehand, the game at USC has become a statement game," he said. 
While the jubilance that normally characterizes the Notre Dame student section was absent, most students still stuck around to the end. They draped their arms around each other, hoarsely sang the Alma Mater and looked forward to what they hope might still be a suc­cessful season. 
"Although I was expecting Brady Quinn to deliver me a graduation present of a national championship," sen­ior Sam Francis said, "a BCS bowl game will do." 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2007, SPRING 2008, A Y 2007-8, SUMMER2007 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, September 19,2006 
5:30 pm 102 DeBartolo 
Contact Patrick Cassidy at pcassidy@nd.edu 
Write for Ne:~Ws. 
..{.-. ~:~rL;=·::Yt~::#i< 

Call/i,,iii::Mar 

~t 63ie5323. 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 MARCH I, 2007 FOR SUMMER 2007 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
VENEZUELA 
Ahmadinejad praises Chavez for rebelling against U.S. 
Associated Press 
CARACAS -Iran's president praised Venezuelan leader Hugo Chavez for his firm oppo­sition to the United States on Sunday, promising to deepen an alliance that is helping Tehran fight U.S. moves to rein in its nuclear program. 

President Makmoud Ahmadinejad called Chavez "my brother" and "the champion of the struggle against imperial­ism." 
The two leaders met as both were preparing to travel to New York for this week's U.N. General Assembly. 
"We have thoughts, objectives and interests in common," Ahmadinejad said. "We must be united to be able to make these ideas reality with the aim of achieving justice and peace." 
Venezuelan and Iranian offi­cials signed a series of accords, including agreements for Tehran to help Venezuela devel­op oil fields. The governments plan to build factories to pro­duce everything from bricks to 
Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
VVednesday,Sept20,2006 5:30 pm-7:00pm 102 DeBartolo 
!students in the College of AL & BA onlyl 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 for Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
bicycles, and have agreed to set up a $2 billion investment fund. 
Chavez and Ahmadinejad spoke through a live television link with Iranian businessmen who are helping build a $250 million cement plant in the eastern state of Monagas. They also watched as a Venezuelan Muslim knelt and prayed in a new mosque opened at a joint petrochemical plant. 
Chavez honored the Iranian leader with a medal and demanded that the U.S. destroy its own nuclear arsenal instead of harassing Iran about a nuclear program that he said is purely for producing electricity. 
"Iran is not making an atomic bomb," Chavez said. "The ones that have many atomic bombs, and I repeat, many, are precise­ly the U.S. imperialists and their allies in the world." 
Iran insists its nuclear research is aimed solely at peaceful uses despite concerns among U.S. and European gov­ernments that it could be trying to develop nuclear weapons. 
"I salute all the revolutionar­ies who oppose world hegemo­ny," Ahmadinejad said through an interpreter, apparently referring to the United States. 
Ahmadinejad and other Middle Eastern leaders are backing Venezuela's bid for a 
U.N. Security Council seat, which would give Chavez a plat­form to battle a U.S. drive for sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. 


Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 
Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross cornmunity at Notre Dan1e for an hour ofpraye1; pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 

Questions? call 1-6385 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 18, 2006 
AFGHANISTAN 

Mission pronounced a success 
NATO drives Taliban insurgents back-but victims are plenty 
Associated Press 
KABUL -NATO said Sunday that its two-week offensive in south Afghanistan was a "sig­nificant success" that had driv­en Taliban insurgents from their positions and opened the way for development. But vio­lence was unabated, with sui­cide bombers killing two civil­ians and wounding six soldiers. 
Militants also took control of a district in the west of the coun­try after chasing away the police, an official said, in an apparent attempt to open a new front. 
The developments came as the country is going through its bloodiest phase since the U.S.­led invasion ousted the hard­line Taliban from power in 2001. 
Lt. Gen. David Richards, head of the 20,000-strong NATO-led force in Afghanistan, said the insurgents have been forced out of the volatile former Taliban heartland, and reconstruction and development efforts there would soon begin. 
Alliance officials have said more than 500 militants were killed during the two-week operation, centered mainly in Panjwai, Pashmul and Zhari districts of southern Kandahar province. 
Two foreign military convoys in different areas came under attack from suicide bombers, a method frequently used by insurgents in Iraq. 
A 17-year-old carrying explo­sives jumped in front of a U.S. military convoy east of Kabul, killing a bystander and wound­ing three American soldiers, Afghan police said. 
Earlier in the day, a suicide bomber plowed his explosive­laden vehicle into a Canadian military convoy in southern Afghanistan, killing one civilian and wounding three soldiers. 
The bomber targeted the con­voy west of Kandahar city, said Zulmai Khan, a police official at the scene. Eight civilians were also hurt in the blast, police said. 
Most of Afghanistan's recent surge in violence has taken place in volatile southern provinces, where some 8,000 NATO forces took military con­trol from the U.S.-led coalition on Aug. 1. NATO commanders say they need another 2,500 troops plus greater air support to crush the Taliban threat more quickly. 
Richards said the end of the southern offensive should open the way for much needed reconstruction and develop­ment in areas where the central government has been unable to reach. 
But some 400 heavily armed Taliban crossed into the west­ern Farah province, taking con­trol of its Gulistan district after chasing away the police and burning the district headquar­ters and a local clinic, provin­cial police chief Gen. Sayed Aqa Saqib said. No casualties were reported. 
"We are hoping the govern­ment will send more troops, because there are too many Taliban in the area," Saqib told The Associated Press over the phone. 
Gen. Sher Mohammad Karimi, the Afghan army's chief of operations, acknowledged that the Taliban "were not all destroyed" and that some have called Big Northern Wind has simply slipped away into other been under way in Kunar areas. "They may reorganize province's Korangal Valley since but our troops will follow," late August. Karimi said. The Taliban, al-Qaida and 

Richards ruled out immedi­other Islamic extremist groups ately pursuing the Taliban hold­are known to operate in the outs. east, especially in the area bor­
"We will not dance to the dering Pakistan where the Taliban's tune," Richards said. reach of the government is "They want to deflect us and weak and militants find sanctu­take us away. We won't let them aries. do that." The renewed American push 
The end of one operation to defeat the Taliban-led insur­coincided with a start of a new gency comes nearly five years 
U.S. and Afghan offensive in the after the hard-line militia was east of the country. ousted from pownr. 
Dubbed Operation Mountain Separately, the mutilated Fury, the new offensive involves body of an Afghan engineer 7,000 U.S. and Afghan soldiers who had worked for a local aid in the central and eastern agency was found Sunday in provinces of Paktika, Khost, Ghazni province, where he had Ghazni, Paktya and Logar, the been kidnapped earlier in the military said. Fighter planes week by suspectod Taliban mili­and helicopters will back the tants, said Ali Ahmad Fakuri, ground forces. the provincial governor's 
A separate U.S.-led operation spokesman. 
Parents of enslaved catnel jockeys file suit 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Hulers of the United Arab Emirates were accused in a lawsuit of enslaving tens of thousands of boys over three decades and forcing them to work as jockeys in the popular sport of camel racing. 
The lawsuit was filed last week by unnamed parents of boys suspected of being abducted, sold and enslaved. They claim more than 30,000 boys could have been victim­ized and seek class-action status. 
The lawsuit alleges Sheikh Mohammed bin Hashid al Maktoum, the crown prince of Dubai, and Sheikh Ilamdan bin Hashid al Maktoum, the deputy ruler, were the most active perpetrators. 
The lawsuit was filed in Miami because the members of the royal family maintain hundreds of horses at farms in Ocala. The suit seeks unspecified damages. 
Calls to the United Arab Emirates embassy in Washington, D.C., were not answered and it was not pos­sible to leave a telephone message after hours. A tele­phone message left at a Kentucky farm owned by the crown prince was not returned. 
John Andres Thornton, co­counsel for the children, said the crown prince was served with the lawsuit Monday while buying horses in Kentucky. 
The lawsuit claims the boys were taken largely from Bangladesh and Pakistan, were held at desert camps in the UAE and other Persian Gulf nations, and forced to work. It claims some boys were sexually abused, given limited food and sleep and injected with hormones to prevent their growth. 

At Huron our people are our greatest asset. We invest in your development from technical 
expertise to your personal and professional development. We help you enable your 
current abilities and develop them to reach your highest potential. As an employer we 
value personal growth. And we know you will continue to grow with us. 
Huron Consulting Group helps clients effectively address complex challenges that arise in 
litigation, disputes, investigation, regulatory compliance, procurement, financial distress, 
and other sources of significant conflict or change. The Company also helps clients 
deliver superior customer and capital market performance through integrated strategic, 
operational, and organizational change. Huron provides services to a wide variety of both 
financially sound and distressed organizations, including Fortune 500 companies, 
medium-sized businesses, leading academic institutions, healthcare organizations, 
and the law firms that represent these various organizations. 
Notre Dame Majors we want to talk to: 
'CPA Ready' Accounting, Finance, Economics, Engineering, MIS, CAPP, Math 
September 18th 
Huron Consulting Group Information Session 21 0 McKenna Hall (Center for Continuing Education) 6:00PM -8:00PM 
Please visit our web site and recruitment feature for in depth information about Huron. 
www.huronconsultinggroup.com/careers 
We offer a competitive compensation and benefits package that includes medical/ dental/vision, 401 (k), stock purchase, and a generous vacation and personal/sick plan. Huron Consulting Group is an equal opportunity employer. We recruit, employ, compensate, transfer, promote and train without regard to race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, marital status, pregnancy, disability, sexual orientation, veteran status, age, FMLA status or any other basis protected by law. 
HU'ton Con!Su~Hng Gn::rup hQip!S t:!ls:<r:l~ -e!feet:vely .ldilr&~i cOornple)!: t:h:etl~mgfl-!1. thet ..1~n 1~ hbqeUtm. di&J:;41tfl'IS, tn>o-~&$:Y9~mo~s. t13gUI.t~cry ¢<>mp~~.n.CQ. proc:f.i:rn~r~t 
!Stt~:"K:~: d~'$treu. ,a.~.;j t'"th~t tl>i3~~31' ot:!' 'j.~'*~QM~ t:::tl:r:fl:~d w r.:<~G~<& t~:s Ctnn!'4ny ui•o httiP$ d<:sN~li d~kv~ ~;!Up-EtMot ¢1i!i;tome.r ttl'm t:~pf~ m~~<,e1 pert~.anr.:~ tl':"W!:~ 
:rm)WGt.~d ll~•.at~!e;, ¢ptt:f8l~r:.B;!, ~ne O:H~M~t$'.t~ri.!SI t.1\.lM'1<JI.t. H.u~~m 1-~tQ:~"i-du:~:S. ~~~* 10: a w!t'UI -v.-~i•tf' of b~~h t!ne~,c~-tn~ wu~9 lfs>.~ f.Hfa~~'$~ l)ll·~nitali<1fl:%. m~ud1n!) 
f¢rit~OO ~00 c(:lmp~r:~n$c-, mtS:dt~un-li:sttl:tS b-~lJI<l&~l'l~tQ$1. !e,A:«:i~l1t !:tC~~m~~ IAS.tl:ls.m·-!ll't&:. Pl&s:lnc.aro ~rg:l3f'lilJI~t)n$, >1tt;j tts:~ ~#w t1tmt. ttli$1 t•Pt•$4t~ll!'t:a$:$C! YM~~.;;:*: otq:.atl~lbtf~a. 
www.huf'onconsultinggroup.com 
1~866-229-8700 

Huren 
CONSULTING GROUP 

Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

r 

•

1r 
* 
Learn more about Erin Towery and ten us more about you. Visit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your ~ifie. You can bring it with you. 
.,B 
~11' .~';, 
#", 
~ 
'!<
,. 
"' 
1:" 
.~. ~ 
t,

,, 
'~ 
.',~ 
' 

*connectedthinking 

,~_·. 20f)f:\ Pric.-e->N.af.etfxx.t."~"-")f..P.e.rS LLP. AH Mg~·l"ts t-es&nled. "f~:.eV:i-Rterho~JSt''~Coo-~·· refer'S t<"~ PriGe\t"·a£e.rhOl!S.eC~X'P(\~fs LLP (& ~wan:::: fkni~P.rl ~iabiHty psrtne~rship} or,. as the Ct)ntt!X1 reqtllres. tJie Pticsw-ciarh.ot.~-.seC...~~et>s g~~ n(,ft\.\rork or -l')iher rne.rf:'!')er f~rm-s of the :t1~~b..vc;:r+K.. aat;h -of "-'th'cM ~sa W,;.tlrat~ rm-::~ ?r:ttte·pend·e~t !l'.;ga~ t?..rifi1y~ "cor:ni:7-'Ci-t;dth~n.f:;tng ~sa t~-adarnark of Pricewatert\\)V~eCcn;pers LLP (\..iS) ~\~are p.ro:ud to ba en Aff,.rn~abve Ac1ton :nnd E~P.i 0Pt'7(Xt4Jnil1 f:mpioy~. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, September 18, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Benedict's benign quotation
Tin Independent, D4ily Newspapn Serving Notre Dame 11nd Sai,.t Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

leads to Muslim consternation 
MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: R.ama Gonumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHicS EDITOR: Jeff Alber; 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER; Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 

ScENE DESK _, · 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and muse include contact information. 
Qz=tiom regarding Observerpolicies shouU be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS )99 2-4000) is puhli.shed Monday through Friday a.ccpr during exam and vacation periods. A subscription w Th~ Observer is S 100 for one .a.cademic year; $55 for one !oeffiCSter. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corr«tions ro: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Ttu:O~rvt:r 
Periodical postage paid at Noue Dame: P.O.Boxm 
and .tddirional mailing offices. 024 Soorh Dining Hall • 
No~«"= Dame, IN •!65S6-0-n9 
1be Obscrvc:r is a membc:r of the Associated PtCS5. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Eileen Duffy Chris Khorey 
Laura Chris Hine Baumgartner Michael Bryan Steve Kerins Scene 
Viewpoint Cassie Belek 
Lianna 
Brauweiler Graphics Jeff Albert 
On Sept. 12, just one day after-the fifth anniversary of the attacks on the United States by Muslim extremists, Pope Benedict XVI gave a speech at the University of Regensburg that has shaken the relationship between the Catholics and Muslims of the world. His lecture entitled "Faith, Reason and the University Memories and Reflections" is an excellent survey of the history of various philosophers and the­ologians attempting to reconcile the gaps between faith and rea­son. It is an excellent lecture except for one sticking point: a quote used partway through the speech from a conversation that took place in the 
· 14th century. This conversation purport­edly took place between Byzantine emper­or Paleologus and an "educated Persian." In it, Paleologus blasts Islam with his chal­lenge to the Persian: "Show me just what Mohammed brought that was new, and there you will fmd things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached." 
The rather unnecessary use of this quote was a serious oversight. The Pope was simply using this quote as a means to an end in the discussion; it had nothing to do with the fact that Islam was targeted in the quote. It merely was an illustration that "not to act in accordance with reason is contrary to God's nature." 
Unfortunately, to many in the Islamic community, it had everything to do with the fact that Islam was the subject reli­gion. In a world where terms such as "Islamofacism" are being coined and Muslims are being held in Guantanamo Bay without benefit of a trial or accusation of a crime, this quote is a wedge in the ever-growing rift between the Islamic community and the rest of the world. A<> a religious and political figure, the Pope's words are subject to extreme scrutiny and occasional misinterpretation. With this in mind, it is puzzling that he chose this par­ticular discussion, relevant as it may be, to cite in his lecture. 


However, he did. And it seems to have unraveled the hard work that Pope Benedict XVI has put into interfaith dia­logues, despite his recently heartlillt but perhaps unsatisl)ring apology. This will be a sore subject that repeatedly comes up in future discussions with Muslim scholars and leaders. But this is more than just a sore subject and a loss of Papal political capital; it has led to protests and violence in various parts of the globe. 
Churches were firebombed along the Gaza Strip in direct response to the quote. Denunciation of the Pope from leaders in Pakistan, Lebanon and Turkey were all issued promptly. Even the killing of a nun in Somalia is suspected to also be part of the backlash. This wave of violence in the Islamic world as a reflection of outrage harkens back to the publication of Danish cartoons depicting Mohammed earlier this year. The death toll for the ensuing vio­lence over the cartoon was roughly 150. 
Here's what boggles the mind now as much as then: why are some in the Muslim world protesting accusations of Islam being a violent religion with vio­lence? 
Islam is not a violent religion. It profess­es intense faith, charity, scholarship and desire for peace. The problem is that this is not what is displayed in the media. 
What most see is the death toll from Islamic insurgents, the results of the latest 
'sectarian violence' in Iraq and the preaching of extremist leaders who per­vert the Qur'an's teachings for their per­sonal agendas. Of course none of these things are really aspects of Islam any 
more than the IRA's violent tactics were reflections of the teachings of Catholicism. 
It's a great irony that the fundamentalist groups who profess a union of church and state have in fact managed to take all the true meaning of their religion out of their religion leaving only slanted political read­ings of the core text that go against every true value of the religion. Whether it be Christian fanatics who bomb abortion clin­ics, Muslims who run planes into buildings or Jews who use an 'any means necessary' approach to defending their homeland of Israel. All these violent acts in the name of religion make us ask the questions: "What do we actually believe? What does it mean to have faith? Is it still something possible in the modern world? ... In the end, we can no longer see the forest for the trees." This quotation is obviously not my own. It was said by a man far more intelligent and well versed in religious issues than I: Pope Benedict XVI. He said this the same day that he benignly used a quote that offend­ed the Islam world. Extreme members of Islam then proceeded to yet again miss the forest for the trees. 
Wlll McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters of support, disdain or otherwise relevant commentary should be forwarded to him at mcauliffe.4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL 
How will Notre Dame finish the football season? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Excess on occasion is exhilarating. It prevents moderation from acquiring the deadening effect ofa habit. " 
W. Somerset Maugham playwright 

\ 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 18, 2006 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Overpopulation column disputed 
Population shrinking 
In her Thursday column, "Big families equal big trouble," Liz Coffey makes a number of wrong assumptions concerning the nature of population growth and use of natural resourc~s. They are assumptions that are often made and, because they lead to the deaths of countless children worldwide, must be corrected. 
First, while natural resources are finite, our ability to manipulate them with ever-increasing efficiency is not. Ifwe possessed today only the farming technology of 1900, much of the world's population would indeed be starving. But thanks to tremendous improvements in farming techniques all across the world, the world has never been better fed. This is not to say there are not disparities and a need for further improvement. But there is no reason to expect that the rate of technological improvement will slow in the future, at least while the earth's population is still rising. 
Second, the world will not continue to grow at its current rate. As people across the globe grow wealthier, they will naturally have fewer children. The population of the United States would be declining if it were not for our huge influx of immigrants. And most of Europe and Russia is hemorrhaging population. The challenge by the end of this century will probably be to keep the world's population from declining. If this happens, we will lose the added brainpower that keeps technological progress going strong. 
Predicting the end of the world is a great way to attract attention. It worked for Malthus two hundred years ago, and it works today. But with theories of population mayhem proven wrong again and again, why should we believe them now? 
Tim Wymore senior Zahm Hall Sept. 14 
Charity will save world 

It is surprising that Liz Coffey, in her argument against large families, employs the example of Thomas Malthus, when-as she admits-his predictions were vastly incorrect, such that one would expect his credibil­ity as a social scientist to be lessened somewhat. But Coffey reissues the Malthusian error unaltered: the human race is outstripping a closed set of resources, with woeful consequences to follow; the only solution is to reduce the human race. 
A better response is to question why Malthus failed so miserably, in the hopes of learning·from him. To take two examples: what Malthus could not havepredicted mathematically was the incredible effect of human inven­tion on the stock and use of resources; and what many should have predicted is the too-familiar effect of wealth on human concupiscence. 
Therefore: Malthus firstly miscalculated because in his stock-taking of earth's goods he did not adequately include human intelligence, which is not materially limited; every new birth increments need finitely, but it is also the birth of a mind, which adds an infinite potential to resources. 
Secondly, neither is human desire limited. When more is available, people tend to want more, as Coffey unin­tentionalLy demonstrates: the United States, she says, does not have the highest birth rate, but has the highest rate of consumption. But this very fact leads to the discovery that consumption is not proportional; quite the contrary. The United States has dropped nearly to replacement rate, and most of Europe is well below it, such that the West is committing civilizational suicide; and consumption has merely increased in response. A family of three can easily out-consume one of seven, simply because there is no limit to human greed. • 
That is, no limit except for the virtue of charity, among whose many effects in marriage are fruitfulness and sacrifice, which find in the necessities of a large family thrift and creativity they could not have imagined in the plenty of a small. Charity is, as ever, the only way the world can be saved, materially or spiritually, whatever its population. 
Patrick Gardner groo student off-campus Sept. 14 
Loving children is not selfish 
Liz Coffey claims that "America is one of the leading killers in the ongoing mur­der of Mother Earth" in her Sept. 14 edi­torial ("Big families equal big trouble"). According to Coffey, the culprits for this slaughter are big families. She indulges in the fear mongering typical of pseudo­scientists of the 60s and 70s who predict­ed an imminent global catastrophe caused by population growth. This "sci­ence" has proved to be wrong: their pre­dictions failed to take into account the advances in agriculture, science, and technology that have occurred since then. If population has increased over the last century, then food production has exploded. The UN Population Division 2001 report, "World Population Monitoring 2001," stated: "From 1900 to 2000, world population grew from 1.6 billion to 6.1 billion persons. However, while world population increased close to 4 times, world real gross domestic prod­uct [actual output of goods and service] increased 20 to 40 times, allowing the world not only to sustain a fourfold popu­lation increase but also to do so at vastly higher standards of living." The truth is that humanity is in no danger of becom­ing extinct because of overpopulation and big families. Coffey's claim that "having six kids is selfish" is not only false, but offensive and illogical as well. I have six siblings. My youngest three brothers are adopted. My parents' choice to adopt three inner-city children and love them as their own was anything but selfish. My parents have given much of their love, time, and yes, valuable resources, to provide them with a fair shot at life. Coffey acts as if it would've been better if my brothers had been left on the dangerous streets of drug-ridden neighborhoods. Back in the slums, my brothers wouldn't be using up nearly as much of the world's resources and "has­tening its death." In light of this, Liz Coffey's accusation of selfishness is grossly insulting. 
I wouldn't mind, however, if Coffey would follow her own advice and have only one or two children. At least then her ignorant attitudes wouldn't be passed on to much of the next generation. 
Joe Falvey 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Sept. 14 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Honor tradition 
OK, so the game was not pretty, let's get that out first. It will be analyzed to death by ESPN, every sportswriter in America, my grandmother and that kid that sits behind you in your 9:30 history class. Everyone will have an opinion about what went wrong, and I guess I am no different. My disappointment how­ever, lies not with the team, but with the fans -the student body in particular. In fact, I was so saddened by the lack of energy displayed by the students that it prompted me to write this letter. I started my collegiate career at Notre Dame in the fall of 1996. So for those of you who keep track of such informa­tion, I was here for the last season of Lou Holtz (8-3) and the first two seasons of the Bob Davie era (7-6 and 9-2; I was gone for the harsh 5 and 7 '99 season). I returned to the University this past January, looking forward to cheering on the Irish again come fall. After six long seasons away from the stadium, it was awe-inspiring to again be a part of the amazing tradition that is the student section at the University. But that awe was dulled this week as I watched senior after senior leaving the game before half time or during the third quarter. For the majority of the game, there was little to no cheering coming from the entire senior section. I overheard comments such as ''I'd rather go drink at Legend's then watch this." The low point for me came when we allowed the 5,000 or so Michigan fans to be louder then the entire student section, with chants of "why so quiet" and "overrated." I look around and see thousands of fans proudly sporting The Shirt with its proclamation of "Tradition," and I wonder do we really know what tradition is, or worse yet, do we care? Coach Weis and the players started a tradition last week of having the team sing the Alma Mater with the student body. It is a beautiful scene, and I hope that it holds as the years go by, but I couldn't help but notice how empty the seats around me were as the band played at the end of this week's game. I know how fleeting it is that we get the chance to be a part of something as amazing and inspiring as Notre Dame football, and I pity those seniors who will regret leaving even two min­utes early when they look back on their time at Notre Dame. You may return for games as an alum, but it is and never will be the same. Treasure your time here, treasure the traditions and the history. 
Megan Paulsen senior off-campus Sept. 16 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 18, 2006 
page 14 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Crossword devotees shine in documentary 
ture, including Ken Burns, Jon Stewart, Mike Mussina and Bill Clinton. All of these men have a great appreciation for Shurtz and the New York Times crossword, espe­cially Stewart, whose segments are hilari­ous. Calling himself a "Times puzzle man," he remarks that he'll do the USA Today puzzle if he's in a hotel, but adds that "I won't feel good about myself." 
"Wordplay" is about more than Shurtz, however, as it also focuses on competitors in the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. Four competitors in particu­
lar -Tyler Hinman, 


By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

At once engrossing and informative, Patrick Creadon's "Wordplay" is a taut and fast-paced documentary about Will Shurtz, the crossword puzzle editor for The New York Times. 
The film opens with a brief history of the crossword puzzle before concentrating on Shurtz, who holds a degree in Enigmatology (puzzle-solving, the only 
degree of its kind) from the University of Indiana. He has been crossword editor of The Times since 1993. Shurtz is charis­matic, intelligent and well-spoken, and his under­standing of puzzles is nearly unparal­
Ellen Ripstein, Norman

Wordplay 

"Trip" Payne and AI Sanders -become the focus of the film. These people are interesting and quirky (as anyone Director: Patrick Creadon who enters the ACPT 
Writer: Patrick Creadon would likely have to be), Starring: Will Shortz, Bill Clinton, Jon but share a love for Stewart and Bob Dole puzzles and an ultra-
competitive mentality. 

leled. Were the documentary solely focused on him, it would still be entertain­ing in its own right, but "Wordplay" has much more on its mind. 
Celebrities abound throughout the pic-
Ripstein is a nerdy baton-twirler with radiant confidence. She remarks that a boyfriend made fun of her passion, to which she replies, "What are you the best in the world at?" 


Payne is a three-time ACPT winner, who at 24 was the youngest champion ever. Sanders is·a father and businessman who does the New York Times crossword every night (usually in under three minutes). Hinman is a 20-year-old Rutgers student who is striving to replace Payne as the youngest ACPT champion. 
Once the film shifts into the crossword competition, the film takes on a whole dif­ferent kind of life -the final crossword competition is surprisingly tense thanks to Creadon's approach, which emphasizes character. 
The audience by this time has gotten to know each of the three competitors, all of whom have the drive and ambition. Viewers at once want everyone to win and don't want any to lose, a testament to Creadon's sense of character. 
The most fascinating aspect of the film is the relationship between building the puzzles and solving the puzzles. Merl Heagle, a brilliant puzzle constructor, demonstrates the intricacies that go into the making of a crossword puzzle. His skill and intelligence is obvious, though he clearly loves what he does and is very good at it. At one point while driving, he casually remarks that moving the "D" of Dunkin Donuts to the end of the word makes it spell Unkind Donuts. 
The scenes that show puzzles being solved are adroitly handled. Audiences see a graphic of a puzzle being solved, which allows them to follow along -rather than be vertiginous and confusing (as it easily could have been), these scenes are direct and easy to follow. 
"Wordplay" was an official selection at the Sundance Film Festival and is a likely candidate for a Best Documentary Academy Award nomination. Creadon has proven himself to be quite a good film­maker, and unlike Morgan Spurlock and Michael Moore, he does not feel the need to make himself the focus of his own movie. After all, he knows he has a unique subject and approaches it with vigor and zeal. 
"Wordplay" is an excellent film, not just for people who care about puzzles, but for people who care about movies and, per­haps most importantly, for people who care about people. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THEATER REVIEW 

AFTLS' 'Hamlet' strips production to basics 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Critic  cate the character (for example, Horatio always wears a striped scarf.). There is only one sound effect  played by the same actor. The cast does its best to involve the audience as much as they can. They take  laugh at the fact that the infamous Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are played by the same actor, or chuckle  
throughout the entire show, and it's  advantage of Washington Hall's thrust  when Ophelia mocks her father by fin­ 
As the Actors from the London Stage  achieved by an unoccupied actor in the  stage as characters walk straight onto  ishing his famous speech to Laertes with  
lined up on stage this past weekend,  back, not by the sound system. Instead,  the stage from the audience. The main  him. Even Polonius continuously inter­ 
sans costume and quickly calling off the  the cast makes the rest of the environ­ lights are left fairly high. It is as easy to  rupting Claudius as he attempts to kiss  
multiple parts they played, it was clear  ment themselves. The  see your fellow audience  Gertrude benefits from this added  
this wasn't the production most people imagine when they think of "Hamlet."  breaks between scenes are not marked by the  AFTLS aims to simplify  members as the actors. The actors nearly always  humor. The cast's own take on the come­dy combined with Shakespeare's original  
There would be no large sets, elaborate costumes or any great distance between the audience and the performers. Instead there would a fundamental and  dimming of lights, but instead the actors whisper lines in con­cert.  its productions of Shakespeare in order to present his plays as  face out to the audience instead of in to themselves. This makes the encounter between Hamlet and the  wit create a fluid, comical performance that exceeds the average expectations for the work. Occasionally, the oversimplification of  
strong production of what could arguably be called Shakespeare's most famous play.  AFTLS also limits the number of actors it uses. "Hamlet" may  close to the originals as possible.  ghost of his father particu­larly strong ­both charac­ters face the audience  the play tests the limits of its audience. There are some walls the audience needs help over, but in general it creates  
AFTLS aims tq simplify its productions  include over twenty- straight on. Finally, the  a wonderful approach.  
of Shakespeare in order to present his  five roles, ranging from Hamlet himself  actors crack the fourth wall and address  With so many productions of "Hamlet"  
plays as close to the originals as possi­ to the sailor that delivers letters, but the  the audience directly. All this allows the  available, it is relieving to know that  
ble. The stage has no set. In fact actors  company has only five actors. This adds  audience a more active participation'in  there is one that is left so uncomplicated  
who are not currently performing do not  several elements to the play. Sometimes  the events unfolding on stage ­ they are  that the actors can have a conversation  
even leave the stage, but instead sit in  it is humorous. There are· times when  not simply watching action pass in front  with  their  audience,  leaving  
chairs at the back. There are also very  actors  must  address  themselves.  of them.  Shakespeare's actual work to rise above  
few props  -swords are gloves and  Sometimes it adds depth to the play. The  While AFTLS does try to remain true  it.  
shovels  are mimed. The actors wear  primarily off-stage character Fortinbras  to the original spirit of the text, the  
basic, functional, modern clothing and  is often considered one of Hamlet's  group also adds in its own interpreta­ Contact Michelle Fordice at  
simply add a small piece or prop to indi­ strongest foils and the two parts are  tions and comedy. One cannot help but  mfordice@nd.edu  


NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 18, 2006 BSERVER Michigan 47, Notre Dame 21 
Beaten and blue 
Michigan throttles Notre Dame 47-21, dims Irish national title hopes 

By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Another week, another Big Ten blowout -this time with opposite results. Led by wide receiver Mario Manningham 's three touchdown recep­tions, No. 11 Michigan capitalized on five Notre Dame turnovers to rout the No. 2 Irish 47-21 Saturday. 
Heisman hopeful Brady Quinn threw three interceptions -two to senior line­backer Prescott Burgess -as the Irish offense never found its rhythm, totaling 245 yards -including just four rushing -for the day. 
With the score tied 7-7 in the first quarter, Henne found Manningham for the go-ahead touchdown on a 69-yard fly down the sideline, from which the Irish never recovered. Though after the game Irish coach Charlie Weis said they had a "deep alert" on the play, the receiver soundly beat senior corner Ambrose Wooden before the catch, as the Irish secondary could not defend the big play, giving up its first of three 20 yard-plus touchdown receptions to Manningham before halftime. Manningham is the first player to haul in three scores against Notre Dame since Pat Fitzgerald of Texas in 1995. 
"I was able to run a good route and get by the defender," said Manningham about his 69-yard score. "I put a good move on him to get his hips turned and then I was able to get by him." 
On the heels of a blocked extra point by senior defensive tackle Derek Landri after Manningham's first score, sopho­more David Grimes fumbled the ensuing kickoff and with it the game. Four plays and two Irish penalties after Michigan cornerback Morgan Trent recovered to set the Wolverines up at the Irish 27, running back Michael Hart dove over top of the line to make the score 20-7. Hart also added 124 yards on 31 carries to balance a Wolverine attack that out­gained Notre Dame 340 yards to 245. 
"I have a lot of respect for Coach Carr and his staff," Weis said. "I think it's really important to understand that that team just came and just whooped us pretty good. They deserve their just due." 
With the score at 34-7 with under two minutes left in the first half, Notre Dame finally put together a scoring drive, com­pleting four consecutive completions for first downs, highlighted by sophomore David Grimes' leaping catch at the side­line inside the five. On the next play, senior receiver Jeff Samardzija reached back into traffic to haul in a touchdown pass to cut the deficit to 34-14 at half­time. But the rally never came. 
Quinn exploited the Wolverines' pre­vent defense on the touchdown drive­the first of the half in which he didn't face constant pressure from the Michigan front four led by Branch. 
"We went in with the idea if we were going to have a chance to win, we had to pressure Brady Quinn," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "We felt we could do that because we have an excellent front. I mean, we've got some depth and we've got some guys that are very athletic. It's the best front we've had probably since I've been at Michigan." 
That defensive pressure made things difficult for Quinn from the begninning. On the game's second play from scrim­mage, under heavy pressure from junior defensive tackle Alan Branch, Quinn threw a high pass that slipped through the hands of senior tight end John Carlson and into those of Burgess, who ran 31 yards untouched for Michigan's first score. Quinn would throw two more interceptions before the end of the day along with three touchdowns in a 24-for­48, 234-yard effort. 
After a three and out Irish punt, senior safety Chinedum Ndukwe returned the favor when he intercepted a third and long pass from junior quarterback Chad Henne and returned it 51 yards before Henne could knock him out of bounds at the Michigan four. Quinn capitalized and threw a play action strike to senior full­back Ashley McConnell, marking his first career start with his first touchdown before Michigan followed with four straight scores to take a 20 point half­time lead that knocked Notre Dame out of the game and -likely -National Championship contention. 
The Irish were forced to abandon a balanced offensive attack in the second half due to the deficit and an ineffective rushing game that only gained 24 yards on 12 carries not including sack yardage. Dropped balls by Irish receivers as well as running back Darius Walker prevent­ed the passing attack from finding its typical success. 
"I was surprised that we collectively, from me on down, laid an egg," Weis said. "I expected us to have a better per­formance than we did, and we didn't. That surprises me. I expected us to do better in all facets." 
Needing a quick spark coming out of halftime, the Irish went three and out their first three drives and failed to record a first down in the entire third quarter, as they converted just two of 14 on third down for the day. After a Michigan field goal, Notre Dame mount­ed another touchdown drive in the fourth quarter, capped by a bizarre catch by Rhema McKnight, who fought off pass interference to snatch the ball off the defender's leg in the end zone to bring the game to 40-21. 
With three minutes remaining in the game, the Irish drove the final nail in their own coffic. On a drive in which the Irish committed three penalties, Quinn was sacked on third and six and fum­bled, allowing defensive end LaMarr Woodley to pick up the ball and run 54 yards for the fmal score. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
player of the game  stat of the game  play of the game  quote of the game  
Prescott Burgess  0  LaMarr Woodley's fumble return  "You go lose 47-2I, you deserve  
to be criticized. "  
The Michigan linebacker had a  Notre Dame first downs in the  The defensive end's fumble return  
breakout game against the Irish,  first and third quarters.  for a touchdown with less than  Charlie Weis  
with five tackles, one for loss, and  four minutes to play iced the  Irish coach  
two interceptions, one a touchdown.  game for Michigan.  

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 18, 2006 
report card 
D+ 0­D+ D C­
D+ D+ 

quarterbacks: Three interceptions at cru­cial points in the game were devastat­ing for the Irish, and Quinn's fumble in the fourth quarter was the end of hope for even the most optimisitc Irish fans. 
running backs: Four rushing yards is deceptive, as it also includes lost yardage on sacks. Carr focused on stopping the running game and succeeded beyond expectations. 
receivers: The receivers dropped balls and didn't seem to run routes with intensity. Although Quinn often threw hurriedly and off-target, poor position­ing by receivers killed several drives. 
offensive line: The Irish knew Michigan would bring pressure from all angles and still couldn't seem to keep a pocket for Quinn. The run­ning backs also struggled to find 
defensive line: The defensive line was able to pressure Henne at times, with Victor Abimiari totaling 2.5 tackles for loss. Trevor Laws had 10 tackles but when the Wolverines ran the ball, the line had trouble stopping Mike Hart. 
linebackers: The starting linebackers accounted for just twelve tackles, six by Maurice Crum, Jr. The Wolverines were able to run the ball and control the clock, especially in the third quarter. 
defensive backs: The defensive backs proved susceptible once again to the deep ball, giving up an early 69-yard bomb to Mario Manningham. 
Chinedum Ndukwe had a key intercep­ 
tion early in the game and 11 tackles.  
8  special teams: Geoff Price tried to keep the Irish in the game, setting a school punting record. But David Grimes fumbled a kickoff return that proved  
costly and punt returns were weak.  
D  coaching: The Irish couldn't seem to adapt to Michigan's defensive scheme and never got anything going on offense. 11 penalties indicates a lack of discipline  
and preparation.  
overall: Michigan played bet­ 

ter than Notre Dame in every facet of the game.
1.41 

The Irish didn't play like the nation's No. 2 team. 
adding up the numbers 
Total Notre Dame rushing yards. Darius Walker was the only Irish player to rush lor 
4
positive yards. 

3 
Touchdowns by Mario Manningham in the first hall, the most since Texas receiver Pat Fitzgerald recorded three on Sept. 23, 1995. 
Points Michigan scored in the first hall, the 
34 

most against the Irish in a hall since USC scored 35 in the second half Oct. 20, 1979. 
19:03 Time it took Notre Dame to gain a 
first down. 

Career interceptions lor safety Chinedum Ndukwe. 
4 

Two came this season, one against Michigan Saturday. 
10:53 
Michigan's time of possession in the 15-minute third quarter. 
Third-quarter points (and first downs) for the 
O 
Irish. 

Penalties allowed by Notre Dame. It was the second 11-penalty game for the Irish in 2006. 

A phantom found itself in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday after­noon. 
It rode into South Bend on a charter bus, perched on Lloyd Carr's back, 
buzzing in his ear. Maybe it tired of taunt­ing the Michigan coach or maybe it just felt like a change of scenery. 


Whatever the 

Mike Gilloon 
reason, that lit­tle phantom didn't get back 

Sports Writer 
on the big, blue bus after Michigan's 47-21 win over Notre Dame Saturday. 
It stayed in South Bend. 

With a little help from the same phantoms, ghosts and demons that haunted Carr in his previous three trips to Notre Dame, he earned his first win in South Bend this week­end. In doing so, Carr cleansed his conscience of the miscues and screw-ups that kept the Maize and Blue from winning a game at Notre Dame since 1994. 
Shane Walton's timely intercep­tion sealed Michigan's fate in 2002. The sudden discovery of Darius Walker beat the Wolverines in 2004. Even a Bob Davie-led drubbing of the defending nation­al champs stymied Carr in 1998. 
Everything that had hurt Lloyd Carr in past games against the Irish disappeared in front of a 
stunned 80,000 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
But phantoms in a rivalry like the Fight Song Fight-featuring the two most successful football schools (and marching bands)­don't just go away. 
They switch sides. Saturday was Notre Dame's 
ing through that 60-minute mis­take. 
But the Irish won't surrender. Quinn won't let them. The senior quarterback held his head high deep in a cramped Notre Dame Stadium interview room after the worst beating since Weis arrived 
on campus. 
He answered 

day to deal with every question
Surrendering would 
the "phantom just as he had
have been easier than 
figure," as Brady taken every hit Quinn put it. living through that earlier in the day 
The figure -not exactly
6o-minute mistake. 
stole John what Quinn must
But the Irish won't 
Carlson's hands have envisioned in the first quar­surrender. Quinn when this season ter, forcing a started with
won't let them. 
pass to bounce right into the arms of Wolverine linebacker Prescott Burgess for the opening score. The figure perched on the football as it popped out of David Grimes' hands on a kickoff return, giving Michigan the ball right back. The figure rode on the mind of Quinn as he started the second half knowing the Irish needed to score some quick points to get back in the game. 
Those points never came -just more demons. 
Notre Dame had three drives in the third quarter. Two ended in punts and one ended with an interception. No first downs were made. 
By the time the fourth quarter rolled around, the students should have traded in their green towels for white flags. Surrendering would have been easier than liv-
Reisman hopes and national championship aspirations. 
The Reisman questions can wait. The award will be won or lost at the LA Coliseum the day after Thanksgiving, when the Irish hope to walk away with a win. 
And for now, Notre Dame's national title hopes are just that. 
Hopes. 
The Irish will need everyone's help to even have a chance. But first, they ought to help them­selves. 
If history is any indication, Irish phantoms will travel to East Lansing. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

Monday, Sept~"mber 18, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Wolverines stifle Irish offense 
Notre Dame struggles to develop offensive rhythm 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
The Michigan defensive line pres­sured Irish quarterback Brady Quinn all afternoon. 
The linebackers blitzed and didn't allow Notre Dame to establish any­thing resembling a running game. 
The secondary eliminated a viable passing game, keeping Notre Dame's receivers covered and under constant pressure. 
Saturday's story was all about Michigan's effectiveness against what was considered one of the nation's top offenses. 
"We went in [to the game] with the idea if we were going to have a chance to win, we had to pressure Brady Quinn," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "We felt we could do that because we have an excellent front. I mean, we've got some depth and we've got some guys that are very athletic." 
Notre Dame certainly didn't prove Carr wrong. 
Quinn was unable to set his feet all 
day, and hurries kept him off-balance 
and unable to hit receivers in stride. 
"There was a lot of blitzing, espe­
cially later in the game," Irish coach 
Charlie Weis said. "I have a lot of 
respect for their front four." 
But pressuring Quinn was just one 
facet of a defense that dominated the 
game from start to finish. 
"It wasn't just their front four -I 
thought their whole defense played 
good," Weis said. 
Linebacker Preston Burgess inter­
cepted Quinn twice, one returned 31 

yards to halt Notre Dame's first series. Cornerback Leon Hall added one more, and cornerback Morgan Trent and defensive end LaMarr Woodley picked up fumbles, totaling five Irish turnovers. 
"I think this game was a team effort," Carr said. "But it certainly was, I think, punctuated by our defense." 
The man who put the 

biggest exclamation mark into the punctuation was Burgess. 
The senior linebacker from Warren, 
"We went in [to the smooth as his game] with the idea if game against the 
Irish. After playing

we were going to have a 
strong safety in 

chance to win, we we high school, he 
had to pressure Brady moved to line­backer. He saw
Quinn." 
time as a fresh­man on special Lloyd Carr teams, but was 
Wolverines coach quiet on defense 
Ohio had what Carr called "quite a day." That could have been the under­statement of the day by Carr. 
"I mean, you intercept a ball, run back for the touchdown, then make another big one," he said. 
Burgess' devel­
opment wasn't as 
last year. 
He was anything but placid Saturday and neither was his team. 
The Wolverine defense was credited with six quarterback hurries, four pass break ups and five tackles for loss as it wouldn't let Notre Dame's offense settle into a rhythm. It took away Irish running back Darius Walker -who led the Irish in rushing with a meager 25 yards -and forced Notre Dame to be "one dimensional," Carr said. 

Although consistent play by the sec­ondary was crucial, praise returned to the front four, which Carr said could be the best he's had at Michigan. 
One of those on the front four was Woodley, who had two tackles, one for a loss and outran Irish tight end John Carlson on a 54-yard fumble return touchdown to top off Michigan's day. 
"Woodley, in my judgment ... he's the real deal," Carr said. "He's a cap­tain. He's a leader. Done a great job." 
Notre Dame would probably agree. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Wooden's game injury not threatening 
Cornerback left game groggy after tackle; was held out as precautionary measure 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden is OK to play. He was cleared to play by team medical staff Saturday, soon after he delivered a crushing hit to Michigan receiver Adrian Arrington in the third quarter of Notre Dame's 47-21 loss to Michigan, but coach Charlie Weis held him out of the game in order to "err on the side of caution." 
"We figured the best thing to do would be to go ahead and get him out of there," he said. "His head was fairly clear. [Putting Wooden back in] just didn't seem like the right thing to d0. " 
The Irish have a policy where players must be cleared by the medical staff and answer football-related 
questions from a position coach before returning to the game after a head injury. 
+ Penalties hampered the Irish all day Saturday, as the team committed 11 for 84 yards. Michigan tal­lied five whistles for 70 yards. The Irish have 28 penalties in 2006, having also committed 11 penalties against Georgia Tech in the season opener. 
The Irish were penalized five times for holding Saturday, giving them 10 total on the year. Irish opponents have not been whistled for an offensive hold in the first three games. 
+ Saturday was the first time Notre Dame has lost to Michigan at home since 1994. It also snaps a two­game win streak against 
Michigan. The win certainly pleased Michigan coach Lloyd Carr who has heard grumbles in Ann Arbor after losing three of his last four games against rival Ohio State and, before Saturday, three of his last four against Notre Dame. Carr, who is 4-1 against No. 2 teams and 16-6 against top-10 teams, downplayed the connection between the win and his job security. 
"If you coach in enough of these games or play in enough of them, you're going to win some and you're going to lose some," he said. "I've done both. Cer!.ainly today was our day. 
+ The 47 points Notre Dame gave up marked the most it had allowed at home since a 51-19 loss against Purdue in 1960. Additionally, Notre Dame's five turnovers on three interceptions and two fum­bles were the most it sur­rendered since the 14-7 loss to Boston College in 2002, the first loss of Tyrone Willingham's three­year tenure as head coach. 
+ Geoff Price set a sin­gle-game record by boom­ing seven punts for an average of 51.9 yards per punt, including a long of 
59. He currently ranks third in the nation with a 
49.8 average. Michigan's combination of Zoltan Mesko and Ross Ryan com­bined for a 3 7. 5 yard aver­age. More importantly, they successfully kicked away from Irish returner Tom Zbikowski, allowing him only one return for four yards. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
•
scoring SUllllllary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Michigan  20  14  6  7  47  
Notre Dame  7  7  0  7  21  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 0, Michigan 7 
Preston Burgess 31-yard interception return with 14:19 remaining. (Rivas kick) 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 7 
Ashley McConnell 3-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 10:16 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 2 plays, 4 yards, 0:54 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 13 
Mario Manningham 69-yard reception from Chad Henne with 3:53 remaining. (Rivas kick blocked) Drive: 4 plays, 80 yards, 2:15 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 20 
Mike Hart 2-yard run with 1:12 remaining. (Rivas kick) Drive: 4 plays, 27 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 7, Michigan 27 
Mario Manning 20-yard reception from Chad Henne with 11:26 remaining. (Rivas kick) Drive: 6 plays, 54 yards, 2:41 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan 34 
Mario Manning 22-yard reception from Chad Henne with 2:30 remaining. (Rivas kick) Drive: 10 plays, 59 yards, 4:48 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 34 
Jell Samardzija 4-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 0:20 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 8 plays, 72 yards, 2:10 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 14, Michigan 37 
Rivas 20-yard field goal with 5:20 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 1 yards, 1:42 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 40 
Rivas 33-yard field goal with 00:00 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 51 yards, 4:00 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 21, Michigan 40 
Rhema McKnight 28-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 12:41 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 51 yards, 4:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan 47 
LaMarr Woodley 54-yard fumble recovery with 
3:23 remaining. (Rivas kick) 
statistics 

total yards rushing yards passing yards 




.. 

17-4  rushes-yards  41-120  
25-49-3  comp-att-int  13-22-1  
7-363  punts-yards  6-225  
2-2  fumbles-lost  0-0  
11-84  penalties-yards  5-70  
14  first downs  17  

passing 

Quinn 24-48-3 Henne 13-22-1 
rushing 

Walker 10-27 Hart 31-133 Prince 2-(-1) Grady 6-13 

receiving  
McKnight  5-76  Manningham  4-137  
Walker  7-35  Breaston  6-42  

punting 

Price 7-363 Mesko 4-155 
tackling 

Ndukwe 11 Trent 6 Laws 1 0 Harrison 6 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 18, 2006 


Big game blo-wout 
The Wolverines took the fight out of the Irish Saturday, efficiently 
shutting down quarterback Brady Quinn's favorite receivers and allowing just four rushing yards. The Irish defense had its moments, but five turnovers by the offense gave Michigan a short 
field all afternoon. Michigan quarterback Chad Henne avenged two years of brutality by the Irish, going 8-for-12 with three touchdowns in the first half. The Irish were unable to gain control of the clock and Quinn's fumble late in the fourth quarter ended hopes of a miraculous comeback. 

Photos by LAURIE HUNT, JESSICA LEE and HY PHAM!The Observer Top left, Michigan quarterback Chad Henne pursues Chinedum Ndukwe during his first-quarter interception return. Top right, safety Tom Zbikowski makes a tackle. Center, David Grimes returns a kick as the Notre Dame band looks on. Bottom left, Michigan defensive end Brandon Harris pursues Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. Bottom right, Ambrose Wooden knocks the ball loose from Michigan's Adrian Arrington. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 15 
Monday, September 18, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Heder and Thornton drive comedy off-course 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Funny but disappointing can best explain director Todd Phillips' comedy "School for Scoundrels." Although the movie starts out promisingly strong, the man who gave us "Old School" delivers a weak and forgettable second act -one that could, and should, have been so much more. 
"School for Scoundrels" stars Jon Heder ("Napoleon Dynamite") as Roger, a lonely NYC meter maid, and Billy Bob Thornton ("Bad Santa") as Dr. P, the no nonsense "scoundrel" who teaches Roger how to win his crush, Amanda (Jacinda Barrett). When Roger soon jumps to the head of the class Dr. P teaches, the good doctor's competitive habits set him out on a path to destroy Roger's life and 

steal his girl. School for Scoundrels holds-bar paintball The movies 
rumble in which Dr. premise -foul­P's students must mouthed Billy Bob assert themselves, Thornton schools abandon all fear, and losers on how to escape the traumatiz­
Director: Todd Phillips 
be winners ing punishments of.Dr.
Writers: Todd Phillips and Scot
would be enough P's sidekick, Lesher
Armstrong

to satisfy an hour (Michael Clarke
Starring: Jon Heder, Billy Bob Thornton
and half of laughs. Duncan).
and Michael Clarke Duncan 
However, the com­edy strays from its best attribute -the school and its class­es -and instead delves too deeply into the battle for Amanda's affections between Roger and Dr. P. In fact, it could hardly be called a battle at all. Nothing either man. does to the other is particu­larly life-shattering or reprehensible. The shock factor in this male competition is nil. 
Phillips, who also co-wrote the screen­play, continues his pattern of presenting weak female supporting characters that exist solely for male character develop­ment. "School for Scoundrels" follows the typical storyline for this kind of movie ­good boy likes girl, amoral boy gets girl, good boy is only person who can save duped girl from amoral boy and herself. Amanda is another forgettable female character in a male-dominated movie~ 
The only other dominant female char­acter is Amanda's roommate, played by Sarah Silverman. Silverman's character bombards Roger with deadpan insults in one of the least funny performances by a comedian this year. 
However, as in all disappointing come­dies, there are beacons of light and 
laughter. The highlight 
of the movie is a no­
In other instances, 

Roger recovers his stolen standard-issue New Balance sneakers from a couple of thugs by telling their mother, and he is forced to stand up to an obnoxious co-worker only to receive a swirly in return. 
The comedy would have done better to stick to these "boys becoming men" 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'Potemkin' remains revolutionary cinematic model 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
It is near the middle of the film, which is no mistake -it is obviously the centerpiece. Once it has been seen, it can't be shaken, much less forgotten. The images remain burned in the consciousness, stay in the back of the mind, linger in their relentless­ness. 
Crowds frantically fleeing down the steps. A mother carrying her fallen child. A woman screaming silently in utter terror. The legs of stormtrooper­like Cossacks, marching along roboti­cally with their rifles drawn. The baby carriage. 
·Passionate and purposeful, this seg­ment of Sergei Eisenstein's 1925 mas­terpiece "Battleship Potemkin," known as the "Odessa 
beliefs ran contrary to popular think­ing at the time, which was that each shot in a film is a building block that creates meaning. Instead, he believed that the true worth of the juxtaposi­tion of shots is conflict. The meaning created from the combination of shots was far greater· than the value of each individual shot in of itself. 
This theory manifested itself most clearly in "Battleship Potemkin" ­more specifically, in the "Odessa Steps" sequence. The film uses editing as a tool that creates tension and meaning in a powerful way. The last­ing images of "Potemkin" are as indelible as anything committed to celluloid. 
Split into five acts, "Battleship Potemkin" follows the eponymous ves­sel through a mutiny, Mistreated and poorly fed (a shot of rotting and mag­
got-infested meat is 

Steps" sequence, particularly memo­
Battleship Potemkin 
came to define rable). the sailors Soviet Montage, an decide to act against important cinemat­their treacherous ic movement of the Czarist commanders 1920s. The direc­and take over the tor chose to frame When: Saturday, Sept. 23, 3:00 p.m. ship. "Potemkin" around Where: The Browning Cinema, DPAC "Potemkin" flies 
this real-life 1905 event, in which innocent civilians were gunned down by Czarist Cossacks. 
In Eisenstein's hand, it becomes a rallying cry, a call to arms and stun­ningly effective Communist propagan­da. In the eight decades since its release, countless movies have been made. Most of them can't be remem­bered. Here is one that can't be for­gotten. 
What is Soviet Montage? Eisenstein's 
through its 65 min­
utes, with two major sections -the "Odessa Steps" and the tense climax -anchoring the film. A silent picture, "Potemkin" depends exclusively on images, which is the essence of Soviet Montage. Eisenstein's sense of composition and editing was unparalleled at the time, which is evident throughout the pic­ture. 
"Battleship Potemkin" was and still is problematic for many due to its moments. Heder may have carried "Napoleon Dynamite," but he holds a stronger audience interest in the first half of this movie when he acts with an ensemble. The second half offers weaker performances from Heder and surpris­ingly, Thornton. Although clearly a cad, Dr. P's motivations remain unclear. Despite a so-so cameo by Ben Stiller explaining Dr. P's mischievous past, we still never feel his ambition, pride or aggressiveness that would explain his backstabbing actions. 

In the end, the movie is worth seeing ­
if at all -for its first act. After that, it veers off its solid path into an over-long and under-developed love story that quickly grows tired and boring. If this is an attempt to recapture any "Old School" glory, Phillips miserably fails. "School for Scoundrels" does not deliver an endless treasure trove of funny quotes for the American public to overuse. Instead, the movie is good for only a few laughs before the drama-heavy Oscar season begins. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 

nature as Soviet propaganda. The film is incendiary, however, it is incendiary against the Czarist regime and casts the Soviets in a supremely positive light. It is at times difficult to overlook the obvious nature of the propaganda, but once a person is able to do so, the filmic genius of the picture shines through. 
Eisenstein was, above all else, a man who loved the cinema. His exten­sive writings on Soviet Montage were revolutionary, but it's the films them­selves that stand as lasting evidence of his passion. 
"Battleship Potemkin" may be Soviet propaganda, but it is cinematic propa­ganda as well. Eisenstein believed that the construction of shots creates meaning and the meaning of "Potemkin" is clear -marvel at the power, greatness and deserved right­eousness of the Soviet Union. But the hidden meaning, the greater meaning and more timeless meaning, the meaning that Eisenstein is ultimately remembered for is also clear -mar­vel at the power, greatness and deserved righteousness of the cinema. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at 
bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 18, 2006 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Twins vvin, gain ground on both Tigers and White Sox 
eighth with a two-out, two-run lead the Toronto Blue Jays walked three in 7 1-3 innings. "I just kept trying to make
Minnesota narrows 

homer on the second pitch over the Tampa Bay Devil It was his first start against the pitches, trying not to fall into from Ray. Rays. Angels since he was ejected for patterns," said Meche.
Detroit's lead to one 

After the game, Tigers sec­Bengie Molina homered and hitting two batters and nearly "Everything I threw over the ond baseman Placido Polanco had three hits for the Blue plunking a third on Aug. 15. plate they pretty much got to
Associated Press 

said he was out for the season. Jays, who have won four This four-game series ended it. It was a matter of mixing my 
CLEVELAND -Minnesota He was hitting .294 with 44 straight. without a major incident as curveball in there as much as I turned five double plays for the RBis when he separated his With the game tied at 3 and Padilla did not a batter Sunday. could to get weak contact. first time in 11 years and Scott left shoulder in mid August. two outs in the eighth, Hill hit Padilla equaled his career high "I just let them put the ball in Baker pitched six strong a two-run shot off Shawn Camp for 14 wins. play and that was pretty much innings as the Twins beat the Athletics 5, White Sox 4 (7 -4). It was Hill's sixth homer; Ervin Santana (14-8) gave up how the day went," he said. Cleveland Indians 6-1 Sunday, Frank Thomas dealt another he also gave the Blue Jays the four runs and seven hits in five Ichiro Suzuki went 2-for-4 keeping pressure on Detroit big blow to his former team's win Friday night with a lOth­innings. one day after reaching the and Chicago in the race for dwindling playoff hopes, hitting inning shot. 200-hit plateau for the sixth postseason play. a three-run homer to help the Delmon Young homered for Mariners 10, Royals 5 year in a row. He stayed in the 
The Twins closed within one Oakland Athletics beat the the Devil Rays, who have lost Gil Meche was glad the game and got his second hit game of Detroit in the AL Chicago White Sox. seven straight and all six Seattle hitters had a better day after Runelvys Hernandez hit Central and moved four games Thomas homered twice and games of their road trip. than he did. him in the lower right leg with ahead of the White Sox in the drove in seven runs in the final Toronto reliever Justin Chris Snelling and Kenji a pitch in the fifth. wild-card race. Minnesota has two games of Oakland's three­Speier (2-0) pitched 1 1-3 Johjima each homered and the Suzuki left in the ninth. won eight of 10. game sweep against the innings for the victory. B.J. Mariners got 14 hits in a 10-5 "It tightened up there in the 
Baker (5-8) finally put defending World Series cham­Ryan pitched a perfect ninth win Sunday over the Kansas ninth inning and we really took together a good outing against pions. for his 33rd save in 37 City Royals. him out so we could start treat­Cleveland, allowing one run Thomas is batting .344 with chances. "After about a third of an ment on him just as soon as we and six hits. The right-hander a major league-leading 10 inning, I knew it was going to could," said manager Mike came in 0-3 with a 6.64 ERA in homers and 26 RBis this month Rangers 8, Angels 1 be a tough day to try to get Hargrove. "So hopefully he'll four career starts against the for the AL West leaders. Vicente Padilla pitched through five or six," Meche be ready for tomorrow. But I Indians. Chicago broke out to a 2-0 shutout ball into the eighth said. "Luckily, I did." think he's probably question­
Matt Guerrier pitched the lead against Joe Blanton (16-inning, Gary Matthews Jr. hit a Meche (11-8) gave up nine able." final three innings for his first 11) before Thomas erased it two-run homer and the Texas hits and five runs in six innings With the game tied at 5 in career save. Kevin Kouzmanoff with one swing in the fourth Rangers beat the Los Angeles and fell behind 4-1 after four. the seventh, Eduardo Perez grounded into his second dou­inning. Thomas connected Angels. But the Royals' bullpen failed had a pinch-hit RBI single and ble play of the game to end it. against Jose Contreras (13-8). Padilla (14-9) gave up seven to hold the lead for the second Snelling homered off Joel 
The last time Minnesota Justin Duchscherer pitched a hits, struck out four and time in this four-game series. Peralta. made five double plays in a perfect ninth for his ninth save game was June 3, 1995, in 11 chances. against Texas. 
Torii Hunter's two-run single Red Sox 6, Yankees 3, with the bases loaded broke a David Ortiz hit his league­1-1 tie in the third against Paul leading 49th homer, and Kevin Byrd (9-8). Youkilis had a three-run dou­
ble in the seventh inning to Orioles 12, Tigers 8 lead the Boston Red Sox over 
Miguel Tejada hit a tiebreak­the New York Yankees in the ing single to spark a four-run opener of a day-night double­lOth inning and help the header. Baltimore Orioles beat the The teams split a double­Detroit Tigers. header Saturday, with both 
Since leading the division by twinbills forced because of 10 games after play on Aug. 7, rainouts. Detroit has lost 24 of 37 New York, which leads the games. The Tigers open a AL East by 10 112 games over three-game series against the second-place Red Sox, still third-place Chicago on Monday. has a magic number of four. 
Brian Roberts led off the The Red Sox remained eight 1Oth with a single, advanced games behind Minnesota, the on a wild pitch and scored on AL wild-card leader. Tejada's hit. The Orioles added Bryan Corey (2-1) won in three more runs off Jason Grilli relief and Mike Timlin pitched (2-3). the ninth for his seventh save. 
Chris Ray (2-3) pitched 2 1-3 Ron Villone (3-3) took the loss. innings and earned the win after blowing his fifth save in Blue Jays 5, Devil Rays 3 36 opportunities. Aaron Hill hit a go-ahead 
Sean Casey tied it at 8 in the homer in the eighth inning to 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Investment homes for sale near 
WANTED  ND. 866-521-8989.  
FoR RENT  
Supervisor-Market Research. Opinions, Ltd. seeks detail oriented supervisor for our office in University Park mall. Night/week­end flexibility a must. $8.50/hr. Call 574-243-5719.  2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep. if rented by 1 0/1. 255­7000.  

Interviewer-Market Research. BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-Opinions, Ltd. seeks confident peo-pus homes & pie to approach mall shoppers for weekend rentals. 
One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30 milesfrSB. www. Eastofedenatunionpier.com. $350 wkend. 513-697-7766. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259-8603. 
1 bdrm apt. 1 mi. to ND. Laundry. Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester. Quiet area. $550/mo. Call574-532-8718. 

White Pigeon, Ml lake house near toll road. 3 da wkend. Home games $1k. 260-768-4422. 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
Travel with STS to this years top 10 Spring Break 2007 Celebration 2oth Spring Break destinations! Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. commissions. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Visit www.ststravel.com Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. or call 1-800-648-4849. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. Great group discounts. 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash­
tours.com 

Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets to the NO/Purdue game for family. Spring Break 2007 Celebration 2oth Call Blaine & Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours leave message at Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. 219-324-3241. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Local pickup Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. 
Hottest Spring Break Destinations. Wanted: UNC Tix. (574)273-9845 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash­
market research surveys at University Park mall. $8/hr. Call574-243-5719. Students to do minor work in house  Bluegoldrentals.com Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208.  ND home games rental. 1 mi to ND. Sleeps 2. Full accommodations. $900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718. 2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte.  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  
on ND Ave. owned by alumni. Good pay! call954-921-1413. or  Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930-8038.  $275 ND Football Wkends; $200 Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400.  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK- 
Email Loretta800@aol.com.  swmient@qtm.net  Big house on ND Ave. owned by alumni available for every home  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378.  
11 bdrm house available for 2007­ game. Very reasonable. Email  
FoR SALE Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765  2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens, 5.5 baths, large common areas and backyard. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com  Loretta800@aol.com or call954­921-1413. Lake Front cottage for rent ND home games. Monthly or for winter season. 269-699-5928.  Travel with STS to this years top 10 Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group discounts.  

tours.com 
Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th­
PERSONAL 
Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. not go it alone. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. If you or someone you love needs 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash­confidential support or assistance, tours.com 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Thomson, don't kill yourself today at 1-7819. For more information, "The rules of shotgun are very sim-see our bi-weekly ad in The pie. The first person to yell shotgun Observer. in site of the car gets the front seat. 
There are no exceptions for people www.ndgamedayroom.com with a conussion" -Michael Scott 
Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Padres defeat Dodgers to take over the lead in NL West 
San Diego prevails in pitchers' duel 2-1 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-If it weren't for playing the Los Angeles Dodgers, the San Diego Padres might be lagging in the NL West. 
Thanks to their domination of the Dodgers, the Padres instead are a half-game up in the divi­sion, passing Los Angeles with a 2-1 victory Sunday. 
San Diego has won eight of the last nine meetings. The Padres are 13-4 overall against Los Angeles and 7-1 at Dodger Stadium. 
"There's no rhyme or reason to it," Padres manager Bruce Bochy said. 
Chris Young pitched one-hit ball for six innings, pinch-hitter Terrmel Sledge singled home the go-ahead run in the ninth and Trevor Hoffman earned his 475th career save. 
"They seem to get the big hits and pitch the big innings when they need them," said the Dodgers' Derek Lowe, who held San Diego to Russell Branyan's solo homer over seven innings. 
The Padres, atop the division for the first time since Aug. 9, go for their third straight win in the four-game set on Monday night at Dodger Stadium, their final regular-season meeting. 
The Dodgers won the opener 3-1 behind Greg Maddux, and the Padres bounced back with an 11-2 victory on Saturday night. 
"We don't want them to win three. out of four at our park," Lowe said. "We need to play the last game as if it's a must­win." 
Branyan agreed, from the Padres' perspective. 
"We're in first place by a half a game, and tomorrow's game really separates the men from the boys, I believe," he said. "If we can go up a game and a half with 14 games left in the sea­son, we'll be looking pretty good." 
Bochy figures the race will remain tight down the stretch. 
"We're right there. We know it," he said. "It's neck and neck. It's great to get this one. To come back after a tough loss and win two straight is big." 
Los Angeles manager Grady Little also believes it will gone down to the wire. 
"It was a tight game in a tight pennant race -and it's going to remain that way," he said. 
While the Dodgers dropped out of the division lead, they are one game ahead of Philadelphia for the wild card. 
Sledge singled to right off Jonathon Broxton to score pinch-runner Khalil Greene from second base. Josh Bard singled with one out, Greene came into the game and Geoff Blum walked. 
With the bases loaded, Broxton (3-1) struck out Brian Giles and retired Josh Barfield on a foul pop to keep the Dodgers within one run. 
Scott Linebrink (7-3) shut out Los Angeles in the eighth, and Hoffman pitched the ninth for his 39th save in 43 chances, and his career total is just three shy of Lee Smith's major league record. 
After Chris Young held the Dodgers to one hit during his six shutout innings, Russell Martin homered off Cia Meredith with one out in the seventh to tie it at 1. 

INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Monday, September 18 or Thursday, October 5 
5-6 PM 125 Hayes-Healy 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE www.nd.edu/.-vintlstud 
Martin's shot over the fence in center was his ninth of the season and ended Meredith's franchise-record string of 34 scoreless innings. The San Diego reliever hadn't allowed a run in 28 appearances dating to July 17. 
Pirates 3, Mets 0 

The New York Mets failed for the third straight day to clinch the NL East title at PNC Park when the Pittsburgh Pirates fin­ished off an unlikely sweep. 
New York was denied its first division title since 1988 later in the day when second-place Philadelphia beat Houston 6-4. The Mets can clinch at home Monday night with a win over Florida or a loss by the Phillies. 
The Mets came to Pittsburgh with a magic number of one and the best record in the majors. Even with a sizable contingent of New York fans in the stands, the young Pirates became the first NL team to sweep the Mets this season. 
Showing their spirit, the Pirates -with the next-to­worst record in the league ­celebrated with hearty hand­shakes on the field. Pittsburgh completed its first three-game sweep at home against New York since 1998. 
Zach Duke (10-13) pitched shutout ball for eight innings, Freddy Sanchez had two hits and two RBis and Chris Duffy scored twice for the Pirates. 
Phillies 6, Astros 4 

Ryan Howard hit his major league-leading 57th home run_ without any dispute -and Mike Lieberthal connected twice as Randy Wolf and the Phillies kept up their push for a wild-card spot by beating Houston. 

Jimmy Rollins also homered as Philadelphia prevented the New York Mets from clinching the NL East. The second-place Phillies, however, are aiming at the wild card and are one game behind Los Angeles for that spot. 
Howard tied a team record with 29 road home runs in a season. He's homered in 16 of the 19 parks he's played this year. 
Wolf (4-0) won while pitching on three days' rest for the first time in his career. He won his career-best ninth straight deci­sion, the first time a Phillies starter has done that since Steve Carlton in 1980-81. 
Wandy Rodriguez (9-10) took the loss. 
Braves 8, Marlins 7 
Marcus Giles hit an RBI single and another runner scored when Florida left fielder Josh Willingham let the ball go through his legs, capping a five-run rally. 
After Florida scored four times in the top of the lOth, errors by shortstop Hanley Ramirez and Willingham let Atlanta win it. 
It was a demoralizing defeat for the young Marlins, who fell four games behind Los Angeles in the wild-card race. Florida lost for the fourth time in five games. 
With one out in the Atlanta 1Oth, Brian McCann doubled off Joe Borowski (3-3) and took third on a single by Jeff Francoeur. Matt Diaz followed with a two-run double and took third on a bloop single by Willy Aybar. 
Pinch-hitter Bryan Pena then reached when Ramirez when failed to hold onto a forceout throw, scoring Diaz to make it 7-6. Giles followed with his one-out single that rolled through Willingham, scoring Aybar and Pena. 
Kevin Barry (1-1) got one out for the win. 
Rockies 6, Diamondbacks 1 
Jeff Francis gave up three hits in eight strong innings and Jeff Baker hit his first homer of the season to help the Rockies beat the error-prone Diamondbacks. 
Francis (12-11) struck out five and did not walk a batter as Colorado snapped a three­game losing streak. Brian Fuentes pitched the ninth to complete the three-hitter. 
Miguel Batista (10-7) gave up three runs in six innings for the loss. 
Cubs 11, Reds 3 
Carlos Zambrano hit his fifth homer of the season and threw seven shutout innings in his return to help the Cubs beat the Reds. 
Zambrano (15-6) had missed his last two starts with lower back stiffness and picked up his first win since Aug. 24. He gave up four hits, struck out six and walked four. 
The right-hander left a game on Sept. 4 in the second inning complaining of back troubles. He was questionable to start this game before Saturday but is now one win away from tying his career high, set in 2004 when he went 16-8. 
Jacque Jones, Ronny Cedeno and Zambrano all homered in the Cubs' seven-run first inning. 
Eric Milton (8-8) left after recording just one out. 
Nationals 6, Brewers 1 
Austin Kearns homered and hit the go-ahead single in the seventh to lead the Nationals beat the Milwaukee Brewers 6­1 Sunday. 
Doug Davis (10-11) was per­fect for the first 4 1-3 innings before Kearns hit his 23rd home run of the season to left field. In the seventh, Bernie Castro reached on an infield single, moved to second on a sacrifice by Felipe Lopez and scored when Kearns looped a single to shallow right field. 
The Nationals added four runs in the eighth inning, including a rare three-run sin­gle by Lopez. 
Saul Rivera (3-0) pitched a scoreless seventh to earn the win. 
.----------­
page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, September 18, 2006 


NOTRE DAME FORUM© 
vVe shall al·ways place education side by side with instruction; the rnind will not be 
cultivated at the expense of the heart. 
-Rev. Basil Moreau, CSC 

Thanks to all who participated in the Notre Dame Forum. As we continue the campus dialogue about global health challenges, you are invited to attend one of the Forun1 discussions planned by the residence halls and facilitated by faculty and studeiTts: 
Date Time Place Sponsored By Facilitators 
September 18 5:30-6:30 p.m. Coleman Morse Lounge Howard &St. Edward's Hall Prof. Jennifer Warlick, Rebecca Ackroyd, Michael Kozak 
September 18 7:00 8:00p.m. Dillon 24-Hour Lounge Dillon &Walsh Halls Prof. Bill Purceli, Bryan Hambley September 18 7:00-8:00 p.m. Keenan Hail Basement Keenan &Lewis Hails Fr. Tom Streit, Michael Dewan, Sarah Miller 

September 19  7:00-8:00 p.m.  fOG Community Center  FOG &University Village  Prot. Jackie Smith, Ben Clarke, Beth Scarola  
September 19  7:00·8:00 p.m.  Pasquerilla West Party Room  Pasqueri!la West &Sir:gtried Halls  Prof. Shahriar Mobashery, Stephanie Gharakhanian, Tara Johnson  
September 20  5:30-6:30 p.m.  Stanford Basement  Farley &Stanford Halls  Prof. Maicolm Fraser, Andy Lawton, Meg Towle  

September 20 5:30····6:30 p.m. Badin Hall Large Social Space Badin &Morrissey Hal!s Prot. Jennifer Warlick, Rebecca Ackroyd, Michael Kozak September 25 8:00-9:00 p.m. Keough 24-Hour Lounge Keough & Lyons Halls Prot Mayland Chang, Nathan Serazin, Lizzi Shappell 
September 26 5:30-6:30 p.m. Cavanaugh Hall Basement Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, &Zahm Halls . Prof. Frank Collins, Michael Dewan, Kim Del Guerico 
September 26  7:00····8:00 p.m.  
September 27  7:00-8:00 p.m.  
October 2  7:00-·8:00 prn.  
October 3  7:00-8:00 p.m.  

O'Neill 24.. Hour Lounge Knott Hall Chapel Lounge Welsh Family 24-1-lour lounge Alumni Hall Basement 

McGlinn &O'Neill Halls Knott &Pasquerilla East Halls Carrol! &Welsh farniiy Halls Alumni &Pangborn Halls Prot. Jackie Smith, Benjamin Clarke, Elizabeth Scarola . Fr. Oliver Williams, Patricia Hughes, Kevin Overrnanrl Prof. Kathleen Peterson, Courtney Lare, Anne-Marie Rick, Meg Towle Prot. Viva Bartkus, Kim Del Guercio, Nathan Seraz!n 
Plan to attend a Forum discussion to share your ideas and learn what you can do to make a difference. Students are welcome to attend any session. 
For more information, visit forum.nd.edu or contact Ann Firth (afirth@nd.edu or 631-2685) in the Office of Student Affairs. 

--------~----------. 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 18, 2006 
Associated Press Poll Top25 

team record previous 
1 Ohio State 3-0 1 2 Auburn 3-0 3 3 usc 2~0 4 4 West Virginia 1~0 5 5 Florida 3-0 7 6 Michigan 3-0 11 7 Texas 2-t 8 8 Louisville 3-0 12 9 Georgia 3-0 10 10 LSU 2-1 6 11 Virginia Tech 3-0 14 12 NOTRE DAME 2-1 2 13 Oregon 3-0 18 14 Iowa 3-0 16 15 Tennessee 2-1 13 16 TCU 3-0 20 17 Oklahoma 2°1 15 18 Florida Stale 2-1 9 19 Clemson 2-1 NR 20 Arizona State 3·0 22 21 Boston College 3-0 23 22 California 2-1 21 23 Nebraska 2-1 19 24 Penn State 2-1 25 25 Boise Stale 3-0 NR 
USA Today/Coaches Poll Top25 

team points previous 
1 Ohio State 1572 2 usc 1493 
,,.,.:.,../:,))=:·

3 Auburn 1432 4 West Virginia 1359 ..;t.·.····· 5 Florida 1282 6 Michigan 1181 7 Georgia 1.113 8 Texas 1144 9 Louisville 1106 
10 Virginia Tech 964 11 LSU 911 12 Oregon 829 13 NOTRE DAME 814 14 Iowa 731 
15 TCU 6tt•• 
16 Oklalloma 508 
17 Florida State 459 
18 Arizona State 
19 Tennessee 
20 California 
21 Boston College 
22 Alabama 
23 Clemson 
24 Nebraska 
25 Boise State 
Big East Men's Soccer 
Blue Division Standings 
team record 

1 Seton Hall 4-0cO 
2 West VIrginia 3-04. 
3 Conneclicuil 3-0-1 
4 Providence 3-0-0 
5 Pittsburgh 2-1-1 
6 NOTRE DAME 2-2-0 
7 Georgetown 2-2-0 
8 Marquette 1-3-0 
around the dial 
NFL Pittsburgh at Jacksonville, 8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Detroit at Chicago White Sox, 
8:05 p.m., Comcast 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE srRvrcEs page 19 
GOLF 


Associated Press 
FARMINGTON, Pa. ­Ben Curtis excels in tak­ing home the best possi­ble going-away presents from disappearing PGA Tour events. 
Curtis, start-to-finish steady on a day when the leaderboard was filled with higher scores than the previous three days, claimed a lame-duck tour event for the second time in three months by win­ning the 84 Lumber Classic by two shots Sunday. 
Not only keeping his lead but building on it down the stretch, he broke out of a four-way 

tie for the lead at the turn with Charles Howell III, Robert Garrigus and Ryan Moore by getting three birdies in a span of five holes from No. 12 through No. 16, thanks to some excellent putting. 
But it was a par during that stretch may have won it for him, and the $828,000 first prize for finishing at 14-under 274, two ahead of Howell. 
Curtis flew a shot over the par-4 14th green and onto a grassy, uphill apron that left him with an extremely difficult shot. But he used a utility club -the same one that helped him win the 2003 British Open -to roll it 
IN BRIEF 
One week after stabbing,
Northern Colorado wins 
SAN MARCOS, Texas --The irony that Northern Colorado, down three punters after a week of controversy, won with a blocked punt was not lost on coach Scott Downing. 
"I don't even know what to say about that," said Downing, who lost two punters this week in a bizarre stabbing scandal that brought nation­al attention to the small university about 60 miles north of Denver. 
The Bears beat Texas State 14-13 on Saturday night for their first win on the road in three seasons. 
"It has been a tough week, but you know these guys, they're the type they survive a lot of stuff," Downing said. 
Bears punter Rafael Mendoza was treated Monday for a 3-to 5-inch deep puncture wound and released from the hospital after being stabbed outside his apartment in Evans, near Greeley, Colo. 

to about 12 feet, then sank that putt to save par and stay in the lead. 
He went up by three shots by dropping a 13­footer on No. 15, when Howell three-putted from 49 feet, then effectively won it by sinking a 50­footer on the par-5 16th that allowed him to with­stand a bogey on No. 17, a par 3. 
Curtis won cheers from the local gallery by wear­ing black and gold colors for the fourth day in a row -he is an avowed Browns fan who normally despises the Steelers. The former Kent State golfer won his third career title by holding off 15 others who began the day within three shots of the lead. 
Some fans chanted "Here we go Steelers, here we go!" when Curtis walked past, but the frown on his face revealed his true colors ­namely brown, orange and white. 
''I'm going to get my Browns hat out," he said. 
If any more events dis­appear from the PGA Tour schedule, look for Curtis to be the favorite in their final tournament. 
Curtis won the last Booz Allen Classic in late June, his first victory since that British Open, and then won the fourth and last 84 Lumber Classic. 

Gilder comes back to defend 
Energy Classic title 
HUNT VALLEY, Md. -No one will miss the Constellation Energy Classic more than Bob Gilder. 
Gilder shot a 7 -under 65, the lowest round of the day on Sunday, to over­come a three-shot deficit and success­fully defend his title, finishing two strokes ahead of Brad Bryant, Don Pooley and Jay Haas in the final year of the Champions Tour event. 
"Now we're leaving. He's going to go into mourning," Bryant said. "It's going to be terrible [for him]. It's like the Bob Gilder Annuity Fund here." 
Next year, the Senior Players Championship comes to nearby Baltimore Country Club. 
It was Gilder's ninth Champions Tour win, but only his second since 2003. Both have come at Hayfields Country Club, where he has never finished worse than 14th in five appearances. 
Gilder posted a seven-birdie, no­bogey final round to fmish at 14 under. 
Harvick's gamble pays off at 
New Hampshire Speedway 
LOUDON, N.H. -Kevin Harvick saw the hole in front of him, a small patch of open track between two other cars. 
Driving through it would be risky, but Harvick's never shied away from taking chances. So he shoved his Chevrolet in between Denny Hamlin and Jeff Burton, forcing his way to the front and running away with the win Sunday at New Hampshire International Speedway. 
This is how Harvick plans to run for his first Nextel Cup title: Unafraid, unapologetic and with everything he's got. 
"At this point, it's all about the championship and going for it and throwing caution to the wind," Harvick said of his three-wide pass just 37 laps into the race. "If you look back on it, I probably wouldn't do that again." 
Harvick, who started from the pole and paced almost every practice ses­sion, led 196 of the 300 laps. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Auburn and Florida collle up big in key SEC lllatchups 
Ducks best Sooners in nail-biter, 34-33 
Associated Press 
EUGENE -In a wild final 72 seconds, Dennis Dixon and the Oregon Ducks had everything go their way. 
Dixon rallied for two late touchdowns, with the help of a successful onside kick, and the No. 18 Ducks blocked a field goal on the final play to seal a victory over No. 15 Oklahoma on Saturday. 
"This shows the nation we can play with the big boys," Oregon rover Patrick Chung said. "We beat Oklahoma, No. 15 in the nation, and now you have to watch out for Oregon." 
Dixon's 16-yard keeper with 
1:12 left brought the Ducks within 33-27 and set up the onside kick attempt. 
The Ducks (3-0) recovered the bouncing kick on their own 48, but Oklahoma (2-1) argued that an Oregon player touched the ball before it went the required 10 yards, which would have given the Sooners possession. Officials delayed play for an instant replay review, but the call stood and Dixon went to work. 
After a pass interference call on Oklahoma again had Sooners coach Bob Stoops shaking his head on the side­line, Dixon threw a 23-yard TD pass to Brian Paysinger with 46 seconds to give Oregon the lead. 
Pac-1 0 commissioner Tom Hansen said Saturday night that both the onside kick and pass interference call will be reviewed by the league. 
Oklahoma wasn't done, though, as Reggie Smith returned a squib kick 55 yards to the Ducks' 27. 
With no timeouts the Sooners ran one play, run into the line by Adrian Peterson, then spiked the ball with a second left. Garrett Hartley's 44-yard field-goal attempt wasn't high enough to clear the line and the Ducks celebrated. 
"I was just praying we would get that onside kick," said Sooners tailback Adrian Peterson, who ran for 211 yards. "Once we didn't get it, things got really ugly from there. " 
The onside kick was made by Luke Bellotti, Oregon coach Mike Bellotti's son. 
"The thing about coaching your son it that it is pretty diffi­cult sometimes. Some positions require judgmental things that are fairly subjective. Kicking is not, it's very objective," the elder Bellotti said. 
"He's the best guy for that type of kick on the football team. Obviously, I'm very pleased for him, first of all because he's my son, and sec­ondly because it gave our team a chance to win. That's a total team thing." 
Auburn 7, LSU 3 
Eric Brock's instructions were simple and altogether appropriate for the final play of Auburn's latest slugfest with LSU. 
"The coaches told us any­thing we see in front of us, you hit it," the Auburn safety said. 
Brock's game-saving tackle just a few yards from the goal line on the final play preserved No. 3 Auburn's win over sixth­ranked LSU on Saturday. He also tipped away a fourth-down pass to end another late LSU threat as Auburn turned away the visiting Tigers again and again. 

What has become the Southeastern Conference's most rugged rivalry had all the usual elements: two punishing defenses, an pivotal officials' call that left both sides a bit perplexed and some follies in the kicking game. 
The call went Auburn's way. 
With LSU facing fourth-and-8 from Auburn's 31 and 2:43 left, JaMarcus Russell fired the ball to Early Doucet near the goal line. A diving Brock deflected the pass, but Zach Gilbert was called for pass interference that would have kept the drive alive. 
The officials overturned the call, although replays showed the contact came before the ball was tipped by Brock. 
"I got sick to my stomach," said Auburn coach Tommy Tuberville about seeing the flag. "I still don't understand it. It's just a judgment call and thank goodness it went our way." 
LSU coach Les Miles wasn't 
happy with the change. 
"If the ball is tipped at the line of scrimmage, there is no pass interference," said Miles, also unhappy with a pass inter­ference call against his team. "The ball was tipped downfield. The proper explanation will be forthcoming." 
Auburn (3-0, 2-0) got the ball but LSU's defense stopped Kenny Irons on three straight runs. Irons had 70 yards on 25 tough carries. 
The visiting Tigers (2-1, 0-1) drove to Auburn's 24 with 2.5 seconds left as Russell hooked up with Craig Davis for gains of 20 and 21 yards and Dwayne Bowe for 21. On the final play, Russell went to Davis again. The receiver caught the pass inside the 10, but Brock stopped him cold with a jarring hit at the 4. 
"It was a low throw on the final play, but it was not JaMarcus' fault," said Davis, who had 96 yards receiving. "I was expecting it to be a jump ball in the end zone." 
Russell finished 20-for-35 for 267 yards. 
Florida 21, Tennessee 20 
Another Florida coach has Tennessee's number. 
Dallas Baker caught a 21­yard touchdown pass from Chris Leak that gave Florida the lead in the fourth quarter and the Gators held on to beat No. 13 Tennessee on Saturday. 
Coach Urban Meyer's first trip to Neyland Stadium as Florida head coach was a suc­cess, and he made it two straight against the Vols. Not even Steve Spurrier, who was 8-4 against UT when he was at Florida, started 2-0 against the Vols as Gators coach. 
The No. 7 Gators (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) pre­served the victory when Heggie Nelson got his second intercep­tion of the game after Tennessee went for it on fourth down at the Florida 45. 
Then all the Gators needed was another first down, and they got it by inches on third down with 1:22 remaining. 
Meyer became the first Florida coach to beat Tennessee in his first two tries since Galen Hall. And Meyer joins Spurrier, Georgia's Mark Hicht and Tommy Tuberville as the only coaches to beat Tennessee's Phillip Fulmer in back-to-back seasons. The Gators won last year at The Swamp 16-7. 
Florida stuiTed the Volunteers' running game and pressured Erik Ainge all night, and not even an emotional final game by defensive tackle Justin Ilarrell could provide the lift Tennessee (2-1, 0-1) needed to beat its bitter rivals. 
Leak played in his final game in Neyland, where he ol'ten came to watch his older broth­er C.J. play, and managed the game well while his freshman backup Tim Tebow provided a lift all seven times he entered the game. Leak linisheci 15-of­25 for 199 yards with one interception. 
Tennessee was held to minus­11 yards rushing, and Aingc struggled in going 17 -of-32 for 183 yards. 
USC 28, Nebraska 10 
The Southnrn California Trojans have a new starting quarterback and six new run­ning baeks. 
But they look like the same old USC -with an even better defense than last year. 
If there was any doubt, No. 4 USC declared itself a national title contender for a fourth straight season with a victory over 19th-ranked Nebraska on Saturday night. 
"We're just getting going," USC coach Pete Carroll said. "We're just getting started. It's exciting." 
It's also scary for the rest of the country. The Trojans' attack isn't as potent as the one that lit up scoreboards last year. But their once-unreliable defense appears much stouter. The Trojans (2-0l limited Nebraska (2-1) to 211 yards, including 68 rushing yards on 36 carries, an average of 1. 9 yards per rush. 

"They were really good," Nebraska defensive tackle Barry Cryer said. "You just ean't deny that." 
USC won for the 36th time in 37 games, the lone defeat com­ing to Texas in the final sec­onds of last January's Rose Bowl. The Trojans have won 28 straight at home. 
Making his second career start, John David Booty was 25-for-36 for 257 with no inter­ceptions and three touchdown passes for USC in a Matt Leinart-esque performance. 
All-America receiver Dwayne Jarrett, the one holdover star from last year's record-break­ing offense, caught 11 passes for 136 yards, including two touchdowns. The 6-foot-5 Jarrett often found himself being covered by defensive backs who were four or more inches shorter. 
"Jarrett is a monster," Nebraska coach Bill Callahan said. "He physically dominated our guys. Our guys did what they could but he is almost unstoppable." 
ARE YOU INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL? 
YOU'RE INVITED TO ATTEND GET READY FOR THE LAW, A ONE-DAY EVENT THAT PROVIDES VALUABLE INFORMATION ON: 
• 
Preparing for the LSAT 

• 
Applying to low school 

• 
Obtaining finonciol oid 

• 
Pursuing on exciting coreer 

• 
learning obout the lotest courtroom technology 


Get Reody for the low Sundoy, October l, 2006 10:00-3:00 pm Michigan Stote University Low College Building East Lansing, Ml 48824 

Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Indiana falls short in atte111pt to vvin ga111e for ailing coach 
Salukis down Hoosiers in emotional contest 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON -Indiana swore it was prepared to win one for its missing coach, Terry Hoeppner. Emotions weren't enough. 
What the Hoosiers learned Saturday was that it still comes down to execution. 
With a struggling ground game, an inconsistent offense and a poor run defense, Division I-AA Southern Illinois overpow­ered the Hoosiers 35-28, and now Indiana faces a defining week without their leader or the emotional victory they had hoped to give him. 
"We've got to learn from how we played today and playing through some adversity and all those kinds of things," interim coach Bill Lynch said. "We have to bounce back next week." 
Although the Hoosiers (2-1) insisted they were ready to play Saturday, the game told a differ­ent tale. 
There were mistakes, poor decisions, poor throws and lots of dropped passes. 
Lynch's postgame critique was simple: There's plenty of blame to go around, and nobody could pin it on the challenging week they endured. 
Instead, it came down to Southern Illinois' overpowering run game and Indiana's inability to keep the momentum after taking a quick 14-0 lead. When the Salukis challenged them in the second half, the Hoosiers never really responded, and when they had a chance to tie it up late, quarterback Kellen Lewis was sacked twice. 
It certainly wasn't the way Hoeppner or anyone else in the Hoosiers program drew it up. 
"We wanted to win this for coach Hep, and, obviously, we didn't get the job done," run­ning back Marcus Thigpen whispered. "Other than that, there were no distractions." 
The question now is where do the Hoosiers go from here? 
After an emotional week in which they lost Hoeppner and their best player, receiver James Hardy, for at least two games, Indiana must now make corrections quickly if they're going to put together a bowl run. 
Hoeppner had his second brain surgery in less than nine months Wednesday, and Hardy was suspended for two games Tuesday. 
Perhaps most disappointing was that the Hoosiers' bowl hopes took a huge hit. 
With three nonconference games against winnable oppo­nents, seven home games on the slate and only three games out­side of Indiana, all the Hoosiers seemingly needed to do was protect their home turf. Or, as Hoeppner would phrase it, "Defend the rock." 
Now they have to figure out how to beat Connecticut, a bud­ding Division I-A program that routed Indiana 34-10 in their last meeting in 2003, during what promises to be another emotional week. 
Hoeppner and Hardy will still be absent, and again there will be lots of questions about the quarterback situation after an inconsistent performance from Lewis, a redshirt freshman. 
"We had our chances, we really did, and we didn't take advantage when we had good field position" Lynch said. "We had a couple of big turnovers and eventually that comes back to hurt you in a close ballgame." 
As much as the Hoosiers played to win, there was little doubt Hoeppner was on their minds. 
Players repeatedly acknowl­edged they didn't let Hoeppner's absence become a distraction or an excuse, as Hoeppner insisted during a meeting in which he broke the news Tuesday. 
Before the game, a taped message from Hoeppner was played on the stadium's videoboard. One homemade sign read simply "Get well soon coach Hep." 
The Hoosiers responded by scoring on their first two pos­sessions before letting Southern Illinois back into the game with a 5-yard TD pass from Nick Hill to Braden Jones. 
In the second half, the Hoosiers didn't look like their early selves. 
After rebuilding a 21-7 lead, Hill found Ryan Kernes for a 7~ yard touchdown pass, and aftei! Lewis fumbled at the Hoosiers' 21, Hill hooked up with Alan Turner on an 8-yard TD pass to tie the score. 



N®RTH 
FOOD COURT 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2006 
NFL 

Addai filling the hole in Colts running gan1e 
Owens to miss 2-4 weeks 
Star wide receiver sidelined Sunday night with a broken finger 

Indianapolis tailback has over 100 total yards against Texans 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indianapolis Colts running back Joseph Addai took a big step toward showing he's a suitable replacement for Edgerrin James -a 104-yard step. 
The rookie from LSU gained 104 total yards and scored his first NFL touchdown to help the Colts beat the Houston Texans 43-24 on Sunday. He gained 79 of his 82 rushing yards in the second half in relief of starter Dominic Rhodes. 
"I think I got into a rhythm with what I was doing," Addai said. "It was just important to get the feel of it and just to be in there for a long time. You have to take advantage of the situa­tion because you never know when you'll get another chance." 
Addai had a touchdown taken away in the second quarter when Houston challenged the call and it was determined that he fumbled into the end zone for a touchback. But the power run that carried would-be tacklers into the end zone left an impres­sion on his teammates. 
"Even with the fumble down there, golly, he's making an unbelievable effort to get into the end zone, and that's what hap­pens sometimes," quarterback Peyton Manning said. "The hard­er you try, something bad can happen. He'll learn from that, though." 
On a day when Marvin Harrison moved up to fifth place on the NFL's all-time receptions chart and Manning moved ahead of Johnny Unitas for first place on the Colts' completions list, Addai showed he's capable of becoming the newest triplet. The Colts' ability to run the ball was in doubt after James, the team's all-time leading rusher, signed with Arizona in the offseason. 

"Joe certainly showed some special things," Manning said. "He showed that great strength and power he has. That first guy was kind of bouncing off of him." 
"I thought Joseph and Dom ran well, but especially Joseph," coach Tony Dungy said. "We really don't think it's going to be an issue with our running backs." 
Addai's touchdown came on a 21-yard pass from Manning. 
"There was a blitz on that touchdown to him," Manning said. "Sometimes, more impor­tant than knowing when to block in blitz pickup is knowing when you don't have to block. His guy dropped and he was right out into his pass pattern and there­fore he was wide open, which shows he is really knowledgeable of his protection." 
The Colts gained 94 of their 125 rushing yards in the second half. Indianapolis led 20-3 at halftime and looked to prove it could grind out a drive a week after rushing for only 55 yards against the New York Giants. The Colts opened the second half with a 13-play, 82-yard drive that led to a 15-yard touchdown pass from Manning to Bryan Fletcher. Addai gained 41 yards on five carries on the possession. 
"We're not that overly worried about our running game," Dungy said. "When people give us looks to run, we think we're going to be able to run." 
Addai got the chance to get warmed up in the second half because Manning and the Indianapolis passing game estab­lished itself early. Manning threw for 400 yards and three touch­downs. 
Dungy said the Colts are doing a good job of putting Addai in position to succeed, and he's making the most of it. 
"He is very, very mature for a rookie," Dungy said. "He's going to be a good player for us. Dam's been great at helping him and getting him going. They're going to be a great one-two punch." 
Associated Press 
IRVING -Terrell Owens will miss from two to four weeks after breaking a finger Sunday night in the Dallas Cowboys' 27-10 victory over Washington. 
The controversial wide receiver broke his right ring finger and was scheduled to have surgery Monday. The Cowboys have a byP next week. 
Owens said he was hurt on the first or seeond play of the ganw, but didn't tell anybody that he was hurt until he was leaving the sideline for the locker room in the fourth quarter. lin said it was a "Huke thing" and occurred when he was blocking. 
"I think my hand got caught on a guy's jersey or something. I kind of felt something weird with it," Owens said. "I just kind of felt like I jammed it. I kept playing." 
Owens, who missed much of training camp and the presea­son because or a hamstring injury after signing a three­year, $25 million deal that ineludes a $5 million bonus and a $5 million salary in 2006, struggled against the Redskins. Owens flubbed a pass in the end zone on the opening drive -the first or three drops. By game's end, he was getting his hand X-rayed, his stats sealed at three catch­es for 19 yards. 
While Owens wasn't sure when he got hurt, he drew a personal foul penalty on the Cowboys' first offensive snap 
September 21 
A Little Knowledge is a Dangerous Thing: So, Come to Meet Us! 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, introduction of advising team. 
Door prizes-iPod, DVD player and more! 
Must be present to win. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

of the game for an illegal block. 
On the dropped touchdown, Owens said he was trying to gather in the ball when cor­nerback Mike Humph knocked the ball away. 
"I didn't really have my full strength in my hand, so I think that probably may have con­tributed with him punching it out," Owens said. 
The X-rays revealed the break. llis right hand was par­tially wrapped after the game. 
"I feel like I'm a quick heal­er," Owens said. "Once we have the surgery, the healing process will start. ... I'm going to try to get back as soon as I can." 
After Owens felt a twinge in his hamstring the first week of training camp, he missed more than 20 workouts and the first three preseason games. Two MRis were clear, but Owens still flew in several doctors and trainers to California, plus a hyperbaric chamber, because he still didn't feel right. 
Last week, in a loss at Jacksonville, Owens played much better with six catches for 80 yards and a touchdown. 
Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Giants and Saints co111e fro111 behind to pull out victories 
Grossman throws four TDs in Bears blowout 
Associated Press 
IRVING -While Terrell Owens botched his home debut with drops, penalties and then a broken finger that will sideline him for two to four weeks, Terry Glenn set up Dallas' first two touchdowns, then scored a third with a 40-yard catch in a 27-10 victory over Washington. 
Owens broke his right ring finger and will undergo surgery Monday. 
Drew Bledsoe threw for 237 yards and two touchdowns, with no interceptions, and would've had even better num­bers had his receivers not missed so many passes that hit their hands. Owens was among the most guilty, starting with a flubbed pass in the end zone on the opening drive. By game's end, he had three catches for 19 yards. 
Glenn caught six passes for 94 yards. He had a 34-yarder that set up a 4-yard touchdown p.ass to Patrick Crayton on Dallas' second drive and drew a 41-yard pass interference call against Kenny Wright to set up a 1-yard touchdown run by Marion Barber. 
. . 

Colts 43, Texans 24 
Peyton Manning and the Colts played a near-perfect game. The Texans and David Carr looked like, well, their old selves. 
Manning threw three touch­down passes, broke one of John Unitas' franchise records, and the Colts scored on six of their first seven possessions. 
For Indy (2-0) -9-0 all-time against the Texans -it was another milestone day. 
Manning broke Unitas' fran­chise record for completions, Marvin Harrison moved into fifth place on the NFL's recep­tions list and Tony Dungy earned his 50th regular-season win as Colts coach. 
Manning's second TD pass, a 21-yarder to rookie Joseph Addai, gave him 2,797 comple­tions -one more than Unitas 

Spice Up Your Mondays! 
Enjoy a double order of chicken, steak or combo fajitas (enough for two) for just $12!-f: 
Regular price $20.99. 

. . , 
c liS® 
AP New York end Osi Umenyiora sacks Philadelphia quarterback Donovan McNabb for a 6-yard loss in the fourth quarter Sunday. The Giants beat the Eagles 30-24 in overtime. 
had in his Colts career. Manning finished 26-of-38 for 400 yards, and had a 129.3 rating despite having one TD pass called back because of a holding penalty on Tarik Glenn. 
Harrison finished with seven receptions for 127 yards, and passed Art Monk for fifth on the career receptions list. lie now has 943 catches, two more than Monk's career total. 
Chargers 40, Titans 7 
LaDainian Tomlinson ran for two first-half touchdowns and Shawne Merriman led a defense that's starting to take this "Lights Out" thing seriously. 
Six days after blapking the Raiders, the Chargers came within 3:09 of consecutive shutouts for the first time in club history. Titans' No. 1 draft pick Vince Young threw an 18­yard touchdown pass to Drew Bennett to end the bid. 
Merriman, nicknamed "Lights Out" for his hard hits, was at it again against Tennessee (0-2). The linebacker intercepted a pass, batted away two others and San Diego (2-0) held the Titans to 218 total yards and 14 first downs, many of them late in the game. 
In last week's 27-0 win over the Raiders, Merriman had three of San Diego's nine sacks. 
Seahawks 21, Cardinals 10 
Seattle started with touch­downs by Shaun Alexander and Darrell Jackson on its first two drives before a strong pass rush and repeatedly blown opportu­nities by the bumbling Cardinals. 
Defending conference cham­pion Seattle is 2-0 for the third time in four seasons despite Pro Bowler Matt Hasselbeck throw­ing two interceptions and going just 12-for-27 for 221 yards_ his first game under 50 percent passing in two seasons. Alexander, last year's league MVP, ran for 89 yards on 26 carries, most of them late. 
The Seahawks also endured a blocked field goal, a 14-yard punt, and Arizona driving into their territory seven times. 
Patriots 24, Jets 17 
The student gave the teacher a scare, but Bill Belichick's Patriots held off a late rally by Eric Mangini's Jets. 

New England (2-0) took a 24­0 lead on touchdown runs by Corey Dillon and Laurence Maroney, and a TD catch by Chad Jackson. But the Jets stormed back in the second half. Jerricho Cotchery and Laveranues Coles each made brilliant touchdowns, Mike Nugent kicked a 42-yard field goal and Jonathan Vilma blocked a late field-goal attempt to give the Jets (1-1) one last chance in their home opener. 
But an interception by Tedy Bruschi ended the comeback hopes. 
Mangini was New England's defensive backs coach under Belichick from 2000-04, and served as defensive coordinator last season before becoming head coach of the Jets. Mangini, who said he hadn't spoken to Belichick in some time, talked about how much he learned while helping lead the Patriots to three Super Bowl titles. 
Bears 34, Lions 7 

Rex Grossman had his best game as a pro, and the Bears' defense silenced Detroit's Roy Williams and the Lions. 
Grossman set career highs with 289 yards and four touch­down passes to lead Chicago (2­0). The quarterback completed 20 of 27 passes with no inter­ceptions and set a career-high in yards for the second straight week after throwing for 262 in a season-opening win at Green Bay. 
A defense that handed the Packers' Brett Favre the first shutout of his career held the Lions to 245 yards and recov­ered three fumbles. Detroit (0­
2) committed 14 penalties for 104 yards, seven for 58 yards in the first quarter alone. 
Williams caught six passes for 71 yards after guaranteeing a win over the Bears. He was booed loudly after catching his first pass. 
Vikings 16, Panthers 13, OT 
Minnesota wanted a sea­soned, reliable kicker when they signed Ryan Longwell away from rival Green Bay this spring. Who knew he could play quarterback, too? 
Longwell's 16-yard TD pass to Richard Owens on a fake kick tied the game in the fourth quarter, and his third field goal -from 19 yards with 7:25 left in overtime -lifted the Vikings. 
Brad Johnson threw a falling­down, 30-yard pass to Troy Williamson, who caught it one­handed, and Chester Taylor ripped off a 33-yard run on the final drive. 
Taylor carried 24 times for 113 yards, and Williamson had six catches for 102 yards, all after halftime. 
Carolina (0-2) had been a popular Super Bowl pick, but the Panthers are struggling in several areas, including staying healthy. All-Pro Steve Smith ­who totaled 201 yards receiving against the Vikings last season -sat out again because of a strained hamstring. 
Giants 30, Eagles 24 OT 
Eli Manning brought the Giants back from a 17-point deficit in the fourth-quarter and threw a 31-yard touchdown pass to Plaxico Burress with 3:1lleft in overtime. 
On third-and-11 from the Eagles 31, Manning avoided a blitz and lofted a pass to Burress, who outjumped Sheldon Brown to make the catch and get in the end zone. 
Dominated through the first three quarters, the Giants (1-1) fought back and tied it on Jay Feely's 35-yard field goal with 7 seconds left. 
Manning overcame eight sacks and constant pressure to throw for 371 yards and three. TDs. He tossed a 22-yard TD pass to Amani Toomer with 
3:28 left in regulation to cut the deficit to 24-21. 
The Eagles (1-1) lost their seventh straight to an NFC East rival. Donovan McNabb passed for 350 yards and two TDs. 
Falcons 14, Buccaneers 3 
Led by Michael Vick and Warrick Dunn, Atlanta took its running game to a whole new level. And the defense fared just fine without John Abraham. 
Dunn ran for 134 yards against his former team, Vick added to one of his own NFL records with 127 yards rushing and the Falcons set a franchise record with 306 yards on the ground. 
Atlanta (2-0) has yet to allow a touchdown this season, keep­ing its streak alive when Jason Webster and DeAngelo Hall picked off passes in or near the end zone. 
Chris Simms had another mis­erable day for the Buccaneers (0-2), who have yet to score a touchdown in 2006. He was picked off three times by the Falcons, matching what he did in a 27-0 loss to Baltimore in the season opener. 
Bengals 34, Browns 17 
Chad Johnson made a toe­tapping catch in the corner of the end zone, popped up and flapped his elbows in a "Chicken Dance" celebration. Then, he shuffled to the bench in pain. 
It was that kind of a day for Cincinnati, which won despite losing three starters to injury ­a troubling turn for the defend­ing AFC North champs. 
Even with their patchwork lineup, the Bengals (2-0) had their way against the Browns (0-2), who again struggled mightily to move the ball. 
Operating behind a makeshift line, Carson Palmer threw for 352 yards and his first two touchdowns of the season. Chris Henry, who pleaded guilty to a gun charge five days earlier, led the way with five catches for 113 yards. And Rudi Johnson 
ran  for  145 yards and  two  
touchdowns.  
Receiver  T.J.  

Houshmandzadeh and left tack­le Levi Jones were inactive with lingering injuries. During the first half, the Bengals lost cen­ter Rich Braham to a knee injury, safety Dexter Jackson to an ankle injury, and linebacker David Pollack, who was taken to a hospital for evaluation of a neck injury. Pollack had full m~wement in his arms and legs. 
Saints 34, Packers 27 
Drew Brees overcame three early turnovers by throwing for 353 yards, and New Orleans (2­
0) is heading home unbeaten. 
They will play their first game in New Orleans since 2004 next Monday night against Atlanta. The Saints, of course, spent last season without a home after Hurricane Katrina ravaged their city and the Louisiana Superdome. 
With the game tied at 20, Brees threw a 35-yard touch­down pass to .Marques Colston for a 27-20 edge with 8:20 remaining. 
Brees completed 26 of 41 passes, throwing for two TDs and an interception for the Saints. The Packers (0-2) con­tained rookie running back Reggie Bush, but Deuce McAllister scored twice. 

SPICEALICIOUS MISHAWAKA 4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 



·~Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 18, 2006 
SMC SoccER 

Belles get first win of year 
Team advances to final ofVaccaro Invite, falls on controversial goal 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Michelle Daly's controversial goal with 19 seconds remain­ing in the second overtime Sunday gave North Central a 2-1 victory over Saint Mary's and concluded the Sal Vaccaro Invitational in Naperville, Ill. 
Daly seemed to be offsides, but the referee did not stop play and with a head start Daly was able to break away from the pack of defenders and beat goaltender Laura Heline. 
The winning goal was Daly's second of the game -the first came 13 minutes into the match as she beat a Belles' defender and chipped a shot over Reline's head. The Cardinals' star player had four goals in her two games during the tournament, helping North Central capture its third con­secutive Vaccaro Invitational championship. 

"It was difficult to lose on a goal that should have been called back because the player was offsides ... but we put up a solid fight throughout the game," senior Caroline Stancukas said. "I can honest­ly say that there is not one person who stepped on the field who did not player her heart out." 
Saint Mary's made the game interesting when Stancukas headed a crossing pass in for the Belles in the 71st minute. The speedy senior made a div­ing leap and connected with freshman defender Bridget Roynane's feed on a free kick from just outside the box. 
The goal was Stancukas's first of her career. The senior has played consistently over the past four years and con­tributed many assists, but had not put one between the pipes prior to Sunday's game. 
Saturday's game was a dif­ferent story for the Belles 
Saint Mary's 4 Mount Mercy 1 
The team registered its first win of the season as the Belles took down Mount Mercy in the first game of the tournament. 
MEN's GoLF 

Squad finishes ninth at Gopher Invitational 
"We really need a couple guys toBy FRAN TOLAN step into the third and fourth golfer 
Sports Writer 

roles on this team," Kubinski said. Freshman Doug Fortner madeAt the Gopher Invitational in his first hole-in-one in competitionWayzata, Minn., harsh weather and just the second of his lifeconditions proved to be at least as Saturday en route to a team-bestformidable an opponent for the score of71. 
Irish as the 11 other teams compet­"That was great to see," Kubinskiing in the event this weekend. 

said.
Notre Dame finished ninth in the The Irish will be in action again 12-team field as Stanford ended October 9-10, when they host the five shots ahead of host Minnesota inaugural Fighting Irish Gridiron to win the tournament in windy Golf Classic at the Warren Golfconditions. 

Course.
"[The result] is not what we were hoping for," senior co-captain Cole Contact Fran Tolan at Isban said. "We really struggled ftolan@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's looked to be in charge throughout the contest, playing with a higher intensity and efficiency than the Mustangs. 
"We played with great ener­gy, were first to 50/50 balls, anticipated runs, strung quick passes together, and found the back of the net. We were the stronger team and the Hintons had a field day with the goal­keeper," Stancukas said. 
Senior captain Ashley Hinton had a hat trick to lead the Belles to victory. She opened up the scoring in the . middle of the first half with a pass from Samantha Goudreau. She later added two more unassisted goals within four minutes of each other in the second half. Sophomore Lauren Hinton also added a goal -her third of the season -late in the game. 
Saint Mary's outshot the Mustangs 21-4. Keri Ludwig scored the lone goal for Mount Mercy, but it was a meaning­less goal with only eight min­utes remaining in the contest. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
SMC GoLF 

Coach sees potential despite poor· shovving 
By BECKY SLINGER 
Sports Writer 

The Belles finished in 18th place at the IWU Fall Classic Tournament in Normal, Ill. while turning in a team score of 696 (120-over par) this week­end. 
The team shot a 347 the first day and a 349 on the second day of the tournament. 
Co-captain Alex Sei said hard winds contributed to the Belles' struggles, and although coach Mark Hamilton was "disappoint­ed" with the finish, he said he saw signs of improvement. 
"We showed some definite signs of improvement," he said. "If we continue to work on our short game we should lower our scores dramatically. " 
DePauw captured first place by shooting 56-over par for a combined squad total of 632 (311, 321). Wisconsin-Eau Claire trailed by one stroke to finish in second place in the two-round, 72-par tournament. 
Junior captain Katie O'Brien led the Belles in scoring with an 86 on day one and an 82 on day two for a combined total of 168 (24-over par) to finish 43rd in a field of 134 golfers. 
Kate Doornbos, the only fresh­man competing for the Belles in the tournament said she only felt "some pressure" to prove herself on the team. 
''I'm more excited than any­thing," she said. "I just try my best." 
Doornbos finished with the second lowest score on the squad (174) by shooting 30-over par to finish 64th. Meredith Fantom and Katie Mcinerney both shot 180s to fmish 84 and 85, respectively and Alex Sei shot a 182 (95, 87) placing 89th. 
The tournament's individual winner, Katie Tewell from Franklin College, shot just 4 strokes over par and had a total score of148 (74, 74). 
The Belles will have a chance to show their improvement when they play the Comet Classic hosted by Olivet College Sept. 22-23. 
Contact Becky Slinger at rslingO I @saintmarys.edu 


(Inside St. Andrew's Plaza) 
Students receive 15% off all services Mon -Wed 
Our new phone number: 574-258-5080 www.salonrougeinc.com 
and I think we let the tough condi­tions get to us a little." 
After a difficult first round Saturday in which the team carded a 313, the Irish bounced back to fire an impressive 295 later in the day. 
"After the second round, we were right [in contention]," Isban said. 
The squad headed into Sunday in seventh place and stayed in that slot until the 13th hole. The Irish were overtaken by both Northwestern and Ohio State in the last six·holes of play. 
"I was very disappointed, espe­cially because we had a chance to finish where we wanted to," Irish coach"Jim Kubinski said. 
On the last hole, four of the five Irish golfers recorded bogeys to cap off the poor finish. As a result, the team finished three shots behind Northwestern and two worse than Ohio State. 
The windy conditions were large­ly to blame for the dearth of individ­ual scores that exceeded par. Notre Dame's top two golfers, Isban and sophomore Josh Sandman, each finished with an 11-over par 227 and ended up in a four-way tie for 19th place. The other three players, senior Adam Gifford, junior Mike King, and freshman Doug Fortner each struggled at points throughout the tournament. 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTEO 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
~------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 18, 2006 denied a win as they topped second-place Marquette 48-58.
NCC 


"The weather also was an  falling apart mentally more than  
issue,"  Belles  coach  Jackie  physically. The team is coming  
Bauters said. "I think the weath­ together as a group nicely though  
er played a factor this weekend,  and hopefully that spirit will help  
having it so cool and damp all  carry us to a good race this  
week, only to race in 85 degrees  weekend."  
and sunny." Dehydration became a problem  Contact Becki Dorner at  - 
for more than a few competitors.  rdorner 1 @nd.edu  


The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles compete at two meets 
Saint Mary's athletes run at National Catholic, Indiana Intercollegiate 
host the Division I national cham­The next contest for the Belles By BECK! DORNER pionships later this year. is the MIAA Jamboree hosted by Sports Writer 
Indiana finished first with help Hope College on Saturday. 
from its top finisher, Jessica Gall, "Our focus for Monday will be 
Saint Mary's was busy this who clocked a time of17:37, and on having a good hill workout to weekend, with the team divided Valparaiso came in second. help prepare for Hope's course, on Friday between the National The top finisher for the Belles and throughout the week; we will Catholic Championships at Notre was Megan Gray, who recorded a pay closer attention to getting Dame and the Indiana 20:13. enough sleep, staying hydrated Intercollegiate Championships in She was followed a minute and eating healthy foods," Otto Terre Haute, Ind. later by Sara Otto (21:13), Megan said. 
At the National Catholic Cross McOowery (21 :45), Alicen Miller Herbst said the team will ease Country Invitational, the Belles (22:24) and Kelly Biedron up on workouts to avoid injury came in last out of 34 teams. (22:26), who rounded out the top this week. Notre Dame finished in frrst on five for Saint Mary's. "Next week if a very important the familiar course, followed by The field at Terre Haute was race for us so we are going to Marquette in second place. The one of the most competitive in the focus on having fresh legs this individual winner was Notre nation, but Otto said that did not week," Herbst said. "We will not Dame junior Sunni Olding, with a faze the Belles. be tapering, but we will be in the time of17:51. "It can be intimidating to toe pool one day this week to save 
The top finisher for the Belles the start line next to Division I our legs from some wear and at the meet was sophomore and Division II schools where tear." Caitlin Brodmerkel with a time of there are runners competing on Senior Katie White stressed 
23:19. scholarships," she said. that even though workouts will 
Belles captain Meaghan Herbst "However, we can gain confi­be softer, the team's intensity will said Saint Mary's was not wor­dence knowing we aren't running remain high. ried about its team finish at the for money -we race because "This week we want to keep National Catholics, a meet that this is what we love to do." our intensity up during our work­attracts several Division I schools Running at Terre Haute gave outs while trying to minimize every year. the Belles some additional chal­stress, maximize sleep and stay 
'We did not even focus on the lenges too, Otto said. healthy for one of the most competition for this meet," "Running against Division I and important races of our season," Herbst said. "For us, the meet Division II schools is always chal­White said. does not count since we are not lenging and it's easy to get pulled Strategy-wise, Otto said the running against other teams in out too fast," she said. "The team Belles will continue to focus on the MIAA, but it is a good chance was running tired and definitely their team goal of closing the to get another race in for the against some of the strongest gaps among the top five runners, experience and training." competition, like Indiana, although it may take some time. 
The experience forced the Purdue, ISU and DePauw. It was "Closing the gap for the top Belles to practice pacing, specifi­good especially for the first years runners will not be easy, but it cally not going out too fast during to see what racing that kind of certainly can be done," she said. the first mile. caliber is like." "I think right now our bodies are 
Running in the 34-team field The Belles also got the chance at various levels of health and 
__:.,._
also gave the runners a chance to to scope out some fellow Division training, and I suspect we will practice avoiding getting lost in a III opponents like Manchester see the time gaps becoming large crowd. and Hanover, who finished 19th much smaller in the next few 
At the Indiana Intercollegiate and 20th, respectively. weeks." meet hosted by Indiana State, the In addition to those presented Bauters said the Belles have to Belles finished 21st out of 26 on by the other teams, the Belles fix mental mistakes before next the Terre Haute course that will had to deal with challenges from week. 
within. Many of the runners were "More than anything this week, 
dealing with colds, soreness and we'll work on staying mentally 
injuries, including captain Katie tough through the race," Bauters 
White, who couldn't finish due to said. "We had some setbacks this 
shin splints. weekend due to losing focus and 
continued from page 28 
1984. The only other previous repeat winner was Notre Dame's JoAnna Deeter, who won the event all four years she ran it. 
Chasing Olding at the finish were three runners from Marquette, finishing over 12 seconds after Olding had crossed the line. The three Golden Eagles were followed by three Irish runners -junior Julie Opet (18:17), freshman Lindsey Ferguson (18:17) and sophomore Heidi Rocha (18:42). Sophomore Becca Bauman rounded out the Irish points qualifiers with a total time of 18:58. 
Rocha's finish was especially crucial as she held off advances from Duquesne's Amy Ruffolo (18:43) and Marquette's Amanda Beggs (18:44) down the stretch to secure the first place tie for Notre Dame. 
Women's coach Tim Connelly was glad his team won the race, but knew there was still a lot of room for improvement as Notre Dame will play host again in two weeks, but this time to many top-25 teams in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
"This will give them a lot of confidence going into the tough races coming up," Connelly said. "We do have a lot of room to get better. I don't think we closed particularly well, but now we've got some confidence to build on." 
One reason Connelly knows his team has so much room to improve is that he saved his best runners for the important races later in the season when they will be needed to beat top­ranked opponents. 
On the men's side, coach Joe Piane also held out his top two runners, senior Kurt Benninger and sophomore Patrick Smyth, but the Irish could not be 
Although a Notre Dame run­ner did not win the individual race -that honor was given to John Riak from St. Martin's College, who finished the 8K race in 24:38 -they did have the best team Friday. 
Junior Jake Watson led Notre Dame with a strong-second­place finish, chasing Riak down the stretch but falling to him by only two seconds. 
"I ran hard and gave it every­thing I had," Watson said of his tough finish. "I ~ad tried to break him early but he was able to hold on to me." 
Junior Brett Adams (25:18) and junior Mike Popejoy 
(25:20) finished eighth and 
ninth overall. Freshman Jake Walker 
(25:39) and sophomore Robbie Baranay (25:57) rounded out Notre Dame's top 5. 
Adams and Popejoy were the only Irish runners to follow Piane's gameplan and stay in a tight pack, a technique that won Notre Dame the Crusader Invitational, said Piane. 
"Honestly, we had a few freshmen in the race and they ran like freshmen," Piane said. "One thing they need to realize about the difference between college and high school cross country is that this is all about the team, not individual per­forman~es." 
Notre Dame will also reinsert its top runners in two weeks at the Notre Dame Invitational, with Benninger and Smyth returning to the race lineup. 
"When we slip in those two fellows we will eliminate 25 points from our total," Piane said. "We add in a 3:58 miler in Benninger and Smyth who can run 5000 meters in 4:10. 
"With those two guys and two more weeks of practice we can only get better." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
Thinking of applying for a research and travel grant, or an internship in 2007? 
Come and hear from the Nanovic Institute for European Studies grant winners from 2006! 
Get +ipf for preparing a good app(ica+ion, (iving on a +igh+ t>udge+, and +he do'f and don'tf of refearch +rave( and accoMModation in E.urope. 
September 19, Tuesday 4:30 -6:00 pm Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center (opposite Starbucks) 
www.nd.edu/-nanovic 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
than two -with a kill for the 2-0 match advantage. 
Freshman Megan Fest con­tributed 10 kills and 14 digs in the Irish win. 
Notre Dame 3, Duke 1 

The Irish beat the Blue Devils in four games -30-27, 19-30, 30-24 and 30-25 -to take two matches in a row for their first consecutive wins since a three­game run to open the season. 
Stasiuk once again led the team in kills with 14 on 31 attacks -a .387 success rate -and added nine digs on defense. Fest broke Herndon's consecutive team-leading dig mark when she tallied 20 against the Blue Devils. 
"I thought Megan Fest had a pretty good weekend," Brown said. "She had a really good match against Duke. Her hit­ting numbers may not have been real impressive, but she had 20 digs and was playing really steady all around." 
Notre Dame and Duke both finished with 63 kills apiece, but the Irish emerged with a .242 successful attack percent­age to the Blue Devils' .220 mark. The Irish also out-dug their opponent with a tally of 59-58. 
Notre Dame rallied from a second set loss to take consecu­tive games while hitting .342. The third game wen' Notre Dame's way after the team opened up on an 11-4 run to overcome a one-point Duke lead. Sophomore Mallorie Croal gave the Irish a 2-1 lead with a kill. 
Stasiuk took the match with back-to-hack service aces in the fourth game. The aces fin­ished a game in which the Irish 
Wins 
continued from page 28 

to be a battle," he said. "That's what happens when you have the No.1 target on your back." 
The two teams played an even first half Sunday, with Michigan having the. best chance to score on a shot by junior forward Melissa Dobbyn which sailed just wide of the net. 
In the second half, Notre Dame shook off the cobwebs and found the back of the net in the 57th minute. Freshman for­ward Michele Weissenhofer took a pass from junior Susan Pinnick and beat Wolverine keeper Madison Gates. 
Gates was in the game after an early injury to regular starter senior Megan Tuura. 
The Irish struck again in the 84th minute with a goal by jun­ior forward Amanda Cinalli. Cinalli redirected a cross from Weissenhofer, giving the fresh­man her NCAA-leading lOth assist of the year. 
Waldrum said he was glad his team woke up in time to get the victory. 
"We came on the road and got a win, so I can't complain too much," he said. 
Notre Dame 5, DePaul 0 

Waldrum said Friday' per­formance against the Blue Demons in Notre Dame's first Big East conference game of the year was one of the most com­plete Irish wins of the season. 
"DePaul was probably the first game that we've put together 70-80 good minutes," he said. 
Playing on the Blue Demons' new artificial FieldTurf. the Irish played well early, out­shooting DePaul 18-1 in the first half. 
Monday, September 18, 2006 
gained an early 12-6 lead and never relinquished it. 
The Irish took the opening game in the match on a Blue Devil attack error, after it had been deadlocked at 22-22. Duke, however, took the second game with a 19-9 run after the two teams were tied at 11. 
Arizona State 3 Notre Dame 0 

The Sun Devils (8-3) defeated the Irish 30-20, 30-20, 30-28 to take the Classic title and equal their win total from the 2005 season. 
The Irish fought the sweep in the third game, as the two teams exchanged several leads and were tied five different times -mostly after both squads had eclipsed the 20­point mark. The Sun Devils prevailed. however, and took the game in which neither team led by more than three points. 
"I think the main thing was that we just had breakdown in serving and passing," Brown said. "That's just the funda­mentals -everything stems off of that." 
Arizona State took an early lead in the first game and held on as the team never trailed on the way to a 1-0 lead. The sec­ond stanza was more of the same, as the Sun Devils only gave up their lead once and took a 2-0 advantage on an identical score. 
Freshman kills-leader Christina Kaelin missed the match due to a migraine, which Brown said, "was unfortunate, we didn't have any depth because of that." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at 
kcassily@nd.edu 

The Irish spent one practice inside the Loftus Center this week to get ready for the artifi­cial surface 
"We played pretty well with [the surface]," Waldrum said. "It didn't seem to have too big of an effect. The field wasn't too much of a problem." 
Notre Dame first got on the scoreboard with a goal by soph­omore Brittany Bock, her sec­ond since returning to action last week. Bock, along with sophomore defender Carrie Dew, had been playing for Team USA in the U-20 World Championships in Russia. 
The teams went into the lock­er room with the score 1-0, but the Irish exploded with four goals in the second half -two by Weissenhofer, one by sopho­more forward Kerri Hanks and one by senior midfielder Lizzie Reed. 
Notes: 

+After the Notre Dame foot­ball team's loss to Michigan on Saturday, Waldrum said he was anticipating a very hostile reception in Ann Arbor. While Sunday afternoon's crowd was relatively mild, Waldrum said he and the team were not greeted warmly when they arrived in town Saturday night. 
"We went to TGI Friday's [in Ann Arbor Saturday] night," Waldrum said. "When we got to the restaurant there were some people [who] had some not-so­nice things to say about Notre Dame." 
+The Irish continue Big East conference play next week with a road trip to Cincinnati Friday and a home game against Louisville Sunday. 
The Bearcats are 4-3-1 this year while, the Cardinals are 5­0. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
ASU 
continued from page 28 
Arizona State swept the Irish 3-0 in the Classic's final game to take the tournament cham­pionship and give Notre Dame a 2-1 record -one weekend after the team finished 1-2 in the University of Northern Iowa Invitational. 
"I felt we played pretty well against both Butler and Duke," Brown said. "Our serving and passing .were really good -we had a 

strong offensive performance in those matches. It started from the fact that we had really good serving and pass­ing." 
Junior Adrianna Stasiuk earned all-tournament hon­ors as she was named the Co­Best Attacker with Arizona State's Margie Giordano. Sophomore Justine Stremick was named the Classic's Best Blocker. 
The Classic finished with a three-way tie between Arizona State, Duke and Notre Dame as all teams fin­ished with a 2-1 record. Duke 

only their first win on a Friday 
night this season but also their 
first goals on a Friday night as continued from page 28 Notre Dame defeated Louisville 
at Cardinal Park. away with only six minutes With his two goals, Lapira remaining. brought his season total to 
"We knew we had to get seven, four more than fellow another goal (after the first McGeeney, who is second on goal), so we weren't sitting the team with three goals. back," said Clark. "(Cincinnati) Lapira also tied his goal output 
Weekend 
was pushing the whole game, though, and they possibly had the better chances on the day." 
Senior Chris Cahill broke the team's recent trend of rotating goalkeepers as he received his sec­ond consecutive start in goal. 
of seven from last season, a

"Nobody said it 
total which led would be easy, but Notre Dame in 
you have to pick 2005. 
"Last year

yourself up and you 
he was a little 

have to keep unlucky," fighting." Clark said. "This year, he's a little bit
Bobby Clark 
older, little bit Irish coach wiser. He's handling 
Along with the two goals he things very well. I hope there conceded, Cahill made six are a lot more goals in Joe this saves on the afternoon. Clark, year." however, was pleased with his Lapira's first goal came in the keeper's overall performance. 58th minute off a pass from 
"He's been playing very well junior Kurt Martin. Lapira lately," Clark said. "He played faded to the blind side of his well Friday night. He played defender, used very well today. We just felt his first touch 
Clark said. "Nobody said it forward up would be easy, but you have to until Notre pick yourself up and you have Dame's first goal-employing to keep fighting." a defend and counter-attack 
style -and Clark noted that Notre Dame 2, Louisville 0 the tone of the game changed Joseph Lapira can't stop after his team scored. scoring. "When we scored the goal, 
Notre Dame's junior forward they had to come out and try to scored two more goals against get back into the game," Clark Louisville to give the Irish not said. "Them coming out opened 
was eliminated after losing five games in its three match­es. 
Arizona State and Notre Dame both lost four games on the weekend, and the Sun Devils were able to take the title by way of their head-to­head victory over the Irish. 
Notre Dame 3, Butler 0 
Notre Dame swept Butler by scores of 30-23, 30-19 and 30-21 on game-ending kills by Serinity Phillips, Stremick and Stasiuk. 
In addition to the match­ender, Stasiuk recorded 13 kills and 13 digs on the match -the sixth time this year the junior has reached double digits in both categories at the same time and the 30th time of her career. 
Libero Danielle llerndon led the Irish for the ninth straight game with 21 digs -the third longest dig streak in Notre Dame history. Junior Ashley Tarutis led both squads in assists with 31. 
The Irish gained a 25-16 lead in the third game ol'f a kill from freshman Kim Kristoff and had a .400 attack percentage on the game before Stasiuk finished the Bulldogs. 
The first game was won on back-to-back kills by Phillips to cap an 8-3 run. Butler had cut the lead to 22-20 before the Irish were abl~ to close it out. 
In the second stanza, Notre Dame got out to an early 7-2 lead and never relinquished it. 
Stremick ended the game ­in which the Bulldogs could not cut the Irish lead closer 
up space at the back, and that's how Joe scored his second goal." 
Despite chances, it wasn't until the 83rd minute that Notre Dame would find that elusive second goal. Similarly to his first goal, Lapira got behind his defender where he proceeded to take a through pass from freshman Justin Morrow and tuck the ball away into the corner of the Cardinal net. 
Cahill, playing in front of family friends in his hometown of Louisville, got the start in goal for the Irish. He recorded four saves on the night while earning the shutout, his second of the season and tenth of his Irish career. Notre Dame now stands at 3-1-0 this season when Cahill mans the net. 
"We wanted to give Chris a start in his hometown, and he certainly looked up to all expectations from family and friends," Clark said. "He made two key saves and played exceptionally well." 
With the win, Notre Dame 
improved its 
overall record 
that he was the right man for off Martin's "We haven't won two to 4-2-1 and the job this weekend." chip to push 2-1-0 in Big
games in the same

With their split this weekend, the ball past East play on Notre Dame's record now his defender weekend yet, so this our the season. It stands at 4-3-1 and 2-2-0 in and slotted the first opportunity to do was also the Big East play. Despite his ball into the first time that
that. We're preparing to

team's recent inconsistency, corner of the the Irish have 
do that now. :·

Clark feels that there is no rea­net. won two con-son for his team to worry. Louisville secutive "(The Big East) is a hard had been play­games this
Bobby Clark 

league with a hard schedule," ing only one season, but
Irish coach 

Clark is already focus­ing on another goal. 
"We haven't won two games in the same weekend yet, so this is our first opportunity to do that," Clark said. "We're preparing to do that now." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Monday, September 18, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

'10U 
'11-\\S 
r-JOI .sc~e SO~\ oF fi::01"8.Alt.. "ll-\E.ME. PA~'<C.. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WALBY 
± 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SOINY 
± 
WHAT THE SEAM­STRESS ENJOYED
J I [ J 
ON HER WEDDING DAY. 
HERTAH ±
www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers Monday) 

I Jumbles: ARRAY DRAMA BRONCO FUMBLE Yesterday's Answer: 
How the maestro studied the score for his next concert-FROM BAR TO BAR 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Shoot using a 67 Indifferent 
1 Jewel scope, say 68 Dig into, as 4 Accumulate 37 Ripken who dinner 9 One making a played 2,632 69 Check recipient 
straight games 

point at church? 70 Furrier John 38 Dutch island in
14 Mine find Jacob 
the Caribbean 

15 Money in India 71 Area between 41 Playa_ Rey, N. and S. Korea
16 Hearing-related Calif. 
17 Top-ranked 42 Trap
player in a DOWN 
45 Decorative foil 

tournament 1 Try to attain 48 Cheap laughs 
19 Little old man in 2 "Fear of Fifty" a fairy tale 50 Patricia _, writer Jong Best Actress for 
20 Supernatural 3 Parisian thanks 
"Hud"

21 Confucian path 4 Lacking guile 
51 Beer drinker's 

23 Network that 5 Be compelled to
bar request 
covers the 6 Cousin of a

55 "Of course," 
N.Y.S.E. 

humanslangily24 Reward from a 7 Look after 
59 See 60-Across 
boss a Alternative to a 

so With 59-Across,

25 Holdup victim's convertible
battle planning 
plea 9 Slump site

27 Kids' guessing 61 Pay no heed 
10 Hit the time 
game clock

62 Kofi of the U.N. 11 Rust29 Cereal that's 
"for kids" 64 Pilgrims' carrier 12 Classic Stallone 
30 Smoker's 66 Long, drawn-out role
mouthpiece attack 13 Send to the Capitol
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 ·w~~e Up Little 
~*::;+.'""! 25 Easter egg decorator
-:nttJn!ll. 26 Sophs., two 
.;.; years later -:.!-~;+:,;..~..,;,...:;.~ 28 Mom-and-pop 
grp. 30 Dell products 31 Singer Janis 
..;.+.;::;+;,:..j.;:.l 32 Monopoly game equipment -:+.,;,.+=+:+.:-! 33 Face on a "wanted" poster 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

"::;-t~:::+.~~+.:o+=-1-:-1 22 Hall-of-Farner Mel 

35 Vegetable on a  46 Tassel on a  53 "La _" ('59 hit)  
vine  cap, e.g.  54 European/Asian  
36 North Pole  47 Grassy plain of  range  
helper 39 School funder, often  South America 49 Logging tool 51 Understanding  56 Dragged behind 57 Gat's saucerful 58 Avis rival  
40 Drink with a head on it 43 Search (through)  52 Ancient region with an architectural style named  61 In that case ... 63 Born: Fr. 65 China's Sun  
44 Squeeze (out)  after it  -sen  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip.___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wade J. Robson, 24; Mark Brunell, 36; Rita Rudner, 50; Cassandra Peterson, 57 
Happy Birthday: You'll have plenty to be happy about if you make the changes you've been considering. You will have a very determined attitude, see things more clearly and, by following your inner voice, will do what's best. Your numbers arc 7, 
13, 25, 28, 33, 37 

ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You'll be up for any competitive challenge and in the groove when it comes to entertaining. Put your dreams into play. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Just because someone is putting demands on you. doesn't mean you have to jump to his or her command. You have to say no once in a while and put yourself first. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep an open mind and an open ear. You'll be privy to some very important information. The more you do with groups, teams, etc., the better your chance to make a connection and push one of your many ideas. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take a look around you and. if you don't like what you see, make the changes to help you feel more comfortable in your surroundings. Don't refuse to get involved in something a little unique or different today. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Although it may be difficult, keep a low profile today. Don't discuss your plans or what you are trying to accomplish. You have to finish everything and be well prepared before you step into the limelight. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get sucked into what everyone else wants to do when you have so many things that you need to finish. A change in the dynamics of a relationship you are in should be expected. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have more control than you realize. Take a quiet but forceful approach when dealing with others. Someone you least expect may try to hide something from you. Insightfully derail this person's deceit. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't expect to get any outside help. An older relative is likely to cause you emotional worry. Don't let someone else's bad habits influence you. Make changes at home to help relieve the tension. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your entertaining and flirtatious mood may attract some interesting people. The people you already know will question your motives. A money deal looks good. Collect old debts or pay what you owe others. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may catch you off guard. Don't let this person get to you. Your versatility will bring you greater financial benefits. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Ask questions and discuss emotional matters and you will feel better at the end of the day. Be straightforward. loving and understanding . An idea you have to make extra cash is good, so follow through. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You have plenty to rethink and redo if you want to turn a project that interests you into something great. Don't let someone's selfish attitude cause you to miss out on something important. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a strong, powerful and determined competitor. You are just and willing to go the distance to help those less fortunate. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 18, 2006 
page 28 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 

Home cooking 
Men's, women's teams take first in National Catholic Championships at Burke Course 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sporrs Writer 

Home course advantage came in handy for Notre Dame Friday in the National Catholic Championships as the Irish swept both the men's and women's events. 
For the No. 12 Irish men, it was their second win in as many tries this season while the Notre Dame women were able to build on a disappointing second-place finish in the Crusader Invitational last week with a tie for first with No. 18 Marquette at 28 points a piece. 
The women competed first and Notre Dame led most of the way with a strong pack near the front of the race. This group was led by eventual race champi­on Sunni Olding. The Irish junior com­pleted the 5K race in only 17:51. 
''I'm glad I was able to lead the team to a strong finish this week," Olding said. "I just ran hard and was able to hold off any moves anyone tried to make on me." 
Olding became only the second woman to win the National Catholic Championship two years in a row since women began racing in the event in 
Irish junior Jake Watson tries to catch St. Martin's freshman John Riak. Riak won the race but see NCC/page 25 Watson and Notre Dame took the team title at Friday's National Catholic Championships. 

NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish take 2 lll.atches in Telll.pe 
Debbie Brown earns 496th, 497th wins of head coaching career 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown moved two wins closer to 500 career victories this weekend at the school where she began her 21-year coach­ing career. 
The Irish (6-5) earned 3-0 and 3-1 wins over Butler and Duke in the Courtyard by Marriot Classic at Arizona State University to push Brown's win total to 497 all­time. 
Brown began her head coaching career with the Sun Devils in 1983, compiling a 117-83 record over four years in Tempe. 
see TEMPE/page 26 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Squad splits pair of 
conference contests 
ND has not won back­to-back games in the same weekend this year 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Writer 
If there's one thing Notre Dame has been consistent with this season, it's been its incon­sistency. 
For the fourth consecutive week Notre Dame failed to win two games in a weekend. 
After Notre Dame dispatched of Louisville 2-0 on Friday night, it was Cincinnati who ruined an Irish bid for a perfect weekend as the Bearcats rallied for a 2-1 victory Sunday afternoon at Gettler Stadium. 
"After finally getting the Friday monkey off our back, we went out and lost on Sunday," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "When you play two games on the road and win one and lose one, it's not the end of the work, but it would have been nice to win both of them." 

The Irish had an optimal start to the game as senior forward Justin McGeeney opened the scoring in only the 12th minute with his fourth goal of the sea­son. Midfielder Nate Norman started the play as he beat his defender inside the 18-yard box and unleashed a shot. Bearcat keeper Mike Vessells made the save, but McGeeney was there to tap in the rebound from close range. 
It wasn't until after halftime that Cincinnati found an equal­izer. Bearcat mid fielder Mike Dwyer beat his defender to the end line where he centered the ball around the penalty spot. His cross found an unmarked Kenny Anaba, who fired the ball into the goal on his first touch. 
Anaba also played a part in Cincinnati's second goal as he managed to get his head on a Patrick Baxter cross. Anaba's flick floated perfectly into the path of Noah Davidson, who headed home and put the game 
see WEEKEND/page 26 

ND WoMEN's SoccER 
No.1 remains unblemished 
Irish rout DePaul 5-0, beat Michigan despite "lethargic" performance 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Unbeaten, unscored upon and unsatisfied. 
No. 1 Notre Dame (8-0) was not at its best this weekend. but managed to win road con­tests 5-0 over DePaul Friday and 2-0 over Michigan Sunday. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum said he was happy with the squad's effort against the Blue Demons, but he said the team was "lethargic" against the Wolverines. 
"Michigan played hard and was very organized, but we weren't real sharp," he said. 
Waldrum said he hoped his team, which has not allowed a goal since Sept. 3 against Santa Clara, learned a lesson from the relatively sub-par perform­ance against the Wolverines. 
"These kids have to under­stand that every game is going 
see WINS/page 26 



SMC CROSS COUNTRY  SMC SOCCER  MEN'S GOLF  SMC GOLF  MLB  FOOTBAll  
Belles runners com­peted at two meets this weekend ­the Indiana Intercollegiate and National Catholic  The Belles beat Mt. Mercy for their first win of the season, then lost to North Central College in the final of  The Irish finised ninth at the Gopher Invite despite a hole in one from freshman Doug Fortner.  Saint Mary's finished 18th in windy condi­tions at the Illinois Wesleyan Invitational.  Padres 2 Dodgers 1 San Diego defeated Los Angeles in a key NL West matchup.  Michigan 47 Notre l>ame 21 The Wolverines turned five Irish turnovers into 24 points in a rout.  
Championships.  the Sal Vaccaro Invite.  
page 25  page 24  page 24  page 24  page 18  Irish Insider  







