
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

NDSP officer stresses safe choices 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Days after news of off-earn­pus crimes rippled through campus, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Associate Director Phil Johnson asked senators to voice their concerns about safety at Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
On Aug. 23, a female Notre Dame student was allegedly assaulted in her Turtle Creek apartment. Three days later, another Notre Dame student was robbed and injured as he walked on Notre Dame Avenue. 
NDSP is aiding in the investi­gation of these crimes, but stu­dents must work to preserve their own safety on and off campus, Johnson said. 
"Your safety will be largely determined by how you organ­ize your life, and how you choose to live.... You have to take responsibility for your own safety," Johnson said. "You have to be aware of your surroundings and know what kind of crimes are being com­mitted." 
Assuring senators that NDSP ofl"ers a wide range of services to help keep students safe on and off campus, Johnson said 
see SENATE/page 4 


Architecture program ranks high on lists 
Faculty, students possess fisense of pride" because of strong reputation, achievements 
trian-friendly cities. 
Faculty and administrators are justifiably pleased with the program's standing this year, said Dean Michael Lykoudis ­although high rankings are nothing new to the School of Architecture. 
The School "ranks pretty well, and it has ranked fairly well in the last four or five years," he said. 
When ranking programs, Designintelligence and New Urban News typically consider "which schools best prepare their graduates for the profes­sion," Lykoudis said, although they do not reveal which of the 
see RANKINGS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Caviezel takes ND course 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
When junior Dave Daley walked into hi<> intermediate Spanish cla<>s this summer and took a seat, he noticed one student was not quite like the others. 
"All of a 


s u d d e n someone in the back struck up a conversation with me, Daley said. "He looked out of place, 
Caviezel he looked 

older ... he looked well put together, [like] thi<> does not look like your average Notre Dame student sitting here in the classroom." 
A star-struck Daley soon found himself speaking with "Passion of the Christ" actor Jim Caviezel. 
"After we had a conversation for a little while ... it hit me, I was just talking to Jesus, I was just talking to Caviezel," Daley said. "It was a funny feeling -I didn't expect it at 
all." 
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said while Caviezel did take classes" as a student during the summer session, he i.•; not current­ly enrolled. 
Brown said Caviezel-"obvi­ously a non-traditional student" ­is working with Arts and Letters Associate Director Ava Preacher on "how to proceed" at Notre Dame. 
Preacher said she could not comment on the specifies of 
see ACTOR/page 4 


By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Two architecture journals recently ranked the University's School of Architecture as a top program -the only undergrad­uate program recognized in both the Designintellegence and New Urban News surveys. 
Notre Dame's School of Architecture ranked twelfth among more than 75 accredited undergraduate programs nationwide in the Designintelligenee poll. The School ranked second in the New Urban News poll, which focuses on input from architects interested in livable and pedes-



Students embrace new Collegiate Readership Program 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Just three days after the Collegiate Readership Program started on campus, senior organizer Chris Harris was already witnessing positive responses from students. 
"I overheard two students saying how they would have never known about the [Delta Air Lines] plane crash [with­out] seeing it in Monday's edi­tion of the New York Times in the dining hall," he said. "They seem to really appreciate it." 
For Harris, this kind of feed­back is especially helpful. Since early 2005, the former Senate Academic Affairs com­mittee chair has been working with USA Today -which runs the program -to extend its business to the Notre Dame community. 
When elected last spring, student body president Lizzi Shappell and vice president Bill Andrichik continued to promote the program, agree­ing it would be an ideal invest­ment for the students. 
"We're extremely pleased with the results from the launch last week," Andrichik said. · 
The Collegiate Readership Program, which began at Pennsylvania State University in 1997, currently serves more than 400 schools nationwide to help students keep in touch with national and global news. 
At Notre Dame, the daily program delivers 1,600 copies of the Chicago Tribune, New York Times and USA Today to both dining halls, LaFortune 
Student Center and one off­campus receptacle near the Joyce Center. 
Many students said the pro­gram prevents them from liv­ing in the "Notre Dame bub­ble" and from becoming impervious to important news. 
"It's great because I don't go off campus and I'm looking for different news every day," jun­ior Brian Chester said. 
The program draws funds from a $15 increase in the Student Activity Fee, passed last fall in Senate and Campus Life Council under then-stu­dent body president Dave Baron and then-vice president Shappell. The measure was ultimately approved by Viee President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
see PROGRAM/page 4 


----------------~------~~ 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, August 31, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A truly· 
Catholic 


school 

I suppose it began with the sign of the 
cross (lots of things here do). 

I was in class last Tuesday when the 
professor distributed a little green sheet 
with a prayer on it. Everyone bowed 
their heads. 

A prayer. In Eileen Duffy English class. I guess I'd forgot-Assistant ten how religious News Editor this place is. 
"But it's a 

Catholic school. You chose a Catholic 
school," my friend said. "Besides, what's 
wrong with thinking about someone 
other than yourself for five minutes a 
day?" 

Good point. I did choose Notre Dame. 
Along with its theology requirements -I'm fulfilling my second this year. I went to do my reading assignment on the 1Oth floor of the library, where I snagged a desk with a pretty view of campus. 
"Clearly, any profession of our con­cern and love for the poor is ungodly, senseless, and deceitful if it is unaccom­panied by any effort to win release for the poor from the economic, political, and social chains that keep them imprisoned both in body and in spirit," my reading told me. 
So if all I do is read and talk about 
helping the poor, and I don't do it, I am 
"ungodly, senseless and deceitful." I was 
marveling at this when the new $70 mil­
lion building caught my eye. 

It's beautiful. So is the LaFortune ren­.ovation. I mean, I know I need that more than children in Africa need health care. 
The Office of Stewardship gets plenty of undesignated donations. Hey, Notre Dame -and your donors -why not put your (bountiful) money where your mouth is? 
You're a Catholic university. I remem­ber that from last spring, when you questioned the Vagina Monologues. I remember that from when a girl got kicked out for letting her brother sleep on the floor of her room. I remember those white crosses representing the pregnancies that are terminated by abortion every day. 
Let me remember it for the good Notre Dame does in the world. 
Don't make me read and discuss dry theological history and theory. Make me go out and do service. I'll do it. 
Don't pay for things your students don't really require. Pay for things the world requires. 
"Morality," by the way, was the discus­sion in my most recent theology class. 
"You can't be moral unless you believe in God," one student said, fingering the 10-carat gold cross around his neck. "You can perform a good act, but it's hollow and empty." 
But couldn't the opposite be true? What if the believer who plants the cross in South Quad votes for a pro-life president whose policies make the rich richer and the poor poorer? Maybe that very cross is hollow. 
Next time an atheist does service, she'd better read a prayer off a green slip of paper beforehand -then she'll truly be moral. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, rerognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU FEEL SAFE ON AND AROUND CAMPUS? 


Ben Solomon  Pat Richel  Claire Sobczak  Jess Stalter  Juan Pablo Garcia  KC Hunt  
junior Keough  sophomore Dillon  junior Badin  junior Welsh Family  junior Stanford  sophomore Pasquerilla East  
7 think my  ':4s long as rm  "Now that Fve  "Wzth these  "Yeah,  "Yes, but only  
roommate  with that girl. "  starting  guns, who  because I hang  because ofFran  


watches me in 
, 
my sleep. 
Nepal boy claims to be shortest in the world 
KATMANDU, Nepal ­Nepal's shortest boy is wait­ing for word from the Guinness World Records, where he has applied to be named the shortest in the world, his supporters said on Wednesday. 
Khagendra Thapa Magar, 14, is only 20 inches tall and weighs 10 pounds. 
According to Min Bahadur Thapa, president of the Khagendra Thapa Magar Foundation, they are expect­ing to receive a reply from London-based Guinness World Records in the next few days. The foundation 
TODAY a: 
1.&.1 
::c 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
c:c 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 75
..... 
LOW 70 



pumpin' iron, I wouldn't?" with this kid. " McCann's self 
feel a lot safer. " 
was set up to collect funds for the boy. 
There was no listing on the Guinness World Records' web site on a shortest boy category, but Thapa claimed their closest competitor was 25 inches tall. 
The boy and family mem­bers are currently touring south Nepal, seeking support for the foundation. 
Cats flock to Hemingway home 
KEY WEST, Fla. -The many cats that roam the grounds of the Ernest Hemingway home include Ivan, Frances and Charley ­all kittens born during the 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer 

Junior Nicholas Shaneyfelt plays the piano In front of South Dining Hall Wednesday to advertise for the Sept. 1 "dueling pianos" event at Legends. 
OFFBEAT 

destructive hurricane season of2004. 
But the home and muse­um's manager, Jacque Sands, has drawn the line: "We do 
not  want  one  named  
Ernesto."  
Mostly,  she  said,  

Hemingway's first name makes "Ernesto" a bad choice. 
The cats -44, at last count-are denied little else. Among Key West's numerous attractions, the felines are local celebrities, adorning postcards, prints and mag­nets. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 


HIGH 71 LOW 59 

defense class. " 
IN BRIEF 

"Goodie and The Feel Alrights" will perform at Legends at 10 p.m. Thursday. The show is free for students. 
Chicago's "Howl at the Moon" dueling pianos will per­form at Legends at 10 p.m. Friday. ND, SMC or HCC stu­dent ID required for admission. 
"An Inconvenient Truth" will be shown at 7 p.m. and 10 Thursday and Friday in Browning Cinema at The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is $6 for general public, $5 for faculty, $4 for seniors and $3 for stu­dents. 
The women's soccer team will take on USC Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at Alumni Field. The game is part of the Inn at Saint Mary's ND Classic. 
The Suite Museum of Art will showcase Mexican migration to the United States through a multimedia exhibit that includes Chicano and Mexican visual arts beginning Sunday, Sept. 3 in the museum's O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Mestrovic Studio Gallery and the entrance atrium. 
The sixth annual Saturday Scholar Series will feature six lectures and a performance by leading faculty members on each home football game week­end this fall. The first lecture, "More Than a Movie? Assessing 'TheDa Vinci Code"' will be held, as always, three and a half hours before kickoff on Sept. 9 in DeBartolo 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

72 58 

HIGH LOW 



-------------~-----­
Thursday, August 31, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Ne-w fountain added to entrance of SMC student center 
students with an open hand,
By MANDl STIRONE 

and holds a book, symbolic of News Writer 
wisdom. It is surrounded by seven doves that symbolize Arter years of work on the the seven gifts of the Holy new Saint Mary's student cen­Spirit, according to a descrip­ter and dining hall, the final tion displayed by the sculp­touch has been added in the ture. Other symbols include form of a .three-paneled foun­spirals on the bottoms of both tain and sculp-the right and ture to promote left panels, the ideals of the wheat on the Saint Mary's 7ft] adds peace and left, assorted community. tranquility to the flowers below 
Every depic­Mary's image,
student center and
tion on the "Our seeds falling Lady Seat of makes it more ofa from her book Wisdom" sculp­place to get away and lilies on ture has some the right panel.
from the craziness of
meaning per­The fountain,
college.,,
taining to the which was College or to donated by the 
KATE FENLONfThe Observer 

Mary. The Harold Graham
Lindsey Krawczun 
The new "Our Lady Seat of Wisdom" fountain was added near the entrance of the Saint Mary's
College initially family, sits in
sophomore student center this fall. The addition represents the values of the College.
began receiving the entryway to proposals in the student late 2003 but center between as a Catholic women's col­••••••••••••••••••••••••••• had a difficult time finding a the Noble Family Dining Hall lege, she said. 
:• DANCE :•
design that fit its need. and the Cyber Cafe. Two of Many students said that 
• f'or Notre D~une & St. Mary's Students!
Until Saint Mary's alumna the Grahams' daughters, they like the addition to the • • Karen Hey! submitted a pro­Mary Colleen Dow and student center. • posal, that is. Christine Gambs, attended "[ltl adds peace and tran­Vice President of College the College. quility to the student center 
• Convenient short term adult classes in: • 
Helations Sharon Rodriguez Donors, primarily trustees, and makes it more of a place • •
• Hallet, Jazz, ·rap. Hip-hop. Modern,
paid a special visit to Hey! in were influential in decision­to get away from the crazi­
•
Cincinnati. Heyl then submit­making for the new building ness of college," sophomore ,. Lyrical. Yoga & Pitates for beginners & •• ••ted some drawings and was and were given the option as Lindsey Krawczun said. • experienced dancers. chosen to do the sculpture. to where their donations Construction on the new • •
* Outstanding staff & facilities at
Adaline Cashore, director of would go. student center began in 2005 • 
: 34<)(> [)ouglas Rd. •
Donor Helations, said the From tl1f1 beginning, student following the completion of fountain's actual production center plans ineluded a sculp­the nnw dining hall in 2003. • •• took longer than expected ture and fountain fncusing on The student center took the • ., dancet•ducittion.net •
•

dnspite its inclusion in initial Mary, the patroness of the place or the old dining hall. 
: t::ali Today! • 
plans. College, Cashore said. The The "Our Lady Seat of fountain was designed to Contact Mandi Stirone at .. 247-1590 •• Wisdom" sculpture welcomes enhance the school's identity astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu *' •
• 


Come Celebrate Saturdav, Septetlber 2nd troll

Grape Rd 
c: 
0 




11amta1Pm
.!!! 
"'C 
w 
Notre Dame Ave 

iust 5minutes trom camousl 
204 W. Edison 57 4-256-9000 BrunosPizza.com 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 31, 2006 

Investment Banklnq Corporate Banking Sales & Trading Public Finance Finance 
apply online at www.oncampus.citigroup.com 
Please consult with your Career Services Department for interview dates and resume submission deadlines 
Rankings 
continued from page 1 

graduates' skills are most important for higher rankings. · Lykoudis cited several strengths of Notre Dame's 
Architecture program ­
including avant-garde 
emphases in the curriculum ­
that may have positively influ­
enced the rankings. 

"We're looking at how we 
design· cities and how we re­
stitch them together after 
decades of suburban sprawl," 
he said, "[as well as] issues of 
the environment, [and[ issues 
of resource depletion." 

The program's well-known 
focus on classical architecture 
likely also played a role, 
Lykoudis said. 

"How we design our eities 
and how we build our build­
ings will have a tremendous 
impact on how we go for­
ward," he said. "Our classical 
curriculum ... looks at the core 
of how the world has worked 
for centuries and how it will 
continue to work." 

Despite its recent achieve­
ments, the School of 
Architecture is not content to 
rest on its laurels. 

"[There's] more work to be jobs in the field, which is one capacity -meaning this latest 
done with environmental of the criteria on which the recognition is unlikely to 
issues," Lykoudis said. journals' rankings are based. increase enrollment. 
"[We're] building ... a concen­And most of those students This development mirrors 
tration on preservation and a receive multiple job offers, he recent growth in the 
concentration on interiors, and said. University's graduate program 
we're also looking at some While Lykoudis said high in Architecture as well as a 
interdisciplinary concentra­rankings "instill a sense of diminished acceptance rate for 
tions." pride" in faculty and students, transfer students. 
Lykoudis also said most stu­the School of Architecture's 
dents who gniduate from the undergraduate program is Contact Steve Kerins at 
School of Architecture do seek already operating at or beyond skerins@nd.edu 


Actor 
continued from page 1 
Caviezel's situation or his future plans. 
"There's a lot of water still going under the bridge," Preacher said. "I don't know exactly ... whether he wants to pursue [more classes] or not." 
Caviezel was here on a "non­degree-seeking basis," Preacher said, but it's "possible" he might come back to take more classes. 
Senior Nate Norman, another of Caviezel's classmates, enjoyed hav­ing the movie star around, calling him a "good guy" who "liked hang­ing out with the students." 
Norman said Caviezel -who never shied away from sharing his cell phone number, giving auto­graphs and taking pictures with fans -often treated students to lunch, invited them to join him for Mass and ran with the soccer team. 
"I'll be scanning through my cell phone sometimes and just all of a sudden run across Jim Caviezel," he said. "It's kind of surreal to have that." 
Daley said he also found Caviezel to be a "nice guy" who was "passion­ate and wanting to share, sharing everything that he took from his events ofhis life." 
Caviezel could not maintain a low profile for long, Daley said, for "everybody realized at a certain point it was him, it was kind of a buzz ... During breaks a lot ofpeople flocked over [to] him to hear want he wanted to say." 
But fame never went to the star's head. Daley said Caviezel was always very dedicated and attentive in class. 
"He asked a lot of questions -he seemed very much to want to under­stand [Spanish]," he said. 

Caviezel told Daley he wanted to understand Spanish so that he could use it for a Bible translation project. 
Dciley said he thought Caviezel was also a great inspiration for the class and often said if you really dive into the subject, you will get that much more out of it. Caviezel also pointed out the importance of learning Spanish due to a growing Spanish­speaking population in the United States, he said. 
Caviezel stressed the importance offamily, Daley said, and "he would take out his cell phone and show us clips of his adopted son from China who had a brain tumor." 
The actor not only spoke of his personal family, but also of his newly found Notre Dame family, Daley said. 
"If he was going to get a degree from anywhere, it had to be Notre Dame ... it couldn't be anywhere else," he said the actor wanted more from the University than "just com­ing back for the USC football game." 
Caviezel also joked about balanc­ing the life ofan actor and student. 
"He joked with me that I would probably have grandkids before he finished his degree but that it was very important to get his degree," Daley said. 
Although he is most well known for his role as "Jesus" in "The Passion of The Christ", Daley said Caviezel is uneasy about being called that. 
He would, however, joke about the nickname and say, "I am not Jesus but I am the Count of Monte Cristo," Daley said. 
Kate Antonacci and Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
~~what excites me about my careers is the fact that my work/projects will lead to profitable outcomes and that I can actually quantify the outcome of my efforts in financial terms. Also, the people I work with are great." 
REENA SODHA, ANALYST 


t s... 
Please join us for our company presentation: 
DATE: Tuesday, September 5th, 2006 
VENUE: Flanner Hall, Room 114 
TIME: 6:00 pm 
I ~ 
c1t1groupJ 
corporate and investment banking 
@ 2006 Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Member SIPC. CITIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citigroup Inc. or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Citibank are affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup. Citibank and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are equal opportunity employers M/F/0/V. 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 CotvtPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ugandan cease fire holding strong 
KAMPALA, Uganda -Ugandan government forces began withdrawing to neutral positions Wednesday to provide northern rebels safe passage to two camps across the border in southern Sudan where they can be monitored until a fmal peace deal is reached to end 19 years of civil war. 
Peace talks were set to resume Thursday in Juba, Sudan, focusing on details of a final agreement to end the insurgency by the Lord's Resistance Army. 
A truce signed Saturday is aimed at ending the war between the Ugandan government and the rebels, notorious for cutting off the tongues and lips of innocent civilians, enslav­ing thousands of children, and driving nearly 2 million people from their homes in this east African nation. 
Government troops and the rebels rarely engage in direct combat. Under the truce, both sides agreed not to attack the other and the rebels were given three weeks to report to the two camps. A cease-fire that went into effect Tuesday was holding. 
Olmert refuses to end blockade 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -No commercial ships have been sailing into Lebanon's harbors, and no cargo planes have been landing at Beirut's airport, leaving the country reliant on a thin stream of aid supplies to keep running amid Israel's more than 50-day-old blockade. 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert made clear Wednesday there would be no immedi­ate end to the blockade, rebuffing calls by 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan to lift it. 
Annan made the call in a visit to Israel, part of his effort to solidify the cease-fire in Lebanon and prevent a new flare-up in vio­lence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Russian deal gives NASA more time 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. -NASA got more breathing room to launch the space shuttle Atlantis next week thanks to an agreement with the Russian space agency, which has its own spaceflight plans. 
Both agencies are planning missions to the international space station in September, but both want to avoid a traffic jam at the space station. 
Tropical Storm Ernesto and a lightning strike on the launch pad forced NASA to delay launch attempts earlier this week. _ 
The Russians agreed that a shuttle launch as late as next Friday, Sept. 8, wouldn't inter­fere with plans for a Soyuz flight to the space station. 

Ernesto moving into the Carolinas 
RALEIGH, N.C. -North and South Carolina put hundreds of National Guardsmen on standby Wednesday for fear the rainy rem­nants of Tropical Storm Ernesto could cause severe flooding. 
Forecasters said Ernesto could drench the eastern half of North Carolina with as much as seven inches of rain on Thursday and Friday. A separate storm system arriving ahead of Ernesto also threatened to soak the region. 
"We could get a clobbering today," National Weather Service forecaster Phil Badgett said. Ernesto weakened to a tropical depression while crawling north through Florida. 
LOCAL NEWS 

MoveOn.org criticizes Hostettler 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. -The war in Iraq has cost taxpayers in Indiana's 8th Congressional District more than $470 million, the liberal group MoveOn.org said in a report Wednesday. 
The group criticized Republican Rep. John Hostettler for continuing to support the war, which members said is taking money away from other important issues. 
"People really need to fully understand the cost of the Iraq war," said Denise Marie Sobieski, a local MoveOn.org member. "With that cost to taxpayers, there are huge sacri­fices being made." 

Crash reveals airport problems 
Control towers nationwidefound to be in violation ofFAA two-controller minimum 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON The deadly Comair crash last weekend threw a spotlight on a practice aviation experts say goes on around the country: Small regional airports are sometimes manned by a single air traffic controller, even though federal rules require two. 
The Federal Aviation Administration has direct­ed Blue Grass Airport and others like it to staff their towers with at least two controllers. But only one was working Sunday when the pilot of Comair Flight 5191 mistakenly tried to tak.e off from a runway that was too short, killing 49 of 50 people on board. 
In a policy outlined in a directive last November, the FAA said two con­trollers must be on duty for all shifts at any airport that handles both control tower observations and radar operations. • 
But Ken Spirito, director of a regional airport in Peoria, Ill., said it is com­mon for some late-night and early morning shifts to be staffed with only one controller. Someone may call in sick or take a vaca­tion, and the FAA usually decides to keep the airport open, he said. 

"The mandate that is worked as a controller at flew briefly for Comair last Texas, firm published a issued by FAA is only as Blue Grass for 25 years year, said it is the pilot's full-page ad in good as the ·staffing levels before retiring in 2004, duty to get on the right Wednesday's Lexington at that particular tower," said the overnight and runway. Herald-Leader promising Spirito said. early morning shifts were "It's your responsibility families it would seek "the 
FAA spokeswoman usually manned by only to immediately speak up greatest amount of dam­Laura Brown said that at one person. because, especially in busy ages allowed by law." . the time of the accident, On Sunday, the con­airports, you can get in Comair offered to pay there were only two other troller on duty at the some pretty bad situations $25,000 per passenger to towers-in Duluth, Minn., Lexington airport had pretty quickly," Doty said. each family who lost a and Fargo, N.D. -that turned his back to perform On Wednesday, six tour loved one. were not following the pol­some "administrative buses took the victims' "We understand that no icy to staff with two con­duties" when the plane families to the crash site monetary relief can over­trollers. veered onto the wrong for the first time. The air­come the grief of losing a 
"We have clarified the runway, investigators said. port also established a loved one," Comair spokes­guidance for them," Brown The controller, a 17-year memorial in a parking lot, woman Kate Marx said. said. veteran at the airport, has featuring a banner reading "But we also recognize 
She said staffing was not been identified. "Remembering 5191" with there likely will be addi­adjusted at four other tow­The first officer, James pens for people to write tional financial demands at ers earlier this month, Polehinke, remained hos­messages. this difficult time, and we before the Comair crash. pitalized Wednesday in Law firms lined up to hope this form of assis­"This is an issue we've critical condition. represent family members tance can help alleviate been looking at," she said. Jed Doty, a Louisville who want to sue for negli­some of the immediate 
Scott Zoeckler, who flight instructor who also gence. One Fort Worth, financial pressures." 

AUSTRIA 


Iran vows to defy UN sanctions 
lofty goals of progress. So it's better a confidential IAEA report to be com­
Associated Press 

for Europe to be independent (of the pleted Thursday and circulated VIENNA -A defiant Iran kept on U.S.) in decision-making and to settle among the Vienna-based agency's 35 enriching uranium in advance of the problems through negotiations," board member nations. The report 
U.N. Security Council's Thursday Ahmadinejad said Wednesday, also will include new details on deadline for Tehran to freeze such according to state-run television. Tehran's research into advanced activity or face the threat of sanc­Iran could theoretically still enrichment equipment, and other tions, U.N. and European officials announce a full stop to enrichment points, diplomats accredited to the said. before the deadline set by the agency told The Associated Press. 
Iranian President Mahmoud Security Council. But that appeared The report, also scheduled to go to Ahmadinejad urged European mem­unlikely, considering Tehran's past the Security Council on Thursday, bers of the council against resorting refusal to consider such a move and would likely trigger council members to sanctions, saying punishment fmdings by the International Atomic to consider economic and political would not dissuade his country from Energy Agency that it was enriching sal)ctions. Russia and China, howev­pursuing its disputed nuclear pro­small quantities of uranium as late er, were likely to resist U.S.-led gram. as Tuesday. efforts for a quick response, which 
"Sanctions cannot dissuade the Iran's refusal to heed the Security likely means sanctions do not loom Iranian nation from achieving our Council up to now will be detailed in immediately. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, August 31, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
students should not be afraid to explore areas beyond the University's boundaries. 
"I don't think anything that's happened in recent times is the kind of thing that should keep you from experiencing any of the opportunities ... that exist on campus or off campus," Johnson said. 
However, NDSP's jurisdiction is limited to campus and the roadways that run adjacent to it, Johnson said. 
"We can't patrol Notre Dame Avenue the same way we patrol Holy Cross Drive," he said. 
NDSP has a "working rela­tionship" with other police forces from South Bend and St. Joseph County, he said, allow­ing Notre Dame officers to assist in crimes off-campus should those agencies req\Iest it. 
In addition, NDSP issues crime alerts via e-mail and recently began a program in collaboration with student gov­ernment to keep students updated on crimes taking place off-campus, Johnson said. 

These efforts, along with self-defense programs, SafeWalk and off-campus information sessions are meant to help students feel safer on campus, Johnson said. 
Chief Executive Assistant Liz Brown asked Johnson to pro­vide better police coverage near the edge of campus, such as the area near the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

"When you're walking back [from Turtle Creek], you never see officers in that area," Brown said. 
Johnson assured her that NDSP officers do pay attention to the perimeter of campus and they encourage other police agencies to do so as well. 
"But we don't have an omnipresent force," he said. · "We can't be everywhere." 
In other Senate news: 
+ Student body president Lizzi Shappell said she has been working with the Gender Issues Committee on Notre Dame's first-ever eating disor­der conference, planned for spring semester. Shappell also is working with Community Relations Committee chair Josh Pasquesi to "reconnect" with the South Bend Common Council regarding the city's controversial ordinance amendment regarding alcohol and noise violations. 
+ 
Student body vice presi­dent Bill Andrichik said he has been working on the student government Web site. Student government has purchased its own license for the software, he said, so future administra­tions "won't have to start from ground zero" when creating their Web site. 

+ 
Knott Hall senator Kevin Smith was approved as Judicial Council liaison. 

+ 
Lewis Hall senator Ashlee Wright was approved to sit on the University Library Committee on Libraries. 

+ 
Kevin Gimber was ap­proved as co-chair for the Gender Issues Committee. 


Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
then dump the paper else­where," he said. 

Progrrun 
Other students expressed continued from page 1 concern about classmates who do not take the initiative to 
But that hike hasn't bothered return the papers to their students like junior Julie proper receptacles so that they Campbell, who can be re-read by said she didn't other individuals. mind the increase "We're extremely "I think that "because it's not pleased with the when people real­too substantial ize how high the
results from the
that it hurts us in demand is for the any way." launch last week." more popular 
While the pro­papers, they'll gram's concept is Bill Andrichik discover the appealing, many proper ways to
vice president 
students said make it more
student government 
Notre Dame's new system could use some additional "tweak­ing" to serve the market here more efficiently. 
One problem, students said, has been getting a copy of the New York Times after noon, while the racks containing the other two publications stay rel­atively full throughout the day. 
Senior Nicholas Coleman said he thought the situation could be easily resolved by dividing up the papers into sections. 
"It's really wasteful because people take [a] whole paper and only read one section and 
convenient for everybody," so ph­omore Daniel Graciaa said. 
Student government is moni­toring the program's progress closely, Andrichik said, and is committed to constant improvement. 
"Within a week or two we'11 be able to gauge our usage statistics and redistribute the number of papers throughout campus accordingly," he said. "Right now, we're pleased with the desire for the paper, and we're off to a great start." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 




Meet new friends Deepen old friendships Meet only once aweek for an hour




EMMAUS EMMAUS 
Communoues of Iaoth Sh.H mg atld Scnpmre S!Hrly Communones of!a1th Shanng ;md Scroprurr Stud}
Get involved beyond Sunday Mass 
Come to 
to 

Make an Ice Cream Sundae and Join an Emmaus Group 
Tuesday September 5th 6:00-7:00 P.M 


Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Discuss Sunday scriptures 
• Share your faith 

C-M
• Talk about what's important in your life 


Campus Ministry 
Hang out and have fun 
---~ .. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, August 31, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


11,382.91 +12.97
}ones 

Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 2,058 145 I,2 I I 2,065,272,530.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  + 0.46  +0.18  38.91  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.81  +0.16  19.84  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.00  +0.10  5.09  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.15  -0.04  25.80  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  -0.38  -0.01  2.63  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.42  -0.020  4.763  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.0 IS  4.920  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.37  -0.018  4.912  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.46  -0.022  4.735  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.32  70.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.00  626.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  90.75  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.3950  
EURO  0.7796  
POUND  0.5251  
CANADIAN$  1.1088  

IN BRIEF 

New tool privatizes internet searches 
NEW YORK -A new tool seeks to make your searches more private by hiding them in plain sight. 
Trackl\feNot periodically sends fake, innocuous queries to search engines, making it harder for someone to glean your actual search habits by reviewing the companies' logs that contain your queries. 
The tool comes as AOL revealed it had released the search histories of more than 650,000 sub­scribers. Although user names were not included, the company admitted that the search terms themselves could contain sensitive information. Two AOL employees were fired and a third resigned over the disclosure. 
The tool, developed by two researchers at New York University, sends random searches, such as "boston clock" and "croissant," to the four largest search engines -Google Inc., Yahoo Inc., Microsoft Corp.'s MSN and AOL. A fake search is made every 12 seconds under default configura­tions; the tool can generate millions of unique queries from its list, and users can add their own. 

Classrooms rated germiest workplace 
Classrooms are the No. 1 germiest work­place, and sick students are to blame, according to one study. 
Classroom surfaces have the highest level of bacteria, University of Arizona researchers recently found. Those surfaces have nearly 20 times more bacteria than those found in lawyers' offices, and seven times more than in doctors' or TV produc­ers' offices. 
Most of the classroom germs come from sick kids who may be better off home in bed. 
According to a new survey released by The Clorox Co., nearly two out of five par­ents said they've sent a sick child to school in the past year, while 14 percent have sent a child with a fever higher than 100 degrees. 
But those parents who stayed home with their sick children also paid a price. Forty­five percent of parents missed up to six days of work last year to care for a sick child, and 36 percent lost wages. 
Kids would rather do away with being sick than their homework, the survey also found. 





Sept. 11 still affecting business 
Lower Manhattan owners struggle with decreased business traffic five years later 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Five years after the destruction of the World Trade Center, Evelyn Robb is still worried about the future of her candy shop. The business, located just a block from the site of the twin towers, hasn't recov­ered completely from the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks. 
"It's not going to change for many, many years," said Robb, owner of Evelyn's Chocolates. "The .people are not back." 
Many Lower Manhattan businesses like Robb's that depend on customers who work in or visit the area are still struggling. With fewer office workers and tourists around, stores and restau­rants say they haven't returned to the success they enjoyed before the trade center's collapse. 
Companies with a more far-flung clientele have done better, simply because their fortunes aren't tied to this still-struggling part of New York. 

Capital!Q was a 2-year-old high-tech provider of finan­cial information located across the street from the trade center in 2001. After the first plane hit, the com­pany evacuated so none of its employees would be in danger. When the buildings collapsed, CapitaliQ's offices But by late 2002, Okun lost telephone service; with­wasn't until the spring or were inundated with two said the company was on out it, they couldn't use the summer of 2002 that she feet of debris. sure footing; it continued company's networking serv­and Carl Mazzanti started to 
Executive Vice President growing, and in September ices. feel secure. William Okun said the com­2004 was bought by Shine said the company One reason for the compa­pany, which he described as Standard & Poor's Corp. managed to survive by help­ny's success over the past "just starting to get good Okun said his company's ing clients. For example, it five years -it now has 200 momentum," was able to reach beyond Lower helped them communicate clients on its books -is it keep functioning because it Manhattan was key to its with the outside world by adapted its services to meet had Web-based services for success over the past five using its own Internet access the changing demands of its customers, and because years. in its offices, located in other businesses. Its core the staff was able to keep in Carl Mazzanti and Jennifer Hoboken, N.J., just across business now includes disas­touch via telephone and Shine, owners qf a computer the Hudson River. ter recovery services. handheld computers. In two networking company called "We tried to help out in "It took us in a different weeks, it had office space. eMazzanti, were on their any way we could and just direction," Shine said of 
The company's recovery way to see clients and were maintain that relationship 9/11. was difficult, however, in the train station below the · and know that at some North of the trade center because "many of our clients trade center when the first point, things would come area, restaurants in Little were in chaotic situations plane hit. They made their back," Shine said. Italy still aren't as busy as themselves," Okun said. He way to safety despite falling Those efforts paid off; they were five years ago. described CapitaliQ as suf­debris. although EMazzanti strug­"We never recovered," fering from lost opportuni­Mazzanti was only weeks gled to hold on to its clients, said John Ciarcia, owner of a ties in the months after the old on 9/11 with a handful of it eventually got more cus­cafe called Cha Cha's. ''I'm attacks, and it had to down­clients, all of whom were in tomers referred by those still 40 to 50 percent off of size by about a third. Lower Manhattan and who customers. But Shine said it pre-9/11." 

Web sites sell counterfeit medicines 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Testing revealed 
fake versions of Lipitor and other 
widely used prescription drugs 
ordered through Web sites linked to 
a Canadian pharmacy, the Food and 
Drug Administration said Wednesday. 
Consumers who bought drugs­
through the 10 Web sites should not -use the medications because they may not be safe, the FDA said. The sites include rxnorth.com, canadian­
drugstore.com and rxbyfax.com. 
Prescriptions ordered through the 
sites are filled by Mediplan 
Prescription Plus Pharmacy, also 
known as Mediplan Global Health, 
according to the FDA and informa­
tion posted on the sites. 

U.S. officials have intercepted and seized thousands of prescriptions filled by the pharmacy in recent months, said FDA Associate Commissioner Randall Lutter. Subsequent testing has revealed counterfeit versions of the cholesterol drugs Lipitor and Crestor, as well as the painkiller Celebrex, blood-pres­sure medication Diovan, baldness treatment Propecia and five other prescription drugs, the FDA said. 
"U.S. drug companies, along with the FDA, are really starting to target companies like ours. These allega­tions are completely false," said Andrew Strempler, the president and chief executive of Mediplan Global Health. Strempler added that his company regularly tests the drugs it sells, and that they are safe and reli­able. 
The FDA said its own tests showed some of the drugs contained the active ingredients found in genuine versions, but at lower concentra­tions. That could put patients at risk, Lutter said. The FDA testing is ongo­ing. 
"We are investigating, and if there are any safety concerns, we will be sure to alert the public," said Paul Duchesne, a spokesman for Canada's federal health department. 
Staff Sgt. Steve Saunders of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police said the national police service was aware of the FDA release but could not comment, citing privacy law and agency policy. 
--~ --~--------~-~---­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, August 31, 2006 
Always remember to never forget
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre.Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
8USIH.ESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
. VIEWPOINT DESK. 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, lyfanaging Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must incll!lie contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed tfJ Ediwr in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observcr (USPS 599 2-4000) Is published Monday through Friday ~CCJ>l" dl.l-ring exam and vac:niun .pttiud.s. A subsniption ro The Observer is $100 for one .;lCldemic year; $55 !Or-one ~emc:su:r. 
The ObScrvtr ls published at: POSTMASTER 
U24 South Dhtlng Hall St:nd -adduss corri:crions (O: 
Notrt' Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and addilion;tl mailing offices. 024 Smuh Dining Hall 
Ntlrre Daroe_.,.lN 465-56-on9 

The O~rver is a member of the Mociatcd Pres:;. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Maureen Mullen Kate Gales Kate Antonacci Tim Dougherty Katie McDonnell Michael Bryan Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brian Doxtader Brauweiler Erin McGinn Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
We must "never forget." 

On the list of the most cliched pbrases in America, it is right up there with "Hang in there" and "Cut to the chase." 
Parting lovers love to usc it. "I will never forget you," they whisper as tears cascade down their cheeks. 
Others opt for the positive spin. These folks declare, "I will always remember you." This phrase surged in popularity about eight years ago after the release of Sarah McLaughlin's hit song, "I Will Remember You." After all, the song seemed to surface during every emo­tional moment on every TV show on air. It even became my eighth grade class' graduation anthem. Each time it played at a middle school dance, my-class­mates and I would sway back and forth, linked arm-in-arm. We pledged-not surprisingly -to always remember one another. 
But the never forget/always remem­ber sentiment is not only used for per­sonal events; it is summoned for nation­al events as well. Pearl Harbor, the Holocaust and even the Challenger explosion were all events that the 20th century repeatedly reminded us never to forget. 
Then a new century dawned, and a mere year and a half into it, al Qaeda terrorists took down the Twin Towers, thereby giving rise to the first event that the 21st century would demand that we never forget. 
Then the phrase was not only cliched, but also politicized. 
Conservatives led the "never forget" charge. They declared that we must always remember how "evildoers" killed thousands of innocent civilians ­and on American soil to boot. They said that we must always remember that it was to avenge these deaths that thou­sands of American troops were shipped overseas. They urged us to never forget that the light cannot be stopped until it is won. 

Then just shy of four years later, the non-evildoer-caused disaster (although AI Gore refuted that idea in his (ilm "An Inconvenient Truth," as he asserted that increased carbon dioxide emissions were responsible for the deadly 2005 hurricane season, and thus many of us are in fact disaster-causing "evildoers" by continuing to drive our gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles) known as Hurricane Katrina slammed into the Gulf Coast, wreaking havoc upon thou­sands more ·American lives. 
Liberal politicians, this time, carried the "always remember" banner. They argued that we must never forget how, in the wake of the tragedy, the govern­ment left thousands of Lower Ninth Ward African Americans out to dry. They claimed that we must always remember FEMA's failures, and that we must not forget to fight for domestic changes. 
But in a sense, those are not the most important reasons why we should remember Hurricane Katrina. The most important reasons are those that every human -regardless of political affilia­tion-can grasp. The most important reasons are the ones that unite us as a nation and as a human race. 
I'll cut to the chase-Life is fragile. Life is precious. And there are some darn good people in this world. Both Sept. 11 and Hurricane Katrina showed us this. 
On Sept. 11, thousands of so-called "average Americans" poured into blood banks around the country, offering a piece of themselves in the hope of sav­ing others. Last August, countless peo­ple in the Houston area and around the country opened their homes to Katrina refugees. Others came to New Orleans equipped with canoes to rescue those left behind. 
As a result of these tragedies, we cried for people whom we had never met before and then when we saw those we knew and loved (those to whom we could say "I will always remem,ber you" and truly mean it), we hugged them a little tighter, respected them a little more. 
In his voice-over at the end of the film "World Trade Center", Nicholas Cage's character says, "9/11 showed us what humans are capable of, the evil, yeah sure, but it also brought out a goodness that we forgot could exist... It's impor­tant for us to talk about that good, to remember." 
But now we don't always talk about it. Perhaps Sarah McLaughlin sang it best. "It's funny how we feel so much, but cannot say a word." 
Five years after Sept. 11 and one year after Hurricane Katrina, we need to keep feeling it. And we need to talk about it. Otherwise, we'll be left like a brokenhearted lover, whimpering, ''I'll never forget you," when there were so many other things that could have been said. 
Over and over, we say that we will never forget. We toss the phrase out there like beads in a Mardi Gras parade. But if we only remember the tragedies as a means of spurring politi­cal action, are we really remembering them? 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 


Submit aLetter
What's your prediction for this 
'"Happiness lies not in the mere possession ofmoney; it lies in the)oy
football season? 

ofachievement, in the thrill oj creative effort." 

to the Editor at 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt former U.S. president 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
-~--~--~-------------~---------------lllllll 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, August 31, 2006 
page 9 
Eddy Street Commons ~unimaginative' 
I am concerned with the proposed residentiaVretail development, the Eddy Street Commons, that is planned by Notre Dame and the Kite Realty Group for the land that is currently a small forest along Angela Boulevard. The apparent motivation to create a combined housing and shopping center Thomas located within a short walk to 
Klepach 

campus seems well-intentioned at first; a pedestrian "college town" Guest Column for Notre Dame further integrat­ing the South Bend and campus communities, a market-driven attempt at new urbanism in which students and faculty might easily travel through a full-service retail center between campus and home. I argue that this goal is flawed in its applica­tion and represents a profound failure of the imagi­nation. 
The scant woods that I refer to, which has man­aged to withstand the ravaging trample of more than 150 years of unqualified "development," is nonetheless charming. The rolling slopes are home to stately trees, many of which were surely quite large by the time that Father Sorin first dug his stake into the ground in 1842. These trees are the fragile habitat for many now partially displaced animals such as red fox, owl, hawks, deer, opos­sum, raccoons and skunks. 
Was the complete ensemble of campus voices rel­evant to urban design and the impact of the devel­opment considered? Besides the commercially lucrative concept of mixed-use zoning, new urban­ism also stresses infilling and brownfield remedia­tion, principles easily applied to already cleared land such as the "five corners" intersection. These concepts are ignored in favor of deforestation. Did the Dome consult the expert opinions from the ranks of their own Ecology faculty concerning the effects of the proposed development? Although no Environmental Impact Statement is required by law, does the reality of the situation rationally war­rant one? In light of the fact that people will be liv­ing on this land was there an appropriate assess­ment of the toxicity and heavy metal content of the power plant coal ash dump site in the center of the woods? If the fledgling maples lined up on old Angela in burlap soil balls ready for deployment into sidewalk planters along the proposed shopping center cost more than $2,000 per tree, what is the monetary worth of the 150+ year old trees which will be razed to build the development? For the self-proclaimed environmentalists among us I encourage you to remember that it is not just about saving tropical rainforests. It is also, perhaps more crucially, about saving the frayed and tattered threads of the frail natural space around you. Furthermore, a philosophical discontinuity exists between the Christian spiritual teachings of a mod­est and humble stewardship over the planet of God's creation and a market-based approach to catholic solvency where land use manipulation is a tool to gain equity. 
Yet many argue that a weakness of Notre Dame is the "lack of a college town feel." This is a reference to the lack of a pedestrian shopping and recreative center near campus that is a common trait of so many other college towns. If one looks at some classic examples of such American college towns 
·such as Ithaca, New York, Olympia, Washington or Madison, Wisconsin, these places too all struggle with the blight of overdevelopment; however the most appealing aspects of their character devel­oped organically over a long period of time. Business districts with the most character have evolved slowly, allowing distinctiveness and hetero­geneity unknown to the architectural monoculture of the Kinko-copied strip mall or the cookie cutter gated community. Other college towns put a premi­um on green space. For an excellent example of the ambient effect of green space on the feel of a town visit the Arboretum in Ann Arbor on the gentle banks of the Huron River. 
In a statement released by a city official, it was noted that Notre.Dame had"...expressed a willing­ness to be a developer in the community and partic­ipate further in the economic vitality of the area... " Is further sequestering campus by closing Juniper and creating a nationally franchised str.ip mall buffer between campus and the surrounding neigh­borhoods the best way to develop an integrated community and spur local economic vitality, or is it an attempt to ape the grotesque cash cow on Grape Road in Mishawaka? For an excellent example of a I successful integration of local community and local 
l
business, visit the South Bend farmers' market on 
' 
any Saturday. 

~ 
Earlier I described the proposed development of the Angela forest as a "failure of the imagination," although I have offered no imaginative alternatives. If woodlands for woodlands' own sake is unaccept­able to the productivity-oriented, how about a small rugged biking trail, or a refuge for reflection in the form of a gazebo treehouse overlooking the woods, campus and downtown nestled among the eaves of the taller trees, or a public ropes course and out­door exercise area among the trees, a small num­ber of modest homes worked in around the existing trees, working with the already beautiful land­scape, not replacing it? Commercial options? How 
about a quaint restaurant with forested patio seat­
ing? 

Legends are formed through the test of time. 
F9rtunately not all of Notre Dame's were formed by 
muscle, games and plastic attempts at nostalgia. As 
the changing moment becomes memory that fades 
into history, then legend, we who were born into .this "bigger-better-more" world must ask ourselves 
if smaller is good enough; do we want the reality of 
that last scrap of forest to fade from the moment 
into myth? I hope not. 

Thomas Klepach is a graduate student in bio­
chemistry. He can be contacted at tklepach@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of 
the author and not necessarily those of The 
Observe""r. 

U-WIRE 


Good deeds and -getting screwed 
Getting screwed. Getting the shaft. No matter how you say it, it means someone taking advantage of you and leaving you high and dry. 
Today, we live in a Staff society Editorial where it 
seerus every­University of one's goal is Mississippi to get ahead Daily 
-regard­Mississippian less of how many lives are ruined in the process. We can certainly see that many feel it is more important to be a "success in life" than to help others: This board can find no better example of this than the case of Mark Morice. By many in New Orleans, Mark Morice is considered a hero. However, to one he is a criminal. In the days following Hurricane Katrina, Morice commandeered at least three different boats in attempt to rescue as many people as pos­sible from the perilous waters. Mark was able to save over 200 people thanks to these boats. One of the boat owners was proud Morice was able to use his boat to save so many lives. Unfortunately, another boat owner was not so proud; that boat owner sued Mark Morice for $12,000 for the emotional 
stress caused by having his boat "stolen." 
Under normal circumstances, Morice's actions would defi­nitely have been considered over the moral and legal line. But because of the extraordi­nary circumstances, Mark Morice's actions were not only just right -but heroic. 
In these circumstances, the end does justify the means. How could anyone punish this man for being a Good Samaritan? 
Many in our society simply need to use common sense in these situations. Mark Morice surely did. What in the world could that boat owner possibly be thinking? How heartless could he be? Maybe one day he truly will receive all that he is "owed" to him for his pain and suffering! 
All in all, Morice was screwed. Even though he had heroic intentions, one man is still trying to persecute him. 
The old saying seems true and applies in this situation ­No good deed goes unpunished. 
This editorial originally appeared in the Aug. 30 edi­tion of the Daily Mississippian, the daily publication at the University ofMississippi. . 
The Piews expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 
Isaak's voice highlights greatest hits album 
By PAUL SERAFY Scene Critic 
Chris Isaak could be walking on a beach or sitting in a bar somewhere in California. It doesn't really matter what Chris Isaak is doing or where he is, however, because his sound transcends time and place. 
If a two decade-long recording career falls short of proving this artist as mag­nificent and timeless, his newest release, "Best of Chris Isaak" certainly will. 
Isaak's greatest hits album alternate­ly highlights and recreates the rootsy, rockabilly sound that hailed from Sun Studios at a time when most music was really good -a time when legends like Elvis Presley and Roy Orbison dominat­ed airwaves and made young girls swoon. 
Isaak's penchant for writing and per­forming smooth, sexy songs dominates the fourteen re-mastered, previously released tracks and the three newly issued cuts. 
The core essence of Isaak's talent lies the immense risk of releasing covers of several well-known songs on a "best of' album. 

This daunting task would cause other artists to cringe with fear. Isaak seem­ingly laughs at the risk, performing Cheap Trick's classic "I Want You to Want Me" with a flair that is truly his own. Isaak's take on the arena anthem possesses an air of pleasant awkward­ness that demonstrates Isaak's artistic versatility. 
While other songs show that Isaak can take anything and make it his, this song seals the deal. Isaak superimpos­es tones of country, blues and rock on the eighties rock song. Isaak's version could be the sound the original artist wanted to create. 
That's the beauty of Chris Isaak. It's hard enough to c.onvince audiences that you play a song better than the person who wrote it -Isaak goes beyond that and plays it like he wrote it. 
Isaak's songs are some of the most sensual to grace airwaves. His unique sound and smooth voice are unmatched in the industry. Isaak has managed to remind critics that he's still around by releasing and re-mastering his classics. lie goes the extra mile and reminds them that he's still good by releasing new songs. 
While Justin Timberlake may claim to be "bringing sexy back," Chris Isaak reminds listeners and critics that it never left. 
Contact Paul Serafy at pserafy@nd.edu 

is best described as a classic bleed­
Chris Isaak 
ing heart ballad. Isaak shows his
Best of Chris Isaak 
audience that he does not neces­
Reprise I Wea 

sarily need to be bac.ked by a band. He does it all on his own. 
Perhaps the 
Recommended tracks: 'Forever Blue/'Only the ~s~setct o~~i~: 
Lonely/'Baby Did a Bad Thing' and 'Wicked Game' release is the fact 
L-----------------------------------------------~ that Isaak takes 
in the fact that he sticks to what he knows. His attempts to branch out on the country ballad "Let Me Down Easy" and the lovesick laden "San Francisco Nights" do not result in a detracting change of genre, but produces a mod­ern take on reverb laced rockabilly with the addition of string arrange­ments and synthesizers. 
Issak showcases his talent as a blues vocalist and guitarist on "Baby Did a Bad Bad Thing." Classics like "Only the Lonely" and "Wicked Game" have lyries and melodies that would evoke memo­ries of a love lost for even the toughest of tough guys. 
As a seasoned veteran of the music industry, Isaak knows that the best artists are multi-faceted. This album gives listeners the chance to see every facet of his talent. Isaak is truly at his best when he is in his purest form on "Forever Blue," an acoustic track that paints a portrait of Isaak sitting alone on a dark stage. 
The clarity of his voice, precision of his finger picking and the sadness of the lyrics are colors and tones that come together to make the portrait a 
masterpiece that 

Hilton's debut proves to be more than a one-nighter 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Critic 
Hule No. 20 of Pairs Hilton's book "How to be an Heiress" is "Fear Nothing." 
While most ridicule Paris as being "famous for being famous," she has yet to forget her rule by dismissing naysayers and proving to be a relentless and suc­cessful model-actress-entrepreneur and, most recently, singer. Her debut album "Paris" was released on Aug. 22 via her very own record label, Heiress Records. 
While the first single, "Stars are Blind," has seemingly become the guilty pleasure of mainstream music listeners worldwide, it is just a small glimpse into an entire album of well-produced songs. 
Track 10, 'Turn it Up," was meant to be the first single released. It has a girlish Euro-pop feeling quite similar to the sound of singer Kylie Minogue. At its start, the name Scott Storch is whispered pre­ceding the famous words "That's Hot." In fact, his name is repeated in multiple songs throughout the CD. 
It is not surprising that this legendary producer and songwriter is continuously mentioned. Most will attribute the heat brought to Paris' sound entirely to Storch. He is undeniably a legendary name on the music scene, and on a more personal level has been rumored throughout the tabloids to be involved in frequent romantic rela­tions with the singer. 
"Paris" isn't too difl'erent a sound than the slew of pop-princess songs heard over the past decade. Some have compared Hiltons' beats to that of Blondie, a late Madonna and even a recent Kelly Clarkson. Closer listens reveals otherwise. Comparisons to Britney Spears, Gwen Stefani or Euro-pop are more fitting. 
Throughout, Hilton is mainly dependent on her best attempt at a sexy/sultry voice. Sexiness is the undisputed theme for this album. "Turn You On" is a shout out from Paris to Paris as she sings, "If you're sexy and you know it ... clap your hands!" 
What else could you expect from an ultra-rich, ultra-famous, over-dated heiress? 

,-------------------------------;=============;] Track five, 

"Jealousy," is prob­

Paris Hilton 
ably the worst song on the album. The
Paris 

only reasonable explanation for its
Columbia/Legacy 

existence has to be reported rumors of its link to a certain infamous feud with c___:c=:_;:.:-=-----=--'-----==--.~ 1 "Simple Life" reali-
Recommended tracks: 'Stars are Blind/'Turn it Up,' ~co~~~~hi~~-star 
'Turn You On' and 'Fightin' Over Me' Tune into track L-----------------------------------------------~ two, "Fightin' Over 
Me." It's not just the best song on the album but, featuring rap megastars Fat Joe and Jadakiss, it's a quality dance track as well. Other quality songs include "I Want You, and especially "Nothing in This World" which premiered as the theme song to "This is Paris" on MTV. 
Let's face it, if Gwen Stefani had come out with an album like this, there is "no doubt" that reviewers would embrace her for the yummy reggae-esque beats then praise her for a revival of dance hall pop. The fact is that it's not any other artist ­it's the heiress herself-whieh makes the album an easy target for ridicule. 
Paris has reportedly already begun to record for her second album, but don't get hopes too high. After all, it takes the help of seriously talented background singers, and of course, the best of Scott Storch to come up with an album this good. 
Some may mock the album as a spawn of her ego-tastic image, but the truth is that it's better than just decent. It may be just another chance for Paris to character­istically showcase just how sexy she thinks she is, but those who accept the album for what it is will find it entirely enjoyable. 
"Paris" just might prove that in fact party girls know best when it comes to good music. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
.-------,.....,--=----,..------~--------·-------------~­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, August 31, 2006 
page 11 
CD REVIEWS 
Latest Muse album yields mixed reactions 
MusE's LATEST TRULY A 'REVELATION' 
By PATRICK WILLIAM MOORE 
Scene Critic 
"Black Holes and Revelations" marks the fifth album released by the British rock trio Muse, a band whose unique sound. immense talent and raw energy have catapulted them to the forefront of the UK alternative scene. 
Muse's sound is perhaps best described as two parts Radiohead, two parts Nirvana and one part Rachmaninov. Such a description nonetheless falls short, as Muse's influ­ences are innumerable and the band has invented itself just as much as it has fed from other inspirations. 
Fans of Muse's previous work may initially be taken aback with their first listen through of "Black Holes," as the album makes radical stylistic depar­tures from their previously acclaimed "Absolution" and "Origin of Symmetry." Layers of electronic melodies, dance beats, nifty effects, flamenco guitars and brass instruments are new and play a prominent role. 
The album kicks off with "Take A Bow," a politically charged opening that warns the world's politicians, "You'll burn in hell for your sins." It's powerful, both musically and lyrically, and other parts of the album carry sim-

Muse 

Black Holes and Revelations 
ilar political undertones. 
The love song that follows, "Starlight," is about a space traveler who leaves his home and significant other light-years behind. Like the polit­ical messages of "Take A Bow," the sci­fi themes present in "Starlight" recur throughout "Black Iloles." 
"Starlight" is perhaps the prettiest song of the album, possessing an airy piano riff that should remind listeners of Coldplay. The third track, "Supermassive Black Hole," is unabashedly pop-rock. Released as a single before the album's debut, it's a fun tune that steals the dance floor back from the rap and hip-hop genres. 
"Map Of The Problematique" is an epic collage of electronic beats, piano and guitar, which combine_ with front­man Matt Bellamy's falsetto vocals to form the most mesmerizing track of the album. As the electronic drums fade, the mood turns somber in "Soldier's Poem," a simple ballad in which a disenchanted soldier at war tells his country that it doesn't deserve the freedom he's fighting for. 
The harmonized vocals featured in this song would do Queen proud, and reappear in many of the later tracks. "Invincible," an uplifting song about overcoming odds, immediately lifts off the dismal fog of the song preceding it. Muse fans will triumphantly belt out the inspirational chorus again and again. 
"Assassin," a high-octane whirlwind of metal style guitar, truly showcases the band's energy. The verse once again takes on a political tone, urging for a violent overthrow of "demonocra­cy." 

"Exo-Politics," on the other hand, is less about real politics and more about the conspiracy theory of an alien race secretly governing the planet Earth. The sci-fi lyrics here are intriguing, but some will find this track to be musical­ly dull. 
"City Of Delusion" is a pulse-pound­ing, dramatic piece of prog rock with flamenco guitar, strings and a lone horn that simply must be heard to be believed-one of the album's best. 
As the album begins to come to a close, "Hoodoo" carries it into the darkness with a sinister, Rachmaninov­inspired piano melody. Once the piano is silenced, the sound of galloping hors­es thunders into the aural foreground amidst sirens and spaceship laser fire -this is the beginning of "Knights of Cydonia," the album's best and closing song. 
With Cydonia, past and future, Wild West and outer space combine to form a sprawling epic masterpiece. The cli­max approaches as Bellamy sings, "No one's gonna take me alive," and then a ~ rocking guitar solo takes the album to its culmination. In "Black Holes and Revelations," Muse's musical talent and versatility reach new heights. 
No alternative rock aficionado should miss it. 
Contact Patrick William Moore at pmoorel@nd.edu 
MusE'S LATEST BELONGS IN 'BLACK HOLE' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Sometimes a band comes around that makes a splash and fails to follow up on an amazing effort. They have too much polish where they should have a rough edge or too much noise pollution where their own instruments used to work. 
Unfortunately, this characterizes Muse's latest album, "Black Holes and Revelations." 
The trio hails from Devon, England and was very popular in their home country before making a splash in the United States. Muse initially fought off comparisons with Oxford natives Radiohead with their debut album "Showbiz." The most critical compar­isons came with their sophomore release of "Origin of Symmetry," although this album did have some solid tracks that showed potential. 
"Time is Running Out" was the song that launched Muse across the ocean to America and is also one of their best songs. However, even with all of this potential and talent, Muse has foundered. While they have found their own sound on "Black Holes," it is not a sound that is, sonically, very good. 
On "Supermassive Black Hole," front­man Matthew Bellamy croons in a falsetto backed up by Chris Wolstenholme's distorted bass that sounds like it is coming out of a synthe­sizer. This style works on "Time is Running Out," off their album "Absolution." 
That son in particular had a new 
and unique sound, as it incorporates 

Muse 

musical levels that take the lis-
Black Holes and Revelations 

tener from one feeling to anoth­
Warner Bros/Wea 

er. To put it plainly, it rocks -"Time is Running Out" made Muse stars 
Recommended tracks: 'Starlight,' 'Assassin,' 'City of 
for a reason. "Supermassive 
Delusion' and 'Knights of Cydonia' 
Black Hole," 



unfortunately, with its synth-style and crooning is more reminiscent of Britney Spears than any song that an English rock band should be releasing. 
The track that follows "Supermassive Black Hole" is just plain boring. "Map of the Problematique" rolls in at a bloated four minutes and 18 seconds. The guitar riff grates on the ears and the piano introduced to the trio hardly does anything except make one wonder why Muse is not sticking to the anthemic rock trio sound that made them big. Jt made them big for a rea­son -it was good. 
"Problematique" follows up with the war commentary "Soldier's Poem," which sounds more like a Leonard Cohen song than a rock song with lyrics that are deserving of the mind­less punk rockers Anti-Flag. 
"How could you send us so far away from home I when you know damn well that this is wrong." These lyrics are 
sophomoric and the song sags into 
itself. If you want smart political punk, 
listen to Bad Religion, and if you want 
good English rock, go buy Radiohead's "OK Computer." 
That is not to say there are no good tracks on this album. The opening "Take a Bow" brings in a synthesizer that works and Bellamy croons with his normal flair. This track builds up appropriately through the first half of the song and then pays off with some hard rock that allows Bellamy's guitar to wail and sing. 
The next track, "Starlight," is the strongest lyrically. Most of the songs on this album delve into pseudo-political rock that seems out of place in the style that makes Muse what it is, but "Starlight" thankfully manages to avoid this. · 
This album has much to say, but the problem is it's not said very well. Muse still has a solid sound on some of their tracks and you can rock to "Starlight" and "Assassins," however, most of the tracks seem corpulent and this album sags under its own idealism and com­plication. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
-

au :ecc.*''i! 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, August 31; 2006 
MLB -NL WRAPS 
Hamels, Howard lead Phillies to 5-1 victory 
Padres maintain half-game lead in NL wild card as Phillies grab eighth win in 11 games; Houston prevails 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Cole Hamels helped the surging Phillies keep pace in the NL wild-card race Wednesday night. The Washington Nationals did their part, too. 
Hamels pitched eight strong innings and Ryan Howard hit a two-run double to lead Philadelphia to a 5-1 victory over Washington on Wednesday night. 
The Phillies, just a half-game behind NL wild-card leader San Diego, won for the eighth time in 11 games. They also took advan­tage of two errors and some mental miscues that left Nationals manager Frank Robinson angry afterward. 
The 22-year-old Hamels (7-7), who started the season with Class-A Clearwater, had little trouble in this one. He gave up only four hits with three strike­
-
outs and two walks before Arthur Rhodes came on in the ninth. Hamels threw 104 pitches, 69 for strikes, in one of his best efforts. 
"I definitely think I lucked out a little bit because I didn't have all three pitches working," Hamels said. "But just having two, and obviously facing them the past two games, letting them know what I do have, keeps them a lit­tle more off balance." 
Philadelphia manager Charlie Manuel said his team is having fun now that it's back in the wild­card race and over .500 at 67-65. 
San Diego 4, Arizona 1 
Dave Roberts is getting better, and maybe even faster, with age. 
The 34-year-old outfielder went 4-for-5 with two RBis, and Mike Thompson earned his first victory in more than two months as the Padres beat the Arizona Diamondbacks. 
"He makes us go, and he did today," San Diego manager Bruce Bochy said of Roberts, who was 8-for-14 in the series. "I tell you what, he's been consistent all year." 

Mike Piazza drove in two runs with a pair of bloop singles. 
"They all count," Piazza said. "I went through a stretch where I was hitting the ball pretty hard and had nothing to show for it. I don't know if they even out, but it's nice to have a couple of balls you don't square up on very good and they fall in for hits." 
The Padres took two of three from the Diamondbacks and maintained their wild-card lead. San Diego entered with a half­game lead over Philadelphia and Cincinnati, and was three games behind first-place Los Angeles in the NL West. 
The fading Diamondbacks fin­ished their homestand 2-4, and were 5-11 in a stretch of 16 con­secutive games against NL West foes. 
"It's terrible," Arizona's Eric Byrnes said. "We're at home, we're not facing Cy Young, we've got to win these games and we didn't. We're going to have to go on a stretch and really play well on the road. If not, we start look­ing at next year." 

Houston 1, Milwaukee 0 
Roger Clemens struck out nine in seven shutout innings and Mike Lamb scored on a strange play in the ninth to give the Houston Astros a win over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
The Astros won their season­high fifth straight by salvaging another solid outing from Clemens, who matched his sea­son high for strikeouts. But his teammates again had trouble scoring with their 44-year-old ace on the mound, and he wound up with another no-decision. 
The Rocket has allowed three runs or fewer in 13 of his 14 starts this season. 
The Brewers, meanwhile, lost their season-high sixth straight road game, wasting a strong effort from Dave Bush. 
The starters were gone when the game ended on a biiarre play. 
Willy Taveras grounded out 
leading off the ninth against Milwaukee reliever Jose Capellan (2-1). Lamb and Craig Biggio fol­lowed with singles to put runners at the corners, and Capellan intentionally walked Lance Berkman to load the bases. 
Aubrey Huff hit a grounder down the line that first baseman Jeff Cirillo grabbed with a dive. He touched first -taking away a force at the plate -and then threw to catcher Damian Miller. 
But Miller simply stepped on the plate, apparently not realiz­ing he needed to make a tag. Thanks to his mistake, Lamb slid home with the winning run on Huff's RBI groundout. 
Atlanta 5, San Francisco 3 
Adam LaRoche had three dou­bles, a triple and drove in three runs. Yet he really wanted to talk about a foul ball. 
LaRoche yanked a ball com­pletely out of Turner Field in the eighth inning, the ball soaring over the roof of the third deck down the right-field line. It was­n't close to being fair-about the only thing that didn't go right for the streaking first baseman who led the Atlanta Braves past the San Francisco Giants. 
''I'm so much more excited to hit a ball out of the stadium than I am getting the four hits," LaHoche quipped. ''I'd like to get a distance on it. It had some good air." 
The Braves, who've given up on winning a 15th straight divi­sion title, are making a late push for the wild card with four straight wins at home. If nothing else, they are having a lot more fun. 
Marcus Giles smacked LaRoche in the face with a pie while he did a live television interview in front of the Braves' dugout. John Smaltz kept saying he was the one who sparked LaRoche's hot streak by making his teammate move to a diflerent locker in the Turner Field clubhouse. 
"The locker change," Smaltz yelled. "Don't forget the locker change." 
LaRoche said the Braves are starting to regain some of their swagger. 
"This is what it's all about," said LaRoche, who's batting .368 with 14 homers and 38 RBis since the All-Star break. "We strayed away from that for a while." 
St. Louis 13, Aorida 6 
Albert Pujols hit a tiebreaking home run in the fifth inning and Preston Wilson had three RBis, helping the St. Louis Cardinals end the Florida Marlins' nine­game winning streak with a vic­tory. 
Hanley Ramirez had three hits and Mike Jacobs had two RBis for the Marlins, who missed a chance to climb to .500 after starting the season 11-31. According to the Elias Sports Bureau, no team since 1900 has reached .500 after falling 20 games below, and no team has won 10 in a row after such a ragged start. 
Getting manager Joe Girardi back after he spent Tuesday night back home with his preg­nant wife while bracing for a possible hurricane was no help for the Marlins, who squandered a four-run lead. The NL Central­leading Cardinals have only three comebacks of four or more runs all season. 
They tied a franchise record with eight doubles and had a sea­son-best 20 hits without any from recent hitting star Gary Bennett, who sprained his lower back stretching to tag out a runner trying to score on a pitch that he 

"couldn't handle in the second. Bennett is 13-for-21 in his last five starts with two game-win­ning hits last weekend, including his first career grand slam, to beat the Cubs. 
Jason Marquis (14-12) con­tributed two hits and an RBI to the comeback for the Cardinals, who have won four of five and are 4-1 against the Marlins this year. His hitting overshadowed the latest in a string of shaky starts. 
Marquis allowed five rtins and seven hits and threw 1 08 pitches in five innings, also walking three and hitting two batters in the third. -One of them, Miguel Cabrera, was day to day after being removed with a bruised left forearm. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 S,outh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for south side elementary school, locat­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
Now hiring seasonal help. Halloween Express, 6502 Grape 
Road. 502·514-1409. 
Blue-Gold Shop looking for part· time help on game weekends & throughout the week. Please fax resumes to 574·255-9700 or email to Service@blueandgold.com 
FoR SALE 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765 
Home within walking distance to NO. Fully remodeled, like-new con­dition. Great neighborhood. 2 bdrms, $78,900. 574-292-1175 or www.bonzerllc.com 
Investment homes for sale near NO. 866-521-8989. 
FoR RENT 
B&B lodging w/alum for NO football games. 57 4-243·2628 or gary­theresa@ yahoo.com 
2 rooms in private home w/sepa­rate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to NO. 574-259­8603. 
New B&B available for ND-SMC events or anytime including extend· ed stay. Wolle.9@nd.edu or 574·286-9995. 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam· pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
NOW.LEASING FOR 2007-2008 STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at 243-7530. 
B&B (cont.) 2 night min. 3.3 mi. to NO 272-6305 
Why pay for a hotel when you can 
have all the comforts of home? Two 1 brm apts. across the hall from each other avail for home games. Queen bed + futon. 5 min. to NO. $800 each or rent both for $1400. Call today! 574-612-1519. 
Rent a home NO football week­ends. 574-784-8638. 
2-3·4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1 . 255­7000. 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 
TICKETS 

NO vs Mich need 4 GAs together email davidrschulz@yahoo.com 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251· 1570 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232· 0964 WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
Need NO tix & parking pass all home games. 574·276·8507. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK· ETS. BEST PRICES. 574·232­2378. 
AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL CALL 654­0169. 
NO alum will trade 2 Army tix for 2 UCLA. 813·978-1001. 
TOP$ PAID FOR NO FOOTBALL TKTS 289·9280 
00 NO alum seeks multiple ND/PSU tix for my bachelor party trip. Will pay top $$! Please help! Contact Derek at dengelkemeyer@ hotmail.com 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574·288-2726. 
Need 4 ND·PSU tix · 75 alum seeks 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call 714 523 0601 or email: aherenda @comcast.net 
A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­UAL GAMES. CALL MARK 574· 277-1659. 
PERSONALS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information. see our bi·weekly ad in The Observer. 
Do not pay scalper prices · WIN FREE ND/MSU TICKETS at LaFortune, August 31, 9p·12a 
Why use your flex points? FREE FOOD in LaFortune, Thurl'day, August31, 9p·11p. 
Eat, Listen, Play, Win · LaFortune, August 31, 9p-12a Interested in FREE ND/MSU TICK­ETS? Lafortune, August 31, 9p­
12a 
www.ndgamedayroom.com 
Plinko Anyone? LaFortune, August 31, 9p·12a 
Free Sbarro, Free Burger King, Free Starbucks, Free Subway.· LaFortune,August31,9p-11p 
Win a RfT Airline Ticket. ND/MSU Game tickets, Home The<Jtre Audio System, $250 in Domer Dollars and Much More· LaFortune, August 31, 9p· 12a 
Who needs a job when you can get FREE FOOD and WIN FREE STUFF in Lafortune? August 31, 9p·12a So many prizes, so little time · LaFortune, August 31, 9p·12a 
Sometime Rock, when the team's up against it, things are wrong and the breaks are beating the boys, tell em to go in there with all they've got and win just one for The Gipper. 

r--.------.-------~..~--~--------------~----------------------------------------­


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WfRESERVICES page 13 

USA Today Football Top25 
team points previous 
1 Ohio State 1487 4 2 Texas 1378 1 3 NOTRE DAME 1348 11 4 usc 1348 2 5 Oklahoma 1320 22 6 Auburn 1206 14 7 West Virginia 1202 6 8 Florida 1054 16 9 LSU 1037 5 10 Florida State 874 23 11 Miami (Fla.) 839 18 12 California 798 25 13 Louisville 785 20 14 Georgia 784 10 15 Michigan 778 NR 16 Virginia Tech 591 7 17 Iowa 519 NR 18 Clemson 493 21 19 Penn State 406 3 20 Oregon 373 12 21 TCU 270 9 22 Nebraska 261 24 23 Tennessee 216 NR 24 Alabama 210 8 25 Texas Tech 198 19 
Soccer Times Women's Top 25 
team record 
1 NOTRE DAME (8) 2-0-0 2 Penn State (1) 1-0-1 3 Santa Clara (4) 2-0-0 4 Florida State (3) 1-0-0 5 Texas A&M 2·0-0 6 UCLA 1-1-0 7 North Carolina 1-1-0 8 Portland (tie) 0-1-1 8 Virginia (tie) 2·0·0 10 Duke 2·0·0 11 California 
2·0-0 12 Florida 13 West Virginia 14 Tennessee 15 Connecticut 16 Marquette 17 Southern California 18 Cai·State Futlerfun 19 Georgia 20 Boston College 21 Missouri 22 Wake Forest 23 Pepperdine 24 Utah 25 Yale 

2005 BIG EAST Soccer Women's Div. B Standings 
Team conf. overall 
1 NOTRE DAME 10-1-0 22-3-0 2 Villanova 6-1-3 10-5-4 3 Louisville 6-5-0 11-8-0 4 Georgetown 4-6-1 12-8-1 5 Rutgers 5-6-0 10-9-2 6 DePaul 3-5-3 5·8·4 7 Seton Hall 3-6-2 1·1-4 8 Cincinnati 1-8-2 3-11-4 
around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open, 11 a.m., USA 
MLB 

Tampa Bay at Chicago White Sox, 
2:05 p.m., Comcast 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

South Carolina at Mississippi State, 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 

Boston College at Central Michigan, 6:00 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Red Sox slugger David Ortiz was hospitalized in Boston for the second time this month, 'checking into Massachusetts General on Tuesday night for further tests on his heart. 
Ortiz felt heart palpita­tions about 10 days ago and again before Monday night's game in Oakland, where he was a late scratch from the lineup. He returned to Boston for more tests, Red Sox med­ical director Thomas Gill said Tuesday. 
The team dido't release any further information. "We really don't feel he's 

going to keel over," man­ager Terry Francona said before Tuesday's game at Oakland. "He was tested the other night. A lot of people have these things. ... He has to know that he is fine. We're not going to jeopardize his health." 
Earlier Tuesday, the Red Sox also sent their. other two top hitters back to Boston for medical tests, with Manny Ramirez and Wily Mo Pena heading East to join Ortiz. 
Ramirez has played in only one of Boston's last five games because of a sore right knee, and Pena has missed the last three games due to soreness in his left wrist. Ortiz was scheduled for further tests that were expected to take a few days. 
In addition, David Wells returned to Boston to pre­pare for his start Thursday. . 
Ortiz was admitted to a hospital on Aug. 19 for a full examination and tests. Based on the results of those tests, he was cleared to return when he felt bet­ter. 
"David had not experi­enced any additional episodes of palpitations until Monday evening," Gill said. "With the recurrence of these symptoms, we would like David to be fully examined and tested before he is allowed to return to the field." 

The Red Sox determined that sending the players home before the conclu­sion of the road trip would give doctors a head start, rather than waiting until Thursday. There was dis­cussion about placing Ramirez and Pena on the disabled list, but both play­ers are day to day. 
"Once we made the determination that Manny and Wily Mo could not play in Oakland, we thought it made sense to send them back as soon as possible," general manager Theo Epstein said. "It's not often you have these gray-area injuries all at the same time." 
IN BRIEF 

Red Wings legend Yzerman 
to have jersey retired Jan. 2 
DETROIT -Steve Yzerman, who led the Detroit Red Wings to three Stanley Cups, will have his No. 19 jer­sey retired Jan. 2. 
The 41-year-old Yzerman retired in July after playing each of his 22 sea­sons in Detroit -20 as captain ­where he became one of the most famed athletes in Michigan history and one of the NHL's all-time greats. 
His jersey will be hoisted in Joe Louis Arena to hang among Gordie Howe's No. 9, Terry Sawchuk's No. 1, Ted Lindsay's No. 7, Alex Delvecchio's No. 10 and Sid Abel's No. 12. 
"For a long time, there was no doubt in ownership's mind that Steve Yzerman would play his entire career with the Detroit Red Wings and that his sweater would fittingly go up into the rafters arong with the other all­time greatest Red Wing players," sen­ior vice president Jim Devellano said Wednesday. 
Mariner's reliever stable 
after line drive scare 
SEATTLE -Seattle Mariners reliever Rafael Soriano remained in stable condition in an intensive care unit Wednesday morning after being hit in the head by a line drive Tuesday night. 
Soriano sustained a concussion after being struck behind his right ear. He was carted off the field and had an X-ray and scan when he arrived at the hospital. 
Team physician Dr. Edward Khalfayan visited Soriano on Wednesday at Harborview Medical Center and said the pitcher was improving. 
Soriano had a second CAT scan that showed no worsening of his condition, Khalfayan said. 
Soriano was to be examined by a neurosurgeon later Wednesday, at which point the team hoped to get a better idea of how long Soriano will be hospitalized. 
Former champs highlight
U.S. Open first round 
NEW YORK-There was Serena Williams, unseeded but overpowering her opponent, then quoting super­model-turned-reality-TV-star Heidi Klum. 
There was Martina Hingis, down a set but coming back by using all of her guile and working every angle on court, including smacking one volley left-handed. 
And there was Marat Safin, win­ning but muttering to himself, smashing a racket, and -as only he can -challenging the validity of an instant replay ruling. 
It was a day of many happy returns at the U.S. Open on Wednesday, when those three past champions managed to make a bit of news merely by showing up. For Williams, it was her first Grand Slam match since January; Hingis and Satin both were playing at Flushing Meadows for the first time since 2002. 
USA BASKETBALL 
Team USA relies on stingy D to advance to semis 
Germany slows down American offense with zone; Wade held to 1-of-11 from floor; Anthony scores 19 in hard victory 
Associated Press 
SAITAMA, Japan -So far, no one at the world championships has figured out how to counter Team USA's superior skills, ath­leticism and depth. Germany provided a clue We!fnesday night. 
The Germans packed the paint and forced the Americans to fire from afar. The strategy worked for a half before the 
U.S. pulled away for an 85-65 victory. 
. -
It may have been the scariest 20-point win in team history. 
The Americans struggled against the Germans' zone defense and were out of sync for much of the night. 
The Americans' performance provided a glimmer of hope for defense-oriented Greece, which faces the U.S. in the semifinals Friday. Spain and Argentina, which meet in the other semifi­nal, also will take note. 
''I'm sure we're going to see a lot of zone," U.S. guard Kirk Hinrich said. "We have up 'til now, and I'm sure we will the remainder of the games. And that's fine. We've got guys who can make shots, and for what­ever reason we just didn't do that tonight." 
Indeed, the U.S. struggled through its worst shooting per­formance -38 percent from 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS 
University of Notre Dame Annual Drinking Water Quality Report 2005 Consumer Confidence Report 
Contaminants that might be expected to be  Water Quality Data  
in source water (untreated water) include:  The table below lists the EPA's  
• Microbial  contaminants,  such  as  viruses  regulated  and  unregulated  
and  bacteria,  which  may  come  from  contaminants  detected  in  the  
sewage treatment plants, septic systems,  University's drinking water.  All of  
agricultural  livestock  operations  and  the  contaminants  are  below  
wildlife.  allowable levels.  
• Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and  Not  included  in  the  table  are  
metals, which. can be naturally-occurring or  the  more  than  150  other  
result  from  urban  stormwater  runoff,  contaminants including pesticides,  
industrial  or  domestic  wastewater  herbicides,  metals,  synthetic 
discharges, oil, pesticides and herbicides.  .  organic chemicals, volatile organic  
• Organic chemical contaminants, including  chemicals and others which  were  
synthetic and  volatile  organic chemicals,  tested and not detected.  
which  are  by-products  of  industrial  
processes  and  petroleum  production  or  
can  come  from  gas  stations,  urban  
stormwater runoff, and septic systems.  

the field and 25 percent from 3­point range-in seven games. 
The only worse shooting came from German star Dirk Nowitzki, who finished with more turnovers (live) than bas­kets (three). He was 3-for-12 from the floor and finished with 15 points, tied for the team high with Ademola Okulaja. 
The Americans' leading scor­er was Carmelo Anthony, who scored 19 points but was 2-for­12 in the first half. 
"My shot wasn't falling, but we're going to have nights like that when shots don't fall," said Anthony, who went 5-for-7 after halftime. "We keep shooting. We know we're capable of mak­ing those shots. Coach (Mike Krzyzewski) told us to keep shooting. That's what we did." 
The U.S. is at its most potent when it is running the floor and attacking the basket. But it launched 40 of its 85 shots from beyond the 3-point arc. 
At halftime, this looked like the nightmare scenario envi­sioned by skeptics who have questioned th\3 Americans' shooting touch. German coach Dirk Bauermann packed the· lane with a zone defense and dared the Americans to fire away from outside. 
Others have tried to do the same thing, but this time the strategy worked. 
"We switched our defense and played a lot of zone in the first half," Bauermann said. "In the second half, they turned up the heat and played a great defen­sive game, and when you play like that you can beat anyone and win the gold." 

The U.S. pulled away with defense and rebounding. It pressured the Germans into 24 turnovers and hammered them 48-34 on the backboards, including a 22-6 advantage on the offensive glass. 
"The U.S. was better defen­sively," Bauermann said. "They turned us over and killed us on the offensive glass." 
True enough. The U.S. is two wins away from its first gold medal since 1994 in this compe­tition. But it will take more than rebounding and defense to mount the winner's ·podium on Sunday night. 
The Americans didn't appear medal-worthy for much of Wednesday night. 
Dwyane Wade went 1-for-11 from the lloor and fired two air balls from beyond the arc. Shane Battier missed all three 3-pointers he tried. LeBron James was 6-for-10 from the floor but had seven turnovers. 
"We weren't taking bad shots," said Wade, who left the game for a few minutes after taking an inadvertent shot to the face from Germany's Pascal Roller. "They were open looks." 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act require each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled the Consumer Confidence Report (CCR). Following is the University's annual report for the 2005 calendar year. 
The University's water system is a privately owned public water supply operated by the Utilities Department. The University's system provides water to the University community and the nearby C.S.C. properties. Questions regarding the system or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, 104 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 574.631.0142 or Mike McCauslin, Assistant Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 57 4.631.5037. 

Definitions 

• 
MCL: Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL). The highest level of a contaminant allowed in drinking water. 

• 
MCLG: Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG). The level of a c ontaminant at which there is no known or expected health risk. 

• 
rum.!: parts per million. 

•
rum: parts per billion. 

• 
90th Percentile: 90% of the samples were below the number listed. 

• 
pCi/L: picocuries per liter. 


Since 1993, the University has been granted a Standardized Monitoring Framework (SMF 1), monitoring waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the monitoring frequencies are significantly reduced. 
AP USA guard Dwyane Wade, left, beats Germany forward Dirk Nowitzki to the basket during America's 85-65 win at the World Basketball Championships in Japan Wednesday. 
There are currently six wells serving the • Radioactive contaminants, which can be water system, all located on the campus naturally-occurring or are the result of oil proper. The water is drawn from deep aquifers and gas production and mining activities. 
Substance surrounded by substantial clay barriers that Some people may be more vulnerable to serve to protect the groundwater supply. We contaminants in drinking water than the 
Barium (ppm) do not believe that our source is vulnerable to general population. Persons with cancer 
Nitrate (ppm)contamination. We are also taking steps to undergoing chemotherapy, persons who have ensure that our water source does not become undergone organ transplants, persons with Nickel (ppm) 
contaminated and are in the final stages of a HIV/AIDS or other immune system disorders, Wellhead Protection Program. This program some elderly and infants can be particularly 
Chromium assists in defining where the water supply susceptible. These people should seek advice 
(ppm) comes from and methods to protect the about drinking water from their health care 
Fluoride aquifers from potential contamination. providers. EPA/CDC guidelines on 
(ppm) The sources of drinking water (both tap appropriate means to lessen the risk of 
Arsenic water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, infection from Cryptosporidium and microbial 
(ppmJ streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs and wells. contaminants are available from the Safe 
Gross alpha As water travels over the surface of the land or Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at 
(pCi/L) through the ground, it dissolves naturally­the EPA's website at 'N.W't!!'.•.~P..i'LQQ\1/.§.gf~W.i!,t!?..f.. 
Gross beta occurring minerals and, in some· cases, Infants and young children are typically 
(pCi/L) radioactive material. and can pick up more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than substances resulting from animal and human the general population. In general, if you flush activity. your could tap until the water-gets as cold as it Drinking water, including bottled water, may is going to get, you will have eliminated the reasonably be expected to contain at least potential metal contamination. Additional small amounts of some contaminants. The information is available from the Safe Drinking presence of contaminants does not necessarily Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the indicate the water poses a health risk. More EPA's website at WWWJllJ~_illJVf§afewalE;l[. 
Highest Level Detected  EPA's MCL  EPA's MCLG  Range  Source of Contamination  
0.10  2.0  2.0  0.061 -0.10  Erosion of natural deposits  
1.0  10  10  0.13-1.0  Runoff from fertilizer, septic tanks, natural deposits  
0015  0.1  0  0.0075­0.015  Pipe material, natural deposits  
0.012  0.1  0.1  0.0088­0.012  Erosion of natural deposits  
1.1  4.0  4.0  <0.1 -1.1  Runoff from fertilizer, erosion of natural deposits  
0.0034  0.01  0.0  <0.0020­0.0034  Erosion of natural deposits  
3.8  15  0  1.9-3.8  Naturally occurring  
21.2  50  0  3.2-21.2  Decay of natural and manmade deposits  

Regulated at Point of Entry (Well 
unregu ate d substances 
Substance  Highest Level Detected  EPA's MCL  EPA's MCLG  Range  Source of Contamination  
Sodi~}(ppm  58  100  - 41-58  Erosion of natural deposits  

information about contaminants and potential We have tested for over 150 parameters 
. 
Regulated at User Tap health affects can be obtained by calling the regulated by the EPA and the State of Indiana. Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Safe Included in these tests were metals, volatile Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at organics, pesticides, herbicides, synthetic the EPA's website at WVV\v.epa.gov/safewater. organic chemicals and cyanide. 

Substance  Highest Level Detected  EPA's MCL  EPA's MCLG  Range  Source of Contamination  
Copper (ppb) 90th percentile  350 ..  1300  1300  5.2-350  Corrosion of plumbing systems  
Lead ~rpb) 90 percentile  12  15  0  <1.0-12  Corrosion of plumbing systems  


Thursday, August 31, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 
Best of AcoustiCafe Taste of LaFortune 


LaFortune Open House 

ITlfDENr .Acnvn,,, 
brought to you by the student union board. SUB.ND.EDU 


Round Trip Airline Ticket Compliments of t ~yliav.ef ·Domer Dollars ND/MSU Tickets Dinner and Tickets to a Sho~ Guitar Package Much, Much More! 
Additional prizes donated by the following LaFortune businesses: The Copy Shop Notre Datne Federal Credit Union University Hairstylist Irish Gardens 
Lots of FREE FOOD cotnplitnents of the Huddle! 
' 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 2006 
U.S. OPEN 
Stars advance on­first day of Open 
Federer, Nadal and Mauresmo win on men's side; Williams, Hingis victorious for women 
"' Associated Press 
NEW YORK Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Amelie Mauresmo played like champs and former winners Serena Williams and Martina Hingis also advanced Wednesday during a hectic afternoon at the U.S. Open. 
A day after rain prevented any matches from being com­pleted for the first time since 1987, virtually the whole ten­nis world was on display at Flushing Meadows. 
Former Open champions Lleyton Hewitt and Marat Safin won while Andy Roddick and Maria Sharapova made for an attractive doubleheader in the night session. 
Andre Agassi and Lindsay Davenport showed up, too, to practice. In all, 80 matches were on the schedule. 
Beset by injuries for several years, Hingis drew a warm reception in her first Open appearance since 2002. She switched to her left hand to win a point at the net, then did a little hop when Peng Shuai's lob landed wide for a 4-6, 6-1, 6-3 victory. 
"It's good to be back," the 1997 champion said. "The energy of New York itself is absolutely great." 
With thousands of fans milling around the plaza, the place was cooking. The scent of grilling hamburgers wafted over outer court No. 5 ­many years ago, Goran Ivanisevic joked that he never liked to play there because the smell made him hungry. 
The top-seeded Federer rebounded from a startling loss two weeks ago to over­whelm Wang Yeu-tzuoo 6-4, 6­1, 6-0. Aiming at his third straight Open title, Federer had won 55 straight matches on North American hard courts before Andy Murray beat him at the Cincinnati Masters. 
"I thought I was always in control, obviously," Federer said after his victory. "I always said I prefer to be the favorite rather than the underdog. That's worked out for me since I became No. 1." 
The No.1 Mauresmo seemed to benefit most from the rain­out. Trying for her first U.S. Open championship, the Australian Open and Wimbledon winner led No. 131 Kristina Barrois 6-1, 2-5 when their match was sus­pended Tuesday. 
Mauresmo was sharp when they returned, winning all five games to close out a 6-1, 7-5 victory. 
"Even if I was going to lose the second set, I would have made myself right in the third," she said. "But it didn't happen." 
"Yesterday, I think she was hitting some unbelievable shots," Mauresmo said. "I wanted to try to be a little bit more aggressive." 
Williams cruised, beating Lourdes Dominguez Lino 6-1, 
6-2 and drawing a big ovation at Arthur Ashe Stadium. "I love you guys, too," she told the crowd. "Yeah, baby." 
Known for his success on clay, the second-seeded Nadal had an easy time on the hard court. He won the first eight points and beat 1998 Open runner-up Mark Philippoussis 6-4, 6-4, 6-4 in the first round. 
"The last two years, I didn't play very good here, and I want to play good," said Nadal, a two-time French Open champion who has never gotten past the third round at this tournament. 
Safin, the 2000 U.S. Open winner, defeated Robin Vik of the Czech Republic 6-1, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3. 
Safin has exhibited some bizarre behavior in the past _ he once dropped his shorts after winning a point at the French Open _ but won in rather routine fashion. He became the most animated when he called for an instant replay after his serve was ruled out. 
The video board showed it was indeed out and Safin spread his arms wide while a fan yelled out, "Challenge the challenge!" 
Through mid-afternoon, there had been a total of 15 challenges at the Open, result­ing in four overturned calls. Safin seemed to think there should've been more. 
"I guess they have to improve a little bit to make sure that the calls are right," he said. "I don't think it's 100 percent sure." 
The 15th-seeded Hewitt, the 2001 U.S. Open champion, beat Albert Montanes 7-5, 6-4, 6-3 and No. 4 David Nalbandian defeated Michael Berrer 4-6, 6-7 (2), 6-3, 7-5, 6-2. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS 
ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 


r----------------~ -----------------------------------------------.~-----.--~-------------------------.r---~----------------~ 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
a corner kick. should lead to first two assists of her colle­more goals in the future. giate career against the
Soccer 
"It's almost like a corner Cyclones in her first colle­continued from page 20 kiek. so I definitely think it'll giate start. be dangerous [throughout The next day, she came off 
Weissenhofer said this lux­the season]," she said. the bench to pepper the ury, which usually only Weissenhofer scored the Hebel goal with ~our shots eomes when a team attempts first two goals and tallied the and earn an assist with her 

There's that question in the back of your mind... Is there some­thing more to my FAITH? Something more that I should look into? Maybe there's more to all of this Church stuff. RCIA ... 
For more info, contact: Tami Schmitz 
@ 

631-3016 Schmitz.8@nd.edu 308 Coleman-Morse Center 
C-M 
Ca.mpus Ministry 
Are you thinking about becoming Catholic? 
Find out more about: The Sacraments of Initiation: 
• Baptism, Eucharist & Confirmation: 
for unbaptized persons wanting to become a member of the Catholic Church. 
• Full Communion: 
for baptized persons wanting Full Communion in the Catholic tradition. 
We all learn from one another. The RCIA gives you a chance to walk with someone as you explore your faith and find your place in the Church. Join us on this adventure of faith. 

Coffee andcConversation ;.<: 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 5 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members ot the Notre Oame family, their friends, and supporters to an infurmal cot1ee at the Co-Mo, 
Evertone ts welcome and confldenlial!!y 1s assured 


CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
throw in. I'll.get in there and do my Weissenhofer said she best." 
expects to play this weekend Both the Southern Cal and 
against Southern California Friday and No. 7 Santa Clara Sunday, but she is not sure whether she will start. 
"[Irish head coach Handy Waldrum] al·wavs changes ·the Weissenhofer 

"It's almost like a corner kick, so I definitely think it'll be dangerous [throughout the season}." 
Michele Weissenhofer Irish forward 
lineups," said. 
"Nothing's really set. I hope I start, but if l don't, l know 
Holt 
continued from page 20 
coach, praised Holt's hiring. 
''I've met her before and I know she'II be a great fit for Notre Dame," she said. "She'll bring stability and motivation to the program and she's someone we can relate to." 
Holt was the head coach at the University of Southern Florida for the past 13 seasons, and 
Santa Clara games will be at Alumni Field. The Trojans and Irish will kick off at 
7:30 p.m. Friday, while Notre Dame will take on the 

Broncos Sunday at 1:00 p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu. 
Holt's teams have also excelled off the course, with her teams averaging a GPA of 3.24 the past 12 seasons and 7 5 times her players achieved all-Conference 
U.S.A aeademie team honors. 
"First and foremost. I was 
attracted by the opportunity to 
come to what I believe is the best 
academic and athletic combina­
tion that's out there," she said. 
Diaz-Calderon said her reputa­
tion speaks for herself. 
"My eousin LMary Maritere-Calderon] goes to South Florida
"''ve met her before 
was head and she told me, coach at and I know she'll be a 'You guys are Purdue from great fit for Notre really lucky to 1990-93. While have her," she
Dame."

at USF, Holt said. was named Assistant Conference Alejandro Diaz-Calderon Coach Kvle 
U.S.A. Coach of Veltri, \Vho ied
Irish captain 

the Year three the Irish while times -in the university 1996, 1999 and searched for a 
-j
2001 -and was named Coach new coach, will stay on as an 
of the Decade (1995-2005). Her assistant. teams at USF won five The Irish open the season at Conferenee USA titles, made 11 the Cougar Classic Sept. 11 in trips to the NCAA Regional Charleston, S.C. Tournament and twice made trips to the NCAA Championship Contact Chris Hine at Finals. chine@nd.edu. 
52G~l!.1 Statt3 Road 933 ~ 
• Spot-F:ree Soutll Bend, Indiana 46637 : 
Fifnse Jw;t 2 miles twrlfl af Natre Dame on U.S. 31 t 
·-----------------------~--------· 
DAYS/NIGHTS DEliVERY DRIVERS SANDWICH MAKERS 


-.---~-----~-----­
J 
! 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, August 31, 2006 

t ~ 
Dalby 
continued from page 20 
specifics about what he would be looking for out of his most experienced player. 
With what he's shown on the field for the Irish, the growing attention being paid to the senior two-year captain is jus­tified. A former captain of the United States U-20 national team and a 

follow." 
As a captain, Dalby will also be able draw on his interna­tional experience to help lead the team. 
"J took so much from that experience lon the U-20 National team!," he said. "Every day you had to come to practice you were competing for your spot .and competing in front of a lot of people." 
Furthermore. Dalby attrib­utes his time on the U-20 team as a 
Gatorade high school player of the year,  "/ think this team is more than capable of  major reason for his sue­cess as an  
Dalby  has  winning a national  NCAA  ath­ 
started every one of Notre Dame's games  championship. I know that's most important to,  lete. "It's defi­nitely helped  
since arriving  me.  me  get  to  
in South Bend  where  I  am  
three autumns ago.  Greg Dalby  today -being here at Notre  
Hecently, he  Irish captain  Dame, being  

was named a preseason All-American and listed as one of 
the 25 players to watch for the Missouri Athletic Club's 
Hermann Trophy -an award presented annually to the top soccer player. He also received both honors in his junior season. 
Dalby, however, discounts the overall importance of indi­vidual distinctions. 
"All those things are a great honor, but at the end of the day l don't think they mean much or matter much," he said. "The way you play every day and the way you carry yourself is much more impor­tant." 
Those around Dalby have noticed his attitude. 
"The thing about having somebody who has had the accolades that he has and the fact that he is one of the most humble players on the team is great because it keeps every­body else humble," Clark said. "It's good to be confident, but it's good to have humility, always knowing that the team comes first. Greg is a great example of this. He lives that example, and by doing so, it makes it easier for others to 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 

but the team has been work­ing on conditioning and endurance on their own as well as with strength coach Chris Sandeen. 
"We want to be as well con­ditioned and durable as any team out there," Bayliss said. 
The Irish will continue to work on their condi­tioning when the season begins, b u.t will also begin developing each player's individual strengths. Bayliss said that each of his play­ers has different 
strengths and weaknesses, and that in order to have a successful season -the team will need to emphasis these strengths. 
One specific area where Notre Dame will look to improve upon is its aggres­sion at the net, especially in doubles. 
a senior cap­

tain on this team -so I'm very grateful for it," he said. 
After completing his time with the U-20 team Dalby ­who is too old to continue to play -is waiting to see when and if he will make that next step in the national team sys­tem. 
"It's not up to me, he said. "When it's over, it's over, until they call you back to camp." 
Currently, however. Dalby is completely focused on tlw Notre Dame season. 
"I think this teain is more than capable of winning a national championship," lw said. "I know that's most important to me and I know that's most important to our seniors." 
With all the hardware Dalby has already collected, a national title ring would go a long way towards completing his collection. 
"If I can leave this program, leave this school with a national championship, to me that's all that really matters," he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
players individual style when deciding doub~ partners. Notre Dame will try to come up with the best pairings to match the capabilities of all the Irish players, something that has been a struggle in the past. 
And in order to figure this out, Bayliss feels that is nec­essary for the team to com­pete in more preseason matches. He intends to have 
"We want to be as well conditioned and durable as any team out there.,, 
Bobby Bayliss Irish head coach 
the team play in some elite tournaments this fall to make the team even stronger. 
Notre Dame welcomes four new freshmen that should fig­ure into the mix early in the season ­

Sean Corrigan, Takashi Yoshii, Graham King and Daniel Schafer. They will join a talented group that includes junior Sheeva Parbhu, Brett Helgeson, Ryan Keckley and Eric Langenkamp. 
"We are excited to be back and ready to go," Bayliss said. "Our freshmen are eager Ito 
lanned 
gnancy? 
you love needs help n, please call. 
OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Steibe-Pasalicli, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
Charities, 234-3111 
"[In doubles] we will work a play.] It's a terrific blend of little more on net plays," experience and youth, and Bayliss said. "(We need to] be usually that bodes well for more consistent as well as what the season will bring." more aggressive." 
Bayliss said that it is also Contact Deirdre Krasula at important to factor in each dkrasula@nd.edu. 
Want to write sports? Call Ken. 631-4543 
_. 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ~J]IbJ]. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YOIRN 
1 
rJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MAGEL ± 

1 
ri J 

WHE:N CAN EVt=NING 
www.jumble.com 

C.L.OTH£:5 Bt= 5t=t=N?
tENBLIM 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
IIJ I I 

suggested by the above car-
A:(IIIIJ[IIIIIIJ ­
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SKUNK AORTA LAYOFF UNPACKYesterday's 
Answer: What the sailor experienced when his broken leg healed -A CAST OFF 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andy Roddick, 23; Rich Cronin, 30; Lisa Ling, 32; Cameron Diaz, 33 
Happy Birthday: You may be tempted to take on too much or spread yourself too thin this year. Look at the big picture and determine what is really important. You will be given the chance to prove yourself, and you don't want to let anyone down, especially yourself. The time to realize your potential and put your attributes to good use is this year. Your numbers are 6, 10, 19, 27, 33, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can't push others too hard. Patience will be ­required, and a better understanding of the way other people work will be necessary. Guard against frustration and crankiness. * * TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Take a leadership position if it will help get you what you want. You can win today but only by taking action. Set your sights high--you will be admired for your ability to see matters tbrough to the end.**** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Focus on whatever needs to be done to excel. Not everyone will be on your side, but don't let that bother you. Clear up unfinished business and prepare to adapt to any changes that come your way. * * * CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your emotions will be close to the surface, so keeping busy will help you avoid letting little personal problems escalate. Listen to someone with experience who can help you move forward. * * * LEO (July 23-Aug_ 22): Finances may be an issue today. You may have to find a way to cut your overhead to secure your financial future. Being overly generous will not buy friendship or help your current situation. * * * VIRGO (Aug_ 23-Sept. 22): Try something new and you may surprise yourself by the outcome. You have many talents, but lately you've been having trouble honing any one skill. Focus on the thing you enjoy doing the most. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let the little things frustrate you today. Set reasonable goals and don't worry about accomplishing anything beyond. Stay on track and avoid any emotional turmoil.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Travel for business or pleasure will bring about a favorable revelation. You will have a better idea of what you want to pursue in the future and how to go about it. Unfamiliar surroundings will spark an idea. 
***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec-21): There's a chance that you have overlooked something you should have corrected with your personal papers. A financial matter will arise that may be stressful ifyou are involved in a joint venture. Don't let anyone handle your financial affairs for you. * * • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have what it takes to get things done today, so don't let personal issues sidetrack you. Things may not be perfect regarding a personal relationship, but you can't let that stand in the way ofyour professional or fmancial success. * * * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your mind will be on love, romance and social activity today. You can make headway where personal relationships are concerned. Once you have things sorted out, you can buckle down and get back to business. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make your move today and feel confident about the outcome. You will have a unique approach to everything you do and a very sensitive and compassionate way ofdealing with others. The combination will work to your benefit. * * ** * 
Birthday Baby: You are changeable, compassionate and caring. You have a strong sense ofjustice and fair play. You are a pillar of strength, courage and goodness. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
. .
P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
UH OH, I'M  \NI-IA\~  OH. No.  
D~€.  P\C..\(IN{.1  '/e>U  'b\DN,T 5€.£.  
0<...\'1'  M"' BooK  AN'fiH\N~  1-\E..~E,  
AI  IH€..  SON.·  NOW , \fOU  
'3€~\  ~E  ON  
'(OUR.  WA'-j  NOW  

\ "3\..\S,"T WANI ONE':.. NON­btS."Tul<'-.& 1"'-"l':f 
f.')(..P€.1':.\Er-..\c.€. 
AI IHE:. 
i!>oOI<.S"foRE.,. 
'fOU 1-\f.P.,~ "? · E>t:.f"oRE.. \ 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 About half of 65 Urge on crossword clues 
1 Wood for 66 Visionaries Woods 39 "Gotcha!" 
67 Prying 5 Where to set 40 Step just before books publishing an article 
DOWN
10 Community service group 43 Outranking 1 Musical symbol 14 Queue 45 Sheets, 2 1953 Leslie tablecloths, etc. Caron film 
15 Four-bagger 46 Annual event at 3 The "U" in I.C.U.
16 Pipe problem 43-Down 4 Visibly 17 Writer Wiesel Stadium embarrassed 
18 Breathing 47 Frugality 5 "Not too 
19 Unnerve 50 Fed. watchdog 6 The 18 in a 
20 Hopping mad since 1971 
.round of 18 23 Mother hog 51 Motorists' org. 
7 Send out 24 Chafes 52 Change defeat 
8 Strauss &into victory 
25 Tear-jerking Co. sentiment 58 Egyptian 
9 Complimentary pyramids locale 
27 In good spirits ticket 60 Itinerary
30 Obliterate 1oSanta's little 61 One with a helper
32 Wrestling duster
maneuvers 11 Tether 62 Hawaiian strings 
33 Lose-weight­
12 Musical fast plan 63 Tribal leader instrument for 

34 Denny's 42 Boost 50 Bewhiskered 37 Antipollution org. 64 Like good wine the nonmusical alternative swimmer
43 See 46-Across 
13 Distorts 53 Film part35 Roof overhang 44 Ferry operator 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Owned jointly 54 In the raw 

-::T-.:-T=-r:::-r:-, by you and me • 36 Next 46 Wedding helpers 55 Shakespearean.;;:+rl::~F.-1 22 Sprint 38 They may sit in villain a glass at night 
47 Get ready to 
-rl:rl:::+:-+:-:-1 26 One of the 
run, in baseball 56 Fizzles outKennedys 41 He could '11oat 48 Three-line poem 57 Whirlpool
~*.;;.+.:""1 27 Person who's like a butterfly, often sent sting like a bee" 49 Demolishes 59 Cigar waste compliments 
28 Indian tribe with 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a kachina dolls credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 29 Spirit Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
~;:;t-;~+o::-i 30 W.W. II German Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
general Rommel past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
31 Sound off Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-=+=+:-+.:+.:-+:-8-=+:-1 

-'-'-l..::..t.:c..:..L.::..L:'-'-=CL.:..:..L:.J~ 33 Morse solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
" 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ____~-------------------------------­
City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER
' 
! 
I 
J-
PORTS
I page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 
All-American Dalby shrugs off attention 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame midfielder Greg Dalby isn't a big fan of receiv­ing individual attention -but to hear him tell it, media attention isn't something someone in his position would encounter too often. 
"It's not really something college soccer players have to 
deal with," he said.  
Dalby,  however,  may  be  
working  on  becoming  an  
exception to that rule  - as  

made evident by the Notre Dame athletic billboards scat­tered around South Bend fea­turing his image. 
In fact, Dalby has reached a marker of success that few reach in their careers -serv­ing as his own point of refer­ence for those familiar with him. 
"Greg's just got to be Greg," said Irish head coach Bobby Clark when asked for 
see DALBY/page 18 

Humble hero 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Fresh111an flips over chance to contribute 
Weissenhofer brings unique talent to team 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
When Notre Dame forward Michele Weissenhofer was in elementary school. soccer wasn't her favorite sport. 
She preferred gymnastics. 
Then Weissenhofer, who also played soccer, went to OI).O of her mother's recre­ational soccer games and found a way to combine the two sports. One of the play­ers would do a handspring before a throw in, using her body as a catapult to fling the ball to the center of the field. 
The seven-year-old Weissenhofer decided she wanted to learn, and set about doing flips and hurling soccer balls whenever she got the chance. 
"I practiced it and got it down," the 5-foot-4 fresh­man from Naperville, Ill. said. "I practiced it in the gymnastics gym and in my back yard a lot." 
Eleven years later, Weissenhofer's llip-throw ins have already made an impact for the No. 5 Irish, earning her an assist on sophomore forward Kerri Hanks' go-ahead goal in a 2­1 win against Ole Miss Sunday. 
Weissenhofer's throw lofted high in the air and made to the center of the penalty area, where senior midfield­or Jill Krivacek headed to Hanks for the score. 
Several of Weissenhofer's throw-ins landed in the box in the Notre Dame's 9-0 win Saturday over Iowa State, but none of them resulted in goals. 
Flip throw-ins carry higher and farther than normal throw-ins, allowing teams to cross the ball into the box in the air without a defender right on the passer. 
see SOCCER/page 17 
Thursday, August 31, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Ne-w links coach takes ND reigns 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The search is over. 
Notre Dame named Susan Holt its women's golf coach Wednesday, replacing Debby King. Holt becomes the fourth head coach in school history. 
"''m really looking forward to becoming a part of the Notre Dame family," Ilolt said in a statement released by the Notre Dame athletic department Wednesday. "The commitment to the golf program with the coursn and the new indoor facil­ity makes a statement. As a coach you want to know that you have a chance to be suc­cessful and you can tell that's how it is at Notre Dame and it's impressive to see that." 
Junior captain Alejandra Diaz­Calderon, who was one of three players who took part in the interview process for a new 
see HOLT/page 17 

-
·­
MEN's TENNIS 
Irish improve mean streak 
Endurance becomes top priority for team 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss identified two spe­cific areas his team will need to focus on this fall in order to exceed last sea­son's Sweet 16 run in the NCAA Championship ­conditioning and aggres­sion. 
The Irish finished the season ranked No. 18 when they fell to No. 1 Georgia in the NCAA Sweet 
16. Before falling to the Dawgs, Notre Dame defeat­ed No. 19 Texas A&M 4-2 in the second round of the NCAA Championship. 
But with an improved emphasis on conditioning, Notre Dame will put itself in a better position to make a deeper run. The fall season does not offi­cially start until Sept. 4, 
see TENNIS/page 18 



MlB-Al
BASKET~! AU 

Ml8-Al 
MLB-Nl 
Philadelphia 5 
USA85 
Germany 65 
Washington 1 

Roger Federer 
Irregular heartbeat 
Former Detroit center 

Seattle pitcher Rafael 
Soriano is in stable con­
advances in first round 
knocks Red Sox desig­
Steve Yzerman will 
Phillies starter
USA forward Carmela 

nated hitter David Ortiz 
dition after linedrive to
of U.S. Open by defeat­
have his Red Wings jer­
Anthony scores game 
Hamels pitched eight

ing Wang Yeu-tzuoo in 
out indefinitely. 
sey retired in Detroit. 
the head. 
high 19 points in victo­
innings to keep Phillies 
straight sets. 
in wildcard race. 
ry. 
page 12

page 13 
page 13

page 16 
page 13
page 14 






