
Shappeli-Andrichik secures majority 
General election vote decides Losing tickets look toward race for student body future, remain supportive president, vice president ofelected adnzinistration 
By MARY KATE MALONE By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL Assisstant N<Ws Editor News Writer 
.Juniors Lizzi Shappell and Bill While not all candidates at the Andriehik ran away with the victory in national level exhibit gracnf'ul conces­tho studnnt government president and sions, those who campaigned to lc\ad vicn prnsidm1t election Monday, winning Notre Dame's student body next ynar !i I.7R percent. of' the vote and narrowly did so with humility on Monday nscaping a run-orr-the first time a evening. tic:knt has donn so since 1999. Before the Lizzi Shappnll-Bill 
Tlw pair will take on its new posts /\ndrichik ticket achieved an outright April I. Shappell will replace current majority -rare for a student body stucllmt body presidnnt Dave Baron, and election -some candidates had been ;\ndriehik will n~place Shappnll, the cur­counting on having a last shot at cam­rnnt vicn president. paigning before the assumed run-off' 
Typically no ticknt wins the majority election on Thursday. vote in tho gnneral, and that results in a Despite this, the losing tickets run-ofT election betwnnn the two with quickly reorientod aftnr the results the highnst number of' votes. But this wor11 announced and were already yoar was dif'f'nrnnt, as Shappell and planning how to positivnly impaet the Andrichik nHtnagod to clinch the majori­University next acadmnic year. ty and avoid a week or historically Junior Jason Laws and sophomore doggod campaigning loading up to the Bob Costa took speeial intnrest in 
see ELECTION/page 6 learning of their victory in Monday's general election. see FUTURE/page 6 

Election victory indicates mandate for Shappell, insight of Notre Dame student body 
I didn't think it would actual­had slogged through the three­one withheld since the 1999 Notre Dame students also to trap potential voters liko ly happm1. round slugfest that was the election -but she also will stepped up, shaking ofT their flies. Merely Jiving in the wrong 
I'd jokod f'or days about how 2004 Charlie Ebersol and Adam stand as just the third female oft-bemoaned doaks of apathy dorm or owning the wrong typo groat it would bn for the ele<:­Istvan raen. student body president in Notre and turning in a performance of ear can spell doom f'or a tick­tion to be dedded without a So when the eall came last Dame history. as impressive as that of et. Competency and realistic run-ofT, hut night that Lizzi Shappell had It is a testament to the Shappell. Elections are always ideals are overlooknd in favor with two Amanda secun~d a majority the first respeet garnered by Dave a complex mish-mash of mixed of glad-handing and shnnr vol­strong tic:knts Michaels time around, I literally stared Baron and Shappell over the messages and torn loyalties, ume. loading the at tho receiver in shock. course of this term that on a even more so on a college cam­But this time around, the stu­rharge, I Assistant News Add anotlwr item to the Jist of campus eriticizcd for strained pus. One candidate seduces dent body seemed to nxperi­knew that Editor landmark events this semester. gender relations, a woman was with attraetive -and usually enee a moment of darity while was just tho Not only was Shappell given a elected to lead without hesita­impossible -promises, while pipe dream of a reporter who powerful student mandate-tion. another oozes enough charisnui see COLUMN/page 4 
1 Monologues' opens in new academic setting 
Audience reacts to controversial play staged in classroom 
By I-I FATHER VAN HOEGARDEN News Writl'r 
Amidst ongoing debate about whnther academic frnedom should permit University depart­ment.<; to sponsor 11vent.'i deemed to conlliet with Catholie values, Notro I >arne students pnrformed "Thn Vagina Monologues" for a noarly full auditorium of stu­dnnt.'i, faculty and administrators Monday night, touching on themes from sexual awakenings to fmnale genital mutilation. 
This ynar's play -sponsored by the 1\nglish and sociology dPpartrnnnt.o.; and set to continue tonight and Wc~dnesday -was pnrfonnml in 101 DeBartolo llall 
see PLAY/page 4 



Panel discussion caps performance, addresses sexuality 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Mer the first of this week's pro­ductions of "The Vagina Monologues" endnd Monday, two theologians and one sodal seinn­tist delved dm~per into tho discus­sion of femaln sexuality and vio­lence against women -an aca­demic approach that rotairwd almost 100 people in DnBartolo 101 aftor the perfilrmanen. 
Theology professor Hobin Darling Young, theology and law school professor M. Cathleen Kaveny and sociology professor .Jac:kie Smith spoke Monday night on the ability of "Tiw Vagina Monologues" to confront oftnn­unspokcm issues and bring them 
see PANEL/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Don't stop believin' 
I know the situation looks bleak. After 
a promising 10-2 start, Notre Dame bas­
ketball stumbled their way to becoming 
the greatest 1-8 team in Big East history. 
It felt like I was having deja vu every 
time I had the mis­

fortune of watching Greg Arbogast 
the Irish in the last 
five minutes of a 

game. I mean, how Sports Writer 
many of you just 
knew that that 

prayer of a 3-pointer by Taquan Dean 
would somehow find its way to the bot­
tom of the net at Louisville? Watching 
the reaction of the Notre Dame bench 
after that shot went in made you ques­
tion not only whether this team could 
take anymore, but quite possibly the 
existence of a higher power as well. 
There's just something about this 
team though. Something about this 
team that hasn't let me give up on them 
yet. Something about this team that 
makes me think that the seemingly 
unattainable idea of an NCAA tourna­
ment bid is still a tangible possibility. 
Allow me to draw on the immortal 
wisdom of Bluto Blutarski when he says, 
"Was it over when the Germans bombed ·Pearl Harbor?" No, it wasn't over then, 
and it isn't over now for the Irish and an 
NCAA tournament bid. 

'Why?' you ask. Well, first and fore­
most, I'm a strong believer in the "You 
can only lose so many games where you 
walk back to your dorm wanting to cry" 
theory. Although this might be a little 
painful for some, here's a recap of such 
moments from this school year: football, 
Michigan State and USC; basketball, 
Georgetown and Villanova. I mean, how 
much punishment can the sports gods 
possibly expect us to endure in one 
year? 

That theory in mind, I come back to 
the idea that there's just something 
about this team. A weak team would 
have rolled over and died after the 
Villanova game. The majority of teams 
would have packed it in after the West 
Virginia heartbreaker. Even a mentally 
tough team would have decided this just 
wasn't their season after the Louisville 
loss. 

If, however, the Irish had packed it in 
for the season already, like most teams 
would have in their situation, they 
would have come out against an under­
manned Rutgers team and proved to a 
noticeably less than enthusiastic 
Leprechaun Legion that the team felt 
their season was over. 

That's just the thing, though. Chris 
Quinn and company don't feel that this 
season is over. Whatever their reason­
an undying spirit, a superior mental 
toughness, a possible subscription to the 
aforementioned "close game" theory­
Notre Dame believes they can turn those 
heartbreaking losses into emotional 
wins in this season's remaining games. 
The Irish haven't given up on this sea­
son, and until they do -ifthey do -we 
owe it to this year's team not to give up 
on the season either. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Feb. 13 edition ofThe Observer, a news arti­cle about "The Vagina Monologues" stated Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life opposes the YWCA and the SOS receiving funding raised by "The Vagina Monologues" because the groups on a national level have an anti-life sentiment. However, Right to Life believes SOS is an acceptable recipient of funds because the group has an established rela­tionship with the University and because it does not counsel women to have abortions. Right to Life does find the YWCA problematic because ofits national pro-choice stance. The Observer regrets the error. 
Due to an editing error, coordinator of the NO Holocaust Project Betty Signer was incorrectly iden­tified in her Letter to the Editor as Becky Signer on Monday, Feb. 13. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DID YOU VOTE FOR IN THE STUDENT BODY PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION? 



Kushal Parikh  Caleb Laux  Katie Paquette  Jeffrey Koch  
sophomore Sarin  freshman Morrissey  freshman Farley  freshman Fisher  
"The candidate  'Tm not voting,  "Lizzi Shappell,  "Laws and  
who looks out  because I have  because she has  Costa, because  
for the  a coup plan for  lots of  they're going to  
minorities. "  next week.''  experience.  get the most  
done."  


Couple reunites after sixty years 
ADRIAN, Mich.-Willard Mason and Ilah Ost are giv­ing new meaning to the phrase: "Love is patient." More than 60 years ago, the couple were engaged to be married, but life's cir­cumstances got in the way. 
Now, after they each married others, raised families and their spouses died, the two are together again. 
"Ilah was my first girl­friend," Mason told The Daily Telegram. "I first met her when I was a sopho­more at Blissfield High School." 
TODAY 

a:: 
The two began dating and got engaged. 
But in 1941, Mason moved to Ypsilanti to work at the Willow Run bomber plant. There, he met a woman named Helvi, and broke his engagement to Ost. He married Helvi in 1942. 
Ost later married her husband, Marvin, and had three children before he died in 1974. 
Mason's wife died in 2003, and by chance, he ran into Ost's brother in Blissfield in 2004, and he encouraged Mason to call Ost. 
The two started dating, 
with Mason driving from his home near Houghton Lake to Adrian, where Ost lived. 
On one of his trips to Adrian, Mason blacked out and struck a tree with his car. Tests showed he need­ed a new pacemaker, Mason said. 
He then moved to near Adrian and invited Ost to move in with him. 
"We get along perfectly," Mason said. "We've never h'!td an argument. She's a great cook, and she takes care of me." 
.. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
1.&.1 :I: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
c:c 
(,) 


0 
HIGH 37

...I LOW 28 

30 28 

37 
28 

43 
25 



Jenna Laedtke Rob Huth 
freshman sophomore Farley Stanford 
"Lizzi Shappell, "Shappell and 
because she's Andrichik, 
made the because they're biggest effort of both upstanding trying to get her young citizens. " 
campaign out 
around campus. 
IN BRIEF 

A Student Night hosted by Kevin Guilfoile and featuring slam poet Saul Williams will be held tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program as part of the 2006 Literary Festival and is open to the public. 
Notre Dame graduate and author of historical fiction Tasha Alexander will speak tonight at 
5:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program as part of the 2006 Literary Festival and is open to the public. 
Keith Beauchamp, civil rights activist and filmmaker, will dis­cuss his documentary "The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till" Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Poet Rane Arroyo will lecture Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. The event is cosponsored by the Creative Writing Program and the Institute for Latino Studies as part of the 2006 Literary Festival and is open to the public. 
The Notre Dame men's basket­hall team will take on the University of South Florida at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Joyce Center. 
The Saint Mary's psychology department will host a lecture by Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis Thursday at 1 p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center. Weis will dis­cuss autism and global delays as part of psychology week at the College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

30 13 


HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, February 14 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Lei to gives '-wish list' 
The Couneil unanimously
By MARY KATE MALONE approved a resolution endors­
A'Si.\1;1111 Nt·ws Ediwr 
ing Lnito's rnport-whieh was crnat11d in eonjuncticm with the Allor months of meetings and Student Snnatn's committee on 
brainstorming within the 
rnsidence life. CLC will send the 
Campus Lili1 Council's task lim~e rnsolution and Leito's report to on campus grounds and strue­vien presidnnt of' student all'airs turns, task foren c·hair James Father Mark Poorman, who ean Leito dnlivnrml a livn-prongml thnn forward it to appropriate
rPport Monday senking 
administrators l'or futuro earn­
improvnnwnts and additions to pus eonstruetion decisions. 
tlw University's athletic facili­"This is great work," Dillon ties. 
llall rector Father Paul DoyleTlw rnport c~alls li1r additional said. "I support it 100 pnreent."
tnnnis c:ourt facilities li1r rncre­ational usn, a rww bw.;dmiVsoft­
In other CLC news: 
ball l'iPid adjacnnt to Riehle + In response to recent earn­l:iPids and nnw lights for the pus debate concerning academ­Hinhle and West Quad fields. 
ic l'rnndom and the University'sTlw report also calls for bath­Catholie eharader, Baron asked rooms, lrw.;h eans and drinking the Council to ereate a task 
fountains on various athletic 
force ehargod with ovaluatinglinlds on campus and a more 
how Jenkins' remarks will 
tinwly sprinklnr schmlule that all'oet programming lilf student d011s not spray studnnts as they activities. 
walk to dass. 
Baron said tho nnwly-croated"HncSports supportml every­
task !'oren on programming
thing wn talkml about," Lnito 
standards will address how 
said. "The hardest thing is light­eontrovnrsial events sponsoreding because it's tlw most expnn­by studcmt aetivities might be sivn, hut it can rnally improve all'eeted by .Jenkins' comments. 
I intnrhalll tfmms' ability to usn The task three will provide ree­thn praetkn linlds, nspndally on 
ommnndations on how sueh 
Wc1st Quad wlwrn thorn arn no 
nvnnts should be handled in
lighL<; at all." 
light of' these commenL<;.
Studnnt body prnsichmt Dave cu: will discuss thn aeademic 

Baron dariliPd lhn rnporl as a freedom issue more thoroughly"wish-list." It dons nol carry a at their nnxt meeting, Baron tinwlabln with it, hut, idnally, it 
said. 
will lw looked lo whenever llnivnrsity ollkials disc:uss eon­stnu:tion and campus improve­Contact Mary Kate Malone at mnnt in Um future, Baron said. Mmalone3@nd.edu 
.....-..ll.r---·-c,-'J""4_..,....,

__"JJi''"_"""d....,__..,.o!-_lllflliill'~-'"!'f-· \(1 ~:);-· /;~ -fJ 
JoinUs ~~-­
For our Texas Hold'em First POKER TOURNAMENT SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 1 a, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm 

Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm 
ATM, Food & Beverages
(Soulh Bend Time) 

$100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
'?tut 'PUee PRIZE POOL IS 10% OF THE FIELD TOTALLING
I (), () () () 
$22,500 


Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1at Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prlzl!!tB will be adjusted for fawor participants 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group votes on event funding 

Executive treasurer .lillian "They are asking for $5,000,
By LIZ HARTER Waters reminded ol'fieers the whieh is all we have in our 
News Writer 
BOG would be receiving a budget, so I'm guessing you request of as mueh as $7,000 are not going to vote for that," 
Saint Mary's Board of for The Show in coming Mitros told the Board. Governance voted to provide weeks. Mitros also exprnssed the $2,795-more than hall' of its Last year, student govnrn­possibility of utilizing dub eo­remaining eo-sponsorship ment gave $2,000 to Midnight sponsorship funds for non­funds for the semester-to Madness, Waters said, but not elub events. Student Aetivitins help finance the upcoming through an official co-spon­director (;norge ltosnnbush Midnight Madness and Fire sorship grant. said oiTieBrs could potentially and Safety Fair at its meeting "This year they're trying to rndiroct monny from thn club Monday night. make it a little more profes­lines to finance other aetivi­
Teehnology commissioner sional on where tluly'ro gnt­ties. Ashley Enright said individu­ting their (money!," she said. Senior elass prnsidnn t als, ineluding Viee President of Some officers expressed Lauren Condon mov11d to givP Student Affairs Linda Timm, concern about the amoui1t of half of the requestnd amount, and local businesses donate money requested and how it whieh was immediat11ly votnd prizes to Midnight Madness, was going to be spent. on and approved. but the planning committee "Looking baek at thn whole In a sneond eo-sponsorship still needs the financial sup~ year, do we want to spend proposal, Hnsidnnen flail prns­port of' student government $5,000 on food and prizes and ident Jackie Wright, who sits and requested $5,000. shirts?" missions commission· on the Collngn's Firn Sal'c1ty 
"IWe'rol asking for a lot of er Jennifer Bobbins said. "I Committnn, rnqunstr11l $295 to money, but it is just hall' of' the mean, maybe that is where it help purchase whistles and cost of what is going on," she ends up anyway, but it just sal'nty tip cards to bn distrib­said. seems like a lot of money." uted at thn Saint Mary's FirP 
Following Enright's propos­Student body president and Safety Fair this spring. al, board rnembors discussed Kellye Mitros said while nvery Arter minimal discussion, BOG's past financial involve­eo-sponsorship affects a large the board votnd to providn this ment with Midnight Madness number of students in theory, IllOJWy. and the el'feet providing the financial support of Midnight money would have on future Madness would actually do so Contact Liz Harter at eo-sponsorship requests. in praeticn. EharteOI @saintmarys.edu 

Announcing the Year 2006 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino 
,., . 
Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2006 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame; 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals; 
3) a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow; 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved; 
5) ·the names oftwo references. 
Application Deadline: Friday, February 17, 2006 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University ofNotre Dame 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Famous author kicks 


off Literary Festival 
By WILL KEARNEY News Writer 
The annual Notre Dame Literary Festival, once host to distinguished writers such as Kurt Vonnegut and Norman Mailer, continued its tradition 
of drawing acclaimed authors Monday night with a lecture by J a m e s Salter. 
Salter, the renowned 

novelist and Salter 
short story writer who· has been hailed as "one of the best writers in this country" by critic Robert Burke, was the featured author for the first day of the festival. Salter shared some of 
his critically esteemed work along with insights on writing with an audience in the Oak Room. 
Salter began the lecture with a reading of his short story "Common." The story was meant to highlight Salter's distinct style of using the relationships between men and women to explore the intricacies of human desire. 
Following the reading, Salter spoke about why sue­

. cess among literary critics does not always translate to popular success. "Fame is a vapor, popularity an accident," Salter said. "You can only write what you are." Salter drove home the point that although an author's writing can and should devel­
op over time, the essence of his or her writing always will retain. its own identity. The 82-year-old Salter, who still has not received widespread popular acclaim, was upbeat about the prospect of success for himself and all aspiring writers. 
"You always have the possi­bility for success, even if you have never succeeded before," he said. 
Salter, an ex-fighter pilot and veteran of the Korean War, also discussed the importance of drawing from personal experience when writing. 
"In 'Common' alone, there are twelve people who I can think of that gave me ideas for parts of the story," he said. 
Salter explained how his writing is sustained by a well of life experiences combined with self-confidence -a quality "they don't teach you in the classroom." ft is this motivating and sustaining self-confidence that Salter said he wished to impart with his audience. 
The author also said the spirit of the Literary Festival and of his own motivation to continue to write is encapsu­lated in his favorite quotation from writer Samuel Johnson: "The chief glory of every peo­ple depends on its authors." 
The lecture series of the Literary Festival continues tonight at 5:30 in LaFortune Ballroom with Tasha Alexander and runs through Thursday. 
Contact Will Kearney at wkearney@nd.edu 
Play 
continued from page 1 
instead of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts after University President Father John Jenkins required that it take place in an academic setting. Jenkins' compromise for this year's event -he has not yet issued a formal long-term policy affecting future performances ­also meant organizers could not charge admission to the "Monologues" to raise money as they had in previous years. 
"It makes it a little less slick [having it in a classroom]," said Glenn Hendler, director of under­graduate studies and associate professor in the English depart­ment. "I think there are, in some ways, some good things about that. There's kind of a rawness and everydayness about it that I don't think other shows have. 
" ... [But] you're talking about not having the legitimacy that the theatre has. You're talking about not being able to raise money for the charities that are losing $15,000 they were expecting to get -that's not good. There's nothing good about that." 
The audience, more female than male, was enthusiastic and participative, singing along with songs played between individual monologues, laughing at appro­priate times and even yelling an expletive term for vagina when prompted by a monologue. 
Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Mark Roche was in atten­dance Monday, and he said it was his first time seeing "The Vagina Monologues." He also said he attended the play on his own accord -not at Jenkins' request -but declined to comment on his personal reactions to the event. 
Discussions with Roche helped initiate a departmental vote to decide whether the English department would sponsor "The Vagina Monologues" again this year, Hendler told The Observer for a Jan. 26 article. The vote to sponsor the play was unanimous among the 30 professors who attended the meeting, out of a department of about 40 people, Hendler said. 
Junior Madison Liddy, this year's director of "The Vagina Monologues" -who delivered an impassioned moiming perform­ance of her own as one of the play's fmal acts Monday -said she was pleased with the turnout on the first night and reinforced the importance of having the play on campus. 
"I think we are a determined bunch of girls and we're dedicat­ed [to the cause]," Liddy said. "If that means we have to get cre­ative in our ways, we will. No one is scared -we are vagina war­riors." 
Senior Lauren Williams, who attended Monday's showing and also saw "The Vagina Monologues" as a freshman, said she thinks the play brings impor­tant perspectives to campus. 
"The controversy made me want to support it more, having seen it and realizing that I sup­port the cause," Williams said. "Yes, absolutely [it belongs at Notre Dame]." 
Jackie Smith, a professor of sociology and peace studies who also served on the discussion panel following the play, said that after conducting much research on violence against women and seeing the performance for the first time, she thinks "The Vagina Monologues" needs to be per­formed at the University. 
"I think it should be here, it needs to be here," Smith said after the performance and before the panel. "I think the Church needs to be much more open to hearing the voices of women, and the fact that they're giving us such a hard time about perform­ing is exactly the message that this play is about. And by denying space for this kind of perform­ance on campus, we're really not doing our duty as a University to provide students with lots of dif­ferent perspectives on the world and on experiences of people, [and] we're also contributing to the continued silence and oppres­sion that comes from that." 
Freshman Chris Hall, who saw the play for the first time, said he enjoyed the performance and identified some academic aspects. 
"I thought it was a really good show," Hall said. "There were a lot of interesting points, different perspectives. I guess you could say it was educational." 
Freshman Jessica Keppel said her first experienc.e at "The Vagina Monologues" was a posi­tive one, although she was at times taken aback by its frank­ness. 
"I thought it was really awe­some," Keppel said. "I definitely wanted to go see it; I had heard all over about the whole academ­ic freedom thing. And violence against women is an issue really close to my heart. At first it shocked me at how frank they are, especially [the monologue entitled "Reclaiming (expletive)"]. That was just really frank and out there for me." 
Notre Dame Right to Life, which has demonstrated against the play in the past, decided not to protest Monday's event, saying the group instead would pray for those involved in the play. 
"We will continue to pray that those involved will realize that the play is an explicit, sexually provocative and inappropriate means of making a point about ending violence against women,'' club president Arina Grossu told The Observer in an e-mail. 
"The Vagina Monologues" will take place again tonight and Wednesday at 7 p.m. in 101 and 102 DeBartolo Hall, respectively, followed by a panel discussion at 9:15p.m. 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
can often see a kind of tension styles of the "Monologues," Saint tied closely to one established by "In South Africa ... 15 percent [of between social custom and the Augustine's "Confessions" and vic­Young earlier in the discussion -women] have access to a drug that 

Panel 

nagging of conscience . . . of people tim impact statements in a court­Catholicism's relationship to mod­costs less than $50. That's vio­continued from page 1 who have read and heard the room. em culture. lence." Gospel," Young said. "Victims of crime get to stand up "Catholic thought does not iso­Smith said unequal economic to the forefront of debate. This trend of silencing women before the court, before the com­late itself from human experi­distribution is· another form of vio­
While she presented the continues today, Young said. She munity, before the perpetrator and ence," Kaveny said. "We cannot lence agaillst women. Church's point of view, Young cited a "local Catholic high school speak about what happened to live in a bubble." "Women in the U.S. make just 80 made her opinion perfectly clear where girls are told they must not them," Kaveny said. The Church must listen to the cents for every dollar a man before she even began speaking­tempt boys." The Supreme Court has upheld voices of victims, she said, earns," she said. by slapping the heavy "Documents Young said this historical back­the practice as legitimate, but "because [it] needs to reform Considering time taken off dirr­of Vatican II" volume onto the ground combined with current Kaveny said the statements can be itself." ing and after pregnancy, that sta­table. context gives the 'Monologues' an both "ii'nportant and dangerous" Smith, the last to speak, exam­tistic drops to just 56 cents per dol­
"This is theology, as good as it important role at Catholic universi­-important in that they give vic­ined the silencing of women and lar, Smith said. gets," Young said, provoking a few ties nationwide. tims a voice, dangerous in that gender inequalities through a But "The Vagina Monologues" laughs. "Now that we have "I think it's possible to ... not they are insufficient in "the forma­more scientific, statistical lens and V-Day campaign are helping Catholic theology here, let me say take the statements of 'The Vagina tion of general norms." while commenting on the goals of raise awareness of these issues, what I have to say." Monologues' as advances of partic­Drawing heavily on the teach­the "Monologues." she said. 
Young, a specialist in early ular practices," Young said. ings of Augustine, Kaveny outlined "The only way things change is "The V-Day activities in 81 coun­Christianity, said throughout the "[That's the] malicious interpreta­a list of reasons why she believes when people who don't have tries shows the resonance these · history of the Church, universities tion of groups trying to take them the Catholic Church should pay power stand up and demand themes have around the world,'' and bishops have "occasionally off Catholic campuses." attention to the content of the change," she said, describing the Smith said. clashed," since their roles in teach­It also comes down to keeping "Monologues" -the first being the "Monologues" as "an attempt to Gail Bederman, organizer of the ing can overlap. the Church in touch with the previously mentioned comparison empower the powerless." panels and hi<>tory professor, intro­
South Bend Bishop John times, she said. to the "Confessions." "The performance of 'The duced the di<;cussion by explaining D'Arcy's duty in the Notre Dame "We must understand the aspi­"Augustine places all of his expe­Vagina Monologues' is a political it was not meant to be a response community, Young said, is to voice ration, yearning and often dramat­riences, good and bad, before statement. It's meant to be shock­to University President Father his objection to a production he ic features of the world in which God," she said. ing." Smith said. "The playwright John Jenkins' recent addresses on believes is promoting "masturba­we live," Young said. Kaveny focused on the idea of [Eve Ensler] has shown us the tip academic freedom and Catholic tion, abortion, lesbianism and Kaveny, who also spoke from a embodiment, simultaneously pres­of the iceberg ... [and] is asking us character. seduction of an underage girl." theology-based background, ent in the "Monologues" and to imagine the rest of the iceberg." "There's been a great deal of 
D'Arcy is "genuinely concerned . added a legal perspective to the Catholic teaching. Social studies research reveals talk -I think good talk -about for the University and its wellbe­analysis. "We're not all body or all soul, that the systematic silencing of the values, or lack ofvalues of 'The ing," she said. The first step in discussion, but embodied souls," Kaveny said. women "allows them to be dehu­Vagina Monologues," Bederman 
But there aren't many Church Kaveny said, is to understand She recalled Augustine's humor­manized, fosters intolerance," said. 'That's not the purpose of the documents on violence against "what kind of a piece 'The Vagina ous description of the connection Smith said. panels ... I envisioned the event as women to provide the official Monologues' is." between original sin and male She gave examples of oppression being an exercise of academic Catholic viewpoint, Young said. "Unless you encounter it in the genitalia: "If we hadn't had 'the against females, such as the freedom rather than a debate over Women are frequently silenced, right way, you're going to misun­Fall,' we could look down and say delayed right to vote worldwide, academic freedom." and there has been little consider­derstand it," she said. "If you're 'Arise,' and it would have risen." the relatively small number of Bederman said people "some­ation of "how the culture inside the taking it a<> a set of theological doc­This lighthearted approach, females in power in the U.S. -15 times forget" about issues of Church can be violent." trines ... you're going down it the Kaveny said, should be granted to percent of government officials are female sexuality and rape. 
The tension between Church wrong way." women, as well. women -and the prevalence of "(The 'Monologues'] make us and culture, however, began quite The "Monologues" are about "So why women cannot reflect untreated HIV among the female remember," she said. a while ago. "women's feelings of embodi­with humor on embodiment is population. 
"It's very interesting that in the ment," she said. beyond me," she said. "Treatment is denied to a vast Contact Maddie Hanna at history of early Christianity, you She drew parallels between the Another of Kaveny's arguments majority [of women]," Smith said. mhannal@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haitians riot against election results 
I'OHT-AU-I'HINCE, llaiti -Supporters of' llaitian presidential candidate Hone Proved nrncted smoldoring roadblocks across the capital and occupiod a luxury hotel Monday. At least onn protester was killed, hut U.N. p1Htcl1keepers denied witness accounts that they had shot him. 
As l'ort-au-l'rince descond(1(1 into ehaos, PrPval returrwd to tlw capilal for the lirst limo sinco tlw oloetion Tuosday. llo was the 1·loar wimwr with about 90 porcent of tho votes count1~d. but supporters elaimod nlnctoral officials were tampering with rosulls to provont him from getting the majority he noeds to avoid a runoff. 
Danes say country misrepresented 
COPENIIA<;EN. Donmark -Denmark's prinw minister complained Monday that his nation had been unf'airly portrayed as intolnranl in thn intemational f'uror ovor tlw Proplwt Muhammad cartoons, and his foreign minister said a govornnwnt apolo­
gy would lm pointloss.  
Af'tnr nwoting with  a  nowly fornwd  not­ 
work  of"  moderat1~  Muslims,  Prime  
Ministnr AndPrs Fogh  Hasmussen  calil~d  

for peaceful dialogue to defuse Denmark's higgnst international crisis since World War II. 
"This mnnting just tnstifins that thn Danish governnwnt wants a positive dia­loguo with all groups in tho Danish soeie­ly," ho said. "Tiw way forward is p!1ace­f"ul." 
llowPver, critics said tho network did not rnpresent DennHtrk's nstimatnd 200,000 Muslims and warnod tho prinw ministor could bo lwightoning tonsions by not rPaching oul to radical groups. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bald eagle population increases 
WASIIIN<;TON-Tho Anwrican bald eagle, aflnr batl.ling back from tho throat of extinc­tion btwause of' habitat loss and DDT, took anotlwr stPp Monday toward coming oil" tlw nndangernd SIJPdes list. 
Thn lnll~rior Departnwnt's Fish and Wildlife Snrviee isstwd draft voluntary guidelirws spPIIing out how landowners, land managers and otlwrs should protm:t the bird onee it no longPr is safeguardnd by the 1973 law. 
It also proposed prohibitions on "disturb­ing" tho bald nagle, which eould indude any­thing that would disrupt its brnnding, fending or slwltPring or cause injury, death or nest abandonnHm t. 
Thn Clinton administration proposnd r·pmoving tlw bald nagln from tho nndan­gl~rnd spndes list in I1199. But the delisting has taknn far longnr than tlw typieal year; partly b1H~ausn updatnd counts are required from each of l.lt"n statns. and some of those havP tlwir own ruins that add to rPd tape. 
Lawyer's group denounces spying 
CIIICA<;o The Anwriean Bar Association dPnotlllCIHI President Bush's warrantless donwstie survnillanen pro­gram Monday, accusing him of 1~xeneding his pownrs under tho Constitution. 
Tlw program has prompted a heated dPbatn about prnsidnntial powors in the war on Wrror sincn it was disclosed in I lnr.Pmlwr. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Prisoner dies from drug overdose 
PJ·:NDLI•:TON, Ind. -A prisonnr at the Pend In ton Correctional Facility was found dPad from a possible drug overdose, the socond such case in loss than a week, tho I>Ppartrnnnt of Corrections said. 
A third inmate apparently hanged him­soli" on Jan. 26 at the central Indiana prison. 
In tho latost death, Keith Laustorer, 40, was found unresponsive in his bod Sunday. Prison staff tried to resuseitatn him, but he was pronounced dead at 10:07 a.m. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
White House defends reaction 
Bush 'highly engaged' in Katrina response, Homeland Security representatives said 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The 
Bush administration on 
Monday pushed back hard 
against Katrina-response 
eritieism leveled by ex­
disaster agency ehiof 
Michael Brown and con­
gressional investigators. 
"I reject outright the suggestion that President Bush was anything less than fully involved," said White llouso homeland sneurity adviser Franens Fragos Townsend. 
Homeland Security Sneretary Miehaol Chortoff "unequivoeally and strongly" rejected suggestions that his agency was preoeeupind with tf1rror throats at thn OXpflllSe of proparing for natural disastors. 
Both spokn at a confer­ence of statn emergency managenwnt directors in suburban Alexandria, Va. 
Thoir rebuttal eamo as a Hepubliean-writtnn Ilouse roport blamed gov­ornrnnnt-wide ineptitude for mishandling llurrieano Katrina rnlinf. 
A r11port by Congress' investigativo arm, tho Government Accountability OITiee, reached similar conclu­sions and singled out Clwrtoff for delays. 
Both Townsend and Ch11rtol"f' took swipes at Brown, who resigned under pressure in S11pt11mber as head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
"There is no place for a lone ranger in emergency managemnnt, "said Chertoff,whose Department of llom11land Security is FEMA's parnnt agency. 
Brown testified before a Snnate committee last wonk that he issued repeated warnings to tho Whitn !louse and OilS the day thn hurricane struck, Aug. 29, that levees had failed and New Orleans was seriously flooding. 
lie suggnstnd that tho White llousn and DIIS had dragged their feet. Bush and other federal ortidals 

have said they did not know until the next day, Aug. 30, that levees had been breached. 
On Monday, Brown def"nnded his perform­ance. 
"For Secretary ChertoiT to elaim that I failed to keep him informed belies the numerous telephone calls .and e-mails between me and him prior to, dur­ing and after landfall" or the storm, Brown said in an e-mail to The Assoeiated Pross. 
Brown also applauded congressional investiga­tions into tlw govern­mPnt's response. 
Towns11nd, without naming names, eritieized those at FEMA she said had "become bitter" and lashed out "trying to lind someone else, anyon11 else, to blam11." 
"Wo cannot attnmpt to rewrit11 history by point­ing fingers or laying blamn," Townsend said. 
Townsend, who at Bush's request is conduct­ing her own "lessons learned" inquiry, said lwr report would b11 rel11ased later this month. 
A Senato panni is eon­dueling a separat11 review due in March. 
While both Chnrtoff and Townsend acknowledged that the federal response left mueh to bn desired, both suggested f'nderal officials up to Bush had been unfairly criticized. 
Bush, who was travnling in Arizona and California the day the storm roarnd ashore, was "highly engaged" in monitoring its advance, Townsnnd 
Associated Press 

BAGIIDAD -Prosecutors produe11d documents and put form~lr aides to Saddam Hussein on the stand Monday as they made their strongest attempt yet to link him directly to torture and executions. 
The ousted president, who looked disheveled and appeared in his slip­pers, shouted "Down with Bush!" 
Saddam's half brother, Barzan Ibrahim -dressed only in an under­shirt and long underwear-struggled with guards as hn was pull11d into tho courtroom. Ibrahim, the former t;hief of' intelligence, then sat on the floor with his back to the judge in protnst for mueh ofthe session. 
The defendants have rejected eourt­appointed attorneys namod to replaen their own lawyers who walked out of the trial last month, and are demand­ing the removal of chief judge Houf Abdel-Hahman. In Jordan, Saddam's ehief defense lawynr said there were no plans to end the boycott and denounced the court for forcing the said. 
And shn said it was Bush himself who l"irst concednd snvnral days artnr thn storm -orw of thn nation's worst natural disastnrs -that "thn rnsponsn to tho hurrir.arw was insuflidnnt." 
The White llousn wnl­eomes eongrnssional inquiri11s into Katrina and thn al"tnrmath, and will eo opera t n with tlw m , Townsend said. 

"But lnt's be dear about thn facts," she said. "As you know, l'rnsidtHlt Bush was highly nngag11d in tlw preparation and rnsponsn nfl"ort, bnginning wlwn Katrina was a tropil'al s to r rn o IT tlw c o a s t o f Florida." 
C h e r to IT an n o u n c IHI wid11-ranging changns to FEMA. 
IRAQ 


Hussein returns to courtroom 
.former lnader to attend. 
"This is a cheap attitude," Khaled 
ai-Dulaimi told The Assodatml Prnss. 
Aftnr the raueous start, prosneutors 
tried to prove Saddarn's roln in a 
wavn of arrnsts and exncutions that 
follownd a 19S2 attnmpt on his lifn in 
the Shiit11 village of l>ujail. 
Twenty-six prosneution witnnssns have testified sinee the Saddam trial began Oet. 19, many providing accounts of torturn and imprisonment in the crackdown, but they could not directly pin them on Saddam. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
Election 
continued from page 1 
run-off. 
"I was definitely surprised [that we didn't need to have a run-oir]," Judicial Couneil pres­ident James Leito said. "We had a lot of good candidates mixed up between Glasses." 
Shappell and Andriehik won 2,202 votes, while junior Jason Laws and sophomore Bob 
Costa came in seeond with 1,458 votes, or 34.28 percent of the vote. Freshmen Ryan McCune and Tim Szewczyk were a distant third, winning 
3.62 percent of the votes. 

One hundred seventy-one stu­dents abstained, and freshmen Hyan Black and Catherine Martinez and sophomore Erica Wells and freshman George Chamberlain split the remain­ing votes. 
A record-breaking 4,253 votes were cast -the highest in the general eleetion in at least four years, constituting about 51 percent of the student body. 
Leito said the election process was smooth, despite an early morning delay in sending out an election e-mail to all stu­dents providing a hyperli~k for 


Colu01n 
continued from page 1 
standing in the midst of polar­izing debates on academic free­dom and heated encounters with South Bend residents, and it picked the candidate most qualified to deal with the big issues. The students chose the ticket most familiar with the ongoing problems they face at this University and with the most credible approach to find­ing some solutions. 
Perhaps I'm giving campus 

casting their vote. class president -Andrichik 
"We sent our letter [to the said he is confident the transi­Office of the Registrar] over the tion into the presidency and weekend, but for whatever rea­vice presidency will be "pretty son they didn't send it out," smooth." He said they both Leito said. plan to continue tackling com­
Leito called the Registrar at munity relations -a pillar of 
11:30 a.m.  Leito  their  campaign  
said the e-mail  platform  - in the  
was sent five minutes later.  "Now it's [time to]  coming weeks. "We were confi­ 
The Shappell­Andriehik ticket won the majority  take a deep breath and get started."  dent about making the run-off," Shappell said. "But  
vote class  in  every and  Lizzi Shappell  now it's [time to] take a deep breath  
received the greatest number  student body president elect  and get started." Though they  

of votes from the class of 2008. They also domi­nated in every residence hall except Cavanaugh, Fisher and Howard. 
Shappell was all smiles after Leito announced the election results in the LaFortune Club Resource room Monday night. 
"''m excited and surprised," Shappell said. "It was unlikely that we could win it in the first round since there were five tickets. A lot of good ideas came up as far as the other campaigns, so it's surprising." 
Since both Shappell and Andrichik each already hold positions in student govern­ment -Andrichik is junior 
voters too much credit. Perhaps they just picked a candidate based on whom the media endorsed or who stuffed the most flyers in their mailbox or who looked the best in a skirt. But hopefully not. I'd like to think students benefiting from a $40,000 a year education are a little wiser, a little more informed than that. 
And if you know any differ­ent, please keep it to yourself. 
So, what's next? As Baron bows out, Shappell will have to juggle picking up where his successful term leaves off while forging her own policy path. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Vice President Dick Cheney has been given a warning citation for breaking Texas hunting law by failing to buy a $7 stamp allow­ing him to shoot upland game birds. 
The warning came from the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department after it investigated Cheney's accidental shooting of a fellow quail hunter Saturday on the private Armstrong Ranch in the south part of the state. 
The department found the accident was caused by a "hunter's judgment factor" when Cheney sprayed another hunter while aiming at flying birds. 
The report said the victim, prominent Republican attorney Harry Whittington of Austin, was retrieving a downed bird and stepped out of the hunting line he was sharing with Cheney. "Another covey was flushed and Cheney swung on a bird and fired, striking Whittington in the faee, neck and chest at approxi­mately 30 yards," the report said. 
Cheney, an experienced hunter, has not commented publiCly about the accident. His office said Monday night in a statement that Cheney had a $125 nonresi­dent hunting license and has sent a $7 check to cover the cost of the stamp. "The staff asked for all permits needed, but was not informed of the $7 upland game bird stamp requirement," the statement said. 

Whittington also received a warning for failing to have the stamp. A department spokesman said warnings are being issued in most cases because the stamp requirement only went into effect five months ago and many hunters aren't aware of it. 
Whittington was in stable con­dition at Christus Spohn Hospital Corpus Christi-Memorial and was moved from intensive care to a "step-down unit" Monday. Doctors decided to leave several birdshot pellets lodged in his skin rather than try to remove them. 
Katharine Armstrong, owner of the ranch where the shooting occurred, said it happened toward the end of the hunt, when it was still sunny but as darkness was eneroaching and they were preparing to go inside. She said Whittington made a mistake by not announcing that he had walked up to rejoin the hunting line, and Cheney didn't see him as he tried to down a bird. 
Armstrong said she saw Cheney's security detail running toward the scene. "The first thing that crossed my mind was he had a heart problem," she told The Associated Press. 
She said Cheney stayed "close but cool" while the agents and medical personnel treated Whittington, then took him by ambulance to the hospital. Later, 
originally had 
planned to have a 

strategy meeting for what they thought would be a whirlwind week of campaign­ing and debating for a run-off election, Shappell and Andrichik instead celebrated a victory last night in the student government office. 
The last time a ticket for stu­dent body president and vice president won the majority in the general eleetion was in 1999, when juniors Micah Murphy and Michael Palumbo won with 54.67 percent of the vote against nine other tickets. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
She'll inevitably face diplomatie struggles with the University administration and the citizens of South Bend. And judging by the way this semester is going, I wouldn't be surprised if another obstacle were looming on the horizon. 
But the one thing Shappell won't have to worry about is whether she has the student body behind her, and after last night's voting, she can confi­dently stick it to whatever or whomever stands in the way. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Cheney vvar_ned for breaking lavv 

Future 
continued from page 1 
making student government inclusive and available to all students in their campaign. 
--Their slogan, "We have only one voice ... yours," embod­ies this critical issue, and their Web site emphasized the importance of involving all students so as to truly 
chant, "We are "At the end ofthe Both Wells ND." day, I think we've a n d 
Costa seemed Chamberlain
helped bring up the 
satisfied with said they want 
the effort he idea ofa more open to stay active within the
and Laws put and inclusive 
forth, and the Notre Dame
student
influence it community. would have on government."· Wells said she student govern­intends to ment. continue
Bob Costa 
''I'm proud to working
vice presidential 
be part of a extensively
candidate
team with a with Gender 
ments. 

Erica Wells, a sophomore who ran alongside freshman George Chamberlain, said she felt the most deserved eandidate won. 
"I think Lizzi LShappell] will do a great job as presi­dent," Wells said. "There was a good deal of overlap in platforms -many candi­dates brought up similar issues. I'm sure she will 
work hard for 
the changes." 

guy like Jason," Costa said. "At the end of the day, I think we've helped bring up the idea of a more open and inclusive student govern­ment. That is really impor­tant for making Notre Dame a better place." 
Laws said he plans to con­tinue his work towards improving diversity and pro­moting equality next fall. By focusing on the minority community and working to form a black student union, he said, he 
Relations and 
performing eommunity serviee next year, while Chamberlain plans on running for class couneil. · 
This year's election was unusual in that so many freshmen took the initiative to run in the general elec­tion. Candidates Hyan MeCune and Tim Szewczyk did not attend the election results announcement Monday night, but Ryan Black and Catherine Martinez were 
hopes to ''If needed, we'll be present for the accomplish one announce­
here to support. " 
of his cam­ment. paign's funda­With three mental goals Jason Laws more years at despite the presidential candidate the University, 
the hunting group sat down for dinner while Whittington was being treated, receiving updates from a family member at the hospital. Armstrong described Cheney's demeanor during din­ner as "very worried" about Whittington. 
Pamela Willeford, the U.S. ambassador to Switzerland, another member of the hunting party, told The Dallas Morning News for a story in Tuesday's editions that she and Cheney did­n't realize Whittington had picked up a bird and caught up with them. 
Willeford said she has hunted with Cheney before and would again. 
"He's a great shot. He's very safety conscious. This is some­thing that unfortunately was a bad accident and when you're with a group like that, he's safe or safer than all the rest of us," she said. 

Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith@brothersofbolycross.com 
defeat. 
Both Laws and Costa offered support and encour­agement to the victors. They expressed confidence in the leadership capabilities of Shappell and Andrichik and vowed to support and assist as much as needed in the upcoming year. 
"We've been prayerful throughout the last few months," Laws said, "and [we] know that when God closes a door, he opens another. If needed, we'll be here to support." 
Other presidential hopefuls expressed similar senti­these hopefuls 
have plenty of 
time in which to continue working towards their platform goals. 
"Lizzie will do a great job," Black said. "She expressed similar views to us by emphasizing gender rela­tions and community rela­tions as things that need to be addressed. Cat [Martinez] and I look forward to step­ping in, in any way we can, to make sure the needs of students ·are being addressed." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Ti.1csday, February 14, 2006 


Dow 

10,798.27 +4.65
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,971 I 39 I ,3 I 3 2, I 33,249,290 
AMEX 1.864.05 +13.29 NASDAQ 3,111.19 +0.14 NYSE 8,019.87 +18.47 s&PSOO I ,265.02 +0.99 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 16,757.42 +9.66 FTSE IOO(London) 5,772.40 +13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.63  -0.13  20.61  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.33  +0.04  12.25  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.34  -0.37  27.17  
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)  -6.33  -4.55  67.30  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -0.27  -0.11  40.81  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.26  +0.12  45.45  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.34  -0.15  43.47  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.34  -0.16  46.22  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.33  +0.1 5  45.10  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.26  65.1 I  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +2.70  574.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.60  75.90  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.8700  
EURO  0.8350  
POUND  0.5716  
CANADIAN$  1.1467  

IN BRIEF 

FEMA ends hotel payment program 
NEW OHLEANS -A judge let the federal government Monday drop some 12,000 fami­lies made homeless by last year's hurricanes from a program that has been paying directly for their hotel rooms. 
FEMA has promised the evacuees from llurrieanns Katrina and Hita that they will still rnceive federal assistance that they can use toward hotel stays or fixing their ruined homes, although the agency will no longer pay for the hotels directly. 
Attorneys for the evaeuees tried to get U.S. District .Judge Stanwood Duval to issue a tem­porary restraining order, saying the fortheom­ing money from FEMA won't be enough for reasonable living accommodations or for hotel stays. 
Senate prepares $70 billion tax bill 
WA.'-;1 IINGTON-Senators argu11d Monday over the Bush administration's tax euts for investors while sending a $70 billion tax bill into final nngotiations. 
Although the bill makes no mention of tax eul'i li>r capital gains and dividends, Democral'i lined up motions to attack the tax reductions and H1~publkans rushed to defend them. 
The elnetion year dnbate proved a mostly politi­cal display. The motions under debate don't bind lawmaknrs who will hammer out the final ver­sion of the tax bill. They ean only make sugges­tions to nngotiators. 
Sm1. Trent !.ott of Louisiana, a HepubJican mem­ber of the Senatn Finanee Committee, said he hopml to bn chosnn as one of those negotiators. "You think I'm going to pay attention to any motions to instruct me'?'' he asked. "Baloney." 
Thn bill would cut taxes $70 billion over live ynars, mostly extending tax breaks scheduled to expire hef(Jre the end of tho decade. 
The enntnrpiece of tho llousn bill would pre­snrvn tax I~UL<; for capital gains and dividends li.Jr two years af'tllr their scheduled disappearance at tho nnd of 200X. Thn biggost feature of the Snnato bill would pnmmt millions of familins from owing the alternative minimum tax this year. 
Dmnocral'> urged negotiators to make their pri­ority thn altnrnativo minimum tax, intended to trap wnalthy tax dodgnrs but now encroaching on thn middle dass. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Jurors listen to Lay's Enron tapes 
Conference call recordings show Enron executives had early knowledge of losses 
Associated Press 

IIOUSTON -1\nron Corp.  
foundm Kennnth Lay dis­ 
dosPd hundreds of millions  
of dollars in quartnrly losses  
and a surprise $1.2 billion  
writedown in shareholder  
equity six weeks bnlim1 thP  
eompany f(-~ll into bankrupt­ 
cy proenndings in Dnemnbnr  
200 I. jurors in his fraud and  
eonspiraey trial h(lard  
Monday on a tapn of a quar­ 
terly narnings conference  
call.  
But prosecutors contend  
he still hold baek some bad  
news from investors or  
wrongly described tho losses  
as onn-timo evnnts to give  
Wall Street false hopo that  
businllss would improve,  
whiln he allegedly knew the  
company was in serious  
trouble. Lay is on trial along­ 
side former chin!" nxeeutive  
Jell'rey Skilling.  
The dnfnnse teams con­ 
tnnd thnre was no fraud at  
Enron and negative publicity  
eouplod with loss of Wall  
StrPot eonlidenco ftwled its  
collapse.  
Lay lawyer Michael  
Hamsey kieknd oil" the third  
week of the trial Monday by  
trying to show that his client  
hid nothing when he dis­ 
dosod a li'it of problems that  
included a $638 million AP  
third-quarter 2001 loss and Former Enron CEO Kenneth Lay leaves the federal courthouse at the end of the first day  
the reduction in shareholder of the third week of his fraud and conspiracy trial Monday In Houston, Texas.  
equity.  
"Was this a surprise, the  eompany's books. When the  est in those two partnerships  the LIM partnerships had  
writedowns?" Ramsey asked  company's stock price fell  to one of his former top  been vetted by lawyers and  
former Enron investor-rela­ throughout 2001, Enron was  aides in July 2001. But the  auditors.  
tions ehief Mark Koenig, in  on the hook to issue more  publicity prompted the  Hamsey had presented  
his seventh day on the wit­ stock or repay the debt.  Securities and Exchange  SEC filings with footnotes  
ness stand Monday. He was  Lay assured analysts on  Commission to investigate  that mentioned UM as early  
to return for an eighth day  the Oct. 16, 2001, confer­ the entities and the propri­ as 1<J99, when the first of  
Tuesday.  ence eall heard Monday that  ety of Fastow running part­ the two was ereated, to  
"They were a surprise,"  Enron "cleaned up some  nerships that did deaL'i with  demonstrate that they  
Koenig said. He backtracked  items here" and expected no  his main employer.  weren't hidden. But on the  
a bit when Ramsey later had  eredit-rating downgrades - Enron's directors had  Oct. 23 eall, an analyst noted  
him road reports from ana­ which would alert investors  waived a eompany conlliet­ he was still mystifind by the  
lysts produced after the call  to other problems.  of-interest policy to allow  details of the transadions.  
that said the losses and  There were more prob­ Fastow to run the partner­ The next day, Enron oust­ 
writedown were smaller  lems. The Wall Street  ships when they were creat­ ed Fastow.  
than expected.  Journal published several  ed in 1999 and 2000.  Nearly six weeks later,  
The losses stemmed from  articles in the days after the  Enron held another con­ Enron filed for bankruptcy  
bad investments in broad­ earnings release about part­ ference eall with analyst.'> on  proteetion amid revelations  
band and water ventures  nerships called LJM1 and  Oct. 23, 2001 -played for  of ofT-the-books debt and  
and the unwinding of so­ L.JM2 run by then-Enron  jurors on Monday -during  inflated profiL'i. The eollapse  
callf~d Haptors, four fragile  finance chief Andrew  which Lay said, "Andy has  of what was once the eoun­ 
financial structures backed  Fastow that had done mil­ been doing an outstanding  try's seventh-largest eompa­ 
by Enron stock used to help  lions of dollars in deals with  job as CFO" and there was a  ny left thousands jobless and  
keep hundreds of millions of  Enron.  "Chinese wall between IJM  wiped out billions in  
dollars in debt off the energy  Fastow had sold his inter- and Enron." Lay also said  investors' wealth.  

Fannie Mae misses housing goals 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-Mortgage giant 
Fannie Mae last year fell a bit short 
of some of the government-set goals 
for making home ownership afford­
able as it worked to untangle its 
accounting in an $11 billion scan­
dal. 
A preliminary analysis by the gov­ernment-sponsored company, which finances one of every five home­mortgage loans in the United States, shows that it "fell slightly short" ­by less than 1 percent -of two housing "sub-goals," a Fannie Mae official said Monday. 
Bush administration officials have 
said in recent ynars that Fannie 

Mae and Freddie Mac, its smaller rival in the $8 trillion home-mort­gage market, must do more to help low-and moderate-income families become homeowners. In 2003, the companies met the government-set goals only because three unusual multibillion-dollar deals were counted toward the targets. 
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mae have been under intense scrutiny and political pressure sinee their aecounting scandals surfaeed in September 2004 and June 2003, respectively. Legislation pending in Congress would tighten federal oversight of the two companies. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has ordered Fannie Mae to restate earnings 
back to 2001, and the Office of Federal !lousing Enterprise Ovtlrsight are investigating the eom­pany's accounting. The Justice Dnpartment is pursuing a criminal investigation. 
"It ... appears that we fnll slightly short" of tho two sub-goals, Chuek Greener, Fannin Man's snnior viee president for communications, said in a statement. "We are fully com­mitted to working with IIUI> in an effort to meet these goals." 
The Department of !lousing and Urban Developmont sots tho annual affordable housing goals. II UD spokesman Lemar Wooley said the agency had no commnnt on tho matter because it hadn't ynt SIH~n Fannie Mae's loan data. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
Sho-w relllembers dogs of Katrina 
Westminster Kennel Club show features video montage tribute 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -When he was a boy, Hiram Stewart took a bus to Virginia, put a puppy in a paper bag and cradled it all the way home to New Orleans. 
For more than three decades, he's cared for dogs in the Big Easy. Usually champion dogs, the kind that will reach the Best in Show ring this week at Westminster. 
Still, nothing prepared him for what he saw happening to pets around town after Hurricane Katrina hit. Like that pair of lit­tle beagles with the pleading eyes, chained inside a garage. 
"Every time a car would drive by, they'd come out, hoping it was their owner," Stewart said. "I knew the situation better than those two poor dogs did. It wasn't going to be just a few days." · 
Stewart believes those beagles came out OK. But thousands of their companions didn't, and America's most prestigious dog show remembered them -and those who helped -with a moving tribute Monday night at Madison Square Garden. 
Hours earlier, the Westminster Kennel Club show started a day after the biggest snowstorm in city history blan­keted New York. A total of 2,622 dogs in 165 breeds and varieties were entered -some didn't make it because of the bad weather, though there was no exact count. 
A colored bull terrier named Rufus, the top-winning pug ever, a Rottweiler led by a for­mer Florida State linebacker and a Dalmatian called Boomer were the big winners Monday night. 
In a show featuring lots of underdogs, Rufus beat a favored Norfolk terrier named 
-Coco and a Dandie Dinmont ter­rier co-owned by Bill Cosby to including one that recovered win the terrier group. from burns and an amputated 
"I guess we're going shop­toe. ping," winning handler Kathy Sandra Bethea brought her Kirk said. Bedlington terrier from 
Shaka became the first Gulfport, Miss. With Mardi Gras Rottweiler to win the working beads on her grooming stand, group at Westminster. Owner­she primped Talyn to a best of breeder-handler Keith Carter breed victory. pumped his fist when his dog Bethea then passed on watch­was picked. ing the tribute. 
"I don't know if I can articu­"I can't, it would be too emo­late what this win means," he tional," she said backstage. "All said. in my own time. My husband 
Boomer took the nonsporting will tape it." group and will try to become Louisiana, Mississippi and the first of his kind to win Best Alabama are not prime areas in Show in 130 years of for purebred champions, pro­Westminster. Dermot the pug ducing a total of only 30 entries won the toy group and will aim at Westminster this year. Yet for his 66th overall Best in veterinarians and volunteers 
Show title.  poured into the area  
The hound,  after the storm blew  
herding and sporting groups were to be judged  "The things people did to their animals during  in, JOimng those already in place to offer time, services and donations.  
Tuesday night,  Katrina are  As  Katrina  
with Best in Show chosen  inexcusable.,,  approached in late August, Lisa Myers  
shortly before  packed 13 dogs ­ and  
11 p.m.  Lisa Myers  a gun, just in case  - 
While  some  Louisiana resident  into her mobile trailer  

paint this as the Miss America of dog shows -in fact, Miss America 1990, Debbye Turner, is hosting the USA Network telecast this year ­Westminster is known for reaching out into the canine community. 
There was hardly a dry eye in the building in 2002 when 20 German shepherds and retriev­ers came onto the Garden's green carpet to honor search and rescue dogs for their tire­less work at the World Trade Center and Pentagon after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
The Katrina tribute, featuring dogs and those that saved them, brought a standing ovation. 
A video montage on the score­board showed images of injured and abandoned dogs, accompa­nied by a song from Jackson Browne. Moments later, a half­dozen dogs with Gulf Coast con­nections were introduced, and left Covington, La. 
Her husband stayed behiqd with a horse and two Basenjis; one of the dogs ran away when the winds blew and was killed. 
"I saw some terrible things along the drive. People just let­ting their pets out on the side of the road. I don't see how any­one could do that," she said. "The things people did to their animals during Katrina are inexcusable." 
Lashes, a champion Chinese Shar-Pei, is now with Myers at Westminster. 
"I thought about not coming this year, but this continuity, it's a rite of passage," she said. "If I didn't do this, I've given in to the adversity." 
Stewart, one of the most high­ly regarded handlers in the business, was set to attend Westminster again. His mother died last week, and he stayed home in Kenner, La. 

IRAN 

Newspaper requests Holocaust cartoons 
Contest responds to Muhammad cartoons 
Associated Press 
TEI-IHAN -An Iranian newspaper's contest for car­toons about the Holocaust, launched Monday in response to a series of caricatures about the Prophet Muhammad, has already drawn at least one entry, the paper said. 
Hamshahri, one of Iran's top five newspapers, said its con­test was a test of the Western world's readiness to print car­toons about the Nazi slaughter of 6 million Jews in World War 
II. It called for cartoons under the title: "What is the Limit of Western Freedom of Expression?" 
The caricatures of the prophet, which first appeared in a Danish newspaper and were reprinted in several European newspapers that cited freedom of expression, have outraged Muslims and generated protests worldwide. 
The first entry in the Iranian contest depicts a man smoking a cigarette and wearing a blue and white striped prison uni­form, with a tall wall and guard tower in the back­ground. 
The man, with a mustache and several days growth of beard, is wearing a white kef­fiyeh and is holding his right hand over his forehead and eyes. 
On his chest is a red Muslim crescent with a letter "P." Below that is the number 7256, the significance of which was not immediately clear, although Israel is said to be holding about 8,000 Palestinian prisoners. 
The Brazilian artist listed as the author of the cartoon could not immediately be reached to confirm the entry was by him. 
Masoud Shojai, chairman of the committee that will judge the contest, said an Australian was among those who sent entries to the contest last week before it was oflicially opened. 
But Michael Leunig, one of Australia's best-known car­toonists, on Tuesday denied entering two of his works in the contest, saying he was the victim of fraud. 
"I learned last night that some of my cartoons from a few years back have been sub­mitted as an entry in that com­petition," Leunig told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. "This is· a fraud and hoax emanating, we believe, from Australia." 
Leunig said had been con­tacted late Monday by a con­cerned editor at Melbourne's The Age newspaper, which publishes many of his car­toons. 
The cartoons were pulled from the Iranian newspaper's Web site after he contacted their editors, Leunig said. 
"A reply came back, they were sorry, they removed the cartoon instantly without a qualm and with an apology," he said. 
An Iranian Web site for car­toonists carried a reproduc­tion of the Brazilian entry and printed a notice at the top of the page that indicated it might also be connected to a conference sponsored by Iran's Foreign Ministry to examine what it called the sci­entific evidence surrounding the Holocaust. 
An English-language notice on the site warned that it "possibly will be closed by United States." It then provid­ed links to three other sites. 

Judge Judy reache~ a decade of on-the-air ruling 
Associated Press judges should behave and, in a The judge did some quick math. to maintain their love of the judi­Alex" and the upcoming "Judge 
more expansive view, the world. If he had taken a minimum-wage cial system." Maria Lopez," Sheindlin remains 
LOS ANGELES -Judith At one point, she interrupts her­job, say at a fast-food restaurant, Sheindlin was scheduled to the queen bee with ratings that Sheindlin, familiarly known as self to search her purse for a stash and worked 10 hours a day, seven receive a special Valentine Day's put her in the company of top syn­television's Judge Judy, fixes the of newspaper clippings, reports on days a week, he could have met treat: her star on the Hollywood dicated performers including lawbreaker with her trademark a series of violent deaths of New most of his financial obligation to Walk of Fame. Also, she garnered Oprah Winfrey and "Wheel of brace-yourself-buddy glare. York children that have raised the roomie. a Daytime Emmy Awards nomina­Fortune." 
"You're drinking my tea?" she questions about city government "She's not related to you. She tion, her 1Oth overall, for the "I think Judge Judy is, like says to Jerry Sheindlin, her hus­oversight. doesn't love you like your mother upcoming April ceremony. Oprah, sort of the star of her band of 29 years, who's lunching "All these articles, you know does," Sheindlin told him, deliver­A big air kiss came her way last genre," said analyst Stacey Lynn alongside her during a production who they blame? They blame the ing her lecture in the pitiless tone year when her name was floated Koerner of New York-based media break on her court show. Not Administration for Children's so at odds with the by novelist Kurt agency Initiative. "She lays it on. bothering to appeal, he stops Services. Now, I'm not absolving visual: A petite Vonnegut and a the line and she doesn't let you get pouring from her cup into his and them. ... But that's not where the woman, dwarfed by a "I think she's an newspaper away with anything .... She stands returns the property to its rightful fault is, really," she said. "The peo­realistic courtroom equal opportunity columnist as a out as an ethical voice that speaks owner. ple who are supposed to protect setting, and with her replacement for to the common man." 
abuser.,,
For Judy Sheindlin, marking her children are their parents." black robe softened by retiring Suprenie Some uncommon voices, howev­1Oth season as the star of one TV's Her unshakable mantra is per­a dainty lace collar. Court Justice er, have been raised against her. top-rated syndicated shows, sonal responsibility. It's a position Afterward, the Randy Douthit Sandra Day Harvard Law professor Alan watched by 10 million people that played well when her show defendant weighed in O'Connor. The Dershowitz declaimed that she
executive producer
daily, enforcing justice is a full­began and may be even more for the camera. "I was suggestions may presented the image of a judge as time job. Her grandchildren may beguiling in a time vexed by the made to look like a have been ironic tyrant. A New York Times column enjoy some slack; all others, watch forces of war and terror. The real fool" and a deadbeat, he wailed -but she likely could have found recently accused Sheindlin of out. power is yours, Sheindlin tells us; while the show picked up the tab more public favor than Harriet using the law as a bludgeon 
That unforgiving approach to who wouldn't want to believe? for the roughly $2,000 judgment, Miers. against the underclass: " ... the small-claims disputes culled from The 63-year-old who reminds as it always does. Sheindlin's popularity earns her lower a party's apparent status, courts nationwide is what draws you she successfully raised five Petri Hawkins Byrd, who served a reported $30 million yearly. She the harsher Judge Judy is free to viewers. When Phil McGraw barks children and stepchildren will not as her bailiff in New York and cuts travels to work by private jet from be." at an errant spouse or parent on brook excuses from those she sees an imposing figure in the same the Naples, Fla., home she shares Sheindiin once coyly parried "Dr. Phil," he's reflecting the influ­as skirting their duties. role on TV, admires Sheindlin as with her husband, a retired judge Dershowitz, in print, by joking that ence of Sheindlin's decade of TV A defendant who faced her "blunt, witty, sharp as a tack" and who also did his time in a TV she should have gone to the prom toughness. recently found out how that for her refusal to accept any non­courtroom with "People's Court." with him. Randy Douthit, the 
"Accept responsibility for what applied to him. The college stu­sense. Would he want to come She flies in every other week to show's executive producer and you do in everything," the former dent, who stiffed a roommate for before her in court? Los Angeles for three days of tap­director, takes on the allegation of New York family court judge said rent after an injury forced him out "Hell, no," he said, laughing. ing. class warfare. in an interview. She was referring of a good-paying valet job, told "And I don't advise any of my While new judges crowd into the "I think she's an equal opportu­to her own expectation of how Sheindlin he had no choice. friends to do so. Not if they want TV courtroom, including "Judge nity abuser," Douthit said. 
• 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 

The Observer + NEWS page 9 
PAKISTAN 

Trial starts for Texas mother 
Missiles hit non1ads 
Woman pleads not 
U.S. blamed for shots along Afghani border 
Associated Pres~ 
MIHAN Sll/\11 -Suspected 
U.S. military fin' struck tho tent ol' a nomad l'amily on tho Pakistan sidn of' tlw rugged bor­dnr with 1\f'ghanistan. killing two wonwn and injuring at lnast four rhildrnn, two Pakistani ol'lkials said. 
T hn Pakistani ol'f'icials said l'our rocknts or slwlls were apparnntly fin~d by tlw U.S. mili­tary in fighting with suspo!:tnd militants in /\l'ghanistan's nast­'~rn Khost province late Saturday. and orw hit tlw nomads' tent at Bangi Dar, in Pakistan's North Waziristan trib­al area. 
Tlw olli<'ials -orw an intnlli­gnncn ol'li<'ial, tlw othnr a fowl govnrnnwnt administrator ­spokl' on condition of anonymity as IIH'Y Wl'rn not authoriznd to spnak to nwdia. Thnrl' was no imml'diatn ronfirmation l'rom tho Pakistan gowrnnwnt or military. 
In Kabul, l.t. Mikn Cody, a spokesman l'or thn U.S. military in 1\l'ghanistan, said a s1~curity post along tlw bordnr in Khosl disagreed, saying that while prossed her chin into lwr dwsl, Schlosser obviously had mental staring down at lwr hands. problems, she did know right She was diagnosed with from wrong when she killed manic deprnssion al'tnr lwr her daughter. arrest. In February 200!i, a 

";\t some point that morning, jury doliberatnd only a fpw Dena Schlosser put Maggio minutes lwl'orn dPriding Schlosser down on the bod and Schlossnr was nwntally incom­cut ol'f her pntnnl to stand arms," he said. trial and slw was 
The l'irst wit­"At some point that committnd to ness was Steve North Texas SlatP
morning, Dena
Edwards, the llospilal in
,C.,'chlosser put
911 operator Vernon. But in who took Maggie Schlosser May, a judg(' Schlosser's call. dncidml Schlossl'r
down on the bed 
In a tape of the was ('.ompntiHlt.
and cut (~ll' her
conversation, Iter two surviv­Schlosser could arms. ing daught.Prs, be heard calmly ages (> and <J, arP describing her in their father's
Curtis Howard
actions. When eustody.
prosecutor
Edwards asked Schloss1~r had her if tlwre was bonn accused of an emergency, child rwgh~et in tlw she responded "Yes." months before Margan~t 's 
"Exactly what happened'?" death, but a stall~ invnsl.igation Edwards asked. found she did not posn a risk to 
"I e ul her arms oI'f." l h n baby o r lw r ollw r two Schlosser replied as a hymn daughtnrs. played in the background. Texas' troubled Child 
"You cut her arms ol'l'?" lw l'roloetivn s,~rvkos canll' undl'r repnated. intense scrutiny al'lnr a num­
"Uh-huh," shn answon~d. ber of high-proliln child abusl' 
/\s tho tape played, Schlossor doaths, induding thn Schlossl'r s lu m p ~~ d in he r cha ir an d casn. 
was attacked from the Pakistani side Saturday afternoon, and the 
U.S. military, coordinating with thn Pakistani military, returned fire. 
Cody said tlwre were no rnporls of casualties on either sido. Tho intnlligen!:e oiTieial !:onfirrned that a coalition post had hnnn lirnd at. 
/\!;)out 20,000 U.S. troops are in Afghanistan hunting for Taliban militia and al-Qaeda fugitives. 
Fire l'rom coalition forees has sometimes landnd in Pakistani territory. 
Pakistan is a kny ally in tho U.S.-led war on terrorism but docs not allow U.S. troops to operate on its side of the rugged and ill-defined'border where l'or­l~ign militants are believed to bn hiding. 
l.ast month, Pakistan protested to the U.S. military in Afghanistan over two air strikes -one on a village in North Waziristan that killed eight poo­p(,~. and tho sncond, a rnissilo strikn that hit a village in B1~jur tribal region whore lop ai-Qaeda figures worn suspected to be mooting. Thirlnnn eivilians died, and a!:cording to Pakistan, live 
foreign militants, ineluding an al-()anda operative. 
IRAN 
Liturgical Horizons 
Saint Mary's College Center for t;pintt.Ia Spring Lecture Series 
Wednesday, February 15,2006 7:00p.m., Lc Mans Hall, Stapleton""""'''"·~· 
Expanding Our Liturgical Horizons 
Edward Foley, Capuchin, Ph.D. Professor ofLiturgy and Music Catholic Theological Union, Chicago 
Wednesday, March· 7:00p.m., Le Mans Hall, 

guilty to killing 10­month-old daughter 
Associated Press 
McKINNEY, Texas !\ 
woman accused of killing her 
1 0-month-old daughtor by cut­
ting off tho baby's arms with a 
kitchen knife went on trial 
Monday after pleading not 
guilty by reason of insanity. 
Police found Dona Schlosser, . 37, covered in blood in her 
kitchen, still holding a knife 
and listening to a church 
hymn. · 
During opening statements, 
hor attorney said Schlosser 
dearly did not know right from 
wrong during the November 
2004 slaying of baby Margaret. 
"This is somebody who at the 
limn was not capable of know­
ing what she was doing was 
wrong," defense attorney 
William Schultz said. "She did­
n't sec it corning ... Normally 
Dona is a sweet woman. She 
earns, shn has compassion." 
Prosecutor Curtis lloward 




country had begun 


secretary

SaintM$sc .·... 
peaceful nuclear
NOTRE DAME • IN!)' c' ' ,.~ 
enrichment activities Monday. Boroujerdi said inspectors from
FOR SPIRITtlAliTY 
the Vienna-based International \VWW.saintmarys.edu/-ds 
Atomic Energy Agency were present.
(574) 284.-4636 • email: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

The talks with Hussia had been slated for Thursday but were postponed indefinitely because of the "new situation,"· said Iranian presidential spokesman Gholamhossein Elham. He was referring to the IAEA's decision this month to report Iran to the U.N. Security Council because of uncertainty over its nuclear intentions. 
Iran maintains its nuclear program is designed solely to generate electricity, but the United States and some U.S. allies claim the program is a cover for producing an atomic 

.. 


Talks lVith Russia postponed 
that limited enrich­"So far, they're to produceThe Eucharist: At. 
ment had begun at continuing to choose significant
Historical Perspectives and Current Concerils 

Iran's Natanz site. amounts of
defiance and
State-run Iranian enriched ura­
Catherine Vincie, RSHM, Ph.D. 

television later confrontation over nium, which
Associate Professor, 

reported that cooperation and -depending
Sacramental and Liturgical Theology 

Alaeddin on the degree
diplomacy. " 
Boroujerdi, head of of processing the national security can be and foreign rela­Scott McClellan used for civil­tions committee in White House press ian nuclear parliament, said the reactors or 
Aquinas Institute, Saint Louis University, St. Louis 

bomb. 
Moseow had proposed that Iran ship its uranium to Russia, where it would be enriched to a level suitable for nuclear reac­tors. It would then be returned to Iran for use at the Hussian­built Bushehr plant, which is due to begin operating this year. 
The plan, backed by the United States and the European Union, was an attempt to avoid international objections to Iranian uranium enrichment by providing oversight so no weapons would be made. Iran had said the plan did not fulfill its requirements but was worth pursuing. 
Despite resumption of enrich­ment, uranium gas must be fed 
into hundreds 
of centrifuges 
warheads. 
Iran is years away from running the 50,000 centrifuges it says it wants to operate as a souree of fuel for its Bushehr plant. 
But even small-seale enrich­ment is significant because it represents symbolic determina­tion by Tehran to go ahead with a technology that most nations want it to give up because of fears of misuse. 
In Washington, White House press secretary Scott McClellan said Iran's restarting of enrich­ment shows its "continued defi­ance of the world." 
"The regime in Iran knows what it needs to do," he said. "So far, they're continuing to choose defiance and confronta­tion over cooperation and diplo­macy." 
Also Monday, Tehran issued its third veilnd threat in as many days to withdraw from the Nudear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
If the intnrnational community does not agrne to Iran's right to enrich uranium under the NP'I: "there is no reason to continue our current nudear policy while we are deprived of the positive aspects of the treaty," said a spokesman for President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
North Korea -the world's other major proliferation eon­cern -quit the treaty in January 2003, just a few months before U.S. officials announced that the North had told them it had nudear weapons and may test, export or use them depending on U.S. actions. 
Iran had warned it would resume large-scale enrichment of uranium al'ter it was reported Feb. 4 to the U.N. Security Council by the 35-nation IAE/\ board. The resolution indirectly linked the referral to breaches of the treaty and eonecrns that Tehran's activities representnd a threat to world peaee. 
The lAEA is to issue a report on Iran at its Mareh meeting. After. that, the Security Council is expected to consider taking steps against the country. 
German officials expressed disappointment the Moscow meetings were postponed. 
Canceling or postponing the talks means the time before the March IAEA meeting "would not be used as efl'ectively as is possi­ble and neeessary to push on toward a diplomatic solution," German Foreign Ministry spokesman Jens Ploetner said. 
On behalf of the European Union, Germany, Britain and Franee had conducted lengthy but essentially fruitless discus­sions with the Iranians hoping promises of civilian nuelear technology and other economic incentives would lure Iran away from the nuclear path that could produce weapons. 
Associated Press 
TEHHAN -Iran notched up the brinksmanship over its dis­puted nuclear program Monday, abruptly postponing talks with Moscow on a plan to enrieh Tehran's uranium on Russian territory to allay fears it is build­ing an atomic weapon. 
Diplomats in Europe said Iran had started small-scale enrich­ment of uranium, a process that ean produce fuel for an atomic bomb. 
"Uranium gas has been fed into three machines," said a senior diplomat in Vienna, Austria, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment on the matter. Another diplomat confirmed 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

My torrid affair with feminism 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Datne, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula. Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAJNT MAltY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WED ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX {574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
{574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
{574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students ofthe University ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither · institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

lh~: Observer (USPS '5\19 Z-4000) i5 publ~hed Monday thr-ough Friday ~~pt during exam and ~tion p<:ri(lds. A$Ub$Cclptilm to Tflc Obsetvt:r i& $100 for one a;c:ademic year; $55 for one scmesrcr. 
The Oblo('rvt't is published at: PObTMASTER 024 South Dining H:tll Send address corn:crions to: Notre Dame, IN 465S6.0n9 
Th< Olue<vo< .. 

l'eriod.iul postage paid at N(ltte Dame ro. Bo•779 .md J.dditiona:J mailing olfico:. 024 South Dining Hall None Dame:, IN 46556-0779 
The Obsc:rvc.r is a mem~r oftbr Associated Preu. All reproduction righu arc tCM:rvcd. 
TODAV'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Kate Gales Peter Ninneman Chris Korey Kaitlynn Riley Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Kelly MacDonald 
I have a confession to make. 

I, Scott Wagner of the College Libertarians, am a feminist. Yes, it is true. In my intellectual pursuit of practical libertarian philosophy, in opposing oppression and coercion in its myriad forms, I have developed quite the infatuation with the female lib­eration movement. Indeed, American feminist author Marilyn French said it best when, in her novel "The Women's Room," she pro­claimed: "Whatever they may be in pub­lic life, whatever their relations with men, in their relations with women, all men are rapists and that's all they are." 
Wait a moment. Perhaps I'll take off my "boys are stupid, throw rocks at them" T-shirt for a second and ponder that quotation. I mean, such misandry seems somewhat counterproductive to the primary goal of feminism: equali­ty. 
So as Susan Brownmiller, author and historian, said: "[Rape] is nothing more or less than a conscious process of intimidation by which all men keep all women in a state of fear." 
Okay, now I am confused. Or how about former Congresswoman Barbara Jordan: "I believe that women have a capacity for under­standing and compassion which a man structurally does not have, does not have it because he cannot have it. He's just incapable of it." 
Maybe my point has been made. Feminism has, in many ways, correct­ly or incorrectly become synonymous with misandry; I vividly remember hearing Rush Limbaugh on my grand­parents' radio ranting about the "fem­inazis." Ideas of "lesbian separatism" and "testosterone poisoning" are aspects of an intellectual field that 

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 

has, in many ways, lost sight of its own importance. Instead of building support, much of feminist theory iso­lates it from the mainstream. Even "moderate" feminism, such as that espoused by the National Organization for Women, is anything but moderate. All of it is slanting left (unnecessarily, in my opinion) to some degree. 
Radical feminism emerged in the late 1960s. In many ways, not merely politically, it still shares a fundamen­tal mentality with Marxism: oppressor vs. oppressed, us vs. them. Many femi­nists associated the existence of Western patriarchy with class divi­sion, and Marxism became fairly pop­ular within many radical feminist cir­cles. Much of feminist ideology is con­comitant with left-wing principles of economic redistribution, centralized state power and pseudo-egalitarian­ism. 
Despite what you may be thinking, however, I stand by my first two sen­tences. In using the term "feminist" to describe myself, I also choose to reject the socialist sentiments that gave birth to much of today's contemporary feminism. 
The important question now becomes: is it even possible to disas­sociate feminism from the left? 
In fact, it is. A newly energized movement within feminism is gaining popularity; it does not build itself around a collective, sexual identity that fosters "gender war." It is termed (appropriately enough) "individualist feminism," and its roots go back to the 19th century when many female aboli­tionists found themselves in an uncan­nily similar struggle against their own legalized repression. Why fight for the rights of slaves when, for all intents and purposes, you were still a slave yourself? . 
Wendy McElroy, editor of the web­site www.ifeminists.com, is a major force within the ifeminist movement. She defines ifeminism in the following way: "The 21st-century feminist is anyone -female or male -who rejects gender privilege and demands real equality for men and women under the law. She makes her own choices and takes personal responsi­bility for them." McElroy identifies at least three major goals of ifeminism: 
1) The removal of all laws that distin­guish between men and women; 2) defense of all lifestyle choices, whether they be to "stay at home" or run a multinational corporation; and 
3) inclusion of males in all aspects of feminist discourse. To quote the ifemi­nists' website: "It is folly to 'solve' a human problem without consulting and co-operating with one-half of the species." 
Those of you who are in the least bit acquainted with libertarianism may find the idea of ifeminism somewhat dubious. The fact is, ifeminism -at its core-is libertarianism, though specifically focused on the "role" women have within it. But like I said, if you are already familiar with liber­tarianism, you know that the philoso­phy makes absolutely no legal or polit­ical distinction between men and women. So the female "role" in society is, elementally, the same as the male: make your own choices, deal with the consequences and harm no one. 
There is no "damaged chromosome" theory. There is no massive "anarcha­commune" necessary, nor a reevalua­tion of gender roles on a civilization­wide scale. Instead, there is the sim­ple notion that men and women are equal, and justice must be "gender­blind." It does not get any simpler than that, or more beautifuL 
So that, ladies and gentlemen, is the story of my love affair with feminism. Have a happy V-Day today, whatever that may mean to you. 
Scott Wagner is the president of the College Libertarians. which is the coolest club on campus. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Lack of vote troubling 
I'm a first-generation darner, and this is my first year. I couldn't wait for Feb. 13 to come by: it was election day on campus. I had read up on every candidate, looked at all their platforms, and I was ready to vote. Imagine my surprise when I was told I'm not allowed to vote. The reason? I'm a grad student. Now, I know there is an organization called the "GSU" for a grad student like me (which, incidentally, doesn't represent all graduate stu­dents-sorry MBA and law students!) However, when someone is representing Notre Dame as "Student Body President," should not the entire student body· be able to vote for him or her? I have a student ID card. It's the same card everyone else uses for Domer Dollars, to get into the dining hall or to go to pep rallies. When I watch home games, I'm standing in the student section. Heck, I even get the student discount at Cafe de Grasta. 
Why is this so important? The very issues that affect undergraduate students also affect us grad students as welL The (undergraduate) student government has com­mittees on minority affairs and diversity. Did you know 
OBSERVER POLL 
Are you going to "The Vagina Monologues"? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

that the graduate student population is more diverse than the undergraduate population? A great many of us come from outside the United States and have many dif­ferent backgrounds (I myself am a Canadian-born Muslim with Bangladeshi parents-how much more of a minori­ty can I be, eh?). 
The student government also has voting representa­tives from dorms on campus. Yet, Fisher-Graduate and O'Hara-Grace are not included. Don't grad students have rectors too'? If we violate DuLac, are we not in trouble as well? Heck, there are also senior undergraduates living there-will they not be represented? But the biggest reason why this is important to me is because of some­thing I learned very early on after coming to Notre Dame. We are one big family. We are ND. And when we all grad­uate, we join one governing association. Isn't it fair to do the same before we graduate? 
Shawn Ahmed graduate student Jan. 13 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The supreme happiness in life is the conviction that we are loved ­loved for ourselves, or rather. loved in spite ofourselves." 
Victor Hugo French poet 

• 
Submit i Letter 



to theEditor it 

www. ~dsmeabs.efvef. cern
··:;,;..· ::·..··y ··.;..j 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Carry out simple fact-checking 
My f'rinnd and eollna).{un in philosophy, Fritz Warlinld, wrotn a pin!:(~ ("Contesting aradnmie ~~quivaiPnce") in tho Fob. I 0 Vinwpoint sodion of'Thn Obsnrvnr critiml of' a mmnwnt madn by Univnrsity President Fatlwr John .Jnnkins in a Catholic: News Snrvicn (CNS) rdnasn of' Fob. 3. Warliold quotnd Jnnkins lL'i having said that acadnm­ir f'rnndom at Notrn Damn "is tho samn aca­d!Hnic f'rnndom that is enjoyed olsnwhere." lin tlwn ehallongml Jnnkins and his minions to invnstigate this daim hy asking "prnsi­dnnL'i and departnwnt chairs at m<\jor uni­vnrsitins wlwther acadomic f'rnedom at thnir institutions pnrmits academic dnpart­menL'i to sponsor nvnnL'i as they see lit. Thn <mswnr ono can oxpnd to w~t is an unam­biguous yns." Warlinld pointml his readnrs to tlw lJnivnrsity of' Michigan as a particular nxampln. 
tJnlin'lunatdy, Warlinld's lnttnr litils to providn a eontnxt for Jenkins' rnmark and appnars to pnrpntuatP tlw myth that secular univnrsitins arn in !W!~ry rnspod f'rnnr than Catholic univnrsit.ins. 111~ would have rnad­Prs hnlievo .lfmkins was making a broad gmwralization about 1wnry facet of acadmn­if' lili~ at rw~jor univm·sitins, or at lnast that .Jenkins was making a claim about academ­ic dnpartnwnL'i. Otlwrwisn what acadmnic dnpartnwnL'i at othnr univnrsitins do would not posf' tho counterexample that Warfield would likn. 
And ynt tho actual eon text of Jenkins' rmnarks rnported in the CNS story makes it dnar that he was not making any sueh broad claim. I In was simply describing the academic freedom enjoyed by students and scholars to think a<> they please, publish the n~sull<> of their research and speak about thnir rnspective spm:ialties. CNS para­phra'ind Jenkins a'> holding that "At Notre Dame. scholars and student<>-including non-Catholics-have the right to think what they like, publish their researeh and speak about their field of expertise." The story then immediately quoted him as say­ing "It is the same academic freedom that is enjoyed anywhere else." The pronoun "it" in the direct quotation from Jenkins dearly refers to the preceding daim about the frnndom of students and scholars to publish and spmtk about fields of' expnrtisn. It makes no reliwence to departments and other academic units within universities, or to the issue of their eapaeity to sponsor evenl'i. 
I lowever. the story then immediately reports that Jenkins himself raised the question of the role of academie dopart­menL<> and their sponsorship of events in his examination of questions of academie free­dom. Thus the story describes him as sug­gesting that "a university may want to look critically at what events are being spon­sored and seemingly endorsed by its aca­demic dnpartmen ts" in light of thH mission and r.haraetnr of the university. Anyone who listmwd to.Jnnkins' talk with tho fiteul­ty knows that he highlighted this as a cen­tral issue li1r the academie community to think through. As Jnan Portnr pointnd out in her comnwnts at the talk. it is perhaps the most challenging issue we confront, a point that .Jenkins readily eonceded. For my colloaguo to insist that the behavior of departments at other institutions snttles the caso against Jonkins' quotation in the CNS is both snloctivnly to quote Jenkins out of context and to beg the very question that he has raisod and that everyone attnntive to his discussion knows that he has raised. 
WarliHid suggests that it is a simple "fact­checking exerdse" to determine that at other major universities, the University of Michigan bHing his ehosen example, "aca­demic departments [are free) to sponsor events as they see fit." The University of Michigan is an ironic choice. In the late· 1980s, it tried to impose a speeeh eode upon the university community so broad that not only was it thought by many to be in eonllict with academic freedom, but was struck down by the courts as violating the Constitution of the United States in Doe v. University of Michigan (1989). 
Irony aside, on Jan. 27 of this year, the departments of philosophy and theology at tim Univnrsity of Notre Dame sponsornd an event, a Homan Catholic Mass to celebrate the vigil feast of St. Thomas Aquinas. Given that St. Thomas is the patron saint of' uni­vnrsities and students, this was not only a liturgical event but also an academie (Went. induding an erudite homily about the nature of Catholic intellectual life and uni­versitins, as well as prayer li1r thn University, its students, faculty and stall'. Several hundred students, fiu:ulty, stan· and community members filled the Basilica of the Sacred I lnart. Such an event perf(~ctly exemplifies the Catholic refusal to sehrrngatn the worship of God from the intnlleetuallife, or to divorce faith from reason in <H:admn­ies, in contrast to prevailing secular norms like those at the University of Michigan and elsnwhern. Or does my colleague rnally bolieve that the department of philosophy at the Uniw~rsity of Michigan is frne to spon­sor this type of event "as it sees lit?" 
This past autumn. thn department of phi­losophy at the University of Notre Damn sponsored the annual meeting of the American Catholic Philosophieal Association. At the request of the leadnrship of the dnpartmnnt. the College of' Arts and Lettnrs provided several thousand dollars to underwrite the activities of the Association. In order to bring this association to Notm Dame, the department had to commit itself to oflieial sponsorship so that the A<>soeiation's regular daily Ma<>ses eould take place on campus. This commitment was required by the Association in order to meet here. Again, does my colleague believe that if we asked the chair of the department of philosophy at the University of Michigan, he would claim that his department is free to sponsor this profes­sional gathering of philosophers, as part of its freedom to sponsor events "as it sees fit?" The University of Michigan and its department of philosophy could sponsor Roman Catholic Masses "as [they] see fit?" I doubt that a claim that they do not endorse what they would be sponsoring would cut it in this ease. 
Of course. tlw same is tnw or all secular universitif~s. Tlwir norms and values. including assumptions that n~ligious wor­ship and acadmnic. lit(~ bn rigorously divorcnd. constrain tlwir frnndom to host nvenL'i such as the annualrnnnting of tlw Ameriean Catholi1: Philosophical A'isodation. So much liJr the myth that sec­ular universities ipso faeto have grnatnr aeadmnie rreodom than Catholic univf~rsi­tins. 
Notre Damn is f'ren to draw within iL'ielf that which is best in thn sm~ular acadmny, particularly thn ).{ifts and talonto.; of thoso who may not sham the animating rnligious lhith of iL'> mission. But it is also fron to go beyond and abovo that sonrlar frn1~dorn to placn what it dons at the serviee and in thf' hands of tho Sacrnd. As with any frendom, thnn• are partkular rosponsibilitios that attend the grnatnr frnndorn pres1mt at a Catholic univorsity, and particular dillinrl­ties that will arise bncausn of it. as tim com­munity tries to protm~t and promote that frnedom. But in our discussion of' those problnms, it is worthwhile nmwrnbnring that they am diflinrltins that arisn and ean bn considerml horn proeisnly bneausn of' our grnatnr frnmlom. 
.Jnnkins deserib1~d aeadnmie frendom <L'i "sacrnd." But it is diflicult to soo how it can be gmminoly so in communities that posi­tively exelude any hint of the gmmirwly sacred from entnring into thoir midst. If academie unil'i sueh as the department or philosophy at the Univf~rsity of Michigan are unable to sponsor a mHeting of a profes­sional association of philosophers. tlwir aeademic freedom could hardly bn deseribed a<> "saered," and Warfield's daim that they am able to sponsor "evenl<> a'> they see lit" is falsH. It would appear that he has failed to earry out the simple faet­cheeking he urges upon Jenkins and his minions. 
John O'Callaghan associate professor of philosophy Feb. 13 



University profits vs. student losses 
A<> an avid hoekey fan, I was more than willing to arrive early at this weekend's hockey game. Upon our arrival, we were greeted by ushers who informed us that we were to sit at least three rows up from the ice, as the University was selling tickets in the student sec­tion to the general public. As disappointing as this was, we were appreciative of the pre-warning from the staff, as it allowed us to get seal<; where we were assured that we could enjoy the game without having to move. Shortly after we were seated, the first row, then the second and then the third row filled up. At this point, we expected that the staff would have eonveyed to the box office that the section was filled and tieket sales would havH ceased, but this wa'> not th1~ elL'>fl. 
Soon, student<> in the fourth row of the student section were asked to move. By this point, the aisles were teeming with seatless stu­denL'i. An usher approaehed our group and asked us if we had tick­Ill'>, which we did, and then asked to see them. The group complied with this request and wa'i greeted with the sarcastic response from the usher of, "Well arnn 't you the smartest group of students that I have ever seen. You didn't pay fi1r this seat, and you have to move." We calmly explainml that we were told that we were allowed to sit whom we worn by one ofthe other ushers. Even if we wHre to move, where wore we to go, seeing as how the stands and aisles worn packnd with pnople'! The "professionalism" of one member of the .JACC stall' sueeessfully managed to ruin the first period for many of the studnnts who had eo me to enjoy a night of Irish hockey. Hdlnding on Friday night's evnnl'i, I havH to wonder, what was the Univnrsity thinking? 
Obviously dollar signs were more important than the students of Notm Dame in this ease. In the futuro, I hope that the .JACC staff manages evnnLo.; with morn prof(Jssionalism and eourtcsy to all per­sons involved. 
Tracy Welch freshman Lyons Hall Feb. 12 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

I 
-I I 
I I 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
/sci~\& flhoI And the award goes to ... 
'Tis the season to be Joan Rivers. Marked by a parade of Escada, Prada and Chane!, countless specials onE! and, of course, the red carpet award ceremo­ny season, 2006 is officially underway. 
The Oscars, Golden Globes and even the Screen Actors Guild Awards offer us a glimpse into the glamorous lives of our favorite celebrities as they pay tribute to the 


previous year's most talented Mary Squillace actors. As the king of all Scene Critic award shows, the Oscars dictates to us which films we should have enjoyed. Alternatively, the Golden Globes offers us the city recreational league of film and television award shows, in that even the competitors who don't quite have what it takes to make the varsity squad get a chance to vie for shiny gold hardware. And the Screen Actors Guild forces us to look at acting as an art. However, regardless of the differences between these programs, after awhile they all blend together, each star becom­ing a beaming, faceless mass in a Versace gown. Instead, the award for best award show has to go to the Grammys -a slightly edgier and eclectic presentation. Sure, the Golden Globes effectively brings together film-buffs and couch­potatoes alike, but the Grammy Awards deliver real diversity, uniting NASCAR­watching Toby Keith fans and teenaged girls holding their breath for a Maroon 5 victory under the same three-hour block of television. The Grammy Awards' stage in itself is a melting pot. For years it has drawn artists together for collaborations that have transcended age, race and style. In fact, the vibes of euphoria on this stage are so strong that they even once moved Eminem to extend his hand to Elton John in the name of music, and, oh yeah, pub­licity. The stage is a place where acts with questionable stay-power, like Linkin Park, can earn credibility by performing with the legendary Paul McCartney and industry mogul, Jay-Z. Conversely, the Grammy stage also gives stars on the verge of washing up a chance .to prove that they have yet to kick the entertain­ment-biz bucket by pairing up with hip­per, trendier acts. In the past, Madonna's Grammy per­formance filled her with such a sense of 
effervescence that she took part in that unforgettable sorority-girl stunt where she locked lips with performer Britney Spears. This same youthful feeling must have inspired Madonna again during last week's 2006 awards, compelling her to don a leotard. 
The Grammy's wide range of nominees and award recipients also lends itself to a number of Cinderella stories. Take Kelly Clarkson, who, despite her recent suc­cess, still appears as star-struck as her own screaming fans. And while Bruce Springsteen and Bonnie Raitt probably had no idea who the girl sobbing at the podium was, they probably still can't get "Since You've Been Gone" out of their heads. 
Although Kelly represents a touching rags-to-riches story, this year's true Grammy miracle was Mariah Carey's resurrection. Her sanity may not yet be fully intact, but it appears that Mariah's career is back on track, and she has eight Grammy nominations to show for it. Now she only has to garner about four more awards and find a cure for cancer before she fully redeems herself for sub­jecting us all to "Glitter." 
Additionally, unlike the recipients of Oscar, Golden Globe, or SAG awards­for the most part-Grammy award recipients have no formal acting training. Furthermore, they deserve extra recog­nition for their efforts in trying to convey a careful balance between elation and gratitude during acceptance speeches. To add to their challenge, recording artists also have to preserve their deviant musi­cian reputations by saying something radical -typically, approaches that pro­mote a political cause or are completely self-promoting work. 
Not to mention, regardless of seat assignment-which could place some­one anywhere from sandwiched between Eminem's entourage or next to this year's nominee's for best New Age album (who has a Grandparent-esque understanding of songs like "Gold Digger") -artists have to maintain those made-for-TV smiles while seated. After all, no one wants to appear on the Grammy big screen broadcast with a gigantic gri­mace. 
So while we may be knee-deep in the fanfare of award shows with the Oscars just around the corner, don't expect the others to live up to the antics that the Grammy's and its collection of eccentric performers brought last week. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


Photo courtesy of tvazteca.com.mx The band U2 accepts an award on-stage with Mariah Carey at the 2006 Grammy Awards. Carey has staged a recent comeback with her musical career. 
BooK REVIEW 
'Arthur and George' 
By ROQUE STREW Scene Critic 
While Julian Barnes' work is generally feted for its oh-so-clever innovations and clanging forward motion, his new novel is ­both in milieu and manner -an august voy­age backward. 
Like "Flaubert's Parrot," Arthur and George enlarges and bedecks a moment of history with the ornaments of his imagina­tion. But shorn of that book's souped-up, highbrow experiments, "Arthur and George" gains a warmth and humility that radiates from its first pages. 
Around the turn of the century, and con­sidered its version of France's Dreyfus Affair, a string of animal mutilations enveloped Britain in scandal. Named after the Staffordshire village in which they occurred, the Great Wyrley Outrages offer the spark for Barnes' two tales -a narrative double helix twisting the lives of Arthur Conan Doyle and George Edalji into proximity. 
Arthur is, of course, the famous creator of Sherlock Holmes. George is a humble solici­tor and the casualty of a vicious miscarriage of justice -wrongfully convicted and incar­cerated in 1903, he is the Dreyfus to Arthur's Zola. On its face, the book examines the route by which Doyle came to Edajli's res­cue. To his credit, Barnes is something of a trickster and the book is much deeper, enriched by a larger investigation -the ugly psychology of the zeitgeist. 
Cutting between the developments of the eponymous characters -Arthur on one page, George on the next -at times, Barnes gen­tly choreographs the final collision of their fates. Where Arthur was raised Catholic in shabby-ge,nteel Edinburgh, George was brought up in a Church of England vicarage. Arthur was a sporting ·ophthalmologist turned writer -an overnight success. George toiled in obscurity, a solicitor and author of a tract on railway law. The two men seemed destined never to meet. 
The rhetorical question that runs through "Arthur and George"-how can you make Jl sense of the beginning unless you know the fc ending? -sheds light on Barnes' self-reflexive treatment of destiny, or the way an author's hand can shape and reshape the past to suit B his designs. Barnes threshed acres of ~ research to accumulate the book's raw c material. The sturdy structure into which he p transforms it gives the whole novel an air of e inevitability -the Whig history of two des­n perate men. 
All of the circumstances of 0 
their final meeting reveal the ti desperation of an age -the v 
f.i·'·~-·~---•-o-~ 
Arthur and 
~ ', ji;ri:.\:"
'pj-~ 
conflicted uncertainty of a coun­try in flux. The pas de deux l:
r,BARNFSt

George 
between Doyle and Edalji 0 reflects many of the inner ten-e 
1i. 
~ ~! ; ~ . ~~ 
4' '1 jj'.~ 
sions that persist today -the f
Julian Barnes 
unsolvable mysteries between I:
Jl: A,~thur 8 i , the religious and the rational, g race and identity and national­ism. f;

~~~~~~:J•. 
Doyle fancied himself an r 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Special Forces' exp_ 
.......... 
By TREVOR GASS Scene Critic 
It's the next best thing since the last best thing. 
In a world where some of the most antici­pated games are re-hashes of previous suc­cesses, developers know that the quicker they can turn out another title, the quicker they can turn a tidy profit. 
However, a recent avenue that developers have found to be profitable is something called the expansion pack. Expansion packs are traditionally cheaper than the base game and work to promote high replay value at low production cost. Entirely new game engines need not be designed in the world of expansion packs. Simply a new level, gadget or side story needs to be devel­oped, something that can easily be incorpo­rated into the current game engine. 
Enter "Battlefield 2: Special Forces." If you're wondering whether or not "Special Forces" is special enough to earn your hard earned $30, ask these questions -Do the possibilities of new maps excite you into frenzy? Does the concept of additional weaponry make your gun finger twitch in excitement? Does the idea of more complex strategy make you shake in your computer chair in anticipation? 
"Special Forces" adds a selection of five new weapons that can be unlocked through online ranked play. These include the over­powered F2000 assault rifle/grenade launch­er and the ridiculously accurate G36E. The Russian RPG is also a fun addition. Since many of these guns can be used on all servers, they can give you an advantage over players who conserved their money for other things like dates with girlfriends. 
New maps and armies have also been added. There are few real differences in the ability to play as the Russian Spetsnaz other than the starting weapons, the language they speak in-game and the victory and defeat tunes that end each round. 
The new maps do their job by keeping the game fresh and adding new elements that highlight the other additions. Beyond the new weaponry, support equipment has been added to spice up the tactical side of frag­ging friends. Night maps have made grainy 
green night vision a necessity 
Battlefield 2: Special Forces 
Electronic Arts 

' 
-~. ··: 
for any operating soldier while the addition of flash bang grenades can momentarily blind infantry while causing helicop­ters to crash rampantly. 
Tear-gas and gas masks have been added as well. These new items are handy but are not fully utilized because most play­ers still charge in with their pri­mary weapon aimed at anything with a red nametag hovering 


satisfying success 
llan Barnes leafs through his latest book for a publicity still. His work is famous being Innovative, with "Arthur and George" following the trend. 
noffieial Englishman" -not unlike ns, the dynd-in-tho-wool Francophile ­
o was both like and unlike his fellow ntrymen. Taking up Edalji's cause meant 
ng sides amid a polarized public -the 's bigoted relies versus the outraged 
conflict is again invoked through one ' pet themes -death. Death grace­takes center stage in a great moment, .n Georgo, approaching a memorial, struck by the realisation that every­was going to be dead." This dual sense itude and fatalism, which pervades the ! novel, mirrors Britain's own waning as new ideas and technologies steadi­helm the provincial minds of the old 
Arthur and George," Barnes' less astute might grumble, lacks the wry wit, the to dassilkation and the postmod­
ern playfulness of the writing to which they have grown accustomed. It is, to them, unbe­coming in its straightforwardness. But they would be mistaken. Written with Flaubert's formal purity, in a stately Edwardian mode, "Arthur and George" is a luminously unas­suming return to form, solidly rooted in his motherland's fraught past -the clash of entitled imperialism and the new century's promise of a level, color-blind world. 
Quoting Doyle at one point, Barnes recites his list of writerly imperatives -"Firstly, to be intelligible, secondly, to be interesting, and thirdly, to be clever." While balancing the demands of the detective novel and dou­ble biography, "Arthur and George" elegant­ly pays homage not only to a writer, but also to a forgotten epoch and its sensibility. 
Contact Roque Strew at wstrew@nd.edu 

ion prove lackluster 
•r iL-; head. he last two new combat accessories ude probably the most useful and useless hn additions. The grappling hook makes nerly inaccessible locations now just a ~·s throw away. From these higher loca­s, one can spot enemy troops or vehicles le being relatively out of harm's reach. It 
unfortunate that the sniper class is 
•ipp«!d with the zip cord and not the grap­g hook. The zip cord functions as a ;bow with a line attached. To use it one ~ alrnady be in a high location. It is not 
useful and can't be used as a weapon. e final major addition that SF boasts is !Vide array of new vehicles that can be a1. Civilian cars and piekup trucks with ~ted f.,'Uns are now available as well as four-wheelers, jet skis and forklifts. Nothing is more embarrassing than having your entire squad mowed down by a vicious enemy forklift. 
"Special Forces" is a solid addition to the "Battlefield" universe, but at the price of $30, more enticing purchases are easy to find. More people still play on the normal "Battlefield 2" servers where plenty of mili­tary mayhem can be found. If you track down someone with the new guns unlocked, you can steal their weapon and play with it as your own. If you think it's worth 30 big ones, go from there. "European Forces," the second expansion for "Battlefield 2", comes out later this month. 
Contact Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

S.E.A.L.s work In tandem, zl~llnlng In efforts to obtain an objective stealthily. lal Forces" adds new, Innovative forms of transport such as civilian vehicles. 
By MAUREEN MALLOY 
Scene Writer 
Amid New Year's resolutions, pre­spring-break diets and crowds at Holts, a girl needs a little comfort food once in a while. Everyone has a favorite comfort food, whether it is their mom's creamy macaroni and cheese or a special chicken noodle soup served when they aro siek. 
While comfort food loses il<> appeal if you eat it all the time, now and then it serves as a soothing end to a long day on campus. 
Treat yourself to one of these rich dishes and remember that if you share it with a friend, the calories don't count. 
Barefoot Contessa's Mac and Cheese 
Kosher salt Vegetable oil 1 pound elbow macaroni or cavatappi 1 quart milk 8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, divided 1/2 cup all-purpose flour 12 ounces Gruyere, grated (4 cups) 8 ounces extra-sharp Cheddar, grated (2 cups) 1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg 3/4 pound fresh tomatoes (4 small) 1 1/2 cups fresh white bread crumbs (5 slices, crusts removed) 
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees Fahrenheit.. Drizzle oil into a larg~ pot of boiling salted water. Add the macaroni and cook according to the directions on the package, six to eight minutes. Drain well. Meanwhile, heat the milk in a small saucepan, but don't boil it. Melt six table­spoons of butter in a large (four-quart) pot and add the flour. Cook over low heat for two minutes, stirring with a whisk. While whisking, add the hot milk and cook for a minute or two more, until thickened and smooth. Off the heat, add the Gruyere, Cheddar, one-tablespoon salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add the cooked macaroni and stir well. Pour into a three-quart baking dish. Slice the tomatoes and arrange on top. Melt the remaining two tablespoons of but­ter, combine them with the fresh bread­crumbs, and sprinkle on the top. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until the sauce is bub­bly and the macaroni is browned on the top. Recipe courtesy of Ina Garten. 
Sour Cream Carrot Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour 2 cups sugar 2 tsp baking soda 2 tsp pumpkin pie spice 1 tsp salt 4 eggs 3/4 cups vegetable oil 1 cup sour cream 3 cups grated carrots 1 cup grated apple 1 cup raisins 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, bak­ing soda, pumpkin pie spice and salt. Add eggs, vegetable oil and sour eream and mix well; add carrot apples and raisins. Pour into thrne nine-inch round greased, floured pans. Bake for approximately 40 minutos. Hnmove from ovon and cool li>r live minutes. Hemove from pans, place on wax paper and allow to eool completely before frosting. 
Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1!2 (12 oz total) packagos cream cheese 1 cups sour cream 1 (24 oz total) boxos powdcrod sugar 1 tsp vanilla 1 tsp pumpkin pin spice 2 cups chopped pnl~ans 
Combine all ingrodienl<> except for nul<> and beat until flully. Frost cake. Sprinkle nuts on top. 
Hecipe based on "Grandma I Ieir's Carrot Cake", The Lady and Sons Savannah Country Cookbook by Paula Deen. 
Quick Creamy Tomato Soup 
2 (15-ounce) containers, ehieken or veg­etable stock/broth (preferred brand: Kitchen Basics) 1 (28-ounce) can concentrated crushed tomatoes 1 cup heavy cream Coarse salt and black pepper 20 leaves fresh basil, cut into ehilfonade, for garni<>h Soup toppers, for garnish, recipe follows 
Combine broth and tomatoes in a medi­um saucepan over moderate heat. When soup bubbles, stir in heavy cream and reduce heat to low. Season with a little salt and pepper and simmer gently 15 min­utes, stirring occasionally. With an immer­sion blender, puree soup. Serve bowls of soup with basil chifTonade and floating soup toppers. 
Soup Toppers 
4 slices crusty bread, 4 inches across, 1/4­inch thick-slice artisan breads at counter in market 2 cloves cracked fresh garlic, optional Extra-virgin olive oil Freshly ground black pepper 1/2 pound shredded cheese to compliment your soup: provolone, Asiago, cheddar, Gruyere, Swi<>s, etc. 
Toast bread slices in your toaster until golden. Hub the toasted bread rounds with crushed garlic, if using. Arrange bread on cookie ·or baking sheet. Drizzle each slice with extra-virgin oil and top with a grind of black pepper and a layer of shredded cheese. Place under hot broiler to melt cheese until toppers are golden brown in color. 
Yield: four servings Preparation time: five minutes Cooking time: one minute 
Hecipe courtesy of Hachel Hay. 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloy 1 @nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of davidboily.com Carrot cakes are delicious treats and are perfect as comfort food. The sour cream carrot cake, above, can be prepared In under an hour. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
NBA 
James scores 44 in Cleveland win over Spurs 
Blazers end losing streak against Bobcats; Raptors down Minnesota, 98-94; Hornets beat Wizards at the buzzer 
Associated Press we were prepared and ready to 
play when they threw the ball 

LeBron James and the up," Bickerstaff said. "It didn't Cavaliers play like title con­appear that way to me and I tenders at home against the think that's a responsibility that NBA's best. when people come to the arena 
Monday night was the perfect and pay their hard-earned cash example. to watch you perform, then you 
James dominated with 44 owe them a performance. And points and Cleveland defeated that's effort. And damn if we defending champion San gave effort tonight. Antonio to end the Spurs' nine­"And that is not speaking of game winning streak. the collective group, but there 
Now. if the Cavs could just be were players who did not have as good against the bad teams. effort and that's inexcusable." 
Cleveland is 14-2 at home Bickerstaff sent that same against teams over .500, and 5-message to his players in the 5 against teams under .500. locker room after the game. The win over the Spurs came "He's right, our effort was two days after a lackluster horrible," said point guard home loss to Golden State. Brevin Knight said. "(Portland) 
"We have to grow up," James had come out the last three said. "We can't keep beating games and lost by 30 points on Phoenix, Detroit and San average and they come in here Antonio and then lose to sub­today and kick our butts from par teams." beginning to end. It's embar­
James led Cleveland with his rassing. Bernie is right in sixth game over 40 points this everything he said. The effort season. He went 19-for-33 and we put forth can't be tolerated added five assists, three at any level. And there is no rebounds and four steals. excuse for how we played." James scored 18 in the third Darius Miles, playing in his quarter, tying his career high first game since Dec. 4, gave for points in a period, and had the Trail Blazers a boost on 36 through three quarters. offense with 14 points, while 
"He willed himself to the rim Juan Dixon scored all 12 of his and he willed this win for us," points in the first half. Miles Cavaliers coach Mike Brown had been sidelined with a said. sprained left knee. 
The win ended a two-game Portland had expected to slide for the Cavaliers and hold Miles out until after the stopped another streak for the All-Star break, but he was Sebastian Telfair. Toronto responded with a Orleans has won eight of its Spurs _ a franchise-record nine pressed into action due to a jumper from Jose Calderon and last nine games and moved five straight road victories. knee injury that sidelined start­Raptors 98, Timberwolves 94 a runner from James to restore games above .500 (28-23) for 
James got plenty of help from ing center Theo Ratliff. Mike James scored 27 points, the seven-point lead. the first time this season. Zydrunas Ilgauskas, who had "What I was hoping was by including two key baskets and The Wolves came right back All-Star guard Gilbert Arenas 1 7 points and 11 rebounds and bringing in him would be that two free throws down the with six straight points, before scored 43 points to lead Drew Gooden, who finished these guys would be excited to stretch, to help the Toronto James hit a 3-pointer to make Washington, which had its five­with 10 points and 10 see him and we could get a lift Raptors beat the Minnesota it 92-88 with 2:15 left. Garnett game winning streak snapped. rebounds. -and I think they were," said Timberwolves on Monday night hit a short jump hook to make With the Wizards trailing by a 
Cleveland has reached the Portland coach Nate McMillan. for their third straight win. it 92-90 and the teams point in the final seconds, 30-win mark before the All­"He came in and did some Morris Peterson had 20 exchanged baskets to make it Arenas missed a 23-footer, but Star break for the second pretty good things. He made points and Charlie Villanueva 94-92 with 30 seconds left. after a scramble for the straight season. some nice shots and ran some added 16 for the Raptors, who James then hit another big rebound, Antawn Jamison got 
pick and rolls. We needed to shot 11-for-17 from behind the shot, taking seven-footer Mark the basketball and made a 20­Trail Blazers 91, Bobcats 83 have a change and he was a arc. Blount to the basket and scor­footer on the baseline with 0.5 
Charlotte Bobcats coach change. I think the guys Kevin Garnett had 23 points ing on a driving left-handed seconds left, putting the Bernie Bickerstaff sounded responded to him returning and 19 rebounds for layup to make it 96-92. After Wizards ahead 96-95. embarassed after his team's tonight." Minnesota, which lost its fourth Trenton Hassell's dunk, James After a timeout, New Orleans' poor showing against the Added Randolph: "We had to straight and fell seven games sealed the game with two free Desmond Mason inbounded to Portland Trail Blazers. bounce back. Our guys came below .500 for the first time throws. West, who swished his jumper 
The Trail Blazers entered the out and played hard. D-Miles since the 1996-97 season. All to cap a 19-point performance. contest having lost their last came back and we just came four of those losses have come Hornets 97, Wizards 96 Game officials reviewed the three games by 33, 32 and 32 out and played hard." at home. David West hit a 20-footer shot to see if West released the points respectively, but shot 46 Randolph scored 10 points in Ricky Davis had 14 points from the top of the key at the basketball in time and ruled percent against Charlotte in a the fourth quarter and put the and tied a season-high with buzzer to give New Orleans a that he did.Arenas, named the victory on Monday night. game away with an impressive nine assists, and Anthony win over Washington on Eastern Conference player of 
Zach Randolph had 21 points scoring flurry in the final five Carter had 10 points and six Monday night, for the Hornets' the week earlier in the day, and nine rebounds to help the minutes. With Portland nursing assists for the Timberwolves, fourth straight victory. scored 40 or more points for Trail Blazers snap a four-game a five-point lead, Randolph hit who have lost 11 of their last West's shot was his third the seventh time this season. losing strtJak overall in a a short jumper, added a free 14 games. game-winner of the season. He He had his streak of consecu­matchup of the last place throw and then drew a foul on Trailing 77-70, Minnesota also made last-second shots to tive made free throws end at teams in each conference. a dunk with 2:21 left in the closed within three midway beat Milwaukee on Jan. 30 and 49 when he missed one with 
"The bottom line is whether game on a pretty pass from through the third quarter. But, Houston on Dec. 28. New 8:36 left in the game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 

WANTED: 
NOTRE DAME STUDENT MODELS 
CO-ED, the No. 1 college maga­zine, is looking for the next big thing! 
You have a shot at $5,000 and will be in the pages of CO-ED! Send pies to Kristyna@coed­magazine.com For more info, visit COEDmagazine.com or call201-420-3300. 
WANTED 
Civil Engineer-We are seeking May 2006 grads w/a BS in Civil Engineering. Job functions consist of land development engineering for Site/Civil firm in Indiana and Florida. Please send all resumes and ques­lions to mhoward@ rw­engineering.com 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 
532-1408 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. 
Call574-229-0149. 

3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourwebspot.net 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS 
AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. 
HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 

Large 4-5 bedroom house. 2 full baths. Close to ND. $1100/mo. 650-851-3361. lmacswain@com­cast. net 
1 bdrm.effic. 
1/2mi. N.of campus. Quiet,separate units $500 mo. incl. utilities. 
Roseland Terrace Cottages @ 110 
W. Willow. 220-1682. 
06-07 /3BR2BA/2AttGar/ AI lApp I 1 mileN/built2000/.5acre 
$1200mo/Grad0nly/RENTND@aol. com 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­travel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
Spring Break 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do not get left behind! Book now, limited space available. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone.lf you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Five days to score 
Happy Valentine's Day, schmoogle­buff. 
Hey Ally! 
Mark it down as teeth whitening treatment 
If you can't see Chuck Norris, you may only be seconds away from death 

Tuesday, February 14, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
TORINO GAMES 
Blood tests are negative for skiiers 
Suspended athletes now cleared for play 
Associated Press 
I'H/\GI\L/\TO, Italy -Four suspnndnd Olympic cross­country skinrs took nnw hnrnoglobin tests Monday and all passnd ­including two /\morieans and a skinr Evi Sachenbachnr and the two /\mnricans -Kikkan Handa!! and Leif Zimmerman -were among the four who wore retestod Monday. The identity of' the fourth skier 
was  not  immediately  
reloasod.  
Handa!! is sot  to  ski  

Tuesday; Zimmerman is not racing but sim­ply chose to be tested immedi­

(;erman gold ately after his
"Now my Olympics

modalist. l'ive-day suspen­
can begin. I have

!\ dozon skiers sion was wnn~ suspended this anger in me, served. fivo days last "They're all
and I want to show 

wonk for olevat­groovy," U.S.
them all."

od lnvols of Nordic director hemoglobin. the L u k e part of tho red EviSachenbacher Bodensteinor blood enll that said.
German sklier 

ean increase onduraneo. Tho rnst ehosn to put ofT thoir tests bocause they won~ n't sehnd ulnd to corn­pnte in tho men's and womon's team sprint Tunsday. 
"/\11 of thosn who are going to ho on start lists for tomor­row had tosts that worn nng­ativn," lntornational Ski Fednration cross-country rae~~ di r o e to r .I u e r g Ca po I told Tlw /\ssoeiatod Pross. 
Som1~ skiers may have wantod to limo their tests to fall dosnr to thoir nvnnts, giving thom more time to bring t.lwir hornoglobin below mandatnd lnvnls. For exam­ple, Soan Crooks will be test­nd in tho coming days bocause he wasn't slated to raen until the individual sprint Feb. 22, Cross Country Canada said. 
Gorman cross-country 
Sachenbacher told The /\P she was not given 
her new hemoglobin levels from testors, but that she eould compete in team sprint event, and German coach .Jochen Behle 

skiers wern added to that list Friday. 
There is no proof' that the athletes did anything wrong: Elevated hemoglobin can be caused by simple dehydra­tion or by the body getting acclimated to higher eleva­tions. But the test result raised the possibility of blood doping with synthetic hemo­globin or transfusions; the International Ski Federation routinely suspends skiers who test for high hemoglobin as a precaution. 
The German ski federation appealed Sachenbacher's case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which turned down the request Saturday. 
"I hope I've overcome this disappointment," Sachenbacher said. "I was in a really bad mood." 
Sachenbachor was a mem­ber of the German 4x5-km relay team that was awarded the gold medal after Hussian star Larissa 
confirmed she "[The Americans Lazutina was would ski disqualified for
are] all groovy." 

Tuesday. doping at the 
"Now my 2002 Salt Lake Olympics can Luke Bodensteiner City Games. b e g i n • Sachenbacher
U.S. Nordic director 

Sachenbacher also captured a said at the silver in sprint eross-country four years ago. stadium. "I have this anger Sachenbacher clutched a in me and I want to show water bottle as she spoke thorn all." Monday. Drinking Ouids can 
!\ five-day suspension lower hemoglobin levels. announced Thursday kept "I drank a lot and I did all I Sachenbacher out of could, hoping that it would Sunday's double pursuit. work out," she said. "I hope 
Twelve in all were sus­that now I have enough pended. Eight were suspend­strength to come out and ed Thursday and four more show them all. I think I do." 

would come together like it did." 
Cheek plans to donate 
After the first race, Chcok ini­tially misread the scoreboard,
bonus cash to Africa 
thinking his timn was 35.37. Associated Press /\etually, that number belonged to Canada's Jeremy TUHIN, Italy-Joey Cheek has Wotherspoon, who skated in the never done things by the book. adjoining lane. The American's In the sixth grade, he insisted on time was 34.82-whieh put him reading The Wall Street Journal a commanding 0.42 ahead of 
on the way to school. At 14, he Dorofeyev. watched Johann Olav Koss win Cheek nipped back the hood three speedskating gold medals on his skinsuit and revealed a at the Lillehammer Olympics sheepish grin, as if he really and decided that's what he couldn't believe he had skated so wanted to do. much faster than everyone else. 
"There's only one problem," When he returned a couple of Cheek's mother told him at the hours later for the second 1 1/4­time. "We live in North lap trip around the oval, all he Carolina." had to do was avoid a fall. 
Details, details. "I don't want to jinx him," 
Cheek overcame that little teammate Tucker Fredricks obstacle on the way to a domi-said, "but there's no way he's nating victory Monday in the going to lose." Olympic 500 meters. Then, in Fredricks was right. Starting keeping with his unique slowly but building speed with approach to life, he said he every frantie push of his clap­would donate his $25,000 U.S. skates, Cheek put up another Olympic Committee bonus to an time (34.94) that was bettor than organization run by Koss, with any of his competitors. hopes of' helping war-torn "It's incredible," said Kip Africa. Carpenter, another of tho 
"I always felt like if! did some-Amerieans in the race. "lie's by thing big, I wanted to give some-far tho best skatnr out there thing back," Cheek said. "The today. It looks like he's the only best way is by helping someone one who brought his '/\' gamn to else." this competition." 
Cheek was so committed to the Cheek has been prepping for idea that, just a few hours this moment since hn started before the race. he went to the roller skating at age 10 ­athletes' village ol'lice of Koss' another of those rnfugoes from group, Right To Play, to read up tho wheeled sport who turned to on some literature. ice with hopes of capturing 
It was time well spent when Olympic gold. Cheek skated the two best races In fact, ox-inliners from the of his life, posting a combined unlikeliest places have won the time that was 0.65 seconds first two American speodskating ahead of' the silver medalist, golds of the Turin Games: Chad Hussia's Dmitry Dorof'eyev. Hedrick, the Texan who cap­That's a huge gap in a furious tured the 5,000 on Saturday, and sprint race normally decided by now Cheek, from Greensboro, hundredths of a second. South N.C., giving the U.S. its second Korea's Lee Kang Seok took the straight victory in the 500. bronze. "Chad and Joey havo opened 
''I'm kind of stunned that I up a whole new group of people skated that fast," said Cheek, the ~ to enjoy what I think is a pretty only one to break 35 seconds all neat sport," said Bonnie Blair, day-and he did it in both of the retired U.S. speedskating his back-to-hack races. star who followed a more tradi­"Obviously, I wanted to get some tiona! route in the Upper medals here, but I had no idea it Midwest. 
Law&.•. 
February 15, 2006 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
21st Century Out-Laws (The Globalization of War and Profit) 

Presenter:  Carolyn Nordstrom  
Department of Anthropology  
Commentator:  Mary Ellen O=Connell  
The Law School  

Please join the Law School and the Department ofAnthropology for this presentation in the 2005-2006 Law& ... series. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 CoMr£uo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJcrs page 16 
NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pts.  L10  
NY Rangers  35-15-8  _78  8+1  
Philadelphia  33-16-9  75  4-5-1  
New Jersey  30-22-6  6  5-4-1  
NY Islanders  25-27-4  54  5-3·2  
Pittsburgh  14-3H1  39  3-5-2  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team  record  pts.  L10  
Ottawa  37-14-5  79  5·4·1­ 
Buffalo  36-15-5  n  7·1·2  
Montreal  26-22-8  60  5·3•2  
Toronto  27-25·5  59  3·5·2  
Boston  24-24·10  58  5·3·2  

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team  record  pts.  L10  
Carolina  39·14-4  82  7·3·0  
Tampa Bay  32-22-4  68  1-2·1  
Atlanta  26·26·6  58  3·7-0  
Florida  22·27-8  52  4·5·1  
Washington  19-32·5_  43  2·8·0  

Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. L10 Detroit 39-13-5 83 7-1·2 Nashville 34·18-6 74 4·6·0 Columbus 23·33-2 48 6·4·0 Chicago 18·3NI 44 2·6·2 St. Louis 16·31-9 41 6,2~2 


around the dial 
WINTER OLYMPICS 
8 p.m., NBC 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Alabama at South Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN St. Joseph's at Temple 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Michigan State at Iowa 9 p.m., ESPN 
WINTER OLYMPICS 


Associated Press 

TURIN. Italy -Wayne Gretzky arrives Tuesday at the Olympics, and a nerv­ous Canada wonders if he's bringing the formula for another hockey gold medal or a whole mess of trouble. 
No matter what Team Canada does starting Wednesday, questions will accompany Gretzky throughout the games about what he knows, if anything, about a gam­bling ring allegedly fronted by his top assistant coach with the NHL's Phoenix Coyotes and sHpposedly patronized by Gretzky's wife. 
Yes, actress Janet Jones is accompanying her hus­band to Turin as the Coyotes' coach reprises his 2002 role as gold medal­winning Team Canada's executive director. But how much excess baggage are they packing with them, and will it weigh down a team that is favored to fol­low up the gold won by that Gretzky-assembled team four years ago? 
Unlike those Salt Lake City Olympics when Gretzky tried relieving the heavy pressure on a team that was slumping early in the games by charging "the whole world wants us to lose," this distraction was­n't intentionally perpetrat­ed. 
Gretzky has said he didn't bet with the gambling ring and knew nothing about it, even though his best friend allegedly ran it and his wife is linked to it. But Gretzky has said little else, and no doubt wishes to keep it that way during the Olympics. 
"The bottom line is I did­n't do it," he said. 
As much as he tries, Gretzky can't escape the questions. At a news con­ference in Ontario on Monday -his fmal media availability before he left for Turin -the NHL great repeatedly was asked about the integrity of the game. 
"That's not for me to talk about," said Gretzky, before a Hockey Canada official cut off the news conference after just 4 1/2 minutes. 
The very mention of Gretzky's name has caused an appreciable stir in a sport where his reputation and conduct have been beyond reproach. And it certainly hasn't been a wel­comed mention -especial­ly not in Canada, where hopes are high that this is the best team the country has fielded in its national sport. 
IN BRIEF 

Hughes to replace Kwan on 
USA figure si{ating team 
SYOSSET, N.Y. -Figure skater Emily Hughes practiced at a rink near her hometown Monday. How she's getting to Italy for the Olympics was still being worked out. 
The 17 -year-old younger sister of 2002 Olympic winner Sarah Hughes was told Saturday night by U.S. skat­ing officials to pack for Turin to replace Michelle Kwan, who pulled out because of an injury. 
Hughes, from Great Neck, N.Y., finished third at nationals last month but was bumped after Kwan got the medical bye onto the Olympic team. 
John Hughes, Emily's father, told The Associated Press in a phone interview on Monday that he was still trying to make flight arrange­ments for Italy. 
"It's more difficult than you think," he said. "We'll get there. I promise." 
John Hughes said he thought Emily would arrivey too late· to prac­tice in a mountain town near Turin with the other U.S. skaters, Sasha Cohen and Kimmie Meissner. 
!JSA ups~ts Norway in curl­
mg openmg round 
PINEROLO, Italy-The U.S. men routed the defending Olympic cham­pions 11-5 in the opening game of the curling tournament on Monday, scoring a whopping five points in the eighth end and forcing Norway to concede with two frames to go. 
It was tied 3-3 in the fifth when American skip, or captain, Pete Penson knocked out a red Norwegian stone and left three yel­low ones closest to the middle. Norway made it 6-5 in the sixth and was setting up for another three points in the seventh when U.S. vice­skip Shawn Rojeski executed a per­fect three-stone takeout. 
With an open target, Penson threw long with his first stone and then intentionally threw his second through the house -giving up an easy point to retain the last-throw advantage and try for multiple "QOints in the eighth. 
Johnson's crew chief eject­
ed from Daytona 500 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Jimmie Johnson's crew chief was thrown out of the Daytona 500 on Monday for illegal modifications made to Johnson's car during pole qualifying. 
Chad Knaus was accused of rais­ing the rear window on the No. 48 Chevrolet to alter aerodynamics dur­ing Johnson's run Sunday. The infraction was discovered in a post­qualifying inspection when the car failed to fit NASCAR templates. 
NASCAR said Knaus cannot appeal the ejection. 
NASCAR also said the Hendrick Motorsports team could be subject to additional penalties, which would be announced after Sunday's Daytona 500. 
Team owner Rick Hendrick said lead engineer Darian Grubb will replace Knaus as crew chief for Sunday's "Great American Race." 
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
TORINO GAMES-FIGURE SKATING PAIRS 
Totmianina and Marinin win gold for Russia 
Associated Press 
TUiliN. Italy-Tot and Max's Hussian rout madn thn judgns' jobs IHtsy. 
Tatiana Totmianina and Maxim Marinin eliminated any rhanrn for controvnrsy and knpt llwir nation's domination or Olympic pairs going Monday night with a baiiNil~ rrnn skatn rn min iscn n t of tlw grnatnst Bussian rouplns. 
Tot didn't try to hold back tho lf'ars on thn nwdals podium. whiln Marinin smilnd widnly. Not a bad way to finish ofT a ntrnnr that also ineludns two world litlns. 
ThPir hugn margin, 14.75 points ovPr China's Zhang Dan and Zhang llao, avoidnd any suspicions of judging impropri­ntins in the first Olympic pairs nvnnl sincn the 2002 Salt Lake City scandal that lnd to tho rww codn of points systmn. 
Slwn Xuc and Zhao llongbo or China won thoir sncond straight bronzo modal. 
A Hussian or Sovint pair has won tho gold nwdal nvery year siru~n 11)(14, and this one was as good as any. Go ahead, add Totmianina and Marinin to Gordnova and Grinkov and the l'rotopopovs as the top of pnr­haps the greatest dynasty in Olympie sports. 
"I can't oven explain the emo­tions because thny are vnry vnry high," she said. "It was a long, long way and it wasn't tho easinst way. I'm just thrilled with everything. We've done so Wllll, our personal best at the Olyrnpie Garnes." 
While the Hussians were untouchable, Zhang and Zhang showed incredibln courage and stamina. 
Skating last, Zhang Dan fell in a split while attempting ·an unpreeedonted throw quad sal­chow and doubled over in pain. They stoppnd skating as Zhang llao struggled to help her ofT the ice. 
After a fnw minutes talking with eoadws, she asked to con­tinue. With the fans dapping in support, the nvent rnf'ernn allownd it. 
"Wn didn't say any words of' giving up," he said. "Wn said wn could go on." 
Somehow, they nailed every element in the next four min­utes. 
Shn again doubled ovnr when they f'inislwd and Zhang llao erilld. They had nothing to cry about whnn they saw the marks that knpt tlwm in second place with a personal bnst. 
"I think it's a very valuable experience for competition," she said. "It's so important for rnysnlf because I made a mis­take on tho first element, but I think I can do all the other ele­ments, so why not keep going?" 
But they were far behind Tot and Max's ·personal best of 204.4H, and Marinin picked up his longtime partner and cra­dled her in his arms when the final scorns were posted. 
No one raised a voice against the scoring this time, unlike the boos that echoed throughout the arona at Salt Lake City. touching ofT the biggest scandal in Winter Games history. 
Baek then, a French judge admitted after the pairs compe­tition that she'd been "pres­sured" to put Hussia's Elena Berezhnaya and Anton Sikharulidze ahead of Canada's Jamie Sale and David Pelletier. 
The scandal so rocked the 


Olympics that the International Olympic Committee took the rare step of awarding duplicate golds to Sale and Pelletier. 
The International Skating Union then decided to scrap its 
6.0 scale for a more objective points-based system. 
U.S. champions Hena Inoue and John Baldwin, the only couple to hit a throw triple axel in competition -at U.S. nationals and in Saturday's short program -couldn't duplicate the magic. She fell on their signature move, and they also struggled with some spins and their side-by-side triple toe loops. 
"I didn't give her quite the 
throw I gave her in the short program," Baldwin said. "I was more cautious." 
But they were fast and, unlikli many of the other couples, did­n't tire deep into their program. That was a problem for nearly every duo that skated earlier. 
Inoue and Baldwin wound up seventh, one spot down from their short program standing but the best full-field interna­tional finish for a U.S. pair since the 2002 worlds. 
With their fans chanting, waving Chinese flags and shak­ing colorful rattles, Shen and Zhao capped their lirst compe­tition of the snason with a spec­tacular performance. The two-time world champions missnd the entire snason as hn rncov­ernd from an August torn Achilles' tnndon. lin hurried back from the injury and shownd no sign of any physical problems. 
On both of their throws, a triple salchow and a triple loop, she soared much higher than the boards. Thnir flying triple twist was immensn and they moved as one in thnir eircular steps, making "Madame Buttnrfly" come to life. 
"Today was very difficult, especially al'tnr these two months whom I got injured," he said. "We got a good result. I am very happy about that." 
JPW 2006 
Ticket Distribution 

TUESDAY, February 14th WEDNESDAY, February 15th 
Dooley Room, LaFortune Student Center 7:00PM-10:00 ·PM 
*You must present your student ID in order to pick up your tickets. In order to pick up tickets for another student, you must have his/her student ID with you. 
I P \X' 2 0 0 (, • 3 0 0 :\ L 1\ 11 0 R T U N E S T U D EN T C EN T L·: R .JPW@ND.EDU 

Courageous Chinese pair recovers for silver 
After devastating fall, the Zhangs still medal 
Associated Press 
TURIN, Italy -Zhang Dan crashed to the ice with her legs split wide, a brutal fall that drew gasps from the crowd. She limped oil' the ice doubled over in pain, seemingly finished. 
Stunningly, she recovered to win an Olympic silver medal. 
Zhang Dan and her partner Zhang Hao of China displayed as much courage as skill Monday night in the Olympic pairs free skate. 
Skating last, Zhang Dan spun awkwardly into the ice while attempting an unprecedented throw quad salehow. The skaters stopped their routine and, with Zhang Dan bent over, they strug­gled to the sideboards to talk to their coaches. 
After gathering her composure, she asked to continue, and the event referee said yes. 
The crowd roared and she even managnd a slight smile. Then the Zhangs nailed every­thing. 
"We didn't say any words of giv!?g up: We said we could go on, he smd. 
"I think it's a very valuable experience for competition," she added. "It's so important for myself because I made a mistake on the first elenwnt. but I think I can do all the other elmnenl'i, so why not keep going?" 
Skating's rules don't spndfieally deal with injuries that oeeur just seconds into a program. Usually. the refl~ree tells the skaters they have two minutes to continue from the point of interruption. 
No one could havn expected much from Zhang and Zhang after such a gruesome mishap. No one except Zhang and Zhang. 
"Gradually aftnr we rnstartnd, it bncame morn dnar in our mind how we could continue," hn said. "We were challenging the extreme pownr of human bnings [to handle paint." 
Four minutes later, the entire crowd was standing and cheering their ell'ort, whieh gave thnm sec­ond place behind Hussia's Tatiana Totmianina and Maxim Marin in. 
Sh1m Xue and Zhao llongbo of China won their second straight Olympic bronze medal. Pang Qing and Tong .Jian were filllrth, indicating the Chinese, not the Hussians, might be the pairs power of the future. 
Slum and Zhao's first competi­tion of the season was better than anyone eould have predict­ed. Zhao reci1vered incredibly fast from an August torn Achilles' tendon, and the two-time world champions were in terrific form Monday night. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Sutton takes leave of absence after DUI offense 
Coach may return to courtside next season 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. -Eddie Sutton may havp coached his last game, a 35-year career possibly ending six victories short of 800 because of a traffic a<:eident in whieh he was injured and eited for driving under the inllwmce. 
Oklahoma State announced Monday that the 69-year-old Sutton would take a medical leave and that Sean Sutton, his son and designated heir appar­ent, will finish this season as coach. The school said no deci­sion had been made on who will coach next season. 
Sutton said in a statement released by the university that he nearly took medical leave after a Feb. 4 trip to Kansas State because of chronic back pain that was "making it very difficult to coach." 
"After Friday's events, l know it is best to go on medical leave the remainder of the season to address my future health," he said. "It is very diflieult to step away from the team. But l know they are in great hands." 
Eddie Sutton spent the night in the hospital with a head injury following Friday's accident in Stillwater. 
Witnesses described Sutton's sports utility vehicle as driving dangerously and erratically, forc­ing cars to swerve out of the way before he hit another SUV from behind at about 60 mph, accord­ing to police reports released Monday. 
The driver of the other SUV received minor injuries and was released at the scene. 
One witness at the accident scene told police that Sutton seemed confused, responded angrily to questions and had a "slight fruity odor" on his breath. 
The same witness reported seeing a bottle of prescription hydrocodone, a narcotic painkiller, on the seat of Sutton's suv. 
Stillwater police cited Sutton after the accident but did not jail him on a complaint of driving under the influence because of a lack of physical evidence, the city's police chief said Monday. · Witnesses told police that shortly before the accident, Sutton was unsteady on his feet and struck his head after falling in the parking lot of Gallagher­Iba Arena before entering his vehicle. Sutton refused an ambu­lance at that scene and insisted on driving, police reports show. 
The results of blood tests ­which could take six to eight weeks to receive -will show whether the coach was driving under the influence, Stillwater Chief Norman McNickle said. Sutton was not given a field sobriety test at the time because he needed medical treatment, he said. 
Police also filed complaints against Sutton for speeding and crossing the center line. 
Under Oklahoma law, driving under the influence can include a range of substances, including prescription painkillers or alco­hol. The university said it would not comment on the DUI citation because of privacy and legal rea­sons. 
When Sutton came to his alma mater in 1990, he acknowledged he had undergone treatment for a drinking problem and said "I've dealt with it." 
In Monday's statement, Sutton said he had been under a tremendous amount of stress because of "my deteriorating physical condition and other issues." 
Sutton has weathered other tough times to become the fifth winningest men's coach in Division I history, trailing only Dean Smith (879), Adolph Rupp (876), Bob Knight (866) and Jim Phelan (830). 
Sutton is in his 16th season at Oklahoma State. 

"I hope he's back next year. I mean this sincerely," Oklahoma coach Kelvin Sampson said. "I've never coached against a better coach than Eddie Sutton." 
Sutton resigned in 1989 from a Kentucky program placfJd on four years' probation. In 2001, a plane crash killed two Oklahoma State basketball players and six team stall"ers. 
The Cowboys have advanced to postseason play 14 times in 15 years under Sutton, including 13 NCAA tournament appearances. He took the Cowboys to the Final Four in 1995 and 2004. lie also reached the Final Four with Arkansas. · 
After last season, there was much speculation about whether Sutton would retire. Instead of stepping aside, he stayed on and his son became his replacement in waiting, though no specific timetable was given for the change of power. 
The Cowboys are 13-11 and 3­7 in the Big 12 with six regular­season games left. Sutton recent­ly criticized his team's tough­ness, calling it the "softest team in 16 years that I have ever coached." 
With Oklahoma State sched­uled to play Kansas at home Monday night, Sutton spoke to players twice Sunday, assistant coa<:h James Diekny said during the Big 12 coaches conference eall Monday. 
Now, all your incoming calls can be free. 
"-----tEven the 5 calls from your girlfriend in the last 20 min 
Free CALL MES.. Minutes 
(in your local calling area) 


*U.S.CelluJar 
We connect with vou~ 

Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termina1ion fee. Credtt approval required. $30 activation fee. S15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee applies. This is not atax or government-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 7:00 p.m. to 6:59a.m. and all day Saturday and SUnday. Night and weekend minutes are available In local calling area only. Free CAU. MP' Minutes are not deducted from package minutes and are only available when receiving calls In your local calling area. Local calling area differs from national calling area. Use of the AOL' Instant Messenger'" service mobile application requires easyedge'" data services. 30-Day Guarantee: Customer is responsi­ble for any charges incurred prior to return. ©2005 Def Jam Mobile and AG Interactive are trademarks and service marks of their respective owners. All rigtrts reserved. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2006 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 


Tuesday, February 14, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
No.4 Villanova shoots down No.1 Connecticut 
Ray leads Wildcats in conference upset 
Assm:iatcd Press 
I'IIIJ.i\l>l\J.J>IIli\-Villanova wont insidn in tlw first hall' and staynd outside in tlw sec­ond. i\dd sonw solid dnf"nnsn and an oiTnnsivn boost !"rom an 
Wildc:ats' 7 -l"or-1J nl'l"ort from :{­
unl i k n I y  sourc ll.  and  t h n  
Wildc~ats  camn  up with  a  way  
to lwat No. 1 Comwctieut.  
i\llan  Hay  knynd  thn  

point rangn in thn sneond hall" and l'ourth-rank1Hl Villanova hn a t t hn llu s k in s (J 1) -(, 4 Monday night. its first. vietory 
ov n r a top-rank 11 d t n am i11 rwarly I I yclars. 
"It was a hig tnst l"or us. UConn was a groat tcHtm," said Hay, who had I 1) ol' his 25 points in tlw sneond hall'. "/\ lot. ol' tnams didn't think we WIH"Il going to win. It was just a grnat. tnst for us to go out and sno whnrn wn worn al." 
Hay had fiw ]-poilltnrs ill a 22-4 run that gavn Villanova (20-2, I 0-1 Big 1\asl) thn lead for good ill its ninth straight victory. The Wildeats, who l"orend the Huskins into 17 turnovers, also got a lift from tlwir eentnr in an offense that rnlies on four guards. 
Tlw four guards aceount l"or 79 percent of the team's points, hut center Will Sheridan, who averages 4.5 points per game, matched his carenr high with 13 points and grabbed 10 rebounds to help thn Wildcats stand up to Conneetkut's size advantage. 
"Wn nend to get our forwards involved. We've henn working on it," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "Will has bnen dnl'nnding, making plays, but not scoring as much. Tonight lw took it to anothnr lnvol in a big gamn against an outstand­ing tnam, which I think tells you a lot about Will Shnridan." 
Shnridan, not known for his outsidn shot. hit two big jumpnrs from tho corner in the sncond half. 
"Tiwy madn 3s, Sheridan hit somn tough baselines. I don't know what adjustments you'd likn us to makn for i\llan Hay's 2S-I'ootnrs," Connneticut coach Jim Calhoun said. 
Hudy Gay had I<) points and 10 rnhounds for thn Huskies (22-2, 9-2), who had an 11­gamn winning streak snappnd and dropped to 7-1 against ranknd tnams this snason. 
Connneticut had a chance to ticl in the final soconds but Man~us Williar'ns lost thn ball for tlw Huskins' final turnover and Hay made two l'rne throws with 2.2 snconds loft to make it 
(J9-(J4. 
"Thnn1 was supposnd to be a pick but Hashad i\ndnrson said Hay pushed him and we bumped and lost the ball," Williams said. 
It seemed most ol' the 20,859 at the Wachovia Center, the largest crowd to watch a col­loge basketball game in Pennsylvania history, stormed the court to celebrate the Wildcats' first win over a No. 1 team since Feb. 18, 1995, when they beat Connecticut. 
"I think we beat them on a good night. They're great. They deserve to be No. 1," Wright said. "They answered everything we did, we answered what they did and that's what made a great game 


AP 

Connecticut's Marcus Williams, left, and Hilton Armstrong guard VIllanova's Allan Ray In the second half of the Wildcats' 69-64 upset of the No.1 Huskies Monday. 
betwnen two outstanding 3. i\rter Williams scored on a teams." The Wildcats were 2-for-1 0 drive, Hay hit the last of his 3s 
UConn opened the second in the first half on 3s, but they and Sheridan eonneeted on a half with a 13-0 run to go made five of their first six in jumper from the corner and it ahead 45-33. That's when Hay, the second half. was 55-49 with 9:20 to go. a 36 percent from 3-point Kyle Lowry, who had 16 of Sheridan knows he isn't range entering the game, his 18 points in the first half much of an outside threat. started his long-range bar-on a series of inside baskets '"Evnrybody doubles our rage. The first 12 points of the against Connecticut's big front-guards, why wouldn't you"!" he big run were on his 3-pointers line, which leads the nation in asked. '"They WfHe kind of and Mike Nardi, who had blocknd shots, then scored on backing off a littln bit. I just missed the last two games with an offensive rebound and felt like I had good looks tonsillitis, scored his only Villanova was ahead 50-47 tonight. The guards wore son-points of the game on another with 11:35 to play. ing me." 
Class ofc07 
Make your dinner reservations for]PW at 
e.mlx·ac:irXJ 1./ie seasons 
Call 
631-2020 

WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Terrapins toppled by top-ranked Duke teain 
Blue Devils now tied for first place in ACC  "I was over it when the game nnded," Currie said. "I try not to dwell on things that happnn. It was a bad game. It was unac­ 
Associated Press  ceptable to me, but I just have to  
keep moving."  
DUHHAM, N.C.-Monique  Wanisha Smith and .Jessica  
Currie found very little motiva­ Foley had 12 poinl<; each as the  
tion from her previous game.  Blue Devils won their 14th in a  
Helping Duke move into a first­ row in the serins and denied the  
place tie in the Atlantic Coast  Terrapins a rare Tobaeeo Hoad  
Conference? That's something  double. On Thursday night, they  
dilferent.  handed the Tar lleels their first  
"I knew I needed to come out  loss of the season, thanks to a  
and be prepared for this game,"  fluke shot at the end of' rnJ.,rulation  
Currie said. "I knew I needed to  to foree overtime.  
be more aggressive and make  This timn, there were no such  
better decisions and try to be  dramatics for Maryland (22-3, 9­ 
under control. I was re;.t"lly  2).  
focused on doing that."  "We are going to km~p compet­ 
Whatever she did worked.  ing and we kllep gntting that  
Currie scored a earner-high 31  margin down," Terrapins coach  
points a game after finishing with  Brenda Frese said. "Duke is so  
only two, Mistie Williams addnd  talented and so denp."  
14 points and 10 rebounds and  The last of nine ties eame at 59  
the top-ranked Blue Devils pulled  when Marissa Coleman swished  
away to beat No. 4 Maryland 90­ a jumper with 6:45 remaining,  
80 Monday night.  and Foley pushed the Hlue Devils  
Against Virginia last week,  ahead for good with a 3-pointer.  
Currie was 1-for-9 from the field  The margin still was only two  
with five turnovers and had only  about 3 minutes later before  
two poinl'i, her lowest output of a  Duke took over.  
stellar career. She bounced baek  Foley, known more as a sta­ 
to help Duke (23-1, 10-1 i\tlantic  tionary shooter, surprisingly  
Coast Conference) move into a tie  drove for another basket to start  
with North Carolina atop the con­ an 11-0 run, with Currie adding  
ference.  five of tho poinl'i.  

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 
Women's hockey earns win, tie against Illini 
Water polo takes two contests in Ann Arbor; figure skating finishes second; gymnastics competes in West Lafayette 
Special to the Observer 
In the best weekend showing since sweeping Michigan two years ago, Notre Dame earned a tie and a victory over Illinois at the Joyce Center this weekend. 
On Saturday, Saint Mary's Megan Mattia redirected Liz Lefebvre's shot on goal to give the Irish a 1-0 lead at the end of the first period. Aided by a pair of Irish penalties, the Illini con­trolled the second period, scor­ing early on a breakaway to tie the game. The visitors had sev­eral other point blank opportuni~ ties, but standout play by goalie Mindy Stack prevented any fur­ther damage. A back and forth third period saw each team come up empty on good scoring opportunities, and the game ended in a 1-1 draw. 
Sunday's game also featured great defense and team play from both squads, as the game remained scoreless until the third period. freshman Lauren Beuke scored for the Irish on a great cross-ice pass from senior Kate Abowd. The Irish scored another goal right away on a great play by Julia LaPointe, assisted by freshman Margaret Knoedler. Although the Illini scored with six minutes remain­ing in the game, a determined Irish squad led by' the stellar play of captains Jacky Kehler and Holly Law shut down Illinois to claim the win. 
Women's Water Polo 
The Irish women's water polo squad stepped up in competition at this weekend's Michigan Invitational in Ann Arbor, Mich. It was a rousing start for the Irish as they opened play with an 8-3 upset of the host Wolverines. Junior Bridget O'Neill scored a hat trick, while classmate Kristen Schmitt and senior Katie Lahcos each found the back of the net twice for the Irish. 
In Saturday's second game, the Irish streaked past Miami Ohio B, 14-4. Seven players scored in the one-sided contest, with O'Neill and freshman Kelly Horner each rifling home four goals. 
On Sunday, the Irish dropped a pair of back and forth games to third-ranked Michigan State, 12­9, and No. 4 Miami Ohio, 6-3. Against the Spartans, O'Neill again splashed home three goals, Lancos and Schmitt each scored a pair, and the remaining goals were fired home by Kristy Bohling and M.C. Cimino. A pair of Lancos goals and a solo score from O'Neill accounted for the Irish scoring against the Redhawks. 
Figure Skating 
Captain Bridget Purcell and her fellow seniors, Gretchen Chriszt and Miia Rasinen, com­pleted their competitive careers this weekend at the Tri-States in Dearborn, Mich. The finale proved to be memorable as the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women excelled in their pro­gram. 
The Irish finished a very close runner-up to Michigan State. Bowling Green was third to lead the rest of the pack. 
The precision skaters will per­form one last exhibition at the Joyce Center Feb. 25, during intermission of the men's ice hockey game. 
Gymnastics 
Continued and steady improvement marked Notre Dame and Saint Mary's perform­ance at Purdue's Golden Grips this weekend. While neither the men nor the women's squads finished among the top three schools, both had strong show­ings with partial rosters. 
Anne Krishan anchored the women's team by capturing first in the vault and fifth on the beam. Cecilia Torres, Maura Steed, Kelly Pirozzi, Jacquelyn Carney, Courtney Collins and Lucianna Ravasio all earned team points for the Irish. Ohio won the women's competition, followed by Purdue and Virginia Tech. 
Brian Dunn's fourth place fin­ish in the vault paced the men's squad, with Alan Arico and Zach Gagnon also contributing points to the team total. The injury plagued squad is recovering and the club is getting closer to real­izing its potential. The Irish will next compete Feb. 25 at Indiana. 

Bowling 

Notre Dame placed No. 22 among 29 teams in the American Heartland Bowling Conference tournament in Toledo. 
Daniel Martin paced the club with a 193 average, including three games of 202, 205 and 207. 
Captain Van Koppersmith rolled a 180 average, featuring a high game of 237. Jim Talamo posted a 169 average, while Tom Talamo averaged 158 and J.B. Bertumen completed the top five for the Irish with a 140 average. 
The team will head to Indianapolis for the Hoosier Challenge next weekend, com­pleting the season. 
Equestrian 

The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's equestrians completed regular season competition with a pair of Reserve High Point fin­ishes at Saint Mary's of the Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Kelsey Ostberg finished the season as the top open rider in the region, and advanced to nationals in Harrisburg, Penn. where she will compete in both open fences and open flat for the Cacchione Cup. Indiana earned High Point honors and will rep­resent the region at the Zones. Clair Freeman garnered High Point Rider honors in Sunday's show. 
Several club riders qualified 
. for April 2 Regionals, and will join Ostberg at Purdue, including Allie Minnis, open flat; Molly Schmiege, intermediate fences and flat; Caitlin Landuyt, inter­mediate fences; Lauren Desrosiers, intermediate fences and flat, Julia Burke, intermedi­ate fences; Hayden Piscal, novice fences and flat; Brittany Gragg, novice flat; Mary Dorgant, novice fences and flat; Meghan Murphy, novice flat; and Heather LaDue, Alisha Wilkinson, and Laura Hale, advanced walk trot canter. 
Ski 
The members of the Notre Dame Ski team were powered with aspirations of Olympic Gold this weekend, and skied like champions. Week Three saw some bright spots from fresh­men Stephanie Dalton and Joel Sharbrough, and other members helped the team to top spots in the Midwest division landing them with a spot in the regional .tournament next weekend in 
Marquette, Mich. 
The men's team had quite a 
time in this weekend's races. 
Fresh blood in freshmen Conor 
Byrne and Joel Sharbrough 
helped the men's team finish in a 
solid fourth place in their 
Saturday morning slalom race. 
Sharbrough and Byrne placed 
fourth and 20th respectively. 
Following the two freshmen 
were senior Leif Pettersen who 
ripped up the course in his first 
run, ending up in 29th, Brian 
Hedges in 38th, Chris Eakins in 
42nd, Tommy Balmat in 45th, 
Pat Leimkeuler in 46th, Alex 
Gloeckner in 49th, and Jon 
Merck rounding out the men's 
finishers with a ~2nd place fin­
ish. 
The women's team built on 
their success from past weeks 
with a third place finish in the 
Saturday slalom event. The 
brightest spots for the team 
were in senior Molly Butler and 
freshman Stephanie Dalton. 
Butler finished in eighth place, 
just a spot in front of Dalton. 
Other finishers for the women's 
team were senior Lindsay May 
in 16th, Sarah Rauenhorst in 
19th, Katie Coniglio in 36th, 
Casey Dunne in 38th, Kerry 
McGuire in 43rd, Katie Paquette 
in 45th, and Mary Kate Sweeney 
rounding out the women's team 
in 48th place. 
The men's snowboard team lit 
up the course again in 
Saturday's 'giant slalom event. 
sophomore Nick Cottingham and 
senior Dan VanDerWerff smoked 
the course, finishing in fifth and 
seventh place respectively. Mike 
Weber fmished behind these two 
with a hearty ninth place finish. 
The men finished in third place to solid Western Michigan and Grand Valley teams. 
The women's snowboard team continued to be the bright spot of the Notre Dame team. Senior Nichole Mitchell donned her two silver medals from last week and cruised to a solid fourth place finish on Saturday. Mitchell was followed by freshmen Katie Rehberger in 8th place and Casey McNeill in 10th. Rounding out the women's team were Cat Dunne and Dayna Dantzcher in 14th and 20th. 
The men's team on Sunday morning finished in fifth place. However, Joel Sharbrough con­tinued to shine with his fifth place finish. Behind Sharbrough were Byrne in 26th, Leif Pettersen in 34th, Hedges in 38th, Pat Leimkeuler in 43rd and Alex Gloeckner in 50th. Again, Steve Feutz livened up the sleepy crowd with a DNF while Hedges saved himself from a disastrous fall that would have made even Hermann Maier proud. 
The women's ski team finished in fourth place, just a few tenths of a second out of third place to Grand Valley State. 
Freshmen Stephanie Dalton finished in seventh place. Following Dalton were Butler in 12th, Rauenhorst in 17th, Lindsay May in 24th, Casey Dunne in 36th, Katie Coniglio in 39th, Katie Paquette in 42nd, Kerry McGuire in 46th and Mary Kate Sweeney in 48th. 
The men's snowboard team finished their event in mediocre form, slipping a few spots to fifth place overall. The team strug­gled greatly with DNF's from all three competitors who thought that speed was a little more important than finishing the course. 
The women's snowboard team beat all of the competition except Michigan on Sunday's giant slalom, finishing in second by less than a second, Senior Nichole Mitchell finished fourth. Following Mitchell were Katie Rehberger in seventh, Casey McNeill in 14th, Cat Dunne in 16th and Dayna Dantzcher in 22nd. 

WINTER OLYMPICS 
Rash of injuries mars Alpine skiing 
Equipment, speeds 
make popular sport .more dangerous 
Associated Press 
Lindsey Kildow catches her left 

edge in training, does the splits 
at 50 mph and is catapulted into 
the air before landing into an 
uncertain Olympic future. 
Johann Grugger of Austria also 

did the high-speed splits and 
slammed forward into the icy 
surface during a downhill race in 
December, dislocating his right 
hip. And Mario Scheiber didn't 
even fall but still shredded his 
knee ligaments when he made a 
routine turn during preseason 
training, ending his season 
before it began. 
Faster equipment, man-made 

snow and powerful bodies make 
for a relentless evolution of 
Alpine racing, and skiers may simply be unable to handle it. 
"The equipment ... raises the quality of skiing, but it probably does put people at more risk," 
U.S. Ski Team surgeon Dr. Richard Steadman told The Associated Press. 
Ski design has changed radi­cally in recent years. In the 1970s, leg bones were the ones most often broken; today it's knees and ankles. 
Boots are higher and more flexible, putting pressure on the knees. Skis have sharper edges and more pronounced hourglass shapes, allowing tighter turns. Bindings that release with the shock of impact in most violent crashes hold skis on the feet and increase the risk of injury with slower falls. 
Weather, specifically less snow­fall in Europe in recent years, may be a factor, too. 
"This means there is only a small covering of snow on the course," said Salomon skis race director Philippe Auer. "The ter­rain is more sharply defined and that makes it more dangerous. The snow cannons make this better, but if you make (snow) then it's very aggressive." 

Aggressive as in hard and grip­py _ like the difl'erence between grass and artificial turf. 
Man-made snow is unforgiving for carving edges. One false move and a racer's ski swoops away, carrying only one leg with it. If a skier catches an edge in the grippy snow, it can jolt the 
knee  hard enough  to  cause  
injury without a fall.  
Aggressive  snow  also  can  

aggravate a fall. A skier skidding prone on the snow can be badly hurt ifa sharp edge hits the grip­PY surface, launching him into the air. 
That's what happened to Kildow during her Olympic downhill training run Monday _ though, amazingly, she escaped serious injury. 

Tuesday, February 14, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Seniors 
continued from page 24 
Wnstnrn Lacrosse Lnague in scoring thn past two years and was nominated for the Tnwaaraton Trophy as the nation's top playnr in 2004. But rewriting the Irish oiTen­sive rncord hooks is not why hn plays tlw game. 
"Jlonors 


and stuff are 
Driscoll 

always nice, but I'd ratlwr be in thn Final Four," said Walsh, who helinvns this year's team is capahln of rnaching that desti­nation. "Everyone on our team has nnver been to the tourna­ment. Wn have that motiva­tion. We have a lot to prove." 
Driscoll, a fellow 2005 hon­orabln mention All-American and a defenseman, shares Walsh's expectations for the season. As one of the team's two captains, he sees the same commitment from every one of his seniors. 
"Captain is only a title," he said. "Our entire senior class is IH~ t i n g Ii ke Ie ad ers . 0 u r team motto is 'hard work,' and everyone is busting their "It was laid back and tails, living up to that motto. brought some friendships We want it to mean some­together," he said. "It created thing. It's what our class a lot of team chemistry that embodies." will hopefully carry onto the 
Despite missing the NCAA field." tournament by one spot in In order for that chemistry each of the past two years, the to carry the Irish into the team remains determined. tournament, where they have And Irish coach Kevin not been since a Final Four Corrigan is impressed. birth in 2001, Corrigan is still 
"That's not something I have counting on Walsh and to remind them of." he said. Driscoll to record similar sea­"They came sons like here to win a Walsh's 21 national goal, 22 assist champi­campaign and
"/D.J.] is obviously one of

onship, and I Driscoll's 37
the best defensemen in

think they are ground ball talented the country." performances enough to do in 2005. that. They Walsh said
Pat Walsh 

understand his biggest
. Irish attacker

what it improvement takes." is being able 
Senior mid­to recognize fielder Drnw and take Peters, co-captain with advantage of situations as Driscoll, believes the senior they happen during the game. dass' camaraderie will aid the llis rield savvy and mistake­team's chemistry. free play is precisely what 
"We understand each other," Corrigan feels sets him apart he said. "We know how much as one of the best offensive talent we have. We see it in players in the country. practice every day. If we play "Pat is a calm, cool and col­well together, we can go far." lected offensive player," 
Walsh agrees the team is as Corrigan said. "He plays with dose as he has seen them, in a lot of poise. He probably part because of a 10-day knows the game of lacrosse lacrosse trip the team took to better than anyone on the central Europe last spring. team and better than most people playing the game." cess. Corrigan also knows his 
Driscoll, on the other hand, players understand thn is the protypical defenseman, responsibility that comns with who plays at a "frantic pace" earning preseason honors, a and with relentless effort. responsibility which he 
"There's no quit in D.J. at believes "they're going to live any time," said Corrigan. up to ... every day." "He's going to give it every­In fact, Driscoll places the thing he has every day. He's responsibility on his defense got the respect of his team­to take the Irish to new mates." · heights and believes they can­
Driscoll definitely has not rely on their oiTense, even earned the respect of one of one that has been nnar the top 
the nation's  five in the nation  
top attack- in  scoring  the  
men  in  past  couple  of  
Walsh, whose four years of competition in practice  "Pat {Walsh} is a calm. cool and collected offensive player. "  years. Across the team, expecta­tions are high for a defense that  
with the 2005 GWLL  Kevin Corrigan  gave up 94 goals -tied for second  
Defensive  Irish head coach  lownst  in  pro- 
Player  of  gram history  - 
the  has  last season.  
helped  Driscoll  said  

make Walsh develop into the their ability to hang with on-field force he has become. defending national champion 
"[D.J.] is obviously one of Duke in last Saturday's scrim­the best defensemen in the mage was a confidence boost country," Walsh said, "and he and a refleetion of how hard hasn't gotten the recognition the team has been working. he should have. He should've Driscoll and Walsh just hope been All-American his first they get to play the Blue two years." Devils again in a game that 
Both the players and coach counts, where it really counts recognize the individual acco­-in the NCAA Tournament. lades will increase when Walsh, Driscoll and company Contact Tim Dougherty at take the team to greater sue-tdougher@nd.edu 

Notre Dame freshman guard Kyle McAiarney chases a loose ball In a 90-63 home win over Rutgers Feb. 8. 
Annowtcing .the. 

1\Jichinna Chapter of the American Ma..kcting Association 
2006 Scholarship Competition 
todOJJ
EnteJt uJt cha.n.ce.. 
~ll Jin $1,511 CISII 

The competition is open to any student who is currently 18 yrs. or older, enrolled in an institution of higher learning & pursuing a career in the field ofmarketing. 
For more information, contact Nathan DeSelm at Villing & Co. (574-277-0215 or nathan@villing.com). 


McAlarney 
continued from page 24 
And McAlarney's statistics, along with his attitude and com­mand of the court, caught the eye of Notre Dame coaeh Mike Brey, who has started his frnshman 1ive times already this sea'ion. 
Built more like a strong safety than a traditional point guard, McAlarney showed a high degree of confidence Oct. 13 during media day -the first opportunity for media access to players. lie spoke about taking over point guard responsibilities after cur­rent senior point guard Chris Quinn's graduation. lie advertised his own explosiveness to the bas­ket. 
He wa'> sure of himself, but this attitude evolved when the Irish jumped out to a 1-8 start in the Big East. It's not tl1at he lost the confidence, but MeAlarney-who dominated his league at Moore Catholic in New York City -was now just another freshman trying to find his way in arguably the toughest league in the country. 
"Coming out of high school into a big time Division-1 college bas­ketball league, you think you know everything about the game," McAlarney said Wndnesday after his team's 90-63 win over Hutgers. "You really learn a lot land gain experience] from your mistakes. I learned a lot trom my mistakes." 
Learning from mistakes? A strange situation lor a player one season removed from averaging 
34.8 poinl<; per game. 
MeAlarney retains his seornr's mindset. lie shoots when he is open and eroates opportunities for his teammates when he pene­trates. But thn freshman point guard has learned this season there is more to basketball than simply seoring. 
"It's dnfinitely a humbling nxpe­rienco, because you realize in high school a lot ol' people get caught up with all the media and all the poinl'i and you think you're the greatost thing in the world," MeAlarney said. "But then you eome here and everybody is bet­ter than you, <iverybody is faster than you and stronger than you and bigger." 
MeAlarney has made strides in protecting the basketball. He works on staying in control and managing the floor rather than being the primary option on the court. lie said he has focused spedlically on improving his assist to turnover ratio -arguably the most telling statistic of a produc­tive point guard. 
The freshman understands his teammates with more experience at the college level must usn it to the team's advantage, so hn knows the best way he ean eon­tribute right now is by excelling in the smaller facets of the game. 
"You just have to adjust your game," MeAlarney said, "and my game at this level is just going to be running the team, running the show, and being tough out there." 
It is clear MeAlarney has not completely abandonnd the ingrained toughness that makes him the player he is. In a Jan. 28 loss to Villanova, the Irish were in the midst of a comeback when McAlarney drilled a 3-pointer from the eorner over Wildeal<> for­ward Ja'ion Frasnr. 
Before getting baek on defense, McAiarney stared his opponent down -a look far stronger than his 200-pound frame would nvoke otherwise. After the game, MeAlarney said Fraser hadn't done anything to warrant the glance, but rather, the look was just an example of him b1~ing a "dumb New Yorker," hn said jok­ingly. 
Then there was the preseason game against Lewis University. It wa'> MeAlarney's first appearance in a college ba'iketball game, and he was weleomed with a hard screen at midcourt. MeAiarney rnturned the favor minutes later, crediting his father fi1r teaching him to always play tough against bigger opponenl'>. 
McAlarney has not lost his con­fidence -both in his on eourt actions and his ability to smile about it afterwards. But he has gotten smartor, and morn mature as a basketball player, something that only ean help the Irish a'> the freshman develops in the pro­gram. 
"I thought Kyle not turning the ball over two straight games was fabulous," Irish eoaeh Mike Brny said Feb. 8 after a win over Hutgers and two days after a loss to Louisville. "lie's been really good there, and smart with tho basketball." 
M1~Aiarney's improvemont has oarned him an intnresting roln on this ynar's team. lin is the one freshman who consistently snes signifkant minutes during games. lie has beeomn a major role play­er in this year's tnam. 
But he is also rnsponsible for developing with frnshmen Luke Zeller, Hyan Ayers and Zaeh llillosland in practico, forming a eore group for the future. 
This reality boeame visible at the end of the Hutgers game, whnn the four freshmen took the court along with sophomore for­ward Hob Kurz. At that moment, McAlarney was the only member of that game's starting fivo still on the eourt. lin was running the point, and fans got a possible glimpse of Brey's future team. 
"When the other freshmen come out and we'rn on the floor tognther, I have to handle the ball more and just be a leader, because I've gotten the most min­utes out of everybody and I have the most nxperionce," M1~Aiarney said. "(Playing with the other frnshmenl is a lot of fun, becausn we know we have three more years of this and we'rn going to be playing a lot morn together. 
"It's the futuro." 
But just a minute later, MeAlarney was pulled from the gamn and joined his older team­matns on the bench to watch tho end of the 90-63 victory-a sym­bolic moment considering his eur­rnnt situation. 
"It is a big change in tho h'llard," McAlarney said about playing with tho fmshnwn and tlwn com­ing out of the game. ''I'm playing with Chris Quinn and Colin Falls, and thoy're so easy to play with. I assumn a secondary roll as I~Lr a'> handling the ball and just being solid." 
McAlarney's rolo will chango with time. When Quinn graduaks, McAlarney knows he must step in and assert himsnlf morn on oll"ense. But for now, the Notre Damn guard is mntent with work­ing on tlw little things and leaving his mark in morn ways than just by scoring poinl'i. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
Men 
continued from page 24 
freestyle, in which he holds the school record time of 15:19.30. 
The team feels last year's experience will help its mem­bers deal with the added pres­sure of the championship style races. 
"The team is ready to go," said junior swimmer Tim Kegelman, who will compete in the 100 and 200 butterfly events. "With all the experience the team has, the younger guys will most likely thrive under the added pressure." 
Notre Dame will be under some added pressure in this season's meet with the addition of Louisville and Cincinnati to tage, [and] we anticipate having the Big East, making the field of the largest team in the field." 11 teams the largest in confer­Welsh said. "So if we are swim­
ence history.  ming  well,  
Big East officials also  "The team is ready to go.  look out. We're going to  
decided to allow an unlimited number of  With all the experience the team has, the younger guys will most  score a lot of points." As the No. 21 in the  
qualifiers for each school this year,  likely thrive under the added pressure. "  country and the only ranked team  
which  could  in the confer­ 
be an  advan­ Tim Kegelman  ence, the Irish  
tage deep  for a Irish  Irish junior  are confident that they will  
squad. Notre  be able to do  

Dame is sending 35 swimmers just that. and divers to New York -12 Pittsburgh, which Notre Dame more than the maximum 23-held off earlier in the season in man roster in last year's victory. a 122-121 nail-biter, is the only 
"It is a decision to our advan-other Big East squad to earn votes in the top 25. The every race." Panthers also have some strong The Irish are enjoying the experience at the Big East confidence that comes with finals, hav-back-to-hack ing won the 10-2 seasons previous and arguably
"There will be some tough
eight tour­the best talent 
races, but as a team I think 
naments in the pro­before the we have an extremely good gram's history. Irish ended Welsh said the
chance ofrepeating [at the 
their streak team has been
Big East Championships/." 
last year. loose and 
"There relaxed all will be Jay Vandenberg week in prac­some tough tice.
Irish sophomore 
races but as "We don't a team I think we can think that get any more we have an extremely good ready at this point," he said. chance of repeating," "It's time to start." Vanderberg said. "It's hard for other teams to pull ahead of us Contact Dan Murphy at because we are very deep in dmurphy6@nd.edu 

WoiDen 
continued from page 24 
No. 13 Rutgers. The Scarlet Knights are hot after defeating No. 12 Penn State in their last meet of the season. And the Irish took note of their confer­ence foes' recent feat. 
"When we saw that Rutgers beat Penn State, we thought they might be trying to send us a message," Irish junior Julia Quinn said after the Shamrock Invitational Jan. 28. "[Rutgers] will probably be our toughest competition as they have some stars, but they don't have the depth we [have)." 
Notre Dame's depth is an asset, given the swimmers' past performances in the conference meet. Six Irish swimmers have collected first place finishes at this tournament before. Katie Carroll leads the way with 10 victories, five individually and five as a member of a relay team. Rebecca Grove and Caroline Johnson each have four, while Jessica Stephens, Ellen Johnson and Katie Guida all have at least one champi­onship. 
Although Notre Dame will be competitive in most events, there are a few areas the team is heavily favored to win. Notre Dame's Jessica Stephens and Julia Quinn hold the top two Big East times this year in the 100­meter breaststroke. Stephens' mark of 1:03.57 is fast enough for an NCAA 'B' cut time, and Quinn is elose behind with a time of 1:03.88. 
The 400 individual medley (IM) is another strong event for the team as Carroll holds a time of 4:15.34-the best time in the Big East and the fourth­fastest clip in the country. 
The Irish also feel confident about the 400-meter medley relay. Notre Dame has won this race seven times at the Big East Championships, and three of the four swimmers from last sea­son's first-place team ­Caroline Johnson, Stephens and Carroll -are back to defend their title. 
With two and a half weeks between their last meet and the Big East Championships, the Irish put the time to good use as Coach Carrie Nixon allowed her swimmers to taper, or rest, for the first time all season. 
That extra rest will be needed as this week's meet will last four days, the squad's longest meet of the season. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Recruits 
continued from page 24 
throughout the recruiting process. "My family [members[ are huge Notre Dame fans," 
· Weissenhoffer said. ''I'm really excited to play with the girls, [see] the campus and all the good stuff that goes along with being at Notre Dame." She will step in and take the roster spot of Katie Thorlakson, who finished second this year in balloting for the Missouri Athletic Club Hermann Trophy, given annually to the nation's best player. "Everybody's going to be real­ly excited when they watch her," Waldrum said. "Offensively and defensively, she can do a lot of things for your team. I think she's going to have some similarities to Katie Thorlakson. She's built similar to Katie, and she's got that toughness to her that Katie's got." Weissenhoffer said one of the best parts about filling the role Thorlakson had last year is the ability to team up with standout forward Kerri Hanks. ''I'm really excited to play with her," Weissenhoffer said of Hanks. "Hopefully, we'll get the chemistry going and we'll gel ... I think that to play with each other will be awesome. It will be really fun to learn from her and to feed off each other." While Weissenhoffer likely will earn headlines as a goal­scorer, Rosen of Brecksville, Ohio, garnered the most nation­al attention during the recruit­ing process after playing on the Under-17 U.S. national team. Waldrum said her ball-han­dling skills make her a proto­
typical impact midfielder. 
"She's a big land for us," he said. "The one thing I really like about her is she seems to be able to see the game so well. She can [bel like your point guard in basketball. She can find people and knows how to get people involved in the game. 
Waldrum compared her favorably to junior midfielders Jen Buczkowski and Jill Krivacek, along with freshman midfielder Brittany Bock. 
"In our system and the way we play, you've got to have a player that can [control the ball] for you," Waldrum said. "I think it was really important to kind of get her in now to learn from those players and get her the experience playing so she can take the lead when those two kids graduate." 
Weissenhoffer's teammate and fellow Naperville native Clark may join Rosen in the midfield. 
Waldrum said Clark could end up as a defender or at mid­field. 
"The thing that I really like about her, she's got a mindset that's tough, kind of an enforcer type," Waldrum said. "You can be too pretty at times. What she does is she brings that element of toughness to the team. She'll be one of those that the opposition won't want to be around her." 
The other possible defense­man in the Irish class is Ford of Midland, Texas. 
"Haley ... probably flew a lit­tle bit under the radar screen to coaches across the country ... she's not going to be one that's going to be nationally as known as Courtney Rosen or Weissenhoffer," Waldrum said. "But we've liked her for a few years. As I watched her this past year, she has just continu-ally gotten better and better." 


Waldrum said Ford is versa­tile enough to play midfield, too. 
"The good thing about Haley is she can play in the midfield if we need [her to]," he said. "I think that's always good for the young ones because you can always fmd them places to play to get experience when they're developing." 
Lysander, a goalie product of San Diego, Calif., rounds out the Irish class. She will be one of three goalies on the team, along with sophomore Lauren Karas and junior Nikki Westfall. 
Waldrum said Lysander has the talent necessary to succeed at Notre Dame but may need some fine-tuning. 
"With Kelsey, she may need a little bit of time to gain some experience at the college level," he said. "She's got enough tools to compete with Lauren [Karas], but I think right now it's Lauren's until somebody beats her out." 
Outside of Lysander, Waldrum expected each recruit to see 
significant playing time next fall. 
"The four field players that we signed are all going to come in and impact us -I think they're going to play," he said. "How much, I think is kind of up to them and a little bit, too, up to the returning players ­how well they'll fight them off. But they're all good enough as freshmen to step in and play right away." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Ti.tesday, Feburary 14, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
Helloooo? It's JJ. Is 
this the heod of the Vogino Monologues~ I'd hke to bury the hatchet. 
)F -·--,..-·-·-------. 

CROISSANTWORLD 
GEE W\.-\12 'DAD I  NOW,  I 1)0  
I  AM  0::.0 £.')(.(.\IE. t>  WANT  'fOIJ.  
IO TOUR. Ncrr R.£.  ue.-r  '{OU.fZ  
'DAM'E..  IT'5  uP  ·:rA¥:...'E:  
601Nl:l  \0 BE.  DAME  15  

0RE.AI~ IOUC:zrl SC.I-\OO\... 1'0 C::tE.T IN TO BUI ( 11-\IN K 
'/DU 1VE. C:!OT A 
GREP.."T 'SI-IOT. 
' 
TO \-\oPES 
No-n<.;~: 
A 

ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
~ 

~Y 
W~hout "TC" ~· d just be "otal rap" 

ADAM FAlRHOLM 
'/OU C.P..N f>._S'f:..... 
lr\E. S"TtXDSNT -rourz b.Utl>£ 
E.\I E...R'fl'"H I IV(:~ 'jOU WANT -ro 'f(.t-JOW 
ABOUT Li.O\ NL1 
\-\ E.RE:.. 

(:rOO'!>. \ ---rHOU<:rHT ~ou. WE.RE:. C::tOIN(.:] 
-rt> SE.. 0\..D PE.oP\..E:.. u:.-r.S 6 E-.,. OVE.f!. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PYDET 
± 
02006 Tribuna Media Services. Inc. All R•ghts Reserved. 
MUJYP 
j 
1 
ri
tDOLFUN 
J I I tJ 
www.Jumhlo com 
MAULSY 
( J I ( J
'---'"""-....L'---'---'--..........J'-"'-....c.J 
Answer here: 
"(I I I I I J" ITJ 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: TOOTH STOKE SHOULD CELERYYesterday's Answer: 
The weatherman missed the bus because he was -IN THE CLOUDS 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: MATH TE:AC.HE:R DID BE:­FORE: HIS C.L-A55 E:NDE:O. 

Now arrange the c~rcled letters to form the surprise answer. as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Potato feature 62 River's end, sometimes
1 Serf's oppressor 32 Wilts 63 Soothing gel 
5 Pirate Laffite 33 Critique harshly 
ingredient 9 Joe 34 Fools around 
64 Place to broil

(average guy) (with) 65 Scaredy-cat
14 Numbered work 36 Dessert for 
66 Pen points
Edith?

15 Competent 
67 Plain writing
39 Roundup rope

16 Butter maker 42 Form 1040 org. 
17 Drink for 
DOWN

Vanna? 43 Shade providers 1 Catholic rite that 
19 Funny 47 Prez on a fiver 
lacks singing 

O'Donnell 
48 Sharp-tasting 
2 Tragic figure in 

20 Augusta 
"Hamlet"
50 Enough

National members 51 Family for 
3 Spoiling Pearl? 4 P.M. brightener

21 Rob _(drink with Scotch) 53 Appreciative 5 Chief Argonaut diner
22 Caught some 6 Auction site Z's 54 Diarist Nin 
7 Entirely 24 Novelist Lurie 55 Kipling hero 8 "Schindler's List" star
26 Regulation for 56 Sales worker, Natalie? for short 9 Airport anti­terrorism worker
29 Cold place? 57 Give the OK 10 Cuts (up)
30 Barbarian of the 59 Sound quality comics for George? 11 Disco dances 12 Certain hosp. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE test 
13 Solitary 18 Cupid, to the Greeks 23 Andes climbers 
25 Kind of bar 
26 Hand over, as for sale -=+=+*."-! 27 Senate vote 28 General Clark, to friends 30 Knave 
.;::;+-=+;;:+:;;;..~ 33 Three-term New York governor 
...;:....~..;_.__..__. 35 Step (on) 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WlLL SHOR'TZ 

37 Erodes  44 Give the go­ 53 Moon-related  
38 Attempt  ahead  phenomena  
39 Family dog, for  45 Sniffler's supply  55 Radio dial  
short 40 Baghdad's _ Ghraib prison  46 Garden of Eden inhabitant 49 Sentra maker  57 Madison Ave. output 58 Oahu memento  
41 Consumer safety  50 Prepares to shoot  60  Baba  
measures  52 Comb stoppers  61 Young'un  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address _______________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
Cli:LEHRITIES HORN ON TIHS DAY: Kelly llu, 38; l'ct~r Ciahricl, 56; Sto<:kard Channing. 62; G~orge Segal, 72 
Uappy Birthday: Taking a chanl'e or trying to get away wilh something will only end up in disaster. If you arc stmightturward, Yl>U will gl't so much further ahead. Positive action is what willlw rcquir~d this year so rid yourself of any ncg<lli\'ity you've been harboring. Your numbers are 8, 13, 16, 23. 29, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can develop goml relationships with pl~oplc who can alTer you stability in your work and your position in soci~ty. Travel, entc1tainment and develnping an interest will all turn out bcltcrlhan expected. ••••• TAl!RlJS (April 20-May 20): EfllOtional upset will clnud ynur day ifynu give in to negativity. lgnnre what isn't working out for you and talk to the penplc who can help you. Ke~p things in perspective. •• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Evcl)•thing you arc tl)·ing to gel ofT the ground will be up in the air today. Don't expect family or dose friends to hail you out. Stick to the jobs you know that you can do alone. •• CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): You'll lind yourself in a prime position when it comes to work, projects or money matters. The more you do to engage in something a little ditlerent, the more excited you will become about the possihilities th:ll arc ahead ofyou. • • • • LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): It's OK to be serious about money and making more of it. You dnn't always have to be the one who entertains everyone. Focus on how you can get ahead professionally, financially and personally. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love and romance are looking very positive. A l'rcativc idea will catch your attention and lead you in an unusual direction. A partnership may appear to be shaky but once you talk matters through. you will realize you have a great connection. • • • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in an activity you haven't tried before. You will enjoy the people you meet and the benefits of learning something new. Love may not turn out the way you expect. A career change will challenge you in a good way. ••• SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your time and effort into a creative dream. A new romantic opportunity may confuse you. Consider changing your personal life in order to pursue a new interest. A learning experience is in the stars. • •• • SAGITTARHJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): People who can offer you knowledge, insight and the cold hard facts will come into your life if you get involved in an activity or event that interests you. Travel·· whether a short or long distance --will be eye­opening. ••••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Greater involvement with social activities or peqple who interest you creatively will pay otrin the ideas and opportunities that surface. Someone you meet through work will show intcrt•st in you. Be careful not to believe everything you hear.... AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Jicb. 18): Confusion and second-guessing will leave you in an awkward position. A problem while traveling or dealing with someone who doesn't agree with you will escalate. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look on the bright side of lite and things will start to turn in your favor. You will have to deal with a partner who is probably a little confused in his or her way ofd1inking. Showing what you mean rather then describing what you mean will bring better result~. •• • 
Birthday Baby: You arc quit'k to change your mind and always looking lor new interests. You are a dreamer and an entt·rtainer and you always put a lot of energy into whatever you pursue. You have drive. will power and bal'kbone . 
Eugenia's Web sites: aslroad\•ice.com,li>rjim. eugenialwr.com.fi~r conjitl•·ntia/ consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 
page 24 
-NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Waldrum calls incoming freshmen 'a great fit' for system 
ior midfielder. challenge Feb. 5 when he be highly, highly rated as one of body-flip throw-in style for herBy KEN FOWLER The departures of All­announced the signings of five the top classes in the country, Eclipse Select team, was the 
Sports Writer 
American forward Katie players to national letters of but I think that realistically, only forward in the class. Thorlakson, fifth-year senior intent to play for Notre Dame we're not concerned with that Virginia and Illinois were 
Going into the recruiting sea­Candace Chapman, veteran next fall -forward Michelle because we know what we among the other schools that 
son, Irish coach Randy goalkeeper Erika Bohn and Weissenhoffer, defender Haley need to make our system offered scholarships to the 
Waldrum had a tough task in midfield standout Annie Ford, goalie Kelsey Lysander work," he said. "And I think the Naperville, Ill., native, but she 
front of him -replace two All­Schefter left a serious hole in and midfielders Courtney Rosen players that we got were ... a said Notre Dame had an edge 
Americans, a four-year starting the Notre Dame roster. and Amanda Clark. great fit." 
goalkeeper and a starting sen-Waldrum tried to answer that "I don't think we're going to Weissenhoffer, who utilizes a see RECRUITS/page 22 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Accomplished seniors seek tournament bid 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Irish senior standouts Pat Walsh and D.J. Driscoll have achieved as many individual and statisti-
.-----..-=::rr=-----. cal honors on the lacrosse field as any two players in program his­tory. 
But the painful absence on Walsh the resume of Notre Dame's 2006 senior class is an NCAA Tournament appearance -a shortcoming Walsh and Driscoll are striv­ing to remedy in their last season in South Bend. 
"Being a senior, it's your last shot to make something of it," Walsh said. "Letting the younger guys know how important it is brings the leader out of you, because you want to get the most out of the year." 
Walsh's personal accom­plishments are endless. The attackman is the first Notre Dame player to earn STX/USILA All-America hon­ors in each of his first three seasons, with honorable men­tions in 2003 and 2005 and third team honors in 2004 and 2005. He also led the Great 
see SENIORS/page 21 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
In a New York state of mind 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associated Sports Editor 
Irish freshman Kyle McAlarney came to Notre Dame thinking he knew it all, and he had a high school resume to back it up. 
McAlarney was named New York Class A Player of the Year following his senior season. He scored a Staten Island-record 2,566 points in four years of var­sity basketball. 
It was the fourth highest total in the history of a state that has a reputation for sending top point guards to successful NBA careers -among them Mark Jackson (retired), Kenny Anderson (retired), Stephon Marbury (New York Knicks) and Sebastian Telfair (Portland Trailblazers). PHIL HUDELSONfrhe 
see MCALARNEY/page 21 
Irish guard Kyle McAiarney dribbles against Hofstra Nov. 22. McAiamey has been a key player for Notre Dame in his first sea-
NO SWIMMING 
ND men put title on line at tournament in East Meadow, N.Y. 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The Irish already have had a successful season, but they travel to East Meadow, N.Y. Wednesday to defend their Big East Championship crown in the most important meet of the year. 
"This year we are the defend­ing champions," Irish sopho­more swimmer Jay Vandenberg said. "That makes us stronger than last year. Once you have it, you don't want to give it up." 
Vandenberg is out to defend his title in the 1,650-yard 
see MEN/page 22 

Double defense 

Irish women look to capture 11th straight Big East championship 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

When the Big East Championships begin Wednesday in East Meadow, N.Y., Notre Dame will look to pick up where it left off -in more ways than one. 
The Irish have sat idle for almost three weeks but have won their last seven events this season. They also have cap­tured the past 10 Big East titles. Notre Dame wants to make sure both streaks continue. 
The No. 20 Irish enter the meet as favorites, along with 
see WOMEN /page 22 


NCAA BASKETBALl
CLUB SPORTS 

~CAA BASKETBAll 
OlYMPICS
OlYMPICS 
~BA 
LLI 
Co) Women's hockey 
Villanova 69 

Sutton on medical 
Athletes' blood 
Cavaliers 101

Russian fcair wins 
z earned a tie and a win 
Connecticut 64 

leave of absence 
gold me al 
tests are clean 
Spurs 87 
against Illinois last
::5 
weekend. 
The Wildcats defeated 

Oklahoma State's 
The dynamic Russian 
Four skiiers had their 
LeBron James scored
~ 

-· 
the top-ranked Huskies 

coach was cited Feb. 10 
duo of Totmianina and 
suspensions revoked 
44 points in the 
~ 
at the Wachovia Center 

for driving under the 
Marinin won the gold 
after their blood tests 
Cleveland win. 
in Philadelphia. 
influence. 

medal with no contro­
came back negative. 
a. ~ 
versy this year.
en page 20 
page 19 

page 18 
page 17 
page 15 
page 14 








