
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Forum will focus on global health 
Seven experienced panelists to share thoughts, knowledge 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
An issue that covers the tiny -the chromo­somes of malaria-carrying mosquitoes -to the massive -the two bil­lion people thought to be See Also affected with the tuberculo­
"Forum topic,
sis virus -will take center stage for seven panelists in class cancella­the Notre Dame Forum 
lion receives
today. The second annual forum, attention" entitled "The Global Health 
page3
Crisis: Forging Solutions, Effecting Change," will be held from 1:15 to 3:15 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Panelists include Dr. Paul Farmer, the founding director of the international non-
see FORUM/page 4 
Saint Mary's diversity highest in five years 
Diversity at 

Saint Mary"s College 
Class of Nationality 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2016 
4  6  2  11  
2  f  4  2  
9  6  10  9  10  
12  19  16  21  20  
27  32  32  32  43  
376  402  350  377  426  
7.2%  6.0%  9.1%  8.5%  10.1%  


Dr. Paul Fanner, founding director of Partners in Health -an international non-profit organization -and an Academic Forum panelist, checks the health of an African girl. 
Record number of ND alurns donate money 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 

If the screaming blue-and-gold thousands who pack into Notre Dame Stadium aren't enough to prove that loyalty to the University lasts far longer than four years, the latest alumni giv­ing rate certainly is. 
During the 2005-06 fiscal year, 
53.2 percent of Notre Dame alumni gave some sort of mone­tary donation to the University ­setting an all-time record for the school, said Lou Nanni, vice presi­dent of University Relations. 
The previous record was set in 1994, when an even 53 percent of former undergraduates gave baek. 
"The number is less indieative of the efforts of the [Department of Development] and more a sign of how impaeted alumni are dur­ing their time as students," Nanni said. "They feel loyalty and give back to support the mission of Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame has eonsistently been ranked in the top three in the nation for its alumni giving rate, along with Prineeton University and Dartmouth College. 
Nanni said 53.2 percent should put the University "squarely in second place, behind Prineeton." 
"Many of the top universities in the country, the Harvards, Yales, Stanfords, their schools average 
see DONATIONS/page 6 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
The number of Saint Mary's freshmen representing diverse multicultural backgrounds increased this year to the highest number-10.1 percent-the College has seen in the past five years. 
Though the College is interest­ed in bringing in minority stu­dents, the initiative to increase diversity is more about retention and the three-year goal to increase diversity to 15 percent, Vice President for Enrollment Management Dan Meyer said. 
"The institution is committed to increasing diversity represen­tation," he said. "Now Admissions needs to execute." 
Since 2001, the percentage of minority students has hovered between seven and 10 percent, with this year being the highest. The next highest percentage, 9.9 percent, was in 2001. 
"The retention rate for minori­ties is roughly the same for the typical student, which is about 84 percent of freshmen return­ing for their sophomore year," Meyer said. 
Saint Mary's has used different methods to attract more multi­cultural students, Meyer said, following up more persistently with interested students. 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Gender nutnbers uneven 
ND administrators look for solution to level percentages 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
While Notre Dame began accepting women in 1972, 34 years has not been quite enough to balance out the male-to-female ratio -cur­rently a lopsided 53 percent men to 47 percent women. 
"It is what it is and hopeful­

ly, once we review our num­
bers at the end of this year. 
we can go deeper into finding 
a solution," Arts and Letters 
Associate Director Ava 
Preacher said. 
Though the Admissions Office -which has been "gender blind" since 1997 ­is working hard to maintain a solid equilibrium in each admitted class, the gender imbalance becomes more clear when students separate amongst the five undergradu­ate colleges their sophomore year, Assistant Provost for Admissions Dan Saracino said. 
The College of Science boasts more women than men, with a ratio of 52 per­cent to 48 percent. The College of Architecture is nearly even with 51 percent men and 49 percent women. The College of Business, how­ever, maintains a roughly 1­to-3 ratio of women to men, with 38 percent women and 62 percent men, Saracino 
see GENDER/page 4 

SENATE 
Group, BOT to discuss technology 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Student government's fall presen­tation to the Board of Trustees (BOT) will focus on technology and student networking, student body president Lizzi Shappell announeed at Wednesday's Student Senate meeting. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman and the ehair of the Student Alfairs committee on the BOT seleeted the topic, Shappell said. The Board wants to learn more about the popular social-net­working Web site, Faeebook.com, as well as students' use of Instant Messaging, e-mail and cell phone usage. 
see SENATE/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 14, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ode to the Mohawk 
I don't know about you, but I've noticed 
a fair few Mohawks being flatmted 
around campus these days -and they 
certainly can't all belong to our one 
trendsetter of a safety. 
Since school 

began I imagine Maureen Mullen 
most of us have 
seen Mohawk 

News 
wearing individuals 

Production
in the dining halls, 

Editor
at tailgates and in 
classes. We have all 

seen the Mohawk paired with a skate­
board, but recently I caught sight of one 
accessorizing a polo shirt. Yes, hard to 
believe folks, but it seems that Notre 
Dame-bastion of prep chic-is 
embracing The Mohawk. 

So, in the true spirit of acceptance and 
inclusion, I thought I might educate 
myself on the Mohawk-its style, its 
genre, and its history. 

Five pages ofWikipedia are dedicated 
to defining and describing the term 
"Mohawk hairstyle." 

As most of us would expect. it was the 
Native American Mohawk tribe that gave 
us this fantastic hairstyle. Wikipedia also 
tells us that during World War II, mem­
bers of the Allied Airborne soldiers 
shaved their hair into Mohawks. 
In my mind however, it was the decade 
of the eighties that truly rocked the 
Mohawk. Lawrence "Mr. T" Tureaud 
donned the single strip of spiked hair as 
Oubber Lang in Rocky III and then again 
as Sgt. B.A. Baracus in the TV series, The 
A-Team. Rockers and punks alike dyed, 
spiked and sported their hawks. Robert 
De Niro in Martin Scorcese's film Taxi 
Driver gave America another well-known 
cultural depiction of the fad. 

Until exposure to a breadth of 
Wikipedian knowledge on the subject, I 
was ignorant of the many forms a 
Mohawk might take. There is for 
instance, "The Liberty Spiked Mohawk" 
(Mohawk with spikes resembling those 
on Statue of Liberty), "Devilocks" (fash­
ioned by Jerry Only of the band Misfits), 
"Dreadhawk" (Mohawk with hair dread­
locked instead of spiked) and the 
"Fanned Mohawk"(resembles a fan, term 
used toady in punk circles). The 
"Fauxhawk" is a more modem deviation 
of the Mohawk-a style that some may 
argue is sell-out as it allows for a less 
punk and more "metro" look. Of course 
the styles go on, but Inside Columns do 
not. 

Yes, it seems that the Mohawk is mak­
ing a more contemporary resurgence. 
Travis Barker ofBlink182 brought the 
punk hawk to the 90s. Currently, David 
Beckham wears his Mohawk very well 
indeed. This year's German World Cup 
soccer team displayed Mohawk solidarity, 
while Maddox Jolie-Pitt has revolution­
ized the concept of "the cute Mohawk." 
There are without a doubt a great 
many of the Mohawk nay-sayers in this 
world. Working professionaL<>, companies 
and businesses, the majority of parents, all reject the concept of the Mohawk. At the Penn State Pep Rally last Friday how­' ever, No.9 scored the Mohawk a victory and reassured, perhaps even persuaded 
one of the nay-saying groups: 
"Parents, ifyour kid wants to get one, 
don't worry. Hair grows back." 
bz:zzzzzzzzzzzzzz ........ . 

Contact Maureen Mullen at 
mmullen 1 @nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, information in the sub­headline ofan article in the Sept. 13 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly stated that faculty and staff members purchase recently constructed homes on Norre Dame Ave. They are buying the lots ofland and building new homes on ir. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK WOULD BE A GOOD TOPIC FOR THE ACADEMIC FORUM? 





Nick Mclees Greg Engle 
junior juniorSt. Edward's Stanford 
"The evolution "Domestic 
,,

ofthe English poverty. language ... 
LOLZ!!" 
OFFBEAT 
Man may have sent 2 billion spam emails 

SYDNEY, Australia-An Australian man under inves­tigation for illegal spamming sent more than 2 billion e­mails promoting Viagra in a year, an official said Wednesday. 
Experts say that's a drop in the ocean compared to the number of spam e-mails sent globally each year, and the system he used probably wasn't very sophisticated. 
The Australian Commu­nications and Media Authority began investigat­ing the man, whose identity was not immediately released, after receiving a 


Courtney Klusterman 
freshman Cavanaugh 
"Human rights violations and 
,

torture. 

for nearly two days in prepa­

. ration for the competitive hot dog eating contest at the Kansas State Fair. But it took just nine franks until Breinig suffered what veterans of the competitive eating circuit call a "reversal of fortune" Monday after­noon. And when his team of five National Guardsmen finally won Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest -chomping down some 46 hot dogs with buns -Breinig was a little too nauseous to take part in the celebration. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
tip-off from authorities in the Netherlands in May last year. 
Danyel Molenaar, a project manager for the Dutch Independent Regulator of Post and Telecommuni­cations, said the man had rented 35 servers for around 14,000 Australian dollars each per month from a small Internet service provider in the Netherlands to carry out the alleged spam campaign. 
'Reversal of Fortune' at hot dog eating contest 
HUTCHINSON, Kan. ­Robert Breinig was ready to cram down the hot dogs. He'd kept his stomach empty 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 


t):


t):~ 
..J 
<C 
(.) 

...I 0 HIGH 73 HIGH 60 HIGH 78 HIGH 79 LOW 66 LOW 55 LOW 57 LOW 59 


Stacey Williams John Blackburn 
junior junior McGlinn Stanford 
"The dangers of 'The impact of feminism: football on communism, society, with infanticide and Charlie Weis as lesbianism. " the keynote 
,
speaker. 
IN BRIEF 
An exhibit entitled "Caras Vernos, Corazones No Sabernos: The Human Landscape of Mexican Migration to the United States" is on display at the Snite Museum of A.rt until Nov. 12. Museum hours vary by day. Admission is free. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform "Hamlet" in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. from today until Friday. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $16 for seniors/Notre Dame faculty and staff and $12 for students. 
"Let Your Sister Pick Your Mister" social mixer will take place today from 8 p.m. to 11 in the Saint Mary's student center ballroom. Admission is $5 per couple. 
Saint Mary's will celebrate Constitution Day today with a panel on "The War on Terror, National Security, and Civil Liberties," from 12:30 p.m. to 
1:30 in the West Wing of the Dining Hall. 
Former U.S. Rep. Tim Roemer will present a talk titled "Safeguarding America: National Security in the 21st Century" today at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Hall auditorium. 
Jennifer Morgan of New York University will give the lecture "Accounting for the Women in Slavery: Demography and the TransAtlantic Slave Trade" today at 4 p.m. in Room 210­214 of McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 80 71 LOW 59 50 
Atlanta 81 I 59 Boston 70 I 62 Chjcago 75 I 58 Denver 80 I 58 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 75 I 60 Minneapolis 77 1 62 New York 69 I 65 Philadelphia 71 I 62 Phoenix 94 I 78 Seattle 59 I 49 St. Louis 80 I 56 Tampa 86 I 75 Washington 73 1 64 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Students consider forum 
health." 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Sophomore Dan Thaner, 
Assistant News Editor 
who works with biology pro­fessor Nora Besansky at the 
To some students, today's Center for Global Health and second annual Notre Dame Infectious Diseases, said the Forum is a can't-miss event issue is especially pertinent led by big names and equally today. big ideals. To others, howev­"It's definitely opened up er, the cancellation of class my eyes -it's made me want for the two hours while the to go to Africa this summer, forum takes place is the real just to see 'Yhat it's really news. like," he said. "Even though 
Father Thomas Streit, direc­I'm more aware of it, I still tor of the University's Haiti feel ignorant of it all." Program and the Center for The problem being so dire 
Global Health  in  Africa,  a  
in Biology, said  continent quite  
the forum has  "I think it's going to  a  distance  
generated anticipation among stu­ be a big issue in the future, the issue of  from South Bend, may diminish it in  
dents.  global health."  the  minds  of  
"I think [the  some  Notre  
forum] already has achieved a lot in that it  Courtney Haven sophomore  Dame students, Assistant Vice President for  
has gotten the  News  and  
discussion  Information  

really going already," he said. Dennis Brown said. "I've noticed that already in "I think most people here my classes. The forum will be are cognizant of the fact that the great culmination of all there's a real problem with this buzz that's already been AIDS in Africa, but that's in going since the beginning of Africa, not middle America. the semester." So they don't really take it 
Students like sophomore very seriously," he said. "This Courtney Haven said the is an opportunity to focus in, University did a commendable to give the student body a job in choosing the focus of chance to hear from interna­this year's forum. tionally known experts in the 
"The topic is really interest­field, an opportunity to look ing," Haven said. "I think it's at this thing in depth." going to be a big thing in the Sophomore Claire Sloss ­future, the issue of global who is "interested in social justice" -is planning on attending the forum, but admits that she's required to do so for a class. 
"I think it's nice [that class­es are cancelled]. It allows everybody who wants to attend, to attend," she said. "But I think it's also a good excuse for kids not to go to class." 
A good exuse for students like senior Jorie Reger, who said she is "stoked" about classes being cancelled. 
"I don't think it's a good idea to cancel classes, even though I'm excited," she said. "People who have class can­celled aren't saying, 'Yes, I can go to the forum.' They are saying, 'Sweet, I can go do whatever I want now.'" 
Panelist Michael Dewan also expressed concern over the length of the program. 
"To be honest, I don't know how much inspiring two hours can do," he said. "But at the very least, it can raise people's eyebrows and get people to start thinking about [global health]. If people can listen to what Drs. Farmer, Sachs and Opwonya have to say, maybe they'll be that much more interested in edu­cating themselves or going out and making a difference themselves. 
"Ideally, that's what the purpose of the forum is." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 



SafeguardingAmerica 
National Security in the 21st Century 
A PUBLIC LECTURE BY 
Congressman 

Timothy J. Roemer 
PRESIDE~T. CENTER FOR NATIONAL POLICY 
September 14, 2006 7pm DeBartolo Hall Auditorium 

Sponsored by THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
Cosponsored by THE KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES and the DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE 

Senior w-ins national hulllanitarian aw-ard 
Special to the Observer 
Steven Cartwright, a University of Notre Dame senior from Pittsburgh, will receive the 2006 Howard R. Swearer Student Humanitar­ian Award 
f r o m Campus Compact. 
The first Notre Dame student to receive this award and one of only five selected 


nationwide, Cartwright Cartwright was honored based upon his commitment to public service and for developing an innovative pro­gram to address issues facing the community. Cartwright will receive a $1,500 contri­bution to be used in a service program of his choice. Cartwright has participated 
in numerous service activities within the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. In 2004, he founded Lead-NO, a student organization provid­ing equitable after-school opportunities for South Bend youths to learn the value of community service and active citizenship. Operating pro­grams at three local schools, the organization has devel­oped leadership programs, sponsored National Youth Service Day events and devot­ed countless hours to engag­ing young people in the com­munity. 
Campus Compact is a national coalition of nearly 1,000 college and university presidents who are commit­ted to fulfilling the civic pur­poses of higher education. Cartwright previously has been recognized for his work with an award from Indiana Campus Compact, a member of the national organization. 

Renowned theologian 
set to deliver lecture 
Former ND visiting prof to discuss book 
Special to the Observer 
Theologian and author Michael Novak will discuss his book "Business as a Calling" at 6 p.m. Thursday (Sept. 14) in the Jordan 
Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business at t h e University of Notre Dame. 
The direc­


tor of social Novak and politi­cal studies at the American 
Enterprise Institute, Novak also is the Institute's George Frederick Jewett Chair in Religion and Public Policy. He is the author of 24 books on the philosophy and theology of culture and received the $1 million Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion in 1994. He was the Welch Visiting Professor of American Studies at Notre Dame in 1987-88 and also has taught at Harvard, Stanford and Syracuse Universities and the State University of New York. 
Novak's talk, which is free and open to the public, is sponsored by Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, the Center for Ethics and Culture and the Jacques Maritain Center. 
SENIOR SCIENTIST P!-ovides support for Science Group external and/or internal projects or prograrns, interprets custorner requirerrlents, conceptualizes and develops r-adiation detection n1easurement systen1s and design specifications. Re­searches, reviews and recornrnends state of the art technology for systems product devel­opment. Contributes to and participates in the developrnent of Request for Proposals, project design reviews, presentations, conferences and pr-epar-es required docun1entation. T"he candidate will participate in product conceptual design, product performance evaluations and evaluations of potential useful technologies. Con1puter· hardwar·e and software oper-ating systerns including Microsoft: Windows .XP, and/ or UNIX using C++. Laboratory equipment suct1 as radiation detectors, gan1n1a spectros­copy systerns, neutron detectors, NIM and other electronics. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: Ph.D. in Nuclear Science, Nuclear Engineering, Physics or related physical science with an ernphasis on applied research aimed at radiation rneasuring/ monitoring systems. 1 0+ years experience in a position perfonning research, and designing at least at the conceptual stage, radiation n•eas­uring/monitoring systems. 5 year-s experience working with diverse and cross-functional groups, including scientists, engineers, man­agement, nlar-keting and other technical staff. Candidates rnust be a US citiz.en. USA and/or international travel ('10-15o/o per yr.) 
Applicanrs should send a cover letter and resurne to nucsafejobs@nucsafe.corn. 
For more information, please visit www.nucsafe.com. 
Affirmative ActJon I Equal Opportunity Employer 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
Gender 
continued from page 1 
said. 

Divisions in the remaining two colleges, Arts and Letters and Engineering, were not as close. Females leapfrog men in Arts and Letters, with a ratio of 7 5 percent to 25 per­cent. Conversely, the College of Engineering has 73 percent men and only 27 percent women, Saracino said. 
Despite the breakdowns, Saracino said intended majors indicated by prospective stu­dents on their applications have no bearing on their chances of being admitted. 
"Quite candidly, intended major plays no role in admis­does make it seem that some things belong to one gender and that's innate, but I don't agree with that." 
Preacher said that Arts and Letters is currently undergo­ing a study to examine the numbers more closely and devise a strategy to improve them. 
"Throughout the year, we're keeping a record of how many women and men come in for advising and we'll see if we need to outreach more to men. Then we'll be able to deter­mine if it's a cultural or prac­tical difference preventing [the underrepresented gender] from studying here," she said. 
In the College of Engineering,. while men out­number women three to one, both female stu­dents and faculty 
sions decisions," "It is what it is and praise the struc­he said. "That ture of the school
hopefully, once we
being said, we and its improve­
review our
also do not look ment in the num­at one's 'intended numbers at the end ber of under­major' on his or graduate women
of this year, we can
her application in the program. 
go deeper into 
-knowing full "The national well that stu­finding a solution." average of dents will change women in engi­their minds about neering colleges
Ava Preacher
their academic is 19 percent, so 
Arts and Letters
intents quite we're above the often -when Associate Director national aver­
arriving at our decisions." 

Many students, particularly those pursuing double or sup­plementary majors between two colleges, said the gender gaps are becoming increasing­ly noticeable. 
"There's definitely a big dis­crepancy," said senior Terin Barbas, who is pursuing a major in marketing and a sup­plementary major in gender studies. "From my experience, business fields such as finance and accounting is male-domi­nated, marketing is split 50­50, and gender studies is female-dominated." 
Those splits, Barbas said, may be due to perceived psy­chological differences between the sexes. She believes her marketing major allows her the best of both worlds. 
"More men have a tendency to go to business and science because it requires more thought processes, and women opt for Arts and Letters because they are more analyt­ical," Barbas said. "I think marketing is more creative and leans towards the liberal arts, thereby drawing more women to it." 
In the College of Arts and Letters, however, students said gender differences need to be addressed. Robert Hyde, a senior sociology major and gender studies minor, said that has taken classes with female-to-male ratios as high as 6-to-1 and that many of the courses offered are portrayed as "man-hating." 
"These courses are dealing with feminism that does por­tray men as being the enemy," he said. "Because they are all discussion-based, a lot of men feel like they have to come to class prepared to defend 
themselves.  I  was  among  
three men in  a  class of 30 at  
one point."  
As  recent  as  2001,  men  

were the majority -at 56 percent -in the College of Arts and Letters, said Preacher. 
"While some courses like economics and political sci­ence retain popularity among male students, it's interesting how many other fields, like English, have started attract­ing more women," she said. "The imbalance, however, age," said Cathy 
Pieronek, direc­tor of the College's Academic Affairs. "The question that people have been trying to answer about why more women aren't interested in engineering as a career field is really the $64,000 ques­tion." 
Pieronek said she is espe­cially proud of how the women do not seem threatened by being the minority, which is 
reflected  in  the  College's  
retention rate.  
Still,  Pieronek  said  that  

admissions could help in increasing the numbers. 
"What we get, we keep, but what we don't get, we can't keep," she said. "If you want more women in the sopho­more class of engineers, you need to have more women in the freshman class, so they need to be admitted right upfront." 
Freshman Nicole Shuttleworth said her engi­neering, calculus and chem­istry classes are "probably 70 percent" male -but that's not a problem. 
"I don't see that as discour­aging at all," she said. "I actu­ally think women studying engineering are at an advan­tage, because they do get a lot of assistance from the guys, yet don't feel the need to com­pete amongst each other because they exist in fewer numbers." 
Kara Kelly, the College of Architecture's director of Communications, credited the school's balance of 93 women and 95 men to a change in era. Now, she said, the career is considered much more flex­ible for women. 
"It used to be difficult to gain a woman's interest in architecture because the pro­fession requires odd hours, away from their homes when they were raising families," she said. "We had Suman Sorg, who owns a firm with 20 female associates in Washington D.C., Sorg and Associates, P.C., speak with our female students to remind them [of] the flexibility and balance that female architects can easily obtain." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

Foru01 

continued from page 1 
profit organization Partners in Health; Dr. Jeffrey Sachs, director of the United Nations Millennium Project and Dr. Miriam Opwonya of the Makerere University Infectious Diseases Institute in Uganda. 
Gwen Ifill, moderator and managing editor of' "Washington Week" and senior correspondent for "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer," will moderate the event. 
Even more so than last year's "Why God'? Understanding Religion and Enacting Faith in a Plural World," which coincided with University President Father John Jenkins' inauguration, this year's forum aims to edu­cate students, said Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown. 
"I think the primary goal in this particular case is to bring to the student body some real depth of knowledge concern­ing what is a massive problem worldwide," he said. "It's a problem that I think most peo­ple are aware of on a sort of surface level, but it's got a lit­tle bit of an 'out of sight, out of mind' aspect to it." 
Also participating are sen­iors Michael Dewan and Ailis Tweed-Kent, as well as alumni Keri Oxley, Class of 2004 and Dr. David Gaus, Class of 1984. All of the participants have personal experience with the global health crisis. 
Time Magazine named Farmer -who has worked with the poverty-and disease­stricken populations of Haiti, Peru, Russia and Rwanda ­"America's most celebrated doctor for the poor." lie was the subject of Pulitzer Prize­winning author Tracy Kidder's 2003 book "Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, A Man Who Would Cure the World." 
Farmer's organization, Partners in Health, describes its goals on its Web site as "bringing the benefits of mod­ern medical science to those most in need of them and serv­ing as an antidote to despair." 
Opwonya, too, has seen the issue of global health first­hand. At Makerere University, she is the coordinator of clini­cal trials for anti-retroviral liiV/AIDS therapy. Prior to her position there, she coordinated an HIV/AIDS home-based care program in the city and sub­urbs of Kampala, Uganda. 
"Effecting change" is a familiar concept to Sachs. An advisor to Kofi Annan, he directs the United Nations Millennium Project, an inter­national effort to reduce poverty, disease and hunger by the year 2015. 
Father Thomas Streit, direc­tor of the University's Haiti Program and the Center for Global Health in Biology, com­mended the choice of pan­elists. 
"In academic circles, some of these speakers have achieved rock-star status," he said. "At other universities, people have to pay to see these speakers. We have not just one, but three." 
Dewan traveled to Uganda through one of the Center for Social Concerns' International Summer Service Learning Programs (ISSLP). where he was meant to be a primary school teacher. But that plan changed once he got there. 
"I ended up spending half my time at an HIV-malaria clinic a few miles away," he said. "I got a really good pic­ture of the situation of health there." 
A combination of extreme poverty and a lack of health professionals in the area left Ugandans neglected in terms of health care, Dewan said. 
"They didn't have a lot of places to go when they were sick," he said. "And even if they did, a lot of them were too poor to really receive any care that could have been available to them, like anti­retrovirals for HIV or quinine for malaria. You read about this stuff, but actually witness­ing it is pretty powerful." 
Dewan described testing Ugandans' blood for diseases like HIV, hepatitis, tuberculosis and malaria -a disease he himself fell victim to, though he "didn't want to make a big deal of it." His bout with malaria only lasted a week and his treatment cost the equivalent of eight U.S. dol­lars. 
"You and I spend the same amount of money on a burger and fries without thinking twice," he wrote in an essay for the forum's Web site. "Meanwhile millions of chil­dren are dying from this same disease every year simply because they cannot afford the treatment ... Pretty messed up, don't you think?" 
While Dewan and Tweed­Kent have a great deal of experience, Dewan said he has no intention of saying "any­thing life-changing or world­changing" during the forum. 
"That's what people like Dr. Farmer and Dr. Sachs are there for," he said. "I think the purpose of myself and Ailis being on the panel is to show the [undergraduates in the] audience that as much as any­body, we as young people are responsible for the things that happen in this world. 
"It's not something that's abstract or separate from us. We are supposed to be the dif­ference-makers for tomorrow." 
Contact Eileen DuffY at eduffyl@nd.edu · 






Michael Novak 
Director (?fSocial and Political Studies, American Enterprise Institute and 
George Frederick Jewett Chair in Religion, Philosophy, and Public Policy, 
American Enterprise Institute 

For information contact (574) 631-3277 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 6:00p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Sponsored by: Mendoza College ofBusiness Center for Ethics and Culture Jacques Maritain Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COlLEGE Of 8t;SIN£SS 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 CoiVtP!LED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shooter attacks college, wounds 20 
MONTREAL -A man in a black trench coat and a mohawk haircut opened fire Wednesday at a downtown Montreal col­lege and wounded at least 20 people ­eight critically -before police shot and killed him, witnesses and authorities said. 
Police dismissed suggestions that race or terrorism played a role in the lunch-hour attack at Dawson College, where scores of panicked students fled into the streets after the shooting began. Some had clothes stained with blood; others cried and clung to each other. Two nearby shop­ping centers and a daycare center also were evacuated. 
"I was terrified. The guy was shooting at people randomly. He didnt care, he was just shooting at everybody," said student Devansh Smri Vastava. "There were cops firing. It was so crazy." 
Syrian attacker dies from wounds 
DAMASCUS, Syria -The bold attack on the U.S. Embassy has thrown new light on what President Bashar Assad calls the growing threat in Syria from Islamic extremists. But some critics say the regime is exaggerating the problem for its own political gain. 
With questions still unanswered about the assault, the only attacker captured in the gunbattle died from his wounds before police could question him, officials said Wednesday, leaving the investigation's future unclear. 
The state-run Syrian Arab News Agency said the dead man and three other gun­men killed during Tuesday's attempt to storm the embassy compound were all Syrian citizens. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Interrogation treaty faces dissent 
WASHINGTON -Negotiations between the White House and a trio of powerful GOP senators snagged Wednesday over Bush administration demands that Congress reinterpret the nation's treaty obligations to allow tough CIA interroga­tions of terrorism suspects. 
Sen. John Warner, chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said his panel would meet Thursday to finalize an alter­native to President Bush's plan to prose­cute terror suspects and redefine acts that constitute war crimes. Warner said he was aware the White House may come out in opposition of his legislation. 

Distraught mother commits suicide 
LEESBURG, Fla. -Two weeks after telling police that her son had been snatched from his crib, Melinda Duckett found herself reeling in an interview with TV's famously prosecuto­rial Nancy Grace. Before it. was over, Grace was pounding her desk and loudly demanding to know: "Where were you? Why aren't you telling us where you were that day?" 
A day after the taping, Duckett, 21, shot herself to death, deepening the mystery of what happened to the boy. 
Police have refused to say whether she left a suicide note, and said nothing they have found so far in their investigation of her death has shed light on the whereabouts of her 2-year­old son, Trenton. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Lawyer arrested for intoxication 
ANDERSON, Ind. -A police officer arrest­ed a lawyer after telling a judge that the man had showed up drunk for a court hearing. 
Paul E. Baylor, 35, of Anderson was released from the Madison County Jail's detox unit on his own recognizance Tuesday night several hours after his arrest on a charge of public intoxication. 
State Trooper Chris Noone was in Madison Superior Court to testify in a case and was sitting near Baylor when he noticed he seemed to be intoxicated, Judge Dennis Carroll said. 
IRAQ 



65 dead discovered in Baghdad 
Latest Middle East violence leaves tortured bodies strewn around capital city 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The leader of Iraq's biggest Sunni Arab group demanded Wednesday that the belea­guered Shiite-led govern­ment take steps to disarm militias after police said the bodies of 65 tortured men were dumped in and around Baghdad. 
On a violent day even by the standards of Baghdad, car bombs, mortars and other attacks also killed at least 39 people and wound­ed dozens. Two U.S. sol­diers also were killed, one in enemy action in restive Anbar province on Monday and the other in a roadside bombing south of Baghdad on Tuesday, the U.S. mili­tary command said. 
The attacks have been unrelenting despite a secu­rity crackdown around the capital by 12,000 U.S. and Iraqi troops. The more than 1,500 violent deaths last month at the height of the joint operation speak to the difficulties in restoring any semblance of security to this sprawling city of 6 million people. 
Although Sunni Arabs operate some death squads, the vast majority are run by Shiite militias and gangs. 
Shiite political groups, including those in power, ment carries out what it neighborhoods. Multi-National Corps-Iraq. claim that armed militias pledged and disbands mili­All the bodies were The reason for the differ­have nothing to do with tias and considers them bound, bore signs of tor­ence was not immediately them and that their own terrorist organizations," al­ture and had been shot, clear. The confusion over military wings were dis­Dulaimi told The police said. Such killings numbers underscores the armed months ago and Associated Press. His party are usually the work of difficulty of obtaining accu­turned into social and is Iraq's largest Sunni Arab death squads who kidnap rate death tolls in Iraq, humanitarian groups. They political bloc and holds 44 people and usually torture which lacks the reporting claim that armed groups seats in the 275-member them with power drills, or and tracking systems of and militias are "rogue" parliament. beat them, before shooting most modern nations. Also, elements beyond their con­"Their presence is deteri­them execution-style with a counts by the U.S. military trol, but many Sunni Arabs orating the situation and bullet to the head. often lag behind those of contend that they are in bringing more troubles to The U.S. military said it the police. fact controlled by Shiite the political atmosphere," could not confirm all the According to Iraqi police, politicians and clerics. al-Dulaimi said of militias. executions and that their 45 of the bodies were dis­
Adnan al-Dulaimi, a "We call upon all religious body count so far was covered in predominantly Sunni who heads the Iraqi authorities to raise their lower than that reported by Sunni Arab parts of west­Accordance Front political voices and demand militias police. ern Baghdad. Fifteen were party, called on Prime be disarmed." "It is looking like about a found in predominantly Minister Nouri al-Maliki, a Police said 60 of the bod­50 percent discrepancy on Shiite areas of eastern Shiite, to take a first step ies were found overnight execution-style killings so Baghdad. And five were by honoring a pledge to around Baghdad, with the far," said Maj. J osslyn found floating down the disband militias. majority dumped in pre­Aberle, chief of the media Tigris river in Suwayrah, 
"We hope the govern-dominantly Sunni Arab relations division for the just south of Baghdad. 

U.S. forces avoid Taliban funeral target 
Associated Press cers wanted to attack the ceremony time, it was determined that the 
with missiles carried by an group was located on the grounds of 
WASHINGTON -The U.S. military unmanned Predator drone but were [the] cemetery and were likely con­acknowledged Wednesday that it prevented under rules of battlefield ducting a funeral for Taliban insur­considered bombing a group of more engagement that bar attacks on gents killed in a coalition operation than 100 Taliban insurgents in cemeteries. nearby earlier in the day," the state­southern Afghanistan but decided In a statement released ment said. "A decision was made not· not to after determining they were Wednesday, the U.S. military in to strike this group of insurgents at on the grounds of a cemetery. Afghanistan said the picture -a that specific location and time." 
The decision came to light after an grainy black-and-white photo taken While not giving a reason for the NBC News correspondent's blog car­in July -was given to a journalist to decision, the military concluded the ried a photograph of the insurgents. show that Taliban insurgents were statement saying that while Taliban Defense department officials first congregating in large groups. The forces have killed innocent civilians tried to block further publication of statement said U.S. forces consid­during a funeral, coalition forces the photo, then struggled to explain ered attacking. "hold themselves to a higher moral what it depicted. "During the observation of the and ethical standard than their ene­
NBC News claimed U.S. Army offi-group over a significant period of mies." 

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~------~------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
serves as a proxy for how satisfied University record. Unrestricted in the future, the Law School and upcoming fiscal year, Nanni said. 
students are with the school." gifts are those that can be direct­the engineering building project.<;. With a banner year of giving
Donations 
Diversity 
continued from page 1 
Admissions also chose which high schools to visit more care­fully, focusing on "higher diversi­ty populations" in Chicago and northwestern Indiana. 
"[Admissions] chose to visit schools with greater minority representation," he said. "We got this information from their high school profiles." 
Of the new recruitment proce­dures and programs, Meyer said the most effective way to increase enrollment was by using multicultural students as tour guides and encouragement. 

"When bringing minority stu­dents to campus, we want to make it a positive experience and use positive role models," he said. "We made sure diversity students were represented on campus. We also tried to engage current diversity students in the recruitment of other multicultur­al students." 
Meyer said Saint Mary's has initiated more multicultural­themed programs to benefit the entire student body. 
"We are trying to work from a programming standpoint that allows the whole campus to diversify, not just multicultural students," Meyer said. 
Meyer also said he hopes fac­ulty diversity will increase through the College's new hiring policy. 
"Our goal is to advertise in order to reach a large group and attract diverse professors as well," he said. "When we want to bring a candidate to campus, we want a diverse pool of applicants before making our selection." 
Mona Bowe, associate director of Admissions at the College, is part of the minority population at Saint Mary's. 
"I personally am very excited about this recruitment goal [of 15 percent diversity in three years]," she said. "As a Latina myself, I greatly value the infor­mal education I have received from years of working in inter­cultural environments." 
Sophomore Grace Fey, a mem­ber of the Diversity Student Leadership Committee, said she is pleased with the increase in diversity this year. 
"The increased diversity is def­initely a positive thing," Fey said. "It will help us move forward toward a more unified [Saint Mary's]." 
The Diversity Student Leadership Committee consists of about 30 students who try to raise awareness about diversity. Last March, the group hosted a premiere conference for local minority high· school seniors. 
"This conference opened the door to Saint Mary's for many minority students," Fey said. 
Bowe said diversity is an issue that will remain of peak impor­tance in the Admissions Office in coming years. 
"We could be much more of a community if we had wider rep­resentation of cultures and races, geographic locations and other backgrounds," she said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

CLASSIC ROCK PARODIES 
The Electric Amish 
as heard on the "Bob & 7i:Hn,. slu.Hv. 
l 
I
' 


Saturday, September 16 
Showtiine 7:00 PM 
Tickets $14. $16. $18 
-ALSO APPEARTNG­'Voted "Best Blues Band" by »'llatzup readers for 6 y<'ars in a row! 
Pop..,.,. Fresh RE,TIEW 
Blues -Rock -C:Jriginals FEATURING:
ELC<=> ''J.hRJ.~·· 
PERFOR\IING -\RTS CENTER 410 S. MAIN ST., ELKHART, IN 
574-293-4469 • 800-294-8223 • www.elcotheatre.com 
Committee, invited Shappell and Pasquesi to a special meeting on Sept. 27 where Council members and a group of students will dis­cuss the disorderly house ordi­nance -a point of contention since it was amended in summer 2005. 
Previously, tenants were allowed three reported noise violations before the city of South Bend could send them a notice to abate. Now, the ordinance allows the city to send a notice to abate after just one reported noise violation. The city also sends the landlord a 




lanned 
nancy? 
you love needs help , please call. 
support and assistance available at Notre Dame: 
• Sr. Jean Len;,;, OSF, Student Affairs, I -7407 Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 ia Dillon, Campus i'linio:try, 1-716 3 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 
Suo:au Steihe-Pasalick Counseling Center, ] -7 336 £(leva, Health Services, ] -8286 
continued from page 1 
between 35 and 40 percent [alumni giving], so we're signifi­cantly ahead of most of the elite schools," he said. 
The US News & World Report factors an institution's alumni giv­ing rate into the equation that produces its yearly rankings, which placed Notre Dame as the 20th top national university for 2007. According to USNews.com, "the percent of alumni giving 

Though the total dollar amount of alumni monetary donation was not available, Nanni said the University did receive approxi­mately $181 million in cash receipts last year. That amount includes not only donations from alumni but also from parents of students and "friends" of the University -people not directly affiliated with the school that donate. 
Of that number, more than $25 million came in the form of unre­stricted giving -another all-time ed to whatever the greatest needs arc for the given year and typical­ly come in the form of smaller donations, Nanni said. 
The rest of the money has a purpose designated by the donors, with a great deal of it going toward undergraduate financial aid, Nanni said. 
It also is funneled into areas like endowed chairs, endowments for excellence for specific depart­ments and capital projects for undertakings like the construction of the Jordan IIall of Science and, 
Nanni said the Department of Development reaches out to the University's approximately 115,000 alumni through several mailings a year, personal calls and pledge calls from students, who logged around $2 million in pledges last year. 
Based on the response rate from these methods, as well as the number of donations, the breakdown of who the money is coming from and University prior­ities, the Department of Development sets goals for the behind it, the University will con­tinue to look toward alumni and other donors to support its ongo­ing projects and future endeavors to improve the school. 
"It's no surprise that we get such a strong response [from alumni]," Nanni said. "We leave an indelible impression on stu­dents, who, when they leave, want to turn around help out other students." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
To do that, Shappell, student body vice president Bill Andrichik, chief executive assistant Liz Brown and two or three students will "introduce the Student Affairs committee to this social network that many people outside the 16­25 year-old range are not very familiar with," Shappell said. 
Instead of issuing a formal report, the team of students will first provide information about Facebook.com to Board members and then engage in a conversation about how technology affects the social lives and social networks of students, Andrichik said. 
$ 


The Oct. 5 presentation is the first of three BOT meetings student government will participate in this year. Since student government did not learn the topic of the pres­entation until last Friday, no firm plans about the presentation have been set in motion yet. 
However, Andrichik said they are considering having a few stu­dents keep a daily log of time spent using Facebook, Instant Messenger, e-mail and cell phones. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Shappell and Community Relations committee chair Josh Pasquesi met with Karen Wlrite of the South Bend Common Council last week. 
White, who is chair of the Council's Community Relations 

~'2G~V State RO<.lCI q3~5 ~i\)Ult1 B•md. indian<! 4C03! 
·Just 2 mites north at Narre Dome on 1.1 S .?1 
notice to abate. If the noise viola­tion reoccurs, both the landlord and the tenants get fined -unless the landlord evicts the tenants within 30 days of the receipt of notice of the prohibited conduct. 
At the Sept. 27 meeting, students will be able to voice their concerns to Council members, and Council members can do the same. 
+ In anticipation of the upcom­ing mid-term election season, jun­ior Mike McKenna, coordinator for Hock the Vote, asked senators to encourage their constituents to register to vote. 
He said his bipartisan group wants to provide students with the informational resources they need to be "responsible citizens." 
+ Senators rejected a resolution that would re-name Zahm Hall "Zahm House." The measure needed a two-thirds majority to pass, but only received 14-of-24 votes. 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS J 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,543.32 +45.235

}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,245 129 I ,036 2,667,616,516 


:::OMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.71  +0.28  39.96  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.41  +0.08  19.83  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.58  +0.03  5.22  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.19  +0.05  25.98  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  +2.75  +0.06  2.24  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.17  -0.008­ 4.765  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.780  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.12  -0.006  4.899  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.21  -0.0 I  4.698  
Commodities  
JGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.21  63.97  
30LD ($!Troy oz.)  +2.00  596.30  
'ORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.23  88.23  
Excha  Rates  
fEN  117.4500  
:URO  0.7881  
'OUND  0.5330  
:ANADIAN$  1.1 193  

IN BRIEF 
Ford may cut jobs, close factories 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Co.'s board of directors began a two-day meeting Wednesday to contemplate a plan that could have the ailing automaker slash jobs and reduce factories further and faster in its quest to revive profits. 
Details from the meeting, which is expect­ed to continue Thursday, were not available Wednesday. 
Many industry analysts say the new round of restructuring is crucial to the company's future and will involve cuts to bring Ford's production capacity in line with its declin­ing sales and market share. White collar jobs and benefits also reportedly are in line for reductions. 
In July, Ford pledged to accelerate its "Way Forward" plan, which when intro­duced in January called for cutting up to 30,000 jobs and closing 14 facilities by 2012. 

HP board may face criminal charges 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -Criminal charges could come within a week in the boardroom spying scandal at Hewlett-Packard Co., the state Attorney General's Office said Wednesday. 
Spokesman Tom Dresslar did not say who would be charged or what the charges would be. He also emphasized that it may take longer for the detailed investigation to produce charges. 
"We're not going to confine ourselves to any particular timetable," Dresslar said. "We'll go when we're ready to go, and not a minute before that." 
On Tuesday, Attorney General Bill Lockyer said he already had enough evidence to charge HP insiders and the private investi­gators who impersonated board members and journalists in order to access logs of their personal phone calls. 
"We currently have sufficient evidence to indict people both within Hewlett-Packard as well as contractors on the outside," Lockyer told PBS' "Newsi-Iour with Jim Lehrer." 
He has said HP's internal probe of media leaks violated two California laws governing identity theft and illegal access to computer records. 


U.S. urges Chinese fiscal reform 
Treasury secretary criticizes protectionism as only response to trade deficit 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson urged China to undertake a broad range of economic reforms and said the country's failure to overhaul its currency sys­tem could raise the threat of a protectionist backlash. 
But Paulson let it be known that the Bush administration would firmly oppose any efforts by Congress to erect trade barriers in response to America's large and grow­ing trade deficit with China, which last year hit a record $202 billion. 
"Protectionist policies do not work and the collateral damage from these policies is high," he said Wednesday in a speech in Treasury's ornate Cash Room. "We will not heed the siren songs of protectionism and isolation­ism." 
Paulson sought to lower expectations that he will achieve any major break­throughs when he visits Beijing for two days of talks with Chinese officials next week. 

While former Treasury Secretary John Snow, Paulson's predecessor, pur­sued an increasingly tough line that China needed to move more quickly on the currency issue, Paulson, who took over from Snow head of investment giant exchange rate is increas­country. in July, adopted a less con­Goldman Sachs, was dialing ingly being viewed by their Schumer said that he was frontational approach. down the rhetoric in hopes critics as a symbol of unfair not concerned by Paulson's 
He mentioned the curren­of achieving better results. competition," Paulson said. apparent change of tone, cy issue as one of a number "The Chinese never want Democratic critics have saying he had been effec­of economic reforms that to be in a position where charged the administration tive at Goldman Sachs in China needed to pursue they are seen as moving in has not done enough to dealing with the Chinese. along with modernizing its response to external pres­deal with the soaring trade "But if he comes up farm economy, opening up sure," said Nicholas Lardy, deficits, which they blame empty-handed, we will be its financial system and a China expert at the as a major contributing fac­disappointed," Schumer pursuing domestic-led Institute for International tor in the loss of nearly 3 said, saying he still intend­growth rather than relying Economics. million manufacturing jobs ed to push for a vote on his so much on exports. Paulson sought to put the since President Bush took legislation by the end of 
"These changes will help need for a more flexible office. this month if there is not create the millions of jobs currency in the context of a One bill being pushed by more movement on the cur­that China needs to gener­move that would help the Sen. Charles Schumer, D­rency issue. ate annually and will help Chinese government pre­N.Y., would impose 27.5 American manufacturers create markets for U.S. vent a "boom and bust" percent tariffs on all contend that China's cur­exports of goods and serv­economic cycle in its own Chinese imports unless rency is undervalued by as ices," Paulson said. country as well as dampen­China does more to allow much as 40 percent against 
Analysts said they ing protectionist pressures its currency to rise in value the dollar, making Chinese believed Paulson, who around the world. against the dollar as a way goods cheaper in the gained his expertise on "To be underestimated of boosting U.S. exports to United States and American China from the 70 trips he only at China's own peril is China and reducing products more expensive in made to the country as the fact that their currency Chinese imports to this China. 

House to debut fund-tracking Web site 
the public. marks," or special projects. But a Associated Press "This is a huge victory for all who main legislative objective this year, 
believe sunshine is the best disinfec­lobbying reform in the wake of the 
WASHINGTON-Curious about how tant,'' said House Government Reform Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal, has much of your money is going to Committee Chairman Tom Davis, R­languished. encourage hydroponic tomato produc­Va., on the uncontested voice vote. The database will join numerous tion in Ohio -or to build bridges to "This bill will make tracking govern­others that provide detailed informa­nowhere in Alaska? A user-friendly ment spending easier for citizens, tion on public and political spending. Web site is going to help you fmd out. reporters and legislators alike," the But the sponsors said it would be 
The House on Wednesday passed Senate sponsors, Tom Coburn, R­accessible to the average citizen as 
and sent to the White House a meas­Okla., and Barack Obama, D-Ill., said well as the taxpayer watchdog groups. 
ure to create a Google-like search in a statement. "Improving trans­Users will be able to type in 
engine that will help interested citi­parency will force lawmakers to be "Halliburton" or "Planned 
zens, as well as advocacy groups, more accountable to the American Parenthood" to find out what kind of 
track some $1 trillion in federal people." contracts or grants over $25,000 have 
grants, contracts, special projects and Passage allows lawmakers to claim been awarded such companies or 
loans. some success in making government groups. They can also do a search for 
The Office of Management and more open. The House is also expect­a specific state or district to see what 
Budget is to create the database, with ed to vote on a rules change this week kind of money is flowing from 
a Jan. 1, 2008, target for opening it to to bring more openness to "ear-Washington. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 14, 2006 

Leader uses racist terlll 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. -The state ports director won reappointment Wednesday despite acknowledg­ing using a racist term to refer to someone of Middle Eastern descent. He had apologized for that remark but denied allega­tions that he hurled similar slurs said. 

"We feel he's doing a good job," Nickless said. "I think it really comes down to how credible were the complaints, who was making them and why." 
Dan Ball, owner of Port-City Stevedore & Linehandling Inc., contacted Lynch's office initially with complaints about Marconi's 
in the workplace. 
Geno Marconi agreed to take diversity training and apologized to the Executive Council, which confirmed him unanimously for another five-year term as state ports and harbor director. Gov. John Lynch chose not to veto the decision of the council, a 

"! think it really comes down to how credible were the complaints, who was making them and why., 
Arthur Nickless Chairman Pease Development 
behavior. His company is a pay agent for longshoremen working in Portsmouth. William Roach, part-time har­bor master and president of the International Longshoreman's Association, and James Geekie, owner of Global Pallet and Packaging and a 
five-member elected body that approves contracts and appoint­ments. 
A longshoreman, a union local president and a pay agent for longshoremen accused Marconi of using the term "sand n-----" in talking about a "Captain A." in front of his staff and stevedores at the port of Portsmouth. 
The men told investigators from the state attorney general's office that Marconi also called Captain A., who was trying to bring container-ship service to Portsmouth, a "towel head" and a "camel jockey," and that he referred to someone else as a "New York Jew with the chink wifie." 
Marconi told an investigator he probably said "sand n-----," but not in reference to Captain A. He did not say in what context he made the remark, and he denied making the other comments. 
The investigators questioned the motives of Marconi's accus­ers, saying they came forward this spring, shortly before Marconi had been set to be reap­pointed, even though their allega­tions date to 2004. The investiga­tors also concluded that Captain A.'s loss of his contract with the port did not result from racial animus on Marconi's part. 
The investigators said they could not prove that Marconi referred to anyone in particular as the "New York Jew and his chink wife," but said he may have used the phrase while telling a story. 
After reviewing the report, the Pease Development Authority, which supervises the port, decid­ed against firing Marconi, author­ity Chairman Arthur Nickless 


Soldi~rr Fivld • Chicqgo, Illinois 
Bclslrip J)QCkogt lndudts round lrlp transportation on laxury !toyed Extorsion blls !10111 Cowltskl Stadium to Cbil:ogo, and ont: ,,' tlchtt to the SOI.D-OOT !tolling Stonts ShO'Iil, 
Limited supply of Rolling Stonts blls trip PQikll'Otl go on sale Monday Stpttmbtr 18 Gt Cov'llvskl Stodlum or dlarg~ by phone 574/235-9988! 

longshoreman, also complained. 
Roach and Ball did not immedi­ately return telephone messages Wednesday afternoon. No listing could be found for Geekie. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "\VANTED 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 

18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

~ When i~s the @@[}u@0([JU'@lliJlJ[J)1? 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 3, 2008. 
Felon charged in jailbreak 
Phillips' arrest ended 5 month manhunt, one oflargest inN. Y history 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Ralph "Bucky" Phillips, accused of killing a trooper and wound­ing two others during more than five months on the lam, was charged Wednesday in a jail escape that preceded one of the largest manhunts in state history. 
Phillips was arraigned via video conference in state Supreme Court in Buffalo from Chemung County, where he is being jailed on charges of attempted murder of a trooper. 
A plea of not guilty was entered on his behalf to charges of first-degree escape and third-degree criminal mischief, Erie County District Attorney Frank Clark said. 
Phillips is accused of escap­ing from the Erie County Correctional Facility in Alden on April 2 by using a can opener to make a 2-by-2-foot hole in a metal roof. A career thief who has spent 24 of his 44 years behind bars, he had been jailed on a parole viola­tion. 
After escaping, authorities allege, Phillips zigzagged across western New York state and into Pennsylvania, stealing vehicles, raiding unattended homes and hunt­ing cabins and receiving help from friends and relatives to stay a step ahead of police. 
He is charged with attempt­ed murder in the shooting of a state trooper near Elmira in June, and is suspected of shooting two more troopers Aug. 31 in Chautauqua County as they staked out the home of a former girlfriend. Trooper Joseph Longobardo died three days later. 
Phillips was captured just across the Pennsylvania bor­

der on Friday. If convicted of escape as a 
·persistent felony offender, Phillips could face a sentence of 15 years to life. Chautauqua County prosecu­tors may charge Phillips with aggravated murder, a count that carries a penalty of life without parole. 
A state commission that reviewed the escape issued a scathing report in August, concluding that the facility was overcrowded and under­staffed and that several laps­es in protocol enabled Phillips to get away. 
Phillips triggered an alarm during the escape, according to the report, but a guard turned it off without notifying an officer assigned to the prison's perimeter. That guard was fired, Brian Doyle, the Erie County sheriff's chief of administrative services, said Wednesday. 
---------------------~-------­
Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

the S 0 L EM NIT Y of 
OUR L DY of S 0 RRO S 
PAT R 0 N E S S of the C 0 N G R E G AT I 0 N 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 14, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Big families equal big trouble 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notte Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr infOrmation. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhli~cd Mt>nday rhmugh Friday accpr during exam and VKafion periotk. A subscription ro The Ob.scrver is$100 for one acackmic 
~r;S55fmoru:SCIIU.'l!irer. 
The Obscrvtr is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall St"nd-add.ri!SS mrrections w: Notre Dame. IN 465-56-0179 The Observer Periodical postag~ pailat Nolte Dam~ PO. Box779 and additiona.l mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame. lN 46-556-onCJ 
The Obscrvu is a member oftm Assodaled Press;. All reproduction rights are 
t~~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kate Antonacci Greg Arbogast 
Maureen Mullen Kyle Cassily Liz Harter Chris Wilson Viewpoint Scene 
Alyssa Erin McGinn 
Brauweiler Graphics Jeff Albert 

He had a fantastic British accent. And with that British accent, he told us to think about having small fami­lies-maybe just one kid. 
That is what l remember about Dominic Chaloner, my Environment and Evolution pro­fessor from my first semester at Notre Dame. Three years later, his "one kid" schpeal is what stuck with me. 
After all, in the years since Professor Chaloner's class, l have come to some conclusions of my own. Terrorism will not bring about the death of humankind, nor will weapons of mass destruction. The culprit? Too many people. 
Humanity was supposed to go extinct in the mid -19th century -or at least, that was the projection of another man from Britain, 18th-cen­tury demographer Thomas Malthus. He said that by 1850 the population would outgrow the food supply, thus setting off the demise of humankind. 
Clearly, humanity outlasted this life expectancy. But how much longer do we have? 
This summer, Al Gore shed light on the issue as he shared "An Inconvenient Truth" -the imminence of global warming -with America. Because of skyrocketing carbon diox­ide levels, the death of the world may be impending. And America is one of the leading killers in the ongoing murder of Mother Earth. 
But of course, America refuses to be bullied. If you insult America, it will 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey Grind 
always have a comeback. Wage war on the country, and floods of patriot­ism will follow. Tell the country that it is killing the world, and the "green­ing" of America will ensue. 
Hecyclable products, hybrid cars and "sustainable" houses are now on the rise. But if the population contin­ues to soar as well, these changes will hardly make a difference. 
Peoplo talk about reducing their "ecological footprint" (the amount of' land and water that a person needs to support himself' and to absorb his wastes). What we really need, howev­er, is for there to be fewer ecological footprints in the first place. 
For example, the city of Austin, Texas, was praised for reducing its garbage per household from 1.14 tons in 1992 to 0. 79 tons in 2005. But if the number of households in Austin continue to grow, these numbers can hardly be considered a sign of progress. 
More than six and a half' billion peo­ple currently live in our world. That is more than five times the world pop­ulation (1.2 billion) in 1850, the year previously slated for humanity's funeral. 
Just as current global conditions dictate that liquids can no longer .be brought on planes, global conditions of a different sort dictate that parents now be more responsible when it comes to family size. 
Out of love, parents want to give their kids as much as they can. But if you are a parent with six kids, and you give your kids everything that you can, you are utilizing a lot of resources. So in a sense, having six kids is selfish. While your family of eight may he happy, you are actually adding to the unhappiness of the world; you are hastening its death. 
No, America should not become China and mandate that there be only one child per family. But as Americans, we should take our own initiative to be socially responsible. Having six kids is no longer socially responsible. 
No, the United States does not have the highest birth rate in the world; that title belongs to countries like Niger and Uganda. But Americans do have one of the heaviest ecological footprints. Thus, each person in America contributes more to the death of the world than does each person in a Third World country. 
So let us be the America that we know and love. Let us not go down without a fight. If AI Gore wants to bully us, then we must have a come­back. So go plant a tree. Hecycle more. Have fewer kids. And by all means, give those kids every ounce of love that you have. But just have two kids instead of five. 
As for Professor Chaloner, his British accent is still intact. He and his wife plan on having a family­one with just a few kids. And when he encouraged this year's freshmen to consider having small families as well, what he described as a "palpa­ble disquiet" fell upon the classroom. 
But if the population continues to grow at its current rate, there will be less than a disquiet in the classroom; there will be absolute quiet ­humanity will be extinct. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What will be the most testing football game for the Irish? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

1SubmitaLetter 
'to the Editor at 
www.ndsmeobserver.com ~i
;; . . . . ·."::i. '-:,:(" . ... 
\ d 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The people can always be brought to the bidding of their leaders. That is easy. All you have to do is tell them they are being attacked, and denounce the peacemakers for lack ofpatriotism and exposing the country to danger. It works the same in any country." 
Hermann Goering Nazi Party leader 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 14, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Why I deactivated: Confessions of a former Facebook addict 
I have done it. I have removed myself from the Facebook. The minute I clicked the "Deactivate" button, I expected my world to come crashing down. 
But my world didn't come crashing down. Actually, my world became a more beautiful place. 
"Oh, but Amanda, you'll miss all the positive aspects to it," you say confidently. "You won't be able to keep in touch with as many friends from high school or other colleges. You won't be able to look up kids in your classes for their AOL Instant Messenger screen names. You'll have to rely solely on email and the chance that people chose to list their cell phone number in the Notre Dame directo­ry." 
I·can't argue with you. This is true. 

Actually, I won't just admit to you that this is true. I'll go a step further, and admit that I have greater concerns about deactivating my account than just those "politically correct" ones. I'm afraid I won't get invited to as many events. I'm afraid many, many of my friends-both from Notre Dame and from home-will forget about me. Heck, I'll admit it-I am terrified of life after the Facebook. 
So why did I do it? 
I believe the Facebook was a gigantic roadblock in my journey to become a better person. While others may use the Facebook for positive reasons, I, a true Facebook-aholic, allowed it to exploit every jealous and spiteful inclination I might possess in my far from perfect self. 
I would notice who updates their profile way too much and snicker (though this, of course, was hyp­ocritical). I would look on it to see what people did this weekend and hope that the photos did not show them having more fun than I did (when really, I should be hoping everyone I know -friends or people I have felt offended by alike -should be having nothing but a completely fabulous time all the time). I would update my profile, listing every­thing about myself vainly (when really, who should care? I am not that interesting!). 
And really, when I was not using the Facebook for 
Stop printing toxic letters 
Matthew Hamilton continues to contribute his toxic opinions to the Viewpoint and the editorial staff continues to publish them ("Down with the Klan and down with Israel," Sept. 8). I can only fear what this says about the moral fabric of the student body. 
His conflation of the current nation-state of Israel with American civil rights issues is one of the most confused and benighted moral equivocations in recent memory. He is incorrect in his assumption -and it can only be that, unsupported as it is by anything even alleging to be factual-that the real issue here is one of race. I would venture to guess that he believes the real issue in every disagreement to be racial. 
I have two objections to make to his delusive pretense at argument. First, reducing Israel's conflict with the surrounding nations to one of race is a gross oversimplification that itself suggests deep-seated racism on Hamilton's part. The Middle East consists of at least half a dozen major eth­nic groups, all ethnically distinct: Arabs, Syrians, Persians, Kurds, Egyptians (along with other North African groups), Turks and more. Persia and the territories to its east and north consist largely of Indo-Aryan groups that share a racial history with the peoples of Europe. Lumping all of these together under a single ethnic group displays ignorance to a degree that makes one wonder why Hamilton is concerned at all. Additionally, accusing the Israelis and their leadership of being white supremacists is absurd on the face of it as Israelis aren't white. 
Second, as Hamilton displays such intractably paranoid anti-Semitism, one wonders exactly why he feels it worth his time to accuse anyone else of being racist. His discussion of the relationship between Jewishness and Zionism-the latter being a largely exploded myth with no serious credibili­ty-is so ill-structured as to be impossible to refute by virtue of its sheer ineptitude. 
I would implore the editors of The Observer, the official student publica­tion of an ollicially and concernedly Catholic institute, to refrain from coun­tenancing such immoral race-baiting in the future. It does nothing but unnecessarily inflame discussion with unrelated issues and has no place in serious academic discourse. 
Ryan Davidson graduate student Sept. 12 


Not all sold out 
Tim Dougherty's Sept. 13 Inside Column "Saturday Sellout" base• lessly accused "300 shameless students" of exchanging their tickets -"most, no doubt," for profit. During the time I spent in line on Tuesday morning, I was unable to determine the motives of the other 299 students who exchanged their tickets. Perhaps they do intend to make a profit. That would indeed be shameful. Then again, perhaps they don't. I don't know, and I am not sure why Dougherty is so confident that he does. I do applaud the new policy of printing the name of the guest on the ticket and requiring that it be presented with ID at Gate E. I imagine that this provides at least a little more of a challenge to would-be scalpers. I also expect that there will always be those who find a way to exploit University tick­et policies for personal profit. I can only tell you that there were no more than 299 who did on Tuesday morning. 
Donald Wittich graduate student Sept. 13 

less terrible reasons, I was wasting valuable time. Time I could spend not just doing homework, but calling someone to see how he or she is doing, rather than just looking it up. Time I maybe could have accumulated and spent helping a friend or even volunteering. 
Essentially, Facebook time was time I now need to spend actually putting myself out into the world instead of dawdling reluctantly in my dorm room. 
Yes, more time in the world might mean more hurt. It might mean more stress from more activity. 
But who knows -it could mean I become that better person I want to be. It could mean that I learn that there is more joy in keeping your life pri­vate than there is making it public. And that chance alone makes life without the Facebook a life I am committed to trying. 
Amanda Golbabai 
senior 
Badin Hall Sept. 13 
U-WIRE 

Etnploym.ent options for college students w-aning 
Some would say that money makes the world go 'round. I would like to say I've found otherwise, but unfortunately I can't. It's for that reason I've held a job ever since I was 15 years old. In high school, I was able to find jobs during the Kevin summers because I was­Pascucci n't going anywhere in the fall and could con­University of tinue to work at my job Massachusetts through the school year. Massachusetts That all changed when I Daily Collegian got to college though. 
I spent the first month of the first sum­mer after my freshman year at UMass looking for a job. I wish I were kidding when I say I applied for over 10 different jobs that summer. I finally got a landscap­ing job and worked for the last two months of the summer. The next summer I was able to get a job a little bit earlier, but it still wasn't easy. 
This summer I decided to live out of state with a friend of mine in Connecticut, and I moved into his house after I finished my finals. I decided to try looking for a job waiting tables, seeing as I've heard there's good money in that. I must have applied at every restaurant within a 20­mile radius. 
Needless to say, that didn't work out for me. Every restaurant either couldn't take on any more staff or wanted someone that wasn't going to have to leave in the fall. To make a long story short, I ended up working a short-lived job as a grounds maintainer at an amusement park, as well as doing a few gigs with a catering company, all before going through a temp agency to end up getting an office job at a town water company. This summer was probably the most colorful period of time in my employment history to date. 
Where am I going with this? Maybe I just want to rant a little bit about what a hard time the average college student has getting work during their summer breaks. Perhaps I want to let people like me know they're not alone in this common struggle. 
Unsuccessful job hunting wouldn't be such a big issue for college students if it weren't for all the costs that come along with being in college. With tuitions on the rise all around the country and more and more students putting themselves through school on their own, the need to have an income is mostly unavoidable. 
There are those who are lucky enough to have mom and dad pay for everything, but don't even get me started on them. It's great that your parents have enough money to put you through college and unknowingly give you beer money, but the real world is going to come at you like a punch in the face when you graduate. That's all I'm going to say. 
I'm sure it's been like this for college students for a long time, but I have to think that the current state of the econo­my has something to do with the hard time others, and I, have had finding work. With our country at war and more and more money being devoted to that end, the job market has taken a blow as a result. I don't want to make this a politi­cal argument, but I can't help but specu­late as to why so many people have trou­ble finding employment. 
Some would say the economy has barely changed since we went to war with Iraq, while others would view ot1r foreign rela­tions campaign as the biggest blow to the American economy in a long time. After viewing official rates of unemployment since 2001 on the official Web site for the 
U.S. Department of Labor, it becomes apparent an argument can be made on both sides. Since we entered Iraq, the unemployment rate has been a roller­coaster of highs and lows. With support for the war waning, I guess only time will tell who is truly right. 
As I go into my senior at UMass, I can't help but look to next summer when I will be looking for something a little more permanent. Will I have to move some­where far away to get a decently paying job? Am I going to be able to find a job at all? Like I said, the job market has been a rollercoaster, so only time will tell if things are going to get better from here. Personally, I hope they do. I've got to pay off my student loans somehow. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 13 edition of the Massachusetts Daily Collegian, the daily publication at the University ofMassachusetts. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 
Beyonce gives unkind present with 1 B'day' 
By BRODERICK HENRY 
Scene Critic 
For the average person, birthdays repre­sent an opportunity to party. But for Beyonce Knowles, former lead singer of the best-selling female group Destiny's Child, long-time girlfriend of one of today's most popular rappers, Jay-Z, and the arguably most "bootylicious" woman on the planet -birthdays are a time to go to work. 
The release of Knowles' second solo album, 'B'day,' was accompanied by the typical hype often associated with the birth of a celebrity baby. 
Released a day after Knowles' 25th birthday, 'B'day' is an attempt by the R&B diva to assert her independence and reaf­firm her artistic abilities. Unlike its prede­cessor, her 2003 album 'Dangerously in Love'-which sold more than six million copies worldwide and earned her multiple Grammys-'B'day' was recorded without the knowledge of Matthew Knowles, Beyonce Knowles' father and manager. His marketing prowess has been cited as the most influential force behind his daughter's success. 
Knowles recorded 'B'day' over a two­week time period, bringing a number of producers into one building and launching a competition to land the most songs on the album. This risky recording approach -along with the absence of Matthew Knowles' vision -is a clear indication of why the album is in such a state of disar­ray. 
The first single released off of 'B'day,' "Deja Vu,'' features Knowles' beau, Jay-Z, and is performed in the vein of a 70s disco classic. With multiple horns blaring and an up-tempo beat, the song sounds a great deal like Knowles' mega hit "Crazy in Love." But, unlike that smash song, Jay-Z's rhymes are lackluster at best, and Knowles' over-singing is nothing more than a distraction. 
"Ring the Alarm," the second single ofl" the album, is, quite simply, a musical dis­aster that allows its production to steal as much attention as possible away from Knowles' sultry voice. 
The song is composed of sirens and alarms screaming in the background, 
Beyonce 
B'day 
Sony 


Recommended tracks: 'Deja Vu,' 'Green Light,' 'Ring the Alarm,'and 'Freakum Dress' 

L---------------------------------------------~ 
accompanied by aggressive singing that is not melodic and can best be described as "rap singing." However, Knowles lacks the credibility and grit­tiness of voice to make the song believable. 
It seems that in recording 'B'day,' Knowles' forgot to take the tempera-ture of the current music environment. At a time when R&B has made a comeback by emphasizing both melody and lyrical con­tent, the singer chose to make an album that demonstrates the exact opposite. 

She gives listeners offerings such as "Freakum Dress" and "Kitty Kat." The corny lyrics to these songs include, "Let's go, let's go Little Kitty KaV I think it's time to go, let's go Little Kitty KaV He don't want no mol Let's go Little Kitty Kat /Quite frankly no mo' getting it !I'm not feeling it." 
A number of songs sound like tracks that appeared on previous Jay-Z albums or are mere imitations of other artists' songs. 
"Green Light" even comes off as a mediocre rendition of the hit "One Thing." As much as 'B'day' suffers from a lack of 
vision, it also suffers from a lack of content -only ten tracks compose this uninspiring set. Considering that not a single one of these tracks is a masterpiece, listeners will find this dearth of material disappointing. 
'B'day' achieves much of what Knowles intended with her sophomore effort. It defi­nitely shows she is willing to take some artistic risk -at the same time, the diva forgot that her listeners actually need to enjoy the music. 
Beyonce's album is neither empowering or uplifting -nor is it a worthwhile birth­day present. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry 1 @nd.edu 

Maiden's 'Life and Death' hangs in music purgatory 
By KEVIN McCARTHY Scene Critic 
Last week, London-based Iron Maiden unleashed its 14th studio album, 'A Matter of Life and Death,' on American soil. This 72-minute epic is the band's first studio collection of new material since 2003's 'Dance of Death.' · 
Following the infamous "egging" inci­dent of Ozzfest 2005, Maiden -which boasts the powerful lineup of vocalist Bruce Dickinson, bassist and band leader Steve Harris, drummer Nicko McBrain and the guitar-wielding trio of Janick Gers, Dave Murray and Adrian Smith -could have easily avoided the touring circuit for a while. Instead, the band plans to launch a full world tour this fall in support of the album. 
'A Matter of Life and Death' opens with "Different World," which starts off with a simple but classic guitar riff that leads into the vocals. 
Dickinson's signature tenor voice, along with the rhythm section of Harris and McBrain, really drives this song, making it one of the catchiest tunes on the album. 
"These Colours Don't Run," the sec­ond track on the album, offers an immediate antithesis to that rocker, with a more subdued, yet ominous introduction. 
The song does eventually kick into a strong mid-level tempo, once again driven by the rhythm section. "These Colours Don't Run" combines powerful patriotism with darker tones and strong guitar work and is the most complete track on the album. 
Unfortunately, the album starts to lose focus after the second track. The mighty Maiden almost falls into a bit of a funk in the middle of the album, with songs like "Brighter Than a Thousand Suns" and "The Longest Day." 
Not only are these tracks repetitive within themselves but they also sound similar to each other. 
Both of these tracks, along with "Out of the Shadows," feature too much rep­etition of the chorus without any vers­es to build into it. "Out of the Shadows" is actually a very strong bal­lad for Iron Maiden, who is better known for its heavy-hitting songs, but it 
suffers from this repetition. 
More balance would do the mid­A Matter of Life and Death 
dle of this album 
well. Sanctuary Records The one excep­

Iron Maiden 


tion to this rule is the fourth track, entitled "The Pilgrim." Much like "Different 
Recommended tracks: 'Different World,' 'The 
World," this is an unrelentingly
Pilgrim,' and 'The Reincarnation of Benjamin Breeg' 
heavy rock track 
L---------------------------------------------~ 

from beginning to end. 
Of the album's last four tracks, only "The Reincarnation of Benjamin Breeg" and "The Legacy" stand out as interest­ing new Maiden songs. "The Reinearnation of Benjamin Breeg," the seventh track, as well as the first single off the album, opens with a Zeppelin­esque, almost ethereal introduction, which gives way to more typical Maiden sound. 
This song stands out particularly because it harkens baek to the band's history of storytelling, evident on older songs like "Flight of Icarus" and "Rime of the Ancient Mariner." "The Legacy," the album closer, begins almost as a children's lullaby. 
Diekinson, accompanied by acoustic guitars, lulls the listener into a calm before the band unleashes a final aural assault on the listener. 
'A Matter of Life and Death' features solid contributions on the part of each band member, but parts of the album fall flat due to repetition. 
It is questionable whether this album will go down as one of the acclaimed classics of Iron Maiden's discography or if it will fall short of its predeeessors in its success. 
But, as Dickinson sings in "The Legacy," only time will tell. 
Contact Kevin McCarthy at kmccart8@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, September 14, 2006 
page 13 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 
HL'l name appears in The New York Times every day. Millions of people around the world have attempted to crack open his work. He's the only person in the world to hold a degree in Enigmatology -the study of puzzles, if you must know. And he man­ages to ensnare both young and old alike, enthralling icons like Bill Ointon, Bob Dole and Jon Stewart in the ritualistic daily scratching of stationary to newsprint, fm­gers to forehead, mind to matter. 
Oearly, Will Shortz, the editor of The New York Times Crossword Puzzle and a National Public Radio personality, com­mands a widespread influence. But for all this hype, Shortz remains a mystery almost as veiled as the thousands of cryptic black and white squares he's dedicated years to constructing. 
So when Notre Dame grad Patrick Creadon, crossword puzzle aficionado and documentary filmmaker, was searching for a subject for his first feature film, Shortz was an obvious choice. 
"He's almost like the Wizard of Oz, because he's this person you never get to see," Creadon, Class of 1989, told The Observer. "You never meet him, but he's the one behind the curtain who's controlling everything. It's his responsibility that the puzzle is always accurate, that there're no mistakes in it." 
Still, Shortz is just one piece of the capti­vating mosaic that is "Wordplay," a feature­length documentary that's been receiving national attention for its ability to spellbind audiences with a look at one of our culture's most engrossing pastimes -the crossword puzzle. 
Finding the story 
Garnering rave reviews from critics, the film has earned more than three million dollars at the domestic box office, good enough to crack the list of the top-25 docu­mentaries of all-time. But for Creadon, the success of "Wordplay" didn't come as a big surprise, despite its seemingly mundane subject matter. The trick, he said, was believing in it from the start. 
"A lot of our friends and colleagues early on were like, 'Oh my God, crossword puz­zles? That's the worst idea I've ever heard. What are you guys thinking? Get it togeth­er!"' Creadon said with a laugh. "But the minute we had the idea to find out about Will Shortz and the people who make the puzzle, I knew it was a good idea and I knew it would be a great movie." 
"Wordplay" has certainly lived up to and surpassed Creadon's expectations, flexing its long legs at the box office. Entering its 14th week of theatrical release, "Wordplay" has played in more than 500 theaters around the country and was a surprising smash hit at the prestigious Sundance Film Festival. But despite its acclaim, Creadon is quick to credit the spark for the documen­tary, which was a collaborative effort with his wife, Christine O'Malley. 
"When we were making the movie, Will and Christine and I really wanted to shine the light on the people on who make these things, because they don't make a lot of money from it," Creadon said. "They just do it because they like it. We thought it would be fun to get to know who these people are, kind of the same way you'd get to know a novelist or a film director." 
Here lies the heart of the film. While the glue holding it together is a charming lead­ing man in Shortz, "Wordplay" is as much a meditation on fandom and a common pas­sion as it is a film about the allure of enig­matic puzzles. Heck, given the right amount of charisma and painstaking effort, Creadon is confident the film could have succeeded with any topic -be it NASCAR, fly fishing or house painting. 
"If the topic is about people who paint houses for a living, that'd literally be like watching paint dry for 90 minutes," Creadon joked. "But if you scratch beneath the surface of what that story is, maybe you find a father and son team who have been painting for 60 years, and you tell that story. 
''I'm sure there are a million stories they have about jobs that they've done in the past. .. . The rea:l trick to making a really good movie or telling a really good story is getting to know a group of people and find­ing out what they're about and why they're motivated to be good at what they do." 

Bringing the puzzle to life 
With this recipe in mind, Creadon erllbraced the task ahead -creating a 90­minute documentary bent on unlocking the mind of Shortz and correcting the miscon­ception that crossword puzzles should be saved for lazy, rainy-day distractions. Or that the average puzzler is a grandmother with knitting needle in one hand, pen and puzzle in the other. 
"There are probably some incorrect assumptions that people who do crossword puzzles are kind of boring and nebbish and it appeals to only a much older audience," Creadon said. "None of those things are true, so we wanted to show that. ... That was a big reason why we tried to go out and get interesting people from different walks of life." 
These interesting people turned out to be a former president, a senator, a comedian, two musicians, a filmmaker and an athlete -Clinton, Dole, Stewart, the Indigo Girls, Ken Bums and Mike Mussina, respectively -forming quite a collection of star power for a hobby supposedly reserved for stuflY bookworms. Besides sharing a common passion, these celebrities offered Creadon a chance to connect the Average Joe Puzzler to, say, the 42nd President of the United States or the host of "The Daily Show." 
"I also love the idea that every day when you're doing a crossword puzzle, you're not the only one looking at that puzzle," Creadon said. "There are millions of others looking at it. It's interesting to me that when I'm stuck on a puzzle, chances are Bill Clinton is doing that same puzzle the same day, or Jon Stewart or whoever." 

A colorful cast of characters 
While names like Clinton, Dole and Stewart provide the sprinkles on top of the cake, the spirit of Creadon's confection lies with the five contestants who vie for the crown of top puzzler at the 2005 American Crossword Puzzle Tournament in Stamford, Conn. With $4,000 in prize loot and brag­ging rights hanging in the balance, tensions rise as these contestants reveal their true colors. Shortz may be the hook for "Wordplay," but these characters -whom the audience can't help but root for -pro­vide the line and sinker. 
"Patrick does wrap you into it," said Jon Vickers, Browning Cinema Manager and coordinator for the screenings. "Even if you're not a crossword puzzler, he manages to draw you in and make you want to know more about the characters, making you choose sides between certain characters .... Believe it or not, even though it deals with a crossword puzzle tournament, it builds to a really exciting conclusion." 
To achieve this effect, Creadon spent a lot of time with his subjects outside of the pro­duction schedule. Instead of locking them in a room and rolling film until he got the footage he needed, Creadon subscribed to a different, more personable approach. He took his subjects out to lunch, shared walks through Central Park and conversed with them. Instead of coaxing their stories out, Creadon took a step back and got to know his subjects as men and women -not pawns to be placed in front of a camera, microphone and lights. 
"When people make documentaries or reality television, they don't make an effort to really get to know their subjects, and therefore their subjects don't really know them really well or trust them really well," Creadon said. "You're basically shooting objects. You're shooting people but you 
· might as well be shooting a tree or a car." 

Staying the course 
For Creadon, it's been a long but fruitful road from South Bend to Chicago following graduation and then on to Los Angeles, where he and his wife run O'Malley Creadon Productions -a joint production company founded in 2000 that specializes in non-fiction storytelling. Along the way, he earned his Master in Cinematography at the American Film Institute, worked as a cam­eraman for almost every major network ­including NBC, CBS and ABC -and most of the major motion picture studios, among them Universal, Warner Bros. and Disney. 
But despite his world-worn experience and expertise, Creadon remains the little kid fascinated by public television and docu­mentaries, the one who idolized filmmakers like Christopher Guest, Woody Allen and Martin Scorsese. 
"I was like the only seven-year-old on the block who liked to watch '60 Minutes' every week," Creadon said. "That was the first thing that inspired me. I was just old enough to realize that these stories that I was watching must have been made by somebody-somebody picked up a camera to shoot these things, cut them together." 
He still hasn't lost that youthful enthusi­asm, instead pouring it into "Wordplay," a film he likes to describe in any number of words except one: boring. 
"A lot of people think that documentaries have to be serious or have to pick some political side," Creadon said. "And that's fine. There are a lot of good movies that fall into that category. The last thing we wanted to do with this topic was make it dry and sort of boring." 

Back where he began 
It's been 17 years since Creadon's days as an International Relations major living in Dillon Hall, puzzling over whether to pursue a stable career in law or take a leap of faith towards his passion -filmmaking. His return to Notre Dame this weekend will be anything but a dose of deja vu. 
He returns to present "Wordplay" at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, a venue he's never seen and a building that offers an ambiance quite unlike the O'Shaughnessy classrooms he used to haunt years ago. It will be a rare opportunity for students, fac­ulty and the general public to watch each of the four scheduled screenings with its film­maker present. 
"I think it would be a crime to not take advantage of meeting the guy who's had the No. 2 highest-grossing documentary this year," Vickers said. "He's a person who's been in the media industry for quite a while and he's coming back to campus to share a project of his that he's proud of." 
As for Creadon, he's relishing this all-too­rare chance to bring the film home to his alma mater and present it to an audience. 
"What I love most about the film is that I can sit at the back of a theater with an audience, and I can watch it with them and know that the movie worked," Creadon said. "That's what I'm most proud of-the movie connects with people and ... it's exactly what we hoped it could be and a whole lot more." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Jon Vickers Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
"Wordplay" dives Into the life and passion of New York Times Crossword editor The core of the drama in "Wordplay" takes place at the American Crossword Will Shortz, who stays up late constructing puzzles for the heralded newspaper. Puzzle Tournament, where the top solvers compete for a $4,000 prize. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
MLB -AL WRAPS 


Liriano re-injures elbow in return from DL 
Garcia throws complete game one-hitter, brings White Sox within 1 1 ~2 games of Twins in Wild Card standings 
Associated Press dure that typically keeps pitch­ers out for more than a year. 
MINNEAPOLIS -Francisco Liriano said he has was wait­Liriano has heard plenty about ing to hear from team doctors Cy Young during a spectacular about the next move. rookie season. "I don't even want to think 
Now that he is out for the rest about that," Twins pitching of the season, another pitcher coach Rick Anderson said when might be entering the conversa­asked about Tommy John sur­tion-Tommy John. gery. 
Liriano's highly anticipated return to the Minnesota rotation White Sox 9, Angels 0 came to a sudden halt because Given a big lead, Freddy of elbow problems Wednesday Garcia could afford to simply and Dan Haren pitched eight throw strikes. shutout innings, leading the Unhittable strikes, mostly. Oakland Athletics over the Garcia pitched perfect ball Twins 1-0. until Adam Kennedy singled 
"Obviously he won't be pitch­with two outs in the eighth ing again," manager Ron inning, and the Chicago White Gardenhire said. "Something is Sox beat the Los Angeles Angels in there bothering and continu­Wednesday. ing to stop him.... Obviously "I knew I had a no-hitter when he gets in game and puts going, but I was trying not to a little extra torque in there, think about it and keep making something is not right. We have my pitches," Garcia said. to make sure we stop it and do "I've been facing those guys what we have to do." for a long time, so I know 
The Twins' lead in the AL they're aggressive and they like wild-card race was cut to 1? to swing the bat. Kennedy hit a games by Chicago, which beat good pitch, so there was nothing Los Angeles 9-0. I could do about it. But who 
Pitching for the first time in doesn't want to throw a no-hit­more than a month, Liriano ter?" slumped off the mound in the Garcia (14-9) retired the first third inning. Trainers and 2 3 batters before Kennedy Gardenhire immediately rushed cleanly lined the 1OOth pitch to out to attend to the All-Star lefty center field on a 3-2 count. The 2004. There have been only 14 15th time, most in the majors. Zaun's solo home run came in and a hush fell over the crowd only other time Garcia went to a regular-season perfect games in Zaun matched career highs the second. that had been so excited to see three-ball count before that was the majors since 1900. with five RBI in a game and 11 Hattig's line drive down the him back in action. in the seventh, when Vladimir home runs in a season.He drew right-field line in the fourth 
"The last two pitches I threw, I Guerrero hit an inning-ending Blue Jays 10, Mariners 0 a walk to start the big burst in slowed when it reached the cor­felt a pop and it really hurts," grounder on a 3-1 pitch. Gregg Zaun hit a grand slam the fourth and capped it with his ner underneath the foul pole Liriano said. "I was expecting anything at during a nine-run fourth inning third career slam. and allowed Zaun, Adam Lind 
Liriano walked slowly toward that point," Kennedy said. "I and also had a solo home run, Burnett (8-7) allowed six hits and Aaron Hill to score. the dugout and fans gave him a didn't think he would groove a leading A.J. Burnett and the in eight innings. He struck out a Johnson's bloop single chased standing ovation -clearly, they fastball. He didn't this time, and Toronto Blue Jays over the season-high 11, walked two and Baek and scored Hattig to make were wondering whether they I just tried not to do too much Seattle Mariners Wednesday. hit a batter. it 5-0. Reliever Cesar Jimenez had seen the last of him this with it. Once the game got a lit­John Hattig, who last month Burnett didn't allow a batter walked Frank Catalanotto and year. tle out of hand and they got a became the first player from to reach third base until there Vernon Wells to load the bases. 
The Twins, leading the AL good grip on it, it wasn't that big Guam in the major leagues, hit were two outs in the seventh. On a 3-2 count, Jimenez walked wild-card race, announced later of a deal. You just start to think a three-run double for his first Justin Speier finished the com­Lyle Overbay to force home that he had pain in his left about trying to get some career RBI. bined shutout. Johnson. 
elbow. momentum for tomorrow." Toronto took two of three at Cha Seung Baek (3-1) allowed Two pitches later, Zaun, bat­
He had an MRI exam after the Garcia came close to the first Safeco Field and won a season five runs on seven hits in 3 1/3 ting right-handed against the game, and thoughts immediately perfect game in the majors since series at Seattle for the first innings. This was the first time lefty Jimenez, made it 10-0 with turned to Tommy John surgery, Randy Johnson did it for time since May 2001. The the Mariners lost in Baek's five a ball that just cleared the right­a ligament-replacement proce-Arizona at Atlanta on May 18, Mariners were shut out for the starts. field wall. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
During football season -Do not rent 2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS 2 rooms in private home w/separate B&B, 1/4 mile to stadium. Free Travel with STS to this years top 10 or Hotel it. Buy apartment complex. NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR entrance for football weekends. parking & NO tix. Spring Break destinations! Best 
WANTED 10 one-bdrm furnished units. 4 rni FOOTBALL WEEKENDS & Shared bath. Close to NO. 574-geocities.com/ndbandb@ sbcglob-deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-to NO. Great investment or convert SCHOOL YEAR. 574-329-0308. 259-8603. al.net for more info. Book your missions. Visit www.ststravel.com to condos. Call Larry 574-255-9363 www.geocities.com/gillisrealty@ sbc game today! 574-302-7888. or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group 
Supervisor-Market Research. or 257-0039. global. net 1bdrm apt. 1 mi. to NO. Laundry. discounts. Opinions, Ltd. seeks detail oriented Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester. Deluxe Motor Home rental for NO supervisor for our office in House 4 sale. 3bdrm,2.5 baths, RV NO home games. Sleeps 6-8. Quiet area. $550/mo. Call 574-532-home games. NOT FOR TRAVEL. FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­University Park mall. Night/week-dormer 2nd fl. Finished basement. Transportation, tailgating & lodging. 8718. Close to campus. Couple or small 0964 end flexibility a must. $8.50/hr. Call 7 blks to NO. Estate auction. 57 4-243-554 7. family. 574-272-6857. 574-243-5719. Sunday, 9/17, 12:30 p.m. 1430 E. Apt. for home games. 1.5 mi to NO. Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets 
Madison. 574-291-7746. House for Rent PSU/UM weekends. 574-386-6014. NOTRE DAME GAMES AND to the NO/Purdue game for family. Interviewer-Market Research. 25 min.away -2 blcks frm Lake EVENT RENTAL AND PARKING. Call Blaine & leave message at Opinions, Ltd. seeks confident peo-Exquisite New Construction on Mich.Sieeps 11. Kit.,2 bath,grill. Call 2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. Furnished apartment, sleeps 4, 219-324-3241. Local pickup pie to approach mall shoppers for River. 3,300 sq.ft. including lower-708-525-4293. $275 NO Football Wkends; $200 walking distance to stadium, market research surveys at level walk-out. 5 bedrooms, 3-1/2 Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400. Linebacker, and restaurants. Call Need NO tix & parking pass all University Park mall. $8/hr. Call baths. $377,000. Sandy Hagen, NO home games rental. 1 mi to NO. Big house on NO Ave. owned by (574)339-1608. home games. 574-276-8507. 574-243-5719. Coldwell Banker (574) 243-9575. Sleeps 2. Full accommodations. alumni available for every home 
$900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718. game. Very reasonable. Email Will swap 2 Purdue GA tix for 2 Students to do minor work in house Loretta800@ aol.com or call 954-UCLA GAs. Call Bob 574-277-2510. on NO Ave. owned by alumni. Good 11 bdrm house available for 2007-921-1413. Wanted: UNC Tix. (574)273-9845 pay! Email Loretta800@aol.com or FoR RENT 2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens, TICKETS call 954-921-1413. 5.5 baths, large common areas and bdrm 2 bath house w/jacuzzi, pool 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. backyard. Contact table, 2 big screen TVs for NO WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­50% off dep. if rented by 10/1 . 255-MacSwain@ gmail.com home games. 1/3 mi to NO. 574-1570 
PERSONAL

7000. 532-8431. One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30 WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. 
FoR SALE 

Rent a home NO football week-milesfrSB. 2 bdrm house, fully furnished. 15 TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
ends. 574-784-8638. www.Eastofedenatunionpier.com. min. to NO. Avail. NO home games. WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. not go it alone. If you or someone Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call $350 wkend. 513-697-7766. $1200 Fri.thru Sunday. Call 574-you love needs confidential support 269-445-2765 BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam-229-1240. FOR SALE: No· FOOTBALL TICK-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 
pus homes & weekend rentals. Need a place like home to stay for ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Investment homes for sale near Bluegoldrentals.com NO football Weekends? Immaculate furnished apt. avail. for 2378. information,.see our bi-weekly ad in NO. 866-521-8989. Bed&Breakfast 4 Bedroom/3Bath football weekends. Sleeps 4; sun-The Observer. 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to home, newly built available for rent! room, patio; 1 blk. to stadium shut-Travel with STS to this years top 10 Enchanting 2-story 2-3 bdrm cot-NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. $850.00 per night. Call 286-6715 or tie, 1 mi. to stadium. 574-272-6377. Spring Break destinations! Best www.ndgamedayroom.com
·7 
!age on 3/4 acre lot across from 299-0745. B&B rooms for NO home games. deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-Warren Golf Course. Low taxes & House for home games. 4 doors $125-$150 night 3 mi to NO. 574-missions. Visit www.ststravel.com ATTORNEY Lyn Leone available. utilities. $145,000. Call574-277-from NO. Call Gary at 574-993-Rooms for NO home games. 574-631-4632 work, 57 4-234-8507 or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group Underage consumption, OWl. 574­2684 or mascotte@comcast.net 2208. 273-5035. home. discounts. 272-1968. 





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

NCAA Women's Soccer Adidas Top 25 
team 2oo6record previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 6-0 1 2 Florida State 4·0 2 3 Santa Clara 5·1 4 4 UCLA 5·1 6 5 North Carolina 6·1 5 6 Texas A&M 3-2-1 3 7 West Virginia 6·0 17 8 Portland 3-2-1 9 9 Penn State 2-2-2 7 10 Tennessee 3-1-1 12 11 Wake Forest 5-1 20 12 Utah 4·2 14 13 Connecticut 2-3-1 11 14 Colorado 4-1-1 21 15 California 4-0·2 16 16 Missouri 6-0 18 17 Duke 4·2 15 18 Illinois 3-3 NR 19 William & Mary 5-1·1 25 20 Auburn 5·1 13 21 Virginia 4·2 10 ' 22 San Diego 5·1 NR 23 Texas 3·2 8 24 Boston University 3-1-1 24 25 Fresno State 4-1·1 RV 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Ohio State (50) 2·0 1614 2 NOTRE DAME (3) 2·0 1468 3 Auburn (2) H 1447 4 Southern Cal (2) 1~1F ' ···········1446 5 West Virginia (2) 2·0 0 6 LSU 2~0 1 7 Florida 2 1249 8 Texas 14 .1150 9 Florida State 2-D 1.029 10 Georgia 2-D 944 11 Michigan 2-D 942 12 Louisvill& 2-D.. . 911 13 Tennessee 2-D *''' 782. 14 Virginia Tech 
763 15 Oklahoma 755 16 Iowa 11 Miami (Fl) 18 Oregon 19 Nebraska 20 TCU 21 California 
22 Arizona State 23 Boston College 24 Texas Tech 
25 Penn State 
MIAA Soccer Standings 
Team  Overall Record  
1  Calvin  4-0·0  
2  Albion  4+0  
3  Kalamazoo  2-2-0  
4  Alma  2·3·0  
5  Adrian  1~3-0  
6  01Ivet  1·3·0  
7  Hope  0-2~1  
8  .Saint Mary's  0~1-0  
9  Tri-State  0-4-0  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Maryland at West Virginia 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Philadelphia at Atlanta 7:35 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 

VOORHEES, N.J. ­Philadelphia Flyers center Keith Primeau will be forced to retire after fail­ing to receive clearance to play because of lingering effects of a concussion. 
"Although he's been able to do more, he really hasn't been able to elimi­nate all of his symptoms," Flyers team physician Gary Dorshimer said Wednesday. "He still hav­ing these symptoms and I can't clear him to go back to full activity." 
A person in the NHL with knowledge of Primeau's decision told The Associated Press that Primeau will retire. The person spoke on the con­dition of anonymity because Primeau was prepared to make an offi­cial announcement at an 11 a.m. news conference on Thursday at the Flyers' practice facility. 
"I think he's going to talk about (retirement) with his family and others tonight," said Dorshimer, who examined Primeau. "It's been a long road for him coming back from this:· 
The Flyers, who open training camp Friday, are ready to move on without their former captain. 
"The last time I talked to Keith, I said, 'You don't 
IN BRIEF 

Bengals defender's hit on Green deemed legal 
CINCINNATI -Until this week, Robert Geathers' football distinction was his family history -his father and uncle also were NFL defensive linemen. 
One hit on Kansas City quarter­back Trent Green pushed him into the spotlight. 
Since knocking Green unconscious in last Sunday's season opener, the Cincinnati Bengals lineman has been put in an uncomfortable posi­tion, watching all the replays and explaining why the play turned out that way. 
Game officials saw nothing wrong with the play -no flag was thrown. On Wednesday, the league office agreed, absolving Geathers. "The injury ... was unfortunate and has drawn much commentary, but it is not a foul," Ray Anderson, the NFL's senior vice president, said in a statement. 
want to become a distrac­tion. If you can't play, we have to go on without you,"' general manager Bob Clarke said. 
Primeau seemed set to face the harsh reality that his career could be over on Tuesday night, saying, "you could read it on the wall." 
Primeau had been try­ing to return from a con­cussion sustained on OcL 25 after a hit from Montreal's Alexander Perezhogin. It was the most severe in a series of head injuries Primeau endured during his 15­year NHL career. 
"He never gave any indication to anybody that 

Ivy League football programs face recruiting challenges 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -Whether it's California, Texas or New England, Harvard football coach Tim Murphy and Yale counterpart Jack Siedlecki often run into each other on the recruiting trail. 
"It is the very tiny pool that we have to recruit from," Murphy said. "To find kids that are so strong athletical­ly and academically and in terms of character, it becomes a very small pool that is spread far and wide." 
The eight-member Ivy League, with different priorities and challenges than many football conferences, enters its 50th football season this weekend. 
Although most Division I-AA teams dream of playing for a national title, Ivy League schools choose not to compete in the postseason tourna­ment. 
"I think we look first at who are the players," said Jeffrey Orleans. 
he was going to come back," Clarke said. "We felt all along that he was­n't going to come back. We've got to start training camp with the players we're trying to make a team of." 
Primeau, who has two years and $6.84 million remaining on his con­tract, missed 21 games because of a concussion sustained against the Rangers in the 2003-04 season. He also had at least two head injuries during the 2004 playoffs, in the Eastern Conference semifinals against Toronto and in the confer­ence finals against Tampa Bay. 

Burton seeks redemption in 
Cup Chase 
RICHMOND. Va. -Jeff Burton was once the most promising driver in NASCAR, a hot shot groomed by Jack Roush, mentored by Mark Martin and destined for stardom. 
Then, after four dazzling seasons, it all went away. 
First, he stopped winning races. Then he lost his sponsor and his feel­good feeling with his team, switching to Richard Childress Racing for the 2005 season. 
But when the Nextel Cup series begins its Chase for the championship Sunday in New Hampshire, the South Boston native will be a part of it, his career resurrected by his move to a resurgent team, and his confidence rebounding with his performance. 
It's been a road filled with doubt for Burton, who earned 15 of his 17 victo­ries in a four-year span when he was a fixture in the top five of the driver standings. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Nebraska hopes to make statement against USC 
Cornhuskers view Saturday night's matchup with the Trojans as opportunity to return to national pronzinence 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -When he was a kid in Ohio, Fred Davis had a couple of teachers from Nebraska who just loved to talk about their beloved Cornhuskers. 
All those stories made an impression on Southern Cal's tight end. 
"I watched Nebraska in the mid-90s. I observed greatness," Davis said a few days before Nebraska visits No. 4 USC on Saturday night with a chance to return to prominence after sev­eral down years. 
The Huskers of yesteryear were nothing short of great. The Big Red went 255-49-3 under Tom Osborne from 1973­97, winning three national titles and going 49-2 in his final four seasons. 
"I've always known Nebraska to be a powerhouse football program," added USC center Ryan Kalil. 
Not always. Things haven't been the same since Osborne retired, but the 19th-ranked Huskers believe they're on their way back. They have a huge opportunity to make a state­ment before about 90,000 fans in the Coliseum. 
"This game will truly be a measuring stick for our pro­gram," third-year coach Bill Callahan said. 
A little national title talk even entered the conversation. 
"If you can beat a USC at their place, it shows you can definitely play," Nebraska wide receiver Nate Swift said. "It would bring more people look­ing at us as a (national) con­tender." 
Frank Solich succeeded Osborne. Ilis teams went 5 8-19 from 1998-2003, but he was fired after a 10-3 season that included a 17-3 victory over Michigan in the Alamo Bowl. 
Obviously, that wasn't good enough. 
"Expectations are extraordi­nary," USC coach Pete Carroll said. 
Carroll knows all about high expectations, and he's certainly met them with the Trojans, whose 49-4 record in the past four seasons is the best in Division I-A since Nebraska's run in Osborne's final four sea­sons. 
Callahan replaced Solich, and the Huskers went 5-6 in his first season. It was the team's worst season since. the 1961 squad went 3-6-1. Streaks of 42 straight winning regular sea­sons and 35 consecutive years in a bowl ended. 
After his first season, Callahan reminded the Husker faithful: "We're building for a championship season. I don't want to get away from that. That's our goal, to win the national championship. It's going to take time. How much time? I don't know." 
Now that the West Coast offense has replaced the famed Nebraska option, Callahan's players just might be coming around. Since that first season, Nebraska is 10-4, 2-0 this sea­son. 
"If they were to beat us, it would give them the fire to rise up and be the Huskers of old," USC linebacker Oscar Lua said. "USC rose to prominence. Nebraska is on its way there." 

Maybe so, but if the Trojans roll to a one-sided victory, it would be a crushing blow, at least temporarily, for the Huskers, listed as 19-point underdogs. 
"Whatever the outcome is, it's not going to define us one way or the other," Callahan said. "This game will help us get bet­ter." 
A passing game at Nebraska didn't sit well with many fans at first, but that, too, is changing. 
"Our fans have embraced the change and the new culture of what we're getting accom­plished," Callahan said. "They like to see the ball in the air, they like to see balance." 
Nebraska rolled to easy wins against Louisiana Tech and Nicholls State leading up to the USC game. Some might think that's not the way to prepare for the powerful Trojans. 
"I think there was a lot to be gained," Callahan said. "We have a lot of newcomers on our team, guys that don't have much experience. When you're progressing like we arc and try­ing to get back on top, you real­ly need to get as much experi­ence as you can." 
At least one Nebraska player has little doubt about the out­come. 
"When we beat this team, we can show the world that we are a great team and we restored the order," Andre Jones said. "When we beat USC, it's go!ng to slingshot our season." 
Jones, a transfer from Fresno City College, said he turned down a scholarship offer from usc. 
"When I went there, I just didn't sense that love that I felt when I came here," he said. 

1980 2006 
We express our gratitude to the Andrews and McMeel tan1ilies for sponsoring over 1300 students in the Summer Service Learning Prograrn in the 26 years of the Jarnes F. Andrews Scholarship Fund. As we gather with the 120 Andrews Scholars fc>r 2006 this evening, we celebrate the inspirational life of]in1 Andrews and your fidelity to his legacy. 
~ 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

CONCERNS Community Service 
INTERNATIONAL SPORTS 
UAE in legal trouble for child slave athletes 
Children forced to work as jockeys, seek class action status 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Rulers of the United Arab Emirates were accused in a lawsuit of enslaving tens of thousands of boys over three decades and forcing them to work as jockeys in the popular sport of camel racing. 
The lawsuit was filed last week by unnamed parents of boys suspected of being abducted, sold and enslaved. They claim more than 30,000 boys could have been victimized and seek class-action status. 
The lawsuit alleges Sheikh Mohammed bin Hashid al Maktoum, the crown prince of Dubai, and Sheikh Hamdan bin Hashid a! Maktoum, the deputy ruler, were the most active perpe­trators. 
The lawsuit was filed in Miami because the mem­bers of the royal family maintain hundreds of hors­es at farms in Ocala. The suit seeks unspecified dam­
ages. Calls to the United Arab 
Emirates  embassy  in  
Washington, D.C.,  were  not  
answered  and  it  was  not  

possible to leave a tele­phone message after hours. A telephone message left at a Kentucky farm owned by the crown prince was not returned. 
John Andres Thornton, co-counsel for the children, said the crown prince was served with the lawsuit Monday while buying horses in Kentucky. 
The lawsuit claims the boys were taken largely from Bangladesh and Pakistan, were held at desert camps in the UAE and other Persian Gulf nations, and forced to work. It claims some boys were sexually abused, given lim­ited food and sleep and injected with hormones to prevent their growth. 
Camel races are immense­ly popular in the Persian Gulf. The UAE banned the use of children as jockeys _ long favored because of their light weight_ in 1993, but young boys could still be seen riding in televised races for years afterward. 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Saturd y, 

Make the Domer Run Great! 
Talk about the Pancakes you ate! Ovarian Cancer you'll help eliminate! Then go watch the Irish beat State! 

A 13evtefi;t:for OVCtYLa¥\1 CCUitCeV CtMJCtY~ £Ntltd; ~LO-VV 
ND/SMC/HC Community $10.00 in advance $15.00 day of race Alumni & Select Groups $15.00 Register in advance at RSRC or download registration form @ recsports.nd.edu Advance registration ends @ 7:00pm Friday, September 22 Race day check...in @ Legends 

For more in rmation, cal/631-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
~' A.sso~. 
.._§-{;~·0 
< '" ::l 
NOTRE DAME 


..--~---------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Backup punter accused of stabbing starter 
Northern Colorado player faces second-degree assualt charge in event reminiscent of Harding-Kerrigan incident 
Associated Press Downing said. "When that Cozad and Mendoza, a jun­occurs, I don't know." ior from the Denver suburb of 
GREELEY, Colo. -In a sce­The incident conjured up Thornton, were competitive, nario reminiscent of Tonya images of the rivalry between he said, but no more than Harding vs. Nancy Kerrigan, figure skaters Harding and players at other positions. the backup punter at Kerrigan. "No different Northern Colorado has been Harding was than starting accused of stabbing his rival banned from the quarterback or
"Rafael is a
in the leg, his kicking leg. sport for life starting right Mitch Cozad, a sophomore after her former competitor and tackle," he said. from Wheatland, Wyo., husband hired a wants to get back "Everyone was allegedly attacked Rafael hit man to held accountable
as soon as he can. " 
Mendoza in a parking lot this smack Kerrigan to the same week. Arrested on a charge on the knee with level." of second-degree assault, a crowbar. Scott Downing Asked if there Cozad was freed Wednesday "I guess the Northern Colorado was any jealousy on a $30,000 bond. only identified between the two
coach 
Mendoza, who was treated motive (in the players, he said, and released at a Greeley attack on "I have no idea. hospital, will miss at least Mendoza) at this That would all Saturday's game at Texas point in time is the competi­be conjecture." State. tion for that position," Evans Cozad was suspended from 
"Rafael is a competitor and police Lt. Gary Kessler said. the university and the team wants to get back as soon as But Downing wasn't so and was evicted from his athletics Jay Hinrichs. Cozad his Evans apartment about he can," head coach Scott sure. dorm room, said director of had no listed phone number 9:30p.m. 


I 
Flot Screen TVs
1hatJda:f{J 
in Every BoothI
Karaoke 

NFL Sunday Ticket
9 pm-1om 

#1 

Sports Bor 
SPORTS BAR 

! t?an-zp~ _57/zo-pptZ~. _57ou;Zfh D12nd , and stabbed in his right thigh arrested Tuesday, Kessler 
after parking his car outside said. 
1 
vvvvvv_Bet:vveent:heBuns-com 
' 
The Society for Human Re.~o'ource Management & The .Management Club invites everyone to attend the . 


Donnelly Lecture Series in Participatory Management 
Peg Neuhauser 
H 

Cross-Fttnctional Collaboration: Bridging the Territorial Gaps" 
Friday, September 15 12:30-1:45 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
in Greeley, and a phone mes­The assailant fled in a black sage left at his Wyoming Dodge Charger, Kessler said. address was not immediately About 10 minutes after the returned. attack, a 
The stabbing liquor store took place Monday "Everyone was held clerk told 
in Evans, a small 
accountable to the police that 
town adjacent to two men in a Greeley and about same level. " car matching 50 miles north of that descrip­Denver. The tion stopped
Scott Downing
Greeley Tribune outside the
Northern Colorado 
first reported the store,
coach
story in stripped tape Wednesday's edi-off the license tions. plate and 
Kessler said Mendoza, aver­drove away. aging 37.6 yards per punt on The clerk gave police the nine punts in the two games, license number, and the car was attacked from behind was traced to Cozad, who was 

Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB -Nl WRAPS 
Oswalt helps Astros avoid sweep in St. Louis 
Hernandez retires 21-of-first-22 batters, pitches eight strong innings in his 12th win; defeats his ex-teammates 
Associated Press earned his fifth save in seven chances by striking out pinch­
ST. LOUIS -The Houston hitter Preston Wilson. Astros know they are a long shot to make the playoffs. At Arizona 4, Washington 2 least, the defending NL champi­· Livan Hernandez blanked his ons enjoyed the end of their former Washington teammates road trip. for seven innings and four 
Hoy Oswalt pitched shutout Arizona players hit solo home 
ball into the ninth inning and runs to help the Diamondbacks Lance Berkman hit his 40th finally beat the Nationals on home run, helping the Astros Wednesday. bounce back from a dispiriting Hernandez retired 21 of 22 
loss to beat the St. Louis batters from the first to the Cardinals Wednesday in the eighth before giving up a pair finale of a nine-game swing. of runs on Robert Fick's pinch­
"I hope it carries over and hit double. gives us a little momentum In the teams' final meeting, going back home," manager Arizona beat Washington for Phil Garner said after the the only time this season. The 
Astros concluded the trip 4-5. Nationals came from behind to "We need to re-establish our­beat the Diamondbacks in the selves." other five contests. 
The Astros ended a three­Alfonso Soriano was thrown game losing streak and averted out at third base for the second a three-game sweep against a game in a row, leaving him still team they're chasing in the NL one stolen base shy of becom­Central. On Tuesday, Albert ing the fourth 40-homer, 40­
Pujols hit a two-run double steal player in major league with two outs in the ninth off history. Brad Lidge for a 6-5 victory. Soriano and Felipe Lopez led 
Chris Burke, starting at sec­off the game with singles. ond base for the second Hernandez threw a pickoff 
straight game in place of attempt to second as Soriano slumping Craig Biggio, had two broke for third. Shortstop hits and two RBI. ·Still, Houston Stephen Drew threw to third Hernandez couldn't get a bunt robbing Ryan Howard of an with his curveball and his slider was six games behind the baseman Chad Tracy, who down, fouling off strike three, early grand slam, the Phillies down and away that he had Cardinals in the Central and made the tag. It was the only and Chris Young struck out came back with three runs in very good command of, which four games back in the wild time Soriano reached base in swinging. the third and three in the was evidenced by the fact that card standings with only 17 the game. eighth. he walked one and had 10 games left. Conor Jackson, Orlando Phillies 6, Braves 5 The Braves committed two strikeouts." 
"We're so far behind that we Hudson, Drew and Chris Snyder The Phillies hope a comeback errors in the eighth, allowing Snell (13-10) became the first have to win every series for hit solo home runs off Tony against Atlanta on Wednesday two unearned runs. Pirates pitcher to win as many sure," Oswalt said. "Then we'll Armas Jr. to put the helps the team's comeback Jimmy Rollins had three hits, as 13 games in a season since just see what it ends up." Diamondbacks up 4-0 after four hopes in the NL wild-card race. including a single to spark the 1999, when Todd Ritchie won 
Garner said he hasn't innings. Atlanta left fielder Matt Diaz three-run eighth inning. When 15. 
attempted to calculate what it Hernandez (12-12), acquired missed David Dellucci's line Jeff Francoeur bobbled the ball "I was actually throwing would take to extend what has from Washington for two minor drive in the eighth inning, in right field, Rollins advanced inside and changing eye levels been a frustrating season for league pitchers on Aug. 7, allowing two runs to score as to second. Shane Victorino fol­to all the hitters," Snell said. "I the Astros (71-74). allowed two runs and six hits in the Phillies rallied from an lowed with a run-scoring single wasn't throwing a lot of the 
"We're not even at .500," he eight innings. He struck out five early five-run deficit to beat off Macay McBride to cut same pitches to the same hit­said. "We can't even start to and walked none. Atlanta in the first game of a Atlanta's lead to 5-4. ters." play those kind of games yet." Jose Valverde pitched the doubleheader. McBride then struck out Snell said he has always had 
The Cardinals got only two ninth for his 16th save in 19 The Phillies began the day Chase Utley and Ryan Howard. a fear of throwing inside since runners into scoring position opportunities two games behind San Diego in Chad Paronto (2-3) gave up a he hit and seriously injured a before the ninth against Oswalt Armas (8-11) failed to make it the NL wild-card race. single to Jeff Conine before batter when he was young. (13-8), who gave up one run four innings for the seventh "We think we're in a very Dellucci hit the liner to left. But Snell said pitching coach and seven hits in 8 1/3 innings. time in 14 starts. He allowed good position in the wild-card Diaz tried to catch the ball Jim Colborn has helped him get He struck out three and walked four runs and six hits in 3 1-3, race," said Phillies reliever while backpedaling, but the ball over that fear, and Snell two. striking out two and walking Eude Brito, who pitched four skipped off his glove for his rebounded Wednesday after 
With one out in the ninth, the three. scoreless innings. "So far, so fourth error of the year as two consecutive losses. Cardinals hit three consecutive After Jackson's one-out home good." Victorino and Conine scored. Salomon Torres worked the singles off Oswalt for their lone run in the second put the The Braves led 5-0 after two Rick White ( 4-1) struck out ninth for his seventh save -all run. Trever Miller relieved and Diamondbacks ahead 1-0, innings. Despite Gold Glove two in 1 2-3 perfect innings. coming in the Pirates' last got one out. Dan Wheeler Arizona loaded the bases but center fielder Andruw Jones Tom Gordon pitched the ninth seven victories. 
inning for his 29th save in 33 Sanchez is now hitting .342. chances. He hit his 47th double, tying 
"It's tough when you give up the team record for right-hand­five runs early," Wolf said. "Our ed batters set by Adam bullpen did an incredible job." Comorosky in 1930. 
Kyle Davies hit his first career Ronny Paulino drove in three homer but also had a short out­runs, Jason Bay reached base ing, giving up three hits and four times and Chris Duffy three runs in 2 2-3 innings. scored twice for the Pirates. 
Davies called the loss "real Prince Fielder had three hits tough." and drove in two runs for 
"We can't catch any breaks Milwaukee, which lost for the right now," Davies said. "Balls fifth time in six games. won't fall in. It's just one of After Fielder hit an RBI dou­those things." ble in the first, the Pirates took 
the lead for good in third with Pirates 6, Brewers 3 three runs off Chris Capuano 
Ian Snell is learning how to (11-11 ). Sanchez had a sacrifice pitch inside to major league hit­fly, Paulino doubled home a run ters and seeing the results. and Jose Castillo had a sacrifice 
Snell struck out 10 to tie his fly. career high and Freddy "Paulino had three different Sanchez got three hits to raise opportunities in his first three his NL-leading batting average at-bats," Tracy said "Each time 
to .342, sending the Pittsburgh he came up. he had runners on Pirates past the Milwaukee first and second and cashed in Brewers Wednesday in the first on two of the three. You're not game of a doubleheader. going to get it done every single 
"A great performance by Ian time but when situations pres­Snell," Pittsburgh manager Jim ent themselves, if your percent­Tracy said. "He did something age of efficiency is where it today that was very impressive. needs to be in order to help His effectiveness of pitching your ballclub be good, you're in inside helped him immensely business." 



page 20 The Observer.+ SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Team's thoughts with 'Hep' 
Indiana head coach underwent two-hour brain surgery Wednesday 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Interim coach Bill Lynch told his Indiana players Wednesday afternoon that Terry Hoeppner was resting after undergoing about a two-hour brain sur­gery. 
Then, the Hoosiers honored Hoeppner with a practice they with his family at his side," IU athletic director Rick Greenspan said at the Hoosiers' practice Wednesday. "We are eager to assist the Hoeppners in any way we can and look forward to having Terry back on the Indiana side­lines." 
The Hoosiers seem more like­
ly to use 
Hoeppner's 

thought would absence as moti­
"We tried to focus 
make him proud. vation than as an 
on football, that's
"We tried to excuse against focus on football, what coach Hep Southern Illinois that's what coach on Saturday.
wanted us to do." 
llep wanted us to Before and after do," quarterback Tuesday's prac­
Blake Powers 
Blake Powers tice, Hoeppner said. "As a team Hoosier quarterback pleaded with play­
we had to come together." 
Hoeppner was expected to miss two to four weeks after having surgery to remove a possible tumor from the right side of his brain Wednesday morning. 
It was the second time in less than nine months that Hoeppner had the procedure. Doctors were uncertain what caused the growth found dur­ing a routine MRI exam last Friday. 
Hoeppner also had surgery in December to remove a tumor from his right temple and said Wednesday's procedure was both elective and outpatient. About 15 minutes before the team's meeting, Lynch got the news Indiana's coaches and players were waiting for. 
"Coach Hoeppner came through this morning's surgery well and is resting comfortably 
Roinn Theanga & Litriocht na Gaeilge I The Department oflrish Language & Literature 
ers not to get dis­

tracted  by  his  
health.  
Some acknowledged  that  

wouldn't be easy. ''I'm not going to put it in the 
back of my mind. I'm going to use it to get excited, to play for coach Hep," defensive end Kenny Kendal said. "We're going to keep it up and use it to get excit­ed because he's going to be watch­ing, he's going to want us to win." 
On Wednesday they responded 
Lynch described as a spirited effort. 
Those outside the program also kept Hoeppner in their thoughts. 
Pittsburgh Steelers quarter­back Ben Roethlisberger, who played for Hoeppner at Miami of Ohio and is a close friend, said the two had talked before Wednesday's surgery. 

''fie's like a father to me. I love him to death," Roethlisberger said. "I know he'll be OK because he's a fighter and a competitor. The way he made it out to me, it's not as serious as everyone's making it out to be. He'll be OK. He's a fighter." 
If Hoeppner had his way, he might do more than watch. 
When asked whether he would coach from his bed, Hoeppner smiled and respond­ed, jokingly, that he would keep reporters apprised of the situa­tion. 
Lynch didn't brush it off so quickly. 
"One of the things we talked about was there would be a guy watching tape Saturday or 
"He's like afather to me. I love him to death." 
Ben Roethlisberger Steelers quarterback 
with what 
Sunday, whenever he gets it, and he'll be grading them," Lynch said. "He might call during the game, too, I don't know." 
Lynch has 14 years of head 
coaching experi­ence, including eight at Ball State where he won the 1996 Mid­

American Conference title and the 2001 MAC West Division crown. He was fired after the 2002 season and was the head coach at DePauw in 2004 before joining Hoeppner's new staff at Indiana last year. 
NFL 

Saint Reginald a hit 
down in the Big Easy 
Bush scampered for 61 yards and caught eight passes in debut 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -When members of the Archdiocese of New Orleans started refer­ring to him as Saint Reginald, Reggie Bush suspected he was meant to play here -and play well. 
So far, so good, and so much more to come, Bush says. 
"I just felt I was close to 
breaking" a long run, Bush said Wednesday, recalling his workmanlike performance in the New Orleans Saints' season­opening victory at Cleveland. "I 
was  only  one  
step away."  
In  his  NFL  

debut, last year's Heisman Trophy 

"I just felt I was close to breaking a long run." 
Reggie Bush Saints running back 
winner ran 14 times for 61 yards, caught eight passes for 58 yards, and returned three punts for 22 yards. 
His longest run was 18 yards, yet his dependable, modest gains helped sustain enough scoring drives to help secure a road victory for a team that went 3-13 last sea­son, hired a new coach and replaced more than half its roster by the time training camp ended. 

most is the reception he has received from the locals. 
A particularly poignant moment for him came when he donated $50,000 to a Catholic school for special needs children. The Archdiocese presented him with a plaque depicting Saint Reginald of Orleans, who lived in France about eight cen­turies ago -prompting some to suggest he take the nick­name Saint Reginald of New Orleans. 
Meanwhile, schoolchildren went wild, as did administra­tors and parents, when Bush 
touching." 
got up on stage. 

The scene nearly moved Bush to tears. 
"I wasn't expecting it to be that big, that magnitude," Bush recalled. "They had the whole school in there, parents were in there. It was really 
Bush has since recalled how it became apparent when he toured some of the neighbor­hoods hardest hit by Katrina that his success on the field could lift the spirits of a recov­ering, football-mad region. 
He organized the donation of several Hummers to a subur­ban police department, recently delivered several tons of food to needy families and has put up $86,000 to help fix storm dam­
"He played "He played within age at one of the 
within himself. main high school 
himself He didn't
He didn't try to football stadi­
try to do anything
do anything , ums in the city. 
crazy," quarter­crazy. If his competi­back Drew Brees tive side caused said. "He played him any disap­
Drew Brees 
solid." pointment about
Saints quarterback 
Not the spin­being passed 
ning, zigzagging, jaw-dropping touchdown runs that became Bush's trademark in college, but there's plenty of time for that. 
''I'm going to make plays regardless. They may not all be big plays, flashy plays, home runs, but I'm going to make plays," Bush promised. "When I touch the ball, I'm going to be exciting. That's just me. That's my personality. That's just the way I play." 
Around here, fans expect nothing less. 
The day he was drafted, some people who had lost everything during Hurricane Katrina attended the festivities at Saints headquarters and celebrated like they had hit the lottery. Ticket sales, already picking up steam with Brees' arrival, sailed into uncharted territory. 
The Saints have broken sea­son-ticket sales records and need to sell fewer than 2,000 more to sell out all 68,354 seats in the refurbished Louisiana Superdome for the entire season. 
New Orleans' first home isn't until Sept. 25, a Monday night matchup with the Atlanta Falcons. Already, Saints jerseys or T-shirts with Bush's No. 25 are omnipresent in the metro area. 
Yet what impresses Bush 

over as the No. 1 
draft pick by Houston last spring, his per­spective has changed. 
"I feel like God has a plan for everybody and it was in his plan to have me here," Bush said. "While I'm here I'm going to make the most of it." 
That kind of attitude could bring a lot of joy to New Orleans _ and headaches for opposing defenses, which are already spending much of their preparation time for the Saints on coming up with ways to contain the dynamic rookie. 
Bush heard about that from several Browns defenders after his first game. 
"They told me they were focusing on bracketing me and they said they were pretty sure it was going to be like that the rest of my life," Bush said. 
Having shown a knack for being supremely confident without coming off as arro­gant, Bush has little doubt he can handle it. 
Neither do his teammates. 

"Reggie's a guy who's very versatile. We can do a lot of things with him," Brees said. "He is a very confident guy. He feels like he can do every­thing.... The guy's got all the talent in the world, and I know with his work ethic it's going to turn into a great achievement for him." 

SONGS ofIRELAND 
"Neili Ni Dhomhnaill and the West Donegal Song Tradition" A public performance/lecture by Ireland's renowned performance artists: 
Maighread Ni Dhomhnaill & Cathal Goan 
No opportunity to hear this unforgettable voice should be missed. Maighread Ni Dhomhnaill--one of Ireland's foremost singers--offers a rare opportunity to hear her unique vocal style and repertoire offolk songs. The recipient ofthehighest honor in Irish music, TG4's Traditional Singer ofthe Year in 2005, Maighread will perform songs celebrating the history, culture and people of Donegal and Ireland. The sound of her voice will linger long in your memory. This performance-her only North American concert this year-will celebrate the traditional repertoire of Rann na Feirste's legendary singer and oral intellectual, Neill Nf Dhomhnaill. Catha! Goan, Director General of Raidi6 Teilifis Eireann, will introduce the songs and provide a historical and cultural context. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 3:00 -4:00 p.m. Friday, 15 September 2006 
Reception to follow 
All are welcome to this free public event Michigan and Irish Football fans welcome 
Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Colts refuse to give up on Rhodes, run game 
Indianapolis running back averaged 1.8 yards per carry for 29 yards in 26-21 win over the Giants last weekend 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts aren't ready to abandon the running game just yet. 
Despite struggling to run the ball in their victory over the New York Giants, the Colts remain optimistic about improving their ground attack heading into Sunday's AFC South matehup against the Houston Texans at the RCA Dome. 
Indianapolis, which was playing its first regular season game since losing running back Edgerrin James to Arizona during the offseason, managed only 55 yards rush­ing on 23 carries against the Giants. 
"Whenever you have a signif­icant change like we did, it's going to take some time to get used to," Colts center Jeff Saturday said about James' absence. "We have to get bet­ter and that's something we can improve on." 
One player who expects to improve this Sunday is starting running back Dominic Rhodes, who averaged 1.8 yards per carry in the 26-21 win over New York. Hookie Joseph Addai, the 30th overall selec­tion in April's NFL draft, rushed for 26 yards on seven attempts. 
"The running will come," 
said Rhodes, who averaged 3.0 yards per carry last season. "Right now, it doesn't matter as long as we win." 
With the running game struggling last weekend, the Colts were forced into more passing situations. Quarterback Peyton Manning completed 25-of-41 pass attempts for 276 yards and one 
touchdown. "The running will Colts coach Tony "We have to come. Right now, Dungy didn't want show people we to read too much
it doesn't matter 
can run the foot­ball and that as long as we we're committed win." to running the football," Manning 
Dominic Rhodes
said. "All we want ·is to keep working Colts running back 
on it and show it on the field." 
Saturday said the Colts never gave up on their game plan to run the ball against New York, even though they had little success. 
"I think Peyton did a great job ... he kept calling it up, making us get up in there," Saturday said. "Even if we're not getting the yards we want, at least they have to honor it. At least they know you're not going to quit on it." 
Although Indianapolis held on to beat the Giants, Manning knows the Colts need to get the ground game working in order to keep teams honest. 
"If teams are doubling Marvin (Harrison) and dou­bling Reggie (Wayne) on the outside and safeties are stay­ing deep, there are a lot of defenders that aren't worried about the run," Manning said. 
"If you can run it, you can have some huge plays. We need to be able to do that to be 
three-dimensional 
in our offense." 

went to against 
into the poor rush­ing effort by his team against New York. 
"Everybody looks at the stats and they'll say that we can't run the ball, but we a tough place to play, a good defense," 

Dungy said. "There are going to be some weeks where we get a lot of good run looks and some weeks where we don't." 
Saturday expects the Colts to display a more effective run­ning game against Houston, which allowed 130 yards rush­ing during a 24-10 loss to Philadelphia in Week 1. 
"They are one of those teams that doesn't want to give up big plays, so I think we'll have more run looks against those guys," he said. 

Dungy wouldn't elaborate how they play us," Dungy said. about how much the Colts "We never go into the game would try to run during saying we've got to run 'X' Sunday's game. amount of times or we've got 
"For us, it really depends on to do this. 
RUNNING WILD 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Irish running back Darius Walker scans the defense before he turns upfield, left, in Saturday's 41-17 victory over Penn State. Walker jukes out Penn State sophomore cornerback Justin King. Walker has rushed for 155 yards in two games and is averaging 3. 7 yards per carry. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 14, 2006 
Zibby 
continued from page 24 

Asaph Schwapp should be ready to play Saturday. The sophomore from Hartford, Conn. practiced Wednesday after Irish coach Charlie Weis limited him to run­ning drills during Notre Dame's workout Tuesday. 
"He's coming off some sore­ness," Weis said. "Yesterday he was a lot worse than he was today." 
Weis also said injured running back James Aldridge should be "full go" by the Purdue game on Sept. 30. The freshman, who enrolled at Notre Dame last January, has been hampered by a knee injury all season. 
"lie's pretty close," Weis said Wednesday. "Right now I could get him part-time, the problem I have is I don't want to not be able to use him full-time." 
With backup running back Travis Thomas starting at line­backer, Weis said he wants Aldridge and fellow freshman run­ning back Munir Prince to be able to contribute if the Irish would lose starting running back Darius Walker to injury. 
"If something happened to [Walkeri. I'd like to think that a combination of [Aldridge] and [Prince) could handle the position without having to flip [Thomas] over there full-time." 
+ Irish defensive end Ronald Talley entertained reporters after practice Wednesday with a few words about his voice, his career goals and his childhood in Detroit. 
Among other things, Talley said his deep, bellowing voice has sounded the same since he was 12; he can do a decent impression of the rapper Nate Dog; and he wants to be a movie producer in the mold of Quentin Tarantino. 
The voice -as well as Talley's hulking 6-foot-4, 262-pound fi·ame -intimidate opponents today. But that tough look was honAd as a kid playing football for the Eastside Cowboys of the Detroit Police Athletic League. 
"Everybody that I played with then, all of us were mean ... we were real tough," he said. Asked if he was the meanest guy on his team today, he wa.•m't sure. 
"I might be, I don't know," he said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


Rainout 
continued from page 24 
never a factor in our quality of play. Rainouts can be dis­appointing, but I still feel that we could have easily won the tournament in this weather." 
But while the rain may have ruined play, Sei didn't count the day as a loss. 
"I think it gave the fresh­men a chance to see our rou­tine, even when the weather conditions aren't the great­est," she said. 
Like Sei, junior co-captain Katie O'Brien saw a positive side to the situation. 
"Our team has been hitting really well," she said. "This isn't a set back. It's more like 

EASTER FRIDAY 
extra time to improve." 

The Belles' lineup included O'Brien, sophomores Sei, Mcinerney, Meredith Fantom and Perri Ilamma, and fresh­man Kate Doornbos. 
That lineup, Sei said, is hard working and talented enough to raise the team to the top of its conference. 
"We're really looking for the top of the lineup to set a winning standard for the rest of the team," she said. "We want to continue our level of play from last year." 
With the cancellation, the team won a day of rest. Practice begins today for the Illinois Wesleyan Fall Classic in Normal, Ill. this weekend. 
Contact Becky Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Piane 
continued from page 24 
Piano was thAn offered a one-year assistant coach posi­tion at Notre Dame in 1975. He was named the head cross country coach the following year, beginning a 32-year tenure with the university. 
And his reign with the Irish won't be ending anytime soon. Piane signed a multi-year con­tract extension this summer. 
"They are trying to keep coaches and giving them long­term contracts," he said. "They want to create stability in the athletic department and in doing that they are giving out long-term contracts." 
Piane has been the model of stability at Notre Dame, where his teams have always had consistent success -including 14 top-15 finishes in the NCAA Championships in the last 19 years. 
It's clear Piane's runners have benefited immensely from his expertise. After all, 122 of his athletes -including 23 cross country runners ­have won All-American cita­tions. 
Individually, Piane has been recognized many times, including two National Cross Country Coach of the Year awards and 23 league Coach of the Year awards for indoor track, outdoor track and cross country. 
But in Piane eyes, those achievements testify to the quality of his athletes -not his abilities. 
"I don't think it matters how good 

One major result of this suc­cess is Piane's creation of the National Catholic Championship, a tournament that takes place at Notre Dame 
this weekend. 
The tourna­

a  coach you  are  "''ve been  ment  consists  
-if you don't have good ath­letes, you're not going to get any  fortunate that for years I've been blessed with real  entirely of Catholic universi­ties and colleges from every NCAA  
kind of rewards," he said. "If you've got good athletes,  good athletes and good people. "  division and the NAJA, including Notre Dame,  
if they arc dedi­ Saint Mary's and  
cated and try to  Joe Piane  Holy Cross.  
work  hard,  if  Irish coach  Piane's brain­ 
you've got good  child grew out of  
runners  and  his desire to have  

sprinters and jumpers, then a tournament with a different the awards are going to connection between teams -a come." religious one, not the usual 
''I've been fortunate that for league or geographical bonds years I've been blessed with that tie teams together. real good athletes and good Piane's successes have also people." allowed him to effectively build up the Notre Dame cross coun­try and track programs to the premier teams that they are today. The teams' accomplish­ments won him the ability to attract top recruits to Notre Dame. 
"Kids are good consumers, and they're going to go for a product that they think is real­ly solid," Piane said. "And they look at our academies and they look at our athletics and they look at how our facilities are improving and it makes our program a hard product to turn away from." 
This season, Piane hopes to be able to use his talented freshmen to have another top finish in the NCAA tournament -adding more prestige to his already exceptional Irish coaching career. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 14, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 __.. 

--. 
\ HAtE 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 

RAWLD 
I I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LAFAT 
[J I (] 
GREATY 
I [J []
www.jumble.com
tHEELAX j
J I [ I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
Hmm. Let's see. Four clubs. No,

WHA.T THE: NOVIC.E:'S BRIDGE: PARTNE:R WANTE:D HE:R TO BID--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

"[I I I I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GUILE HOIST BEWAIL HOOKUPYesterday's 
Answer: Where the partygoers invited the mechanic -TO A "BLOWOUT' 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ben Savage, 26; Fiona Apple, 29; Jean Smart, 55; Jacqueline Bisset, 62 
Happy Birthday: Your emotions may be difticult to deal with this year. Expect other people to challenge you. Use your money wisely. It's time to look out for yourself and to let others pay for themselves. Your numbers are 3, 12, 20, 28, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Get out and enjoy your friends, family and new activities. Check out a new location to vacation this winter. You will probably meet someone who can offer you some very good advice about something you feel you would like to get into for a ~rofit. 4 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): There is plenty you can do to build support if you open up and explain what it is you want. You will have an opportunity to learn something new if you attend a serious group meeting or network event. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider your concepts to be masterful and ready to take to the next level. An older relative or friend will be able to offer you some fabulous ideas. A relationship may be intense but, if handled properly, can be passionate, as well. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stay away from any troubles going on at horne. Do things with people who tend to think the same way you do. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will gravitate to people who have the same passion you do today. Taking an unorthodox approach to what you do will draw attention and get others thinking. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep your feelings to yourself and your emotions under control. You may be forced to put up with someone you don't like. Should this be the case, take on an extra job that will keep you away from home. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A lesson learned will enable you to get a handle on what you need to do next. Don't feel you have to share your ideas with everyone. The more reserved you are, the easier it will be to execute your plans. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Readdress whatever situation you are facing. A move will give you greater freedom in many aspects of your life. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get down to business. Too much talking will only end up costing you valuable time. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Too much talk and not enough action will be what will get you into trouble today. Be proactive. A new spin on something old will give you added mileage. An investment that interests you will pay off. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look beyond the setbacks, challenges and aggravations and consider all the possibilities that exist. Let the people you care about the most know how you feel about them. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you haven't been totally honest with yourself, you probably haven't been with others either. Circumstances will be a direct result of past actions. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and compassionate. You are always willing to take action when dealing with the life challenges you face. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Going off 8 Hostess 
offerings 15 Little extra 
action 16 Was abased 17 Scheme 18 Beat 19 Hee-hawer 20 Arlene of "Here 
Come the Girls," 1953 21 Attend to a tear 22 Brownish-gray 24 Cooler 
26 Marooned person's message 
28 Cooler 29 Fete 31 Butterfly, once 34 Exclamation 
with an apostrophe 
35 Nut case 36 Represented symbolically 39 Rococo painter 
Watteau 41 Conscience 42 Pure 43 All-purpose 
vehicle, briefly 44 Get set? 45 Lay a lawn on 46 "Rats!" 48 Mare's morsel 49 Elbow-bender 51 Sales staffer 52 RR stops 53 Giant 
successes, briefly 56 Lab that's not very big, e.g. 58 Sucker 59 E-mailed, e.g. 61 Take the place of 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Log holder 66 Relatively small 67 Warhol subjects 68 Jake_, 
De Niro's role in "Raging Bull" 
DOWN 1 Key in a corner 2 Popular cruise 
port 3 Legit 4 Wound up 5 Big-billed bird 6 Ariz. neighbor 7 Co. in the 
merger that formed Verizon 8 Bullfighter's red cloak 9 "Action, not words!" 

10 Part of a chamber orchestra 
11 Zappers' targets 12 Korean autos 13 Art Deco 
designer 14 Brood 20 Some forensic 
evidence 22 Shouts of 
triumph 23 Dreamboat 24 Inferior 25 From square 
one 27 Bandy words 29 Rose's love, on 
Broadway 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

30 Safeguard 47 Squawk, e.g. 57 Diva Lily 
32 Reveille 50 Puccini 58 Think message ... or production so Jerk a possible title 61 "The Club"52 Outdoes
for this puzzle 

of 1970's-80's 33 Cyclades' sea 53 Holiday poem TV opener
37 Put on a peg 62 Stephen of "Still 38 Dimbulbs 
54 Early Bond Crazy" baddie 
63 Dear

40 Automotive innovator 55 High hairstyles 64 La lead-in 
For answers, call 1-900-285:.5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City __________ State _____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 14, 2006 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 

Keeping it simple 
By MIKE GILLOON  
Sports Wrirer  
Last Saturday, Notre Dame safe­ 
ty Tom Zbikowski muffed a punt  
against Penn State. This Tuesday,  
he stayed after to practice to  
ensure it doesn't happen again.  
"I've just got to shake it out and  
get it out of my head and get back  
to fundamentals and basics," said  
the Irish strong safety and punt  
returner.  
Zbikowski has returned two  
punts for touchdowns in his  
career and is the most experi­ 
enced Irish returnman. Yet he's  
the only Irish player to fumble at  
all this season and is averaging  
just below six yards per return  
through two games, not up to par  
for a player listed as a preseason  
All-America punt returner by  
CBSSportsLine.com.  
But right now, he's just worried  
about the simple stuff.  
"I could care less about my  
[yards per return average] or  
whatever that is," he said. "You  
never hurt your team when you  
never put the ball on the ground."  
Notes:  
+ After suffering a leg injury  
against Penn State, fullback  CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer  
The Irish are led by captains Brady Quinn, Travis Thomas and Tom Zbikowski from the tunnel  
see ZIBBY/page 22  into Notre Dame Stadium Saturday against Penn State.  

SMC GOLF 

Belles get rained out 
of tourney 
By BECKY SLINGER 
Sports Wrirer 

The Belles did not get their chance to hand Tri-State a loss Wednesday when the MIAA Jamboree hosted· by Albion was rained out. 
Rain left the fairways and greens soaked. Thirty min­utes after the 1 p.m. sched­uled tee-off, it was clear that the course was unplayable. The Jamboree was cancelled and rescheduled for Sept. 22­23 -a decision sophomore Katie Mcinerney found "frus­trating." 
"I was mentally set to play," Mcinerney said. "It was hard for the day to be interrupted because of the weather." 
Sophomore co-captain Alex Sei was equally unsatisfied with the decision to abandon the tournament. 
"We are a well-prepared team," Sei said. "Weather is 
see RAINOUT/page 22 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 

Legendary coach leads Irish 
Piane has mentored 123 All-America runners in his 32-year tenure 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Wrirer 

As the longest-tenured coach currently at Notre Dame, Joe Piane has had a lot of experi­ence leading Irish runners ~ and a lot of success. 
Piane began his coaching career in Morocco while in the Peace Corps. He immediately succeeded with cross country, send­ing three run­ners to the 1972 World 

Plane
Championships in Cambridge, England. 

After returning to the United States in 1972, Piane took his first collegiate position as the head coach at Western Illinois for two years, in which time he earned a master's degree in physical education. 
see PlANE/page 22 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's knocks 
off struggling Albion 
By GRANT SCHMIDT Sports Wrirer 

In a match that lasted a lit­tle over an hour, Saint Mary's swept struggling Albion 3-0 (30-14, 30-20, 30-14)-only two weeks after their last meeting, a 3-2 Belles victory. 
Despite the greater margin of victory, Belles head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek felt that her team was a little more challenged this time around. 
"Even though we beat them solid in the invitational, Albion took two games from us," she said. "I felt that they challenged us a little more there than they did tonight." 
Schroeder-Biek said her team could have taken it up a notch as well. 
"We were not as crisp as we normally are, but we handled them well," she said. 
The Belles committed 13 service errors -a stat that did not leave the team 
pleased. But there was a lot for the team to take out of the victory. 
"We challenged ourselves by not lowering our style of play and never relaxed," she said. 
Schroeder-Bie k reminded her team throughout the match to respect Albion and not play down to its oppo­nents level. 
Kaela Hellmann con­tributed soundly with her superb blocking in the front row to add to her 40 blocks on the season. Libero Anne Cusack. tacked on a signifi­cant number of digs to add to her 195 season total. 
Overall, Schroeder-Biek felt the Belles handled them­selves well, and came at Albion with intensity. 
The Belles will next take on Kalamazoo at home Sept. 20 and look for yet another MIAA victory. 
Contact Grant Schmidt at gschmidl@nd.edu 
en 
NFL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 

SPORT
MLB 
SPORT 
LLI

1--
(,) The Colts refuse to 
Indiana coach Terry 
Saints running back 
A backup punter at
Astros 6, 
White Sox 9,

Reggie Bush is a hit on
z give up on Dominic 
Hoeppner underwent 
Northern Colorado is
Cardinals 5 
Angels 0 

Rhodes and its run 
brain surgery 
and off the field in the 
accused of stabbing the
Diamondbacks out-
Chicago pitcher
::5 

game after a slow start 
Wednesday to remove a 
Big Easy. 
starting punter in his
fielder Luis Gonzalez 
Freddy Garcia takes 
possible brain tumor. 

= against the Giants. 
kicking leg. 

became the oldest play-
perfect game into the
.:::s: 

er to hit 50 doubles in a 
eighth inning. 

season.

r:a. ti 

en 
page 21 
page 20 

page 14
page 20 
page 19 

page 18 




