i 
"' 
NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOVEMBER 3, 2006 
I
•
i 

page 2 40 YEARS OF THE OBSERVER Friday, November 3, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Daily life makes The Observer go 
You might think we're patting ourselves on the back. That may be. 
But as The Observer marks its 40th anniversary today, it's more likely that we're just pleased to have been around for so long -and proud that the 
paper still matters. 
Despite our belief in this paper that is such a part of our lives, it's not always easy to create. 
Sometimes classes are missed, term papers are put off and Thursday night bar crawls take a back seat. But, somehow, the paper gets out every day. 

Everyone does his part. Those of you who work here ­ Mike Gilloon  
or have roommates who do- 
know that often it takes until four  Editor in Chief  
or five in the morning to get the  

paper finished. It's people like these that keep the paper alive. 
The Observer is Shirley Grauel, our office manag­er who's made this place run for 26 years. The Observer is a timid freshman, walking into the South Dining Hall basement to ask about writing Interhall football. The Observer is a frustrated alum writing in the Viewpoint pages, chastising the changes that the University has made since his time. The Observer is Jack Radican, the only person on campus allowed to drive on the sidewalks and the guy who makes sure almost 10,000 Observers get delivered every day. 
The bottom line is, we need a school paper. Football games and Masses, dining hall dinners and Interhall competitions, Senior Week and Frosh-0 ­all these aspects of campus life make Notre Dame and Saint Mary's close communities. But even with the unity that has made this little northern Indiana community famous, something is needed to bring it all together. 
That's where The Observer comes in. Everyone can read it and anyone can send a Letter to the Editor or place an advertisement. 
What makes The Observer unique is that it's not controlled by the administration or student govern­ment or Charlie Weis. We have relationships with these people and organizations, and we appreciate them. 
But The Observer is more than one voice, more than one group. 
It takes the longest word in our short masthead ­independent-seriously. Our independence is what makes us relevant. 
Our staff is a mix of nearly every group on cam­pus. On any night there could be an English buff working with an accounting major to put out the Scene section. There could be a pro-choicer work­ing with a pro-lifer on the Viewpoint section. There might even be a Catholic and a Hindu writing an editorial together. 
It's a place where everyone's voice is respected, though not always agreed with. It's also a place that saves the many voices, events and stories on our campuses for history's sake. 
It records big decisions, like "The Vagina Monologues" controversy, and big victories, like last year's USC thriller. Stories like these often dominate our headlines, but they aren't why The Observer is essential. 
It's the daily life, the minutiae, the little things that give the campus a rhythm and make The Observer's pages unique. 
The Observer thrives on the Question of the Day, the investigative report, the emotional Interhall photo and the opposing Viewpoint letters. 
It's these photos and stories you see taped to doorways and around window frames in places like Howard and LeMans, Dillon and Pangborn, McGlinn and Stanford. 
It attempts to answer your questions. What's going on? Who's in trouble? What hap­pened yesterday? 
No other media outlet covers our campuses this extensively. No other publication can distribute thousands of copies all over our schools every day. No other paper asks more questions about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's than The Observer. 
I have no doubt The Observer will be around 40 years from now. It might have a different layout and a different building. It might have a higher circula­tion and color every day. 
But as long as there are students on campus, it will be here. It must. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

From campus to Katrina 
To a recent high school gradu­ate who wants a job in journal­ism, the significance of the col­lege newspaper can't be exagger­ated. On most campuses, it is the best, perhaps the only, way to Michelle Krupa break into a notoriously 
Editor in Chief
impermeable industry. And it 1999-2000 is, for many aspiring journalists, the first place they learn our craft's cardi­nal rule: one error-even the slightest-is failure. 
So when I first walked into The Observer office in 1996, I was intimidated, and not just by expectations. 
There was the corporate look of the place, with its cluttered desks and nameplates with impressive titles. A low-level buzz infused the room in a tell-tale sign of daily deadlines. Not least of all, the news editor greeted me with an expert handshake, and after hiring me for a weekly shift, he hid all signs of mirth as he listed, in strict and crucial order, my new job duties. 
What I witnessed seemed to be a highly technical machine, with a professional code and daily agenda of stories, always listed neatly on a giant grease board. This was a place where the top leaders were staunch, serious and unequivocally sober. If I fol­lowed their precepts, as people in this newsroom seemed to have done, I would reap success, I sur­mised. 
Then I worked my first shift. 
For 14 hours, ending at 8 a.m., I plowed through a series of dis­asters, from crashing computers to missing photographs to incom­prehensible copy. I quickly threw away my task list and turned to the 20 or so students who hap­pened to be pulling their shifts that same night. Most of them meandered barefoot around the newsroom, juggling a dozen tasks as they hollered, danced and 
debated about the content of 
tomorrow's edition. 
We were, as has been said of the world's first pilots, flying by the seat of our pants. 
As my nights added up and I climbed The Observer's adminis­trative ladder, I came to recog­nize that in newspapers -as perhaps in most facets of life ­the ability to improvise is para­mount. I found, too, that extem­porizing is best executed in the company of people who, despite differences of faith, work experi­ence and favorite pizza toppings, share a sense of ethics, humor, honesty, and a desire to reach the same goal, despite overwhelming odds. 
When nobody knows precisely what they're doing or how it's going to work out, the best com­pany to keep is with people you trust. It doesn't hurt if they like to laugh along the way. That's what I learned at The Observer. 
When Hurricane Katrina lashed New Orleans last year, my news­paper had a plan as flimsy as the city's levees. Though The Times­Picayune had written stories about the dreaded potential of the city to f1ll up like a soup bowl, our staff had few boats, a handful of satellite phones and no backup location to print the paper. 
For weeks, we did nothing but improvise. Our editors, the ones who generally wore suits and enforced the company's overtime rules, put on rubber boots and wrestled up generators to power our lap-top computers. 
Reporters siphoned gas from half-flooded cars. The IT guys rigged wireless Internet at the hotel that became our home base. At night we crashed, side by side, on air mattresses. We shared gra­nola bars and Jim Bearri. We sobbed in each other's arms over the fate of our ruined home. 
We rarely knew what the next day would hold. We never had a decent blueprint for the coming day's paper, even after our hotel­office took on the visages of a quasi-professional space. All of our regular rules for making a newspaper might as well have drowned in the flood. 
But we had each other and a shared goal: to describe to the world the worst weather-pro­voked catastrophe in American history -without a single error. 
The task was tremendous. And maybe someone, with the benefit of hindsight, will author a guide book someday for just this sort of scenario. But if my limited expe­rience is any indication, even that document would be as useless as a fledgling editor's inflexible strategy for managing a night shift at The Observer. 
Of all strategies, the one that seems to works best -whether the disaster is a crashing comput­er system or a lake pouring into a city-is the plan rooted in the ingenuity of people who share each other's objectives, trust each other's instincts and are willing to dance and debate and cry their way through 14-hour shifts. 
As The Times-Picavune staff banded together aft~r the flood, sidestepping the company rule book just to get the paper out, I found myself lulled back to a familiar feeling. Perhaps it was the realization that imagination was our best resource, that inno­vation was our only option. Or maybe it was that weightless sen­sation -that feeling I experi­enced so often at The Observer ­that deep down no one really knew whether it all would work out. 
In either case, the result was the same: a newspaper got pub­lished, and our feet never touched the ground. 
Michelle Krupa covers local pol­itics for The Times-Picayune. She can be reached at krup78@hot­mail.com 



School relations, one story at a time 
Little more than a decade after The Observer first hit the dining hall tables, the publication's edi­torial board elected its first female editor in chief. Coeducation at Notre Dame Marti Hogan may have 
Puplllo
opened many doors for woman, but not Editor in Chief this one; I was 1977-78 a Saint Mary's student. 
That's not to say that my oppor­tunities for working and advanc­ing at The Observer didn't benefit from coeducation. On the con­trary, they were greatly enhanced by it. 
There were several other women, all Notre Dame students, running for the position of editor in chief that night, along with male students. Each one would have done a tremendous job, pos­sibly better than I did, and they proved day after day that they were equally prepared to handle the top spot. Competition was our rising tide, and our boats, then on the third floor of LaFortune, were certainly lifted to a higher level of accomplishment because of it. 
My goal as editor was twofold. First, I wanted to build a larger pool of reporters, editors and pro­duction staff members, drawing more underclassmen and specifi­cally more Saint Mary's students to the staff. Second, as grand as it sounds, I wanted to improve rela­tions between the two schools. Looking back, I'm fairly certain we gained ground in both areas. 
Although it sounds anachronis­tic now, nearly 30 years later, we knew that The Observer would tell a richer story with a staff of men and women working togeth­er, Notre Dame women and Saint Mary's women working together. We covered many of the same sto­ries that you read in today's issues -the love-hate (okay, mostly hate) relationship with parietals, changing alcohol poli­cies and consequences, student government elections and activi­ties, and cultural events to name a few-but we worked tirelessly, as a group, to ensure that a wide variety of voices from both cam­puses were heard. 
Becoming the first female editor in chief was a great achievement, but bridging the two campuses and representing Saint Mary's as a student leader meant even more to me. I'm not sure that the stu­dents -or even administrators, for that matter-on either cam­pus really knew what our ongoing relationship would be during the early years of coeducation. But, at The Observer, we took every word of the tagline, "The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," to heart. 
Most of all, I appreciated the opportunity to work with a very dedicated, sometimes brilliant, often zany and definitely eclectic group of men and women, none of whom I would have met as a Saint Mary's student had I not worked at The Observer. We shared a love of words, the need to know and a commitment to communications that transcended our school aff1liations, and ulti­mately we found we had much more in common than we ever imagined. 
I've been fortunate to receive many issues of The Observer over the years (thank you!) and am continually impressed with the variety of writing styles, student interaction, special sections and, of course, advertising revenue. It was -and still is -a great place to work, to learn, to grow and to contribute to a community that truly never stops giving. I'm glad that my son, now a freshman and, yes, sports reporter, will have the opportunity to continue in this tradition. 
As Notre Dame and Saint Mary's celebrate the 40th anniversary of The Observer, I hope you, too, will share something in common with my year as editor. In 1977, we also featured stories about a great football team and an excit­ing season; our year ended with a trip to the Cotton Bowl and the national championship. It doesn't get any better than that. 
Marti /logan Pupilla is commu­nications manager for the Inter­national Dairy Foods Association. She can be reached al mpupillo@idfa. org 

Friday, November 3, 2006 40 YEARS OF THE OBSERVER page 3 

An independent identity 
The student-run newspaper ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's has gone from weekly startup to daily campus fixture 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
When a group of students showed up at Robert Sam Anson's dorm room in 1966 and asked him to edit a new campus news­paper, he wasn't really thinking about longevity, legacy or 40 years of editorial independence. 
"It was fun stirring the pot," said Anson, who agreed to serve as editor in chief of The Observer after Notre Dame student govern­ment shut down its "just dread­ful" newspaper, The Voice. "[The Observer] was a left-wing rag, but boy, did it get readers." 
On Nov. 3, 1966, Anson and about 20 students put out the first edition of The Observer. That weekly, 12-page "rag" has since become a paper that publishes five days a week, ranges between 20 and 40 pages and staffs close to 200 students. 
Whether Anson intended it or not, his decision had a profound impact on Notre Dame. The Observer is still the primary cam­pus newspaper -but it's gone through 40 years of changes to become what it is today. 
From a 'bad influence,' a paper 
is born 
For Anson, it all came out of a chance -and a refusal. 
"I had been working for the Scholastic," Anson said. "I was supposed to have been the editor senior year, but the vice president [for] student affairs, Father [Charles] McCarragher, decided I would be a bad influence. 
"He was right, I was a bad influence," he laughed, "but I was worse at The Observer." 
In 1966, Anson shared the posi­tion of editor-in-chief with Steve Feldhaus, who had been in charge of The Voice. Feldhaus handled The Observer's finances -the paper was funded by stu­dent government dollars -while Anson directed the editorial side. 
The pair continually challenged the administration, most notably when Anson clipped out an arti­cle from the "Berkeley Barb" about California's growing free­Jove movement. After it ran in The Observer, University officials admonished the liberally minded editors. 
"We were threatened with expulsion, and since there was a draft in Vietnam, it was sort of a death sentence," he said. 
The University forced Anson and Feldhaus to deliver a written apology to every student on cam­pus, which they did -and then reprinted it in The Observer, sur­rounded by Letters to the Editor in support of the original article. 
Expulsion threats aside, the editors strived to keep The Observer "lively looking and lively reading." 
Lively it was, but The Observer was missing something crucial ­adequate funding. In 1967, Student Senate approved the first Observer subscription fee. 
In 1968, the paper bumped up to five days a week. And it's been published every weekday since then -except in 1970, when several top editors stepped down, and publication was suspended for two days. 
Despite its brazenly liberal roots, during the '70s, The Observer developed into a more objective -and increasingly comprehensive -publication. 
However, it wasn't without its fair share of copy-editing errors -this was before Microsoft Word spell check, after all. Stories would come back from the print­er on a sticky paper, ready to be trimmed and pasted on the page by an Observer layout person. The paper would ultimately be printed based on photo plates of the pages, Anson said. 
An indispensable asset 
The Observer's biggest change, however, took place in 1980, when office manager Shirley Grauel joined the staff, then locat­ed on the third floor of LaFortune. 
While today's focus is on The Observer's 40th birthday, it can't be overlooked that Grauel has been here for a full 26 of those years. At a publication with new leaders every spring and such a high level of employee turnover, Grauel's tenure has been an important constant. 
Officially, Grauel assists the edi­tor in chief with administrative duties. Unofficially, she runs the office when student employees are at class and tackles the prob­lems no one else knows how to solve. 
She orders new supplies and keeps the office equipment ­printers, phones, fax and copy machine -up to date. She pays the bills in the summer, handles classified ads and is an invaluable source of help to the Ads and Business Department. 
With Grauel on board, The Observer entered the '80s. In 1982, the editorial board asked the University for a $1 increase in the subscription fee. Previously, the paper had operated on adver­tising revenues and a $5 per semester fee, established by the Student Senate. 
Audits and arguments 
However, this request sparked a University investigation of The Observer's financial operations ­an unintended consequence. And what the University turned up, it didn't like. 
The University's internal audit department turned up a $7,000 deficit, along 

Robert Sam Anson founded The Observer in 1966 with a staff of 20 students. In 2006, the newspaper sent two journalists to Rome for the Notre Dame Board of Trustees meeting. 
Dec. 6, 1983 letter to Dziedzic. "Therefore, it is not my intention to sign a contract with The Observer. I believe that the rela­tionship of the past years has been one of trust and should con­tinue in that fashion." 
"The administration of the University has ensured the edito­rial freedom of The Observer in the past and continues to do so." 
And with that assurance, on Feb. 6, 1984, The Observer joined the BUCS system. 
A changed relationship and a changed location 

But there was an administra­tive hint of conflict to come. In a following letter to Dziedzic, then­Executive Assistant to the President Father David Tyson said it was "important to note that the University's respect for the independence of The Observer has been in light of the fact that the contents of the paper, including advertisement, have been consistent with the 
highest stan­
with sloppy dards of the
"The administration of the
bookkeeping journalism pro­and irresponsi­University has ensured the fession and the 
ble spending. editorial freedom ofThe mission and Father John principles of
Observer in the past and 
van Wolvlear, this institution
continues to do so"
then-vice presi­of higher edu­dent of Student cation." Affairs, told Advertising
Father Theodore Hesburgh 
1983-84 and Catholic
University President Emeritus 
Observer Editor principles
Letter to The Observer, 1983
in Chief David would both 
Dziedzic that the paper's smartest financial option would be to join the University Budget Control System (BUCS). Although The Observer took a defensive approach, trying to find alternatives that wouldn't sacrifice its fiercely guarded inde­pendence, its attempts to improve the paper's accounting systems did not satisfy the University. 
So when the University said join the BUCS system, or forget about anyone collecting those student subscription fees, The Observer joined the system -on one con­dition. 
That condition was a written guarantee from University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh that The Observer would remain editorial­ly independent. 
"[R]elationships among organi­zations of the University have been traditionally familial in nature," Hesburgh wrote in a 
contribute to future tensions between The Observer and the University. 
In 1986, the University included a policy in its student handbook, duLac, banning all alcohol-relat­ed advertisements on campus in publications bearing the University's name. The impact of this ban on The Observer wasn't clearly defined, however, until winter of 2005, when The Observer agreed to consistently adhere to the precedent of declin­ing advertisements promoting alcohol and alcohol-related events. 
Throughout the '90s, The Observer focused on improving its campus coverage, relying less on the Associated Press -espe­cially on its front page. The staff has prioritized editing, special sections and series work. Computers have revolutionized both the method of production and the day-to-day character of the office. 
"The line [to place ads] used to be always out the door, especially during football season," Grauel said. "Now with the e-mail, e­mail has really hurt traffic. . . . It used to be so busy." 
Not only has e-mail altered the feel of The Observer's office, but the office itself has changed. In 1998, the staff moved from its LaFortune location to the base­ment of South Dining Hall -a shift that, Grauel said, required major adjustment. 
"It was tough," she said. "I remember coming into the [for­mer] office and the editor in chief then would be looking out his window onto the peace memorial. ... It was really nice. When we got here, at first, it felt cramped." 
Shortly after that transition came the biggest fight The Observer has ever won -the fight to run advertisements for gay and lesbian organizations. 
Why independence matters 

Before 1999-2000 Editor in Chief Michelle Krupa took over, "it was kind of this tacit, don't ask don't tell policy" between The Observer and University officials regarding advertisements for Gay and Lesbian Alumnilae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA­ND/SMC, formerly known as GLND/SMC), she said. 
That "tacit policy" was really a several-year dispute that came to a head during Krupa's tenure. The year before, former Assistant to the President Matt Cullinan sent an e-mail to then-Editor in Chief Heather Cocks attempting to enforce the ad ban. 
"GLND is an unrecognized group, and therefore, may not advertise on campus, including in the Observer," the Sept. 15, 1998 e-mail read. "GALA is an outside group, closely affiliated with GLND. As such it does not have a right to advertise. These groups have tried various avenues in the past to get ads in the Observer. It is not a letter of policy situation, but rather the spirit of the policy. 
"Unrecognized student groups may not advertise. With respect to outside groups, the issue is not simply whether Notre Dame appears in the title. Outside groups that, directly or indirectly, espouse positions contrary to the moral teaching of the Catholic Church may not advertise." 
Former Assistant to the President Chandra Johnson sent this same text in an Aug. 23, 1999 letter to Krupa. And that's when the real fight began. 
Krupa and other editors contin­ued to defend their stance -that they should have complete inde­pendence to run the ads -and, after several months of campus and community debate, The Observer printed an ad for gay student group OUTreach ND in November 1999. 
Since then, The Observer has continued to print advertisements for the gay and lesbian organiza­tions. University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy appointed an internal ad hoc committee to examine the University's relationship with The Observer, but the committee never issued a public decision. 
"We just felt backing down on this, not only would it muck up our independence, it would have weakened our stand," Krupa said. "Not only our identity with respect to that issue, but across the board.... It would have weak­ened us as a watchdog, [an idea] that we hold so dearly to the tenets of journalism." 
A constant identity 

Throughout the challenges and changes, one thing that's stayed constant these past 40 years is the work required to put out just one paper. 
"I know I hardly went to class. ... It was just constant," Anson said. "It was basically -I just recall the last three days of every week were a death march." 
Even though The Observer pub­lished just weekly back in those days, "we were writing until the last minute," Anson said. 
The other constant -besides Grauel, of course -is The Observer's independence. 
"It really is an environment of learning," Krupa said. " ... Pulling the rug of independence out of that would stymie that learning environment." 
At The Observer, Krupa found a "grassroots, implicit understand­ing of the ethics of the business," she said -free of corporate influence. 
"At The Observer," she said, "it's all just journalism and gov­ernment." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



page 4 Friday, November 3, 2006 


ERA OF 
:COEDUCATION 
~ 
,... . 
.... ·---""""___.... , 

"""_.,... .. , ..
........_........(,. ........... :-"'" .... ,.__.., '
-·~­
~ ........... -.. ... ~-... ··-~ :...... "·
,..,.._N.->;; .....~---, ,....._,____ --·. 
b.JJ.. h't1f«.~M.Ht..­M-f·-... *""i"'"•:>"..-'•·• -Y,."!I,......,.••" 
,.~f~*'Jitto•M91fr'* ,_.,.,o,of'..-~l"f. .,,;,~,·-;,,., ..,I ... ~ ,.......,. .·,. ~-' ,.., ·"' .,).(, _,_ --~ ·~·-· 
1Ww~OilU!Minlf~W 
V~~R~,_.,.1f~. "'f.....,,.....v,-.,..,.,,_,.. .. ~""Jf!~·~llilt~ 
(!lf~~Rr>fty 
_,.._._ ,·....... !_~ '··'"'' ••• ,.................. 
~· n.--... • u.. 
v, ............_____ , ~ .:.·~ ~· ................,.._ ....... ('--~-·'l'tfUftjJC'fll.J).C. ·•~> ·•· __.,-, -·· U•• _.,. 'I•• ""'''"''I' ~ .... laH U.0.,., ttl 
Till OBSERVER-­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Group focuses on future ticket distribution 
Health care, library also on the agenda 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
While graduate students managed to gain last-minute access to Wednesday's stu­dent ticket lottery for the Notre Dame-USC football 
game, Graduate Student Union leaders said at their Thursday meeting that more must be done. 
Quality of Life committee chair Paul Schramm said he will meet with the president of the Student Bar Association, a representative from the Mendoza School of Business and Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman to "make sure 
this problem will be taken care of' in the future. 
GSU president Mike Lundin also said University officials have recently discussed plac­ing student tickets for away football games in the hands of the Notre Dame ticket office next year. 
In the past, that responsi­bility has been given to the Student Union Board, a undergraduate student 
organization in charge of campus programming. If the ticket office takes control, it would allow tickets to be dis­tributed to all Notre Dame students, not just undergrad­uates, Lundin said. 
"Everybody will have access to tickets next year," Lundin said. "There just won't be one entity in charge that works 
see TICKETS/page 6 
Chicago will perform at halftime 
Legendary rock group, ND marching band to play together during UNC game 
Niles, Ill, prior to arriving at the University. 
For more than 40 years, Chicago and the Notre Dame band have kept in touch, and last summer discussed the possibility of performing together at a half­time show. The date was set for the UNC game after months of planning. 
And there's another important connection: the manager of Chicago, Peter Schiverelli, is a Notre Dame alumnus and was a starting player for the Fighting Irish under former head coach Ara Parseghian. He's also the godfather of current captain Tom Zbikowski. 
"In our 40 years of touring, there's always been a mutual admiration between the guys in our band and the Notre Dame marching band," Schiverelli said. "We play some really contempo­rary and really traditional things and feel like we've done it all, but playing live with the marching band will be a first for us." 
Still, behind the excitement of such an appearance comes a lit-
see CHICAGO/page 6 

By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Four weeks ago, spectators at the Notre Dame-Stanford football game were thrilled to see alumni of the University Marching Band play at halftime, a tradition that occurs only once in every four years. 
But the surprises don't stop there. During Saturday's game against North Carolina, the band will play with rock group Chicago, the first professional group to perform alongside the band in its 160-year history. 
"This will be like an eight­minute Super Bowl halftime show," said assistant band direc­tor Larry Dwyer. "Students should be watching the field carefully for special effects." 
The unusual halftime enter­tainment stems from a unique relationship between Notre Dame and Chicago. Father George Wiskirchen, who was the assistant band director from 1971-2001, also taught founding Chicago member James Pankow at Notre Dame High School in 

Schools discuss shared facility use 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Under a contract existing between Holy Cross College and Notre Dame, Holy Cross stu­dents are permitted to use cer­tain Notre Dame athletic facili­ties. But with the contract's spring 2007 expiration date approaching, a dialogue con­cerning its extension has devel­oped between the two schools' student governments. 
Several years ago, Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross had a reciprocal agree­ment allowing all students use of campus facilities, said Dr. 
Tina Holland, vice president of Student Affairs for Holy Cross College. In 2001, however, RecSports established new guidelines for the shared use of athletic facilities and placed a 2005 deadline on Holy Cross and Saint Mary's use of Notre Dame athletic facilities. 
As the 2005 deadline approached, Holy Cross began developing plans for its own new recreational center, with a projected 2007 completion. The deadline was extended to the spring of 2007. 
"Notre Dame was very gener­ous to extend an agreement 
see CONTRACT/page 8 


Rape charges resurface on CBS 
Former student says ND discouraged her from taking legal action 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 

A former Notre Dame student who in 2002 accused four for­mer Notre Dame football play­ers of rape said Thursday on CBS's "The Early Show" that University officials told her not to press charges. 
Lindsay Charles spoke with CBS correspondent Tracy Smith as part of a segment on sexual assault on college cam­puses. 
Charles accused Abram Elam, Donald Dykes and Lorenzo Crawford -who, in 2002, were current football players -and Justin Smith, who was then a former player, of sexual assault and gang rape. Elam was convicted of sexual battery and placed on a two-year probation, but was acquitted of criminal deviate conduct and conspiracy to commit rape. Dykes was tried and acquitted, and the charges against Smith and Crawford were dismissed before their cases went to trial. 
"I was the victim of a crime. I was raped," Charles told CBS. "I didn't do anything wrong, and for them to say 'Don't go to the police and report this crime,' I think is a travesty." 
see CBS/ page 8 
Panel examines LGBTQ life at ND 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 

What does it mean to be gay at Notre Dame? 
A 15-student panel of both heterosexual and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or ques­tioning (LGBTQ) members of the Notre Dame community exam­ined this question and others Thursday night in a forum titled "Heterosexism and Homophobia: Fine By Me?" 
The event, sponsored by the Core Council and Gender Relations Center, was part of LGBTQ Week, an effort to foster awareness about and to cele­brate the historical accomplish­ments of the LGBTQ community. 
see LGBTQ/page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 3, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Hug week: Initiating love 
What is one thing every human being loves? Why, hugs, of course. 
But as we rush around campus each day, the student body that makes up the "Notre Dame Family" seems detached and Lianna Brauweiler oblivious. 
Wouldn't it be nice if we Viewpointall could just 
Copy Editor 
smile at one another a lit­tle more? Where's the love? Don't families hug? 
As a matter of fact, they do. 

So here's the deal: next week will be Hug Someone New Week. Nov. 5 through the 11, you are going to hug someone you wouldn't normally hug (but only if he or she is recep­tive to this impromptu embrace; if not, this might accidentally turn into Black Eye Week, which we are not advocating). 
Why "Hug Someone New Week," you ask? Because sometimes hug­ging the same old people over and over again can get to be grating. Also, because according to www.free-hugs.com, research shows that three hugs a day will make you a better person. Like veg­gies for the soul. 
This pearl of wisdom is one Aussie "Juan Mann" has already come to terms with and embraced. (Ha!) Mann is the current and most prolific spokesman for the Free Hugs Campaign, which started in 2004 with Mann holding up a sign that read "Free Hugs" at his local mall, just to "see people smile" and "do a nice thing." He's not doing it to pick up girls, for fame, money or recognition -just to make contact with people and let them know they're loved. 
His random act of kindness made an impact worldwide when on Sept. 22, 2006, Shimon Moore, a friend of Mann and leader of the band Sick Puppies, posted a video chroni­cling Mann's story on YouTube. This clip was an instant hit all over the world and to date has gotten almost five million hits on the Web site, inspiring similar movements world­wide. 
If one man carrying a sign around a mall can reach out and inspire more than five million people to stop and spread a little love to everyone around, how much of an impact can each one of us make with a similar random act of kind­ness? 
There's no need to carry a "Free Hugs" sign around campus. Just reach out to someone new and ran­dom while you're racing across the quad. Take an extra 10 seconds to give a person or two a hug ­embrace your family. 
That's what they're there for. 
Contact Lianna Brauweiler at lbrauwei@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please call us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT CELEBRITY DO YOU WISH YOU COULD BE FRIENDS WITH? WHY? 






Charlie Gough  Juan-Pablo Segura  Maria Elizondo  Mike Fitzgerald  Marques Camp  Rachel Plassmeyer  
law student Alumni  freshman Knott  sophomore McGlinn  freshman St. Ed's  freshman Keough  freshman Howard  
"Tom Cruise, because I want company in the closet ... wait, I mean ... Can I still change it? Chris Farley. "  "Owen Wilson, because he has style; I mean, he really has style. ..  "Borat. because I like."  "Christopher Walk en, because the man can dance."  "Oprah, because she can give me anything I want, and I never have to pick up the check."  "Chris Farley, because he owns big Tom Callahan's brake pads. ''  


Notre Dame, reads her work Thursday in Hesburgh Library's Carey Auditorium. . 
OFFBEAT 

Grunting carries no said he had his headset Rapids, to drop his gun, weight In this gym on when he was lifting police said. 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Some 500 pounds on a squat "They thought it was a gyms forbid hogging machine at the gym in real gun," police Lt. machines and or wearing Wappingers Falls, about Kenneth Washburn said. flip flops. At one gym, 80 miles north of New "He dropped the gun and grunting is grounds for York City. attempted to run and was expulsion. Albert Argibay apprehended." of Beacon, N.Y. was Teen points BB pistol at Shelton told officers he escorted by police officers police car was "just playing around" from a gym this week for CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa and trying to scare people grunting -which is -A teenager pointed his during the Halloween against Planet Fitness' BB pistol at the wrong night incident, police said. rules for maintaining a car. The car stopped and lie was cited for assault non-intimidating atmos­the two men inside pulled while displaying a dan­phere. out their real .40-caliber gerous weapon and "Perhaps I grunted, per­Glock handguns. They released to relatives, haps I didn't. It's open to were undercover police police said. interpretation," said driving an unmarked car. Argibay, a 40-year-old They ordered Ryon Information compiled corrections officer. He Shelton, 15, of Cedar from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
0:: 
LLI 
:::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
..... 


ct 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 42 HIGH HIGH 50 HIGH 55 HIGH HIGH
...I LOW 25 LOW LOW 32 LOW 40 LOW LOW 
Atlanta 58 I 36 Boston 50 I 34 Chicago 42 I 23 Denver 60 I 28 Houston 67 I 44 Los Angeles 74 I 56 Minneapolis 38 120 New York 48 I 37 Philadelphia 48 I 34 Phoenix 85 I 59 Seattle 55 I 49 St. Louis 58 I 35 Tampa 78 I 63 Washington 50 134 


IN BRIEF 

Tera Hunter of Carnegie Mellon University will speak on "Until Death or Distance Do You Part: Marriage and Slavery in the Nineteenth Century" at 11 a.m. today in rooms 210-214 McKenna Hall. 
Father Bill Miscamble will be signing his book "From Roosevelt to Truman," from 
1  p.m.  to  3  today  at  the  
Hammes  Notre  Dame  
Bookstore.  

Emeritus Catholic Bishop Paride Taban will give the lecture "Post-war Challenges of Faith: Southern Sudan in the Shadows of Darfur" today at 1 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns. 
North Carolina Governor Michael Easley will give the lecture "Intersection of Values and Politics in Modern American Life" today at 2 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
The men's and women's swimming teams will take on Purdue tonight at 5 p.m. and 6:30, respectively, in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Admission is free. 
A panel will be discussing "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" Saturday at 11 a.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The event will fea­ture speakers from the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 




r-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Sopholllores create task force, address global poverty 
By MARCELA BERRIOS NewsWrirer 
Every year Notre Dame admits motivated freshmen with higher SAT scores and longer lists of extracurricular activities than their predeces­sors -and that motivation was also manifested last year when a group of freshmen taking an introductory peace studies course decided to do more than the homework. 
They started a movement that hopes to, in short, help eradicate poverty and fulfill the other United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDG). 
The ambitious group calls itself the MDG Task Force. 
Last weekend it sent four of its members to attend the "Point 7 Now!" conference in San Francisco, which derived its name from its campaign to increase the developed coun­tries' foreign aid to 0.7 per­cent of their national incomes. 
The conference sought to mobilize the Catholic commu­nity to fight against world­wide poverty by bringing together renowned scholars and experts, including Cardinal Renato Martino, President of the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace in The Vatican. 
Another prominent speaker was Columbia University pro­fessor Jeffrey Sachs, the director of the U.N. Millenium Project and a special advisor to U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan. 
Sachs also spoke at the Notre Dame Forum earlier this year, outlining the eight goals that all 191 member states vowed to try to achieve by 2015 -which include the eradication of extreme pover­ty, the improvement of univer­sal primary education, the reduction of child mortality and the end of the spread of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. 
Sophomore Joella Bitter, president of the MDG Task Force, said the group plans to contribute to the advance­ment of these proposals by educating the Notre Dame community about the impor­tance of these initiatives and aligning universities across the nation in MDG efforts. 
During the conference Sachs said there were 300 million people in Africa who could protect themselves from the malaria mosquito if they had bed nets during the night ­and the Task Force thought Notre Dame students should know that, Bitter said. 
"There are 300 million peo­ple living in the United States," she said, "and 300 million people in Africa who need these bed nets. 
"Imagine how many lives could be saved if we each bought a bed net for someone there." 
Bitter said the MDG Task Force was preparing a bed net fundraiser this winter that would allow students to pur­chase a bed net through the Millenium Project organiza­tion and receive a certificate and the name of the African recipient. 
It would be a beautiful Christmas present for some­one, but the MDG Task Force's plans to impact global poverty stretch beyond the holidays. 
The conference gave the MDG Task Force the opportu­nity to meet students from other Catholic universities who were working on similar initiatives -and the idea to organize fundraisers and events in synchrony arose. 
Bitter said that if there is a national breast cancer aware­ness month and a national LGBTQ awareness month, there could easily be a month to educate people about glob­al poverty and health prob­lems in underdeveloped coun­tries -if enough people across the country support the MDG efforts at the same time. 
In its early development stages, the MDG Task Force sought guidance in more established organizations, such as Middlebury College's Mid 8, a student club that works also towards the accomplishment of the U.N.'s eight Millenium Development Goals. 
Bitter said the MDG Task Force intends to maintain contact with these and other students from the University of San Francisco, Georgetown University and Santa Clara University, among others present at the conference. 
"We came back from San 
Francisco with a strong sense of solidarity, and we want to collaborate with other univer­sities to make this a nation­wide movement, but we also want to work with other clubs and organizations on cam­pus," Bitter said. "These are global issues, and there is a role for everybody." 
Sophomore MDG Task Force vice president Ashley Mayworm said that every­body, from 
College of Arts and Letters, which gave Bitter, Mayworm 
and  their  teammates  the  
"Learning  Beyond  the  
Classroom" grant.  

Rosie McDowell, the direc­tor of Student Outreach for Service and Social Action in the esc. said she was impressed by the MDG Task Force's drive and initiative, and that upon hearing the stellar list of participants at 
the Point 7 Now! 
political sci­ence to Film, Television  "Pushing legislation that promotes the  Conference which the esc partly sponsored ­ 
and Theatre  Millenium  she helped the stu­ 
to electrical engineering students,  Development Goals is really the only  dents obtain the financial support they needed and  
should par­ticipate in the upcoming letter-writing  way in which the federal government will dramatically  accompanied them to California. "The speakers at the conference  
campaign and visits to Indiana sena­ improve its foreign aid policies.''  were and and  all engaging dynamic -they knew  
tors' offices  what  they  were  
to  actively  Ashley Mayworm  talking  about,"  
inform them they support MDG propos­ vice president MOO Task Force  McDowell said. "They were all experts in interna­ 
als.  tional  relations,  

"Pushing legislation that economics or Catholic studies, promotes the Millenium or they were people who had Development Goals is really worked with those living on the only way in which the fed­less than a dollar a day. eral government will dramati­"It was a brilliant opportu­cally improve its foreign aid nity for the students to hear policies," Mayworm said. them and learn from their 
In its year of promoting eco­experiences to understand the nomic justice worldwide, the reality of those who live in Center for Social Concerns poverty and what the Gospel (CSC) sponsored the MDG calls us to do about them." Task Force's San Francisco visit, in conjunction with Contact Marcela Berrios at Campus Ministry and the aberrios@nd.edu 




ALL PHONES 
THE POWER TO PICK THE
ARE FREE! 




0 EYOUWANT 
NOW OPEN! 52991 SR933 South Bend, IN 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Students, alumni work to improve strained relationship 
accurate." 
By JOE PIARULLI 
"Sometimes they are more 
Assisranr News Ediror 
on the same page than they think themselves to be," 

In an effort to improve the Baron said. relationship between stu­This year, Aly Baumgartner, dents and alumni, the Student Senate Academic Academic Affairs committee Affairs committee chair, has and the made student­Alumni alumni relations a Association "Lizzi Shappell and focal point of her have teamed committee. She has
Bill Andrichik came 
up to organize organized three
up with the idea of
several stu­student-alumni dent-alumni the student-alumni receptions this fall, receptions, the last of which is
reception as a way
the last of scheduled today
for students to wel­
which takes from 3:30p.m. to 5 place today. come alumni back in the lobby of the 
Concerns Coleman-Morse
to campus." 
over a seem­building. ingly strained Baumgartner
Aly Baumgartner 
relationship said the receptions between Academic Affairs have been a way to alumni and committee chair address the issue current stu­brought up last dents were year. Although the expressed last May in Alumni Association reaches Washington D.C., when a out to freshman students and Board of Trustees report by students once they graduate, 
Two of the receptions have come and gone. For the first reception, the Alumni Association was in town, which led to what Baumgartner considered "a really big success." 
"We had a great group of alumni who were there, just a range of ages as well as geographic areas," she said. 
Baumgartner cited "a com­bination of advertising and convenience" as reasons why the second reception didn't go as well. 
"There weren't as many alumni," she said. "Also stu­dent participation wasn't as great." Some students come for informal networking or just to meet alumni, she said, though there are some other reasons. 
"I think a big student draw is that we raffle off two tick­ets to the football games for the students," Baumgartner said. 
From the alumni stand­

The receptions include free will be aimed partially at refreshments, and the first 50 Film, Television and Theatre people receive pep rally tick­students, because the Notre ets. Dame Media and 
The University Affairs com­Entertainment Group is in mittee, with help from the town. Alumni Association, struc­"A lot of alumni [in the] tures the events, though entertainment industry are Baumgartner going to be said the around," she said. interaction "We had a great "This is the first between stu­time we've actual­
group ofalumni who 

dents and ly targeted specif­
alumni usu­were there, just a ic student 
ally happens range ofages as well groups." naturally. Baumgartner
as geographic areas." 

"We usual­said she expects ly have a some very suc­handful of Aly Baumgartner cessful writers, student gov­Academic Affairs producers and ernment kids entertainers to be
committee chair 

who will ini­present at the tiate talking reception. in groups if some people "We're really hoping it will seem to be nervous, but it is turn out well," she said. usually pretty comfortable," she said. "It's nothing too stiff or formal." Contact Joe Piarulli at 
The last of the receptions jpiarull@nd.edu 
former student body presi­dent Dave Baron and now student body president Lizzi Shappell dealt directly with the issue. 
Baron and Shappell referred to polarizing issues such as the controversy sur­rounding the University's "Candle" advertising cam­paign, the academic freedom debate and the regilding of the Golden Dome to make a point that "students and alumni have a perception of each other that isn't always 
she said, there is room for improvement in between. 
"Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik came up with the idea of the student-alumni reception as a way for stu­dents to welcome alumni back to campus, Baumgartner said. "During those four years that you're actually a student at Notre Dame, the relationship ... tends to fall by the wayside. 
"It's an informal way to net­work and just meet and talk to alumni." 
point, the receptions were partially meant to give offer insight into current Notre Dame student life and how it differs from past decades. 
"The alumni and students tended to have very different opinions lon issues like aca­demic freedom and "The Vagina Monologues"! and we didn't know whether it's just generational or communica­tion, but we decided getting to know each other would help bridge some of the gaps," Baumgartner said. 

The Development Phone Center would like to recognize the following businesses as our "Businesses ofthe 
Month" for their support in our semi-annual incentive auction: 

Expert urges immigration reform 
By EVA BINDA NewsWrirer 
Calling the current immi­gration system in the United States "laughable," executive director of the National Immigration forum Frank Sharry said in a lecture Thursday that the hot-button issue must be tackled compre­hensively. 
Sharry insisted that the American people are fed up with the current "broken" immigration system. In the past, Sharry said, most Americans did not pay much attention to the issue, but with midterm elections less than one week away, it is now one of the top five concerns for voters. 
"The American people are tired of their politicians spew­ing sound bytes instead of finding solutions," Sharry said, adding that the issue tends to provoke people on both sides, including those in the middle. 
There are only 5,000 visas available for about 500,000 people who want to work in this country, Sharry said. 
"We have forced [immigra­tion] into the black market where the big beneficiaries are the fake document providers, the smugglers, and the unscrupulous employers," he said. 
The losers in this system, Sharry said, are the American taxpayers and the immigrants who risk their lives trying to gain access to the United States. 
Ultimately, the problem lies in the simple principle of sup­ply and demand, he said. 
"All the fencing and border patrols in the world could not stop the human demand to work hard and feed families even if it means risking your life," Sharry said. "We've got people moving to feed their families while we have jobs that need to be filled." 
Sharry believes the polar­ized views on how to solve the broken immigration system stems from different diag­noses of the problem. One diagnosis, he said, insists that increased border control will make the biggest difference. 
"As a powerful sovereign nation, if we're tough at the border, it will stop," he said. "That's one analysis. [If we] have a strong enough deter­rent such as a wall or a fence, the problem will be solved. I respect [that analysis], but I don't agree with it. It's too insufficient. I'm a proponent of smart enforcement in con­text of other reforms." 
Sharry was unafraid to admit he is "a partisan." 
"I am a pro-immigrant advocate and proud of it," he said. 
He encouraged a different diagnosis and solution for the illegal immigration problem -what he called "compre­hensive reform." 
Comprehensive reform seeks to solve the problem through various avenues, one of which is more border enforcement. Other compo­nents of comprehensive reform include a worker veri­fication system, reduction of the family visa backlog, cre­ation of a worker visa pro­gram and an earned path to citizenship, Sharry said. 
It is too easy to forge the 
documents required to work in the United States since they do not include photo identifi­cation, Sharry said. 
Instead, Sharry recom­mends counterfeit-proof docu­ments. 
"The key to enforcement is making worker verification work," Sharry said. "[It would] take several years and about $10 billion, but there's no other way." 
The family visa backlog refers to the people applying for visas to the U.S. who cur­rently have family members in the U.S. 
"Right now people have to wait around seven years to reunite with their families," he said. "How many wait seven years? Not many." 
Sharry insisted the creation of a worker visa program and an earned path to citizenship is not just "giving away" amnesty. That process, he said, would be difficult. Sharry suggested that candi­dates pay a fine for entering the country illegally and learn English. 
And Sharry believes illegal immigrants want to learn English. 
"Do you think an immigrant mother likes to go into a doc­tor's office and have her eight-year-old translate for her? They want to learn English," Sharry said. 
Sharry insisted that most immigrants who are here ille­gally want to be Americans 
and just want  a  part of the  
American dream.  
"The  hunger  to  be  an  

American is palpable." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
Barnaby's Between the Buns Bonnie Doon Ice Cream BW-3 Buffalo Wild Wings Grill &Bar Chick-Fil-A Culver's Restaurant Drive &Shine East Bank Emporium Francesco's Italian & American Restaurant Garfield's Restaurant & Pub Hanayori ofJapan Hi-Speed Auto Wash Honkers Family Restaurant La Esperanza LaSalle Grill LePeep Mastercuts Maury's Pat's Pub Max and Erma's Restaurant Papa John's Pizza Patricia Ann Flower Shop Perkin's Polito's Pizza Quality Dining/Burger King Rocco's Restaurant South Bend Regional Museum ofArt South Bend Silverhawks Studebaker National Museum Ten Thousand Villages The Backstage Grill The Funny Bone Tippecanoe Place Restaurant Wal-Mart Zolman Tire 

We would like to thank them for making our auction a continued success. 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 3, 2006 Cotv1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi death toll increases after attacks 
BAGHDAD -A blood-drenched October has passed into a violent early November as a motorcycle rigged with explosives ripped through a crowded Shiite market in Sadr City on Thursday and suspected Sunni insurgent gunmen killed a Shiite dean of Baghdad University. 
The attacks showed no signs of abating after at least 1,272 Iraqis were killed in the first full month of autumn and the 43rd month of the U.S. bid to quell violence and build democracy in Iraq, according to an Associated Press count. The figure is a min­imum since many deaths go unreported, but the total is higher than any other month since the AP began keeping track in May 2005. 
Iran fires 3 new missiles in the Gulf 
TEHRAN -Iran has successfully test fired three new models of missiles in the Persian Gulf, state TV reported Friday. 
Television showed footage of the elite Revolutionary Guards firing the missiles from mobile launching pads on the shore, and from warships. 
The three new types of missiles, named Noor, Kowsar, and Nasr, have a range of about 105 miles and were built for naval warfare, TV reported. 
The weapons are "suitable for covering all the Strait of Hormuz, the Persian Gulf and the sea of Oman" said Admiral Sardar Fadavi, the deputy navy chief of the Revolutionary Guard. 
Some 20 percent of the world's oil supply passes every day through the strategic Strait ofHormuz. 
The Revolutionary Guards began maneu­vers Thursday, shortly after a U.S.-led military exercise in the Gulf. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Three bodies found in drainage pipe 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Three people were found slain Thursday in a drainage pipe near an apart­ment complex, and police said a former boy­friend of one of the victims would be charged with murder. 
The bodies of a woman and two men were found by a neighbor in a pipe near the woman's apartment. 
Prosecutors told police to draw up three mur­der warrants against Charles Gamble, 24. who was the woman's ex-boyfriend and the father of her son, Police Chief Dean Crisp said. 
Investigators were reviewing several potential motives, including a possible domestic dispute, police said. 

Medicaid changes affect immigrants 
WASHINGTON -Several health groups are concerned that babies born to illegal immigrants could be denied essential medical care such as immunizations and physicals because of recent changes to Medicaid. 
The babies automatically are U.S. citizens because they were born in U.S. hospitals. Under past policy, the groups said, the government required states to provide the babies with a full year of eligibility for Medicaid, the health insur­ance program for the poor. 
Now, mothers of the newborns will have to apply for Medicaid on behalf of their newborns, which many will not want to risk, say groups such as the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family Physicians. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Kansas man charged with teen murder 
LOGANSPORT. Ind. -A convicted child mur­derer paroled in March from a Kansas prison faces a murder charge in the death of a 16-year­old northern Indiana girl, whose body was found a day after the two left a mstaurant where they worked, a prosecutor said Thursday. 
Investigators found the body of Stephanie Wagner in a northwestern Cass County field Wednesday night. The suspect in her death, Danny R. Rouse, 51, a dishwasher at the same restaurant where Wagner was a waitress, told them where to look and confessed to killing her, police said. An autopsy was scheduled for Friday. 
LEBANON 


Hezbollah delivers ultimatum 
Crisis could undermine U.S. efforts, puts recent cease-fire with Israel at risk 
Associated Press 
BEIRUT -Two months after its devastating war, Lebanon is again on the edge of crisis -at the cen­ter of a power play involv­ing the United States, Syria, Iran and Israel. 
Neighboring Syria on Thursday denied accusa­tions it wants to topple the Lebanese government, but an ultimatum earlier in the week from the Syrian-allied Hezbo\lah to stage mass protests to force early elec­tions has alarmed Wash­ington and Europe. 
At stake is the August cease-fire that halted the Israel-Hezbollah war, and Western efforts to bolster democracy in Lebanon. The crisis also could undermine 
U.S. diplomatic overtures to Syria and Iran to help calm Iraq, where both countries have influence among armed groups. 
Politics in this ethnically diverse nation have boiled over in recent weeks, wash­ing away a brief period of unity during the war, when Lebanon suffered a pound­ing from Israel's military after Hezbollah guerrillas crossed the border and cap­tured two Israeli soldiers. 

Britain's U.N. ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said Thursday that Hezbollah was asking "a price for proof of life" for the kid­would have a veto on key has been flying warplanes "are preparing plans to top­napped soldiers. He did not decisions. Nasrallah set a over Lebanon to pressure ple Lebanon's democratical­explain what he meant by deadline of Nov. 13. the international communi­ly elected government." "price." Hezbollah now has two ty into curbing an alleged Snow said any attempt to 
Hezbollah, an armed ministers on the 24-mem­flow of weapons from Syria stir up demonstrations, Shiite group that has often ber Cabinet and can count to Hezbollah's fighters. threaten or use violence fought Israel, also has 11 on support from three Saniora has dismissed against Lebanon's U.S.­legislators in Parliament more, but eight votes are Israeli claims of weapons backed leadership would be and has been increasingly needed to veto key deci­smuggling and denied his a clear violation of the aggressive in its political sions. government told the United country's sovereignty and of plays. The threat Tuesday Nasrallah's threat, as well Nations of such actions. But three U.N. Security Council from its leader, Hassan as five grenade attacks in U.N. envoy Terje Hoed­resolutions. Nasrallah, racheted up ten­Beirut in recent weeks, Larsen said he was told by His comments drew a sions between pro-Syrian have stoked tensions and Lebanese oflicials that arms quick denial from Syria. and pro-Western groups. raised fears of more vio­were still flowing from Syria "The U.S. administra­
Nasrallah warned of lence, particularly after a to Lebanon in violation of a tion's attempts to circulate street protests if Prime pro-government Christian U.N. embargo. that Syria, Iran and Minister Fuad Saniora did group said Thursday that it On Wednesday, White Hezbollah are seeking to not accept his group's was ready to take to the House spokesman Tony destabilize Lebanon are not demands for a "national streets "to defend the Snow said there was true," the Syrian Foreign unity" Cabinet, in which Lebanese republic." "mounting evidence" that Ministry said Thursday in a Hezbollah and its allies At the same time, Israel Syria, Iran and Hezbollah statement. 

New Life Church leader resigns 
Associated Press 
COLORADO SPRINGS -The leader of the 30 million-member National Association of Evangelicals, a vocal opponent of the drive for same-sex marriage, resigned Thursday after being accused of paying for sex with a man in month­ly trysts over the past three years. 
The Rev. Ted Haggard also stepped aside as head of his 14,000­member New Life Church while a church panel investigates, saying he could "not continue to minister under the cloud created by the accu­sations." 
The investigation came after a 49­year-old man told a Denver radio station that Haggard paid him to have sex. 
Haggard, a married father of five, denied the allegations in an inter­view with KUSA-TV late Wednesday: "Never had a gay relationship with anybody, and I'm steady with my wife, I'm faithful to my wife." 
In a written statement, Haggard said: "I am voluntarily stepping aside from leadership so that the overseer process can be allowed to proceed with integrity. I hope to be able to discuss this matter in more detail at a later date. In the interim, I will seek both spiritual advice and guidance." 
Haggard, a 1978 graduate of Oral Hoberts University, was appointed president of the association in March 2003 and has been called one of the most influential evangelical Christians in the nation. 

He has participated in conserva­tive Christian leaders' conference calls with White House staffers and lobbied members of Congress last year on U.S. Supreme Court appointees after Sandra Day O'Connor announced her retire­ment. 
The allegations come as voters in Colorado and seven other states get ready to decide Tuesday on amend­ments banning gay marriage. Besides the proposed ban on the Colorado ballot, a separate measure would establish the legality of domestic partnerships providing same-sex couples with many of the rights of married couples. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Annan replaced in conference 
Special to The Observer 
Mark Moody-Stuart, chairman of the board of directors of the Foundation for the United Nations Global Compact, will replace U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan as the keynote speak­er for a conference of academics, corporate executives, represen­tatives of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and gov­ernment policymakers which will be convened at the University of Notre Dame from Nov. 12 to Nov. 14 (Sunday to Tuesday) 
Annan is unable to attend the conference due to scheduling conflicts. He is stepping down Dec. 31 after two five-year terms as head of the international body. 
As chairman of the Foundation for the Global Compact, Moody­Stuart oversees the non-profit organization's efforts to raise funds for the work of the U.N. Global Compact office. Rev. Oliver Williams, C.S.C., director of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, and organizer of this conference, also serves on the foundation's board. 
The Global Compact was estab­lished by Annan in 2000. It brings companies together with 
U.N. agencies, labor, civil society and governments to advance uni­versal principles in order to fos­ter a more sustainal)Je and inclu­sive world economy. 

Chicago 
continued from page 1 
tie anxiety for the band members of both groups. To ensure that it offers "the best show for the crowd," the band has been prac­ticing continually since the UCLA game and rehearsed Thursday night with Chicago at Loftus, said assistant band director Matt Merten. 
"This has been a two-week project for us," he said, "and it's Notre Dame band to play," Dwyer said. "I can tell that 

Tickets 
Chicago is really excited to be playing on the actual Notre 
continued from page 1 
Dame field." Merten said Chicago serves as 
only for the best interest of a strong inspiration for the Notre 
its body." Dame band because members 
He added that graduate use similar instruments, reinforc­
students would most likely ing the passion for music educa­
be required to purchase tion. 
season home football tick­"Chicago is not one of your 
ets in order to be included run-of-the-mill type rock bands 
in away game lotteries. -they're legendary on many levels," he said. "They incorpo­
In other GSU news: 
rate band instruments like trom­
+The University has 
not something that's common everywhere. We don't know what the implications are for the future as far as whether we'll accommo­date more bands, but we're just trying to get through Saturday, and I think it's going to be amazing." 
As for logistics, the Fighting Irish band members will play the 
opening song solo, and Chicago will join them for the second two songs. The Irish band will do its traditional marching while Chicago will be stationed at the 50-yard line on the home side of the field. 
All of these formations, Dwyer said, came from the tireless efforts of assistant director Sam Sanchez and head director Ken Dye, who were both unavailable for comment on Thursday. 
"Dr. Dye is taking Chicago's recordings, transcribing the notes that the Chicago band plays, is giving those notes to the 

Fall 2006 Schedule Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
~  9/9-Penn State "More Than a Movie? Assessing TheDa Vinci Code" (101 DeBartolo Hall)  -hi  
James Collins, Pr~/essor ofFilm, lflevision, and 1heatre  
Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor of Theology  
Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design  
~  9/16-Michigan  "'Ille Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible"  ....,J  
Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien ProfeJsor of Theology  
~  9/30-Purdue  "Successful Aging"  
Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPsychology  
~  10/7-Stanford  "1l1e Bone Collector"  
Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ofAnthropology  
~  10121-UCLA  "Completing the Constitution: The 14th Amendmem"-hl  
Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreux Professor ofPolitical Science  
~  11/4-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding"  
R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, john M. Regan Jr.  
Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies  
John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute  
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professiontt! Specialist, Kroc Institute  
~  11/18-Army  "Seeds ofChange" A Musical Performance  
Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic  
John Blacklow, As.iisttmt Professor ofMusic  
3-1/2 hours before kickolfin the Annenberg Audirorium,  
Snire Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted).  
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu  



UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
"The Role ofReligion in Peacebuilding" 
R. Scott Appleby 
Professor ofHistory, john M. Regan Jr. Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
John Paul Lederach 
Professional Specialist Kroc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar 
Assistant Professional Specialist Kroc Institute 
11:00 a.m. Saturday, November 4 
Annenberg Auditorium Snite Museum ofArt 
The panel will explore the constructive achievements of religiously inspired peacebuildcrs, and what those religious actors have done in the past to stimulate the peacebuilding capacity of people suftering in 
conflicts. 1he panel also will discuss the role of Notre 
Dame's Kroc Institute in supporting and promoting peace around the world. 
"Everybody is really pumped about Saturday, maybe because it's never been done before, and because Chicago has learned so much from age and experience." 
Brad Fleming senior drummer Notre Dame Marching Band 
bone, trumpet, 

resolved a legal issue and 
sax, etc. and 

can move forward in pro­
have sparked 

viding graduate students 
music educa­

with emergency health 
tion around 

care services, GSU vice 
the world for 

president Amber Handy 
an entire gen­
said. 
eration to 

In providing this emer­
appreciate." 

gency assistance, the 
And Notre 

University had been illegal­
Dame band 

ly acting as an insurance 
members are 

provider in directly paying 
just as thrilled 

medical bills. To solve this 
to be playing 

problem, students will 
alongside such 

directly receive funds from 
a legendary 

the University and then pay 
group, despite 
their bills. 
the chilly 

"Grad students will have 
weather. 

to float the bill for a little 
Senior drum major Brad Fleming 
while," she said, but the recalls distinct "cheering" from 
University can continue to the band members upon hearing 
render this service now that they had an opportunity like 
that legal issues have been this. 
resolved. "Everybody is really pumped about Saturday," he said, "maybe 
+Health Care committee because it's never been done 
chair John Young reported before, and because Chicago has 
on a meeting with Director learned so much from age and 
of Health Services Ann experience. It's been dillicult to 
Kleva. During that meeting coordinate, but it's going to have 
Young suggested including a huge impact on the players and 
students on the University's the Irish fans. Get exeited." 
Health Services committee. Kleva supported the idea of Contact Rohan Anand at 
including student represen­ranand@nd.edu 
tatives, Young said, but no decision was reached. 
"We can still talk about the issues and make our voices heard even if we're not on the committee," Young said. "The meeting was encouraging." 
+Academic Affairs com­mittee chair Steven Molveric said the library has been working to enforce its lending policies and has agreed to a limit of 500 books per student. 
The limit is necessary, Molveric explained, because "there was a grad­uate student who had 1,800 theology books checked out and didn't lis­ten to the recall policy." The library did enforce its recall policy, but only after theology students circulat­ed a petition to reclaim the recalled materials. 
+The threat of barring faculty from library use has greatly decreased the number of policy violators this fall, according to a statement prepared by Library committee chair Brian Pitts. 
+One member proposed allowing a presentation from undergraduate stu­dent senators promoting Fair Trade coffee at the next GSU meeting. After much debate, however, the issue was tabled so that council members can gath­er feedback from their con­stituents. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Friday, November ~' 2006 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,018.54 -12.48

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,444 173 1,789 2,715,187,270 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR(QQQQ)  +0.10  +0.04  42.04  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.62  -0.34  20.68  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.38  +0.02  5.33  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.14  -0.04  28.77  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.77  +0.035  4.596  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  4.935  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.79  +0.037  4.714  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.71  +0.032  4.549  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.83  57.88  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +8.50  627.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.60  92.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.1700  
EURO  0.7826  
POUND  0.5242  
CANADIAN$  1.1335  

IN BRIEF 
Slowing productivity leads to inflation 
WASHINGTON -Growth in productivity -the key ingredient for rising living standards-skid­ded to a standstill in the late summer while work­ers' wages and benefits shot up at the fastest clip in more than two decades. 
The combination of slowing productivity and rising wages was seen as a formula for inflation troubles down the road. It could keep the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates any time soon and possibly lead to another increase. 
Productivity, the amount of output per hour of work, showed no growth at all from July through September. Growth was just 1.3 percent over the past 12 months, the weakest showing in nine years. 
The cost of wages and benefits measured by each unit of output grew at an annual rate of 3.8 percent in the third quarter. 
Employee compensation climbed by 5.3 percent over the past year. That gain was the fastest since a 5.8 percent rise in the 12 months ending in the fourth quarter of1982. 

Smith&Nephew, Biomet talk of merger 
LONDON -Medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew PLC said Thursday that it has held "very preliminary" talks about a possible combi­nation with U.S. rival Biomet Inc., based in Warsaw, Ind. 
The London-based company revealed the talks shortly before it unveiled a 50 percent rise in quarterly net profit on the back of a stronger 
U.S. market and the rollout of new products. 
Net profit for the quarter ended Sept. 30 rose to $93 million from $62 million in the same peri­od a year earlier. 
Sales in the quarter increased 11 percent to $679 million as the company exceeded market growth in orthopedics and thanks to the launch of new products such as the new Birmingham hip implant, which was approved in the U.S. in May. 
"We are encouraged by the modest improve­ment in the U.S. market growth rate in orthope­dic reconstruction, but European market condi­tions remain challenging," Chief Executive Christopher O'Donnell said in a statement. 
The company earlier said that no agreement has been reached with Biomet, cautioning that there is no assurance it will secure a transaction. 
THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Cruise,Wagner to run United Artists 
Producing pair takes over film studio from MGM after fallout with Paramount 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Tom 
Cruise and his producing 
partner are taking charge of 
United Artists, restoring the 
venerable but moribund 
film outfit to its roots as a 
Hollywood shingle run by 
superstars looking to control 
their own careers. 
United Artists owner MGM 
announced Thursday the 
move to put Cruise and 
Paula Wagner in control of 
the film company founded in 
1919 by Charles Chaplin, 
Mary Pickford, D.W. Griffith 
and Douglas Fairbanks. 
It's poetic symmetry that United Artists, generally mothballed amid recent cor­porate changes at MGM after a short period as an art-house film banner, should come back in the hands of a Hollywood giant. 
"The truth is that the 
name United Artists has 
been relatively meaningless 
for decades. It's just been a 
corporate name with no 
vestige of its original signifi­
cance," said critic and film 
historian Leonard Maltin. 
"Tom Cruise is one of the 
most powerful stars in the 
world. He's making the 
same move that his fore­
bears did 85 years ago." 
The move comes after 
Cruise and Wagner's fallout 
with Paramount Studios, 
which severed its 14-year 

producing deal with the pair maintain the same degree of we have a tradition to Academy Award. 
in August. Sumner Redstone control he enjoyed at respect and uphold and at "These were the box­
-chairman of Paramount's Paramount, a deal that the same time help and nur­office titans of their day giv­
parent company, Viacom allowed him and Wagner to ture this brand to evolve ing the public what they 
Inc. -had blamed Cruise's develop films there but left into something for the wanted in terms of the huge 
odd antics over his romance Cruise free to star in proj­future." popcorn pictures but also 
with Katie Holmes and his ects for other studios. The power Cruise and being able to express their 
Scientology preaching for Wagner, who will be chief Wagner will hold harks artistic side and get movies 
undermining box-office executive, and Cruise will back to the origins of United made that mattered histori­
returns on the actor's sum­have full control over United Artists, whose founders cally," said Tom O'Neil, a 
mer release, "Mission: Artists' film slate, expected wanted the freedom to cre­columnist for the awards 
Impossible III." to be about four films a ate without big studios Web site theenvelope.com. 
There was little doubt that year, according to MGM. pulling the strings. The "Now we have to wonder, a star of Cruise's caliber They will be part owners of company's early releases can Tom finally win his would find safe haven else­United Artists, able to make included Chaplin's 1920s Oscar now that his film des­where. After all, even at 44, anything from $100 million and '30s classics "The Gold tiny is totally in his own Cruise still has the boyish action flicks to lower-budget Rush," "City Lights" and hands?" charm and rakish grin that films, with Cruise free to "Modern Times"; Griffith's For all the actor's com­helped make the star of pick and choose among 1924 epic "America"; mercial success, Holly­"Top Gun," "Risky Business" films at rival studios. Fairbanks' 1920s action wood's ultimate honor has and "War of the Worlds" the Wagner said she views it adventures "The Three eluded Cruise, a three-time most durable audience as an "opportunity to take a Musketeers" and "Robin loser at the Oscars after draw of modern times. brand that is classic and Hood"; and 1929's nominations for "Born on 
The question was whether bring it into the present. It "Coquette," which earned the Fourth of July," "Jerry 
he still had the clout to has such an illustrious past, Pickford the best-actress Maguire" and "Magnolia." 

Former CEO guilty of fraud charges 
Associated Press federal court in Brooklyn. "I do apolo­U.S. District Judge Leo Glasser scold­
gize for my mistakes and ask for for­ed the defendant for not fully acknowl­
NEW YORK-The former chief exec­giveness from all involved." edging that the conspiracy cost share­
utive of Computer Associates Under federal sentencing guidelines, holders an estimated $400 million. 
International Inc. was sentenced to 12 Kumar could have faced life in prison Though not a violent criminal, Kumar 
years in prison and fined $8 million on but the judge called that punishment "did violence to the legitimate expecta­
Thursday in an accounting fraud scan­unreasonable. tions of shareholders," the judge said. 
dal estimated to have cost investors Prosecutor Eric Komitee argued Kumar was ordered to surrender on 
$400 million at one of the world's Kumar should be severely punished as Feb. 27. He left the courthouse without 
largest software companies. the architect of an elaborate cover-up speaking to reporters. 
Sanjay Kumar, 44, had pleaded guilty that was "the most brazen in the mod­According to a 2004 indictment, 
in April to obstruction of justice and ern era of corporate crime." The Kumar orchestrated a plot to report 
securities fraud charges at the compa­defense sought leniency by detailing more than $2 billion in false revenue 
ny, which since has been renamed CA Kumar's "meteoric" rise from Sri between 1999 and 2000. Prosecutor 
Inc. Lankan immigrant to one of the "great said he was so involved in the scheme, 
"I know that I was wrong and there minds" of the software industry, and by he once flew on a corporate jet to Paris 
was no excuse for my conduct," Kumar emphasizing his philanthropic efforts, in July 1999 to finalize a $19 million 
told the judge while reading impassively including a "Save the Elephants" cam­deal and signed a contract that had 
from a statement at his sentencing at paign in Kenya. been backdated. 

page 8 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Panelists said many students

LGBTQ it. 

Contract 
at Notre Dame feel uncomfort­continued from page 1 able about homosexuality 
continued from page I 
because they believe it contra­The discussion took place in a dicts Catholic teaching, but con­
with us," Holland said. "fishbowl" format, where the tended that it is possible to be a 

However, because of con­panelists con­devout 
struction set backs, Holy Cross' versed among Catholic 
recreational center will not be
'Tll be walking down the
themselves as the w h i I e 

completed before the con­audience listened hallway in my dorm, and respecting 
tract's 2007 deadline, Holland to what they someone will say about a members of 
said -and she does not know said. The conver­the LGBTQ 
the exact target completion
video game, 'Dude, that's
sations centered community. 
date. 
on questions so gay.' When you really "There's 

Holland said she has no such as, "What think about how difficult so much 
present plans to approach the are the ways in confusion 
Notre Dame administration to
it must be for someone
which homopho­and misun­

request another contract 
bia oppresses who's gay to hear that ... derstanding 

extension, meaning the spring LGBTQ individu­it's terrible." with Church 
2007 deadline remains. als in society and teaching," 

But at Wednesday night's at Notre Dame?" s a i d 
Student Senate meeting, Notre
Kevin Crowley
Students on the Heather 

Dame senators unanimously

junior
panel discussed Rakoczy, 

passed a resolution in support the daily chal-director of 
of extending the contract lenges LGBTQ students face at the Gender Relations Center 
between the schools until Holy Notre Dame, from being too and a moderator of the forum. 
Cross completes the construc­afraid to bring members of the "The Church calls same-sex 
tion of its own recreational same sex to dorm dances or unions 'intrinsically disordered.' 
facility. While that resolution hold hands with their partners If you were LGBTQ and heard 
does not enact any policy, it is to hearing hurtful remarks. that, you would be afraid there 
a symbol of the Senate's sup­''I'll be walking down the hall­is something wrong with you, 
port for the contract's exten­way in my dorm, and someone but really, all 'intrinsically disor­
sion. will say about a video game, dered' means is that there's no 

So while Ilolland is not 'Dude, that's so gay,"' said jun­procreation." 
requesting an extension of the ior Kevin Crowley. "When you Rakoczy said the Catholic 
contraet herself, she said she really think about how difficult Church frowns upon sex outside 
is allowing lloly Cross student it must be for someone who's of marriage, whether between 
government to address the gay to hear that ... it's terrible." heterosexual or homosexual 
issue. However, homophobia on partners, because sex is 

"I am stepping aside while campus sometimes extends reserved for procreation. 
the students do this," she said. beyond casual remarks and Because they cannot procreate, 
"I want to allow students to awkwardness to acts of hostility. same-sex couples can't get mar­
exereise their leadership." Several students on the panel ried in the Church, she said. 

Holy Cross student body said they were accosted with Junior Mel Bautista empha­
president Jared Sawyer said slurs while wearing their sized that faith for anyone can 
there is "mutual respect" orange "Gay? Fine By Me" T­involve a struggle -especially 
between Holy Cross, Saint shirts. Junior Angela Vara said with controversial issues -but 

Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dent governments. Sawyer said Holy Cross asked for the support and endorsement of the Notre Dame student gov­ernment in the goal to extend the sehools' contract. And he was very pleased to see the Senate resolution pass so strongly. 
"From a student affairs per­speetive, I see a very neat dynamic," Holland said. "The student governments are developing healthy relation­ships." 
At Wednesday's Senate meet­ing, senators debated the extension of the eontract. University Affairs committee ehair Aly Baumgartner pre­sented the resolution to her fellow senators, explaining that on average only 30 Holy Cross students use the Roekne Memorial faeilities per week. 
Director of RecSports Sally Derengoski explained the terms of the present eontraet, and said that in addition to free use of the Roekne Memorial, Holy Cross students may use other Notre Dame athletie faeilities without pay­ing a fee if aeeompanied by a Notre Dame student. Dercngoski voiced HecSports' eoneern for giving the Notre Dame community a priority. 
"We want to make sure we serve Notre Dame while still trying to reeognize Holy Cross and Saint Mary's," Derengoski said. "By allowing Holy Cross students to eome as guests of Notre Dame schools, that is the best of both worlds. It is a way 
rape to poliee, Assistant Vice President of News and Information Dennis Brown said Thqrsday. 
He pointed out that Charles' statement is not a new one. When she testified in the trial against Elam in 2003, he said, she made the same claim. 
But Associate Viee President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk denied this eharge under oath when he was questioned on the stand the day after Charles made the aceusation, Brown said. 
All four men were expelled from the University for violat­ing Notre Dame's regulations on sexual misconduet. Brown said in a statement Thursday that "permanent dismissal is the most serious sanction a University can impose." 
Brown said CBS asked the University for eomment on the story last May, but the University was not told when the segment would air. CBS said Notre Dame responded to its request with the following statement: 
"Our polieies and proce­dures eall for informing vic­tims of all their options, ineluding going to the poliee to file a eomplaint, so that they can decide how to proeeed." 
Notre Dame students who are vietims of sexual assault ean meet with Vietims' Hesouree Person Ava Preacher -who is also associate direc­tor of Arts and Letters -to deeide what steps to take after a sexual assault. 
Preaeher, who Brown said has filled this position since it was ereated in 2001, is famil­iar with civil, criminal and University procedures and resources. 
"We do not diseourage vic­tims from reporting their assailants, either to the University or the police," Preacher said. "This was true in 2002 as well." 
Preacher dedined to com­ment on specifics regarding of welcoming and embraeing a neighbor without putting Notre Dame students at risk." 
Nathan Walker, director of Student Activities and Athletics for Holy Cross, said that once Holy Cross's recreational faeili­ty is complete, he hopes a reeiproeal relationship might develop between the sehools, allowing Notre Dame and Holy Cross students to use either school's faeilities. Several Notre Dame students play on Holy Cross club athletic teams, Walker said, and Holy Cross students are involved in the Notre Dame band. 
While greatly in favor of rec­iprocity between the schools, Holland emphasized that "in no way do our students feel a sense of entitlement." 
"They are very cognizant that they do not pay the same tuition that Notre Dame stu­dents do," she said. "They are appreciative of faeilities that we get to share, and they in no way look at the sharing as entitlement." 
Sawyer said the "neat dynamic" he's observed among the student governments could have a lot of sway in this proeess. 
"Obviously, the final decision must eome from the adminis­trative level ... but if both stu­dent bodies are behind it, I believe that student govern­ments working together can get a lot aeeomplished," he said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
she had recently found a Facebook group titled, "Wrath of God? Fine By Me" which criti­cizes the T-shirt campaign. 
"I was so embarrassed to have the school I go to be asso­ciated with that," said Vara, who added that she and other students who support the cam­pus LGBTQ community joined the group to protest and mock it should be a guide that leads to tolerance and respect. 
"Jesus gave us an example with the outcasts," she said. "We're called to love everyone, no matter what the heck is wrong with them and what the heck is right with them." 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 
CBS 
continued from page 1 

The University, however, "absolutely would deny" that officials advised Charles against reporting the alleged 
Charles' ease. 
Preacher said her role is to give victims information about what options they can pursue and inform them of available resources. 
"My job is not to counsel stu­dents in any way," Preacher said. "It is simply Ito provide information about what resources are available." 
In his statement, Brown said sexual assault and sexual vio­lenee unfortunately can occur anywhere, even at Notre Dame. But rape and sexual assault in any form, he said, "are unacceptable and will not be tolerated in the Notre Dame community." 
The University has a wealth of support services for vietims, Brown said. Typing "rape" or "sexual assault" into the seareh engine on Notre Dame's home page brings up a Web site that lists resources for victims of sexual assault, he said. 
Notre Dame's Counseling Center and Health Serviees are equipped to provide eoun­seling and medical care for victims. Residence hall staff members are trained on how to approach sexual assault cases. Notre Dame Security/Poliee (NDSP) is also available to handle sexual assault and rape cases. 
In crime statisties available on its Web site, NDSP reports that since 2003, there have been four instanees of sex offenses reported on Notre Dame's campus. In 2005, a foreible rape was reported to NDSP. In 2004, an instanee of sexual assault with an object was reported to NDSP and a forcible rape was reported to non-poliee authorities. In 2003, sexual assault with an object was reported to NDSP. 
Mary Kate Malone con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


IT'S NEVER Too EARLY...OR Too LATE. 
Investing for your future is more important than ever. 
Investment Services Centt>r located at: lll West Edison Road Mishawaka, IN 46545 574/254-4416· wvvw.ndfcu.org 
Our Investment Services Department can help you make the investments that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 


~NOTRE DAME 
~~-FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 

Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 



Come in to participating Cingular Wireless retail stores and get lightning-fast AT&T Yahoo!® High-Speed Internet 
(574) 262-.1510t Univel'!iily Park Mall 
AT&T 1800) 613-9420 
!located in the Food Court) 
1574) 243-8069t 

(~) @RadioShack. 
*Cingular also imposes monthly aRegulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 to help delray costs incurred in complying with State and Federal telecom regulation; State and Federal Universal Service charges; and surcharges for customer-based and revenue-based slate 
f»~­
~·'<'·'>o,
and local assessments on Cingular. These are not taxes or government-required charges. 
(~~~:J

Limited-time offer. Other condrtions and restrictions apply. See contract and rate plan brochure for details. Subscriber must live and have amailing address within Cingular's owned network coverage area. Up to $36 activation fee applies. Equipment price and availability may vary by 
"'··~·"~ 

market and may not be available from independent retailers. Early Termination Fee: None if cancelled in the first 30 days; thereafter $175. Some agents impose additional fees. Sales tax calculated based on price of unactivated equipment. Rebate Debit Card: Prices of Motorola V365 phones before $50 mail-in rebate debit cards and Push to Talk service agreements are $169.99 and $69.99, respectively. Price of Motorola RAZR before $200 mail-in rebate debit card is $299.99. Price of Sierra Wireless 875 LaptopConnect card before $100 mail-in rebate debit card and unlimited data connect plan is $169.99. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate debit card. Rebate debit card not available at all locations. Must be customerfor 30 consecutive days. Must be postmarked by 12/27/06. Unlimited Voice Services: Unlimited voice services are provided solely for live dialog between two individuals. Offnet Usage: If your minutes of use (including unlimited services) on other carriers' networks ("offnet usage") during any two consecutive months exceed your offnet usage allowance, Cingular may at its option terminate your service, deny your continued use of other carriers' coverage, or change your plan to one imposing usage charges for offnet usage. Your offnet usage allowance is equal to the lesser of 750 minutes or 40% of the Anytime minutes included with your plan. ©2006 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 


page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Bush hits GOP strong spots; Dems optimistic 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, campaigner in chief for a party in peril, set out on a rescue mission for embattled candidates in the unlikeliest of places Thursday as Republicans strug­gled to minimize their losses in next week's elections. 
Democrats expressed growing optimism that their long season out of power might soon end. Sen. Chuck Schume~ chairman of the Democratic Senate campaign organization, claimed strong early voting in a long-shot race in Arizona and said it was "harbin­ger of a wave" that would benefit his party. 
Five days before the election, Democratic strategists said none of their incumbents in either house of Congress was trailing ­and Republicans did not disagree. 
Republicans disputed Schumer's claim about Arizona, but even so, the GOP side of the political ledger was far less posi­tive. Strategists already have written off the re-election prospects of incumbent Sens. Rick Santorum in Pennsylvania and Mike DeWine in Ohio, as well as six or more seats in GOP hands in the House. Dozens more Republican lawmakers -power­brokers and backbenchers, con­servatives and moderates ­struggled to survive in a cam­paign shadowed by the war in Iraq and scandal at home. 
"We've been through this before," Bush said in Billings, Mont., projecting confidence as he embarked on his save-the­majority tour. "We will win the Senate and we will win the House." 
His itinerary showed it would be a struggle. The pre-election flight plan for Air Force One con­sisted of areas of the country where Republicans have unex­pectedly run into trouble ­House seats in Colorado, rural Nevada and Kansas, and guber­natorial races in Arkansas, Iowa and Nevada, as well as Sen. Conrad Burns' bid for a fourth term in Montana. 
Western Nebraska, too, was ticketed for a presidential visit, Bush's presence deemed needed to save a House seat that Democrats last held 50 years ago. 
Democrats must pick up 15 seats to gain control of the House. Their magic number is six in the Senate. 
Candidates everywhere were launching the final television appeals of a long and costly cam­paign. Actor Paul Newman starred in one, a solo perform­ance in which he called on Connecticut voters to turn three­term Sen. Joe Lieberman out of office and install Democratic con­tender Ned Lamont. "It's tough times out there, and Connecticut needs someone who is young, fresh and spunky," the 81-year­old Newman said of Lamont, 52. 
Democrats said they were win­ning because of the public's grow­ing dissatisfaction with the war in Iraq. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The House ethics committee has been working hard to deter­mine if Republicans covered up ex-Rep. Mark Foley's come-ons to former male pages, but even 12-hour work days won't bring conclusions by Election Day. 
The lack of a report leaves voters to sort through con­flicting Republican accounts in deciding whether GOP leaders failed to protect teenagers in their care. 
Foley became overly friend­ly with male pages when they served as errand-runners for lawmakers and -after they left Congress -sent some of 
them inappropriate e-mails and lurid instant messages. 
It won't be easy for voters to find answers without the ethics committee's help. 
Speaker Dennis Hastert's staff could have learned of inappropriate e-mails as early as 2002 and as late as 2005, depending on whose statements voters believe. The salacious instant mes­sages didn't surface until a month ago. 
Also, two House leaders said they told Hastert about Foley's questionable e-mails last spring, but the speaker said he didn't learn of them until late September. 
A four-member investiga­tive subcommittee inter­viewed some two dozen wit­nesses in closed sessions. Witnesses were still being questioned earlier this week, leaving no time for the panel to digest hours of interviews and write a report by Election Day. 
Foley, R-Fla., who is in an alcohol treatment program, resigned in late September after he was confronted with some of his lurid messages. 
While the Iraq war has dominated newscasts, head­lines and talk shows, recent polls indicate that many vot­ers also consider the Foley issue important. A majority say they believe Republican leaders were involved in a cover-up. 




Rural sheriff charged in drug case 
Associated Press 

ROANOKE, Va.-Sheriff H. Franklin Cassell of rural Henry County is a career law enforce­ment ollicer making a salary of about $90,000 a year. Prosecutors say he also owns large tracts of land and his own trucking com­pany, and has reported more than $20,000 in dividends yearly. 
The government says he offered this secret to becoming wealthy: Be "a little crooked and not get caught." 
Cassell, along with 12 of his current and former officers, was charged Thursday with what would be a stunning abuse of the public trust: They're accused of seizing drugs from criminals and selling them back to the commu­nity. 
"It is disgraceful corruption," 

U.S. Attorney John Brownlee said. 
Cassell, 68, was a state trooper before 1991, when he was first elected sheriff of Henry County, about 50 miles south of Roanoke along the North Carolina line. 
The county of about 58,000, home of two NASCAR races a year at Martinsville Speedway, once billed itself as the "Sweatshirt Capital of the World" but fell on hard times in the 1990s when about 10,000 textile and furniture jobs disappeared. 
A total of 20 people were indict­ed Thursday, including a former postal worker and a former pro­bation officer. The federal charges include racketeering conspiracy, weapons charges, narcotics dis­tribution, obstruction of justice and peijury. 
Prosecutors said that for the past eight years, cocaine. steroids, marijuana and other drugs that had been seized by the sheriff's department were resold to the public. A sergeant who agreed to cooperate with investigators was paid off by the ring to use his house for distributing drugs, authorities said. 

We now offer the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
.. . laundr}i':H: .@ter Utility Included in Rent 
·········:·:·.:··:~::::.~~~.<·.·.•.···· 
• 
Central Air 

• 
Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System 



Lafayette Square Towntiouses 
424 N. Frances Street 

• 1+and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 
• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Call today -these units are renting quickly 
View all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at f574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 

Page case -won't be closed by 11/7 
Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 11 

Worker steals nuclear doculllents 
Associated Press 
SANTA FE, N.M. -A for­mer nuclear weapons lab contract worker took home not only classified informa­tion on a portable computer storage drive, but also about 200 pages of printed docu­ments, her lawyer said Thursday. 
The confirmation of the papers follows a watchdog group's report that an inter­nal memo from the Los Alamos National Laboratory indicates the amount of clas­sified information found at the woman's home is sub­stantially larger than first thought. 
Nuclear Watch New Mexico, an activist organization, reported that the memo appeared to be a summary of a briefing on the security breach, though the group said it could not verify the memo's authenticity. 
Two officials with the feder­al agency that oversees the nation's nuclear weapons program said there were "significant errors" in the memo but did not reject it outright. The officials, who 
work  for  the  Energy  
Department's  National  
Nuclear  Security  

Administration, spoke anony­mously because of the ongo­ing investigation into the breach. 
They said they could not confirm the briefing referred to by the author of the memo, which Nuclear Watch said it obtained through an interme­diary. 
"If true, this summary indi­cates that a very serious and compromising breach has occurred; perhaps the most serious" in the troubled lab's history, Nuclear Watch said ing at the lab said Quintana in a news release. had a level of security clear­
Police seized three portable ance that would have given computer storage drives -her access to documents that called flash drives, among could have contained infor­other names -and the mation on how to bypass the papers Oct. 17 during a drug authorization process for raid at the home of Jessica using nuclear weapons. Quintana, the contract work­"She doesn't know anything er. about nuclear weapons," 
Quintana has not been Aarons responded. "She charged. A man who was knows how to scan docu­renting a room at her home ments." was jailed on drug and pro­The Energy Department bation charges. and the Nuclear Security 
Her lawyer, Stephen Administration declined Aarons, told The Associated Thursday to discuss the scope Press that the material of the security breach, citing included copies of front pages the investigation. of various documents from But an official with knowl­the lab. Quintana, an edge of the government probe archivist, had acknowledged planned to use there were "sev­them to create eral hundred"
"She doesn't know 
an index of pages of classi­
anything about 
items she had fied documents converted to an nuclear weapons. discovered dur­electronic for­She knows how to ing the drug mat, he said. raid in addition
scan documents."
Aarons also to the classified said that one of material found the three Stephen Aarons in three comput­portable com­worker's lawyer er "thumb" stor­puter storage age devices. drives contained "It is a sizable lab-related material, but that amount," said the individual, the information wasn't trans­who spoke on condition of ferred to another computer. anonymity because the inves­
"It was downloaded, but it tigation is under way. He was never uploaded," Aarons declined to characterize the said, adding that Quintana documents and said the exact did not show the material to number had not been deter­anyone. mined. 
The 22-year-old archivist Said Energy Department took the material home in spokesman Craig Stevens: August because she faced a "We're taking it (the security work deadline to create the breach) very seriously." He index, then forgot about the added that Energy Secretary documents, he said. Samuel Bodman "was per­
"Her intent was to destroy sonally disturbed" that classi­the hard copies, and she fied documents turned up never did it," Aarons said. during a drug raid. 
Nuclear Watch said the "We want to know how this memo on the security brief-could happen," Stevens said. 




Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 7 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Cort C.ouo~il f!lf Gay and Lesbian Sllldents invites gay, lesbian. aM bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, the.r tri!lllds, and supporters roan informal cn!lee at theca-~. 


&ollee and refreshmellts will be served 
CCRE COUNCIL 
FOR CAY &I.ESBIMI 
STUDENTS 

MEXICO 
Federal police clash with leftist protestors 
Associated Press 
OAXACA -Federal police surrounded a university packed with leftist protesters Thursday in conflict-ridden Oaxaca, clearing barricades and firing tear gas as the activists show­ered them with gasoline bombs. 
At least 20 protesters, 10 offi­cers and three news photogra­phers were injured in the clashes. 
About 200 police in body armor and carrying riot shields advanced to the university gates and fought the protesters for more than six hours before they finally retreated. 
Under Mexican law, the uni­versity rector must give the police permission to enter. Rector Francisco Martinez, speaking on the university radio station, called the opera­tion an "attack" and demanded the police withdraw. 
The federal police said they simply intend to "restore order and peace" on the streets and did not plan to storm the school. 
Protesters with scarves cov­ering their faces were seen running from the campus and lobbing gasoline bombs packed with nails, stones and fire­crackers at police. 
Officers hit back with water cannons and repeated rounds of tear gas, supported by heli­copters and armored vehicles. Some officers also picked up rocks and bottles and hurled them back at protesters. 
A free medical clinic near the university reported that more than 20 protesters had been treated for bruises, cuts and injuries related to tear gas. 
The 10 officers received vari­ous gas-fire burns and bruises, the federal police said in a statement. 
Photographer David Jaramillo of the Mexican daily El Universal was hit in the arm by a bottle rocket loaded with nails, and was hospitalized in stable condition, the statement said. Another two photogra­phers suffered minor injuries after being hit by stones or nails from bottle rockets. 
The university radio station reported that at least six demonstrators had been arrested and demanded their release. An unidentified com­mentator also said the protest­ers were furious after the attack and might blow up a gas station. 
The university is a stronghold of the movement to oust Oaxaca Gov. Ulises Ruiz, who is accused of rigging the 2004 election to win office and organizing bands of thugs to attack dissidents. Protesters, including trade unionists, left­ists and Indian groups, have been flocking to Oaxaca since May to press their demands, and took over the center of the state capital for more than five months. 
Many retreated into the uni­versity campus Sunday after the government sent in thou­sands of federal police who swept into the city center, firing tear gas and tearing down camps and barricades. 
Other activists still occupy a plaza several blocks away since police chased them out of the main central square, the Zocalo. And the university radio station is broadcasting messages supporting the protests and calling for federal police to leave Oaxaca. 





----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, November 3, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESs MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(57 4) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obsl?rver policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000)-is published Mon®y th~o~ Friday except durin.g: =m and Y;H:;ati~n -periods, A subscription ro The Obscrvc:r Is $100 for om:: academic year; $55 for om: Sl:'mt!S[er. 
The Observer is pubtishc4 at: POSTMASTER -024 South Dining Hall Send <~:ddress com:criom t-Q: 
Notre Dame. TN 465-56..0779 Th<Obremr 
PeriodicaJ posea.gc paid a:t Notte Dame: P.O. Box779 and additio.naf mailing offices-. 024 Smuh Dini-~g Hall 
Norre Da.mt, lN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member -ofthe Associated Pres:;. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Tim Dougherty Does Halloween falling on a Tuesday
Marcela Berrios Dan Murphy 
affect your plans to celebrate? 
Jennifer Metz Bill Brink Viewpoint Scene 
a. I'll be going out 
Bethany Marty Schroeder 
no matter what.
Whitfield Illustrator 
b. I'll probably have Graphics Rob Scully 
to study. 
Jarred Wafer 
This poll is based on the result of 371 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 

1Submit aLetter 
Ito the Editor at 
:il www.ndsmcobserver.com 
.~( 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Five minutes of today are worth as much to me, as five minutes in the next millennium. Let us be poised, and wise, and our own today." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson author 
of students who reside on campus are a testa­ment to the togetherness Notre Dame facilitates. And while football games are out-of-classroom aspects of the Notre Dame experience, the extremely high percentage of students who purchase season tickets every fall prove that it is, without question, part of the undergraduate experience. 
Graduate students can't make this claim with the same con­viction. For the most part, graduates reside in locations further off campus and have less connection to campus life. The sense of identity that undergraduates derive from their place at the University is for the most part absent in graduate students who have stronger ties to their own colleges. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Catholic teaching crosses party lines 
A Catholic liberal? Is that even possible? As more and more Catholic Church leaders begin to support the Hepublican Party based on the strong Republican stance against abor­tion, the question arises: is there a correct Catholic vote? 
Contrary to the opinion that bi-partisan Catholic voting exemplifies a disunity and separation among Catholics, it shows the variety of Catholic views within the political sphere. The teachings of the Catholic Church are not incorporated solely into one political party. In fact, the Catholic Church's consistent ethic of life belief AXIS has viewpoints that fit into both politi­cal party platforms. 
There has been a strong movement aligning the Church with the Republican Party due to its stance against abortion. The Republican Party agrees with Church teaching against stem-cell research and same-sex mar­riage. However, these are not the only moral issues of importance in a political cam­paign. 

The stance of the Democratic Party also includes views that are consistent with teachings of the Catholic Church. The stance of the Democratic Party against the death penalty, supporting public health programs, increasing the importance of conservation and more equitable economic 

Lottery adjustment ill-founded 
With Wednesday's announcement that graduate students There are graduate students who are "Double Domers," would, in fact, be eligible for the Notre Dame-USC ticket lot­those who also received undergraduate degrees from Notre tery, the Office of Student Affairs and the Student Union Board Dame, and their connection to the University is just as strong (SUB) caved under pressure from select graduate students who as current students. But these graduate students already have had complained about the process a day earlier. access to alumni tickets, which Notre Dame undergraduates 
Citing a fear of possible protest and prior concerns regarding don't. Furthermore, graduate students with families are less graduate students' original exclusion, Director of Student likely to travel -never mind over Thanksgiving weekend -to Activities Brian Coughlin encouraged SUB manager Patrick California to watch a football game. Vassel to include graduate students in the lottery as a last It seems by giving into the pressure from the potential pro-minute addendum. testers outside Legends, the Office of Student 
O TI
In light of Notre Dame's unique undergraduate os'erver Affairs and SUB satisfied the desires of a few identity, this is a flawed decision. while the majority of graduate students weren't The University stresses the unique aspects of concerned.
Editorial
its undergraduate education, and the 80 percent Plus, with just 300 tickets available in the 
Although there were a plethora of is not a costume that you can paint on offensive costumes displayed on and ofT whenever you feel the desire. Halloween, this response is specifically Being black is not a lifestyle choice 
addressed to the young man who found it entertaining to dress himself as a black man. I find your Halloween costume blatantly insensitive and offensive and not the least bit amus­ing. 
Although you may think that it's humorous to "be black for a day," let me reassure you, it's not. Being black that one can choose to make. Being black is my life. So do not demean or patronize my experience and justify your racist beliefs as funny, even if one black person found your costume somewhat comical. 

Furthermore, although you found it amusing to dress up as a black man, I guarantee that you do not understand 
entire lottery, if graduate students are included in the process -where should the line be drawn? Faculty members are a part of Notre Dame, but clearly they are not included in the ticket lottery. 
If a greater number of tickets were made available, and the undergraduate demand was exhausted, then and only then, should the Office of Student Affairs and SUB approach the idea of extending the lottery to graduate students. 
But right now, there are more than enough undergraduate students to satisfy demand for the trip to Los Angeles to see Notre Dame play USC. Clearly, extending the lottery to gradu­ate students was a mistake. 
policies all align with Church teaching. The most controver­
sial and relevant issue may be about the concept of just war 
in relation to the war in Iraq, which the Democratic Party is 
typically more against than the Republican Party. So where does that leave us Catholics? With the diverse spread of Catholic teachings throughout the political parties in the United States, we must turn to our own critical thinking skills to make our voting decisions. We must all critically evaluate the positions of all can­didates in accord to Catholic teachings, the good of society, and non-religious political policies. Catholics are expected to create the best, most just world pos­sible. This is a challenge in a democrat­ic, pluralistic environment. The key to moving toward change and progress is to continually evaluate the political situation rather than getting 
"stuck" on one party or one political issue. The burden is on us to be thoughtful, active citizens and Catholics working to create a bet­ter world. 
Chrissy Andrews freshman Farley Hall Nov. 2 



Halloween costume in bad taste 
the social or historical implications of what it means to be black in America. But if you ever decide to grow up and expand your horizons beyond the world that you think you know, I would be more than happy to sit down and have a discussion with you. 
Andre Smith 
senior 
Morrissey Hall 
Nov. 1 

r----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, November 3, 2006 page 13 
Toward a more religious politics 
In the aftermath of the last presidential election, the media made much of exits polls showing George Bush had won because of "values voters." In the eyes of the press, this category meant that Bush's victory was due not to anything real, James not to anything that Matthew ought to matter, but Wilson simply because voters perceived him as bet-The Treasonous ter than John Kerry in Clerk some immaterial yet decisive litmus test of either "character" or "Christianity." 
With their signature swift incompe­tence, some Democrats had attempted to hijack this category by voicing bald plati­tudes of religious devotion even before the election. One remembers Howard Dean's exquisitely Episcopalian martyr­dom over a bike path, and John Kerry's waxing "papist" by inventing a new pope -Paul XXIII, was it? -to justify ex cathedra his support of abortion. 
At the sight of such spectacles, one could only assume Democratic strategists had concluded thus: since "values voting" is all perception and no substance, since religion in the political sphere is about "wedge issues" and "voter bases" and not about the will of a God who does not exist anyway, shameless soul bearing is appro­priate if it can pick up the vote of some fence-sitting Methodist from Ohio. They assumed Bush was just playing a cunning political game with the irrational senti­ments of the American people, and that they had every right to do so as well. The exit polls reminded us, though, that whatever one may think of Bush in other respects, when he speaks about God, he sounds as if he actually believes in Him. Bush may be as nihilistic as the Democrats -I don't know-but he at least did God the credit of learning to sound as if he wanted to serve Him. 
In any case, after the election three schools of analysis arose about the "val­ues vote." The media generally decried it as the invasion of our free electoral sys­tem by those un-American zealots who dare to be, simultaneously, Christian and citizens with a right to suffrage. Others, such as my namesake, a professor at SMU, said the exit polls overstated the influence of "values" on the election. A third, no doubt minority, group suggested that the exit polls indicate Americans indeed are resistant to the apparent sec­ularization of our politics -a program spearheaded by the soulless humanitari­anism of modern liberalism. The majori­ty, then, voiced the old saw that "religion and politics should be separate." 
Such a demand is as old as America. Indeed, much older. Many wars have been fought in the name of getting reli­gion out of politics. The seventeenth-cen­tury wars, mistakenly called the "wars of religion," were actually squabbles among various European monarchs to win sov­ereignty over stable geographic masses, eliminating the role of Church authority. David B. Hart has written that our per­sistence in calling these wars "of reli­gion" demonstrates how powerful the ideology of the state has been. Since the decided effect of these conflicts was the invention and normalization of the tem­poral state as sovereign, where the ruler could claim legitimate control over every minute aspect of his territory -including what his subjects could believe in their hearts -one should call them and the resultant Peace of Westphalia what they really were: wars aimed at reducing the destiny of man to his use-value for the state-the "birth pangs" of Leviathan. 
The French Revolution, though as com­plex an event as any in modern history, was in part an attempted genocide by the 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Ticket lottery exclusion not comparable to 'compromise' 
'3/5' reference overblown 
In response to today's Letter to the Editor from graduate students James Keith, William Towns, Meggan Valrance, Elizabeth Halpin and Thomas Durcan ("3/5 of a student?" Nov. 1), as tragic as it is that the graduate students were originally exclud­ed from the USC ticket lottery, I'm really not sure their comparison of graduate students to voting slaves through their "3/5 of a student" bit is a valid one. 
Because, well, one group was denied the American right to vote. 
And the other group almost didn't get to stand in line for tickets to a football game for which they never had to pay the Student Activities fee. 
life's rough, though, huh? 
Meaghan Garvey 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Nov.! 
Analogy melodramatic 
I understand the anger felt by the graduate students over the USC ticket situation, however I took real issue with their "3/5 of a Student" statement ("3/5 of a student?" Nov. 1). 
Not being allowed to participate in a student lottery is one thing, but equat­ing it to racial injustice is a horrible attempt on the part of the graduate stu­dents. The history of the United States in regards to race is not pleasant, and the 3/5ths Compromise was a blight in our history -extremely worse than -not being allowed to participate in a ticket lottery. 
Pat Rigney senior off campus Nov. 2 

party of "reason" against the "supersti­tious" powers of the Catholic Church. "Oh, Reason, what crimes are committed in your name," the martyrs cried from the guillotine. And "Reason" seemed to have won, when Robespierre rechris­tened Notre Dame a temple to the wor­ship of Her. France continued its unhap­py war against religion in politics for more than a century, punctuating it by exiling many French priests and drafting others for the trenches during WWI. They may serve God on Sunday, if they survive, but the rest of the week, their bodies belonged to the Republic. 
The great triumph in the enlightened war to get "religion out of politics" came with WWII. Only then did we encounter a fire-breathing modern paganism anxious to incinerate Christianity by usurping its claims to divinity. Hitler learned the les­son of the previous three hundred years and exploited it almost successfully: the modern state could not merely deny the truths of religion and say that the highest truth and only power was that of the sec­ular, temporal realm. The Church would bounce back from that too easily. The state must deify itself and baptize its citi­zens a "chosen nation." Hitler learned so much from the Jews, perverted their ideas in order to out-Christ Christianity, and then tried to kill all the Jews for good measure. 
One can only say, with this history behind us, "Oh, secular politics! Oh, secu­lar state! What crimes have been com­mitted in your name!" 
What about the Crusades, one asks? The longstanding complaint about them was that the Crusaders went to the Holy Land to pillage, rape and murder, nomi­nally for God, but in truth only for the satisfaction of pillaging, raping and mur­dering. If that complaint is just, then one may as justly say that the Crusades were a war, but they were not religious. 
Or rather, that the fault found in the Crusaders is that they did not take seri­ously enough the Gospel they claimed to be defending with the sword. Had there been a good deal more religion-specifi­cally, Christian charity -in the Crusades, perhaps they would not have been fought in the first place. Since they were fought -for however just or unjust a reason -the advocates of "secular pol­itics" thrill to find·in them the ultimate "wedge issue," the ultimate abuse of a "conservative voter base," but this is ahistorical. 
The publication of David Kuo's book on the Bush Administration's office of faith­based initiatives suggests that Bush can be as disingenuous and scheming in his use of religion for political gain as the Democrats have been hollow and incom­petent. But the lesson is not what Lou Dobbs or the ACLU would have us believe: that we need religion out of poli­tics. 
One possesses the virtue of religion because one reveres Truth, and only if we wish to serve the common good in the light of Truth do we have any claim to participate in politics. We need more reli­gion in politics. But we need it less as empty rhetoric and more as a sincere plea for the weak before the mighty, a cry on behalf of the immortal soul of every human person against the massive machinery of a modern state that will commit any crime necessary to extend its sovereignty. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sarin Research Fellow who likes his politics local and his Church universal. He can be reached at jwilson5@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Plan B destroys embryo in some cases 
It seems reasonable to assume that on its Web site Barr Pharmaceuticals would provide accurate information about its FDA approved product, Plan B (www.go2planb.com). On this website a brief description of how the drug operates shows that Dan Hicks is wrong in his Letter to the Editor to claim that Plan B works "only by pre­venting ovulation" ("Women, students deserve apology," Nov. 2). 
The website indicates that there are three ways that Plan B prevents preg­nancy, where pregnancy is defined as the successful implantation of an embryo in a woman's uterus: "It pre­vents pregnancy mainly by stopping the release of an egg from the ovary, and may also prevent the fertilization of an egg (the uniting of sperm with the egg). Plan B may also work by preventing it from attaching to the uterus (womb)." 

The unexpressed antecedent of "it" in the last sentence is: "the embryo that results from a fertilized egg." 
Being a fertilized human egg or a human embryo are different stages in the life of a human organism. Although it seems that Plan B usually works by interfering with ovulation or prevent­ing fertilization, this is not always the case. Taking Plan B causes the destruc­tion of a human embryo in those cases where it prevents its implantation. This should trouble anyone who holds that a human organism is identical to a human person. Professor Emeritus Charles Rice, then, was correct in his report of how Plan B operates. 
Andrew Rosato graduate student medieval studies Nov. 2 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, November 3, 2006 
PERFORMING ARTS REVIEW 

African drums bring down the DPAC 
Royal Drummers of Burundi bring stylized percussion to Notre Dame 





Not just content to perform on their drums, the Royal Drummers of Burundi are also known for their acrobatics, displayed In both their music and fitness. 
By LAURA MILLER Scene Critic 
Last night, the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts was alive with the sound of Africa. 
The opening act to the night's festivities featured the Mombasa Party from Mombasa, Kenya. While the whole group was not in attendance, their performance was compelling nonetheless. They played six well-known Kenyan songs, all in Swahili. Although listening to songs in foreign languages can sometimes be frus­trating for the audience, the Mombasa Party sang songs that were repetitious and easy to hum along to. Translations were also provided in the program for easier understanding. Audiences familiar with the Swahili-influenced character names of "The Lion King" could easily pick up on several songs. 
The Mombasa Party had a unique style, in part by their unusual combination of instruments -including the "tashkota," a string instrument similar to a banjo in sound but played more like a mandolin. Mohamed Adio Shigoo played this instru­ment, along with the harmonium. Other players included Ali Gofu (double bass), Anasi Mbwana (bongos, chorus) and Zuhura Swaleh (vocals). The Mombasa Party plays a style of music called "taarab," that has distinctly Indian roots. However, they pull in elements from many cultures around the world. The 
tashkota is actually a Japanese instru­
ment, and some of the songs sounded as 
if they had significant Caribbean influ­
ences as well. 
The only criticism of the group's per­formance was they did not have enough energy to enliven such a large perform­ance space. While ideal for their usual venue of weddings and other more per­' sonal celebrations, some of their impact was lost in the Leighton Concert Hall. Due to the fact that they either could not -or chose not -to speak English, they had a difficult time encouraging the audi­ence participation that they obviously 
desired. 
Before intermission, the Royal 
Drummers of Burundi powered onstage 
and gave the audience a "preview" of 
what was to come. The audience was left 
shell-shocked when the drummers sud­
denly stopped and the stage went dark 
for intermission. The talent of the 
Drummers is absolutely breathtaking, 
and their history adds to their artistic sig­
nificance. 
The Royal Drummers of Burundi have 
been performing for centuries -the 
skills passed down through familial lines. 
Originally, they performed at traditional 
African religious ceremonies. The drum­
mers have special importance for 
Burundi -drums are considered 
sacred. The dedication and polished skill 
of the Drummers made this apparent, but 
shining through the performance was an 
admirable patriotism. Their love of coun­try and passion for their flag were visible in the beauty of their dance, and the per­vasiveness of the colors of their flag ­red, green and white. A spear and shield were used throughout the performance, both bearing these colors. These objects were earried by all of the Drummers in turn and were crucial to the ceremonial nature of the performance. 

The rhythms played during the per­formance all had cultural significance to the Drummers, ranging from a "song about peace" to a "song about the impor­tance of traditional culture in Burundi" to a song "about the return of cows." Each rhythm was accented by fantastic cultur­al daneing. Not only did the Drummers prove to be talented musicians, but also they were terrific vocalists, incredible dancers and amazingly fit. 
This fitness is easily explained by the complexity and demanding nature of their routines. When the dancers weren't leaping into the air and touching their heads to their knees, they were running across the stage and twirling their heads in impossibly fast neck-jerking patterns. Amazingly, those playing the drums at the time often did some of the intricately choreographed movements. At times, the drummers were pounding the drums while jumping up into the air several feet, almost clearing the tops of the drums. Never once during these jumps did the beat of the drums falter. Somehow, the Drummers managed to keep perfect beat, even while airborne. 
There were three types of drums in the performance. The largest were the "ingo­ma" drums, which were supplemented by the "amashako" drums, the "ibishikso" drums and one center drum, called the "inkiranya." This center drum was played by all of the Drummers in turn throughout the performance and had the flag of Burundi painted on it. All of the drums wet~ m!lde 'fr'om hollowed-out tree trunks and covered with animal skins. 
One of the most stellar moments of the performance was when the Drummers entered immediately following intermis­sion. They entered through the back of Leighton Concert Hall and made their way through the audience, pounding their drums in unison. Not only was their ability to balance the massive drums on their head intriguing, but it was amazing that they could keep time at all -the drums extended perhaps two to three feet in front of their head, making the end difficult to reach, much less play upon so skillfully. 
The audience was entranced for the entire performance. The relative silence between and after the performance accentuated the power of the drums. 
The Royal Drummers of Burundi truly gave meaning to the beloved Notre Dame phrase "shake down the thunder." They brought the DPAC both to thunderous applause, and multiple standing ovations. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of cami.com courtesy of cami.com The Royal Drummers of Burundi are not only known for their music but are also noted for their patriotism, made apparent by the Burundian flag on their drums. 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, November 3, 2006 
page 15 
DPAC PREVIEW 
Student performers are sound of autumn 
Glee Club and Concert Bands prepare for fall shows 


The Glee Club has been a Notre Dame staple since 1915 and takes its connection to the past seriously by inviting Club alumni to sing with the current group. 
By MARTY SCHROEDER and SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editors 
Glee Club 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will be bringing their considerable talents to the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Saturday with their annual Fall Concert. As always, the Glee Club promises to bring talent, preparation and a love for their craft to audiences. They also like to have fun and are willing to delve into son?,s that may not be regarded as "high art. 
This year's performance promises to be as interesting and varied as any con­cert they've done in the past. Everything from spirituals, barbershop songs, sea shanties and liturgical hymns will be performed. It promises to be an engaging show with a musical piece for anyone. 
"The audience will experience many different genres of music and will proba­bly encounter something new. Also, if students come, they will be able to hear audience favorites like Biebel's 'Ave Maria,' 'Danny Boy' and 'The Notre Dame Victory March,"' senior Nathan Catanese, Glee Club President, said. 
This yearly event -with a first half featuring more classical fare and a con­temporary-driven second half-is syn­onymous with the Glee Club itself. The club was founded in 1915 as an all male 
·chorus, a distinction it holds today, With music that connects the past and the present, the Glee Club pays homage to their roots while not losing focus on their current performances. 
"As an all-male group that has existed continuously since 1915, the Glee Club connects Notre Dame's historically rich past with its vibrant present," Catanese said. 
Also, the group will invite past Glee Club members to sing the last three songs with the current members. Dedication to its alumni is a source of pride for the Glee Club and remains an integral part of their success. 
Coinciding with the Fall Concert, the Glee Club will be holding a joint concert with West Point's Glee Club amidst the Friday, Nov. 17 festivities of the Notre Dame-Army weekend at the Performing Arts Center. As highly regarded as the two clubs are, this collaboration offers a unique opportunity to see two premier singing groups simultaneously. Additionally, the performance allows a welcome chance to honor the men and 
women in the nation's service acade­mies. 
These concerts come on the heels of the Glee Club's Fall Tour, which saw them travel to Ohio, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. The music featured during this tour, selected by Glee Club Director Dan Stowe, 

will be the same as the 'The Glee Club connects Gershwin. Other com­pieces performed at posers who are not
Notre Dame's historically 

the Fall Concert. On American, such as 
the horizon for the rich past with its vibrant Antonin Dvorak, will group remains their present., have music included yearly Christmas Con­that is commonly asso­cert in December. ciated with American
Nathan Catanese

The Glee Club is ded­themes like Dvorak's icated to their craft Glee Club President "New World Sym­
and to Notre Dame and forms an indispensable organ of the Notre Dame community. For those who have never seen the Glee Club's talents in person, this Friday's performance is an excellent opportunity to do so. The performance will begin 8 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Notre Dame Concert Bands 
While Notre Dame boasts one of the greatest collegiate marching band in the country, there are many other branches of the Notre Dame bands equally as tal­ented and noteworthy. One of these includes the Notre Dame Concert Bands, which will hold their annual Fall Concert this evening in Washington Hall. 

The program, entitled "American Classics," will feature two separate acts by the Symphonic Band and Symphonic Winds showcasing many notable Ameri­can tunes from com­posers such as George 
phony," inspired by 
Native American music during the Czech composer's visit to the United States in the 1890s. 
The two bands are comprised of some 150 students, including members who are in the Notre Dame Marching Band. All performers undergo auditions at the beginning of the semester and weekly practices to prepare for the show. In spite of the seemingly short amount of rehearsals, the bands are an excellent and talented ensemble of student per­formers who seem to have been working together for years. 
Much of this is thanks to the direction given to the bands by the familiar Marching Band names of Dr. Kenneth Dye, Sam Sanchez, Emmett O'Leary, Kelly May and Matt Merten. This group has put much time and effort into pro­ducing this show, with spectacular results. The inspiration for the ·"American Classics" theme came from Dye after previous concerts at events such as Junior Parents Weekend have been themed to the works of John Philips Sousa and Motown hits. 
May, one of the conductors for the Symphonic Band, hopes that audiences will come away with enjoyment of "great American music and some exposure to pieces they have never heard before." 
One of these less known pieces is a set of Cajun folk songs, musical expressions of the early 19th century Louisiana French Society. These catchy pieces, arranged by famous composer Frank Ticheli, go beyond the cliclH~d 20th cen­tury versions of Cajun folk music and capture the true sense of the underap­preciated genre, which encompasses a musical movement from quiet contem­plation to optimism to exhilaration. In keeping with the Cajun theme, the Notre Dame New Orleans Brass Band will per­form the gospel song "Just a Closer Walk with Thee" between the two acts. 
More well-known songs such as "Shenandoah," the 19th century coal miner's folk song, will be played to trans­port the audience to a simpler time when the power of song as a communicative medium was )lluch stronger than today. 
Along with known classics and favorites, the band has also chosen some lighthearted and fun songs to entertain the audience. One such song'features a perfectly calibrated and tuned typewriter as a musical instrument, played by Assistant Director of Bands Larry Dwyer. Aptly titled "The Typewriter," the song is both creative and comical in its unique blend of old technology and musical instruments. 
The Notre Dame Bands Concert pro­vides a unique opportunity for audience members to see their fellow students and Marching Band members in a drastically different venue than Notre Dame Stadium. The talent of these musicians truly shines here and allows one to appreciate the music they perform. Headlined by such gifted performers and excellent music, "American Classics" is not to be missed. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu and Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
I 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 3, 2006 
NHL 

Sabres stay unbeaten in shootout with Bruins 
Cristobal Huet tallies 31 saves to shut out Carolina and give Montreal its first win over the Hurricanes since 2003 
Associated Press spring a 2-on-1 early in the sec­
ond. He bounced the puck off 

BOSTON -The Buffalo the boards to Savard, who took Sabres' winning streak may it down the left side, faked a have ended. But they're still shot from the circle to draw in unbeaten in regulation. defenseman Jaroslav Spacek 
Ales Kotalik scored the tying and then centered it to Axelsson goal with 95 seconds left in reg­for the goal. ulation and converted the last Axelsson finished with a goal shot in the shootout as Buffalo and an assist for Boston. rallied from a three-goal deficit in the third period to beat the Montreal 4, Carolina 0 Boston Bruins 5-4 Thursday Cristobal Huet stopped 31 night. shots in his first shutout of the 
The Sabres, who won their season, leading the Montreal first 10 games of the season Canadiens to a win over the before falling to Atlanta in a Carolina Hurricanes on shootout on Saturday, trailed 4-Thursday night. 1 before Maxim Afinogenov Michael Komisarek had a goal scored with 8:49 left in regula­and an assist for the Canadiens, tion. He got another with 2:30 who won convincingly despite left and Kotalik tied it just 55 being outshot 31-27 and beat seconds later. Carolina in a regular-season 
In the shootout, Glen Murray game at the RBC Center for the lost the handle on the puck for first time since March 21, 2003. Boston before Daniel Briere put Saku Koivu, Mike Johnson and it between Tim Thomas' legs. Tomas Plekanec added goals for 
P.J. Axelsson tried to score Montreal, which won a rematch straight on, but Ryan Miller of last season's Eastern stopped him, then Thomas Conference quarterfinal series turned back Afinogenov. Patrice in which the Hurricanes rallied Bergeron put one through for from a 2-0 series deficit to the Bruins, but so did Kotalik. advance in six games behind 
And the Sabres were back to then-unheralded goalie Cam their winning ways. Ward. 
Despite scoring in the Ward was inserted into the shootout, Briere's 10-game point lineup during that series and streak -the longest active emerged as one of the key com­streak in the NI-IL -came to an ponents of Carolina's run to its end for the Sabres, who have first Stanley Cup. beaten Boston in nine of the last This time, the Canadiens beat 10 tries. him four times and took com­
Miller stopped 30 shots for the mand midway through the sec­Sabres, who rallied from four ond period by scoring twice play, were 1-of-5 with the man and Viktor Kozlov also scored, After scoring in the opening one-goal deficits to force over­within a span of 1:44. advantage and kept the Alexei Yashin added three minutes of the season opener, time against Atlanta. The Komisarek streaked down the Hurricanes scoreless in eight assists and Rick DiPietro had 14 Satan had not put the puck in Sabres had won 15 regular-sea­right side, dodged a sliding Ray power-play chances. saves for the Islanders, who the net again. son games in a row dating back Whitney and snapped a shot The Hurricanes fell to 0-3-1 won their third straight game Hunter ended a seven-game to April 7 of last season -two past Ward for a short-handed this season against the three and snapped the Devils' two­goal drought by beating Brodeur short of the NI-IL record set by goal at 10:45. Eastern Conference teams they game winning streak. with a snap shot from between the 1993 Pittsburgh Penguins. Moments later, Koivu took a beat during last season's playoff Rookie Travis Zajac scored for from circles 8:00 into the first. 
That's compared to the pass from Sergei Markov near run. the Devils and set up another by York made the pass after pick­Bruins, who beat Ottawa on center ice, made a nifty move on Huet, who had seven shutouts Zach Parise. Martin Brodeur, ing up a loose puck in the Saturday for just their third vic­Whitney and maneuvered into in 33 regular-season starts last who had posted shutouts in his Devils' zone. tory of the season and have not the slot, then beat Ward with a season, entered having allowed last two starts, had 22 saves. After Zajac tied it with about 5 won back-to-hack games since wrist shot for a power-play goal at least two goals in each of his The Islanders went 6-2 minutes left in the period, Satan March 16-18. Thomas made 29 at 12:29. five previous starts but finished against New Jersey last season needed only 32 seconds to put saves for the Bruins and Marc Koivu was playing against the with his first shutout since and dominated the first of eight New York ahead for good. York Savard had a goal and two Hurricanes for the first time blanking Boston on April 1. meetings this year, limiting the took the puck from Scott Gomez assists for the Bruins, who since his career-threatening eye Devils to 10 shots in the first two in center ice and set up Hunter scored more than three goals injury, which happened when New York Islanders 5 periods. for a shot in the left circle. Satan for the first time all season. Carolina's Justin Williams acci­New Jersey 2 Hunter, York and Satan set the lifted the rebound over a prone 
Boston outshot the Sabres 16-dentally poked him in the left The sluggish line of Trent tone after struggling recently for Brodeur. 5 in a scoreless first period and eye with his stick. Hunter, Mike York and Miroslav New York. Zhitnik stretched the lead to theri outscored them 3-1 in the Johnson and Plekanec added Satan combined for two first­Hunter had a goal and an 3-1 midway through the second second to seemingly take control goals late in the third period. period goals and the New York assist in the first 11 games. with a shot from the point. ofthe game. The Canadiens, who entered Islanders beat the New Jersey While York had two goals and Kozlov scored from the left cir­
Matt Lashoff scored his first as one of the NHL's best teams Devils Thursday night. three assists, the center had not cle about 5 minutes later off a NI-IL point when he helped both on and against the power Jason Blake, Alexei Zhitnik had an assist in five games. great cross-ice pass by Yashin. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ND Home Games, Hassei-Free RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. Furnished home for responsible Travel with STS to this years top 10 Lodging. 3 Bdrm home/5min.walk Transportation, tailgating & lodging. family. Walk to NO. Dec.-May. Cell Spring Break destinations! Best 
WANTED from stadium. A one-time fee of 574-243-5547. 561-596-0194. TICKETS deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-
Need nanny for 3 girls (3,4&5) 10­15 hrs/wk. 3 days/wk. $15/hr. Light cleaning, cooking & pick up at school. Ref. necessary. Call Michelle 574-383-3322. 
FoR SALE 
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi.N of ND. 2-stall garage. 4 lots. $101,000. 52420 Forestbrook. Call Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277­4122. 
3 bedroom ranch. 1-1/2 bath. Totally remodeled. New kitchen and heating/air. $99,900. 1820 Oak Park near Edison/Ironwood. Call Tony 574-303-0311. 
$99,000 to buy a nice, clean home for all games. For more info call 574-360-8707. 
3-4 BDRM HOME, 2 BATHS, 1 MI. 
N. OF ND. ENCLOSED YARD. $135,000. 574-277-8907 OR 532­9653. 


FoR RENT 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 Students. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
House for rent for football week­ends. Sleeps 6-8. Call Kay evenings at 269-663-8203. 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
ROOMS FOR RENT for ND games,etc. Visit gardenviewbe­dandbreakfast.com or call 574-243­0392. Special rates available. 
6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR NOW. 574-329-0308 RENT-Furnished 1 bedroom Jamison condo Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne Benedict @ 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. 

New Student Housing! 5 bed,1.5 bath, new appliances,2 car garage, 1 mile from campus. Available now! $250-300/Person/Month. Call (574)360-8980. 
Nice, like new, 2 rm. next to cam­pus. Up to 4 people. For football weekend. Call George 574-272­0928. 
Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call 574­243-0658. 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378. 
Travel with STS to this years top 10 Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call1-800-648-4849. Great group discounts. 
missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group discounts. 
Need NC football tix. Will pay face. Call 574-276-8507. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ATIORNEY Lyn Leone available. Underage consumption, DWI. 574­272-1968. 





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 3, 2006 CoMPILED fROM THE 0BSERVER:s WIRE SERVIcEs page 17 
NCAA Men's Soccer NSCAA/ Adidas Top 25 

team  record  prev.  
1  Wake forest  15·2·1  3  
2  SMU  15·1-3  1  
3  Virginia  13·3·0  2  
4  West Virginia  15·1·2  4  
5  Maryland  14·3·1  7  
6  Clemson  12·3·2  10  
7  Santa Clara  11·a.4  11  
8  Saint louis  12·3-2  9  
9  Duke  13·3·1  5  
10  Indiana  12·4-2  20  
11  California  12-4·1  6  
12  NOTRE DAME  13-5-2  8  
13  Kentucky  14-4·2  14  
14  Lehigh  15·1-1  13  
15  Towson  14-1·2  17  
16  Monmouth  12·3·3  15  
17  Karvard  12-4-0  19  
18  UC Irvine  12-3·3  NR  
19  North Carolina  11-5·2  NR  
20  South Carolina  11-4·1  12  
21  Creighton  9·5-3  23  
22  San Diego St.  12-4·1  NR  
23  Old Dominion  12·2-4  24  
23  Illinois Chicago  12·2-4  NR  
25  Colgate  8-3·5  24  

NCAA Women's Soccer 
NSCAA/Adidas Top 25 
team record prep•. 

1 North Carolina 11-1~0 2 1 NOTRE DAME 16·0·1 t 3 UClA 14"2·0 3 4 Santa Clara 13·3·1 4 5 TexasA&M 13·3·1 8 5 Portland 13·3·2 7 7 Florida St. 12·2 5 8 West Virginia 14-2·2 6 9 Penn St. 12·3·3 9 10 Oklahoma Sf:' · 14·2-'2 10 11 Utah 13-4·0 11 12 Texas 14·3·1 14 13 William &Mary 15·1-2 16 14 Bnston Collejie 10·5~2 24 15 Florida 11-4·3 15 16 Illinnis 11-6·0 NR 17 Stanford 11-5·1 19 18 SMU 14·2·1 22 19 Rutgers 14·2-2 NR 20 Wake Forest 13·4-0 18 21 Dartmouth 10·4-1 13 22 Connecticut 10·7-2 NR 23 BVU 12·2·3 25 24 Villanova 15·2·2 NR 25 Louisville 12-4·1 NR 
NFL Team Rushing Offense 
team. yp(J 

1 Atlanta 210,9 2 San Diego 157,7 3 Denver 155.3 4 New York Giants 146.0 5 Dallas 140,6 6 Jacksonville 129.0 7 Washington 128.4 8 NewEngfand 124.9 9 Philadelphia 120.2 10 San Francisco 118.6 
around the dial 
TODAY 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Spurs 8 p.m., ESPN 
Sonics at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL Air Force at Army 8 p.m., ESPN2 
TRACK AND fiELD 


Associated Press SAN FHANCISCO Trevor Graham, who has coached some of the world's fastest track stars, was charged Thursday with hin­dering the government's steroids probe. Graham, who sparked the now 3-year-old federal investigation, was charged with three counts of making false statements to federal agents in an indictment issued by the grand jury investigating performance­enhancing drugs in profes­sional sports. 'Today's charges demon­strate this office's ongoing commitment to investigate and prosecute not only 

those involved in the illegal doping of our nation's ath­letes, but also those who lie to federal agents involved in a criminal investigation," San Francisco U.S. Attorney Kevin Ryan said. 
Graham was summoned to appear for arraignment Nov. 16 in U.S. District Court. If convicted of all three counts, he faces a maximum penalty of 15 years in prison and a $750,000 fme. 
Graham's Raleigh, N.C.­based attorney Joseph Zeszotarski did not immedi­ately return a telephone call from The Associated Press. 
Graham operates Raleigh, N.C.-based Sprint Capitol 
IN BRIEF 
Tagliabue to be honored with Roosevelt Award by NCAA 
Recently retired NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue will be honored with the 2007 Theodore Hoosevelt Award, the highest honor the NCAA bestows. 
The "Teddy," will be presented at the NCAA Honors Celebration on Jan. 6 during the annual NCAA Convention in Orlando, Florida. 
Named after President Theodore Roosevelt, the "Teddy" is presented annually to a former NCAA student­athlete for whom competitive athlet­ics in college and attention to physi­cal well-being after graduation have been important factors in a distin­guished career of national signifi­cance and achievement. Tagliabue played basketball at Georgetown. 
Other notable winners were former presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower (1967), Gerald R. Ford (1975), George H.W. Bush (1986) and Honald Reagan (1990). New England Patriots owner Hobert Kraft won it last year. 
USA, a team of about 10 athletes that includes Justin Gatlin,. the 100-meter co­world record holder who tested positive for testos­terone and other steroids in April. 
Graham also coached sprinter Marion Jones, who won five medals at the 2000 Sydney Games with him, and her former boyfriend Tim Montgomery, who was suspended from competi­tion for two years despite never testing positive for a banned substance. 
Several of Graham's ath­letes, however, have tested positive for banned sub­stances. The coach has been under investigation for at least two years for allegedly lying to investiga­tors looking into doping among elite athletes con­nected to the Bay Area Laboratory Co-Operative, the now-defunct Burlingame supplement company that served as a front for a steroids ring. 

In August, the U.S. Olympic Committee banned Graham from its training centers, because many of his athletes have been sus­pended for doping offenses. 
Three years ago, Graham anonymously mailed a vial containing "the clear," a previously undetectable steroid to the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency. 
Robredo and Nalbandian rank in ATP top eight, make Masters Cup 
PARIS -Tommy Robredo and David Nalbandian qualified for the season-ending Masters Cup on Thursday. 
Hobredo defeated Paul-Henri Mathieu 6-4, 7-6 (1) in the third round of the Paris Masters and Nalbandian, who skipped the tourna­ment, advanced because James Blake lost 6-4, 6-2 to Tommy Haas. 
The Masters Cup, which starts Nov. 12 in Shanghai, is for the top eight players in the ATP rankings. Hoger Federer, Rafael Nadal, Andy Hoddick, Ivan Ljubicic and Nikolay Davydenko had already qualified ahead of the Paris tournament. 
Blake is currently in eighth place in the race, but Hass and Mario Ancic both reached the quarterfinals Thursday and can move ahead of the American. Ancic topped Julien Benneteau 6-3, 6-1, and will play Davydenko, who beat Dmitry Tursunov 6-2, 6-2. 
Back from InJury, Clijsters advances to quarterfinals 
HASSELT, Belgium -Defending champion Kim Clijsters cruised into the quarterfinals of the Gaz de France after beating Martina Mueller 6-3, 6-2 Thursday. 
Clijsters, who returned after a two­month layoff from a wrist injury, is trying to win her home tournament. 
The sixth-ranked Belgian will face Sandra Kloesel of Germany in the quarterfinals. Kloesel upset seventh­seeded Samantha Stosur of Australia 7-6 (3), 6-2, 6-3. 
Third -seeded Ana Ivanovic defeat­ed Angelique Kerber 6-3, 6-7 (2), 6­
3. She will face Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands in the quarterfinals. Krajicek beat Caroline Maes of Belgium 7-6 (3), 2-6, 6-3. 
Second-seeded Francesca Schiavone, last year's runner-up, will play Kaia Kanepi of Estonia after beating Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland 6-3, 6-4. Kanepi downed Eleni Daniilidou of Greece 6-3, 6-4. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 3, 2006 

! • ' -­
3773 3786 3801 3803 3806 3814 3816 3817 3827 3868 3879 3885 3891 3895 3901 3906 3967 3968 

' 3973
' 
' 
' 
' 3984
' 
I 
I 
~ ( 4015
I 
' 
' 
' 
' 4029
' 
' 
I I I I I 
I 4047 
' 4048
' ' 
' 
' 
I 
' 4050 ' 4067 
' 
4076 4077 4098 4100 

inning Numbers 
4105 4125 4151 4216 4239 4241 4247 4248 4272 4291 4301 4305 4307 4319 4352 4421 4483 4517 4532 4634 4566 4561 4580 4585 4608 4652 4698 4699 4719 4736 4750 4754 4768 4769 4771 4811 4839 4840 4850 4852 4856 4920 4922 4938 4964 4969 4984 4988 4992 6020 5063 5064 5071 5083 5087 5118 5119 5149 5159 5162 5168 5180 5183 5195 5196 5210 5227 5229 5231 5251 5254 5269 5308 5313 5314 5336 5356 5374 5393 6417 5423 5429 5464 5478 5502 5520 5557 5564 5571 6626 5660 5668 5681 5706 5727 5728 5774 5784 5785 5795 5796 5804 5807 5808 5812 5823 5834 5847 5858 5862 5875 5878 5903 5906 5946 5953 5954 5985 5995 5999 


Winnen 01av purchase 21ace-valuetlcllets 1$85 eachJ beulnnlnu Frldav, Nove01ber 3at9aDJ atthelaFonune Box DUlce 
The window to purchase these tickets lasts until Tuesday, Nov. 7th at the close of the Box Office. On Wednesday, Nov. 8th, any remaining tickets will be for sale to ND/SMCIHCC students on a first-come, first-served basis. SUB provides this service for the Notre Dame student body and has no responsibility for negligence to adhere to the above policy. 
llrntlltteVIIIIIJ1111 Student lainBen sull.ld.edl 

Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Vinatieri prepares for return to New England 
He's content with it. 

Ex-Patriot field goal 
For the first time in his 11­kicker featured in big year career, Vinatieri will play at Gillette Stadium not as oneAFC battle Sunday of the Patriots' revered stars, but rather as one of those Associated Press dreaded Indianapolis Colts. He figures fans will respond 
INDIANAPOLIS -Adam accordingly. 
Vinatieri is ready for anything "I might have a few people 
he could encounter Sunday give me a few cheers at the 
night in New England -beginning, but I'm expecting 
cheers, jeers, chants and once the game starts they are 
taunts, even a last-second kick. going to try to take the edge 


Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 

BrlngirigTradltlon 
All lectures: 7:30p.m. Stapleton Lo~ge, Le Mans Hall
1( L•f 
Samt Mary's CoUege
0 1 e 


Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Traditicm Sj}ecial follou,·uJ> event: Thursday, September 7 

Pineda 
Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation (3:30p.m. in Stapleton Lounge) 


Wednesday, October 25 
Claire Wolfteich, Boston University 
Women, Spirituality and the Workploce

Wolfteich 

Monday, November 6 
Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actress Nancy Murray, O.P. 
Voices from the Past, Wisdom for Today, Hope for Tomorrow 

Murray 
Saint~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs (574) 284-4636 • e-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 
and that is probably yelling at us like every team does," he said. 
In 10 seasons with New England, fans embraced Vinatieri with affinity. 
But when the NFL's best clutch kicker left as a free agent in March, the reaction was split. Some fans felt betrayed more by Vinatieri's decision to join the Patriots' bit­ter rival than by his departure. Others blamed the team for allowing him to walk away. 
Sunday's game gives New England fans another chance to flaunt their unique homecom­ing salute. 
Last spring, when Johnny Damon returned to Fenway Park as a member of the hated New York Yankees, fans booed, chanted "traitor" and wore T­shirts that read: 
"Looked Like Jesus." 
"Throws Like Mary." 
"LOYAL Like Judas." 
"Johnny B GONE!" 
It's doubtful Vinatieri's return will create that much animosi­ty, because the Colts-Pats series pales in comparison to the deep hatred between the Red Sox and Yankees. 
As, perhaps, a subtle mes­sage that he's still a New Englander at heart, Vinatieri walked into the Colts' locker room Wednesday wearing a Red Sox hat. And ex-teammates expect Vinatieri to get a warmer reception than most former players. 
"I don't think he'll get booed. He's done too many good things here," punter Josh Miller said. ''I'm sure if he does get booed, every person that's booing would love to have him over for dinner." 


Vinatieri has tried to down­play the tension by constantly describing his departure as a business move for both sides. 
Early in training camp, though, he referred to New England only as "my former team." He also acknowledged the Patriots had opportunities to re-sign him, and when they opted out of the sweepstakes, he wasted no time in joining another Super Bowl contender. 
"I don't think it was a lack of interest. I just think their phi­losophy is what their philoso­phy is," Vin-
the last two seasons, and safety Rodney Harrison said he still respects the kicker who helped New England earn its reputa­tion as this decade's most for­midable team. 
"The respect and love is always there for him, and I know the fans love him a lot," said Harrison, known best for his hard hits. "He's directly responsible for us winning 
three Super Bowls."  
So  far,  the  decision  has  
worked out for both teams.  
Vinatieri  has  made  14  

straight field goals, 

atieri said Wednesday. "I  "I don •t think he·u  despite missing the first three games of  
don't want to  get booed. He·s  his career, and was  
say that they probably didn't want me back,  done too many good things here.,,  voted AFC special teams player of the week after making a  
I just think that  last-second  field  
their decision­making ... I don't know."  Josh Miller New England punter  goal at Denver last Sunday to keep the South Division-lead­ 

Vinatieri's tone has changed over the past couple of months as he's grown more accustomed to life in Indy. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick hasn't said much about one of his more controversial deci­sions. When asked about his own memories of Vinatieri this week, Belichick responded in his customarily short manner, failing to mention either of Vinatieri's Super Bowl winning kicks or the two kicks he made in a snowstorm against Oakland that ignited the Patriots' first Super Bowl run. 
"He made a lot of good plays for this team," Belichick said. "They were all important." 
Other Patriots remember Vinatieri more fondly. He's played phone tag with punter Miller, Vinatieri's holder 
ing Colts perfect at 7-0. 
Rookie Stephen Gostkowski is 6-of-9 on field goals and 21-of­21 on extra points to help the Patriots (6-1) take early control in the AFC East. 
But if it comes down to another last-second kick on Gillette Stadium's newly installed grass, the Colts will take their chances with Mr. Clutch -something the Patriots haven't forgotten. 
"I don't want to put him in a position to kick a game-winning field goal," four-time Pro Bowl defensive tackle Richard Seymour said. "Obviously, you want to keep Adam out of that situation, because the odds are not in our favor.... We all wish Adam success, but not this week." 
University ofNotre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should Istay or should Igo?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
FINAL INFO SESSION BE~'ORE APPLICATION DEADLIN~: 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees ofthe program 
Monday, November 6, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes-Healy 
Application Deadline: Nov.lS, 2006 For Academic Year2007-2008 Fall2007 and Spring 2008 
Applications available: W\Vw.nd.edu/-intlstud 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Wind causes trouble at Tour Championship 
Goosen, Durant lead pack of eight golfers under par Thursday 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Look at all the 
fun Tiger Woods and Phil 
Mickelson are missing. 
An end-of-the-year bash for the top 30 on the PGA Tour money list turned into a final exam Thursday at the Tour Championship. Retief Goosen and Joe Durant shared the lead at 2-under 68, the highest score to lead an opening round at East Lake, and only six other players managed to break par in cool, blustery conditions. 
Goosen kept trying to squeeze tee shots into the fair­way, the wind blowing side­ways on just about every hole. Ernie Els was a part-time play­er, part-time gardener while clearing pine needles out of the line of his putts. 
Davis Love III bogeyed the 
first three holes on his way to his highest score to par as a pro, a 12-over 82 with no birdies. 
Perhaps the only consolation is the $1.17 million for the winner at the end of the week. 
"You just felt like you had to hang in there," said Goosen, who missed a 4-foot par putt toward winning the Vardon Trophy, recovering from a nasty patch in his back nine to birdie two of the last four holes for a 69, leaving him tied with 2002 winner Vijay Singh. 

"It was playable, but I also wasn't able to eliminate the mistakes," Furyk said. "The blustery conditions, the cool, 
on the 18th hole. "It's tough out there for every­body today." 
Not for Tiger and Phil. 
The two biggest stars on the PGA Tour decided to take this week off -Mickelson also skipped last year -taking some shine off the final 
"It's tough out there for everybody today." 
Retief Goosen golfer 

windy weather, it made those bogey easy to find out there. I didn't play probably as consistent as I would have liked to, but I made a bunch of birdies to cover up those mistakes and had a good day." 
Singh had a chance to reach 3 
tournament of the year. They spared themselves a round so challenging that it was the highest score to lead the first round at East Lake since the Tour Championship first came here in 1998. 
Jim Furyk took a huge step under until missing a 6-foot birdie putt on the 16th -no one made birdie there in the first round -and three-putted from 40 feet to make bogey on the 17th. 

"I played pretty well," Singh said. "It's unfortunate about a few putts, but I'll take in these conditions." 
Also at 69 were Adam Scott, Tom Pernice Jr., Stewart Cink and Stuart Appleby, who won the season-opening Mercedes Championships and would love to end the year the same way. 
J.J. Henry didn't make a par until the sixth hole and had only five on the day. He countered with six birdies was the only player who failed to make a birdie. 
"If I had hit it on the green, I wouldn't have had those lies," Love reasoned. 
True, but he might have saved his fragile back by not having to do gardening on the greens. The wind covered the greens with leaves and pine needles. Els and Choi got put on the clock on the 

and seven bogeys, "You make a seventh hole and was wiped out after spending
mistake here, it 
when he finished, some five min­
costs you one
calling it the utes clearing the toughest test he shot." line of their had faced since putts, and at one the U.S. Open. point, Els
K.J. Chol
K.J. Choi didn't motioned to cad­
golfer
go quite that far. die Malcolm 
"You make a mistake here, it costs you one shot," Choi said. "At the U.S. Open, it cost you three shots." 
It cost Love plenty. 
He started by hitting into the bunkers and getting a plugged lie on the first three holes, and it never got any better. Love 


FRIDAY., NOV. 3 
11am-1pm 
Cappy Gagnon 
Notre Dame Baseball Greats 
1pm-3pm 
Tom Pagna  Sharon Bul  Fr. Bill Miscamble, CSC  
The Phantom Letters  Future Domers  From Roosevelt to  
A Child's Guide to Notre Dame  Truman  
3pm-5pm  
Ted Mandell  Mike Steele  

Heart Stoppers and The Fighting Irish Hail Marys 
Encyclopedia 

SATURDAY.,NOV.4 
9:30am-11 :30am 
Connie McNamara 
Go Irish  
Digger Phelps Tales From the Notre Dame Hardwood  Angie Jurkovic Notre Dame Coloring and Activity Book  

11 :30am-1 :30pm 

Karen Heisler 
Fighting Irish Legends, Lists and Lore 


William O'Rourke Wally Adamchik 
On Having a Heart No Yelling: The Nine Attack: A Medical Secrets ofMarine Corps Memoir Leadership You Must Know to Win in Business 
Events are subject to change. Please call 574-631-5757 to confirm. 
Mason to help 
him out. 
Choi finally finished, and when he stood over his putt, more leaves had blown in his way. 
"We need a damn gardener out there," Els said after a hard-earned 71. "It's going to be a problem all week because the leaves are coming off now with this wind. If you hit it 30 feet, you've got a lot of leaves. Even if you stood over your second shot in the fairway, you could just see the leaves com­ing. Either you wait for it you don't. It kind of bothers you a little bit." 
Even so, this is one time Els wasn't bothered by a round over par. 
He needs a victory this week to finish his PGA Tour season with a victory and earn a tick­et to Kapalua, his favorite place to start the year. He never was better than even par the entire round, but he didn't stay too far way from the lead. 
The demands of East Lake were evident early. 
On the par-3 second hole, Choi posed over his shot and was stunned when it came up some 15 yards short and to the right. Els was next to hit, and he also struck a confident pose as it took dead aim at the flag, only to disappear into the bunker. 
Walking off the tee, Els stopped and looked over his shoulder at the top of the trees. Choi was walking about 10 yards in front of him, and he stooped over to snatch some yellow grass and toss it into the breeze, still trying to figure out what happened. 
Tough as it was, guys like Durant had no problem for more than one reason. 
First, he opened with four birdies on his first seven holes, including an unlikely one on the par-3 sixth. He thought his ball had sailed into the water and was about to take a drop when a marshal told him his ball was OK. Durant found a perfect lie behind the green, then chipped in for a birdie. 
Plus, Durant still has to pinch himself to believe he's actually at the Tour Championship. 
Three months ago, he was in danger of losing his card. He slowly turned it around, then hit his stride the last month, winning at Disney to earn a two-year exemption and tying for fourth to nail down his spot at East Lake. 
"I was sitting here looking out over the lake thinking, 'I can't believe I'm here this week after where I stood halfway through the year,"' Durant said. "It's been a great two months for me." 


Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Rogers wins Gold Glove 
Detroit catcher Ivan Rodriguez also receives honor for 12th time 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -After all those errors in the World Series, a Detroit Tigers pitcher won a Gold Glove. 
Kenny Rogers, whose smudged left hand created a lot of suspicion during the World Series, won his fourth straight Gold Glove on Thursday and fifth overall. 
Detroit pitchers made five errors during the Tigers' five­game loss to the St. Louis Cardinals, four on bad throws and another on a botched comebacker. No other pitching staff had made more than three errors during a Series. 
Rogers did not have any fielding fumbles, but he did have a brownish smudge on his pitching hand in the first inning of Game 2. Whether it was dirt, pine tar or some­thing else may never be known -St. Louis Cardinals manager Tony La Russa never urged umpires to check Rogers' hand and instead merely asked them to make sure whatever it was went away. 
The hand was clean when he came out for the second, Rogers went on to pitch shutout ball through the eighth and Detroit won 3-1 ­its only victory of the Series. Rogers, who pitched 23 score­less innings in the postseason, was poised to start Game 6 
but  Detroit  lost  to  the  
Cardinals in five games.  
Tigers  teammate  Ivan  

Rodriguez won his 12th Gold 
Glove, extending his record for catchers. Seattle right fielder Ichiro Suzuki, Minnesota cen­ter fielder Torii Hunter and Oakland third baseman Eric Chavez won the awards for the sixth straight season. 
"This was the best year I've played defensively. That's why I felt comfortable," said Chavez, who played through injuries and hit just .241 with 22 homers and 72 RBis. "I knew I could impact the game defensively. I knew I had to because offensively I was not able to produce." 
Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter and Toronto center field­er Vernon Wells won for the third time in a row, Texas first baseman Mark Teixeira won for the second consecutive season and Kansas City sec­ond baseman Mark Grudzielanek was a first-time winner. 
"The Gold Glove Award means a great deal to me," Jeter said in a statement. "Fielding doesn't get many headlines, but it's a big part of the game of baseball. I take great pride in my defense." 

• 
3 MILES TO NOTRE DAME 

• 
2 MILES TO 1-80/90 TOLL ROAD 

• 
782' HIGHWAY FRONTAGE 



SANDY HAGEN 574-243-9575 
.~ ••• , ............. '1. 

NCAA FooTBALL 
Midship111an accused by two wo111en of rape 
24-year-old Morrison begins trial Thursday in front of Naval jury 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Two women said Thursday that a former 
U.S. Naval Academy football player had sex with them against their will -alleged assaults that military prosecu­tors said were aided by the use of a date rape drug. 
Testifying in the military ver­sion of a grand jury hearing for Kenny Ray Morrison, the women described separate incidents earlier this year in which Morrison allegedly raped them. One told an officer hear­ing evidence in the case that she had sex with Morrison three times in a Washington hotel room. But she was so groggy and weak that she was unable to resist him, despite telling him repeatedly to stop. 
In the second case, a former midshipman who is now a Marine Corps officer described blacking out after Morrison gave her a beer in an Annapolis, Md., bar. She awoke naked and in bed with Morrison, unable to recall any­thing from the previous night and believing that Morrison had sex with her without her consent. 
Morrison, 24, of Kingwood, Texas, is charged with rape, distribution of a controlled sub­stance, assault and conduct unbecoming an officer for the two incidents. 
His attorney, William Ferris, challenged the women's stories during his cross-examination, questioning the accuracy of their memories of the nights when they drank alcohol. Both also said they did not see Morrison put anything in their drinks. 
"These rape charges clearly don't meet the standard," he said. 
The investigating officer pre­siding over Thursday's Article 32 hearing, Lt. Cmdr. Thomas Leary, will recommend to Naval Academy Superintendent Vice Adm. Rodney P. Rempt whether Morrison should face a general court-martial on the charges. Rempt will make the final deci­sion. If convicted, Morrison could be sentenced to life in a military prison. 
The case is the second this year against a Navy football player. In July, former quarter­back Lamar Owens Jr. was cleared of rape charges but found guilty of lesser offenses. A military jury recommended that Owens face no penalties, but Rempt has yet to decide if Owens will be punished admin­istratively. 
Morrison, a former line­backer, sat at the defense table at the Washington Navy Yard as the two women testified. Wearing a black Navy uniform, he scribbled notes on a legal pad but otherwise showed little reaction as they described his alleged assaults. 
Both cases had similar ele­ments: The women had little contact with Morrison before the incidents; both were drink­ing and ran into Morrison; and both felt weak and said they couldn't remember details. Tests on the hair of both women showed the presence of GHB, a drug that can cause unconsciousness and loss of memory and is often used dur­ing rapes. 
The Associated Press does not identify victims of alleged sexual assaults. 
slo 

haircut 
Vafid Monday -Thursday with Student m. 
Must presentcoupon to receive discount. No double discounts. Expires 12/15/06. Coupon code: N47 
.---------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2006 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Louisville hangs on to beat the Mountaineers 
Cardinals return punt and fumble for TDs to upset West Virginia in the most important Big East game of the year 
Associated Press Rutgers (8-0, 3-0) next 
Thursday night. 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Welcome "Now the biggest game in to the national championship Louisville history is this hunt, Louisville. Rutgers game coming up," 
Brian Brohm threw for 354 Brohm said. yards and a touchdown, and The Cardinals avenged last the fifth-ranked year's triple-over-Cardinals took time loss to West advantage of key Virginia (7-1, 2-1)
"Now the biggest 

mistakes by No. 3 by returning a
game in Louisville 

West Virginia for fumble and a punt an impressive 44-history is this for touchdowns 34 victory during a pivotal
Rutgers game 

Thursday night three-minute
coming up.

that could give stretch in the them an inside third quarter. track to the Bowl Brian Brohm Then, they deliv-
Championship Louisville quarterback ered on their off­Series title game. season motto to The win will "finish." likely lift Louisville (8-0, 3-0 West Virginia quarterback Big East) to at least fourth in Pat White ran for 125 yards next week's BCS poll -it was and four touchdowns and fifth this week -and could be added 222 yards through the the springboard the Cardinals air. But he couldn't overcome need to propel them into the three WVU turnovers and a national championship game if relentless Louisville offense they manage to run the table. that racked up 468 total yards But first, they must get past and kept the Mountaineers on another undefeated conference their heels all night. foe. Louisville plays at No. 15 Heisman Trophy hopeful 
NOW OPEN ?fJcuwnefm 6 
ot MocrVs, formerly Macri's Deli. 
574.280.4824 
/Ji"dAenti<' ~Yf;,lia n Y!J>ritJine 
lunch: Mon-Fri llam-3pm dinner: Mon-Sot 5pm-10pm 
EMBASSY SUITES HOTEL® LAX South 

• 
SPECIAL RATES FOR NOTRE DAME • (310) 640-3600 

• 
$114 per suite per night (up to 2 guests) + 8.09% Tax 

• 
$10 per additional guest -up to 4 guests per suite • Nov 17-26, 2006 

• 
Complimentary breakfast and cocktail reception daily 

• 
Spacious two room suites in a tropical atrium setting 

• 
20 minutes from the LA Coliseum 

• 
Close to nearby beaches, shopping and restaurants 

• 
Complimentary airport shuttle 


Call 1-800-EMBASSY and mention "UNO" booking code. www.laxsouth.embassysuites.com 
Steve Slaton ran for 156 yards and a touchdown for West Virginia, but fumbled on con­secutive snaps in the third quarter -apparently bothered by weakness in his left arm. Louisville's Malik Jackson returned the second one 13 yards for a score that gave the Cardinals a 23-14 lead, and Trent Guy added a 40-yard punt return four plays later, pushing Louisville's advantage to 30-16 with 9:23 left in the third. 
And unlike last season ­when the Mountaineers rallied from 17-point fourth-quarter deficit to stun the Cardinals 46­44 -there would be no mira­cle comeback this year. 
Though White led the Mountaineers on a pair of touchdown drives to get them back in it, the Cardinals responded each time with a 

score of their own. Brohm con­nected with Mario Urrutia on a 6-yard TD pass and Anthony Allen added a 5-yard touch­down run to keep the Cardinals safely in front. 
Set back by their own mis­takes, the Mountaineers simply couldn't keep pace as their school-record 14-game win­ning streak ended while a packed Papa John's Stadium crowd -clad mostly in black T-shirts that read "Boat WVU" -stormed the field. 
Urrutia finished with six catches for 113 yards and Ilarry Douglas caught six pass­es for 116 yards as Louisville seemingly did whatever it wanted on offense. 
The Cardinals punted just twice and scored on all but three of their possessions as they extended their home win­ning streak to 16 straight and beat West Virginia for the first time since 1990. 
West Virginia finished with 540 yards of total offense but put the ball on the ground six times, committed seven penal­ties and appeared a step behind the Cardinals most of the night. 
Neither team looked comfort­able playing on a national stage early on. The Cardinals dropped passes, tripped over their own feet in the open field and settled for field goals deep in West Virginia territory. The Mountaineers, meanwhile, couldn't hold onto the ball. 
Still, Louisville managed a 16-14 lead at halftime behind Art Carmody's three field goals and a 10-yard touchdown run by Allen as the Cardinals con­trolled the clock and did a good job of keeping Slaton and White off the field. 
Friday November 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take momentum into semifinal match 
Knights promise to be toughest foe off06 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Fourth-seeded Saint Mary's will put its season on the line at conference power and Division III No. 12 Calvin in the semifinals of the MIAA tourna­ment tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The Belles are coming off a dramatic five-set victory over fifth-seeded Alma in Tuesday's quarterfinal. The Scots took a commanding lead, winning the first game 30-26 and the sec­ond game 30-22. 
The Belles resiliently stormed back to grab three straight games for the match win. After winning the third game 30-23, they trailed the Scots 27-2 2 in game four. However, with Alma just three points away from victory, the Belles put together a crucial run of eight straight points for a 30-22. 
In the fifth and deciding game, Saint Mary's once again trailed early, 7-5. The Belles then won four points in a row and never looked back, taking the game and match with a 15­11 win. 
The Belles effort was led by many strong individual per­formances. Senior Kristen Playko had a match-high 25 kills and 18 digs, and fresh­man Lorna Slupczynski had a double-double of her own with 15 kills and 26 digs. Anne Cusack led the way defensively with 36 digs. 
Setter Amanda David said winning home-court advantage for the match in the regular season was key. 
"It was a terrific comeback," David said. "We fought all sea­son to host the first round and we had something to prove. We were protecting our home court." 

The Calvin Knights cruised in the quarterfinals against Albion, sweeping the match 3­
0. Calvin finished the regular season undefeated in the MIAA and 30-1 overall. 
Belles coach Julie­Schroeder-Biek said her team is up to the challenge. 
"They definitely can be beat, but we first have to challenge them and attempt to pull them out of their game," she said. 
"It will take a solid team effort and full focus and drive for us to accomplish an upset." 
David agreed that the team will be ready as long as it works on a few important points. "For our next match we really need to keep up our communication on the court and stay confident throughout the whole match," she said. 
The winner of the semifinal match will face off against the winner of Adrian and Hope Saturday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
SPORTS AND POLITICS 
Ex-Volunteer quarterback running for seat in Congress 
Shuler one of several former athletes running for political office in November, capitalizing on name recognition 
Associated Press California. Then came those 
great Steeler teams of the 

November was always their 1970s -with his artful, fluid season, built around football moves going deep -and four afternoons. Lynn Swann and Super Bowl crowns. Heath Shuler now face a chal­The 54-year-old Republican lenge far more confounding now talks about making "one than double coverage in the more catch," but with the secondary. clock running down -and all 
Swann, a Hall of Fame football metaphors exhausted receiver for the Pittsburgh -victory appears out of 
Steelers, is running for gover­reach. nor of Pennsylvania. Shuler, a He is 
star quarterback at Tennessee who never cut it in the NFL, is trying to win a congression­al seat in North Carolina. 
They're the most prominent sports figures-turned­politicians before voters Tuesday in a bid to win office for 
the first time. 
"You played nine years, won four Super Bowls, and I'm in the Hall of Fame. Why would you ever run from that?" 
Lynn Swann 
running against Democratic Gov. Ed Rendell. For months, Swann has trailed by double digits in the polls, in a state where football is seri­ous business. Even some GOP politicians are going for Rendell. 

Jim Ryun, the former Steeler receiver 
track great who once held the world record in the mile, is seeking a sixth term in Congress, and the Kansas Republican is in a tighter con­test than expected. 
Kentucky Sen. Jim Bunning, the Hall of Fame pitcher, is not up for re-election until 2010. Tom Osborne, the former Nebraska congressman and longtime Cornhuskers football coach, is not on the ballot after his loss in a gubernatori­al primary. 
Swann has been nothing but a winner in football. He played in two Rose Bowls and won a national title at Southern 
Swann is try­
ing to draw on 
his celebrity buzz against an opponent well schooled in politics, and he's not about to run from his foot­ball past. 
"You played nine years, won four Super Bowls, and I'm in the Hall of Fame," he says. "Why would you ever run from that?" 
Shuler was a Heisman Trophy runner-up and the third pick in the 1994 NFL draft. He lasted four seasons in the NFL with Washington and New Orleans. It never worked out in the pros: inex­perience, injury, little playing time. 
He commands attention these days, with control of the House of Representatives at stake and Shuler's race closely watched. The 34-year-old Democrat is trying to unseat Rep. Charles Taylor, an eight­term Republican incumbent, in a contest considered a tossup. 
Shuler, born in the rural hills in western North Carolina, preaches "mountain values." He opposes abortion, supports gun rights and environmental­ism and says the administra­tion has lost its way on Iraq. In Taylor, he faces a rival with deep pockets and loyal con­stituents. 
Shuler, like any politician, has strong critics. The Web site stopshuler.com, however, has less to do with politics than implacable football rage. It simply wants -demands ­that Shuler be kept out of Washington and therefore away from the Redskins. 
"The media should not refer to Shuler as a 'former NFL quarterback' any more than they refer to Michael Jordan as a 'former professional base­ball player."' the site says. "Why describe him as some­thing he completely failed at?" 
Lower on the sports-politics food chain, at least four other House races feature ex-jocks. 
Baron Hill, a former basket­ball player at Furman, is a Democrat looking to regain his seat in Indiana. Rick Renzi, a Republican and former cap­tain and linebacker at Northern Arizona, is up for re­election in Arizona. 
Former Stanford women's 

basketball star Angie Paccione is trying to unseat a Republican in Colorado. ltalo Zanzi, who competed at the Pan American Games as a U.S. team handball player, is bid­ding for a New York seat on Long Island against a Democratic incumbent. 
Away from Congress, Joe DeNucci, a middleweight 
boxer who twice lost to Emile Griffith, is looking to remain Massachusetts state auditor. Fred Hemmings, a former world surfing champion, is running for re-election as state senator in Hawaii. Mike Nifong, the district attorney prosecuting three Duke lacrosse players, is up for re­election in Durham, N.C. 

Ec EN D s RESTAURANT & 
F NOTRE DAME ALEHOUSE PUB 
1\7111~11.1~ '1'111~ lll.ISII;;Tllii~C;il'I''IL 
UI~FOllE. DtJlliNC•• AND Al?'rER 'I'HI~ GAME. 
' 

FOOTJlAlL WEEKI~ND IIOIJilS 
J1JUDAY 

Restaurant: 11:00 am -Midnight Pub: 11:30 am · 2:oo am 
SATURDAY 

Restaurant: 8:oo am -Midnight Pub: 8:oo am · 2:oo am 

Legends is located too yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. www.legendsofnotredame.org 574.631.2582 
.JOIN tJS J?OR OIJR EYE OIJJ~NI~Il JJUUiliU'AS'l'! 1700'l'BAI.L SA'I'URJ)A\'S I~RO~I 0:00 1UI -ll:OO A~l. 

page 24 The Obs~rver + SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Hoops 
continued from page 28 
Gaines finished with nine points and six assists. 
"I thought Breona Gray was great defensively, and I thought Charel Allen was terrific on the boards," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said Tuesday after the game. "We're going to need that kind of performance on the defensive end." 
Northwood is beginning the year after going 10-16 last sea­son, and Sunday's exhibition will mark its first competitive contest of the 2006-07 cam­paign. Junior guard Anna Trim, who finished second on the team last season with 12.8 points per game, will lead the Timberwolves. 
Northwood returns four of its top five scorers from a year ago, but will be without top playmak­er Maureen Elliott, who gradu­ated -along with her 16.7 points a game -at the end of last season. 
McGraw said Sunday's game against Northwood will help the Irish build on Tuesday's win as they prepare for the regular season. She pointed to rebound­ing as an area where she hoped the team would improve. 
"I think there [arc I a couple things we can tighten up a bit," she said Tuesday. 
McGraw also foresees a signif­icant contribution coming from three newcomers to the team: freshmen guards Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner and cen­ter Erica Williamson. Lechlitner played 27 minutes Tuesday against Lake Superior State ­more than any Irish player except Allen. She scored eight points in the contest, while Barlow added seven points in just 13 minutes played. 
Barlow missed most of the second half Tuesday after hit­ting her head on the hardwood and cutting her nose. While she did not return, McGraw and the team trainers did not believe the injury to be particularly serious. 
After Tuesday's game, McGraw was pleased with the rookies' debut. 
"I think you can see the con­tributions three of our freshmen will be making," she said. "I think they all have great poten­tial." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

WI'li:e Sports. Call Ken at 631-4543. 
ND SWIMMING 

Notre Dan1e hosts ranked Boilers 
Irish hope to keep up highest-ever ranking 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

No. 17 Notre Dame (1-0) will race its first tough test or the season as No. 1 H Purdue (1-0) rolls into South Bend today for a 5 p.m. meet at Rolfs Aquatic Center. The Irish are looking to avenge last year's 182-11 H loss to the Boilermakers. 
Notre Dame enters the meet on the heels of its lirst win or the season against Texas A&M 169-129, while Purdue beat Arizona State 1H1-11H. The No. 17 Irish ranking in the CSCAA poll is the highest ranking in the history of the program. 
"Can we win both (men's and women's meets! this weekend? Yes," Purdue eoaeh Dan Ross said. "But will we? That's what we're going to find out." 
Ross expects a elose meet that could go either way. 
"They have a big roster that gives them lots of options while we're limited to the guys we have on out travel squad," Hoss said. "This is their first big home meet of the year, so we're expecting a hostile environment." 
Irish assistant coach Matt Tall man said six out of the 16 events will turn the tide in favor or one team or another. 
"The first key to the meet is the diving," he said. "Purdue has a strong diving team, but so do Wll. It'll be a mattllr of where they fall when the div­ing is over." 
Sophomore NCAA national qualifillr Michael Bulfin, junior 

"The first key to the
Sam Stoner, freestyle by sen­senior Scott meet is the diving. ior Ted Brown. Coyle and jun-"We want to
Purdue has a strong
iors Chris win as may races
diving team. but so
Kane and as possible versus Stovlln Crowe do we." Purdue," Brown will partici­said. "If we do pate in the that, we put our­
Matt Tallman 
two diving selves in a posi­
Irish assistant coach 
events -the one-meter and three-meter -for the Irish. Against Texas A&M, Stoner placed second in the one-meter dive, while Bullin finished second in the three-meter. 
"!Purdue senior co-captain Steven Lobue I is really, really good. lie !advanced to the finals( at the NCAA champi­onships on both boards," Stoner said. "It will be a very eom potitive meet." 
The other-four events Tallman highlighted include the 400-yard medley, 1DO­yard fly, 100-yard breast­stroke and 200-yard breast­stroke. 
"To have that many events so close on paper is unusual," Tallman said. "It's all going to come down to the touch." 
In the match against Texas A&M, the Irish won 9 of the 16 events, including wins in the 100 and 200-yard breast­stroke by sophomore Sam Pendergast, the 100-yard ny 
by  senior  Tim  
Kegelman  and  
the  200­ yard  

tion to win the 
meet. That's all 
we want -a shot at winning, and we have the team to do it this year." 
Tallman said that while win­ning the dual meets is niee, the team's training does not focus on the immediate results of this early part or the season. 
"Our goals right now are geared toward February or March," he said. "Most of what we're working on now is geared toward the Big East meet and the NCAAs." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
team All-America and finalist for the Robey Baker Award for Ohio State in 1984, will have his No. 22 sweater retired during a Buckeye hockey alumni weekend. 
Pooley said he learned last year that Ohio State was going to retire his jersey when the Irish played the Buckeyes at Value City Arena Jan. 27, but a group of alumni convened and postponed the ceremony until an entire weekend could be planned around it. 
And now that weekend has arrived as the two teams will play a pair of CCHA games in Columbus -the only time they will meet this season ­amid alumni receptions, tours 
'Tm at Notre

and, of course, No. needs to be in 22's retirement. Dame, I'm here to this post," he "It was a great said. "It gives us
work with Jeff. 

honor," Pooley a chance to feel
We're here to

said. "And I feel better about our humbled by it, rebuild this club, than we because there are program.,, [normally] would a lot of great hock­early on." ey players that I've And the Irish played with and Paul Pooley have every right have been there Irish assistant coach to feel better 
head coach at Providence College. 
''I'm at Notre Dame, I'm here to work with Jeff," he said. "We're here to rebuild this program." 
The two-game set with the Buckeyes will be No. 10 Notre Dame's first league games this season after the team opened up its schedule with six non­conference matchups, earning a 5-1 record -the best Irish start since 1998. Ohio State (2­4, 2-2 CCHA) split a pair of two-game series with both Lake Superior and Northern Michigan and dropped two games to No. 2 Minnesota. 
Pooley said the team was able to find suitable roles and line pairings for its players through the non-conference schedule. 
"It's given us a chance to fig­
ure out where 
our guys fit, who 

since." 
Pooley is Ohio State's all-time point leader, goal scorer and assist leaders (270 points, 114 goals, 156 assists), which ranks him No. 20 all-time in NCAA history for points. In his senior season he set single-season Buckeye records for points (96) and assists (64). 
Pooley, however, said he has no intention to return to coach his alma mater -he served as an assistant coach with the Buckeyes from 1989-91, before serving three seasons as an assistant under Irish coach Jeff Jackson at Lake Superior State and 11 years as about their club 
especially about the defense. The blue­line unit has allowed just one goal per game, making it the top-rated defense in the coun­try and far ahead of second place Maine (1.50 goals per game). 
Irish senior defenseman Noah Babin said he didn't even know his defense was ranked so highly, but he attributed its success to the team attitude. 
"I think there's just a really good chemistry in the locker room," he said. "More than anything, I think the guys are really playing together, and everybody just works really well on the ice, off the ice. I think overall we have a better attitude in every aspect of our game." 
The Irish are eighth in the country in offense, averaging 
4.33 goals per game (26 goals overall). And goaltender Dave Brown is second in the nation in goals-against average (1.18) and save percentage (. 954), behind Alaska-Fairbanks goalie Chad Johnson in both categories. 
But despite the early Irish success and the Buckeyes' struggles, this weekend will be all about revenge. Last season, the Irish were crushed 4-1 and 5-2 by Ohio State at home dur­ing Thanksgiving weekend on national television. 
"The only thing that is in my thoughts -and I think in a lot of the other guys thoughts ­is that last year we played them here and we got absolutely embarrassed," Babin said. "That's what we're thinking about." 
The Buckeyes have also dominated the play between the two teams since 2000­2001, holding a 13-2-3 edge. 
Ohio State entered the sea­son with the daunting task of replacing senior goaltender David Caruso. The Buckeyes have chosen so far to platoon freshmen netminders Joseph Palmer and Nick Filion -and rank last in the league in defense. 
"There's certainly a learning curve with freshmen," Pooley said. "Goaltending is probably the toughest position to get into." 
Tonight's game can be seen at 8:05 p.m. on CSTV. Saturday's game will not be televised, but the puck will drop at Value City Arena at 7:05p.m. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

1-Hall 
continued from page 28 
best. Pretty much we think if we can stop the run, we can control the game." 
McLeod and the Griffins hope they can find the chinks in O'Neill's armor. 
"The farther along we go, the better the competition," he said. "We've taken steps to keep the defense honest. The number one priority of a defense in Interhall is to stop the run. We do have a deep threat, and we've added some formations and plays that should catch the defense sleep­ing." 
Morrissey vs. Siegfried 
Two stalwart defenses and bruising running games will meet when seventh-seed Siegfried tries to pull off its second consecutive upset ­this time against No. 3 seed Morrissey Manor Sunday at 2 
p.m. -for the right to play in the Interhall championship in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Pulling off perhaps one of the larger upsets in recent men's Interhall history, the Ramblers took down No. 2 Keenan last week in dramatic fashion. A 27-yard field goal by Brandon Burke in overtime delivered a 3-0 victory to senior captain Matt Wopperer's team. 
"The defense provided the heart. They kept the game within reach," Wopperer said after the victory. 
The Manor was able to pull out a victory over No. 6 Zahm. The lone score in the 7-6 win came on a 34-yard Joe McBrayer to Carl Anderson touchdown strike. 
Morrissey freshman line­backer Phil Yuhas knows where his team's bread is but­tered. 
"We're built around our lines," he said. 
The offensive line blew open holes for the Manor's backs to run through, especially during a gritty 21-play drive in the second half, as the defensive line put pressure on the Rabid Bats. 
The winner of this game will play the winner of the O'Neill­Stanford matchup Nov. 18 in the Stadium for the 2006 Men's Interhall championship. 
Pangborn vs. Farley 
Pangborn can advance to its second consecutive Interhall championship this weekend with a win over Farley. 
Last year the Phoxes' title dreams vanished after a disap­pointing loss to Pasquerilla West in the Stadium. The team, coming off a big win last weekend, is ready to continue its push toward another cham­pionship berth. 
Farley's Finest, who are making their first playoff appearance in 10 years, have momentum on their side after upsetting Cavanaugh last week 14-0. Farley showed great ability on both sides of the ball in its matchup against the Chaos, with quarterback Brittany Baron throwing for two touchdowns, and the defense forcing two turnovers. 
"We knew Cavanaugh would be a tough game, and they were a higher seed, but I think we came out there pumped up, knowing what we had to do," Farley captain Kim Crehan said. 
The Phoxes have consistently dominated their opponents throughout the season and plan to continue their impres­sive streak. 
"We are going to practice hard this week, and we're excited about this game and playing in the Stadium," quar­terback Katie Mooney said. 
Mooney threw one touch­down pass and ran one in on her own to secure a 12-0 victo­ry over Badin in the playoffs' opening round. 
The semifinal will be a rematch of the season opener, when Pangborn shut out the Finest 6-0. 
The two teams will go head­to-head Sunday at 1 p.m. at the McGlinn Fields. 
Welsh Family vs. Pasquerilla West 
In Sunday's semifinal, mar­gin of victory is meaningless ­a reassuring thought for Pasquerilla West as it prepares to face Welsh Family at 2 p.m. at McGlinn Field. 
Undefeated Welsh Family advanced to the semifinals with a 19-0 victory over Breen-Phillips last week behind the defense's fifth shutout of the season. as quar­terback Jenni Gargula threw three touchdowns. 
The Whirlwind defense has been a major key to the team's success all year. 
"Our defense has taken the pressure off the offense all year and made it so we don't have to score on every drive," said Welsh Family captain Brittany Scott. 
Meanwhile, Pasquerilla West squeaked into the semifinal with a 7-6 win over Walsh. The Purple Weasels lone touch­down came on a Cara Davies pass early in the second half after a Wild Women turnover. Although the seven points scored by Pasquerilla West were a far cry from the 33 points it put up against Howard in the last game before fall break, it was enough to survive and advance. 
The Pasquerilla West offense, which scored at least 20 points every game in the regular season, hopes to be able to revert to its pre-fall break form. 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu, Andrew Kovach at akovach@nd.edu, Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu and John Tierney at jtiernel @nd.edu 
.f.~un.Ub:.~.1. Interested in an international career? 
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••! 
.w..t~r.~.~t~.d..m...~.QmP.l~.tjng ..3.n..MS.W.1, 
Enroll in nationally accredited Social Work courses at Saint Mary's College. 
Introduction to Social Work SW 202 Human Behavior & the Social Environment I (SW 235) Working with Diverse Populations (SW 340) Relationships, Intimacy, & Sexuality (SW 341) Family Violence & Sexual Abuse Issues (SW 370) 
Courses opened to Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students. 
Contact the Department of Social Work at 574-284-4515 or kominkie@saintmarys.edu. 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 3, 2006 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
our goal of the Final Four and a national title is still ahead of us." 
The Irish advanced to the semifinal round with a 3-0 win over St. John's last Sunday in South Bend, while the Golden Eagles got to this game by virtue of a 1-0 decision over Villanova at home the same day. 
Marquette (11-5-4) comes into Friday's contest allowing just .71 goals per game, a defensive effort that will have to continue if the Eagles are to shut down the potent Irish attack. Notre Dame is averaging over three goals per game behind leading scorers Kerri Hanks and Michele Weissenhofer. 
Waldrum said he is confident his team will be able to score. 
"Most of the teams we're going to play from here on out will be good defensive squads," he said. "We just have to create chances and take advantage of those chances." 
The Irish and Golden Eagles have not met this year, a fact Waldrum says makes preparing for the game easier. 
"Sometimes when you catch a team twice you get a little unfo­cused," he said. "It's nice to play someone new." 
Notre Dame and Marquette split two games last year, with the Golden Eagles winning 4-1 in the regular season and the Irish taking a 3-0 decision in the Big East semifinals. 
Marquette has most of its con­tributors back from last year, including 2005 leading scorer 

Vball 
continued from page 28 
Cincinnati and Louisville on the road last weekend and dropped a 3-0 decision to first­place St. John's at home Oct. 
22. The team has one win in its last six matches -a 3-0 sweep of Connecticut Oct. 
20 -and is cur­"We,re on the right need to play rently tied for well, we need to
track. We,re doing 

fourth place in the execute well,
the right things.,, 

conference with we need to get Cincinnati and our confidence Pittsburgh. back in match
Debbie Brown 
"Obviously we're settings."
Irish coach 

pretty low [after last weekend]." Brown said. "It was definitely a low point in the season. The season and all the games mean a lot to all of us, so it's not like you have to go out and motivate (the team]. 
"It's actually pretty easy. [I don't have] to try to convince them to keep working hard ­everyone's eager to do that." 
Junior captain Adrianna Stasiuk will be questionable for the weekend with a high ankle sprain from the St. John's match. Brown said Stasiuk's sprain was one of the worst she had ever seen, but the junior has worked hard in rehab and may see some time. 
To compensate for Stasiuk's absence, Brown said the team may look to run a 5-1 forma­tion instead of the normal 6-2 scheme, allowing junior setter Ashley Tarutis to play all six rotations instead of her usual three. Brown said that she wanted to get Tarutis in on all rotations due to the inexperi­ence of the young Irish squad. 
"We're on the right track. We're doing the right things," Christy Zwolski, who is second on the team this year with seven goals and five assists. 
Notre Dame will be without sophomore defender Carrie Dew, who suffered a torn ante­rior cruciate ligament Oct. 24 against Cincinnati and is out for the season. Waldrum said Dew will be replaced in the Irish back wall by freshman Haley Ford, who played in Dew's place while the sophomore was com­peting in Hussia with the U-20 national team. 
Waldrum also said he might experiment with moving senior Christie Shaner from her out­side back position into Dew's usual spot in the middle. 
"You can't replace a player like Carrie Dew," Waldrum said. "She's so versatile. It's an 
Brown said. "Obviously there's some changes that need to be made, but I don't think it's anything radical." 
The three-game skid is only the eighth time under Brown that the Irish have surren­dered three or more games in a row. 
"[The Georgetown match is] 
huge and we know that," Brown said. "The team real­izes that we 
South Florida 
will present a 
unique attack 
for the Irish defense to handle in only the second season that the Irish have met the Big East new­comer. TIHl Bulls prefer to attack behind the setter, while most other teams choose to attack in front of that position. 
"It'll be a challenge for our left side bloekers, a little more active than usual," Brown said. "It'II be a little bit differ­ent than most of the matches we've had so far." 
The Bulls have had strong performances this year from several new players -fresh­man outside hitter Marcela Gurgol (390 kills) and junior middle bloeknr Kristina Fabris (250 kills) -and with a win would movo into a tie with the Irish in tho loague standings. 
But for Brown and the Irish, victory comos down to a sim­ple philosophy. 
"It's just a matter of being able to play well on the road," Brown said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

opportunity for the next player to come in and play well." 
Waldrum said that the Irish spent the week preparing for Marquette because he did not want his players looking ahead to Sunday's final. Notre Dame played both the Scarlet Knights (14-2-3) and the Mountaineers (14-2-3) during the regular sea­son. 
"If we win (tonight!. we'll watch the second game and see if they're doing anything dill"er­ent than when we played them." 
The Irish defeated West Virginia 3-1 Sept. 29 and Rutgers 2-0 Oct 8. Both games were at Alumni Field. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesdar through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


~t Hotrlt Bo• Offi~e. Sup411 kwndt ir1 ... //7.::-~; ~\lwn. l~te CNtt ftnd;tforl~:~~ 8~;~. Ott:!'• '­d1Q~ by: phvnv Of~. 
Tl(k'fh On SQ!e 
Morris Box Offittr, 
Supqr Sounds In Gcnhtrn 
(1\Qrgor By Phon~~ 

574/21!0·9190 Or Onllnot 
www.morrilcmwr.org 


Franceeco wu • chef lit Notre Ollme fot 25 yMr8 

WELCOME FANS & FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CHARLIE! GO IRISH! 
-eEl~ ~ OUWtg atIIi &tl 
574 256-1444 
Fine Italian Dining 
1213 Lincoln WayW. MishaWaka 

(Jullt Wut OfTh• 100 Cent«) nallan & American Cuisine 

.Tre Rr~t'!'ldtTerr.ce tl~trS I hetJtL'it' am:l ne:ible ringi~yxilii'W~J£T{lttitpiimt Ywi~n&yiwr gucilit~ill enjoymrr (!)Untry·dnb ilflll:~;yhere, urge open f,·o/Cf adebb!®illMth Jlte~t\~.$f,arbt\s !iliJOii\,:lfd;1[ltnO\it®nr Oti;h\~th i ·.~ew cb:Stj(N;phP,iwt · · · 

~ 

RiversideTerrace 



Write Sports. Call Ken 631-4543. 

Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
'50 Ttfi\El> F~t-\ 
""1~-tRE.E:. -l>A1 HAL.\.OWE.EN 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
l>oNT 'IN:!AA.~ SON 1 we.U.. TAKE:. IT F~M He~ -"/0'-' ""Jusr Ret..A>< NOW... "-.lt> Su@.WA'f ,._ L.Utv\£ Aft.E.. 1-\E.f!..E.. To """("~:>."-" -r..·u•~­
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 

letter to each square, We're number one! 
to 
form four ordinary words. 
We're number one! 
TALPI 
rJ []
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WE CIT 
rJ []
1

tGEDDUR WH~N TH~ MARCH­ING BAND WONIIJ 
www.jumble.com TH~ SCHOOL. C.OM­P~ITION, THEY--­
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: " ( 

I I I I I I I I J" IT 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: ANNOY BLANK CARBON MUSTER Yesterday's 
Answer: What the firemen ended up with when they won the lottery-MONEY TO "BURN" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  23 Arizona's  42 Be in  
1 Lake St. _,  Canyon Dam  preparation  
between  24 Where Dick  43 Totally unlike  
Michigan and Ontario  Cheney grew up 25 Peak  45 Star of "The One," 2001  
6 Ones turning on stoves?  26 Sidestepped  46 Free  
14 Informal greeting 15 1966 Frank Sinatra hit  28 It may be found under an umbrella 29 Decorative  47 Old-fashioned buildings in the English countryside  
16 Exotic locale in old literature and song 17 Had nowhere to go but up  covers 30 acid (preservative) 31 Matched  48 Excerpts 49 "Same Time, Next Year'' happening  
18 Boxer Tommy, loser to Joe  32 Deeply tan 33 Very loosely knit  DOWN  
Louis in a 1937 title bout 19 Successor to Goldberg on the Supreme Court  34 Emulate a base runner? 35 Lion prey 36 Sword  1 Refuse 2 Major defense contractor 3 Omniscient  
!0 X-_ (big, in  swallowing, e.g.  4 Name jewelry  
commercial names) !1 Popular weekend event  40 W.W. II map: Abbr. 41 M-1 rifle inventor  5 Literally, "king" 6 Slipped out of 7 Magician's forte 8 Diamond datum  Puzzle by Sherry 0. Blackard 25 Lacks what it 30 Hit with an takes errant pitch, maybe26 1978 and 1986  37 Like craft shows 38 Early  

Europeans~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Chinese menu World Cup 

32 Certain salts 39 It's a surprise
winner 27 Masters 34 Tower's end? 41 Many a charity 
word 
1oLast: Abbr. event28 Reacted
11 Fifth of five 36 Carrier whose 
kittenishly 44 "Zoboomafoo"
logo is an
12 As above network
29 Bullied, in a eight-pointed 13 Like some way, with "on" star 45 Bit differences 
.;.-:+-:+:::+-::+::-4 15 Athletes Jim For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a and lan credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
19 Had nothing 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 22 Ghost of Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000-:-+-::-fl~:;:+:=+:+:::-+::-1 I iteratu re past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
~~=+=+~d-i~~ 23 Yellowstone 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
sight 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Nelly, 32; Reginald "Fieldy" Arvizu, 37; k.d. lang, 45; Stefanie Powers, 64 
Happy Birthday: Everything will turn in your favor as the year progresses. You may have to struggle to get recognition but, once you do, there will be no turning back. Finishing all pending projects will bring the most satisfaction and the highest rewards. It's all about completion, so get to it and don't look back. Your numbers are 6, 11. 17, 25, 27,36 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let your emotions get the better of you today. A get­together with people from your past will get you thinking about old times and the things you used to do. It may be time to revisit some of your old hobbies, activities and pastimes. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Not everyone will be honest, straightforward and clear in describing how they feel. Ask questions if you want to get to the bottom of things. Don't be afraid to get things out in the open. It's better to know where you stand. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Give your time and whatever service you can offer to an organization you believe in. A change at work or with a relationship may take you by surprise. Don't believe everything you hear. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have so much going for you right now so don't fear making a mistake or the wrong turn. It is time for change. a new you or just adding more zest and fun to your life. Love, romance and social activities should be your intent. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be torn between what you want to do and what you should do. A problem at home will surface. Although you do need time to yourself, be sure to take care of your responsibilities first. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): Everything is leaning toward travel, learning and getting out with friends. A love connection can be made or a past relationship revived. Money is heading your way but be sure not to spend it all in one place. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Forget about what everyone else needs and focus on what will bring the highest returns. Consider making a career change or trying something new. A creative hobby or something a little unusual will make you more attractive to someone you like. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Nothing can possibly go wrong unless you sabotage yourself. Stick to what you know and do best and be giving, attentive and adaptable. Changes at home will be to your advantage. Love is looking good. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have plenty to contend with at home and with friends or neighbors. Be careful how you handle others. Misunderstandings will put you in a difficult position. Emotions will be hard to control. Don't exaggerate or gossip. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Take a long hard look at your current direction and consider where you see yourself in a year. You can get ahead if you make minor adjustments that will make your skills more suitable to what you want to pursue. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be cautious when traveling. dealing with people and getting involved in different organizations. Not everything or everyone will be the way you assume. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take what you feel you deserve and don't let anyone make you feel guilty. Sign deals or contracts that will put you back in control. A sudden change in your financial picture looks sweet. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: Your openness and determination will win you points. You are curious. caring and compassionate. You have a strong sense ofjustice and fair play. You are dedicated and will see any matter through to completion. 
Eueenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eul!enialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 3, 2006 
page 28 
INTERHALL PLAYOFFS 

Stanford faces O'Neill for chance to play in Stadium 
Stanford, who upset No. 1 seed could beat them." need to come out strong and everywhere, outside and By BILL BRINK, ANDREW Fisher 12-6 last week, didn't Stanford's win earned it the get it done on offense, and get inside." KOVACH, KATE DONLIN and quite see it that way. chance to face the Mob in our running game going." Conley said O'Neill is pre­JOHN TIERNEY "We thought we were as Sunday's semifinal at 1 :30 p.m. Stanford feels its running pared for Stanford's attack as Sports Writers good as any other team this on Riehle South Field. game will give the Griffins a well. 
year," said Griffins captain O'Neill, fresh off a 21-8 win good chance to win as well. "We expect a strong running 
Prior to Sunday's win against Brandon McLeod. "Fisher was over Carroll, isn't taking any­"We have a good running game," he said. "We consider Fisher, no one would have just another football team, and thing for granted. back, and a great offensive line our defense to be one of the expected to see Stanford face we felt if we played well, "This is a new week," Mob that blocks well,"· McLeod said. O'Neill in the semifinals. But played better than them, we captain Pat Conley said. "We'll We need to keep running see 1-HALL/page 25 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Georgetown looms for slumping squad 
Brown calls match I most important' of I 06 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will hardly over­look Big East bottom feeder Georgetown this weekend. After three straight losses, Irish coach Debbie Brown said she could not overstress the match's importance. 
"I think it's our most impor­tant match of the season," she said. "And I really believe that the team understands that as well." 
The Irish (13-10, 7-3 Big East) will take on 14th-place Georgetown (7 -16, 1-9 Big East) Friday in Washington D.C, before they travel Sunday to Tampa to play South Florida (11-12, 6-4 Big East) in the second-to-last weekend of the regular season. 
Notre Dame was swept in three games by both 
see VBALL/page 26 
HOCKEY 

Irish assistant's nun1ber retired 
Pooley was All­America at Ohio St. 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Ohio State will n1tire its first hockey number during the opening intermission of Saturday's game against Notre Dame, but the leg­endary Buckeye must step off the Irish bench before his jersey can be raised to the rafters. 
Notre Dame assistant coach Paul Pooley, a first-
see HOCKEY/page 25 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Closing time 
Nation's leaders seek tourney championship 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
After blowing through the first two parts of the season, No. 1 Notre Dame has a chance to successfully end part three this weekend in Storrs, Conn. 
Notre Dame (18-0-1) will take on Marquette tonight in the Big East semifinal. Tonight's victor will play Sunday against the winner between the other semi­final match between No. 8 West Virginia and No. 20 Rutgers. 
While Irish coach Randy Waldrum stressed the prestige of a conference championship, he downplayed this weekend's games in the grand scheme of Notre Dame's goal to win a national championship. 
"It's another step along the road," he said. "It's important and the kids want to win, but 
see SOCCER/page 26 

MENNELLA/The Observer Irish midfielder Lizzie Reed dribbles the ball past St. John's defender Vaila Barsley during Notre Dame's 3-0 win Sunday at Alumni Field. 
ND WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 
ND hosts T-Wolves on Sunday 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame is set for its sec­ond exhibition game of the year and final tune-up before the regular season begins. 
The Irish will take on Div. II Northwood (Mich.) Sunday at 2 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame is coming off an 82-55 win over Lake Superior State Tuesday, its first exhibi­tion of the season. Junior guard Charel Allen led all scorers with 20 points and finished with a double-double after totaling 10 rebounds. 
The Irish will be led by cap­tains Breona Gray and Tulyah Gaines. Gray scored 11 points and had one assist, while 
see HOOPS/page 24 
en 
·ND SWIMMING 
NCAA FOOTBAll
SMC VOllEYBAll 
PGA 
NHL

MlB 
Detroit pitcher Kenny 
South Africa's Retief
Louisville 44
(,) Purdue at Notre 
Saint Mary's at 
Buffalo 5 
1--w 


Rogers wins gold glove. 
Goosen opens with (-2)
West Virginia 34
z Dame 
Calvin 
Boston 4 
Sabres forward Ales
Cardinal running 

to lead the Tour
::5 Today, 5 p.m. 
Today, 7:30p.m. 
Kotalik scores shootout
back Andrew Allen
No. 17 Irish host No. 
The Belles face No. 12 
Championship.
c:s 
rushes for two touch­
18 Boilermakers. 
Knights in the MIAA 
game winner. 
< 
downs.
semifinal. 
page 23 
page 21
ti page 24 
page 22 
page 16

page 20
en 

Friday, November 3, 2006 page 5 

Jenkins maintains stance, invites response 
Speer.:ltes evidL>rtce af 
le~~~e_:~~!!-~~~i:'r_ 
g., lU.·\"1 fffJ V~l>o 
liOf(;..\Rflf'N.OAliU: 
liUI'<IM;t~-..1'-'AOtlif. 
Uo\...NA 

IZl{rMiun<>; I llil·t'~-,il,• f'~lhf.ilo-r~ltt,a.l<,.:\., !!>Mr~!.f'.'f'N;IW;it~l>t'>r~ 
~•• wtf (l:f'IO!is,. J'rn.>''>l 
,..._l;q,{;..-<,i~Jf~!'<l~b..t'r 
iJ'".-.r.nlrt~! 

i}•~r """">JJ ..ifro..•<.! ,p., ....,~oro""'"'Ow~-~ "In •twrl ..,,.·J.i i~"nl • i"i 
•!..on'-~t !,.;r;..r ;..n~o.;""' "" <:U~ jl; IPqoJ,.r~~~ 'i\"•"Jl.~l\ '' .,,.,. -~IP~
"" 
~;yt.-ufl-~.::ti~. -·~,. "~ "'" , .. ,, i."Rih•r<..liy ;lf•~ltl••l\.1.~ lfolt>"ii'"" 
•<'' ....~,w .....~u!h\. 
.\1<6thl;l'~-->="(\.""""''"~' 
~d>lloo-~.-.u>-l.....,....~'!tl­
l'"rrf!:~ t. lilt-r.<f"l ..~ ._,., 
lhrlir!ll·.~\~"t:-tl......:!r-·.··
Sharon's body found in river ., ------,..~;-..8 ..4JBi:{i;~:~,· 

THE OBSERVER 

to recommend parietal change 
-
\;:;:. :~"~.·-:1 kft. Lf'l;:i-· · ':1 Pn-.~"flt f.1"i!..,..rl~!> FJ~.I:~·~ . ·, ..;:ut Lf: :-·l·'"·l~:. Jl, :t ·n..-~.•.-Bu~1 it!J?"'rl.
• 
PHOfOS BY CLAIRE K[LlfY 

...~.""< f Jli'.;.'-'~'.\>; .....-:;._._;.;-,_••• ! ~"' r·-:::~:r,:: 1'"):1'-~~-·J+-.cll-.<>:~ '#tt~~*"""-"*"'"·lo!"_,.,..
~--;!_;;~··;::.~;~.:::.f· ~rz.;;. ~~ ?;.¥~~.....;>'.<->"~-~~~ 
~-<:...: .<>•r~·-!'.~t. •..r. i.>A•Mll-·~-' ~·<)ll',;..•~..:.\<..~ ~-;;-.' w,'l. ;JW ~.;~·;,. f·l,Vo;J,~ f'.:.u:~-~·.-;;;r.~.., ~~-.~--~li1oltr-t"P.-"-'~ <f-~~~ l'l<IQ ,~,.-'"1-..:>lt· 
JEFF ALBERT IObserver Graphic 
page 6 40 YEARS OF THE OBSERVER Friday, November 3, 2006 
Saint Mary's plays unique role at Observer 
Mergers, complaints and controversies all have been a part of the relationship between College and campus paper 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
For 40 years, The Observer has served not only as a pipeline of campus news, ath­letic results and opinions, but also as a link between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
The delicate balance of this relationship has allowed the College access to and coverage within this daily publication, but four decades of unity have not come without the yearning for periodical independence from both schools. 
When The Observer debuted on Nov. 3, 1966 it contained the first of many Saint Mary's articles, but the publication did not don the phrase "Serving The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community" until April 1, 1968 -a decision that was not welcome by all Saint tionized" publication that Mary's students at the time. boasted "a new layout, a new 

In a March 27, 1968 Letter type face and was printed on to the Editor, College student different paper." Barbara Gibson called for the The changes were not creation of an enough to pre­
independent vent the dis­
"It is distressing that
Saint Mary's solve of "The publication, Saint Mary's students Innovator", 
but said she is help fund editors however and 
"bothered" by The Observer
who choose to
the idea that soon became a there are very include degrading primary source few women on comments in our of daily campus campus with news.
campus newspaper. 
the "energy or To better foresight to incorporate start our own Megan Osberger College news newspaper." Saint Mary's senior into the paper, Gibson's let­the editorial
Letter to the Editor 
ter ran just two  position of Saint  
weeks after  Mary's Editor  
The Observer  was created in  
reported on March 15 that  November 1969. Women from  
Saint Mary's had just replaced  the College have since pro­ 
its newspaper "The Crux" with  gressed through various edito­ 
"The Innovator" -a "revolu­ rial positions including the  
first female editor in chief'.  
Marti llogan Pupillo.  
The consistency of The  
Observer's prevalence on cam­ 
pus led to the creation of an  
office in the basement of  
Regina Hall. The computer-less  
and seemingly non-functioning  
space was replaced in March  
2005 by a furnished Observer  
hub in the basement of the  
College's student center.  
While the paper has a defi­ 
nite presence within the Saint  
Mary's community, the past 40  
years have not been smooth  
sailing for the dual-school pub­ 
lication.  
The most recent desire to  
renege on the College's com­ 
mitment to the publication  
occurred during April 2006,  
when students discussed  
demanding a refund of their  
$3 annual Observer fee after  
Observer file photo  the Jockular cartoon referred  
to Saint Mary's students as  
"parasites."  



"It is distressing that Saint Mary's students help fund edi­tors who choose to include degrading comments in our campus newspaper," wrote then junior Megan Osberger in an April 21, 2006 Letter to the Editor. 
"Why didn't the current Notre Dame editors of The Observer understand how unacceptable this is in a pro­fessional publication?" she wrote. 
The challenge for Saint Mary's to create its own pro­fessional publication has not been fruitless. Alternative Saint Mary's solo publications thrive on campus, but students have yet to make plans for the College-run daily that Gibson encouraged in 1968. 
While the potential to create the publication exists, Saint Mary's students continue to write for The Observer as it strives to serve both campuses. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
In the name of transparency 
It's not easy to put together -and certainly not easy to finance -a typically use photos and graphics and, yes, make fewer copy-editing errors. We're work­24-page paper, five days a week. Especially as a group of students juggling full ing on that. course loads, lnterhall games, job applications and, of course, social lives. + Insistence on timeliness. As a five-day-a-week paper, there's no excuse for 
That's part of the reason The Observer isn't perfect-far from perfect, even. being late on a story. But that happens -and we have to fix it. We also hope 
But it's no excuse, and it's not meant to be. We've come far since 1966, but to better use our Web site for breaking or weekend news and extra photos that we have an admittedly long way to go -and given all the recent talk about don't fit in the print edition. transparency of newsroom operations, a concept that's been stressed at most + Helevance to our readers. The Observer serves the entire Notre Dame and professional newspapers, it seems appropriate to outline our shortcomings and Saint Mary's communities-and that ineludes students, graduate students, our goals. faculty, staff, administrators, alumni and parents. That's a lot of 
+ More investigative reporting. As the student-run newspaper O Th people, but people who all deserve the specialized coverage that
-oserver
serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities, it's our job only a campus newspaper can provide. While we pursue stories to hold decision makers accountable. While that requires a signifi­important to our entire readership, we also try not to overlook cant amount of time and effort, it's something we will continue to events important to a smaller group of people. That can be tough
Editorial 

ask our reporters to do. to balance, but we always weigh those decisions, and will contin­
+ 
More contextual reporting. Whenever logical and feasible, we ue to do so. try to write "bigger-picture" pieces to put significant events into a larger con­The Observer is constantly changing, constantly improving-and there's no text for the campus communities. When we do those pieces, our reporting is better evidence of that than looking back on the past 40 years. generally thorough and insightful. But we must strive to do more. And while the next 40 won't be perfect, we can promise one thing.

+ 
More presentable product. The Observer could improve its layout, better They'll be better. 


THE OBSERVER AT WORK 

Friday, November 3, 2006 40 YEARS OF THE OBSERVER page 7 

Inside The Observer: the story of the strangers underground 
A senior News writer explains what it's like to work for the only independent, daily student newspaper on campus 
photos. If they're lucky, there's a picture of the bust. If not, there's sure to be a photo of Turtle Creek on file. 
In the layout, she adds a By SUE SMITH line and picks a quote to feature in the text. She drops straight lines between stories and make sure each line of text lines up with the next. 
Then she prints it out ­now, she's hoping for a covet­ed "check." 
White's eyes move cautious­ly over the page. He knows if stories aren't the required two-fifths of an inch apart, and he protests if the headline is in the wrong font. 
He hands it back to Lee stained with his signature blue marker. 
Again, back and forth they go -three, four, sometimes even 10 times -until the page is without flaw, and receives a bright blue check mark at the top. 
Eventually, every page is without flaw. (At least, that's the idea.) 
At that point, all the editors 

And for Scene, it's exploring ously all the while. "Look it up." go home, except White. On a By EILEEN DUFFY what Notre Dame students are She's courteous, but she Back and forth they go, until good night, that's around 3 Assisram News Ediror watching, reading, listening wants the truth, and she'll get the story earns the coveted a.m. 
to, wearing and eating. it -even from the most "star": White literally resaves White stays to review the Writers crowd the office for laconic of sources. Smith's story as "*TC evic­final layout and electronically Notre Dame: there are their assignments each Then she'll write it down as tion." This means that the send it down to The Papers, a strangers in your midst. Sunday afternoon, and set off clearly and accurately as she story is now edited and ready Milford, Ind.-based printing 
They're infiltrating Notre to report. can. to be placed on the page. press. Dame Stadium and the Office Sometimes the news, And so a story is born. Behind Jones is the Sunday A confirmation call later, of the President. They're hov­though, can't be planned. night Sports editor, sitting White returns home and ering around Turtle Creek Like when 200 underage The Observer treatment below a photo of Irish free stumbles into bed. police busts, Ty Willingham drinkers get busted at a South Smith's story -along with safety Chinedum Ndukwe's firing protests and Board of Bend bar, a football coach is the rest of Sunday night's sto­· ball-jarring hit on Georgia The neverending story Trustees meetings. They're in fired before his contract ries -arrives via e-mail at Tech's Calvin Johnson. The Smith is heading to class the classrooms, residence halls expires or the leader of the the Observer office, where Scene editor, surrounded by next morning when a van and shh -listen. Catholic world passes away. staff members have gathered DVDs and novels waiting to be cruises past her on South 
They're plotting right now in Covering stories like that can to produce Monday's paper. reviewed, sits across from Quad. the basement of South Dining mean sacrificing The Rolling them. They, too, are waiting "Observer?" the driver Hall. sleep and social-Stones are blar­for those coveted stars. offers, handing her one of the 
They may disguise them­izing to spend ing from the Once White stars them, the 10,000 copies of what a few selves as normal students, but hours on end in back of the stories are ready to go on the hours earlier had been just Observer writers are dual citi­the office. They're infiltrating office, and the page. words on a screen. Smith zens. In their underground But where television in the smiles and accepts.
Notre Dame 

world they speak journalist­there's a story, corner is tuned Computer to paper Just after class, Smith over­ese, put just one space after and a writer's Stadium and the to ESPN as the The Sunday night News pro­hears a conversation between their sentences and adjust will, there's a Sunday night duction worker, Mary Lee, has two professors.
Office of the

their watches to Observer way. News editor a text box waiting in her lay­"Have you heard the news?" Standard Time, where days President. They're John Jones out, powered by a program one asks the other. "Jenkins is are nine-to-five -a.m., that A story's birth hovering around opens Smith's named QuarkXPress. Lee pulls making some big announce­is. It's Sunday story, called "TC the Turtle Creek eviction story ment today."
Turtle Creek police 

This is their story. afternoon, and eviction." in and devises a headline that Smith walks past them, News writer Sue busts, Ty Jones edits the just fits in her space. rounds the corner, and dials Preparation Smith has just Willingham firing story for AP "What's another word for Jones on her cell phone, who 
As most students are going gotten her style, the news­'evict?'" she calls out. calls White. Someone has to about their eggs benedict-eat­assignment: a protests and Board paper standard "Expel?" the Scene editor cover this. ing and rehashing-last-night story on a stu­of Trustees that requires offers. "Oust?" shouts the News is being made. And Sunday morning routines, dent who's been one space after Sports production worker. The Observer is ready. 
meetings. They're 

Observer editors flip on the evicted from periods, spelling Headline written, Lee walks lights in the quiet Observer Turtle Creek in classrooms, out numbers to the corner of the office, office and get ready for the Apartments for smaller than 10 where the photographers are
residence halls and

week ahead. In just a few hosting an and omitting a hunched over computers, edit­Contact Eileen Duffy at
shh -listen.

short hours, they must deter­underage-drink­comma before ing and cropping their eduffy 1 @nd.edu mine how to fill the average ing party. A They're plotting "and" in a 130 sheets of newsprint pub­plethora of series, among
right now in the

lished from Monday through phone calls need other things. Friday. to be made, basement ofSouth (Should he forget 
by the numbers 
Advertisements lighten the notes must be a rule or two, a
Dining Hall . ...

space-filling load, as do taken and even­425-page AP Associated Press stories, car­tually, there's an This is their story. Style book sits Approximate number of staff members who work toons, crossword puzzles and article to be next to him at for The Observer. weather graphics. written. the News Desk.) But putting out a newspaper And it's due in He also makes isn't just about filling space: just a few hours. sure the all­Papers distributed on a home football Friday. The it's about reporting the news. Smith calls the South Bend important first sentence is Observer's normal daily circulation is 9,600.
13,500

And Observer writers are Police Department the once, hard-hitting and informative, always ready to do that. twice or 14 times it takes to the facts are transitioned in Computers used in the paper's South Dining Hall office. The 
19 

So editors make a weekly get someone on the line who logical order and the ending Observer employs one student to keep them up and running. list -called a budget -of will comment. packs a punch. 
stories that matter to Notre She does the same with the Then, he passes it back to Dame and Saint Mary's. For Saint Joseph's County Excise the top editor -the editor in Years that office manager Shirley Grauel has worked for The News, that means covering Police and Turtle Creek man­chief, managing editor or Observer, more than any other employee.
26 
everything from "The Vagina agement. She's discovered the assistant managing editor, Monologues" and dome re­student's name through the depending on the night -for Daily comic strips in The Observer -Jocular, by senior Alec gilding controversies to grapevine, and she calls him, approval. Tonight's is Jim White and CroissantWorld, by senior Adam Fairholm. awareness weeks and aca­too. White. 
demic lectures. For Sports, it's Smith asks them the classic "Is this the correct spelling 
19 172 Average daily page views on the paper's Web site,
writing game wraps and spot­who, what, when, where and of the police chief's name?" lighting hot players or teams. whys, writing (or typing) furi-White might call up to Jones. ' www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Friday, November 3, 2006 40 YEARS OF THE OBSERVER page 8 
SohoWsit all w-ork? 
It's not magic. The daily creation of The Observer 
relies on the contributions of dozens of people. 
After the nightly layout is finalized, the paper is 

electronically sent to The Papers, a printing press in Milford, Ind. Jack Radican leaves his house in South Bend every morning for the 45-minute ride down to Milford, where he loads up his van with Observers. A couple hours later, almost 10,000 copies are stacked around campus, waiting to be read before the process starts all over again. 
·: ~· . :, ;. 
Photos by MENNELLA!The Observer 

Top center, Craig Kuhn bundles a stack of Observers at The Papers in Milford, Ind. Top right, Derria Lakey, left, and Rich Krygowski examine The Observer's masthead in The Papers' printing room. Middle left, Krygowski operates the press that prints almost 10,000 Observers every weekday. Middle right, Jack Radlcan unloads copies of The Observer outside South Dining Hall. Bottom right, Radican hands a copy to Notre Dame junior Ashley Paluf. Bottom left, junior Daniel Saad reads The Observer. 

---~-~ ~--~~-­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November :3, 2006 

Let's see the young Weis hands at work 
The radio calls of "Quinn to Samardzija" will soon be a fading memory -as will "Quinn to McKnight" and "Abiamiri with the sack." 
The famil­iar faces and phrases of the past four years have just five games left in their Irish careers. And that means Notre Dame has some­thing more to do in the next few games than just win­ning-and I'm not talking about style points. 
Notre Dame has only two true opportunities to test out its young players who will have to step up next year. In the team's final home game­this year, Nov. 18 against Army -the reserve seniors usually get their chance to play once the outcome is in hand. 
A week later, the Irish face archrival USC, when the out­come will depend on the sen­ior leadership of Brady Quinn and the offensive line. 
Translation: don't expect many young studs to see much action in either game. 
That means Saturday against North Carolina and next week at Air Force will be crucial for Notre Dame to start finding some answers to the slew of questions surrounding its first-year players -ques­tions which will surface in full next spring. 
Here are a few young 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 
reserves who need to get some experience while they can before they're thrust into the spotlight next season: 
Evan Sharpley 
Notre Dame's No. 2 quarter­back sat out his freshman year, so he will have up to three years of eligibility remaining after the 2006 sea­son. As far as playing time goes, he has a decent amount. His biggest problem is that he has thrown just one pass -a seven-yard completion in the waning minutes of Notre Dame's crushing loss to Michigan. 
Even ifCharlie Weis gives Demetrius Jones, Jimmy Clausen or Zach Frazer the nod as the starting signal caller next season, the Irish need at least one quarterback who has some Division I expe­rience. 
George West and Robby Parris 
With the departures of sen­iors Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija at the end of this season, the Irish recruiting corps will be incredibly thin in 2007. 
Only one non-senior wide receiver on Notre Dame's ros­ter -David Grimes -has ever caught more than one pass. (He has 18.) And the only senior who has a possible fifth year of eligibility is Chase Anastasio, who has a whop­ping two catches for 30 yards in his career. 
Aside from Grimes, fresh­men George West and Robby Parris are the only definite returners who have touched the ball on offensr.. But West's only attempt was a 19-yard end-around run for a touch­down, and Parris has just one catch !'or seven yards. 
Weis must get West and Parris deeply involved in the receiving mix immediately. With a first-year quarterback in 2007, the Irish will need at least some receivers who have experience making plays and adjusting to balls in the air. If' nothing else, it's critical to play these two when Sharpley is on the field for timing purposes if Sharpley starts in 2007. 
James Aldridge and Munlr Prince 
Weis should experiment with freshmen running backs James Aldridge and Munir Prince in the backfield at the same time. The Irish should not-and will not -be able to keep two top-1 0 running back recruits off the field over the next three years. Both have lost any possi­bility of redshirting this year, so the best option for Weis would be to see how much of a hard time he can give defenses by using a blazing runner (Prince) and a pounding back (Aldridge) in a pro-set offense. 
Prince saw a fair amount of playing time in the second quarter against Stanford, but Aldridge's action has been lim­ited to late-game situations in routs of Stanford and Navy. Darius Walker should stay the No. 1 back, but it's time to give these guys a chance for the sake of the future. 
John Ryan and Morrice Richardson 
Freshman defensive ends 

John Hyan and Morric1~ 
Hichardson are the likely replacements for Irish seniors Victor Abiamiri and Chris Frome at defensive end, and both have seen some playing time this year. Ryan has played in six games, while Hichardson has seen action in five. 
Both need to get early-game action to face fresh offensive tackles that have an easier time stopping the pass rush than they do later in games ­when Hyan and Richardson have played most. 
The learning curve for these two has accelerated since Honald Talley left the team after Notre Dame's 31-10 win over Stanford Oct. 7. Both Ryan and Hichardson have tremendous upsides, but it will take time in game situa­tions for them to realize it. 
With all these questions for next year, Weis would be right to focus on playing the younger guys rather than keeping starters on the field for style points. 
And if he lets Evan Sharpley air it out for a few possessions with Aldridge, Prince, Parris and West on the field, who's to say the Irish won't put up big numbers? 
Just remember, it's not run­ning up the score if your back­ups pound their starters. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
game hype 

John Bunting Tar Heels coach 
"They are playing for their coach, trying to send him offthe right way -winning this game. " 

Ronnie McGill Tar Heels running back 
"They've run fakes. They've done all things on special teams this year. So [their special teams] definitely has my attention." "We're here to talk about ... the great opportunity we have to go up there and be part ofthis tradition. " 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
'Tm expecting the fans to be loud, expecting for it to be really cold, as it always is. and themjustto come out with a chip on their shoulder." 



Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
A long tinte conting 

Irish senior tight end John Carlson's first love was basketball, and his early days as afootball player had him anywhere but his current spot 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
For John Carlson, life is all about balance. 
He balances student life with the pressures on a Notre Dame athlete. 
He balances the dual nature of a tight end -blocking and receiving. 
He balances a love of both basketball and football. He's been doing it since high school, and now, it's who he is. 
"Being a student athlete, you don't have as much time or have as many opportunities to participate in dorm events but it's a trade off," he said. "I have an opportunity to do things not many people get to do so I understand that trade­off is there and I just feel for­tunate to be in this place." 
Getting involved with football 
Carlson still remembers put­ting on pads for the first time. 
"When I was younger, real young -probably 5 or 6 years old -my dad was an assistant coach for a high school football team, so we had some old pads lying around the house," he said. 
He and his older brother tried them on and were hooked. 
"He and I used to play one­on-one tackle football in our backyard," Carlson said. "It seems a little absurd because there's only one guy on each side but we used 
Carlson also notched 493 rushing yards with seven touchdowns on the ground. 
But in high school, football wasn't Carlson's only priority. He was a standout in basket­ball and tennis and spent most of his time either in practice or doing homework. 
Being busy prepared him for the life of a college student athlete, though. 
"It's a year round thing where you have both academ­ics and athletics and you have to make a priority to excel in both," he said. "I didn't really do anything else. After school I went to practice then I did homework then I went to bed. It might seem boring but it's what I like to do." 
As a basketball player, he started at center and won the state 2-A title three times, as well as being conference MVP as a junior and senior. 
But as he moved toward col­lege, Carlson was faced with a choice. 
"What's not to like?" 
Carlson's parents and three siblings all attended St. Cloud State University in Minnesota (his youngest sister is still a student there). But when he visited Notre Dame, his search was over. 
The decision to attend the University wasn't an easy one, though. In addition to leaving his family, he had to face the decision to prioritize football over basketball. 
"Basketball 

to do it." By seventh grade, Carlson  "Every play I try to execute my assignment  was really my first love," he said. "But I  
was playing organized foot­ball. But he did­n't settle in at the tight end  to the best ofmy ability. ... When I get beat on a blocker or drop a ball I take that pretty  knew I had a greater oppor­tunity to play at a higher level in football  
position imme­diately. "I played run­ning back and  seriously and try to not make the same mistakes over again."  and I took a visit here and I couldn't pass the place up - 
linebacker as  a  what's  not  to  
seventh grader, and a little bit of tight end," he  John Carlson Irish tight end  like?" He walked onto the bas­ 
said. "Everyone  ketball team as  

plays running back in middle a freshman for a last hurrah school I think." with the sport he loved. 
He settled into the tight end "It was [hard to give up]," he position at Litchfield (Minn.) said. "It was a great experi­High School. In four years, he ence. I met a lot of great peo­recorded 95 catches for 1,331 ple ... it was mostly practice yards and 23 touchdowns. but it was still competing and I 

CLEMENT SUHENDRA/The Observer Irish senior John Carlson splits Penn State defenders Anthony Scirotto, left, and Paul Posluszny in Notre Dame's 41-17 win Sept. 9. 

KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer Irish tight end John Carlson dashes around Penn State safety Anthony Scirotto in Notre Dame's 41-17 win Sept. 9. Carlson has 37 catches for 529 yards and two touchdowns this season. 
really enjoyed it." 
Not that basketball is com­pletely out of his life. Carlson reached the semifinals of last year's Bookstore Basketball tournament, but lost to Irish quarterback Brady Quinn's team. 
In addition to Bookstore Basketball, the former St. Edward's Hall resident loved dorm life. 
"Dorm life is great from an athlete's perspective because you get away from your sport," he said. "We spend so many hours meeting and practicing with the same people that sometimes it gets monotonous and sometimes you have a bad day -a bad practice or some­thing, just to go and get away from that and kind of have that as a release, I really enjoyed that experience." 
Life on the end 
Carlson has 529 receiving yards this season, with two touchdown catches. Irish coach Charlie Weis, a former tight ends coach with the New England Patriots under Bill Parcells in 1993-94, said that Carlson's experience on the hardwood has helped him develop into a major receiving threat for the Irish. 
"I think the basketball back­ground he had [helped]," Weis said. "I think that really helps at the tight end position. We always said in the NFL that a lot of the best tight ends are those power forwards you see playing in the NBA, a lot that have those hands. He already had potential to be a receiving, tight end, it's just that he had­n't been put in that position yet and he's making the most of this opportunity." 
Carlson said he felt the tight end position was a natural fit for him. 
"We have a dual role, we're blockers, we're receivers," he said. "Every play I try to exe­cute my assignment to the best of my ability.... When I get beat on a blocker or drop a ball I take that pretty seriously and try to not make the same mistakes over again." 
As defenses often use a "cover-2" scheme against the Irish or are forced to cover Jeff Samardzija, Rhema McKnight and David Grimes, Quinn often finds Carlson on seam routes over the middle. 

"I think a big part of [getting uated last year and was taken passes] is the guys we have on in the second round of the the outside," Carlson said. NFL Draft by the Dallas "You have to pay attention to Cowboys, was an example of a Jeff and Rhema and David complete player to Carlson. Grimes, and the other guys we "I learned a lot from him as put in there because they're a player, not really by what he dynamic athletes. They'll beat told me but just what he you deep if you don't cover showed me on the field," them." Carlson said. "The intensity 
The duality of the tight end he played with, his physicality position is a constant challenge in blocking, the way he ran 
for Carlson.  routes  I  
"It's because kind of a between  fun it's mix a  ''I'm trying to be a · ,complete player. I m· not there yet, and I feel  '·  learned a lot from hinr as a ,. · .. ,,'1payer.  
wide receiver and an offen­sive lineman," he said. "You  like I really need to . bl k'zmprove m!f o~ zng especzally.  What next? A historymajor, Carlson is on track to  
take  pride in  graduate  in  
blocking and providing holes for the running  John Carlson Irish tight end  May. He has another year of eligibility left,  

backs but you still get to run downfield and try to make plays." 
Carlson challenges himself to be a "complete player," not just a blocking tight end or a receiving tight end. 
''I'm trying to be a complete player," he said. ''I'm not there yet and I feel like I real­ly need to improve my block­ing especially. But as far as receiving goes, there's still a lot of things to sharpen up on, route running, precision in route running is important." 
Anthony Fasano, who grad-
but could join Fasano in the NFL. He's also considering graduate school, law school or teaching. 
And at this moment? He's not thinking much past Saturday's matchup with North Carolina. 
"Right now I'm just focused on the season and trying to do everything I can to help this team win," he said. 
That always tips the balance. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Wins by Notre Dame all-time in the 16-game series between the 
15 

Irish and the Tar Heels. 
169 
Consecutive passes thrown by Irish quarterback Brady Quinn without an interception. The streak dates back to Notre Dame's 40-37 win over Michigan State Sept. 23. 
North Carolina's rank in Division 1-A for rushing yards allowed per game. Tar Heel opponents average 205.13 
115

yards on the ground. 
0 Teams in Division 1-A with a turnover margin worse than North Carolina's -1.75 per game. 
Total points allowed by the Irish in the final 30 minutes of games 
53 

this year. Notre Dame has surrendered 120 in first halves. 
1 
Player on North Carolina's football roster who was a part of the Tar Heels' 2005 NCAA champion men's basketball team -wide receiver Brooks Foster, who had 11 catches earlier this season against Rutgers. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 3, 2006 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 7-1 AP: 1 1 Coaches: 10 


HEAD 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atGT-W Sept. 9 PSU-W Sept. 16 MlaiiGAN-L Sept. 23 atMSU-W Sept. 30 PURDUE-W Oct. 7 STANFORD-W Oct. 21 UCLA-W Oct. 28 atNavy-W Nov. 4 N.CAROLINA Nov. 11 at Air Force Nov. 18 ARMY Nov. 25 at USC  



COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING 

CharlieWeis head coach 
Charlie Weis second season at Notre Dame career record: 
16-4 
at Notre Dame: 
16-4 
against 
UNC: 0-0 

Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  D.J. Hord  WR  6-1  192  so  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  6-1  175  FR  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  208  JR  
4  Demetrius Jones  QB  6-4  202  FR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-1  212  SR  
6 7 8  ~riH~'!!llio Raes~on McNeil  DB K DB  6-0 6-0 6-0  189 170 175  so SR FR  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  203  SR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  227  SR  
11  David Grimes  WR  6-0  170  so  
12  Zach Frazer  QB  6-4  215  FR  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  207  so  
14  Bobby Renkes  K  6-0  195  SR  
15  Leo Perrine  DB  6-0  186  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  186  SR  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  6-3  196  so  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  6-2  219  SR  
19  Geor~e West  WR  S-8  179  FR  
20  Terra1l Lambert  DB  5-11  188  JR  
21 22  Barry Gai\',Vo Jr. Ambrose ooden  WR CB  5-11 5-11  175 197  FR SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  203  SR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-10  170  JR  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  6-0  178  }R  
25  Munir Prince  RB  5-10  175  FR  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-9  188  }R  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  215  SR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  187  so  
27  John Lyons  RB  6-1  205  SR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-0  189  so  
29  jashaad Gaines  DB  6-0  195  FR  
29  jake Richardsville  WR  6-0  180  so  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  193  SR  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-1  184  FR  
32  Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  230  FR  
33  Nate Whitaker  K  5-9  165  FR  
34  james Aldridge  RB  6-0  209  FR  
35  Ash!;!. McConnell  RB  6-0  247  SR  
35  Tim  enney  DB  6-0  180  SR  

36 Dex Cure RB 6-1 215 FR 37 junior jabbie RB 5-11 190 jR 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 jR 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 185 FR 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 230 FR 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 jR 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 so 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 so 42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 170 so 43 Eric Maust r 6-1 180 FR 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 180 so 44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 250 so 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 174 so 45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 183 SR 46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 230 so 46 Kyle Charters LB 5-11 195 JR 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 240 SR 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 jR 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 SR 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 230 FR 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 285 FR 52 LB 6-1 212 SR 53 ~~r~~~~~rdson LB 6-2 228 FR 54 Anthony Vemaglia DB 6-3 221 jR 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 290 FR 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 SR 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 252 SR 59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 340 FR 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 SR 

u

61 j.J. jansen LS 6-3 242 jR 63 jeff Tisak OL 6-3 305 so 64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR 
~ 

68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 288 SR 69 Neil Kennedy DL 5-11 260 jR 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 290 FR 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 so 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 288 FR 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 292 FR 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 290 so 78 john Sullivan OL 6-4 298 SR 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR 80 Richard jackson WR 6-3 200 FR 81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 jR 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 185 FR 83 jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 SR 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 250 FR 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 245 JR 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR 88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 239 FR 89 john Carlson TE 6-5 255 SR 90 john Ryan DL 6-5 240 FR 91 Travis Leitko DL 6-7 270 SR 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 so 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 265 FR 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 247 jR 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 SR 96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 so 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 220 FR 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 SR 





Tight end John Carlson 
With 714 yards this year,
Charlie Weis handled 

It is a testament to 
has been consistent across 
Darius Walker has three

Brady Quinn that his stats
Navy with an efficient 
the middle for the Irish, 
rushing scores and averages 

from the Navy game (18­
gameplan and excellent 
and Hhema McKnight and 
4.3 yards per carry. Travis
halftime adjustments. 

of-25 for 295 yards and 
Jeff Samardzija have 16 
Thomas has two rushing
Weis always seems to be 

three touchdowns, plus 
scores between the two of 
touchdowns, as does Quinn.
in the national spotlight, 

another rushing score) 
Younger backs like Munir
them, but David Grimes
whether it's press 

didn't raise eyebrows 
solidified his place as the 
Prince and James Aldridge
sessions or "60 Minutes." 

around the nation. The 
No. 3 receiver with his div­
have gotten more time. The
Coaching and playcalling 

fragile UNC defense is 
ing touchdown catch 
team had 176 yards on the
have been strengths for the 

another opportunity for 
against Navy last week. 
ground against Navy.
Irish this season. 
him to shine. 




Head coach John 

Joe Dailey is back from 
UNC has given up 27
Only safety Kareen Taylor 
Bunting graduated from 

his Week 2 injury but alter­
rushing touchdowns this
has an interception for the 

nating some series with
UNC in 1972, but will 
year, and opponents are
Tar Heels this season. He 
finally leave Chapel llill, 

Cam Sexton. Dailey was 
94 percent in the red
also leads the team with 48 

13-of-19 for 156 yards, one
as the university said he 
zone. On average, they
tackles. The Tar Heels give 
would be relieved of his 

score and two picks. 
give up 205.5 yards per
up over 170 yards through 
duties on Oct. 22. Bunting 

Sexton is 57-of-135 on 
game on the ground and
the air on average per 
is 25-43 in six seasons at 

the season with four 
5 yards per carry. The
game, although just five 
UNC, and his teams have 

touchdowns and eight 
team has 12 sacks for 86
passing touchdowns. Quinn 
struggled to do well on 

interceptions. Dailey is first 
yards, with three from
is significantly the best 
on the depth chart. 
either side of the ball. 
Hilee Taylor. 
quarterback UNC has seen. 
Bunting is performipg 
The Irish are by no

Even with Dailey's 

The Irish have had one 
for a new job at this 
of the most prolific passing

return, neither UNC 
means a powerhous~Jm 
point, even though he's a 
the ground, but the rim

signal caller can i:ompare 
offenses in the country for 
lame-duck head coach, 

to Quinn. He takes his 
the past two seasons. After 
game has looked be~.~er 
He shouldn't have trouble' 
starting out against a 
after it accumulated just

role as a team leader 
motivating his players. · 
string of tough teams; 
four yards against

seriously and is not one to 
But Weis' playcalling 

look past any game on the 
they're climbing the charts 
Michigan. But the Notre 
will trump Bunting's" 
Dame offense is strong

schedule. In addition, 
again. Playing UNC is a 
emotional edge, ano 
enough to perform wellih
great opportunity for this

Q.uinu hasn't been pick~d 
Bunting can't compete 
receiving corps to ge(back 
games with a mintmal

ofT since S~1pt. 16 agtl.inst 
with.Weis\knowledge. 
now No_ 2.Miehigan. 
in the spotlight. 
ground attack. 

Irish experts 

Mike Gilloon 
Editor in Chief 
North Carolina is as scary as its powder blue uniforms right now. The Tar llnnls can't run, can't pass and can't play defense. They have morn head coaches (1) than wins over Division I opponents (0) this season. And Tar lleols coach John Bunting already knows he won't bo back at season's end -he was just fired. What's aH this mean'? The Irish put up big numbers in an easy home win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 52 North Carolina 10 


Charlie Weis cares about winning, and he doesn't care how he gnts there. But the Irish are in despnratn need of a lopsided win to get some points from the AP voters. And whiln Weis likes to control the clock, he's probably starting to think about the bigger pieture. North Carolina is tl~rrible against the run, and Darill'i Walker will have a big game. And when Walker goes, so does Quinn and the Irish passing oJIP.nso. Should bf' a fun onn to watch lor Notrn Damn fans. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49 North Carolina 13 
Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

North Carolina 
Tar Heels
HEAD 
North Carolina Tar Heels 

North Carolina 2006 Schedule 

Sept. 2 
Sept. 9 
Sept. 16 
Sept. 23 
Sept.30 
Oct. 7 
Oct. 14 
Oct. 28 
Nov. 4 
Nov.11 
Nov. 18 
Dec. 2 

TAR HEELS TAR HEELS PASSING RUSHING SPECIAL TEAMS 
RUTGERS-L VATECH-L FURMAN-W at Clemson -L atMiami-L 
S. FLORIDA-L at Virginia-L WAKE-L 
at Notre Dame GEORGIA TECH 
N.C. STATE at Duke 
INTANGIBLES 

c::: 
z 
n 

John Bunting fifth season at North Carolina career record: 
62-50-2 

at North Carolina: 
24-36 


against Notre John Bunting Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Brooks Foster  WR  6-3  200  so  
2  Cooter Arnold  s  5-10  190  so  
3  Quinton Person  CB  5-11  185  JR  
3  Kenton Thornton  WR  6-5  225  so  
4  Bobby Rome  FB  5-11  240  so  
5  Barrington Edwards  HB  6-0  220  JR  
6  Anthony Elf);  HB  5-10  210  FR  
7  john Banks  owell  QB  6-3  200  FR  
8  Justinn Henderson  WR  6-3  210  JR  
9  jesse Holley  WR  6-3  210  SR  
9  ZachAdrian  DB  5-11  185  so  
10  Connor Barth  K  6-1  192  JR  
11  Cam Sexton  QB  6-1  190  so  
12 13  ~oe Dailey.). Yates  QB QB  6-1 6-3  205 205  JR FR  
14  B.). Phillits  QB  6-5  245  FR  
15  Antho\Z:  arker-Boyd WR  6-0  195  FR  
16  jacoby  atkins  CB  6-0  180  SR  
17  Kendric Burney  DB  5-9  175  FR  
17  john Choate  P  6-2  190  )R  
18  joe~~ Bozich  FB  6-2  250  so  
19  An hony Piccirilli  p  5-11  230  so  
19  Will Lawing  WR  5-9  180  so  
20 21 23  ~=~\ !fh"a~.\hhn Ben johnson  DB DB QB  6-0 6-2 6-1  195 250 190  FR m  
23  jordan Hemby  CB  5-10  190  so  
24 25  ~~'::~J~ll  DB HB  5-11 5-11  185 220  FR SR  
26  Richie Rich  HB  5-9  190  so  
26  jabir jones  DB  6-1  190  so  
27  Chris Barnes  WR  5-11  170  SR  
28  D.). Walker  s  6-0  185  SR  
29  Justin Warren  HB  6-1  198  )R  
30  Bryan Dixon  s  5-11  205  so  
31  Tnmane Dixon  s  5-11  192  JR  
32  Larry Edwards  LB  6-3  235  SR  
33  Darryl Porter  FB  5-9  241  so  
34  )ohnil.C White  HB  5-10  210  FR  
34  gler  aldwell  DB  5-9  170  FR  
35  ryan Bethea  CB  5-10  185  JR  
36  Kennedy Tmsle)'  HB  6-10  210  so  
36  D.). Wharton-Lake  WR  6-0  195  so  
37 37  ~~:;"J;.i~~~lliams  WR RB  5-9 5-11  170 190  FR JR  
38  jermaine Strong  CB  5-10  185  so  
38  Lane Clemmons  K  6-0  200  so  
39 39  jake Porter Kristian aouw  FB K  6-1 6-1  23~ .. 210  -~  
40  josh Blake  RB  5-7  ISO  FR  
40  Darius Powell  DL  6-2  220  FR  
41  Mark Paschal  FB  6-0  225  so  
41 42 42  Jock Moore Shawn Lawson Brian Rackley  FB K DE  6-0 5-11 6-5  280 190 270  m SR  
43  Nick Starcev1c  FB  6-2  245  so  
43  Trey Brenner  LB  6-0  220  so  
44  Chase Rice  LB  6-3  215  so  
45  David Wooldridge  p  6-2  215  SR  
45  Jonathan Lane  s  5-10  178  SR  
47  Logan Buchanan  LB  6-1  215  FR  
47  Flemin~ Thompson  TE  6-3  225  so  
48  Michae Briggs  FB  6-0  250  so  
49  Durell Mapp  LB  6-2  225  JR  
51  Weslep Fagg  LB  6-0  215  FR  
52  Ryan  edersen  LS  6-3  230  FR  
53  ScottGunn  OL  6-3  265  FR  
53  Michael Leonczyk  LB  6-0  225  so  
54  Victor Worsley  LB  6-1  235  SR  
56  Garrett White  LB  6-2  235  so  
57 58  ~eii18Br~=  LS DE  5-11 6-1  180 260  JR SR  
60  Zach Henderson  OL  6-7  270  FR  
62  Wyatt Hicks  G  6-6  270  so  
63  Patrick Marsh  LS  6-1  225  SR  
63  Ben Lemming  c  6-4  295  so  
64  Scott Lenahan  c  6-1  290  JR  
65  Brian Chacos  OT  6-5  310  SR  
66  Michael Ingersoll  OL  6-4  265  FR  
67  Morgan Randall  OL  6-6  275  FR  
68  Kenn~Price  G  6-4  300  so  
69  Lowe 1Dyer  c  6-3  270  so  
70  Alan Pelc  OL  6-6  305  FR  
72  Kyle jolly  OG  6-3  290  so  
73  Aaron Stahl  C/G  6-3  280  so  
74  Kyndraus Guy  DT  6-2  280  JR  
75  Snelton Bynum  DT  6-5  300  SR  
75  Garrett Reynolds  OL  6-7  275  so  
76  Bryon Bisnop  G  6-3  300  so  
77  Cnarlston Gray  G  6-3  295  )R  
78  Andre Barbour  OT  6-6  270  so  
79  Calvin Darity  C/G  6-3  295  so  
80  Ed Barham  TE  6-3  260  FR  
81  Rock Wells  TE  6-5  250  JR  
82 83  ?r~~o~nsfu~~  WR OL  5-10 6-3  170 230  so FR  
84  Vince Jacobs  TE  6-6  225  FR  
85  Deunta Williams  WR  6-2  195  FR  
86  jon Hamlett  TE  6-4  255  SR  
87  Brandon Tate  WR  6-1  190  so  
88  Hakeem Nicks  WR  6-1  210  so  
89  Richard Quinn  TE  6-4  235  so  
89 90 91  ~~~~;~ifa~~~r Michael Murphy  DE DL LS  6-3 6-5 6-2  245 282 231  !i  
92  E.). Wilson  DE  6-2  260  so  
93  Cam Thomas  DT  6-4  315  so  
94  Brian White  TE  6-3  225  FR  
95  Greg Elleby  DL  6-5  260  FR  
96  Tavares Brown  DL  6-0  275  FR  
97  Aleric Mullins  DL  6-3  285  FR  
98  john Kerns  K  6-1  210  FR  
98  Darrius Massenburg  DL  6-3  260  FR  

The Irish pass defense  The Irish defense has  Notre Dame's special  The Irish have no reason  
wasn't tested much against  also proved susceptible to  teams have been quiet for  to be excited about this  
Navy but still gave up four  the rush. They give up  much of the season. Kick  game. The Tar Heels are  
passes for 43 yards. On the  138.2 yards per game on  returns are averaging just  1-7 -the exact opposite  
season, the team has been  the ground. Maurice Crum  over 20 yards, and they  of Notre Dame. The most  
vulnerable to the deep  Jr. leads the team with 62  are giving up significantly  important thing about the  
threat, and gave up 191.2  tackles, seven for loss and  more yards on punt  contest for Weis might be  
yards per game in the air.  two sacks. The defensive  returns than they should.  either style points or  
However, Terrail Lambert  line looked good against  There hasn't yet been an  young subs. Either way,  
has established himself as  Navy and has been getting  electrifying special teams  emotions will be subdued  
an excellent corner.  better penetration.  performance.  for the home squad.  
No UNC receiver has more than one touchdown catch this season. Brooks Foster leads the team with 28 catches for 326 yards, but the quarter­backs have struggled to hit receivers. The Tar Heels have thrown 15 intercep­tions and just six passing touchdowns in their first eight games.  North Carolina's offense is relatively better on the ground than in the air. Ronnie McGill has six of the Tar Heel's nine scores on the ground and has accounted for 523 rushing yards. The team averages 118.9 rushing yards per game and averages 3.6 yards per rush.  The Tar Heels' special teams are pretty vanilla as well. McGill had one 18-yard punt return but they average 7.7 yards otherwise. The team's longest kick return was a 42-yarder by Brandon Tate. But on coverage, UNC is holding opponents to just 14.2 yards per kickoff return.  North Carolina just lost a heartbreaking game to Wake Forest, but the Tar Heels still have nothing to lose. They know their coach will be gone come December, they have no hope at a bowl game and they are playing against a team expected to win by three or four touchdowns.  
Alternating quarterbacks  The Tar Heels might be  It will be interesting to  
isn't usually the best.Y-'ay for a team to be su~ssful.  able to rack up so.me Y,;{Vds  see how these teams  
The Irish defense dtn be  on the ground, but one area match halftime adjustments bav~  up special ""'~~"'"""f ~ i  
leaky against good qtl.arter:·  really helped is in the Irish  
backs, but the Tar }Ieels  rush defense. If the Tar  
receivers aren't that;i dan­ Heels put points on the  
gerous. Notre Dame has  board, they will need to  
come up with key intercep­ establish a strong rushing 
tions this season, altfiough  game against a· solid run  
the totaJ..for 2006 isjn$t six.  defense. ·"';:: ..  


North Carolina has absolutely nothing to lose 
I wouldn't like to see the Irish play North in this game and will do all sorts of unexpected Carolina in basketball. But it's heartening to things Saturday. The Tar Heels will go for two know that we'll see the opposite result on the in the first half (if they manage to score), fake a football field-Notre Dame's total domination of punt on fourth-and-a-furlong and even try a the Tar Heels. Sure, they have nothing to lose. 
Irish

few reverses to keep the Irish on their heels. But the Irish have everything to lose if they come But Notre Dame is too good and too ready for out flat in this game. There have been two close that gameplan to work. The Heels might keep it ealls already, and Weis won't let it happen again. close early, but that will be it. The Irish run It's nearing the end of the season and for the 
experts
away in an entertaining game. Kate Gales Irish, every play counL'i. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 52 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49
Associate

Sports Editor North Carolina 8 North Carolina 14
Sports Editor 

.---~------===--------------~-~ ~--~~------~~~---~--~ 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and Tar Heels 
Points Scored Points Allowed 

Total Yards Allowed Rushing__Yards Gained Wh~-··­Rushing Yards Allowed Passing Yards Gained __ Passing Yards Allowed Turnovers Lost ..... -~~~----·· .. Turnovers Recovered ..-................,......................... ,... ~ 

Notre Dame  North Carolina  
30.0  
 
21.6  32.6  
387.2  293.5  
330.4  376.4  
107.2  118.9  
138.2  205.1  
280.0  174.6  
192.1  171.2  

Friday, November 3, 2006 


NORTH CAROLINA 
SECONDARY 
North Carolina enters the contest with the No. 35 pass defense in the country, surrendering just 205 yards a contest. 
But the reason the Tar Heels have been so successful is their poor rushing defense, which ranks last in the nation. In fact, North Carolina has intercepted just one pass (Kareen Taylor, above) all season and broken up only 11 others. 
For the underdogs to have a chance, they must shut down the Irish aerial attack which has torn through many top opponents before. 
NOTRE DAME 
PASSING OFFENSE 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn will provide the Tar Heels with their toughest test of the year. Quinn's options throwing the ball are plentiful, as tight end John Carlson has come on as one of the best in the country at his position and wide out David Grimes (above) has emerged as a credible threat. 
If the Tar Heels can shut down the Irish wide receivers ­Grimes, Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija -they might be able to con­tain Quinn, holding the senior to a slew of dump-offs and 5-yard throws. 


~--~ -~~-------­
Friday, November 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Barbour, Brooks and Bunting look for upset 
It might not feel real for Notre the Irish must contain NorthIrish see positives in Dame fans Saturday if Barbour Carolina's top three receivers. and the Tar Heels score several Sophomore Brooks Foster, a
Tar Heels, won't take 
more touchdowns. North former basketball walk-on who 

North Carolina lightly Carolina quarterbacks Joe played for the 2005 national Dailey and Cam Sexton have champion Tar Heels, leads the combined for just six scoring team in receptions with 28 for 
By MIKE GILLOON 
passes this season and the Tar 326 yards and one touchdown. 

Sports Writer 
Heels have just nine touchdowns The sophomore's athleticism on the ground, compared to 27 hasn't been lost on Weis. · 

One look at Andre Barbour opponent rushing touchdowns. "Well, he entered 2006 with and some might wonder if North It isn't a team most would no receptions and all he's done Carolina should be favored expect to knock has become
"I knew either I was

Saturday. The Tar Heels offen­off the No. 10 their leading sive tackle stands 6-foot-6, Irish. going to catch it or I was receiver this weighs 270 pounds and has But Irish play­year," said Weis
going to drop it. And ifI

been one bright spot on a Tar ers say they feel at his press con­
would,ve dropped it 

Heels team trudging through differently. ference Tuesday. one of the worst seasons in pro­"[The Tar then it was going to be Weis was also gram history. Heels] can do horrible.,, . impressed with 
They are giving up almost 33 anything they the other two points per game, haven't beaten want and noth­leading North a Division I opponent this season ing worse is Andre Barbour Carolina pass and Tar Heels coach .John going to happen Tar Heels lineman catchers, Jesse Bunting has already been fired. because it's not Holley and So when it comes to trying new like [Bunting] can get fired Hakeem Nicks. The two have a things, North Carolina doesn't twice," said Irish strong safety combined 46 receptions for 694 have much to lose. Tom Zbikowski. "Double passes, yards and two touchdowns. 
That may explain why the Tar anything is going to go. So we Besides the Tar Heels' own Heels chose to throw a pass to have to be prepared for any­offensive woes this season ­Barbour in a goal line situation thing." the teams doesn't have a player last Saturday in their 24-17 loss That might mean being ready with more than one touchdown to Wake Forest. And for at least for hard hitting and the Tar catch -their defense will have once this season, something Heels' best effort of the season, to keep a talented Notre Dame went right. according to Irish coach Charlie offense out of the end zone. stressed the tradition surround­''I've been looking forward to 
The massive Barbour snagged Weis. "This is probably going to be ing Notre Dame's campus. He's [a return to Notre Dame the 1-yard reception for the first "It's pretty obvious by watch­the best team we play all sea­planned a team trip to the Stadium] for a long time," said touchdown of his career. ing the Wake Forest game, that son," Barbour said. College Football Hall of Fame in Bunting, who had 20 tackles in 
"I knew either I was going to this team wasn't only playing Bunting was similarly blunt. downtown South Bend and told that game. "It's just disappoint­catch it or I was going to drop it. hard, I think they were trying all "They are very, very, very the players a bit about the game ing we don't have the record And if I would've dropped it they could to try to win the good," he said. "They don't give day atmosphere. An All-ACC we'd like to have going into the then it was going to be horri­game for [Bunting]," Weis said. you anything; you've got to earn linebacker for the Tar Heels game." ble," Barbour said. "Catching it To keep the Tar Heels from it all." from 1969-1971, Bunting's was amazing. It didn't feel real winning Notre Dame's second­In preparing his squad for squad played at Notre Dame in Contact Mike Gilloon at for the first couple minutes." to-last home game, Weis said Saturday's game, Bunting has 1971, losing 16-0. mgilloon@nd.edu 
UCLA, ot Arizona, of USC, Stanford 





---.----~----~~--------­
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 3, 2006 
574-252-2427
COMING SOON... 

NDCONDOS.COM 
... ­
stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net Management Corporation 


THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Netw-orking directory accessible to seniors 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Undergraduate seniors and graduate students now have the option to receive full access to Irish Online, a net­working directory of more than 100,000 alumni, after a change that went into effect Nov. l. 
A result of a joint effort by Student Government, the Career Center, the Alumni Association and the Development Office, the changl:l increases student netwotking opportunities tenfold -undergraduate stu­dents were previously given access to a directory of 10,000 alumni who volun­teered their information, according to a student gov­ernment press release. Full access to the directory was not granted to seniors until well after graduation. 
"We realized students did­n't have access to the full alumni network until at least six weeks after graduation and sometimes even [longer[," said student body vice president Bill Andrichik. 
It didn't make sense that the full directory was not available during the "most relevant time for students to be contacting alumni for their career search," he said. 
see DIRECTORY/page 4 

Local bishop visits Saint Mary's 
D'Arcy celebrates Mass, offers opinions, answers student questions 
By ABBY RICHARDSON News Writer 
Celebrating Mass and answering questions at Saint Mary's Sunday night, South Bend-Fort Wayne Bishop John D'Arcy cited the importance of love and prayer as he addressed scripture, current events and why he became a priest. 
"When the gospel is read in the Church, it is never about past events only," D'Arcy said. "It is all about love." 
D'Arcy continued to stress the importance of love, referring to Pope Benedict XVI's encyclical "God is Love." D'Arcy encour­
see D'ARCY/page 3 


Annan cancels Notre Dame visit 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Due tCl scheduling conflicts, United Nations Secretary­General Kofi Annan has can­celed his planned Nov. 12 visit to Notre Dame, a Mendoza College of Business official said Sunday. 
Annan was scheduled to be the keynote speaker at a peace conference Nov. 12-14 exploring how commerce can be a toDl for building peace. Father Oliver Williams, the director of Mendoza's Center for Ethics and Culture and the conference's lead organ­izer, said he booked Annan 
Easley discusses ethics in politics 
North Carolina governor emphasizes reliance on core values when enacting public policy 
By EVA BINDA 
NewsWri~er 
Declaring ethics and core val­ues in policy-making as "not optional" Friday afternoon, North Carolina Gov. Michael Easley delivered a speech in the Snite Museum on the importance of drawing upon personal values in setting the right policy. 
In the talk, entitled "Intersection of Politics and Values in the 21st Century," Easley said the right policy is "the on~ that allows people to reach their potential so they can use their God-given gifts." 
Easley, a Democrat, is the first Roman Catholic governor of North Carolina, a predominantly Protestant state. Although he 
knowing his visit could not be assured, given the Secretary-General's full and often unpredictable schedule. 
Annan will be replaced by M a r k Moody­Stuart, chairman of the board of directors of t h e Foundation for the Global Compact, a non-profit entity that helps fund one of Annan's most well-known ini­tiatives, the Global Compact. 
The three-day peace con-

attended UNC-Chapel Hill, Easley named University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh as "one of my heroes." 
Easley admitted that his "reli­gious faith guides [his] policy," but insisted this view does not violate the separation of church and state. 
"It's natural and appropriate to navigate public policy with our own internal moral compass," Easley said. 
He repeatedly referred to the importance of relying on one's core values in making and enforcing policy, helping less powerful members of society. 
"Small steps properly taken for noble purposes strengthen the weak among us," Easley said. 
see GOVERNOR/page 4 


ference is titled "Peace Through Commerce: Partnerships as a New Paradigm" and will bring together intellectuals, corpo­rate executives, representa­tives from non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and government policy makers to examine how, through eco­nomic commerce, businesses and NGOs can advance initia­tives for peace. 
Moody-Stuart will deliver his keynote address to an invitation-only crowd in the dining room of the Notre Dame Press Box Nov. 12. 
"[Moody-Stuart is] going to talk about the need for com­panies -particularly large businesses -to get involved in problems of the wider society. ... He will encourage them and probably implore companies to do more," said Williams, who sits with Moody-Stuart on the board of directors for the Foundation for the Global Compact. 

In addition to his chair­manship of the Foundation for the Global Compact, Moody-Stuart is also chair­man of Anglo American PLC, an international mining com­pany. He holds a doctorate in geology from Cambridge University and, from 2001­04, was a member of the 
see ANNAN/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Soldiers request ND items 
Student-run project sends care packages to 
U.S. forces overseas 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
For organizers of the Notre Dame Accounting Association's care package project, it is not the Gatorade mix, sunflower seeds or ban­dannas that they need the largest stock of-it is "some­thing, anything to do with Notre Dame," according to senior organizer Rena Zarah. 
Though the group collects everything from Christmas COs and DVDs to beef jerky and ChapStick, it is Notre Dame memorabilia that mem­bers of the armed forces serv­ing overseas ask for most fre­quently. 
"We collect names and addresses of soldiers overseas serving our country. These men and women either grad­uated from Notre Dame, are related or are friends with a Notre Dame student, faculty or staff, or are from the Notre Dame community," Zarah said. "This is the most rewarding project I personal­ly have ever been involved 
in." 

The care package project, which began four years ago, started out small, sending "at most 20" packages overseas in its first year, said Zarah, who is organizing the project with junior Liz Byrum. The 
see PACKAGES/page 4 
Monday, November 6, 2006 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Keeping our 
common courtesy 
I'm no conservative. Terms like "family values" make me cringe, and whenever I hear mention of "traditional marriage" this election season, I want to run back to my apartment and put on Steve Kerins my rainbow bandanna. 
In spite of News Writer 
all that, I've always thought of Notre Dame and its surrounding community as a place where the norms of a simpler time are embraced, and where a refreshing sense of common courtesy holds the day. And while I might not always agree with Notre Dame's values, I know that they stem from a sincere desire to set right the ills of the larger world. 
This is why I'm concerned that the decency for which our University is known is under threat from the outside. 
In my small East Coast hometown, our local coffee shop recently made the news following a fight over a parking space in which one driver maced another, sending her to the hospital. 
Now, this is a feeling I can relate to. We've all felt frustrated when that selfish mom in the ugly hip­buggers takes up two parking spaces with her Suburban, forcing us to park illegally so we can run in to get our dry-cleaning. We all know the pain of waiting in line at the store as that fool with the comb-over pays for his $1.50 tube of toothpaste with a debit card. 
I know a Notre Dame woman who carries a "rape whistle" to defend herself in the event of an attack, which I find a bit quaint. A friend at home carries nunchucks in her purse for the same purpose. 
I am frequently offended by cer­tain local drivers, who seem to find the concept of the "fast lane" diffi­cult to grasp. I am not at all ashamed of peppering them with obscene gestures and choice lan­guage as I zoom past them in the right-hand lane. But I try to remind myself that Notre Dame is a world unto itself, and screaming at the elderly as they wind their way to the Bookstore won't help me fit into this culture. 
I love that visitors write into The Observer to tell us how nicely they were treated at football games. I love that my school has a reputa­tion for personal conduct that pre­cedes me wherever I go. And I hope that Notre Dame continues to set itself apart, and that its students continue to conduct themselves with class when they leave this place. 
This is one rare instance in which I hope we never bend to seculariz­ing, depersonalizing elements in the world around us. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please call us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST WAY TO GET OVER ~ CASE OF THE MONDAYS'? 



Julie McElroy  Laura Hamman  Mary Beth Scully  Mauricio Rojas  Ted Lawless  Tom Kingsbury  
senior Breen-Phillips  senior offcampus  junior Cavanaugh  senior O'Neill  senior Knott  sophomore Alumni  
"Watching the  "A grande,  "Write an angry  "Looking at  "/ don't know,  "Sleeping until  
movie 'Borat. "'  triple-shot,  Viewpoint letter  pictures on  but it involves a  Tuesday."  
nonfat, sugar- about it."  Facebook ofthe  9-iron, some ice  
free vanilla  weekend."  and a plastic  
latte. ,  lawn gnome. "  


Police confiscate mummy from Mich. woman 
PORT HURON, Mich. ­Mummified human skele­tal remains confiscated from the home of a woman who police say was trying to sell them on eBay likely came from an early 19th century Scottish collection, authorities said. 
Police said Friday they have closed their investi­gation and do not plan to seek criminal charges. The remains were con­fiscated Oct. 10 after being spotted on the Internet auction Web site. 

A Michigan State University anthropologist determined that remains likely date from the early 19th century and were part of a collection of anatomical specimens from Scottish anatomist Allen Burns, the Times Herald reported. 
Nude couple's feud ends at Waffle House 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. ­No shirt, no service? What about no clothes at all? A couple that began squabbling in a motel room Friday morning carried their dispute over to an adjacent Waffle House restaurant in the nude, police said. 
The woman, who was not identified, told offi­cers she was staying in a room with Larry Boyd when he took a hit of cocaine, started trashing their room and choked her. 
She ran in the buff to the nearby restaurant and locked herself in the bathroom. Boyd, also naked, followed her into the restaurant and then f1ed in a car. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 
1.&.1 

J)~ 
..... 
cs: 
(,) 


...0 HIGH 53 HIGH 49 HIGH 56 HIGH 64 LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 47 LOW 44 IN BRIEF 
A conference entitled "Strategic Peacebuilding: The State of the Art," will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 
5:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Faculty, staff, students and the public are weleome to attend. 
Charlie Thornton, the chairman and engineer of New York's Thornton­Tomasetti Group, will lecture on "Engineering Architecture: From High­Rise Towers to Restoration Design" today from 4:30 to 6 
p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
Henry Weinfield and Catherine Schlegel will be reading from their new translation of Hesiod 's poems, "The Theogony and The Works and Days" in the Coleman Morse Lounge at 
7:30 tonight. Following the reading, refreshments will be served and Weinfield and Schlegel will sign their book. 
The Notre Dame men's basketball team will take on Bellarmine in an exhibition game tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce Center Arena. For ticket information, call 631­7356. 
The French film "Ma Vie en Rose" will be shown in room 116 DeBartolo Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. as part of the Gender Studies Program's "Body and Soul -Gender, Religion and Identity" film series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~

~ 
HIGH 60 HIGH 62 LOW 43 LOW 46 
Atlanta 61 I 48 Boston 56 I '2 Chicago 52 I 48 Denver 63 I 48 Houston 75 I 58 Los Angeles 84 159 Minneapolis 60 1 45 New York 59 I 46 Philadelphi,' 60 I 42 Phoenix 88 I 60 Seattle 60 I 54 St. Louis 58 I 49 Tampa 82 I 64 Washington 59 146 
Monday; November 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Game-day parking benefits SMC 
Crowds increase College bookstore sales; security receives no complaints 
a.m. to 3 p.m. on Sundays -allowed by Opus Hall. No seri­

By KATIE KOHLER 
when it is typically closed -ous damage has been done to 

News Writer 
after Notre Dame football the landscape by allowing cars 
games. to park on the grass. 

A $20 bill and a vow not to Bookstore manager Michael Although the parking may tailgate can earn South Bend Hicks estimates a 20 percent seem like an encroachment visitors a parking spot on the increase in sales on football upon Opus residents, security Saint Mary's campus -just weekends. has not received complaints 
1.5 miles from T h e from inconvenienced students. Notre Dame increase in "Everyone seems aware of
"Notre Dame football 

Stadium-on bookstore traf­the benefits," Gariepy said. a erowded adds to the local fic is due pri­"Notre Dame football adds to football economy and we at marily to the local economy and we at Saturday. alumnae, par­Saint Mary's College benefit as
Saint Mary's College 

"[Athletic] ents of current well." teams help benefit as well." students and Senior Opus resident Kim with the park­prospective LaVigne arrived on campus in ing of cars, students visit­time for the second quarter of
Dan Gariepy

which greatly ing the Student the North Carolina game this
director of security

benefits their Center," he past weekend. 
Saint Mary's 

programs," said. "Campus was full of cars Director of Hicks does parked on the grass and in the Security Dan Gariepy said. not attribute the increase Science Hall lot, but I was able 
After games, traffic is entirely to to find a spot altered -only right turns are parking. for my own car allowed onto Route 31 going "Because without a prob­
"[We would definitely] 

south until downtown South the bookstore lem," she said. Bend -to make exiting cam­is not located welcome any additional While the pus more efficient. near the traffic that would be the extra traffic is 
"We do this because it is the parking area, noticeable,
result ofpublic parking 

fastest way to clear the cam­we don't finding parking pus," G-ariepy said. notice much at Saint Mary's." spots for stu­Saint Mary's athletics are casual traf­dents living in not the only ones who profit fic," he said. Opus Hall or
Michael Hicks 

from campus parking, as sales "[We would anywhere else 
manager

at the Saint Mary's bookstore definitely) on campus has
Shaheen Bookstore

are also affected by the influx welcome any not posed a of people. additional large problem. The Shaheen Bookstore, nor­traffic that "I don't mind mally open from 10 a.m to 4 would be the result of public the extra activity at all," 
p.m. on-Saturdays, opens an parking at Saint Mary's." LaVigne said. hour earlier to accommodate On-campus parking is the crClwds on game days. The restricted to the Science Hall Contact Katie Kohler at bookstore also opens from 11 lot and on grassy areas kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
troversial in a Catholic con­text, such as homosexuality.
D'Arcy 
"Everybody should be treat­
continued from page 1 
aged the congregation to aspire to God's passionate love. 
"Are you capable or are you becoming capable of real love?" he said. "A person who cannot love is a stranger to herself." 
D'Arcy reiterated the story of Christ suffering on the cross. Christ took the sin upon himself, he said, with selfless­ness. D'Arcy 
ed with dignity. We are all cre­ated by God, redeemed by Christ. We should love every­one," D'Arcy said. "But homosexual acts are sinful. We should never give impres­sions that homosexual behav­ior is okay. Because it's not." 
While he justified the U.S. presence in Afghanistan post­Sept. 11, D'Arcy said he does not believe the war in Iraq is just -it is a preventative war, he said, and the threat was not facing the U.S. directly. 
D'Arcy said his 

reminded his lis­parents were
':4s we grow, our 
teners that instrumental in
faith gets
Christ showed his decision to love to all men, challenged. join the priest­even sinners. hood, since they
Questioning does 
He also provided a faith­
not mean you are
emphasized the ful home environ­importance of losing your faith." ment and always prayer in every­supported him. day life. When He cracked a
South Bend-Fort
asked about how joke -"I found
Wayne Bishop John
to find balance out early I could in life, D'Arcy D'Arcy not hit a baseball 
answered, "Prayer." 
"One of the most wonderful things you can do is learn to pray. Prayer is how we com­municate," he said. "[Prayer] is a conversation with some­one who loves us." 
Offering some words of advice, D'Arcy said to enjoy life as well. 
"It is always important to learn how to relax, to enjoy life," D'Arcy said. "Learn when you are young to be alone. You can't love until you can be alone." 
Students raised questions on subjects often considered con-
well enough to play for the Red Sox, so I became a priest" -and then stressed the importance of vocation. 
"I became a priest because God wanted me to be a priest," he said. 
D'Arcy also presented the idea that faith changes for a person over time and some­times, is a struggle. 
"As we grow, our faith gets challenged," he said. "Questioning does not mean you are losing your faith." 
Contact Abby Richardson at arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

UBS Investment Banking 101 
At UBS, we believe in creating opportunities for every one of our employees to excel and realize their potential. As a leading financial firr:n with offices in over 50 countries, UBS can offer the inspiration you need from all corners of the globe. After all, when you're inspired, we all succeed. 
Date: November 6, 2006 Time: 6.00 PM -8.00 PM Venue: Center for Continuing Education 
McKenna Hall-Room 210 
Resume Drop Deadline: January 22, 2007-Investment Banking 
It starts with you: www.ubs.com/graduates 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer com­mitted to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
·*UBS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 6, 2006 
Packages 
continued from page 1 
project has continued to grow each year, sending a record number of 150 packages last fall. 
The group is expecting to send fewer packages -about 120 -this year because "there has been a drop in the number of people overseas," Zarah said. Sixty names have already been collected and Zarah expects that number to increase as the deadline approaches. All the packages should be put together and shipped overseas the Tuesday before Thanksgiving. 
While the number of pack­ages has decreased, the num­ber of supporters has done just the opposite. 
"I think it's definitely become a more school-wide project rather than just the Notre Dame Accounting Association project," Zarah said. 
After sending an e-mail to the campus community, Zarah said her inbox was "flooded" with more than 200 messages from people who want to help out or donate. 
"Everyone is really support­ive of it," she said. Some are from those asking 
~Directory 
continued from page 1 
Seniors and graduate stu­dents will be able to view the entire alumni directory after attending a "Networking with ND Alumni" session. These sessions focus on "the proper way to use the network and how to make a professional contact," Andrichik said. They help to alleviate any worries of network misuse, which Andrichik said was a "big hurdle" in making the change. 
In test runs with select groups of students gaining access to the full directory, there have been "zero com­plaints from alumni," Andrichik said. 
Annan 
continued from page 1 
U.N. advisory council for the Global Compact, which brings together business and peace­keeping organizations to help create and sustain a more inclusive economy. 
Companies who will be rep­resented at the conference include: Bristol-Myers­Squibb, The Coca Cola Company, Ford Motor Company and General Electric, among others. 
General Electric's Vice President of Corporate Citizenship, Bob Corcoran, will speak about his compa­ny's involvement with the Millennium Village Project, an initiative that aims to sup­port villages and peoples in Africa. 
NGOs that will be repre­sented include: Oxfam, Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS and Initiative for Global Development, among others. 
The conference is spon-

Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
for packages to be sent to a particular soldier -"he has a wife and with their first child on the way at home," one e­mail read -and others from those asking what they can do to help. 
''I'm an ND [Alliance for Catholic Education] teacher in Baton Rouge, Louisiana," read one e-mail. "I was wondering if it would be possible to have my students (lOth-11th grade) write letters to the troops to be included in packages ... I think that this would be an excellent service-learning project for them." 
But help is not coming just from Notre Dame graduates; the greater South Bend com­munity has heard about the Accounting Association's proj­ect, and many people have expressed interest. 
"A local elementary school is having the students write letters to put in the boxes," Zarah said. 
Local businesses like CVS Pharmacy on Ironwood and Meijer have donated to the cause, Zarah said. 
"ND Food Services and The Shirt also give us a large amount of items," she said. 
Zarah said that sending such letters and packages is the "least we can do to demonstrate our gratitude." 
Every item in the packages 
is donated, she said. 
Though the process for sending the boxes is compli­cated -every single item in the box needs to be listed on detailed customs forms ­Zarah said she receives a lot of help and discounts from UPS, who sends out the pack­ages. 
For the next two weeks beginning today, the Association will collect dona­tions in the lobby of the Mendoza College of Business from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Zarah said monetary dona­tions may also be given to cover the costs of shipping and purchasing items for the packages. 
Other items needed for packages include: letters, non-crushable snacks, Christmas lights, decorations, cookies, microwave popcorn, copies of campus publica­tions, magazines, sunscreen, candy, baby wipes and eye drops. 
"It is important to let these men and women know that they are in our hearts and prayers, especially through the holiday season," Zarah said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
While freshmen, sopho­The development, mores and juniors will still Andrichik said, is a positive have access to the volunteer change for seniors wanting to alumni network, seniors will take full advantage of the 
find that the job search may 
"We realized
become easier with 100,000 students didn't have records of 
access to the full 
alumni, 
alumni network until 
regions, pro­fessions and at least six weeks 
contact infor­after graduation. '' 
mation at their fingertips. 
Bill Andrichik
Students are "not actually student body vice contacting president companies but Notre Dame 
vast alumni networking systems Notre 
Dame  has  to  
offer.  
"You  go  to  

Notre Dame for a lifetime," he said. "I would find it hard to believe that other compara­ble institutions have as good of alumni net­works, as far 
alumni," Andrichik said. as employment and network­"[The directory] works as a ing opportunities go." complement to companies that the Career Center brings Contact Sonia Rao at in." srao1@nd.edu 
ACE to offer degree in administration 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame will offer a new mas­ter's degree in educational administration beginning next summer. 
The new degree program is an expansion of the Alliance for Catholic Education [ACEI Leadership Program, which is itself an outgrowth of Notre Dame's ACE, which provides college graduates an opportu­nity to earn master of educa­tion degrees while serving as teachers in understaffed Catholic schools nationwide. Since it began in 2002, the ACE Leadership Program has trained 82 teachers in profes­sional administration, foster­ing community within schools, and spiritual formation. All of these teachers have remained in Catholic schools, 50 of them in administrative positions. 
According to Father Ronald R. Nuzzi, director of the ACE Leadership Program, the master's in educational administration will require the addition of new courses and 11 credit hours to the curriculum of the ACE Leadership Program. The required courses include "Exceptionalities in Education," "Educational Hesearch and Methodology," "Action Hesearch," and "Th!~ History and Philosophy of Catholic Education." 
"All of us in ACE believe that Catholic schools are at the heart of the Church," Nuzzi said. "It is a great privi­lege to launch this new degree which says that Notre Dame is serious about the renewal of K-12 Catholic schools." 
Among the most ardent advocates of the new master's program has been University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Governor 
continued from page 1 
During his time as governor, Easley has taken steps to improve education and shorten the achievement gap between people of different races in North Carolina. One example, Easley said, is reducing the sizes of kindergarten classes. 
"So many good and strong people in North Carolina were made weak by their lack of education," Easley said. He explained that North Carolina's traditional econ-
elections than future genera­tions," Easley said. 
He said that among other reductions, Washington has cut Federal Pell grant scholarships, despite "the clear need for a more educated population." Whenever cuts are made on the federal level, the states have to make up for that loss, Easley said. He also criticized how Washington has been funding the war effort. 
"You create the budget to fit the war effort, not the war effort to fit the budget," he said. 
Regarding foreign policy, 
Easley predicted 

omy -based on that "as other
'Too many in
agriculture, tex­powers emerge, tiles and furni­Washington have we will be chal­ture manufac­forgotten their core lenged more mili­turing -made tarily than in the
principles and left
it difficult for past."
Americans in their
some people to The U.S. must pursue higher wake." rely on core val­education. ues, Easley said, Easley said he because "we wi)l
Michael Easley
has worked to no longer be able 
governor
provide more to coerce others. funding and North Carolina We will have to be 
scholarships to make higher education more accessible to those of lower socioeconomic levels. 
Although Easley said much progress had been made on the state-level in North Carolina, he had plenty of criticism for the politics in Washington, D.C. 
"Too many in Washington have forgotten their core prin­ciples and left Americans in their wake," Easley said. In the nation's capital, he said, there is "too much concern for party politics" and not enough con­cern for constituents. 
"[Politicians in Washington] are focused more on future 
able to persuade 
others." He said he believes America must be viewed "as moral and with val­ues." 
Despite the critical tone regarding Washington, Easley insisted on the need to remain optimistic regarding the future. 
"We must remain optimistic, hopeful and confident," he said. "Confident that our people will succeed, hopeful that the words of our leaders will come with action and optimistic that val­ues will strengthen a weakened America." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 


Schumann Peck ­Dvorak ­Tchaikovsky 
Century Center 
and a 'Salute 

South Bend lribune ~ • ~ 
Discover what's in it for you. ~ ~ 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 6, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran prepared to open negotiations 
TEHRA_~-Iran said Sunday it was open to negotiations with the United States on Iraq and other regional issues but hinted it would not drop its refusal to talk about its con­tentious nuclear program. 
As the U.N. Security Council geared up for a protracted debate on sanctioning Iran over its nuclear program, Tehran praised Russia for its "softer" stance on the issue. 
Foreign Ministry spokesman Mohammad Ali Hosseini said Iran would consider talks with the U.S. over regional issues, including Iraq, if Washington requested. He would not elaborate, and there was no immediate response from the United States on the offer. 
"If there is any official request about regional issues, we are ready to review it," Hosseini told reporters. 
However, he said Iran would not change its position regarding bilateral relations with the U.S., suggesting Tehran would refuse to talk about the nuclear issue. 
Unrest over federal police continues 
OAXACA, Mexico -Thousands of anti-gov­ernment demonstrators marched through this tense colonial city on Sunday, demanding the security forces abandon camps they set up last week to end a five-month protest. 
Masked police officers clutching automatic weapons watched the protesters from rooftops as they marched to a plaza about a block away from the encampments, yelling "Get out federal police!" 
The leaders then formed a human chain to keep the crowd of 20,000 from confronting police, but about 400 people broke through and attacked the officers with stones and bottles. The forces raised shields to protect themselves but did not use tear gas or fire their weapons. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Evangelist apologizes after dismissal 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -Saying that he was a "deceiver and liar" who had given in to his dark side, the Rev. Ted Haggard confessed to sexual inunorality Sunday in a letter read from the pulpit of the megachurch he founded. 
The disgraced former president of the National Evangelical Association, which repre­sents 30 million evangelical Christians, apolo­gized and said "because of pride, I began deceiv­ing those I love the most because I didn't want to hurt or disappoint them." 
"The fact is I am guilty of sexual inunorality. And I take responsibility for the entire problem. I am a deceiver and a liar," he said. 
Haggard, 50, resigned last week as NEA presi­dent, where he held sway in Washington and condemned homosexuality, after a man claimed to have had drug-fueled homosexual trysts with him. 
King Memorial to be built in D.C. 
WASH['JGTON -On a hot August afternoon in 1963, Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. delivered his "I Have a Dream" speech to a mostly black audience from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. 
On Nov. 13, a half-mile from Lincoln's iconic statue, a diverse group of celebrities, corporate leaders and ordinary Americans will help turn the first shovels of dirt for a memorial honor­ing the dvil rights leader who was slain 38 years ago. It will be the first monument to an African American on the National Mall. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Utility: workers told of Legionnaires' 
WHEATFIELD, Ind. -A spokesman for Northern Indiana Public Service Co. said the utility properly notified employees that the bacteria that causes Legionnaires' disease was found at a generating station where union offi­cials contend a worker contracted the illness. 
NIPSCO spokesman Tom Cuddy said workers were notified as soon as the utility learned Oct. 5 of the positive Legionella bacteria results on samples taken Sept. 21 at the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station in Wheatfield. 
"We immediately notified all employees via three separate communications and postings," he said. 
Parties conclude key campaigns 
Bush seeks to solidify GOP base in Plains districts; Pelosi takes on Northeast 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House control at stake, President Bush campaigned Sunday in endangered Republican districts across GOP-friend­ly middle America. Rep. Nancy Pelosi, hoping to become the first female speaker, stumped for Democratic challengers in the left-leaning Northeast. 
''I'm optimistic," Vice President Dick Cheney said. Republicans hoped their party's acclaimed get-out­the-vote operation would prevent a Democratic rout in a campaign marked by voter fury over the Iraq war. "Things have been coming our way the!)e last couple of weeks," Cheney said. 
Pelosi, D-Calif., said if the election had been held Sunday, Democrats would gain the 15 seats needed to run the House. "But a lot can happen in 48 hours," she said in New Britain, Conn. "This is a tough fight." 
Her party appears increasingly confident it can ride a wave of public disen­chantment with the admin­istration's policies to victory in the House, and, possibly, the Senate, too. 

Two days before the elec­tion, both parties focused on turning out voters. The numbers historically are case for change, arguing billion. and we want a new direc­low in nonpresidential year that Republicans on Capitol Iraq has dominated the tion to Iraq." elections, with only about Hill blindly have followed campaign season, and In his sixth year in office, 40 percent of U.S. citizens Bush's "failed policy." Republicans and Democrats the president faces the like­of voting age population Up for grabs are 435 sparred over the war again lihood of losing GOP seats in casting ballots. House seats, 33 Senate Sunday following Saddam both the House and the 
Republicans and seats, governorships in 36 Hussein's conviction on Senate, as well as fewer Democrats have sent out states, and thousands of crimes against humanity. GOP governors. thousands of volunteers in state legislative and local He was sentenced him to Voters are agitating for states with the most con­races. die by hanging; an appeal is change. They give both the tested races to work phone In 37 states, voters will planned. president and GOP-con­banks and canvass neigh­determine the fate of ballot "To pull out, to withdraw trolled Congress low job borhoods. Both parties also initiatives, including from this war is losing. The performance ratings; they have assembled legal teams whether to ban gay mar­Democrats appear to be do not like the direction the for possible challengers in riage, raise the minimum content with losing," said country is headed; and they case of voting problems. wage, endorse expanded Sen. Elizabeth Dole of North are particularly frustrated 
Candidates were making embryonic stem cell Carolina, who leads the with the war as costs and their final pitches. research and -in South Senate GOP's campaign casualties mount. Republicans repeated their Dakota -impose the coun­efforts. "It may not be popular assertion that Democrats try's most stringent abor­Infuriated, Rep. Rahm with the public. It doesn't would raise taxes and pre­tion restrictions. Emanuel of Illinois, the matter, in the sense that we maturely pull out of Iraq if Already, this is projected Democrat in charge of the have to continue the mis­they controlled Congress. to be the most expensive party's House campaign, sion and do what we think Democrats pressed their election cycle ever, at $2.6 shot back: "We want to win is right," Cheney said. 

IRAQ 

Curfew ensures safety after verdict 
leave for Iraqi soldiers was can­saying they violated the curfew and
Associated Press celed. a law that bans airing material that BAGHDAD -A round-the-clock No widespread bloodshed was could undermine the country's sta­curfew imposed ahead of the ver­reported in Baghdad, despite rau­bility. dict against Saddam Hussein kept a cous celebrations by Shiites who Brig. Gen. Abdul-Karim Khalaf, relative peace in Iraq's most dan­defied the curfew in the capital to the Interior Ministry spokesman, gerous regions on Sunday, but the rejoice over the death sentence told The Associated Press that the 
U.S. military announced two more given to Saddam and angry count­Al-Zawraa and Salahuddin stations American deaths and police said 72 er-protests in Sunni regions. were closed on the approval of people were killed or found dead The security crackdown was one Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. nationwide by daybreak. of the heaviest since the February West of Baghdad, fighters 
Iraq's government clamped the bombing of an important Shiite sprayed machine gun bullets at open-ended curfew on Baghdad shrine that unleashed rampant vio­U.S. headquarters in the former and the restive provinces of Diyala lence between Sunnis and Shiites. Sunni insurgent stronghold of and Salahuddin, closed the city's As an additional precaution, Fallujah, a local policeman said, international airport, added check­security forces closed two Sunni speaking on condition of anonymity points and stepped up police Muslim television stations after for fear of reprisals. No injuries or patrols with the U.S. military. All Saddam was sentenced to hang, arrests were reported. 
page 6 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 6, 2006 
SUDAN 
Leaders deny role in latest Darfur violence 
Associated Press 
KHARTOUM -The Sudanese government on Sunday denied involvement in a new wave of violence in the Darfur region that killed more than 50 people, blaming "outlaws" for the attacks. 
The United Nations released a report Friday accusing the gov­ernment-allied janjaweed mili­tia of raiding seven villages and a refugee camp in the Jebel Moon area of West Darfur on Oct. 29-30. 
The U.N. cited witnesses say­ing that men clad in Sudanese military officers' garb were with the horse-mounted militia when they attacked, killing at least 27 children and about as many adults. 
"At the very least, the attacks demonstrated the government of Sudan's continued failure to disarm militia in Darfur, and at worst its use of militia forces that target civilian populations," the U.N. report said. 
Sudan's government dis­missed the report as misleading. 
"We should be cautious about these reports circulated by the western media because they contain huge amounts of lies, manipulation and lack of credi­bility," Foreign Ministry spokesman Ali Sadeq told the official Sudan News Agency. 
"There are active outlaws in Darfur and it is not fair to accuse the government for all the looting, killing and vio­lence," Sadeq added. 
Sudan's Arab-dominated gov­ernment has long denied back­ing the janjaweed, a militia of Arab nomads blamed for much of the atrocities against ethnic African villagers in Darfur since 2003, when African rebels first took up arms against Khartoum. 
More than 200,000 people have since been killed, and 2.5 million displaced in the conflict. 
A May peace agreement between the government and one rebel group has been large­ly ignored and violence has escalated in recent months, with increased rebel infighting and a large army offensive in the north of the region. 
The foreign ministry said that neither the Sudanese army nor regular pro-government para­military groups were at present fighting in Darfur, contradicting multiple reports by internation­al observers in Darfur that the army and pro-government mili­tia continue to regularly clash with rebels in the region. 
In August, the U.N. Security Council approved a resolution that would allow the U.N. to take control of and significantly expand a peacekeeping force in Darfur, run so far by the African Union. But Khartoum opposes the move as "neocolonial." 
TAIWAN 

President denies embezzlen1ent 
Shui-bian refuses to resign, maintains first lady wrongly accused 
Associated Press 

TAIPEI -Taiwan's president refused to resign on Sunday and denied allegations that he and his wife had embezzled public money. But the opposi­tion did not buy his defense and prepared to launch a new campaign to remove him from office. 
President Chen Shui-bian's comments were his first since prosecutors indicted first lady Wu Shu-chen on embezzle­ment, forgery and perjury charges on Friday. She was accused of taking $450,000 from a special diplomaey fund in 2002-06. 
Prosecutors said Chen could be implicated in the case, but he cannot be indicted as a sit­ting president. 
The graft allegations have re-energized an opposition campaign to topple Chen, who has served for six rocky years and has 18 months left in his term. Thousands of protesters marched in the streets this weekend in Taiwan's two biggest cities. They honked air horns and carried signs read­ing, "End Corruption." 
Chen said the accusations announced Friday were painful and felt like a "politi­cal death sentence." 
"How can Chen Shui-bian be that kind of person, collecting false invoices to embezzle money?" he said Sunday in an hourlong televised address from the presidential office. 
He refused calls to resign immediately but said: "If my wife is convicted, then because the prosecutors believe my wife and I act together, I cannot escape. I'm willing to resign before my term is up." 
The president and his family have been dogged by corrup­tion rumors for months, but the latest scandal blew up with Friday's indictment. 
Some 4,000 protesters gath­ered earlier Sunday to demand Chen's resignation, and the deafening sound of blaring air horns rose from the crowd marching through downtown Taipei toward the wide boulevard in front of the presidential office. 
"The prosecutor's report was crystal clear," said Tsai Wen-chih, a computer engi­neer. "Without concrete evi­dence, would any prosecutor dare to accuse the president of corruption?" 
"Chen had better admit his errors," said Peter Huang, a businessman. "The longer he tries to hang on, the more cat­astrophie his outcome will be." 
In his address, Chen denied that he or his wife pocketed money from the special diplo­matie fund and eomplained that the regulations for the fund were "confusing and dif­ficult to follow." He then launched into a long, technical explanation about how the fund works, and he argued that the rules for using it needed to be more flexible. 
Chen failed to convinee the Nationalists, the biggest oppo­sition party. 
"It sounded like a lawyer's, not a president's defense. We still want him to resign imme­diately," said the party's spokesman Huang Yu-ehen. 
Opposition lawmakers said they planned Monday to launch their third attempt at passing a measure to recall Chen. They made a similar attempt in June and in October, but failed to muster the required two-thirds major­ity in the legislature needed to pass the motion calling for a referendum of Taiwanese vot­ers on whether to oust Chen. 
The opposition is hoping that ruling party lawmakers will begin defecting to their cause and give them enough votes to pass the recall meas­ure later this month. Already, the small pro-Chen Taiwan Solidarity Union announced its 12 lawmakers would be encouraged to vote for the recall measure. 

University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in Angers, France "Should I stay or should I go?" INFORMATION MEETING FINAL INFO SESSION BEFORE APPLICATION HEADLINE With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program Monday, November 6, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes-Healy Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 For Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud  


Tl·--IE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Monday, November 6, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Google Earth aids local initiative 
Dow 11,986.04 -32.50 Environmental groups use program to display effects of mountaintop mining 
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: Associated Press 1,515 128 1,749 2,422, 777,060 
VICCO, Ky. -Benny Campbell experiences mountaintop mining day and night. His bed is rattled by the blasting. Gray dust blankets his porch and car if a few days go by without rain. His electricity goes out repeatedly when the coal miners accidentally knock 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE down power lines. NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.11 41.93 But the worst thing of all, 
-0.26 
he says, is that the moun­

INTEL CP (INTC) -0.34 -0.07 20.5 I 
tain peaks that once loomed SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.88 -0.10 5.23 over his lifelong eastern MICROSOFr CP (MSFr) Kentucky home have been 
-0.14 -0.04 28.73 
flattened by dynamite and bulldozers. "When I was young, it
Treasuries 
was a really pretty place,"

I 0-YEAR NOTE +2.59 +0.119 4.715 
said Campbell, 53, who lives 13-WEEK BILL +0.41 +0.020 4.955 in a hollow called Bull Creek near Vicco. "Now it's 
30-YEAR BOND +2.06 +0.097 4.811 
just a rock pile. You can't do 

5-YEARNOTE +3.08 +0.140 4.689 
nothing with it." Commodities Now environmentalists have found a way to let the

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.26 59.14 
rest of the world see what 

GOLD ($1Troy oz.) + 1.40 629.20 
mountaintop coal mining PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.95 91.45 has done to Appalachia: They have started a Web
Excha Rates 

YEN site that uses the Google
118.07000 

Earth database to enable EURO 0.7867 people to see aerial recon­POUND naissance photos of the
0.5260 
scarred countryside. 

CANADIAN$ 
I. I 305 
"The point is mountaintop removal has gone on under a cloak of secrecy," said 

IN BRIEF Mary Anne Hitt, executive director of Appalachian Voices, one of a half-dozen
Researchers tout new lice treabnent 
environmental groups Web site buries the benefits an e-mail. which he lived for 15 years. 
SALT lAKE CITY -Head lice -those nasty involved in the Internet of mountaintop mining. For James Bowling, "We in Hazard had nonuisances for schoolchildren and parents -were 
campaign. "Unless you have "I clearly think it's for mountaintop removal has place to build," saidblown away in half an hour by a new blow dryer­the experience of flying over shock value," said Bill been a blessing. The 59-Stevens, 58. "Mining lookslike device its inv·entors call the "LouseBuster," the region in a small plane, Caylor, head of the year-old built his dream bad when it's going on, butuniversity researchers report. 
it's hard to understand the Kentucky Coal Association. home atop a flattened then you have some beauti­The device, which kills bugs and eggs by drying scale of mountaintop "They're playing the emo­mountain called Red Oak ful land after that and thatthem out, might one day offer an alternative to 
removal." tional card on us." and has 250 acres of newly can be used by people." 
the powerful delousing shampoos and literal nit­Their Web site, Caylor and Carol Raul­leveled land to raise 80 Hitt said the harm to thepicking currently necessary for dealing with this 
http://www.ilovemountains.o ston, spokeswoman for the head of cattle and vegeta­environment should be ofwidespread problem. 
rg/, was launched in mid­National Mining Associa­bles. greater concern than devel­The LouseBuster results were reported in the September with a link to the tion, said the Web site is "If it wasn't for mountain­opment. "We're eliminatingNovember issue of the journal Pediatrics by campaign's "National misleading because it fails top removal, I wouldn't be mountains off the face ofUniversity of Utah researchers who said the Memorial of the Moun­to acknowledge mine recla­here," said Bowling, who the Earth," she said, adding, device eliminates infestations by preventing tains," which shows a Goo­mation projects. lived in the valley below Red "The reclaimed sites lookreproduction. 
gle Earth map of Appa­"In many parts of Oak before allowing a mine nothing more than anemicThe study, involving 169 children in the Salt lachia. The map pinpoints Appalachia, these reclama­company to extract coal golf courses." 
Lake area, showed the LouseBuster killed 80 per­areas of mountaintop tion activities have provided from his property at 50 Folks living near Camp­cent of hatched lice and 98 percent of eggs on 
removal with graphics of much needed level land cents per ton. bell's hollow also say there's infested children. Enough bugs were killed to 
flags at half-staff, and a 3-d above the flood plain for Chester Stevens of no good side to mountaintop prevent remaining lice from breeding so "virtual­tour reveals clear views of construction of schools, gov­Hazard, one of the most mining and that their smallly all subjects were cured of head lice when sludge ponds, blasting holes ernment offices, medical heavily mined areas in east­community values the natu­examined one week following treatment with the and mountains scraped of facilities, airports, shopping ern Kentucky, said moun­ral beauty of the mountainsLouseBuster," the scientists wrote. 
their peaks. centers and housing devel­taintop removal allowed over new buildings and"The idea would be that instead of sending kids The coal industry says the opments," Raulston said in him to build the home in resorts.
home from school, which is a hardship on kids and the parents, a kid might be able to go to the front office and get treated" and return to class, said biologist Dale Clayton, the co-inventor and leader of the research. 
Stocks fall as oil rises amid threats 
Northwest seeks to recall its pilots 
EAGAN, Minn. -Northwest Airlines Corp., pings and bombing attacks in the com­said the employment figures suggest
Associated Press which is working to emerge from bankruptcy, is ing days in areas where oil is extract­the economy has more power than planning to recall hundreds of furloughed pilots NEW YORK -Wall Street ended the ed. expected going into the holiday spend­
this year and next, more than it initially said it week with a moderate decline Friday The Labor Department said the ing season but warned that the would recall, the pilot's union said. after oil prices jumped on word of pos­unemployment rate fell to 4.4 percent strength could make the Fed uneasy.Northwest, the nation's fifth-largest airline, sent sible attacks in Nigeria near produc­last month from 4.6 percent in "Investors have to digest the notion letters to at least 425 pilots seeking to recall them tion facilities. The rise in crude prices September, easing some concerns that that the Fed is going to remain poised as of Oct. 10 and expects to recall about 150 pilots sapped enthusiasm over a Labor the economy has slowed too quickly. to lift interest rates as we go into 
more in the first half of 2007, according to a letter Department report that the nation's For more than a week, investors have 2007." from Tim Campbell, a Northwest vice president. unemployment rate fell to a five-year been nervous about the strength of the The Dow closed down 32.50, or 0.27 "We have been recalling pilots for the past three low. economy following a stream of disap­percent, at 11,986.04. It was the aver­months to meet our needs," Northwest While stocks overall fell for a third pointing data. While Wall Street wants age's first close under 12,000 since spokesman Roman Blahoski told the St. Paul straight day, the Dow Jones industrial growth to cool so the threat of inflation Oct. 19, when it finished above that newspaper. average, the best-known stock index, will dissipate and the Federal Reserve milestone for the first time. 
The airline, which laid off up to 729 pilots after logged its first six consecutive day can cut interest rates, a precipitous Broader stock indicators also closed tl1e Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, reduced serv­drop since June 2005. Light, sweet slowdown could slice into consumer lower. The Standard & Poor's 500 ice and filed for bankruptcy reorganization in crude rose $1.26 to $59.14 on the New spending and corporate profits. index fell 3.04, or 0.22 percent, to 
September 2005, said it was recalling the pilots York Mercantile Exchange after U.S. Alan Gayle, senior investment 1,364.30, and the Nasdaq composite because of increased business and to fill spots diplomats in Nigeria warned that mili­strategist and director of asset alloca­index fell 3.23, or 0.14 percent, to vacated by pilots who had left the company. tants are planning a series of kidnap-tion for Trusco Capital Management, 2,330.79. 


----------------------. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, November 6, 2006 
Diet books shown on 'Oprah' sell111illions 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The Oprah book club has been quiet for months, but the Winfrey touch remains golden. 
Just ask the publishers of diet doctors Michael F. Roizen and Mehmet C. Oz. 
Since an appearance last Thursday on Winfrey's televi­sion talk show, books by Roizen and Oz have occupied the top three spots on the best seller list of Amazon.com, with customers buying both the book alone and the book and DVD of their new work, "YOU: On a Diet," and the hardcover edition of a previ­ous text, "YOU: The Owner's Manual," a million seller in 2005 thanks in part to Winfrey. 
"Oprah obviously has a pas­sion for their work. It's very exciting," said Martha Levin, publisher of the Free Press, an imprint of Simon & Schuster that has increased the print run of "YOU: On a Diet," from 650,000 to 950,000. 
Roizen and Oz specialize in easy-to-understand guides to healthy living, written with hip, simple language. The authors regard the human body as a house _ the heart is the water main, the digestive system part of the plumbing and the bones the foundation. 
Winfrey's support. for Roizen and Oz is separate from her book club picks, which virtu­ally guarantees hundreds of thousands of sales. Her last official selection was 10 months ago, when she chose Elie Wiesel's "Night," her longest hiatus since she sus­pended the club for a year in 2002-2003. 
"It has been a long time," Levin told the AP on Sunday, "and publishers have been thinking about her club with nostalgia." 

NBC 'Nightly Ne-ws' back on top 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Brian Williams has the smile of a man about to unleash a secret weapon. 
Or two. He's preparing for his first election night as NBC News' chief anchor Tuesday knowing he'll be flanked on the broadcast by his predeces­sor, Tom Brokaw, and Tim Hussert, the Washington veter­an popular for his plainspoken intensity during tense nights of vote counting. 
It's a formidable edge to take into competition with two other rookies in the role, CBS' Katie Couric and ABC's Charles Gibson, and could help cement his status as the most popular network news anchor. 
Not that there weren't a few anxious moments around NBC News earlier this fall. 
Williams' "Nightly News" was knocked from its first­place perch for two weeks by Couric's "CBS Evening News" upon her early September debut, falling perilously close to third. But NBC returned to the top during Couric's third week, and hasn't been beaten since. 
Williams got letters from regular viewers telling him they had tried Couric's broad­cast, including one man who admitted his wife made him watch for a week, he said. 
"As one of our executives put it, (they came) crawling home with the vague hint of cheap perfume and lipstick on their collar, crawling back after having an affair with another network," Williams told The Associated Press. "People are so loyal, is my point, that they feel the need to tell me that they've been watching someone else." 
In retrospect, Williams and his executive producer, John Heiss, said they expected "Nightly News" would be hurt initially since Couric was a former colleague at NBC News. 
They also said they weren't surprised that the evening­news competition quickly returned to the same pecking order that was in place for the last few years when Brokaw, Peter Jennings and Dan Hather were on each night ­NBC first, ABC second and CBS third. 
"I go home each night with the confidence of knowing we did the best broadcast that evening," Williams said. "I believe the best journalism wins the most viewers on tele­vision. It finds its audience. The audience finds it. So I never for a moment thought these long-established pat­terns were going to be upend­ed for the long haul." 
It's probably safe now for people at NBC News to exhale, said Andrew Tyndall, a con­sultant who studies the con­tent of the evening newscasts. 
To upend Williams, Couric has to prove she is markedly better at the job and she has­n't done that, he said. 
"His newscast is not a work in progress," Tyndall said. "It's sure of itself and has got its own rhythm so there are very few missteps in a half hour. They know what they're doing and they execute their plan." 

NICARAGUA 
Daniel Ortega tries to regain presidency after 16 years 
Associated Press "anti-democratic forces prevail" consecutive presidential cam­of the vote if he leads his closest said before climbing into his 
in the election. Venezuelan paign. He won a 1984 election opponent by five percentage Mercedes sport utility vehicle and 
MANAGUA-Nicaraguans President Hugo Chavez has open­boycotted by Sandinista oppo­points. Recent polls showed him driving away with his wife. hiked miles through the jungle, ly favored his "brother" Ortega. nents, and took power in 1985. with a comfortable lead over Polls have shown Ortega would paddled canoes down remote Ortega faces four opponents: He lost in 1990 to Violeta Montealegre, but just short of the have trouble winning a rivers and waited under a sear­Harvard-educated Eduardo Chamorro, ending Sandinista votes needed to avoid a second December runoff. While he has a ing sun to vote Sunday on Montealegre, Sandinista dissi­rule and the Contra war. His next round. loyal base of support, many vot­whether to return Sandinista dent Edmundo Jarquin, ruling two presidential attempts in Ortega cast his vote amid a ers still have bitter memories of leader Daniel Ortega to power 16 party candidate Jose Rizo and 1996 and 2001 were also fail­throng of cameramen, saying he Sandinista rule, which left the years after a U.S.-backed rebel­former Contra rebel Eden ures. was confident runoff would not country in an economic shambles lion helped push him out of Pastora. Most polls show his clos­But Ortega could win this elec­be needed. and saw 30,000 killed in the war office. est rival is Montealegre of the tion outright with just 35 percent "Nicaragua wins today," he against the U.S.-backed Contras. 
Ortega has his best chance in 16 years to regain the presiden­cy, which he held from 1985­1990 when he fought a war against U.S.-backed Contra rebels who tried to oust him. 
This election in the second­poorest nation in the hemisphere has become a tug-of-war between leftist Venezuela and its archrival, the United States. 
U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez has said that aid and trade "will be endangered" if Nicaraguan Liberal Alliance, a party that broke from the Constitutionalist Liberal Party of former President Arnoldo Aleman, who was convicted of corruption following his 1997­2002 term. 
Results will begin to trickle in late Sunday, but officials will probably not declare a winner until Monday at the earliest. Voters are also electing a new Congress. 
The race was Ortega's fifth 


UNIVERSITV OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 
For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2006 
5:00 PM, 204 DeBartolo 

' 

Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Man serving life for civil rights killing dies 
Associated Press Dahmer announced that resi­
dents could pay their poll taxes 

Former Ku Klux Klan at his grocery store, which was Imperial Wizard Samuel H. next to his home. The home and Bowers, who was convicted store also were torched. eight years ago of ordering the When the Dahmer family 1966 bombing death of a civil awoke to honking horns in the rights leader, died Sunday in a pre-dawn hours that January state penitentiary, officials said. morning, two carloads of He was 82. Klansmen were waiting outside. 
He died of cardio pulmonary They firebombed Dahmer when arrest, said Mississippi he exited the home, according Department of Corrections to court testimony during a spokeswoman Tara Booth. four-day trial in Forrest County 
Bowers was convicted in Circuit Court in 1998. August of 1998 of ordering the Dahmer was able keep the assassination of Vernon Dahmer Klansmen at bay with a shotgun Sr., a civil rights activist who while his family fled, but flames had fought for black rights dur­had already seared his lungs ing Mississippi's turhulent and he died in his wife's arms struggle for racial equality. He about 12 hours later. was sentenced to life in prison. During the trial, prosecutors 
"He was supposed to stay claimed Bowers ordered the there until he died. I guess he attack after becoming enraged fulfilled that," Dahmer's widow, that Dahmer was trying to reg­Ellie Dahmer, told The ister blacks to vote. Associated Press on Sunday. Bowers' lawyers claimed he "He lived a lot longer than was "sacrificed to the media" to Vernon Dahmer did." further the political ambitions 
Booth said that the Klansman of the attorney general at the died at approximately 11:30 time, Mike Moore. 
a.m. in the Mississippi State Earlier trials for Bowers, Penitentiary Hospital in including at least two before all­Parchman, a sprawling prison white juries, ended in mistrials. carved out of the cotton and A 1968 state jury split 11-1 in soybean fields in the impover­favor of guilty, while a 1969 ished Mississippi Delta. jury split 10-2 in favor of cpn­
Dahmer, who championed viction. equal voting rights for blacks, Bowers' conviction was just died at the age of 58 after being one in string of civil rights fire-bombed outside his killings to be successfully prose­Hattiesburg-area home on Jan. cuted in the South decades after 10, 1966. The attack came after the crimes were committed. 
Marathon tough for Artnstrong 
Cycler calls NYC competition 'hardest physical thing I've ever done' 
Associated Press barely walk up here, because miles. He started to fall off the 
the calves are completely knot­pace required to break 3 hours 
NEW YORK-His face twist­ted up." before a final push allowed ed in pain, Lance Armstrong Armstrong's build presented him to meet his personal goal. virtually walked the last couple a .stark contrast to the elite "Before the race that was my of steps. He slowed to a halt men's runners who preceded goal, I wanted to break 3 immediately after the finish him on the course. The cycling hours. But if you told me with line and bent to the ground, champion's heavily muscled 3 miles to go, 'You're going to his green shirt soaked with legs and powerful chest set do 3:05,' I wouldn't have sweat. him apart from the slender cared," he said. "Honestly, at 
No one's more familiar with Kenyans who traditionally the end I was so tired, I could­how painful achieving goals dominate the race. Even n't care. Now I'm glad I did." can be. Armstrong compared the lead­About an hour after the 
Still, not even he saw this ers' legs to pencils. men's and. women's champions coming. And while there was little joy had crossed the finish line, the 
Armstrong barely met his among the leaders during the Central Park crowd really lofty goal of breaking 3 hours race, Armstrong started to buzz in his first marathon, but it smiled and chat-as Armstrong came at a price. No Alpine ted amiably dur­approached. climb on his bicycle had ever ing the first half of Fans seemed
"I don't know how 
been as tough as Sunday's New the race. He wore much more
these guys do it. " 
York City Marathon, he said. a shirt saying enthused at 
"For the level of condition LANCE and dis­seeing Arm­that I have now, that was with­playing the num­Lance Armstrong strong than out a doubt the hardest physi­bers 10/2 -the watching a
champion cyclist 
cal thing I have ever done," date 10 years ago Brazilian man said Armstrong, who finished on which he was and a Latvian 856th. "I never felt a point diagnosed with woman win where I hit the wall, it was cancer, before he began his titles earlier on a crisp autumn 
really a gradual progression of amazing Tour de France afternoon. fatigue and soreness." streak. "Lance added a lot," said 
Armstrong's time was 2 He was paced for most of the race director Mary Wittenberg. hours, 59 minutes and 36 sec­race by former marathon "He was a delight throughout. onds. Afterward, he shuffled champions Alberto Salazar Everybody is so excited about into a post-race news confer­and Joan Benoit Samuelson him. He beat a lot of odds and 
ence, his right shin heavily and middle-distance running impressed a lot of people." taped. great Hicham El Guerrouj, and So will he be back? 
"I think I bit off more than I said he got a lot of support "Now's not the time to ask could chew, I thought the from fans packed along the that question. The answer now marathon would be easier," he course. is no, I'll never be back. But I said. "(My shins) started to But his body seemed to tight­reserve the right to change my hurt in the second half, espe­en and showed signs of pain mind," he said. "I don't know cially the right one. I could and fatigue in the final few how these guys do it." 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 6, 2006 
Data reveals increase in school bus accidents 
New research shows 17,000 children are injured each year 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -New national data show school bus-related accidents send 17,000 U.S. chil­dren to emergency rooms each year, more than double the num­ber in previous estimates that only included crashes. 
Nearly one-fourth of the acci­dents occur when children are board-on school bus safety," McGeehan said. 
The study appears in November's Pediatrics, being released Monday. 
The research, involving nonfa­tal injuries treated in emergency rooms, is based on 2001-2003 data from a surveillance system operated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Some 51,100 children up to age 19 were injured during the study period, or about 17,000 annual­ly, the researchers said. 
Data from the government's 
National Highway 
Traffic Safety 

ing or leaving Administration
"The study shows 

school buses, while through 2005 show
that there needs 

crashes account for that about 8,000 42 percent, the to be continued children are new research vigilance on injured each year shows. in school bus
school bus 

Slips and falls on crashes but on buses, getting jos­safety. n average fewer than tled when buses nine are killed _ stop or turn sud­numbers that have
Jennifer McGeehan 

denly, and injuries remained stable
researcher

from roughhousing are among other ways kids get hurt on school buses, the data found. 
Injuries range from cuts and sprains to broken bones, but most are not life-threatening and don't require hospitaliza­tion. And while the numbers are higher than previously reported, they represent a small fraction of the 23.5 million children who travel on school buses nation­wide each year, the researchers said. 
The researchers said the results provide a strong argu­ment for requiring safety belts on school buses, something industry groups say is unneces­sary and is more than many school districts can afford. 
Safety belts, particularly lap­shoulder belts "could not only prevent injuries related to crashes," they could also keep kids seated "so they're not falling out of their seats when buses make normal turns or brake," said lead author Jennifer McGeehan, a researcher at Columbus Children's Hospital's Center for Injury Research and Policy in Columbus, Ohio. 
"Our study shows that there needs to be continued vigilance for the last decade 
or so, the agency said. The tally is based on police reports, and not all injuries resulted in emergency room treatment. 
In a 2002 report to Congress, NHTSA recommended against lap-only belts in school buses because they can be risky, espe­cially in small children, by restraining them high on the abdomen, potentially causing internal injury in a crash. 
Five states -California, Florida, Louisiana, New Jersey and New York -and some dis­tricts have implemented varying safety belt requirements for school buses, according to the National Coalition for School Bus Safety, a nonprofit advocacy group. 
"It's an expensive proposition to outfit school buses with lap­shoulder belts, not just because of the cost of the equipment but because it also reduces seating capacity," said Robin Leeds of the National School Transportation Association, an industry group that represents school bus companies. 
She said school buses are the safest way for kids to get to school, with or without safety belts. 

THE BosToN CoNSULTING GRouP  
<or: '#.=:·'  
Summer Associate  
Positions  
for Juniors  
with the  
BOSTON CONSULTING  
GROUP  
APPLICATION  
DEADLINE TOMORROW:  
Tuesday, November 7th,  
2006  
Interested candidates,  
please apply via  
GoIRISH  
Please see GoiRISH for a detailed  
listing of application requirement-;.  
Questions?:  
Anne Williamson  
Associate Recruiting Coordinator  
williamson.anne@bcg.com  
BCG  
BCG is an equal opportuuity employet: wwwJx:g.corn  


Bush hails Saddam verdict 
President celebrates sentence as milestonefor Iraq's young denwcracy 
Associated Press 

GHAND ISLAND, Neb. ­President Bush celebrated Saddarn Hussein's death sen­tence as a victory for "Iraq's young democracy" and U.S. security, highlighting Sunday's verdict in the last hours or an election campaign in which Hepublicans are suffering from public discontent with the Iraq war. 
Whitn I louse spokesman Tony Snow decried as "absolutely erazy" any notion that the end to Saddam's nine-month trial was timnd to produce positive news on the divisive, unpopular war two days beliml Amerieans vote. The United States has always denied direct involvement in the trial. though suspicions persisted. 
Snow didn't entirely set polities aside, asserting that U.S. voters "ought to be heartened" by the verdict and il<> broader implica­tions about the progress the administration insists is evident in Iraq. 
"This is getting the Iraqis to stand up on their own," Snow said. "You can't have eivil society without rule of law." 
Bush painted Saddam 's convic­tion and sentence as vindieation of the sacrifices made by Ameriean soldiers in Iraq. More than 2,800 members of the U.S. military have died since the U.S.­led invasion in March 2003. 
"They've sacril'ieed for the security of the United States," said the president, who spoke to reporters for two minutes in Texas before flying to campaign appearances on behalf of newly in-peril Hcpublicans in Nebraska and Kansas. "Without their courage and skill, today's verdict would not have happened." 
With the verdict a chance to recall Saddam's December 2003 capture by U.S. troops in a hole in the ground -still one of the high points of the war for Bush -he repeated these points later during campaign visil<> to two of America's reddest states. 
"Today we witnessed a land­mark event in the history of Iraq," Bush said in western Nebraska, where he was trying to boost GOP state Sen. Adrian Smith in a tight1med race against Democrat Scott Kleeb. Delivnred in solid Bush Country, in an arena awash in rod clothing, the president's Iraq lines earned the most sustained cheering of his speech. 
"My decision to remove Saddam Hussnin was the right decision and the world is better off for it," he said to raucous applausn. 
An Iraqi court convicted Saddam earlier Sunday and sen­tencnd him to die by hanging for ordering the torture and murder of nearly 150 Shiites from the city of Dujail in 1982. Six subor­dinates were also found guilty of crimes against humanity, whieh came after what Saddam said was an assassination attempt against him. 
Shiites rejoiced at the death sentence for the former dictator who terrorized their population. But Saddam's fellow Sunnis paraded through his hometown in protest. With sectarian vio­lence already pushing Iraq to the brink of civil war, presidential counselor Dan Bartlett said Bush is confident U.S. forces and Iraqi soldiers were prepared to con­tain any spike in bloodshed. 
Democrats -hoping for large gains that could put them in con­trol of the House and possibly the Senate -moved quickly to both applaud the sentence and repeat their campaign-trail argument that Bush's leadership on Iraq has been a failure. 

"The scope of that failure is not lessened by the results of Saddam's trial," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., poL<>ed to become I louse speaker if Democrats wrest the majority from the GOP. 
A history of Election Day disap­pointments and a constantly shifting pre-election landscape appnared to have Democrats a bit jittery. New York Sen. Charles Schumer, in charge of DPmocratie campaign efforts in the Senatfl, said, "I don't think (Sad-dam's) conviction makes much of a diflerence in this elec­tion, even though it's a very good thing that happened." 
Other Hepublieans backed Bush's contention of the verdict as evidence of success in Iraq. "The United States and the world are safer because Saddam Hussein sil<> on death row, not in a palace in Baghdad plotting to harm millions of innocent Americans and Iraqis," said House Majority Whip Hoy Blunt, H-Mo. 
But at least one Republican said the news must be viewed in the context of the diflicult situa­tion in Iraq. 
"Saddam Hussein's trial is a step forward because it was a result of a legal system in opera­tion, not a dictator in operation, so that's the good news," Sen. lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said on CNN's "Late Edition." "But when you look at the institutions of government in Iraq, they're all under siege.... We just need a strategy to provide better securi­ty to get this right." 
Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
Learn more about ~1arjon Walrod and tell us more about you. Visit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with YOU~ 
"'connectedthinking 


~ ~~....:.~ ~?~.:;:~.f'Ji~~,_$...~<1'·--:~~.:·C";s:1,.-~t" •:o·.o·· ..... ~ ~ ~"'tF':.!.:E;..,.Zi.; ~::;.~~·:£.-ijf~::C,;)ofii!;,·~-·.;.~·~.:..'if...ff;:'!.";..,-.:.li:>/;~~~,'f.[;.':' -'<$:"'.:'.c'!~~ W2 ~-~.;:'*,';;[;J,.~~{~;g'..;~'r"~C.<ft{..-.;:.':i{j,~ ~....,..~~ ·'1: 'i;;.:i;J#iJJ;.iJ#i~";j;;"if}. ~·-::·-~{~~~--; ~,: o'' f'¥-~~~jt'·~;::..-y-o:f"%~1:. ...~rc:Jt'fi#i. f:}i!tf::~~-~:if,· :t;d {'f-~:it.~":it·Z.~ ~""'f-·:~. -~ ~-~~ 1~~-::"-;;.~:e..'i#.~ ~~~t ~-:.-i '!!fE.f'~:.t;r ·-~ ~ ~ifi!J.7-A/11lt~· ~'';;.;.; '~'-::';:~k~'f'fli,W.:;t. Ji/;:'1:~~--%r:·t:f!'f;. "'-·!;·.' ,.\/.~~..,>~~;(~\:~·.t;~n;r,1: ~ -~ ~JS\ ~ .Jii,'!S£ ~~',i;~ ~-~~ A.~-~JiM!.l'!i!;t/;. ~'t!/Ii?.':', :Jf.:_7i:i ~~-£':;:::.0;;;Jfk"f"W.'i:;; r:::··.::.;;i'-~"->:"'·:-:. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, November 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

What a cam-pain in the butt 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 465 56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574)631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tb.e-0b$crver (USPS 599 2-4000) i$ published Monday through Friday ac~pt d~rin~:t e)llam and vac~tiun periOOs. A subscript:Wn ro The Observer ts $100 for one ~emic ya.r; $55 for onf' semcsler. 
The Observer is publish«! at; POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address correaions to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Tiu: Observer Periodical postage paid at Notte D.une P.O. Bo~779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Somh Dining HaH 
Nom: Dame, IN 4.6556..0n9 
11M: Obscrn:r is a member uf the ~atcd Prm. All tq>toduaiun rights are .=tV«~. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Eileen Duffy Ken Fowler Maureen Mullen Dan Murphy Steve Kerins Michael Bryan Viewpoint Scene Lianna Cassie Belek 
Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 
January 2007: After sweeping to victory in last November's midterm elections, the Democratic Party regained control of the House and Senate for the first time in more than a decade. Now, only a week into the new Congressional term, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader I larry Reid are already up to their ears in scan­dals that the Republican Party so wisely forecasted in its 2006 campaign advertisement<; ­all of which turned out to be lOO-per­cent true. 
As predicted by the Hepublican National Committee, newly elected Tennessee Senator Harold E. Ford Jr., the first African-American Senator from the South since Reconstruction, has already convert­ed his Russell Senate Building office into an East Coast annex of the Playboy Mansion. The scantily dad blonde who winked suggestively and said, "Harold, call me," in last fall's campaign ad has ironi­cally been named Ford's chief mistress, and she has not wasted any time in installing hot tubs, saunas, massage tables, stripper poles and sex swings in his new office. 
Unfortunately, the controversies f~teing the Democrats do not end with Senator Ford. Freslunan VIrginia Senator Jim Webb, as well, has taken heat for his attempts to pass legislation that would make his often-explicit, adult novels required reading for all students in America's public elementary schools. Webb reportedly has no concern that chil­dren will be forced to read passages like the following from his book, A Country Such As This: "Two North Vietnamese 

Joey 
Falco 
forty Ounces 
to Falco 
EDITORAL CARTOON 

nurses attended Red in the hospital, llirt­ing with him coyly, until one day when one of them came to him, took oil' her top land performed a sexual actl." According to Webb's ollice, the senator hopes to cncour­agn similar erotic behavior in America's youths. 
In this sadistic venture, Webb dearly has been in cahoots with Ohio's newly elected Democratic governor, Ted Strickland, who -as everyone who watched his liJrmer opponent's ad campai!,'ll knows -is a vehement supporter of man-boy love. Specifically, according to gubernatorial loser Ken Blackwell, Strickland once failed to support a resolution condemning sex between adull'> and children, and this his­tory of vicarious pedophilia has certainly returned to the political forefront. Just yes­terday, Strickland introduced legislation that would permit teacher-student sexual relations in Ohio's public schools-as long as the teacher is over the age of 40 and the student under the age of 13. When reached lor comment from his bedroom in his parents' basement, Blackwell would only say, "I told ya so." 
The situation is similar in the I louse of Hepresentatives, where Pelosi dearly appears to be losing control of her party. Hop. Hon Kind of Wisconsin, whom a Hepublican opponent accused of "paying lor sex" in a campaign ad last fall,. has indeed lived up to the GOP's worst fears. Word for word from the ads criticizing him, Kind has already continued spending tax dollars to study "the sex lives of Vietnamese prostitutes," "the masturba­tion habits of old men," and "to pay teenage girls to watch pornographic movies with probes connected to their genitalia." What's more, Kind has pushed this reckless disregard for common decen­cy even further by using the results of these sex studies to determine why Vietnamese hookers arc the best, how many Viagra pills Kind's heart can sustain at once, and how he can get his female interns to start watching porn with him. 
According to Kind, he is enjoying sticking 
it to the social conservatives who ran the 
country since 1994 by paying for sex with 
government dollars. 
Of course, a penchant fi)r sexual inde­cency and an inherent desire to corrupt the virgin minds of America's youth have not been the only criticisms of the new Democratic Congressional leadership. As predicted by an ad sponsored by Indiana Congressman John N. Hostettler, Pelosi has immediately set to work putting in motion "her radical plan to advance the homosexual agenda." In fact, for the past several days, gays and lesbians have been dancing in the street<> in response to Pelosi's legislation that not only renamed traditional heterosexual marriage "civil unions," but also allocated federal funds to the production of television shows like "The Gay Bachelor," "A Lesbian Wedding Story" and "Leave It to Beaver." 
In the Senate as well, Heid has wasted no time in passing a bill that would require all American soldiers in Iraq to "cut and run" home so that they can assist in giving abortions at the country's numerous understaffed family planning clinics. Just as the Hepublicans predicted in their ad campai6'11 last fall, the Democrats would like nothing more than to undermine the soda! well-being of America and send us all straight to hell. 
Let this be a lesson to everyone who doubted the veracity and intent behind the negative ad campaigns of 2006: Mudslinging is the keystone of American democracy, and without it, we are no bet­ter than the terrorists. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. He can be reached at 
.ifalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think the decision to give graduate students access to USC tickets was the correct one? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit aLetter to tbe Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Excellence is not a singular act, but a habit. You are what you repeatedly do." 
Aristotle philosopher 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, November 6, 2006 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Plan B 

Since the publication of my Letter to the Editor ("Women, students deserve apology," Nov. 2), I have received several emails in the spirit of the Andrew Rosato Letter to the Editor ("Plan B destroys embryo in some cases," Nov. 3), challenging my assertions that Plan B only prevents pregnancy by pre­venting ovulation, and no evidence has been found that it interferes with implantation. 
In light of these letters, I feel I owe my readers a slight apology, for not including citations to support these assertions; since I had no trouble finding supporting evidence, I assumed that the citations would simply be a waste of space. That assumption was incor­rect, and I am sorry for making it. Please allow me to correct my mistake now. In a brief written in 2005, the Population Council cites a peer-reviewed article to support the claim that "levonorgestrel [the drug used in Plan B] did not interfere with any postfertil­ization process required for embryo implan­tation." (As of this writing, that brief can be viewed online here: http://tinyurl.com/rkv48.) 
This year, in a summary of research on hormonal contraceptives and the copper IUD, Family Health International wrote that "There is no data available to support pre­vention of implantation as a contraceptive action ofDMPA or any of the other currently available hormonal contraceptives, including pills and implants." (As of this writing. this source can be viewed online here: http://tinyurl.com/yyfc3g.) 
Regarding Barr Pharmaceuticals' own Web site, as quoted in Rosato's letter, I would point out that they use the qualifier "may," do not provide citations. and use nontechni­cal. informal language. This makes it diffi­cult. at best. to accurately interpret and evaluate the quoted claims. I thank you for the opportunity to correct my previous mis­take. 
Dan Hicks grad student off campus Nov. 3 

Club leaders to discuss global health crisis 
I'd like to follow up with Amanda Golbabai's Letter to the Editor ("Club leaders discuss global health crisis," Oct. 27) two weeks ago and reemphasize the excite­ment and hope that the global health committee has towards the initiative to make a positive impact on the global health crisis through a united effort amongst student groups on campus. 
However, support and co-spon­sorship are needed amongst all these groups and I'm calling upon club and organization leaders. along with any other interested persons. to attend the initial meet­ing that will provide details with regard to our plans for action including fundraising. continuing education, the Notre Dame cur­riculum, political action and faith. Please join us and find out where your club fits into this campus­wide effort on Wednesday at 10 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Once the Notre Dame student body is united, we can truly make a difference in the global health crisis on a scale we'd never dream possible as an individual. Come be a part of the difference. 
Katlyn Regan 
senior off campus 
Nov. 3 

Ticket lottery divides students 
Be fair about debate 

So now that we've all aired our opposing views on the ticket lottery situation, perhaps it's time to take a step back and look at what has been said and what has been ignored. Let's establish who I am first: I am a graduate student in my fifth year, so I've seen a lot of social and justice issues being aired in this debate. 
The Observer editorial made some good points but failed to offer proper context. Graduate students are removed from the social identity of the campus. but in large part that is because Notre Dame is so inwardly focused on its small families that it excludes anyone who doesn't enter into that structure their way. Don't blame or punish the grad students because they don't fit the traditional mold. 
At the same time. please do not belittle us by claiming the undergraduate "identity." The reason Notre Dame is a top-notch undergraduate school is because it attracts top-notch graduate students to help teach its classes and labs. Without those gradu­ate students. many important classes would cease to function in the way you have come to know. 
That said, I think this whole argument arises from a lack of focus on the part of the graduate students who started it. While we are students by definition. we are here with a very different purpose. Most of us are here not to be traditional students. but to make the step from students to professionals. 
In many cases the students raising these issues are on stipend programs. which means we don't pay tuition. and right there is the best argument for excluding us from the lottery. As I read the initial protest e-mail I was stunned by the amount of energy and intensity that people would put into even a chance to get tickets. I can only imagine what these people might be accomplishing in their research if they weren't planning protests. Maybe the sad­dest part of this to me is that of all the problems we as graduate students have. from healthcare costs to cost-of-living adjust­ments and child-care to parking. that we have wasted what little bargaining power we have on sports tickets. In my opinion it's a sad situation-there are so many positive things we could have fought for that would have united, not divided. This is just the opinion of one graduate student who has been around the block. 
Take it or leave it, but let this die and solve bigger problems next time. 
Chris Nicholson grad student off campus 
Nov. 3 

WeareND: grad/undergrad relations 
When it comes to debating away game ticket lotteries. most students are forgetting one thing: We are ND. That means. no matter what program we are in or what degree we gradu­ate with. we are all part of an institution that has a tradition of making every student feel welcome and a part of the Notre Dame Family. 
We did this in the early 1900s by disrupting meetings of the KKK in nearby communities (which, incidentally, helped us earn the nick­name "The Fighting Irish"). In the 1970s, we continued this by becoming one of America's first co-ed Catholic Colleges. And, in 1989, when Zhengde Wang (a graduate student) was paralyzed in a senseless hit and run, we formed "The Shirt" to raise money for his ris­ing medical costs. 
We have never been like any other college in America-we have always been better. We have always been more welcoming. We have always been more generous. We have always been more inclusive. We have always seen past age, sex, race, religion, and university degree. We are-and have always been­ND. Don't let this issue break that tradition. 
Shawn Ahmed grad student off campus Nov. 3 

Respect, not generalize 
I want to make a comment regarding your opinion of graduate students at Notre Dame. I believe your com­ments to be misdirected and instead of trying to include and respect all students on campus as you are taught to do, you are trying to create a division. 
How can you say I do not have as much passion as you do because I am a graduate student? You do not know me; you do not know what I had to go through in order to get here. Where were you when our team was losing to Michigan in the fourth quar­ter? I was still in the stands cheering our team on. while I saw many of the under­

graduate students leaving. 
I have an incredible pas­sion for this school and I · have had to drop everything in my life to come here. I do not regret this decision because it is the only place I have ever been that makes me feel like I am at home, that I belong here. I under­stand the passion, the sor­rows, the joys. the sweat and tears, and courage that have gone into making Notre Dame the greatest university in the world. It is by courage alone that I am here -if it were not for a priest who had the courage to follow the life God created for him. and then help others including myself to find that courage, I would not be here today. I could never fully describe in words how deep my passion runs for Notre Dame, but understand that it is there. 
I truly believe that we are all here for a greater pur­pose than attending school, so remember you did not choose Notre Dame, She chose you. She chose you because She knew you would go out into the world and have the courage to stand up for what is right. Please do not let her down while you are here. 
ElizaBeth Little grad student off campus Nov. 5 


---------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Monday, November 6, 2006 
DPAC FEATURE 
Director Tony Bill returns for film screening 
Notre Dame alumnus presents latest project 'Flyboys,' reflects on career in industry 


By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Academy Award winner and Notre Dame graduate Tony Bill came back to his alma mater this weekend to screen his latest directorial effort "Flyboys." Bill has worked as an actor, director and producer over a four-decade career. His first major acting role was in the 1963 Frank Sinatra film "Come Blow Your Horn." After acting in sever­al films, he switched to producing, and in 1973 produced the Robert Redford­Paul Newman classic "The Sting," for which he won an Oscar. 
Bill graduated from Notre Dame in 1962, majoring in Art and English, and originally planned to be an actor. His first taste of acting was at Saint Mary's College, where he performed in several shows. As his career progressed, he moved away from acting (which he calls "easy") into directing (which he calls "challenging") and producing. He had a major success early in 1973's "The Sting," which remains a classic of American cinema. 
"The Sting" began life as a screen­play, which was pitched by UCLA grad­uate David S. Ward. Ward wrote an excellent script (for which he would later win the Best Original Screenplay Oscar), which Bill agreed to fund and help make, with the effort of fellow pro­ducers Julia and Michael Philips. He hired director George Roy Hill ("Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid," also starring Paul Newman and Hobert Hedford), which in turn brought Hobert Redford onboard in the starring role. Newman requested to be in the film, which required rewrites, since "The Sting" was written for a child, rather than an older man manifested in Newman. 
"The Oscar had no effect on my career," said Bill. "At least, it didn't feel like it did." 
However, Bill said that the success of "The Sting" did not, for the most part, surprise him. 
"When we were making the film, we had no idea that it was going to be such a big critical and commercial hit," Bill said. "You can't think about that stuff. But when we were sitting in the award ceremony and it had already won six awards, we thought, 'yeah, it has a pretty good shot at winning.' But you never know, there was a one in five chance." 
Bill likened the film industry to gam­bling, referring to himself and his col­leagues as "professional gamblers." 

"The film industry is, in a lot of ways, a game of chance," said Bill. "If you're lucky enough to get a good hand, and you're lucky or skillful enough to stick with it, you can succeed." 
The most famous of his directorial efforts is the 1980 Matt Dillon lilm "My Bodyguard," a coming-of-age high 
school story about two 
"The Sting" was a Bill likened the film unlikely friends. Bill great success, one of the noted that he wanted
industry to gambling,

top box office hits of "My Bodyguard" to be a 1973, and a major win­referring to himself more realistic portrait of ner at Academy Awards. and his colleagues as high school Ufe, eschew­Bill, however, said the ing typical comedic
"professional

success was negligible in cliches in favor of a more
gamblers."

the long run. character-oriented 
approach. 
Bill's latest project, the dog-fighting period piece "Fiyboys," combined two of the director's passions -aviation (he is a life-long pilot) and filmmaking. 
Though the film met with commercial failure, Bill takes comfort in some of the positive critical responses, and hopes for a better reception in the for­eign markets. lie also noted that the f1lm's financial failure was disappoint­ing, but his directorial work was gener­ally praised, which alleviates some of the apprehensions about future proj­ncts. For instance, Bill sent a copy of "Fiyboys" to Tom Cruise, who rnquested to sec it and reportedly loved the film. 
What makes "Fiyboys" particularly unique is that it was made outside of the studio system, and was thus com­pletely independently funded. Bill is inclined toward what he calls "the smaller film," and while he admits that "nobody wants to [work within the stu­dio system]," he has often done it with positive results, among them "My Bodyguard" and "The Sting." 
Of all the aspects of filmmaking that Bill has participated in, he noted that he enjoys directing the most. 
"Directing is the most challenging, and therefore the most rewarding," said Bill. 
At a master class session, Bill dis­cussed his Notre Dame education, but was dismissive of film school as a nec­essary way to enter the industry. 
"It doesn't matter where you go to school, and that's not the point of edu­cation," said Bill, who believes that education is about broadening the mind, rather than trying to break into a particular industry. 
Although Bill does not know what his next project will be, he hopes to direct another film and is searching for the right script. Whatever he chooses, his history of critical acclaim will ensure his credibility and talent, whether or not his project is the next "The Sting.'' 
Contact Brian Doxtader at 
bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com "Fiyboys," Bill's latest project about WWI fighter pilots, proved to be a box-office disappointment but still garners critical acclaim, particularly for his directing. 
~---­


NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, November 6, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 45, North Carolina 26 
No Carolina blues 

Notre Dame tops North Carolina, but Tar Heels keep Irish on their toes 
Nicks for a key 42-yard gainBy KEN FOWLER 
during the drive, and Dailey Sports Editor 
found Nicks again for a 13­
yard touchdown on a fade 
No. 11 Notre Dame had both route to put it in for the Tar highs and lows Saturday, but Heels. the explosive Irish offense was Hicks finished with six catch­too much for struggling North es for 171 yards, including five Carolina. for 150 in the third quarter 
Notre Dame quarterback alone. Brady Quinn was 23-of-35 for "[Hicks isl a freshman player 346 yards passing with four that we knew coming in had an touchdowns and no intercep­opportunity to be a really, real­tions as the Irish secured a 45-ly good player, not only as a 26 victory at Notre Dame freshman who will really Stadium. He compiled most of develop into a great player his stats early, with 148 yards over time," Tar Heels coach and two touchdowns coming in John Bunting said. "He's got a the first quarter as coach tremendous work ethic in my Charlie Wefs had the Irish opinion and ... he has a war­operate out of the no-huddle rior mentality, which is what offense for most of the period. you need to be a good football 
"I said all week that I was player." trying to control the tempo of But Notre Dame responded the game, and we came out of quickly. Irish receiver David the no huddle and [Quinn] exe­Grimes returned the ensuing cuted very well," Weis said. kickoff 20 yards to the North "Those four touchdown passes, Carolina 43, and three plays no interceptions, that's usually later Samardzija hauled in a a pretty good day at the lofted pass from Quinn on the office." goal line. The 6-foot-5 receiver 
Behind the steady play of fell into the end zone as the Quinn, Notre Dame took a 31-Irish staked a 38-19 lead with 13 lead into the half. Halfway of his own. "I gave [the defender] a for the Irish. After Notre Dame 8:10 left in the third quarter. through the third quarter, the "I think North Carolina tried small, little move, and I guess took its early 7-0 lead, the Tar The touchdown reception Tar Heels cut their deficit to to get a lot of guys in the box he bit on it, and ended up slip­Heels showed they would not gave Samardzija 23 for his 38-26 on a 72-yard pass from and make us one-dimension­ping, too," McKnight said. "I go down easy. career -all in the last two North Carolina quarterback al," Quinn said. "But if they just came wide op·en, Brady The Tar Heels lone offensive seasons -to pass former Irish Joe Dailey to freshman wide want to play that game, we're found me, and I got in the end touchdown of the first half wide out Derrick Mayes' for out Hakeem Nicks. willing to play it as well." zone." came on their second posses­the program record. 
But there would be no Tar Tar Heels linebacker Durell Quinn's second touchdown sion. Starting from its own 20, If Notre Dame's answer was Heel upset in South Bend. Mapp, Jr., said Notre Dame's toss of the first quarter came North Carolina took chunks of quick, North Carolina's was 
The Irish defense clamped personnel weren't as good as with 1:47 left in the period. yardage against the Irish at a brutally efficient. Dailey was down, and North Carolina the Irish scheme. Quinn capped a 10-play, 74-time. Tar Heels running back flushed out of the pocket on gained just 32 yards of offense "Brady Quinn is a good quar­yard drive with an 11-yard Ronnie McGill had runs of 11 first down and found Nicks in the final 22 minutes of the terback, but touchdown and 35 yards on the drive, and again, this time for a 72-yard contest. [the Irish] real­pass to senior Dailey found Jesse Holley in touchdown pass. With that, the
"/ said all week that I 

"I thought the defense came ly aren't differ­tight end John the near left corner of the end Tar Heels cut the Irish lead to out and set the tempo of the ent from what was trying to control the Carlson. zone for a 12-yard score. 38-26. game," Weis said. "We got we see week­tempo ofthe game, and Carlson "There was a lot of passion "Big players step up in big after them pretty good. I think to-week," he caught the ball out there today," Dailey said. time games," Nicks said. "I felt
we came out ofthe no

that third quarter, giving a said. "Actually, four yards "However, once again we beat like they weren't respecting me couple big plays up, that didn't they are a little huddle and [Quinn] short of the end ourselves and Notre Dame did­because I was a freshman, so I exactly lift my spirits, but I did slower than executed very well. Those zone, was hit n't beat us. We were confident wanted to make a big impact." like how hard they played." most teams in by two defend­in attacking them today, but we Irish safety and punt return­
four touchdown passes, 

And with the way Quinn the ACC. ers short of the didn't make enough plays on er Tom Zbikowski gave the 
no interceptions, that's

played, the Irish defense had However, they end zone and both sides of the ball." Irish a 31-13 lead with 2:54 room to bend. run a very pre­usually a pretty good day rolled over the North Carolina's only other left in the first half on a 52­Notre Dame found the end cise offense." back of one to score in the first 30 minutes yard punt return score.
at the office. " 

zone early, scoring on its open­Q u i n n extend the ball came after Carl Gioia's 27 -yard Notre Dame brought 10 men ing drive. Utilizing the no-hud­eclipsed 200 over the goal field goal put the Irish up 24-7. to the line of scrimmage as dle offense that has brought yards passing Charlie Weis line. Tar Heels kickoff return spe­North Carolina punter David the Irish so much success this on just Notre Irish coach Quinn said he cialist Brandon Tate took Ryan Wooldridge set to kick from the season, the senior quarterback Dame's fourth didn't expect Burkart's ensuing kickoff 90 back of his own end zone. directed a six-play, 65-yard possession of the game. On a Carlson to cross the plane. yards for a touchdown, break­Zbikowski caught the ball with drive in just 2:03. He hit Irish third-and-2 from the Tar Heels "It was a great play on his ing tackle attempts by Irish more than 10 yards of open wide out Samardzija over the 45, Quinn scrambled to the part [to] just kept driving and defensive lineman Casey Cullen space, used a block and darted middle for a 3 7 -yard gain to outside for a 3-yard gain to driving," Quinn said. "When and cornerback Terrail up the middle to the end zone. the North Carolina 7 and two keep the drive alive. you look at that play, and who Lambert in the process. Irish running back Darius plays later found Irish wide After a 14-yard intentional John is as a person, that The Tar Heels had an easier Walker scored on 1-yard run receiver Rhema McKnight on a grounding penalty, Quinn rifled explains his persona. He's a time getting their offense going with 11:13 left in the fourth quick out for the score. a pass to Samardzija, who hard-working kid, and he's in the second half. quarter to give Notre Dame the 
Samardzija finished with 177 went 46 yards to the Tar Heel going to keep working, work­North Carolina went 83 yards decisive 45-26 lead. yards on six catches, and 12 on a post pattern. Two plays ing, working until he gets in -on 10 plays on the first drive McKnight added 56 yards and later, Quinn hit McKnight for a and he did." out of the locker room. Dailey Contact Ken Fowler at two touchdowns on six catches 14-yard passing touchdown. But it wasn't all easy living hit wide receiver Hakeem kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
player of the game 
Brady Quinn 

Notre Dame's senior quarterback completed 23-oJ-35 passes with Jour touchdowns and no interceptions for the Irish. 
stat of the game 
150 
Yards receiving by Tar Heels freshman wide out Hakeem Nicks in the third quarter alone. 

play of the game 
Jeff Samardzija's 42-yard TO catch 
Samardzija adjusted in mid-air to haul in a record-breaking 23rd touchdown in his Notre Dame career that gave the Irish a38-I9lead. 
quote of the game 
"North Carolina is a team that came in here with nothing to lose ­what better way to valiiiate their season than to beat Notre Dame. " 
Rhema McKnight Irish wide receiver 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 6, 2006 
A 
report card 
quarterbacks: Quinn would have had even better stats if his receiver had not dropped a few passes. His three touchdowns in the first half let Notre Dame control the tempo of the game. 
running backs: Walker didn't get many attempts because of the Irish game plan, and James Aldridge looked good on his eight carries. Once again, the backfield picked up the blitz well. 
receivers: Samardzija and McKnight 

8+ 
each made a tough catch for a touchdown, and Carlson had another 
big game. The group had a few drops that cost the Irish some points. 
offensive line: Quinn had to scramble 

c 
too much. Averaging 4.7 yards per 
carry, excluding sacks, is good but not 
great against a team that surrenders 200 yards a game on the ground. 

A-
defensive line: Abiamiri's two sacks, Landri's 3.5 tackles for losses and Laws' penetration combined to wreak havoc on 
North Carolina's offense. The group dominated the battle in the trenches. 

8-
linebackers: Crum had nine tackles­including one for a loss -but Thomas and Brockington were notably absent 
on several outside runs that resulted 
in big gains for the Tar Heels. 

c 
defensive backs: North Carolina had three passes of 20 yards or more, including throws of 42 and 72 that 
went to freshman wide out Hakeem Nicks. The unit needs to do a better 
job keeping the ball in front of it. 

8 
special teams: The Irish had peaks and valleys on special teams. The Tar 
Heels' 90-yard kick return was a 
major blow, but Zbikowski's score and Grimes' kick returns were pluses. 
coaching: Weis accurately expected 

8+ 
North Carolina to use many blitzes, 
and the passing game started well 
early. The Irish still have to do more to eliminate big plays on defense. 
overall: The Irish allowed a 
lot of yardage on the 
ground, but dominated

3.11 
offensively and adjusted defensively for the win. 
adding up the numbers 

Consecutive passes thrown by Irish 
204 

quarterback Brady Quinn without an interception-a Notre Dame record. 
57 
Percent of third downs Notre Dame converted Saturday. The Irish held North Carolina to 
4-of-13 on third downs. 

Turnovers forced by Notre Dame against the Tar 
o 

Heels. North Carolina entered the game with as many turnovers (15) as touchdowns. 
148 Yards passing by Quinn in the first quarter. Quinn threw for 118 yards in the second quarter to finish the first half with 266 yards. 
Touchdown passes Quinn has thrown since his 
1 7 

last interception, including his four TO passes Saturday. 
8 
Rushing attempts by freshman tailback James Aldridge. Aldridge gained 45 yards for a 5.6 
yards-per-carry average. 

Punt return yards Saturday for the Irish, who 
84 

had not had more than 10 yards in punt returns in a game since Michigan State. 
23 More offensive plays Notre Dame ran Saturday than North Carolina. 

Brady Quinn spoils football fans. 
After passing for 348 yards against North Carolina Saturday, with four touchdowns and no inter­ceptions, no one's really that impressed. 
"There were a couple more [passes] that we had our hands on," Weis said. "Could have been a better day at the office." 

As it was, Weis Kate Gales called it a "good day at the Associate office." 
Sports Editor 
In seven of the team's nine games this year, Quinn hasn't thrown an interception. After Saturday's 45-26 win, he has 25 touchdowns against just four picks. 
He's seventh in Division I-A for both total passing yards and pass­ing yards per game. He's also eighth in total offense, despite com­piling a season net rushing yardage of -37. 
It's easy to forget how much rests on Quinn's shoulders. Weis went into Saturday's game with a gun­slinging mentality -to get ahead quickly by throwing a few touch­downs and control the tempo of the game from there. 
That's all well and good, but it means that a quarterback has to be nearly flawless from the moment he steps onto the turf. 
The two-minute offense gives Notre Dame an edge as the team tries for an early lead. But that puts even more pressure on a quarter­back -to make good decisions and to make them quickly. 
One slip-up, and instead of gun­ning for the lead you're digging yourself out of a hole -see the end result of the Michigan game on Sept. 16. 
But Quinn has been masterful out of the gate this season, particularly recently. Against Navy two weeks ago and North Carolina last week, he started out games with almost inhuman efficiency-scoring on six of the first seven possessions against Navy and four out of the first live against the Tar lleels. 

Most of the offensive production seems to come when Quinn is throwing the ball. Part of that is having talented receivers like Jeff Samardzija, Hhema McKnight and David Grimes. 
Part of it is having John Carlson, a big tight end who's a formidable target across the middle. 
Part of it is Darius Walker's pass­catching ability, enabling Quinn and Weis to keep drives alive with screens and draws. 
But Quinn consistently puts these receivers in a position to make a big play. Sure, Samardzija's height doesn't hurt Quinn's stats. Carlson is a tough matchup for any line­backer. But Quinn gets the ball there, and that's what he did against the Tar Heels. 
And that's why the Irish are 8-1. 
Quinn's a perfectionist, and he isn't satisfied with his performance against North Carolina either. 
"I was hoping to have a little bit better day at the office, if you want to put it that way," he said Saturday night. 
Maybe a better offensive line would help with that. Quinn was sacked three 
Quinn doesn't care what you
times and hur­The problem ried four more. say around the water cooler. is that he's sup­On the sea­posed to be
He cares about how he's doing 
son, Quinn has exceptional
in the office. The problem is 
been sacked 24 every game. times f'or a, total that he's supposed to be When he does loss of 178 that, it's jl!st liv­
exceptional every game. 
yards and hur­ing up to expec­
When he does that, it'sjust
ried another 23 tations. There's times. lie's living up to expectations. no human way 
takfm countless There's no human way to to surpass these 
hits to the ribs prospects.
surpass these prospects. 
and been When he per­especially in the beginning of the game -that if Weis wants to get on the board, Quinn is going to be throwing. 
Under that kind of pressure, he's performed admirably. Against Michigan State, Quinn lifted the team on his shoulders and carried it as far as he could, putting Terrail Lambert in the position to ice the game with an interception returned for a touchdown. 
Against Georgia Tech, he played a good defense in a hostile stadium with the calm and poise of an elite quarterback, which he is. 
No one does more for his team than Quinn does. He might not be perfect. Every spiral doesn't lead the receivers. He overthrows in the end zone. No one is more aware Of Quinn's shortcomings than Quinn himself. 
But every time Quinn gets hit, the Irish season is on the line. Evan Sharpley is 1-of-2 in passing this season with seven yards, and Samardzija is 0-of-2. The running game isn't going to carry Notre Dame past Air Force next week. 
Quinn doesn't care what you say around the water cooler. He cares 
about how he's 
doing in the 
oflice. 

knoeknd down morn times than Irish f'ans care to think about. 
Maybe a better running gamn would help Quinn. Walknr pieks up blitzes and catches passes, but is averaging just 85.3 yards per game as Notre Dame's go-to back. The team is averaging just 107.1 yards per game on the ground, compared to 287.3 in the air. 
So defenses can be conlident ­forms like the 
elite quarter­back he is, there's no raisn, no pro­motion, no bonus-it's just anoth­er day in the office. 
But a little appreciation is always nice. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Inside pressure -wreaks havoc on Tar Heels 
Irish seniors Landri, Laws combine for 2 blocked PATs 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
For Irish coach Charlie Weis, seeing defensive tackles Derek Landri and Trevor Laws burst through the line of scrimmage to block extra points is only indicative of the way they play. 
Notre Dame's two senior defensive tack­les made themselves at home in the Tar Heel backfield all afternoon, stuffmg rush­ing plays, disrupting called passes and ali­in-all wreaking "havoc." 

Landri fmished with 3.5 tackles for loss­
es, a half sack and, according to Weis, two 
blocked extra points. Laws had three tack­
les, a near safety in the fourth quarter 
and, according to the official scorekeepers, 
one blocked extra point. 
"[Laws and Landri] are very quick off 
the ball, and they penetrate," Weis said. 
"One thing you can depend on with them 
is that they will always be active." 
By getting penetration into the Tar Heel 
backfield all game, Weis said, Laws and 
Landri opened up holes for their fellow 
defensemen to the tune of eight tackles for 
a loss and four sacks. 
"Whether [Laws and Landri] are 
involved pressuring the quarterback or 
because they are being blocked, it helps as we could trying to get a safety, which was all the Tar Heels needed to be within 
for Victor [Abiamiri] and those guys off the we should have got." a touchdown, two-point conversion and 
edge," Weis said. While neither Laws nor Landri were field goal of Notre Dame. By blocking the 
The havoc created by Laws and Landri able to bring Dailey down for the safety, point after attempt, Laws assured North 
was no more evident than on North the defensive tackles did manage to block Carolina would need at least two touch­
Carolina's fourth quarter series when the two North Carolina extra point attempts -downs to catch and surpass the Irish. 
Tar Heels started at their own 10. The no small feat considering Tar Heels kicker "There's a lot of defensive linemen who 
Irish were trying to put the game away, Connor Barth had not missed a field goal when it gets to be an extra point just take 
and the two men in the middle wanted a or extra point attempt on the season. the play off," Weis said. "Kudos to Landri 
piece of the North Carolina quarterback. "When I've tipped them in the past, and Laws because it shows they're not 
On second-and-10, Tar Heels signal they've gone in, but I just got a little bit taking a play off. Even though they just 
caller Joe Dailey dropped back towards more of the ball this week," Landri said. scored a touchdown, they're going out 
his goal line looking for a receiver down­"Anytime we have an opportunity to stop there like this is a field goal to win the 
field when Laws broke through the line. them from putting points on the board, I game." 
The senior wrapped Dailey up in the end think it's a play worth playing as hard as Despite their impressive performances 
zone, but Dailey got the ball off to no one your can for." against the Tar Heels, Laws and Landri 
in particular. The play may have gone for The blocked extra points -after North are far from satisfied. 
a safety because of intentional grounding, Carolina's second and third touchdowns -"I think we're still building up," Laws 
but Irish junior defensive end Justin had a big effect on the game. After said. "Our goal is to peak for the bowl 
Brown got a hand on it. Hakeem Nicks's 13-yard touchdown game and I think we're still on the rise." 
"We knew it was late in the game," Laws reception cut Notre Dame's lead to 31-19 
said. "We were coming at them as much late in the third quarter, an extra point Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Samardzija passes Mayes as top TO man 
Zbikowski's touchdown makes him two return scores away from Allen Rossum's record 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor· 
Irish senior Jeff Samardzija set the program record for career touchdown receptions Saturday with his 23rd scor­ing catch. 
Samardzija grabbed a 42­yard pass from Irish quarter­back Brady Quinn with 8:10 left in the third quarter to set the record, previously held by former Notre Dame wide out Derrick Mayes. The play gave the Irish a 38-19 lead over North Carolina. 
"It was just another touch­down out there, but I'm sure down the road it will be a cool thing to look back on," Samardzija said. "''m just happy that it was a big touch­down the game that really pulled us away.... I hope someone breaks it sometime soon." 
All of Samardzija's touch­downs have come in the past two seasons. The 2005 con­sensus All-American started just one game -the 2004 Insight Bowl -and had only 24 receptions before his jun­ior season. He has 136 in Notre Dame's last 21 games. Samardzija had 15 touch­downs last season as he replaced an injured Rhema McKnight in the team's start­ing lineup. . 
"There's a guy, a perfect example of a guy who is mak­ing the most of the opportuni­ty when it's presenting itself," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "He's running with it. He's putting himself in a position to not only have a great career at this level but go on and have a great one at the next level." 
With two receiving touch­downs Saturday, McKnight tied former teammate Maurice Stovall for fourth on Notre Dame's all-time list at 18. 
Defenses can't stop Quinn 
Quinn extended his school­record streak of pass attempts without an interception to 204 Saturday. His last interception came in the second quarter of Notre Dame's 40-37 win over Michigan State Sept. 23 when Spartans defensive end Ervin Baldwin ran 19 yards for a touchdown on Quinn's errant pass. 
"Brady Quinn is a hell of a player," Tar Heels coach John Bunting said. "I knew that coming in. They do a terrific job." 
With his four touchdown throws, Quinn moved into 16th place all-time in NCAA with 83 touchdown scores for his career. His single-season high of 346 passing yards give him 10,915 for his career, which is good for 20th in Division I-A history. 
Third quarter was Nicks' time 
Tar Heels freshman wide receiver Hakeem Nicks' 171 receiving yards marked the second time this year an Irish opponent recorded more than 150 yards receiving. Hicks had five catches for 150 yards in the third quarter, and his only other reception was a 21-yard catch in the first quarter. 
Weis declined to comment on Nicks' play. 
''I'm not talking about their players," Weis said. ''I'm talk­ing about our players. You ask them about their players." 
Purdue sophomore wide receiver Selwyn Lymon had eight catches for 238 yards in the Boilermakers' 35-21 loss to Notre Dame Sept. 30. 
Zibby closes in on Rossum 
Irish senior safety and punt returner Tom Zbikowski's 53­yard punt return for a touch­down in the second quarter was his seventh return touch­down. 
"Once I made those first two guys miss, it was all green grass ahead," Zbikowski said. 
Zbikowski has three punt returns, two fumble returns and two interception returns for scores. 

He is now two return touch­downs away from former Irish cornerback Allen Rossum's NCAA record in the category. 
Big plays hurt the Irish 
The Tar Heels managed just 244 yards of offense on 49 plays, but 221 of those yards came on just eight plays. North Carolina had three runs of 10 yards or more and three passes of 20 yards or more, which fall into Weis' category off "big plays." 
The Irish also surrendered a 90-yard kickoff return for a touchdown -the first time a Notre Dame opponent has scored on a kickoff since DeAndrea Cobb of Michigan State took one back 89 yards against the Irish in 2004. 
Weis said he wasn't happy about the amount of large gains Notre Dame gave up but also mentioned that several players on both teams slipped at times, which helped create some opel).ings for receivers. 
"For you to have to have a good game, [opponent's big plays] have to be at a mini­mum because if not then you really haven't achieved your goals," Weis said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

UNC  7  6  13  0  26  
Notre Dame  14  17  7  7  45  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, North Carolina 0 
Rhema McKnight 7-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 12:57 remaining. (Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 65 yards, 2:03 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, North Carolina 7 
Jesse Holley 12-yard reception from Joe Dailey with 6:04 remaining. (Connor Barth kick) Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 2:53 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, North Carolina 7 
John Carlson 11-yard reception from Quinn with 1:47 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 10 plays, 74 yards, 4:17 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, North Carolina 7 
McKnight 14-yard reception from Quinn with 
11:28 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 57 yards, 2:47 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, North Carolina 7 
Gioia 27-yard field goal with 6:33 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 45 yards, 2:44 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, North Carolina 13 
Brandon Tate 90-yard kickoff return with 6:15 remaining. (Barth kick blocked) 
Notre Dame 31, North Carolina 13 
Tom Zbikowski 52-yard punt return with 2:54 remaining. (Gioia kick) 
Third quarter Notre Dame 31, North Carolina 19 
Hakeem Nicks 13-yard reception from Dailey with 9:43 remaining. (Barth kick blocked) Drive: 10 plays, 83 yards, 5:17 elapsed 
Notre Dame 38, North Carolina 19 
Jeff Samardzija 42-yard reception from Quinn with 8:10 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 3 plays, 43 yards, 1:33 elapsed 
Notre Dame 38, North Carolina 26 
Nicks 72-yard reception from Dailey with 7:25 remaining. (Barth kick) Drive: 1 plays, 72 yards, 0:45 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 45, North Carolina 26 
Darius Walker 1-yard run with 11:13 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 61 yards, 5:05 elapsed 
statistics 

rushing yards 

25-31 rushes-yards 35-106 14-24-0 comp-att-int 23-37-0 9-376 punts-yards 5-229 1-0 fumbles-lost 1-1 5-56 penalties-yards 5-35 10 first downs 23 
passing 

Dailey 14-23-0 Quinn 23-35-0 
rushing 

McGill  15-71  Walker  20-88  
Rome  5-11  Aldridge  8-45  
receiving  

Nicks  6-171  Carlson  8-91  
McGill  3-15  Samardzija  6-177  
Holley  2-14  McKnight  6-56  
Foster  2-12  Walker  2-16  

tackles 

Mapp  14  Crum  9  
Worsley  7  Zbikowski  7  
Rice  7  Wooden  5  
Bynum  6  Ndukwe  5  
Walker  5  Abiamiri  4  
Taylor  5  Landri  4  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 6, 2006 
No PowDER 
PUFF 
The matchup with Notre Dame was North Carolina's bowl game, and the lowly Tar Heels played with that mentality. After falling behind early, they tied the score within seven minutes. After entering the locker room down 31-13, they came right back and scored on the opening possession of the second half. But the Irish offense was just too· explosive and too precise for the vulnerable North Carolina defense to contain. And any hope for a major upset faded in the dimming South Bend twilight. 

PHIL HUDELSON/The Observer TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
Top left, Tar Heels receiver Brandon Tate breaks a tackle on his 90-yard kickoff return touchdown. Top right, Irish wide out Rhema McKnight picks up a block from Irish quarterback Brady Quinn on a reverse. Bottom right, Irish senior Jeff Samardzija stiff-arms North Carolina cornerback Jacoby Watkins on a 37-yard reception. Bottom left, Notre Dame safety Tom Zbikowski takes a punt 52 yards for an Irish touchdown. Center, Irish tailback Darius Walker runs through Tar Heels senior Kareen Taylor. 
TI--IE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, November 6, 2006 
page 15 
Isell\&flhnI Celebrity friendships are not wishful thinking 
I'm prone to judging the worth of a celebrity on one factor alone ­whether I want to be friends with him or her. Since I don't want to be friends with Lindsay Lohan, her celebrity is inconsequential to me. 
However, I would love to be friends with Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson. Therefore, I greatly value this Hollywood super-couple -even though I secretly want Tom Hanks to myself. 
I can imagine the three of us eating together at a bar and grill, catching the latest Spielberg and making each other laugh. Oh, how we would laugh! Slowly, I would steal Tom away and he would ask me to host "Saturday Night Live" with him. Lome Michaels would be so impressed with my stint that he would hire me as a regular and I would single­handedly save the show from unfunni­ness. It would be quite glorious. 
But if I may be serious, there are quite a few other celebrities that I would love to befriend for one reason or another. Perhaps I want to be friends with these people because they are the anti-Lohan. They do not seek out fame by scandalizing their image, but rather through their body of work. And they seem down-to-earth and totally for real in all their interviews. They must be legit. The following are the celebrities I 

Cassie Belek 
Assistant Scene Editor 
most desire to be BFFs with, but trust me, there are more. 
Allison Janney. Janney portrayed my beloved Claudia Jean in "The West Wing" and a deliciously trashy woman in "Drop Dead Gorgeous." She's won Emmys for her drama, but her comedy is top-notch. She has an infectious laugh, she rocks a green gown just as much as Mariska Hargitay, and she's friends with Ellen. The three of us could have crazy cool dance parties at all hours of the day and re-enact scenes from "Finding Nemo" just for kicks. 
Jenna Fischer. Who could not be obsessed with Fischer's Pam on "The Office?" Pam is sweet and funny, and as far as I can tell, so is Fischer. How do I know? Because the only reason I joined MySpace was to add her as a friend and read her blogs. Fischer has a unique relationship with her fans since she is so involved in her MySpace. She also wrote, starred in and directed a mockumentary called "LolliLove." I want to write, star in and direct a mockumentary called something else. And if we did become BFFs, she could introduce me to John Krasinski, and I could stop stalking Tom Hanks. 
Kate Winslet. After seeing her in that American Express commercial, I've had the strangest desire to go flea market shopping with her. Winslet is one of those rare actresses who carefully chooses film roles and makes sure they won't embarrass her later. At 31, she's already accumulated four Academy Award nominations. I desire to be her friend not only because I respect her talent but also because she can be the friend that brings a little culture to my life. 


Maybe she'll introduce me to Thai food or we can take in a ballet. Afterwards, we can rent a good British comedy and I can help her choose movie scripts that will further empower her as an actress and maybe fmally snag her that Oscar. As a thank you, she will introduce me to Colin Firth, and I can die a little bit happier. 
I desperately want to be friends with these people, but for now, I'll have to find empty replacements for them in my own life. Janney, Fischer and Winslet are among my favorite celebrities because I feel that friendship with them is not entirely impossible. Call me a creeper or call me a dreamer. I like to call me a creeper. But I'll have the last laugh when the four of us are playing Mall Madness and prank calling old grade school teachers. Maybe there will even be ice cream. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DVD REVIEW 
'Nacho Libre 'fails to satiate comedic appetites 
By SEAN SWEANY Asistanr Scene Editor 
Jack Black. The director of "Napoleon Dynamite." So read the promotional posters for this past summer's hopefully­hit comedy "Nacho Libre." It seemed certain that the pairing of this comedic duo would mean major box office suc­cess, especially with previews showing a mustached Jack Black wearing spandex and a cape crooning, "Nachooooooooo" to a group of Mexican school children. 
Unfortunately, "Nacho Libre," now out on DVD, did not live up to these expecta­tions and died a quick death in theaters shortly after its release. In spite of a major marketing campaign for the Paramount DVD, expect the disc to fade quickly from the spotlight and be on sale for less than $10 fairly soon. 
"Nacho Libre" stars Black ("School of Rock") as Nacho, a young man raised in a monastery in Mexico who goes on to work there as a cook. Inspired by a zeal for wrestling, he dons a mask and tights to compete as a Luchador, or Mexican wrestler, in a tournament in order to win money for the children in his monastery. 
Nacho teams with a street urchin named Esqueleto (Hector Jimenez) to win the money while he personally tries to win the favor of Sister Encarnacion (Ana de Ia Reguera). The rest of the film follows the exploits of the two wrestlers towards their goals in a fashion much like that of "Napoleon Dynamite." 
Much of the problem with "Nacho Libre" stems from its similarity to Hess's first film. "Napoleon Dynamite" achieved its great success because John Heder was. the perfect actor to play Napoleon. Hess tries to use Jack Black in the same way, but Black is a different type of actor. 
Black's fame stems from his band, Tenacious D, and his ability to use "in­your-face" humor with perfect timing and effect. Trying to get Black to try the more subtle, off-beat humor found in "Napoleon Dynamite" works only so far. Several moments are quite funny, but Black shows much of his true, brazen 
self here, unlike in 


the rest of the movie. 
Black's talent is clear, hut the writ­ing does not allow him to fully utilize his comedic ability in the film. Ana de la Reguera and Hector Jimenez dis­play some talent here, but they are very young actors who cannot yet hold their own in a major motion picture. 


Another problem with "Nacho Libre" lies in the fact that Nickelodeon Films played a major role in its development, production and promotion. Typically known as a child-oriented film company, this moniker may have prevented cre­ative decisions from being made that could have aided the comedy with more adult humor. As it turned out, "Nacho Libre" struggled to find an audience with both children and adults. By doing so, it did not live up to expectations at the box office. 
The DVD features a sparse collection of extras mostly trying to use Jack Black as a vehicle for humor. Some, including a spot where Jack Black sings songs from the film and a funny commercial for Nacho Libre action figures, are enjoyable, but most are a waste of time. 
In trying to make another cult classic movie with a bigger budget and bigger stars, Jared Hess missed the mark. What resulted from a movie with much poten­tial for hilarity was a boring piece that, like a bad joke, tried too hard to be funny and fell flat on its face. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 6, 2006 
NFL 

Miami knocks off undefeated Bears in Chicago 
Jacksonville second-string quarterback Garrard throws for three touchdowns as Jaguars rout Tennessee, 37-17 
Associated Press "I would have bet my house 
before the season started we 

CHICAGO The 1972 wouldn't be 2-6," defensive Dolphins can breathe a little lineman Casey Hampton said. easier. And once again, they ''I'd be homeless right now." can thank a current Miami team for it. Kansas City 31, St. Louis 17 
Although Dan Marino was After backing up pregame nowhere to be found this time, braggadocio about dealing out the Dolphins once again upset the hits rather than taking Chicago to spoil the Bears' bid them, Larry Johnson had a lot for a perfect season. more to say. 
Ronnie Brown rushed for a Johnson rushed fur 172 career-high 157 yards and yards, becoming the second Jason Taylor forced a fumble straight running back to punish and returned an interception 20 the St. Louis Rams' defense in yards for a touchdown, helping the Kansas City Chiefs' victory Miami beat Chicago 31-13 on on Sunday. It wasn't nearly Sunday. Brown carried 29 times enough. and ec;lipsed his previous ''I'm a little disappointed career-high set last season because I feel we did leave 200 against Carolina by 25 yards. yards of rushing on that field," 
Besides losing their first Johnson said. "The way we game, the Bears (7-1) saw line­were going out there and just backer Brian Urlacher hurt his pushing them backward and foot when he landed awkwardly shakings things up, we should in a pileup near the end of the have done even more." game. The severity of the injury The Chiefs defense forced was not known. three early turnovers against a 
After hearing criticism from team that emphasizes ball secu­the media and members of the rity, and Kansas City capitalized 1972 team, these Dolphins had en route to a 17 -point cushion. their way with a team that had "You can't put Kansas City in scored the most points and a short field like that," Rams allowed the fewest. The defense offensive tackle Orlando Pace constantly applied pressure as said. "It makes it tough on us the Dolphins (2-6) snapped a and a lot easier on those guys." four-game losing streak. Jared Allen stripped Marc 
"A lot of (media) in this lock­Bulger on a sack and recovered er room and a lot of people in Steven Jackson's fumble for the this country didn't give us a Chiefs, who have won three in a chance," Taylor said. "And I row for the first time under new the unsettled quarterback situ­tory Sunday over the Atlanta since coach Brian Billick took heard some of the crap that coach Herman Edwards. ation. "No one has ever told me Falcons. control of the offense. was said during the week -Two touchdown catches by they are handing me the reins. "I guess we had a little kryp­"Huge win for us in the divi­that questioned people's char­Tony Gonzalez, who broke Otis Byron is the starting quarter­tonite for him," Detroit corner­sion," Billick said. "It puts us in acter and everything else. You Taylor's franchise career mark, back of this team until some­back Fernando Bryant said. a position to go forward and do always want to hand everything helped Kansas City (5-3) raise body tells me otherwise." "The whole key is to stay disci­some good things." with class, but sometimes you its record to an NFL-best 21-5 At the very least, Garrard plined, keeping lanes and con­Steve McNair passed for 245 can't. People come at you the in interconference play since made the most of his second tain, and that's what we did yards, Jamal Lewis scored a wrong way, and it's good some­1995. Damon Huard was mis­straight start. with him." touchdown and Matt Stover times to say, 'How do you like take-free again, going 10-for-15 He had an 11-yard TD pass to The Lions pulled off the feat kicked four field goals for the me now?'" for 148 yards and three touch­Ernest Wilford on the team's without three starters on the Ravens (6-2), who took a two­
downs. opening drive, then took advan­defensive line, including Shaun game lead over second-place Denver 31, Pittsburgh 20 tage of Vince Young's first of Rogers. Cincinnati. 
The Super Bowl champion Jacksonville 37, Tennessee 7 three turnovers by connecting Atlanta's electric quarterback Since Billick fired offensive Pittsburgh Steelers never Coach Jack Del Rio's quarter­with George Wrighster for a 14-threw for seven TDs and aver­coordinator Jim Fassel and thought they would already be back decision got a lot more dif­yard score. aged 262 yards passing in the assumed playcalling duties, the playing for next year halfway ficult Sunday. Garrard was even better after previous two games, both victo­Ravens have scored 61 points through a season that began David Garrard threw three halftime, completing his first ries, but quickly found out it and McNair has played bril­with so many expectations. touchdown passes, led the four passes for 78 yards and a would not be his day in Detroit. liantly. He was 21-of-30 against 
Javon Walker scored three Jacksonville Jaguars to a victo­score. He threw a perfect fade . the Bengals after going 17 -of-touchdowns on two receptions ry over Tennessee and won for pass to Wilford for a 22-yard Baltimore 26, Cincinnati 20 23 tn a 35-22 win at New and a 72-yard run on a wide the sixth time in his last seven touchdown that pushed the lead The Baltimore Ravens Orleans last week. receiver reverse and the Denver starts. to 27-0. enjoyed an outstanding start McNair fared far better than Broncos took advantage of Not surprisingly, Del Rio side­against the Cincinnati Bengals, Cincinnati quarterback Carson repeated Pittsburgh mistakes to stepped the issue afterward. Detroit 30, Atlanta 14 then spent the next 55 minutes Palmer, who went 12-of-26 for win on Sunday. Starter Byron Leftwich, mean­Michael Vick came back down protecting the advantage. 195 yards. His first pass was 
The loss likely ended any while, was nowhere to be to earth and the Detroit Lions The Ravens prevailed, and intercepted and returned for a realistic chance the Steelers found. As for Garrard? took advantage of his ordinary now they'll try to maintain a touchdown, and his last pass had to repeat their Super Bowl ''I'll just wait until Jack, day. commanding lead in the AFC was also intercepted, ending title. Nearly 11 months after Byron or my wife tells me I'm Detroit turned Vick's two first­North over the next eight any hope the Bengals (4-4) had halting Denver's season in the going to start," said Garrard, half turnovers into touchdowns weeks. of finishing a comeback from a AFC championship game, the learned he was starting last and Roy Williams had a sensa­Baltimore scored two quick 17-0 deficit. Steelers may have seen this week from his wife and this tional game, highlighted by a touchdowns off turnovers and "In order to win, we needed season effectively ended by the week from Leftwich. 60-yard TD early in the fourth never trailed in a victory to play our best -and we did­Broncos (6-2) in Pittsburgh. "This is normal," he said of quarter, in the Lions' 30-14 vic-Sunday, their second straight n't," Palmer said. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
94 Toyota Camry, 4-dr. sedan, dark  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ 45 minutes from Notre Dame  House Available for 07-08 Year.  
green. 123K miles. Good condition.  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­ Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round  Close to Campus. Just Renovated  
FoR SALE  Runs well. $3,000. Call 574-276­ 2378.  cabins sleep six.  to Brand New Condition. Open to  PERSONAL  
9257.  Call Lumberjack Resort  groups of 9-11 Students. Contact  
3-4 bdrm home, 1.5 BA, 2 mi.N of ND. 2-stall garage. 4 lots. $101 ,000.  TICKETS  FoR RENT  269-646-2181. New Student Housing I 5 bed, 1.5  MacSwain@ gmail.com HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­ 
52420 Forestbrook. Call  BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­ bath, new appliances,2 car garage.  Bedroomswww.NDstudentrentals.com  one you love needs confidential  
Terry 574-289-5630 or  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­ pus homes & weekend rentals.  1 mile from campus.  support or assistance, please call  
Ron 277-4122.  0964  Bluegoldrentals.com  Available now! $250­300/Person/Month. Call (574)360­ WANTED  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­ 
3 bedroom ranch. 1-1/2 bath. Totally  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  2-6 BDRM HOMES 07-08 OR  8980.  
 weekly ad in  
remodeled. New kitchen and heat- TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  NOW 574-329-0308  Need nanny for 3 girls (3,4&5) 10­ The Observer.  
ing/air. $99,900. 1820 Oak Park  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  ROOMS FOR RENT for ND  15 hrs/wk. 3 days/wk. $15/hr. Light  
near Edison/Ironwood.  Rooms for rent for football week- games, etc. Visit gardenviewbe­ cleaning, cooking & pick up at  Happy Birthday  
Call Tony  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ ends. Close to campus.  dandbreakfast.com or call 574-243­ school. Ref. necessary. Call  to one of the coolest kids on cam­ 
574-303-0311.  1570  Call574-243-0658.  0392. Special rates available.  Michelle 574-383-3322.  pus  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 6, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 17 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
!L 
' 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 1.9 20 21 22 23 24 25 
i 
2 
s 
4 
s 
6 7 8 9 10 WestVjr.gioia 11 Arkansas 12 I.J!t 13 Boise State 14 Rutgers 15 Tennessee 16 Wisconsin 16 Oklahoma 
.. 18 ~eDfVlil 
'1':•19 WakeFotest 20 Oregon 21 Virginia Tech. 22 Bosttm College 23 TexasA&M 24 Maryland 25 Nebraska 
2 .· .. MichiDan 
3 lOIIiSVilte
: ~!:::~ ··::. 
6 Allbum 7 usc 8 Catifornia 9 NOTA£ DAME 10 West Virginia 
1.1 Arkansas 
12 LSU 
13 Rlltgers 14 Bois&State 15 Wisconsin 
around the dial 
NBA 
Milwaukee at Chicago 
8:30 p.m., Comcast 
NFL 
Oakland at Seattle 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass.­Peyton Manning got help from an unlikely source ­his defense -and the Colts remained the NFL's only unbeaten team. 
The Patriots also were victimized for the first time by Adam Vinatieri as Indianapolis won 27-20 Sunday night. With his once adoring fans booing, he kicked two field goals in his first game against New England since leav­ing as a free agent. 
But he also missed twice in the second half. 
A steady Manning kept the crowd quiet for most of the game and threw for 326 yards and two touch­downs. The Colts, who began the game with five interceptions in seven games, intercepted Tom Brady four times. They allowed no touchdown passes, only two scoring runs by Corey Dillon and two field goals by rookie Stephen Gostkowski. 

Gostkowski replaced Vinatieri, the longtime Patriots kicker whose field goals in the final sec­onds won two Super Bowls. 
Indianapolis,(8-0), entered the game with the only perfect record after Chicago lost to Miami 31­17 earlier Sunday. The Patriots (6-2) ended a four-game winning streak and dropped a second straight to Indianapolis after winning six in a row. 
The Colts became the only team to start consec­utive seasons at 8-0 since the Green Bay Packers did it three straight years from 1929-31. And for the first time in his brilliant career, Manning has thrown for 300 yards in three consecutive games. 
The Patriots had one last chance after Vinatieri missed from 3 7 yards with 1:55 left. But on the Patriots' second play, Brady was intercepted one last time by Cato June 
For the first time in six games, the Colts never trailed as Manning threw the first of his two touch­down passes to Marvin Harrison, a 5-yarder, on their opening possession. Harrison finished with eight catches for 145 yards, just 56 yards fewer than Brady's total of 201 yards passing. 

The Colts began the day tied for 21st in points allowed. But the first sign the defense would be a positive factor came when Antoine Bethea ended the Patriots' first drive with an interception in the end zone. Manning, now 4-10 against the Patriots, then drove the Colts 68 yards to his first scoring pass to Harrison. 
IN BRIEF 

Invasor stuns Bernardini Bartoli swe~ps Poutchkova Stewart takes second in a in Breeders' Cup to win Bell Challenge row at Texas Speedway 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -lnvasor over QUEBEC CITY-France's Marion FORT WORTH, Texas -While the Bernardini in the Classic. Street Bartoli routed Russia's Olga tense battles of NASCAR's Chase for Sense by a record 1 0 lengths in the Poutchkova 6-0, 6-0 in 41 minutes the championship rage on, Tony Juvenile. Ouija Board winning her to win the Bell Challenge on Sunday Stewart is driving in a world of his second Filly & Mare Turf. and close the year just as she start­own. 
There were many glorious ed it-with a title. It just so happens that Stewart's moments in the Breeders' Cup at Bartoli, seeded second, captured world is way out in front of all the Churchill Downs on Saturday, and her first career WTA Tour title in drama. plenty of heartache as well. Auckland, New Zealand, in the first Having fun and driving for wins ­
Pine Island's fatal breakdown and week of January. Last month she not a championship -Stewart over­Fleet Indian's injury in the Distaff won in Tokyo to crack the top 20. powered the field Sunday at Texas showed the sad side of racing -the "Three titles, it is great. I could Motor Speedway, and he made this second time a premier race has been not have hoped for better," she said. one look almost too easy: "Smoke" led marred this year. The other, of Bartoli wasn't certain of playing 278 of 339 laps, including the five course, was Kentucky Derby winner in the final until a morning practice extra laps because of a late caution, Barbaro's devastating misstep at the session, when she deemed the right and often was so far ahead that he start of the Preakness. forearm she hurt in the semifinals appeared to be all by himself on the 
"It's just been an unbelievable was OK. track. summer," said Michael Matz, "I didn't know if I was going to be Most of the action was well behind Barbaro's trainer who won the able to play today with the pain in him, where Jimmie Johnson quietly Distaff with Round Pond. "I've been my arm," Bartoli said. "I went to grabbed away the point lead from in that situation and nobody ever strike balls this morning and I felt Matt Kenseth by 17 points with a sec­likes to see that happen. It's just the pain wasn't as bad as yester­ond-place-place finish. Stewart easily tragic when these accidents occur." day." raced away to his second straight win. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2006 
TOP FLIGHT AUTO RACING 
Goodwin charged with racecar driver's death 
Trial set to begin today, 18 years after Mickey Thompson's murder 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. -The 1988 murder of racing legend Mickey Thompson and his wife may be the ultimate cold case, having remained unsolved for nearly 19 years. 
But Thompson's sister would­n't let it drop off investigators' radar and the case, which involves the glamorous world of top flight auto racing and a daredevil driver allegedly caught in a feud over money, will finally come to trial on Monday. 
Michael Frank Goodwin, Thompson's estranged business partner, is accused of killing the racing superstar and his wife, Trudy. 
"This has been a long endurance race for justice." Thompson's sister, Colleen Campbell, said recently. "We don't plan to drop out till we get to the finish line." 
Goodwin, 61, is charged with two counts of murder with the special circumstances of lying in wait and committing multi­ple murders. Prosecutors, how­ever, have decided not to seek the death penalty. 
His lawyer maintains there is no physical evidence or witness putting Goodwin at the crime scene or linking him to arrang­ing the killings of the Thompsons. 
"We've always maintained this case is based on baseless suspicion," said defense attor­ney Elena Saris. "The whole defense team feels that if the jury is allowed to hear the truth, Michael will be acquit­ted." 
But prosecutors contend cir­cumstantial evidence leads directly to the former concert promoter, who merged his motocross racing business with Thompson's before the pair had a bitter falling out. They say Goodwin became so consumed with anger after losing a $750,000 judgment to Thompson that he set out to kill 
him. 
The racer, who was 59 when he died, was inducted posthu­mously into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1990. He set hundreds of speed and endurance records and was the first person to travel more than 400 mph on land. He also built and drove racing's first slingshot dragster. 
He and his 41-year-old wife were leaving for work in March 1988 when they were ambushed outside their home in the gated Los Angeles sub­urb of Bradbury. . 
The two men who shot the couple before fleeing on bicy­cles were never caught, and prosecutors are expected to argue they were hired by Goodwin. 
Authorities say the former promoter had talked of killing Thompson rather than pay him the court judgment Thompson had won. 
At a preliminary hearing three years ago, Gregory Keay said Goodwin, his cousin, told him that before Thompson could collect his money he would "have him wasted." Goodwin's former girlfriend testified that he boasted to her that he "got away with it" after showing her a· tape of the tele­vision show "Unsolved Mysteries" that focused on the case. 
After Thompson's death, Goodwin and his wife at the time left the country and cruised the Caribbean on their $400,000 boat for three years. 
He ran into legal trouble after their return and was sen­tenced to 30 months in federal prison for lying on a loan appli­cation. 

All the while, Campbell was  case.  
pressing authorities to reopen  Goodwin  
the murder  case  
and  look  at  

Goodwin as a sus­"This has been a pect. Campbell, a long endurance former mayor of 
race for justice. ,,
San Juan Capistrano with wide political con­Colleen Campbell 
nections, also Thompson's sister became an outspo­ken, nationally 
was arrested in 2001 and has remained in jail since, his case delayed numer­ous times by legal wrangling. Since then, Campbell has attended every one of the 70 court appear­

known victims' rights advocate ances Goodwin has made. She as she pursued her brother's planned to be in court again on 

Monday when Deputy District Attorney Alan Jackson and Saris present their opening statements. 
The Los Angeles County dis­trict attorney's office has declined to comment on the prosecution's case. 
"We have a jury seated and will be giving opening state­ments," district attorney spokeswoman Sandi Gibbons said recently. "We are very happy that this case is finally going to trial." 
Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
PGA TouR 

Scott gets first PGA victory 

Australian moves to third on money list at Tour Championship 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA Moving his potential closer to promise, Adam Seott had his best year in golf. He wound up third on the PGA Tour money list, and ean move as high as No. 3 in the world ranking over the next two months. 
None of that would have mat­tered without a PGA Tour victo­ry. 
Seott took eare of that miss­ing pieee Sunday in the Tour Championship by holding off every challenge that came his way, dosing with a 4-under 66 to win the season finale by three shots over Jim Furyk. 
"You ean't be that (No.) 3 or 4 player in the world without winning tournaments," Scott 

said. "That shouldn't happen. I feel more eomfortable in that position seeing I've won an event." 
lie won eonvineingly at the PGA Tour's version of an All­Star game. 
Staked to a three-shot lead on a eool, eolorful afternoon of autumn at East Lake, he sank a slick, 15-l'oot birdie putt on No. 3 to turn back an early threat from Vijay Singh. When he saw Furyk and Joe Durant make a move, Scott responded with three birdies in a four-hole streteh around the turn. 
For good measure, he turned bogey into birdie by holing a bunker shot on the 13th. 
"That was a chance for us to piek up a shot, and we ended up losing a shot," Furyk said. "A guy gets a three-or four­shot lead and he keeps making birdies, he's tough to cateh." 
Scott finished at 11-under 269 and earned $1.17 million to finish his PGA Tour season 

DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS SPRING 2007 COURSES 
Classical Antiquity 

CLAS 10211(1 GREEK AND ROMAN MYTHOLOGY T Mu:ntrck (MWF 12 50-I :40> ·n1is c...lurse S\lf'Vt.")·s the mythologies of Gn..>et,;e and R~lme nnd traces th~ir transmission and in1luence down to the present day Gr~k and R,.'man myths a..;; t.mb\xhed in u w1dc vnriely of ancient media will be c~umincd. as well~ the way in wh1ch thc:se :stotie::.; and. characters survive and urc transformed in later literature and the visual arts. 
CL<I.S 20100 WORDS IN TIME: GREEK, LATIN 'AND THE HISTORY OF ENGLISH Krostonko (T!{ 2:00-J:ISj Gn.'C'k and Luhn language and litt..-rature exercised a pro:fi . .mnd 1nnuence on the growth and dc\·clopJUL-'llt of English. affecting C'-'<-··rything from voc:ubulaty to litt.."'ary ::.1ructurc. We wtll examine this mfluencc. covt.-ring toptcs su~h as Greek, Lutin, and Engltsh development, lunguagc horrowinp:, rnechamcs of ~munuc change. and translation of 
lik."Tary style. 

CLAS 30110 DEMOCRACY AND THE GREEKS Baron (J'R 9:30-10:45) This course t.-xamim.~ the theory. practice. and dc"\·clopmcnt of ancient Greek. cspccwlly Atht.."tlinn, dcmocru'-J Among topic::; ::;tudicd are thct.lrif!.ins of democracy, its advantugcs and disaJvant.agcs us a form of goVc,..'lllm~nt. Greek ideas of uhernatJves 10 demt.x,-rucy. and dcmocrac~· as nn nbidmg legauy of Greek ctvilizution to the modern world 
CL<I.S 30220 THE ROMANS AND THEIR GODS Tavlor (MWF 12:50-1.40) An introduction to the way in which the Romans conc~ived of, worshipped, and communtcatcd \\"ith the myrmd p.t-.ds of their pantheon. The cour.re will focus first on convcntlonnl religwus ntuals and the1r cuhurul vulne. nnd St.."Coudly on the success nr Ronum polythctsm 1n adapting to changmg hislor1cnl<md socinl conJitions. 
CLAS 311315 SEX AND GENDER IN GRECO-ROMAN ANTIQlllTY E. Mat.urek (TR II :00-12: 15) The diffcnng roles and stt.TOOtypcs. fonns of behavior. und \'Uhles associated wuh wom~n and men in Gruco-Romun antiquity ·will be ex.aminl!d in th1s course. Specml attcnti1..111 IS t:"!:l'"ctl to the preoccupations of the Greeks and Romans\\-" tth the catcgt.lncs of ·rt..•:male' and '"male' aud to the dy11amic~ ofrelation~ and relat1onslups ~"let ween men 
and women 

CLAS 3011112 DEATH AND THE A}IERLIFE IN ANCIENT EGYPT l.adouctmr !'fR 12.30-!.45.1 After nn imtwl surv....-y of htstoncal so~. th1s I.!OUTSC wi II !bcus on 11 \\idee r8.ngc of texts. un:::haeologic.nl nrtifncts, und arch it~ctural remains associnted with Egyptian funerary practice and conc'-:..-pti\"HL."ii of the Olhcn.1.urld. 
CLAS ~012!' CL<I.SSICAL GREEK TRAGEDY Turkcllaub (MWF I:55-~:45) The Greek.."' inn..""IJted tragic dnm1a to expre$S their tragic view or life and inYentcd phik1soph~· to ovcnxnnc 1t. Which p1~vuihxl? How does the perennial struggle about the deep truths of lhe humllll conditi,>n continue now'l Lenm about the religious dnlffia ofAeschylus. the C"'\I~Ienha) the1,ter ol' Sophocles.. the subven-ive nrt of Euripides:. anJ Plato's counterattack-aU fundamcutal to the course of WesternltLcrature and philosophy 
CLAS 40358/60358 THE ROMAN WORLD OF APULEHIS Bradley CrR 2:00-J·I S) This coi!NC begins with the Romano-Africun selling (If Apulems· hirtll,. recreates his early educational truvcls, and focusc~ especially on his trial for magic in Sabratha before his rchirn to Ca rthagc All of Apulcius' wr iting:s will be cons.u.ll.-rcd, f(l(."ll sing on the Apology. t11c sp l.>t..'Ch made at hHt In ut and his fictional Aletamorpho.~·es Lutin knowledge is not required. 
Greek and Latin Language and Literature 

BEGINNING AND INTERMEDL-\TE COURSES IN LATIN AND GREEK ARE OI''FERED. CHECK INSIDE ND F'OR COURSE TIMES AND DESCRIPTIONS. 
CLLA 21KIO~ READING AND WRITING LATIN PROSE T Mazurek (MWF 10:40-11 :JO) This <..'OtJ.NC introducl.~ students to sty listie ~tnaly::!is through close rcaJings of Latm prose authors such a:-:~ Cicero und the yowtgc:r Pliny. A spec-ial feature vf this course is that ~tudcnts leam to write clussical Lutin for themselves 
CLLA 31Hil4 CICERO'S SPEECHES Krost<'Itko (MW X:00-9: 15) "lfie art of pe!:f":')'l.lasion wus un essential rcquircmem for success m Romnn public Jifc. and no one wus more persuasive than Cicero. The t1cxihility and c<."'ltnplexny of Ctcero·s grammatical expression. Ult): range of his styles, and lltc polihc:.~l contexts in \\hich his.specches were delivered arc all g1ven careful trcatnu..
-nt. 

CLLA 40023 ROMAN ELEGIAC POETRY E. Mu>.uruk (TR 12·30-1·451 This :.~dnmccd. t;(lUrse intruduc~ ~tuJcnts to Latm ch:gy, a fomtof vt..'rse that ~cn:\!d Roman poets a~ .a vehicle fi:,r ex-pressing und c:xpJorin~ pt.."NN.mal feelings, cspccinlly those HSSuCintOLi WIIh love. 
CLLA 40026 THE VULGATE AND RELATED TEXTS l..adoue<.~tr <TR 11:00-l:?. !5) Reudings nnd critical discussion of lhC' vanotiS lnyt.-rs of texts in the Vulgate Bible· 1) the old, essentiully unrev1scd layer~ 2) Jerome's revised P:5alll.'"f~ 3) Jerome's revised Gospels•.t) .lt...n1me's transluti<1ns from the I-lehrew. 
CLU ~0027 MEDIEVAL U TIN TEXTS Tuvlor (MWF J:00-3 50) A su1vcy of Medieval Latin Texlio, dc::~igncd 1o i~troduce intcnncd.ia.tc studt.•·nts to Mcdicvu1 Latlll lucruturc and lollclp them prl~grcs..<.; m translation skills. 
C'LLA 40055/60055 CREATION, TIME AND CITY OF GOD IN AUGUSTINE OF HIPPO MacCormaok (W I 30--l:(K)) Tlu:: dialog1c writings or Augustine of I·hppl> witl be l"ocused on in l)rdcr to understuntl Augustinc·.os ideas uboul crcntion and tune~ and ubout th«:: nature ofln.nnan socJct~· nnd tts goals Th1s c<."'lurse will seek whnt can be learnt from Aug:u.s.tine,s dinlogic and sometimt.-s disputatious wuy of thinking. explaining and debuting Latin knowlL>dge is not rcqulred~ hut useful 
CLGR 20004 READING & WRITING GREEK PROSE Turkeltaub (MWF 9::>5-10:15) Tln..c.o course combines a review of grammar with careful rending or dussical Orcek nuthor~ such liS Homer und Pluto The course improves students' translating skills. introduces methods for $ludying Greek hteratun: an its historical nnd cultural uontext$, and prt."Pttrus students for more advanced \vork 111 the rich literature t)f the nni.!Icnt Greeks. 
CLGR 30095 SOCRATIC LITERATURE Baron (lV!\'v'F II :45-12 :>5) This cnursc wtJ1 study the character and phiil."'l.sophical significance (lf Socrale!-i Within the context of the inwllcctunl fem1cnt of late Filth C<..'lllury Athens. The Greek primnry texts lhat con.s.ttlUie the heart of tl1c..~ course ure Plnto · s Lacht•s und L.l.-wi.'l und sect.i,."'ln~ c..~f Xenophon·s ,\.femorahilia. Issues thnt arise Crmn those texts. hkc the 1denl of rational character and Socrate!i' @:rcat intcre~'it m Eros. will proYidc npp011unitics for .student n:..~carch and c-lassroom dis<.:-ns..~ions. 
CLGR 40034 PUTO Baron (MWF II :45-12:35) "lllis adv;mced lXmrse otTers a.cc:elcrnted reading and detuilcd study of the philo~ophic-nl dialogues of Pla.lo, whose writings. ot\cn radic:1l a.nd challenging. reprC$Cnl n comergtc:me m the Wcstem int.ell~ct\ttll trndtt!On. The development of Pfmo ·s phtlosoplucaf ideas in their hi.ostoricnf con1ext is a h ..>y theme {(,r discus..~ion m fhe course. and altt..'lltion is paid to the main features of his prose style in selectim1s or h1s n·orks. 
Fm· additional infon:nation on the Department of Classics, please visit our web site a1 http://classics.nd.edu. 

with nearly $5 million. With tournaments eoming up in Australia, he will have a chance to surpass Phil Miekelson at No. 3 in the world ranking by the end of the year. 
Furyk shot a 65 to match low round of the week, but never got closer than two strokes and trailed by as many as five on the back nine. 
He played bogey-free golf over his final 31 holes, and it was meaningful. Furyk cap­tured the Vardon Trophy for the first time with the lowest adjusted scoring average on tour at 68.86. 
Scott was second at 68.95. 
Tiger Woods had the lowest average (68.11). but failed to play the required 60 rounds. Woods skipped the Tour Championship for the first time, although he still would have come up one round short even if he had played. 
''I'm wondering if anyone is going to put an asterisk on it beeause Tiger didn't play enough rounds," Furyk said. "But it's a niee honor. It's icing on the eake for a good year and a consistent year." 
Durant closed with a 67 to fmish third at 273 and end his season with a stunning turn­around. He was worried about keeping his card three months ago, then finished the year with five straight top-1 0 finishes, including a victory at Disney. He wound up 13th on the money list, making him eligible for all four majors next year. 
Those eonsolation prizes were the best anyone could hope for. 
"We just couldn't get any­where near him, really," Durant said. 
Seott has been regarded as one of the game's best young players since he turned pro at age 19, but he had stretehes where he vanished. His goal this year was to be more con­sistent, and he couldn't argue with the results. He had nine top 1Os -six of those fmishes no worse than third -coming into the Tour Championship. 
After missing the eut last week at Innisbrook, he fixed his flaws on the range this week with coaeh Butch Harmon, then ran away from the 27-man field at the Tour Championship. 
It was his fourth eareer PGA Tour vietory, and it earned him the last spot at Kapalua for the winners-only Mereedes-Benz Championship that starts the 2007 season in 61 days. 
"It's been a long time sinee I've been here, winning on the PGA Tour," Scott said. "I had to work hard for it." 
The next step is contending in the majors, and eventually moving eloser to Woods. 
"It might take awhile," Scott said. "But I think if I was to be No. 1 in the world at some point in my career, then I think that would be maybe the best aehievement I eould ever do in golf, to get past Tiger Woods." 
Scott's performanee was so strong that hundreds of fans headed for the parking lot when he made the turn with a three-shot lead, and no one got any closer the rest of the way. 
But there were plenty of peo­ple left to roek East Lake with cheers when Scott holed his bunker shot on the 13th hole, sending a message down the 14th fairway that Furyk and Durant could not ignore. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Paterno fractures leg during game 
Nittany Lions coach may need surgery to expedite recovery 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, Pa. -Joe 

Paterno isn't going to let a 
broken leg keep him from 
coaching his team again. 
The 79-year-old Penn State coach broke his left leg and damaged a knee ligament when two players ran into him during the Nittany Lions' loss to Wisconsin, and team offi­cials said Sunday that surgery was being considered. 
Paterno's son and quarter­backs coach, Jay, said he spoke with his father Sunday and there was "no thought whatsoever of not coming back this year.... It's not even in the discussion. There's nothing more to read into this in terms of his career." 
Paterno fractured the top of his tibia, or shin bone, on Saturday, according to team doctor Wayne Sebastianelli. The injury typ­ically heals on his team from the coach's box above the stands. 
Fans hoped for the best. A statue of Paterno outside Beaver Stadium had a band­age wrapped around his left leg, and one fan left a sign that read, "Get well soon JoePa, we love you!" Former players such as O.J. McDuffie, KiJana Carter and Michael Robinson called or sent mes­sages of concern. 
Paterno's 360 career wins are second among major col­lege coaches to the 364 of Florida State's Bobby Bowden. 
Paterno was knocked to the turf at Camp Randall Stadium in Madison, Wis., when Nittany Lions tight end Andrew Quarless and Wisconsin linebacker DeAndre Levy barreled into him. Quarless had just caught a pass along the sideline early in the second half of the Nittany Lions' 13-3 loss to the Badgers (9-1, 6-1 Big Ten). Penn State (6-4, 4-3) lost to a ranked opponent for the fourth time this season. 
Replays showed Levy collid­
ing helmet-first 
with Paterno's left 

its own with "It was a matter of leg as the line-rehabilitation, 
we should have backer fell while 

though doctors tackling Quarless. and team offi­done that, we Paterno stood cials were con­should have done for several min­
sidering utes along the
this."

whether sur­sideline after get­gery would ting hit before help the leg Jay Paterno having to be 
heal faster, Quarterback coach helped to the 
said Guido D'Elia, director of communications for foot­ball. 
"He wants to make the quickest fix," D'Elia said. 
Paterno had some ligament damage to the left knee, though the extent was unknown, assistant athletic director Jeff Nelson said. 
Paterno, who turns 80 next month, was trying to maintain his normal routine while working from home Sunday, reviewing tapes, talking to staff by speakerphone and getting ready for the next game at home against Temple. 
"It was a matter of we should have done that, we should have done this," Jay Paterno said. "He had sugges­tions for everybody this morn­ing." 
The elder Paterno is in his 41st year as Penn State head coach and under contract through the end of 2008. Only Amos Alonzo Stagg coached as long with one school, leading the University of Chicago from 1892 to 1932. 
No determination had been made about whether Paterno could return to the sideline for the Temple game or monitor 
bench, where he remained seated most of the third quarter sur­
rounded  by  trainers  and  
police.  
"He's  a  wily old rascal,"  

Penn State defensive coordi­nator Tom Bradley, who filled in for Paterno in the second half, said after Saturday's game. "He's not going any­where unless he has to. He's pretty tough." 
Paterno was then carted to the locker room with less than two minutes remaining in the quarter, and flown back to State College on Saturday night ahead of his team. 
It has been a rough season physically for Paterno. 
Paterno had to leave the sideline in Penn State's game at Ohio State on Sept. 23 after he became ill -the first time he left the field during a game in more than four decades as head coach. 
He returned briefly at half­time, then left again before coming back at the start of the fourth quarter. 
In practice the following week, Paterno was blindsided by two players -one of whom was Quarless -going full­bore for a pass. 
SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MoDEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 

Top teams barely survive sleepers 
Michigan, Ohio State get wake-up call this weekend with close games 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -This is why coaches plead with their players to take it one game at a time. 
Ohio State and Michigan near­ly had their perfect seasons ruined Saturday by pair of teams with five combined wins. That huge game Nov. 18 between the Buckeyes and Wolverines almost lost much of its appeal. 
First, No. 2 Michigan with­stood a furious rally by Ball State and hung on for a 34-26 victory at the Big House. Later, No. 1 Ohio State survived a scoreless second half and held on to beat Illinois 17-10, the closest game of the year for the Buckeyes. 
Maybe all that hype is starting to distract the top two teams in the Big Ten and the nation. 
"It's a reality check to all of us," Michigan offensive tackle Jake Long said. "We were close to losing, the closest we've been all year. We all have to refocus." 
Michigan (10-0, 6-0) plays at Indiana (5-5, 3-3) next week while Ohio State {10-0, 5-0) trav­els to Northwestern (3-7, 1-5). 
It's a safe bet that both the Buckeyes and Wolverines will take those games more seriously after what happened Saturday. 
"We've got to keep our heads tight and just keep on playing as a team and moving forward," Ohio State wide receiver Ted Ginn Jr. said. "We came out and had a dog fight. We just will come back next week and play hard." 
Michigan made a couple of early mistakes against the Cardinals (3-7), handing the five-touchdown underdogs nine points and the lead. 

Mike Hart's first fumble in two years bounced through the end zone for a safety, Chad Henne threw an interception that was returned for a score and Ball State had a 9-7 lead, just the second deficit for Michigan this season. 
Michigan -regained control behind a powerful running game and its usual swarming defense, going up 31-12 in the third quarter. It looked as if the Wolverines would cruise, but instead they gave up a 54-yard TO pass and a 62­yard completion 
that led to anoth­er touchdown  "It's a reality check to all ofus. "  give it back, unable to get one first  
and  the  down.  
Cardinals were within eight mid­way through the  Jake Long Michigan tackle  Illinois had one play to go 98 yards and couldn't pull off  
fourth quarter.  a  miracle. For the  
With a chance  first time this sea­ 
to tie the game  son, Ohio State won  

with a TO and a 2-point conver­by less than 17 points. sion, Ball State quarterback "We're 10 weeks through it Nate Davis threw an incomplete and hopefully we can learn a lot pass on fourth-and-goal with from what we haven't done as 
2:46 left. Michigan had survived. well," coach Jim Tressel said. Well, not quite. "We'll grow from this game.... 
The Wolverines couldn't run We have guys who are more out the clock and Ball State got a than willing to look at them­chance to throw up a prayer selves with our coaching staff to f'rom midfield on the final play, a find ways to get better and go pass Ryan Mundy easily picked from there." off in the end zone. Buckeyes quarterback Troy 
"I think guys thought this was Smith didn't do much to help his a blow-over game," Henne said. Heismi').n Trophy campaign, "Ball State played their hearts throwing for 108 yards and no out and it showed if we relax touchdowns in his worst game of any bit, any team can beat us." the season. 
Ohio State wasn't in quite as much danger as Michigan, but the Buckeyes clearly played their worst half of the season in the final 30 minutes against Illinois (2-8, 1-5). 
Up 17-0 at the break, Ohio State never got its ofl'ense going and the Illini took kept plugging away. A field goal with 8:54 left made it 17-3 and Illinois finally got into the end zone with 1:40 left on Rashard Mendenhall's 3­yard run. 
The Illini were an onside kick recovery away from making pulses really pound in Columbus, but Brian Robiskie grabbed the bounc­ing ball for the Buckeyes. And then Ohio State had to 
TAPPERS* NEEDED TO ASSIST BLIND SWIMMERS 
*A tapper stands at each end of the swimming pool and, using a pole with a ennis ball attached to the end, taps the swimmer on the head or shoulder as 
1ey approach the end to indicate a tum. Two ND students are training to om pete in the 2008 Para-olympics. Tappers are vital part of their program 
f you are interested please call the Disability Services office at 631-7157. r send an email to osd@nd.edu. Tappers are needed during the following 1mes: 
Tuesday & Thursday 11:00 AM-2:30 PM Wednesday 8:30 PM-9:30PM 


Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
With Mountaineers loss, Buckeyes are unanilllous No.1 
Jason Whitlock of Kansas City Star ranks unbeaten Louisville No. 9, but Cardinals move to No. 3 in media poll 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -It's unani­mous. 
Ohio State received all 65 first-place votes in The Associated Press Top 25 released Sunday to become the first unanimous No. 1 during the regular season in three years. 
The last team to sweep the media panel voting was Oklahoma on Nov. 30, 2003, the week before the Sooners lost the Big 12 championship game to Kansas State. 
The Buckeyes have been top­ranked all season, and for the fourth straight week their Big Ten rival, Michigan, was No. 2. 
The Buckeyes and Wolverines had closer-than­expected wins Saturday. Ohio State won 17-10 at Illinois and Michigan held off Ball State 34-26. 
Louisville received its best ranking, moving up two spots to No. 3 after its 44-34 victory over West Virginia on Thursday. The Mountaineers had been No. 3, but their first loss of the season dropped them seven spots to No. 10. 
No. 4 Texas was just three points behind unbeaten Louisville. 
The Cardinals were ranked as high as No. 2 by five voters and as low as ninth by Jason Whitlock of the Kansas City Star. 
"After watching the West Virginia-Louisville game Thursday night I was shocked at how poorly the defenses played," Whitlock said in an e­mail to the AP on Sunday. "I don't think either one of those teams would survive against the best teams in the SEC. So there are four SEC teams that I think are better than Louisville. I also think Ohio State, Texas, USC and Michigan are better than Louisville." 
Kirk Bohls of the Austin American-Statesman had Louisville No. 2 and said the Cardinals deserve credit for having one of the nation's best offenses. 
"This has got to be one of the most complex voting situa­tions I've seen because people don't know what to make of the Big East," he said. "Style points mean everything this 


B . .,,,,,,,,,,....,
..l'':!; .-: 
r1ng1ng 1ra 1t1on 
All lectures: 7:30p.m. Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
1(0 L1 •f e 
Saint Mary's College 


Wednesday, September 6 Ana Maria Pineda, Santa Clara University 
Welcoming the Stranger: Hospitality in the Christian Tradition Specuxt follin.v-ujJ e'lX>nt: Thursday, September 7 

Pineda 
Immigration Issues: A Catholic Common Ground Conversation (3:30p.m. in StajJleton Lnmge) 
Wednesday, October 25 
Claire Wolfteich, Boston University 


Wolfteich Women, Spirituality and the Workplace 

Monday, November 6 
Saint Catherine of Siena An impersonation by actress Nancy Murray, O.P. 
Voices from d1e Past, \Visdom for Today, Hope for Tomorrow 

i\furra~ 
SaintM:sColleg~
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs (574) 284-4636 • Mnail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 


Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
The 2006 Endowed Fall Lecture Series 
d. . 
time of year. When I see Michigan struggle at home against Ball State and Louisville smash third-ranked West Virginia, I think you have to give them credit for that." 
No. 5 was Auburn and Florida was sixth, the Southeastern Conference rivals separated by six points. 
Southern California was No. 7, right in front of Pac-1 0 rival California. 
Notre Dame and West Virginia finished off the top 10. 
Three SEC teams start the second 10, with Arkansas, LSU and Tennessee. The Tigers beat the Volunteers 28-24 on Saturday and the Razorbacks host Tennessee this week. 
Unbeaten Boise State was No. 14 and unbeaten Rutgers was 15th. The Scarlet Knights get a chance to make a big leap in the ranking on Thursday night when they host Louisville. 
"If Louisville beats Rutgers by two touchdowns, I might reconsider my position," Whitlock said. 
No. 16 was Wisconsin, fol­lowed by Oklahoma and three Atlantic Coast Conference teams -Wake Forest, Georgia Tech and Virginia Tech. 
Oregon is No. 21 with Boston College, Maryland, Texas A&M and BYU rounding out the Top 25. 
Maryland and BYU were in the rankings for the first time 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Louisville jumps in new BCS poll 
Associated Press Championship Series standings 
Sunday, putting some distance 
NEW YORK -Louisville is between themselves and the looking good. other title contenders. 
The Cardinals (8-0) surged into Louisville has four games left, third place in the Bowl three against teams with winning records, and it looks as if the Cardinals are a good bet to earn a spot in the national champi­onship game if they stay unbeat­en -though not quite a lock. 


Ohio State (10-0) and Michigan (10-0) remained at the top of the BCS standings, despite ugly wins on Saturday, and on course to meet Nov. 18 in Columbus with a bid to the Jan. 8 title game in Glendale, Ariz., on the line. 
But the Cardinals were the big winners this week. Their 44-34 victory over West Virginia, last week's third-place team, gave them the necessary boost to jump over fourth-place Florida. And with another big game Thursday night at undefeated Rutgers, the Cardinals are in position to get another bump up with a victory. 
Louisville was third in the lat­est Harris poll, fourth in the coaches' poll and third in the computer rankings for a BCS average of .8907. Each of those components account for one­third of a BCS average. 
"I wouldn't go so far as to say (the Cardinals) control their own destiny because you never know what the voters do," BCS analyst Jerry Palm said. 
Ohio State is an overwhelming No. 1 in the polls and second in the computers. Michigan is sec­ond in the polls but first in the computers. 
Once-beaten Florida stayed in fourth with an average of .8017, and Texas (. 7998) made a big jump from seventh to fifth, just a shade behind the Gators. 
Auburn (. 7814) is not far behind in sixth, followed by USC, California and Notre Dame. 
this season. The Terps defeat­ed Clemson 13-12 on a last­second field goal to move into the rankings for the first time since the middle of the 2003 season. The loss knocked Clemson out of the rankings 
for the second time this sea­son. 
Washington State also dropped out of the rankings after being in for just one week. The Cougars lost 27-17 at home to Arizona. 
-----------, 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2006 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Team snaps three-game losing streak in D.C. 
Notre Dame picks up wins against Georgetown and South Florida this weekend to improve to 9-3 in the Big East 

By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 

The losing is over, as Notre Dame snapped its three-gamn skid this weekend with two wins over Big East opponents. 
Switehing to a 5-1 offense, the Irish (15-1 0) swept Georgetown (8-17, 2-10 Big East) and South Florida (12­13, 7-5 Big East) to advance their conference reeord to 9-3. 
"It was a really good week­end for us," Irish eoach Debbie Brown said. "We felt like we played just a good level of volleyball the entire weekend. It was good to get our feet baek under us after last weekend." 
Led by the offensive efforts of sophomores Mallorie Croal and Justine Stremiek, the Irish turned around their momen­tum and got in the winning column. 
Notre Dame 3, Georgetown 0 
Croal led the Irish attaek with 13 kills at a hitting per­centage of .417 as Notre Dame took the mateh 30-21, 30-21, 30-14 over Georgetown. 
On the lloya side, sopho­more Jessica Buffum led with 11 kills, though only muster­ing a hitting percentage of .200. As a team, Notre Dame played against the Bulls only out-hit Georgetown .356 to once before, Brown said they .121. were well prepared for their 
After two relatively close Sunday matehup. 
games, the Irish  "I  think  we  
ran the  right over lloyas in  "We felt like we  were in a really good plaee,  
the deeisive third game. Georgetown did not seore  played just a good level of volleyball the entire  mentally and physieally," Brown said. "South Florida  
more than two eonsecutive  weekend."  is a strong team. I thought  
points through­out the game,  Debbie Brown  we just stepped up to the ehal­ 
and  Notre  Irish coach  lenge each time.  

Dame put together runs as high as six unanswered points. 
The Irish seored four con­seeutive points to elose the mateh on an aee from senior Danielle Herndon. 
"This weekend, there wasn't really any glaring weakness­es," Brown said. "It was a good solid effort all around." 
Notre Dame 3, South Florida 
0 
After making quick work of one of the less successful teams in the Big East, Notre Dame topped a newcomer to the conference in its 30-14, 30-19, 30-19 defeat of South Florida. 
Even though the Irish had I don't think we 

had any big weaknesses or drawbaeks from the weekend. We played solid and steady eaeh and every point." 
Notre Dame came on strong against South Florida early in the third game with a kill from freshman Serenity Phillips, beginning a five-point run that gave Notre Dame a 14-5 lead. 
Croal and Stremick led the offense again, tallying 15 kills apiece in the win. Croal stepped up to score the team's last three points, sealing the vietory with two kills and a bloek. 
Contact Devin Preston at dpresto@nd.edu 


We now offer the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre Dame Apartments 
835 Notre Dame Avenue • 2-bedroom Apartments 
• 
Spacious 1, l00 sq. ft. units 

• 
Within Walking Distance to ND {2 Blocks} 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
On-Site Laundry 

• 
Water Utility Included in Rent 

• 
Centraf Air 

• 
Secured Exterior Doors wrth fntercom System 



Lafayette Square Townhouses 
424 N. Frances Street 

• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


• Off~Street Parking 
• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Call today -these units are renting quickly View all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at vvwvv.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at f574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Bass still fishing for first win over Moneke 
OSUfreshman takes fourth straight meeting 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
To Stephen Bass, it may seem like he will never be able to escape the forehand of Steven Moneke. 
Bass and Ohio State's Moneke last faced off Oct. 23 when Moneke topped the Irish junior 7-6, 3-6, 6-4 in the quarterfinals of the ITA Midwest Regional Championship. The two bat­tled again Sunday in the semi­finals of the ITA National Indoor Championship. 
Bass forced Moneke to pull off a tight win in the first set -Moneke took one set point 5-4 and rallied to win the set 7-5. 
Bass was not able to chal­lenge Moneke as much in the second set as the Buckeyes freshman walked away with 6­3 win and a place in the finals. It marked the fourth straight win that week for the German sophomore. 
Moneke -unranked as of preseason polls -is becoming a trial for anyone who steps on his court. The Buckeye came close to knocking off UCLA's Ben Kohlloeffel -the No. 1 player in the country ­but fell to him 6-3, 3-6, 7 -6(7) in the finals. 
En route to the semifinals, Bass pulled off a shocking upset defeating No. 2 John Isner of Georgia. Bass knocked off Isner in straight sets with a 6-4, 7-6(6) victory. The win placed Bass in the quarterfi­nals against Boise State's Luke Shields. Bass fell 6-1 in the opening set but rallied to post 7 -6(3) and 7 -6(5) tiebreakers. 
Bass' teammate Sheeva Parbhu fell to Old Dominion's Hare! Srugo 6-7(8), 6-4, 6-1. Parbhu defeated Jakob Cech of Fresno State 7-5, 7-6 in the first round of the consolation. Georgia's Luis Flores defeated Parbhu 7-5, 5-7, 7-5 in the quarterfinals. 
Parbhu and doubles partner Ryan Keckley lost to San Diego State's Markus Dickhardt and Christian Groh 8-6 in the first round of the tournament. But that did not deter the duo, who went on to knock off three pairs and win the conso­lation final. Parbhu and Keckley defeated William and Mary's Alex Cojanu and Colin O'Brien 8-5 to secure their vic­tory. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish face stiff competition 
CordeValle Collegiate hosted by No.5 UCLA begins this afternoon 
top golfer. 
By FRAN TOLAN "We have built momentum 
Sports Writer with each event thus far 
and feel we're ready to take on the best teams in the After closing out its last country," he said. event -the Prestige at PGA At the Prestige, sopho­
West in La Quinta, Calif. ­with a seventh-place finish, Notre Dame looks to main­tain its momen­tum today in the first day of the CordeValle Collegiate in San Martin, Calif. 
T h e CordeValle, 

"We know we can compete with any of these schools if we play our best. , 
Cole lsban Irish golfer 
hosted by No. 5 UCLA, fea­tures a strong 17-team field that includes No. 7 Stanford, No. 8 Coastal Carolina, No. 9 USC, No. 15 Lamar and No. 24 TCU. 
"The field is one of the strongest of the year," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
Despite the depth of the field, the Irish believe they can finish toward the top of the leaderboard. 
"We know we can compete with any of these schools if we play our best," senior co-captain Cole Isban said. 
Kubinski agreed with his 
A II 

three will trav­el to the CordeValle. 
Joining Isban, Sandman and Gifford at the CordeValle will be junior Greg Rodgers, who closed out the Prestige by 
more Josh Sandman and Isban finished in 1Oth and 14th place, respec­tively. 
Senior co-cap­tain Adam Gifford recorded a personal-best score of four­over par 220 for the tournament. 

"We dug ourselves a 
consistent playhole early and that this week, the killed us. ,, Irish hope to 
come away with some key wins 
Cole lsban 

over ranked Irish golfer opponents. 
carding a solid final-round 75, and junior Eddie Peckels, who will compete as one of the Irish top 5 for the first time this season. Through two rounds at the CordeValle last year, Peckels had one of the event's top-10 individual scores. 
"If we play well, you can't really put limitations on our performance]," Isban said. "To finish in the top three 
or  four would be  a  great  
accomplishment."  
But in order to  achieve  

that goal, the Irish will have to play three solid rounds. At the Prestige, they sat in a tie for 13th place after the first round and were unable to recover, despite finishing with two solid rounds. 
"We dug ourselves a hole 
early and that killed us," Isban said of the last tourna­ment. 
With more 
"There are a lot of good teams out 

here," Isban said. "It's just a matter of whether we bring it all to the table." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
UNITED FRONT 

Notre Dame players gather near the student section to sing the alma mater after their 45-26 victory over North Carolina. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles lose in semi-finals 
the second game and an ior Anne Cusack led the
Saint Mary's can't 

insurmountable 2-0 match Belles once again in her final hold on to early lead lead. match, saving 25 digs. Saint Mary's fought until Calvin, which finished the
against No. 1 Calvin the bitter end, keeping the regular season 30-1 and a final game perfect 16-0 close at 22-in the MIAA,
By MICHAEL BRYAN 

22. But extended its 
Sports Writer 

Calvin senior winning
"We were obviously
Kristen Kalb streak with a Saint Mary's fought served out the disappointed with the crucial 3-2 valiantly to extend its season match with win over sec­
result, but at the same 
Saturday against MIAA No. eight straight ond-seeded 1-seed Calvin but fell 3-0 in points to time I was very proud Hope in the the semifinals of the league clinch the ofour performance.,, champi­tournament. Knights' 22nd onship game. An upset-minded Saint win in a row. Setter Katie
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
Mary's squad got off to the "We were Zondervan
Belles coach 
fast start it needed to have a obviously dis­put up 68 chance against the Knights, appointed assists and taking a 12-6 lead early in with the 18 digs in the the first game. But the lead result," Belles champi­was short-lived, as Calvin -coach Julie­onship ranked No. 12 in Division III Schroeder-Biek said. "But at match, and Kalb tallied 24 -rallied past the Belles to the same time I was very kills and 15 digs for the take a 19-14 lead. proud of our performance. Knights, who will advance to 
A resilient Saint Mary's We played with and chal­compete in the Great Lakes team clawed back to tie the lenged Regional tournament Nov. 10 game 25-25 Kalb starred and 11. before falling in the winning "We wish all the best to 30-26. effort, con­Calvin from here on out,"
"[Calvin is] an
There was tributing a Schroeder-Biek said. more of the incredible team and I double-double "They're an incredible team same drama in hope they continue to with 1 7 kills and I hope they continue to the second and 15 digs. represent our conference
represent our 
game, a see­Outside hitter well." saw battle that conference well.,, Molly Krikke, Saint Mary's ended the sea­saw neither who posted a son with a 17-10 record, and team establish match-high 18 a 10-8 mark in the MIAA.
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
control early. kills, led the Both the Belles' fourth-place
Belles coach 
The Belles Knights finish in the regular season edged ahead offense. and semifinals appearance late in the C a t h y were the team's best in eight game for a slim 25-24 lead, Kurczak led the Belles with years. but once again the Knights 11 kills, and sophomore pulled away late. A clutch 6-Kaela Hellman chipped in 10 Contact Michael Bryan at 2 streak for Calvin clinched of her own. Defensively, sen-mbryan@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
After slow start, Irish rebound to drub Northwood 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame allowed Division­II Northwood University to take a 16-13 lead 12 minutes into Sunday's game at the Joyce Center, but the Irish exploded for a 9-0 run during the next two minutes and rolled to a 82­35 win. 
"That was a great game for us to be able to be down three in the first half," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We haven't had that opportunity yet this year, and I think we handled that really well." 
Irish guard Charel Allen willed her team ahead of Northwood, putting up eight points during Notre Dame's run. 
"[Allen] wanted to be the one to score," McGraw said. "She got some nice looks, she didn't settle for the jumper all the time -she really tried to get an 8-0 run to streteh the lead to inside." 40-21. In the second half, Notre 
Notre Dame continued to Dame had runs of 13, 12 and dominate as the first half 11 unanswered points. ended, going in to the locker Freshman guard Ashley room up 33-21. Notre Dame, Barlow, who put up her first 
however, strug­ collegiate dou­ 
gled in several aspects of its game in the first 20 minutes, trail­ "When !Irish freshman Ashley Barlow Jcomes in the game, the level of  ble-double with 14 points and 10 rebounds, was integral to the  
ing Northwood 11-8 in rebounds and turning over the ball 13 times.  play goes up and I think that's just a great achievement for her."  second-half dom­inanee. "I Barlow is I going to eon­ 
"[At halftime[  tribute  in  all  
we just talked about a couple of things we could  Muffet McGraw Irish coach  areas," McGraw said. "If we look down the bench  
do better oiTen­ and  say,  'We  

sively," McGraw said. "Things need to score, we need this per­that they were giving us that we son, we need to defend, we weren't taking advantage of, need that person, we need to and then we talked about the rebound,' she can do it all. rebounding." "When she eomes in the 
McGraw's adjustments game, tho level of play goes up worked as the Irish started the and I think that's just a great second half with intensity and achievement for her." 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Late surge earns squad victory 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
With the scoreboard reading 124-121 in favor of Purdue head­ing into the fmal three events of Friday's meet, the No. 17 ranked Irish men swimmers gathered around the pool for an impromp­tu team meeting. 
"We told each other that this was our moment, our time," sen­ior Ted Brown said. "We knew we had to win those last events if we were going 
a 156-144 victo­ry over No. 18 Purdue -the first victory for the Irish against the Boilermakers since 1966. 
"We have great confidence in one another. This team really showed its competitive edge in that meet," Brown said. "This was [head coach Tim Welsh's] first time beating Purdue, so to come out on top was really spe­cial." 
The first of those last three crucial events was the three­meter dive. Purdue's Steve LoBue, a national qualifier in both the three-meter and one­meter dives, had already cap­tured first in the one-meter earli­er in the meet. 
Notre Dame, however, has a national qualifier of its own ­sophomore Michael Bullin. Bulfin (with a score of 315.00) edged out LoBue (308.70) in the three­meter to capture nine crucial points, while junior Sam Stoner captured third (303.22) to give the Irish the lead 133-131. 
'The divers really stepped up 

"We told each other that The Irish this was our moment, our answered the 
to win." 
time. We knew we had to 

challenge. 
win those last events if

Notre Dame (2-0) swept the we were going to win." last three events of the meet, lift­
Ted Brown

ing the squad to 
Irish senior 
today, and so did everybody else," Irish associate 
head coach Matt Tallman said. Next up was the 200-yard individual med­ley. Brown touched the wall .66 seconds ahead of Purdue's Romain Marie to give the Irish the 
key victory, while freshman MacKenzie LeBlanc claimed fifth. 
Even though Purdue grabbed second, third and fourth in the event, the scoring went 10-9 in favor of the Irish, preserving their 143-140 lead, heading into the final even of the meet, the 400-yard relay. 
"Going into that next to last event, everything was still up in the air. Ted pulling out that victo­ry in the 200-IM was huge," Tallman said. "It made sure that all we had to do in the 400-relay was win." 
Freshman John Lytle, sopho­more Jeff Wood, freshman Andrew Hoffman and senior Louis Cavadini sealed the victory for the Irish with a 3:03.83 time, two and a half second ahead of Purdue's Craig Thomps!in, John Schmitt, Tim Watts and Eddie Kenney. 
"I hate losing, but it was a great meet," Purdue coach Dan Ross said. 
Notre Dame claimed first in nine of the meet's 16 events. Other Irish winners included jun­ior Jay Vanden Berg in the 1,000-yard and 500-yard freestyle, Brown in the 200-yard freestyle, Wood in the 100-yard backstroke, Lytle in the 1 00-yard freestyle, and the 400-yard med­ley relay team of Wood, Lytle, senior Tim Kegelman and sopho­more Sam Pendergast. 
'This victory felt good because year in and year out Purdue has a solid team," Tallman said." 
While the victory is nice, Brown said, the Irish have big­ger goals in mind the rest of the season. 
"Our whole focus is to keep training hard, and to be ready to race these dual meets in the beginning of the year," Brown said. "But we also have to make sure we're ready for the Big East meet later in the year." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Barlow did not have the only great performance for Notre Dame off the beneh. Irish sub­stitutes combined for 44 points against Northwood's 14 bench points. Sophomore forward Chandrica Smith (eight points, six rebounds), freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner (eight points) and freshman center Erica Williamson (nine points) were Notre Dame's leading reserves. 
Williamson and junior center Melissa D'Amico provided a great inside presence against the Timberwolves throughout tho game. D'Amico added nine points of her own on the post, while helping sot up the Irish guards. 
"I thought Mel ID'Amico1just started out the second half real­ly well," McGraw said. "We were more determined to get her the ball, and I think both her and Erica [Williamson] worked well on the post and that's something that we've got 
Prepare 
continued from page 28 
Senior guard Colin Falls and freshman forward Luke I larangody led the Irish in their first exhibition game with 15 and 17 points, respectively. Junior forward Rob Kurz added a double-double for Notre Dame, finishing with 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
Brey was especially pleased with the eflorts of his junior for­ward. While contributing on the offensive end and being efficient on the boards, Kurz used his superior size against Roekhurst's forwards to estab­lish his position on the block. 
"[Kurz] is a lunch pail, blue collar guy," Brey said. "What doesn't show up in the stats is the number of times he gets over and helps out, then gets back to his guy, then gets a rebound." 
Rotating Kurz, Harangody and sophomore forward Luke Zeller through two post posi­tions, the Irish looked quick and athletic on both offense and defense. Brey also used point guards Kyle McAlarney and freshman Tory Jackson in the same backeourt sets. 
"One thing we should be able to do is pressure the ball with Tory and Kyle," Brey said. "That's so important." 
With Brey going to his bench freely throughout the game, players who Notre Dame expects to contribute this sea­son -namely Jackson and Harangody -were able to get their feet wet. 
''I'm excited for Luke 

to have." 
The post play was crucial for the Irish, whose goal in the Northwood game was to rebound more effectively -and they did, 46-28. 
"They were out-rebounding us in the first half and we out­rebounded them 26-8 in the second half," McGraw said. "Those were the most impor­tant numbers we were looking at." 
Overall, McGraw has figured out where her team stands after the preseason and knows what it needs to work on for its first matchup Nov. 10 with a Division-! school -Central Michigan. 
"I think we're where we want to be defensively," she said. "I don't think we're where we want to be offensively yet. We didn't shoot well from the line." 
-Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
[Harangody] because we need him confident quickly because of what's coming up with our schedule," Brey said. 
Harangody was strong on the offensive end against Rockhurst, showing a willingness to play under the basket and an ability to use his size (6-foot-8, 250 pounds) to get to the rim. 
"We've been playing with him, battling with him all sum­mer and he's gonna be a great player in the Big East," Kurz said after Thursday's game. "We know the good thing is that he's only a freshman, you get better with time, and he's gonna be a big part of our season this year.... He's definitely fearless." 
Against Rockhurst, Notre Dame played a more up-tempo style of its traditional motion offense from last season. The Irish moved the ball quickly during their offensive sets and pressured the ball on defense, which translated to transition opportunities. 
"It's easy to be able to go through the motions, full speed the whole length of the game when you're better condi­tioned," Carter said. "When you're fatigued, that's when you look slow and start to make mental mistakes." 
Bellarmine, a Division-11 uni­versity in Louisville, Ky., beat Indiana-Southeast 84-75 Thursday in its first exhibition game of the season. 
Guard Marcus Flynn led the Knights with 16 points on 6-of­16 shooting (2-of-7 from 3-point range), while adding three assists and three steals. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

,------------------------------------"----------------------------------­
Monday, November 6, 2006 page 25
The Observer + SPORTS 
ting through the Knights' knew it was, so I just acted 

appeared to slow down, thinking armor like Hanks through the like I did [get kicked]." 
it was going wide, but the ball
Desire 
ChaiDps
back line. The sophomore sen­Thus, after she and her 

snuck inside the left post for the continued from page 28 
sation sparked Notre Dame's defense were outplayed all 

score. engines when she followed up day, Meg Ryan was even out­
continued from page 28 
Rutgers got its second goal with In Notre Dame's fmal tune­her first score by outrunning acted. As a well-known jour­
The Scarlet Knights (15-3-3) two minutes to play. Lorenzen, the up before the NCAA one defender and out-willing nalist once noted: "Burgundy 
came into the title game Sunday only Notre Dame starter left in the Tournament, they physically center back Meghan Ryan to down." 
off an emotional, come-from­game after Waldrum decided to dominated Rutgers -often to gain possession of the ball Hanks, to be sure, had plen­
behind 3-2 victory over West clear his bench, lost the ball trying the audible dismay of scream­before sending it through goal­ty of help. From the defense to 
Virginia in the semifinal Friday. to clear it and Scarlet Knights for­ing scarlet supporters. keeper Erin Guthriel's legs and the midfield, everyone played 
Rutgers fell behind 2-0 before ward Kim Mineo took it in and Many New Jersey natives into the net. No one could her role-all Jerry 
scoring three unanswered goals to beat freshman keeper Kelsey looked at Notre Dame's rough­blame Guthriel if she blushed. Bruckheimer action scenes, all 
win. Lysander, who had replaced ness (the Irish committed 14 In the end, the four Irish game long. 
"We thought that coming off of Karas. first-half fouls while Rutgers goals were almost half as Sunday, Notre Dame played 
Friday's game there might be a lit­"It was a total lack of communi­committed five) as ifthe game much as the 10 Rutgers sur­like they had something to 
tle letdown, especially if we could cation all around," the senior cap­were being playing down in rendered throughout the regu­prove. And with center 
jump on them early," Notre Dame tain said of the goal. "I was going Jungleland. lar season -not the nationally defender and Big East defen­
coach Randy Waldrum said. to head it out, but it didn't take a Wrong Springsteen tune. televised image they wanted to sive player of the year Carrie 
That's exactly what the Irish big enough bounce, then Because as the game played show to the NCAA selection Dew and her torn ACL on the 
did. [Lysander and I] looked at each out, it became clear that committee as they continued sidelines, they did. 
Hanks gave Notre Dame a 1-0 other and I thought she was going "Hungry Heart" was more to make their case for a higher Not to themselves-after all 
lead just 57 seconds into the to get it. Then I played it, but it applicable. Tournament seed. they have now won eight 
game. The sophomore took a cen­went right to one of their girls that The truth is, when the team Notre Dame's dominance games this year without her. 
tering pass from Bock and found I didn't know was there. bus took Rutgers out of New Sunday was aided by the pas­The NCAA selection commit­
the back of the net for the quickest "It was a breakdown, but it Brunswick, it also took the sionate play of Hanks. While tee, however, certainly should 
goal in Irish postseason history. won't happen again." New Brunswick out of Rutgers, her rousing performance have no qualms awarding the 
The Scarlet Knights had a After the goal cut the lead to as Notre Dame scratched and before the intermission left lit­Irish the top tournament seed 
chance to tie a few minutes later two, Waldrum put most of the clawed their way to victory tle room for late dramatics, and home field advantage until 
when Notre Dame keeper Lauren starters back in the game. with intensity and willpower she upstaged herself with the Final Four Dec. 1 in Cary, 
Karas tried to pick up a ball that "I wanted to send a message to unmatched by its opponent. some impromptu second-half NC. No one else has the fire­
had rolled just outside the box and those kids that when we make "Our energy level was a lot drama. After Rutgers defender power. And as they proved 
got called for a hand ball. The changes the level of play has to higher," captain and tourna­Meghan Ryan's boot high­Sunday, no one has a hungrier 
ensuing free kick was deflected stay the same," he said. "We'll ment defensive MVP Kim kicked closer than she appre­heart. 
and ended up just wide of the net. talk to them about that." Lorenzen said. "That kind of ciated, Hanks grabbed her 
The Irish bounced back, however, The game was unusually physi­factors into winning tackles face in seeming anguish, The views expressed in this 
scoring two minutes after the near cal, with 40 combined fouls, and and ultimately getting fouls prompting a whistle against column are those ofthe author 
miss on another pass from Bock to two Rutgers players -midfielders called." the Scarlet Knights. and not necessarily those of 
Hanks. Bock sent a pass down the Alicia Hall and Tierney Brady ­All day, the Irish aggressively "I kind of didn't get kicked in The Observer. 
right sideline and Hanks beat a suffered serious injuries in the attacked every loose ball, and the face," Hanks admitted. Contact Tim Dougherty at 
defender to it and nutmegged first half. Hall limped off the field left tracks behind them -cut-"But it was a high kick, and I tdougher@nd. edu 
Rutgers keeper Erin Guthrie. after a vicious collision with 
Hanks credited a tactical change Cinalli and didn't return. Cinalli by Waldrum with getting her open was yellow carded on the play. for the two scores. The Irish "Anyone who knows Amanda looked for more through-balls to Cinalli, knows she wouldn't have create breakaways, rather than purposefully hit somebody," slowly building up offensively. Waldrum said. "She just came in 
"We decided to play it through hard for the ball." and just be off to the races," Brady had to be taken off on a Hanks said. "Usually we're a team stretcher with 18 minutes left in that likes to pass it around and the half and was later airlifted to actually play soccer, but they hun­the hospital after colliding with kered in and we had to change Irish midfielder Courtney Rosen. our formation a little." No foul was called. 
After 55 scoreless minutes, "They just ran into each other," Weissenhofer added to the Notre Waldrum said. "I hope that girl is Dame lead. The freshman got the okay. We didn't feel like we did ball at the top of the box, turned anything dirty. I know Courtney and put a shot into the bottom left felt bad, so I talked to her a little corner, just out of Guthrie's reach. bit. She was just playing hard soc­
Five minutes later, Notre Dame cer." defender Ashley Jones lofted a The Irish, who are almost pass into the box right onto the assured of a No. 1 seed in the head of midfielder Amanda upcoming NCAA Tournament, will Cinalli. Guthrie dove and tipped fmd out their first-round opponent Cinalli's header, but the ball hit today. The game will be played the inside of the post and went in Friday at Alumni Field, with the the net to give the Irish a 4-0 lead. second round, ifnecessary, also at 
Rutgers fmally got on the board home Sunday. on a goal by midfielder Gina DeMaio with 15 minutes left in the game. DeMaio fired a shot from Contact Chris Khorey at outside the box and Karas ckhorey@nd.edu 

VOTE FOR SHEILA BERGERON 
District 1 School Board knows the issues knows the schools and always votes responsibly! 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 6, 2006 
Lapira 
continued from page 28 
a great supporting cast." 
Both players agreed with Clark and stressed the impor­
tance of team play. Lapira credited his teammates with putting Dalby and him­self in position to garner indi­vidual awards. 
"I think they were pretty much the entire thing," he said. "There wasn't a whole lot that I did to get [the recog­wouldn't have gotten it." 
While honored, Dalby felt that individual awards were more of a reflection on the team's success. 
"I don't think [an award] val­idates whether a player is good or not," Dalby said. "I 
'Tm not the biggest fan of individual awards for a team sport to be honest with you. When individuals get awards, it's a pat on the back for the entire squad, and that's the way I look at it." 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
nition] aside from just finish­ing off. Without the rest of the team working just as hard as we are, if not harder, then we 
Wins 
continued from page 26 
where we are, and we are an improved team," Jackson said. "We're a championship team? Not yet. I'm not saying that won't change at the end of the season." 
Irish senior goalie Dave Brown stopped 46 shots in the two games, but saw his think it's flat­tering, but I don't think it means you've arrived." 
Sophomore defenders Jack Traynor 
and  Matt  
Besler  were  
named  sec­ 

ond-team All­Big East, and senior goal­keeper Chris Cahill-who was third­
team all-conference -joined Lapira and Dalby on the All­Big East roster. 
"It's a lot easier to win 
"[Our defensive coverage] still needs some work to be better, but in that instance [the Schembri goal] was a strange goal," Jackson said. "It was a little bit of a fluky goal, and obviously that gives the other team a little momen­tum, a little life." 
Irish senior Jason Paige picked up an insurance goal 
8:29 into the third period and 
gave Notre Dame back the momentum for the 4-2 final. 
120:14 "We are an improved In Saturday's shutout streak game, an
team.... We're a 
disappear 5:11 interference
championship team? 
into the sec­call on captain ond period of Not yet. I'm not saying T.J. Jindra at the first game that won't change at 17:13 into the 
on a goal by third period
the end ofthe season." 
T o m m y gave the Goebel. Buckeyes an 
Prior to the Jeff Jackson opportunity to weekend, Irish coach equalize a 1-0 
Brown was second in the nation in goals-against aver­age and save percentage, behind Alaska's Chad Johnson. 
Jackson said Brown's domi­nance in net could be attrib­uted to the confidence and maturity that he developed in the Iatter half of his junior year and carried over into this season. 
"His sophomore year had a lot to be desired," Jackson said. "His confidence was down. I just think the whole aspect 
''At any point last year it 
of his mental all -just get game was would have been thrilling the puck to down. He's the net."
[to take three points. 
come into this Jackson
But] the team was
season and said he felt physically and disappointed -they the Irish con­mentally -trolled the
were upset they didn't 
he's in the tempo of the
get the four points." 
right frame of second game, mind." but the The Irish Jeff Jackson Buckeye had four dif­goaltending
Irish coach 
Irish lead. 
Goebel grabbed a rebound in front of Brown and shoveled the power play goal in from the slot at 17:38 to tie the game. , 
Notre Dame's only loss this year -a 3-2 overtime deci­sion to Minnesota State­Mankato -also came on a late power play goal by the opposition. 
"It wasn't so much a break­down from a penalty-killing perspective," Jackson said. "But they changed their strat­egy to tho simplest strategy of 
ferent players score in the first game on the Buckeyes' goaltending pla­toon of freshmen Nick Filion and Joseph Palmer. 
Sophomores Erik Condra and Christian Hanson scored in the first period to open up a 2-0 lead at the break -the Irish have yet to surrender a first-period goal in their eight games. 
Junior Mark Van Guilder scored his sixth goal of the year -the team high -in the second period, before the Buckeyes slowed the pace of the game and cut the lead to 3-2 on goals from Goebel and Andrew Schembri. 
stepped up-Palmer start­ed and made 
33 saves -and shut down the Irish offense. 
"I get a feel from behind the bench when I know the team is playing well -it's a sense of not being concerned as much about line matchups," Jackson said. "And I felt a lot less nervous about who was 
on  the  ice  Saturday,  than  
Friday."  
Notre  Dame  will  host  

Bowling Green in a two-game home stand this weekend at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

games when your defense isn't within the Irish team. Clark giving up any goals," Lapira felt that senior midfielder Nate said. Norman and senior striker 
Lapira also commended the Justin McGeeney, who are tied two sophomore defenders. for second on the team with 11 
"I think Jack [Traynor], points each, were among those especially, is kind of an unsung that were overlooked for all­hero," he said. "He's always conference honors. stepping to the ball and work­"I was quite stunned that a ing hard and he never gets couple kids didn't get a men­credit... Besler's always been tion, but it doesn't really mat­
solid,  I  think  ter," Clark said.  
he's one of the guys that's real­ly stepped it up."  "/was quite stunned that a couple kids didn't get a mention, but it  "Maybe I just feel that all my guys should be first team - 
In 17 games, Cahill has given  doesn't really matter. "  I'm biased." McGeeney  
up just 13 goals while logging 10 shutouts.  Bobby Clark Irish coach  and Norman were not com­pletely snubbed  
"He  hasn't  on  postseason  

always had so much action in awards. Both were named to games, but when he does, he's ESPN The Magazine's stepped up big time and he's Academic All-District team, doing a real good job," Dalby and their names will now said. appear on the ballot for the The award announcements Academic All-America team. also stirred up controversy "We have a very good all-
around team," Clark said. "And I think that that is, with­out question, one of the nice things about this squad." 
As one of the better players on a talented squad, Lapira saw his award as a justifica­tion of the faith his coach has in him. 
"I guess it was kind of spe­cial, because before the season Boss [Clark] had stressed to me how, if I fulfilled my poten­tial this year, I could be the Big East Player of the Year," Lapira said. "I thought it was kind of unrealistic, but it came to fruition and showed how smart Boss [Clark] is." 
The Irish will now await news of where they will play in the NCAA Tournament, which begins Friday. The tournament brackets will be announced today between 4 p.m. and 5 on ESPNNEWS. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


\ · Coffee and Conversation ::~
',_,,, ,,,_ 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 7 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students i~vites gay. lesb•!an, and bisexual memhers ot tile Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an inlvrmal cattee at tlle Co-Mn. 

Cotlee and refreshments will be served 

CURt &0!1~Cil FOR GAY li.ESBIAJI 
STUDENTS 


Monday, November 6, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
10  NOTKE.  A.l.-50 I  IF  'fOV.  ARE.  
DAA~N·\t:. STAbiUtv\.  Cf:W.u H"r  "Tft.'l INI.:r  
FANS>  A~ ~INt>ED  1"o  STAFIT  IRE:.  
t\-\AT IF A f"<XlTSAlL  "WAVE.'" ,  "fOU WI\.\..  
I~  ~~0\N>.)  IN"TD  SE e.--:se:.r_"t'E.D  FIZ.OM  
"THE.  St'/>INC>S,  tT  
1"\uST 8E.  

OH, AND Wt-\e-J -n-tAT 
WH.OI..E ""fHir-ll.r \NH.fofl.E C-1-\E.Ef!.\..E.At>U..S HOt...!::> UP ~\(;rt-..I.S. C:rO£S. 'VVA'-j loO 
LCNC::r. -:s-usr f>U'o.'j ~ SE-cAuSE. "''VE\IE. ~\E.P ""1£:\..l..tNC:r THEM \"t'S A 
~~1-Et-'\ , SUI" ""'['\-t£'-f 
'DONT ~U..'\ uET IkE. 1\\Es::AI::r£, IF 'fOU Kl'ltM./ 
WI-IJ'rr I ME:Ar-.1 ... 
A.t-J[) I;tot-JT '"TAl-~ 
A&oul c..H.A,~\.tE. W~15' HOol:ltE. ­
, , 
BE.CAUSE \-\E...S 
'\/ E.fZ..'i SE.\..f" .. CON .SC.toUS ABo-rr II. 11 M S£.~\OU~ .. JU~T 
A/..T 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YONPE 
j 
I [X I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAHVE 
I [ J (]

tZARWID WHAT THf;: TYCOON Rf;:Cf;:IVt:O WHf;:N Hf;: 

J I I (] 
www.jumble.com 
SOLD THf;: GUM FACTORY. 
Now arrange the circled letters 

to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: A " [ 

I I ] " OF [ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: SIXTY KNACK PLENTY GOSPEL Last Puzzle: 
Answer: Was the preschooler able to tie his shoe on the first try?-"KNOT" LIKELY 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Jacuzzi 65 Removes, as a 1 Word repeated 31 Jacuzzis 
knot before "black 66 Sporting sword
34 Maxima maker 

sheep, have 67 Nest item 
38 "Put _Happy

you any wool?" 
68 Turns back toFace" 

4 Semester zero39 Really tired 
8 Seizes (from) 69 Lifeless
42 Small bed

14 Building add-on 70 "Nope"
43 Followed the

15 Downwind, on a leadership DOWN
44 Shady giants 

16 Kitt who played 1 Floaters in45 Becomes aCatwoman on northern seas 
parent not by

"Batman" 2 Vigilant childbirth17 Avg., sizewise 3 Tiny pond plants 
47 Slal)gy assent

18 Aromatherapy 4 Aptitude 
49 "Once upon a

liquid 5 Pizazz 
midnight dreary" 

20 Cereal named writer 6 Variety show for two 7Swimingredients it 50 Veneration competitionsdoesn't have 53 Numbskull a Said "I do"22 _ of Cleves, 57 No. on a togetherEnglish queen 
baseball card 
9 Norma_,

23 Back of a boat 
59 Gary Cooper 
Sally Field role24 Emergency PC film of 1928 1 0 On the wrong key 

61 Overwrought 
course 

25 SSW's reverse writing 11 Paleolithic 
26 The "I" in 64 Architect I. M. 
hammer or ax 

T.G.I.F. 
12 Skinny 
13 Realtor's aim ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

19 President's foreign policy grp. 
21 Light refractor 
25 All's opposite 
27 Rebuffs rudely 
28 Robust 
29 E pluribus _ 
30 Upside-down 
sleepers 
-=+-:':+::+."-! 31 Org. offering creature comforts? 
....t.-t;...tr:;+.::r.-+=:-t-:::1 32 Trudge 
-:+;+.i:+.'*'=+=+=-1-:-l 33 Fenders, taillights, etc. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WTLLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel  
35 Swelling  48 Controlled the  55 End of the  
reducer  mike  Greek alphabet  
36 Where a telescope is aimed 37 "Get it?" 40 Lug 41 Train stop 46 Baked entree  50 Austrian peak 51 Sent by bank transfer 52 Get hitched hastily 54 Turn red, as an  56 Whinny 57 Cowboy boot part 58 Ditty 60 Between ports 62 Permit  
with a crust  apple  63 Twisty turn  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andrea McArdle, 43; Tatum O'Neal, 43; 
Bryan Adams, 47; Peter Noone, 59 

Happy Birthday: This can be a year to remember hut do your part so the memories are good. There is so much on the line that at times you may he overwhelmed. Your numbers are 8, 15, 25, 31. 33,40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will he able to touch base with someone from your past whom you have never forgotten. A change in how you handle your personal business will help you out in the future. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Once you rid yourself of some of the things you have left hanging, the stress and tension you've been experiencing will he relieved and life will be much brighter. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Secrets will get you into trouble. Someone you know 
through work or personal business will reveal what you've been trying to hide. You 
may have to change your line of work or your position. 3 stars 
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Plan a family get-together or romance someone you 
are highly attracted to. You can do no wrong today, so raise your glass and make a 
toast to life, love and future prospects. 4 stars 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Emotional confusion will not he your fault but you will be ·caught up in someone else's melodrama and that will be disturbing enough. Children or a lover will lead you down a path of deception. Do your own investigating. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You should really he on vacation or planning your next one. Travel, educational pursuits or getting involved in cultural events will bring about positive changes. A romantic connection can be made. 5 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This may not be a work day but it's the perfect time to send out resumes. Look back at your childhood goals and consider how you can bring them back into play. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Wager the pros and cons of any personal matter before you make your final decision. Someone you have relied on in the past may throw you a curve. Think with your head not your heart. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your situation is likely to change quite rapidly. Stick to the rules and regulations or you will face authority with little recourse. Someone you have worked with or for in the past may cause you grief. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make some interesting changes to your home or your personal life today. An unusual set of circumstances will revolve around money matters. Be smart, industrious and blunt about what you want to do. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be careful what you say --you are likely to offend someone or pass along the wrong information. Question your own motives. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Expect the unexpected especially when it comes to money, gifts, surprises, winnings or unusual circumstances regarding family property, money or inheritance. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are high-powered, strong and courageous. You are competitive, challenging and extremely motivated. You are secretive, captivating and irresistible. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, November 6, 2006 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Twice is nice over Scarlet Knights 
Hanks' two goals lead Irish to second straight conference crown 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
STORRS, Conn. -Sophomore forward Kerri Hanks scored two goals in the first 10 minutes and Notre Dame hung on at the end to beat Rutgers 4-2 Sunday and claim its ninth Big East Championship at Morrone Field. 
"Our ultimate goal is a nation­al championship, but it's a big deal to win the Big East champi­onship," Irish senior captain Kim Lorenzen said. "Our fresh­man year we didn't win it, so the senior class made it a point to win it each year since then." 
Notre Dame (20-0-1) advanced to the conference fmal with a 2­0 win over Marquette Friday in Storrs, getting goals from sopho­more Brittany Bock and fresh­man Michele Weissenhofer. 
see CHAMPS/page 25 


ND out-everythings Rutgers in physical Big East title match 
Less than a minute into the game, the Rutgers Knights' faces flushed with scarlet. They had just lost track of Big East offen­sive player of the year Kerri 
Hanks, who -unmarked -chased after a Brittany Bock header before finding her own mark in the back of the net to 


take a 1-0 Tim Dougherty lead. By the end of the Sports Writer game, between the embarrassment, anger and blood, Rutgers was red all over. 
That's what happens when you get taken to the woodshed. 
see DESIRE/page 25 

MEN's SoccER 
Lapira, four others take ho111e Big East season honors 
ference honors Thursday, 8-3-0 Big East), while Dalby -the year at their respective individual awards for a team
By ERIC RETTER 
including senior midfielder the team's captain and a linal­positions. Together, they join sport, to be honest with you,"
Associate Sports Editor 
Greg Dalby and junior forward ist for the Missouri Athletic Connecticut defender Julius he said. "When individuals get Joseph Lapira -who were Club Hermann Trophy -has James and West Virginia goal­awards, it's a pat on the back No. 12 Notre Dame hasn't named Big East midfielder and been the team's anchor at mid­keeper Nick Noble as the con­for the entire squad. and that's played a game in more than a offensive player of the year, field all season. ference's players of the year. the way I look at it ... [Dalby week, but its players haven't respectively. In receiving their honors, Irish coach Bobby Clark, and Lapira] would be the first left the Big East spotlight. Lapira led the nation this Lapira and Dalby became the however, was skeptical of the to agree with me that they had Five members of the Irish season with 20 goals and 45 first Notre Dame soccer play­awards. 
received some type of all-con-points for Notre Dame (13-5-2, ers to win Big East player of ''I'm not the biggest fan of see LAPIRAJpage 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Bellarmine comes to town 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will play its second and final preseason game against Bellarmine today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Joyce Center, five days after the team's 35-point drubbing of Rockhurst where Irish coach Mike Brey used all 13 players. 
And Brey couldn't be more pleased with the relatively quick turnaround. 
''I'm glad we have Bellarmine coming quick," Brey said after Thursday's win. "We can treat it like a Big East week where you 
PHIL HUDELSONffhe Observer 

have two games." 
Irish guard Russell Carter fakes out a Hofstra defender in see PREPARE/page 24 Notre Dame's 69-50 win over the Pride Nov. 22, 2005. 


HocKEY 
Jackson's squad keeps winning ways on road 
appointed -they were upset
By KYLE CASSILY 
they didn't get the four 
Sports Writer 
points." 
The Irish (6-1-1, 1-0-1) 

No. 10 Notre Dame opened defeated the Buckeyes 4-2 its CCilA schedule this week­Friday before they surren­end on the road and earned dered a late third-period goal three points with a win and a in Saturday's contest to finish tie against Ohio State -a per­with a 1-1 draw. The team has formance that would have played on the road since Oct. 
been celebrated last year, said 14 and is 5-0-1 in its last six Irish coach Jeff Jackson. games away from the Joyce 
Center -the best Irish roadBut not this year. 
stretch since 1987-88.
"At any point last year it "We have to recognize

would have been thrilling Ito take three points!." Jackson said. "I But! the team was dis-see WlNS/page 26 

NO WOMEN'S HOOPS  MEN'S SWIMMING  SMC VOllEYBAll  ND VOllEYBAll  NCAA fOOTBAll  NFL  
w c.,:) z :3 =  Notre Dame 82 Northwood 35 Irish freshman Ashley  Notre Dame 156 Purdue 144 The No. 17 Irish erase  Calvin 3, Belles 0 Saint Mary's season ends with a loss to  Irish 3, HoYJas 0 Irish 3, Bu Is 0 Notre Dame breaks a  Poll shakeup After West Virginia's loss, Ohio State becomes  Colts 27 Patriots 20 Tom Brady throws an  
~ !i  Barlow records a double-double (14 points, 10 rebounds) in the win.  a three-point deficit in the final three events to earn the victory.  Calvin in the second round of the league tournament.  three-game skein with two Big East road wins.  the unanimous No. 1 and Louisville moves to No. 3 in the AP and BCS.  interception on New England's final drive to seal the game for Indy.  
page 24  page 24  page 23  page 22  d  page 21  :page 17  








