
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students take leave to go abroad 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
With more than two dozen study abroad programs in coun­tries throughout the world, Notre Dame offers an off-campus learning experience for nearly every major and academic pur­suit. 
But for junior Brian Ching, his course of study led him away from University-sponsored sites to a unique program for semi­narians in Belgium. Ching took a !nave of absence from the College of Arts and Letters dur­ing the spring semester to study at Katholike Universiteit Leuven -the Catholic University of Leuven. 
Joan Clark, departmental administrator for the Office of International Studies, said from fall 2004 through summer 2005, a total of 1,284 students studied abroad. The majority-1,063 students -studied through Notre Dame or Saint Mary's pro­grams, but 221 students used outside programs. 
But the process isn't always easy. Notre Dame encourages its students to study through University-run programs rather than those of other schools, said Dennis Jacobs, Vice President and Associate Provost. 
Leave of absence for study purposes, he said, should be a very rare occurrence. 
see ABSENCES/page 4 
SMC printing clusters to charge fees 
last schools to make the switch. Many schools, including Notre Dame, have had similar pro­grams for years." 
Once the system is imple­mented in fall of 2006, Hausman said, students will be given a print quota. Once they exceed this allotment of pages they will be charged money to print, she said. 
While the College has taken student perspectives into con­sideration, the decision to implement the "pay to print" system is final, said Kathy Hausman of Information Technology. Students may see test models appear as early as this spring. 
"We hope [students] have a chance to see the software and become familiar with it before the print quota and charges for exceeding the quota are in 
Mary's is actually one of the see PRINTING/page 6 

Print quotas will put limits on paper use 
By EMILY LAVELLE 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students used to free printing in campus com­puter clusters will be confront­ed with a "pay-to-print" system to be implemented by Information Technology this fall. 
The transition from a free printing system to a payment program has been underway for a long time, chief informa­tion officer Keith Fowlkes said. Fowlkes assisted in making the decision to adopt such a pro­gram. 
"It's not abnormal that we are moving to 'pay to print' software," he said. "Saint 
Service-seekers turn to Holy Cross Associates 
H CA sends grads to non-profit agencies 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
For 2005 Notre Dame gradu­ates Matt Kuczora and Petula Fernandes, entering the real world meant confronting and working to solve real problems. 
Both alums are working for Holy Cross Associates (HCA), a post-graduate service program that gives graduates the oppor­tunity to both serve the commu­nity and to grow in faith. 
"HCA allows you the freedom and space to decide how you will live your life as individual and as a community during your year of service," Fernandes said. 
Each year, about two-thirds of the 30 to 35 associates come from Notre Dame, with the remaining third drawn from col­leges around the country. 
HCA sends its associates to six sites across the United States, including one in South Bend and one international site in Chile. At each site, four to seven associ­ates live together in communi­ties and work for non-profit agencies. 
"I believe [HCA] is important to the Holy Cross Congregation because it gets young people involved in work that previously priests would only do," said Mark Druyos, assistant director of Holy Cross Associates. "The purpose is to get lay people involved in Holy Cross min­istries." 
The Congregation of the Holy 
see SERVICE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Honorary degrees announced 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 
Joining the more than 2,000 undergraduate and advanced degree candidates receiving diplo­mas at Notre Dame's 161st Commencement exercises May 21 will be 12 
prominent vis­itors-includ­ing Pulitzer Prize-winning novelist Harper Lee, the University announced in a statement 


Tuesday. Lee 
Along with keynote speaker Irish President Mary McAleese, the recipient<; -three women and 10 men, including McAleese-will be awarded hon­orary degrees from the University acknowledging their work in a wide spectrum of professional fields. 
Honorary degrees are conferred in recognition of the accomplish­ments of various individuals. Students, faculty and staff mem­bers are all allowed to nominate a person for an honorary degree. University officers, including University President Father John Jenkins, narrow down the pool. Honorees do not necessarily need a connection to the University. 
Landrum Bolling, a leader in higher education whose many former roles include president and chairman of the board of Lilly Endowment Inc., chairman and chief executive officer of the 
see DEGREES/page 6 


Investigator e111braces nevv role 
Villere proposes 'Common Sense' safety precautions 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
As the academic year comes to a close for students, the end marks a new beginning for Kim Villere, Saint Mary's new security investigator and program coordinator. 
Villere, who took over on March 23, said she plans to continue some of the programs implemented by predecessor Patty Rolens as well as initiate some of her own. 
Rolens left her job at Saint Mary's to fulfill her previous position in the Mishawaka Police Department as a dispatcher, she said Tuesday. 
Villere has a strong background in security and law enforcement. As a South Bend police officer in the early 1990s, she worked her way from road patrol officer to under-
see SECURITY/page 6 

New Saint Mary's security Investigator Kim Villere, right, talks to dispatcher Nimbilasha Cushing. 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Maturity, personalized 
I'm 22 years old, and even though I 
don't ad like it 90 percent of the time 
I've always managed to see things for 
what they are. I tend to be laid baek, 
level headnd, and unafl'ccted by 
stress. 

This is not Sam Pandolfo 
magic, its maturi­
ty. or you know 

advertising
me, you're laugh­

executive
ing, but please 
read on) 

Now what does maturity have to do with anything? It's college right? Yeah, college, the place where we can pretty much do whatever we want (before 2 a.m.) while developing into responsible, young adults who will get jobs, raise families and contribute at least $50 a year to stay eligible for football tickets. 
I digress. My point is we're all sup­
posed to be mindful of our surround­
ings as wn tumble around in the lot­
tnry barrel of life waiting for our time 
to be plucked out or our drunken stu­
por and placed into the real world. 
Today, I'm asking you all to think 
about where you are as we approach 
that moment. 

I've read eountless Vinwpoints and entertained hundreds of conversa­tions full of complaints about other people's actions and thoughts. I've evnn writtl~n some and done somn 1:omplaining myself. 
What bothers me the most is the 
eontinual disregard for originality and 
creativity. By today's standards of 
political correctness, we can't even go 
into a bathroom without ofl'ending 
someone. 

Think about it for a second. No one 1:an really do anything without ofl'end­ing someone. Polities. university lifn, sports, love, eating, dating, sleeping, having sex, driving a ear, making a joke or drawing a comic-it doesn't matter what you do in life, someone, somewhere is going to be ofl'ended by it to the point that they demand that you stop. 
IIere's the crazy part. All of these things that we do, that may ofl'end someone, are what makes life real. Theso are the things that we'ro pas­sionate about doing, and at the end of the day you have to be confident enough to tune out objection and do what you love doing. You have to be yourself. 
Don't eonl'use my stance with hedo­nism, there are always !inns that shouldn't be crossed and things that will always be wrong. My point is, let things greater than people and sod­nties dntnrmine what you will or won't do. Everyone has a difl'erent reason for getting up every morning -be it faith, love, humor, work­and no one can tell you that it's a bad reason. 
There may be a trick to this kind of maturity after all. It's some weird combination of confidence and fear reinforced by people and things that you value. So do whatever you want, but when you have to grow up remember that it's quite possible the person next to you got up today for an entirely difl'erent reason and it isn't your role to judge. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at span­dolj@n d. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error in Tuesday's issue ofThc Observer Saint Mary's Vice President of Enrollment Management Dan Meyer was incorrectly identified as Dan Brown. The Observer regrets the error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE IN THE PROPOSED COLLEGE TOWN? 




IN BRIEF 

Today from 11-11:30 p.m. the Asian American Association will host a Night Grotto visit today. Mnet in front of Bond Ilall. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Manchester at 5:05 
p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame political sci­ence professor John Griffin will give a lecture titled "Race and Political Influence in America" today at 4 p.m. in the Law School Courtroom. 
AcoustiCafe will take place at 10 p.m. Thursday in the LaFortune basement. 
A Tenebrae Service will take place Thursday at 11 
p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
"Ben Hur", the 1959 film starring Charlton Heston, will be shown at 7 p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Notre Dame softball will play a doublnheader against DePaul Thursday starting at 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame men's tennis will face Louisville Thursday at 3:30 p.m. at the Courtnet Tennis Center. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on St. John's at 12:05 
p.m. Saturday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 70 HIGH 
64 
LOW 48 LOW 
49 
Jay Branham Ryan Crane Andy Ostrowski Andy Hellmuth Nick Weiland Laura Rings 
freshman freshman sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Alumni Alumni Dillon Dillon Dillon Welsh Family 
"/want an ''I'll take a "Two Denny's." ''As long as ''As long as I "/just want Alumni 2." Notre Dame-there's a don't run into Chipotle." themed Discovery Zone Andy amusement I'll be happy." Hellmuth." 
park." 


The cancer awareness and survivor tree, dedicated by black Notre Dame alumni, was decorated with ribbons Tuesday. Each colored ribbon represents a different type of cancer. Ribbons are available at the Eck Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Burglar steals cameras, forgets tape 
ELKO, Nev. -A man accused of burglarizing a laundromat in Elko figured he made a clean escape over the weekend when he took off with the store's six video surveillance cameras. 
But it turns out he left some rather compelling evidence behind -the video machine and video­tape that recorded his face each time he stood in front of the cameras at the Southside Laundry. 
Elko police said they came away with several close-ups of the suspect, Hobert Lynn White, 52, 
TODAY a:: 
Elko. 

And even if the portraits were a little fuzzy, police said they would have been able to easily identify him because he was wearing cowboy chaps and a trench coat, the usual attire he wears around town. 
Teen goes on 911-dlaling spree 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -A teenage girl acknowledged making about 1,000 fake 911 calls from her cell phone, laughing, taunting and saying, "You can't catch me," police said Monday. 
Police said some of the 
calls made this month last­
ed several minutes, and 
one lasted an hour. 
The girl was charged over the weekend with two counts of misdemeanor falsely reporting an inci­dent for allegedly making six fake 911 calls from a local church phone Saturday. 
"She didn't give us a rea­son for doing this," Chief of Detectives Dennis Hichards said. "She was very disre­spectful, and she said that she was going to keep call­ing 911." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
== 
...1 <( (,) 


0 


HIGH 60 HIGH 75 HIGH 71
...J 

LOW 43 LOW 57 LOW 52 
Atlanta 671 45 Boston 60 I 36 Chicago 67 I 48 Denver 711 43 Houston 81 I 61 Los Angeles 67 I 50 Minneapolis 75 1 56 New York 62 I 46 Philadelphia 66 I 44 Phoenix 84 I 59 Seattle 55 I 44 St. Louis 72 I 51 Tampa 80 I 60 Washington 66 1 48 
Wedensday, April 12, 1006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Ball players share memories of league 

Women's teams drew large crowds during World War II years 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
Senior Staff Writer 
They may have looked unas­suming with their glasses and walkers, but the three older women in the Saint Mary's Vander Vennet Theater were once known as superstars in the world of professional sports. 
Janet "Pee Wee" Sears. Betsy "Sockum" Jochum and Fran "Big Red" Janssen are former members of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League (AAGPBL), but they did­n't have to come from cities near and far to talk about their experiences play­ing ball during skirts as part of their ladylike uniforms and faced a fair amount of discrimination from men who thought women shouldn't be playing baseball. 
"I liked [the uniforms] ­except for sliding," Jochum said. "It was especially bad in South Bend because there were cinders at home plate." 
"It was interesting to go to each town and read the articles in the newspapers," Janssen said. "Usually, men's sportswrit­ers would write about these ladies coming to town to play baseball ... usually they had some smart headlines, but a lot of fans came to see the games." 
Women's baseball-and the AAGPBL -has been experienc­ing a resurgence in popularity since "A League of Their Own" was released in 1992. The three women credited its director Penny Marshall, an avid AAGPBL 
World War II -"I just liked to play memorabilia col­the three women, lector, for breath­
ball. I lived on a
who spoke to an ing new life into
farm, and my
small gathering of the sport. baseball aficiona­brother and I "We were dos in the unknown until the
would play. " 
College's Student movie started," Center on April 2, Jochum said. are all local to the Fran "Big Red" "Otherwise, we South Bend area. Janssen never talked The women former professional about the league." spoke about what Despite small
woman baseball player

it was like to play baseball, how the sport has changed, being a woman in the man's world of athletics in the 1940s and 50s when it was unheard of for women to play any sport pro­fessionally and, of course, the movi.~ "A League of Their Own. 
"I just liked to play ball. I lived on a farm, and my brother and I would play," Janssen said. "I didn't even play organized ball until I got to Fort Wayne and joined a softball team." 
The women in the league were often traded "to keep the league even," Janssen said, and they lived with families in their team's towns. 
Jochum said the players prac­ticed every single day at 5 a.m., and practices and games were radically different than how the game is played today. 
"We didn't have the warm-up like they do now, we ran laps," she said. "There were no team warm-ups. Pitchers were sort of on their own." 
There was also no bullpen, Sears said, and coaches would let any player from the bench or outfield with a good arm try pitching during games. 
The AAGPBL players wore inaccuracies the 

movie depicted, like players living in fan's homes and chaperones never entering the dressing rooms, Sears said it was an accurate portrayal of the AAGPBL expe­rience. 
"The movie was quite good, I thought," she said. "I thought it captured the basic essence of the whole league." 
One audience member asked Sears if the players actually sang the AAGPBL song at the league's 1988 induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame "like at the end of the movie." 
"Oh yeah, that's our song!" Sears said. "I tell you what, when you see your name up on that list at Cooperstown ... I got tears." 
The women said the players still remain in contact, and 438 attended the league's 50th reunion a few years back to reminisce about their days in the AAGPBL and how much playing baseball has affected their lives. 
"It was the experience of a lifetime, really, especially for 1943," Sears said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
Professors awared fellowship 
Cobb, Douthwaite among 187 recipients of prestigious Guggenheim 
Special to The Observer 

Two University of Notre Dame faculty members are among the 187 artists, schol­ars, and scientists receiving prestigious Guggenheim fel­lowships this year, according to an announcement last week from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. 
Paul M. Cobb, associate professor history and fellow of the Medieval Institute, and Julia V. Douthwaite, professor of French and assistant provost for international studies, were elected Guggenheim fellows from a field of some 3,000 appli­cants. 
Cobb, a specialist in Islamic social and cultural history, is the author of a recently pub­lished biography of a 12th century Syrian hero entitled "Usama ibn Munqidh: Warrior Poet of the Age of Crusade." Douthwaite, a spe­cialist in 18th and early 19th century French literature. is at work on a literary history of the French Revolution. She is the author of two books and the co-editor of three volumes of essays in her field. 
Guggenheim fellowships have been given annually since 1925 to writers, play­wrights, painters, sculptors, photographers, film makers, choreographers, physical and biological scientists, social scientists and scholars in the humanities "on the basis of distinguished achievement in the past and exceptional promise for future accom­plishment." Past fellows include photographer Ansel Adams, composer Aaron Copland. poet Langston Hughes, scientist Linus Pauling and novelist Eudora Welty. 
Study looks at fetnale role tnodels 
Special to The Observer 

A study by two University of Notre Dame political scientists shows that the more women politicians are made visible in national news coverage, the more likely young women are to become politically active. 
David Campbell and Christina Wolbrecht, authors of "See Jane Run: Women Politicians as Role Models for Adolescents," found that female adolescents' interest in politics is heightened by female candidates -in par­ticular, those campaigning for high-profile offices. 
"A highly visible woman in the future -perhaps even as the top of a major party presi­dential ticket -has the potential to generate signifi­cant interest in political activ­ity," the authors report. 
Campbell and Wolbrecht found that girls' increased interest in politic-s can be ini­tiated by women running for office and, then. further heightened by discussions with a parent or another adult family member. 
"Visible female candidates trigger conversations about politics between parents and their adolescent daughters, familiarizing girls with the political world and leading them to envision themselves as participants in politics," according to the authors. 
The study was published in the March edition of "The Journal of Politics." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2002, Campbell is an assistant pro­fessor of political science and faculty fellow in the Institute for Educational Initiatives. In 2002, he received a national award for the best disserta­tion in American government from the American Political Science Association for his dissertation titled "How Communities and Schools Shape Civic Engagement." His areas of specialty include American politics, political participation. religion and politics, and educational poli­cy. 

The Packey J. Dee Associate Professor of Political Science, Wolbrecht has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1997. She is the author of the award-winning book "The Politics of Women's Rights: Parties, Positions, and Change." Her areas of special­ty include American politics, political parties, interest groups, mass behavior, and gender politics. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
STUDY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 
Complete the first year of Italian in 6 weeks! 
It's like a double shot ofe..\presso in the rnorning! 
ROIT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course meeting from June 20 until August 3-M'·rwRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
Service 
continued from page1 

dedieatn themselves to service. Each associate serves a one­year term, reeeives health insuranee and is eligible for an Amnrieorps grant of more than $4,000. 
Kuczora works in Coachella, Calif. for the Coachella Valley Housing Coalition, a non-profit housing developer that has built morn than 2,700 homes for low­income families. 
"With gorgeous scenery, year­
round warm weather and tremendous wealth, the Coachella Valley is also home to some of the poorest commu­nities in the country, all within about 30 miles of each other," Kuczora said. 
Kuczora said he works on "the structural 
side of service." lie writes grants and researches housing trends and legislation. An aceountancy major at Notre Dame, he said he was especially prepared for this position beeause he learned business skills that have proved crucial to his new job. 
"Businnss majors can do a 
ynar or service too," Kuczora said. "Actually, having a busi­nnss dngren of any type is very valuabln in thn non-profit world and much sought aftnr." 
Fnrnandns is involved with Catholir Charities in Phoenix. where shn works !"or a 
rofugen resnttlnment program. 
"I do not have any speeil'ic day-to-day dutins, but I gnt lots of direct elient contact and I have learrwd quite a bit about adjusting to life in tho IUnited States! as a refugee and a lot about bask human need," she said. 
IICA's mission stands upon !"our pillars-service, spirituali­ty, community and simple 



Write news. Calll­5323 

"/wanted an experience that would incorporate different aspects ofmy life into the daily service work that I would be doing., 
Matt Kuczora 2005 graduate 
''The structural side of service is not the tra­ditional idea ofa year ofservice but it can be just as rewarding., 
Matt Kuczora 2005 graduate 
lifestyle. Associates embrace these pillars in their work, social lives and living arrange­ments. 
"I wanted an experience that would incorporate different aspects of my life into the daily serviee work that I would be doing," Kuczora said. "I found the simple living in a spiritual community to be a unique aspect that wasn't part of many other serviee programs." 
Kuczora said he chose HCA over other post-graduation serv­iee organizations because he was attracted to HCA's dedica­tion to faith. Fernandes said 
priority due date is April 15. 
In addition to filing an appli­cation, applicants must supply two essays and three references along with an interview. 
"Usually students are accept­ed into the program," Druyos said. "We have lots of positions available, and if you're a good candidate, we're going to find a 
Kuczora said. "Last week, for example, we completed a ten million dollar grant application to fund a new 200-unit afford­able housing development ... 
"Ten million dollars to help a thousand people -that certain­ly gives you a sense of accom­plishment." 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 
plaee for you." 

B o t h Fernandes and Kuczora testified to the value of IICA, both for the associates and the people they serve. 
"The structur­al side of service is not the tradi­tional idea of a year of service but it can be just as rewarding," HCA provides a good foun­dation for a life commit­ted to social justice. 
HCA has received 21 applications for the 2006­07 year, Druyos said. But interested students still have until mid-May to apply, he said, although the 
Absences 
continued from page 1 

"These kinds of leaves of absence should be extraordi­nary and the cases should be compelling or strong," Jacobs said. "The reasons for study abroad are not just 'I want to be in a country that's interesting, warm or fun,' but involves a set of courses that they couldn't find in South Bend or in any of. the other programs." 
To study abroad in an outside program during the academic year, a student takes a leave of absence from his college. The dean of the college must approve the leave of absence, and 
then the request "The program has s t u d y is sent to the reg-enabled me to get an leaves of istrar's office. absence 
During the 2005_ abroad experience while in the 06 academic retaining seminary life, past is year, a total of74 the Liturgy ofthe Hours, because 
students took an they were 
approved leave of daily Eucharist, spiritual n 0 t absence for med-direction, etc." accepted ical, personal or into any study reasons. Brian Ching of the 
Ofthese 74,16 Notre 
received study Notre Dame junior D a m e 
leaves of absence, said Jennie Bracket, Grading and Academic Records Specialist for the Office of the Registrar. 
Ching, a political science major enrolled in the Old College Undergraduate Seminary Program, became interested in Leuven after the director of the Old College pro­gram described it as "a place to send a seminarian to study abroad without taking him out of a seminary." 
"The program has enabled me to get an abroad experience while retaining seminary life, the Liturgy of the Hours, daily Eucharist, spiritual direction, etc.," Ching said in an e-mail. 
In the College of Science, 
Assoeiate Dean Sister Cathleen ........ Cannon oversees applications for study leaves of absence. Cannon regulates the number of leaves by verifying the absence is for academic reasons and not just so the student can go abroad. 
"I ask the student to write a statement of how this is going to advance their academic pro­gram,'' Cannon said. "Decisions are made based on academic priorities." 
To ensure the prospective 

curriculum is equivalent to courses given at Notre Dame, Cannon researches the stu­dent's desired sehool and pro­gram and evaluates whether Notre Dame will accept transfer grades from the school. In some cases, Cannon knows from past experiences that certain schools and programs are unreliable at sending transcripts back. 
"I want them to be sure that they are getting good informa­tion and that they know before they go whether classes will count or how they will count," Cannon said. 
Samuel Gaglio, assistant dean of the Mendoza College of Business, said the most fre­quent reason he has had stu­d e n t s apply for 
p r o ­
grams. 

"When a student asks me about it, there has to be a sig­nificant academic component...that could be an exception," Gaglio said. 
In the architecture and engi­neering colleges, the instance of study leaves of absence is much less frequent. John Uhran, sen­ior associate dean in the College of Engineering, said during the past three years only one stu­dent has taken a study leave of absence. 
"It is not an issue in the College of Engineering," Uhran said. 
In the rare case that a student does study abroad. Uhran researehes the prospective school's reputation, the cours1~s olfernd and the eoursn syllabi to ensure "quality eontrol." 
Uhran said it is the College's goal to graduate its student<> in four years, pointing out that many of the approximately 40 pereent of each class of engi­neering students who go abroad do so in the summer. 
The School of Architecture is unique in that a study abroad program is built into the cur­riculum -third year students spend two semesters studying in Rome. A<>sistant Dean Father Richard Bullene said he has never been approached by an architecture student asking for a study leave of absence. 
"Theoretically, we would entertain the thought of if someone has a grand idea," Bullene said. "I suppose I could imagine it, but it has never hap­pened." 
Assistant Dean Jennifer Nemecek in the College of Arts and Letters said leaves of absence are a great option for students who fail to find a pro­gram that suits their needs in the regular study abroad offer­ings. 
"It's a wonderful program to complement a student's aca­demic portfolio," Nemecek said. This year, Arts and Letters stu­dents took leaves of absence to countries including Argentina, Madagascar and Switzerland. 
For Ching, a leave of absence has given him a ehance to study abroad while continuing his academic course and seminary training. 
'There is a much broader and greater variety of views and it gives me a chance to meet other seminarians who are studying for a diocese and rmables me to grow in my understanding of the Priesthood, both in the diocesan and consecrated reli­gious context,'' Ching said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 12, 2006 CoMP[U:D FROM THE ()BsERV.ER'S WIRE SERVKrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Suicide bomber kills 41 in public park 
KARACHI, Pakistan -A suicide attacker deto­nated a bomb during an outdoor Sunni Muslim prayer service Tuesday, killing at least 41 people and wounding dozens. In the mayhem that fol­lowed, angry mobs torched cars and hurled rocks at police, who fired warning shots in the air. 
The attacker blew himself up near leaders of the Sunni Tehrik religious group, which helped organize the prayer service at a downtown Karachi park. police chiefNiaz Siddiqui said. 
The religious leaders were sitting near a stage erected in front of the thousands of Sunni Muslims marking the birth of Islam's Prophet Muhammad. Several leaders were killed. 
"The bomber used about 5 kilograms [11 pounds] of explosives obtained locally, and we have collected his body parts," Siddiqui told The A'lsoeiated Press. 
Prodi narrowly wins Italian election 
HOME -Center-left economist Romano 
Prodi emerged the winner of Italy's election by 
a razor-thin margin Tuesday, promising to form 
a strong government able to run a deeply divid­
ed country mired in economic stagnation. But 
Premier Silvio Berlusconi claimed voting irreg­
ularities and demanded a recount. 
The dispute could usher in a period of uncer­
tainty over the results, a process which could 
take weeks. The outcome of the election must 
be approved by Italy's highest court. and it is 
up the president to give the head of the win­
ning coalition a mandate to form a government 
Even if the result is confirmed, prospects of a 
stable government under Prodi look cloudy at 
best. Many fear a mturn to the political chaos 
that has characterized Italian history since the 
end of World War II. There have been 60 gov­
ernments in about as many years. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rumsfeld defends Iraq war policies 
WA"HINGTON -Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumslilld and his top military leader on Tuesday issued their strongest rebuttal to date of recent comments by retired generals criticizing Iraq war planning and calling on Rumsfeld to resign. 
In particular, Rumsfeld said he didn't recall retired Lt. Gen. Gregory Newbold raising any objections to the war planning when he was work­ing in the Pentagon for the Joint Chiefs ofStaff. 
"lie never rai'led an issue publicly or privately when he was here that I know of," said Rumsfeld. "An awful lot of people around here were not shy about giving their views.... But in terms of why he would come up with this now, I just can't speak to that." · 

Disaster reform to be ready June 1 
WA')HINGTON -Systems to track supplies, aid victims and deliver quick information to all levels of government during a disaster will be ready by the June 1 start of the hurricane sea­son, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Tuesday. 
The changes are among 11 top emergency response priorities identified by the White House after last year's plodding federal response to Hurricane Katrina. 
Chertoff said all 11 reforms will be in place by the hurricane season's start. But he noted that much of the success or failure in responding to di'lasters will depend on how well state and local officials work with Washington and have their own emergency plans in place. 
LOCAL NEWS 

IU student dies after fraternity event 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Authorities are seek­ing answers in the death of an Indiana University student who died after a weekend fraternity event in Kentucky. 
Junior Christine Wampler, 21, died at the University of Louisville Hospital Sunday morn­ing, after her date found her unresponsive in a hotel bathroom, said Robert Fraction, a deputy coroner from the Louisville, Ky., coroner's office. 
An autopsy did not uncover the cause of her death, and results of toxicology tests will take six to eight weeks, Fraction said. 
IRAN 


Leader reveals nuclear abilities 
White House presses for U.N. to impose restrictions on uranium enrichment 
Associated Press 

TEl-IRAN -Iran's hard­line president said Tuesday that the country "has joined the club of nuclear coun­tries" by successfully enriching uranium for the first time -a key process in what Iran maintains is a peaceful energy program. 
The announcement from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was certain to heighten international ten­sions surrounding Iran's nuclear program. The U.N. Security Council has demanded that Iran stop all enrichment by April 28 because of suspicions the program is designed to make nuclear weapons. 
Ahmadinejad warned the West that trying to force it to abandon uranium enrich­ment would "cause an ever­lasting hatred in the hearts of Iranians." 
The head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, was heading to Iran on Wednesday for talks aimed at resolving the standoff. The timing of the announce­ment suggested Iran want­ed to present him with a fait accompli and argue that it cannot be expected to entirely give up a program showing progress. 
Former president Hashemi Rafsanjani, a pow­erful member of Iran's rul­Council will revisit the and delicate process even with the blessings of God ing clerical regime, said the issue." on a small scale would be a Almighty and the efforts breakthrough means The Iranian enrichment breakthrough, and Iran's made by our scientists, I E!Baradei "faces new cir­announcement "is not par­nuclear chief said the pro­declare here that the labo­cumstances." ticularly helpful," it said. gram would be expanded to ratory-scale nuclear fuel 
The White House, which Uranium enrichment can 3,000 centrifuges by the cycle has been completed is pressing for U.N. sanc­produce either fuel for a end of the year. and young scientists pro­tions against Iran, said the nuclear energy reactor -Ahmadinejad announced duced enriched uranium enrichment claims "show as Iran says it seeks -or it at a nationally televised needed to the degree for that Iran is moving in the the material needed for an ceremony clearly aimed at nuclear power plants wrong direction." atomic warhead. drumming up popular Sunday," Ahmadinejad said. 
"Defiant statements and Tuesday's announcement Iranian support for the "I formally declare that actions only further isolate does not mean Iran is nuclear program. He Iran has joined the club of the regime from the rest of immediately capable of addressed an audience that nuclear countries," he said. the world," said White doing either. So far it has included top military com­The crowd broke into House spokesman Scott succeeded only in getting a manders and clerics in an cheers of "Allahu akbar," or McClellan. series of 164 centrifuges to ornate hall in one of Iran's "God is great." 
Britain's Foreign Office work in the enrichment holiest cities, Mashhad. As part of the ceremony, issued a statement reiterat­process. Thousands of cen­Before he spoke, screens on costumed dancers per­ing the U.N. call for a halt to trifuges are needed for a the stage showed footage of formed on the stage, hold­enrichment work and workable program. nuclear facilities and scien­ing aloft vials of raw urani­warned that "if Iran does But successfully carrying tists at work. um and also chanting not comply, the Security out the highly complicated "At this historic moment, "Allahu akbar." 

Moussaoui jury shown 9/11 photos 
Associated Press the mammoth military headquarters intact bodies had barely discernible 
just a few miles from the courtroom. facial features. 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Jurors weigh­In the third day of testimony from Each picture was displayed for a few ing the fate of Sept. 11 conspirator relatives of 9/11 victims, the jurors seconds. Within minutes, the jury left Zacarias Moussaoui were shown grue­showed little emotion. One man dis­for lunch. some photographs Tuesday of bodies creetly wiped his face with a tissue; on Moments later with judge and jury burned inside the Pentagon and heard earlier days as many as six of the 17 gone, Moussaoui defiantly shouted to from two determined military officers jurors and alternates did so. spectators as he was led out: "Burn all who crawled almost blindly through After a three-minute bench confer­Pentagon next time." falling debris, choking smoke and sear­ence to argue with the defense over Jurors also heard from two officers ing heat to safety. what could be shown, prosecutors dis­who may have been saved by their mil­
Despite Judge Leonie Brinkema's played photos of a charred body on a itary training, Lt. Col. John Thurman, warning on Monday that too much blue stretcher, another charred body who was a major working on Army highly emotional evidence could imper­sitting upright inside a wrecked promotion policies on the Pentagon's il a death sentence on appeal, prosecu­Pentagon office, several charred bodies second floor on 9/11, and Lt. Nancy tors showed the most gut-wrenching piled together inside another destroyed McKeown, who was working on the evidence yet in a trial studded with office and a small torso covered with first floor as chief weather forecaster horrific images. The images came from ash on a blue stretcher. The mostly for the Navy's top brass. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
Security 
continued from page I 
cover narcotics officer. 
Shn also has previous ties to Saint Mary's. Dave Chapman, lwad of Saint Mary's Security, was hnr road patrol supervi­sor whiln on the SBPD. 
Villcre also worked as a drill instructor at a boot camp for juvnniln felons in Tallahassee, Fla. as well as an officer in southern Florida and New Orlnans. 
Villern and her husband arrived baek in South Bend two weeks before Hurricane Katrina struck New Orlnans. 
"It's great to be back in my home town Iof South Bend I with my family and friends," Villere said. 
Villern described hnr posi­tion as nnw Security Investigator 

"My responsibility in that 
a n d Wellness serv­Program regard is to assist the iees at Saint Coordinator Mary's as best
victim with receiving 
as tri-fold. she can.
medical attention. assist
The first "I look for­aspnct, she her in contacting someone ward to work­
s a i d . ifshe requests. and ing with 
involves Health and
securing any evidence."
typit~al sm~u­Wellness in rity ol'f'icnr whatever d ul.ins Kim Villere capacity they locking and would like so
Saint Mary's security
unlocking we can com­
investigator
buildings, patrolling tlw campus, enforcing traffic and parking regulations and responding to emergency and non-emergency calls. 
The second facet is to irives­tigate incidents that cannot be quickly resolved, she said. These events inelude assault, theft, vandalism and sexual assault. 
"My responsibility in that regard is to assist the victim with receiving medical atten­tion, assist her in contacting someone if she requests, and securing any evidence," she said. 
She will also be responsible for ensuring that the student body is made aware of haz­ardous events on campus so they can be conscious of their surroundings, she said. 
Villere's final role is that of is program coordinator. 
"It is my responsibility to organize and present pro­grams to Saint Mary's [stu­dents) to make them more aware of their personal safe­ty," she said. 
Villere said she is Looking forward to growing into the position. 
"While accepting this posi­tion at the end of a school year has its disadvantages, I am looking forward to using the summer months to plan many new programs and con­tinue some previous pro­grams," she said. 
While Villere will continue 

storage space 

*Lighted & Paved *Free Lock with Every Unit 4 Month Special: 
May through August for 
Notre Dame Students 
5x10... $149 + DEP 10x10...$199 + DEP 
Call 574.247.7805 
Between Notre Dame and Airport at the corner of Mayflower and Edison 

to educate students on date rape, drugs, Internet safety and alcohol abuse, the pro­gram coordinator position has allowed her to put her own ideas into action. Villerp, titled her new ideas as "Common Sense" programs. 
"If eliminated, these [com­mon sense] problems could reduee crimes," Villere said. 
Students sometimes engage in unsafe behavior, she said, such as running alone while listening to loud music or leaving bags unattended around campus. 
"I would like to create other new programs such as train­ing the students to remember valuable physical features about an attacker in the unfortunate event she is ever in that situation," Villere said. 
Even with her campus secu­rity responsibilities, Villere 
also wants to 
work with 
Health and 
bat issues 
sueh as eating 
disorders." 
Villere's other aspirations inelude motivating students to get more involved in the com­munity. 
Villere said she wants her work to affect more than just the security branch of the Saint Mary's community and hopes this summer will help her orient herself to the cam­pus setting. 
"I look forward to growing and advancing my position here and being part of the Saint Mary's community for many years." 
Holens said she will remain on call at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"I hope I left a good impres­sion and was able to mend bridges between security and the students," she said. "I miss Saint Mary's, but I think Kim [Villere] will do a good job." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleOlsaintmarys.edu 


Printing 
continued from page I 
place," she said. 
The IT department has not yet determined the exact quota or cost of printing but they are looking at different systems as models, Fowlkes said,. 
"Hight now I we] are looking at Notre Dame's system, which allows students to print 1.000 pages per year. Any sheet over that would cost about ten cents," he said. 
But whether or not Saint Mary's uses the same printing service as Notre Dame has yet to be determined. Fowlkes said it is one of many operating units the school is considering and a deci­sion has not been reached. 
Freshman Jessica Porter said she is not opposed to the adop­tion of a model like Notre Dame's. 
"I'm glad they are setting a quota instead of just including an additional fee into tuition, because some of us won't use all of our allotted 1,000 pages," she said. "This is a fair way to do it." 
Like Porter, sophomore Kelly Maus said she thinks that setting a quota is a feasible way to manage student printing. 
'Tm not opposed to the print quota, as long as it is easy for me to keep track of how mueh 

Degrees 
continued from page 1 
National Council on Foundations and president and rector of the Notre Dame-founded Ecumenical Institute in Israel, will receive a doctor of laws. 
Kevin Cahill, an expert on trop­ical medicine who has worked internationally in disaster and crises areas and treated Pope John Paul II after the assassina­tion attempt in 1981, will receive a doctor of science. 
Anthony Earley Jr., chairman of the board, chief executive offi­cer, chief operating officer and president of DTE Energy Company, will receive a doctor of engineering. 
Norman Francis, president of the nation's only black Catholic college, Xavier University in New Orleans, who has worked to rebuild the institution since the destruction of Hurricane Katrina, will receive a doctor of humani­ties. 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov.. 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Arms Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 




RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 10101, FALL 2006 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www .nd.edu/-grl 
I've used and how much I have left," Maus said. 
Hausman said tracking the quota will be easy for students. When a student logs into a clus­ter computer, a small window will appear to notify the student how much of her print quota is remaining. When a documented is printed, a window will reveal each paper's name, amount of pages and specific printer. 
The student will then be prompted to enter her Saint Mary's username and password to confirm the print job. 
"This extra layer of security will prevent students from using up someone else's print quota if they forget to log out of a duster computer," Hausman said. The number of pages printed will then be subtracted from the student's remaining print quota. 
Students who exceed their print quota will be able to pur­chase print cards that will give them a pin numbnr to enter into a Web page and increas1~ their quota. 
This method allows students to increase their quota as need­ed, llausman said, without hav­ing to wait for others to manual­ly increase their quota. 
Fowlkes said members of Saint Mary's were reluctant to adopt the program, but were forced to as a result of students' wasteful printing habits. 
Aceording to llausman, IT has 
Lee, author of widely-read and in11uential novel "To Kill a Mockingbird," which won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1961, will receive a doctor of humane letters. 
Gil Loescher, political science professor emeritus at Notre Dame and sole survivor of the August 2003 bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, which left him badly­injured, will receive a doctor of laws. 
Francis Oakley, the president emeritus of Williams College and prominent medieval scholar, will also receive a doctor of laws. 
Karen Hauenhorst, a Minneapolis-area community leader and philanthropist who serves on the boards of several Catholic charities and heads the Mark and Karen Hauenhorst Family Foundation with husband Mark, will also receive a doctor of laws. 
John Sandner, the retired chair of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the chair of the new futures group of E*trade noticed an increase in waste over the past two years. And Fowlkes said many students have disregarded the College's spoken printing quota. 
"We begged and pleaded with students to be mindful of their printing habits," he said. "We even restricted printing multiple copies of a document and we posted signs with instructions on how to print on both sides to encourage students to be less wasteful." 
However, these educational initiatives have had minimal effect. llausman said, and Saint Mary's still pays for excessive paper waste. 
Fowlkes said he wants stu­dent<; to see the positive aspects of' implanting such a system, as the money that would bn spent on wasted printing supplies will go toward exeiting new todmol­ogy for the College. 
"We are really sad that we had to do this, but at the same time, there are many positives about what we are doing," he said. "We've spnnt a lot of money on high-spned eable and on digital c~able -things that students really appreciate and can take advantage of. 
"This saved money will help bring in morn of those technolo­gies." 
Contact Emily Lavelle at llaveiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Securities, will also receive a doe­tor of laws. 
Archbishop Michael Sheehan of the Diocese of Santa Fe, New Mex., recognized for his strong leadership in dealing with a sex­ual abuse scandal existing in the archdiocese prior to his arrival, will also receive a doctor of laws. 
Matthew Storin, a respected journalist who served as editor of the Boston Globe for nine years and is the li>rmer associate vice president for News and Information at Notre Dame, will also receive a doctor ol'laws. 
Nationally-recognized trial lawyer Thomas Sullivan, who ha<> worked to improve the crimi­nal justice system, most recently in regards to death penalty reform, will also receive a doctor oflaws. 
In addition to the honorary degrees, jazz musician Dave Brubeck will be awarded the Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May 18-21 
Need a place for your family to stay? Try the Sacred Heart Parish Center [Building 1185 on your campus maps.] 
We set a $100.00 per person donation for the weekend. 
"COME EARLY [Thursday] ­STAY LATE [Monday]" same low price 
For reservations please call: Paul Eddy at 574-631-7512 or Mary Fonferko at 574-631-9436 
------~~-----~-----------~--­
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,089.63 -51.70

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

879 145 2,365 2,259,100,000.00 

AM£X 1.~936.•1.8:!1t •,#:lliSl ~·· 
NASDAQ 2JJOJ5 -22.92 NYSE 8,214.46 .,~~:62 s&PSOO 1,286. 57 ........ ~.IQ.Q3., NIKKEI(Tokyo) 17~4 tS;IJ' · i~M } fTSE IOO(London) 6,016.50 -50.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.8 0  -0.34  41.92  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.03  -0.20  19.16  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.96  -0.10  5.01  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.59  -0.16  27.13  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  -4.52  -0.17  3.59  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.62  -0.31  49.32  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.11  +0.05  45.72  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.66  +0.33  50.03  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.55  +0.27  48.62  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.24  68.98  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.40  599.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.63  80.23  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.1000  
EURO  0.8221  
POUND  0.5710  
CANADIAN$  1.1433  

IN BRIEF 
Boston Sci.-Guidant obtains clearance 
NATICK, Mass. -Boston Scientific Corp. said Tuesday it has won antitrust clearance from the European Commission for its $27 billion acquisi­tion of medical devices rival Guidant Corp., but is still awaiting final approval from the Federal Trade Commission. 
Boston Scientific said it continues to expect the acquisition to close around the middle of this month. 
Tuesday's European clearance came six days after Boston Scientific won approval from the FTC's staff by entering into consent agreements to resolve antitrust issues. The company didn't pro­vide details on the agreements, but said they don't require major changes to the transaction. 
FTC spokesman Mitch Katz declined to com­ment Tuesday on when the commission would complete its review. 
To satisfy concerns that the combined company could command too great a share of the market for heart stents, Boston Scientific agreed before the regulatory reviews to sell a piece of Guidant's business, including its drug-coated stents, to a third company. Abbott Laboratories Inc., based near Chicago, will pay $4.1 billion in cash, provide a $900 million loan to Boston Scientific and acquire $1.4 billion in Boston Scientific stock. 

Pfizer attempts to spark Viagra sales 
NEW YORK-In a sign of how Pfizer Inc. hopes to boost the market for erectile dysfunction drugs, the maker of impotency pill Viagra plans to launch a second non-branded, educational ad campaign about the condition on Wednesday to complement one running since late last year. 
The double-dose of education comes as Pfizer tries to lift Viagra's sagging sales, which have droppnd in each of the la..<>t two years. 
The new campaign is designed to help men oven~ome embarrassment about discussing erec­tile dysfunction with their doctor while the ads whieh began l~L'it November were created to deliv­er more basic information about the condition, said Tim Pigot, direetor of the company's U.S. Viagra team. 
In thn latest ads, a doctor stands in an empty sports stadium to emphasize the vast number of men who sull'er from the condition -half of the men over age 40. The campaign's tagline is "Just A'ik Today." 



Skilling testifies in Enron trial 
Former CEO proclaims 'absolute' innocence on stand during questioning 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Former Enron Corp. Chief Executive Jeffrey Skilling told jurors in his fraud and conspiracy trial Monday that he abruptly resigned from the energy trading company a few months before it collapsed because he was worn out and trou­bled by its falling share price -not because he knew disaster loomed. 
"I am absolutely inno­cent," Skilling said right after he swore to tell the truth while testifying in his own defense Monday. 
Then he let jurors know what's at stake for him: 
"I guess in some ways my life is on the line, so I'm a little nervous." 
As he testified, he became more relaxed and conver­sational, with no hint of the swaggering bravado for which he was known when he ran what was once the nation's seventh-largest company. Known for his plainspoken manner as he led Enron's transformation from a staid pipeline com­pany into an energy giant, Skilling addressed jurors directly, his eyebrows raised slightly, looking earnest and alert. 

At times he appeared self-deprecating, even telling jurors that he was admitted to Harvard would flame out in scandal trial. His co-defendant, generated intense scrutiny Business School "by some less than four months later. Enron founder Kenneth from once-adoring Wall huge mistake." Later, he "Not in my wildest Lay, aims to testify later this Street and regulators.. sounded like a business dreams, no. It's almost month. The two men say there professor, giving jurors a inconceivable now what Both are accused of was no fraud at Enron mini-seminar on Enron's happened," the ex-CEO repeatedly lying to other than that committed businesses and gas and said. investors and employees by former Chief Financial electricity markets. "Would you have left if about Enron's financial Officer Andrew Fastow and 
He repeated what he said you thought the company health when they allegedly a few others, who skimmed twice before congressional was going to experience the knew fraudulent accounting millions from secret panels in 2002, that Enron events that later tran­propped up a facade of suc­schemes, and that bad pub­was "in very good condition spired?" Petrocelli asked. cess. Enron careened into licity coupled with lost mar­in the middle of August "No," Skilling replied bankruptcy proceedings in ket confidence sank the [2001] when I left." matter-of-factly. December 2001, six weeks company. 
His lawyer, Daniel The 52-year-old ex-CEO's after announcing unprece­"I know of no reason Petrocelli, asked if he had testimony kicked off the dented losses and a mas­Enron would have to resort had any clue that Enron 11th week of the federal sive equity writedown that to fraud," Skilling said. 

China agrees to copyright legalities 
Associated Press after a day of high-level economic talks of both sides to properly resolve prob­
the Bush administration hopes will lems through equal consultation." 
WASHINGTON -The Bush adminis­reduce growing anger in Congress over Wu noted that she is traveling with a tration, seeking to shrink a soaring · a trade deficit with China that hit a delegation of more than 200 Chinese trade deficit with China, won agree­record $202 billion last year. business executives with the expecta­ments Tuesday that the Chinese gov­The discussions were being held in tion that they will sign 107 contracts to ernment will lift a ban on American advance of a Washington visit next buy $16.2 billion in U.S. products. beef, crack down on copyright piracy week by Chinese President Hu Jintao. Included in that is a deal to purchase and move toward opening up its gov­"One meeting is not going to solve all 80 commercial jetliners from Boeing ernment bidding process to American of our outstanding trade issues with Co., at a list price of $4.6 billion. This firms. China," U.S. Trade Representative Rob agreement, signed Tuesday, completes 
The exact timetable for lifting the Portman said at a joint news confer­a commitment China made last beef ban was left open, however, pend­ence with the Chinese. "But in our dis­November, during a visit by President ing further negotiations over details cussions today, which were very frank Bush, to buy a total of 150 Boeing jet­governing the standards that will be and positive, we were able to solve liners. applied to beef shipped to China. some problems." In the area of piracy, the Chinese Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi, who led agreed to require that computers use predicted such shipments would the Chinese delegation, said her coun­legal software and to step up £mforce­resume sometime this year. try has been "earnestly implementing" ment of intelleetual property rights. 
China halted U.S. beef shipments the directions of China's top leaders to They also pledged to close Chinese opti­after mad cow diseasP was discovered boost import<; from the United States. cal disk plants that are producing pirat­in the United States in December 2003. She said the annual meeting Tuesday ed CDs and DVDs. 
The announcement on beef and the of the Joint Commission on Commerce In her comments, Wu said regula­pledge for a greater crackdown on and Trade, designed to smooth eco­tions would be issued stipulating that piracy of American computer software nomic relations between the two coun­all computers sold in China must have and other copyrighted products came tries, had "demonstrated the good will legal operating systems. 

~~------·---~--­
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
fRANCE 
SPAIN 


Judge charges Madrid bo111bers


Chirac backs down 

Detailed indictment describes birth ofterrorist cell and violent plans

on youth labor law 
Students participate in thinned-out protests 
Associated Press 
PAIUS -Nationwide protests of thn French government's labor rnl'orms sputtered Tuosday after President .Jacques Chirac cavod in to prnssure and jettisoned his pre­mier's youth employment law. 
Chirac's retreat on Monday and school vacations that b1~gan this week, appeared to deplete the turnout of student­lml marches aiming to ride the momonturn from massive recent protests to force the government to withdraw other reforms. 
Some 2,:HJO students marelwd in northeast Paris, according to police -far fowor than the H4,000 people that 
"The only question 
turned out in the capital in protests that counts at this that drew I mil­hour is: What do lion demonstra­
we do to fight
tors nationwide against the meas­
against ure a week ago. unemployment of There were 
youths in this
minor scuf!les in 
country?"
Paris where polico turned back about 60 
Dominique de Vlllepin 
marching youths 

Prime Minister
trying to turn ofT 

France
the main route. But with ranks so thin, the demonstration lasted only two hours and ended peacefully. 
Hundreds of protesters also turnml out in Bordeaux in the southwest, Hennes in western France and Grenoble in the southeast -places where thousands had marched a week earlier. 
In southwestern Toulouse, several dozen students blocked two bus depots for nearly five hours Tuesday morning, para­lyzing 500 city buses. A march later of 2,500 students was 
peac1~ful.  
Some  acknowledged  the  
protost movement would  now  
fade.  

"I came out today to give a happy ending to our move­mont," said .Jacques Leseautny, a 22-year-old history studont at the Sorbonne UnivPrsity in Paris, which has been shut since mid-Mareh beeauso of tho protests. "We won, but I want­ed us to go out with a bang." 
The rejected measure was part of a broad equal-opportu­nity law aimed at youths from tho suburbs, whero nearly one youth in two is jobless in some areas. The law would have allowed employers to fire workors under age 26 at any time during a two-year trial period with no r11ason. 
Chirac said the measure, meant to reduce a 22 percent youth unemployment rate, would be replaced by one directed specifically at disad­vantaged youths -many from poor, mainly immigrant sub­urbs. 
lie retreated after weighing th1~ result of talks between stu­donts and unions, the possible political fallout for the right and tlw danger or increasingly daring student protests on rail­road tracks and highways. 
In parliament, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin, the 
Associated Press 
MADHID -A Spanish judge
main proponent of the job law, 
issued the first indictments in
said he barked down after two 
the 2004 Madrid train bomb­
months of holding firm amid 
ings, charging 29 people
street protests because "we 
Tuesday with murder, terror­
had to get out of the crisis." 
ism or other crimes after a
Villepin said the safety of 
probe that uncovered a hor­
young protesters and year-end 
net's nest of Islamic militancy
school exams were at risk. "In 
but no apparent link to ai­
the face or blockades, we had 
Qaida.
to lind a solution," he said. 
In a minutely detailed indict­
Villepin said the measure 
ment spanning 1,471 pages,
would be replaced. 
Juan del Olmo, the investiga­
Students weleomed Chirac's 
tive magistrate spearheading
doeision, but now want the gov­
the probe, described the birth
ernment to throw out the entire 
and workings of a cell of long­
law -not just the article that 
time residents, most of them
would have created the youth 
from Morocco and Syria.
job contract. 
Inspired by extremist Islamic
"We will stay in the streets 
doctrine, they are said to have
until the government agrees to 
risen up against their adopted
scrap the entire law," said 
homeland to kill 191 people
Irene Moriniere, 14, at the 
and wound more than 1,700 in
Paris march. 
the coordinated attacks. 
Villepin, Chirac's top protege, 
Three of the 29 people
had argued that the measure 
indicted were charged with
would prime the economy for 
The other two are Emilio
lower house was expected to 
Suarez Trashorras, a Spaniard
discuss an alternative jobs plan 
accused of supplying the dyna­
later Tuesday. 
mite used in the attacks, and
"The only question that 
Abdelmajid Bouchar, a
counts at this hour is: What do 
Moroccan. .
we do to fight against unem­
Rabei Osman, an Egyptian
ployment of youths in this 
who has claimed the attacks
country?" Villepin said in ques­
were his idea, is among the
tion time in the National 
three men accused of conspir­
Assembly. 
acy to commit murder. He is on
He also took aim at the oppo­
trial in Italy on separate ter­
sition Socialists, saying they 
rorism-related charges.
had o!l"ered no alternatives. 
Five of the six lead suspects
The crisis exposed a govern­
also were charged with
ment split between Villepin and 
belonging to a terrorist organi­
ambitious Interior Minister 
zation, while 12 other men are
Nicolas Sarkozy, who is openly 
accused of collaboration. 
seeking the presidency. 
The indictment said four wit-
Sarkozy, closing ranks, said 




,fnM
•·""'···· .............. ,,~. 

A Presentation by Dr. Devon Zimmerman, M.D. Neurologist South Bend Neurology, Inc. 
In the Classroom at RecSports Wed., April12 7p.m. *Refreshments will be served* 
Sponsored by Roerig (a division of Pfizer Pharmaceuticals) and UBWELL2 
191 counts of murder and
the challenges of 
1,755 counts of attempted
globalization, but 
murder, and three others with
critics said it was 
conspiracy to commit those
badly designed 
crimes.
and would erode 
The first three include Jamal
treasured labor 
Zougam, a Moroccan mer­
protections. 
chant who allegedly supplied
Villepin and 
cell phones used as detonators
other governing 
in the 10 backpack bombs that
conservative law­
ripped through four crowded
makers sought to 
commuter trains on the morn­
piece their frayed 
ing of March 11, 2004. When
camp back togeth­
he was arrested two days after
er, and renewed 
the attacks, Zougam said he
calls for reforms 
was in bed asleep when the
of the rigid labor 
bombs went ofT and had noth­
market. 
ing to do wi,th the plot.
Parliament's 

Dominguez  "The massacre was  avenge  the  
said she doubt­ed the main sus­pects indicted  huge. I think more time is neededfor  presence of Spanish troops dis- 
Tuesday  were  investigation. "  patched  to  
the ones really  Iraq in 2003  
behind attacks.  the  Angeles Dominquez  by then prime minister Jose  
"The project  Madrid bombing survivor  Maria Aznar.  
had  to  be  the  However,  a  
work  of  some  senior Spanish  
other,  highly  intelligence  
qualified people," she said.  official and  a  Western  one  

The indictment says the cell closely involved in counterter­spent about $120,000 to stage rorism measures told The the attacks -everything from Associated Press last month buying explosives to renting there was no evidence the cell safe-houses -and caused had any contact with or material damage and civil lia­received any logistical or bility of more than $26 million. financial help from Osama bin 
It said the central figure in Laden's terrorist network. the financing, planning and Aznar's government blamed execution of the attacks was a Basque separatists for the Moroccan named Jamal attacks even after evidence of Ahmidan. He and six other an Islamic link emerged. alleged ringleaders -induct­Voters punished his party at ing its ideological mastermind, the polls in elections three Tunisian Serhan Ben days after the bombings. The Abdelmajid Fakhet -blew victorious Socialists quickly themselves up three weeks fulfilled a campaign promise after the massacre as police and brought the troops home moved in on their apartment from Iraq. hideout in the Madrid suburb Del Olmo's indictment said of Leganes. One policeman computer equipment found at died in that explosion. sites including the Leganes 
Bouchar, who detected the apartment show the cell had police presence that day when access to restricted e-mail traf­he went down to empty the fic from Global Islamic Media, garbage, screamed out to an al-Qaida mouthpiece which warn his colleagues and took in 2003 urged Islamic militants off running, eluding police who to attack Spanish soldiers in chased him. He was arrested Iraq ahead of the Spanish elec­last year in Serbia. tion in March 2004. 
While he was a fugitive, Del Olmo did not say police who had chased whether he believed the cell Bouchar identified him as hav­was influenced by this appeal, ing been at the Leganes apart­and in the end, the group's tar­ment. get was inside Spain. 
nesses have identified Zougam as having been aboard trains that were bombed. One of the witnesses has identified him as "the person who places a dark blue sports bag under his seat," the indictment said. 
Angeles Dominguez, a sur­vivor of the attacks who now leads a victims' association, said Del Olmo had concluded his inquiry hastily. 
"The massacre was huge. I think more time is needed for investigation," she told AP Television News. 
The cell financed itself with­in Spain. Ollieials turned up no evidence it mceived any out­side money transfers to stage the attack, Del Olmo wrote. 
The bombings were Spain's worst tnrrorist attack and are seen as having brought down a conservative Spanish govern­ment that backed the U.S.-Ied war in Iraq. 
Shortly after the attacks, Islamic militants claimed responsibility on behalf of al-Qaida and said they acted to 
Wednesday, Aprill2, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONIAL NEWS page 9 
ITALY 
Police capture n1ajor n1afia boss Bernando Provenzano 
The arrest of Italy's number one fugitive comes after 40 years of spurning authorities and hiding in secret locals 
Associated Press 
PALERMO, Sicily -Italy's No. 1 fugitive and reputed Mafia "boss of bosses" practically thumbed his nose at authorities for more than 40 years. 
He counted on Sicilians' cen­turies-old mistrust of the state to help him on the run, sleeping in islanders' homes, having his children born at local hospitals, even sending the public health care system a bill for prostate treatment abroad under a false name. 
But police finally caught up with Bernardo "The Tractor" Provenzano on Tuesday in a farmhouse outside his power base, Corleone -the town that inspired the family name in "The Godfather." 
In the end, Provenzano was done in not by an informer or a rival gangster, but by a delivery of clean laundry. Police tracked the package to his hideout and closed in when they saw his hand peek out of the door to lake it. 
Provenzano had escaped cap­ture so often since going into hiding in 1963 that he earned a place in the Italian imagination as "The Phantom of Corleone." He got his nickname "The Tractor" for the determination he displayed in a mob career that began as a hitman. 
He is believed to have taken over leadership of the Sicilian Malia following the 1993 arrest of former boss Salvatore 'Toto" Riina. During his years on the run, Provenzano was convicted in absentia and given life sen­tences for more than a dozen murders of mobsters and inves­tigators. 
"Bastard! Murderer!" a crowd shouted at the 73-year-old Provenzano as black-hooded policemen took him out of a sedan and rushed him into the courtyard of a police building in Palermo after driving him from the countryside. 
Wearing tinted glasses and a wind-breaker, the gray-haired Provenzano held up his hand­cuffed hands as he was hustled away but made no audible com­ment. 
Investigators described an extensive operation to track down the mobster. They said cameras that can see up to a mile were trained on suspected accomplices as well as the Corleone home where Provenzano's wife and children live. 
A few days ago, police noticed a package leave the wife's house, then get delivered by car to a series of other homes. On Tuesday morning, the package left Corleone and was driven to the farmhouse where Provenzano was found staying with a shepherd who doubled as a housekeeper. 
"This morning he reached out with a hand to grab the package and that's when we decided to move in," said Nicola Cavaliere, a top police oflicial in Rome. 
Italy's national anti-Mafia prosecutor, Piero Grasso, told reporters in Rome that Provenzano was "impassive" and "didn't say a word" when arrested, but later acknowl­edged his identity. 
The last photos that investiga­tors had of the mobster showed him as a young man, but police gave the fugitive a "new face" last year -issuing a composite picture drawn with help from a Mafia turncoat in 2001 that depicted him with white hair and hollow cheeks. 
That effort also was helped by descriptions from personnel at a clinic in Marseilles, France, where investigators say Provenzano sought treatment for a prostate tumor two years ago. 
Turncoats had told investiga­tors that Provenzano slept in different farmhouses every few nights across Sicily, an island where organized crime has held sway for decades. 
He allegedly gave orders with written notes -not trusting cell phone conversations for fear of being monitored by police. Grasso said investigators were studying notes found at the farmhouse, along with a type­writer Provenzano apparently used for writing them. 
After taking over the top lead­ership, Provenzano helped the Mafia spread its tentacles into the lucrative world of public works contracts in Sicily, turn­ing the mob-into more of a white-collar industry of illegal activity -with less dependance on traditional operations like drug trafficking and extortion, investigators have said. 

During the years when Riina was the Mafia chieftain, mur­ders bloodied Sicily. Mob rivals, police, prosecutors and their bodyguards, and sometimes bystanders, were cut down by bombings and drive-by shoot­ings. 
Then the bomb assassinations in Sicily of Italy's two top anti­Mafia fighters, magistrates Giovanni Falcone and Paolo Borsellino, two months apart in 1992 galvanized many Sicilians against the mob, helping chip away at the centuries-old "omerta" -the island's code of silence and mistrust of authori­ties. 

We believe everyone's more successful in a flexible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus, or on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. We're flexible. 

~~-------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, Notre Oome, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
Ass·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
A~S1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels 
Mary Kate Malone 
VmWI'OINT EI>ITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Kt·n Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
l'tiOTO EmTOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROI.LER: Jim Kirihara 
WER ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althofl' 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro GerbauJ 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6.)1-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 obsmc@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du r~c and Saint Mary's College. F.ditorial comem, including advertisements,. is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observt:r reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free exprt·ssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I .etters to the Editor must be signed and must indude cont<K'I infi>rmation. 
Qtmtiom regarding Oh,-rrver policirs should he directed to F.ditor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l"ht' (lb.ctvu IUS~ li'N 2-..4000} 11 puhiW.al Mun,lo~y duougl1 Fnday cxccpc durin,!!; c.-uru ~1wl vautiun prrtml•. A ~ul....,~tltnn tu l'ht (lhacrvcr i.\ Sinn fur onc.K*h:rmL yn~r; $~~ lur onr "'IIU"loll.'r. 
'l11c llh)l('rvcr 1• ~·uhlilhcd ~ot fJO~n·M~·rt::R U."!•l Suuth l"luuug 11;~.11 Xnd addrc:JIIi corrections ro: Nunc il•nw, IN •IM~6.nn9 11lC {lluervcr l'cnutlll..:.llpu~ugc p.tld :u Notre l>amc P,O,I\ut17'o) Jntl o~tldlttnn.:~l maihnK ntfi..:~. 024 !'Iouth IlinmM: J-I.UI 
Notre lla.mc, IN 46~56-on9 

Thr { lhlC.'n·cr L' .1 mcml~er of rh..-A.aot.:U.tc=\1 Preu. All n:pmducrJon righu: .ut: t«ctvcd. 
In whose image? 
Whnn I investigated the follo~g topic, I felt an 800-word piece would not do itjus­tiee. In this week's pieee, I will be drawing from researeh on eating and other related health and psycholo~-,rical disorders in women and men. In two weeks, through interviews and com­menl'i from you, I want to try to give a picture of how these issues manifest them­selves here, what treatment is available and where we all can do better to address people struggling with eating disorders and body image issues. 
Around last Easter season, the media was aflame with cover­age of Terri Schiavo. The conversation sur­rounded whether her feeding tube should be mmoved in her comatose state. The sit­uation was immediately swept in tl1e dia­logue of the "sanctity oflife." whieh it should have been -however not solely about euthanasia. The media and political fi1cus on the deeision of Schiavo's passing, after being on life assistance since 1990, left out the reason she was in the coma. Schiavo had bulimia nen,osa and collapsed and passed out during a purging of a meal. 
Eating disorders and negative body image issues should be thought of as a life issue. We are taught we are all made in thn image of God, yet people who suffer from eating disorders see themselves a'i distorted, unworthy and imperfect people. In the mirror they see negative -too fat or too thin. Their actions-eating, exer­cise, etc. -are taken in response to fear of being overweight, not muscular, not attraetive and not the ideal weight. The images of others, media, toys, fashion and conceptions of the perfect body become internalized to drive destructive decisions. 
The National Association ofAnorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders esti-

Kama ria Porter 
Black, Red and Catholic 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

mate the number affiicted at seven million women and one million men. People of all difl'erent backgrounds are affected. Anorexia nervosa involves, according to ANAD, a refusal by the patient to maintain a body weight proportional to height and age. Usually 15 percent below what physi­cians would consider appropriate, people suffering from anorexia nervosa employ dillerent tactics to slim down out of "an intense fear of gaining weight or becoming fat." The tactics, which ANAD list from forced starvation to becoming vegetarian, do not seem as crucial as the psychological motivation bP-hind it -a desire to look dif­n~rent, fear of getting fat and distorted vip,w of one's weight. The death rate for anorexia is the highest out of all psychi­atric illnesses. 
Bulimia nervosa involves a cycle of uncontrolled bingn eating, depressed fenl­ings motivatnd by over-fixation on weight and purging f()od through a variety of methods. Bulimics may bn under-or ovnr­weight, yet to them their bodies are not good enough. Both diseases result in seri­ous hP-alth and psychological problems that can seep through all areas of one's life. 
Binge eating disorder IBEDl involves eat­ing more than would or should in a short period of time. The patient feels out of con­trol when they eat. Usually done in secret, BED sufferers may not delight in the taste of the food. The eating pattern and emo­tional stress in hinging mirrors bulimia, yet BED sufferers do not purge. 
An often forgotten disorder, mainly expe­rienced by males, is muscular dysmorphia. Instead of shedding pounds, males with this illness over-exercise, lift weights, con­trol diet and may use steroids to build muscle. 'like in anorexia, muscular dys­morphia involves a distorted body image and desire to look a certain way. Men with this illness are obsessed with their body image, however they may not want them­selves to be seen in public and hide their bodies in bulky clothes. Going to drastic measures of steroids, their goal is to build unrealistic musdes. Men also can sufler from the other conditions discussed. Men olton go unnoticed or underrepresented in eating disorder conversations because these illnesses have been culturally tied to women. We a'isume men are not con­cerned with body image, or as a society things like building musdes arc interpret­ed a'i a good thing. We hold up bulky aetion stars and consider strength as a neutral good. Yet, people with muscular dysmorphia often see themselves in a mir­ror as scrawny and weak-not ma<;culine and unattractive. 
The eauses of thnsn diseases are many -from upbringing to media. Particularly the media -from billboards, magazines, toys, movies and tnlcvision -shapes how we see the idnal weight li1r men and women. Slim female celebrities are hnld a'i standards of beauty, while chiseled under­wear models dnfine how mnn should look. All these images come down to us and become intnrnalized in the way we sen eaeh other and ourselves. 
Concerning eating disordnrs and body image issuns, the notion of our bodies a'i mani!i~stations of the divine is absent in this mirror. We forget ourselves bnyond shape, size and weight. Yet, the solution is beyond aflirming human dignity. People sull'er from thesn disea'ins need sit,'llifkant time and support to reeover. Studies show even awarennss may be unadvisable. Learning the taeties to changing body weight can fuel these disorders. So, I am hoping to hnar from you on how we ean better attaek these issues here at Notre Dame. Your fi~edbaek will be the content for my next and final eolumn. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior history major and demands whome11er stole Michael Rossmann sscooter to return it. Please give her feedback at kporter@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Megan O'Neil Chris Khorey Kaitlynn Hiely Kyle Cassily 

Maureen Mullen Fran Tolan What are you doing for Viewpoint Scene 
Easter Break? 

Laura Sonn Tae Andrews Graphics Brian Doxtader Graham Ebetsch Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter 

to the Editor at 
ill www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Don 't ask yourself what the world needs; ask yourself what makes you come alive, and then go do that. Because the world needs people who have come aliue." 
Harold Whitman historian 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April12, 2006 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Joke' reveals ignorance 

A stereotype is a common thought circu­lated to a large amount of people that is often untrue. Many stereotypes have spread through the intelligent minds of the students in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities that are idiotic and completely false. The women of Saint Mary's are intelligent, confident and funny, with as good of a sense of humor as the men and women of Notre Dame. They can take a joke. 
Yet. a joke is defined as something that is funny and makes others laugh. Sometimes, stereotypes can often be mis­understood as jokes and make the teller of the joke seem ignorant and foolish. Therefore, the Board of Governance at Saint Mary's is sending out this plea to all those who disperse rumors and stereo­types of both institutions to only tell funny jokes and refrain from making yourself look idiotic by spreading false statements as hilarity. You undermine your intelli­gence by telling lies and scattering gossip to others who recognize your statements as untrue. Therefore. we are merely sav­ing you from the sheer humiliation of being caught within a web of lies. 
We would like the two institutions to base their relationship on a healthy foun­dation. which will promote a greater rela­tionship in the future. This is why we would like to describe how amazing the women of Saint Mary's are, and how phe­nomenal the Notre Dame community is. 
The women of Saint Mary's pride them­selves on their empowering attitudes, which are reflected in their volunteer work in the community and through their leadership capabilities that are shown in both campuses. They work hard to display their academic abilities in the classroom that have been recognized nationally through awards that sometimes go unseen because of the small campus atmosphere. When they graduate from Saint Mary's, they enter the world as fabulous women who use their Saint Mary's education to soar in a male-dominated world. 
Notre Dame is recognized as one of the top universities in the nation and boasts an academic field which is rivaled by few institutions. The Catholic mission that the University prides itself with accepts con­troversial topics head on without flinching. The pride that oozes from the University's campus spreads throughout the world where people recognize a student of Notre Dame with utter respect for their inte,lli­gence and wonderful attitudes. 
Why would a student of either of these institutions demean himself or herself bv spreading statements that are untrue? The people that attend these schools are much too brilliant to want to appear ignorant in the eyes of others, whether on these cam­puses or throughout the world. Hopefully the students of both campuses will under­stand that a joke is meant for people to laugh at and a person who spreads a stereotype or gossip is also to be laughed at. 
Saint Mary's College Board of Governance April 11 

Comic too tame 
Having noticed the barrage of Viewpoint letters addressing the offensive nature of a recent "Jockular" comic strip, I feel the need to voice my opinion. Many readers have become genuinely upset with the cartoon because it portrayed Saint Mary's students as the parasites to Notre Dame's host cell. Although these people may be justified in their discon­tent, they are all missing the big­ger issue which should be obvi­ous when they read The Observer's comics section. Plain and simple, Adam Fairholm's "CroissantWorld" is not offensive enough. Let's analyze the strip that appeared in the March 30 edition of the paper to see where he's going wrong. 
The first frame shows two char­acters alone in complete silence. This is a typical Fairholm mistake -no dialogue. He could have easily had one of them make a racist remark. There was enough space above their heads, and all he needed to do was draw in a bubble and put in some words. Opportunity: missed. 
In the next frame, the guy on the left wonders aloud about the activities that occur within the mysterious Knights of Columbus building on campus. Instead, he could have said that Holy Cross students are stalked ciliated pro­tozoa. Opportunity: missed again. 
The third frame has a man in a top hat from inside the building giving a response to the previ­ously-made query. He says, "It involves fun, spinach dip and bows and arrows." Fairholm probably should have had the man say, "It involves lep­rechauns, who accurately repre­sent the drunken Irish ancestry of the student body." Opportunity: thrice missed. 
In the final frame, one charac­ter points out that the man with the top hat was wearing sus­penders without a shirt, to which the other character responds, "Yeah." This reply does not cut it. Instead, they should have rec­ognized him as a homosexual and then immediately started praying the gay away like good Catholics. Opportunity: I've lost count. 
Now that I've brought this to everyone's attention, I hope we can forget about the recent "Jockular" controversy and start focusing on more important issues, like the problems with "BagelTown," or whatever it's called. 
Joe Kwaczala freshman Knott Hall April!! 

U-WIRE 


Dangerous love games 

Don't hate the player, hate the game. 
In 2005, U.S. computer and video game software sales grew to seven billion dollars, doubling the industry sales since 1996, according to the Entertainment Software Association. 
It's been a long, strange trip for society as more people -a figure Andrew that has reached 50 percent -Hanelly view reality through a 20-inch monitor than ever before. Daily Collegian 
We're used to tales of violence, Penn State war and "Grand Theft Auto" writ­University ten into the scripts online garners rehearse with, but this summer online game manufacturers are taking one step clos­er to simulated sin -They're turning the keyboard into a sex toy. 
And millions of people will be playing with it. The ironically named "Safe Escape Studios" will release the headliner in the concert of online sexploitation, dubbed "Naughty America: The Game," which will be asking potential players, "Why don't we do it in the Information Superhighway?" 
"Naughty America" touts itself as the "evolution of online dating," where players can log in to a simu­lated computer world as a voluptuous cartoon char­acter with the mission of flirting and finding friends with benefits. The players have the eventual goal of spending the virtual night together at their own online apartment, or in a "public sex zone" built into the cyber scene. 
If this is the evolution of online dating, then it's time to turn off the computers. At least with online dating there is the notion that eventually the two parties will meet in "real life." But online games offer a sex life acted out vicariously through animat­ed cartoon characters, so you never have to do it the real way. 
For years, video games have allowed us to take on the role of Major League Baseball players, celebri­ties like 50 Cent and James Bond and superhuman characters with the world in the palms of their hands. Now we're putting flirtation at the fingertips of garners, where sexual exploration is the new Super Mario world but with a different kind of scor­ing. 
This combines Internet dating with the motel off the interstate -a seedy little place where sneaky little people can tiptoe out of public view and plant the virtual seed. 
Sex is now sold to us in our movies, music, sports and even our fast food. The litmus test of our society turns red because we've packaged promiscuity into everything we do, including recreation. 
But the "gamification" of romance sends the wrong message to kids raised by video games. Facilitating our basic instinct with computers is another shower of depravity on our already sex-drenched society. Sonic the Hedgehog wouldn't have endorsed this. 
Sex as a game? Sex as the exchange of coded bits of information transmitted through broadband con­nections? Sure does sound sexy. 
But maybe we should be thanking technology for its take on "safe sex." If people are going to fantasy worlds to act out their primal urges then maybe they won't be practicing promiscuity in the proverbial real world. And those still in the real world may have a hard time practicing anything with cyber­sexaholics because their hands are more accus­tomed to typing than to ... fill in your own blank. 
So maybe the computer prevents the negative ram­ifications of real sex better than the condom. But we've now made it so that people don't even need to leave their desk chairs anymore to pick up people. 
Getting lucky now depends on the stability of your Internet connection. Video games by nature offer an escape from reality, a chance to be someone or something else and do things only imaginable before. But these role-playing games toy with our notion of interpersonal relationships. Games are for playing, and love is for making in real life. 
We're supposed to type love letters to loved ones, not type sexual innuendos in glorified visual chat rooms. Or maybe this is the modern version of "Love Story," where the virtue of love is shared virtually. 
If so, count me out. I have a real game to play. Pong anyone? 
This column originally appeared in the April 11 edition of the Daily Collegian, the daily publication at Penn State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Reasoning opinions 
In response to Professor Miscamble's lengthy and vicious open letter to University President Father John Jenkins in yester­day's paper, I would just like to make one point, shortly and sweetly: 
Setting the merits of "The Vagina Monologues" aside, I take issue with your attempt at lambasting Jenkins for changing his mind on this topic. You tear into him for, as you say, "backing down" and assert that it is, "hard to understand it in any other terms." This comes as a surprise to me. On a daily basis, you teach hundreds of stu­dents in an attempt to help them round out their general knowledge and various topics. I'm guessing that on numerous occasions, you have influenced a student to change their opinion on one of these topics. 
As a student, I can say from personal experience that I have done this countless times over the past 17 years of my life. (Kindergarten was particularly grueling.) I have never once thought that the reason that I did this was because I lacked a strong will, or that I was seeking to gain popularity with those attempting to educate me. 
It is a bit troublesome that a professor such as yourself would be unable, as you say, to see why someone would change his or her mind based on the influx of new information. Personally, this is a trait I like to see and respect in my leaders, and I quite favor it over the apparent tyrant you would prefer. Perhaps you could take a page from some of your colleagues' books and stop vil­ifying Jenkins for changing his mind. He may have had a legitimate reason for doing so. 
Marisa Sandahl 
sentor 
LeMans Hall April 11 




library is an old school Disney classic. Even the prissiest of girly girls has a well-worn and bnloved copy of "Pitch Black" hidden beneath her mattross. In tlH\ end. it's the old adage that holds true -o1w man's trash is another man's guilty pleasure. 
Dirty Dancing (1987) 
Argued by its devotens to be thn greatest danl~­ing film in all of cinema, "Dirty Dancing" is a coming-of-age tale with one of the decade's best soundtracks. Frances (Baby) Houseman 
(Jennifer Grey) is a Jewish teenag­er whose family vacations annual­ly at a ho-hum Catskills resort. This particular summer, however. at the cusp of the 1960s, will change Baby's life forever, after she meets Johnny Castle (a pre­"Hoadhouse" Patrick Swayzn}. the handsome dance instructor with a shady past. 
Cinema dogma insists these two be together, and thn audienen has no objection, especially with mul­tiple dance sequences and the cheesiest (thereby the best) d ia­logue in the business. Through their synchronized mambo skill and chemistry. they flnd "the time of their lives." 
"Dirty Dancing" has it all -a great male lead for the women, irresistible dancing and drama, and Disney's Lumiere himself, Jerry Orbach, as Baby's father. In the end, however, one undeniable truth remains -nobody puts Baby in a corner. 
Legally Blonde (2001) 
Like, ever wanted to go to Harvard Law? In this popular legal farce, Californian Elle Woods 

(Reese Witherspoon}. a bright but amusingly ditzy college senior, is brutally dumped in public by her beloved Warner Huntington III (Matthew Davis), in favor of a more "serious" kind of girl. Elle, determined to win him back, follows him to Cambridge and becomes a successful lawyer in her own right. 
What makes "Legally Blonde" the guilty pleas­ure that it has become for so many is the film's semblance of just enough realism to feel plausi­ble in the kind of world where the material of choice for a toilet seat cover is faux fur. Elle wins a major murder case using her intuition and a unique brand of smarts, uncovering the true murderer with the chemical equation for a successful perm. If Elle Woods can succeed at Harvard, and land cute lawyer Luke Wilson in the process, then so can the scrubby-sweat­pants-clad Notre Dame or Saint Mary's girl watching her on screen. 
Crossroads ( 2002) 
Its undeniable position at number 98 on IMDB.com's "Bottom 100 Films" list cements the reputation of "Crossroads" as an ultimate guilty pleasure flick. Britney Spears' sole venture into cinema (to date...), "Crossroads" is a road trip flick with a three-day-old bubble gum pop kind of flavor. Lucy Wagner (Spears) and her two best 

try VI 
eute (and thus cornp 
along the way (Anson 
Therl\ is little to 
"Crossroads" that 
havn its momnnts of fal 
Lucy-a budding pont 
to Ben (Mount), whi 
would know to bn the I, 
Girl, Not YN a Woman.; 
For Brittnny fans, thn fnaturing the so-ealiPd compolling Htory and 1l is cinematic gold. 
The Pagemaster ( 
Snen as Macaulay performanee of the romp into the history bining livn action and toll the story of young Afraid of pretty much a by an errant thunden halls of his local librt Pagomaster (the im transforms him into an through the help of and Adventure can world. via classic li 
"Tlw Pagnmaster" drnam, with Hichar llook and escaping Mr. Hyde, all wit Goldberg and "Star at his side. The det Captain Ahab, Hap welcome in tlH\ currn nated by such lilms as 
The end of the Cu tragedy and cele both are captured in that is "The Pagemaste 
Underworld (2003) 
"Underworld" is the ence seems simple to pi involving an epic, mul tury war between wolves, or "lichens" vampires, seems fall into .the realm cent-teenage-boy However, the secret ence of "Underworld" found in the male I room, but rather in female one next door. 
Surprisingly, girls are droves, with its tou Beckinsale, a leading est (Scott Spnedman of cheesy violence. The gore, and the vam addicting combination. 
In the critical world, chance of an Oscar linal sequence, invol by way of cerebellum that. But with a tagline for Supremacy," the "Underworld" holds 
--------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE

Wednesday, Aprill2, 2006 
page 13 


S E LIPARI AN D S E A N 
, Zoe Saldana) bury a eft to be opened on the tion. When that fate-the thrnn arn in decid­
they wnre before ­gaged. one pregnant 
the shining star of her hool (usP dndur,tive rea­to figure out who plays 
one). 
by Lucy's dream to her long-lost mother record contract, the out on a cross-coun­ge from Georgia to up a skPtchy-but­accnptable) hitchhiker 
untl. about the beauty of been said, hut it does 
ulousness. In particular, recitns profound verse any Britney scholar 
of her hit "''m Not a us stutr. is dear -any tlick 
rinenss of Pop, with a soundtnwk thrown in, 
's last major 'eute kid' "The PagPmaster" is a literature, eom­imation techniques to tiehard Tyler (Culkin). thing, Hiehard is swept rm into the hallowed where the mythical Christopher Lloyd) mated charaetnr. Only books Horror. Fantasy ard n~turn to the real 
as any book geek's ashbuekling Captain claws of Dr. Jekyll and age-bound Whoopie " alum Patri<~k Stewart rs into the worlds of I and Frankenstein are era of animation domi­Smith's "Shark Tale." in era was a time of in equal measure, and e sweet awesomeness 
guy or the unsuspecting girly girl. 
3 Ninjas (1992) 
Some of the most unbelievable, yet entertain­ing movies made are the type where young chil­dren outwit and defeat menacing enemies. The original "3 Ninjas" film fits this description per­fectly and stands as a quintessential guilty pleasure movie. 
The premise is simple. Three brothers learn martial arts from their elderly grandfather to prepare them for the real world. Through some tenuous plot maneuvers, the boys are kidnapped by their grandfather's enemy and must use their martial arts techniques to defeat the enemy. 
There are many reasons why this movie deserves little credit. It is short -less than an hour and a half-and the hard­
ly believable plot still has trouble Noted for many of its one-liners
Noted for many ofits
carrying through the run time. and character names, the film in The B-list actors do a poor job one-liners and character reality lacks a serious plot and and even fail to sell some of the names, ['Top Gun 7 ... features less-than-stellar acting martial arts on camera. Finally, from Cruise, Val Kilmer, and Meg
lacks a serious plot and
the idea of young children fight­Ryan. A slew of continuity errors
features less-than-stellar 
ing grown men with guns and and goofs indicate the hasty pro­swords is absurd. acting from Cruise, Val duction values of making the big­Yet it is this reason that "3 budget movie.
Kilmer, and Meg Ryan. 

["Rocky IV"] pits the lovable memorable place in the minds of moviegoers as a guilty
American fighter ... against 
pleasure.

the indomitable Russian Ivan 
Rocky IV (1985)

Drago. In a movie series that The fourth installment in the "Rocky" franchise pits the lov­
should have ended after the 
able American fighter Rocky

second movie, film quality is 
(Sylvester Stallone) against the most certainly lacking here. indomitable Russian Ivan Ninjas" is Pnjoyable enough to be considered a guilty pleasure. It follows in the tradition of movies such as "Home Alone," where humor and entertainment come from a young child outsmarting and taking advantage of dim witted bad guys. A belief in the underdog makes for good cinema. 
Labyrinth (1986) 
This fantasy film about a young girl who ven­tures into a mythical labyrinth to save her brother from goblins is often dismissed as a crazy 80s children's movie that is scarier than it is funny. While this description may be true, "Labyrinth" is a film that is easy to love in pri­vate but disown in public. 
A young Jennifer Connelly ventures into a bizarre labyrinth inhabited by creatures dreamed up by Muppet creator Jim Henson. llenson 's ereative genius is on full display here in a world more grown up than that of the Muppets. The puppets in this film seem like real actors thanks to the life given to them by Henson and his team. 
Another endearing quality of the movie is the presence of David Bowie the actor -as the evil Goblin King -and Bowie the singer -as musi­cal director for the film. Bowie often randomly bursts into song throughout "Labyrinth," belting out cheesy 80s tunes that add a touch of nostal­gia to the movie. 
"Labyrinth" is not really meant for kids. The mature writing and plot appeal to the inner child in anyone who watches the film. Its unique 
style and charm give the film a 

drawn to this movie in h female lead (Kate cute love inter­and deliciously is one of slick mythology is an 
holds little soon. The film's a surprise beheading makes sure of "An Immortal Battle -ass reputation of be it for a token tough 
Drago. In a movie series that should have ended after the second movie, film quality is most certainly lacking here. Audiences know what they are in for as soon as the open­ing credits inform them that the film is both written and directed by Sylvester Stallone. 
The not-so-subtle allusions to the struggle between capitalism and communism in the film provide much of the entertainment, especially when Russian crowd members begin to cheer for Rocky in the final fight, as if to symbolize the inevitable conversion from communism to capi­talism in Russia. 
The plot and fights of the film are hardly believable and it is this impossibility that makes 
SWEANY 
the movie so appealing. The "David vs.Goliath" message is a strong one that resonates with all viewers. An appearance from James Brown and the music of 80s bands like Survivor help make the movie inspirational and energetic. 
Thanks to all these qualities, "Rocky IV" is a movie worth watching all the way through whenever it is on television. While it did not win any major awards or receive acclaim for being a good film, it stands out as part of one of the most beloved An1erican action series of all time. Top Gun (1986) 
The high-testosterone, dangerous world of Navy fighter pilots comes to life in the 1980s thriller "Top Gun." A 24-year-old Tom Cruise launched his career in this somewhat political, 
high-action movie. 
In spitP. of these issues, "Top 
Gun" is still a guilty pleasure due to the entertainment value that comes with watching it. The intense action of the aerial dog fights is exciting and set a standard for future movies involving fighter jets. 
Director Tony Scott ("Days of Thunder", "Man on Fire,") brother of more respected Ridley, keeps the movie together and adds quality cine­matography and editing. "Top Gun" seems to be one of the first modern-era movies in that it tries to combine action, romance, comedy, and even tragedy into a two-hour summer block­buster. This enjoyable combination has since come to be the standard in blockbuster-oriented Hollywood, but the blend is perhaps most origi­nal and memorable in "Top Gun." Batman Forever (1995) 
The third installment in the adaptation of the Batman comic stands right in the middle of the decline of the franchise. Val Kilmer donned the Bat suit after Joel "Phone Booth" Schumacher took over the reins from previous director Tim Burton. Chris O'Donnell joined the cast as Robin and eventual Oscar winner Nicole Kidman plays the female lead. 
In spite of the A-list talent in the leading roles, this movie suffers from poor writing and worse acting from the protagonists. The supposed "Batman for a new generation" loses its way thanks to a mediocre story, which involves Bruce Wayne undergoing therapy to deal with his inner demons. Cheesy action scenes provide the icing on the cake in helping make this a meager excuse to rake in money. 
What saves the film is the maniacal acting of the two villains, Two-Face and the Riddler. Tommy Lee Jones is a strong villain, but Jim Carrey steals the show as the Riddler. Carrey's comical one-liners and exaggerated actions gen­erate laughs and keep the story from becoming monotonous. Watching the bad acting of the heroes against the strong performances from the villains helps this movie achieve the status of a guilty pleasure and maintain a presence in the world of comic book movies. 
All of the above movies are well loved by fans across the world -despite their lack of critical acclaim. They are guilty pleasures, films that will be special no matter the quality of acting, writing or the film as a whole. 
Whether films like these are blemishes on the name of Hollywood or signs of the power of film to gain sentimentality, they will continue to be cherished by movie fans for a long time. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu and Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 14 
Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
DVD REVIEWS 
11ce Age: The Meltdown' a subpar letdown 
By ERIN McGINN Scene Cri 1ic 
Watehing movie sequels is like play­ing the lottery. Chances are slim that you will ar.tually win big, and, more orton than not. it is just a waste of tinw and rnonoy. "lee Age: The Meltdown" is like winning $25 on a scratr,h-ofT card -it's more than HXpPcted, but less than hoped for. 
Tho original Oscar-nominated "Ice Age" (2002) was a brc~akaway hit and definitP!y served as proper eompetition for l'ixar and l>reamworks f'ilms. "Ir,e AgP: Tlw Meltdown" is not going to be rwarly as successful as its prodecessor. but still has its entPrtaining momPnts. Tlw bask prPmisl' (highly-endangPred prc~-historir animals try to oscape cPr­t.ain disastnrl is heavily borrowc~d ­"J.and BdorP Tinw" anyonP'! -but sine!' 

Ice Age: The Meltdown

tlw only dinosaurs in entering a pParly­"Tiw MPitdown" arP gated heavPn of
) )

prndators. it man­golden acorns. But agos to avoid too :.:tsJ~..rsJ since the movie is rn uch rom parison to not entirely bibli­
Director: Carlos Saldanha

otlwr franr.hisP.s. callv oriented,
Writers: Peter Gaulke and Jim Hecht 
"Jrn Agn: The thes"e references 
Starring: Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, 

Meltdown" takes are confusing and
Queen Latifah and Dennis Leary 

plaen a few years do not benelit the 
they meet the female mammoth Ellie (Queen Latifah), who believes that she is a possum, and her two possum "brothers" Crash (Seann William Scott) and Eddie (Josh Peck). Overall, the vocal performances are good. While Queen l.atifah, Romano and Leguizamo all seem to be enjoying themselves, Leary appears to be less involved in the movie -but Diego was given less of the zinging one-liners, so it's not entirely his fault. 
Unlike the environmentally-aware "FernGully: The Last Rainforest" (1992). "Meltdown" never really addressc~s global warming or other rel­evant issues. Aside from not being sci­enlilically accurate -as demonstrated by the speeding up of the meltdown ­then~ are the obvious biblieal refer­ences. like t!H1 animals looking to get on 
-a giant wooden boat to escapP the llood. There's also a sc:Pne with Serat 

aftnr thn original (the millnnnia needed for global change arn ignored hnre) and maintains the same east: Manny the mammoth (Hay Homano), Sid the Sloth (John I.eguizamo). and Diego the sabre­toothed tiger (Denis Leary). When the nearby glacier begins melting-thanks to Serat, the erazy squirrel -the ani­mals are forced to flee, encountering peril and adventure. Along the way film. 
"The Meltdown" is not all bad or questionable, however -it does have many enjoyable moments. In one scene, the vultures, excited about the impend­ing doom (and thus lots of food for them), perform the song "Food, Glorious Food" from the musical "Oliver!" in a truly entertaining num­ber. 
There's also Scrat. The highlight of 

the first film, he continues to be the most exciting element of the sequel. liP not only "causes" the meltdown but he also "fixes" it at the end. He was employed a great deal more in this film than he was in the first one. If a third film is made, Scrat can be expected to dominate the movie, as he is by far the most memorable and truly enjoyable character. He is also proof that film­makers do not need raunchy play­ground humor in order to win laughs ­something the writers should take note of, since that lower form of humor was all-too-present in "Thn Meltdown." 
Unless you really enjoyed the original "Ice Age" or are a fan of any animated movie regardless of quality, then you should not see this movie. But if you are forced to take a younger sibling over Easter break, don't worry ­because Scrat is your $25 win in the lottery. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

New DVD documents 'Telfair' for the dramatic 
By TAE ANDREWS A'sisl<llll Scene Ediror 
"Hight hnrn, this is MSC. We eall it The Gardnn." 
"Through tho Fin~" begins with Sebastian "Bassy" Tnlfair dribbling a bas­kotball on his way to play at "The Garden," a strc~otball eourt nicknamed after Madison Square~ (;arden where <L..;piring hoops hopo­fuls play out their drc~ams of NBA glory. At its hcmrt. that's what "Through the Fire" is-a taln of dn~ams. 
Shot as a docunwntary, "Through the Firn" follows baskntball phenomenon Sebastian Telfair 
rently a point guard for the New York Knicks. Obviously, Marbury is the one who "made it" and represents where Bassy is trying to go. 
On the other hand, there is Jamel Thomas, Telfair's older brother who wasn't drat'tnd despite lPading the Big East in scor­ing during his time playing ti)f Providence University. Now playing professionally in Grence, Thomas represents a diffp,rent prospect -the fear of not making it, the brother whose dream dim!. 
Somewhew in between is Daniel Turner, another of Sebastian's brothers who works timlessly with Bassy as porsonal coach and trainer. Hounding out the family is 
Sebastian's mother, 

during his senior Through the Fire with whom he has a year of high 
very close relation­
.... x>i)

sehool. The earn­ship, and his little ora doseonds on brother Ethan, who
liP

Co1wy Island in idolizes his brother (:hroniding a !-,>Tit­and dreams of play­
Director: Jonathan Hock ty rags-to-riches ing in the NBA him­
Starring: Asher Beard, Nyan Boateng, Jay-Z tale of the Renan Ebeid, Dwight Howard and Spike Lee self. 
Ameriean dream 
viewed through 
the mkroeosm of an urban dtyseape. 
Through Tnlfair's thiek Coney Island aeccmt. the viewer can hear the strnet. the hardship of growing up poor in a bad neighborhood. I Iowever, as he strut<> down the strnot. dribbling the ball and playing with little kids, Temtir retains a sort or play­ful innoc:Pnce that bnlies the rough dn:um­stanees of his upbringing. 
Another interesting glimpse into Telfair's life is the footage of Team Telfair, or the family members who surround the rising star. Telfair is the cousin of Stephon Marbury, another New York City street­balh~r who made it to the NBA and is cur-
Every member of 
the family is involved in Telfair's career in their own capacity. Apparently producing a straight-to-the­pros high school phenom is like trying to tackle Heggie Bush -it takes a village. 
And there's also a tremendous amount of pressure on Sassy's sub-six foot frame to come through -the entire future of his family rests on his slight shoulders. But what capable shoulders they are. 
Telfair is reminiscent of another famous Sebastian -namely, Johannes Sebastian Bach, only Bassy is a virtuoso with a bas­ketball instead of a conductor's wand. A child prodigy (Telfair first showed his unusual talent when he was six years old), he has a certain creative basketball genius that combines quickness with an active imagination. Telfair is frequently shown slicing his way through traflic for all man­ner of improbable Jayups and flashy no­look passes. 


Throughout the film, Bassy mentions his dreams of buying his mom a mansion and leaving the projects. In one of his happiest moment<>, he turns to the camera and, in conspiratorial nature, Jets the audience in on the seeret that he has bought his big brother Jamel a brand-new BMW. 
During one game, Telfair defeats fellow NBA prospect Dwight Howard's high school team with a last-second buzzer-beater, proving Bassy's "Telfair" for the dramatic. However, as his Abraham Lincoln High School team battles the other New York City teams on the way to the championship, Telfair suffers a scary experience with a turned ankle that demonstrates just how fragile his dream of NBA status is. 
As his legend grows, Telfair siJ.,rns a multi­million dollar shoe deal, lands a photo shoot for the cover of Sport<> Illustrated and plays in the Mr.Donald's lligh School All­American Game. lie enjoys all the perks of' sports celebrity in Ameriea, hobnobbing with politidans, sneaker executives and. perhaps more importantly, Jay-Z. 
Playing against rival school Cardozo in the championship game, Bassy goes from dreaming on The Garden streetball court to playing in the actual Madison Square Garden. When he gets drafted into the NBA, one thing is for sure about this por­petually happy, slightly goofy teenager with the million-dollar smile -Sebastian Telfair is living the dream. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
----~-~---------~---------------------~---­
~­

Wednesday, Aprill2, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

HIROHUI MR 

SOLO

A  
THURS.  APR. 20 AT  
TICKETS:  $18/$15/$10  



RECITAL 

Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 


Shaq, Heat burn Raptors with 106-97 victory 
•.. 
O'Neal records second career triple-double with 15 points, 11 rebounds and 10 assists; Walker tallies 32 points 
Associated Press game cracking the 30-point 
mark, and Morris Peterson 
MIAMI -Shaquillc O'Neal added 23 for Toronto -which (:ailed it "simple basketball." stayed close by hitting 13 3­and he certainly made it look pointers. that way. James ran over to congratu­
O'Noal had his soeond earner late O'Neal when the game triple-doublt1 -a 15-point, I 1-ended. and the Raptors kept rPbound, I0-assist effort in 28 lobbing praise Shaq's way after­minutes -and Antoine Walker ward. busted out of his slump with a "You double him, and he season-high ;{2 points as the shows what he can do passing­Miami Ileal ovoreamn Dwyann wise," Peterson said. "That's Wade's absence to beat Toronto why he's a Hall of Farner. He's a Tuesday night and send the guy who gets the job done. He Baptors to their ninth straight picked us apart." loss. O'Neal's only other triple-dou­
"I've been a very unselfish ble was Nov. 20, 1993 -when player." O'Neal said. "I knew he scored 24 points, grabbed 28 they were going to double, so I rebounds and blocked 15 shots just wanted to keep my guys for the Orlando Magic in a win involved. I learned a long time over the New .Jersey Nets. And ago that if I can keep my other his big night took some luster guys involved, it'll be an easier off Walker's best performance game for me. I just kept making in a Heat uniform. the good pass and my tlmm­Walker was shooting only 30 mates worn making me look percent and averaging eight good." points per game in April _ as 
Wade. firth in the NBA with the lleat got oil' to a 2-4 start ­
27.5 points pPr game. stayed but connected on 13 of 26 home to continue lighting a f1u­shots, plus added eight likn virus that has hampered rebounds and five assists. him for SllVIWal days. "If Antoine can play like that, 

liP missed a perfpet night for we can win the whole thing," the llnat, who not only won but O'Neal said. saw their magic number for Toronto was within three dinching the No. 2 send in the points late in the third quarter Eastern Conference playoffs before the Heat pulled away, Toronto opened the year with a time in five games and moved a four of five overall and 14 drop to two af'tcr New Jersey with Walker's 3-pointer with 1-15 record in November, and is half-game ahead of the idle Los straight on the road. Minnesota lost later Tuesday in Chicago. 5:16 remaining-followed by a still winless in April. Angeles Clippers for the firth has not won away from home 
"Obviously, I'm very happy," kiss of his hands, which he "It's definitely not fun being playoff spot in the Western since Feb. 6. Iteat coach Pat Hiley said. raised skyward -giving Miami one of the first teams to be Conference. Memphis had a double-digit 
Tho Haptors double-teamed a 101-86 lead. The Raptors did­home," James said. Bobby Jackson finished with lead in the first quarter, and O'Neal nearly every time he n't get closer than 10 again 16 points for the Grizzlies, .Jake Minnesota never threatened the touched the ball, so the Heat until the final seconds, with the Grizzlies 92, Timberwolves 76 Tsakalidis contributed 12, and rest of the way. tenter relied on brain over outcome decided. With Kevin Garnett and lUcky Mike Miller scored 10. Gasol Memphis built its 18-point brawn and simply found the "I knew with Dwyane out, I Davis out of action, what was added six assists. first-half lead as Atkins hit his op11n teammates. was going to have to be more left of the Minnesota Besides missing All-Star first four shots, all from outside 
lie set Walker up for two aggressive," Walker said. "The Timberwolves wasn't enough to Garnett and Davis, the team's the are. The Grizzlies connected layups and a dunk, found last couple games, I hadn't been even put a scare into the play­second-leading scorer, on seven of their first 11 from Udonis llaslem for two layups. looking for my shot. I'd been off-bound Memphis Grizzlies. Minnesota was also without long range. set up Shandon Anderson twice kind of passive. So I wanted to Pau Gasol had 19 points and guards Anthony Carter and "A team like that, you want to for scorns, c;ary Payton onen for come out and be a little more 10 rebounds, Chucky Atkins Troy Hudson. That's an average jump on them early so they a jumper and connected with aggressive and take some of the added 17 points, and the of 54 points and almost 20 don't get any confidence," Dernk Anderson twiee for first­pressure oil' Shaq, and he did a Grizzlies beat the injury-deplet­rebounds a game that didn't Atkins said. "If you let tlwm half 3-pointers that stopped a terrific job finding guys." ed Timberwolves on Tuesday make the trip to Memphis. linger around and linger Haptors' rally. Ilaslem had 15 points and night. "I really admire what Casey is around, they get confident. then 
"lin has a willingness to do nine rebounds and Payton "It's very diLTi cult," doing," Memphis coach Mike they arc tough to beat. We that," said Derek Anderson, added 15 points for the Heat. Timberwolves coach Dwane Fratnllo said. "When you take wanted to come out and put the who had 17 points for Miami. Walker needed only 60 sec­Casey said of taking his young guys out of your lineup like heat on them right away and ((1t "That's what people don't onds for a personal 9-0 run -players against the Grizzlies. Hicky Davis and KG, it makes it tlwm know we wnren 't going to understand. A lot of guys in this two three-point plays, then a 3-"You know [we're[ coming in very difficult to play at this play around. league don't share the ball, pointer -late in the first quar­here against a veteran team level." "A team like that. if you jump regardless of what happens. ter, a burst that gave Miami a like Memphis who is playoff The absences gave Minnesota on them like we did, they tend And when he's willing to do 26-14 lead. lie finished with 11 ready; they are playoff' tough. adequate reasons to continue to give up beeausn they are just that, lw gives us wnlidenen to points in the period and 19 in "To come in here for our giving younger players extra trying to get the season over make plays and make shots. the half, helping the Heat claim young guys and compete the minutes. right now." That's what you nned to win a 61-51 lead at intermission. way they did, it's a tough task. .Justin Reed led the Memphis carried a 44-29 lead gamns." James hit a 3-pointer late in But this gives our young guys a Timbnrwolves with 14 points on into halftinw as Atkins scored 
While tlw Haptors remained the third quarter to get Toronto taste of what playoll' basketball 7-of-11 from the field. Hashad 14 and Gasol addnd 12 points. horrid. Mike Janws stayed tor­within 80-77. but the Haptors and playoff-ready teams fareI MeCants scored 11 points and Banks had all 10 of his points rid for the Haptors. lie scored got no closer. Their season is about." Marcus Banks added 10. for the Timberwolvcs in the first :{2 points, his fourth straight ending almost the way it began; Memphis won for the fourth The Timberwolves have lost half. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from B a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining I-Iall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classiiieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit  
Highly motivated, ethical/socially  3.4,5.6 bedroom homes. Web  Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at  
LOST & FOUND  responsible, entrepreneurial, go-getters with desires to make a  FoR SALE  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­ $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb &  TICKETS  

 meaningful impact on transforming  spot. net  Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey  
FOUND: Rosary with blue beads on  the international business world  Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come  
Saturday, 4/8, between library and  while making a large amount of  see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND  NEW! http://ndrental.tripod.com  574-271-4060.  O.A.R. tix first 3 rows.  
Stepan Chemistry.  $$$$. I am an alum based in  Campus! Make your dream of  Call272-7233.  
Jackson Hole and am looking for  homeownership a reality. 1232 sq ft,  4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2  
Call1-5608  students for part time. full time, or  3+car garage. Call Donna @993­ 1-bdrm apt. $400 +utilities.  mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo.  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  
lv. message.  summer employment to work for  5060.  A/C,security system, fenced  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  
commission. Can work from home.  yard,carpeted,laundry,on bus route.  269-663-2299  CALL 277-1659.  
WANTED  www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m  1113 N. Twyckenham. Remodeled ranch, all new interior. 3bdrm,2ba  No smoking or pets, lease deposit required.  Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms  
w/basement. Walk to ND. Call 574­ 1.5 baths. C/A & WID. Gas stove,  PERSONAL  
Nanny to care for our toddler.  I need a furnished room or apt. to  850-6773.  574-289-9365.  oven, microwave & refrigerator.  
rent for June & July_ Call Tom Clark  Hardwood floors in bdrms & tile in  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Full time weekdays during summer.  412-829-8602.  Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800  bathrooms. Big driveway & 2-car  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Part time or full time in the fall.  Need extra $$$? I need person(s) to  FoR RENT  SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact  garage. Close to ND-1023 Talbot off of South Bend Ave. $1.400/mo.  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M_L.  
Previous experience required.  sell Rockne commemorative 75th  Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett,  Utilities not included.  Gude, esc at 631-7819.  
Fax resume or letter to  anniversary bookmarks. Call 272­ WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  Noah Davey  
9289 for more info. or visit  HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532­ Need security deposit.  For more information, see our bi­ 
574-251-1898.  www.rocknebookmark.com  1408  57 4-271-4060  Call277-1875 Cosima.  weekly ad in THE OBSERV.ER.  

Wednesday, April 12, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Mets spoil Nationals home opener with 7-1 win 
Rookie Bannister records first major league victory with three hits and one earned run in seven innings of work 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -No brawls, beanballs or even brushbacks Tuesday between the Nationals and Mets. 
No sellout and no bouncing stands, either, at Washington's home opener, which was much more low key in just about every way than last season, when big league baseball returned after a 34-year absence to plenty of fanfare. 
The announced crowd of 40,530 -more than 5,000 shy of capacity-didn't have much reason to root, root, root for the home team. Rookie Brian Bannister shut down Washington's struggling offense again for his first major league victory, and Carlos Beltran homered off the facing of the upper deck, leading the Mets past the Nationals. 
"This is a team that is built to win," said Bannister, whose father, Floyd, pitched in the majors. "I knew my role was to come in here and to lay low, to just eat up innings, to pitch any game they needed me to pitch, and to just give this team a chance to win every time. It wasn't to come in here and take over the show." 
But he did precisely that Tuesday, giving up three hits 
without  a  walk  over  seven  
innings.  The  lone  run  he  
allowed  was  on  Alfonso  

Soriano's homer in the seventh; last week in New York, the right-hander held the Nationals hitless for 5 1-3 innings in his big league debut. 
During that series at Shea 
Stadium, seven batters were hit -six by Mets pitchers -and a near-fight ensued. Nationals right-hander Felix Rodriguez and manager Frank Robinson were suspended by Major League Baseball; before Tuesday's game, Robinson said, both managers were told umpires would watch all season for any sign of trouble when the NL East rivals meet. 
"It was basically a warning: They have control of the game. It's up to them. It's what they feel about a certain pitch, and they don't have to wait to put in a warning," Robinson said. "Word is, there's bad blood between the two ballclubs, and every time we play they're going to put out a warning to the umpires." 
Players played down the possi­ble tension before the game, though Bannister (1-0) acknowl­edged afterward it was on his mind. 
"At the beginning of the game, I was a little timid throwing inside," he said. "Especially with Soriano, we did pitch away. As I got more comfortable, we start­ed going back in." 
No batter had to dive out of the way of an up-and-in heater. The only person who appeared to get nicked by a ball was plate umpire Brian O'Nora, when a foul tip bounced up and hit him below his mask. 
Padres 9, Marlins 3 
Khalil Greene says he tends to be a streaky home run hitter, and the Florida Marlins can vouch for that. 
Greene drove in four runs 
with two homers to help the San Diego Padres shake a slump, and they spoiled Florida's home opener by winning Tuesday. 
The Padres, who scored a major league-low 19 runs in the first week of the season, snapped a four-game losing streak. 
Greene hit a two-out solo homer in the second and a three-run shot in the sixth, giv­ing him four homers this season and a share of the NL lead with four others, including St. Louis slugger Albert Pujols. 
"I don't expect to be at the top at the end of the year," Greene said. "When I hit home runs, they tend to come in bunches. I've gone a long time without hitting any homers." 
Greene, who grew up in Key West, Fla., has four of the Padres' six home runs after hit­ting 15 each of the past two sea­sons. 
"He's got some pop," Padres manager Bruce Bochy said. "Khalil is going to be an offen­sive shortstop. He's going to sup­ply some power." 
Woody Williams (1-0) won in his first start as a replacement for Shawn Estes, sidelined by a strained elbow. Williams allowed three runs in five-plus innings. 
"I knew they had to dig deep in the well to throw me out there," Williams joked. 
Reds 9, Cubs 2 
Here's what Bronson Arroyo has shown the Cincinnati Reds since joining them less than a month ago: He can beat the Chicago Cubs and he can hit home runs off Glendon Rusch. 


Arroyo, with no homers in his first six major league seasons, hit his second off Rusch in six days Tuesday, one of six long balls by the Reds as they routed the Cubs on a windy day at Wrigley Field. 
"I got lucky again. Just kaep hacking," Arroyo said after throwing seven shutout innings and hitting a ball over the left­field bleachers that landed on in the first four innings. Edwin Encarnacion hit his first career grand slam and Austin Kearns followed with another homer, both off Will Ohman in the sixth. 
"He's got more homers than Wily Mo already," Dunn said of Arroyo, who was traded from the Red Sox on March 20 for Wily Mo Pena. 
"He's got a good swing. That's. impressive. He's shown me two tools so far." 

Attention Students and Faculty: 
Do you know of an outstanding club, club officer, club sponsored program or club advisor? If so, you should nominate 
them for the 2005-2006 Club Awards! 
Please help us identitY nominees for the following awards: 
Advisor of the Year Program of the Year Officer of the Year Club of the Year 
Each winner will rec~ve $50.00 in extra allocations for their club next year. The winner will be announced at the Club Awards Banquet on April 25th. 
Extended Deadline: Wednesday April 12th by 5:00PM, either e-mailed to the CCC (CCC@nd.edu), or sent in campus mail to the CCC at 315 LaFortune. 
Nomination forms can be found on the CCC web site: 
www.nd.edu/-ccc/docs 
Also, don't forget Session II of Club Registration! Submit paperwork between 10:00 AM and 5:00PM April 19th or 20 in the Club Resource Center 
Not sure what papeiwOil< is due? Email ageist@nd.edu 

Waveland Ave. Arroyo, who hit his first homer 
"I really just couldn't believe since high school off Rusch on where the pitch was because it April 5 at Great American Ball was almost identical to last time. Park, connected for the Reds' ... I was a little surprised," he third of the game leading off the added. "I knew the wind was third. Arroyo's homer last week going out, I got it good like I did was his first hit since 2001. last time. I figured that it wasn't "I don't have anything for going to land anywhere in the you," Rusch said, unable to park." explain how he could give up 
Adam Dunn hit a pair of solo two homers to the same previ­shots and Ken Griffey Jr. and ously light-hitting pitcher in less Arroyo had one each off Rusch than a week. 

Become stronger, smarter and more prepared to face any challenge. With over !50 careers to choose from. the Army is your chance tfr make adifference in your life and in the future of your country. Find out more at GOARMY.COM or call 1-800-USA-ARMY. 
Where: 413 W. McKinley, Mishawaka,IN When: Monday-Friday, 9am-Spm 
--~-~-~-------­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
NHL 

Flyers fight for hon1e ice, beat Penguins 4-3 
Carter's power-play tally late in the third breaks 3-3 deadlock 
Associated Press 
J>IIII.AD EJ.J>II!A -Though thny play bnttnr on thn road, the Philadelphia Flyers are desperatldy trying to earn homn-il:n advantage in the first round of the playofl's. 
With four games remaining, it's simple for Philadelphia: Win out and sneurn thn No. 3 send in thn Eastern 
C«mfnrorH~(~. 
.Jell' Carl«~r·s power-play goal with h:32 lnft in the third peri­od lifted tlw Flyers to a 4-3 vietory ovnr the Pittsburgh l'onguins on Tunsday night. 
The Flyers wasted a 3-0 load, but oarrwd the victory to move within threo points of tho Atlantic Division-leading New York Hangers. The Hangers have just thren games loft, ineluding one meeting betwoon the teams. Philadelphia is fifth in the East. two points ahead of New .Jersey with two road games left against the Devils. 
''I've seen our fans just will us in playoff games," coach Ken llitchcock said. "I think homo-ieo is something you nnnd. It's very important. It's real difficult when you con­stantly havn to win road games in the playo!Ts." 
The Flynrs are 21-13-6 at the Waehovia Center, with only Saturday's game against the Hangers left at home. They are 22-11-5 on the road. 
Simon Gagne scored his 45th goal and .loni Pitkanen and Brian Savage also scored for the Flyers, who were without star center Peter Forsberg for the third straight game because of a groin injury. 
"It's a big win for us because we have a chance to win the division," Pitkanen said. "We've had a tough time at home. Maybe we feel a little more pressure. If you're going to win in the playoffs, you havn to win both [home and awayl." 
Michel Ouellet, Hyan Whitnny and Sidney Crosby scored for Pittsburgh, which already secured the worst record in the conference. 
After giving up three straight goals, the Flyers went ahead when their dismal special teams came through. 
Freddy Meyer took a slap shot from tho point that deflected ofT Niko Dimitrakos. 

Carter, standing at the side of the net, tucked the puck in for his 22nd goal to give the flyers a one-goal lead. 
"It was just kind of bouncing around out there," Carter said. 
Hobert Esche preserved it with several outstanding saves in a frantie final minute. Esche made 23 saves in his fourth start in five games for the Flyers, though Hitchcock has­n't announced whether Esche or Antero Niittymaki will be the playoll' starter. 
"Goaltending is the least of our problmns," llitchcock said. "Hight now, we have to have a killer instinct." 
.Just 1:23 after falling behind 3-0, Ouellet's power-play goal eut it to 3-1 in the second peri­od. 
The Penguins closed to 3-2 when Whitney seored just 92 sneonds into the third period. Whitney took a behind-the-net pass from Crosby and lilted it just under the crossbar. 
Five seeonds after failing to seore on a power play, the Penguins tied it at 3 on Crosby's 37th goal 8:16 into the third. 
"We've been there a lot this year. We've fallen behind and elimbed our way back, but it seems likn one mistake we make and sometimes it costs us," Crosby said. 
The Flyers seored their first two goals during 4-on-4 situa­tions after penalties wiped out two of their four power-play opportunities in the second period. 
Petr Nedved, back after missing four games with a groin injury, skated down the right side, turned and fed a pass to Gagne, who scored on a wristor before crashing into the right post and knocking the net off its moorings. 
Savage's ninth goal midway through the second put the Flyers ahead 2-0. Pitkanen sent a perfect centering pass from near the left boards to a streaking Savage, who redi­rected the puck past goalie Sebastien Caron. 
Pitkanen ripped a slap shot from the slot just inside the left post for his 13th goal, giv­ing the Flyers a 3-0 lead. 
Flyers enforcer Donald Brashear and Pittsburgh's Eric Cairns squared off in the third period immediately after both players left the penalty box, with Brashear landing a few solid shots early in the fight. Brashear got a rousing ovation as he returned to the penalty box and exchanged high-fives with some fans. 
Note to Self: Dress yourself BEFORE you start drinking this time. 
Happy 21st Carol! 
Love always, Murphy 
SoccER 




U.S., Jamaica battle to 1-1 tie 
American Tony Meola earns his 100th cap in exhibition match up 
Associated Press 
CAHY, N.C.-Tony Meola got his 1OOth eap. Now he and the rest of the U.S. hopefuls ean only wait for coach Bruce Arena to choose the World Cup roster. 
"For me, it was just a great night, and I did it with a great group of guys that really appre­ciated the first 99 as much as they appreciated tonight," the 37-year-old goalkeeper said. "They let me know about it all week." 
Ben Olsen scored the tying goal in the 25th minute off a record-setting assist from Landon Donovan, Meola became the ninth U.S. player to reach 100 international appear­ances and the United States sal­vaged a 1-1 tie against .Jamaica on Tuesday night. 
It was the final exhibition 

game before Arena settles on the 23 players he will take to Germany this summer. A day earlier, he told the team not to worry about making the final cut. lie wanted them simply to have fun. 
"It's getting down to the nitty gritty," defender Chris Albright said. "I mean, obviously you enjoy playing the game, but everybody's thinking about making the team. I just tried to give it everything I had." 
Before the kickoff, Meola was honored as the ninth U.S. play­er to reach I 00 caps -soccer's term for international appear­ances. IIe was the starting goal­keeper at the 1990 and 1994 World Cups, and the No. 3 goal­keeper four years ago. 
Meola hadn't played for the national team since May 1(>, 2002, and his addition to the roster was seen largely as a symbolic gesture by Arena. Barely four minutes into the game, it appeared Meola might be in for a long night when .Jamaiea took a 1-0 lead. 
"We started slow. Give them credit, they eame at us," Meola said. "After about 15 or 20 min­utes, I thought we pkknd up the pace and played fairly well. All in a.ll. I thou~ht it was a good performance. 
Donovan got his 23rd career assist, moving him ahead of Los Angeles Galaxy teammate Cobi Jones for the most in national team history as the Americans avoided losing for tho first time in 17 games against .Jamaica (9-0-8). 
"Oh, that's right, I forgot about that," Donovan said when told of his reeord. "It was Cobi before, right? l got it in less caps, and I'll tell him this week. That's enol, man." 


Graduation Weekend: Your seat is reserved. 
Since your parents picked up your meal tob for the 
past four years, soy thank you with dinner-but hey, 
let them poy, that woy they will know it really is you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 

steaks • c h 0 p s • seafood 

Attention Graduating Seniors: 
S
tafford Loan Interest Rates are likely to increase on ~uly l, 2006. 
C
onsolidating yo!lr Federal Student Loans may allow you to lock in a low fixed interest rate, and may provide a lower monthly payment. A lower monthly payment means more ofyour hard-earned money can be used for the things you really want, like a new vehicle! 

secure your rate today. 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better ~ 
574/239-6611 • 800/522-6611 
www.ndfcu.org • studentloans@ndfcu.org 







OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 12, 2006 CoJvU'ILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB New Jersey 47-29 .618 Philadelphia 36-41 .468 11.5 Boston 32-45 .416 15.5 Toronto 26-51 .338 21.5 New York 22-55 .286 25.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 62-15 .805 
Cleveland 47-30 .610 15 
Indiana 37-40 .481 25 
Milwaukee 37-40 .481 25 
Chicago 35-41 .461 26.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 50-27 .649 
Washington 39-38 .506 11 
Orlando 33-44 .429 17 
Atlanta 24-53 .312 26 
Charlotte 22-55 .286 28 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB Denver 44-34 .564 Utah 38-39 .494 5.5 Seattle 33-43 .434 10 Minnesota 31-45 .416 11.5 Portland 21-56 .273 22.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 50-26 .658 
LA Clippers 44-33 •571 6.5 
Sacramento 41-37 .526 10 
LA Lakers 41-37 .526 10 
Golden State 30-46 .395 20 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
San Antonio 59-18 .766 Dallas 59·19 .756 0.5 Memphis 44-33 .571 15 New Orleans 37-40 .481 22 Houston 33-45 .423 26.5 
NCAA Women's Softball Top25 

No. team record points 
1 Arizona 29-3 495 2 Texas 35-3 470 3 UCLA 28-2 447 4 Alabama 29-4 427 5 Stanford 26-4 418 6 Tennessee 27-4 399 7 Oregon Slate 25-2 385 8 Cal 29-3 374 
g 
Arizona State 34-3 356 10 Georgia 28-8 299 11 LA·lalayette 23-6 288 12 LSU 3H 267 13 Michigan 11·9 266 14 Washington 25·8 262 15 Northwestern 18·8 212 16 TexasA&M 23-9 210 17 Auburn 22-8 172 18 Oklahoma 23-10-1 156 19 Nebraska 20-6 144 20 Baylor 19-13 123 21 Louisville 19-4 82 22 Mississippi State 27·8 64 23 DePaul 11-7 49 24 Fresno State 20-13 43 25 Southern Illinois 19·4 33 

around the dial 
MLB Kansas City at New York Yankees, 1 p.m., ESPN Toronto at Boston, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Cleveland at Detroit, 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -Jeff Capel was hired as Oklahoma's basketball coach Tuesday, resigning at Virginia Commonwealth to replace Kelvin Sampson and take over a program under NCAA investigation. 
VCU confirmed Capel's move in a statement from president Eugene Trani and athletic director Richard Sander. The Sooners scheduled an afternoon news conference on campus to introduce Capel. 
"We are both sad and happy with Jeff's announcement that he is 
going to Oklahoma," Sander said. "He did a great job here, and we know he will do a great job there." 
The 31-year-old Capel is a former Duke player who was 79-41 in four seasons as coach at VCU. 
He signed a two-year contract extension last month to keep him at the Richmond school through 2012. 
Instead, he will replace Sampson, hired as Indiana's coach March 29. The Sooners are awaiting a decision from the NCAA in a case involving more than 550 improper recruit­ing phone calls by Sampson and his staff. The accusations against Oklahoma include "lack of institutional control," one of the NCAA's most serious findings. 

Oklahoma has argued for a lesser "failure in monitoring" finding and instituted self-imposed sanctions including proba­tion and recruiting cut­backs. A hearing is sched­uled April 21 in Utah. 
Capel, whose father is an assistant coach for the Charlotte Bobcats, led VCU to the Colonial Athletic Association title and an NCAA tournament berth in 2004 and then to the NIT in 2005, the school's first 
consecutive postseason berths since 1985. 
His Rams finished this season 19-10 and did not make the postseason after losing to Hofstra in the conference tournament quarterfinals. 
The signature of his VCU teams was defense. This season, the Rams allowed 
62.4 points a game. On offense, they averaged only 12.5 turnovers and made nearly eight 3-point­ers a game. 
Sampson inherits an Oklahoma team that loses three of its top four scor­ers in seniors Taj Gray, Terrell Everett and Kevin Bookout. 
IN BRIEF 
District Attorney vows to 
pursue Duke rape case 
DURHAM, N.C.-Standing before a mostly black audience, the district attorney in charge of the Duke University rape investigation said Tuesday he does not need DNA to bring charges and vowed, "This case is not going away." 
District Attorney Mike Nifong spoke one day after defense attor­neys said DNA testing failed to con­nect any of Duke's lacrosse players to the alleged attack on a black stripper who said she was raped by members of the nearly all-white 4 7 -man team. 
Nifong stopped short of confirming the defense assessment of the DNA results, but said the case would not be hampered by a lack of DNA evi­dence. 
"It doesn't mean nothing hap­pened," Nifong said at North Carolina Central University, where the 27-year-old alleged victim is a student. "It just means nothing was left behind." 

University of Alabama 
booster killed in home 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -An Alabama booster convicted of bribing a high school coach to get a top recruit for the Crimson Tide was killed in his home, police said Tuesday. 
Police and his defense attorney confirmed the death of Logan Young, 65, not saying how he was killed. 
Investigators found "a lot of blood," police Sgt. Vince Higgins said. "The nature of the attack was brutal." 
Higgins said there were signs of a struggle in the house, a two-story home in one of Memphis' most exclu­sive country club neighborhoods. 
Investigators don't know a motive or if the attack was related to Young's federal conviction, Higgins said. Police haven't determined how his home was entered or how many attackers there might have been. 
While police waited for fingerprints to identify the body, Nashville defense attorney Jim Neal confirmed the victim was Young. 
Adidas inks 11-year deal 
with the NBA 
FRANKFURT, Germany -Adidas signed an 11-year deal with the NBA on Tuesday, making the German ath­letic shoe company the official uni­form and apparel provider for the league. 
The company said the deal includes providing uniforms and other products for the WNBA and the NBA's development league starting with the 2006-07 season. 
Adidas, a marketing partner with the NBA since 2002, said the deal came as a result of last year's acqui­sition of Reebok International Ltd. The value of the deal wasn't immedi­ately disclosed by Adidas or the NBA, but shares of Adidas were up more than 2.9 percent to over $208 in Frankfurt trading after it was announced. 
Reebok will continue to be a global marketing partner of the NBA and will keep its ability to create NBA branded footwear. 
The Observer + SPORTS 

page 20 Wednesday, April 12, 2006

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer An Irish player accelerates toward third base during Notre Dame's 6-0 win over Ball State Tuesday at Ivy Field. State's hitters off balance," said Booth.Cardinals The only Irish runs after continued from page 24 three in the first inning came in the sixth. Notre Dame go, " Irish coach Deanna sophomore Brittany Glynn (;urn pi' said. crushed a two-run homer Notre Dame pitchnrs record­down the left field line in lwr ed their 12th shutout on the fourth at bat of' the season. It season. with all three Irish was the first hit or her colle­hurlers s<wing action Tuesday. giate career. Irish senior llnather Booth Glynn came into the game in started tlw game and was vir­the fourth inning, replacing tually untouched in lwr four Irish junior Stephanie Brown innings of' hitless work. Her -who came out of' the game only blemish was a walk in dun to a shoulder injury she thn fourth -which was sustairwd in the dugout from quickly followed by her fifth a foul ball ofT the bat of Irish and final strikeout. junior Carissa Jaquish. Notn\ Damn junior Kenya In her next at-bat Jaquish Fuemmnler replaced Booth hit anotlwr 11uke foul ball, this and eontinund right whnre the time hitting herself in the lip. senior lnrt off. Fuernmeler The blow required stitches kept the Cardinals off' thn and she was forced to join s<:on~board and allowml only Brown in the dugout. one hit in two innings. "We had a lot of crazy Gurnpl' said she made the things happen out there change so Fuemnwler could today," said Gumpl'.  Attention Men: Yes, Saint Mary's is a women's college,Got 3 weeks?· but the summer session is open to rou, too!Get 3 credits! Getsummer credits ... and still have asummer break. Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The Saint Mary's summer session offers courses in a variety of topics including Native American literature, human anatomy, ceramics, Islam, music, dance, theatre, politics, business, and many others. Interested in study abroad this summer? Travel opportunities to Europe, Korea and CentraVSouth America are available. -f!i­SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, IN SUMMER SESSION 2006-MAY 22-JUNE 9* * Four to six weeks required for select courses. Most courses are three credits. For complete information visit www.saintmarys.edu/-summer or call (574) 284-4560. For additional information on study abroad opportunities visit www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil or call (574) 284-4263. Applications will be accepted through May 19.  
ilii! Write Sports.  
get baek on lwr feet after suf­Gumpf said both players will fering from thn flu earlier in be back in the line-up shortly. the week. Freshman Brittany Notre Dame will host DePual Bargar replaced Fuemmeler Thursday in a doubleheader. in the seventh to close out the The first game will start at 4  Call Ken at 1-4543. 
game. p.m. "Kenya, Bargar and I just seemed to be in a good Contact Dan Murphy at rhythm as a staff' keeping Ball dmurphy6@nd.edu  
THE DIIIIIIEBASEBALL Thursday,April13 Saturday,AprH 15 vs. St. John's @ Noon vs. St. John's @Noon (Doubleheader) The first 160 fans wiH receive a Notre Dame beach towel sponsored by  

First 200 fans receive FREE Freshman & Sophomore trading cards 

Thursday, Aprill3 
vs. Depaul @4& 6pm 

Wednesday, Aprill2, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
tion. Members said they noticed two members of other teams from their bracket at the game. 
"We know that [rival teams] have been scouting us," Girts said. 
Four Girls Who Have Never Touched a Basketball and One Guy Who Probably Shouldn't def. Team 50, forfeit 
Four Girls Who Have Never Touched a Basketball and One Guy Who Probably Shouldn't and Team 50 bat­tled Tuesday in a hotly-con­tested game, with Team 50 seemingly coming away with a 21-17 win. 
But Four Girls was awarded the victory by forfeit after Bookstore officials discovered that a Team 50 member has competed for multiple teams in the tournament, 40 min­utes into the game 
Even though the final score had Team 50 on top, the team was punished with a loss and an early Bookstore exit. 
Four Girls had no pity on them. 
"That was absolutely fool­ish," Four Girls guard Matt Bara said of the illegal roster move. 
Four Girls guard "Birthday Boy" Jimmy Wilson added that he was not impressed with Team SO's style of play. 
"They played like a bunch of nancies," he said. 
Spectators were confused that Four Girls was an all­male squad. 
The 1997 All-European Team 21, The Tournament Is Named After Us, So We Have To Have A Team 15 
The 1997 All-European Team beat The Tournament is Named After Us, So We Have to Have A Team 21-15 in an hour-long game played in dreary condi­tions. 
Both teams watched numer­ous shots sail off-target in the breeze. Unable to hit jump shots with any regularity, the ·squads adjusted their game plans and utilized their post players ­which gave a significant advan­tage to the taller Europeans. 
The Bookstore team also suf­fered an injury to one of their players midway through the second half. 
"They played a lot more phys­ical than we did, they controlled the boards," the Bookstore team said in a joint statement after the game. "They played at a tempo that they were comfort­able with." 
The European team said they planned to stay true to their roots and party like they do at home. 
"This was a good win," they said. "We're going to go out for some gyros, maybe some crepes, to celebrate in real European style." 
Justice League of Notre Dame 24, We Were Picked Last in Grade School 22 
In a marathon contest that lasted over an hour and half and ended in overtime, the Justice League of Notre Dame defeated We Were Picked Last in Grade School 24-22. 
Picked Last jumped out to an early 6-1 lead, using good defense and a strong perform-


DELUXB iOOTBA1L FACl(AGi 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Onfy :wo Reservaliom Avaifabfe! 
•2 GAlv1E TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS IAA} O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 r\ICHTS HOTEL RESERVAnONS 

•CROlL\ll) 
TRAVH, TO/~ROM COtiSfUM 


•CATERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
Total Package: $2,650 per reservation 
1:Check or Cashi 

GO IRISH! 


www.womenscarecenter.org 


ance by the team's designated sharpshooter "The Reverend" Kevin Stanley. Justice League closed the gap, but Picked Last 11-8 at half­time. 
"Our 2-3 zone was giving them fits for a while," Picked Last guard Eric Gast said at the half. 
Justice League went on a 3-0 run after the half and evened the score at 11-11. 
The score stayed close throughout a physical second half, which saw plenty of rebounds and steals by both 

teams. But tough post defense on both sides prevented both teams from capitalizing on their scoring opportunities. 
After running the score to 23­22, Justice League was in con­trol of the game despite missing a potential game-winning lay­up that prolonged the action for a few more possessions. But their height advantage eventu­ally proved too much for Picked Last to overcome. 
"It was a tough second half," Gast said after the game. "They made some defensive switches that we had trouble adjusting to, and fatigue set in on both sides at the end. It was one of the best games I've ever seen." 
Justice League's players agreed. 
"Both teams played their hearts out the whole game. The lead switched so many times, it was never a sure thing," Justice League forward Dan Leszkowicz said. "We thought we were going to be out here all week." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu and Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 



WE'VE GOT THE 



TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
tremely Close to Campus 
citing Renovations Inside &Out 
traordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! 
We're giving away anewl>ox 360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 


Office Hours: M-F : 9:00 A~:OO PM Saturday: 10:00 AM-5:00PM Sunday: 1:00 PM-5:00 PM 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
Hoss Brezovsky followed Barnes capped Notre Dame's nine-run home runs," he said. "They just ninth to close out the game for with an RBI groundout to second fourth inning. With two men crushed them." the Irish. 
Blowout 

base to give the Irish a 2-0 lead. aboard and five runs already Irish backup third baseman The Golden Grizzlies avoided continued from page 24 Bransfield then hit the first of his scored in the frame, Bransfield Eddy Mendiola delivered a two­the shutout with a lone run in the 
homers on a 1-0 count against connected on the first pitch from run single in the fifth to put Notre eighth inning. es. The Golden Grizzlies commit­Oakland starter Golden Dame ahead 15-0. Notre Dame ted eight errors, including two in Kevin Hale. Notre Grizzlies Korpi struck out faces Division-III the first inning alone. Dame catcher reliever Brian eight and walked Manchester
"You kind oftake away "Korpi pitched with a
Notre Dame third baseman Sean Gaston sent Bernatowicz to only one in his five today at 5:05 at Jeremy Barnes began the scoring Hale's next pitch some ofthe hope some give Notre innings of work. lot ofconfidence. He's Frank Eck for the Irish by knocking in lirst over the fence in ofthe teams come in Dame a 12-0 "Korpi pitched just starting to pull it Stadium. Irish baseman Craig Cooper, who led right center to here having [with big advantage. with a lot of confi­all together. , freshman right­off the game with a double. give the Irish a After Sean dence," Bransfield hander David
innings].,

Oakland shortstop Ryan Heath quick 4-0 lead. Gaston said. "lie's just Phelps will likely misplayed Barnes' hard-hit "You kind of grounded out, starting to put it all Matt Bransfield start for the ground ball, and Golden Grizzlies take away some of Matt Bransfield Irish center together." Irish outfielder Irish. 
· ldt fielder Tim Doig committed the hope some of fielder Alex Irish southpaw Phelps is 1-0
Irish outfielder 

an error backing up Heath to the teams come in Nettey hit a Sam Elam relieved with an 8. 78 allow Barnes to advance to third to our ballpark homer off Korpi after five innings and ERA in seven appearances (two base on the play. having fwith big innings)." Bernatowicz down the left field struck out five batters in three starts). 
"They struggled defensively," Bransfield said. "It gives our line to extend the lead to 13-0. innings while allowing three hits He has struck out 12 and Bransfield said. "lt was really pitcher some comfort in going Bransfield said Nettey and one run. Korpi improved to 3-1 walked sev1m in 13 1-3 innings. windy and our lield was a little out there and pitching with the Gaston hit their homers harder on the season with the victory. dry, so it was playing rough." lead." than he hit his two. Notre Dame right-hander Joey Contact Ken Fowler atk­
Notre Dame second baseman Bransfield's second homer "They were the only legitimate Williamson pitched a perfect fowler 1 @nd.edu 

Sweep 
continued from page 24 
Kristen Amram said. "Our team couldn't 1-,rive up, we never give up." 
Saint Mary's carried the momentum of' their lirst win into the second game of the double­header. 
Sullivan said Calvin seemed to be fading after losing the lirst game and Amram said the Belles stayed focused. Amram pitched and only allowed one hit in the second game. 
"We tried to keep our mental April 8 at Saint Mary's Field. game up," Amram said. "We tried to stay loud and keep light­ing." Mary's. The Belles went 7-1 -the Michigan Intercollegiate 
Saint Mary's senior Audrey exceeding Sullivan's hope of a Athletic Association (MIAA). Gajor singled in the top of the .500 run. The 21 wins are the highest third giving th1~ Belles a 2-0 lead "We are going to go easy and the Belles have seen since join­and then got another HBI single go over the little things lin the ing the MIAA in 1998. in the top of t.he lifth to secure next few daysl," Sullivan said. Saint Mary's will play Tri-State the 3-0 win. "Take that time to relax and get at home April 17. 
The doubleheader against mentally ready." Calvin was the end to a four-day Saint Mary's record now Contact Deirdre Krasula at run of eight games for Saint stands at 21-7 overall and 7-1 in dkrasula@nd.edu 

we hope to get a victory." Belles eo-captain Kelly McDavitt
Hornets 
compared Kalamazoo to Hope, the only team to beat Saint Mary's so
continued from page 24 
far in MIAA play 

"It's definitely a big match for "Kalamazoo is as good if not bet­us," Belles co-captain Kristen ter than Hope, but we didn't play Palombo said. "Getting a win ov1w as well as we could have against Kalamazoo would give our team Hope," McDavitt said. "Tomorrow so much confi-is going to be one of dence for the rest the biggest matches of our conference "They're a very of the season." matches." The Belles have
aggressive and 

Kalamazoo is rattled off two con­
intimidating

coming off a loss in ference victories its last MIAA game. team." after a 6-3 loss to The Hornets fell Hope. They beat victim to first place both Alma and Tri­
Kristen Palombo

Albion 7-2 last State 8-1. 
Belles senior 

Tuesday. The Palombo said the Britons are cur-Belles have used the rently first in the week off to rest after conference with a 4-0 record. their victory over Tri-State. 
Palumbo said the Belles (9-6 "We took the whole weekend off overall) expect a challenge from which was really nice," Palombo Kalamazoo. said. "We really needed those cou­
"We're definitely expecting ple of days off to let our bodies Wednesday to be a tough match," recover a little bit." Palombo said. "They're a very aggressive and intimidating team, Contact Greg Arbogast at but we can't let that bother us if garbogas@nd.edu 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Major looking tor great pav and atremendous business experience;~ 
... Or asophomore or junior looking to use vour Web design experience to build aresume;~ 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller and Web Administrator. 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
. " . ~
0. 



Wednesday, April12, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 


CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 


lv\ON \l..t..f ~'j'£i'TE.M. CAIZ-.."iOON MON ¥ . .'~-'jS \NII.-1... f"t.OP..\ AC.RoSS 
'fOUR 5C.R'E..€..N ' 12-,E.PRt.'i'>E.NTtN(;! 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BOINS 
I I I (] 
@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

HIWSS 
riJ 
TANNIE 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 
GLUBIN 

j

I I [ ( J 
Prillt ~here: 'I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY Saturday's Answer·. 
How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon -JUST "PEACHY" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

WHEN THE KITCHE:N HELP FELL BEHIND, THE c.HEF WA?--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Jurist's reading 62 Common supplement

1 Mighty bit 36 Unwanted buildup 63 Brings to a
5 Blackguards close37 Sister of Urania9 Caribbean 64 Franco of film
island 39 Ritzy 65 Gusto
14 Collar neighbor 40 Something to slag
15 From the top 41 Somewhat DOWN
16 Humdrum 42 Be bombastic 1 Requirement in
17 Lower 10 a game of43 Emulate Jack
1 B Oven window dealer's choice
Sprat?

material 2 Sun Belt art46 Option at the
19 Like a tumbler colony
launderer's 20 Get away from 3 Fuel grp.
49 _ exchangethe director of 4 Big butte

"lshtar"? 50 "M" star, 1931 5 Totaled
22 Midsized soda 51 Saloon held in bottle trust? 6 20 Questions category
23 Letter from 57 Siamese or Greece Persian 7 Numerical prefix 
24 "No kidding!" 58 _George B Dominion 
9 Mother-of-pearl

25 Top 59 Part of a 
greengrocer? diamond source 
10 Infuriated, and 34 Hammett canine 42 "Horrors!" 51 Flair31 Fowl place 60 Track showing it 

32 Repellent 61 Declare 11 Go from two to 
35 Put an edge on 43 Traveling 52 Set aside 
44 Chair material

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE one 37 Make some 53 Phenom 
54 Ear bender .;,+~:+.:::-+:-! 13 At the ready 38 Root word? 
46 Virgule 
55 "Murder, She -;+.-+-:-+=! 21 Sassy 39 Grand 47 Opera set in Wrote" sheriff Nova Scotia 1800 Rome _Tupper
~::+:+::-r.::-t 24 Big Island port 41 Assaults on 48 Shakespearean 56 Monthly
..,...-=+=+::oioiilloi., 25 For this reason Everest, e.g. sprite money26 Go bad 
27 Highway marker 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 28 Set a price of credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 Do-it­
.:.:+.~+=-1 29 Skirt 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000yourselfer's 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).purchase 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..::J..::..L.;:;..L..;...L:;.J 33 Take it easy solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Meshach Taylor, 59; Joel Grey. 74; Michele Scarabelli, 51; Kelli Gamer, 22 
Happy Birthday: You have more discipline than you give yourself credit for. Stop and think about the possibilities and push yourself to reach the highest point. Travel for discovery or business opportunities appears to be prominent. Your numbers are 5, 16, 19, 23, 32,37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will have to deal with institutions today. Visit a friend who can shed some light on your future situation. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): An older relative is likely to have some problems 
that require your attention. Deal with institutions that can help resolve issues. 5 
stars 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be questioned about something you have been doing. Someone you thought you could count on will let you down. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Ju1y 22): New relationships will develop ifyou get involved in new and exciting activities or hobbies. You will be able to enlighten someone who is facing a problem because ofyour past experiences. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may try to trick you. Don't overreact to family matters but do get to the bottom of things. You can make changes that will affect your professional future. Talk to people who can help. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything will be up in the air and difficult to 
decipher. Don't let what others do infuriate you. Sudden changes regarding a 
partnership can be expected. Don't be afraid to make changes. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An opportunity is looking you in the face. Don't be afraid to find out more about future prospects. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do your own follow up and you will sail through today with ease. So many things are going your way so take the initiative and go after your dreams. You can get others to listen to you today so speak up. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Stay put and don't start anything you can't finish. Exaggeration will not impress the people you are dealing with. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your plans into motion. Everything is turning in your favor and the chance to make headway with a project is now. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the time to jump to conclusions or overreact. Ifyou take a wait-and-see approach you will be in a much better position when the dust settles. Refuse to get upset about emotional matters. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M arch 20): Stick to what you know and do best. Avoid anyone who tries to comer you into making a decision. Give yourself enough time to see -, what will unfold before you commit to anything or anyone. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, progressive and committed to whatever you believe in. You are emotional, sensitive and geared toward helping others. You are always willing to take a risk. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential 
consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, April 12, 2006 
page 24 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's svveeps hotne doubleheader vvith Calvin 
3-0 vidory in the liJllowing game. Calvin (4-3. 7-13 in the MIAA) scored on a two-run error along Saint Mary's right-handerBy DEIRDRE KRASULA "We trust our offense," Saint rnsponded and built upon its lead with catcher Ashley Fusaro. Bridget Grall started on the 
Sports Writer 

Mary's head eoach Erin Sullivan with two runs in the top of the Saint Mary's tied the game in mound but struggled as she bat­said. "We didn't panie and just third on HBI singles by left fielder bottom of the sixth. Belles sopho­tled a cold. Freshman Calli 
Calvin hnld a 5-0 lead in the top took it one hit at a time." Erin Conrad and shortstop Jeane more McKenna Corrigan hit an Davison took over on the mound of the second inning Tuesday, but Trailing by five runs, Saint Cole. HBI single and Katie Hashid in the top of the fourth it was all downhill from thero as Mary's (21-7, 7-1 in the MIAA) The Belles bounced right back, scored a run on an error. "We wanted to back her up and Saint Mary's came from behind to cut the lead to three when third scoring three runs in the bottom Miesle gave the Belles the lead help her out," Belles left lieldcr win 8-7. The Belles went on to baseman Laura Heline hit a two­half of the inning. Shortstop Sara in the bottom of the seventh, sin­wmplete the home sw11ep with a run homer in the second inning. Miesle singled in a run, and then gling to drive in the winning run. see SWEEPIpage 22 
ND SOFTBALL 
Ball game over 

Squad shuts out Ball State at home to earn fourth straight win 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Notrn Dame shortstop Katie Laing's two-run trip!!~ in the bottom of the first inning Tuesday drove in one more run than the team needed. 
Tlw Irish defeated Ball State (1J-17, 1-3 in the MAC) 6-0 at Ivy Field moving their record to 24-12 ( 7-1 in the Big East). The entire team looked sharp out of the gates even though it was playing a non-confernnc1~ opponent. 
"I think after the 14-2 loss to Akron April 51 they realized wlwn thny aren't focused or intensn stuff like that will happen, so we were ready to 
see CARDINALS/page 20 


SMC TENNIS 

Belles prep forMIAA shovvdown 
Saint Mary's to face third-place Hornets at home Wednesday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will attempt to return to its strong early spring form when it hosts Kalamazoo at 
3:30 p.m. Wednesday in a erueial Michigan lntercollegiatfl Athletic Association mateh -its lirst in over a week. 
Saint Mary's and Kalamazoo currently am tied fi1r third place in the conference, entering the match with identical 4-1 confer­ence records. 
see HORNETS/page 22 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Close gaines highlight second round action 
Mendoza Line cruises to third round; Justice leagues wins in OT 
By FRAN TOLAN and 

TIM KAISER 
Sports Writer 
Mendoza Line picked up a 21­8 vietory over Team 308 Tuesday night at the McGlinn courts. After the game, the self­proclaimed "George Mason of the Bookstore tournament" boasted it will continue to advanee regardless of its oppo­nents. 
"We don't even need to know their names," Mendoza player Mike Girts said of future chal­lengers. "Right now, we're just five guys with a dream." 
The relatively easy second round game also allowed the team to truly enjoy its accom­plishment. 
"We're definitely very happy to advance to the round of 256," said Mendoza's Rob Michalak, unanimously chosen as the game's MVP by his team­mates. 
But the team also realized that with its feat comes recogni­
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Irish blast Oakland, 15-1 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediwr 
Notre Dame designated hit­ter Matt Bransfield hit two home runs and Irish left-han­der Wade Korpi threw five shutout innings as Notre 

Dame beat Oakland  15-1  
Tuesday  at  Frank  Eck  
Stadium.  

"The wind was gusting out to left, so I was just trying to put a few into the wind and they ended up leaving the ball yard," Bransfield said of his homers. 
The other story of the game was Oakland's defensive laps-
see BLOWOUT/page 22 


NHl
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
MLB 
MlB 
NBA

en 
1-u LLI 
Philadelphia 4 
N.Y. Mets 7 
Miami 106
San Die§o 9 
Controversial Alabama 
z Oklahoma hired Jeff 
Pittsburgh 3 
Washington 1 
Florida 
Toronto 97 
Capel to replace depart-
football booster Logan

a: !3 
Flyers forward Jeff 
Mets center fielder 

Heat center Shaquille
Padres shortstop
ed coach Kelvin Sampson 
Young was killed in his 
Carter scored the game 
Carlos Beltran hit a two-

O'Neal earned his sec-
Khalil Greene hit two
Memphis home Tuesday. 
Tuesday.

=: 
home rW1S and had four
winning goal with 6:32 
run homer in the ninth 

ond career triple-double 
RBis.
left in the third period. 
inning. 
Tuesday.

A.tc 
en 
page 17
page 17 

page 16
page 18
page 19 
page 19 







