
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University to renovate Joyce Center 
South dome to be renamed Purcell Pavilion after donor 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Notre Dame's basketball arena will get both a new look and a new name, thanks to an upcoming $25 million renova­tion -but a significant num­ber of questions remained unanswered after the University's announcement Thursday. 
The University will renovate the south dome of the Joyce Center and rename it Purcell Pavilion to the Joyce Center in honor of Philip J. Purcell III, a Notre Dame Trustee and lead donor for the project, athletic director Kevin White said. 
____.-· 

However, neither White nor University architect Doug Marsh could name a start date 
for the project, since University guidelines require 100 percent of construction costs to be con­firmed and 75 percent cash in hand before the University breaks ground. 
Currently, the University has more than $22 million of the $24.7 million dollar project confirmed -$12.5 million from Purcell, and approxi­mately $10 million more from "a handful" of donors, White said. 
Marsh did say once construc­tion begins, the project should take somewhere over a year. 
The project will be the first major renovation of the 38­year-old basketball arena. The last significant addition to the Joyce Center was the 1985 
see JACC/page 6 

-·-­

===============~~======= =================================================·==-~-~-=-==================== 

College breaks ground on academic building 
New facility boasts updated technology 
By JENNIFER METZ News Writer 
Saint Mary's broke ground on a new, state-of-the-art academic building Thursday afternoon. The building, part of the College's renovation and construction plan, will make new technology accessi­ble to students and faculty. 
The ceremony took place at the corner of Brother Andre Drive and Madeleva Drive. Parents, alumnae and friends were in attendanee to cele­brate what the Saint Mary's website called an "exciting 
see BUILDING/page 6 



Construction could create traffic ja1ns 
By LAURA 
BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Commuters to the Saint Mary's College campus may want to allow for extra trav­el time in upcoming months. 
That's because Brother Andre Drive at the College will be clogged with heavy eonstruction equipment for the remainder of the year as sewer lines are installed by the city of South Bend and a new academic building and hotel are built on the south­ern side of campus. 
see TRAFFIC/page 6 

.., 
NDSMCOBSERVERCOM 


Trustees 
explore 
Facebook 
Student government fields questions 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The Student Affairs Committee 
of the Board of Trustees received 
a lesson on Facebook.com 
Thursday when a six-person stu­
dent panel explained the purpose 
and prevalence of the popular 
soeial networking Web site. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell, student body vice presi­dent Bill Andrichik, chief execu­tive assistant Liz Brown, senior Sheldon Dutes, sophomore Glen Water and freshman Kate McClelland sat in a row before the Student Affairs committee for 20 minutes, answering questions about digital student communica­tion. Trustees selected the topic fm· the meeting, which was the first of three scheduled for this school year. 
Before the question and answer session, Kathy Brannock, assistant director in the Office of Hesidence Life and I lousing, gave a brief overview of the Facebook Web site using a PowerPoint presentation. 
One Board member said he was "shivering," after viewing a very detailed_ profile during Brannock's presentation. The Observer has a policy of not attributing information or quotes to spedfie members of the Board. 
Using verbs like "friend," "tag" and "poke," Board members quickly mastered Faeebook lingo and posed questions about how -and why -students use the site, which has more than 7.5 million users in the United States. 
see FACEBOOK/page 4 


Saint Mary's Board returns for meetings 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
While Saint Mary's eampus was abuzz with anticipation of the groundbreaking of the new aca­demic building, approximately 30 Trustees joined in the excitement as they flooded campus for their quarterly meeting. 
Thursday's groundbreaking cer­emonies purposely coincided V\-ith the two-day meeting of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said. 
"The Board's meetings began Thursday in rooms throughout campus and will once again remain closed to the public [with] the agenda not made public," Dam peer said. 
Although the meetings remain extremely private, the Chair of the Board will issue a report to the community about a week or two after the meeting, Dampeer said. 
The Trustees partook in commit­tee meetings throughout the day Thursday and will hold their for­mal meeting today at the Student Lounge in the Student Center. 
The Board elected seven and appointed three Trustees to serve for thn~e years during their April 2006 meeting, all of whom will be present at Friday's meeting. 
see TRUSTEES/page 6 


Scholar reviews genocide studies 
Scott Straus examines the nature, evolution of complex subject 
BySONIARAO News Writer 

The study of genocide has bPen in constant flux, from the term's definition to research approaches, Scott Straus, a polit­ical science professor at the University of Wisconsin, said in a lecture at the Hesburgh Center on Thursday. 
"[It's a] beautiful day and a ter­rible topic." he said, referring to the contrast between the weath­er oul<;ide and the thorny theme ofhis lecture. 
Straus analyzed the develop­ments in the field of genocide 
see GENOCIDE/page 8 

• I . •• • ' • • 
page 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

A happy medium 
During the meetings of intellectuals, whenever the topic of television comes up, one earnest, erudite, bright-eyHd scholar never fails to quickly dismiss the su~jeet with "There's nothing good on television," almost 
Chris Wilson 
immediately fol­
lowed by the proud 
declaration of "I 

Sports Writer 
haven't watched television in forev­er." The logical inconsistencies in those two statement<> are enough to make even the most casual philosophy student scratch his head in confusion. 
If you flick through the channels at any time during the day, you will obviously find some terrible programming. But is that so different from the multitude of irredeemable movies or poorly-written books released each year? Those that look down on television love to compare garish reality programming to the best of literature, ftlm, art and music, which seems rather unfair. All mediums have their masterpieces, just as all mediums have their flops. 
I don't mean to debase literature or film, as we all know the sensational feel­ing one achieves when finishing up the la..-;t few pages of a great book or the sense of wonder permeating a packed theater when the opening credits roll for a highly-anticipated movie. I simply wish more well-educated students would open their mind to the merits of television. 
In Robert Putnam's book "Bowling Alone," Putnam argues that mass media is somehow driving our culture apart, when that position couldn't be further from the truth. How often do you watch a television show you truly enjoy alone? In thn time before "Grey's Anatomy" quad watches, 'The O.C." crowded 24­hour lounges every Thursday night. I can only hope everyone has experienced the joy of sitting around with a group of doso friends and watching "Arrested Development." 
In my time here, DVD epidemics of "Lost," I louse," "Entourage," "Gilmore Girls," "Sex and the City," "Friends," "Dawson's Creek" and "24" have infect­ed both male and female dorms. You don't watch those shows just because they're more addictive than most illegal drugs -you watch them because you love to both experience and discuss them with friends, enjoying the marathon vis­its to Stars Hollow, Sunnydale or Scranton together. 
I could write thesis papers on the vari­ous virtues of "Veronica Mars" or how "The Office" defines art in its truest form, but my favorite shows aren't important to the concept that television at its highest level can be as successful as other forms of "high art" in represent­ing the human experience. Read Steinbeck, watch Scorsese, listen to Springsteen and visit the Snite, but please don't dismiss television as some form of lower art form just because it's conveniently beamed directly into your dorm room. 
Next time the prudish person in your seminar disregards the merits of 1V when you stunningly manage to tie the French Revolution to the episode of "Entourage" where Ari attempts the agency coup, don't get angry with them. Smile, lend them sea..o;on two on DVD and just hug it out. 
Contact Chris Wilson at cwilson8@nd. edu 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives tor the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, pl~a~e con tact us at 6.31-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
• • -' • ' • • ~ • • 1. 
Friday, October 6, 2006
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT NON-ACADEMIC SUBJECT DO YOU WISH YOU COULD MAJOR IN? 






Gracie Guebert Jenny Hoffman Sarah King Haley Nickell Chelsea Schildgen Sharyl Zamowski 
senior freshman sophomore junior freshman senior LeMans farley Le Mans LeMans Le Mans Holy Cross 
"'Traveling.·· "'Watching "Hugging. •• "Rocking out to "'Laying on the "Wedding 'Grey·s Hanson! .. beach reading a crashing. •• 
,,

Anatomy. ... magazine. 


Man apologizes for spreading feces at court 
DULUTH, Minn. -A Chicago man apologized for spreading his feces around a courtroom during his trial on drug charges. 
Vandale Amos Willis, 28, apologized Wednesday before being sentenced to more than 10 years in prison. Willis was convicted earlier of importation of a controlled substance, cocaine and two other charges. 
''I'm going to take full responsibility for everything I did in Duluth," Willis told the court. "I want to apologize for everything I did in court. I'm sorry, your honor." 
TODAY 0:: 


porters needed by October 10 to run in the national elections, the party's secre­tary Norbert de Jonge told Reuters. 
The party was launched in May and its campaign for a cut in the age of consent from 16 to 12, and the legal­ization of child pornography and sex with animals has provoked widespread out­rage within and outside the Netherlands. 
The party managed to attract over 100 sympathiz­ers on its Web site although several withdrew their sup­port. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
He asked Judge David Sullivan to put him on proba­tion. Sullivan told Willis his actions wouldn't be held against him, but there was no reason to depart from sentencing guidelines. 
Dutch pedophile party lacks support for vote bid 
AMSTERDAM-A politi­cal party formed by Dutch pedophiles is unlikely to gather sufficient support to run in general elections next month. 
The Brotherly Love, Freedom and Diversity party (PNVD) probably will not succeed in gathering the 570 signatures from sup-
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
Ll.l
:r:: 
~ 
Ll.l 
3: 
_,J 
<t 
C.J 






0

.... HIGH 67 HIGH HIGH 80 LOW 45 LOW LOW 50 
68 40 

75 58 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
Justice Diarmuid O'Scannlain of the United States Court of Appeals for the 9th circuit will present a lecture entitled "The Federal Judiciary Today" at noon today in the courtroom of the Notre Dame Law School. This event is open to the public. 
The Marching Band will perform its traditional step­off at 4:30 today, marching from the front of the Main Building to tho Joyce Center parking lot. 
The limited general public ticket distribution for tonight's pep rally will be held at the Stadium Ticket Office on the east side of Notre Dame Stadium at 5 p.m. 
Tonight's pep rally will be held at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Students may 
enter  from  5:15  to  5:45  
through gate 8.  
On Sunday at 4  p.m. the  

film "The Wild Bunch" will be shown in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets for the 1969 film, directed by Sam Peckinpah, are $3 for students and $6 for the general public. 
The concert "Fleur de Lys: Two Flutes in Paris" will be performed at 2:30 p.m. and 
7:30 p.m. Sunday in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Admission is $5 for students and $13 for the general pub­lic. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

60 63 43 45 


Atlanta 78/63 Boston 57 I 47 Chicago 62 I 41 Denver 83 I 51 Houston 90 I 70 Los Angeles 69156 Minneapolis 70143 New York 63 I 49 Philadelphia 59 I 48 Phoenix 90 I 75 Seattle 59 I 47 St. Louis 71 I 48 Tampa 90 172 Washington 58 1 52 
• 
Friday, October 6, 2006 page 3 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Fonda lectures on life, poverty 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
In between lengthy personal anecdotes, actress, writer, activist and workout video star Jane Fonda spoke about poverty and women Thursday night in DeBartolo auditori­um. 
While her lecture was titled "The Feminization of Poverty," her speech was focused more on child psy­chology processes and her own family experiences. The visit was sponsored by the Mendoza College of Business Microventuring Program, which gives students the skills and opportunities to help peo­ple in extreme poverty in sev­eral poor nations form small businesses, said Gigot Center director Jim Davis. 
Fonda started by talking about her excitement for the Microventuring Program ­which includes internships that send students to coun­tries like Haiti and Mexico ­and hoping for its success. 
"I've been to these coun­tries ... I have seen firsthand how communities change when girls are educated and microloans are made to the poorest of the poor which are women and how it transforms the family, the community and hopefully ... the world," she said. "There's never been a course like this anywhere." 
Fonda praised the fact that students in the program also put these tools to use and 
actually go out and secure 
loans and other benefits for 
the impoverished. 
Delving into the hefty per­sonal portion of her address, Fonda then talked about the impact of her father's death on her life. 
"This experience was a very important one for me ... I learned that I wasn't afraid of dying," she said. "I realized that what I am afraid of instead of death is that I am afraid of getting to the end of life with regrets where I couldn't do anything about it. 
"I knew he had regrets and that he couldn't do anything about it and I felt bad for him." 
Her crumbling marriage to multi-billionaire Ted Turner, Fonda said, brought new­found independence and self­discovery. 
"I began to feel myself changing ... but I knew that I made the right decision," she said. "I was becoming who I used to be when I was when I was a little girl." 
If she had experienced hardships even with her good fortune, Fonda said, then women struggling in coun­tries where they have no legal or social status must be far worse. 
"llow do they make it?" she said. 
The stress of needing to be perfect hit Fonda as a little girl, and she emphasized the problem of overbearing par­ents. 
"The child feels it must be 
their fault and they have to 
be perfect," she said. "It 
doesn't really go away when 
you grow up ... it continues 
on into your relationships." 
Pursuing perfection is impossible, Fonda said. More than that, it's counterproduc­tive to healthy living. 
"We are not meant to be 
perfect, we're mortals, God is 
meant to be perfect," she 
said. "We are meant to 
become complete." 
Fonda complained that cul­tural demands on girls to be perfect are latent until they reach puberty, when a psy­chological "empty space" forms. She said girls fill that space with food, drug or shopping addictions. 
Boys have an even worse situation, Fonda said, because pressure hits them as soon as they start school. 
"To be a real man, you can't be a sissy, you can't cry," she said. "Teach our boys not to have this bifurcation between head and heart, it's OK to be emotionally illiterate... 
"We have to teach our boys to integrate head and heart, we have to understand girls are the agents of change," she continued. "We don't have our masculinity to prove, that gives us a great advantage." 
Fonda sits on the feminist V-Council and is a member of the Women's Foreign Policy Advisory Committee. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


Football lottery, health insurance top priorities 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
University health insurance coverage and graduate student access to football ticket lotteries for away games were the pri­mary issues discussed in the Graduate Student Union's (GSU) meeting Thursday. 
GSU president Michael Lundin and co-vice presidents Amber Handy and Tim Schoenharl came to yesterday's meeting after presenting graduate stu­dents' concerns to Notre Dame's Board of Trustees earlier in the day. 
"Health insurance is the largest outlay [for] graduate stu­dents in terms of things we have to pay for," Schoenharl said, referring to issues discussed with the Trustees. 

"For the last three years, [Notre Dame] has given us a stipend to defray the costs [of health insurance], but that stipend program runs out this year," he said, citing the high cost of adding family members and dependents to the health insurance policy. "What we would like is for the University to cover all of the health care costs." 
Lundin said the Trustees would discuss health insurance in the spring and are aware of "the need to be more competitive with other universities." 
Also on the agenda was the continuing controversy sur­rounding the recent decision by the Student Union Board (SUB) to exclude graduate students from ticket lotteries for away football games. 
"Historically, the SUB has always allowed graduate stu­dents to participate in the lot­tery," Schoenharl said. "What we hope ... is that graduate students will be able to participate in the USC lottery, and if we go to a bowl game." 
Paul Schramm, a graduate stu­dent who had contacted SUB on the issue, spoke about the dis­agreement. 
"The SUB is very much aware of how the GSU feels," Schramm said. "For the foreseeable future, graduate students will not be allowed to participate [in the lot­teries]." 
Several participants comment­ed on the widely held impression that graduate students fail to share undergraduates' enthusi­asm toward Notre Dame's foot­ball program. 
"There is absolutely graduate student interest in participating in these events," Schoenharl said. 
The next meeting of the Graduate Student Union will be held Nov. 2. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 


"1he Bone Collector" 
Susan Sheridan 
Associate ]Jrofessor ofAnthropology 
ll:00 a.m. Saturday, October 7 Annen berg .~..L\.uditoriutn Snite Museun1 ofArt 
Gain insight into the lives ofancient populations of the tvtiddle East-how they lived, what they ate, from what diseases they suffered, how they died-through an examination of their bones. Sheridan, who specializes in forensic and cultural anthropology, analyzes ancient bones and pieces together biological clues to better understand the lives of those popularions. 
Fall 2006 Schedule 

Experience an intimate disc-ussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/9-Penn State "More 1l1an a Movie? Ao;sessing TheDa Virzd Code'' (101 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Television.. and 1heatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor of Theology Charles Barber, Associate Professor of.Art, Art Hi.rtory, and Design 
~ 9/16-Michigan ''1he Impact ofrhe Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheouJgy 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Pmfessor ofPsychology 
~ 10/7-Stanford "l11c Bone Collector'' Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ofAnthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: The 14th Amendment" ~ Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reeves Dreux Professor ofPolitical Science 
~ 11/4-North Carolina «'Ihe Role ofReligion in Peacebuilding" 
R. Scott Appleby, Pr~fessor ~fHistory, john Af. Regan Jr. 
Director ofthe joan B. Kroc Institutefor International Peace Studies John Paul Lederach, Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar, AHist,mt Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
~ 11118-Army ''Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance Georgine Resick, Professor ofA1uJif John Blacklow, Assistant Professor ~fA1usic 
3-li2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snire Museum ofArr (unless otherw-ise noted). For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 



UNIVERSI1'1Y OF 




NOTRE DAME 

___________________________________________________________________________. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

ti:-iends are merely acquaintances, if that. 
At Shappell's urging, Dutes admitted he has roughly 900 Facebook friends, and after being pressed by a Board member, he said he rejects friend requests from people he has never met. 
"Usually [it's] people from other schools ... If I don't know them or haven't met them, I reject lthe request)," Dutes said. 
Facebook, the students said, is both a way to keep in touch with high school friends and a means to establish one's individuality. 
"But if it went away, would that be a great loss? Second, what's next? Where does it go from here?'' one Trustee said. 
Brown answered that it would be "really bad" if Facebook disap­peared, since it is a way to keep in touch with high school acquaintances she might have otherwise lost contact with. 
But perhaps Facebook's capaci­ty to connect high school friends takes away from "landing and really getting into college," one Trustee said. 
McClelland said that was not true in her case, noting that Facebook made the college adjustment easier by keeping Notre Dame friends easily acces­sible before she came to college as well as keeping high school friends close once she arrived. 
"I think it improves your Notre Dame relationships as well as your high school relationships," McClelland said. 
But privacy issues are certainly a concern, Shappell said, noting that most students only allow their profile to be seen by their Facebook friends, and no one else. 
"We joke that Facebook is a stalker's dream," Shappell said. "But it really is." 
Safety concerns aside, Trustees also expressed concern about the quality of communication between young people. 
A Student Affairs representative brought up the absence of "verbal cues" in students' communication and another spoke about infor­mation that is "left out" when stu­dents use text messaging and phone calls instead of letters. 
Though some students admit­ted that instant messaging and text messaging can keep identi­ties hidden, no student expressed resentment of that fact. 
At the end of the discussion, one trustee warned the students that virtually any digital commu­nication is "within the purview of the courtroom" and subject to discovery. 
"All of this is captured and no longer private," the Trustee said. 
The Student Affairs committee is made up largely of younger Trustees and Trustees who hold positions at institutions of higher learning -making them an ideal group for a discussion like this, Shappell said after the meeting. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Take a Break! 
'"It is no unusual thing f(>l-a businessrn:Jn to say casually, 'Well, let's go and get a cup of' coFf(c:e: as a visitor in his office is rnHking n~ady to depart. It is a litt-:le thing pet-haps. this drinking of' cofl-C:x~ at c.>dd tirnes. but it is very charactet·istic: of'the city itself:'' -Lyle Saxon 
Fhbulous Nc:vv (_>rlt:':!Nn,.,~ ·19~~8 



Facebook 
continued from page 1 
"What I found interesting is that you talk about the Facebook world and the real world . . . you say in real life you have 20 friends and in your Facebook world you have 500," said one Trustee. "What does Facebook provide that your real friends don't provide? What need does it fulfill?" 
The concept of a Faeebook 

"friend" continued to perplex some Board members, who strug­gled to understand the motivation for having so many. 
Andrichik darified the meaning of "friend" on Facebook, explain­ing that the word is "too strong of a term," since most Facebook 


N®RTH 

FOOD COURT 

RECIPES NEEDED! 
c:::orner of'Jef'f-erson t:;.. MichiSc.ul [)ovvntovvn South Bend Mon--rhurs 6::~o~un-f>prn • Fri fi:30~nH-8prn Sat 8mn-10prn (Live Music 7--10prn)-Sun 8nrn--uprn 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
Interested in Law? 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2007, SPRING 2008, A Y 2007-8 University College Dublin Trinity College 

Atte11d tlte 2006 ND Law Fair

INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director 
October 9, 2006 

Keough Naughton-ND Center, Dublin 
McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 

Friday, October 6, 2006 
·''''"''''''''''''''''"''''"''''''''''"',.,,.,,.,_,._-..;-~...........,..,_,.,...."'.'''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' 

3:30 pm 129 DeBartolo 
Representatives from over 65 law schools will be available in an informal setting to 

Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15,2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, 
answer questions and provide information 

AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 
to students about their law schools. 

Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------· 

Friday, October 6, 2006 Co~v\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Georgians vote as crisis continues 
TBILISI, Georgia -Georgians voted Thursday in municipal elections that could serve as a bellwether for President Mikhail Saakashvili's pro-Western policies amid a deepening diplomatic crisis with Russia. 
The U.S.-educated Saakashvili faces an electorate increasingly disenchanted and impatient with the slow pace of economic reforms nearly three years after the Hose Revolution protests propelled him to power. 
Georgia's recent arrest of four Russian military officers on espionage charges also has sent relations with Moscow plummet­ing. 
However, bread-and-butter issues such as the rising cost of living and persistent cor­ruption may ultimately determine how much support Saakashvili has in his drive to modernize the country and integrate with the West. 
NATO takes over Afghan security 
KABUL, Afghanistan -NATO extended its security mission Thursday to all of Afghanistan nearly five years after the West began its war to defeat the Taliban, taking command of 12,000 U.S. troops in the war­battered country's east. 
The handover diminishes the Pentagon's role in Afghanistan and gives the Europe­based military alliance its biggest test yet. 
The transfer of command "illustrates the enduring commitment of NATO and its inter­national partners to the future of this great country," said British Gen. David Richards. He was promoted to the military's top rank hours before a handover ceremony at the NATO compound in Kabul attended by President Hamid Karzai and U.S. Lt. Gen. Karl Eikenberry. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Subpoenas issued in Foley scandal 
WASHINGTON -The House ethics commit­tee approved nearly four dozen subpoenas Thursday as its investigation of a page sex scandal sprang to life with a promise by its leaders to go "wherever the evidence leads us." 
Speaker Dennis Hastert said he accepted responsibility for any earlier failures to investigate complaints of inappropriate behavior by Rep. Mark Foley toward teenage male pages. But he resisted pressure to step down. · 
"Ultimately ... the buck stops here," the Republican speaker said, borrowing the famous phrase of a Democratic president, Harry Truman. 
Judge dismisses Karr's porn charges 
SANTA HOSA, Calif. -The former suspect in the JonBenet Ramsey killing left jail Thursday after a judge dismissed child pornography charges against him, saying prosecutors didn't have enough evidence to take the case to trial. 
John Mark Karr, who was not in court for the hearing, was ordered released immedi­ately by Sonoma County Superior Court Judge Rene Chouteau, ending his two-month odyssey in the U.S. criminal justice system after he was extradited from Thailand on suspicion of killing the 6-year-old beauty queen. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teacher faces 23 criminal counts 
SCOTTSBUHG, Ind. -A high school teacher engaged in sexual misconduct with a girl who attended a church where he was a youth minister, state police said Wednesday. 
John A Watts, 27, is a teacher at Southwestern High School in Hanover and was a volunteer coach of the girl's track team at Scott County's Austin High School, where the girl was a student. 
The girl was 14 and 15 years old when the encounters occurred between 2002 and 2004 in various locations in Scott County, police said. 
FBI searches for contamination 
Agents look for negligence at spinach companies; producers could be held liable 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -In 
opening a criminal investi­
gation into two produce 
companies involved in the 
contaminated spinach out­
break, federal agents are 
following a script first writ­
ten a decade ago to hold 
companies responsible for 
mass food poisoning. 
In 1996, authorities secured the first criminal conviction in a food poison­ing case when juice-maker Odwalla Inc. was heavily fined for tainted apple juice that killed a baby. That was followed by a case against Sara Lee Corp. five years later, which led to a fine for tainted hot dogs and lunch meats that killed 15 people. 
Federal officials do not think anyone deliberately contaminated the spinach with E. coli, which has killed two and sickened at least 190 others. Instead, the probe is focused on whether the companies took appropriate steps to make sure their products were safe to eat. 
FBI and Food and Drug Administration agents spent 11 hours Wednesday searching Natural Selection Foods LLC and Growers Express, sifting through records for evi­dence indicating the spinach producers skirted proper food-handling pro­cedures. 
"We are looking more toward the food-safety issue at this point," FBI spokesman Joseph Schadler said Thursday, adding that the investiga­tion was in its early stages and may or may not lead to criminal charges. It could afso spread to other spinach producers, he said. 
Also Thursday, health officials in Idaho confirmed that the death of a 2-year­old boy was caused by tainted spinach. Test results showed that Kyle Allgood was infected with the same E. coli strain that killed an elderly Wisconsin woman. 
Legal experts say the companies do not need to ~ave known that their products were contaminat­ed to be convicted of crimi­nal charges, only negligent in their duties to keep tainted foods from the market. 

Lawyers involved in pre­vious food-poisoning cases said the government will likely try to charge the companies under the 1938 Federal Food Drug and Cosmetics Act, which makes it a crime to sell or distribute "adulterated" products -any item deemed unsafe for human or animal consumption. 
Distributing contaminat­ed food through interstate commerce is usually a mis­demeanor, but it can rise to a felony if authorities find evidence that company officials knowingly took action to compromise the safety of the food supply. Penalties can include jail time. 
That would be hard to prove in this case, said Fred Pritzker, a food safety lawyer in Minneapolis who represents several victims in the recent spinach scare. 
The federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act is unusu­al because simply allowing contaminated foods into interstate commerce could result in criminal charges, even if there was no intent to violate the law, said Eric Greenberg, a food safety lawyer. 
"The result of prosecu­tion under this statute is that you can be considered a criminal, and you may even go to jail, and it may simply be because you made a mistake, or one of your employees made a mistake," he said. 
Tests on spinach recalled from grocers point to nine spinach farms that sup­plied produce to Natural Selection, one of the nation's largest distributors of bagged salads. The com­pany issued a statement Wednesday saying it was confident in the cleanliness of its plant and pointing the finger at growers. A spokeswoman said it had no further comment Thursday. 
Growers Express oper­ates a food-safety program in which small-scale farm­ers pay the company to provide health and safety inspections and maintain databases of audit reports. The company turned over those audit reports to the FDA and FBI on Wednesday. 
IRAQ 
. 

Rice tells leaders time is limited 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice warned !raqi leaders on Thursday they have limited time to settle their differences and that the escalating waves of violence are intol­erable. 
On a visit five weeks before congres­sional elections in the U.S., Rice also insisted the Bush administration has been honest with Americans about the costs and stakes in Iraq. 
Administration officials recently have found themselves defending their con­duct of the war, and Rice's remarks reflected the political toll for the White House from an unpopular conflict. 
"This is really hard going," Rice told reporters during her stop in the Iraqi capital. "Not only do I believe that the president has been clear with the American people that this is a struggle, he's been clear with the American peo­ple why he thinks it's a struggle that needs to he waged." 
After meetings in the Mideast with Arab and Israeli leaders, the top U.S. 
diplomat came to Iraq to tell sometimes squabbling leaders they have a short window to resolve disputes that she said are spurring sectarian and insur­gent \iolence. 
While killings among Iraqis have not abated, American casualties also have spiked recently. 
Car bombs killed four people and wounded 28 in Baghdad on Thursday. At least 23 U.S. soldiers have died since Saturday; most were in Baghdad amid a massive security sweep by U.S. and Iraqi forces. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Building 
continued from page I 
moment." 
The Board of Trustees and other guests were present at the ceremony, which was fol­lowed by a reception at the groundbreaking site. 
The facility will contain more laboratory space and partake in environmentally sustainable practices and materials. Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney said the "updated technology ... [will] accommodate a vari­ety of learning and teaching styles." 
The College has been busy with renovation to including construction of a student cen­ter, dining hall, welcome cen­ter, clubhouse and apartment­style housing. 
More than 600 donors ­including faculty, staff, alum­nae, parents, students and friends of the College· -are funding the new academic building. The funds have already exceeded the goal of $16.5 million to cover con­struction costs and operating endowment. Even more funds are secured in gifts and pledges, and 75 percent of the necessary amount is cash-in­hand. 
"This is going to be a won­derful building that fulfills our dream of having a world­class academic facility," Mooney said. 
Philadelphia-based Ballinger Architects and Architecture Design Group of South Bend have collaborated on the design of the 65,000 square foot building. 
Besides laboratories, the building will "include both formal and informal social space for faculty-student interaction," Mooney said. 
"The new facility will be an excellent addition to the Saint Mary's campus," sophomore Maureen McQuade said. "It will be used to the great advantage of faculty, staff and students to advance the mis­sion of [the College]." 
The College mission reads, "The College is an academic community where women develop their talents and pre­pare to make a difference in the world." 
Saint Mary's, which enrolls 1,500 students, is home to six nationally accredited academ­ic programs, a large amount for a school its size. These programs are: social work, music, art, chemistry, nursing and teacher education. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Traffic 
continued from page I 

College spokeswQman Melanie McDonald said traffic will be affected by the conges­tion the various projects will create, but none of the roads on campus are expected to close. 
The first of the three con­struction projects on campus was begun by the South Bend waste water department. This venture is part of a long-term plan to reduce combination sewer overflows in compliance with federal and state regula­tions that were issued to decrease the amount of raw sewage entering local rivers and streams during periods of heavy rainfall, according to the department Web site. 
McDonald said this project ­as well as the installation of a new storm sewer -is expect­ed to be completed by January. 
The second project to reach completion -and the last of the three current construction jobs to be started -will be the Hilton Hotel and conference center. According to McDonald, the Inn at Saint Mary's should expect its new on-campus com­petition to open for business late next summer. 
The final· contribution to the potential traflic flow problems was marked by the ground­breaking ceremony for the new academic building yesterday. Mconald said she expects the final touches on 'the new build­ing -which requires the largest time commitment of the three ventures -to be com­pleted over a year from now. 

"Faculty and staff, except for those working in the education and math departments, will move into the new academic building in the summer of 2008," she said. 
Once these three current 
projects are finished-and offices have been transferred to the new academic building, McDonald said the College will consider initiating restoration of Madeleva Hall, the former center for learning. 
"If the Board of Trustees approves, renovation of Madeleva Hall will begin that fall," she said. "The College will begin working on a reno­vation design for [the building] this summer." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

JACC 
continued from page I 
construction of the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
"Purcell Pavilion will ... have a huge impact on countless univer­sity and community events, as well, as there's just an inordinate number of events that take place in this facility," White said. 
The construction will renovate both the interior and exterior of the south side of the Joyce Center, benefiting both the bas­ketball and volleyball programs, When questions about renova­tions for other facilities ­specifically, plans to redo the hockey arena -arose at Thursday's press conference, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said the University won't make concrete plans until funding is secured. 
"I would say that all of those [projects] are always pending funding, and what we've learned in the past is it's better to stay at the conceptual level," Affleck­Graves said. "Because if it takes two or three years, things change so much and you change design, and it's actually not worth spending the money doing detailed design for a project that may not occur for three or four years. Because usually when you get to do it things have changed, and you have to redo it all." 


Purcell Pavilion will replace the 5,500 bleacher seats in the upper bowl of the south dome with blue chair-back seats. That change will reduce the maxi­mum arena capacity from 11,418 to approximately 9,800. 
Purcell Pavilion will also fea­ture an exterior extension of the south entrance. Marsh said the dome will feature a "dramatic entrance" and lobby between Gates 8 and 10, and a 60,000 square-foot addition therein. 

The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 52318 NTally Ho Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 Concert Announcement Ustad Shahid Parvez (Sitar) accompanied by Ramd~s Palsule (Tabla) 
October 8, 2006, Sunday, 7.30PM llstad Shahid Parvez is widely recognized as one of the best sitar players of his generation and is a favorite concert artist both in India and abroad. He belongs to the great musical family representing the Imdadkhani Gharana and trained with Ustad Aziz Khan, his father, and the renowned sitar maestro, Ustad Vilayat Khan. For more information see: 
www. musicalnirvana.com/hindustani!shahid_parvez.html. 
All concerts at: the Hesburgh Center for International and Peace Studies Auditoriwn 
Tickets available at gate. General Admission: $10, AICMS Members and ND/SMC faculty: $5, Students: FREE 
For further information, contact: Vidula Agte (277-2250), Amitava Dutt (273092R) or Umesh Garg (2722957) 
That addition will include a 4,500 square-foot ticket office and 3,000 square-foot retail store. 
Within that extension will be a "stadium club" venue with access to the arena. The club will be "a place to congregate for basketball clubs or other kinds of groups to enjoy pre-game activities, post-game activities or other times of the day," Marsh said. 
Marsh said the exterior con­struction likely will take 12 months or more, while the inte­rior changes can be completed in "substantially" less time. 
White compared the club seat­ing to the fifth floor of the press box in Notre Dame Stadium, the private university level. He said Purcell Pavilion will also feature an increased number of women's restrooms, improved concession stands and more handicapped­accessible seating to comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act. 
The "conceptual" renderings by HNTB architectural firm also included a new, hanging score­board inside the arena. But White and Marsh said the draw­ings were only preliminary and primarily for fundraising pur­poses. 
Named after former Executive Vice. President Father Edmund Joyce, the Joyce Center was ded­icated in 1968. The initial con­struction cost $6.8 million. 
"This facility is a tribute to Father Joyce," Affleck-Graves said. "After 40 years, however, it needs a little facelift. And that's what we're about." 
Despite the lack of timeframe for other renovations of other teams' facilities, White said the momentum from this announce­ment should propel Notre Dame towards full funding of this proj­ect and the many others ­including new hockey, soccer and lacrosse stadiums -in the 
Qualityoff-campus Housing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance staff  • Lawn seNice  


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
f574J 315•5032 fceiiJ f574J 234•2436fofflceJ 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

athletic department's "Master Plan." 
"I want to express my heart­felt appreciation to Phil," White said. "My sense is that Father Ned Joyce is smiling down upon you, Phil, as you provide his Joyce Center with a dramatic makeover." 
Purcell, a member of the Board of Trustees since 1991, said he would "always be grate­ful to Notre Dame." 
"(Athletics] is an important aspect to this school's tradition," he said. " ... This new facility is not just for the basketball teams -it's for the entire community." 
Purcell was chief executive oflicer of Morgan Stanley from 1997 until this March. 
Before joining Morgan Stanley, Purcell was chairman chief exec­utive officer of Dean Witter Discover for 11 years. 
Conta<:t Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Trustees 
continued from page I 
All new Trustees participated in an Orientation session Wednesday to interact with the members of the College community, Dampeer said. 
While the meetings and agenda remain under wraps, Dampeer said the Trustees take the oppor­tunity to meet with select students while on campus. 
"Board members often interact with students," she said. "They will be having a discussion with student leaders and lunch with students." 
In addition to the newly elected Trustees, three board members were recently given Emeritus sta­tus during the spring meeting. Joyce Hank, William J. Schmuhl, Jr. and Sister Rachel Callahan all received this honor for their pro­motion of the wellbeing of Saint Mary's and their distinctively devoted duty to their Trustee posi­tion, among other accomplish­menl'>. 
Conta<:t Kelly Meehan at krneehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Friday, October 6, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
11,866.69 +16.08
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,191 15 I 1,062 2,817,292,570 

S&P 500 1,353.22 +3.00 
ffltMttBJ•~~~;~~~;].i!~~~~~·~~,lit·,·:·~,~ •:;••·••;I·~~~~: 
fTSE IOO(London) 6,004.50 +38.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.48  +0.20  41.50  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.19  -0.04  20.78  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.20  +0.01  5.02  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.07  -0.02  27.92  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -1.79  -0.04  2.20  
'  Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.94  +0.043  4.608  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  4.800  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.85  +0.040  4.761  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.13  +0.051  4.546  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.62  60.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +8.80  575.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.08  91.20  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  117.9100  
EURO  0.7883  
POUND  0.5326  
CANADIAN$  1.1264  

IN BRIEF 
Tribune Co. ousts LA Times publisher 
CHICAGO -Tribune Co. ousted Jeffrey M. Johnson, the publisher of its largest newspaper, the Los Angeles Times, on Thursday ·after Johnson had refused to make what he considered potentially damaging staff cuts ordered by the media conglomerate. 
The parent company named David D. Hiller, who has been publisher of the Chicago Tribune, to succeed Johnson. 
The move follows a highly publicized show of defiance last month by Johnson and Times Editor Dean Baquet against the latest proposed Tribune cut<;, which drew the ire of not only Times staffers but those at some of Tribune's 10 other daily newspapers. 
Scott Smith. president of the Tribune Publishing division in charge of the newspapers, said in a statement that he and Johnson had agreed on the change "because Tribune and Times executives need to be aligned on how to shape our future." 
But it was unclear whether the action means Tribune, which plans major restructuring actions by the end of the year, is determined to keep the paper or put Hiller in place to slash costs and make it more attractive in a sale. 
Jobless claims fall to I 0-week low 
WASHINGTON -The number of newly laid off workers filing claims for unemployment benefits dropped last week to the lowest level in 10 weeks. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that 302,000 people filed claims last week, the smallest number to show up at unemployment offices since the week ending July 22. 
The level was down by 17,000 from the pre­vious week and marked the second consecu­tive week that claims applications have fallen, providing evidence that the slowdown the economy has been going through since the spring has not triggered a big increase in lay­offs. 
But analysts cautioned against reading too much into the big drop in claims. Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics, said it should be "con­sidered a 'curiosity rather than evidence of a change in the trend." lie predicted that claims would begin to rise slowly in the final months of this year, reflecting weaker economic growth. 
Goodyear workers go on strike 
Company, union fail to agree on deal; employees zvalk out in U.S and Canada 
Associated Press 

AKHON, Ohio Steelworkers union mem­bers walked off the job Thursday at 16 Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. plants in the United States and Canada, unable to reach an agreement on a new con­tract despite months of talks with the world's third biggest tire maker. 
Goodyear said the union refused to agree to help it remain competitive in a global economy. The union said the company's latest proposal would have includ­ed two plant closings and other concessions. 
"Closing .more plants would not only cause addi­tional job losses and devas­tate the communities where the operations would cease, but it would also threaten the long-term viability of Goodyear," said Ron Hoover, executive vice president of the United Steelworkers of America, which represents the Goodyear workers. 
Saul Ludwig, a KeyBanc Capital Markets analyst, said a strike could cost Goodyear $2 million a day. The company could save $50 million a year by closing a U.S. plant, he said in a report to clients. 
He said in an e-mail to The Associated Press that unless the strike was 
lengthy, consumers should ment on whether the com­how he will provide for a truck tires are made drove 
not see tire prices afl'ected pany's offer involved plant wife, 14-year-old daughter away shouting and honking by the waikout because of closings. The 1 08-year-old and 10-year-old son. car horns. About a dozen the large inventory of tires company had 2005 sales of "Hey, I've still got college sign-carrying members of in the market. $19.5 billion and more than tuition to worry about," he Local 135 picketed. 
Negotiations had been 100 plants in 29 countries. said. Among them was 64-year­
But the union leader In Akron, workers old Al Tomasello, who hasheld since the old contract 
expired July 22. As more Hoover said the union, streamed out of Goodyear's worked at the plant for nine than 12,000 workers went which in 2003 agreed to research center to join years. on strike, Goodyear said allow Goodyear to cut pay, union members holding "They're trying to work us Thursday it wanted to keep pensions and health care signs on the picket line. for a 40-percent cut in pay," bargaining. and close an Alabama plant, Hundreds picketed outside he said. "We're just trying to 
The company will contin­had no choice but to strike. Goodyear's sprawling head­get what we already have. ue production at two This time, a 77 -year-old quarters carrying placards We're not trying to change nonunion plants in Lawton, plant in Gadsen, Ala., and that read "USW Local 2L on nothing." 
Okla., and Napanee, one in Tyler, Texas, weren't strike against Goodyear Tire Red and white signs Ontario, and will use on the company's list of & Rubber for unfair labor announcing the strike were salaried workers at its union "protected" factories, mean­practices." Strikers chanted stuck in the ground along 
plants, company spokesman ing they could be closed, and some motorists honked the road leading to the St. Ed Markey said. said Bren Riley, a vice presi­horns. By late afternoon, all Marys rubber plant The company also has dent of Local 12 in but one picket had left. entrance, where about a imports and inventory to fall Alabama. In Tonawanda, N.Y., a dozen workers huddled back on, Markey said, In Tyler, 19-year Goodyear Buffalo suburb, many of the together under a tent to declining to give specifics. worker Kency Alexander 1,200 workers at the Dunlop seek shelter from the chilly 
Markey declined to com-said he's concerned about plant where motorcycle and fall air in western Ohio. 

Stocks reach third straight record 
oil's climb and not have the market dot-com boom. 
Associated Press 

backup much," said Arthur Hogan, Broader stock indicators were also 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rose mod­chief market analyst at Jemwies & Co. higher Thursday. The S&P 500 index estly Thursday, nudging the Dow Jones "It's certainly a scenario whore the rose 3.00, or 0.22 percent, to 1,353.22, industrial average to its third straight longer term prospects for the market and the Nasdaq composite index rose 
record high close as investors wel­are looking more positive." 15.39, or 0.67 pcrc(mt, to 2,306.34. comed upbeat retail sales and jobless Stocks pulled back briefly after Advancing issues led dcdiners by claims ti6rures. Charles Plosser, the newly installed roughly 2 to 1 on the New York Stock The Dow closed at 11,866.69, sur­president of the Federal Reserve Bank Exchange. 
passing the record of 11,850.61 set of Philadelphia, signaled that further Bonds fell as stocks wavered, with Wednesday. The blue chip index traded Fed interest rate hikes may be in the the yield on the 1()-year Treasury note up to 11 ,870.06, which stands as its best interests of the economy's long­at 4.61 percent, up from 4.56 percent 
trading high. · term performance. Thursday. The U.S. dollar was mostly 
Hising oil prices didn't smother The Dow rose 16.08, or 0.14 percent. higher against other major currenciPs. investors' good mood. The blue chips have gained 196.34 Gold prices rose. 
"Considering the distance we've over the past three sessions; on Crude oil futures rose. A barrel of come over the last three months and Tuesday, the index shattered closing light erude settled at $60.03, up 62 certainly the last three days, it's inter­and trading highs that had stood since cents in trading on the New York esting we could have a data point like JaR. 24, 2000, toward the end of the Mercantile Exchange. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Genocide 
continued from page 1 
studies, highlighting how the "second generation of scholar­ship on genocide" differs from the first, as well as discuss the limitations of these new develop­ments in his lecture entitled "New Directions in the Comparative Study of Genocide." 
He noted that there has been a "three-fold increase" in recent years of books published on genocide, attributing this 
increase to events in the 1990s, namely genocides in Rwanda and Bosnia, which served to gen­erate interest in human rights. 
''This field is . moving in many different directions at once ... even though [the 
topic of genocide has] a very narrow focus," he said. 
In demonstrating the different directions of genocidal research, Straus cited six books by various authors which he referred to as the "core of second-generation literature" -those that under­score the values of the newer perspective on genocide. 


While he discussed individual merits of each book, Straus argued that the core literature illuminated problems faced by the genocide researcher, includ­ing "conceptualization, case selection and hypothesis testing." 
The problem of conceptualiza­tion in genocide research lies in the fact that "not one of these authors [of the core of second­

..This field is moving in many different directions at once ... even though [the topic ofgenocide has] a very narrow focus ... 
Scott Straus political science professor University of Wisconsin 
generation literature] uses the same defini­tion of geno­cide," he said. 
Straus said the lack of a con­crete defmi­tion leads to problems in case selec­tions, as one definition 
may apply to the Rwandan case but not the Holocaust and vice versa. Furthermore, because of the difficulty in defining genocide 


as 
over 


We can take over from here. 
As the World's Most Admired Company*, we know what it takes to shape great leaders. If you have a son or daughter you would like us to mold, have them inquire at their school's placement office or visit us online at gecoreers.com. 
GE is an equal opportunity employer, offering competitive solary ond an outstanding benefits package, including: 401k, pension. medical benefits, tuition reimbursement and more. 
*Fortune Maga~ine 2006 


imagination at work 
and pinpointing examples, Straus said it becomes diflicult to comparatively study genocide using different cases. 
"If you only think there are only four cases or six cases [of genocide] ... it's very difficult to do a quantitative study [on the topic]," he said. "This field does not lend itself to cross-quantita­tive work." 
This difficulty leads to prob­lems in hypothesis testing, Strauss said, as "people are looking at the same cases and coming up with various explana­tions." 
To combat the problems of studying genocide, Straus sug­gested that studies be focused on "negative cases"-that is, cases in which genocide does not result. 
In addition, he suggested treat­ing genocide as "a continuous variable," meaning to assume genocide occurred in all cases rather than arguing its existence in certain cases over others. 
"The legal definition of geno­cide is so vague that it's very dif­ficult to come up with a zero point [that defines when the term can be used]," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at srao1 @nd.edu 



ears. 
Schwarzenegger w~n't release infamous tape 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger's office on Wednesday rejected a request that it release sev­eral hours of audio tape that contained the governor's now infamous comments about the mingling of "black blood" and "Latino blood.'l 
The letter from Schwarzenegger Legal Affairs Secretary Andrea Lynn Hoch came in response to a demand from the Republican gover­nor's Democratic opponent in the November election, state Treasurer Phil Angelides. 
Hoch said the audio files were obtained without authorization from a pass­word -protected area .of the governor's Web site. She also said they "were accessed in a way that would suggest to any reasonable person that the files had not been posted for public distribution.." 
Angelides has acknowledged 
that members of his campaign 
staff downloaded the audio 
files from the Web site and 
leaked a small portion of 
them to a Los Angeles Times 
reporter. 
The recordings were from a 
speechwriting meeting in the 
governor's office last March 
that included Schwarzenegger 
and a handful of aides. At one 
point, the governor and his 
chief of staff discussed the 
possible ethnicity of · a · Republican assemblywoman. 
Referring to temperament, 
Schwarzenegger said that 
whether Cuban or Puerto 
Rican, "They are all very hot." 
"They have the, you know, 
part of the black blood in 
them and part of the Latino 
blood in them that together 
makes it," Schwarzenegger 
says on the recording. 
He apologized for the 
remarks the next day and the 
assemblywoman said she was 
not offended. 
Angelides and his campaign 
officials maintain aides did 
nothing wrong in accessing 
the audio files. 
"Gov. Schwarz!1negger is 
well aware that these audio 
files were as publicly avail­
able as a children's book in a 
public library, yet now his 
office is making false accusa­
tions and using legal tricks to 
keep these files from becom­
ing available to the public," 
said Angelides spokeswoman 
Amanda Crumley. 
The aides downloaded the 
recordings after going to a 
link of a Schwarzenegger 
speech about Hurricane 
Katrina on the governor's 
official Web site. They then 
shortened the Web address 
and reached a trove of other 
audio files. ' 
Last week, Angelides sent a 
letter to Schwarzenegger's 
office asking that roughly four 
hours of private recordings be 
made public. 
Hoch said Angelides' own 
statements suggest his cam­
paign accessed the audio files 
"in an irregular way." 
She said the files were con­
tained on an "extranet serv­
er" maintained by the gover­
nor's office and were for use 
by his staff. The office permits 
reporters to access specific 
files via a link, but said the 
directory can only be viewed 
through use of a password. 
Further, Hoch said the audio 
files were exempt from public 
disclosure because they were 
prepared solely for internal 
use and would reveal the 
deliberative process in the 
governor's office. 
"If the recordings were 
released to th'e public, it 
would chill the flow of infor­
mation within the governor's 
office, and it wou)d impede 
the governor's ability to work 
with his speechwriters and 
others in performing his offi­
cial duties and in communi­
cating with the people of 
California," Hoch wrote in her 
letter to Angelides' campaign 
lawyer, Lance Olson. 
Olson, in his letter to 
Schwarzenegger last week, 
suggested the unreleased 
recordings from the closed­
door meetings contain poten­
tially more inflammatory 
statements by 
Schwarzenegger, including his 
"views on the assimilation of 
immigrants." 


.· r. / 
Friday, October 6, 2006 page 9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Sudan threatens peacekeepers; U.N. calls crisis catastrophic 
Government says any mediating troops sent to Darfur will be considered hostiles; Security Council to discuss response 
Assodated Press 
NEW YORK -Darfur is creep­ing ever closer to catastrophe, with rape and violence on the rise, the U.N. chief said in a report Thursday, as Sudan warned that any nation offering troops for a future peacekeeping African Union. 
In a letter sent to several nations on Tuesday but disclosed Thursday, al-Bashir's government took aim at any country that might be considering troops for a potential force. The Sudan gov­ernment criticized a Sept. 22 note sent by the U.N. asking nations to as far as President Bush, who said this week that the United Nations should not wait any longer to approve a force for Darfur. 

The council broke in the after­noon, and Japan's ambassador, the U.N. Security Council presi­dent for October, said he would 

In a separate letter to Annan on Thursday, al-Bashir himself repeated his position that the government would allow the U.N. to help support the African Union peacekeepers. 
"Cooperation and consultations between the United Nations, the African Union and the Government of National Unity would speed up fmding a solution to the question [of Darfur] and help instill a permanent peace in Sudan," al-Bashir said in his mes­sage, according to the official Sudan News Agency. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
BRAZIL 
Pilots deny turning off communication device before crash 
Associated Press 
SAO PAULO-The American pilots of an executive jet involved in a deadly high-alti­tude collision with a Boeing 737 have denied they turned off the transponder that signaled their location, authorities said Thursday. 
Pilots Joseph Lepore, of Bay Shore, N.Y., and Jan Paladino, of Westhampton Beach, N.Y., repeatedly told investigators they never turned off the device that transmits a plane's location and believed that it was working just before the collision, said Denise Niederauer, a spokes­woman for the Mato Grosso do Sui State Public Safety Department. 
Brazilian authorities suggested a day earlier that the pilots may have turned off the device. 
Authorities did not say why they believed that may have happened, but said a nonfunc­tioning transponder was a possi­ble cause of the collision with Gol Airlines Flight 1907, which plunged into the Amazon jungle Friday, killing all 154 aboard in Brazil's worst air disaster. Gol initially had said there were 155 aboard, but on Thursday changed it to 154, blaming a mistake on the passenger list. The airline said a name had appeared twice on the list. 
The Brazilian-made Embraer Legacy 600 executive jet was damaged, but landed safely at an air force base. 
The air force said both jets were equipped with a modern traflic collision avoidance system that monitors other planes and sets· ofl" an alarm if they get too close, but the system only works if the transponders are working properly. 
If the American pilots are found to be responsible for turn­ing off the transponder, which is illegal under Brazilian law, pros­ecutors said they could be charged with involuntary manslaughter. Authorities said, however, that there was not enough evidence to accuse any­body. 
"We don't have elements to talk about that," Federal Police Investigator Henato Sayao told the official government news service Agencia Brasil. 
The pilots' passports were seized Wednesday, but they were not arrested. 
Authorities also were investi­gating why the small plane apparently was not flying at its authorized altitude of 36,000 feet. The collision took place at 37,000, where the Boeing 737­800 was authorized to be, Defense Minister Waldir Pires said. 
"Why was this jet taken to that altitude? Was it a voluntary act by the pilot? Was it because of wrong information he received?" Sayao said. "That's the key question: What made the plane fly at 37,000 feet when it was supposed to be at 36,000 feet." 
U.S. journalist Joe Sharkey, who was on the Legacy, wrote in The New York Times that shortly before the crash he saw an alti­tude display reading 37,000 feet. 
The reporter also criticized air traffic control in Brazil, prompt­ing an irate response from local authorities. 
"It was an affirmation absolutely unfair and insane," Jose Carlos Pereira, the presi­dent of Brazil's airport authority, told GloboNews. 
Pires called it "irresponsible to say something like that." 
Brazil's air force said it investi­gated air traffic controllers' pro­cedures on the day of the crash and found no irregularities. 
The Legacy was making its inaugural flight from the south­ern Brazilian city of Sao Jose dos Campos to the United States, where it had been purchased by ExcelAire Service Inc., based in Ronkonkoma, N.Y. 
On Thursday, the New York newspaper Newsday quoted ExcelAire chief executive Bob Sherry as saying he was seeking the return home of Lepore, 42, and Paladino, 34. 
He declined to comment on the crash, but said, "Our pilots have been treated well." 
Nearly 40 bodies had been recovered from the crash site by Thursday, but federal authorities were having difficulties identify­ing the bodies and said that DNA testing may be needed to com­plete a proeess that could take weeks. 


r~ 
., 
;;_ { 
..... ~­

Open Hfluse Sund&yi i 2~i p.m. at 220 w. totfa1t Averttff! 
Expansive City/Patk!Gofden Dome VIeWs 1,544 sq. ft.-2,122 sq.ft...;. 3,780 sq.ft. Private Parking Garages Roof-top Garden 
toritierge Service 

Discover the ultimate In fuxury living in an historic, multiple-story, private enclave just steps from South Bend's entertainrnent district and the finest restaurants in Northern Indiana. Boasting 11 ft. ceilings and soffd concrete floors, these 10 exclusive units bffer a luxurious, spacious and maintenance-free lifestyle with exceptional amenities in Downtown South Bend. Located just steps from a Day Spa, a Health Oub, Museums, the Morris Performing Arts Center and 
the LaSalle Grill. Units custom-designed and finished THE 
to meet individual taste. Starting around $250,000. COl F.-::\ \X-
Call Ryan Elston at (574) 234-2073, ext. 28. .J I . 
www.ColfaxPiace.com 
~4E!m; 




AP Above, a Brazilian Air Force helicopter lifts a load of victim remains Wesnesday from last week's plane crash in the northeast area of the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso. Below, recovery workers carry human remains. Prosecutors could charge two American pilots with manslaughter for the mid-air collision. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 page 11
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
MEXICO 

Government, people upset by lack of immigration reform 
Federal officials reject U.S. legislation to increase security at the border, disagree on appropriate response 
Associated Press year-old from southern Mexico, over immigration, arguing that Thursday criticized the U.S. plan, Diego, known in Mexico as "the 
had been working a'> a farmhand the porous border could be used but said the case is a bilateral tortilla wall." It was completed in 
TIJUANA -Mexico lobbied for for six months in Vista, Calif., by terrorists who want to sneak issue that should not be taken to the 1990s and forced migrants six years for a comprehensive when he was arrested and into the U.S. undetected. There is any international organization. into the sparsely populated and immigration reform that would deported last week. no evidence that has happened, "l think it is a deplorable deci­dangerous Arizona desert. allow millions to cross into the "Wall or no wall, I will try at however. sion that has been made by the While there are walls at various United States legally. Instead, least three times," said Martinez, The Mexican government this United States Congress for the points along the border, the one they're getting a fence. who said he would try to cross by week sent a diplomatic note to construction of this wall, and it in Tijuana is the longest stretch, 
Mexicans -from leading politi­himself through Tecate, a moun­Washington criticizing the plan does not solve our common prob­running 14 miles west from the cians to migrants preparing to tainous town about 35 miles east for 700 miles of new fencing lem, which is emigration," Otay border crossing and plung­cross illegally-consider the U.S. of Tijuana. "I have three girls that along the border. Foreign Calderon told a news conference ing into the Pacific Ocean. plan to fence off much of the bor­I have to support, and in Mexico Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez in Santiago, Chile. It has become a symbol of the der shameful, offensive and ill­there is no work." called it an "offense" and said Guillermo Alonzo, a migration divisive immigration issue, a conceived. Mexican immigrants in the Wednesday his office wa'> consid­expert at the Tijuana-based blank slate for grafliti, crosses, 
President Bush on Wednesday United States and the Mexican ering taking the issue to the Colegio de La Frontera Norte, photos and other remembrances signed a bill that would allot $1.2 government had lobbied lawmak­United Nations. said fences instead will force of those who have lost their lives billion for hundreds of miles of ers for more ways to cross the But Ruben Aguilar, the migrants to look for new ways to trying to sneak into the United fencing along the U.S.-Mexican border and work legally. spokesman for President Vicente sneak into the United States and States. Some families, divided by border and for more vehicle bar­While Bush had proposed a Fox, said Thursday that Mexico fmd new routes through deadlier the border, even meet at the riers, lighting and infrared cam­temporary worker program, it had ruled out that possibility. He terrain. fence, talking through the metal eras. didn't garner enough support in added he was "confident" the "When migrants are deter­wires. 
But migrants resting at a Congress for passage. The idea additional fencing would never mined to cross, they fmd a way to While the wall downgraded Tijuana shelter after being has been dropped by Washington, become a reality because an jump the fences," Alonzo said. Tijuana from the illegal migration deported from the United States at least until after the November immigration accord would even­"Walls don't stop anything." mecca it was in the 1990s, hun­said more walls wouldn't deter congressional elections. tually replace it. Alonzo cited the construction of dreds of migrants still come here, them. Alfonso Martinez, a 32-Congress focused on security President-elect Felipe Calderon a fence between Tijuana and San Alonzo said. 
INDIA 

Dengue fever outbreak kills 38; authorities deny epiden1ic 
dengue symptoms, said Shakti Gupta, a spokesman for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. 
"The condition of all the three patients is stable. Their symp­toms are being monitored and assessed," Gupta said. 
The outbreaks of dengue and chikungunya come as the annu­al monsoon season tapers off, leaving puddles of stagnant water where mosquitoes breed. 
Female Aedes mosquitoes 
ERASMUS BooKs 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Associated Press 

NEW DELHI -India's health minister said Thursday the death toll from an outbreak of dengue fever had risen to 38 as hospitals struggle to cope with an influx of patients. 
In southern India, meanwhile, a rare mosquito-borne viral fever known as chikungunya killed another four people overnight, bringing the death toll from that disease in the state of Kerala to 7 5 in the past month, said the state's health ministry. 
The dengue outbreak has largely hit the country's north, and 2,900 suspected cases have been reported in the past six weeks with 38 of those infected dying, said Health Minister Anubani Ramadoss. 
Relatives of Prime Minister Manmohan Singh may be among those hit, with two of his grandsons and a son-in-law hospitalized in New Delhi with 




RESTi\UR./\NT & ALEHOUSE PUB 
ltrlll~lll~ '1'111~ litiSII 'l~l.IJ.,fji\'1'1~. 
UEI"ORI~, JUJRING, ANI) ill"'l'Eil 'fill~ c;;UJt: . 
FOO'I'BAJ.L WEEKEND HOIJRS 
FRIDAY 
Restaurant: a:oo am -Midnight Pub: 11:30 am · 2:oo am 
SA'I'IJRDAY 
Restaurant: B:oo am · Midnight Pub: 8:oo am -2:oo am 


Legends is located too yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. www.legendsofnotredame.org 574.631.2582 
•JOIN IJS FOR OIJili~YE OPENt:R BllEAKI•ilS'f! FOO'fiiAI..J.. SA'I'IJilDAYS FROM 8:00 AM -11:00 1lM. 
transmit dengue. Symptoms Authorities have been work­include high fever, joint pain, ing to spray pesticides in New headache and vomiting. It is Delhi, where 15 people have fatal in rare cases. India's died, and surrounding areas in annual outbreak normally dies recent days. off with the end of the mosquito "Definitely, we are tackling breeding period in November. the situation and this is not an epidemic and in the next few days to come we expect the cases to reduce," Ramadoss said. 
He added: "The situation is being controlled. There is no need to panic." 


Tit£ GLOR.IOCS TlADITIOI\ Of FIUH'TING IRISH fOOTIW.l 
FOOTBALL $24.95 hardcover 
~ 
HAMMES~ Availableat: NOTRE DAME~~ BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER
$27.95 hardcover 
phone: (574) 631·6316 • www.ndcotolog.com 


THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Roberr Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 

Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon. Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 

(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

Tht> Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infonnation. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to F.ditor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'h< Observa-(USPS ~99 2-4000) is puhlishcd Mornuy thnmgh Friday except during exam and ~rion periods. A subxriprion tu The OhKrvcr i.s $100 for one: .lCldcmK year; s~~ fur one snnrstcr. 
l'h< Ob.eM<er ;. published •c I'OSTMASTER 024 South Dining H.U Send adclrcs:i corrections co; N<>tre Dome, IN 46556-0779 l'h< Oboerver Periodical 1"""11" p•id u N<•n< DiUU< r.o. Bo. 779 and addition.tl m.Uling offi=. 024 South Diuing Hall 
Nom: Dam<. IN 46556-0779 
The ~rver is .1 memhtr of th~ ~i.lted Pres5. All reprodUL'tion rights .ue rc:scrvcd. 
Renovation plan leaves questions 
Why now? 

Three Notre Dame athletic programs -men's basketball, women's basketball and volleyball -received good news Thursday morning when University officials announced major renovation plans for tho Joyce Center. 
The new-look athletic center will include a basketball arena -Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center-named after $12.5 million benefactor and Notre Dame Trustee PhiJlip J. Purcell 
III. It will be a vastly better facility than the one the teams usc now. They saw drawings of new seats, a 
Th

new entrance and received a new outlook on 
Ooserver 
the future. The problem was, it wasn't a complete out­
Editorial
look. 

That might not matter to men's basketball coach Mike Brey, women's basketball coach Mull'ett McGraw and volleyball coach Debbie Brown. Their teams look to ben­efit the most if the plans are seen to completion. 
But without a projected completion -or, even worse, a starting date-in mind, nothing is certain. Yes, Notre Dame's athletic facilities have not kept up with the success of the ath­letic teams over the past decade and the renovated arena is much needed. With last year's addition of the football team's first-rate Guglielmino Athletics Complex, the plans are a sign that Notre Dame athletic facilities are moving in the right direction. 
But even with all of the excitement and applause surround-
Defending my right to disagree 
Many Americans believe that imitation is the sincerest form of flattery. Yet, when the discourse shifts to the politics of life and death issues such as war or abortion, they turn a deaf ear to those who express differing points of view. These free speech obstructionists attempt to suffocate dissonance while con­veniently forgetting that this nation was founded on dissension -that our strength lies in our diversity and our unyielding search for truth. 
On Sept. 11, 2001 , every American was abruptly drafted into action, individually called to better our nation's defense of democracy abroad and to improve our own domestic safety. I personally know the call to serve my country, having first worn a U.S. Air Force uniform as a Notre Dame fresh­man during the height of the Vietnam War's unpopularity. How dare anyone, especially another Notre Dame alumnus who is a military lawyer and Marine cap­tain, denigrate the service of a National Guardsman as a mere "maintenance worker" in Iraq. How dare that same sworn defender of liberty and justice label this column's description of military command failures that caused Marine deaths as "spurious allegations" and "imbecilic." 
Since the attacks of 9/11, the only man in this nation who is supposed to inspire us has purposely portrayed some Americans as good and others as bad. Our President has divided this nation into those whom he believes have a right to join his debate and others who do not until they agree with him. My father did not fight for three years in World War II 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Joe Piarulli Eric Retter Marcela Berrios Chris Hine Does Notre Dame need Ryan Sydlik Dan Cooper to increase the number of Viewpoint Scene Catholic faculty members? Joey King Marty Schroeder 
A. Yes
Graphics 
B.No Jarred Wafer 
ased on 738 responses at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
ing Thursday's announcement, it's hard not to ask the ques­tion -why make the announcement now? University ollicials could not say when the facility would be completed. They showed no plans to improve the University's currently subpar hockey facilities. They failed to say how many student tickets would be allot­ted or where the student body would sit at games. There was nothing in the plans about soccer, lacrosse or even track and field facility improvements. 
The press conference gave University officials 
and donors a chance to pat themselves on the 
back, but failed to give the full picture of future 
Notre Dame athletic facilities. 
Purcell, to his credit, generously gave an enormous amount of money to the project and was lauded by the University for his donation. He deserves the fanfare, but the school needs others like him to step up. 
Notre Dame officials said they are still in the process of raising the final three million of a $25 million goal. Why not wait until those three million dollars are in the University bank account before announcing major facility upgrades? 
With the Board of Trustees meeting and a football game this weekend, Thursday's press conference gave more public­ity to big donors and little information to hundreds of Notre Dame athletes, coaches and fans waiting to know more about what the future holds. 

against the Nazis for that type of distinc­tion. I did not enroll in Notre Dame ROTC to pass a litmus test deciding who may wave our American flag. On that September day half a decade ago, every one of us was called to the front lines, and each of us has an unlimited right to be either a hawk or a dove. 
Lest those who support the president forget, in September of 2001 Democrats and Independents united as Americans giving this president more than 90 per­cent support. In fact, the entire world reached out to us as a gesture of succor. "Old Europe," especially France whose fries would be officially renamed "American Fries" in all of the U.S. House of Representatives cafeterias, wrote newspaper headlines touting, "We are all Americans." Under similar circum­stances, it is doubtful that those petty politicians from the rigid Republican fun­damentalist wing of their party would have given such unconditional support to a Democratic president. 
Our fellow Notre Dame alumni who refuse to ask tough questions, but who also attempt to place this column under a minister of propaganda, may recall that our president squandered that global goodwill with a series of imbecilic deci­sions. This writer once held the blue all­access V\J'hite House pass and knows first­hand the complex demands of the Oval Office. The deaths of more than 2, 700 American troops and tens of thousands of others are the direct result of simple slo­gans and rigid, stubborn ideology. 
The president's policies, with lock-step­ping congressional approval, have low­ered our once proud standing in the world. Those policies have lowered the standards of the Geneva Conventions, lowered our internal feeling of communi­ty and lowered our once lofty principles of freedom. All in the name of keeping this nation safe. 
Despite our president's popular slogan, they do not hate us for our freedom. They hate us for what we do and for what they perceive that we do, such as defiling their holy land in Saudi Arabia with military bases prior to the attacks on the World Trade Center. OoPs anyone ever wonder how Russia, once the fiercest of bin Laden's enemies, wiggled out of Al Qaeda's cross hairs? 
Michael Scheuer, head of the CIA's bin Laden unit during the Clinton administra­tion and an uncongenial critic of both Presidents Clinton and Bush, suggests in a Robert Novak column that we first need to understand bin Laden's reasoning that keeps us on his enemies list, regardless of how absurd they may actually seem. Scheuer says, "We're at war because of what we do in the Islamic world." Unfortunately, Hepublicans who control every branch of our government refuse to recognize Bush's folly, ofcourse unless they are in direct danger of losing a cov­eted congressional seat this year. 
Finally, the president's illogical and absolute refusal to allow his civilian or military advisors to freely disagree and correct current policy has doomed our troops to combat in Iraq until Bush leaves office in 2009. Call this president what you may-idiot or hero -but every one of us has as much of a prerogative to say anything about defending this nation. And all of us earned the label "loyal American" during our national draft on Sept. 11, 2001. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a leg­islative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

::;::~:k:&cii~i~~~~;~~.i.Kif~~;:;i;U:;;,~:;i;;~~@~~~4 ·.· .. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ultimately, the only power to which man should aspire is that which he exercises over himself"


to the Editor at 
J 
Elie Wiesel author

www.ndsmcobserver.com I 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Abortion display examined 
'Cemetery' reminder Football weekend inappropriate 
On Thursday and Friday, Notre Dame Hight to Life will be displaying what is known as the "Cemetery of the Innocents" on South Quad. This memorializes the over 4 7 million children who have been killed through surgical abortion in the United States since the Roe v. Wade court decision in 1973. 
This year we are erecting 600 white crosses to represent the number of abortions performed in the United States in only four hours, the length of a Notre Dame football game. In addition, there will be 3,600 pink and blue flags representing the approxi­mate number of surgical abortions that occur each day in the United States. 
This cemetery is meant to serve as a reminder of what is in fact occurring when each abortion is per­formed. We hope that it makes clear what is being "chosen" and challenges the idea that abortion is a matter of "choice." 
Finally, we wish to remember also the millions of women who have been harmed, both physically and psychologically, through the horror of abortion. They are remembered with a display of red roses, and we recall their pain and the pain of all those who have suffered because of abortion with a large wooden cross. 
We pray that the hearts of all men and women will be inspired to acknowledge the dignity of life from the moment of conception to natural death. Let us take these days of Respect Life Month to reflect on the gift of life and the tragedy of a culture that often fails to recognize the value and dignity of every human person. 
Adam Hoock co-vice president Notre Dame Right to Life Oct. 5 
Dear Visitors to Notre Dame: By now, you may have noticed the crosses raising awareness of the problem of abortion in society. Perhaps you are happy that this Catholic university is holding true to its principles in such a public fash­ion. Perhaps you wish that you weren't being confronted by some­thing so grave as abortion as you make your once a semester trip to see your son or daughter. Or per­haps you are deeply offended that one campus group is proselytizing in such a manner. This letter is addressed to the latter two groups. 
No one can deny that the debate surrounding abortion is very seri­ous. For women who are Catholic, like myself, it is doubly so, for it calls into question issues relating to my gender and my religion, both of which I hold as the core of my iden­tity. The nuances of the abortion question -and anyone who denies at least that there are nuances is criminally oversimplifying-are too numerous to list in this letter. What I do wish to address is the means by which every member of the Notre Dame family is being forced to con­front this question this weekend. 
I recognize the purpose that the crosses serve and accept that rais­ing awareness of this very serious issue is legitimate. Far more prob­lematic though, is the prospect of 
NO keeps character 
My wife and I attended the Purdue game last week, and attended a crowded 11 :45 a.m. Mass at the Basilica. We are getting a tad long in the tooth, but didn't think we looked "old." However, the church was crowded, and we were direct­ed to search for seats in the rear of the sanctuary. As it turned out, there were none available at that venue. However, almost immediately a student came to inform us that there were two seats on the other side of the sanctuary -actually, seats he and his colleague surrendered to us. As Mass pro­ceeded, we were quite impressed by the demeanor of the stu­dents surrounding us, and commend Notre Dame for keeping the Faith alive among the student body. Most impressive. That experience brought home to me that the present Notre Dame is the same as the old Notre Dame I attended for four years. 
Paul A. Fisher alumnus Class of I 943 Oct. 5 

Profits to veterans? 
In response to "Shirts Sold to Recognize Soldiers" (Oct. 4)­my first reaction was to shop for a shirt, because I definitely want to recognize and express concern for our troops! But I am confused by the promise to give "20 percent of the profits" to veteran's charities. Profits? Most new businesses take a long time to start making profits. These shirts have received a lot of publicity on the web, but nobody, including Take Pride's website, mentions any actual donations --or profits, for that matter. But everybody mentions the company's pledge to donate that 20 percent. Does 20 percent of "no profits yet" add up to no donations yet? If I buy a regular (non-logo) shirt, can I count on any money going to actual Iraq or Afghanistan veterans? Am I being too cynical? Perhaps. But I'd feel a lot more comfortable buying a shirt if I knew how much money the company has donated so far, and how much of my $20 ­if any-would actually go to veterans' charities. 
Gail Bederman history professor Oct. 4 

kids who normally throw footballs around on the same quad on Saturday morning asking their par­ents what those crosses mean, and their parents being put in the posi­tion of explaining that those repre­sent graves for children killed in abortions. 
I think that everyone should engage the issue of abortion at some point, but can't we let a four-year­old live in blissful ignorance ofsuch serious moral and political issues for a couple of years? Instead, this four­year-old is exposed to one side of the debate with a dramatic, power­ful image, when he cannot yet com­prebend the idea of a victim of rape or incest who has been impregnated or any of the other individual cases where the hard line some opponents of abortion draw must falter. This will undoubtedly incite responses of how the child is not to blame for the crime of his father. This is a legiti­mate point. I do not argue one way or the other about morality of abor­tion in this letter; I simply seek to point out that the crosses represent one side of the debate. 
Why do you assume that visitors to this school have not already engaged the issue of abortion on their own? Many families of stu­dents, like mine, have been Catholic for generations. They have grappled 
with this question both on their own 
and in Church. Others are not reli­gious, but have considered the issue on constitutional grounds. You may say that I cannot assume that is the case for most visitors. But is it your place to assume that people aren't thinking enough about this? 
Finally, though members of Notre Dame Right to Life, the group responsible for the crosses, are no doubt aware of this, it bears repeat­ing. Your actions have conse­quences, both for your cause and the image of this University on a football weekend highly attended by parents of current students. Your opposition is strengthened but such an emotional, dramatic representa­tion of your point of view, and Notre Dame -I have heard this opinion over and over year after year ­appears not Catholic, but patroniz­ing. So, members of the Notre Dame Family, on behalf of the many Catholic students who disagree with this display, I'm not sorry that this is a Catholic university with Catholic positions on some issues, but I am sorry for tarnishing this weekend of 
joy with a serious political issue that you undoubtedly have an opinion about already. 
Meghan O'Connell senior off campus Oct. 5 

U-WIRE 
Next Facebook stalkers: parents? 
This weekend, I was confronted with every college freshman's nightmare. No, not the freshman 15. My mom asked me, "Blessing, can I get a Facebook?" 
Two months ago I would have laughed at her silliness and retorted, "Of course not, mother, you have Blessing to be in high school or col­Waung lege." Two years ago, any col­lege student would have USC Daily laughed at her mom and Trojan quipped, "Yeah, if you happen to have a college e-mail address." 
Unfortunately, that was then. This is now. 
What's next? Surprisingly, Mark Zuckerberg's decision to make Facebook open to the public hasn't instigated as much drama as the advent of easy stalking, also known as the "Mini­Feed." Why not? Thousands of students from across the nation rallied together in "official petitions" to get rid of the news feed, which resulted in minor privacy additions. Where is the protest against our parents stalking us from back home? 
Don't you find it disturbing that one fine day, you'll log onto Facebook when you really should be writing that seven-page essay, only to find that your dad has added you as a friend? According to the global group, "Don't Let My Parents onto Facebook!!" almost 9,000 students do. 
I know dozens of girls who scrambled to "clean up" their Facebooks during the first week of school in order to participate in rush. Pictures with the ubiquitous red cups and the occasional cowboy costumes were deleted without a second thought. Of course, that was because everyone was warned that they were being watchj:.'d. Nobody is explicitly telling us that now, but it should be a thought that's nig­gling at the back of your mind. 
This is probably more applicable to fresh­men, as those lucky upperclassmen with legiti­mate IDs have no need to worry about incrimi­nation-their parents know by now that 
they're not really studying on the weekends. 
But as freshmen it was nice having the free­
dom of telling your friend to "Facebook that" 
without worrying about the potential parental 
consequences. 
College officials and employers are right in saying that we shouldn't be putting anything we would be embarrassed for our parents to see on Facebook. True, in ten years those pho­tos might come back to haunt us. It was still nice to know that our parents weren't able to access them. 
Why would any parent even desire one? In a healthy, functioning mother-daughter relation­ship, phone calls are made at least twice daily as we stroll down Trousdale Parkway between classes. Hopefully, guys have their own rou­tines of communication. But have we really gotten to the point where our parents have to learn about our lives via the Internet? 
I don't even have my own shower anymore, let alone my own room. Facebook was more than a Web site, it was my last thread of priva­cy. In an era where everything is so easily accessible, I don't think it's too much to ask for a safe haven where we can communicate with our friends without thinking before we type and click. Maybe it'd be better if we all just went back to writing letters to each other. The fact that your parents won't read them is well worth the 39 cents. 
Parents Weekend starts today. Frankly, I'd be a little disturbed walking into Leavey and see­ing a parent checking out her child's Facebook. I love my mom and dad unquestionably, and I can't wait to tailgate and go to the game with them. Everything's going to be golden, as long as she doesn't ask again. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 5 issue of the Daily Trojan, the daily publication of the University ofSouthern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



THE PHASES OF DISNEY 
From Agrabah's slums to Pride Rock and back again 
studio seemed lost without his din'lc­
By CASSIE BELEK tion. From his death until the release of 
Assistam Scene Editor "Mermaid" in 1989, Walt Disney 
Feature Animation produced only nine 
Walt Disney 2-D animation has risen, animated features, the most memo­
fallen, risen and fallen again. The rable being "The Jungle Book" ­
promising rebirth of animation that released the year after Disney's death 
"The Little Mermaid" made possible in -and "Robin Hood." 
1989 lasted only a decade. Walt Disney After years of honing the craft of 
Feature Animation made its last tradi­young, new animators, the animation 
tional animated feature in 2004 with studio finally found a new life in the 
the easily forgettable "Home on the animated musical "The Little 
Range," a movie that elicits zero Disney Mermaid." Returning to Disney's suc­
magic but does evoke amazement cessful musical format, "Mermaid" won 
because it was created by the same the Academy Awards for Best Original 
company who crafted the masterful Score and Best Original Song for 
1950 classic "Cinderella." "Under the Sea." The film was a box­
Traditional Disney animation has not office success and ushered in a new era 
recovered from this dark period that of Disney musical animated features. 
began in the late 1990s. While Disney­Disney's successes only marched for­Pixar fihns have all proven to be enor-w~rd after "Mermaid." In 1991. ~Qlf!usJy ppyular. the creativity that "B_9a.uty and the Beast" became the ·draws audiences to these computer only animated film to ever be nominat­
animated films is nonexistent in ed for an Academy Award in the Best 
Disney's most recent 2-D animated Picture category. It lost to "Silence of 
films. With the exception the Lambs," but won the 
of "Lilo & Stitch," these Walt Disney struck Academy Awards for Best 
films have achieved little Original Score and Best
animation gold in 
success since 1999's Original Song for the titu­
"Tarzan." However, it the early r930s with lar song. 
should be said Disney has the introduction of "Aladdin" followed in 
survived dark days before. 1992 and "The Lion
Mickey Mouse and
Walt Disney struck ani­King" kept pace in 1994. 
mation gold in the early later, his pals. Although extremely pop­
1930s with the introduc­ular among females, both 
tion of Mickey Mouse and later, his pals movies have been cited as favorite 
Goofy and Donald Duck. However, among males as well. Both musicals 
Disney wished to break further ground feature a male protagonist, a change 
in animation and in 1938 he released from the two Disney princesses that 
"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" -preceded them. 
the first animated feature film in 1998's "Mulan" and 1999's "Tarzan" 
English and Technicolor. The wild suc­were Disney's last two traditional ani­
cess of "Snow White" sparked the com­mated successes. Since then, Disney
pany's golden age of animation that, has produced flops that lack the beauti­
despite a few bumps during World War ful animation details of their predeces­
II, continued until Disney's death from sors. Disney's recent lack of quality in 
lung cancer in 1966. Before Disney's its feature films has been coupled with 
death, Walt Disney Feature Animation its shameful direct-to-DVD animated 
had completed 18 animated films. sequels. Instead of producing well­
During his tenure, Disney looked for thought out and well-animated feature 
new ways to experiment in animation. sequels, Disney distributes hackneyed 
His third animated feature was the shadows of its original animated mas­
1940 masterpiece "Fantasia"-a beau­terpieces in order to make a buck. 
tiful synthesis of classical music and These recent inferior features and 
mesmerizing animation. The result of sequels do not evoke the same enchant­
this synthesis was an instant critical ment that Disney animated features 
success, but only slowly gained a public have for years. "Magical" is the only 
following over the years. way to describe a beloved Disney ani­
1959's "Sleeping Beauty" -the last mated feature. With former CEO of the fairy tale features until "The Michael Eisner gone, Walt Disney Little Mermaid" -was a successful Feature Animation has announced stylistic experiment. It was the last of plans to return to the traditional ani­Disney's animated features to use mation that it abandoned with hand-inked cells and its elaborate "Chicken Little." Disney is currently paintings resembled a moving tapestry. developing "The Frog Princess," which Eyvind Earle painted most of the back­will return to the musical format of the grounds himself and each painting took early 1990s. Like "The Little Mermaid," him seven to 10 days to complete -the public will look to this feature to seven times the amount of time in pre­return traditional Disney animation vious features. Initially, "Sleeping back to glory. If "The Frog Princess" Beauty" was a box-office failure can successfully capture the famed 
because of its slow pace, but like Disney magic, 2-D animation has a 
"Fantasia" it has gained a following chance of making yet another tri­
over the years and is now heralded as umphant return. 
one of Disney's best and most beautiful 
animated films. Contact Cassie Belek at 
After Disney's death, the animation cbelek@nd.edu 

Marty Schroeder 
Assistant Scene Editor 

DISNEY BETRAYS NOSTALGIA 
either too young or too old to remember By MARTY SCHROEDER "The Little Mermaid" in the same vein as Assistant Scene Editor the generation in between them. 
Also, the parents that had kids growing 
Disney has dropped a pack of shrink­up on this film and other films like it most wrapped nostalgia into the collective lap likely don't have young children anymore. of our generation. Now, the question aris­If this DVD were released three to four es -what is the House of Mouse going to years after the film had come out (which, do with that nostalgia in their marketing of course, is impossible), theoretically. our strategies? With the parents would have wanted to enjoy "The recent release of "The Little Mermaid" with our younger siblings Little Mermaid" on as they did with us. However, this is not DVD, this pertinent the case and it seems that Disney is shoot­question is at the fore­ing itself in the foot. front of the current And the proverbial gun is the limited college generation -time release. Though it was clearly a deci­and their wallets. sion concocted by some executive to get 
"The Little Mermaid" people into Best Buys and buy the DVD, is now digitally remas­it's not going to work. In fact, it is more tered and, so the logic likely to alienate consumers than to do goes, more enjoyable. anything else. Many remember this film Disney has also includ­as one of their childhood's favorites and ed several documen­now Disney is saying, "We'll give it to you, tary featurettes on the but only for a year and then after that, new two-disc special well, tough luck." Some will most certain­edition, including one ly buy it, but many may hear "For a limit­explaining the animation processes and ed time only" and become awash in a another discussing the titular source wave of betrayal over the film felt given material by Hans Christian Anderson. freely in their ehildhood whieh now feels Anderson's fairy tale supposedly provided stolen. When younger, we watched the the background story for this film. movie and loved it. We feel robbed now Needless to say, the background that that we know Disney is looking for a quick Anderson supplied was only slightly buck playing off their loved memories. altered -only slightly. They also include And it extends past "The Little a feature called "DisneyPedia: Life Under Mermaid." The past release of "The Lion the Sea." It is almost assured that no one King" included an entirely new song. If it of our generation cares about Jacques were added as an extra on the DVD, no Cousteau telling them about. life under the big deal, but Disney decided to throw it sea when they are buying "The Little into the film. Who do they think is going to Mermaid." All they want to hear about is buy this? The answer is the kids who what Sebastian the crab has to say about grew up with it and the song "Morning life under the sea in the eponymous song. Report" is not in the film as remembered. 
The release date of the DVD is also con­It may have worked for "Star Wars" ­founding because of the so-called "limited able to create a whole new fan base in a time release." Disney has been threaten­new generation -but these films are not ing to put their most beloved films into a going to be doing that with a new song "moratorium" since they started releasing and some remastered animation. these two-disc special editions. Since the The moral of the story is Disney wants group that is most likely buying "The money. They are going to make a boatload Little Mermaid" is either in college (which with 'The Little Mermaid" DVD but if only means they don't have much money) or is they'd realize who wants to the DVD and working temporary or low-paying jobs. how to be friendly to their consumers who Yet Disney says they only have a year to love this film, they could make so much buy the DVD. How do they expect people more -and wouldn't come across as to buy it when the disposable income isn't jerks. there? The people with the disposable income -teenagers and those who have Contact Marty Schroeder at been out of college for a few years -are mschroe l @nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of wallpaperspecial.com 
Ariel Is the main character In the Disney classic, "The uttle Mermaid." Based on a fairy tale, It tells the story of a mermaid who wants to become human after falling In love. 

Friday, October 6, 2006 page 15 

Graphics by JARRED WAFER/The Observer 
DVD REVIEW 
the sea and King Triton's power. In true tchy. memorable songs along the way. By SEAN SWEANY Disney fashion, this can only resolve itself There is no question this formula prac­A~sistam Scene Editor 
in an epic battle that results happily­tically gave Disney a printing press in 
ever-after for Ariel and her prince. their basement and "The Little Mermaid" 
Perhaps the most interesting character is without a doubt the catalyst that jump­
Before there was "Finding Nemo," is the Sea Witch, Ursula. Voiced superbly started the whole process -although the before there was "Shark Tale," there was by Pat Corrall. Ursula is far more devel­mediocre "Pocahontas" and "Mulan" a little movie und._~r the sea about a mer­oped than her foil and Ariel's father, King used the same formula. As such, the maid named Ariel. In 1989. Disney's "The Triton. Her cephalopod-like body is beau­treatment it receives on this DVD is well Little Mermaid" began the so-called "sec­tifully and evilly animated along with her deserved, but the overall product falls ond golden age" of Disney eel lackeys. just short of what it could be. animation, which then led Evil, vain and tragic The film itself has been digitally to blockbuster hits that In true Disney fashion, all at the same time, she restored, as has nearly every other included "Beauty and the is a centerpiece of the Platinum Disney DVD release, a process
this can only resolve 
Beast" and 'The Lion King." film, showcased in spec­that results in more vibrant colors and a "The Little Mermaid" has itselfin an epic battle tacular fashion by her sharper image than ever before seen on recently been released in a that results happily­song "Poor Unfortunate a home release. While on other DVD two-disc special edition DVD Souls." The swirling col­releases this has been a good thing, here 
ever-after.
in Disney's Platinum collec­ors and well-written the job seems haphazardly done. The tion, which includes first-lyrics provided the central characters look stunning, but the generation Disney classics benchmark for another smaller roles and backgrounds them­such as "Sleeping Beauty," "Cinderella" well-remembered Disney villain's song­selves seem neglected and the juxtaposi­and "Bambi" along with second genera­Scar's nefarious "Be Prepared." tion between the two is jarring and tion hits in the vein of "The Lion King" Several other memorable musical num­unsettling. The sound, also remastered, and "Aladdin." bers -including "Kiss the Girl" and seems unnatural at times with loud 
This release, as Disney has now done Academy Award-winning "Under the sound effects often overshadowing dia­for many of its most beloved films, gives Sea" -transform this from a mediocre logue or music. While the film presenta­"The Little Mermaid" the deluxe treat­film into a Disney classic, as they are tion is disappointing, the special features ment in terms of film restoration and a instantly recognizable Dn the second disc are 

~ 
wide assortment of special features that songs to millions of impressive and show cater to casual and ardent fans alike. people. Such music­This release, as Disney has the time and effort Loosely based on a story by Hans composed by Alan that went into produc­
now done for many ofits
Christian Andersen, the movie follows the Menken and Howard ing this DVD. mermaid Ariel (Jodi Benson), daughter of Ashman -quickly most beloved films. ,qives Seven deleted/alter­King Triton, who is unhappy with her life reemerged as a staple "The Little Mermaid .. nate scenes give an in the sea, preferring to live in the human of Disney films as the indication of what the
deluxe treatment in terms
world above. After falling in love with a pair also contributed film might have been human prince, Ariel makes a Faustian the music for "Beauty offilm restoration. like and an hour-long bargain with the sea-witch Ursula to and the Beast" and "Making of' special become human in return for her beauti­"Aladdin." gives an idea of the ful singing voice. After the success of "The Little obstacles faced in creating the movie. 
\t\'hile Ariel's sea friends Sebastian the Mermaid," Disney produced a string of Additionally, there is a section devoted to crab, Flounder the fish and Scuttle the hits -culminating with "The Lion King" a sidelined "little Mermaid" theme park seagull try to help her win over the -using mostly the same formula where ride that never surmounted the planning prince, Ursula tries to take control over a headstrong teenager causes conflict stages, including a virtual ride of the pro­
with authori­posed attraction. 
ty, allowing With such comprehensive special fea­
the villain to tures and a treasured story and film, the 
take power, "Little Mermaid" DVD, in spite of the 
forcing the presentation quality, is enjoyable and 
teenager and worthwhile. While not on the level of 
a colorful "Aladdin" or "The Uon King," "The Little 
cast of frie­Mermaid" makes it fun to relive child­
nds to set hood and enjoy a life that's better, down 
things right where it's wetter, under the sea. 
with a plenti­
ful assort­Contact Sean Sweany at 
ment of ca-ssweany@nd.edu 


Friday, Ocrober 6, 2006 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Yankees fail to hold off Tigers; Cards shut out Padres 
Verlander, like Zumaya one of year as manager, stoppingA-Rod goes 0-4 with Detroit's rookie sensations, Detroit's streak of losing seasons pitched in and out of trouble for at 12.
3 strikeouts in loss 

5 2-3 innings, allowing seven "lie's a feel guy," Yankees hits and four walks. lie gave his manager Joe Torre said. Associated Press only runs on Johnny Damon's Walker, Zumaya and Todd fourth-inning homer, which put Jones combined for one-hit 
NEW YORK Justin New York ahead 3-1. relief, making New York's mod­Verlander overpowered Alex Tigers manager Jim Leyland ern-day Murderers' Row resem­Rodriguez with 100 mph heat. then made the unusual move to bled overmatched kids. 
Joel Zumaya topped that, his pull him with a runner on, one Jones pitched the ninth for the fastball whizzing by at 102. out and a 1-1 count on Robinson save, giving up a leadoff single 
The New York Yankees never Cano. Jamie Walker came in, to llideki Matsui. A soft tosser saw what was coming, and the threw two balls. and induced an when compared to his hard­Detroit Tigers headed home inning-ending 6-4-3 double play. throwing 'pen mates, Jones then with a split. It was that type of up-and­struck out Jorge Posada, retired 
Vnrlander and Detroit's down day for the wild-card Cano on a soft fly and got bullpen held down New York's Tigers. who ended a six-game Damon to fly out. mighty offense, Curtis Grander­losing streak that cost them the New York's All-Star batting son's go-ahead triple off Mike AL Central title last weekend. order struck out nine times and Mussina capped a comeback, "I just didn't like the fastball went 1-for-8 with men in scor­and Detroit beat the Yankees 4-before that. It was 92," Leyland ing position. 3 Thursday to leave them tied at said. "I just said, 'This is it. I'm one game apiece in their best­going to make my move now. I Cardinals 2, Padres 0 of-five AL playoff series. know there's a count on the hit­Not even San Diego native 
"There's a lot of people doubt­ter, but I'm going to make it David Wells could save the ing us," Zumaya said. "A lot of right now.' Just all of a sudden, Padres, who appear to be head­people don't expect the Tigers to your instincts take over and say, ed for their same ol' postseason come out and play as good as 'Look, this is just not right."' fate against the St. Louis we did. We have to prove our­Those type of against-the­Cardinals. selves and, obviously, we proved book moves helped Leyland turn Albert Pujols and Jim it a little bit today." around the Tigers in his first Edmonds hit RBI singles off Wells in the fourth inning and Jeff Weaver held the popgun Padres in check to lead the in the postseason against San five scoreless innings, allowing Cardinals to a win Thursday at Diego. That includes division only two Padres baserunners as Petco Park and a 2-0 lead in the series sweeps last year and in far as second base. He struck division series. 1996. out three and walked three. 
The two-time NL West cham­In those eight games, San Relievers Randy Flores, Josh pion Padres spoke about going Diego has led for only four Kinney, Tyler Johnson and deep into this postseason. Heck, innings, all in Game 3 in 1996. Adam Wainwright pitched four if they don't start hitting the They ended up losing that game innings of two-hit ball. ball, they might not go deep into 7-5 when Brian Jordan, who Wainwright got the last four this weekend. made a spectacular diving catch outs for the save. 
San Diego has now lost nine in the eighth inning, hit a two­Padres rookie Josh Barfield straight postseason games dat­run homer off Trevor Hoffman doubled off Wainwright with ing to its World Series sweep at in the ninth, with the ball land­two outs in the eighth before the hands of the New York ing in a palm tree beyond the Adrian Gonzalez grounded to Yankees in 1998. left-field fence at Qualcomm second. 
Pujols got three more hits Stadium. Weaver struggled so badly after homering in the 5-1 victory Overall, the Padres haven't led with the Angels this year that he in Game 1. in a postseason game since was traded to make room in 
Weaver, dumped by the Los being up 3-2 against the their rotation for his younger Angeles Angels with a 3-10 Yankees after seven innings of brother, Jered. But he earned record, and four relievers com­Game 3 of the '98 Series. Scott this start by going 4-1 with a bined on a four-hitter. The Brosius stunned the Padres with 4.03 ERA in eight road starts Padres have only 10 hits in the a three-run homer off Hoffman with St. Louis. first two games and are 0-for-1 0 in the eighth inning -his sec­The Padres obtained the 43­with runners in scoring position. ond shot of the night -and the year-old Wells from the Boston 
Game 3 is Saturday at St. Yankees won 5-4. Red Sox on Aug. 31, mostly Louis. Game 4 would be Sunday, Weaver, making his second because of his history of post­if necessary, but history sug­postseason start, outpitched season success, which included gests otherwise. Wells, who was making his 17th World Series championships 
St. Louis, which barely avoid­postseason start and 27th with Toronto in 1992 and the ed one of the biggest September appearance dating to 1989. Yankees in 1998, when he beat collapses ever. improved to 8-0 Weaver gave up two singles in San Diego in Game 1. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. m 3 f.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds, 
During Football Season -Do not Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk Rent or Hotel it. Buy apartment to stadium, Terrace Ln. 
WANTED complex. 10 one·bdrm furnished 269·930-8038. swmient@qtm.net units. 4 miles to NO. Great investment or convert to con-House for home games. FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. dos. Call Larry 574-255-9363 or 4 doors from NO. Flexible schedules, no exp. need· 257·0039. Call Gary at 574-993·2208. 
ed, customer sales/service, condi· lions apply, all ages 17+, Special collection of vintage NO RV NO home games. Sleeps 6·8. Call Today football items on display and avail-Transportation, tailgating & lodging. 574·273-3835. able for purchase at the College 574-243-5547. 
Football Hall of Fame every home game Friday starting 9/29 from 9 House for rent for football week· FoR SALE a.m. to 6 p.m. Call 574-257-0039. ends. Sleeps 6·8. 
Call Kay Rental Homes for Sale in good con· evenings at 269-663-8203. dition. Make $100 to $400+ per 
Investment homes for sale near month per home. Own up to 19 HOUSING FOR 2007·2008 2­NO. homes with little money down with 6 Bedrooms 866·521-8989. good credit. Call Kathy w/Preferred www.N Dstudentrentals .com 
Properties at (574) 292·8177 or Investment homes for sale near email PreferredSB@aol.com 45 minutes from Notre Dame NO. Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round 866·521·8989. cabins sleep six. 
Call Lumberjack Resort 
FOR RENT
Home for Sale: 531 W. Angela near 269·646·2181. NO, $98,500. 2 BR w/den,base· ment,garage. Upscale Football Weekend House ­Call Barb Foster, BLUE & GOLD HOMES, Escort Optional. ReMax 100 (574)968-4208 or off-campus homes & weekend 574-993·8333 (574)271·0111. rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net 
Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home  Rooms for rent for football week·  
Fbaii,Sr  ends. Close to campus. Call 574·  
Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER­ 243·0658.  PERSONAL  
Spring/Summer.  
Mike:312-618-4722  7-bdrm house avail. this weekend.  
Perfect for FOOTBALL WEEK­ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Home for Rent: 3 BR,garage,  ENDS/REUNIONS,  not go it alone. If you or someone  
McKinley Terrace,  etc. 269·369-1 003.  you love needs confidential support  
$775 month, lease, no pets. Broker  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
Owned.  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
574-968-4208 or 574-271-0111.  TICKETS  information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer.  
2 rooms in private home w/separate  ATTORNEY Lyn Leone available.  
entrance for football weekends.  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ Underage consumption, DWI. 574·  
Shared bath.  1570  272·1968.  
Close to NO.  
57 4-259-8603.  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  Its bear hunting season. GO BILLS!  
232-0964  
Bed & Breakfast, NO home games,  Hey Thomson, make sure there's  
2 bedrms, private bath,6 miles west  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  no glass in the room when you're  
of South Bend Airport.  TOP DOLLAR PAID.  watching the Mets. You will break it.  
Call574·289·2919 and leave mes·  NOBODY WILL PAY MORE.  Then, because your prone to sui­ 
sage.  574-288·2726.  cide, you'll decide to slit your wrists  
with some of the broken glass.  
Undergrad/grad student (1 ), turn,  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK- Then. after you've had a blood  
clean 3 room apt. close to NO, quiet  ETS. BEST PRICES.  transfusion at the hospital, and  
wooded setting.  574·232·2378.  placed under arrest for attempted  
Minimal domestic assistance, if pre·  suicide, the Mets will still be out of  
ferred, will reduce rent.  Need UCLA tix.  the playoffs.  
272-6377.  Call 816·560-2856.  It's just not worth it.  



OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
COtv\PlLED FRO!v\ THE OBSERVER'S VVIRE SERVICES page 17 
Men's Soccer Top 25 
team  W.L-T  preu.  
1  SMU  11-0·1  1  
2  Maryland  10-1~0  3  
3  Virginia  10-1~0  5  
4  Clemson  8~1-1  2  
5  West Virginia  9·1·2  9  
6  North Carolina  10·2·0  8  
7  UC Irvine  8·1·1  22  
8  NOTRE DAME  7·3·2  17  
9  South Carolina  9·2·0  6  
10  Washington  8·2-0  4  
11  Wake Forest  9·2·0  11  
12  Fordham  6·0·3  12  
13  Kentucky  8-2-1  RV  
14  Indiana  6-3-2  NR  
15  Duke  7·2-1  14  
16  UCLA  6·3·2  NR  
17  Memphis  8-2-0  15  
18  Illinois-Chicago  7·1·2  7  
19  Fairfiled  6·2·1  NR  
20  Old Dominion  8·2·0  12  
21  Brown  7-1·2  20  
22  Saint louis  6·1·1  NR  
23  San Diego State  5·3·1  NR  
24  San Francisco  7·3-1  NR  
25  Boston University  7-3-1  NR  

Women's Soccer Top 25 
team W·L·T prev. 
1 NOTRE DAME 11·0·1 1 2 North Carolina 12·1·0 2 3 Santa Clara 9-2-0 3 3 UCLA 9·2·0 5 5 Florida State 8-1~1 4 6 Portland 9·2·1 7 7 West Virginia 9-1-2 6 8 TexasA&M 8·3·1 8 
g 
Wake Forest 11-2-0 12 10 Illinois 7-4-0 15 11 California 7·1·2 13 12 Boston University 9·2·2 10 13 Vlil Oklahoma State 9·2·1 17,:;v,;, 14 Penn State 7·3·2 , 9 "W'H· 15 BYU 9·1·1 18 16 Virginia 7·3·2 14 17 Colorado 7·2·2 21 18 William &Mary 9-1·2 16 19 Utah 7-4·0 23 20 Louisville 9·1·1 25 21 Florida 7-4·1 20 22 Texas 8-3·1 11 23 Maine 9+1 22 24 Arizona 7·4·0 24 24 Duke 7·4·1 NR 
Big East Women's Volleyball 
team Record 
1 St. John's 4·0 2 Notre Dame 3·0 3 louisville 3·1 4 Villanova 3·1 5 Marquette 3·1 6 USF 2·1 7 Cincinnati 2-2 8 PiHsburgh 2·2 9 Seton Hall 2-2 10 Rutgers 2·2 10 Connectilcut 1·3 12 Syracuse 1·3 13 Georgetown 0·3 14 DePaul 0-3 15 West Virgini 0·4 
around the dial 
MLB 

Philadelphia at Chicago Cubs 8:05p.m., WGN Chicago White Sox at Detroit 7:05p.m., Comcast 
NFL 


NASIIVILLE, Tenn. -A repentant Albert II aynesworth won't be charged with assault for bashing his cleat into the bare head of Dallas Cowboys center Andre Gurode. An unprecedented five-game suspension may not be the end of his pun­ishment, however. 
After consulting his fami­ly all week, Gurode said Thursday he's decided not to press charges agains the Tennessee Titans defnnsive tackle. 
Hut with their own fans stil angry about Haynesworth's latest trou­ble, the Titans are investi­gating their options and trying to decide if they even want him around anymore, according to spokesman Robbie Bohren. 
As a former player him­self and co-chairman of the competition committee, Titans coach Jeff Fisher has been angry with his top run stopper all week. Fisher did not immediately return a telephone mes­sage left Thursday. 
"To me, the resped fac­tor was violated by Albert," he said Monday. 
Seven games will remain on the Titans' schedule once Haynesworth's five­game suspension ends. The five-year veteran has one more $5.5 million sea· 
son on his contract, but the winless Titans will have enough salary ~ap room in 2007 to easily absorb the hit if they release him. 
Haynesworth's stomp has been shown on count­less TV replays, lam­pooned by national come­dians and unanimously critieized -even overseas. 
Haynesworth stepped up damage control with a news conference Thursday in which he apologized to all who watched what he did Sunday in a 45-14 loss to the Dallas Cowboys. He admitted he was an emo­tional player who is start­ing counseling and will work with Nashville chil­dren to share the lessons he has learned. 
lie got welcome news shortly before his news conference, when Gurode announced through his agent that he would not seek charges despite still having 30 stitches in his face and headaches. 
A lawsuit remains a pos­sibility. 
"He's agonized and he's deliberated back and forth on this, and he has no desire to pursue any crimi­nal charges at this time," said his agent, Kennard McGuire. "But I think in going forward this young man just wants answers." 
IN BRIEF 

Bonds' trainer released 
from prison 

SAN FRANCISCO -A federal judge ordered Barry Bonds' person­al trainer released from prison Thursday, blaming a legal "snafu." 
U.S. District Judge William Alsup said Greg Anderson must be freed because a federal appeals court had­n't affirmed the contempt order within the required 30 days after Anderson was jailed. 
Anderson, 40, could be returned to prison if the appeals court affirms the Aug. 28 contempt citation. 
The trainer has been imprisoned twice for refusing to testify before a grand jury investigating whether the Giants slugger committed perjury when he said he never knowingly used steroids. 
Bonds told a 2003 grand jury investigating BALCO that Anderson gave him what he believed to be flaxseed oil and arthritic balm. Anderson later pleaded guilty to dis· tributing steroids and money laun­
dering, serving three months in prison and three months' home detention. Carlisle signs extension,
becomes team executive 
INDIANAPOLIS -Any Indiana Pacers players talking back this sea· son to coach Rick Carlisle wili also be mouthing oil' to a team executive. 
Carlisle signed a multi-year con­tract extension and added a new title as executive vice president cf basketball operations. The new posi­tion puts him directly below CEO Donnie Walsh and president Larry Bird and gives him more clout in dis­ciplinary matters. 
"It lets the players know that there's a front-office position associ­ated with the head coach," Walsh said. "He's not just hanging around. He's part of what we do up here." 
Terms were not disclosed in Thursday's announcement. 
"I was confident that we'd come to some kind of an agreement," said Carlisle, who has a 146-100 record going into his fourth season with the Pacers. "Things worked out well. I think it shows we've got a common vision for the team, not only this year but for the future of the fran­chise." French goalke.eper Barthez 
announces retirement 
PARIS -Goalkeeper Fabien Barthez announced his retirement from soccer Thursday, three months after helping France reach its sec­ond World Cup final. 
"I am starting a new .life," Barthez said. "I will continue to enjoy myself ... but without soccer. 
"Some goalkeepers continue until 37 or 38," the 35-year-old Barthez added. "But I needed a human adventure, something like that." 
Barthez, who helped France win the 1998 World Cup and 2000 European Championship, isn't attached to a club and hasn't played since July 9, when the French lost a shootout to Italy in the World Cup final. 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISMENT 



Stacy Nyikos 
Squirt and Shelby 

.. 

Ted Mandell 
Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys 

,..-· 
Sharon Bui 
Future Domers A Child's Guide to Notre Dame 
3pm-5pm 

BACK ro F:AHTI 
Kerry Temple 
Back to Earth: A Backpacker's Journey into Selfand Soul 


SATURDAY, OCT. 7 
9:30am-11 :30am 


Angie Jurkovic 

Notre Dame Coloring and Activity Book 

Pam Ogren 
Creating Happy Memories 

Jason Kelly 
Mr. Notre Dame 

Mike Steele 
The Fighting Irish Encyclopedia 
11:30am-1 :30pm 



Karen Heisler 
Fighting Irish Legends, Lists and Lore 



Gerry Faust 
Tales From the Notre Dame Sideline 



Friday, October 6, 2006 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles not taking 0-8 Comets lightly 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Olivet hasn't won a match all season. But that doesn't mean the Belles have a freebie this weekend. 
The Belles (12-6, 5-4 MIAA), who are fifth in the MIAA con­ference, will take on Olivet 
tonight. Olivet (0­17, 0-8 MIAA) is last in the confer­ence and the only team without a win this season. 
Saint Mary's hopes to recover from its recent loss against the MIAA leader No. 19 Calvin. The Knights, who are 10-0 in the con­ference and 17-1 
overall, swept the Belles in straight games 30-16, 30-19, 30-19 on Wednesday. 
With Olivet on the other side of the MIAA conference stand­ings, the Belles hope to improve their fortunes and keep the Comets at the bottom of the MIAA pile. 
Saint Mary's head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek says the team is ready. 
"We have had some ups and downs over the past week, but I am looking forward to our Olivet 
Investment Services Center located at: Ill West Edison Road Misha'vvaka, IN 46545 574/254-4416· wv.rw.ndfcu.org 
match," SchroedPr-Biek said. 
After losing two conference matches in a row, Schroeder­Biek knows her team has some things to work on. 
"We need to come in strong and. take care of our game," Schroeder-Biek said. "We need to get in the flow of competition again as a squad -much more talk out on the court, [and] 
··we have had some ups and downs over the past week, but I am looking forward to our Olivet match. ,, 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach 
everyone coming prepared to compete. Our primary goals [are to] work hard together to get in sync again." 
The Belles have already taken on Olivet once already this season, beating the Comets 3-0 on Sept. 7 with 

game victories of 30-19, 30-39 and 30-25. 
Key players to watch in tonight's game will be sopho­more middle blocker Cathy Kurczack and senior setter Amanda David. Both players were honorable mentions for the MIAA Conference Player and Specialty Player of the week. 
The Belles take on the Comets tonight at 7 p.m. at Olivet. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaOI @saintmarys.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
-~ 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Team at home for two matches 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame comes back to 
the Joyce Center this weekend 
for a pair of home matches 
against Marquette and 
Syracuse -the first time the 
team will play on familiar 
ground in over a month. Its last 
appearance at home was a 3-0 
loss to then-No. 6 Santa Clara 
Sept. 3. 

"It's so nice to be back in the 
Joyce Center," Irish head coach 
Debbie Brown said. "Not hav­
ing to deal with delays and 
long travel [is fantastic]. I don't 
think any of our flights have 
been on time this season." 

The Irish {9-5, 3-0 Big East), who are set to play Marquette today at 4 p.m. and Syracuse Sunday at 1 p.m., will look to continue their dominant win­ning streak amongst Big East opponf'nts and advance to the top of the conference. Having beaten Rutgers, Villanova and Seton Hall, Notre Dame is one of two teams in the Big East that has won all Df its confer­ence games so far this season. 
Big East rival Marquette (7­8, 3-1 Big East) is confident coming into the match. Like Notre Dame, it has won five of its last six matches. While Brown has now totaled 500 career wins, the Golden Eagles are one win away from that milestone number as a pro­
gram. 

Marquette has strong offen­sive players that have been putting up solid numbers. Junior Kimberly Todd averages 
4.84 kills per game and senior Jamie Mueller has posted 3.98 kills per game this season. 
The Irish offense, however, 
Investing for your future is tnore important than ever. 
Our Investn1ent Services Department can help you n1ake the investn1ents that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
has been equally as potent, 
posting 15.6 kills per game ­
the same average as 
Marquette. Freshman outside 
hitter Christina Kaelin leads 
the team with 3.93 kills per 
game. Notre Dame has also hit 
with more consistency than the 
Golden Eagles, hitting a confer­
ence best .325 in Big East 
matches compared to 
Marquette's .246. 
Both Marquette and Notre Dame are very formidable teams defensively, ranked sec­ond and third in the Big East, respectively, in digs per game. The Irish defense averages 
17.35 digs each game. Mueller leads Marquette with 5.32 digs per game. Senior libero Danielle Herndon leads Notre Dame with 5.14 per game. 
Hoping to gain an advantage over their opponents this weekend, the Irish have been working to improve their defense even further. 
"We worked a lot this week on defensive positioning and individual digging drills, trying to work on our blocking and defending," Brown said. 
Syracuse has managed to put together a three-game winning streak this past week, improv­ing its overall record to 6-16 (1-3 Big East). Led by junior Cheryl Cobbina, who has 4.18 kills per game, the Orange hope to improve at the middle hitter position. The Orange defense averages 15.14 digs per game, led by Joscie Kaup's 
5.32 average. Historically, Notre Dame has had s·uccess over both opponents. Since · entering the Big East, the Irish have only dropped two games to each team and have won a combined 60 games against Marquette and Syracuse. Regardless, the Irish under­stand the importance and intensity of this weekend's matches. 
"The Big East is really wide open this year," Brown said. "It's a really competitive sea­son, making each match that much more important. It's like we're playing a championship match every week." 
Contact Devin Preston at dpresto1@nd.edu 


ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine

......_____.!!!~.-~ ............---~-­
-~ ·~ 
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------------~~~~~-~------------­
'~:····~ :~ 
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk., Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 

(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland a.re~ near Pendle Road on 3 I 



NOW OPEN ?iJ{l!J6melu ~ 
at Macri's, formerly Macri's Deli. 
574.280.4824 
--"1. ~ c· 
~%f!teHiie .Yfalian 611:Jtile 
lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am-3pm dinner: Mon-Sot Spm-10pm 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Phoxes down Lewis; Farley blanks McGlinn 
By MATT HOPKE and KATE DONLIN Sports Writers 

A clever Brynn Johnson reverse was all it took for the Pangborn Phoxes (5-0) to seal their 25-0 victory over Lewis and continue a dominant run that has the team looking like the favorite heading into the playoffs. 
Thursday's game was called four minutes into the second half after Johnson's touchdown put the Phoxes up by 25, forcing the mercy rule to come in effect. 
Pangborn's offense has been unstoppable, generating 81 points in its last three games. Opposing teams -like Lewis -have strug­gled with the variety of weapons the Phoxes present. Quart;erback Katie Mooney is a threat both in the air and on the ground, throw­ing for another three touchdowns Thursday. Her receivers-junior captain Katie Riemersma and freshman sensation Meghan Bescher -have been equally strong, combining for over 100 yards with three Bescher touch­downs. 
"Offensively we had a strong game," Riemersma said. "We wanted to focus on running deep­er routes and we did so well." 
A nice compliment to Pangborn's high-powered offense is a defense that has recorded shutouts in the Phoxes' last two games. 
The Chicks (0-5) turned to thier running game, but the Phox defensive line was up to the chal­lenge, limiting the Chicks to less than 50 yards on the night. 
The Phoxes will face Breen­Phillips this Sunday, while Lewis will wrap up their season with a game against Farley. 
Farley 19, McGlinn 0 

Thursday's battle between Farley and McGlinn ended just 24 minutes into the game after the Shamrocks forfeited the second half. McGlinn's season continues to be plagued by unexpected challenges that have made it tough to see the results they want. 
Only eight McGlinn players showed up for Thursday's matchup -the minimum required for a game to take place. 
The Shamrocks started out with the ball, but turned it over on the first play ofthe game. 
Once Farley gained possession, it wasted no time advancing the ball down the field. Farley's quar­terback, Brittany Baron, consis­tently connected with open receivers. Farley scored its first touchdown off a short pass to Annie Parrett, but failed the extra point attempt. 
McGlinn's strategy was to com­plete lots of short passes and slowly work its way toward the end zone. On a risky fourth down attempt, the Shamrocks fell just short of the first down, turning the ball over on downs to Farley. 
Parrett continued to contribute to her team's offense with a cou­ple big runs, darting between defenders and earning Farley a series of first downs. Eventually the Finest moved the ball past the goal line with Baron's 10-yard touchdown pass to captain Kim Crehan, putting Farley up 13-0. 
The Shamrocks hoped to put some points on the board when they got the ball back, but once again failed on fourth down ­this time on their own 18. 
On the next play, Baron tossed the ball to one of her receivers for another quick touchdown. At the end of the half -and what turned out to be the end of the game-Farley led by 19. 
Parrett was happy about the team's win, but a bit disappointed with how it was earned. "McGlinn just wasn't able to get enough players to the field, and since we were within once point of the mercy rule, they decided to call the game at the half." 
Both Farley and McGlinn will play their final games of the regu­lar season next week. Farley will face the Lewis Chicks, while McGlinn plays Pasquerilla West 
Pasquerilla West 33, Howard 6 
Senior leadership and four big interceptions helped the Weasels earn their victory over Howard. The Weasel offense was unstop­pable, and the team managed to put points on the board on each possession. 
Pasquerilla West captain Mo Spring was impressed by her team's play 
"Like all teams it i'> our goal to peak at the end of the season, heading into playoffs, which is what is happening for us now," she said. 
Spring led the Weasel defense along with seniors Brigid Bulfin and Julie Putnam. 
Howard's defense didn't have as much success in stopping the Weasels' charge. Weasel quarter­
back Cara Davies consistently found receivers down field, allow­ing the offense to make first down after first down. On their first possession, the Weasels quickly put 6 points on the board with a 5-yard touchdown pass to Spring, who also caught a pass for the extra point. 
The Ducks had a promising start to the game when Laura Plis intercepted Davies' pass and ran it 40 points for a touchdown. After missing the extra point, the Ducks trailed just 6-7. 
Once the Weasels got the ball back, they made a repeat per­formance of their first drive. Spring grabbed a short touch­down pass, and freshman Cynthia Curley reached over her defender for the extra point, putting the Weasels up 14-6. Before the end ofthe half, Spring once again car­ried the ball across the goal line to give her team a 21-6 halftime lead. 
The Ducks defense continued to struggle after the half. A long Weasels drive -with two big receptions by Curley -culminat­ed in a 5-yard touchdown pass to Bulfin, adding 6 to the Weasels score. 
Before the end of the game, the Weasels managed to intercept two more Howard passes, one of which resulted in another Pasquerilla West touchdown. 
This was the final game of the Ducks regular season. Pasquerilla West will take on the McGlinn Shamrocks Sunday afternoon. 
Contact Matt Hopke at mhopke@nd.edu and Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu 
Friday, October 6, 2006 


.. 
/ 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Playoff berths, seeds on the line this weekend 
the game. Every year, former Knott ·vs. Carroll cially Paul Tassinari. 
By MATT HOPKE and BILL 

residents of Dillon come back Sunday's 2 p.m. Knott-Carroll "Our strategy is just to keep
BRINK 

and practice with the team for matchup on Riehle West field everything in the middle, slow 
Sports Writers 

a day. will have a significant impact down their passing game and That includes Joe on the playoff picture of the keep their offense off the field,"
Alumni and Dillon have oppo­"Crackhead" Parker -a nick­Blue League. Crosson said. 
site intentions. but the same name referring to his affinity An undefeated Carroll squadmotivation for Sunday's 1 p.m. for breaking plates over his looks to stay on top and earn Stanford vs. Keenan game at Riehle Fields. head during the annual Dillon the top seed for October's play­In the thick of a playoff race,
The Dawgs, who at 1-1 are in Pep Rally. offs, while Knott, currently tied a tough, stingy defense is a very
the middle of a playoff run, are Figueredo stressed the impor­with the Sorin Otters for the potent weapon. Keenan will playing for a possible three­tance of these practices for the last playoff spot, desperately wield that weapon once again,seed. The 0-3 Big Red are play­
team's motivation and morale. needs to win this game just to this time against Stanford, at 2 
ing to avoid a winless season. "It's Alumni," said Figueredo, get in. p.m. Sunday on Riehle Fields. 
Both teams, however, know referring to the importance of The Vermin (2-0) hope to con­The 2-0 Knights have allowed exactly how important the the game. "It'll be a fun one." tinue their winning streak by just eight points all season. game is. utilizing a brilliant passing They shut out O'Neill 10-0 last 
"We're always motivated," Zahm vs. Siegfried game that generated 146 yards week and forced three inter­Alumni captain Richard Dancy 
Last year's reigning champ of offense and three touch­ceptions en route to their victo­said. "The rivalry exists no Zahm is still looking for its first downs against the Stedsmen. ry. matter what the records are. win heading into Week 4 of the The Juggerknotts (1-1-1) are "Defense is always our num­
Last year we were 0-2-1, and season, meeting up with the coming off of a solid defensive ber one focus," captain Matt we beat them in the last game Siegfried Ramblers at 1 p.m. on performance that resulted in a Gibson said. "We win games on of the season." Riehle West field Sunday. 6-6 tie with Sorin. That game the defensive side of the ball." 
Although Dillon is winless, But a playoff-ready Siegfried could have settled the playoff Keenan needs a win SundayAlumni has prepared for the squad isn't ready to let Zahm situation in the Blue League, to secure its spot atop the Gold game like any other. get that win any time soon. but the tie made things much League. If Morrissey, also 2-0,
"Dillon has a talented quar­The Ramblers (2-1) have 
more complicated. Knott now beats Keough, both Keenan and terback," Dancy said. "He's looked strong this season, post­faces a must-win situation in Morrissey will be undefeated explosive and fast. We've ing early wins over St. Ed's and order to secure the fourth and for their showdown next worked this week to be able to Knott but dropping their most final postseason slot. Thursday, a game that could 
contain a mobile quarterback." recent game to the Green Wave. "I think everyone on our team potentially determine which Alumni also needs to get its Zahm (0-2) hasn't started the is aware of how important this team will be the number one offense back on track after fail­season well. The Rabid Bats game is to us," Knott captain seed in the playoffs."ing to score in its last game, an have yet to score a point. Matt Crosson said. "Our season 
Stanford will be no pushover.18-0 loss to Morrissey two Zahm captain and quarter­will be decided on this game so A comeback victory two weeks weeks ago. back Sean Wieland expressed we're pretty excited for it." ago against Dillon demonstrat­
"We got a different front from 
the team's new attitude toward The game will be decided ed their ability not only to put
Morrissey than we were expect­the game against Siegfried. between Carroll's offense and points up but also to force ing," Dancy said. "We went "Obviously it's important for Knott's defense, both teams' turnovers and make defensive back over the basics. We us to win," he said. "Our playoff respective strengths. On the stops.worked with the line and backs status is kind of in jeopardy so opposite side of the ball, on remembering assignments." we're just going to go out there, Carroll's passing game has Contact Matt Hopke at 
Dillon will have an extra have some fun and play some been potent, capitalizing on the mhopke@nd.edu and Bill Brink momentum boost heading into football." height of their receivers, espe-at wbrink@nd.edu 
OLIVIfl 
nEWTOn·JO"n Friday October ZO 8:30p.m. Morris Ptrforming firts Center Sooth Bend, Indiana 


Ra<k & Roll ttall of Fame Mvmbvrs 

TttE BEfiCtt 
BOYS 
SPECIAL GOEST ERIC BORDON &THE AHIHALS Sonday Hovvmbvr 12 7:30p.m. 
Morris Performing flrts Cvntvr Sooth Indiana 
Ticktts On Sell« At Morris Box Office, 
Supqr Soands In Cioshtn Ct!Qr~ By Phone 574/23~9190 Or Online www.morrisctntqr.org 



Friday, October 6, 2006 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's to face key MIAA opponent 
By DAN MURPHY ~ Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to get 

back on track Saturday when it 
travels to Michigan to take on 
Olivet College. 
The Belles are recovering from 

their first conference loss this 
season, a 2-1 defeat at the hands 
of the Albion Britons. 
Albion's Brittany Cortese 

scored twice in the game, includ­
ing burying a rebound late in the 
second half to give the Britons 
the lead for good. Saint Mary's 
was able to produce plenty of 
opportunities in the last few min­
utes but could not overcome a 
sloppy first half of play. 
"I don't really know what to 

blame it on, but for whatever 
reason we were not ready to go 
in the first half," head coach 

Caryn Mackenzie said following 
the loss. 
The team's lone goal came 

early in the second half when 
Ashley Hinton took advantage of 
a penalty kick to net her third 
goal ofthe season. 
Olivet also struggled to pro­

duce any offense Tuesday when 
it battled Kalamazoo to a 0-0 tie. 
Comets goalkeeper Kellie 0' 
Dowd turned in a solid perform­
ance with seven saves on the 
day. O'Dowd has allowed just 
five goals in her four starts this 
season. 
"We just need to be more 

aggressive, especially with balls 
in the air," senior Colleen 
Courtney said. "We are going to try to get more shots on net, hopefully long shots." 
Leading the way on offense for the Comets this year has been forward Cori Barrea. The sopho­more leads the team in points with six goals and an assist. She has already doubled her produc­tion of three goals from her rookie season in 2005. 
Barrea scored both goals for Olivet in a recent comeback to tie Albion 2-2 and maintain its unbeaten record in the MIAA. The team has one win and two ties in conference play so far, which puts it just behind Saint Mary's in fourth place. With a win Saturday, the Comets would take possession of third place away from the Belles. 
In order to keep its spot in the rankings intact, Saint Mary's hopes to get its offense clicking again. Sisters Ashley and Lauren Hinton have provided most of the production so far this year, with 10 of the team's 12 goals. Colleen Ferguson and Caroline Stancukas round out the scoring for the Belles with one goal apiece. 
Stancukas has stepped up her play in her senior season, consis­tently producing chances from the wing. 
"Stancukas works really hard out there -she was one of the few positives in the [Albion] game," Mackenzie said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles ready for Eagle Invite 
Runners confident after last week's solid performance in Chicago 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 

The Belle runners head into the Eagle Invitational today in perhaps the best shape they have been in all season. 
Many Belles coming off per­sonal bests last weekend at the Sean Earl Invitational, hosted by Loyola University Chicago. Megan Gray was the top indi­vidual for the Belles, breaking 20 minutes for the first time this year with a recorded 
19:27. Sar.a Otto was just shy · of the 20-minute mark, finish­ing the 5K with a 20:10. 
Saint Mary's came in 17th out of 33 teams, with Case Western University taking the overall team crown. 
"Many of the girls stepped 
up," said Belles head coach Jackie Bauters of her runners' performance in Chicago. "Megan Gray has been a con­sistent leader for us, and is on top of her game right now. I was excited to see Alicen Miller and Caitlin Stevenson race well. I think we'll see a lot 

nour competition is doing well too, it's going to be tough, but I feel like we're on the right track to really peak at the championships, which is our goal." 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
close our scorers distance." 
Miller and the other Belles pushed themselves especially hard this week in practice, with local storms and chang­with hill and bridge at the bot­tom," Bauters said. "It's flat besides the hill just before the mile mark.... It's typically a good race for us." 
ing weather con­ditions making training a little bit complicated. 
Bauters, how­ever; was pleased that the team managed to log some good hours on the course. 
"[We were] try­ing to put a little more quickness in the team, incorporating some more speed 
rather than strength training," 
she said. ­Last year 
at the Eagle Invitational, hosted by Benedictine University in Lisle, Ill., the best times out of the current ros­ter came from Otto with a 20:20, Katie White with a 20:58, Kelly Biedron with a 2 1 : 2 0 . Stevenson with a 21:25 and Miller with a 21:56. 

more out of them in the next "fThe course has] a tight 
few weeks which will help start going into the first mile 
However, wet conditions from ..Things are starting recent storms could make the
to pick up for the 
course run
team, and this past 
slower than weekend·s success usual. With the
has really boosted 
M I A A
the confidence ofthe 
Championships
team." looming in the near future ­to be held at
Jackie Bauters 
Alma on Oct.
Belles coach 
28-the Belles hope to peak during these next few races. 
The Belles hope to better last year's fifth place league finish, and Bauters is confident with the state of the team's prospects. 
"I feel like the team is in a good place right now for the MIAA a month away from now," Bauters said. "Things are starting to pick up for the team, and this past weekend's success has really boosted the confidence of the team ­they're excited to compete. 
"Our competition is doing well too, it's going to be tough, but l feel like we're on track to really peak at the champi­onships, which is our goal." 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdomerl@nd.edu 


page 22

... 
HOCKEY 

Irish take ice in exhibition game 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame had only six days 
to prepare with its coaching staff 
for tonight's exhibition game 
against WindsQr, but the team 
spent the off-season in the 

weight room to get bigger and .jumpstart an offense that fre­quently lagged last season. The first day the Irish could otlicially hold practice was Sept. 
30. The 7:30 p.m. game in the Joyce Center against Windsor will be the only exhibition match-up of the season, as. the Irish open the regular season Thursday night at home against l\.1..innesota State-Mankato. 
But the short amount of prepa­
ration time does not compare to 
the struggles the team faced last 
year when it had to learn new 
systems and a new coaching 

style under then first-year head 
coach Jeff Jackson. 
"As far as learning the systems 

and what not, you think it would 
be a little easier and a little less 

growing pains, because we've 
had a year under Coach 
[Jackson] and we know how he 

works," captain T.J. Jindra said. 
·Jackson said that the pick-up 

hockey and shinny -a free-for­
all fight over control of one or 
more pucks -that the team 
played over the summer has led 
to a decrease in turnovers and 
better puck protection in prac­

tice. Players have also devoted 
the off-season to putting on mus­

cle mass. 
"[We've] been in the weight room an awful lot," Jindra said. "We're just trying to get bigger and stronger, a lot of guys have put on some weight. That's what coach wanted." 
The Irish players that returned this season averaged 190.2 pounds each in 2005, while this year those same players weigh in at 200.2 pounds per man. 
The Irish hope that their offense that finished 1Oth out of twelve teams in the CCHA in goals scored per game-2.47­and 11th in shots per game ­
25.61 -will benefit and that the extra weight will cause more wins in corner battles. 
And although Notre Dame rm­ished with middle-of-the-pack numbers in CCHA defense, the additional pounds could gum up the opposition's ability to move within the Irish zone and add physicality to a penalty-kill unit 
that was third-worst in the 
league in kill percentage. 
"Some of the younger return­
ing guys have shown great 
improvement in the weight 
room," Jackson said, "And right 
now it looks like they may carry 
that over onto the ice." 
The team has carried its unity onto the iee as well and wears it on their backs -literally. Eyery Irish practice jersey has the No. 7 steamed onto it, and it holds a special meaning to the players and coaches -a meaning that they won't say beyond the locker room. 
"Lucky number seven," Jindra joked about the _number's signifi­cance. 
Notes: 
+Jindra was named team cap­tain Monday by Jackson, and it is the second year that the senior has held that role. Jindra was joined by senior alternate cap­tains Jason Paige -also in his second year as alternate captain -Wes O'Neill and Tom Sawatske. 
Jackson said he and Jindra had to learn to trust each other early last season, but were soon able to establish a common bond. 
"The one thing about him is he wears his heart on his sleeve and he's very sincere," Jackson said. "We talk about ownership, and he was the first guy that really 
bought in and said that he was going to stand up for this pro­gram and make sure things are done in the right way." 
+Sophomore forward Erik Condra was selected by the Ottawa Senators in the seventh round, 211th overall, of the NHL Draft June 24. Condra led the Irish in scoring in his rookie sea­son, the first freshman to do so since Jamie Ling did it in 1992. 
+Irish defenseman Luke Lucyk has left the program for a year to spend a season at the junior level. Lucyk will return to the Tri-City Storm, his former team in the United States Hockey League, but will re-join the Irish next season. Jackson said that Lucyk's age allowed him to make the switch in order to gain more experience and his scholarship will still be there upon his return. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 



JENNIFER KANG/The Observer Irish junior defenseman Brock Sheahan grabs the puck in Notre Dame's match against Michigan Nov. 4, 2005. Michigan won 8-0. 
Friday, October 6, 2006
The Observer+ SPORTS 


....,.l 1Stlll1t1ier
S 1~.1KCSf)C<:1fC 
"1 h.e f$h_:~f~?=':?.i·PH~l ..l h~::;i ~ ~-·:t:~ ~.n: ~-~ li:~~ i~t::,.::•:fH::.f:~ ~~t f. h ..~~ ()~~i:v·$..~ f.~~~~:y ~-::'f t-..J<~~: r~;: L~ht.3t·H~ 
We're seeking Notre Dame and St. Mary's student actors, directors, stage managers and production assistants in all areas! 

YOUNG COMPANY PROGRAM 
2007 Summer Season 
Informational Meeting 
Thursday, October 12 5:00-6:00 PM Decio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Come find out how much fun you could have! 
Contact Producing Artistic Director Jay Skelton at 63 1-2636 or gskelton@nd.edu for questions or additional information. 
1: J ·.N•· l \,l .E., P S l Y.·r· '\''' () F
.. r 
-·*.· .· .... . .....•.;-,.. ··'·.'... ·.· -·. ·.·.··.· ...l.-............~.·.. ... .. 

. N(_)T.R E~ I:lA ~1 E 

The N'otre Dame Prelaw Society presents: 
cccapital Punishment: American L a"W", Catholic Perspective'' 
Monday, October 9 6:00p.m., Debartolo Hall, ·Room.126 
Professor Ho"W"ard J. Bromberg, Ave Maria School of La'\V 
About the speaker: Professor Bromberg began his law career as Legislative Counsel for United States Congressman Thomas Petri of Wisconsin. He then worked as an Assistant District Attorney in the Appeals Bureau of theNcw York C~ounty lJistrict Attorney's Office. tie has taught at the University of Chicago Law School~ Stanford Law School, Harvard Law School, and the University of J\fichigan Law School. He served as the founaing Director of Ave Maria School of Law's three-semester Research, Writing, and Advocacy Program and currently teaches Property, American J...egal History, and ()rigins of the (~onstitution. Professor Bromberg holds a Bachelor of Arts with high honors from Harvard College, a Juris Doctor with honors from Harvard Law School, and a l\Iaster of the Science of l.aw frotn Stanford I ...aw School. 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NO BASEBALL 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Players take field in fall scrimmage 
Stark Relays mark start of season 
Swimmers attempt to 3-peat as Big East Championship begins Friday 
our Big East title, work our Sophomore Michael Bulfin,
By CHRIS HINE 

way up to top 15 in the Dual who qualified for the NCAA Sports Writer 
Meet polls, qualify a solid nationals, will dive for the 
group of people, including Irish, along with junior Sam 
Defending two straight titles relays, for the NCAA champi­Stoner. 
is hard. Defending two straight onships so we can score some Stoner and Kegelman said 
titles after graduating ten sen­significant points once we get the Irish shouldn't miss a beat 
iors from last year's champi­there," Kegelman said. "To after graduating 10 seniors. 
onship team is even harder. accomplish these things, we "Our senior class last year 
The Notre Dame men's must consistently turn in fast was big and quick, but I could swimming and diving teams times in our dual meets when say the same thing of our will start down the road to we race during intense, mid­entering freshman class," defending their previous two season practices." Stoner said. "There are a few Big East Titles this weekend at Also returning this year is guys who have cuts for the Rolfs Aquatic Center in the junior Jay Vanden Berg, a Olympic trials already, so it Dennis Stark Relays. three-time Big East champion will be exciting to see how 
The Irish will compete and owner of school records in they do in the meet." against five other schools in the 1,650-yard freestyle, 500-The team's upperclassmen the 13-event meet. yard freestyle and 1,000-yard have liked what they've seen 
"Our expectations are very freestyle. so far from the younger mem­simple, but very demanding," Senior tri-captain Ted bers of the swimming corps. head coach Tim Welsh said. Brown, who set the top time in "Two sophomores will be "All we expect is for the team the 200-yard freestyle, will racing for us for the first time, to improve in every event. provide some much-needed Sam Pendergast and Jeff We're not worried about the versatility for the Irish. Brown Wood, both of whom bring a scoreboard. If we improve, the was a part of the 800-yard lot of speed to the team," scoreboard will read how we freestyle relay team with fel­Kegelman said. "Having the want it to read." low senior captain Louis new guys has increased the 
Associate head coach Matt Cavadini, senior Brian level of the practices, which Tallman was also optimistic Freeman and junior Rob Seery. will benefit us all this year." about Notre Dame's chances. Last season, The event is named in honor 
"We really look good. The Brown competed in the of longtime head coach Dennis guys are swimming well. Even 1,000-yard freestyle, the 200-· Stark, who was the program's the guys who are returning yard fly and the 400-yard indi­first head coach from 1958 this year have looked better vidual medley. until 1985, the year Welsh than they normally have," "We have big expectations took over the program. Tallman said. this year that include not only "[Stark has] been great," 
The Irish will be led by sen­winning the Big East Welsh said. "This is the 42nd ior tri-captain and nine-time Championship for the third year in a row we've begun a Big East champion Tim straight year, but also sending season where he's either Kegelman, who is the first a big group to the NCAA coached or been the meet ref­swimmer in school history to meet," Brown said. "We've set eree. He'll be the meet referee compete in the NCAA national the bar of excellence high again this year." meet. Kegelman holds school because we feel like we're a records in seven events. special team this year that can Contact Chris Hine at 
"Our team wants to defend do big things in the water." chine@nd.edu 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame will have its first 
games under new coach Dave 
Schrage this weekend -and 
Schrage is guaranteed three 
wins. 
The annual Blue-Gold 
intrasquad series kicked off 
Thursday with sophomore 
righty David Phelps squaring off 
with junior right-hander Joey 
Williamson. 
"We're trying to play it as close to a spring game as we can," Schrage said. "It's kind of the culmination ofthe fall." 
Each game is a seven-inning contest, with Game 2 and 3 coming Saturday at 9:30 p.m. and Sunday at noon. Schrage said he is looking for "crisp" defensive play, even if the offenses play well. 
"If it's high scoring and we're hitting the ball all over the place, that's fine," Schrage said. 
Saturday's game features starting pitchers Wade Korpi, a junior left-bander, and fellow southpaw Sam Elam, a sopho­more. 
"The guys have thrown well this fall," Schrage said. "They've had a great fall and I think the biggest thing is look­ing for consistency out of them throwing strikes." 
Pitchers are limited to 7 5 pitches over the course of the series, which may limit the amount of work relievers get in. 
Sophomore right-hander Kyle Weiland, who has worked with the starting pitchers this fall, will be in his usual role of clos­er for the series. Weiland had 
· 16 saves last season with a 2.37 ERA in 49 1-3 innings pitched. 
Schrage said he expects the pitchers and hitters to be on par after four weeks of fall practices. 
"Guys have competed really hard this fall for some posi­tions," Schrage said. "What we're looking for is to see how our guys have progressed." 
Notes: 
+Schrage brought in some help to coach the series. 
Irish pitching coach Sherard Clinckscales will manage the Blue team with the help ofColin Burns of Irisheyes.com in Game 1, Irish Illustrated's Tim Prister in Game 2 and Michiana celebrity Jeff Jeffers of WNDU­TVin Game 3. 
For the gold team, volunteer assistant John Fitzgerald will have the support of WSBT-TV's Pete Byrne in Game 1, Blue and Gold Illustrated's Ryan O'Leary in Game 2 and Sean Stires of ESPN Radio in Game 3. 
"It's something that I did at Evansville," Schrage said. ··one it involves the people that cover us. We have some ammunition with those guys in the spring when they get on us." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Waterford ~states Lodge has hotel rooms for upcoming Notre Dame football weekends. 
(And check out our loW rates!) 
\'<le have even lo\Ner rates for the North Carolina and Arn1y weekends, too. Corne stay with us. And enjoy son1e hearty tare and a pint to \Nash it down \.Vith at Brigid's Irish Pub. It's your destination for pre-and post-game parties and open ·seven nights a week. 
Waterford 
estates lod-ge . f ,....~-1\
' 

www.waterfordestateslodge.com
s Ltsmore 
877-783-8496 
Fine Cuisine 

Waterford Estates Lod;se is located at 52890 S. R. 933, just north ofthe Notre Dame campus. · ' \Y./e arejust minutes from downtown South Bend and the South Bend Re<~ional Airport. . 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, October 6, 2006 
Upgrade 
continued from page 28 

the program ... Certainly it's a recruiting jolt," Brey said after White's press conference Thursday. "I think it dearly says, point. 
"I think it's going to impact our program dramatically from coast to coast," McGraw said. "I think from our fans perspective, our season tickets are capped in the lower bowl. Our fans don't want to sit in the bleachers." 
The arena's renovation is the next step for the basketball pro­
'We're going for 
it."' 
Like Brey, Brown -whose team fmished 30-4 last season with only one loss com­ing at home ­understands the importance of hav­ing an attractive facility to show recruits when they visit campus. 
"Every improve­ment that we have helps," Brown said. "When kids come into the arena ... and go, 'Oh wow,' it's a 

··where do we strategically put our sixth man so it really becomes a home court advantage? Maybe {we·lll get our sixth man really on top of the court. ,, 
Mike Brey Irish men's basketball coach 
gram, which received new locker rooms and team rooms before the 1999­2000 season, and a remodeling of its coaches' offices last season. 
The only ques­tion in Brey's mind concerns where they will seat the students. 
"Strategically moving our stu­dents ... where do we strategically put our sixth man so it really becomes a home 
good thing. Every little thing court advantage?" Brey said. added to the arena will help. "Maybe [we'll] get our sixth man Even having video on the score­really on top of the court." board will help." According to the statement 
White said specif­released ic changes will Thursday by the include new seat­Notre Dame ath­
··1 think it•s going to 
ing in the entire letic department , arena -including impact our program "work on the the replacement of from coast to renovation will the upper-level begin after the
coast.,
bleachers with project· is fully individual chair funded and back seats. With Muffet McGraw designed. The that change, the University is
Irish women's 
arena will be able actively seeking
basketball coach 
to fit approximately 9,800 people ­down from the 11,418 it current-_ ly holds. 
It will also feature a 16,500 square foot stadium club/hospi­tality arena in the south end of the building with premium club seating and a separate entrance from the rest of the arena. The premium club seating will also have private bathrooms and food stands. 
McGraw hopes the addition of seat back chairs in the upper level will affect the number of fans the team draws-especial­ly from a season ticket stand-additional contri­
butions." 

But for Brey, regardless of construction, the arena's redesign is already being used for recruiting purposes. The coach said he has copies of the renderings in his office to show recruits and their families on football weekends to display the "new look that they will play in one day." 
"Big time commitment comes across," Brey said. "I want the place to become a tough ticket." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Recruit 
continued from page 28 

"I've always been a recruit­ing nut since· I got here," Castellan said. "What we're trying to do is something that's completely legal to get the Notre Dame fan base together." 
Lemming said this weekend is the perfect time for Notre Dame to make some noise with the recruits because of the quality of defensive prospects on oflicial and unofficial visits. 
"It's probably Notre Dame's most important weekend of recruiting," Lemming said. "It's some of the top defensive play­ers in the country. It's guys that it's imperative to get." 
That's not lost on Castellan. 
"This week is a huge week­end," Castellan said. "This weekend, especially, we have a really good shot at beating Stanford. With a win and a good experience -they see the crowd really into it -that could really help." 
Castellan said he's tried to stay updated with NCAA regu­lations on contact with recruits so that his group doesn't cost Notre Dame any prospects. As of Thursday night, he said the group had nearly 200 mem­bers. 
Lemming said the Notre Dame coaching staff may have stra,tegically set this weekend as a big recruiting period, hop­ing players who choose soon will lean towards Notre Dame after just visiting. 
Linebacker Chris Donald of Huntingdon, Tenn., (Huntingdon High School) is "one of the top two" players at the position, and defensive back Harrison Smith of Knoxville, Tenn., could give the Irish much-needed depth in the secondary, Lemming said. 
Both players have Notre Dame and Tennessee at the top of their lists at this point. Lemming said Smith's visit will be unofficial, as the 6-foot-2, 205-pound recruit already made his official trip. 
"[Sinith] is one of the premier free safeties in the nation," Lemming said. "He already came officially. It's a good sign for Notre Dame that he's com­ing back for this." 
What's more, defensive end Ben Martin of Cincinnati (La Salle High School) and safety Mike Williams of Ventura, Calif. 

12 AcRES 
CLEVELAND FID f 
(St. Bonaventure High School) 
will be in attendance Saturday, 
Lemming said. Both are consid­
ered top-1 0 prospects at their ·position. 
Lemming said Martin is 
choosing between Ohio State 
and Notre Dame. 
But the recruits in town are 
not just limited to the defensive 
side of the ball. 
Top-20 running back 
Armando Allen of Hialeah, Fla., 
(Hialeah High School) will be 
visiting Notre Dame this week­
end, Lemming said. 
A high-profile offensive 
recruit, though, isn't out of the 
ordinary for Notre Dame, 
Lemming said. 
More than five months after 
Westlake Village, Calif., quar­
terback Jimmy Clausen (Oaks 
Christian) committed to the 
Irish and coach Charlie Weis on 
national television, Lemming 
says some of Notre Dame's best 
offensive recruiting tools are 
far off campus. 
"Clausen himself has become 
one of Notre Dame's best 
recruiters," Lemming said. 
"But he calls the offensive kids 
mainly." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
+-I­

.. 
SA 23 


-PRilVIE C01vtl.VIER.CIAL LAND -BE-rw·EEN GRAP:E R"L"") &::: 1\/IA:I"N s-rREE-r -782, ::E-l:I<."i-HWAY FRONTAGE • I-80/90 Toi..L RoAD [2 !V1ILEs] -N'C>TR.E DAlVIE CAIVtPUS [3 MILES] 
• NEAR HI<-"TH-ENI:> RE:rAil... DEv:ELC:>P:MEN·~rs 
SA~DY F-IACi-E.~ 
(574) 243--9575 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
Rank 
continued from page 28 
in conference play. 
Ranked No. 22 by Soccer Buzz magazine, the Scarlet Knights are used to giving the Irish stiff competition. The Knights fell to the Irish 1-0 in overtime last year in Piscataway when forward Kerri Hanks drilled mirltield­er Brittany Bock's pass into the net in the 96th minute. In 2004, the last time Rutgers visited South Bend, it played Notre Dame to a scoreless draw, marking the last time the Irish lost or tied a game at home. 
Given the history of the match up, captain senior defender Kim Lorenzen says the Irish are prepared for a battle. 
"Rutgers is always a very 
well organized team," Lorenzen said. "They usually have an all around solid [team]. All around the field they're consistently good and I think our styles of play go together, and it's always a good game." 
The Knights enter the weekend seventh nationally in goals against average (.3 56), allowing seven shots per game in a defense that hopes to test the nation's third best scoring offense that outshot Pittsburgh 31-1 last Sunday. Irish freshman forward Michele Weissenhofer will look to continue breaking down Big East defenses. 
Weissenhofer was named conference offensive player of the week and Top Drawer Soccer national player of the week following her three goals and assist last week­end in wins against then-No. 

Notre Dame forward Molly Iarocca dribbles past Pittsburgh midfielder Megan Watson during Sunday's 5-0 Irish win. 
FREE RALLY ToWELS 
6  West  Virginia  and  
Pittsburgh.  
But  the  Irish  can't  get  

caught up in Sunday's matchup, Lorenzen said, because they still have to take care of business against Seton Hall Friday night. The Irish spend most of the week working on their own games, but Lorenzen said Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum makes it a point at practice to focus on the first foe of each weekend. 
"We talk about our own team and improve our style of play," Lorenzen said. "To improve the way we're play­ing the past couple of weeks is usually our main concern. [But] generally during the week we focus us a little bit more on the team we're playing Friday night." 
Seton Hall enters the week­end 6-5-1 and 2-2-1 in the Big East after beating South Florida and Georgetown and tying Marquette in its last three games. The Pirates also upset then-No. 15 Virginia earlier in the year. 
Lorenzen hopes a strong Irish crowd Friday night could help quell any ideas the Pirates have of an upset. Last weekend, Lorenzen said a large and loud student sec­tion was a critical part of a 3,000-strong crowd that helped turn the second-half momentum against West Virginia -numbers that carried into Sunday as 2, 700 filed in to watch the Irish beat Pitt. 
"I would definitely say hav­ing that large of a crowd Friday and Sunday real1y changes the game," she said. "When we got down Friday 1-0, having the crowd build the momentum made a big difference knowing you have that support and everyone's yelling for you." 
This weekend's noise will begin tonight at 7:30 p.m. followed by a 1 p.m. start Sunday. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
SmNBA'r, 

w~~~r.r§m~-.,-~~··~~ 
#1WOMEN's SoccER #15 MEN's SoccER 




TAKING A BREATHER 

... 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 6, 2006 
\ 
suffers. Last March during the first­
Arena 

round CCHA playoffs against continued from page 28 Alaska-Fairbanks, the Boxing 
Club's Bengal Bouts also took held back by forces it cannot place in the Joyce Center, and control when it should be on its the heat generated by the box­way to the NCM tournament ers and spectators wreaked and a national title. havoc before the biggest Irish 
Jackson turned a five-win hockey series since 2002. team the season before into a The ice became slushy and 
contender for  puck control and  
the CCHA  skating slowed  
crown, and in the off-season compiled a 2007 recruiting class that many col­lege hockey ana­ College hockey programs around the country have used new arenas to  down, playing into Alaska's physical, defen­sive style ­and no amount of work by the  
lysts say is the best in the coun­try. The Longer the team goes  transfrom average teams into national champions,  arena staff could save it. The Irish were swept out of the  
without a new arena, the longer it's devel­ especially in the past I o years.  series in two close games. Notre Dame  

opment toward the goal of a national championship is delayed. 

And yet Jackson still con­vinced the best 14-year-old defenseman in North America, Cam Fowler, to choose Notre Dame over Michigan and Ohio State -both prominent pro­grams with prominent arenas. 
Ramshackle and downtrod­den are both more apt descrip­tions of Notre Dame's ice facili­ties. Jackson and his coaches must duck in half to avoid ram­ming into steel supports in the equipment room after games just to have a private post­game meeting. 
That same equipment room floods under several inches of water in February when the ice is removed to accommodate Junior Parents' Weekend. 
The ice frequently melts under the intense body heat and varying conditions often present in the Joyce Center's north dome. With the hockey arena situated in only one half of the dome, many events are held next door-and the ice held its first team 
practice of the year Sept. 30 -only a week before its opening game ­amid a throng of football fans guzzling beer and brats within a puck's throw. The team attempted to work out the ofT­season rust, but Jackson could not be heard by any of his players over the crowd and the deafening whine of construc­tion equipment. 
The facilities erode team chemistry as well. The team does not have a lounge or room in which they can hang around before practice or dur­ing free time -the crucial times where teams forge the bonds that create champi­onships. 
Jackson took a drastic meas­ure and rescinded a team rule -a rare event -to allow his players to watch television in the locker room before prac­tice. Outside of the locker room, the Irish have little more than a few hardwood benches and rubber mats in a drafty tunnel for recreation. 
But Jackson, his staff and the players accept the inconven­iences the arena offers and have made it their home. 
College hockey programs around the country have used new arenas to transform aver­age teams into national cham­pions, especially in the past 1 0 years. 
Minnesota had not won an NCAA title since 1979 when it built the new Mariucci Arena in 1994. The Golden Gophers won back-to-hack champi­onships in 2002 and 2003, fol­lowing a run of tournament appearances. 
Wisconsin's hockey program had fallen on hard times in the Late 1990s before it built the Kohl Center in 1998. The Center is a multi-purpose bas­ketball and hockey arena that houses 14,000 people when configured for hockey. 
Both the Badgers men's and women's hockey teams were 2006 national champions and were perennial contenders in the WCHA for the eight sea­sons prior to the titles. 
This success can and will be replicated at Notre Dame. It was guaranteed the day White hired Jackson as his new hock­ey head coach. 
White works now to secure the funding that is necessary to build a new arena, and has shown a dedicated effort dur­ing his tenure to improve every sport's situation. The one obstacle that remains is to gain monetary backing by benefac­tors. With that in place, itis fair to say that architectural plans will follow shortly there­after. 
If Jackson has accomplished this much without facilities on par with his CCHA peers, imag­ine what he could do with a new arena. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Protege 
continued from page 28 
and he currently leads the nation with 15 goals. Lapira is ahead of Winthrop's Saidi Isaac by one goal. 
While Lapira has scored all of the Notre Dame goals in each of the last two games, Clark is not concerned that his striker is being asked to do too much. 
"The nice thing is. all the goals have been provided by different people, and there's a lot of great passes [coming from other play­ers]," Clark said. "He's our fur­thest up striker, [and] he's the one that's going to get most of our goals. That's his position." 
However, Clark says the Irish would still benefit people putting the ball in the back of the net. 
"Just by nature of his position, he should be the guy [who gets most of the goals], but it would be nice if the other guys can score now and again," he said. 
Defensively. the Irish will rely on the efforts of senior goal­keeper Chris Cahill. Cahill has given up just one goal in the past five games, and has kept a clean sheet in each of the last three games. 
The Hoyas (4-8-0, 1-5-0 Big East) will be led by forward Ricky Schramm, who leads the team with eight goals. 
Georgetown is coming ofT a 5­

·?3 
• Spot-Free 
~iWASH 
:·. Rinse 

0 rout of Howard Tuesday, their most lopsided decision of the season. 
"They're coming of a big victo­ry, [so] they're obviously going to be very confident," Clark said. 
The Hoyas also enter with a history of upsetting the Irish. Last season, Georgetown, which finished 10-9-1 and 6-5-0 in the Big East, defeated Notre Dame, which ended up going 12-8-3 and advancing to the round of 16 in the NCAA tournament, 1­0. 
"They're a team that's been a spoiler for us," Clark said. 
Clark anticipated that any momentum that Georgetown may have entering the game would be negated by the Irish's own momentum, as the team is currently in the midst of a sea­son-high four game win streak. 
He also hoped that the atmos­phere surrounding Saturday's football game, which begins two-and-a-half hours after the soccer game does, would spill into Alumni Field. 
"I hope plenty of people come to see us play," he said. "It's always very difficult to play on a football Saturday. We've tried playing after the games, and we always felt it was a little bit of a flat game, and we hope that a lot of fans will come out and cheer on the Irish." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
52694 State Road 933 ~ South Bend, Indiana 46637 !
•
Just narth of Notre Oame on U.S. 31 ~ 
~--------------------------------· 


University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 

With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes Healey 
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2006 SAME TIME AND PLACE 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 For Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 

Friday, October 6, 2006 
page 27
The Observer+ TODAY 

JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
NEW A.AA\\/A\...5
' 

C:Jil\\\-IER. tilo..tf-1()-WE.L..C.OMf. "To Vol HIIE-fE.t\.t> ON C::JP\ME. ~'f· 
'fOU  HA.vE.  ~  ~  'fOU -n::.u..  us w 1-\E.RE.  
A  SPAAWL-11·-'ts  -rl-iE..  ~H '-'rc\.£.  l S "?  
WJ:\~TE.t.AND  o~  
R\1 s , PoR..T-o­-:5C>HNS, AND \NA.r-JI:>E ~I Nl::r  II WAS $ W -n:> C::l'C:..\ IN , l,-5 ~~-~.ER. ~ 10 F't>R s H.UTn..E:.. t:>\ R.Ec...,.. t ""'"'s. -A~H.ts.~ i\40 F"'oe._ A  
f~~~~~~~~~~~S~H:E~~PA.  


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 23 Grammy-51 Not as exciting winning violinist
1 Apes 52 Sometime 
Hilary today, say5 Money in a 

24 "Iceland" star, 53 Anjou pair Swiss bank 1942 54 First name in 
1oAthlete feted 
25 Place 1950's politics with a New York 
26 Pennsylvanie, 55 Up, in a wayCity ticker-tape e.g. 
56 Teri Garr's 

parade in 1998 28 Some hits: Abbr. "Young
14 Home of the Frankenstein"
' I 30 Seat of El Paso
philosopher roleCountyParmenides 
57 Best Actor
37 They help in

15 Be straight nominee for 
making some "Affliction," 1998 16 Subj. of a calls 58 Coven : witchesmakeup exam? 38 Norman 

::clutch:
Rockwell17 Cover sheet 59 Slangypainted herabbr. 

rejections

eating a 18 Architect Jones sandwich 60 Bun component 
19 Store that offers 39 General 61 Ready to be Moo Malts character junked 40 Way
20 Single mujer: DOWN
Abbr. 41 Knock off 1 Chow line?
21 They may get 43 Tripartite treaty engaged 2 Super-relative
47 Sun worshiper Puzzle by David Levinson Wilk 3 Ultimately
22 Innovative chair so Requiem title 12 New York skater 32 Cartoon cry 42 Point of 
triumph

designer Aarnio word contention
13 "Look !" 33 Revealed, in
4 Starting point of -­
verse

the Chisholm 27 Where Orlando 44 Fire ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Trail finds Rosalind, 34 Sun. 
45 Dijon daughter 
in Shakespeare worshiper's5 Follower of the focus 46 Milk dispensers 
captain's orders 29 Encore elicitor 35 Educ. test 48 Pointe-Noire's
6 Soprano 30 One that home
Fleming performs best 36 Old Black Sea when tired? borderer: Abbr. 
7 Like some zoo 49 Calm's collections 31 Iowa relative 41 Used for cover opposite 8 Film vamp linked to 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aValentino 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 9 They have party Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday restrictions crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
1o Roof sights past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

11 Jacqueline Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Susann best solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.

seller 

.. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
J]]J&il~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
Quick, Get out of the car to form four ordinary words. turn w~h your hands up 
ACNIP 
rJ 
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~"i;f"l 
tCLURUN I 

WHAT THE: BANK
[] ROBBERS FAC.ED
J I I 
WHEN THE:Y HIT THE
www.jumble.com 
ROADBLOCK. DREHWS 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
rJ (]
1 suggested by the above car­

(Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday' I Jumbles: GNOME TAWNY GRIMLY BARROW 
s Answer: Where Dad "drove" Junior when he asked for 
a ride-TO THE LAWN MOWER 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kate Winslet, 31; Josie Bissett, 36; Guy Pearce. 39; Bernie Mac. 48 
Happy Birthday: This year, he the one to step up to the podium and be a leader. Show your desire to actually get things going and you will motivate others to follow. This is a year of honor, fair play and leadership. Your numhers are 4, 19, 26, 31, 35, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may not be thinking practically hut you will pull things oil hy being determined and refusing to consider that you may fail. Your belief in yourscll will count today. so don't let anyone tell you differently. You will advance. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel limited hy youngsters or the elders in your life. Incorporate what they can offer you into your plans and you can tum a negative intc a positive. Find out more about the proposition being offered. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Keep your emotions out of whatever you are doing today and you won't face any setbacks. Someone will not be on your side. Love and romance are in the stars so put time aside for passion. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let someone who questions everything you do stand in the way of your progress. You have options and decision~ to make and you must do so of your own free will. This is not the time to give in to someone's selfishness or Jealousy. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes at home may he heart rendering hut. at the same time. they wtll bring you peace. A deal can he made, a settlement agreed upon or even a move put into play. Rid yourself of what's not working. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Talks will lead to a commitment and a positive change in your life and your relationships. A short trip to visit someone who can offer you information about something that interests you will be the first step in a new direction for you. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make a move that will lead to a better future. Don't he so afraid of change or letting go of things that arc not really working for you any more. Be a little adventurous. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Family, children and socializing should be your focus. Helping someone will bring you satisfaction as well as ensure that you will get help when you need it. Being reactionary will be what counts. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't trust yourself to see things clearly at an emotional level. You can expect someone you care about to tum on you or let you know how he or she really feels. Be honest and speak from the heart. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Today is all about your future and making the right choices. Don't let your own insecurities hold you back or lead you to believe you don't have enough ex.perience and knowledge. Just go for it. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stop confusing matters by second-guessing what you are going to do next. Act on your instincts and don't waffle. Mistakes happen but at least you will make more headway than you will by sitting and contemplating what to do. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Your emotions will cost you financially if you give in to the demands heing put on you by friends or family. Your intent should be on making money not letting it filter through your fingers. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have the potential to be a leader. You are honest. care about others and consider what's best for everyone around you. You are a strong contender but lackadaisical when the interest isn't there. 
Eugenia's Weh site~: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
Published ~1onday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________ . ______ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ 
...---------------------­
m m 

THE OBSERVER 
t \ 
p
,,I 
' 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
page 28 
fOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Analyst: Students can have recruiting impact 
from Georgia and Ole Miss to Dame's student body, from Castellan and Matt Wharton 
By KEN FOWLER 

Tennessee and Ohio State -what I noticed, are all on caf­have started a group on 
Sports Editor 

work as active participants in feine. They're bouncing like facebook.com, "NO Students the recruiting war. crazy. And I think that energy Today for Continued Excellence There's a new push in town "The one thing I could notice could help a lot if they make Tomorrow," that promotes what -and it's for getting the Notre at other schools is that the fans more noise [towards the recruits are coming to campus Dame student body more could let the recruits know recruits]." each weekend and encourages involved in the recruiting they're there," Lemming told At least some students, students to recognize by name process. The Observer Thursday. "A lot though, are trying to change each recruit in cheers at pep National recruiting analyst of the students [at other the perception Lemming put rallies and games. 
Tom Lemming said he has seen schools] know who these forward. 
students at other schools -recruits are. But the Notre Notre Dame seniors Chris see RECRUIT/page 24 
NOTRE DAME ATHLETICS 
Honte rentodeling 
By BOB GRIFFIN 

Sports Writer  
When Notre Dame athletic  
director Kevin \\'hite announced  
the $24.7 million renovation on  
the current Joyce Center arena  
Thursday, there were three par­ 
ticularly satisfied faces present  
to absorb the news.  
Because for Irish men's bas­ 
ketball coach Mike Brey,  
women's basketball coach  
Muffet McGraw and volleyball  
coach Debbie Brown ­all three  
whose teams use the facility for  
home games -the improve­ 
ments will not only provide a  
better atmosphere for fans, but  
also an additional allure for  
high school recruits.  
"It's great in recruiting and  
with some of your young guys in  Drawing courtesy of Notre Dame Athletic Department  
Notre Dame men's basketball coach Mike Brey, women's basketball coach Muffet McGraw and vol­ 
see UPGRADE/page 24  leyball coach Debbie Brown support plans for renovations to the Joyce Center, announced Thursday.  

HocKEY 
Current arena not adequate 
The right coach and his staff are in place. The team has bought into the philosophy. 
And North America's best recruits give verbal commits to 
Irish hockey before they can even drive. 
Yet Notre Dame is forced to play in a Joyce Center arena that has 


never been  Kyle Cassily  
adequate, let  
alone state- 
of-the-art.  Sports Writer  
That's  
unacceptable.  

And it appears set to remain that way for the foreseeable future after Thursday's unveil­ing of massive renovations to the Joyce Center by athletic director Kevin White did not include a single mention of the hockey facilities. 
White and Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves said that plans for a new hock­ey facility were still in the con­ceptual stage pending funding and that they would not advance to a more definite plan until the backing was in place. 
That is a sound strategy to follow, but the hockey team is 

see ARENA/ page 26 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Squad aims to protect rank 

PHIL HUDELSONThe Observer Irish midfielder Susie Pinnick slides in for a challenge against Pittsburgh defender Carli Brill in Notre Dame's 5-0 win Sunday. 
Seton Hall, Rutgers to test Notre Dame 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

No. 1 Notre Dame wel­comes a pair of New Jersey schools to South Bend this weekend with the top spot of both national and Big East rankings on the line. The Irish (11-0-0, 4-0-0 Big East) take on Seton Hall tonight and Rutgers Sunday afternoon at Alumni Field. 
And if Rutgers (1 0-1-1, 4­0-1) gets by DePaul tonight in Chicago, it will enter Sunday's match undefeated 
see RANK/ page 2 5 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Former Irish assistant returns as opponent 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Georgetown's first-year head coach Brian Wiese has a mentor who is well known in South Bend-Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark. Before taking over the Hoyas' program, Wiese had spent 10 years as an assistant under Clark, five at Stanford and five at Notre Dame. 
Clark said Weise will come into Saturday's noon matchup with Notre Dame with a far superior knowledge of the Irish roster than any other Notre Dame opponent. 
"If anyone knows the way we play and our players, it's Brian Weise," Clark said. "That's going to be something we'll have to deal with. He'll know us better than anyone else in the country outside our own staff." 

Clark, however, said that No. 8 Notre Dame won't be changing its game plan. 
"We always just play the way we play," he said. "Our players have got to be mentally tough. We're going to do what we do, lbut] we've just got to be able to do it well." 
The Irish (8-3-2, 5-2-0 Big East) will be led by standout striker Joseph Lapira. Lapira has been the main focus of the Notre Dame offense the last few weeks -scoring two goals in each of the last four games ­
see PROTEGE/page26­
MEN'S SWIMMING 
SMC SOCCER 
MEN'S INTERHAll 
ND VOllEYBAll

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
MtB 
Ll.l 

u Swimmers are set to 
The Belles look to 
Knott prepares for a 
The Irish return home

Pangborn 25, 
Tigers 4, 

z commence season at 
improve record to 3-1 
do-or-die battle against 
to take on Marquette

Lew1s 0 
Yankees 3 

s 
Dennis Stark relays. 
Saturday as they travel 
Carroll on Sunday. 
and Syracuse in Big East

The Phoxes beat the 
Alex Rodriguez strikes 
to Olivet. 
matches.

Chicks by mercy rule
= out three times as New early in the second half. 
York loses at home. 

a. Cl: ti 

page 23 
page 21 
page 20 
page 19
page 20 
page 16 
en 


Why Notre Dame needs a blowout 
Now we know-Notre Dame can win games. But can they win blowouts? 
The Irish are used to being favorites by now. They know that anything can happen, that the Vegas line doesn't mean any­thing at the end of the game except a few dol­lars have changed hands. 
In five games, they have one win by a dean margin (Penn State), lost one game by much more than expected (Michigan), and had two one-score victories (Michigan State and Georgia Tech). 
But the Irish should have blown Purdue out of the water, and they didn't. They gave up too many plays on defense. They left too many offensive point opportunities on the board. 
That can't happen again. 

This Irish team knows that carrying a two-score lead isn't necessarily safe -just ask John L. Smith. They've shown that they're vulnera­ble to big plays on defense and, more suprisingly, on offense. 
This team is not invincible. But to Stanford, it should be. 
Stanford is 0-5 and has scored just six touchdowns in five games. while giving up 18. Its opponents have outscored the Cardinal by 


-.-,-• t ' ••
. . . . .. " 

page 2 Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
game hype 

..The players are not dumb .... Theres evidence from last years gameofwhat happened, OK, how it was a 
Charlie Wels dogfight. •• Irish coach 
..Our focus has to be on ourselves and doing the things that we do and are 

asked to do. •• Walt Harris Cardinal coach 
..There's a lot of mental things that we ·ve got to be prepared for and kind of work through this whole entire week.·· 
·we·re not 
playing [the] Four Horsemen and we're not 
playing Joe Montana. We're playing a team we have played with before.·· 



124 points this season. 
The Irish carry a slim point differential of 19 points in their favor, a very different story than last sea­son. 
It's time for a blowout win. 

The Irish need a lopsided victory. They need Brady Quinn to compile numbers rivaling the national debt. They need Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija to come up with circus catches. They need Darius Walker to run halfway home to Georgia. 
Because no matter how much these players say that doesn't matter, it does. Individual awards aside, the BCS system is now depend­ent on a spread-out nation of voters. Some of them will use any excuse to rank the Irish lower. 
Last season, Oregon was livid that it was passed over for the BCS and the Irish were invited to the Fiesta Bowl. Being a BCS wall­flower isn't fun, especially after a tough regular season. 
This season, the Ducks demolished Stanford 48-10 in the first game of the sea­son. Granted, Notre Dame's first opponent, Georgia Tech, is compiling a more respectable record than the Cardinal after doling out its own dominant win at Virginia Tech last week. But when Oregon and Notre Dame are up for at-large BCS spots, the way they per­formed against common opponents -Stanford, UCLA, USC -is going to 
matter. Granted, it's not the most important thing. A win is a 
win. But when something like the BCS is on the line with the Gator Bowl, every point is an argument in your favor. 
A dominant win over Stanford will send the Irish 
into a bye week with good karma. Brady Quinn breaking a few more passing records­probably ones he already holds, but who's count­ing?­would be a nice cap for this game. 
Notre Dame is a game that to prove. 
This isn't to say that there's no place for class in football. There is, and Irish coach Charlie Weis has shown it. Calling a play for a dying boy -that's class. 
Congratulating  
opponents  
The Irish need a  after a heart- 
lopsided victory. They  breaking home loss last Oct.  
need Brady Quinn to  15 ­ that's  

compile numbers rivaling class. Calling 
the national debt. They need Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija to 
. h . 
come up wzt czrcus catches. They need Darius Walker to run halfway 
. 
home to Georgza. 
Stanford can get up for. Last season, a Stanford team with a 5-5 record took Notre Dame to the wire with everything at stake. Walker's $14 million two-point con­version saved the day, but it was more of the same for the Irish -giving up too many big plays on defense. 
This game should not be a shootout. Trent Edwards isn't bad, but with two top receivers out, he shouldn't have anyone to throw to ­let alone any time to throw. This is a game where the defense should come up big every time, holding Stanford to three-and-outs and pre­venting 88-yard pass deba­
cles (see last week's Purdue game). The Irish have something 
off the dogs
with just a two-score lead -that's just
asking for 
trouble. Breaking the 50-point barri­
er would be nice this week­end. So would 
keeping the Cardinal from 

reaching the end zone. A blowout win would help dull the leftover pain from the Michigan game and ease the stress that fans still feel after a close call at Michigan State. 
The Irish didn't play their best game against Purdue, but they played well enough to win. Well enough to win isn't always enough, though. As long as humans are run­ning the polls, a blowout or two is always going to be necessary. 
Sorry, Stanford. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 

Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

The no-huddle offense has been crucial for Brady Quinn and the Irish this season, allozving fast transitions and keeping defenses off-balance 
would eliminate the defense's 

By BOB GRIFFIN 
ability to make substitutions 

Sports Writer 
based on player mismatches. 
Wyche also noticed that in a 

Irish coach Charlie Weis no-huddle system, the defense 
arrived at Notre Dame with a would become tired before the 
playbook as thick as an encyclo­ofTense. And of course, given a 
pedia, four golf-ball sized rings team's inability to stop the clock 
and about 15 years of coaching without using a timeout, a 
experience at the professional defense had more trouble mak­
level. ing necessary adjustments. 
And given his background, it's Wyche's innovation proved to 
no surprise he introduced the create major contentions 
Irish to his version of the no­among other coaches who 
huddle offense -an instrumen­would instruct their players to 
tal part of his success in New fake injuries in order to stop 
England and something that's the clock. It was because of the 
already been a catalyst in the no-huddle offense that the NFL 
past two seasons in South Bend. made rules to counter its 
So far in· 2006, Notre Dame effects. 
has used the no-huddle, or Teams are now charged an 
hurry-up offense, as a way of injury timeout when their play­
catching defenses off guard and ers are hurt, the injured player 
allowing Irish quarterback is forced to sit out one play 
Brady Quinn to settle down and before re-entering and defenses 
develop a connection with his are given adequate time to 
receivers. make personnel changes when 
Separate from the two-minute the offense makes substitutions 
offense, which is also a no-hud­-mostly because of Wyche's 
dle set but has the added imme­system. 
diacy of driving down the field The hurry-up offense contin­
at the end of a half-Notre ued to evolve in the early 1990s 
Dame moves quickly to the line when Buffalo Bills coach Marv 
of scrimmage in these forma­Levy took the no-huddle to the 
tions where Quinn reads the next level. 
defense and the team works off Quarterback Jim Kelly, receiv­
a limited playbook. er Andre Reed and running 
Offensive tackle Ryan Harris back Thurman Thomas led the described Notre Dame's no­Bills to four straight Super Bowl huddle offense as &. slightly appearances in the early part of slower version of the two­the decade. Their· offense, minute tempo, but with the known as the K-Gun, worked same focus of confusing defens­many times strictly out of the es. no-huddle. 
Of course, the two-minute Kelly's efficiency in this set offense has been equally pro­would become one of his most ductive, with memorable drives lasting impacts in the NFL. coming in games against Weis discussed what made Stanford and USC in 2005, and the K-Gun so effective in his Michigan in 2006 -where the press conference Tuesday, game's only offensive produc­explaining the key to an effi­tion came on an eight-play, 72-cient no-huddle offense is sim­yard series to end the first half. plicity and execution -some­
But like most things Notre thing Kelly's group worked to Dame football related -either riear perfection. form of the no-huddle offense "The biggest problem that simply comes down to execu­coaches have is when they get tion. into a mode like that, they try to 
"You just want to make sure have too many plays," Weis you communicate everything to said. "I think the Buffalo Bills the rest of the team so there's back in the K-Gun days with no one hung out there, just Jim Kelly ... but back when the hung out to dry, unsure of what Buffalo Bills were lighting it up the call is, unsure of what the going up and down the field, play is," Quinn said in his press they had about ten plays total. conference Wednesday. "That's all they ran, and no 
one could stop ~hem." 
Sam Wyche, Jim Kelly and the history of the no huddle Coming down to execution 
Weis did not invent the no­Weis' no-huddle works effec­huddle offense, but at the same tively for similar reasons to the time, its implementation hasn't K-Gun. The Irish coach under­quite existed since the advent of stands the importance of sim­the forward pass. In fact, it plifying the playbook and rely­wasn't until the late 1980s ing more on other factors to when NFL teams began using create an imbalance in the this hurry-up style as a major offense's favor. part of their offensive reper­"It's not the amount of plays," toires. Weis said. "It's having a quar­
Cincinnati Bengals coach Sam terback who understands the Wyche was the first to use it as plays, getting the protection set a major part of his gamP plan in right, and being able to run it the late 1980s. Wyche coached with a sense of urgency because the Bengals from 1984-91 after what you've done is simplified a 12-year NFL playing career. what the defenses can do 
His most memorable coaching because you're going to get a moment came when he took lot less looks when you're not Cincinnati to the Super Bowl in huddling up." 1988 against the San Francisco A lot of that pressure rests on 49ers. The 49ers won 20-16, Quinn's shoulders. As the quar­thanks to a last minute drive by terback, leader and signal­quarterback Joe Montana. caller, Quinn effectively 
But his major contribution to becomes the main factor in modern football was his recog­making the no-huddle work. He nition that a no-huddle system has to be responsible for under-

standing coverages -just like 
he would read a regular 
defense -and then making 
sure everyone is on the same 
page. 
Of course, Quinn, like he is 
with most things football relat­
ed, is calm in these situations. 
"We've repped it enough in the past, especially last year and maybe even coming into this year, being behind in games, we've come into it enough, it's like riding a bike," Quinn said. "You don't neces­sarily have to work at it all the time. But once you know it's time to get into that mode you make the adjustment and get out there and start working at it." 

And the two specific situa­ticms where Notre Dame moves into the no-huddle entail differ­ent mindsets. Not surprisingly, Quinn said the main distinction is the urgency of the situation in the two-minute drill as opposed to the regular hurry-up offense. 
"If you're in a two-minute mode, you have to be aware of the clock [at] all times," Quinn said. "The down distance, the situation, how many timeouts. You have all different things like that.'' 
But Quinn is not the only per­son responsible for making the offense run. The receivers, for example, are instrumental in running precise routes and being on the same page to keep the clock moving and the defense from settling down. 
Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, whose pass catch­ing ability and athleticism make him a dangerous threat in the no-huddle offense, understands that the responsibility of ensur­ing efficiency does not only fall on his quarterback's shoulders. 
"Your responsibility is to be in shape, and get back and make sure you know what you're doing and get the calls from the quarterback," Samardzija said Tuesday after prar.tice. "It's a quick operation and you have to be at the right place at the right time and understand that no 
matter what happens on one play, you've got to [get] back on the next one because they're going fast." 
Samardzija, who has been the focus of opposing defensive attempts to limit his effect on the field for much of the season, said it's important to have a smart, veteran group that understands how to work in quick-set offenses. Notre Dame starts seven seniors on offense who are familiar with Weis' no­huddle. 
"We got some older guys that have done it before," Samardzija said. "I think that it's something that takes prac­tice and takes time to master, and when you got on the same page like our ofl'ense is a lot of the time in the two-minute, the quick-run offenses work." 
K-Gun to Q-Gun? 
But regardless of the team's efficiency running both the no-
huddle and the two-minute drill, without a quarterback like Quinn who has distinguished
himself as one of the smartest in the game-the offense can't run as smoothly. 
At the end of the day, it's the quarterback who is responsible for running the offense, deliver­ing the passes and developing communication outside of the huddle. 
Indianapolis Colts quarter­back Peyton Manning is an example of an NFL signal caller that currently runs the no-hud­dle effectively, often calling audibles until the last second at the line of scrimmage. 
But on the college level, Quinn isn't far behind. And his teammates, like offensive tackle Hyan Harris, have the utmost confidence in him. 
"[Quinn's] the best in the country," Harris said emphati­cally Tuesday after practice. "Best in the country." 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
by the numbers 

Consecutive games, dating back to 2005, Stanford has gone 
without a win. This includes a 38-31 loss to Notre Dame last 
7 

season. 
5 
Consecutive games Stanford has lost at Notre Dame Stadium. Notre Dame has also won the last four games of the series. 
Games Notre Dame has played against Pac-10 opponents, the 
118 second-most of any conference. The Irish hold a 74-39-6 edge in the series against the conference. 
186 
Yards Darius Walker gained last season against the Cardinal. He had acrucial two-point conversion to make the final score 38·31. 
Walker's rank on Notre Dame's all-time career rushing list. He's 
1Q

also fifth among current players in touches per game with 22.0. 
8 
Touchdowns the Cardinal has scored this season. Two are rushing scores, and six came on passes from quarterback Trent Edwards. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
' t ' ... 
Friday, October 6, 2006 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 



Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 4-1 AP: 12 Coaches: 12 
Charlie Weis second season at Notre Dame career record: 
13-4 

at Notre Dame: 
13-4 

against Stanford: 1-0 

Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  
1  D.). Hord  WR  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  
3  Darius Walker  RB  
4  Demetrius Jones  QB  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  
6  Ray Herring  DB  
7  Craig Cardillo  K  
8  Racshon McNeil  DB  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  
11  David Grimes  WR  
12  Zach Frazer  QB  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  
14  Bobby Renkes  K  
15  Leo Fcrrine  DB  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  
19  George West  WR  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  WR  
22  Ambrose Wooden  CB  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  
25  Munir Prince  RB  
26  Wadelams  DB  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  
27  David Bruton  DB  
27  John Lyons  RB  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  
29  Jashaad Gaines  DB  
29  Jake Richardsville  WR  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  
32  Luke Schmidt  RB  
33  Nate Whitaker  K  
34  James Aldridge  RB  
35  Ashley McConnell  RB  
35  Tim Kenney  DB  
36  DexCure  RB  
37  Junior Jabbie  RB  
38  Nick Possley  WR  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  
39  Kevin Brooks  TE  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  LB  
41  Scott Smith  LB  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  
42  David Costanzo  WR  
43  Eric Maust  p  
43  Mike Anello  DB  
44  Asaph Schwapp  RB  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  
45  Carl Gioia  K  
46  Michael Planalp  TE  
46  Kyle Charters  LB  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  
49  Matt Augustyn ,  FB  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  
50  Dan Santucci  OL  
51  Dan Wenger  OL  
52  Joe Brockington  LB  
53  Morrice Richardson  LB  
54  Anthony Vemaglia  DB  
55  Eric Olsen  OL  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  
57  Dwight Stephenson  DL  
59  Chris Steward  OL  
60  Casey Cullen  DL  
61  ).J. Jansen  LS  
63  jeff Tisak  OL  
64  Dan Chervanick  DL  
66  Derek Landri  DL  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  
69  Neil Kennedy  DL  
71  Bartley Webb  OL  
72  Paul Duncan  OL  
73  Matt Carufel  OL  
74  SamYoung  OL  
75  Chris Frome  DL  
76  Bob Morton  OL  
77  Michael Turkovich  OL  
78  john Sullivan  OL  
79  Brian Mattes  OL  
80  Richard Jackson  WR  
81  Darrin Bragg  WR  
82  Robby Parris  WR  
83  Jeff Samardzija  WR  
84  Will Yeatman  TE  
86  Mike Talerico  TE  
87  Marcus Freeman  TE  
88  Konrad Reuland  TE  
89  John Carlson  TE  
90  John Ryan  DL  
91  Travis Leitko  DL  
92  Derrell Hand  DL  
93  Paddy Mullen  DL  
94  Justin Brown  DL  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  
96  Pat Kuntz  DL  
97  Kallen Wade  DL  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  
99  Ronald Talley  DL  

Ht. 6-1 6-1 5-11 6-4 6-1 6-0 
6-0. 
6-0 5-11 6-4 
6-0 
6-4 6-2 
6-0 6-0 
6-3 6-3 6-2 5-8 5-11 5-11 5-11 6-2 5-10 
6-0 
5-10 5-9 
6-0 
6-2 6-1 
6-0 6-0 6-0 
5-11 6-1 6-3 5-9 6-0 6-0 6-0 
6-1 5-11 6-1 
5-11 
6-2 
6-0 
6-3 6-1 5-9 6-1 5-10 
6-0 
5-11 5-10 6-4 5-11 6-3 6-2 6-3 
6-0 
6-4 6-4 6-1 6-2 6-3 6-4 6-4 6-2 6-5 6-1 6-3 6-3 6-1 6-3 6-5 5-11 6-7 6-7 6-5 6-7 6-5 6-4 6-6 6-4 6-6 6-3 6-1 6-4 6-5 6-6 6-5 6-3 
6-6 
6-5 6-5 6-7 6-3 6-5 6-3 6-4 6-2 6-5 6-1 6-4 Wt. 192 175 208 202 212 189 170 175 203 227 170 215 207 195 186 186 196 219 179 188 175 197 203 170 178 175 188 215 187 205 189 195 180 193 184 230 165 209 237 180 215 190 183 
185 
230 220 234 231 170 180 180 
250 
174 183 230 195 240 220 220 230 
290 
285 212 228 221 
290 
238 252 340 238 242 305 259 263 
288 
260 
290 
292 288 292 268 292 290 298. 285 200 192 185 216 
250 
245 245 239 255 240 270 301 265 247 260 267 220 293 261 YR 

so 
FR 
JR FR SR 
so 
SR FR SR SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR 
)R 
SR 
so 
SR FR 
)R 
FR SR SR JR )R FR )R SR so 
SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR 
FR 
FR FR FR SR SR FR JR JR 
FR FR JR 
so 
so 
so 
FR 
so 
so 
so 
SR 
so 
)R 
SR 
JR SR FR SR FR SR FR JR FR SR SR FR SR JR 
so 
SR SR SR JR FR 
so 
FR FR SR SR 
so 
SR SR FR 
JR FR SR FR )R SR FR SR FR SR 
so 
FR 
)R 
SR 
so 
FR SR JR 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atGT-W Sept. 9 PENNST.-W Sept. 16 MICillGAN-L Sept. 23 at Mich. St. -W Sept. 30 PURDUE-W Oct. 7 STANFORD Oct. 21 UCLA Oct. 28 at Navy Nov.4 North Carolina Nov.11 at Air Force Nov. 18 ARMY Nov. 25 at Southern Cal  

NOTREOAMEM 
OFFENSE 'lit' 
TAILBACK 
Walker 
jT. Thomas) 
Prince AJU.»ACK QUARTERBACK 
~~~~ 
RIGHT GlfA.RO 
Morton 
Matt~M. 
WIDE 

RFC!o'JVER SMnardlfja Grimes 
WIDE RF.<:'FJVER 
McKnight Anitna5io 
West 
LEfTTACKLE 
H¥rls · 
TUI'Icovich 
Lb1-T "w~·,­Sef'lt\Kd OIMn 




COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH PASSING IRISH RUSHING 
The Irish looked ready  Brady Quinn is 121-for- The receiving corps is  The well-balanced attack  
for Purdue and were able  196 this season with 13  hitting its stride. Rhema  against Purdue featured  
to have a balanced offense.  touchdowns and only four  McKnight has 32 catches  Walker rushing 31 times for  
The defense still gave up  intercecptions. He looked  for 433 yards and six  152 yards and a touchdown  
too many big plays, but  stronger passing to his left  touchdowns and Jeff  and George West adding  
Weis and his staff seemed  side last week after some  Samardzija has totaled  another score. Samardzija  
to adjust well in the second  early-season struggles in  319 yards and four scores.  also ran one in on a fake  
half. The playcalling was  throwing across his body.  Darius Walker has caught  field goal attempt. But in five  
solid, and the special teams  He has shown the resiliency  32 passes as well and is  games, the Irish have accu­ 
fake field goal will keep  to run when warranted and  averaging 6. 7 yards per  mulated just 437 rushing  
opponents guessing.  isn't afraid of being hit.  catch with one touchdown.  yards thi'> season.  
Walt Harris beat the Irish in a heartbreaker in 2004 while he was the head coach at Pittsburgh. In 2005, a mediocre Stanford team nearly destroyed Notre Dame's hopes of a BCS bowl. Harris always seems to get his teams up for games against Notre Dame.  The Cardinal's Trent Edwards has completed 87 of his 143 pass attempts this season and has six touchdowns to match six interceptions. He's also gained 63 yards on the ground, with a long of 19. Last season against the Irish, he was 12-20 for 150 yards and two touchdowns.  On average, Stanford opponents have passed for less than 200 yards per game. They've picked off three passes in five games. Safety Trevor Hooper is second on the team with 38 tackles, and Brandon Harrison has broken up two passes.  Stanford's run defense has hardly been stifling this season. Opponents have rushed for 1,414 yards in five games and they've had just three sacks. The Cardinal has given up 16 rushing touchdowns as opposed to just four passing scores.  
Harris has coaching experience in both the NFL and NCAA football. But that doesn't change the fact that the Cardinal is 0-5 this season. Weis' biggest challenge will be keeping his team focused for all 60 minutes of the game to avoid a situation like last year.  Last season, Edwards completed over 63 perc~nt of his passes. But Quinn'flas proven that he's one of the game's best signalcallcrs after a stellar junior year. This season, he's sturggled at times, but this game is the perfect opportunity for Quinn to start piling up some gaudy stats. l  Stanford opponents haven't seemed to have much trouble scoring through the air, and Notre Dame's passing game is one of the team's biggest strengths. This should be a breakout game for the Irish offense as it looks to make a statement to 'the nation.  Last season, Walker rushed for 194 yards against Stanford in fhe final game of the regular season. With opponents averaging nearly six yards per carry and Walker already coming in at a4.0 average, he could easily match or surpass his total from last season.  


Stanford limps into South Bend without its best 
Stanford has absolutely nothing to lose in this receivers, strongest running back and an 0-5 game. The team is winless at 0-5 and is missing record. The Cardinal is a wounded ... well .. tree Moore and Bradford. Expect the Cardinal to come and the Irish will get Harris and Co.'s best shot. out fired up, maybe scoring on its first possession. Expect Quinn to succeed through the air, but the Unfortunately for Walt Hanis, it mulct be their last 
Irish 

Cardinal offense exploits a struggling Notre Dame touchdown. Notre Dame needs a big defensive secondary to make this game closer than most game after three weeks of allmo\ing more points expect Look for Zbikowski to keep Notre Dame than it anticipated. The Irish won't disappoint
experts 

in the lead with a timely interception, but this heading into their bye week, and the offense will 
Mike Gilloon Bob Griffin
one will go down to the final five minutes. mntinue to click against Stanford's 3-4 defense. 
Editor in Chief ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 45 Asst. Managing ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 42 Stanford 35 Stanford 10
Editor 

Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


Stan ford Cardinal 

h-.Al WIOE RECEIVER Miller 
Yancy 

-('QRN~R!\.CK LEFT TACKLE Rid-tbon Smith .­lAmbert or Mc~l 
~~~\: =:.."':"' ~;:.:::;,., Muth ln!£., ; ) 
Ostrander r , Frome_ \ _ 
U 

'$ Zt· ·. .. ./. 0!r.l 
ROHTQMRD 

• e£ ~~!;.; ~f~~ '~ 
~  ~=~n  _  . ...__.,_....,.~~ ··.-.:!IIHll!iR  INSIDE ~-·> ... ~~1(~r. ·  -_ _.... ! -McCarthy ~ ijBruton  
~8r~, ·;;  I)SB:~j  
TIGHTENO  \ )_  I.FJ'T  'I !  SAFJ;TY  
~Y~hv_ ,', ~~----·o... ·--~  rj  If) ~=ki  
•  r'  .,  .--' '·''?)  
\  j·' J  - ., -..-.1,  ~=:R  I /  
tJ.k~ ENI)  -~  <.}  Vemag~  \li.,•  
Abiamiri  c.::_j  ,.  
Ryan or1. Brown  CORNERBACK/ Wooden Walk  ~  :  DAME DEFENSE  

CARDINAL PASSING CARDINAL RUSIDNG 
The Irish secondary gave up an 88-yard pass in the second quarter last week, missing multiple tackles and giving up too many yards after the catch. Chinedum Ndukwe has come up with some big turnover plays for the Irish this year and is poised for another one. 
Two of Stanford's best receivers, Evan Moore and Mark Bradford, are injured and not expected to play against the Irish. Moore wa.:; the only receiver to have more than one touchdown catch ofthe four Stanford has this year. The team, however, is averaging over 11 yards per reception. 

Notre Dame has given up 737 yards on the ground this season, including four rushing tuochdowns over five games. The defensive line had an excellent game against Stanford in 2005. Victor Abiamiri had four sacks for a loss of 43 yards. 
Harris has said he thinks Anthony Kimble, his starting tailback, could be ready to play at Notre Dame. Stanford's rushing attack has been anemic this season ­totaling less than 500 yards in five games. The team has gotten just two rushing touchdowns. 
Kimble isn't likely to be 100 percent if he plays, although Toby Gimble is averaging nearly five yards per carry. The Irish defense should be able to easily contain any rushing attempts by the Cardinal. With strong play from thP defensive line, Stanford will struggle to gain yards. 
Ken Fowler 

SPECIAL TEAMS 
Notre Dame's special teams have been up and down, but played well against Purdue. Weis has run a fake punt and a fake field goal, gaining two touchdowns. David Grimes has a long kick return of 46 yards and Zbikowski's longest punt return is 25 yards. 
Jason Evans averages 
22.6 yards on kickoff returns to lead the Cardinal. Punt returns have been anemic for Stanford, with just three returns for four yards. Protection hasn't been that good either -the team has also given up a score on a punt return. 
Zbikowski knows how it feels to return punts for touchdownS'~ lf·the Irish can stay focused and force some punts, he might have the chance to get that feeling again. Stanford will also be ~oz:c~d to p[epare Jor­Weis'different trick plays on special teams. 
It's the game before a bye week, and the Irish have to come out strong to make a statement before taking a week off before UCLA. Winless Stanford is the perfect game to put up some big numbers and make noise nationally. The biggest problem is focus. 
Last season's game at Stanford was too close for comfort, and a fired-up Cardinal team nearly came between the Irish and the BCS. This season the Cardinal needs a win and needs it badly to get the season back on track. Harris usually knows how to motivate his teams. 
Notre Dame is playing before its home crowd against an opponent who is statistically inferior in every category. This is not only a must-win. A loss would be a meltdown of epic _proprotions for Notre Dame. The team will stay rocused and perform like one of the nation's best. 
==============================================================---·~---. 
Notre Dame's offense will exploit a defense that has been vulnerable against much lesser offenses. But Walt Harris is an excellent coach who will keep his team in the game. Expect the Cardinal to control the clock much like the Irish did last season against USC. This is the biggest game for Stanford since Notre Dame won their meeting last November, and the Cardinal will come in prepared and primed for 


an upset -one they fall just short of again. Kate Gales 
Stanford 
Cardinal 
Walt Harris 2nd season at Stanford career record: 68-79 at Stanford: 
5-11 

against Notre Walt Harris Dame: 2-5 head coach 

STANFORD 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atOregon-L Sept. 9 at San Jose St. -L Sept. 16 NAVY-L Sept. 23 WASRSt-L Sept. 30 atUCLA-L Oct. 7 at Notre Dame Oct. 14 ARIZONA Oct. 21 at Arizona St. Nov. 4 usc Nov.11 at Washington Nov. 18 OREGON St. Dec. 2 at California  

No. 2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 
11 
12 12 13 14 15 17 18 19 19 20 21 
22 
23 24 
25 
26 27 28 29 30 31 31 32 33 34 35 
36 
37 
38

INTANGIBLES 
39 



40 
41 
42 43 43 44 45 46 47 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 
55 
56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 
66 
67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 
7S 79 80 
81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 · 98 
99 

\'\'hat's been holding Notre Dame back from having a really big game? After last season. expectations exploded, and Quinn passing for 
Roster 
Name Pas. HL Nick Sanchez CB 6-0 Garrett Moore QB 6-2 Mark Bradford WR 6-2 Trent Edwards QB 6-4 David Lofton S 6-4 Toby Gerhart RB 6-1 Evan Moore WR 6-7 Richard Sherman WR 6-3 Tavita Pritchard QB 6-4 Marcus Ranch WR 6-2 Aaron Zagory PK 6-0 Derek Belch PK 5-11 
C.J. Easter CB 6-0 
T.C. Ostrander QB 6-3 Tim Sims CB 5-11 Alex Loukas QB 6-4 Carlos McFall S 5-11 Charlie Hazelnut WR 6-2 Nicholas Ruhl QB 6-3 Aaron Smith S 6-0 Clinton Snyder LB 6-4 Thaddeus Chase LB 6-0 Bo McNally S 6-0 Brandon Harrison CB 6-2 Trevor Hooper S 6-1 Stephen Carr WR 6-3 Anthony Kimble RB 6-1 Jay Ottovegio P 6-0 Peter Griffin LB 6-1 XxavierCarter RB 5-11 Marcus McCutcheon WR 6-0 WopomoOsaisai CB 5-11 Tyrone McGraw RB 5-9 Emeka Nnoli FB 6-1 Jason Evans RB 6-1 Ray Jone~ RB 6-0 Blaise Johnson S 5-11 Chris Hobbs CB 5-9 Mark Mueller WR 6-3 Austin Yancy WR 6-4 Nick Frank FB 6-2 K,ris Evans CB 6-0 
Tom McAndrew DE 6-5 Will Powers LB 6-4 Rvan Fisicaro RB 6-2 Kenny Long S 6-0 Pat Maynor LB 6-2 Ben Ladner FB 6-3 Robert Polk WR 6-3 Leon Peralto FB 6-0 Josh Catron CB 6-0 Jerome Jackson LB 6-2 Tyler Porras S 6-2 Nick Macaluso LB 6-3 Fred Campbell LB 6-1 Brent Newhouse LS 6-4 Landon Johnson LB 6-1 Edom Udofia NT 6-2 Michael Okwo LB 6-0 Brandon Willets LB 6-4 Sam Weinberger LB 6-2 Brian Bulcke LB 6-4 Josiah Vinson OG 6-4 Alex Fletcher C 6-3 Aldred Johnson DE 6-4 Tim Mattran C 6-5 Chris Marinelli OT 6-7 Joe Dembesky OL 6-5 Gustay Rydstedt DE 6-3 Michael Macellari NT 6-6 Allen Smith OT 6-4 Bobby Dockter OG 6-5 Preston Clover OG 6-4 Jeff Edwards • OT 6-6 Andrew Phillips OL 6-5 Mikal Brewer C 6-3 John Kyed Ol 6-6 Bert McBride OL 6-3 Matt McClenuan OG 6-5 Ben Muth OT 6-6 David Long OT 6-9 Jon Cochran OT 6-6 Ismail Simpson OG 6-4 Erik Lorig TE 6-4 Patrick Bowe TE 6-6 Patrick Danahy TE 6-4 Jim Dray TE 6-5 Austin Gunder TE 6-5 Nate Wilcox-Fogel WR 6-1 Kelton Lynn WR 6-2 Matt Traverso TE 6-4 Michael Miller WR 6-1 Udeme Udofia LB 6-4 Pannel Egboh DE 6-6 Sione Fua NT 6-2 Matt Kopa DE 6-5 James McGillicuddy NT 6-3 Chris Hom DE 6-5 Derek Hall DE 6-5 Emmanuel Awofadelu LB 6-4 David Jackson DE 6-5 Levirt Griffin DE 6-4 
Wt. YR 190 SR 205 JR 210 SR 220 SR 220 SR 229 FR 235 SR 185 FR 195 so 195 FR 170 JR 195 SR 175 so 215 SR 190 SR 205 FR 
200 so 
200 so 
215 FR 
180 JR 
230 so 
200 JR 
205 so 
215 SR 
205 SR 
215 FR 
200 JR 
195 SR 
215 SR 
195 so 
205 SR 
200 JR 
173 FR 
235 SR 
190 SR 
210 JR 
185 so 
170 so 
195 FR 195 FR 250 SR 175 so 
240 so 
235 so 205 FR 185 so 
215 JR 
250 so 200 FR 230 so 185 FR 230 SR 175 FR 225 FR 225 so 235 SR 230 SR 310 so 225 SR 230 JR 230 FR 260 FR 315 SR 
300 JR 260 JR 300 SR 305 so 
285 FR 300 JR 
290 SR 
300 JR 290 JR 290 SR 290 SR 290 FR 300 SR 285 FR 290 FR 295 SR 295 JR 315 SR 
315 SR 
305 SR 250 so 
250 JR 
245 SR 
240 so 245 JR 190 JR 190 JR 250 SR 195 SR 240 SR 280 JR 290 FR 
270 SR 
300 so 270 SR 252 FR 
240 SR 280 SR 255 FR 

five touchdowns goes practically unnoticed. It's time to make the jump to the next level, and the 
Irish

Irish can make that happen against Stanford. The most important statement, however. will be containing Stanford's tight ends and controlling the line of scrimmage. Notre Dame can't lose 
experts

this one, and it doesn't come close. 

Sports Editor FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 32 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 62 Stanford 29 
Sports Editor Stanford 9 

Sizing up the Irish and Cardinal 
Notre Dame Stanford Points Sc.ored 30.2 12.6 Points Allowed 26.4 37.4 Total Yards Gained . 369.2 289.4 Total Yards Allowed 
458.8 Rushing Yards GainedH~-87.4 87.2 Rushing Yards Allowed 147.4 282.8 Passing YardsGained.w 281.8 . 202.2 
. . ~­

Passing Yards Allowed 224.6 176, 


.. 
( 
STANFORD . 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Stanford's front seven has proved to be vulnerable against every running back it has faced. In fact, Stanford has given up 
282.80 yards per game on the ground ­the most in the nation. 
If the Cardinal can slow down Darius Walker, they can focus on Brady Quinn and the Irish air attack, which will play to its defensive strength. 
The key for Stanford will be containing the outside runs, where Walker excels. If it can do that, Stanford could have a chance to hang in the game with the explosive Irish offense. 
NOTRE DAME 
RUNNING GAME 
Darius Walker had his best game of the year against Purdue, totaling 146 yards on the ground to go along with his 7 3 receiving yards. 
Walker will have Ashley McConnell blocking for him again at fullback and can provide another consistent balance for the Irish with another strorrg showing. 
It was no coincidence that Brady Quinn had his best game of the season when Walker finally came through with a strong showing. 
Quinn may have another big game with more big passing numbers against another overmatched opponent. 
. ' ... 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 6, 2006 

.. . . .. . . " ..... . ' . 
Friday, October 6, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Brockington confident after first start last weekend 
With Thomas out, senior linebacker nearly intercepted a pass against Purdue, recorded three tackles 
-
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame senior linebacker Joe 
Brockington made his first start last 
Saturday against Purdue. He just 
might make his second against 
Stanford. 
With starting outside linebacker 
Travis Thomas "iffy" for Saturday's 
game as he recovers from a rib injury 
suffered against Michigan State, Weis 
said he is considering keeping Thomas 
off the field for a second straight 
week. But for Weis, that decision 
might be easier to make after 
Brockington's performance against 
Purdue. 
"I thought Joe was fairly solid," Weis said. "He certainly wasn't the reason that [Purdue] had production. He was part of the reason, now, mind you, but ... it wasn't like they exploit­ed Joe." 
The 6-foot-2, 232-pound Brockington had one solo tackle and two assists against Purdue. After nearly catching a pass tipped by Irish defensive tackle Chris Frome in the first half, Brockington added one pass deflection in the fourth quarter, a play on which he had a chance for an interception until the slippery ball fell out of his hand to the ground. 
"Probably the biggest play of the day that you noticed him is when he dropped the interception, which he took a lot of ribbing from his team­mates on," Irish coach Charlie Weis said during his Tuesday press confer­ence. 
Brockington didn't need his team­mates to get on his case about the dropped ball. He was his own critic. 
"ThP. sp,cond one that I dropped, there was no excuse for that," he said. "It was pretty horrible." 
The "no excuse" line fit in perfectly with Brockington's mentality about the game. Although it was his first start, Brockington said he was "prob­ably too calm" and expected to play at a high level. 
"I was definitely excited, but I think 
I was prepared going into the week," 
he said. 

The preparation paid off. Weis said 
Brockington's absence from the big 
plays the Notre Dame defense surren­
dered to Purdue was a positive, espe­
cially for a first-time starter. 
"You didn't really notice him getting 
exploited out there," Weis said.~"I 
think that's a very good thing when a 
guy goes in there really for the first 
time with a bunch of meaningful reps 
and you don't really notice him too 
much." 

Before the game against Purdue, Brockington had recorded just one tackle -a solo stop against Georgia Tech -this season while playing in all five times. 
A Palmyra, Penn. native, Brockington played in 11 games in 2004 and 2005, but Saturday marked his first career start. As a sophomore, Brockington saw almost all his playing time on special teams. Last season, he played at linebacker in seven games. Against Michigan State in 2005, he made his first career tackle for a loss. 
Irish strong safety and defensive captain Tom Zbikowski said Brockington's three tackles only tell part of the story of his performance in his inaugural start. 
"He made the plays that he had to make and was always in the right position for coverages and run plays," Zbikowski said. "He had a couple of nice pass breaks and a lot of plays where he was in coverage that may have gone unnoticed, just because the pass wasn't thrown to his side ... So definitely a good performance for his first start." 
Those pass defenses will be impor­tant for the Irish this week against a Stanford team that utilizes its tight ends running routes against lineback­ers in the passing game. Notre Dame defensive coordinator Rick Minter said Cardinal coach Walt Harris is much like Weis in that respect. "He, like Coach Weis, loves the tight end in the offense," Minter said. "He 

loves to get the big bodies downfield." 
Brockington said he has to be ready to face Cardinal tight ends Jim Dray, a 6-foot-5 sophomore, and Patrick Danahy, a 6-foot-4 senior, in between the hash marks. If he starts, Brockington said, he would have to play even better than he did against Purdue to shut down Stanford's air 
-
attack. 
"I was somewhat happy, I would say, with my performance [against the Boilermakers]," he said. "But when I watched the tape on Sunday, I knew there was still a lot of work to do." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Stanford offense looks for spark against ND 
Cardinal confident despite losing streak 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Writer  
It doesn't paper. Because  look prwhen  etty on stzmg  

Stanford's seven-game losing string against Notre Dame's Brady Quinn-led offense, it looks lik~ the Irish are ready to unleash a flurry of points on the Cardinal. That may be true and -if Notre Dame can meet national experts' blowout predictions of a blowout ­must happen. 
But if Stanford is to stun Notre Dame at home for the first time since 1992, the Cardinal offense must stem that Irish tide and score some points of its own. 
That's not impossible, accord­ing to one of this weekend's vis­itors from Palo Alto. 
"We're not playing [the] Four Horsemen and we're not play­ing Joe Montana," said Stanford offensive guard Josiah Vinson. "We're playing this team who we have played with before and were ahead with a minute and a half to go last year." 
The Notre Dame secondary on the field when the Irish trailed 31-30 with a minute and a half remaining against Stanford last season hasn't changed much personnel-wise. 
Strong safety.Tom Zbikowski, free safety Chinedum Ndukwe and cornerbacks Ambrose Wooden and Mike Richardson started against the Cardinal in 2005 and are all expected to play Saturday, along with fresh­man cornerback Darrin Walls and junior Terrail Lambert. 
It isn't a group that said it will be surprised if the Cardinal plays like it did last year, when the Irish had to rally for the 38­31 win. 
Zbikowski said he isn't fooled by the Cardinal's uncharacter­istically poor, winless record. And he doesn't expect to get anything but Stanford's best shot. 
"[Stanford coach Walt Harris] is one of the best offensive coordinators ... in the game," Zbikowski said. "We went out there last year, thinking this will be a pretty easy game and it was a dogfight." 
If the Irish are to avoid a dog­fight this weekend, the second-out and try to prove a point that [it] can play," Zbikowski said. "We've got to be ready to go." 

Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

-
ary must perform better than it Painter stroked through the did last week, when Zbikowski Irish defensive backfield for left the field scowling -partly two touchdowns and 398 yards because of a hard hit to the -not statistics that Zbikowski head and partly because of his wants to walk away from unit's subpar play. Saturday night. 
Purdue quarterback Curtis "[Stanford's] going to come 
• ' • r ' -• • • ~ •
~-~--~------------~--~~----~----------~~----------------------------------------------~-­
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 6, 2006 
• 
. 
. 
<

n I 

Learn more about Xavier Flores and tell us more about you.. Vjsit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you . 

•.
r--... ' . 

*connectedthinking 








