
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins steers course for University's future 

By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
When University President Father John Jenkins in January questioned the pres­ence of "The Vagina Monologues" at Notre Dame, he opened the floodgates to 10 weeks of emotional accu­sations, cries of censorship and national media coverage reporting that freedom of speech could soon be cut short at the nation's most prominent Catholic universi­ty. 
But on Wednesday, Jenkins largely silenced the clamor when he released a closing statement on academic free­dom and Catholic character that surprised many faculty members -he found no rea­son to ban the "Monologues" and was determined "not to suppress speech on this cam­pus." 
"What I care about is that we understand our mission to be a truly great university, in scholarship, in teaching, 
in all aspects of our academ­ic work, that we are a Catholic university and we take that seriously, it gives us a broad moral framework, it gives us a sense of spiritu­ality in what we do," Jenkins told The Observer Wednesday. "Both of those are part of our identity at Notre Dame, and they allow us to move forward and make decisions. 
"I think if we can be true to that, and just explain that, I frankly don't worry too much about image or perceptions, as long as we're true to who we are and we state that clearly and act accordingly." 
In minimizing the impor­tance of image, Jenkins refutes what many critics have insinuated since the January addresses -that a decision to ban the "Monologues" and other con­troversial performances would be made to appease the Church and conservative alumni. 
see ANALYSIS/page 4 


Students reported for illegal file sharing 

By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Five Saint Mary's seniors presented their senior com­prehensive projects at a soci­ological conference last week after receiving honors in a nationwide sociology paper com petition. 
Sociology majors Katie Dingeman, Stephanie Lutz, Sam Medina, Stephanie Roth and Jackie Savinon submitted their projects in the annual North Central Sociological 
Association (NCSA) student paper competition March 23 to March 25. All five papers were selected for presenta­tion in research sessions at the conference, sociology department chair Susan Alexander said. 
Presenting their papers and accompanying PowerPoint presentations alongside grad­uate students and sociology professionals, Alexander said, was a "great honor and experience." 
see AWARDS/page 6 By MARCELA BERRIOS 

News Writer 
That illegally downloaded Kelly Clarkson song might be a secret pleasure, but more peo­ple than you think might know about the "Since U Been Gone" file on your computer. 
Both musicians and the Recording Industry Association of America have struggled for years trying to keep songs and albums from being transferred from one user to another in me sharing programs such as KaZaa, LimeWire and Ares, among others. 
At Notre Dame, computer usage violations were the fourth most frequent incident reported to the Office of Residence Life and Housing during the 2004-05 academic year, accounting for 11 percent of disciplinary violations han­dled by the Office. 
DuLac's Responsible Use of Information Technologies poli­cy stipulates that any "unau­thorized copying or transmis­sion of copyright-protected material" might result in the termination of the user's access to the Notre Dame networks. 
see ILLEGAL/page 8 

Moms to visit SMC daughters 
Annual event brings juniors/ mothers closer. 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 

Memories will be made and tra­dition supported this weekend as junior students' mothers arrive in South Bend for Saint Mary's annu­al Junior Moms' Weekend. 
"[The weekend is a] really great opportunity to spend time with our moms and have some girl time," junior class president Heidi Goeppinger said. 
Activities will begin Friday with a wine and cheese reception accompanied by a silent auction. Juniors, families and businesses were asked to donate items for the silent auction, said Laura Corke, the Junior Moms Committee chair. The committee has been planning the event for about a year, she said. 
On Saturday, campus tours will be offered, as well as a free movie. Event coordinators have sched­uled appointments at Emerald Spa for many juniors and their moms. A Mass will be held later in the evening, followed by a semi-for­mal dinner downtown at the Century Center, where another silent auction will take place. 
see MOMS/page 6 
~-------------------~­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 7, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Spoon's Goons 
Forget thn flowers. fi1rgnt llu~ birds, filr­get the vernal nquinox. For me, spring starl-; whnn b<L<;P!mll starb. Heal. Major l.nagun Baseball, mind you, not the World B<L-;nball Cla-;sie, bemuse, <L<; Ozzie 
(;uillen would have  
you know, that  Tim Kaiser  
dmmpion Japanese  
tnarn would not win 20 gamns in the  Sports Writer  

Major Leagues. I'm a big supporter of the ChL-;sic, hut watching tape dnlayed con­tnsl<; from Puerto Hieo is just not the same <L<; seeing your favorite team take t.he finld in magnificent pinstripes in the chilly, early days of April in the Big Apple. Aftnr a long winter of watching the Jets' pathntk rebuilding ellilrl-; and the horror that is Isaiah Thoma-; running the Knicks, it's grnat to have a team to fiJIIow that always ha-; some newly purchased talent and a shot at a 1~hampiunship. 
I lope springs. eternal in April, not only fi1r a 27th World Series ring in New York, but fiw tho bragging righl-; and possible nL-;h payout that come from winning your fitnt<L-;y lna!,rue. My hopes arn high. a-; I've won filur ymtrs straight. Four years ago I began my first sn<L<;on of fant<L-;y ba-;eball, armed with nothing but enthusi<L<;m and a sketchy seouting rPport from some wnbsite. lmissnd the draft. which was probably a good thing, so lim first deci­sions I had to make wnro n~garding which autopickPd players I should keep, and which I should n~placn with fh~P agenb whom I krww nothing about. With this lL<; my gi~IJPra( stratn!,ty. my first pick­up was an Atlanta Braves pitcher namnd Timothy fo'loyd Spoorwybargnr, in part bneause lw had a ehancP to eompetn filr thn doser role, but mostly bemuse his nanw is Spoonnybargnr. lie soon injured himsnlf and spnnt most of thn s1mson on tlw disabled list. It W<L<; a bigjokn around thn lnaguP, that I had this guy on my tmun. But it worked. I squnaknd into the playofls and nuumged to pull ofr upsnt after upset in thP playolls. and I ended up wihning tlw championship. Somehow, my unlikely success eontinued, despite my eccentric managerial praetiees: I never showed up to a draft. eut or traded any lkd Sox who m1<lnd up on my team. and routinnly made trades that seemed non­sensical. The whole time, I had Spoorwybarger, always my first pick-up, stashed on the DI .. I stuck witl1 him through hard times, through two surger­ies and a fight that got him shipped to the Marlins. It wa-; generally accepted around the lea!,rue tlmt my improbable run was either because of Spooneybarger or voodoo -perhaps botl1. I even went <L<; far a<> to name my squad "Spoon's c;oons" in his honor. 
But then this bw,;nball season rolled around. With everyone in college, the draft wasn't held until the day before the sna-;on began. I fbund myseU' with time to spare on a Saturday afternoon, and I broke tradition and dedded to actually drall players this time. But when it came time li1r my first round pick, which I wa<> tot<LIIy prepamd to use on Spooneybarger, <L<; others had been threatening to take him from me, he wa-; nowhere to be found. Though he ha-; morn stinl'> on the DL thm1 earner innings pitched, I was shocked to find that Spooneybarger L-; out of b<L<>nball. The cruel reality of a Spoonless squad in 2006 took some time to sink in. I face a seao.;on devoid of my good luck charm, my eonstant compatri­ot, every summer, his earner cut short by arm troubles and just generally being a loeknr room eam~er. Humblings around the leagun are that it's a sign, that a new champion will be crowned this year, but I'm determined to win this one in his honor, to go for the five-peat, beeause I know that's what he would have waned. 
Timothy Floyd Spooneybarger, we hardly knew ye. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE ADVISING SYSTEM AT NOTRE DAME? 




Vince Niou  Adebola Giwa  Angelo Gacad  
junior Keenan  freshman O'Neil  junior O'Neil  
"/got no  "Aside from  "/ think they're  
problem with it.  getting my DART great. When my  
Always been  and registration  friend's SYR  
real helpful to  number, I do not  fish died. they  
me.  see hide nor  totally helped  
head ofmy..advisor.  him through it."  

Jesus may have walked on 
Ice? 

MIAMI The New Testament says that Jesus walked on water, but a Florida university professor believes there could be a less miraculous explanation -he walked on a floating piece of ice. 
Professor Duron Nof also theorized in the early 1990s that Moses's parting of the Red Sea had solid science behind it. 
Nof. a professor of oceanog­raphy at Florida State University, said on Tuesday that his study found an unusual combination of water and atmospheric conditions 



Johanna Sioson junior PE  Aubrey Jarred sophomore Lewis  Jessica lau sophomore Lewis  
"They're actually really helpful and are  "They seem pretty knowledgeable."  "Yeah,! am pretty knowledgeable."  

really patient considering how many people they have to work with." 

DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer Hawaii Club members, from left, Andrew Knutson, Eric Saito, Kenneth Negro and Christina Marzo practiced Thursday for the club's Hawaiian Luau, which will be held Saturday at 6 p.m. in the Lafortune Ballroom. Tickets are $7. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

The lecture "National Sovereignty and the Hight to Self-Determination in Africa" will be held today at 1 p.m. in DeBartolo 116 as part of Africa Week. 
Country singer Pat Green will perform tonight at S p.m. at the Stepan Center. Sponsored by the Texas Club, the eoncert is open to ND. SMC and JICC students only. Tickets eost $10. 
CSOUND presents Caribbean Festival, featuring l'ood and music, tonight at S p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Oscar Wilde's "Salome" will be performed today and Saturday at 7::H> p.m. and Sunday at 2:30p.m. at the DPAC. Tickets are $S for stu­dents and $12 for the publie. 
Saturday from :~-7 p.m. O'Neill and Lyons Halls will host recess on South Quad. Bring baek your childhood days with free food, inflatables and schoolyard games all after­noon. 
The Hawaiian Club will pres­ent the Hawaiian Luau Saturday at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Tickets are $7 for students. 
Hunners will race in the Holy Half Marathon Sunday begin­ning at 10 a.m. between South Dining Hall and Welsh Family Hall. Students can still enter by e-mailing holyhalf@gmail.com or registering at 8:30 a.m. on race day. Proceeds will benefit Catholic Charities' Operation Helping Hands. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor· mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 65 HIGH LOW 48 LOW 
70 
55 
in what is now northern Israel could have led to ice formation on the Sea of Galilee. 
Nof used records of the Mediterranean Sea's surface temperatures and statistical models to examine the dynamics of the Sea of Galilee. 
The study found that a peri­od of cooler temperatures in the area between 1,500 and 2,600 years ago could have included the decades in which Jesus lived. 
'Brokeback Mountain' banned by Bahamas NASSAU, Bahamas-The Bahamas has banned the gay 
cowboy movie "Brokeback 
• Mountain," triggering a new controversy over the island chain's reputation for homo­phobia. 
Gay rights groups and other 
critics called on the Plays and 
Films Control Board to think 
again, so far to no avail, 

"I cannot understand deny­
ing people the right to make 
their own choices," said the­
ater director Phillip Burrows. 
The award-winning 2005 film got the thumbs-down from the control board after a request for it to be banned from the Bahamas Christian Council. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

....
c:c 
(.) 





0 

HIGH 65 HIGH 48 HIGH 57
...I 
LOW 46 LOW 27 LOW 40 
45 32 
HIGH LOW 
Atlanta 75 I 56 Boston 57 I 39 Chicago 46 I 44 Denver 51/ 30 Houston 86 I 67 los Angeles 70 1 50 Minneapolis 50 1 34 New York 55/43 Philadelphia 66 I 47 Phoenix 85/ 56 Seattle 63/42 St. Louis 72/60 Tampa 82 /63 Washington 72 150 

Friday, April 7, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Institute president tells ho-w rich tnen can get to heaven 

By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
A rich man can go to heav­en -but first, he must fol­low Christ and respect the dignity of other people, Father Robert A. Sirico said Wednesday in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 

Monday, April 1Oj 2006 Jordan Auditorium 
~,~endoza CoHege of Bucsiness 4:00·5:1,5 :PM 
Pi(t~J~ ('J)·,~~(Ji th«~ K..;nQb C~r,txlr -11 
6:J• , s-•Lfi cr .;;1!'M'•f:1l~M J":iJ ~tx n~ilro ,'~frna bctt. 1'"'•'ii!t'tlf rvj .~dl.; ·-. J?tj~blj 
In a lecture entitled "Can a Rich Man Go to Heaven?" Sirico spoke about economic responsibility and social jus­tice to approximately 100 students, faculty and commu­nity members. Sirico is the co-founder and president of the Acton Institute, an organ­ization whose mission is "to promote a free and virtuous society." 
The relationship between economics and society is a precarious balance, Sirico said. He emphasized that money is not "intrinsically evil" and can be used to pro­mote good. 
"The economy can be likened to a very powerful automobile," Sirico said. "It can be used as an ambulance to drive people to safety, or it can be used to drive drunk and to hurt people." 
The responsibility lies not only in the hands of the rich to lessen suffering in poverty but also in the hands of the poor to work to secure what they need, Sirico said. 
"Too often in these !eco­nomic] discussions, what we do too simplistically is to revere the poor and condemn the rich without considering personal characteristics," he said. 
Sirico said while economic justice is supremely impor­tant, there is not one particu­lar system that can unequiv­ocally provide both prosperi­ty and fairness. 
"The Church does not have its own economic model," Sirico said. "It has an insight into human dignity and into the human person.... We have to look at prudential economic proposals and see how they best respect the human person." 
He also advised current and future business leaders to be aware of how their businesses affect society. 
"Ask not what kind of capi-
LAURIE Father Robert A. Sirico speaks on economic responsibility and social justice in the Jordan Auditorium Wednesday. 
talist [you] will be, but ask what kind of person you will be," Sirico said. 
The lecture's title comes from a passage in the Gospel in which Christ and his disci­ples discuss the rich man's ability to get into heaven. The rich man is often criti­cized in the Gospels, and in the story, Christ says a man who lives such a life of self­ish depravity may not enter heaven. 
"Everybody always remem­bers that story," Sirico said. "Jesus says the man won't get into heaven because he's rich or poor, but because he has grace." 
Before he became a priest, Sirico said he "spent several years being involved in leftist social change." Both political and spiritual conversions, he said, led him to become a 
priest  and  eventually  to  
found the Acton Institute.  
The Institute's goal is  to  

educate business leaders to form a more just society. Each year it sponsors pro­grams such as Acton University, a summer sympo­sium of classes and seminars. 
Sirico lectures at business­es and schools across the country. His writings have been published in many major newspapers and maga­zines, and he has provided commentary for television and radio programming. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 7, 2006 
Analysis 
continued from page 1 
The decision to push for an end to violtmce against women carries Jenkins in the opposite direction from what many anticipated Notre Dame's new president would be -squeamish about sexu­ality and reserved in discus­sion on sensitive subjects. 
W. David Solomon, associ­


"/ made the best 

ate professor of the University philosophy and decision I could in and its mission," director of the Jenkins said
line with the 

Center for Ethics Wednesday. "I
character ofthe

and Culture who don't believe in 
taught Jenkins University and its leading by con­when the presi­mission." sensus, I don't dent was a Notre believe in just Dame undergrad­taking the tem­
University President

uate, told The perature and fol­Observer in Father John Jenkins lowing it down, 
January that people tend to make false assumptions about Jenkins. 
"Many faculty members have misjudged Father Jenkins because he's a nice man and a gentle man -I've heard many faculty members talk about him like he's a weak man," Solomon said. "Those of us who've known Father Jenkins for many years -and I've known him since he was a sophomore ­know he's very tough, he doesn't lack for courage." 
Jenkins' method in making his decision, history professor (;ail Bndermun said, was as sur­prising as its con­
ly accepted
"/think !Jenkins]

tent. American "I can't remem­approaches Association of ber the last time University
everything from an 

I saw a public Professors'
intelligent

f"igure say, guidelines, 'Here's a prob-philosophical and should Jenkins 
11-lm, this is what theological point of decide "to ban 
I think, let me controversial
view.

know what you events from cam­think and I'll pay pus. att11ntion,"' University President But those con­Bederman said Emeritus Father cerns were more Wednesday. than alleviated
Theodore Hesburgh
While Jenkins' mild demeanor has masked an inner assertiveness, one quality it highlights is his ability-and willingness -to listen, to analyze, to contemplate. 
This rational deliberation that played so heavily into Jenkins' decision should have been expected, said University President Emeritus Theodore llesburgh. 
"I think he approaches everything from an intelligent philosophical and theological point of view," llesburgh said Wednesday. "I believe that's a very good way to approach things at a Catholic universi­ty.... We're not 
out in a desert 
'Tm certain 
somewhere." 
/Jenkins'/ response 
lies burgh described the today doesn't make 
deeision as "a everyone happy, 
measured state­
but that's not his 
numt." 
"It should be job." 
well respected by 
everybody," he Danlel Saracino 
said. "It doesn't 
director of admissionsfornclosn any questions." 
Despite initial pnreeptions that Jenkins would tak11 a hard line and suppress anti-Catholic views, he has done the polar oppo­site, stressing the importance of opmmess and promoting a campus-wide exchange of opinions -opinions he has respondnd to with sincerity and personal conviction. 
And what that came down to, Director of" Admissions 

Daniel Saracino said, was a relatively moderate statement -a decision reached in a "forthright" manner. 
"I'm certain his response today doesn't make everyone happy, but that's not his job," Saracino said Wednesday. "He went right down the middle." 
Jenkins said in his state­ment he expected the decision to be one "a large majority of this community can embrace." 
"I made the best decision I 
could in line with 

the character of 
but at the same 

time I don't believe in making decisions without having a serious dis­cussion. And I think we've had that, and I think it's helped us 'reach a resolution and will help us move forward in a very constructive man­ner." 
Hegardless of Jenkins' stat­ed disregard for image, facul­ty said Wednesday the deci­sion renects positively on both the president and the University. During the past two months, concerns sur­faced among faculty members that Notre Dame would be running directly against national­
Wednesday, as 

faculty said Jenkins' decision not only met but also exemplified a proper standard for a Catholic uni­versity. 
"There are some people who want Notre Dame to be more of a seminary," Dean of the College of Arts of Letters Mark Roche said. "I don't worry about that. Some facul­ty members were concerned that we might have been per­ceived as being less than a university and that will no longer be a perception that is possible and that is good." 
English 
professor Glenn Hendler said Jenkins' decision would "reassure a lot of' people" and could pro­vide a strong model for fellow Catholic univer­sities grappling with similar issues. "The implica­tion is really i m P0 r tan t f0 r 
recruiting stu­dents and faculty in the future," he 

said. "It's essential that Notre Dame take the lead. I hope that other Catholic universi­ties looking at this can say 'Oh, there's a way to work it out so that neither academic freedom nor Catholic charac­ter need to be compromised." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu 
The OHke of ~nform.:.'ltion Technologres t5 looking for ND students 'lNho C31'1 provide after-hours computer Sltpport to stt.~dents who live m ND Residence Halls. RCl4;s work between eight and 20 hours per •,.•,eek after receiving trainmg from the OIT 

Saint Mary's? 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 7, 2006 COMPlLED FRO!v\ THE OBSERVER'S Wl RI SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nothern Ireland receives ultimatum 
ARMAGH, Northern Ireland -The British and Irish prime ministers, Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern, issued an ultimatum Thursday to Northern Ireland's divided politicians: Elect a power-sharing administration by November or your legislature will be disbanded. 
Their declaration followed 3 1/2 years of diplomacy that has failed to revive a Catholic­Protestant administration, the intended cen­terpiece of the Good Friday peace accord that both prime ministers oversaw eight years ago. A previous coalition collapsed in Oct.ober 2002 over an Irish Republican Army spying scandal. 
The end result. they said, must be a vote by members to form an administration led by the province's extremes of opinion: Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists, who represent most of the British Protestant majority, and Gerry Adams' Sinn Fein, the IRA-linked party that represents most Roman Catholics. 
Swan confirmed to have bird flu 
LONDON -Britain confirmed its first case of the deadly H5N1 strain of bird Jlu in a wild swan on Thursday, setting the stage for concerns the disease could spread across the Atlantic. 
The swan was found in the Scottish town of Cellardyke, more than 450 miles north of London. according to Scotland's chief veterinary officer, Charles Milne. Health officials said the case poses no serious risks to public health but the government began restricting poultry move­ment and implementing a 965-square-mile "wild bird risk area" around the site where the infected swan was found. 
The deadly virus has not been found in domes­tic British poultry, although an imported parrot from Suriname died in quarantine from the strain last year. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Giuliani testifies in Moussaoui case 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Former New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani described the open­ing horrors of Sept. 11, 2001, to Zacarias Moussaoui's death penalty trial Thursday, saying he was unwilling to believe people were jumping to their deaths from the World Trade Center until he saw it with his own eyes. 
He said the image of two people jumping together, appearing to hold hands, sticks with him every day. Moussaoui affected a look of boredom when the prosecution played video of victims falling to their deaths. 
Jurors watched intently; some family mem­bers in the courtroom hung their heads with reddened eyes during the testimony. 

Mine survivor returns home early 
WASHINGTON -Senate Republicans and Democrats closed in on a last-minute compro­mise Thursday on legislation opening the way to legal status and eventual citizenship for many of the 11 million immigrants living in the United States illegally. 
President Bush praised the lawmakers' efforts, noting the details were unfinished, and encouraged them "to work hard and get the bill done." 
As outlined, it would provide for enhanced border security, regulate the future flow of immigrants into the United States and offer legalizod status to the millions of men, women and children in the country unlawfully. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Local dog found after five years 
SOUTH BEND -A couple says they are thrilled to have their dog back nearly five years after it disappeared. 
Holly and Troy Webb said they thought the worst when Gidget, their Lhasa apso, ran away in 2001. 
The South Bend Animal Control officials called the Webbs last week, saying they found the dog, still wearing the collar and tags she had on when she disappeared. The dog was found tied to animal control's front door, the Webbs were told. 


Court filing targets Bush in leak 
Authorities allege that the President authorized a breach ofintelligence infonnation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Dick Cheney's former top aide told prose­cutors that President Bush authorized a leak of sensi­tive intelligence information about Iraq, according to court papers flled by prose­cutors in the CIA leak ease. 
The filing by Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald also describes Cheney involvement in I. Lewis Libby's communications with the press. 
There was no indication in the filing that either Bush or Cheney authorized Libby to disclose Valerie Plame's CIA identity. But it points to Cheney as one of the originators of the idea that Plame could be used to discredit her husband, Bush administration critic Joseph Wilson. 

Before his indictment, Libby testified to the grand jury investigating the CIA leak that Cheney told him to pass on prewar intelli­gence on Iraq and that it was Bush who authorized the disclosure, the court papers say. According to the documents, the authori­zation led to the July 8, 2003, conversation between Libby and New York Times reporter Judith Miller. In that meeting, Libby made reference to the fact that Wilson's wife At a congressional hearing, classified information for authorized leaks. Bush and worked for the CIA. Attorney General Alberto political gain and put the Cheney both have long said 
According to Fitzgerald's Gonzales said the president interests of his political they abhor that practice, so court filing, Cheney, in con­has the "inherent authority party ahead of America's much so that the adminis­versation with Libby, raised to decide who should have security shows that he can tration has put in motion the question of whether a classified information." no longer be· trusted to criminal investigations to CIA-sponsored trip by Libby is asking for volu­keep America safe," hunt down leakers. Wilson "was legitimate or minous amounts of classi­Democratic National The most recent instance whether it was in effect a fied information from tho Committee Chairman is the administration's junket set up by Mr. government in order to Howard Dean said. launching of a probe into Wilson's wife." defend himself against five Sen. Chuck Schumer, D­who disclosed to The New 
The disclosure in docu­counts of perjury, obstruc­N.Y., said, "The more we York Times the existence of ments filed Wednesday tion and lying to the FBI in hear, the more it is clear the warrantless domestic means that the president the Plame affair. this goes way ·beyond surveillance program. and the vice president put He is accused of making Scooter Libby. At the very The authorization involv­Libby in play as a secret false statements about how least, President Bush and ing intelligence information provider of information to he learned of Plame's CIA Vice .President Cheney came as the Bush adminis­reporters about prewar employment and what he should fully inform the tration faced mounting intelligence on Iraq. told reporters about it. American people of any criticism about its failure 
Presidential spokesman Bush's political foes role in allowing classified to find weapons of mass Scott McClellan said jumped on the revelation information to be leaked.'; destruction in Iraq, the Thursday the White House about Libby's testimony. Libby's testimony indi­main reason the president would have no comment on "The fact that the presi­cates both the president and his aides had given the ongoing investigation. dent was willing to reveal and the vice president for going to war. 

IRAQ 

Top Shiite acts as hope in Iraqi deal 
authority to make a decision that 275 parliament seats, enough for 
Associated Press 

risks shattering Shiite unity. first crack at the prime minister's job 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's most respected That decision involves the fate of but not enough to govern without Shiite cleric, Grand Ayatollah Ali al­Iraq's embattled Prime Minister Sunni and Kurdish partners. But the Sistani, lives in virtual seclusion in Ibrahim al-Jaafari, who vowed minority Sunnis and Kurds demand its most sacred Shiite city, Najaf. Thursday to pursue his bid for a sec­that al-Jaafari be replaced, blaming 
Unlike his counterparts in neigh­ond term despite pressure from him for the sharp rise in sectarian boring Iran, al-Sistani has long home and abroad to step down. tensions that threatens to plunge the maintained that clerics should Al-Jaafari told reporters he would country into civil war. remain above politics and instead relinquish his mandate only if parlia­Al-Jaafari has refused to stand offer moral guidance. ment refuses to approve him or if the down despite pressure from 
But with a standoff blocking the seven groups within the Shiite Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice formation of a crucial national unity alliance withdraw their nomination, and British Foreign Secretary Jack government in Baghdad, Shiite politi­which he won by a single vote in a Straw, who personally urged the cians suggest they may turn to al­caucus in February. Iraqis to break the logjam during a Sistani, the sole figure with the The Shiite bloc controls 130 of the two-day visit this week. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 

Mo01s 
continued from page 1 
llarmonia, the Notre Damn and Saint Mary's female a cappnlla group, will be pnrforming at the dinner, and a slide show will be shown. 
The juniors were also asked to write an essay, poem or letter about their mothers. These were eompiled into a book that will be J..,riven to all of the mothers, Corke said. 
"We like to leave free time so Ithe juniors and their mothersI have time to do whatever they want along with the activities," Corke said. 
Tlw wine and eheese reception is held earlier so that juniors arn able to make other plans with thnir mothers after the event. Like many other student'>, Corkn plans to go out to dinner wit11 a J.,>Toup of friends and thnir mothers after tho wine and ehnese reception. 
"A lot of moms go out," Corke said. "lltl depends on the girls and their moms." 
Junior Jessica Jordan's mother will be traveling from Pennsylvania to attend the event'i. 
"I might takf~ (my mother! out with some of my education major li·ipnds," Jordan said. 
She also plans to go shopping and to bruru:h with other mothers and daughtt~rs. 
"IThn motht~rsl get to see how your lili~ is on the weekends hero at Saint Mary's," junior Sarah l>nshon said. "It's a lot of lim to spnnd time with your morn and hang out fi1r the weekend." 
Though she is looking fiwward to sptmding time with her mother and friends, Deshon said the evnnt's timing was not ideal, eall­ing it "probably one of thn worst wm~ktmds" because of the pileup of assignment'> due bnfim~ Easter Brnak. 
"Hopefully it will be a good time," she said. 
Jordan said the weekend may be hectic but will rnmain worth­while. 
"It's always busy, but it's a good weekend," she said. Corke said juniors will enjoy the event'> <md quality time. 
"lit isl really just a relaxing weekend and kind of a nice break from all work and stun· like that," she said. 
Almost 90 percent of the dass sent out invitations to their moth­ers, and there arn about 500 stu­dents and mothers set to attend the dinner, Corke said. 
l.odJ.,ring dose to campus may be hard to find this weekend. c;oeppinger said the Saint Mary's Inn has bmm booked filr months. 

Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesda}' through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 7, 2006 

Awards 
continued from page 1 
Two of the students received additional honors when Dingeman's paper was awarded first place in the c o rn p e ti t i o n a n d M e d i n a.'s placed third. 
Alexander said that while this is the third consecutive year Saint Mary's students have placed in the competi­tion, this year was particu­larly significant. 
"There was a national call to the United States and Canada, so the number of papers that carne in was much larger this year," she said. "Normally, the call has just gone out in this region." 
For her project, Dingeman performed an ethnomethod­ology, a sociological study that deals with the codes and conventions that under­lie everyday social interac­tions. She analyzed a group of recently resettled Liberian refugees in South Bend. 
"I specifically analyzed the strength of their community and potential integration 

patterns," she said. 
Dingernan was inspired to investigate the topic by her voluntenr and intern work at the Hefugee and Immigration Services of South Bend. She said she felt compelled to study the topic in depth because of the recent socio­logical attention to issues of immigration and the incor­poration of cul-

American socinty," she said. "However, in many ways they also taught me how to live my life as selflessly as possible, with lots of love and com passion." 
Medina approached her project by creating and dis­tributing a survey investigat­ing issues of minorities -­specifically racial, ethnic, 
class and sexu­
tural groups into a! minorities ­American socie­to randomly
"Without doing 

ty. studies similar to selected Saint "I wanted to Mary's stu­
this project, there
show the dents.
is no way the 

humanity behind "It was so the debates College will know interesting to while paying see how stu­
how it can improve

particular atten­dent's respond­
itself"

tion to the ed, and to piece Liberians, a together differ­community that Sam Medina ent opinions is largely over­and try to pic­
senior

looked despite ture how Saint their historical Mary's as a ties to the United States," whole felt about these she said. issues," she said. 
Spending time with Medina said that research­refugees for her project ing GLBTQ (gay, lesbian, enriched her understanding bisexual, transgendered, of humanity, Dingeman said. queer and questioning) 
"I learned that I can issues became important to become involved in aiding her after she attended a con­[Liberians' I transition into ference in October 2005 with Student Diversity Board. After she learned about the environment of other col­leges and universities and how they were approaching these issues, Medina said she thought it would be interesting to com pare those elimates to that at Saint Mary's. 
"I think that it is a very important topic because Saint Mary's is working on making the campus and community more diverse," Medina said. "Without doing studies similar to this proj­ect, there is no way the College will know how it can improve itself." 
Dingeman and Medina said they learned from their experiences and felt flat­tered by the success of their projects. 
"I think this project was a good starting point for me," Medina said. "I am so happy that I had the opportunity and the support from my professors and other stu­dents to follow through with it." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO I @saintmarys.edu 


Th.e A~rt,s: Decade•,t anci Si11fL1 1, Or Are They Worth Saving? 
t\ n -(1 tin Distin,g u1shcd L c c tu r c 
...... 

lla:y·det1 Ra111sav 
~ 4 -~ 


Friday, April 7, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 

11,216.50 -23.05
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,897 154 1,363 2,193,472,780 

AMEX 'r!rf{fi.J!!IIII!IIJII."'"··1fij!(:i

NASDAQ 2 
NYSE." S&P 500 1,309.04 -2. 
NIKKEI(Tolcyo)';il:t!:i~liJ.IJlllt~l'illii~ll811il'~l! 
FTSE. IOO(London) 6,045.70 +1.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +7.34 +0.37 S.41 
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) +6.00 +4.03 71.24 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.28 +0.12 42.73 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -2.35 -0.51 21.18 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +4.82 +0.19 4.13 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +1.12 +0.54 48.93 13-WEEK BILL +0.1 I +0.05 45.52 30-YEAR BOND + 1.37 +0.67 49.60 5-YEARNOTE +0.86 +0.41 48.30 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.87 67.94 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) + 7.20 599.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.38 81.98 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 117.8600 
EURO 
0.8176 
POUND 0.5703 
CANADIAN$ 1.1537 
IN BRIEF 
Boston Scientific, Guidant shares rise 
BOSTON -Shares of Boston Scientific Corp. rose Thursday after the medical-device maker won antitrust clearance from the Federal Trade Commission's staff for its $27 billion acquisition of former rival Guidant Corp., whose shares also rose. 
Shares of Boston Scientific, which announced its FTC agreement after markets closed Wednesday, rose 24 cents, or 1.1 percent, to close at $21.93 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Shares of Guidant rose $1.12, or 1.5 percent, to finish at $77.85 on the NYSE. The deal still needs final approval from the full commission and European regulators. 
Also on Wednesday, Guidant said its first­quarter sales dropped 6 percent from last year, and it expects to record more than $120 million in charges for the quarter. Guidant has suffered sliding sales because of product recalls and news that the company withheld information about the faulty devices. 
Boston Scientific said it continues to expect its acquisition of Guidant to close around the mid­dle of this month following regulatory clear­ances. 
Merck denies withheld information 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -In his first appear­ance in a Vioxx trial, the former chief executive of Merck & Co. insisted Thursday that the com­pany was up front about the safety risks of its troubled arthritis drug during his tenure ­despite a jury verdict to the contrary. 
Raymond Gilmartin, 65, who retired last year after 11 years running the company, testified during a hearing aimed at determining whether Merck should pay punitive damages in addition to the $4.5 million it was ordered to pay a former Vioxx user stricken by a heart attack. 
Dueling over semantics and Merck's candor in the development of Vioxx, Gilmartin and plain­tiff's attorney Mark Lanier engaged in a series of contentious but civil exchanges Thursday. 
Gilmartin rejected Lanier's assertions that the company withheld safety data about Vioxx, which was taken by 20 million Americans before a 2004 study linked it to increased risks of heart attack and stroke. 



THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks suffer as oil hits $68 
Inflation concerns dominate Wall Street; jobless claims fall for third straight week 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Inflation concerns dominated Wall Street Thursday, with stocks mostly lower as crude prices marched toward $68 per barrel and jobless claims fell. Interest in small­cap and technology stocks pushed the Nasdaq compos­ite index narrowly higher, however, sending the index to its third straight five-year high. 
While the economy has so far absorbed high energy costs, fears remain that chronically high prices could spark inflation. A bar­rel of light crude settled at $67.94, up 87 cents, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Strength in the labor mar­ket also unnerved investors, as the Labor Department reported a third straight drop in weekly unemploy­ment claims. With the monthly jobs repor·t due Friday, Wall Street worried that more people on the nation's payrolls would mean increased demand, another potential catalyst for inflation. 

Should the inflation threat increase, the Federal Reserve would continue raising interest rates to combat higher prices -a move that would make con­sumer loans and mortgages more expensive and corpo­percent, to 11,216.50. rencies. Gold prices rose, stocks, since once the Fed rate expansion efforts more Broader stock indicators surpassing the $600 per has stopped raising rates, costly. were barely mixed. The ounce mark for the first there's the potential for 
"You still have a lot of Standard & Poor's 500 time since 1981. stocks to rally. uncertainty, and the jobs index lost 2.52, or 0.19 per­The increase in gold Among individual compa­report tomorrow, which will cent, to 1,309.04, and the prices and the rise in oil nies, investors sent shares set the stage for what the Nasdaq composite index spooked stock investors, as of Dow industrial Merck & Fed could do," said Jeff rose 1.42, or 0.06 percent, commodities are generally Co. down $1.15, or 3.2 per­Kleintop, chief investment to 2,361.17. It was the seen as a hedge against cent, to $34.84 after a New strategist for PNC Financial Nasdaq's best close since higher interest rates. With Jersey jury said the compa­Services Group in Feb. 16, 2001. the economy growing solid­ny hid the potential dangers Philadelphia. "You're just Bonds fell, with the yield ly, investors worry that of its painkiller Vioxx and not going to see a lot of buy­on the benchmark 10-year more rate hikes will pres­awarded a plaintiff $5.4 ers in the market ahead of Treasury note rising to 4.89 sure corporate earnings, million in damages. The that." percent from 4.84 percent and thus share prices. verdict could create further 
The Dow Jones industrial late Wednesday. The dollar However, there's also an legal troubles for the drug average fell 23.05, or 0.21 fell against most major cur-unwillingness to abandon maker. 

Negotiators work to extend tax cuts 
Congress," Boehner said. capital gains would increase to 20
Associated Press 

Treasury Secretary John Snow percent, and dividends would be postponed a planned Friday trip to taxed at marginal tax rates as high 
WASHINGTON -House and Ohio and Kentucky to stay in as 39.6 percent. Senate Republicans worked toward Washington for consultations on the The alternative minimum tax agreement Thursday on a bill to keep tax legislation. threatens to hit nearly 19 million tax­tax cuts for capital gains and divi­Tony Fratto, Snow's chief payers this year. That could shrink to dends in place for two additional spokesman, told reporters the less than 4 million under the tax years. administration believes that extend­changes being considered. 
The legislation under discussion ing the tax cuts on dividends and Lawmakers started work on the bill also would prevent more families capital gains for two years is "critical last year, when their budget made from paying the alternative minimum for this economy" because it would room for a tax cut worth up to $70 tax this year. Intended to prevent the send the right signal to financial billion over five years. wealthy from evading taxes, the markets. Negotiators expect that the tax cuts alternative minimum tax now threat­"Secretary Snow can be more they want to include in the bill will ens less wealthy families with higher effective in helping to achieve this surpass that limit, requiring some taxes. priority for the president by remain­provisions raising revenue to offset 
House Majority Leader John ing in Washington," Fratto said. the extra cost. Boehner, R-Ohio, said there is "some The tax cuts that reduced the top Items they want in the bill include hope" that the House could pass a rate for capital gains and dividends expanding the amount of investment bill containing those two changes on to 15 percent -a centerpiece of that small businesses can write off 
~-Friday, before lawmakers depart for President Bush's tax policy -are set and lifting income restrictions on a two-week break. to expire at the end of 2008. The bill contributions to certain retirement "As we approach April 15, assuring under discussion would keep them in accounts, congressional aides said, Americans that their taxes will be place through 2010. speaking on condition of anonymity kept low is a big goal of this If they expire, the top tax rate for while negotiations remained ongoing. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 7, 2006 
Illegal 

continued from page I 
But thn pnopln who posn the greatnst threat to Ares usnrs are thn musicians, organizations and wrnpanins who fail to make a prolit every tinw an album or movie is downloadnd free of' chargn. 
Companies such as JIBO, Columbia Pictures and Universal Music Croup havl' previously rnonitornd Notre Damn studnnts downloading movins, television shows, rn usie Iiles and other soft­warn, and havn directly eontaet­ed tlw Univnrsity, said Kathy BranrHu:k, Assistant Dirnctor of' thn Ollke of' Hesidence Lil'n and I lousing. 
Brannock said Notrn Damn dons not actively monitor which students download "The Sopranos" or Bon .Jovi hits to their cornputnrs, but when nxter­nal organizations detect these activities, thny filn rnports with the University's lngal department and Pxpnd it to address thn issue with the studnnts. 
.Junior Mike Bogacz said he was wntar.ted by the Office of' Hnsidnncn Lifil and I lousing after downloading a few songs. 
"I got an e-mail from HnsLife tolling me to cease and dnsist and to call them up to schedule a mooting," lw said. "I had down­loadnd rnaybn thren doznn songs using LimeWirn. and I wasn't nvnn aware that I was sharing thmn with other usnrs." 
For first time ofl'nnders sueh as Bog;u:z, Brannoek says the Univnrsity will only issue verbal warnings and expect thn student to dnletn the files in question from his 1:omputnr. 
However, Brannock said she eould not guarantee the compa­ny that detected the illegal file sharing would not press eharges. 
"We havn been receiving more and more violation notices from companies, as they are becoming increasingly vigilant of their copyright-protected material," Brannock said. 
This semester alone, the Ollice of Hesidence Life and Housing has met with more than 33 stu­dents who were specifically reported by external organiza­tions that witnessed them engag­ing in illegal file sharing, thus making this offense one of the most common ones among stu­denl'i. 
"Every time you download a song l'or l'ree, you're running the risk of blling watched by these companies and these musicians," Brannock said. "They really are looking out for violators of copy­right laws, and if you happen to download that one song at the wrong time, you might just get into trouble." 
The Office of Hesidence Life and Housing says it has received violation notices from outside eompanies against both students who may have downloaded more than 100 songs and movies and students who downloaded a mere handful. 
While students are aware of the practical risks of download­ing, not all consider it a serious offense. 
"My HA at the time who was basically the student of the year, head of HOTC, etcetera heard of my plight, and said something like, 'That's illegal?"' Bogacz said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Detectives could get life in prison 
Former NYPD cops convicted of moonlighting as mob hitmen 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Two highly dec­orated former detectives were convicted Thursday of moonlight­ing as hitmen for the mob in one of the most sensational cases of police corruption in New York hi<>tory. 
Louis Eppolito, 57, and Steven Caracappa, 64, could get life in prison for their roles in eight murders committed between 1986 and 1990 while they were 
simultaneously on the payroll of both the NYPD and Luchese crime family underboss Anthony "Gaspipe" Casso. 
Federal prose­cutor Daniel Wenner described the case as "the bloodiest, most violent betrayal 
"There has never been, in the history of the NYPD, an officer convicted of being a hit man for the mob.'' 
Tom Reppetto author 
of the badge this city has ever seen." 
Prosecutors said the two men carried out two hits themselves ­after pulling the victims over in traffic stops -and delivered up some of the other victims to the Malia to be killed. 
Neither defendant showed any emotion during the 10 minutes it took the jury fi>rewoman to reply "proven" 70 times to the racket­eering acl<> they were accused of. The verdiet was reached after two days of deliberations. 

The defendants' $5 million bail was revoked and they were led oil' to jail to await sentencing May 
22. The men's lawyers said they will appeal. 
"It's an appearance of justice, but it's not justice," said Bruce Cutler, who once represented John Gotti and put on a thunder­ing defense for Eppolito, daiming the government's mob witnesses were lying to save their necks. 
Prosecutors said the two used 
their law enforce­ment positions to help the Mafia at a price of $4,000 per month -more if they personally handled a killing. They earned $65,000 for one of those slayings, pros­ecutors said. 
The two officers also supplied Casso with inside informa­tion on law enforce­
ment interest in the mob, prose­cutors said. Casso was said to have referred to the two men as his "crystal ball." 
They were convicted of' charges that included racketeering con­spiracy, witness tampering, wit­ness retaliation and obstruction of justice. 
"There has never been, in the history of' the NYPD, an officer convicted of being a hit man for the mob," said Tom Heppetto, co­author of "American Mafia" and "NYPD," a department history. "There's cases of police miseon­duct, but going to work for organ­ized crime? Wow." 
Caracappa, who retired in 1992, helped establish the city police department's unit fi>r Mafia murder investigations. Eppolito, the son of a Gambino 1:rime fami­ly member, was a much-praised street cop, although there were suggestions that some of his arrests resulted from tips from mobsters. 
In his autobiography, "Mafia Cop," he portrayed himsnlf as an honest cop !'rom a crooked family. 
Eppolito also played a bit part in the mob movie "GoodFellas." After retiring in 1990, he nnsue­cessfully tried his hand at Hollywood scriptwriting. 
The former detectives, who retired to homes on the same block in Las Vegas, insisted on their innocence from the time of their arrests in March 2005. But neither took the stand at their trial. 
The key prosecution witness was Burton Kaplan, a drug dna!Pr who spent lour days on the stand linking the pair to an assortment of murders. Kaplan testified that he served a'i middleman between Ca<>so and the detectives. 
Casso, known as one of the most brutal mobsters in the eity, is suspectnd of involvnmont in 36 murders himself. Both sides con­sidered calling him as a witness but ultimately decided Casso came with too much baggage. 


I "a. I I .! liM..M1t ...... "a. -..1 .... ,.. ( CU, f<'ll I II"" I I'<·"" 
"""' .... •...... 
.. 





~~·~;~ ~-· .-.'1 ~:: 

\ ,--~~, =~ ·• •.!:"'·-·:: ~ ~ .•~; :.. •-::··.~ ~ ~...__$ l·,. '!:\::N..!t.;.(~.t 
'iof· .]i<• ........ .,._ 


}l:_...t •• ''· ., ....,. .o;; ll:l ~ ;:;: ~ *.., ~ •.., ;e. '..:; ·:··",.. ,~ ~ lA,# ;i.'·;.: ·:·;&~~ .• :1·· 1: ~._:·. ;:-·,·-....;· .'l-}i: ~.;,:. fu ~-··~ ,.' ~ ·"''' (. ~: 

11 f. ~=@ :., ~-.... ·.::,, ~,.~ ?' -~. ;:;"'~ ·l:i;...........~·· f i :f~,::: ·:::4 :;:t....AA ·§i ~ ,?€ t· 
~-· .,_.,. • ~-v,o. f;!..,.. 



-----------------------------------------------. 
Friday, April 7, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
'Gospel of Judas' tnade public 
Story of Jesus and his betrayer may actually be act of obedience 
SlO,OOt:J; -1st P'!ace 
.. 
50 PLAYERS WILL CASH!! 
EXAS HOLD'EM 
Tournament .. No Limit!! 
Sunday April 23... 2 pm 
at Brentwood Bingo Hall 
3900 lir'K::Oirr~vay Wus1·(U. S. 20} South Bt.:nd Near th<C /IMIX:tt Ooors Open 11Jj(J r:Jm $.,GQ l::;.ty-in \"'C!~:; $2:0 ¥(!;;jiSt"JilH)11 ~tW) Lari!k•d fk· Bu•;1< ,o\·•,;1 bl:4e.. f 000 &f.lewYJI(;eS & /<JM Orgart.ti11H::·n: S !JJt O;t;-Sth:tei l!Cl.'W!!k" t'HJ/570 
Register Now Online: www.PokerSouthBend.com 
or PhOOiJ; ~5741 251 ¥8HJO 






APRIL 8 rH 2006 FROM 2PM 4PM DEBARTOLO 3 35 
Pick up an applicat-ion___ in ...DeBartolo Hall Cl.ust"er_and bring it" w1t"h you on Sat-urday. See you t-here! 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Perhaps it wasn't history's greatest betrayal after all, but a simple act of obedi­ence. 
Judas turned Jesus over to the high priests, not for money, but because Jesus asked him to do so, according to a newly translated ancient Coptic docunient 
The "Gospel of Judas" tells a far different tale from the four gospels in the New Testament. It portrays Judas as a favored disci­ple who was given special knowl­edge by Jesus -and turned him in at Jesus' request. 
"You will be cursed by the other generations -and you will come to rule over them," Jesus tells Judas in the document made pub­lic Thursday. 
The text, one of several ancient documents found in the Egyptian desert in 1970, was preserved and translated by a team of schol­ars. It was made public in an English translation by the National Society. 

Religious and lay readers alike will debate the meaning and truth of the manuscript. 
But it does show the diversity of beliefs in early Christianity, said Marvin Meyer, professor of Bible studies at Chapman University in Orange, Calif._ 
The text, in the Coptic lan­guage, was dated to about the year 300 and is a copy of an earli­er Greek version. 
A "Gospel of Judas" was first mentioned around A.D. 180 by Bishop Irenaeus of Lyon, in what is now France. The bishop denounced the manuscript as heresy because it differed from mainstream Christianity. The actual text had been thought lost until this discovery. 
Elaine Pagels, a professor of religion at Princeton University, said, "The people who loved, cir­culated and wrote down these gospels did not think they were heretics." 
Added Rev. Donald Senior, pres­ident of the Catholic Theological Union of Chicago: "Let a vigorous debate on the significance of this fascinating ancient text begin." 


Senior expressed doubt that the new gospel will rival the New Testament, but he allowed that opinions are likely to vary. 
Craig Evans, a professor at Acadia Divinity College in Nova Scotia, Canada, said New Testament explanations for Judas' betrayal range from money to the influence of Satan. 
"Perhaps more now can be said," he commented. The docu­ment "implies that Judas only did what Jesus wanted him to do." 
Christianity in the ancient world was much more diverse than it is now, with a number of gospels circulating in addition to the four that were finally collected into the New Testament, noted Bart Ehrman, chairman of religious studies at the University of North Carolina. 
Eventually, one point of view prevailed and the others were declared heresy, he said, includ­ing the Gnostics who believed that salvation depended on secret knowledge that Jesus imparted, particularly to Judas. 
In Cairo, the editor of the Coptic weekly "Watani," YoussefSidhom, did not want to make an immedi­ate judgment on the manuscript. 
"However," he said, "this will not greatly affect the central belief that considers Judas as a traitor, but there is an old school of thought that says one should not persecute Judas because his role was to complete the prophe­cies. It seems that the new manu­script will support this point of view -that Judas' role was piv­otal to completing the prophe­cies." 
The newly translated docu­ment's text begins: "The secret account of the revelation that Jesus spoke in conversation with Judas Iscariot." 
In a key passage Jesus tells Judas, "You will exceed all of them. For you will sacrifice the man that clothes me." 
This indicates that Judas would help liberate the spiritual self by helping Jesus get rid of his physi­cal flesh, the scholars said. 
"Step away from the others and I shall tell you the mysteries of the kingdom," Jesus says to Judas, singling him out for special status. "Look, you have been told every­thing. Lift up your eyes and look at the cloud and the light within it and the stars surrounding it. The star,that leads the way is your star. 
The text ends with Judas turn­ing Jesus over to the high priests and does not include any mention of the crucifixion or resurrection. National Geographic said the author believed that Judas Iscariot alone understood the true significance of Jesus' teachings. The author of the text is not named in the writings. 
Discovered in 1970, the papyrus was kept in a safety deposit box for several years and began to deteriorate before con­servators restored it. More than 1,000 pieces had to be reassem­bled. 
The material will be donated to the Coptic museum in Cairo, Egypt, so it can be available to all scholars said Ted Waitt of the Waitt Institute for Historical Discovery, which helped finance the restoration. 
In addition to radio carbon dat­
ing, the manuscript was also 
authenticated through ink analy­
sis, multispectral imaging, con­
tent and linguistic style and hand­
writing style, National Geographic 
reported. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 7, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Clarifying 'Catholic character' at ND 
1~0. Bo< 779, N01rc Oomc, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EI>ITOR 8tJSIN£.'iS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EIJITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kare Malone VmWPOINT EI>ITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler Sct:Nt: EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDI'ffiR: Kelly Meehan P11o·m EI>ITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

An DFSIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB AI>MINISTRAmR: Damian Alrholl' SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('>74) 631-7471 
FAX 

('>74) 631-6927 ADVERTISING ('>74) 63!-6')00 obscrvad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4'>41 obsme@>nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-1313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
Collt'ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the F.Jiror in Chief. Managing Editor, As-~isranr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necess.uily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available 10 all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qzmtiom rrgt~rding Obsrrver polides should be directed trJ Ediror in Chiif Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

"I lit' I lhtltrver(USPS ~ 1JIJ l-41)(}()) is puhliahN Mun.l.l\' du"u~h Fnday cxC('pt t!uring cum ~1111 vauuun pt•muh. A IUt.uiJJttun In The Ohlcrvcr ~ $1 OU fur unc .1ndcm1c )'Oit: $~"i lnr unc !o('lliCilct. 
'rl1c Oh.cr\'t'r '' publi,hed a1: PO~TMASTER 

024 Suurh Dining H.dl Send addras correaiuns to: 
Notre !l.mu:, IN 46'S,6·0779 The ObJcrvet 
Petiodicl.l pt>i!t(tt p.ud a1 Nt,ln: D.vrk PO. llo•779 
Jlld ~,ltfuLonal m.Uiin~~: otTk:n 02-4 South Dining Hall 

Notre L>o~mc, IN iM%.0779 
The: Oh~rVC'r i. .a member or the Aancil'cd Prcu. AU reproduction rights m: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Karen Langley Chris Khorey Nicole Zook Kyle Cassily 
Jenny Hames Joe Quinn Viewpoint Scene Joey King Brian Doxtader 
Graphics Matt Hudson 
This week marked a great and coura­geous day for Notre Dame's new presi­dent, Father John Jenkins. For the frrst time since the term of former Notre Dame president Theodore llesburgh, a University leader established a bal­aneed, inclusive and well-thought policy defining Notre Dame. It is a moment every friend and family member of Notre Dame should remem­ber. 
Nearly a quarter of American Christians consider themselves Catholic, but many seldom attend mass regularly. For them, the character of the Homan Catholie Chureh is laeking--per­haps not as mueh for its dogma as for the Chtireh's inability to effectively connect on an individual level. They are not eon­vineed that the message from the gospel matehes the aetions of Chureh leaders. A similar disconnect between University actions and rhetoric has certainly disen­franchised a significant portion of Notre Dame alumni for many years. 
Father Jenkins, in confronting a con­tentious issue now on campus, has set a fair policy for generations to eome. It was embarrassing to claim that Catholics, and Notre Dame specifically, adhered to the life and mission of Jesus' service to others while not even recognizing that gay students existed in the universe, let alone could meet on campus. Somehow the fear of bad publicity perpetuated a series of similarly negative impressions of Notre Dame. Jenkins is the first cam­pus leader who truly displays King Solomon's biblical sensibilities and wis­dom. 
In this era of hourly news cycles, reli­gion is ridiculed -but many times for good reason. When the spokesperson for a leading Ameriean Catholic organization appears on political cable programs to assert that a secular movement is remov­ing Christ out of Christmas, many won-

Gary Caruso 
Capital Comments 
der if he is fairly representing Catholics who respect the fact that non-Christians do not recognize the holiday. The confu­sion for non-Christians is as baffiing as our lack of understanding for Muslim riots over a cartoon joke of Mohammed. Neither side attempts to bridge the divide with the other. 
Last week, a segrhent of so-called Christians met in Washington, D.C., to whine about our society's attack on Christianity. They claimed that gays are attacking marriage, secularists are attacking Christmas imd liberals are attacking values. Their cries defy the truth of the Word as they attempt to deceive goodhearted folks for personal politieal power and greed. 
The eonferenee attempted to connect how Jesus could have had a good word about war in certain circumstances, how torture should be included in CIA opera­tional manuals or how Jesus eould sup­port tax cuts for the wealthy because, after all, it is our money. Their vitriolic hate of foreigners forbids even their own followers from ministering to a wayward undocumented immigrants in this great and free {only for them) nation. While elaiming how everyone else is attacking all that is holy to them, they in turn attempt to attack their followers' wallets. 
Sadly, Catholics get swept up in this illogical reversal of the definitions of val­ues and morality. Heligion is a personal and private matter. Catholics are fortu­nate that their service is universal and is seeded in a long history dating back to Jesus. No other religion can claim to have been the frrst, although Martin Luther defied the Church with his inter­pretation of Christ's original teachings. Luther's break, and every succeeding religious element that claims to follow Jesus, regardless of how strange its pre­cepts may seem, are a matter of inter­pretation ... including the early Roman Catholic Church. 
Inasmuch as Jenkins has balanced lib­eral thought with conservative dogma at Notre Dame, he has freed everyone to officially respect others without con­frontation. No longer at Notre Dame does one need to claim to be "attacked" like the Christian conference did last week. Gone at Notre Dame is the self-righteous­ness of those who, rather than debate others, attempt to quiet and diseredit them. 

Nobody a'dvoeating equal proteetion through civil unions (marriage rights without the word "marriage") ever want­ed to force any religion to marry them. President John F. Kennedy set the stan­dard that no publidy elected American Catholic needs to answer to the Vatican, but to the constituent<> who plaeed their conlidenees in that oflidal. Nobody is foreing Christians to now celebrate Hanukkah or Kwanzaa in December. Notre Dame is saying, "Get over the us versus them mentality in favor of respect and understanding." 
Last night, a television commercial stopped me in mid sentence. People who appeared to be gay, interraeially mar­ried, old or of minority heritage sat in chureh pews but suddenly were ejected out of the screen as though in a lighter plane. The United Church of Christ (www.ucc.org) sponsored the advertise­ment that simply read, "Heligion does not exclude. Heligion includes everyone." 
President Jenkins' Closing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character proclaims that message for Notre Dame. It is a great day on campus. Seniors who arc our next generation of American Catholic leaders should take that message to heart, both in the politi­cal and spiritual aspects of their lives. While it takes effort from all of us to reach out to others, Jenkins has articu­lated a framework that is neither liberal or conservative, but one for which all of us can be proud. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a leg­islative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LEITER TO THE EDITOR 

Jockular misleading and offensive 
We are disappointed in the Jockular comic strip run on April 6 and the fact that it was even published. We feel that the portray­al of Saint Mary's students is not only inaccurate, but insulting. Why would you approve a comic strip that indirectly destroys the relationship between the students of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame? For a newspaper that serves both schools, you present a rather slanted perspective of Saint Mary's students. 
In particular we are offended by the reference of Saint Mary's students as "parasites," as Jockular so eloquently dubbed us. The word parasite insinuates that the relationship between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is unhealthy and harmful to Notre Dame. We do not feel this is the case because, although Saint Mary's students may make use of available opportunities, this does not prevent Notre Dame students from doing the same. In addition, Saint Mary's offers events and programs of which Notre Dame student<> may take advantage. 
It is not the actions of Saint Mary's students that hinder growth between the institutions, but the attitude articulated in this comic strip. The implication that Saint Mary's students care 
OBSERVER POLL 
{1··nibiDI···
1 ·"t a 1:.ett·e·.·····r··
~ ......, .........,,._.. ·····--· .......... ·...•.... ·.
What do you think of the academic 
advising system? 
a. 
No problems. 

b. 
Advisors should be more active. 

c. 
Advisor involvement should be 


to the Editor at
optional. 
d. I do not know who my advisor is. 
•Poll appears counesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
on 81 responses. '1·.4i.,§t:!:m%>....~..:4WW..H.:.A.M...,.. i . ....,.¥.44$ .... t t.P!.?%fo%t.). · 

more about their room size than their education is insensitive to our feelings as well as reality. Since being founded in 1844 and 1842, both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame have prided them­selves on their mutual support and collaboration as educational institutions. The students who come here expect a warm com­munity that both welcomes and supports. How can prospective students feel invited to share in this community if they are exposed only to this biased opinion? 
We propose that, instead of presenting these negative and false views of the relationship between the institutions, The Observer encourage greater community through its publica­tions. Rather than put into question the intef.,rrity of Saint Mary's students, why not question the integrity of the views portrayed 
by Jockular? 

Felicia Lipari and Megan Wetekamp smdents Saint Mary's April6 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What is the difference between unethical and ethicaCadvertising? Unethical advertising uses falsehoods to deceive the public: ethical advertising uses truth to deceive the public. " 
Vllhjalmur Stefansson Canadian explorer and ethnologist 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Friday, April 7, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student Senate not ignoring MAC 
As one who served on the 2005-06 Student Senate for the University of Notre Dame, I would like to respond to statements issued in Karen Langley's Wednesday article concerning the amendment to make permanent the ad hoc Senate Committee on Minority Affairs. On Wednesday, March 29, sena­tors voted down an amendment to make permanent the Minority Affairs Committee (MAC), chaired by Rhea Boyd. 
• By no means was this a move to deny minorities on campus an avenue through which their voices can be heard more clearly. This has been a major focus throughout the course of the administra­tive year -hence the creation of the committee by former student body presi­dent Dave Baron. And many positive steps have been taken to improve upon issues at Notre Dame, thanks in part to the diligent work Rhea and her commit­tee have put in behind the scenes. 
However, at present the Senate Committee on Diversity Affairs is in exis­tence for a seemingly similar goal, as its name clearly states. Certainly it is not farfetched for the two committees to col­laborate on large-scale diversity issues, which they have on a semi-frequent basis. However, when push comes to shove, where do the two differ? The Student Union Constitution reads as fol­lows: "The Committee on Diversity Affairs shall address issues of multicul­turalism and diversity and make appro­priate recommendations to the Senate." My main concern is that these lines of text are far too vague to discern some level of distinction between Diversity Affairs and MAC, which in its current form perseveres for the same goals. 
Yes, something does need to be done. Yes, the two committees need to be dis­tinct. But, first and foremost, the line between the committees needs to be clearly drawn, and the amendment pre­sented on March 29 did not adequately do this. Diversity can be extended to many walks of life -social, economic, spiritual, sexual and of course racial, among others. MAC, naturally, should speak to racial and ethnic diversity issues, while Diversity Affairs should address issues of difference based on religion, sexual orientation, economic status and the like. Now, I do not know many of the members of the 2006-2007 
l111pact appreciated 
Concerning the Friday, March 3rd edition of The Observer, "Notre Dame bene­factors to be recognized"-I attended the weekend. It provided a wonderful opportunity for those invited to hear the experiences of several students and to hear of their appreciation of what Notre Dame and the benefactors have done for them. We all take a lasting happiness in our effort to pay back our great school in our own fashion -however small -and in the realization that we are helping to carry the image of our Lady's school out to the world th~ough the finest and brightest young people in our country. A week has gone by and the memories are vivid in my mind. 
I was able on Sunday morning to visit with two of the scholars from my endowment-both from my hometown area of Moline and Davenport. I hope to follow their progress as they go on in life. You students will also have this opportunity to pay back our school. Few things, if anything at all, can be as sat­isfying. 
Bob Eckland alumnus Class of 1957 March 10 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Student Senate, but I do know Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andrichik. They will see to it that this issue is resolved in the proper fashion. Once this is done, MAC, I believe, will receive its permanent status in the Student Union Constitution. Until this point is reached, no other amend­ments should go through. The Constitution is not something that should be treated like a sheet of notebook paper. Amendments should be written in a fash­ion that will make them solid as a rock, thus not needing to be edited in the future. 
Lastly, I will speak to a comment made by Minority Affairs Committee member Jason Laws concerning the past senators. In Langley's article, Laws is quoted as saying, "At the meeting, I just don't know if people had their eyes open," and that "senators would have done well to con­sider the significance of MAC ... before rejecting it." Personally, I consider this a slap in the face to all who served the entire student body of Notre Dame as senators the past administrative year. Of course the experiences of the minorities on campus are important; no one is denying this. MAC has been an invalu­able asset to Student Senate, and its importance was duly noted. If its signifi­cance were not considered, do you hon­estly believe the senators would have spent over an hour discussing the amendment? This issue needs to be addressed in the clearest and best way possible to serve the needs of all minori­ties here at Notre Dame. And it certainly will be as soon as the distinction is made by those in office for the 2006-2007 administrative year. But I find these statements to be both offensive and insulting to those students who have worked tirelessly through Student Senate for the student body. 

I have the utmost confidence in the new administration to resolve this issue in a fashion that best serves all involved. It may take a week, it may take months, but it will happen. An issue this big will not go by the wayside unnoticed. And to think that student government will do otherwise is just outrageous. 
Rob Lindley, Jr. sophomore Keough Hall April6 
U-WIRE 

The French: 111asters of protest 
I'm currently studying abroad in Aix-en­Provence in southern France, but I haven't been to class in five weeks. My university is on strike. Starting last week, our program began offering provisional classes to make sure we don't have too much time on our 
Andrew hands in this sun­Perrine drenched vacation spot. In fact, I should've 
University of
been in class Tuesday. 
Michigan
But as appealing as 
Michigan Daily 
"D'Aubigne, Chateaubriand, Malraux: trois repre­sentations literaires de !'insurrection" sounded, I opted to play hooky to attend the most massive, well-orchestrated and seamless expression of civil unrest I've ever seen with my own two eyes. As I watched the French in action, I got the dis­tinct impression that they had done this before. 
Unlike the few American protests I've seen, I barely detected any self-conscious forced enthusiasm. Instead, the manifesta­tion in Marseille was unreserved and unapologetic. This charivari of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin and President Jacques Chirac left many dum­mies noosed and caricatures guillotined amid a constant stream of Gallic epithets. A huge fountain was decorated with the bat­tered body of a cardboard-and-foam prime minister and dyed with his red blood. 
But it wasn't just punk kids having fun­the giant crowd included parents, grand­parents and employees of all sorts. The unions say attendance was 250,000; the police say 35,000. I estimate the crowd could've easily filled Michigan Stadium. 
But for what, exactly? Most obviously, the student movement takes aim at the CPE, or the "First Employment Contract," that was passed earlier this year. De Villepin and his right-wing allies sold it as a way to reduce unemployment among the under-26 crowd, but the Left criticized it as a signifi­cant erosion of workers' rights. De Villepin, who coincidentally is running for President next year, has taken a hard line. The CPE works, he says, and no modifications should be made. The socialists have taken an equally hard line: They will accept noth­ing less than the full retraction of the law. 

At the center of the argument is that the CPE allows employers to fire their young workers for no reason during a two-year "tryout period." From an American per­spective, it might be difficult to understand the outrage. We take for granted that we're not going to have job security. If you get fired, there's really not much you can do about it. C'est la vie. 
But in France, the protection of the worker against capitalistic exploitation has fared better than in the United States. The French have a working social democracy and are in the enviable position of having a 35-hour workweek, not to mention the generous vacation time. The CPE is seen as the first step in dismantling their beloved system . 
. The system may be on the verge of rup­ture anyway. Unemployment is high, and members of the next generation are going to be poorer than their parents. The big, happy, socialist pie is being stretched too thin, but instead of seeking reform, French students are clinging fearfully to their old ways. The turmoil in France that I'm wit­nessing right now is not just about one law hastily rushed through Parliament. The national dialogue is really about whether France is once again going be the excep­tion to the rule, or ifthe Fifth Republic will simply become another cog in the global­ized economy. 
Of course, this is also a partisan battle at heart. The left wants to undermine the power of de Villepin before the '07 elec­tions. As it stands, both sides are so obsti­nate that I seriously question whether I'll ever go back to the classes I enrolled in. In the meantime, I can only marvel at how French public transportation works better than ours even when it's on strike -and drink pastis. 
This column originally appeared in the April 6 edition ofthe Michigan Daily, the daily publication at the University of Michigan. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Friday, April 7, 2006 
WASHINGTON HALL SPOTLIGHT 
Notre Dame Opera a .~hellishly' good production 


KIRSTEN HOELMERfThe Observer Orpheus (Eric Petrucci) and Eurydice (Emily Sladek) have an argument at the beginning of the 2006 Opera Notre Dame production of "Orpheus Goes to Hell." 
KIRSTEN HOELMERfThe Observer 

The company convinces Orpheus to follow Eurydice, who Is caught In the Underworld. The Opera will be performed this weekend In Washington Hall. 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Kurosawa's 'Samurai' masterpiece comes to DPAC 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 

Though it sounds like the stuff of hyperbole, in 1954 Akira Kurosawa made "Shichinin no samurai" ("The Snven Samurai") and cinema was 1:hanged forever. Almost unparalleled in its seope, brillianen and effectiveness, Kurosawa ehangAd the idea of what an aetion film could be while tying his epic to a solid and entertaining story. 
"Tiw Seven Samurai," as its name implies, follows s1wen Japanese warriors as tlwy defend a village from a group of bandits who have been terrorizing the pnople. Lnd by the wise Kambei (Takashi Shimural, the samur~i are comprised of Kikuehiyo (Toshiro Mifune), Gorobei (Yoshio lnaba), Kyuzo (Seiji Miyaguchi), lleihachi (Minoru Chiaki), Shichiroji (Daisuke Kato) and Katsushiro (Ko Kimura). 
Eaeh of the samurai has a distinct per­sonality, but the most notable are Kikuchiyo, whose youth and rebellious attitude drives the group, Kyuzo, the master swordsman and Katsushiro, a boy who longs to be a true samurai. 
Though set in a bygone era of samu­rais and villages, Kurosawa's acute abili­ty to weave social commentary is evident throughout "The Sevnn Samurai." What constitutes "good" versus "evil?" What makes the samurai better than the ban­dits? Kurosawa explores these issues and more over the course of the film ­there is an extraordinary scene about what it means to be a man that res­<mates despite the differences between Japanese and Western society because of Kurosawa's insight and directorial courage. 
The action scenes are justifiably famous, as Kurosawa set a new standard in how to film such sequences. The mov­ing camera, elliptical edits 
and well-execut­The Seven Samurai remade -this includes ed editing all "The Seven Samurai" blend to make a which was remade by picture that is John Sturges in 1968 as undeniably cine­the Western "The matic. Though Time: Saturday, April9 at 3 p.m. Magnificent Seven." "The Seven Venue: Browning Cinema, DPA_C Others include 1958's 
Samurai" is quite long -over 200 minutes -it rarely drags thanks to its sure narrative footing and Kurosawa's filmic style. 
There is something inherently tragic about "The Seven Samurai" -despite its thrills and surprisingly fluid pace, there is something somber about the film. Its emotional impact is strong and the final scene is one of those reminders of just how great the cinema can be. Kurosawa was a visionary who saw that 
"The Hidden Fortress" (which served as the basis for George Lucas' seminal 1977 "Star Wars") and 1961's "Yojimbo" (which was remade by Sergio Leone as the Clint Eastwood spaghetti western "For a Fistful of Dollars"). 
Other classics the director has made include 1952's "Ikiru" and 1957's "Throne of Blood" -all of these films established Kurosawa as arguably Japan's finest director (although Yasujiro there was still magic in film and brought out the best in the medium, revitalizing it with power and grace. Modern film­makers have much to learn from Kurosawa's pictures -few filmmakers, before or since, have effectively tied action, social awareness and meditative introspection as well as Kurosawa. 
He is easily one of the world's great filmmakers, from the time he burst into national prominence with 1950's "Rashomon" through 1985's "Ran." His influence is incalculable, but remains evident by the number of his films that have been 
By SEAN SWEANY Scene Wri rer 

The 2006 Opnra Notre Dame production of "Orpheus Goes to Ifell" is definitely not your grandmother's opera. Hilarious and irrnverent, this satiric romp by 19th centu­ry eomposer Jaeques Ollimbaeh pokes fun at Grnnk mythology, imperial French poli­ties and modern sodnty whiln entertaining the audienee with lively song and dance numbers. 
The opera, a yearly event sponsored by the Notre Dame Departmnnt of Music and Opera Notre Dame, will take place this weekend 7:30 p.m. both Friday and Saturday night in Washington Hall. 
Director and Notre Dame Opera profes­sor Mark Beudert believes the show simul­taneously entertain and edueate .. 
"This art f(Jrm is a collaboration of all the other art f(Jrms," Beudl~rt said, who hopes that tim opera ean provide an experience bditting the liberal arts atmosphere that permeates Notre Damn. 
"Orpheus Goes to Itell" retells the classic Greek myth of the legendary singer Orpheus who pursues his wife Eurydice to Hades after she has been taken by Pluto, much to the dismay of Jupiter, king of the gods. Along the journey from Thebes to Mt. Olympus to Hades, many characters from Greek mythology show up to add their own lampoons and satiric comments during the riotous romp. 
Offenbach's original version has been reworked several times, which adds 
many types of humor Witty andfast moving, describing the opera as a "politi­to the opera that the catchy songs and cal commentary." While his char­stem from various acter originally symbolized the
lyrics combine with 
historieal periods. derisory Napoleon III, it can also
graceful choreography 
Offenbach himself apply to several more contempo­seems to generate to make the [Opera] rary political figures. most of the humor, Sladek, Petrucci and Soebbing
enjoyable and exciting.
poking fun at the are all music majors, a group establishments of that makes up the bulk of the 19th century France. But there is also large cast and crew. The production of more modern humor clearly introduced by "Orpheus Goes to Hell" gives the music the Notre Dame production team. majors a chance to showcase their skills in 
"We've tried to incorporate a lot of Notre singing, acting and dancing -a laudable Dame [humor], while also making the rela­goal which must be promoted and encour­tionship between Orpheus and Eurydice a aged as part of the Notre Dame tradition, "Brad Pitt-Jennifer Aniston thing," Emily according to Phelps. 
Sladek (Eurydice) said, 
Modern references like these, along with other humorous allusions to Starbucks, "Desperate Housewives" and a surprise operatic debut by Notre Dame legend Digger Phelps help make the play appeal­ing and entertaining to a wider audience. 
Eric Petrucci (Orpheus) describes the play as "basically one big ridiculous joke" that audiences should not take as a serious opera. Steven Soebbing (Jupiter) echoes these sentiments, 

All of the performers are accompanied by the seventeen-piece Notre Dame Orchestra, which is composed of both Notre Dame students and professional musicians directed by John Apeitos, a visit­ing professor and conductor of Opera Notre Dame for the past 13 years. The group is downsized from a normal orchestra because of the size and acoustics of Washington Hall -a full orchestra would drown out the voices of the singers in the small space. In spite of its small size, the orchestra in "Orpheus" has a great influ­ence on the show, filling in as another character at times and playfully interacting with the lead singers. 
"Orpheus Goes to Hell" is a perfect opera for the college audience. Witty and fast moving, the catchy songs and lyrics com­bine with graceful choreography and fan­tastic set design to make the art form of opera enjoyable and exciting. The student players give excellent performances fitting for full-sized opera houses. Opera Notre Dame's production of "Orpheus Goes to Hell" is a wonder to see and hear. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
courtesy 

The DPAC will screen Akira Kurosawa's "The Seven Samurai" on Saturday. 
Ozu fans may argue difl'erently). 
"The Seven Samurai" is not only a classic, but one of a handful of the truly most influential films and is essential viewing for anyone even remotely inter­ested in film. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, April.?, 2006 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
'Narnia' DVDs offer choice 

NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF . 

By ERIN MCGINN Scene Critic 
As with all technology, DVDs have man­aged to both simplify and complicate buy­ing a movie. With the ease and flexibility of producing DVDs, there are numerous possibilities for just a single movie. Take "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe," for example. Two versions -the single disc and the two-disc editions -currently exist, and a third "extended version" will be released later in the year. Which one, if any, should a fan -casual or otherwise -buy? 
"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" is about the four Pevensie children: Peter (William Moseley). Susan (Anna Popplewell), Edmund (Skander Keynes) and Lucy (Georgie Henley). After evacuat­ing London during WWII, they live with an eccentric professor in the country where Lucy discovers a wardrobe which leads to the fantastical world of Narnia. Eventually all four children enter Narnia and meet Asian (voiced by Liam Neeson), the benev­olent Lion who is the rightful ruler of Lewis' mythical land. Eventually, they engage in battle with the White Witch (Tilda Swenson), a tyrannical queen who keeps a dark pall over Narnia -it's always winter but never Christmas. 
The film is excellent, staying very true 
_ to C.S. Lewis' original work. The acting of the four children, especially Henley, is quite endearing and they are all believ­able in their roles. Neeson's Asian is a solid performance, and easily steals all of the scenes he's in. Andrew Adamson, best known for helming the two animated "Shrek" films, directed the movie very well, although he clearly suffers from "Lord of the Rings" envy. In an attempt to be npic, Adamson has inadvertently made the battle scenes too disjointed from the narrative. something that Peter Jackson achieyed far more fluidly in the "Lord of the Hings" trilogy. The single-disc version of the DVD con­tains the theatrical release -the "extra" and deleted scenes will be released only in the future extended version of the film. Its 
ture, however, is the "Discover Narnia Fun Facts," which functions much like VHl 's "Pop-Up Video" -while watching the movie, bubbles will appear with short anecdotes, production info, trivia, etc. 
The two-disc version has the same first disc as the single-disc release, plus a sec­ond disc of exclusive bonus features. There are nine features in total on the disc, ranging from 20 minutes to an hour in length. "Chronicles of a Director" is a look at Andrew Adamson and his making of the movie. "The Children's Magical Journey" contains interviews and back­ground information on the four children. "One Man's Mind" is a biography on C.S. Lewis -sadly, it is quite short and alto­gether not that informative. "Cinematic Storytellers" goes into the intense detail required to create an entire world. 
"Creating Creatures" is another fun fea­ture that further details different charac­ter designs. "Anatomy of a Scene: Melting River" breaks down the melting river scene from the middle of the movie. "Creatures of the World" is something of a sister feature to "Creating Creatures." This feature is a bit more character-ori­ented and provides background on how the creatures were detailed within the books. "Explore Narnia" and "Legends in Time" are both interactive features. This version also comes with two pieces of con­cept art and a foldout map detailing the features on the set. 
So which version of "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe" should fans buy? The single-disc is recommended for casual fans who might not really care about the bonus features. The two-disc is recommended for big fans of the movie who are really interested in the making-of and background information. The truly die-hard might be best suited waiting for the extended edition, but probably can't wait that long, either. The easiest solution for Narnia addicts is to buy the two-disc now and re-gift/re-sell it later when the extended version is released. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
bonus features include 
The Chronicles of Namia 
two commentaries, one with the director, produc­
Widescreen Edition
er and production design­er (very dry, and very technical) and one with 
Walt Disney Video
Adamson and the four children (highly entertain­ing). It also has a very short yet entertaining blooper reel. The best fea­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 7, 2006 
WOMEN'S CREW 
Irish head to Indianapolis for three races against top foes 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
After an imprnssive showing at the San Diego Classic last wm~k­end. tlw Irish will travel to Indianapolis for the Indiana Classic in Indianapolis this Saturday and Sunday. 
Tlw event, sponson~d by Indiana University, pits the Irish against one of thnH~ tough opponents on Saturday morning, Saturday al'tnr­noon, and Sunday morning. Notre Damn will row against Indiana, Calili>rnia and Wisconsin, respec­tively. 
Notn~ Dame head coach Martin Stone called the Hoosiers an "up­and-coming program." I le specifi­cally cited the strength of the lloosiers' novice boats. 
The Irish alc;o have the opportu­nity to take on the Golden Bears, the delimding national champions, lilr the second straight week. Last week, No. 2 Cal's varsity eight boat defeated Notre Dame's Julie Sobolewski, Amanda Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura Pearson, Allison Marsh, Melissa Felker, Meg Boyle and Sarah Palandech by fewer than seven seconds. 
"[Cal] is one of the best teams in the country and we are really looking forward to racing them again," Stone said. 
The Irish will conclude their weekend by taking on· the Badgers. 
Stone said the level of competi-

BOOKSTORE XXXV 
Saltines top Team 501, 21-11 
Charles Manson Strikes Back, Counter Ballerists Unit also advance 
By TIM KAISER and DAN MURPHY Sports Writers 
The Saltines used their suprmne height advantage and athleticism to knock oil' Team 501 21-11 in a hard limght game. 
At the oul'int, both teams played sloppy basketball, each going scornless in their ftrst two posses­sions. 
Needing a quick viet.ory in order to finish before a class, the Saltines dnddnd to step up their game. 
"We came out slow," said Dan Ott of the Saltin1~s. "but we had a test right al'tnr thLc;, so we wanted to finish them oil' fast." 
After falling behind 3-0, the Saltines made three straight before Team 501 was able to answer. Using il<; superior height and athleticism, the Saltines went on an 8-2 run to end the half. 
Although the score at half was lopsided in favor of the Saltines, the play rnmained competitive and heatnd on the court. \ 
There were a number of hard fouls, and a scuffle broke out at one point. The pushing and shov­ing was quickly broken up by other players and resulted in no ejections. 
In the second half, the Saltine players followed the same game plan of using their height to their advantage. They were able to force a number of turnovers, which led to six second-half fast­break poinl<; en route to the 21-11 final. 
"It was a tough draw for the first round," Team 501 guard Steve Howenstein said. "They have a lot of size and were very athletic. Those guys are going to go far." 
Charles Manson Strikes Back 
21, Jaredisjake 4 
Emerson Epartz and Ben Hoesch scon~d seven points each as Charles Manson Strikes Back slaughtered Jaredisjake in first round at Stepan Courts Thursday night. 
Jaredisjake struggled from the field, scoring only four points in the contest. The group of seniors ollicially ended their Bookstore careers with a record of 1-4. 
"We were just out here to have some fun today," said Jaredisjake guard Shane Duba, who scored one point. 
Duba said his teammates enjoyed themselves during the whole game, despite trailing throughout. 
"We aren't in very good condi­tion. We also didn't rebound, pass, or shoot well." Jaredisjake for­ward Mark Seiler said. 
With those ingredients· missing, Jaredisjake found it tough to hang with the fast-paced offense that the Manson team ran through out the game. 
Manson, made up of two fresh­man, two sophomores and a jun­ior, passed well throughout the game. All five players scored. 
Manson was able to pick up easy baskets by driving hard toward the hoop and dishing to open teammates as the Jaredisjake defense collapsed. The fancy passing worked well in sev­eral instances, but also led to many turnovers. 
Roesch said his team will have to improve its consistency before it plays No. 3 The Caged Badgers in the third round. 
"We're hoping for at least one more win until we have to play the third ranked team," Roesch said. "But who knows? We could be the next George Mason." 
Counter Ballerists Unit 21, 
MaCCCK Daddies 5 
The Counter Ballerists Unit 
advanced to the second round of 
bracket play after a big win over 
MaCCCK Daddies. The experi­
enced seniors exploited their 
advantage in both size and athleti­
cism to come away with the 21-5 
victory. 
CBU was led by Steve Colnitis, who sunk the first six baskets of the game. Colnitis finished with 11 points and four assists. 
Once it built up a sizable lead, CBU never looked back. It came up with several steals, which were easily converted to fast break buckets. 
"We just wanted to work out all the kinks in the first round. It was a good all around effort," CBU guard Dave Kuck said. 
Kuck's outside shooting proved to be a valuable weapon for CBU throughout the game. 
The slow start hurt the under­manned MaCCCK Daddies, who were gasping for air by the end of Coln.itis' hot streak. 
'They had five guys and stami­na," MaCCK Daddies guard Bill Bordogna said. After trailing 11-2 at the half, the Daddies looked for any advantage they could to try to stop the bleeding. 
"We thought the half-time ciga­rette would get us back on track, it normally calms me down a lit-
Contact Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser@nd.edu and Dan 
Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

tion will present a challenge to Notre Dame. 
"The expectation is to pick up even more speed than the previous day," he said. "Each of these teams is going to be a great test for us." 
He also said the Irish have to be extremely prepared for each oppo­nent. 
"In college athletics, anything can happen on any given day," Stone said, pointing out his own team's performance last weekend in San Diego, where the Irish lin­ished fourth in the varsity eight, second in the open night and first in the second varsity eight and novice eight. 
"Some of the teams there took us lightly and we nmlly performed well. We definitely exceeded expectations," Stone said. "I know we can race rnally well if we just concentrate on doing our own thing." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
NCAA HOCKEY 

Badgers beat Bears in Frozen Four, 5-2 
Associated Press 

Whether he's rolling on the ice or flying over it, Ross Carlson is dangerous as long as he's near the puck. 
Carlson scored an acrobatic goal and his diving attempt at a second earned him an assist in Wisconsin's 5-2 victory over Maine on Thursday night in the NCAA Frozen Four semifi­nals. 
Hobbie Earl had two goals and an assist, and Adam Burish and Ben Street also scored for the Badgers (29­10-3), who will play Boston College on Saturday night for the national championship. The Eagles beat North Dakota 6-5 in the first semifinal. 
After stealing the puck from Maine's Michel Leveille, Carlson skated down the left side and left his feet 'to avoid Bret Tyler, the last Maine defender. Carlson maintained control despite his momentum as he landed and fired the shot at Ben Bishop, the 6-foot­7 goalie for the Black Bears. 
"I knew I was going to cut to the middle, but I didn't know when or how," Carlson said. "The guy went flying, and I flipped the puck up, knocked it down and shot it." 
Said Bishop: "l didn't think he was going to shoot it because he had all the time in the world. When he shot it, it surprised me." 
Maine (28-12-2) had played a gritty game to that point, but the goal shook the Black Bears, who gave up a costly scoring chance minutes later. 
With 11 :44 left, Maine had an opportunity on a short­handed rush, but Wisconsin's ensuing 2-on-1 break left Earl with a sharp wrist shot he fired past Bishop for a 3-1 lead. 
"Being on that side, I know what they were going through," Burish said of the momentum swing. "It's frus­trating." 
Maine finally scored again with 8:39 remaining in the game when Josh Soares left a drop pass for Greg Moore, who found Mike Lundin across the ice for a slap shot past Brian Elliott that cut it to 3-2. 
But Wisconsin retook con­trol about a minute later. 
Bishop blocked Street's ini­tial shot from the left circle. Carlson was knocked over as he rushed the net and slid through the play, managing to push the puck toward Bishop in the process. 
"I was just spinning like a little top," Carlson said. "I accidentally hit the puck, hit the pipe." 
Undeterred, Street charged to the net and flipped the fol­low up over Bishop's out­stretched body to put Wisconsin up by two goals again. 
"I was coming in too fast, but then I kind of gathered myself and stopped, and then got some composure and buried the backhand," Street said. 
Earl made it 5-2 when he added an empty-net goal with 
1:44 to play. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Highly motivated. ethical/socially  Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come  4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus.  carpeted, 2 bdrm brick ranch 1 blk.  1.5 blks to NO -626 Peashway.  
responsible, entrepreneurial, go- see 429 Tonti, 112 mile from NO  $1350. 220·8666.  west of new IU Medical Ed.Ctr.  
WANTED  getters with desires to make a  Campus! Make your dream of  
 Large living room, 2 large bdrms,  
Dance and Music Teaching  meaningful impact on transforming the international business world  homeownership a reality. 1232 sq ft, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993·  Looking for lodging for home foot­ball games?  large closets, one full bath, large kitchen & 1-car attached garage.  TICKETS  
while making a large amount of  5060.  Call 57 4-276-8417 for details.  Private, fenced-in backyard, quiet &  
Positions Area s largest dance  $$$$. I am an alum based in  safe area. Neighborhood ordi- O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James  
school is expanding.  Jackson Hole and am looking for  ·Mac G4 Powerbook, extended war- HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK.  nances apply. $1125/mo. 574·272­ Taylor.. Call 272-7233.  
students for part time, full time, or  ranty, $1700 obo. jcres5@nd.edu  2800 s/f+base,LR w/fp,4  9944 or 574·272·4796 eve.  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  
Part time positions available for  summer employment to work for  
 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. Full  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  
summer and 2006·07 school year.  commission. Can work from home.  appliances + WID, 3 porches.  Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800  CALL 277-1659.  
www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co  FoR RENT  413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util.  SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east  
m  574-2322167 or 574-2613184  of Ironwood, Near NO. Contact  
Fax qualifications to 574-633·2160.  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  www.xog.com/property/413WestNa  Grubb & Ellis/Grassy & Everett,  PERSONALS  
HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM  varre.html  Noah Davey.  
Nanny to care for our toddler.  FOR SALE  532-1408  574·271-4060  Are we there yet? Eurydice  
NEW! http://ndrental.tripod.com  
Full time weekdays during summer.  4 bdrm/2bth  Area houses and apartments for  Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
rent. Log onto  $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Part time or full time in the fall.  newly remodeled house near cam­ MichianaRentals.com.  1·bdrm apt. $400 +utilities.  Distance to NO. Contact Grubb &  you love needs confidential support  
pus.  Caii574-993-RENT (7368)  A!C,security system,fenced  Ellis/Grassy & Everett. Tony Davey  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
Previous experience required.  yard,carpeted,laundry,on bus route.  574-271-4060.  Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more  
$87,000.  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  No smoking or pets, lease deposit  
 information, see 'our bi-weekly ad in  
Fax resume or letter to  site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary  required.  4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2  THE OBSERVER.  
574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­ 57 4·289·9365.  mi. to NO. 428 Preston. $795/mo.  
 
574-251-1898.  220·6666.  spot. net  269-663-2299  Congratulations Dental Club Prez!  
Very nice, clean newly painted &  
------­-----------------------------------­ 

,------------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 7, 2006 CoMPl LED FROM THE 0BSERVE!tS WIRE SERVICES page 15 


Major League Baseball · American League East 
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Baltimore 2-0 1.000 2-0  
Boston 2-1 .667 2·1  .5  
Toronto 1·1 .500 1·1  1  
New York 1·2 .333 1·2  1.5  
Tampa Bay 0·2 .000 0·2  2  
American League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Detroit 2·0 1.000 2-0  
Cleveland 2·1 .667 2-1  .5  
Minnesota 1-1 .500 1-1  1  
Chicago 1·2 .333 1-2  1.5  
Kansas City 0·2 .000 0-2  2  
American League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Oakland 2-1 .667 2·1  
Seattle 2·1 .667 2·1  
L.A. Angels 1·2 .333 1·2  1  
Texas 1·2 .333 1-2  1  
National League East  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Atlanta 2·2 .500 2-2  
New York 1·1 .500 1-1  
Washington 1-1 .500 1·1  
Florida 1-2 .333 1·2  .5  
Philadelphia 0·3 .000 0·3  1.5  
National League Central  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
Milwaukee 3·0 1.000 3-0  
St. Louis 3·0 1.000 3-0  
Houston 2·1 .667 2·1  1  
Chicago 1-1 .500 1-1  1.5  
Cincinnall 1-1 .500 1·1  1.5  
Pittsburgh 0·3 .000 0·3  3  
National League West  
team record perc. last 10  GB  
San Francisco 2·1 .667 2·1  
Arizona 1-1 .500 1·1  .5  
Colorado 1-1 .500 1·1  .5  
San Diego 1-1 .500 1·1  .5  
L.A. Dodgers 1-2 .333 1·2  1  

USA TODAY/ESPN College Baseball Top 25 
No.  team  record  points  
1  CS Fullerton  24-7  849  
2  South Carolina  26-3  845  
3  Florida State  27-4  1770  
4  Rice  24-8  762  
5  Mississippi Sl.  22-3  741  
6  North Carolina  23·6  401  
7  Clemson  20-7  690  
8  Nebraska  20·5  677  
9  Georgia Tech  22-6  636  
10  Texas  21-11  549  
11  Arkansas  23-6  519  
12  Arizona State  23-9  513  
13  NCState  25·8  448  
14  Oregon St.  19-8  442  
15  Alabama  22·9  370  
16  Oklahoma  21-9  277  
17  Miami (Fla.)  23·10  227  
18  Virginia  24·8  265  
19  Florida  19·13  262  
20  Old Dominion  29·3  113  
21  louisiana Sl.  20·10  102  
22  Baylor  19-10  101  
23  Vanderbilt  19·9  95  
24  Coli. of Charleston  23-6  94  
25  Wake Forest  23-7  92  

around the dial 
PGA 
The Masters, 4 p.m., USA 
NBA 

Dallas Mavericks vs. San Antonio Spurs, 8 p.m., ESPN LA Lakers at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 


Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, GA -Vijay Singh was at the top of the Masters leaderboard. No surprise there. 
Phil Mickelson was right in the mix. That's to be expected. 
Tiger Woods got off to a sluggish start at Augusta National. Sounds about right. 
Still, there were plenty of surprises on Day 1: Rocco Mediate and Arron Oberholser were Singh's closest challengers, and Ben Crenshaw -who was talking retirement a day earlier -put himself in contention with a stunning round. 
Showing no regard for the longer, tougher course, Singh put up a bogey-free, S-under 67 that gave him a one-shot lead over Mediate on Thursday. Oberholser, a Masters rookie, was anoth­er shot back. 
"I played pretty decent," Singh said. "I didn't make too many mistakes. I had a lot of chances early on and I putted very welL" 
Mickelson shot 70, part of a group three strokes off the lead that included two­time U.S. Open champion Retief Goosen. 
Lefty said it's much easier to play the Masters now that he's a past champion, having won in 2004 when he captured his flrst major title. He added the PGA Championship last year. 

"It's a different feel teeing off in this tournament knowing you've won it," Mickelson said. "I always wanted to win it so bad ... that it was harder to let my swings go, relax and enjoy the day. I feel I can do that now." 
Singh and Mediate had something in common. They wen~ the first two players to make birdies on the 11th hole, a tough test that became even harder when Augusta National decided to super-size its course to 7,445 yards -the second-longest 
IN BRIEF BC advances to Frozen Four 
title game 
MILWAUKEE -Chris Collins made North Dakota pay for its mistakes, and Boston College's unselflsh play helped the Eagles advance to the NCAA Frozen Four title game for the first time since 2001. 
Streaking in alone in the second period, Collins got a pass from team­mate Benn Ferriera and buried the puck in the back of the net to lead Boston College to a 6-5 victory over North Dakota on Thursday in the semifinals. 
"They weren't ready for that," Collins said. "To be skating out across the blue line and Benn Ferriera putting it right on my stick was pretty nice." 
Collins scored three goals and the Eagles didn't let North Dakota bully them out of the NCAA tournament like they did last season. 
Freshmen Anthony Aiello, and Brett Motherwell added goals and Cory Schneider made 36 saves. 
Mannings to face off in 
Sunday opener 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts will open the season on the road for the seventh straight year, this time against the New York Giants in what is expected to be the first NFL matchup between brothers Peyton and Eli Manning. 
"We thought that was coming, and the unfortunate thing is for the other 54 guys that are involved in the game, it'll almost be like they're not there," Colts coach Tony Dungy said Thursday. "That is unfortunate, because there are a lot of other good players on those two teams, but we pretty much know how that one is going to be promoted." 
The league released its 2006 sched­ule on Thursday, and the Sept. 10 opener at the Meadowlands is part of NBC's new Sunday night package. 
Indianapolis also is scheduled to play a Sunday night game at New England on Nov. 5 and a Monday night game at home against Cincinnati. 

in major championship his­tory behind Whistling Straits. That's where the similari· ties end. 
Singh is a three-time major champion who won the Masters in 2000. Mediate qualified for Augusta based on a sixth-place firrish at the 
U.S. Open last summer. Otherwise, he's been mired in one of the worst slumps of his career, firrishing 114th on the money list a year ago ­an improvement on his 176th-place showing in 2004. 
"I haven't been here in a while," Mediate quipped as he walked into the interview room. "Still the same, though." 
Blake ready to take on 
Gonzalez in Davis Cup 
RANCHO MIRAGE, CA-James Blake gets to go first for the United States and, if the Davis Cup quarterfi­nals against Chile go the limit, he'll also go last. 
Blake, No. 2 on the U.S. team behind Andy Roddick, will face Chile's No. 1 player, Fernando Gonzalez, on Friday in the opening singles match. Roddick will play Nicolas Massu in the second match of the day. 
The order of play was determined during Thursday's draw. 
"I think this is the flrst time I've been picked," Blake said of the open­ing assignment. "It should be fun, and hopefully I'll start us off on a good note." 
Blake said he doesn't worry much about anything but his own game, and will stick with that approach for his first match and -if the match is even and he faces Massu in the deciding match Sunday -the finale of the round. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 7, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

ND starts drive to NCAAs with stop in Virginia 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will traver to Harrisonburg, Virginia this weeknnd to take on snveral east­eoast squads in the James Madison Invitational. 
Two of the teams the Irish will faee inelude conference rivals Georgetown and Hutgers. 
"It will be good to see some Big East teams because that hardly twer happens," Notre Dame head coach Debby King said of the event, which will be 
ND SOFTBALL 

Tea:rn to play four road contests 
Squad will travel to Syracuse, Pittsburgh for conference games 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The Irish will put their 
undefmtted conference reeord 
to the test this weekend as 
they travel to Syracuse and 
Pittsburgh for a pair of dou­
blehnaders. 
The Orange and the Panthers are tied for third in the Big East with an identical 7-1 record. 
Notre Dame and South Florida are the only two teams without a loss -both at 4-0 -and remain tied for first. Although it is early in the season, the match-ups may have a major impact on where each team 1mds up in the conferenee standings. 
"They are both on fire right now," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "To have a good week we have to bn able to control their hitters." 
Both teams. she said, are "crushing the ball right now." 
The Orange are poised to continue their rise with two big games this Saturday. On Thursday, the team tied a program reeord by winning nine of its last I 0 games. The one loss was a 7-4 upset at the hands of St. John's in the second of two games on March 26. 
Syracuse pitcher Alexis Switenko eurrently leads the Big East with 11 home runs and has a .365 batting aver­age. She was also 2-0 on the mound last weekend, striking out 10 in an H-1 complete game win over Villanova. 
"ISwitenkol is hitting the snot out of' the ball," Gumpf said. "She can single-handed­ly change a game. and we n1wd to give her the respect that she has earned." 
The competition will not ease up on Sunday. Pittsburgh (24-13) is also rid­ing an impressive streak, with 10 wins in 11 contests. A victory over Kent State Wndnesday gave the Panthers the most wins in the school's history. 
Consistent and powerful hit­ting has lwlped the team find its way into the record books. Leading the way are leadoff' batter .Jessica Dignon (.350 BAJ and tlw powPr-hitter Lisa held at the Lakeview Golf Course in Harrisonburg. 

But the Irish will not face any teams from the NCAA Central Hegion this weekend and are therefore more focused on main­taining a low scoring average than on competing with the field at the James Madison. 
"We don't get to face any more [NCAA Central Region] teams so we can't improve our head-to­head ranking," King said after the Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational in Hawaii March 21­22. 
Head-to-head record and 
overall team scoring average are the two criteria that are used to determine if a team is worthy of an NCAA tournament bid. 
Notre Dame will begin first round play Saturday without the benefit of a practice round. The team's flight will arrive in Harrisburg Friday evening, after the other teams have already finished their practice rounds and seen the course. 
King said that she has printed out pictures of each hole of the course and distributed them to her players, although she real­izes that her team will still be 
I 

Irish shortstop Sara Schoonaert fields a ground ball during Notre Dame's 4-2 loss to Akron Wednesday at Ivy Field. 
McGregor, who has homered six times this season. 
"We just need to focus on each other and keep our­selves enthusiastic -that's all we can do," designated hitter Gessiea Hufnagle said. 
Notre Dame, currently 20­11, has also been tearing through its schedule recently. Wednesday's loss to Akron was the first since dropping a game to No. 7 Alabama on March 19. 
"We know we are a good team," Hufnagle said. "We 
just have to take the Akron game and learn from it, then Contact Dan Murphy at go out there and get the job dmurphy6@nd.edu 
done." 
Gumpf said the team will get back to basics this week­end and concentrate both on getting good pitches to hit and driving runners home once they get on base. Notre Dame has left 181 runners on base so far this season, aver­aging just under six per game. 
The Syracuse games are scheduled for noon and 2 
p.m. Saturday. The Pittsburgh games will take place at noon and 2 p.m. Sunday. 

entering the tournament at a disadvantage. 
"The first round of play will essentially be our practice round," King stated. 
However, the coaeh remains confident that her players are well-prepared. 
"We've been getting good scores in practice all week," she said. 
King specifically cited the impressive play of senior co-cap­tain Suzie Hayes, who had shot a 73 during Wednesday's prac­tice. 
This weekend, as the team 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Twelve Irish runners travel to Mia:rni Invite 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Wri[er 

A dozen members of the Irish track team will trek to the Miami Invitational in Oxford, Ohio this weekend in the hopes of qualifying for, or improving their seeds, in the 
May  5-7  Big  East  
Championship meet.  
"This meet is not a  major  

meet by any means," senior sprinter Ryan Postel said. "But it represents a chance to hit Big East qualifiers for those who haven't done so." 
Among those competing is freshman Alyissa Hasan. Already a Big East qualifier in the long jump, she will be competing in that event, plus the shot-put and 100-meter hurdles. 
"Hopefully, I'll be able to set some good marks," Hasan said. ''I'm hoping for a Big East qualifying time in the 100-meter hurdles." 
Other Big East hopefuls inelude Antonia Bethel in the 400-meter hurdles on the women's side and Charlie Hilding, whose best time in the men's 200-meter event is 
WE DON1 DO TRAFFIC REPORTS. 

enters their final tournament before the Big East Championship, the Irish know that they have little margin for error if they want to attain their third NCAA berth in as many years. 
"[The NCAA tournament! is so prestigious so it would definitely be a huge honor to be chosen again," senior co-captain Katie Brophy said. "Hopefully, we can finish strong and get rewarded for it." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
only one-hundredth of a sec­ond behind the qualifying mark. 
Sophomore Bob Kueney has already qualified for the Big East ·meet. He will compete in the 400 meters in Oxford. 
''I'm just trying to get a good seed going into the Big East championships," Kueny said. 
So far this season, Irish have 29 Big-East qualifying scores and f'ive Mideast Hegional qualifying marks. 
On the schedule next week is the four-day Mt. SAC relays starting Wednesday in Walnut, Calif. It is one of the biggest meets in the country, with dozens of high school and universities around the countries sending their top competitors. 
As of now, Irish coach Joe Piane said he has not decided who will represent the Irish. Possibilities inelude Postel for his individual events and the Irish 4 x 400-meter relay team comprised of Postel, Kueney, Jordan Powell and Austin Wechter. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
------~--~--~-------.---­

Friday, April 7, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Squad splits doubleheader with Flying Dutch 
game remained scoreless until The Belles (14-6, 3-1 in the team, we are just as good," hold on against Alma. By DEIRDRE KRASULA the bottom of the third inning MIAA) took the lead in the first Sullivan said. They expect sluggers like Sporrs Writer when Sarah Meisle singled to game in the top of the third when The Belles hope they can con­Meisle to step up at the plate. 
drive in the only run of the game. Bridget Grall scored off an error. tinue their success when they Grall said that everyone will 
The Belles redeemed them­Kristin Amram secured the The Flying Dutch answered back face defending MIAA champion come into Saturday's game with selves in the second game of their Belles lead on the mound, strik­in the bottom of the third with Alma Saturday. Alma enters the high intensity. doubleheader against No. 24 ing out 11. three runs and never looked game coming off a split against "Our players are going to be Hope after losing the first game Saint Mary's coach Erin back. Jessica Regnerus singled to Defiance. Alma won the first playing with everything they 5-2 Wednesday in Holland, Mich . Sullivan said that after losing the drive in a run and both Laura game 4-0 but lost the second 6-5. have," Grall said. 
Saint Mary's came back in the first game, the Belles wanted to Tanouye and Emily Adams tallied "Alma has always had strong Alma and the Belles face off at second game to win 1-0, captur-turn things around. sacrifice flies. hitters and a very deep line up," Saint Mary's Saturday at 1 p.m. ing its third Michigan "We realized that we had the Sullivan was pleased with her Grall said. Intercollegiate Athletic opportunity to win," Sullivan said. team's performance in the split. Grall also said that the Belles Contact Deirdre Krasula at Association (MIAA) win. The "We kept our intensity up." "Even against a really great will look to get ahead early and dkrasula@nd.edu 
Attention Arts & Letters Students In the upcoming ii;stte ofthe 
Arts & Letters Gllzette 
Answer the Sphinx's question.~ correctly and 
winaniPQDf 

Lookfor your copy ofthe Gazette in your nlailba:c or pick one upfrom the Dean's office in 104 O'Sitau ltner~s . 
SMC GoLF 

Belles travel to Illinois Wesleyan 
Saint Mary's placed second at Normal, Ill. tournament last year 
By BECKI DORNER Sporrs Writer 
Fresh off a tournament and a repeat win at Capital University's Purple and White Invitational last Sunday, the Belles of the Saint Mary's golf team look for continued suc­cess at the Illinois Wesleyan University Spring Fling in Normal, Ill. this weekend. 
The Belles placed second out of 20 in last year's tourney at IWU, scoring 305 and 310 on the first and second days. respectively. They finished 14 strokes behind winner DePauw University. Sarah Gates of DePauw and Maggie Loney of Wisconsin Eau-Claire both recorded totals of 144 to share the individual title. 

This fall's MIAA League MVP Megan Mattia of Saint Mary's placed seventh individually last year, recording two five over par 77's on the 5842 yard par 72 Ironwood Golf Club course. The team will look to her for leadership as the highest plac­ing Belle returning to the tour­nament this year. The Belles wm compete this year without their number three finisher Stefanie Simmerman and sixth place finisher Julia Adams, both of whom graduated from the team last year. 
Nonetheless, many of the cur­rent Belles are very familiar with success at the Normal, Illinois course. At last year's Spring Fling, Captain Kirsten Fantom carded a final round 85 and earned fifty-second place overall, and Katie O'Brien had a top round of. 
"We have a positive outlook going into the upcoming tour­nament; we're familiar with the course and we've played well there in the past," Fantom said. 
Mattia agreed. 
"We have high expectations [for this tournament]." she said. 
The Belles will face a very talented field in Normal. DePauw will return to defend their title and is ranked No. 2 nationally in Division III by the National Golf Coaches 
. Association, and No. 3, just above Saint Mary's, in the Golfstat.com rankings. Wisconsin Eau-Claire is on the upswing as well, only recording five losses in their fall season that totaled over thirty con­tests, and Illinois Wesleyan will look to avenge their defeat by the Belles on their home course last year. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1 @nd.edu 

HJ~.r'PY \!\liTH_ TI-I.E OlRECl~lON )lOUR RETI REJ\l1ENT OOLLi\RS 1t\ r\.E l-1 EAD ED? 
i r: N()'J'. C()N'fACT 0 INVESTMENT AND SERViCES [)(: l'i\R:lt\l 
fOR YOUR FREE· 
MH..JI CONSUlTATION: 


DELUXB :FOOTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
•2 CAME TICKETS 
•1 
t\IRUNF TICKETS il\i\i O't1ARE TO LAX 

•2 1\ICHTS HOTEL RFSERVATIOi\S 

•CROU.\Ii) 
TIV\Vfl TO/r k(J;\1 (()! 1$rUM 


•C/\llRLD RALLY TlU fRIDAY NIGHT BEfORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per reservdlion 
((bt>ck or Cash; 
(;()IRISH! 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 7, 2006 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
ruins do not allow for a tnam to 
rnplacn an injun~d player, so 
Craig Fencing played the 
rnrnaindnr of tlw gamn a man 
down. 
Thn two tnarns went hack and 
forth until Nussbaum and 
Brandon Bnck seored inside 
baskets to givP Hule No. 76 a 
19-1 h lead. 
"It was obviously a sPlhack." 

Craig Fendng eaptain (;resham 
Kay said. "ThPn• was rnally 
nothing wn could do about it. 

Wn went into a 2-2 zonn and did 
Uw hnst wn 1:ould." 
Martin said Craig Fnneing 
horn down on dPfl'llSI~ and prn­

vnnt.nd Huln No. 7h from run­
ning away with the gamn. 
"Thny didn't let us take full 

advantage of !the injury! 
lweausn tlwy played hard," 
Martin said. "We puslwd the 
ball insidn ... and it worked out 
all right." 
Kay was proud of the way his 

team playnd in tho first half, as 
t lw two squads went back and 
forth in fast-paend play. 
"I felt we wore playing good 

basketball," lw said. "Th1~ main 
thing was that !Craig Feneing 
guard I John l.indPnmeynr was 
1:arrying us on his back." 
Martin said lw was proud of 

his team for knoeking ofT a 
rankml opporwnt, no mattnr the 
dreumstanens. 
"It's a good fnPling," lu~ said. 

"Wp wnrnn't intimidated, hut we 
didn't havn high hopes eoming 
in lwre. Wn had nothing to 
losn." 
Team 265 21, We Got a Bad Draw 13 
Team 2h5 defeated We Got a 

Bad Draw with physieal play in 
the paint and a height advan­
tal-{n on the wings. 
"I think that was our plan from the get-go -to use our !wight," Tnam 265 centor Phil Hosloniec said. "I was blessed with height and I had to usn it." 
Hosloniec dominated in the 

paint, scoring four second­
chance points in the SIH:ond 
half. 
"I know I couldn't get it done by shooting," he said. "In the paint is where I feel at home. It's my home away from horne." 
Undersized, Bad Draw kept the game close early. Joe "Mad Dogg" Schonhon· tied the game at throe on a layup thanks to his own offensive rebound. But Hosloniec continued to domi­nate the paint, and Team 265 took an 11-6 lead at the half. 
"They used thei~: height -we used our hearts," Bad Draw's Nick "Nicky Z." Zarazua said. "J•:ven when we boxed out, they were able to reach over our !wads and get the rebound." 
Team 265 took a 12-6 lead after the squads switched ends and Joe "Jay Murph" Murphy hit a jumper to cut the lead to 12-7. But Hosloniec and his tnammates rattled on· a 6-3 run to take an 1 S-10 advantagn. 
Three minutes later, Bad Draw guard Jimmy "llnrbie" Bulli hit a runner and Murphy made a layup to cut the Bad Draw defieit to 1 H-13, but those were the final baskets the team would score. 
"We accept responsibility," Zarazua said. "We could have played better. We give them en~dit -tlwy were very athlet­ic." 
Hoslonine endml the game with a jumper from thn lnl't side. "We've got to play better to 
win in the next round," he said. 
Team 2h5 rwxt plays April 1 H against No. S-s1~ed eel Me an (;iris. 
Captain Geech and the Shrimp Shack Shooters 21, Team 43 16 
Team 43, an all-female team, 
scored the first point against the 
Shooters, a mixed squad, but 
couldn't hold the lead and fell 
bnhind 4-1. 
Team 43 rallilld to be down by 
just one at thll half on the 
strength of a strong defensive 
performancf~. but the Shooters' 
post offense proved too much 
for them to handle. The 
Shootnrs took over the second 
half, showing impressive ball 
movement and securing the 
win. 
"It was a hard-fought battle," 
the Shootnrs' Peter Johnson 
said. "It was looking bleak for a 
little bit there, but we perse­
vered. It took dedication and 
ynars of practice." 
Shoot, Don't Dribble 21, Lewis 3SW... and Mikey 1 
Shoot, Don't Dribble advanced 
to the third round with a lop­
sided victory over Lewis 3SW ... 
and Mikey. Shoot, Don't Dribble 
jumped out to a large lead early, 
scoring 19 points before 3SW 
was able to get on the board. 
The game bf~carne a defensive 
struggle late, but was ended 
decisively on a thunderous dunk 
from Shoot forward Matt Besler. 
"We thrive when there's a tar­
get on our back," Shoot, Don't 
Dribble said in a team state­
ment. The team has won its first 
two games by a combined score 
of 42-3. 
3SW had a different take on 
thn eontest. 
"We let them win because 
tlwy're freshmen and we felt 
bad." they said in a joint state­
ment after the game. 
Bruce Flowers All-Stars 21, Moving Staircase 10 
This marathon match-up at 
McGlinn courts featured two 
teams with unique names. 
The All-Stars took their name 
from team member Thomas 
Flowers' father. Bruce, who 
played with Bill Lairnbeer on 
the 1978 Notre Dame varsity 
basketball team that reached 
the Final Four and is Notre 
Dame's career leader in person­
al fouls with 378. 
Moving Staircase took its name from an escalator mishap that caused guard Carrie Orr to spend part of her spring break in an emergency room getting stitches. 
The two teams battled back and forth in a defensive struggle that lasted for over an hour before the All-Stars came away with a victory. The All-Stars used their height advantage and post presence to pull away at the end. 
"We gave it a great effort," Orr said of her team's perform­ance. 
The All-Stars were happy to come away with a win after the grueling contest. 
"It was a tough battle, but sheer determination brought us to vie tory," All-Star guard Kevin .Johnson said. 
The All-Stars also had a mes­sage for their next opponent. 
"Insurance Waivers better watch their back," they said in a statement after the game. 
Globo Gym Purple Cobras 21, Drop It Like It's Hoff 0 
Drop it Like its Hoff arrived at the Bookstore courts confident Thursday night. Dressed in matching team jerseys, it taunt­ed Globo Gym from across the court during the Purple Cobras warm-up. 
Unfortunately for Hoff, Globo Gym let its playing do the talk­ing, en route to a 21-0 victory. 
The game started out with both teams missing their first four shots before the Purple 
Cobras were finally able to find their mark. Globo Gym used its height and athleticism to make an 11-0 run before half time. 
Hoff's defense, which consist­ed of yelling "Nooni:m!" at ran­dom intervals in addition to kieking and punehing the other team, could not slow down Globo Gym's offense. 
"We knew we were in for a battle when the abuse started," Purple Cobras forward Ben Kaplan said. 
Going into the game, that's what team llofl" wanted to do. 
"All I got is defense," Hoff guard Julie, who asked that her last name remain anonymous, said. "I (am not good] at offense, so I got to play tough defense." 
In the second half, it was more of the same, as Globo Gym could not be stopped. It used a series of breakaway lay-ups to increase its lead to 17-0 just minutes into the half. 
After a few more shots by Hoff missed their mark, Globo Gym went on a quiek 4-0 run to dose out the game. 
"It was a learning experi­ence," HolT forward Jim Riley said. "I just couldn't hit any­thing today. I think I spend too much time benching in Holfs. We'll be back next year though." 

Contact Ken Fowler, Tim Kaiser and Joe Quinn at kfowler 1 @nd.edu, I tkaiser@nd.edu and Sean Mallin dribbles around a defender in Bookstore action on jquin.n6@nd.edu Wednesday. 
The Notre G• 
~t~r~Ift!il ,nf · ur~ Bptt~ Notre • 
prc~tll1 Ja~ues 
Mllrding IDrK: 
···. ,,.......
•·.·.·.fP· 

,-· ·•·•·· .J. ....... 
e.. \\
'.. e~# ·~ 
. . ·.. ... #f!' 
. .
g.o.
. ::( 

.Opera Notre Damepresents a scandalofepic proportion-H 
April 7 and 8, 2006 
7:30PM, WASHINGTON HALL 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME fid:ets (SS~ TO} 4.-aiJable at ttlFOttUI1f Box Offl'torb ~one af (S14) 631~8 228 
Friday,April 7 2006 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

..------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 7, 2006 
Mustangs 
continued from page 24 
Although the Irish are ranked higher than the Mustangs, no one is looking past the match. 
"It looks like they're peaking at the right time," Bayliss said. "They're very well coached, they play great doubles -they always have." 
The singles players at SMU are also li•rmidable. 
"They've been around the block." Bayliss said. "They have a couple of Swedish players that have big serves and really big forehands. We just got a littli~ bit overpowered last year so we'rn ready for that. We'll expect a very close match." 

Notre Dame last played in Texas March 25 and 26, losing a 6-1 match at Texas and a 5-1 decision at Texas A&M. 
Before the road trip, the Irish had played in the finals of the Blue-Gray National Classic, los­ing 4-2 to Virginia Commonwealth University to take first runner-up in the tour­nament and ending an 11-match winning streak. 
The two-week hiatus was unusual for the team, which has played multiple matches most weeks since the season started. 
However, the time off was good for resting up and regain­ing long-term focus. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son we had a toug~ set of 
MEN'S GOLF 

Boiler111aker Invite to vvelco111e Irish golfers 
Augusta State, it contains some
By GREG ARBOGAST 

teams that will force Notre 
Sports Wrilcr 

Dame to play very well. 
Multiple Big Tnn teams like ,\fter finishing II th in the Minnesota -currently ranked Augusta Stat!~ Invitational in No. 1 in the Midwest Hegion ­Augusta, <:a., Notre Dame will will challenge the Irish this return to tlw Midwest to take weekend. part in llw Boilermaker Notre Dame is currently Invitational Saturday and ranked No. 10 in the Midwest 
Sunday  in  West  llistrict. llistrict  
Lafayette, Ind.  rankings  are  
The Irish will look to improve upon their per­ "We weren't happy at all with our  based on head-to­head records, so by finishing ahead  
formance last week at the Invitational.  performance last weekend."  of its fellow Midwest District compntitors in this  
Although  that  weekend's tourna­ 
tournament had a  Josh Sandman  ment, Notre Dame  
partieularly strong field -featuring  Irish golfer  would pick up valuable wins and  
seven  top-30  boost its ranking.  

teams -Notre Dame is not The team will face a challeng­using that as an excuse for last ing eoursn when it arrives at the we1~kend's result. Birel( Boilermaker Golf 
"We wen~n't happy at all with Complex. The Kampen Cour.5e is our p1~rformance last weekend," 7,333 yards long with a slope freshman Josh Sandman said. rating of 145. "We went in with a game plan, "It's a real tough course, and but we didn't exen1te it." it will be a good test for us," 
Despite failing to put togdher Sandman said. "I don't expect to a complete performance so far see Tany low scores this week­this spring, the Irish head into end. this weeknnd's meet with high expectations. Contact Greg Arbogast at 
"We're looking for things to garbogas@nd.edu turn around this weekend," Sandman said. "Anything less 
matches -we had trouble clos­ing out matches," Buchanan said. "I think that's really made us a lot tougher." 
Notre Dame is particularly deep in singles, with junior Stephen Bass, sophomore Sheeva Parbhu, freshman Brett Helgeson and junior Ryan Keckley in the top four in the singles lineup. 
"I hope theres a sense of urgency that we have to max our matches at the end of the year," Bayliss said. "Certainly the seniors want to go out on a strong note and we want that for them." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 



than a first or second-plaee fin­ish will be a disappointment for us." 
I NTE.R ESTEO IN BE,COrv11NG 
While the field at the Boilermaker Invitational may 
AN ENGLISH MA.J 0 R ??? 
not be as strong as thn one at 
Recycle the 

.. '.~ ~ ENTS
5 E f~V ED. 


,------------------------------~--------------­
-~---­

Friday, April 7, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
State and Quinnipiac. last year, outshooting them 68-to .309 and 11.91 a year_ ago. and distributed three assists in "At the beginning of the sea­24 and picking up twice as Though Notre Dame has also last year's win. Walsh comes
Butler 
son we were really concerned many groundballs as the held opponents to 6.75 goals into Saturday's game after about this point in the season Bulldogs. per game (down one and a half being named GWLL Player of
continued from page 24 
when we start This Notre goals from. a year ago), against the Week -the second such Notre Dame finished its non­league play," Dame squad is a Butler they hope to regain tbe distinction of his career -for conference slate with a 6-2 Peters said. different team offensive form of last season -his two goals and six assists in 
"We've taken our

mark -including losses to No. "We've taken our than last year's during which they wore out last week's wins over Brown 2 Hofstra and No. 5 Cornell league for grant­league for granted edition, as Irish opposing nets with the fourth (11-5) and Dartmouth. and victories over then-No. 14 ed a little bit the coach Kevin highest scoring offense in the Peters said the team's chief
a little bit the past

Penn State and then-No. 20 past couple of Corrigan through­country. concern this Saturday against
couple ofyears. '' 

North Carolina. They now stare years. We're defi­out the year has Senior attack Matt Karweck Butler is to be the best team in down the Bulldogs in the first nitely looking at criticized the had a monster day against the the GWLL. test of a four-game road trip of trying to wrap up Drew Peters team's inability to Bulldogs last year, tallying five "It's our first game in league conference foes that will shape the road trip capitalize on scor­goals and three assists. He play," Peters said. "Every game 
Irish midfielder 

their postseason future. undefeated, win ing opportunities enters Saturday's game with 11 in the league is very hard, so 
If the Irish emerge unblem­the Great -including last goals on the year -second on we expect them to come out ished they will be playing for Western and get Sunday's 8-7 win the team behind senior attack very hard. We're ready to play an automatic NCAA tourna­that automatic tournament over Dartmouth. Brian Hubschmann, who has a tough team." ment berth in the field of 16 bid." The 2006 Irish hold a .252 16. when they return home to fin­The Irish dominated Butler shooting percentage and an Senior All-American Pat Contact Tim Dougherty at ish their season against Ohio 22-6 at Moose Krause Stadium 8.12 scoring average compared Walsh collected three scores tdougher@nd.edu 
On Campus Graduation \Veekend Special 1\fay 18-21 
Need a place for your family to stay? Try the Sacred lieart Parish Center [Building 1185 on your campus maps.) 
\X/e set a $100.00 per person donation for the weekend. 
HCOl\lE EARLY [Thursday]­STAY LATE [~fonday]n same low price 
For rcs.crvations please call: Paul Eddr at 574..631~7512 or Mary Fonfcrko at 574-631~9436 
Finale 
continued from page 24 
some now stands at 18-1 in dual action this season. 
The only loss in doubles came from the No. 39 duo of sophomore Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Teftt at No. 2. The pairing was upset by Alexis Conill and Georgia Rose 8-5. 
"Doubles has really best one of our strengths [all season]," junior Catrina Thompson said. "We are hoping it'll take us far as we finish out the season at the Big East [Tournament) and the NCAA [Tournament]." 
In singles, the Irish found wins in the middle of their lineup to capture the victory early-on. 
The most impressive win came from Buck, who upset No. 24 Alexis Prousis 6-3, 6-3 at No. 3. Her win was followed by Tefft at No. 4 over Jamie Peisel 6-3, 6-1. Tefft now holds a 14-4 record in duals match­es. The final win came from Stastny at No. 5 who downed 

Got 3 weeks?· Get 3 credits! 
Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The Saint Mary's summer session offers courses in a variety of topics including Native American literature, human anatomy. ceramics. lsf:am, music. dance, theatre. pol~tics, business, and many others. 
Interested in study abroad this summer? Travel opportunities to Europe. Korea and CentraVSouth Arnerica are available. 
-tit-' 
SAINT 
M_ARY'S 
COLLEGE 
'-!OlRE UAML lN 
SUMMER SESSION 2006-MAY 22-JUNE g· 

For complete information visit 'INWW.saintmarys.edul-.summer or call '574) 284-4560, 
For additional •ntormation on study abroad opportunities visJt www.saintmarys.eduf-cwil or can (574) 284-4263. 
Applications will be accepted through May 19. 
Esseghir 6-3, 6-0. 

"It was definitely a hard fought win," Tefft said. "We are hoping that we can take the momentum [from this win] to close out the season." 
Although Notre Dame has demonstrated their full poten­tial this season, the Irish will encounter a DePaul program that has made an impressive debut in the Big East Conference this season. The Blue Demons are coming off a 4-3 victory over Syracuse last Saturday. 
Their team is led by Beatrix Csordas at No. 1 and Gergana Ganeva at No. 2. 
"Even though they are not ranked as high as us, it is always hard to compete against a team in [your confer­ence]." Catrina Thompson said. "We just have to compete like we have been all season." 
The Golden Eagles are 7-12 in dual meets this year. They struggled early in the season, starting 2-11, but had won five straight before a 7-0 home loss to Syracuse Sunday. 
They are led at No. 1 by Maria Calbeto and at No. 2 by Lauren Little. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 




page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 7, 2006 
Thorn ton, Samardzija and South Florida's season has starts with a 3.02 ERA in 41.2 fanned 50 in :38 innings, hold· Manship have." been marked by streakiness. innings. ing opposing hitters to a .199
Bulls 


StU<J!.:!t· ill 
DLl.BL-Tl'l 
lrela1r1d 


,. I . .....
.._.Ill U .-......._'"':1-i • I !11 £.._.. .-I IS I J i 1111 ~ 1...,.: 


.I"" hill r.-..:.1 HI_:&."., 1 K .-·1t..l>ril 7~ IIIt·[~ ..g: ···(~&:.11'11 I 19 ()""Sh:.:t~ 

I .u;..:u•• ;..:a.· 4 •..u........_ ..... _ 1-•II ~1.l4."b 
1.""{1.1. 1••1•': l)f th."''''''*''"'f h,•.h 1 111-1:: lr:.~u ~·;r·,L~~ l""fw•l •J'i... ·~"fih.lu•t~h.:t.Hr 
I...C I t. I~. I U •1 I •1: f'I•I.."F,hlrHn~ hii-..h I ::-.t•~..l!, :ii H.\! H) I I -~ • l"r·•"•TI. "'i·!L~·""'. •-""'~""":~ 
1·....:1' •-•u•· U•'l f·;"-~r:nn·un..s:· lr·,-..h "..t·~•.i$ '..,., ••~..::&a ,.,....... !'oo•• r~~.;;;·~n -.g;· 
I -! I '-I• I It a .. I • ; f 1••• t • 1'r,; r.,:: I J'···~ ·-h """1\::\ ·~ ~ .,.:; ·· 4 * · ~.• ·::JlJ, I Jt·.-~. fi I I J 0:: "..;; li no..· t1 i i ~;~,_ .i it' 
I -: I t I• • ••·'~~~ • •: t-1-..·r:1nr••uc 1••-..iil If ".f *•'I· i ·t;;:fii .;: .; c. .••, ••. , "a.t ...... •l •:--.•: 
I .....:: I • I• I u •::' I.:W::' Ft •.-.:ua!hH'I.f': ......... n ,, ••, .•. :....; ~'-!1-·J! ,:... :. J•u ...f ......... J ~-~ ..s; 
I;;;...: I 1 ;-. 1 II"• I , ..... [aa:-.·r•••*·•l•.afr· 11•·•·-h ·1 F< •..i• ·;,atw.. ll ii-I ;o;;.. ''!~~~~~ I"'•'F>••·'t:­
L-..! I t : ..;, ••• ; I)J' fnl:• lllhriil:.ii!li"'' n. ··~"':h "I R II fltillt .. i ::.:': ;&.·..... lli~i;l l·"ll'f::-••":· 
l.r-= I ! :..... ~ •• ; .... __ ...... 1 .. ~···-11..... H ..·~~~w.ian..~-., ~*"* .ll'il...llli€·,..aillllit.* a·w 112 :...11)-1 .. ~1,. I""••··· [)(",...•t'l!O..Ia~·f~J;;..III 
I .II•· 1 ..tlllua·..-· ( "••ut .....___ 1-"..JI.I.I ::!t'::-.W. 
1.:-:J_l _::.·IJIII'it<IJ!It:."..:-lf'u t.•.._..... h J~·•r.r •• iulf'•· IlK .""'i.. MCt .. t,:l~ l"r•.. •'L 1·~.>.%1>'"1~. 
~~~-...1 .:.:·1" .... _),.;;-ul (.•.•,._·J"",••f·""' i"h".C•·uru••· li-s: !l:l!i!li!R 'L! JL"" lli"mll?t (J ~~~,,~·n 
I'...CI I' t.tl4_..·.. 1•1. ,·)~,.~· •".r••.• ...•• .._. l•~t,{{;'tHf' _.-'•••11 '~1·~.,r~(,. I J.t ::!::~•• .'i:l5 l"'r'"••l :"'•'h;.:...,h.ul~';iln 
l--1! t_;... :.11•i.:.JI"• J.~.f.c··t·,,.~~v. )".,.••• .·r~. .._t;; i•-.....,•uu~.o. u~ .Jth ''"'"""'*"""':" i.l"'~::<·fmil~lk.J •..-.. !•·!\;•:• o:.i"l..)lfll l""f'.. •f I I
...; ................ 

1-..~: I ~ ;,. 1 It•"~ l')t .•A ..,., '1(•• }~.-..·.u f'ro··"h-A•"-J 1100: 2 .. 1"1· 'L L~ ij.,.~,f o:·:. ~lu;a.,;h.i%~I.J~ 
I...: I 1 ;.•14 ..-;... \~' .. ""·a,.-.-,, •".r.·~"·"' J:d-.,. ...... TJ.t .;.~ ..~.;;:~~-~~ -I:Jr; F~~'' -.....;:,,~!., ""-.; I"•I••'•••I•J""··••I'1 
1·...:-..... I -II ··:t I I 41 I ••••• ,,~. •·~~ /<ift,·,,Y.•w•~ "IJ!i'.e •> 'l.f:!'*-Iii• ;.c., I"•·~· 1--ua..._, I~ -.,. I • Jollio., =I.._ ·H I •"•· .-~ '~· X .u.~., •• A•.o1a'·" I. N ""!··~ :;,··..~. iiiJl .•t ®rih P·u~, I I ),,-.;.;'"'&:""-" 
I-"• ..,.. I u r'llt~lt' s 111 ~~..... iOiJ.l 11 i..;;!#t '""'Mfli ~ ~~o-t·•..• a~-~ .!1.:::!.:::! I·L&rc~-~ 1-1~11 
.._,. ..f'•ii "'"";." n I ~ 1..,:1 ~"''*'··'• • 
continued from page 24 
and junior righty Jeff Manship pitching Sunday. 
"If we play our game ­pitch as well as we can and play good defense -do the things that we do, then I think we can compete with South Florida and have some good results this weekend," Mainieri said. 
South Florida head coach Eddie Cardieri said he expect· ed his pitchers to rise to the occasion against the Irish starters. 
"If our guys pitch as we can, I think we'm looking at three rnaI good pitching mateh ups," he said in a l!dephonn inter· view with The Observer Thursday. "I shudder when I look at the numbers 

South Florida right-hander Casey Hudspeth squares off against Samardzija in the opener at 7 p.m. Friday. Hudspeth is 3-3 in eight appearances with a 3.99 ERA this season. He has 57 strike­outs in 49.2 innings while holding opposing hitters to a .250 batting average. 
"lie's got a good arm and a good curve ball," Mainieri said. "We've got a great chal­lenge against him." 
Samardzija enters the week­end with a 3-1 record and a 
3.16 EHA in six starts. 
Notre Dame (19-8, S-1 Big East) topped Ball State 6-4 Wednesday to extend its win· ning streak to nine. Irish sec­ond baseman Russ Brezovsky hit a two-run homer in the seventh to give Notre Dame the lead for good. 
After winning just four of their first 13 games, the Bulls went 10-3 to climb to 14-12 on the season before facing Florida March 20. USF lost 6­5 in Gainesville, Fla., and then was swept by Cincinnati the next weekend. With an 11-0 loss to Central Florida Wednesday, the Bulls extend­ed their losing streak to five. 
"We just kind of hit the skids a little bit, ran into some tough luck," Cardieri said. "We just hope that we can turn it around." 
Despite South Florida's recent troubles, Mainieri said he is not taking the Bulls lightly. 
"We're not really -concerning ourselves that much with how South Florida is playing," he said. "We need to be clicking on all cylinders. This will be 
as challenging a  series as we  
have all year."  
Notre  Dame  outfielder  

Danny Dressman leads the Irish attack at the plate with a .483 batting average and .481 slugging percentage. Mainieri said Dressman began the sea· son as Notre Dame's No. 4 or No. 5 outfielder, but acknowl­edged that Dressman "keeps forcing me to play him with how well he's been playing." 
First baseman Craig Cooper will most likely bat first for Notre Dame in all three games. He has reached base to lead off the first in 14 of his 18 starts in the No. 1 hole. 
South Florida sophomore righty Daniel Thomas will start game two against Thornton. Thomas is only 1-3 on the season but owns a 3. 77 ERA. Thornton is 4-1 in six 


concert of Indian Classical 1\ltusi 
ft• a 1 urirt,q 
Tcjcndr·a ~ ara:'-.. an 1\·1 aj unula a·-Sarod 
Yogesh Shamsi-Tabla 
h·i,1n~·· "t"·il 7, ZOIIf> 1;;•o p.m. 
. .·11ufi1 <u·:ul m. ·Jl,· Ail rn~qli Ct'.tllt' r .f•u Inft•r 11 ,, 11t>tJ;J{ St u.ll,• .,. 
t..' IIH'<~ n H)' of ·.V11f r.• ·:O.:t ttlll 
~Wlft'd h': ~•ullt 'hi• f'r••ar••n tht fa•i~J~i.t::tet( •.,.""llt',otl\tu-...:'-'M"'t."'"'"'I... IHt'tttio't Oft"we ur 1""'1r rn•l~un"'l I.,I u-df'JSt ..,..~ ...,.,., ""''"! \L-tt'll iiW• 
t h.-J•~•h If.. t\~u~· l*"iUwlc-f.,r h~tlli'tn•h'~'*<lll' r.r..,.,. '1"'4:k'" 

Cardieri will send sopho· more left· han de r Davis Bilardello to the mound Sunday to oppose Manship for game three. Bilardello has started in seven of his nine appearances and has a 1-1 record. He has struck out 31 batters in 44.2 innings with a 
3.83 ERA. 

Manship enters as Notre Dame's top starter on the sea­son with a 2.12 ERA. He has batting average. 
"We know and respect Notre Dame's program and what they've done," Cardieri said. "[But] this league has so much parody, anybody can beat anybody." 
The games will begin at 7 
p.m. Friday, 1 p.m. Saturday and noon Sunday, 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


--------------------------, 
I I I I 
Friday, April 7, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 j 
I 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

THAT SouNDS t:>£-L.\ C...\ ou s 

(}\ EE.S E.:::.;.·-;;;;n: 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
EIDUG 

I [ J [] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
URRJO 
j 

I [I I I 
LARREB 
j

I [I []
www.jumble.com

tYALTER j Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.IJ r I I 

lffis: 

THE rI I I I J [ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: GRIPE BRAWL PARITY SPEEDY Saturday's Answer: The thief was arrested because the credit card was-"SWIPED" 
CROSSWORD  WlLLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  32 Isn't just a  59 Big blow to the  
1 Tanglewood's  licensee  Japanese?  
Hall  34 The Seminoles,  61 "This one's  
11 Wet blanket?  in coli. sports  62 "Well, bless my  
15 Winslow  36 Hardly an  soul"  
Homer's "The Reaper," e.g. 16 After  independent thinker 38 Fail  63 Forks 64 Place to wait for a couple of  
17 Certain  40 But, to Brutus  minutes, maybe  
secretary  41 Prefix with  
18 When repeated,  drama  DOWN  
a taunt  43 Political  'Pea  
19 Standard of living? 20 Place that may . suit you 22 After 24 _bourgeoisie (gentry) 25 "It will come  convention activity 44 Tow job 46 Mark of a ruler 48 It may have a big head 49 bar  2 Marco Polo's heading 3 Zinc oxide may treat it 4 Giant bottle 5 Maya Angelou's "And Still "  
_surprise ... "  50 Anago, in a  6 Mo. with United  
28 Within: Prefix  sushi restaurant  Nations Day  
29 Prefix with  52 Hideous  7 Get very close  
business 54 One thrown at a rodeo30 End of many a riddle 58 Immoralist ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  8 Not recognizable by 9 Wearied 10 Trojan ally, in the "Iliad"  Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 27 Voltaire, e.g. 31 Brunch beverage  42 Club with a nearly vertical face 45 Check list?  51 Stiff-backed 53 Pass on 55 Starbuck's  
11 Wiesbaden weekday 12 Confrontational  33 Time to see estrellas 35 Former empire in its.  47 Home of the 1988 and 2010 Winter Olympics 49 Best-selling  orderer 56 Bilbao bull 57 Top  
13 Cicatrix 14 Ticklee's  37 Ballet step  author of "Personal  60 Application form datum:  
utterance  39 For all to see  Injuries"  Abbr.  
21 Mount in  

Siskiyou County For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
23 Poet who wrote Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday "Don't send a crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
poet to London" Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
25 Cobblers' tools 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 26 Does it ever Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young hurt! solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Candace Cameron Bore, 30: Ari Meyers. 
37: Marilu Henner, 54; Merle Haggard, 69 
Happy Birthday: It's lime to size down and rid yourself ~f what you don't need. The same goes for acquaintances. hangers on and people who are just too much work. Once you dear yourself of all these. it will he lime to excel. A new direction or reworking of what you're doing should be your nexl move. Your numhers arc 12. 17. 25, 32. 37.40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll know how to please others today. Any involvement you have with younger or older people will he rewarding. Sudden changes will he to your benefit so don't fight the inevitahle. Money mailers can he resoJved. ***** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You may find yourself in a tight spot if you disagree with the people you arc doses\ to. Changes may he required to satisfy everyone 
-
involved. Don't be stuhhom if someone has a good suggestion. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be talkative and intent on gelling to the hollom of things. Traveling about and visiting friends or relatives will give you a heller understanding of your options. Expect to receive something special from someone you respect. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are likely to misplace something you value today if you aren't careful. Don't believe everything you hear. A romantic encounter is apparent, so be sure to make plans for two. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll he dramatic in your personal actions today. Try to curb being too much of a diva or you may end up with the short end of the slick. Taking on too much or overdoing it in any way will only end up complicating your life even more. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get any dealings with institutions out of the way as quickly as possible. Avoid making a big deal out of something that really isn't that important. Visit someone who ha~ not heen well. Do not overspend, even if someone is pressuring you to do so. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let your generous heart be taken advantage of. The right contributions will enhance your reputation and make you feel good about yourself. A chance to get involved in an interesting project will draw your attention and lead to profits. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your life is changing, so roll with the punches. A creative endeavor will pay off. You can make your dollars work for you if you put what you have back into the project you are trying to get off the ground. Take heed of the advice given by someone on the outside looking in. ** SAGmARIVS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may he pulled in several different directions. Money can he made if you invest wisely hut someone you owe money to or that you are responsible for will want your help. Do your best to deal with both. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make some career moves today that · will satisfy your needs. Don't be afraid to step out on a limb. Much can be accomplished if you are straightforward in your dealings. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Emotional matters may leave you feeling unoertain about your future. You may be questioned ahout your past and your plans for the future. Even if you don't know the answers, go through the process. It will help you get your facts straight. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ideas will develop if you get out and socialize with _./ colleagues. Don't let problems at home stop you from networking. A moneymaking deal is present. You may want to get involved. ***** Birthday Baby: You are clever and quick to change your mind. You are a visionary, open-minded and intent on trying new things. You gravitate toward the unusual. are unique and very entertaining. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _____________________________________________ Address ____~--------------------------------­City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
.--------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Friday, April 7, 2006 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Blue and gold foes 
No.2 Notre Dame to challenge DePaul and Marquette in last two regular-season matches 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the No. 2 Irish faee two ehallenges at home beginning with No. 73 regional rival DePaul today at 
3:30 p.m. and Marquette Sunday at noon at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Notre Dame enters the matehes after narrowly defeating No. 9 Northwestern 4-:~ last Wednesday. 
In doubles, the Irish trailed early but won two of the three rnatehes to get out to an early 1-0 lead against the Wildeats. The No. 4 duo of juniors Christian and Catrina Thompson downed Northwestern's Feriel Esseghir and Alexis Prousis 8-4 at No. 1. 
Tlw second win eame from seniors Lauren Connelly and Kiki Stastny who topped Nazlie Ghazal and Jamie Peisel 8-5 at No. 3. The two-
see FINALE/page 21 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Undefeated spring ho111e record on the line 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame returns to aetion after a two-week layoff and hopes to preserve its flawless home record against Southern Methodist Sunday at 1 p.m. 
The No. 18 Irish are 6-0 at home this spring and host No. 60 SMU in their penultimate match of the season. 
Notre Dame is 18-7 on the season while playing one of the most difficult schedules in the country. The final matches of the spring will have important ramifieations in seeding for the NCAA tournament. 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Rule No. 76 exploits injury, upsets No. 26 
By KEN FOWLER, TIM 
KAISER, and JOE QUINN 
Sports Writers 
Rule No. 76 21, Craig Fencing 
18 
Hule No. 76 used an effective transition game and an injury to Craig Fencing's Hussell Sehaefer to take down the No. 26 seed in the tournament. 
"We just knew we eould push the ball," Tyler Martin of Hule No. 76 said. "Coming in 
unranked against a ranked .team, all we thought we could do was run against these bigger 
guys. 
Rule No. 76 forward Danny 
Nussbaum hit a jumper from 
the three-point line with his 
team leading 20-18 to secure 
the win. 
Craig Fencing kept the game 
close even after Schaefer's 
injury when the game was tied 
at 11. Bookstore Basketball 
see UPSET/page 18 
"We lost last year at SMU so we're just looking to take it one match at a time and win out the rest of the season," Irish senior captain Patrick Buchanan said. 
Southern Methodist has been a close match for Notre Dame in the past. 
"The tradition in this series ­we've lost at SMU and beaten them here," Notre Danie coach Bobby Bayliss said. "The matches have all been good. Two years ago we beat them here but we won every three­set match and I think that's what it's going to take this year." 

see MUSTANGS/page 20 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No.8 Irish prepare to face Butler 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
The No. 8 Notre Dame men will take their highest ranking of the year to Indianapolis to face off against Butler in the Great Western Lacrosse League opener for both teams. 
The Bulldogs (3-6) have struggled, but they host the Irish earrying their strongest momentum of the season after two straight 8-7 wins against Robert Morris and Bellarmine. 
Butler's defense has improved after allowing 20 goals against No. 12 Duke Feb. 18 and 16 goals against No. 14 Towson March 15. The Bulldogs limited No. 6 Princeton to nine goals and No. 16 Delaware to seven goals in two closely contested losses, winning two straight for the first time this year. 
"When we watch film on them they look very good," Irish midfielder Drew Peters said. "Both offensively and defensively, they're a solid team. We want to get this win to get a jump start going into league play." 
The Irish are 12-1 all-time against Butler and 11-1 in GWLL openers. Overall, Notre Dame is 44-7 in 12 GWLL sea­sons, including nine league titles. 
Last season the Irish went 3­2 in conference, the only year in which they lost more than one game and missed the NCAA tournament by one spot. 
see BUTLER/page 21 
BASEBALL 

Big three to invade Florida 
By KEN FOWLER SportS Editor 
Notre Dame will bring its nine-game winning streak to Tampa this weekend for a three-game series against Big East newcomer South Florida. 
Irish head coach Paul Mainieri will send his "big three" to the mound for the set, with junior right-hander Jeff Samardzija starting Friday, senior southpaw Tom Thornton throwing Saturday 
see BULLS/page 22 


en 
TRACK AND FIELD
SMC GOLF 
SMC SOFTBALL 

NO WOMEN'S GOLF
NO SOFTBALL 
ROWING 

l;c u I.U 
Miami Invitational

Illinois Wesleyan 
Alma at Saint 
Notre Dame at 

James Madison 
Indiana Classic 
z Spring Fling 

Mary's 
Syracuse 

Invitational 
Saturday, 10 a.m. 
Saturday-Sunday

=:=:5 
Saturday, noon

Saturday-Sunday 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Saturday-Sunday 
Notre Dame will com-
Twelve Irish runners 

The Belles split with 
The Irish are unde-

The Irish will face sev­
pete against Cal,

The Belles placed sec-
will travel to Oxford, 

Hope on Wednesday in 
era! East Coast teams, 
Indiana and Wisconsin
feated in the Big East so

ond to Depauw in last 
Ohio to earn Big East 

Holland, Mich. 
including Rutgers. 
in Indianapolis. 
qualifying times. 
far this season. 

l:l.!ci year's Fling. 
en 
page 17
page 17 
page 16

page 17 
page 16 
page 14 










