
------~ 
I I 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 71 MONDAY, JANUARY 23,2006 NDSMCOHSERVER.COM 

Breach may have exposed donor information 
Hacker causes Notre Dame's first major computer security intrusion 
provide a specific estimate of the logs and a variety of data to helpBy MADDIE HANNA 
numbnr of donors afTHcted. describe the nature of the intru­Associate News EJiwt 
"We're not comfortable quantify­sion and the intent of the intrud­ing it," Crnkovich said Sunday. er," Wishon said Sunday. 
The personal and financial infor­"We have no facts or quantifica­However, the investigation may mation of some University donors tion that people were compro­be unable to pinpoint the intrud­may be at risk after an unknown mised." er's exact location, especially if the intruder hacked into a The intrusion was not initiated site was overseas or several relay Dtwelopment Ollice server Jan. 13 from an on-campus location, sites were involved, Wishon said. -tho f'irst computer security Crnkovich said, but its source is And it's also unclear whether or breach of its magnitude at Notre still a mystery. not the University will know what Dame, University officials said "We just really don't know," she information, if any, was viewed. Sunday. said. "It may be that we'll never find 
Tho data in qunstion -possibly Gordon Wishon, chief informa­out exactly what was exposed or induding Social Security numbers, tion officer for the Office of taken," Wishon said. credit card information and check Information Technologies, said the Both Crnkovich and Wishon said images from donations made University is working with two it was possible the purpose of the between Nov. 22, 2005 and Jan. 12 independent forensics firms to intrusion was for file-sharing pur­-pertains to a "minority" of dHtermine the source of the intru­poses, designed to obtain server alumni donors and friends of thH sion and expects to receive results space rather than personal infor­University, said Hilary Crnkovich, in several days. mation. 
'UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ConlpuCarA>vooo_,,.._.,.._..,._,Sealrily Incident ___ .......SUpport tt.._ 1·-I__,.._llr_AI _ sufl....tiUdt ___.......... •O::a n..-..,...._..,-.~w, llot_OfMIIIo ____..............--,.......-...-.----•......,.s~· •aa!IIIBIIII~ C:V ..,...S: and -·~· Tllh websllit a.taiM JII'SGWD!I 1D ...,................ Shpl You~ e-n­..-.....-...,............'*"""Y_.._._,..___ ,......... .atv~~r.laed Oft Ulllt "".............. 101M--..,...a.lder .. ~--------....----·---""""'· a ----...-.-.....Plad,.&,_...,_,_...._..,,.,.,.,_.-.,.._ a_,.""'*_,...-.,.o.,-•....gn4!11r. f ....,_.....,. ·---.-...----............ 1'011 __•• _.............. -~----nutllls _ _....__,_,.....-·--~ ...m.  
'-""'0 ZQ05-........ -­ 

GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic vice president of Public Afl'airs and The analys.is will "examine the After the Jan. 13 security breach, University officials Communication. She declined to contents of the server, look at the see SECURITY/page 3 released support Information to donors seeking help. 

Saint Mary's event celebrates College history 
Presidential lecture kicks off Heritage Week 
good time," freshman Clare By MOLLY LAMPING 
lleintz said. News Writer 
College President Carol Ann Mooney will start the wonk with a 
A'i an institution with a history lodurn in Carroll Auditorium at 7 spanning more than 160 ynars, p.m. tonight. She will speak about Saint Mary's is dnnply rootnd in tho time she spent in Le Mans, tradition. This wnnk, studenL'i will France; the eity from which the lw ahln to explore and relive the Sisters of the lloly Cross emigrat­Collnge's past through thn nvnnl'i ed. of thn lirst-11vnr llnritagn Week. "This should be really interest­
Starting today and running ing for studenL'> to sec the rooL<> of through Friday 1wnning, llnritagn Saint Mary's and the history of We11k ww; an idea ereatnd by stu­Sisters of thn Iloly Cross," Mitros cl!mt body presidnnt Knllyn Mitros said. and vien president Susan Mclldull' Thorn will be a seavcngcr hunt during last yfmr's studnnt body held from 4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. prnsidnntial campaign. Tunsday. Tnams of two to six peo­
Students arn already looking ple will run all ovnr campus to forward to thn idea of I Ieritago search for the answers to 20 ques-Wenk. 
"I think that it's going to bn a see HERITAGE/page 4 

Transition to ND tough for abroad students 
Returnees nostalgicfor former host countries 
always something to do, but By JOE TROMBELLO the people were laid back. We News Writer find everyone saying we wish 
we were back there." 

Editor's Note: This is the Since Corcoran has lived in second article in a two-part the United States all her life, series exploring how students she said it was not especially make the transition back to difficult to re-adjust to living Notre Dame from studying in America. However, she said abroad. one difl'erence was that "driv­
ing and traffic take so much 

For Notre Dame students more time" than she spent in returning from abroad, the London, where students regu­transition back to South Bend larly walk or take public from urban, culturally excit­transportation. ing cities like London often For Corcoran, getting re­leaves them nostalgic for their acclimated to Notre Dame's host countries. parietals policy has also been 
"I liked just about every­difficult. thing better about London," "The parietals, that's a new said Molly Corcoran, a junior from !Inward. "There was see ABROAD/page 4 


Lawsuit results in victory 
ACE federal funding protected by ruling 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saint Mary's Editor 
In a deeision that will proteet future federal funding for Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Edueation (ACE), the Supreme Court refused to rnvinw the March 2005 U.S. Court of Appeals for the Distriet of' Columbia Circuit ruling that AmeriCorps members ean both receive training from and teach at rnligiously al'liliated institu­tions without violating the eon­stitution's establishment dause. 
The Jan. 9 announeement that the ruling would stand camo as a relief' to those al'liliated with ACE and brought nearly two years of litigation to a dose. 
"We were thrillod," ACE dime­tor John Staud said. "I wasn't surprised beeause we felt all a long our rnlationship with AmeriCorp was legal and just ­but you never know." 
Founded in 1993 by Father Timothy Scully, ACE is a two­year teacher training program that places participants in disad­vantaged sehools throughout the United States. The participants return to the University during the summer months to earn master's degrees in education. 
In addition to the roughly $11 ,000 per year ACE teaehers earn !'rom thnir sehools, most apply for and reeeivc two annu­al $4,725 education vouehcrs through the fnderal serviee pro-
see ACE/page 4 
Monday, January 23, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Digital deceptions 
Digital cameras are the technologi­cal innovations that have been replacing film cameras in the past few years, and they are the embodi­ment today's society that yearns for instant gratifica­tion. With the Jenny Hames push of a button and a flash of light, an image Wzre Editor can be captured in time and instantly seen on a small screen on the camera. Just as quickly as a pic­ture can appear on that screen, though, it can be deleted and that moment is then lost forever. 
There is a sense of wonder about where that image goes as it disap­pears into thin air just as time does every second, but the greatest sense of wonder about digital cameras is the effect that they will have on the future's perception of today's society. 
The ability to only print the pic­tures one chooses could leave the future with a false impression of the past. People are only having the pic­tures printed that they believe best represent themselves, and most of the classic pictures of someone with his or her eyes closed, someone mak­ing a funny face, or a baby crying are being deleted. 
The fact is, though, that those pic­tures are greater representations of real life than pictures that are of all smiles because life is filled with more emotions than happiness. One tends to want people to believe that he or she is happy, so even if a smile in a picture is not sincere, one would rather print that picture than one where he or she was not anticipating a picture to be taken. 
In film cameras, all of the pictures that are taken are permanent; they cannot be gotten rid of until they are developed, and even then, a negative still exists of that picture. With digi­tal cameras, however, one chooses the pictures that will be printed and therefore creates an ideal image of his or her life. 
When the generations of the future look back upon photo albums from today, they will see a group of seem­ingly flawless people who did not know sadness and fear. They will see an illusion of happiness and wish they too could feel that elation, but they will not be able to see the delet­ed images that reflect true life. Not everyone, though, deletes these can­did photos. Some people actually prefer these kinds of pictures to ones where everyone appears to be happy. 
I personally choose not to delete many of the pictures I take with my digital camera. 
Over winter break when I was in Arizona for the Fiesta Bowl with my family, I took a picture of my mom just as the wind started to gust. 
Her hair flew straight up just as the picture was taking, and instead of deleting what some would consid­er this imperfect picture, I kept it. 
This will be a picture that people will laugh about for years to come, and it shows that people's hair does get messed up and that people living in this time are not perfect. 

Contact Jenny Hames at jhames@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON STUDY ABROAD? 


Paul Hommes  Mike Quisao  Marty Schroder  Liz Clouse  Patrick Henry  Hannah Youh  
freshman Morrissey  senior Morrissey  senior Welsh Family  senior Walsh  junior off-campus  junior Lyons  
'!1s an engineer, rd like for it to be easier to go  "Study abroad? What's that?"  "Washington program ... that's a foreign  "I had to learn how to sleep on benches."  "Sometime around midnight this  "IfI had it all over again, rd definitely go. "  






weekend." 
IN BRIEF 
University President Father John Jenkins will be giving his Academic Freedom and Catholic Character address and discussion for faculty today at 4:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall and on Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. for students in Washington Hall. 
Charismatic Renewal at Notre Dame: How it Got Started and What's Going on Now? The conference will be in Montgomery Auditorium in LaFortune Student Center at 7 
p.m. today. 
Saint Mary's College President Dr. Carol Mooney will talk about her recent trip to LeMans, France tonight at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorum. 
Thornbird will play tonight at 8:30 p.m. in the Saint Mary's student center lounge. 
There will be a blood drive on Tuesday, Jan. 23 from 9:30 
a.m. -3:30 p.m. in Rolfs Sports RecCenter. Call 631­6100 to register. 
"Poetas y Pintores: Artists Conversing with Verse" art exhibit will open Friday, Jan. 27 in Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's College. 
Welsh Family Hall Dance Show presents: "Game Faces;' this Friday, Jan. 27 and Saturday, Jan. 28 at Washington Hall. Tickets are $4 and can be purchased at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. Profits benefit Hannah and Friends. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 


HIGH 39 HIGH 
42 

LOW 25 LOW 
28 

somewhere country, right?" other than London." 

Notre Dame graduate student Katie Hunt displays her hand-made jewelry in Reekers on Sunday. Hunt makes the beaded and semi-precious stone bracelets and sells them at various locations around campus. 
OFFBEAT 
Rescuers try to save whale in Thames River 
LONDON-Veterinarians and rescuers waded into the River Thames on Saturday after a lost and distressed whale tried to beach itself, taking medical tests and attaching an inflatable pon­toon to the 17-foot-long ani­mal as Londoners jammed the riverbanks to watch the drama. 
The Northern bottlenose whale -the first seen in the river since record keeping started in 1913 -was in the water close to London's Albert Bridge. On Friday it flailed through the murky waters of the Thames past the Big Ben and the Houses of Parliament, watched by hun­dreds of curious onlookers. 

The inflatable pontoon was passed underneath the whale and acted as a sort of floating stretcher. The Port of London Authority's Martin Garside, on a craft alongside the whale, said a medical assessment would take place before a decision on how to move the whale was made. 
Man in toga arrested for stealing underwear 
MORGANTON, N.C. -A man clad only in a toga fled in a car after breaking into a woman's home and stealing her underwear, police said. 
Michael Sean Ostrander, 33, of Morganton, was arrest­ed Monday after stopping his car .following a pursuit by police. He faces charges including breaking and enter­ing. 
The woman told police she was visiting a neighbor when she heard her burglar alarm go off and saw a man flee in a car. 
The woman then gave chase and called the police, with the state Highway Patrol and local officers joining the pursuit along state Highway 181. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
IX 
LLI 
::c 

!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
..J 
<
(,) 


0 

HIGH 39 HIGH 28 HIGH 39 HIGH 35
...... 

LOW 28 LOW 24 LOW 25 LOW 23 
Atlanta 60 I 37 Bos~on 38 I ~9 Chicago 37 I ~3 Denver 46 I 31 Houston 57 I 34 Los Angeles 72 149 Minneapolis 34 128 New York 41 I 31 Ph1ladelph1a 43 I 31 Phoemx 71 I 47 Seattle 52 I 40 St. Louis 47 I 34 Tampa 78161 Washington 42133 
,-------------------------------------------~~-----------------------­
Monday, January 23, 2006 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
port Web sitn and to call a toll­free Notre Dame phone num­
Security 
bnr f'or more information. Sinee little is known at this
continued from page 1 
point. donors should not neces­
"Most commonly with inei­sarily expect the worst, ((lmts of t!.1is ~ypn, tha~·s ~h~~l Crnkovieh said. happens, W1shon s;ud. ll s "What we're doing is provid­
vnry common ... lhull I enrlainly don't know if that's the case." 
Thn srHvnr, whieh is not part of tlw University's cnnlral data sys­lnm, was usml for inter-of'f'iee f'iln sharing in lhn l>nvelopment Of'f'iee, Wishon said. 
While the snrv­nr is maintainnd primarily hy 
I> n v e Io p men l Of'l'ice staff, 
"What we're doing is providing recommendations and outreach to the potential group and asking them lo take their own precautions. " 
Hilary Crnkovich vice president of Public Affairs and Communication 
ing recommenda­tions and out­reach to the potential group and asking them to take their own precautions," Crnkovich said. "We really feel it's prudent to givH people all the resources we can. We take it seriously." 
Crnkovich said the Development Offiee had not received phone calls from con­

Wishon said OtT's Information Security Department collabo­rated with the l>evnlopment Ollke to providP security stan­dards for the server. 
OIT was involvnd in the dotedion of' the intrusion, when slaff no ticnd "anom a lou s lwhavior" on the server and notified the I>evnlopmenl Ollke, Wishon said. The server was imnwdiatnly taken ofT-linn af'tPr a bread1 Wishon eslimat­rHI to be "fairly short in dura­tion." 
Donors whose information was potentially vinwnd received an e-mail Saturday from Viee l'rnsidnnl of University Helalions Louis Nanni and were also snnl letters in the mail advising thnm to take appropri­ate safeguards listed on a nnwly-created University sup­cerned donors as of Saturday night. The Ol'fice has received e-rnails, but they havn all been pointed" after receiving e-mails informing him of the security breaeh. 
"It seems to be a very shoddy set-up for proteetion of person­al information I've provided to the sehool," Cofl'ey said. "What is a server with this sensitive information on it doing on the Web? I can't perceive anyone outside of Notre Dame needing that information." 
Coffey, who received his degree in Management Information Systems and has been an IT professional for 15 years, said he "thought lhel learned" the proper way to maintain a server at Notre Dame. 
"Apparently IUniversity staff membersJ don't practice what they preach," he said. 
Despite his disappointment, Coffey said he would not chango his donating practices and hopP-s the incident causes the University to improve the way it stores and aceessp,s 
inliwmaUon. 
"I donate to 
positive, she "It seems to be a Notre Dame said. beeause I believe
very shoddy set-up

"Pnopln have in what Notre
for protection of

beHn very Dame does," he thoughtful and personal said. said thank you Crnkovich said
information I've 

for letting them similar security
provided to the

know to take the breaches have 
steps," she said. But other donors say they 
are  far  from  
thankfuI.  Mike  
Coffey,  a  1991  

alumnus who runs the NDNation Web site and mes­sage boards that received a llurry of posts over the week­end from concerned donors, said he was "extremely disap­
school." occurrPd at other universities, inducting Stanford 
Mike Coffey 

and the University

alumus 

of Connecticut. 
llowover, she said she did not know how the inci­dents were handled by those schools. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
New Shedd exhibit by 
ND professors debuts 
Aquarium displays invasive Great Lakes species 
Special to The Observer 
A new exhibit at Chicago's Shedd Aquarium that Notre Dame biologists helped devP.Iop brings Midwesterners face-to-face with some new --and unwelcome -­neighbors: Asian earp, snakehead, gobies and other invasive species now residing in the Great Lakes. 
"We are so pleased to partner with the Shedd Aquarium," said David Lodge, a Notre Dame pro­fessor of biological sdenees and the leader of the multi-university National Scien(:e Foundation­funded Integrated Systems l'or Invasive Spndes (ISIS). "Our team of scientists and economists is working hard to provide under­standing and solutions to invasive species problems. Shedd Aquarium has the unparalleled ability to show the public the won­derful resources of the Great Lakes, to display the invasive species that so threaten those resources, and to illustrate how the publie can help solve these problems. Shedd has done a won­derful job of collaborating with us and others to turn idea.c:; and dis­coveries into a fun and efl'ective exhibit." 
Non-native species are species that humans have introduced out­side their normal distribution. Once they arrive in their new rmvi­ronment, some of these species threaten valued environmental, agricultural or personal rnsoure1~s and are lermnd invasive spn1·.ies. Seinntists bnlinve at least 170 aquatic non-native spndes eur­rnntly live in tho Cr11at Lakns and a new species is diseovnrPd, on average, once nvnry night months. 

"Species from elsnwhnre in thn world, a small proportion of' whkh arn now on display at tlw Slwdd, have transfiwmnd the Cn~at Lakes food web from top to bottom," Lodgn said. "Canada and tl111 U.S. together spnnd about $16 million annually to rnduce the damagn donn by onn spndPs, sea lamprny. on trout mHI salmon at the top of the fi10d web. The bottom of' the food web, in turn, suffers from round gobies, zdJra mussds and many othnr invasivn spndns. 
"And the damagns arn far reaehing, from tho shoreline pipes of' pownr planl<> doggnd by znbra mussels to many other lakes and rivers across the continent, as many spoeies spread from tho G1·na1. Lakes. The damages to industry from znbra mussel alone curnmtly approaeh $200 million annually and arn growing as zebra mussels continue to spread." 
The nnw $140,000 permanent exhibit, located in the Shedd's Local Waters Gallery, ofl'ers visi­tors close-up looks at sueh live invasive spedes as A<>ian Carp, a snakehead, round gobins, alnwives and rusty crayfish, among others. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart bell will chime at 2:45 today. Please take amoment to remember the University community's celebration of Dr. King's legacy. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 23, 2006 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
thing. People are more involved in your life here," she said. 
Caroline Rycyna, a Pangborn junior who was abroad with Corcoran, said studying in London allowed her the chance to be more independent. 
"It was one of the first oppor­tunities to really be on my own." she said. "I felt I got to know myself a lot better ... have my own schedule and do what I wanted." 
She said having greater per­sonal freedom and responsibili­ty was especially attractive, and living close to male Notre Dame students seemed more realistic. 
"I felt like they trusted us more ... [it was] more like a real life experience. It worked; it felt more normal," she said. 
Rycyna said she misses all of the cultural opportunities avail­able to her in London. 
"London is a huge metropolis, and the center of so much," she said. "In London, I could go see a play just because I felt like it. All the opportunities culturally ... it's hard not to have those." 
Both Rycyna and Corcoran said that they have re-connect­ed with their London friends often, with students frequently planning get-togethers. 
''I've already been to a few London parties," Corcoran said, "and those are on-going." 
Rycyna said that she hopes to return to London, perhaps find­ing employment there after graduation. 
"Going to a place like London and then coming back, it was almost painful knowing there was a place like that," she said. "The fact that [I am I not there makes me sad ... I feel like I met a lot of people I really con­nected with." she especially enjoyed the 

Other students, especially opportunity to work and live in those who return from less a less well to do area. Westernized places, experience "The idea of going back [to some transition difficulties and Latin America] and seeing ... feel that students are not ade­Peru, where things are a little quately informed about the on­more tenuous, and working campus support services. with people who are not well 
Christine Donovan, a senior off was very appealing to me," who graduated in December, she said, "both the part of me studied abroad in Chile in Fall that wanted the adventure ... 2004, and spent last summer in and the part of me that is inter­Lima, Peru on an internship ested in social justice." sponsored by the Kellogg Donovan said the transition Center. Donovan said the tran­from Peru back to America was sition from Chile back to Notre difficult in that she had to re­Dame was made more difficult adjust to the wide socioeconom­by what she perceived as a lack ic disparity she observed. of on-campus support. "Coming back from Peru, 
"Coming back from Chile was even just being inside a super­very difficult for me because I market and having so many didn't find very many resources things [representing] the afflu­to help me make the transition ence of the United States, to being back in the U.S.," she almost offended me," she said. said. "I didn't find a lot of "It was hard for me to realize things that were offered that I couldn't simply reject through the University at the American culture or American time, which was very frustrat­people because of the economy ing, not feeling like I had people we live in. That was something who knew what I was feeling." that I really struggled with, 
Donovan said Chile was an making sure I wasn't alienating enjoyable and dif-the people ferent experience around me." for her. Despite some
"Going to a place

"Being down in difficulties in re­
like London and

Chile, it was the adjusting to the first time I had then coming back, United States, been in ·Latin Donovan said she 
it was almost

America, and I found it easier to
painful knowing 

really enjoyed that get re-acclimated experience," she there was a place to Notre Dame, said. "A lot of the like that. , mostly because people I met, and of a class she the contrast in cul­took taught by ture, I really want­Caroline Rycyna anthropology ed to explore that junior professor Greg more in Latin Downey. The America." class, called 
Donovan worked for an NGO Cultural Difference and Social (non-governmental organiza­Change, allowed her and other tion) called COPRODELI while students who spent time in in Peru, which allowed her to developing countries to talk work on a number of different about and process their experi­projects, including healthcare ences. and education. Donovan said "Coming back from Peru was 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
gram AmeriCorps. This requires that the participant complete 1,700 hours of non­religious affiliated service in or outside of the classroom. 
Notre Dame also receives a grant from AmeriCorps for every full-time AmeriCorps member who signs on -money that helps defray classroom and administrative costs. Originally $400 per member, that amount jumped to $1,000 last year after ACE was elevated to Professional 

"We have always 
Corps status. did some con­
In 2004 the had careful sulting with the American Jewish University coun­
procedures in 
Congress (AJC) sel when the suit 
place and I guess 
filed suit arguing was first filed, AmeriCorps was what I learned is said the main violating the con­beneficiaries of
that I am very glad 
stitution by provid­the federal fund­
we did.,,

ing government ing in this case money to individu­are the als teaching in John Staud AmeriCorps parochial schools. members and
ACE director
Giving money to teacher training programs sponsored by reli­gious institutions also violated the constitution, the group con­tended. 
On July 2, 2005, Federal District Judge Gladys Kessler agreed with the AJC and ruled federal money was being mis­used to promote Christian val­ues. She ordered that none of the funding could be revoked, however, until an appeal was heard. 
Kessler's decision was over­turned on March 8, 2005 by the 
D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals by a 3-0 vote. The court ruled tax­

payer support of religious schools is constitutional in cases where funding goes to "programs of true private choice." 
The appeal to the Supreme Court was the last legal step available to the AJC for this specific case, said Notre Dame law professor Hick Garnett, and the denial to review was antici­pated. 
"I am certainly not surprised that the Supreme Court decided not to take this case," Garnett said. "The Court of Appeals' decision was correct and the justices usually don't take cases 
just to affirm." 
Garnett, who 

the disadvan­taged students they serve, not Notre Dame. 
"The main issue, in terms of the first amendment, is whether the beneficiary of the govern­ment funds is the religious enti­ty, or the AmeriCorps volunteer. In this case, as in the school vouchers context, the public funds have a secular purpose, and benefit religion, if at all, only indirectly." 
ACE has always taken pre­cautions to remain within the boundaries of federal law, Staud said, training its partici­pants to carefully log and dis­tinguish between hours spent in secular activity and those spent in a faith-based activity. Only hours spent in non-religious service count toward the 1,700 hours required for the AmeriCorps Education Awards. 
"We have always had careful • procedures in place and I guess what I learned is that I am very glad we did," Staud said. 
While Staud could not quanti­fy what impact the lawsuit had on the number of ACE appli­cants during the past two years, he said it certainly did not help and those inquiring about the program did ask about the security of its funding. 
"[Applicants] definitely asked us [about the suit], and we always believe in honesty about all things and telling people exactly what they are going to get when they come to ACE ­and [the lawsuit] was always a question mark," Staud said. 
ACE receives roughly 300­350 applications each year, Staud said, and accepts roughly 85 applicants, making the pro­gram highly competitive. While its roots remain with the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, ACE does accept appli­cants from other schools. 
Grateful for the ongoing sup­port of the University, Staud said he and his colleagues are looking forward to the future success of the program. 
"Every year we just try to make the program better," Staud said. "One of the best things for me working [for ACE] is there is a culture of continu­ing improvement and a pursuit of excellence." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintrnarys.edu 
very different because I came back to Greg Downey's class, which was wonderful," she said. "It made me think about things I hadn't pre­
viously considered about my experi­ "Coming back from  coming back from Peru, I had  
ence, and he really pulled a lot out of me that I didn't know was in there.  Peru, evenjust being inside a supermarket and  an entire net­work of people who I could e­mail or call at  
It engaged both my rational and my emotional side." The course,  having so many things [representing] the  any time." Donovan said since Downey has moved to  
Donovan said, was  affiuence ofthe  Australia,  the  
comprised of three components: learn­ing about the eco­ United States, almost offended  course is cur­rently not being offered. She said  
nomic life of devel­ me.  the anthropology  
oping  countries  department has  
and how U.S. trade laws and foreign aid affect these  Christine Donovan alumna  been unable to find a professor willing to take on  
countries,  dis- the course, espe­ 
cussing "success  cially  since  it  

stories" made possible through requires the supervision of so the work of NGOs in developing many independent research countries, and giving student projects. presentations on individual She said that despite some projects. difficulties in getting used to 
Donovan and another student America and Notre Dame, her co-authored "a handbook for experiences abroad and student activism," which through Downey's class have Donovan said might be made helped her to realize her pas­available to other students as a sion for working in an NGO, resource through the something she considers as a International Studies Ol'fice. possible career path after grad­She said the project allowed uation. her to help other students with "I grew up in a family where their own transition difficulties. both of my parents worked in 
• "It gave me the chance to the non-profit world, and it's help other students realize that very likely that I will go into you are feeling things, you are domestic non-profit or interna­frustrated about things, but you tional NGO work," she said. can do something about them," "Going abroad continually she said. pushes me in that direction ... 
Donovan said the chance to to be able to spend my life talk­interact with other returning ing and giving and teaching and students -both inside and out learning very much appeals to of class -was perhaps the me, and I feel like I would be most helpful part of the course. able to do that in NGO work." 
"It was a wonderful support structure to have so many peo­Contact Joe Trombello at ple understand what I was feel-jtrornbel@nd.edu 
ing," she said. "I felt like com­ing back from Chile, I had noth­ing but a few friends who would listen without any expe­rience, and then 
Heritage 
continued from page 1 

tions that pertain to Saint Mary's history. 
"The scavenger hunt will give students the chance to see a lot of places on campus that they wouldn't usually see," Mitros said. 
At noon on Wednesday, Humanistic Studies professor Gail Mandell will give a lecture on the life of Sister Madeleva Wolff in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. Mandell is the author of several books on Madeleva. 
On Thursday evening, there will be a field hockey demonstration in the Angela Athletic Facility. This demonstration will enlighten the audience into the sport and reflect on the athletic accomplishments of women. 
Student-led tours of Reidinger House will begin at 4 p.m. on Friday. The building at the center of campus contains many artifacts from the early years of the College. 
The crowning event of the week will be the Heritage Dinner on Friday at 7:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
The dinner will allow students to dine family-style, similar to how students did years ago when Reignbeaux Lounge was the loca­tion of the dining hall. 
"The dinner will be reminiscent of how dinner used to be served at Saint Mary's," Mcllduff said. 
Several Sisters of the Holy Cross will be on hand to share their experiences at the College over the years and 2004 graduate Kym Dunlap will be reading excerpts from her book "Memories Down The Avenue." 
Tickets for the dinner are avail­able to students today and are free. 
"I think that the dinner, and all of the activities, will be a fun way to bring the whole College com­munity together," freshman Kristen Anderson said. 
Contact Molly Lamping at rnlarnpi@saintrnarys.edu 


--------------------------------------------------------~ 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 23, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Kidnapped workers to be released 
I.ACOS, Nignria -Militants holding four fon~ign hostages in Nig1~ria daimnd Sunday tlwy would releasn tlw captivns soon, accord­ing to a statornent purported.ly fmm the mili­tant group. 
Tlw hostagos -an American, a Briton, a Bulgarian and a llonduran -were seiznd nnar a Slwll oil field on .Jan. 11 by a group that also dainwd responsibility for other oil industry attacks that have cut Nigerian pro­dudion by almost 10 pnrcnnl. 
"We promisn that thny would soon join their families, hale and lwarty enough to tell thn tnw story of a rnvolution," the statnmnnt e-rnailnd to The Assodatml Press said. 
Tlw identity of tlw n-rnail's authors could not be independently confirmed and no namo was attachnd to it. But the statemont camo from an n-mail address known to be usnd by thn Movnnwnt for thn Emandpation of tlw l'nopln of thn Nignr D1dta, whieh has dainwd responsibility for a series of recent attacks on tlw country's oil industry. 
Albanian leader loses cancer battle 
I'BISTINA, Snrbia-Montenegro-Kosovo lawrnaknrs. sonw crying, obsnrvnd a minutn of silonen Sunday in memory of late President Ibrahim Hugova and pledged to pursue his lifnlong dream of independence from Serbia. 
Throughout the province, flags flew at half­staff and ethnic Albanians mourning their l111tdnr's dnath placed l'lownrs and formed long lines to pay condolnnces at Hugova's ollidal residmten. 
Thn (, 1-ynar-old ethnic Albanian died Saturday from lung cancer. lie was diag­nosnd with tlw disnase in September. While undnrgoing treatrnont, Hugova continued 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Son takes over at Crystal Cathedral 
c;AIWI\N c;HOVE, Calif'. -The stalwart Crystal Cathndral enterod a new era of lead­nrship Sunday wlwn Hobert A. Schuller suc­nwdml his father, Hobert II. Schuller, as sen­ior pastor or the church. 
Thn youngor Schuller, 51, was installod during a 35-minute ceremony at the famed all-glass church in Orange County. 
Considnred one of the most influential reli­gious lnadnrs in the country, the elder Schullnr, 79, will continue to appear on the pulpit during Sunday services and on the church's wnnkly tolnvision show, "llour of l'ownr," which boasts a worldwide audienee of 20 million. 
Pageant searches for new host city 
LAS VEGAS -Miss America rolled the clice moving to Las Vegas, and the gamble paid off. pagoant organizers said Sunday. 
lleld outsido Atlantic City, N.J., for the first timo in its X5-year history, the pag­oant wrapped up Saturday night with the crowning of Miss Oklahoma Jennifer Berry -and with new buzz for the falter­ing grande dame of beauty eompetitions. 
Yot it remains to be seen whether what happennd in Vegas will stay in Vegas. Pageant CEO Art McMaster said that no dndsion had been made on where Miss Ameriea was headed next, although the Aladdin Hesort & Casino wanted it baek rwxt yoar. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Tollway lease remains questionable 
(;HANGEH. Ind.-Most details of the gov­ernor's plan to lease tho Indiana Toll Hoad to help fund major highway projoets remain undoar as lawmakers face a Fob. 2 dead­linn to advance tho legislation, thron north­ern Indiana newspapers reported Sunday. 
(;ov. Miteh I>aninls' administration out­linnd some details of tho lease plan to law­makers last week -ineluding eontinuod policing by statn police and rnaintnnance standards snt by thn Indiana Department of Transportation. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVICES 
BOLIVIA 

Morales wins Bolivian election 
First Indian president promises to end centuries of poverty and discrimination 
Associated Press 
LA PAZ -Evo Morales, 
Bolivia's first Indian presi­
dont, took o!lice on Sunday 
with a promise to lift his 
nation's struggling indige­
nous majority out of een­
turies of poverty and dis­
<Timination. 
Morales, a formm leader 
of Bolivia's coca growers 
and a fieree critic of U.S. 
policies, raised a list in a 
lnltist salut1~ as he swore to 
uphold the eonstitution. 
"I wish to tell you, my 
Indian brothers, that the 
5(JO-year indigenous and 
popular campaign of resist­
anee has not been in vain," 
Morales said. 
The 46-year-old son of a 
peasant farmer, Morales vowed that his soeialist gov­ernment would reshape Bolivia. He criticizPd frp,e­market economie prescrip­. lions supported by the U.S. and international donors, saying they had faiiPd to end 
chronic poverty. 
'The neoliberal economic 
model has run out," said 
Morales, an Aymara Indian. 
Thousands of Aymara and 
Queehua and other Indians 
attended, many wnaring the 
variod styles of haL<; imposed 
on thorn when Bolivia was a 
Spanish colony hundreds of 
years ago. They stood along­
side miners, students and 
leftist sympathizors waving 
Cuban and Venezuelan llags 
on the cobblestone plaza 
outside the eolonial-era 
Congress building. 
"Power is in the hands of 
the Bolivian people for the 
first time," said Walter 
Villarro, among 2,000 min­
ers who turned out dressed 
in their trademark helmets 
and black leather jackets. 
Morales compared 
decades of discrimination 
against Indians to apartheid, 
saying "Bolivia seems like 
South Africa" as he reeount­
ed how, decades ago, 
Indians were barred from 
entering the plaza. 
lie said he planned to bring Bolivia's vast natural gas reserves under more state eontrol, and call a con­stitutional assembly to answer Indian demands for a greater share of power at all levels of society, he said. 


But he said his govern­ment would rule "with all and for all" and would not seek revenge for past injus­tices. He also reiterated promises to respect and pro­tect private property. 
Part of a broader Latin American tilt to the left, Morales has left many guessing whether he will maintain free-market poli­cies or take a more radieal path. 
Morales met Saturday with A<lsistant U.S. Secretary of State Thomas Shannon, and was to talk Monday with Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, a vociferous critic of the Bush adminis­tration. 
"I would like to thank the representative of the United States, Mr. Shannon, for his visit," Morales said. "lie vis­ited me in my humble home to express his wishes to strengthen diplomatic rela­tions." 
Morales said his leftist Movement Toward Socialism would bo independent, avoiding outside inlluences. lie has said his government would weleome warm rela­tions with the U.S. but he vowed Sunday to not "sub­mit" to any ouL<;ide powers. 
Morales has said he wanL<; to reverse U.S.-backed erad­ication of Bolivian coca plants, the raw material for eocaine, but crack down on the international cartels that traff'ic the drug. Poor Bolivians traditionally chew coca to combat hunger and 
GEORGIA 

Natural gas pipelines sabotaged 
Associated Press 

TBILISI -Explosions blamed on sabotage hit pipelines running through southern Hussia early Sunday, cutting the supply of natu­ral gas to the Caueasus countries of Georgia and Armenia during a eold snap. 
Georgian President Mikhail Saakashvili said the blasts were aimed at destabilizing the moun­tain country. Tho Hussian Foreign Ministry said Saakashvili's com­ments "cannot be seen as other than hysteria." 
Hussia's NTV showed footage of twisted and smoking pipelines in a mountain pass in the Russian republic of North Ossetia, which borders the separatist Georgian region of South Ossetia. 
Also Sunday, an explosion knocked out an electricity trans­mission tower in Hussia, interrupt­ing electricity supplies to Georgia. 
the el'feets of altitude. Shannon has said inereased eultivation could provide an opening for traffickers to oxpand. 
Morales said Sunday hn was inviting Washinhrt.on to join in "an allianee, an agreement on an effective light against dmg trallkk­ing." 
But he said would acenpt no eonditions that eonstitutn "an excuse by the govern­ment of the United States to dominatn or subjugate our people." 
The inauguration was attended by 11 national leaders, ineluding Chavoz and left-leaning presidents Nestor Kirchner of Argentina, Luiz lnado Lul~t da Silva of Brazil and Hicardo Lagos of Chile. 

The Emergency Situations Ministry said the eause of that blast had not been determined. 
Georgia and Armenia tapped into reserves to kP.ep gas l'lowing during subfreezing weathnr, and Hussia's eleetricity monopoly said it was rerouting pownr to Gnorgia. 
There wore no irnrnndiato reports of dnaths or widnspread suffering in tho two impovnrished Caucasus countries. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, January 23, 2006 
UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 
U.S. Navy seizes pirate ship, crew 
26 men detained for questioning offcoast ofSomalia by USS Churchill 
Associated Press 
DUBAI -U.S. sailors boarded a suspected pirate ship in the Indian Ocean and detained 26 men for questioning, the Navy said Sunday. 
The 16 Indians and 10 Somali men were aboard a traditional dhow that was chased and seized Saturday by the U.S. guid­ed missile destroyer USS Winston S. Churchill, said Lt. Leslie Hull-Ryde of U.S. Naval Forces Central Command in Bahrain. 
The dhow stopped 54 miles off the coast of Somalia after the Churchill fired warning shots, the Navy said. U.S. sailors board­ed the ship and seized a cache of small arms. 
Sailors aboard the dhow told Navy investigators that pirates hijacked their vessel six days ago near Mogadishu and used it to stage attacks on merchant ships. 
The crew and passengers were being questioned aboard the Churchill Sunday to deter­mine which were pirates and which were legitimate crew members, llull-Ryde said. 
The Churchill is part of a multinational task force patrolling the western Indian Ocean and Horn of Africa region to thwart terrorist activity and other lawlessness during the U.S.-led war in Iraq. 
The Navy said it captured the dhow in response to a report from the International Maritime Bureau in Kuala Lumpur on Friday that said pirates had fired on a Bahamian-flagged bulk car­rier off the central eastern coast of Somalia. 


Piracy is rampant off the coast of Somalia, which is torn by renewed clashes between mili­tias fighting over control of the troubled African country. Many shipping companies resort to paying ransoms, saying they have few alternatives. 
Somali militiamen last month relinquished a merchant ship hijacked in October. 
In November, Somali pirates freed a Ukrainian ore carrier and its 22 member crew after holding it for 40 days. It was unclear whether a $700,000 ransom demanded by the pirates had been paid. 
One of the boldest recent attacks was on Nov. 5, when two boats full of pirates approached a cruise ship carrying Western tourists about 100 miles off Somalia and fired rocket-pro­pelled grenades and assault rifles. 
The crew used a weapon that directs earsplitting noise at attackers, then sped away. 
Somalia has had no effective government since 1991, when warlords ousted a dictatorship and then turned on each other, carving the nation of 8.2 million into a patchwork of fiefi:loms. 
Schiavo marries again after wife Terri's death 
Associated Press 

SAFETY HARBOR, Fla. ­Michael Schiavo, whose brain­damaged wife was at the center of a contentious end-of-life battle that played out on a worldwide media stage, has remarried, fami­ly members said. 
Schiavo married his longtime girlfriend Jodi Centonze on Saturday in a private church cere­mony, said John Centonze, the brother of the bride. 
Schiavo's former wife, Terri, died in March after her feeding tube was removed. She had suf­fered irreversible brain damage after collapsing at age 26 in 1990. 
Terri Schiavo's parents and siP­lings fought for years to keep her alive, arguing that she had some level of consciousness. Florida Gov. Jeb Bush, the U.S. Supreme Court, Congress, the White House and even the Vatican became involved in the case. 
An autopsy supported Michael Schiavo's contention that she was in a persistent vegetative state with no consciousness and no hope of recovery. 
Schiavo and his new bride have two young children. They met in a dentist's oiTice about 11 years ago and began a relationship after Terri Schiavo was already in a nursing home. 

ISALOH RoUGE 
(formerly Atria Salon) 
-

15% off all services* 
• 
Specializing in Color & Cuts 

• 
Close to campus 


57 4.289.5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend, IN www.salonrougeinc. com *discount with student ID, Man-Wed 
Download and RUN the updated TakeCharge for Windows from http://oit.nd.edu/security/. (Did we mention 1/and run it?") 
TakeCharge is the software utility d~veloped by the Notre Dame OIT to help you protect your computer from viruses, worms, spyware and who knows what. These nasty critters, once on your computer, can cause you BIG problems. And often at the most inopportune times--when you're in the home stretch of a 30-page term paper, for example! 
So·, how's TakeCharge changed? Do you really need to run it again? 
Yes! TakeCharge does the same handy dandy delightful things it did before, plus some added tricks that make life on the ND network better and surfing the Internet safer . 
.J TakeCharge fixes a new and dangerous Microsoft Windows vulnerability that 
arrived with the New Year . .J TakeCharge sets your PC to automatically receive future Windows critical updates . 
.J TakeCharge optimizes your Windows firewall settings for enhanced network performance among all campus users . 
.J TakeCharge determines if your Windows computer is running the correct version of OpenAFS, and if it isn't, shows you how to upgrade to the latest version. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
http://oit.nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, January 23, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

10,667.39 -213.32
jones .,. 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,044 184 ~ 1,69o,241,792 
AMEX 1,825.27 ~9'.66 NASDAQ 2,247.70 +3.89 NYSE 7.902.27 ~ 115.95 S&PSOO I ,261.49 -23.55 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 15;696.69 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,672.40 -20.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR SER I (QQQQ)  -2.99  -1.27  41.2  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -2.86  -0.64  21.7  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -2.26  -0.61  26.4  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -2.68  -0.51  18.5  
YAHOO INC (YHOO)  -1.72  -0.59  33.7  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.40  -0.18  45.31  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.41  -0.18  43.61  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.37  -0.16  42.9~  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.24  +0.1 0  42.5;  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.29  68.4E  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.00  554.0(  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.28  81.2E  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.200'  
EURO  0.824  
POUND  0.564  
CANADIAN$  I. 153  
at 264 hiring sites in 20 


IN BRIEF 
Mad cow fears hurt trade with Japan 
WASHINGTON-Japan halted all shipments of U.S. beef because of mad cow fears Friday, threatening millions of dollars in American exports and sending oiTieials scrambling to rnpair delieatn trade relations. Japan's sudden order canw just six wonks after the country had lif'tnd a two-ynar ban on American beef. The problem this time: discovery of bone -a mad cow disease risk, Asian countries say ­in a shipment of veal from a plant in New York. 
United Airlines gets out of the red 
CIIICAGO-Unitml Airlines got a judge's final go-ahnad Friday to leave bankruptcy aftor a record thrnn-year stay-a smaller and morn nflident carrier than when it began its ovnrhaul, but challengnd morn than ever by near-record fuel c~osts. Tho approval of its rnorganization plan by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge l·:ugenn WmloiT removed the final obstacle to its targntnd nxit. from Chapter 11 on Feb. 1 aftnr tho largest and longnst airlinn bankrupt­cy nvnr. Oncn fren of bankruptcy, UAL Corp.'s United intcmds to be morn competitive with its rivals while working its way back toward prof­itability, which has eluded it sincn 2000. 
GE and Citigroup cause stocks to fall 
NI•:W YOBK -Lackluster earnings reports from Dow Jonns industrials General l·:lnctrie Co. and Citigroup Inc. snnt stocks plunging Friday, giving the Dow its biggest singln-day perenntage dnelinn since April. The major indexes nach lost more than 2 pnrc~ent this week. 
Soaring nrwrgy priees compounded the marknt's gloom ovor oarnings, with crude oil n~turning to a four-month high on con­eerrJs about Iran's nudoar arms dispute. Meanwhile, a tempered outlook from Motorola Inc. also disappointod investors and wniglwd on tneh stoeks. 
While CE and Citigroup's results camn in just shy of analysts' nstimatr.s. tho large­cap firms that rc~leased earnings this week wotfld have rwndnd blockbuster reports to satisfy Wall Street's overblown expeeta­tions, said Biek l'endnrgraft, an equity trader at SehaeiTnr's Investment Hesoareh. 
Changing views of immigrants 
Day laborers are actually family men who are involved with their communities 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The 
immigrant day laborers 
who wait for work on street 
corners aeross the United 
States have families and 
attend church regularly, 
and the people who hire 
them are more likely to be 
individual homnowners 
than construction contrae­
tors. 
The first nationwide study 
of day laborers also found 
that one in five has been 
injured on the job and near­
ly half have been eheated 
out of pay. 
The study, the most 
detailed snapshot to datn of 
the mostly llispanie and 
often undocumented immi­
grants who've become a 
focal point in the immigra­
tion debate, was based on 
interviews of 2,660 workers 
states and the District of 
Columbia. 
The authors said they 
were surprisnd by the level 
of community involvement 
among men often thought 
of as transients. 
"The day labor eorner is 
not as disconneeted from 
society as people think. It's 
seen as a shadow economy, 
but that's really not the 
case," said professor Nik 
Theodore of the University 
of Illinois at Chicago, one of 
three study authors. The 

others were from the are we going to do -not number of' hiring sites roly on day labor as their 
University of California,. Los work?" nationwide, since some solo sourc~e of income, earn­
Angeles, and New York's As often as not, a day spring up spontaneously. ing dosn to the 2005 fc~dnral 
New School University. laborer's employer will be Among the other findings poverty guideline of 
Standing outside a Home an individual rather than a based on the interviews $12,1-!30 for a family of two. 
Depot store in suburban labor contractor. conducted in July and +or the 20 poreont who 
Burbank on Sunday, 33-Forty-nine percent of August 2004: roportod on-tho-job 
year-old Haul Sanchez said respondents said they were +Three-fourths were ille­injuries, more than half said 
that when he's not working, regularly hired by home­gal immigrants and most thoy rneoivod no modieal 
or waiting for work, he's owners for everything from were Hispanic: 59 percent earn because they couldn't 
involved in a church and carpentry to gardening, were from Mexico and 2H all'ord it or thnir nmployer 
tried to start a soccer with 43 pereent getting jobs percent from other Central rnl'usod to cover them. 
lnague for fellow day labor­from construction contrac­American countries. Cosar Martirwz, 45, 
ers. The native of Mexieo tors. Two-thirds said they +Just over half said thny another of tho pc~opln wait­
has been in the United are hired repeatedly by the attended church regularly, ing for work at the llome 
Statns snvnn years and lives same employer. 22 percent reported being Dnpot in Burbank, is a 
with his wife and two chil­Based on their interviews involved in sports dubs and Guatnrnala nativo who has 
dren, ages 13 and 14. and counts at eaeh hiring 26 percent said they partici­beon in tho United Statns 
Sometimes he worries site, the researchers esti­pated in community eon­for 15 ynars without legal 
about small work sites with matn there are about tors. docurnontation. lie said he 
little safety equipment. 117,600 day laborers +Nearly two-thirds had sonds $300 to $500 hornn 
"We know nobody is nationwide, but say that children, 36 percnnt wnrn cwory month to support his 
going to help us out if we number is probably low. married and snven percent six ehildron, ages 2 to 14. 
get hurt," Sanchez said. They said it would be lived with a partnnr. but that so rn o ti nws an 
"There are risks, but what impossible to count the +More than 80 percent employer rips him oil'. 
Ford announces cuts and closings 
Show in Detroit. Granholm wouldn't disr.lose tlw
Associated Press 

The assembly plants believed to be details of tho paekago and said shn 
DETHOIT -Ford Motor Co., hurt most at risk for closure are in St. wasn't givon any assuraneo that by falling sales of sport utility vehi­Louis; St. Paul, Minn.; Atlanta; Michigan plants would bo spared. des, is expected to close plants and Wixom, Mich.; St. Thomas, Ontario; Ford is expneted to rnport a world­cut thousands of jobs in North and Cuatitlan, Mexico. Thosn plants wide profit for 2005 whon it relnasns America as part of a restructuring eould be targnted becausn of their earnings Monday. But it lost morn program to bn announced Monday. age, the products they make, thnir than $1.4 billion in its North 
Ford has refused to release details lack of flexibility or other factors. American oporations in tho first nino of the plan, dubbed the "Way States were scrambling to oll'or tax months of last year. Forward," which also is expected to credits and other incentives to kenp The No. 2 U.S. automaker has bcwn indude product changes and cuts to Ford from closing their facilities. hurt by falling sales of its profitable Ford's salaried ranks. Ford has about Earlier this month, Missouri Gov. sport utility vohides, growing health 1-!7,000 hourly workers and 35,000 Matt Blunt and other state offieials care and materials costs and labor salaried workers in North America. flew to Ford's headquarters in eontraets that have lirnitml its ability 
"It's going to be painful for some Doar·born for a meeting with Ford to elosn plants and c~ut jobs. Tho people," Ford Chairman and CEO Bill executives. Miehigan Gov. Jennifnr United Auto Workers union will have Ford said earlier this month at the Granholm said she outlined a pack­to agree to some of tlw changes Ford North American International Auto age of ineentives to Ford last week. wants to make. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, January 23, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Reviving an 'itnpotent' party 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDimR: Rama Gonumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EoimR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 I-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions "tarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Ol~rvet (tlSPS '599 2-4000) is published Monday 'hrougb Friday except during exJm .md vacation petiodJ.. A subscription ro TheOimrvtr is $100 for one academic year; $S51iHOf1Cstnlt'$tt't. 
11u: ObSC"rY('t is published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Send addn:ss corrections w: Nouc rn.mc::, IN 46556·0779 'J1KObSt"mr Periodical pnst~c paid .u Notre Dame P.O. Boxn9 .and :addilionalrnailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
· Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 

The Observer is a member o( tht ~;utd Press. All reproduction rights art' 
!'CiiCtved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kelly Meehan Kate Gales Nicole Zook Dan Murphy Laura Tim Dougherty 
Baumgartner Scene Viewpoint Molly Griffin Joey King 
Graphics Matt Hudson 
As President George W. Bush enters his sixth year in office, the time has come for a full-scale revitalization of the Democratic Party. 
Sixth years have, after all, been the historic breaking point for many of the most successful two­term presidents of the last century. Former president 
·Franklin Roosevelt, for instance, suffered a significant decline in public approval for his New Deal policies after attempting to pack the Supreme Court with supporters at a time when the Depression continued to ravage much of middle America. That year, the Democrats lost 71 seats in the House midterm elections. In former president Richard Nixon's sixth year, the Watergate investigation resulted in the first ever presidential resignation and cost the Republican Party 48 seats in the ensuing House elections. Similarly, for­mer president Ronald Reagan's sixth­year involvement in the Iran-contra scandal and former president Bill Clinton's sixth-year Monica Lewinsky impeachment woes carried on the tradi­tion of unlucky number six at 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. 
Now, with the fallout from the Jack AbramofT scandal sending shockwaves throughout the GOP in Congress and Bush taking heat for his unwarranted authorization of domestic spying at the National Security Agency, this pattern of sixth-year setbacks shows no signs of slowing. 
As a result, the Democrats owe it to their supporters to quit acting spineless and start standing up for the principles which form the backbone of the party. In the past week alone, Maureen Dowd, the infamous op-ed columnist for The New York Times, and syndicated colum-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

nist Molly Ivins both called out their own party to man up and fight for the future of this country. In Dowd's incomparable words, "If the Democrats are like the dithering 'Desperate Housewives,' the Republicans have come across like the counterterrorism agent Jack Bauer on '24': fast with a gun, loose with the law, willing to torture in the name of protect­ing the nation ... The Democrats' chronic impotence led to the Republicans' reign of incompetence." 
Sadly, Dowd may have been a little too generous in equating her party with the conniving, calculating, ruthless she-dev­ils of ABC's hit show. In reality, Democrats today are about as ruthless as "Dora the Explorer." 
Now, with Bush wallowing in the inevitable mire of his sixth year in office, the Democratic Party must turn to 2008 not in the hopes of fmding a centrist presidential candidate who will appease the stubborn voters of the South, but to a nominee who will wake up the echoes of Democratic values and ideals. And that was not a reference to Hillary Clinton. 
While the former First Lady did prove that she has the balls to take on the Republican leadership in Congress ­even to go so far as to admit that the House of Representatives is "run like a plantation"-she will inevitably go the route of her husband and present her­self as a centrist (and most likely the biggest foreign policy hawk on the '08 primary ballot). 
Similarly, the last thing that the Democrats need is a right-leaning, mod­erate candidate like Indiana Senator Evan Bayh (who seems to share the views of the GOP on issues like gay mar­riage and school prayer) or former Virginia Governor Mark Warner (whose views on gun control are on par with Charlton Heston's). Sure, political ana­lysts agree that a candidate with appeal to southern conservatives will have the most success in the general election, but what's the point of having a two-party system if both parties cater to the same group of people? If Mark Warner squares ofl' against a moderate like Rudy Giuliani in '08, liberal Democrats might come to the realization that their views would be better represented in the White House under the leadership of the H.epublican candidate, and that's when all hell will really break loose. 
Although most pundits and experts would undoubtedly disagree, the real answer for the Democrats is to pull an Emeril in 2008 -throw a little spice into the simmering pot of Washington politics and kick things up a notch. 
They could stand behind a true liberal like Wisconsin senator Buss Feingold (of campaign finance reform fame) who actually did vote against the Iraq War and who would put some effort into dis­mantling Bush's irresponsible budget deficit. They could also back an African­American who has the desire to clean up the lobbying and campaign finance sys­tem, an anathema for the death penalty, and a demagogue's ability to fire up an audience-Illinois Senator Barack Obama. (Not to mention his name is Swahili for "One who is blessed by God," and divine endorsement seemed to do the trick for President Bush in 2004.) 
If Dowd is correct in her evaluation that the Democratic Party is suffering from a case of "chronic impotence," then either of these candidates would provide a much-needed dose of Viagra. 
That could be just the trick to combat the Republican Party as President Bush tackles the mounting problems of his sixth year in office -a year when many or history's greatest presidencies have gone limp. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contacted at ifalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What should Notre Dame do about the Queer Fihn Festival and the Vagina Monologues? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


Submit aLetter 
to tbe Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Love truth, and pardon error." 
Voltaire French philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, January 23, 2006 page 9 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Capital punishment ill-justified 
Peter Wicks' column ("Lex talionis" .Jan. 19) is a compelling rellection on criminal justice and death as an instru­ment of justice. I am particularly called to eornrnent by his apt phrase: "It is impossible to imagine a just society not based upon the rule of law, but the rule of law by itself dons not guarantee jus­tice." By comparing 7th-century B.C.E. Athens and its contemporary civiliza­tion in Mesopotamia he determined that there is something more than the law itself which is required to ensure justice. llis reference to Solon implies that at least two further elements con­tribute to justice: reason and a sense of soeial solidarity. 
Today we sec two civilizations at odds over the question of whether the State, in the name of its people, should use d(lath as a form ofjustice. Europe has rojccted categorically the use of State killing as both unreasonable -it brings no benefit to the victim and undeniably causes harm to the execu­tee and, arguably, also to the executor who by extension is the whole of the society -and undermining of social solidarity as it removes the barrier between the unjust (the criminal) and the just by making the whole of society party to killing. 
Arguments from political philosophy question Wicks' assertion that "the state no more murders those it exe­cutes than it steals from those it taxes," not the least the concept of the social contract by which the members of a society agree to contribute to the gen­eral welfare. I highly doubt the argu­ment could be made that this could include the implicit agreement to alien­ate one's right to life. 
Even under U.S. law an individual is not j ustilied in killing another except in the circumstance of self-defense or the real or perceived immediate danger to a third party. State killing of a convict-
U-WIRE 
Enough of 'reform.' 
The munn Jack Abrarnoff has been view of the role of presidential power. thrown out of obscurity and into the The triangle of American governance harsh limelight of Washington poli­has become so contorted that simple ticking, and may come to represent high school geometry no longer tlw flaws of lobbying in the same way applies. Enron's crooked 'E' The root of the problem seems to 
Staff

now symbolizes come back to the notion of 'reform.' 
Editorial

corporate gover­While Congressmen and Senators nance shenanigans. have reoriented themselves to join 
Tufts Daily 

The initial scan­the reform effort, none of them bring
Tufts

dal has passed, and any valid solutions. 
University

tho man formnrly The fundamental problem with the rnsigned to the Abram off case has been legislators Capitol's corridors has had his face illegally using their influence to plasternd on news magazines and receive cash and perks. Whether this front pages everywhere. Though comes in the form of sponsored trav­mainstrnam discussion of the scandal el, inflated speaking fees or job no longer enumerates every tribe offers, it makes no difference. involved and kickback received, Influence is something that is instead of moving from description to gained over time, in much the same analysis, lf~gislators have transitioned way respect is earned. One of the from stump speeches to humbug. most effective of the possible solu­
The prevalence of the hollow tions to the lobbying issue has been descriptor 'roform' manifests how to introduce term limits on legislative shallow and apathetic many legisla­positions. tors are when it comes to problems A career legislator becomes so associated with lobbying. Both entwined with politics that he or she Democrats and Hepublicans have often loses touch with his or her con­usnd this word with such frequency stituencies. In addition, our founding that it has lost all meaning. fathers did not intend for Washington 
Most of the proposed reforms focus restaurants to be filled with the same on detailing the nxact who, what, faces, certain to implement the poli­when and why of nvery transaction cies they were introduced to over and situation. Patching arcane legis­caviar and champagne. lation onto a complicated web of The debate over lobbying is often nxisting rules will only lead to a sys­framed in the context of public inter­tem as eonvoluted as the tax code. An est against private interest. However, entire industry exists to interpret and as the same legislators consistently <wade the IHS, a completely undesir­receive funds, the public interests the able solution to the problems with lawmakers represent is often con­the lobbying industry. fused with their personal interests. 
Dealing with lobbying reform The farmer Cincinnatus was named through the legislative process is a dictator of Rome for six months in bit like having freshmen set a col­order to defeat the Aequi. After lege's aleohol policy. Hegardless of defeating the neighboring tribe in his or her party affiliation or commit­only 16 days, in one of the most noble ment to reform, no legislator is able steps in the history of republics, he to impartially determine the rules for relinquished his title and returned to an aetivity that is vitally and intri­his farm. cately connected to his or her daily Legislators would do well to heed job function. this lesson of knowing when to step 
Questions surrounding the integrity down; otherwise, private greed can of our democracy have been raised turn a farmer into a Caesar. not only in Congress, as we see a gradual shill in the roles and respon­This column first appeared in the sibilities of our countries lawmakers Jan. 19 edition of the Tufts Daily, the and executives. Hundreds of feet daily publication of Tufts University. from where the lobbying scandal has The views expressed in this column erupted, we see Supreme Court nom­are those of the author and not nec­inees being interrogated on their essarily those of The Observer. 
ed and incarcerated criminal can in no means be defined as self-defense, but only as punishment or revenge, both of which would be rejected as a criminal defense if an individual were tried with the killing of said convicted criminal. 
The European argument is a practi­cal one above all: the death penalty cannot undo the crime which was com­mitted, is not a deterrent to future crimes and does not protect society from the criminal. All the death penalty can do is debase the people who use it, legitimating a primitive blood thirst which is not recognized under the law. If in doubt about under which argu­ment the value and dignity of human life and human rights are best rellect­ed, it is revelatory to look around the world to see which societies share, with the United States, the use of State killing as a tool of retribution. With friends like these. 
I would like to draw Wicks' attention to the recent statement of the Secretary General of the Council of Europe, the Organization which is the home and guarantor of the European Convention on Human Hights and Fundamental Freedoms and actively promotes plu­ralist democracy and the rule of law in Europe:"As a friend of the United States of America, I look forward to the day this great country will leave the axis of capital punishment. If moral argument is not compelling enough, the American public should compare the murder rate in states which keep the death penalty and states which have abolished it. Then they would realize that executing people is not only inhu­man, it does not work as a way of reducing the number of murders." 
Mary Ann Hennessey-Gopaul alumna class of 19')0 Jan. 21 

Sem.antics or substance? 
I regret to say that I was deeply On Thursday, Senator Leahy troubled by the mental health and declared that Democrats "have been nerves of our senators on the troubled by what we see." The New Judiciary Committee as they offered York Times editorial page, which has comments last week on the confirma­opposed Alito since he was nominated, tion hearings of summed up the trouble by coneluding:
Steven

Judge Samuel Alito. "Judge Alito subscribes to troubling
Hoffmann

Watching the hear­views." Howard Dean, USA Today, an ings of Chief Justice The Student ACLU press releqse and numerous John Hoberts late Life blogs repeated the adjective. A profes­last year and of Washington sor at George Washington University Alito last week, I University wrote an op-ed article entitled, was struck by the "Troubling times, a troubling nomi­number of times senators and com­nee." No irony was intended. mentators used the words "troubled," What I find troubling about this phe­"disturbed" and "frightened" to nomenon is that the words say describe their reactions to the absolutely nothing informative. The prospect of a Chief Justice John word "troubling" is vague and moat­Hoberts or a Justice Samuel Alito. less. Should we really care about sen­Variations of "troubling" were the ators' personal nervous reactions to worst. I became so distracted counting what a judge believes? Calling some­the frequency that senators used thing troubling is cowardly. Users of these words-often multiple times in the word are either lazy and eannot a single question -that I had a hard come up with a coherent argument, or time even listening to what was being they want to make an over-dramatic said. grandstanding display of grave piety. 
That often happens to me in classes, Imagine if philosophers simply too, when some student will invariably responded to each other by saying, "I use the word "like" at least 14 times lind that troubling," and left the argu­in every sentence. Sometimes an over­ment at that. Try proffering a thesis used word loses all value and becomes statement that says the same, and sen cliche. Imagine if the chairman had what kind of grade you receive. urged senators not to lose their "syn­Kennedy complained that the hear­ergy" as the hearings progressed. ings were "turned into a political cam­"Troubling" and its counterparts paign," and he suspected that "the became the jarring buzzwords of the American people walk away more week. All three of those words con­confused." If that's true, then we're in note agitation, excessive worriment exactly the same position as Kennedy; and mental unease -not exactly the "confused" has a meaning that's simi­qualities you want in senators. lar to "troubled." 
Already by Tuesday, when most of The great irony carne after the day was spent on introductions Feinstein, who is the most vocal pro­and pleasantries, Senator Graham choice senator on the Judiciary was "troubled" by Democrats' ques­Committee, remarked that, although tions about executive privilege. she might disagree with Judge Alito, Senator Ted Kennedy, who was per­that doesn't mean that he should not haps the most troubled senator be confirmed. Kate Miehelrnan, the throughout the hearings, if his exu­former president of Naral Pro-Choiee berant use of the word was any indi­America remarked, "Dianne cation, quickly remarked, "I regret to Feinstein's comment is very disturb­say that the record troubles me ing." I'm sure that it was troubling to deeply" before adding, ''I'm gravely her. concerned." l-Ie further complained that Alito supports policies that "most This column first appeared in the Americans find disturbing or frighten­Jan. 20 edition of The Student Life, ing." Senators Feinstein and Schumer the daily publication of Washington found Alito's views to be "troubling" University. at least twice each while I watched, as The views expressed in this column they did before with Judge Roberts are those of the author and not neces­multiple times. sarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Monday, January 23, 2006 
SHOW REVIEW 
Legendary guitar master 
Huge crowd greets Dave Matthews Band collaborator Tim Reynolds for campus show 
By BOB COSTA Scene Writer 
Hundreds gathered outside Legends, Notre Dame's campus bar and club, to see Tim Reynolds, the master guitarist and frequent collaborator with jam-rock king Dave Matthews. The line stretched nearly to Notre Dame stadium, leaving many fans to wonder if they'd even have a chance to get inside to watch the free show. 
For those who saw the performance, it was undeniably one of the most unconventional and rousing performanc­es Legends has seen this year. The venue, which is usually hosts top up­and-coming alternative acts and popular student bands, was, for one night, home to an amazingly talented and somewhat frantic musician in total control of both his audience and his sound. 
Reynolds played for over 110 minutes, with a simple stage set-up and without an opening band. He walked onto stage just after 10 p.m. to the roar of close to 800 students packed into every possible part of the venue. Clad entirely in black, the rocker was engulfed by rowdy stu­dents screaming "Timmy!" just like they would be if they were at a huge outdoor concert, even through Reynolds was extremely close to everyone in the audi­ence. 
Overall, Reynolds was in good spirits and exuded that dark yet witty personal­ity that initially shocks the audience but eventually gets them laughing right along. Reynolds took some time before the show to stroll around campus, see the Golden Dome, and do an interview with ND-TV. 
Although he had spent part of his childhood in the Midwest, this was Reynolds first time to Notre Dame. Some hardcore "Tim" fans were in attendance, but others who came had only heard of him through his work on the multi-plat­inum 1999 live acoustic album "Live at Luther College" that he had recorded with his longtime friend, Dave Matthews. 
A stellar solo artist in his own right with a career spanning over twenty years, Reynolds dabbled in a diverse array of songs for his Legends set. Originals, covers, and jams were all major parts of his performance. 
Although in recent years Reynolds has used the electric guitar during his tours, for his Legends show, one of the first his winter 2006 solo tour, he stuck to the same six-string acoustic guitar for the entire show. Many of the tunes off the set-list came from his recently self­released studio album "Parallel Universe." It was interesting for many in the audience to see how Heynolds broke down some of his more complex studio tracks into live acoustic medleys that meandered up and down the fret board at Reynold's whim. 
The performance began with a solo instrumental on the acoustic where Reynolds utilized his pedals for different effects that gave his sound an immedi­ate multi-layered dynamic. Even though the performance was entirely solo, at times the sonic reverberations from the pedals and Reynolds' guitar overlays made it sound like there were perhaps three other guitarists on-stage with him. 
Two early highlights were "Hug" and "Che," as well as an acoustic experiment on "Mercury Direct," the first song off the second disc "Invisible Pagan Underdogs" on "Parallel Universe." Some other examples of Reynolds reworking his older tunes came mid-set, when he started to jam into "It's Dead," a track off his 1997 studio album "Sanctuary." 
The Legends crowd also loved it when Reynolds played Beatles covers during the middle of his show. From a high­energy rendition of "Come Together" to a phenomenal interpretation of "Here Comes the Sun," it was evident that Reynolds was a fan of the Fab Four. 
Reynolds then hit on another classic cover, this time Led Zeppelin's "Whole Lotta Love," which he warped into a menacing acoustic groove that pushed and prodded the normal chords while fans tried to keep up and sing-a-long. 

Calls from the audience for Heynolds to play "Stream," the popular song he wrote and performed on "Live at Luther College" with Matthews, led Reynolds to remark "It's coming, first the foreplay, then the penetration," much to the delight of the already buzzed crowd. 
The most hilarious moment came when Reynolds began to say the most absurd things that were highly comical as well. Before playing James Brown's "Cold Sweat" and the politically-charged "Indoctrinate," based off the lectures of Noam Chomsky, Reynolds told the audi­ence "My name is Barbara Streisand and I like to smoke weed." 
The first encore featured a raucous 
sing-a-long of The Beatles' famous song "All You Need Is Love," where Reynolds aptly filled the role of George Harrison while the Notre Dame students took on the challenge of imitating Lennon and McCartney for the vocals. That cover segued back and forth with the punctu­ated riffs "Kundalini Bonfire," an under­appreciated gem off Reynolds' 1996 release "Gossip of the Neurons." Reynolds interspersed his own acoustic noodling with another classic next, this time Led Zeppelin's "When the Levee Breaks." 
The evening came to an end when Reynolds, without any notice, promptly put down his instrument, gave a peace­sign, and disappeared behind the black curtain. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
SHOW REVIEW 
Symphony concert celebrates Mozart's birthday 
afternoon's four selections the joy, was the second element of the pro­cy of Mozart's work. The tone and pace
By ANALISE LIPARI 
respect and good humor of the musi­gram. Featuring soloist Jacqueline varied throughout the movement, with 
Scene Writer 
cians and maestro carried over to the Schmidt, the concerto was a great sam­a mixture of heavy, minor notes and audience, leaving this viewer with the pling of musical talent. lighter, happier moments. Were today's technology made avail­same light and cheerful mood that Schmidt was a marvel, Here again the compos­able to Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in infused the music itself. with her fingers flying The quick pace, er's work proves to be Salzburg in his time, he might have The afternoon opened with one of across the keys in a blur. high energy and remarkable in its ability lived to see his 250th birthday. Instead, Mozart's most familiar and well loved Her ability to seamlessly to be full and deep with­
soaring melody left 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­pieces, "Eine Kleine Nachtmusik [A move in and out of the out being overly heavy.
the symphony with 
munities observed his birthday posthu­Little Night Music]." Here, most appro-orchestration was wonder­The two latter move­mously and with as much priate at his birthday cele­ful, and her concentration an almost ments maintained energy, celebration as he would bration, the piece demon­and clear love of perform­keeping the audience rapt
The variety of triumphant feel by 
have warranted in his strates the classical style ing made her a joy to with both the complexity day with a celebratory pieces and the skill for which he was best watch. its closing notes. and beauty of the work concert at the DeBartolo with which they known. The second half of the and the pleasant perform-Performing Arts Center The strings, featured afternoon's performance ance of the orchestra
were performed
this Sunday. prominently, were perfect opened with a short piece, the "Per itself. The quick pace, high energy and 
The South Bend lent the afternoon for the light and airy pieta, non ricercate K421." This partic­soaring melody left the symphony with Symphony orchestra, as to a near perfect melodies of the ular piece featured vocalist Paul an almost triumphant feel by its closing a part of its June H. "Nachtmusik." The depth Appleby. His pure enjoyment in singing notes.
few hours ofmusic.
Edwards Chamber con­of the cello was obvious to all in The highlight of the afternoon, how­cert series, performed and double the audience and ever, was the appearance of Wolfgang four works of Mozart Sunday to a near­bass was also notable, South Bend Symphony orchestra, and the himself. Dressed in the composer's typ­ly full house. The variety of pieces and rounding out the delicate VVhen: Sunda~Jan.22 whole piece played ical garb and complete with white the skill with which they were per­violins. Each section of VVhere: DeBartolo Center for beautifully. fuzzy wig, Paul Appleby blew out the formed lent the afternoon to a near the "Nachtmusik," as well the Performing Arts The fourth and final candles of a ceremonial birthday cake, perfect few hours of music. as each of the afternoon's Director: TsungYeh piece, Mozart's sym­which was quickly consumed at the 
Under the direction of maestro Tsung pieces, was remarkable phony No. 39, was a reception that followed. Yeh, the SBSO has continued its repu­in that Mozart's work is stirring collection of tation of prestigious and talented musi­full-bodied without being heavy or four movements. The second movement cianship, and Sunday's performance leaden. in particular displayed both the skill of Contact Analise Lipari at proved no exception. Throughout the Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 20 K466 the musicians and the beautiful intrica-alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, January 23, 2006 
page II 
SHOW REVIEW 
Russian National Ballet wakes up 'Sleeping Beauty' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Tho Hussian National Ballet Company 1wrf'ormnd "Tiw Slneping Beauty" at thn Morris Pnrf'orrning Arts Center on Saturday. Th11 Hussian National Ballot, foundiHI by Artistic Dirnctor S1~rgei It ad dwn k o , i s a w o r Id-r e n o w n nd organization. It has toured throughout l~uropn, Asia and the United States. Hadehnnko was tho prim~ipal dancer of thn Bolshoi Ballet b11fore starting the Hussian National Ballet. 
Tho pnrformnrs brought a swm~ping gracn and beauty to the classic story, silt against thn timeless music of Tehaikovsky and the choreography of Marius Pntipa. It opnns with a long, nxprnssive prologue th.at lays out the plot, whieh is familiar to anyonn who's snnn tho Disnny film. An evil witch casts a spell on a princess that dooms lwr to death on her sixteenth birthday, but a counter-spell by a good fairy causes hnr to sleep rather than din until a prince comes to her rescue. 
The final act, a wedding scene in which the story is essentially jetti­soned, features dances by Puss 'n' Boots, Bluebeard and his wife, Goldilocks and a Bear, and Little Hed Hiding Hood and the Wolf. 
Likn many musical events, the plot itself is just window dressing for the spnetaeln of' thn dandng, which was spnetacular and impressive. All of the dancers were quite good, and the ensemble performances were 
enthralling, but it was the solo and 
duet dances that were most effective. 
Each of the leads -Princess Aurora, 
Prim~e Desire and the Fairy of Lilac ­
had segments that were wonderfully conceived and executed. Prince Desire, in partieular, demonstrated an athletic grace as he jumped and twirled for the just-awoken Princess Aurora. 
Among the other highlights were the interplay between Bluebeard and his wife and Aurora's solo in the first Act, and most of the dances by the Fairy of Lilac, who brought a lithe grace to her role. 
The story was outlined in the pro­gram, which is good, because it is nearly incomprehensible as presented. Plot wasn't really the point of the bal­let, however, as most of the dancing was spectacle (divertissement). The last act in the particular abandoned pretense in favor of a progression of increasingly lavish and acrobatic dances. 
The costumes ranged from plain to surprisingly ornate. The most indelible was the evil witch, whose hunchAd­over posture and rat-masked entourage was a highlight of the show. However, much of the costuming for the principal actors was more practical than decorative, which neither added nor detracted from the dancing. The set, which appeared hand-painted, was well-done and added to the atmos­phere. 
The music was canned rather than live, the only real disappointment in an otherwise impressive show. Still, this compromise was understandable, as the real draw of the ballet was the dancing rather than the music ­though Tchaikovsky's score is justifi­ably famous and was later recycled for the Disney version. While it's not quite as famous as some of his other compo­sitions ("The Nutcracker Suite," "The 1812 Overture," "Romeo and Juliet"), the score for "The Sleeping Beauty" is equally memorable and engaging. 

The Hussian National Balint Company is justifiably one of the most famous in the world, and their performance of "The Sleeping Beauty," combined with Tchaikovsky's music and Petipa's cho­reography, made it an oft-breathtaking show and a prime exhibition of classi­cal ballet. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Underworld: Evolution' suffers from stagnation 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Scene Critic 
l>irndor Len Wismnan's "Underworld: Evolution," the sequel to his 2003 "Undnrworld," has not, in fact, evolved much over time. Using fight sequences, explosions, and women in leather to sell thn film, it fails to rnmember to build up its plot and charaetnrs. While many new things about the franchise's universe arc rnvnaled, the characters still seem to rmnain as shallow as when they began. 
"Underworld: Evolution" literally begins whnrn "Underworld" left oil'-the first I(Jw minutes of the movie indude a mon­tage of scenes eut out of its predecessor. As the war betwnen vampires and lycans (werewolves) that was introduced in the first movie drags on through the interest in the pendant that Michael took from the Iycan Lucian in "Underworld" and in Selene's memories, which he can extract merely by tasting her blood. 
Unfortunately, much of this plot, already filled with holes and struggling to remain logically comprehensible, get<> lost in the onslaught of' the film's action sequences. Fans of the first "Underworld" will be disappointed, because while its plot may have been somewhat limited, it was much more direct and understand­able. The sequel has so many flashbacks that they begin to become annoying. 
Furthermore, advancing the plot in "Underworld: Evolution" requires almost constant exposition, which often enough consists of the characters looking into the camera and talking, often accompanied by another flashback montage. From the first opening scroll to the last voiceover, the 
eenturies, audience needs to
Underworld: Evolutions
Selnne (Kate 
have the plot dictated Beckinsale) and to them in order to Miehacl (Seott have any chance of Spendman) are perceiving what is on the run al'tnr happening in the film.Director: Len Wiseman 
killing a vampire "Underworld:
Writer: Danny McBride 

eldnr in the first Evolution" seems to
Starring: Kate Beckinsale, Scott 
film. recognize that its best
Speedman, Derek Jacobi, Brian Steele As the movie 
progressns, the lineagn of vampires and lycans is slowly rnvnalnd. The two racns sprang from a human, Corvinus (Dnrnk .Jacobi), who was eapabln of resisting viruses and his sons, Marcus (Tony Curran), who was bitten by a hat, and William (Brian Steele), who was bittnn by a wolf. 
Awaknnnd and unlnashnd, Marcus pur­suns Selene and Miehanl. He wants to relnasn his brother who had been impris­oned cnnturies ago for wrecking havoc on the world. Mareus also has a strange selling feature is its H-
rating, as it loads its scenes with less-than-tasteful images. Blood and gore drench the screen and characters swear at every moment, in multiple languages, often over their dead lover's bodies. 
Admittedly, some of the fight scenes are fun to watch, but they don't do enough to save the movie and aren't innovative enough to give anything to later lilms in the genre. The sex scene between Michael and Selene is obviously extrane­ous and seems to be included only to add another reason for "Underworld: Evolution" to be an R-rated movie. 

In an attempt to make "Underworld: Evolutions" more serious many scenes are overly dramatic. The movie would be better if the filmmakers would stop slow­ing it down to play suspenseful music behind such things as Michael throwing paint onto windows. This forced dramati­zation is reflected again in the script. The dialogue of "Underworld: Evolution" is saturated with cliches and phrases that seem oddly familiar or laughable ­Selene at one point asks Corvinus "What will I become." His answer? "The future." 
"Underworld: Evolution" depends on cheap thrills and fight sequences to keep its audience interested. Its sequel, so overtly hinted at in Kate Bnckinsale's final voice over, may be better because it can only move in an upwards direction. Still, one must admit that "Underworld: Evolution" is entertaining. I was laughing the entire time. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
-----------------------------------------, 
page 12 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Monday, January 23, 2006 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles lose in tough game with rival Adrian 
After trailing by as many as 23 points in the first half, Saint Mary's comes up just short in second-half comeback 
back. They found themselves when she returned in the sec­loss, Bender said his team spanked us pretty bad and 
By TIM KAISER down 32-9 with just over two ond half. showed him a lot of good we're excited to play them 
Sports Writer minutes left to go in the first At the half, Belles coach things. again, and teams we beat, we 
half, but went on a 9-0 run Steve Bender rallied his team, "We fought off adversity," he have to do it again," Bender 
Saint Mary's fell to 7-11 before the half to cut the which triggered its second half said. "We were without Lipke, said. "Our league is tough. overall on Saturday night with Bulldogs' lead to just 32-18. comeback. there were a lot of girls having Whoever comes to play wins, a heartbreaking loss to MIAA Saint Mary's fought its way "Things were not looking to adjust to new positions. It's and we have to learn that." rival Adrian. The Bulldogs back to 50-49 with just over very good," Bender said. "I great to see we're not giving First up is Alma, who the escaped with a 53-52 win two minutes left in the second, challenged their womanhood. up, not quitting, finding ways Belles beat 74-68 earlier in when Alison Kessler's half­but were never able to take They didn't seem very intense, to hang in there. Erin Newsom the season. court shot missed at the the lead. With the loss, the maybe it was a physical and and Alison Kessler, really gave "We'll see how we are physi­buzzer. Belles dropped to 5-4 in con­mental hangover from the us some heart in the second cally tomorrow," Bender said 
· Down in the final minutes, ference play, but remained in effort we expended playing half." of his team's injury woes. "The 
the Belles were forced to foul, fourth place in the MIAA. Albion. "Mental toughness," Bender main thing is we have to be at 
but after a few missed shots by The Belles were also playing "We were down 21, and we replied when asked what the our sharpest, have two good 
Adrian, they cut the deficit to hampered by injuries, as they tried to get fouled and stop the Belles need to improve on. practices. Alma is a great 
one and had a chance to take were without point guard clock, and it worked. We ·had a "We need to improve on being offensive team, a team on the 
the lead. They stole the ball Bridget Lipke, who sprained steal with 20 seconds left, and mentally and physically ready rise, a real veteran team. I 
from Adrian, but a Belles pass her ankle in last Wednesday's an errant pass went out of to start games. We can't get think we caught them by sur­
landed out of bounds, setting win over Albion, and were bounds. behind early." prise [the last time we played]. 
up a missed one-and-one for missing Bridget Boyce for "It was a great comeback, The Belles have seven regu­We have to get tough and find 
the Bulldogs which led to much of the first half after a [the girls gave] great efforts, lar season games remaining, a way to win." 
Kessler's desperation heave. bizarre collision with a refer­great to see them [keep trying] all rematches against MIAA 
The Belles' narrow defeat ee, which injured her ankle for as long as they did." teams. Contact Tim Kaiser at was almost an amazing come-and left her clearly hobbled Despite the disappointing "We've got some teams that tkaiser@nd.edu 
TRACK 

Irish rack up twelve victories in home opener 
Ogbuokiri qualifies for NCAA championships in 400 meters while the team gears for next week's ND Invitational 
By JORDAN BELTZ 
Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field squad opened up the 2006 home season with a stel­lar performance Friday evening at Loftus. It was good warm-up for the rest of the season, with regional compe­tition from Western Michigan, Butler and Loyola Chicago, among others. The meet was highlighted by 12 victories, including another NCAA qual­ification, this time by Oketchi Ogbuokiri. 
Ogbuokiri turned in best performance of the evening for the Irish. The New Jersey native finished the 400 meters with a time of 54 flat, just under her personal 54.03. The 54.00 is good enough to provisionally qualify Ogbuokiri for the NCAA indoor champi­onships, to be held in March. 
Ogbuokiri wasn't the only Irish sprinter to make an impact on the meet. Fellow junior Maryann Erigha took home top honors in the 200 meters, turning in a time of 
24.19 seconds. Ogbuokiri was 


Irish runner Tom Longo surges ahead in the mile race at last year's Notre Dame Invitational. After a strong performance on Friday, the team is looking forward to this year's Invite this week. 
right behind her, finishing in performance in the 60 meters, second with a time of 25.09. posting a time of 7.53 sec­Freshman standout Alyissa onds, good enough for a victo­Hasan blew away the competi­ry and a Big East qualifica­tion in the 60 meter hurdles, tion. cruising to a victory with a Not to be outdone by the time of 8.94 seconds. sprinters, the distance run­
Erigha also turned in a solid ners also had respectable out­ings. All-American Stephanie Madia, along with freshman Ramsey Kavan, finished one­two in the mile, both qualify­ing for the Big East champi­onship. Teammate Amy Kohlmeier also placed, coming home in the fourth position. In the 800 meters,· sophomore Jackie Carter took third place, also qualifying for the Big East championship. 
For the men. Garrett Koxlien again led the way for the throwers, finishing first in the weight throw. Four of the first seven spots in the weight throw were occupied by the Irish. · 
"We always have the goal of improving our marks and working towards marks that will help gain our team points for the Big East Conference championship," sophomore thrower Kyle Annen said. That improvement can definitely be seen in the past two weeks, and will only continue to help the squad as the Irish make their way into the tougher portion of the schedule. 
This week, the Irish look to continue their improvement as they host the Notre Dame Invitational. The meet will be held at 3 p.m. on Friday in Loftus, and is the second of three consecutive home meets for the Irish. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Part-time sitter needed in prates­sors home tor 4-yr-old boy. 574-271-1353. 
Canton House restaurant now accepting applications for full/part time wait staff. 15 mins. to ND. Call 574-232-8182 or fax resume to 232-2044 

FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME. NICE LOCATION & 8 MINS. TO ND. $475/MO. CALL 574-386-7272. 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 
515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per­son, B&G Homes. 57 4-250-7653. 
908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. WID & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or emai JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574-232-4527, 269-683-5038. 
1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile to campus. $575/mo. Laundry. Call 283-0325 
2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN. 329-0308 
2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN. 329-0308 
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants. 1­7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases .Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or call574-250-7653. 
1706 Logan. 6 bdrms, $200/person, B&G Homes. 57 4-250-7653. 
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 
Area houses and apartments tor rent. Log onto MichianaRentals.com. Caii574-993-RENT (7368) 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $4991 Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
SPRING BREAK!FREE INFO NOW!at www.seeyathere.com 

.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATI.ON 
Monday, January 23, 2006 CoMPILED FROrv\ THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Men's Swimming Top 25 
tPam  poinls  
1  Auburn  200  
2  Stanford  192  
3  California  178  
4  Michigan  175  
5  Arizona  171  
6  Florida  159  
7  Texas  157  
8  Minnesota  141  
9  Southern California  139  
10  Indiana  124  
11  Tennessee  121  
12  Georgia  115  
13  Florida State  102  
14  Virginia  94  
15  Purdue  88  
16  Northwestern  80  
17  Kentucky  75  
18  Ohio Slate  56  
18  NOTRE DAME  45  
20  Alabama  43  
21  Penn State  38  
22  Brigham Young  25  
23  Arizona State  24  
23  Pittsburgh  24  
25  Harvard  12  

Women's Swimming Top 25 
lPam points 

1 Georgia 200 2 Auburn 192 3 Stanford 184 4 Florida 174 5 Arizona 170 6 California 158 7 UCLA 153 8 Southern Methodist 138 9 Wisconsin 137 10 Texas 134 11 Southern California 120 12 Penn State 112 13 Texas A&M 104 14 Purdue 96 15 Michigan 87 16 Tennessee 81 17 Florida State 71 18 Indiana 60 19 Virginia 51 20 NOTRE DAME 45 21 North Carolina 37 22 Hawaii 24 23 Washington 22 23 Harvard 22 25 Rutgers 12 
MIAA Basketball Standings 
tPam  {'()nf  overall  a11g.  opp.  
1  Hope  9·0  16·1  75.6  53.9  
2  Calvin  8·1  14-2  63.5  53.2  
3  Olivet  7-2  11-7  70.7  63.4  
4  Saint Mary's  5·4  7·11  58.2  64.3  
5  Albion  4·5  12·6  68.8  56.9  
6  Alma  3·5  8·7  71.9  68.5  
7  Kalamazoo  2·7  5·11  59.2  74.2  
8  Adrian  1·8  5·11  59.4  67.7  
9  Tri-State  1·8  2·16  58.8  71.4  

==~--============== 
around the dial 
TENNIS 2006 Australian Open, 2 p.m. ESPN2 

NCAA BASKETBALL Syracuse at Pittsburgh, 7 p.m. ESPN Oklahoma State at Texas, 9 p.m. ESPN 
NFL 


AP Jerome Bettis, left, celebrates as the Steelers advanced to the Super Bowl with a 34-17 win at Denver on Sunday. Shaun Alexander, right, celebrates his secontkluarter touchdown against the Panthers In the NFC Championship game. 
Bus keeps rolling on 
Associated Press 
DENVER -The most famous road trip since "Animal House" rocks on. 
Big Ben, The Bus and all those Terrible Towels will make the next stop on their wildly successful road trip at the Super Bowl in Detroit, thanks to a 34-17 dismantling of the Denver Broncos on Sunday in the AFC title game. 
"We were sitting, look· ing at an outside shot to be in the Super Bowl," Steelers linebacker Clark llaggans said. "This is an unbelievable feeling to be hnre right now." 

Unbelievable and almost unprecedented. Led by 275 yards and two passing touchdowns from Ben Hoethlisberger and a touchdown by Jerome Bettis, the Steelers became the first team since the 1985 Patriots to win three road games en route to the Super Bowl. Counting the regular sea­son, they've played five of their final six away from Pittsburgh. 
And while there's no John 'Bluto' Blutarsky, this Pittsburgh group has plen­ty of characters of its own. There's Bettis, The Bus, who stuck around for a 13th year. 
MVP carries 'Hawks 
Associated Press 

SEATTLE -With their MVP back in business, a fierce defense and all the comforts of playing at home, the Seattle Seahawks had everything they needed to get to their first Super Bowl. And they did, easily. 
Shaun Alexander came back from last week's con­cussion to rush for a team playoff-record 132 yards and two touchdowns Sunday, and Seattle pres­sured Carolina stars Jake Delhomme and Steve Smith into oblivion in a 34-14 rout for the NFC championship. 
The Seahawks picked off' three passes in winning 
IN BRIEF 

Kubiak to become Texans' head coach 
IIOUSTON -Thn llouston Texans will hire Dnnvnr ofTnnsive coordinator Gary Kubiak to take over tlw worst tnam in the lnague and help deeide what to do with the first piek in the draft. 
Texans owner Bob McNair said during a news conferencn Sunday that tlw hiring won't be completed until later in the week. 
The Texans couldn't negotiate a contract with Kubiak until the Broncos were eliminated from the playofl"s. 
McNair's announcement came about an hour after Denver lost to Pittsburgh in tho AFC championship game. 
"Hopefully we'll have him down here by the middle of the week and hn will then be assembling a staff," McNair said. 
McNair said he planned to speak with Kubiak latnr Sunday. 
Roddick fails to reach Aussie Open quarterfinal 
MEJ.BOUHNE, Australia -Andy Hoddick thought he'd get it right at the Australian Open. 
Stung by a first-round exit at the 
U.S. Open last August, Boddick skippnd the Masters Cup in November to give himself extra weeks to peak for the s1mson 's first major. 
What he did not figure on, while running miles and pumping iron, was a guy like Marcos Baghdatis stepping into serves and smacking returns past him with mesmerizing regularity. 
Baghdatis, a live-wire former junior world champion from Cyprus, hit 63 winners in a 6-4, 1-6, 6-3, 6-4 fourth· round win Sunday, advancing to a Grand Slam quarterfinal for the first time, where No. 7 Ivan J.jubicic awaits. 
When one return winner zipped by him in the last set, Hoddick turned to the crowd and asked: "What can I do.
?" 
their 12th straight home game and shattering the fif'th-sendnd Panthers' stun­ning postsnason road run. 
The NFC's best tnam dur­ing th1~ season, the Seahawks (15-3) will have to beat yet another wild card, thn Pittsburgh Steelers, in the Super Bowl in Detroit on Feb. 5. Pittsburgh beat Dnnver 34­17 earlier in the day. 
"We're not done yet," quarterback Matt ilasselbnck said. "We've got another game we've got to go win." 
While Alnxandnr paced the ball-eontrol offense, it was the dnf'nnse that really carried the Snahawks. 

Campbell wins Bob HopeChrysler Classic 
PALM DESI-:HT, Calif'. -Chad Campbell shot a scrambling 71 Sunday to outlast Scott Vnrplank and Jesper Parnevik and win the Bob I lope Chrysler Classie. 
Campbell's )-under elosing round put him at 25-undPr :n5, thrPP shots in front of' Verplank and 2000 llopn champion ParnPvik. 
Vnrplank, onn stroke oil' Cam plwll 's lnad to start tlw day, had a 7:~ and Parnevik madP a 1~hargn with a 67 during a round whnn gusty wind made the new Classic Course at Northstar trieky at timns. 
John lluston finished fourth with a 6X and 339 total. 
Formnr llope winnPrs Phil Mickelson and Mike Weir tied for fifth with John Senden. 
Miekelson, the tournanwnt champi­on in 2002 and 2004, shot a 71 to fin­ish at 19 under along with Wnir (70) and Senden (73). 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 23, 2006 
MEN'S TENNIS 
... 

Irish take care of business in season opener 
Notre Dame prepares for No. 1-ranked Virginia after defeating Northwestern in convincing fashion this weekend 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After a stellar fall season, the Irish began the dual-match sea­son with a resounding 6-1 win over Northwestern Saturday. 
No. 26 Notre Dame improved to 1-0 going into Friday's match against No. 1 Virginia, with strong play in both doubles and singles. 
. "It's always good to start with a win, and Northwestern was a team that in our last couple of year we've had close matches with," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We were certainly prepared for 
a close one. The doubles point was pretty hotly contested and we eeked it out by the narrowest of margins at No.3." 
Despite an upset of No. 1 dou­bles team Ryan Keckley and Eric Langenkamp -which debuted at No. 12 in the national rank­ings -the Irish started the match up 1-0. 
Barry King and Sheeva Parbhu won 8-2 at No. 2 doubles, scor­ing six unanswered points after a 2-2 deadlock. 
"That put a little more pres­sure on Northwestern," Bayliss said. 
However, the Wildcats were back in it with an 8-6 upset win at No. 1 doubles. 

"First doubles was disappoint­ing because we hit enough good shots to win but we didn't hit them at the most opportune times," Bayliss said. 
However, Stephen Bass and Brett Helgeson clinched the dou­bles point for the Irish, heading into the singles portion of play with a 1-0 lead. 
"It gave us a real sense of con­fidence going into the singles," Bayliss said. "Once it started our guys closed them out pretty quickly." 
At No. 5, Keckley gave the Irish a 2-0 lead, winning the first set of his match 6-2 before his opponent retired due to injury. 
No. 4 Helgeson won his dual­match debut 6-0, 6-3. 
"For a guy making his debut Brett Helgeson was absolutely flawless in his first set," Bayliss said. 
Langenkamp, ranked No. 65 in the nation, fell 6-3, 6-0 at No. 6, effectively ending his 10-match winning streak -dating back to last season-in dual-match sin­gles. 
But Parbhu clinched the match for Notre Dame at No. 2, win­ning 6-1, 6-4. 
"Sheeva beat a pretty tough competitor who extended him to a tiebreaker in last year's match," Bayliss said. The sopho­more, who ascended in the rank­ings after going 11-2 in the fall, "Stephen played well and real­had no problem racking up his ly fought well from behind," third match-clinching win. Bayliss said, noting that Bass 
Barry  King,  was  forced  to  
back from semester  a at  "It's always good to start  adjust his game. "It came down  
University  with a win."  t~ a ~atter of dis- 
College in Dublin,  cipline  and  
won 6-2, 6-3 in  toughness.  and  
play at No. 3.  Bobby Bayliss  Stephen  has  
With the match  Irish coach  those qualities in  
outcome already  spades," Bayliss  
decided, Stephen  said.  "I  really  
Bass  fought  respected  the  

valiantly for a win at No. 1. poise and the presence that he Hanked No. 8 nationally, the jun­showed, he didn't get rattled and ior outlasted Christian Tempke was able to come up with a plan 6-3, 7-6 (7-4) to end the match that seemed to work." with a decisive win. The Irish started off the season 
Need room to grovv? Be TRU to yourself. 
Join TruGreen ChemLawn. 
If you love the great outdoors, you'll enjoy great success with the 
largest, most comprehensive landscape company in the country. 
Get the kinc:1 of advancement opportunities you'd expect from a Fortune 500 company: 
• Cornplete Benefit Package for Full Time 
•Paid 
Holidays I Vacation 

•40'1 
K I Stock Purchase 


•Ffexible schedules for Part Time 
•Unlimited •ncome Potential VVe're rooking for Sales Represent-atives and Service Technicians to provide excellent customer service and problem sofving skills~ No experience necessary -we provide paid training! Apply at 3606 Gagnon Street, South Bend 46628 on 
VVEDNESDAV. JANUARY 25th at 6 p.rn. or SATURDAY, JANUARY 28th at "1 p.m. 1'or on-the-spot interviews. RSVP and call-for directions a:t (574) 233-9700 
TruGreen ChernLawn EOE/AAIMFDV 
with a win over a quality oppo­nent -good before their Friday match against the Cavaliers. 
"I think the guys felt good about [the win]," Bayliss said. "When Patrick [Buchanan] and Eric [Langenkamp] were fresh­men, Northwestern beat us 4-3, and the last two years we won 5­2 matches that were very close. Now to beat them a little more decisively reaffirms that we're a little better and that some of our guys have made big strides, and hopefully we're ready to take it to another level." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Academic Freedom and Catholic Character Address and Discussion By Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c. Please plan to join Fr. Jenkins for his address to the Notre Dame community on the issue of academic freedom and our Catholic character. A period of questions and comments will follow. Faculty: Monday, January 23, 2006, at 4:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Students: Tuesday, January 24, 2006, at :12:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. ~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME  

Monday, January 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish cruise to vvin over Spartans 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Wri tcr 
With its 1 !i6-147 vietory over Michigan State this past Saturday, the Notre Dame womon's swimming and diving tmun rnturns home with iL'i sixth consecutivo first place finish, lnaving tho state of Michigan in iL'iwake. 
AftPr dllfeating Michigan two weekends ago, the Irish usod this W«lokond's nwnt against a less laiPntnd Michigan State team to allow their swimmors tho oppor­tunity to eompeto in evnnL'i the swirnmors don't normally swim. 
"Swimming in ofT-ovnnts is a nwntal bmak fi>r tho kids," head coaeh Carrio Nixon said. "It's a r.hanw~ or par.n and a dmnell to work on difl"l~ront strokos. Most importantly, you loarn how to be Vllrsatiln, whieh is mally impor­tant." 
.Junior swimmer Katin Carroll agn~Pd with lwr 1:oat:h's assess­nwnt of ofl"-11wnL'i, but added sh11 also finds them helpful because "they give you a chance to see what your teammates have to go through in their events." 
Carroll, along with freshman Christa Higgins, led Notre Dame against the Spartans as each tal­lied two individual victorins. Carroll won the 200 breast stroke, an off-event for her, as well as the 200 individual med­ley. Higgins was vietorious in the 200 and !iOO frnestyle. Also eol­leeting first plae11 finishes for the Irish were Claire Hutchinson, Hnbncca (irove, Jessica Stephens, Katie Hopkins and Casey Wagner. 
By allowing the majority of their swimmers to competo in ol'l'-events, the Irish essentially sent their 'B' team to East Lansing this past weekend, but Carroll and hor teammates didn't allow that to doter them. 
"The fad that wo basically sent our 'B' team whilo Michigan Stat11 sent their '/\ team, yet we worn still vietorious, was a real confidence booster for us," Carroll said. 
But Notre Dame hardly neods another reason to be confident. In lad, the Irish have not finished worse than first place in any type of meet since losing to Purdue on Oct. 29. To put that in perspec­tive, Oct. 29 was the w1wkend bntwmm the BYU and Tnnnessee football games. 
Nixon cited a couple of reasons for her team's stellar perform­ance in the past six meets. 
"We're certainly swimming with a lot of confidence right now," she said. "But I also think the girls are swimming well because they know the end is near and it's erunch time. I think our perfilrmance lately has been a combination of those two things." 
The Irish face the Louisville Cardinals this weekend in their final meet before the Big East eonlhrence championship. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Why South Padre Island?  Why Sheraton Beach?  
Spring Break capital of Texas!  Right  on  the hottest beach  
Featured  on  MTV, 48 Hours, Hannity  Beach activities & water sports  

& Calmes, and Travel Channel Kegs allowed on the beach Thousands of college students Seven miles of beach Only 1I 2 hour to Mexico 
I 

l 
~..).:~,; 
She.raton South Padre Island 
Bt~twh llott~l & Condominiums 
1-800-222-4010
-www.sheraton.coml southpadreisland 
Oversized party jacuzzi Largest hotel pool & swim-up bar Daily drink specials WaJking distance to hottest clubs Restaurant on property wI specials 
,,--...
~ 

fs~ 
~ ~
" 

MEN'S SWIMMING 

Busy swimmers win one, lose one 
After dropping a meet to Northwestern on Friday, Irish bounce back at Cleveland State 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
The men's swimming team came out of arguably its tough­est weekend of the rngular season with its pride wounded, but stronger for the experi­ence. 
Notre Dame, barely removed from a two-week training trip and three sessions of racing last weekend, traveled to Evanston, Ill. on Friday for a matchup against No. 16 NorthwestPrn. The perennially stellar Wildcats trumped the Irish 172-128, handing the blue and gold their second dual meet loss of the season. 
"It wasn't so mueh disap­pointing that they bHat us, but it was disappointing that we did not swim as well as a team as we could have," co­

"It wasn't so much
captain pretty Patrick disappointing that they beat us, comfort­Heffernan able in our
but ... that we did not swim as 
s a i d pool."
well as a team as we could
"They're a The Iris!, good team­have." touehod we knew it'd tho wall be tough to first in
Patrick Heffernan
go there -nine of tlw 
Captain
but we were II IWtHJtS. 
1 ,000-yard froestyln, while tnammates Patrick Davis and Jace llopper took s1~cond and third. Tim Kngnlman grablwd the top spot in the 100 butter­fly and Irish divers Michanl Bullin and Sam Stonor wnnt 1­2 in both thn one-met11r and thn~e-rnetnr ev11nts. 
Pnrhaps more indicative of tho toam's eapabilitins was the way thn Irish rnboundod thn next day at home against Clevoland Statn. Tho Vikings, now 10-4 in dual rntHlts, boat Valparaiso tho day boforo, but Notrn Damn was able to eomo out much stronger and handiP csu 142-96. 
"I think thoy were just ablo to sne where they worn on Friday and they rebounded woll," Tallman said. "We had kind of a loosen-up practieo Saturday to work out tlw kinks and thoy sen mod 
tired going into the meet and didn't perform as well as we could." 
The meet was Northwestern's sixth consecu­tive victory over Notre Dame. The two squads faced· each other Jan. 14 and 15 in the 28th annual Dallas Morning News Classic. The Irish placed fifth out of six in the presti­gious event, while the Wildcats took second. 
Assistant coach Matt Tallman went with nine members of the team to the meet in Dallas while head coach Tim Welsh directed the rest of the squad in a 163-73 dual meet win over Evansville. 
"We're still pretty beat up; we had a-couple good races early and Northwestern is a team, nationally, that for a couple years has been ahead of us," Tallman said. 
The team wasn't about to leave the Land of Lincoln with­out doing some damage. Notre Dame's Jay Vanden Berg con­tinued his long-distance domi­nance by earning first in the 
J a m i n 

l.utkus sot llw JHu:o for the squad, grab­bing first plaen in thP !iO freostyln and 100 frnnstyln and, as wnll as swimming on tlw winning 400 nwdlny relay with Doug Bauman, Tim Handolph and Tim Kognlman. Ted Brown (200 lly), Bauman (200 backstroke), Patriek Davis (500 frenstyle), and Michaol Bullin (three-meter diving) also took first place. 
Thn busy weekend certainly won't be the last for the Irish, who will race three sessions this upcoming Friday and Saturday in the Shamrork Invitational, not to mention the Big East Championship this February. 
"It's good preparation because at the Big East Championship we have snven sessions in thrne and a half' days," Tallman said. "Hopefully raeing (Northwestern and 
-· 

Cleveland State! helps us at the end of the year." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 23, 2006 
We believe in sandy feet, beach bonfires and lifelong memories. We believe in vacations:C 
Enter our vacation sweepstakes at pwc.com/freevacation 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 

*connectedthinking 


1 Nt; purchase nect.,s.so.ry 2. SwE<epstake-s begins 1/4/06. 3. Open f() US rO'sklents ·1B lf4 ck1~1r, who t~re studentS< at i:l partidpatir:(J coll$ge or universlty. 4. Vislt pwc.r.:om/froovo.cation tor dt-ltni!& and compli:?te aff!cial rules. ~} 2006 Pricewat,;Jrhotl:.:;.eCoopers LLP. t\H nghts r~J~Jrvc;d. '~Pric•:.:watef1,ous•::Goopenf' refmrs to Pd~wat$rhot.n~eCoopers LLP {a DB!awmJe limited habdity parlnershlf.i} or. as the context n:;quin.:~s~ ether rnernb0r hnns of PricewaterhouseGoopers International Urnited. each of wi:ich is a separatB and inrJepenr.1ent entity. 9 Connecter.Hhinking is a trade;Ttark of Pricewaterhouse(),;tJpers U ..P (US). V..;e are proud t<) be an Affirmative Ac:tlcn an F..c~~J:ai Opportunity Employer: · 
Monday, January 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles drop final home meet to Lady Hornets 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and 
BECK! DORNER 
Sports Wri1ers 
Thn Lady llornnts of Kalamazoo beat Saint Mary's 14:~-59 Friday in a MIA/\ dual meet at Holl"s Aquatic Center. It was the final horne rnnet for thn Bolles, who havn had an up-and -down season this 
NYU 
continued from page 20 
thy pnrli>rmanm came from Kubik, who dolimtnd Scott Sugimoto 5-3. Suhrimoto rngistnrnd victories over .Jmlrkowiak (5-3) and Bontempo (5-4). 
"I have bmm fimring Seott fiJr a whiln, I was pretty familiar with and madP tlw makh a littlo oasier," Kubic said. "lie fcncnd wnll against my teammates, but a match that I was pretty on." 
Mer defi~ating il<> next two eom­pntitors NYU (17-10) and No. 6 St. John's ( 17-1 0), Notre Dame suf­fered il<> only loss of the weekend from No. 1 Ohio State. The Buckeyns' All American Christian Hivera swept the ND epeeists inducting a 5-4 win over freshman Karol Kostka. Two-time NCAA champion Boaz Ellis eolleeted thrne 5-0 vietories over the Irish foilL<>l<>. 
The No. 1 ranked women opened with a 20-7 win over No.8 Yaln. 
Freshman foilist Adrienne Nott posted a 5-4 victory over NCAA veteran Alisa Mendelsohn. Sophomore Melanie Bautista fol­lowed Nott's win with her own 3-2 overtime vietory over MendeL<>ohn. 
llowever, the women could not continue their momentum against No. 3 Columbia, dropping the match 8-19. 
Ali-Ameriean Morgan Midgley, a third-plaee fmL<>hnr fbr Columbia at the 2005 NCAAs, defnated Irish junior Amy Orlando 5-3 and fresh­man Madeleine Stephen. But Midgley eould not finish the sweep, as fifth-year senior Ber.ca Chimahusky topped the All­American 3-2 in overtime. 
The women finished out the competition with wins over NYU (24-3), St. John's (16-11) and No. 4 Ohio State (17 -10). 

Although the Irish litilnd to mme out on top, thn tnam was still satis­fied with il<> ellilrl<> ovnr the wnek­nnd. 
"Wn struggled at enrt.ain poinl<>. but in the end we pullnd things together," junior sabrn Valerio Providenza said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

NBA 
Bryant scores 81·points in win 
Assodatcd Press 
l.OS AN<;I·:t.I·:S-Kobe Bryant seornd a staggtwing H1 points ­tlw sneond-higlwst total in NBA history-and the Los Angeles I .akers btmt thn Toronto l{aptors 122-104 Sunday night. 
With thn lims at Staplns Cnnter dlllnting "MVI'! MVI'!" Bryant made two frntl throws with 43.4 seconds rnmaining for his final points, putting him bnhind only Wilt Chambnrlain on the all-time scoring list. 
she said. 

The Saint Mary's swirnnwrs hope to put up a tough f"ight as they look forward to the snason-eu I m i nating M lA A Swimming and Diving Championships Feb. 9-11 in Grand Hapids, Mieh. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu and Becki Dorner at rdorner1 @nd.edu 

Best Wishes to the Graduating Class of2006 and to the Incoming Class of2010 
DEDICATION 
For Utmost Abundant Blessings Upon All StudenL~. Faculty, Staff, Benefactors, Friends, and Advertisers ofCatholic Education Worldwide, and Most Particulary for the Following Schools, and to St. Thomas Aquinas, 1226-1274, Patron Saint ofCatholic Colleges and St. Bemardine of Siena, 1381-1444, Patron Saint ofAdvertising 
SCHOOL; FOUNDED; CIRCA-ENROLLMENT; LOCATION; OTHER 
Aquinao College; 1886, Dominicans; 2.500; GTand Rapids. Michigan Ave Marla Universlty; 2004, Thomas S. Monaghan; 307; Naples. Florida; Ground Broken in 2005 for pcrmananent campus ofc.6,000 students Barry Unlvenlty; 1940, Dominicans; 3,276; Miami Shores, Florida Boston College; 1863, Jesuits; 13,700; Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts Conisiuo College; 1870, Jesuits; 5,048; Buffalo. New York; Named after St. Peter Canisius. an original member of the Society of Jesus 
Catbollc Univenity of America; 1887. U.S. Bishops; 2,587; WashingtOn, D.C. Crelgbtoa University; 6,300; Omaha, Ncbraskll DePaul University; 1898, Vinccntians; 23,000; Chicago, Dlinois Duquenoe Univerolty; 1878; 8.000; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Motto-Spiritus est qui vivificat-lt is the Spirit who gives life Fairfield University; Jesuits; 3.300; Fairfield. Connecticut 
Fordham University; 1841, Jesuits; 15,000; Bronx, New York Franciscan University of Steubeavllle; 1946, FranciiiCans; 2,370; Steubenville, Ohio 
Georgetown University; 1789 Jesuits; Washington. D.C. Gonzaga Unlvenity; 1887. Jesuits; 5,400; Spokane, Washington Immaculata University; I920; 3,443; immaculata. Pennsylvania 
lona College; I 940; 3.400; New Rochelle, New York La Salle Univenity; I 85 I. L.asaliian; 6,221; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Loyola University Chicago; 1870, Jesuits; 18.319; Chicago, Illinois; l..af11eot ofthe 28 USA Jesuit schools Loyola Uolvenlty New Orleans; 1912, Jesuits; 5,900; New Orleans. louisiana Madonna University; 1947, Fclicians; 4,294; Livonia, Michigan 
Manhattan College; 1853, l..asaUian; 3,000; Riverdale. New York Marquette Uolvenlty; 188l,Jesuits; 11,000; Milwaukee, Wisconsin Mount Saint Mary's University; 1808; 2,125; Emmitsburs, Maryland Nlagra University; 1856. Vicentians; 3.500; Niagra University. New York Providence College; 1917, DominicllJUI; 5,200; Providence, Rhode Island 
Seton Hall University; 1856; 10,000; South Oranae, New Jc:ney; Staned by Bishop Bayley. nephew ofSt. Eliza~ Ann Seton St. Bonaventure Univenlty; 1858. Fnmciscans; 2.800; SL Bonaventun'J. New York St. John'• Unlverslty; 1870. Vicentians; 14,848; Queens, New York St. Jooeph'• University; 1851, Jesuits; 7,230; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania St. Louio Unlverolty; 1818, Jesuits; 11,500; St. loui•, Missouri; first Catholic college west ofthe Mississippi 
St. Mary'• College; Holy Cross; 1,571; Notre Dame, Indians St. Peter'• Colle)le; 1872, Jesuits; 2,300; Jersey City, New Jeraey Unlvenlty of Detroit Mercy; 1877, Jesuits/Mercy Sisters; 8,200; Detroit. Michigan University or Notre Dame; 1842, Holy Cross; 8,200; Notre Dame, Indiana University or San Diego; 4.400; San Diego. California 
University of San Francloco; 1855. Jesuits; 8,274; San Francisco, California Vlllanova Unlvenity; 1842, Augu.<linians; 6,285; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Xavier University; 1831, Jesuits; 6,450; Cincinnati, Ohio 
year.. 

Snnior eaptain Kelly Nelis capped ofT a very successful home swimming season, post­ing wins for tho Belles in both the 200-yard freestyle with a time of 2:02.1J5, and the 500­yard freestyle with a time of 
5:34.02. Nelis' two wins would provo to be the only two victories that the Belles would walk away with from 
Chambnrlain seornd 100 points for Philadelphia against the New York Knkks at llershcy, I'a., on Mareh 2, I%2. I lis second-high­est total was 7H against the Laknrs in thren ovnrtimes on Dee. H, 1%1. 
"I couldn't even dream of this when I was a kid," Bryant said. "There was no way possible." 
Bryant lef't to a standing ovation with 4.2 seconds remaining, hav­ing shot 2H-of-46 from the floor and 1R-of"-20 from the foul line. lie was 7 -of'-13 from :1-point 
the 12-event meet. 
Despite their loss to the Lady Hornets, the Belles are optimistic about the following two weeks. The final regular­season meet this year for the Bolles will be a dual meet versus Calvin College and Albion Collnge at Calvin on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
TIH~ Bolles' swimmers con­tinuo to train hard, focusing 
range. 

Elgin Baylor held the previous franehise rneord of" 71 points at New York on Nov. 15, 1960. 
Miehael .Jordan's career high was (JC) points, and only four play­ers had ever scored more than 70 -Chamberlain, Baylor, David Thompson and David Robinson. 
The 27 -year-old Bryant made it live. 
He played nearly 42 minutes, going the entire second half until being lil"ted by coach Phil Jackson. 
on the MIAA Championships in two and a half weeks. To train for the weeks ahead, coach Lynn Kachmarik plans on getting her swimmers in their best possible condition for the competition. 
"We will begin our taper [rest[ period of training, whieh means the team does less yardage, morn fast swim­ming to get ready for Mli\As," 
leers 
continued from page 20 

to get his gear ready and replace starter Dave Brown in net. 
The freshman, who last played on Dec. 3 against Western Miehigan and had not notched a win sinee Nov. I 0 against Bowling Green, stopped all 14 shol<> fitced as Notre I >arne fought ba:ck to win the game 4-3 with third-period heroics. 
"You always gotta in tho ba('.k of your mind be ready, beeausll you never know what's going to happen," Pearce said rngarding the backup role. "It was tough, but when you go in there you just kind of help your team stop the bleeding and see where it goes from there. Just give the team a chance to get back in it, to give them hope." 
The Irish team that emerged from the Jackson-induced time­out did not take long to reduce the Wildcat lead. Senior Mike Walsh dellectod a shot from Erik Condra into the net at 12:36 into the second to put the game at 3­
2. Pearee deflected live Wildcat shots to close out the second period. 
The Irish onslaught eontinulld after the start of the third and the fatal blow was delivered at the 8:42 mark of the final peri­od. Condra (goal, two assists) knocked in a rebound oil" a Noah Babin shot from the point to tie the game at 3-3. Only seeonds later the Irish struck again. 
The center iee faeeoiT was won by T.J. Jindra and drawn back to Broek Sheahan along the blue line. Sheahan dished the puck to Tom Sawatske on the left side and Sawal<>ke drovn up the iee before releasing a shot from the drele that blew past Wildcat goaltender Bill Zaniboni for the game-winning goal. 
"Before the timeout we seemed to bn playing as though we wore kind of th1~rn," Pearce said. "We were trying hard, but just going through the motions. After the timeout we started playing with more passion, with more heart." 
Irish forward Michael Bartlett was whistled for a live-minute major with 3:41J loll in the game, and Notre Damn found itself fighting off a vicious Wildcat attaek to dose out the game. Pearce stopped three shots in thn man-down situation to pre­serve the load and eomplnto his half-game shutout with 14 saves. 
Tho eome-from-btlhind victory marks the first time this se<L<>on Notre Damn has won a ganw al'ter trailing at the start of tho third period, a 0-13-0 streak. 
"We just believed the shots wnre going to go in when you get the dl<UH:es," Pmtreo said of tho team's attitude in the seeond half. "When you want sonwthing you drive lilr it.. It was obvious wn wanted to come baek and win." 
The Irish seored first in the game when Mark Van <;uilder seored on the power play at 
10:13 of thn first period from a sharp p<L<>s by Condra. Northern Michigan then wont on a tllrnn­goal tear to take the 3-1 lead with a goal by Darin Olvnr in tho first and two by Andy Contois in tho seeond. · 
Northern Michigan 5, Notre 
Dame2 
The weeknml came to a dra­matic eloso for the Irish on Saturday night. but on Friday all the ieers eould do was to eorrnet mistakes and eome back strong in tho encom. 
Northern Michigan eolloetnd two soeond poriod goals after the first lhune p<L<>sed without a tally from oither side. Patrick Murphy and Matt Siddall beat Irish goaltender Brown twieo in tho narly minutos of the second on snparatn pownr play chanens. 
The Wildcats then eolleetnd two unanswnmd goals by Olvnr to take a eommanding 4-0 load belilrn the Irish would make a statement. 
It WIL'> too littln, too late, how­ever. Tim Wallace scort~d first at 
12:03 of the third, lilllownd by a Walsh goal at 17:44 in tim pnri­od, but time ran out for t.hn Irish. 
Brown was pulled to put an extra attacknr on the iee and Northern Mkhigan's Olv1~r eapi­t.aliznd to eomplntn his hat trkk -and thn win -with an empty nntter to seal tlw 5-2 final. 
"Whnn you play on thn road it kind of magnifies your ganw," l'naren said. "Wn w1m1 making stridns in tlw right din1etion but we eould still sen tlwre was a coupln of rnistakns. Sen what those mistakns arn and kind of learn from thnm." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

Sponsored by Ford Motor Company, and Bank ofAmerica 
Ford Motor Company; ( 1903. Henry Ford; Deurbom. Michigan; 500 employees in i903, 300.000 employees in 2005 Ford Offering A $1,000 Rebate on the Purchase of Any 2006 Ford Vehicle, Please Call 1-800-555-FORD Bank ofAmerica; f.l940; los Angeles, California; 1.000 employees in 1940, 200,000 employees in 2005 Hank of America Offering New Credit Card Accounts With a $3,000 Credit Umlt, Please Call 1-800-555-BANK 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 23, 2006 
Loss 
continued from page 20 
10 against 6-foot-10," Irish guard Colin Falls said. "Nobody was getting a hand on that shot. It was just a great shot." 
Novak led all scorers with 28 points on 11-of-18 shoot­ing. He was 6-of-1 0 from 3­point range. 
Notre Dame took the lead with 2:46 left in the second half when Chris Quinn made a layup and got fouled on the shot. The senior guard made the free throw and pushed the score to 65-63. 
But the Irish did not score in the remaining minutes, failing to capitalize on key chances down the stretch. 
"You would like to almost walk through the possessions where we had the ball up two, we had some offensive possessions there," Brey said. "You get either one of those and you don't have to absorb [Novak's game-win­ner] as much." 
Marquette guard Dominic James drove to the basket and hit a game-tying lay-up with 45.9 seconds remaining in the game. The freshman guard scored 11 points on 4­of-10 shooting. 
The Irish led by three at 
the half after getting out to a quick start. Quinn led Irish scorers with eight points at the break. 
"I think we were up 10 in the first half and we were pretty comfortable with the way we were playing," Falls said. "Novak made some tough shots and put some pressure on us, but we were spotting it every time they got the lead. I guess they took the last punch." 
Falls led Notre Dame scor­ers with 21 points on 6-of-14 shooting. All of Falls' field goal attempts came from 3­point range. 
Quinn added 18 points on 6-of-14 shooting for the Irish. 
The loss dropped Notre Dame to 10-6 and 1-4 in Big East play. All four of Notre Dame's league losses are by a combined 17 points. 
"It can get a little frustrat­ing but we have no time to hang our heads," Quinn said. "We have another game com­ing up against a great team in Georgetown and we need to figure out a way to get some of these close ones." 
Brey said he is confident the Irish will begin to see improvement in their record if they continue to play these close games. 
"When you look around the league, people sometimes aren't even in the darn 
thing," Brey said. "If we can keep battling and give our­selves a chance in game situ­ations, I think it's going to pay off for us over the long haul." 
Notes: 
+ For the second consecu­tive game, McAlarney logged 30-plus minutes. He played 30 minutes in Notre Dame's win over Providence and 36 minutes against Marquette. 
"You put Kyle McAlarney in the game and he breaks the game open," Brey said. "You ride what's going good." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


Players compete during the ROTC Basketball Tournament, held 
this weekend at Notre Dame. 
ROTC 
continued from page 20 
A&M Air Force ROTC Aggies soared over West Virginia Air Force ROTC Mountain Hogs in a 58-30 rout. The Aggies sti­fled West Virginia's co-tourna­ment MVPs Anderson and Montaglia with tight half-court defensive pressure, forcing turnovers and converting them into points. 
Though the Flying Irish Basketball Invitational is the largest ROTC gathering for an athletic event in the country ­only mandatory HOTC field training draws more cadets and midshipmen for any event -drawing schools from San Diego State to Virginia Tech, this weekend was Texas A&M's first appearance in the tourna­ment. 
Michael Wied, who led the Aggies with 15 points, includ­ing eight straight that broke the game open with a 34-13 halftime lead, was thrilled by his first visit to Notre Dame. 
"It was amazing," Wied said. "We all walked around campus [Saturday] for the first time. And the competition is great. We didn't know what to expect, but it was amazing." 
Two-time defending champi­on Notre Dame Air Force HOTC A team replaced four starters from last year's team and went 2-1 in round robin play. However, they lost their first bracket play match up with the eventual champion Aggies. 
The Notre Dame Navy/USMC men's A team, led by MVP run­ner-up senior Greg Hiltz, also advanced to bracket play and 
CHARISMATIC RENEWAL ATNOTREDAME 
How it got started What's going on now? 
Montgomery Auditorium 7:00P.M. La Fortune Student Center Monday, Jan. 23 lost in the second round. 
"Air Force men's A team and Navy both played really hard," Air Force ROTC Basketball Tournament Officer John-Paul Adrian said, "but both got stu~k in hard playoff brack­ets. 
The Air Force men's B, Air Force women's A and B, Army men's and Navy/USMC women's teams did not make it out of round robin play. 
The Flying Irish Invitational also accomplished its further­reaching goals of endorsing positive relationships with the country's future military lead­ers all over the nation. 
"The goal of our tournament is to foster sportsmanship and unity between teams because we're all going to be officers," Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Public Affairs Officer Katy Sidrow said. 
In that spirit, every year the tournament presents the Colonel Moe Award for sports­manship to one men's and women's teams. Col. Moe was a Vietnam prisoner-of-war vet­eran who returned from war to become Air Force ROTC Professor of Aerospace Studies and Commander of Detachment 225 at Notre Dame. He was present to award the honor to Nebraska Lincoln-Omaha men's Air Force ROTC Huskers and University of Iowa women's Air Force ROTC. 
The tournament also fea­tured a three-point contest, won by Josh Stallard of Texas A&M and Stephanie Thomson of Marquette. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Win 
continued from page 20 
utes," McGraw said. 
After halftime, the early action resembled what had happened all game, with Notre Dame in control. The Irish continued to increase their lead, and it peaked at 17 points when Duffy -who fin­ished with a team-high 16 points -stole the ball from Kieraah Marlow and took it all the way for a lay-up, giving the Irish a 46-29 lead with 11:55 to go in the contest. 
Shortly thereafter, things began to unravel. 
After a lay-up by sophomore Charel Allen again gave Notre Dame a 17-point 50-33 lead with just over 10 minutes to play, the Irish offense com­pletely shut down. Over the next 7:30, the Irish failed to score on eight of their next nine possessions, the lone exception being a lay-up by Duffy with 7:15 to go, which proved to be the final Irish field goal. 
"Four points in 10 minutes 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 24th 7:30-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 

Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
turned the ball over five times, with 1:17 remaining and 
including twice by center Melissa "Four points in 10 
D1Amico. 

minutes has to be a
"We played 

scared -we record for us. " choked," McGraw said. 
Muffett McGraw
While the 

Irish coach 
Notre Dame offense was 
looked pre­pared to take its first lead at the most important time. 
But the Notre Dame defense held strong, and guard Breona Gray's steal with 15 has to be a record for us, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of Notre Dame's anemic offense down the stretch. 

At the same time, the Irish offense on the floor for the rest of the game would come from the Hoyas. Georgetown scored on both of its next two posses­sions, trimming the lead to two 
falling apart, the Georgetown offense began to find its stride. The Hoyas, who cut the Irish lead down to 52-48 with 2:44 left to play, were able to be successful in large part because of 7-of-8 shooting from the free throw line dur­ing the run, the lone miss com­ing from Lesueur, who still fin­ished with 19 points and 11 rebounds, both game highs. 
"[She] had a great game," McGraw said of Lesueur after the game. 
After a pair of Duffy free throws gave the Irish a 54-48 lead with 2:34 to go, the only seconds left led to a foul that gave the Irish a chance to ice the game. 
However, Gray missed the front-end of a 1-and-1, and it wasn't until Kate Carlin missed a 3-pointer with one second to go that the Notre Dame team could finally breathe a sigh of relief and begin moving up in the Big East standings, where the Irish are now 3-3 in con­ference. 
"We were lucky to win," McGraw said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Monday, January 23, 2006 The Observer• TODAY page 19 

JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
HE'\, rATI-\E.R. HE.5 SUP-.G 1-\, 

\NE I !'E.. , LW.E ,Bo~ E')l..-PIZ..E'SIDEN\5 
ERIK POWERS a11d ALEC WHITE 
Katie, you put the tater in my tot. You can't deny we ,I~~~ have "chemistry" together. 

He's got an absolute zero chance of getting any significant digits. 
Need$$$? 
I Me:.P..N WE. 
WANNA EA.\ 

1--\E'i, WE C:OUL'b 'PO 
U'SE..D IO BE 'N\-1-Al"E.VE-R. 
A v-11-\0LE. Bo"t-­
CF" SALTIN E..S 

P~E.S I DE.I"lTS· 'AJ a WP.NT. 
'-N~\\..~ WE 
SAL-TINE.$ 
FoR F&_E. IF" \J'\lt: 
WAN\ \b 
..:: ''~~"'Os::-) 
~ 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 

JUMBLE 

~11I1JR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NUGLE
I 

rJ 
1 

•\:l2006 Tribune Media Serv<cos, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
YOPPP 
1 

rJ rJ 
I CLETOH j
I rI 
www.jumble.com
tFLAMEE ±

J I r J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: FARME:R FAC.E:O WHE:N IT WAS TIME= TO STORE= THE: HAY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-
Ans: 

A "r I I I J-D "r I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' I Jumbles: SHEAF IRATE BUTLER DRIVEL s Answer: Enjoyed by sailors on a 24-hour pass-
A "FLEET' VISIT 

CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 34 "My Friend _" 63 Blood-typing (old radio/TV letters
Bearcat series)

(ciassic car) 64 Second-largest 37 Frozen waffle of the Hawaiian
6 Muslim leader brand islands10 Cover the 39 Lovable ogre of 65 Lone Ranger'sdriveway 
film cry14 Gdansk natives 40 Bellyache 68 Writer Waugh15 "I Just Wanna 

41 What each of 69 _ synthesizerStop" singer the longest
Vannelli 70 Din
words in 17A,

16 Manipulator 71 Small winning
65A, 10D and margin

17 How often rent 25D famously is usually paid lacks 12 Diarist Frank 19 Perlman of 43 Online auction 73 Xenon and neon "Cheers" site 20 1950's prez 44 Mexican friend DOWN 21 It's nothing at all 46 MasterCard 1 Go badalternative,
22 Herb with the 2 Toy truck maker
informallyTijuana Brass 

3 Stomach malady47 Inquires (about)24 Oldtime crooner 4 Golf ball raiser48 Kodaks, e.g.
Julius 50 Crowd reaction 

5 A Gabor sister26 What a 6 Stravinsky orsettlement 52 Jokes 
avoids 

5411111111 Sikorsky
II 

7 North Dakota28 Indian music 58 Rocket citypropulsion
30 Difficult 32 Plumbing 45 Underground 58 Fed. agent in
8 Picnic intruder
situations 61 Pudding fruit problem deposits finances 9 Angora fabric 
33 'The the 49 Respiratory 59 Saint's glow
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Military hero's limit!" 
problem
34 Apple computer 

51 Pointing11 Stadium 35 ltalia's capital 62 Seating section 
(Queens 53 Observe furtively
36 Seriously injure 66 Chargedlandmark) 55 Smiley of PBS particle38 Sock hop locale12 Suddenly 56 Fatter than fat
change course 42 Large-scale 67 Mauna_ emigration 57 Tender areas volcano
13 Part of Q.E.D. 18 Scanty 23 Young fellows For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.

-::+~+:-fl!' lllilt':-t:+...... -=+:=+=~ 25 Breakfast Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
beverage crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
27 Boardinghouse Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000guest 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).29 Shocked 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 31 Wall St. figures solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. · 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rc>hyn Richards, I~; Willa Ford, 25; Diane Lan~. 41; Linda Blair, 47 
Happ)' Birthday: Don'l worry ahoul matters you can'lchangc ur you willlosl' sight of your goals and make few gains. Your succcs~ will be your revenge so don't give up on your dreams or give in to foolbh promise>. This is a year of prcscrvnlinn. so look oul for yourself and your rights. Your numhcrs arc 4, 19, 22. 27, 35, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You may have to ask yourself some very straightforward 4uestions to decipher whal it is you arc really trying to achieve. Make sure lhat your motives arc clear. Don't lend or borrow today. ••• TAliRUS (April 20-May 20): You may find it difficuh to conlain your cmolions if someone you least cxpecl tries to put one over on you. Don't put up with it but don't show your anger either. Kindness and generosity will always hring better results. ** GEMINI (May 21-Junr 20): Travel will not be in your best inlen:st today. You may prefer a creative joh to lh~ one you should he working on hut, if you don'tlaku care of pressing responsihililies first, you will not be able to wncentnllc on whal you really wanlto do.*** CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): Sitting around will be a waste of time today. Love is in a high cycle so take full advantage of the possibilities. Entenainmenl should be scheduled but make sure it is afi\Jrdahle. ****'" LEO (,July 23-Aug. 22): Y<lU can expect someone to pose a pmblcm for you. Take time to listen to the complaints hut don't lake on someone else's hurdcn. You may not be gelling all the fact~. This is not the day to reacl 4uickly or. har~hly. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): This is a greal day to lake a short trip. The inl'onnation you obtain or the experience you have will innucncc your outlook on your fulure. Love and romanCl' arc looking very posilive. Spend time with ~omeonl' you really like. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do things around thl• house. Sharing oJw of your creative ideas will excile the people you are with. Younger people will have some fahulous suggestions that will help you expand on your originallhoughts. *** SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't he afraid to question someone you wanllo pursue something with. You can make some very importanl changes In your surroundings. Avoid anyone-who is trying to stan an argument. It will he a waste of your time. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take anything for granted--cspel·ially your bank acL·ounl or financial situation. You will have some very sudd~n dmnges Ol'cur if you lake a risk. Focus on what you can do for others in terms of service. 
*** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Slkk to whal you know and don't try to tdl anyone else what to do if you want to keep lht~ peace. Do something to your living quarter> llJat will make you more comfortable or IIHlt will hdp to save you money. You will be rewarded if you offer a goml sohuion. ••u · AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't push your luck with someone you love. Trouble is brewing and, if you aren't accommodating, you may find yourself onlhc receiving end of someonc's anger. Minor accidents and mishaps arc likely, so he careful. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Take care of money matters. You will get the assistance you need to do something you've wanled to pursue for some time. Being adaptable will he the key to your success. Spend lime with someone you rl~ally like. 
** 

Birthday Baby: You arc curious and lik~ to know what makes things work. You are inventive and innovative. You are well-liked, energetic ami always willing to help others. 
Eugt>nia 's "'eb sites: a.\·troadl•ict.com for fun, t.•ugenia/as/.comfor t'on.fidt•ntia!t'fmsultation.v 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________ 
Address ___________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
~ -~----­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, January 23, 2006 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team manages to fend offHoyas for victory 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
The last time the Irish played 

a road game against 
Georgetown, they squandered a 
six-point lead with 43 seconds 
to go and fell 76-73. 
On Saturday, McDonough 

Arena almost struck again. 
Notre Dame, who never 

trailed and dominated play for 
the first 30 minutes, watched a 
12-point lead virtually evapo­
rate inside the last five minutes, 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Holding on 
barely hanging on to escape with a 54-52 win. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 19-6 lead in the first nine minutes of the contest with points coming from five scorers, including two three-pointers from point guard Megan Duffy. Guard Bethany Lesueur was the sole offensive threat for the Hoyas, scoring all six of their early points. 
As the half progressed; the Irish continued to control the action, taking a comfortable 32­18 lead into halftime. 
"I thought we played well defensively the first 30 min-
see WIN/page 18 

Last-second jumper lifts Marquette 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer Russell Carter drives for a layup in a win over Hofstra on Nov. 11. The Irish have fallen to 1-4 in the Big East. 
FENCING 
Irish fall short of win in NYU tournament 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
This weekend's matches at the NYU duals proved to be bitter­sweet for Notre Dame. 
Despite finding early success against the nation's top teams on Sunday, both Irish teams fell just short of the victory, finishing 4-1. 
The No. 2-ranked men defeated their first four opponents. Their first match-up against Yale proved to be less challenging than expect­ed with a 20-7 Irish win. Sophomore foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak and junior Frank 
Bontempo both posted wins over 
2004 NCAA runner-up Cory Werk. 
Freshman Mark Kubik fell just 
short of another Irish victory over 
Werk, dropping the match 4-5. 
"I started off well, but didn't 
fence well during the bout," Kubik 
said. "It could have gone either 
way. But that is how fencing goes. I 
had some trouble hitting." 
No. 5 Columbia was Notre 
Dame's next challenge. 
Notre Dame clinched the impres­
sive win by sophomore epeeist Greg Howard's 5-3 victory over -Max Czapanskiy. Another notewor­
see NYU/page 17 

HY PHAMffhe Observer Megan Duffy, left, chases down a steal in Notre Dame's upset win over DePaul on Jan. 17. 
Loss puts Irish at 1-4 in Big East conference 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Marquette forward Steve Novak hit a game-winning fadeaway jump shot with 1.1 seconds remaining to defeat Notre Dame 67-65 Friday and hand the Irish their fourth Big East conference loss in five tries. 
"He made a tough shot," 
Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
"I thought we had a pretty 
good awareness of him. We 
HocKEY 

By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
A month removed from the last time he manned the pipes in a game and two months since his last win, Irish goalie Jordan Pearce came off the bench to spur on the Irish in a comeback Notre Dame victory. 
After the Irish fell behind 3-1 at 
6:38 of the second period in Saturday's matchup with Northern Michigan, Irish head coach Jeff Jackson called a time out for his team to regain its com­posure and to make a personnel change. Jackson ordered Pearce 
see I CERS/ page 1 7 
wanted to switch stuff, so we always had people on him. [McAlarneyJ followed him around after coming off, and he hit a very tough shot." 
The senior received the pass and released the ball past the outstretched arm of Notre Dame guard Kyle McAlarney, after being forced towards the sideline. 
The 6-foot-1 McAlarney did all he could to block the 6­foot-10 Novak's fadeaway. However, altering the shot was difficult regardless of· the height difference. 
"It could have been 6-foot­
see LOSS/page 18 
ROTC BASKETBALL 
Cadets travel for tourney 
Notre Dame ROTC hosts the corps of 52 schools in competition 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
The 20th Annual Flying Irish 
Basketball Invitational brought 
together 52 Reserve Officer 
Training Corps men's and 
women's teams this weekend 
from detachments across the 
country. The tournament, 
hosted by Notre Dame Air 
Force ROTC, lasted from 
Friday night until Sunday 
afternoon, when the Flying 
Irish finalists earned the right 
to play on the same court 
where the Irish men's team 
would be practicing later in 
the day. 
In the women's final, South 
Dakota State Air Force ROTC 
Jackrabbits upended the 
Purdue University Navy ROTC 
and U.S. Marine Corps 
Boilermakers 34-18. The 
Jackrabbits were led by the 
strong guard play of co-tour­
nament Most Valuable Players 
and sisters Emily and Liz 
Jarding. The two took over the 
game after a slow start that 
only saw six points scored in 
the first 10 minutes, jetting 
Purdue out to a 20-7 halftime 
lead. 
In the men's final, Texas 
see ROTC/page 18 

leers win thrilling 4-3 game 

JENNIFER KANGffhe Observer Center Erik Kondra faces off against Bowling Green on Nov. 11 in a 9-4 Irish win. 

SMC SWIMMING 
NBA 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

MEN'S TENNIS 
TRACK 
..... 
Co) Kalamazoo 143 
Irish go 1-1 over 

Notre Dame 6 
Home ~ener

Bryant scores 81 in Lakers win
z Saint Mary's 59 
weekend 

Northwestern 1 
sees 1 wins 
The Belles dropped 
The Irish lost to

Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against Toronto on
::5 
their final home meet, 
Northwestern but got 

The No. 26 Irish easily 
Oketchi Ogbuokiri
c:s 

Sunday night, the second-highest single-game total 
but look forward to the 
back on track against 

defeated the Wildcats in 
qualified for the NCAA

by a player in NBA history. Only Wilt Chamberlain's 
c:c 
MIAA Championships. 
Cleveland State. 

their season opener. 
Tournament in the 400

100-point game had more.
ti meter race. page 17 
page 15 

page 14 
page 12

page 17 






