
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint .(vlary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 114 FRIDAY. MARCH 31,2006 
Domers prepare to 'spring forward' 
University officials plan adjustments for reinstated observation ofdaylight-saving time 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
For years, residents of St. Joseph County have watched their clocks steadily click while the rest of the country sprang forward or fell back. But come Sunday, they will lose an hour with the rest of the nation when Indiana starts to follow day­light-saving time. 
Senior Jocelyn Burum does not expect the time change to have a significant effect on her life. 
''I'm fine with it really," Burum said. "It's kind of unique that we weren't following any time changes when it was day­light-saving time." 
Most counties in the state of Indiana have not followed day­light-saving time since the 1970s, according to the Associated Press. Last April, Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels encouraged the state legislature to pass a bill to force all coun­ties to follow daylight-saving time. The issue stirred wide­spread debate during the past year as counties decided whether to follow Central or Eastern Standard Time. 
St. Joseph County petitioned the U.S. Department of Transportation to follow Central Time, but that request was denied by the Department of Transportation, so the county will continue to follow Eastern Standard Time. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Notre Dame did not take a position on whether or not the county should institute daylight-saving time or which time zone it should choose. 
"We are fine with following the policies that have been laid out by the governmental agen­cies," Brown said. 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) has been working for the past two months to make the transition a smooth one, said director of dis­tributed support services Peggy Rowland. 
"This is actually going to impact us more than Y2K," Rowland said. "We did a lot of pre-emptive work before Y2K ... but the impact that we suf­
see DST/page 4 


Leaders take final bows 
Saint Mary's Mitros, Mcilduffproud ofterm 
By LAUREN LAVELLE 
News Writer 
As Saturday's Board of Governance turnover approach­es, student body president Kellye Mitros and student body vice president Susan Mcllduff said they are pleased with the mark they have left on Saint Mary's. 
"I am very proud of the work we did this year," Mitros said. "We had a very successful year and I can look back on it with satisfaction." 
Both Mitros and Mcllduff said they are proud to have completed most of the objectives on their platform, which included adding a Health and Wellness Commissioner to the Board of Governance (BOG), raising awareness about College history and working closely with Enrollment Manager Dan Meyer. 
Mitros and Mcllduff said they are satisfied with their involve­ment in the creation of the first annual Heritage Week -a series of events that raised awareness 
see MITROS/page 6 


Top: PAMELA LOCK/The Observer, Bottom: Chelsea Gulling/The Observer Above: Notre Dame student body president's Chief Executive Assistant Liz Kozlow, left, president Dave Baron and vice president Lizzi Shappell lead a meeting of the Council of Representatives. Below: Saint Mary's student body president Kellye Mitros, right, and vice president Susan Mcllduff run a Board of Governance meeting. 

ND's Baron, Shappell, Kozlow reflect on year 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
For Dave Baron, his year spent as student body president all boils down to the campaign slogan that came to him one sleepless night -one student voice, 8,000 strong. 
And three leaders who believed in doing it right. 
Baron, student body vice pres­ident Lizzi Shappell and chief executive assistant Liz Kozlow will bow out of their positions Saturday -except Shappell will be taking a step up to become student body president. Bill Andrichik will serve as vice president and Liz Brown as chief executive assistant. 
It hasn't been an easy year for student government's top three, and the end was no exception. Baron, Shappell and Kozlow were visibly stressed after Wednesday's Senate meeting, which centered on Minority Affairs committee chair Rhea Boyd's lobbying to win perma­
see BARON/page 4 

Musician Brubeck awarded Laetare 111edal 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
Renowned jazz musician Dave Brubeck will receive the 2006 Laetare Medal -Notre Dame's oldest and most highly regarded award given to American Catholics -at Commencement exercises this May, the University announced Sunday. 
The honor is given annually to a Catholic "whose genius has ennobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church and enriched the her­itage of humanity." 
"The composed energy of Mr. 
Brubeck's art helps us appre­hend the fullness of creation," University President Father John Jenkins said in a statement Sunday. "His life and his music 
splendidly interweave the celebra­tion of beauty with the imperative to worship." 
The popu­lar pianist has com­

posed a num-Brubeck her of jazz pieces, including "Take Five" and "Blue Rondo a Ia Turk." In 1954, the Brubeck's quartet graced the cover of Time Magazine following the release their album, "Jazz Goes to College." The magazine called Brubeck "the most exciting new jazz artist at work today" and the creator of "some of the strangest and loveliest music" in the history of jazz. 
Larry Dwyer, jazz studies director at Notre Dame, said the Laetare selection reflects Brubeck's "consisteutly high level of musical achievement" through his professional career, which has lasted more than half a century. . 
"Brubeck's music always 
swings and always includes interesting and profound levels of improvisation," Dwyer said. "Best of all, everyone -jazz fan or not -always enjoys listening to Dave Brubeck." 
But Brubeck's repertoire extends beyond the realm of jazz. The esteemed musician has composed and performed bal­lets, cantatas, solo piano pieces, a musical, an oratorio and a Mass -a testament of his deep allegiance to the Catholic faith. 
In a June 2005 National Public Radio interview, Brubeck echoed the words of a Nez Perce chief 
see LAETARE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND hosts student conference 
Annual event studies issues, process ofpeace 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL 
News Writer 
Given the service-oriented nature of many Notre Dame students, it's not uncommon for undergraduates to set their sights on changing the world. Organizers of this year's Student Peace Conference hope the weekend event will provide some answers for students stuck wondering where to begin. 
Peace Conference Chair Kevin Walsh said the confer­ence is tailored to students who have a "genuine desire" to live their faith and work for social justice. 
"The presentations at the conference will both open your eyes to horrific problems that afflict our global society and empower you with the knowledge that you have the ability to change it," Walsh said. 
The annual conference begins with a banquet tonight and continues Saturday with nine different panels and five different presentations throughout the day. Held at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies and sponsored by the Kroc Institute, the peace confer­ence is planned and directed by undergraduate peace stud­ies students. 
Walsh said student interest has been exceptional -with nearly 200 students regis­tered to attend. While Friday's banquet registration is closed, all students are encouraged to attend presen­tations on Saturday, where registration is recommended but not requirfld. 
This year's conference, titled "Voices of Today, Changes for Tomorrow," high­lights the role of youth in building peace. Urban gang violence, educational pro­grams teaching values of peaceful conflict resolution and identity and discrimina­tion are some of the issues the conference will touch on. 
Saturday's 3:30 p.m. pres­entation of Myla Leguro, nominee for the 2005 Nobel Peace prize, promises to be partie ularly worthwbile, Walsh said. Myla will discuss her challenges and aspira­tions in working with Catholic Relief to combat youth vio­lence and religious conflict in the Philippines. 
For students interested in local issues, representatives from Take Ten and the 
see PEACE/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 31, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 
The little guys 
To all you March Madnnss Maniacs 

out there ... 
Wem you as shocked as I was during 

the selndion show? Forget the bid 
upsel'i and the tnams lPft out of tim 
tournament-mom appalling than any 
of tl10se was the 
behavior of analyst 
Pat Moore 

Billy Packer. During tlw show, he absolutoly 
News

thr<L'ihed s1~ledion 
Wire Editor 

eornmittoe chair 
Craig l.ittlepagn, 
bnmoaning the 
lield's lack of power eonf(mmce teams. 
A'> tho interview wrapped up, IJttlepage 
wanted to olli~r his congratulations to 
the selednd teams, but Packor wouldn't 
lot the poor ~-,ruy get a word in edgewise. 
I .et me say this about Billy PaekPr: lie's an nlderly, cantankerous, scrooge of a man whom the game of basketball has long passed. Forget his choice words during tlw snledion show-no one could have antidpated the success of' the mid-major teams this year. 
But CBS still needs to flat out drop 

him, be1~ause of' his overly critical, nega­
tive attitude while calling games. 
Billy. wn don't want to hear you whine about the stupidity of' the players, ~~oaches, and refs -our liunily/f'riendslsuiternates am doing a good enough job of' that. 
The uproar that accompanied this year's Selection Sunday has elucidated a problem witb 1~ollege ba'ikctball that ha'i grown progressively worse in recent years. 
The so-called "power conlimmens" have tlw NCAA in a viee grip, and it's only getting tighter. It's the power eon­liJrnncns that n1ap th11 financial bnnnlil'i of' ~~onunordalized eollcge ba'>ketball ­tlw national tnlevision exposurn, tho nm'is merchandising. and the NCAA Tournament rnvnnues. 
Sum, most of' the teams in these con­limmcns am really good to begin with, so their exposurn and tournament bids am woll dnserved. But thP whole systflm creates a "rkh gill riehnr" dynamic tlmt makes it dillicult f'c>r a school on tho fringe of' notoriety to build up il'i pro­)..,l'fam. Meanwhile, the power eonfilr­ence schools are receiving the most money to meruit the best players, him tim best eoaches. and construct the finest litdlities. So much for the inno­c~enee of' tho eollnge game, right? 
This ynar, the tournamnnt belongs to the little ~-,ruys, the Patriot'> of' George Mason University. These ~-,ruys embody everything eollege ba'iketball is sup­posed to be about-teamwork, heart, and the love of' the game. A'i NCAA bas­ketballlims, let us hope that no amount of smelly eorporate taint ever supplant<> these values. 
By the way, my money's on GMU. 

Contact Patrick Moore at pmoore 1 @nd. edu , 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error in the March 30 edition of The Observer, the lecture "Well-Behaved Women Seldom Make History" by Laurel Thatcher Ulrich was listed as caking place at Saim Mary's, when it took place ar Notre Dame. Due to an ediring error in the March 30 edition of The Observer, chemistry professor Emil Hofman was mistakenly quoted as saying students should make reconnaissance visits to Haiti. The program is not for undergraduates. Due to a reporting error in the March 28 edition of The Observer, philosophy professor Alasdair Macintyre tclt his views were misconstrued in the article "Professor lectures on moral disagreement". "I did in fact argue rhac rational agents cannot bur presuppose the practical authority of rhe precepts of the natural law. I do not believe chose precepts are questionable." The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST APRIL FOOL'S PRANK YOU EVER PULLED? 


ceiling." 
IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's seniors Emily Fannon, Sinnamon Wolfe, Amanda Caddy and Amber Painter will host a senior comprehensive art gaJlery opening today from 5 to 7 
p.m. in the Moreau Art Galleries in the Moreau Center for the Arts. The event is free and the public is welcome to att1md. 
Famed Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz will give a lecture on "Catholicism and Competition" today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the Stepan Center. The event is spon­sored by Student Government as part of the Catholic Think Tank of Ameriea Lecture Series. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents must present student ID at the door. 
The 2006 Notre Dame stu­dent peace conference, "Voices of Today, Changes for Tomorrow," will be held 
today and Saturday  in the  
Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  

The Irish softball team will play Connecticut at 12 p.m. Saturday at Ivy Field. 
The No. 11 Irish men's lacrosse team will face-off with Dartmouth at 12 p.m. Sunday at Notre Dame's Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Irish men's baseball team will face-off against Pittsburgh at 12:05 p.m. Sunday at Frank Eck Stadium 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH LOW 

60 42 

Marie Ellen  Ellen Riley  Calli Davison  Jim Bochnowski  Jon Boyle  Tim Smith  
Ehourov junior Regina-North  junior Regina-North  freshman LeMans  sophomore Fisher  freshman Fisher  sophomore Fisher  
"I told my parents that I was expecting. "  "I tricked my teacher with the chalk and eraser routine. ,  "When I wore a sling to school and acted like I broke my arm."  "Hiring Ty Willingham as coach. That one went a little too  "I told my parents that I registered as a Democrat."  "One year, I screwed all my brother's furniture to the  

fiar. '' 


Members of Saint Mary's Club La Fuerza sponsored "Fast Food, Fair Trade" in Stapleton Lounge Thursday where members staged a presentation on the exploitation of farm workers. 
OFFBEAT 

College student lives in Wai-Mart for 41 hours 
DES MOINES, Iowa ­For spring break, some col­lege students set out for sun-drenched beaches or cheap European cities. Skyler Bartels headed for the local Wal-Mart. 
Bartels, 20, an aspiring writer and Drake University sophomore, thought he'd spend a week in a Wal-Mart as a test of endurance, using it as the premise for a magazine article. His college adviser liked the idea. 
"I just intuitively thought, 'This is brilliant!'" said Carol Spa!Jlding-Kruse, an 
TODAY 0:: 
associate professor of English. "I wasn't quite sure why, but it just sound­ed like a really good idea." 
For 41 hours, Bartels w·andered the aisles of a Wal-Mart Supercenter in Windsor Heights that's open 24 hours a day. He checked out shoppers, read magazines, watched movies on the DVD display and played video games. 
Old Shakespeare plays to fetch millions of dollars 
LONDON -A rare vol­ume containing some of William Shakespeare's most famous plays, printed only seven years after his death, will go on sale for millions of dollars at auction in July, Sotheby's here said. 
Describing it as "the most important book in English literature", Sotheby's said it was printed in 1623 and contains 36 plays, half of which had never been printed before. 
"The First Folio pre­serves 18 of his plays, including some of the most major, which otherwise would have been lost for all time," said Peter Selley, Sotheby's English literature specialist. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
1&.1 
:::c 
~ 
1&.1 
3: 
.... 
c( 
() 0 

HIGH 62
.... 
LOW 50 

47 40 


HIGH LOW 

58 33 

Atlanta 741 53 Boston 66 I 41 Chicago 59 I 52 Denver 621 32 Houston 83 I 65 Los Angeles 64 I 51 Minneapolis 54 I 42 New York 67 I 51 Philadelphia 71 I 45 Phoenix 81 I 57 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 68 I 55 Tampa 83 I 62 Washington 74 I 50 
Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Tw-o years in the tnaking, Saint Mary's debuts SMC-TV 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 
After two ymtrs in the develop­ment stage, SMC-TV-an inde­pendent television station opnrat­nd by Saint Mary's -went on the air Wednesday as tlw first stu­dent-produced television program in Saint Mary's history. 
SMC-TV will air its program­ming on Tuesdays at 4:30, 5:30 and 6::m p.m. on Channel 3. 
The station is based out of the lluisking Family Instructional Tedmology Hesouree Centm in thn basement of the library and reeeives a large portion of its l"unding !"rom the !Iuisking Family Foundation. 
Senior Michelle Fitzgerald, co­creator and general manager of the station, worked with 20 facul­ty members and students for two years to make SMC-TV a reality. 
Fitzgerald said she was proud or the f'irst broadcast and has high hopos for upcoming produc­tions. 
"Our first broadcast went very well and my staff and I were excited to see a product on the air after almost two years of hard work creating the station," Fitzgerald said. 
The broadcast was led by two anchors -senior Janet Brace and junior Erin Hanifin. The top stories included highlights from Midnight Madness, SMC Toastal and Accepted Students Weekend. The show also surveyed students' spring break plans. 
Hanifin said in addition to cov­ering campus news, SMC-TV will also be a positive resource for prospective students. 
"We are hoping this can become a tool in attracting future freshmen to our school," Hanifm said. 
SMC-TV originally was going to be broadcast in the dining hall and other campus locations. But televisions were not installed in time for the first broadcast. Fitzgerald said the televisions should be installed in the dining hall this week, a location chosen primarily because almost every student visits the facility at least once a week. 
"By placing a TV in a visible area, students will see the SMC­TV broadcast-gaining the max­imum number of viewers for both the station and our advertisers," Fitzgerald said. 
Campus news is not the only focus for SMC-TV. Other pro­grams in Wednesday's broadcast included "Art Talk," which pro­filed a visiting artist on campus. Future shows will include a pro­gram called "Community Forum" and coverage of campus events such as the Theolo~gy on Fire series. 
A cooking show and morning workout broadcast are also in the works. 
"We recognized the size of our endeavor and knew we had to start small," Fitzgerald said. "We will use this broadcast as a springboard to improve on the quality of SMC-TV each week." 
Keith Fowlkes, director of infor­mation technology and SMC-TV faculty advisor, was impressed with the finished product. 
"The quality and content wa:s super," Fowlkes said. "They had some small technical difficulties, but that is expected for a first broadcast." 

Fitzgerald said many students provided positive suggestions ­like airing the campus news pro­gram more than once a week. 
"We [the staiD hope that inter­est will grow as students are able to check out the first broadcast via the homepage and tune in the following weeks," Fitzgerald said. 
The whole program will be accessible through a link on the Saint Mary's website so students will be able to download the pre­vious broadcast from any com­puter on campus. 
Student-created advertisements also play an important role in the success of SMC-TV. Fowlkes said the students were entirely responsible for the ads. 
"The student team did all the contacts, marketing and place­ment of the ads," Fowlkes said. 
Fitzgerald said scrolling bill­board advertisements and birth­day announcements are displayed 15 minutes before each broad­cast. Both types of ads had to be purchased by businesses and stu­dents. Advertising benefactors include campus cafe Dalloway's, the Social Work Club, First Source Bank and Saint Mary's food sup­plier Sodhexo. 
Michelle Fitzgerald said the goal of SMC-TV is to provide a wrap-up of the week's news sto­ries, adding that there will be no live coverage on events. 
Fitzgerald said news updates will be broadcast on Channel 3 when SMC-TV is not on the air. 
Fitzgerald said her long-term goal is for the station to continue on after she graduates this spring. 
"When I return to Saint Mary's in five years, I would like SMC-TV to be incorporated into a student's weekly life," she said. "Additionally, I would like to see students interested in one or two specific programs outside of the campus news, watching SMC-TV as part of their nightly television ritual." 
Fitzgerald is confident the work of the faculty, staff, and students who created the station will pay off. 
"Most of all, I would like to see students credit SMC-TV with making them better informed and connected to what is happening on campus and what services are available," she said. 
Contact Katie Koehler at kkohlel@saintmarys.edu 



LErlJ.QVO .AND TtiE t~O~rf~E DA E cor~1PlJTER: STORE TEA UP TO BRir¥~G YOlU ()RE SiAVIf*~JGS Of~ THit~K IDS A.r~D PC ACCESSORIES 

.: .{ 

··.... 


-

----------. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 31, 2006 
DST 
continued from page I 
fered was minimal. This ehang1~ is going to require everyone to change their desktop and their calendaring systmn." 
To pn~pan~ for llw chango, orr has reconfigured and rnslarted approxilnatnly 300 servers with the correct time. Howland pn~dicts lllP biggest complication will come with t.he Corporate Time calendar­ing systmn. The approximatnly 2,700 faculty and staff who havn Corporate Time accounts will neml to manually chango tlw times on tlwir caiPndars. 
"Tiwrn was just nothing we rould do to preparP the cam­pus for this, bncausP none of t.he softwan~ dnvnlopers pre­dieted that them would be the changes to daylight-saving adjust for daylight-saving time," Rowland said. time. Users of Corporate Time 

On Monday, OIT sent an e­should print out their calen­mail to all Notre Dame com-dars from now until October puter users to prevent con­reminding them fusion, she said. to adjust their "There was just Howland said docks. the next week
nothing we could
I.n f o r m a ti o n will be 
about changing do to prepare the "painful," but lime and updat­campus for this. " said it is only an ing calendaring immediate systems can also problem--in
Peggy Rowland 
he found on its the fall, when 
OIT Director of
Web site. The the time 
OIT help desk Distributed Support changes again, will bn open Services evnrything will Sunday from 12-roll over 5 p.m. to help smoothly. computer users with problems "There's no easy way they may encounter. around this one," Bowland 
Howland said computer said. "We've tried evnrything users should change the time we ean do to automate this so on their computers from it wouldn't all"eet anyone." Indiana time to Eastern time. They should also program the Contact Kaitlynn Riely at computer to automatically kriely@nd.edu 
Laetare 
continued from page I 

and said, "the Great Spirit made LIS all." 
"Science through DNA knows this to be true," he said. "The very cells of our body know this to bn true, and our great religions know it to be true. Our hope lies in the Great Spirit, the God of all Creation, that my particular faith calls the Holy Spirit." 
Born Dec. 6, 1920 in Concord. Calif. and raised on a nearby cattle farm, Brubeck first aspired to be a rancher-though the musical per­suasion did not evade him for long. 
By age four the young virtuoso had wowed his mother -a classi­cal pianist and teacher -with his advanced keyboarding skills and simultaneously unnerved her with his unique improvisations. 
A music major at the College of the Pacific in Stoekton, Calif., Brubeck met his wife of (>3 years while playing jazz on a campus radio program. He graduated from the school in 1942 and was draftnd into military service lor two years during World War II. Aftnr the war. Brubeck altlmded Mills College to resume his musical studies. lin formed the now-famous Brubnck Quartet in 1951. 
Notre Dame announces its Laetare Modal recipient each year on the li>urth Sunday of Lent on the Church calendar. Thn medal is inscribed with the Latin phrase, "Magna est vnrilas et prevalebit," or '"!'ruth is mighty, and it shall prevail." Thn first l.antarn Medal was awarded in 1xs:~. 
Prnvious nwdal winnnrs indude President John E Kennedy, novnlist Walker Pnrcy and death penalty abolitionist Sister llelnn Prejean. 
C<?ntact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


Baron 
continued from page I 
nent status for her currently 
ad hoc committee. 
'Tm 100 pnrcent bnhind this 
issue, lbutl it's a structural ques­
tion," Shappell said. "To not do it 
right the first time is irresponsi­
ble." 
With student evictions, 
llurrkane Katrina relief and pep 
rally and bowl game ticketing 
liascos damoring for attention, 
the Baron administration has 
shouldered a pretty heavy bur­
den -and the emphasis has 
always been on responsibility. 
Baron, Shappell and Kozlow all said professionalism was integral to thnir success this year espe­dally in dealing with issues like the inauguration of University President Father John Jenkins and South Bend's newly-rnvised disordnrly house ordinance. 
The key, Baron said, is to be "rnspectl"ul and mspeetable." 
"Wn advocated and lobbied for 
tlw Student Union," Shappnll 
said, "embracing the opportunity 
with a new !University) adminis­
tration to set a new tone 
betwnen student government 
and the administration ... 
"''m very proud of our ~~n·ort to do it right." 
Just as student government has grown undnr their leader­ship, so have Baron, Shappell and Kozlow. individually. 
"One of the things J'vo learned lis) you can't take every issue that conws your way that you want to support and put every­thing behind every issue," Baron said. 
And it's impossible to predict and plan for the unexpected. Kozlow said. 
"You never know what issues, how many n-mails you'rn going to g1~l." she said. 
"IStudnnt Union Board presi­dent! Jimmy Flaherty used to eome over and say, 'Thnre's a flavor of the week,'" Baron said. 
Onn isstw the leaders eneoun­len~d almost immediately was student apathy, Kozlow said, basml largely on the bnliPI" that students have no impact on big picture dneisions at the University. 
Not only did tlw Baron admin­istration work to eounter that apathy by mobilizing the student body -''l'v1~ snPn people who used to be apathntic eornn and enjoy to-go !"ups, minority slu­rll~nts who usPd to not lpartici­palel conw and petition," Baron said -but it also shalll~rml per­l:eptions that students have no say. 
"I think a lot of people come into student government with a bit of cynicism," Kozlow said. 

an adult and you're still in col­lege. It's something we struggle with." 
"I think the team we've worked with has been phenome­nal," Kozlow said. "Our attempts, the way we put our hearts ·into it -that's been the most rewarding." 
This year's lessons, Baron said, will carry him into his future. 
''I'd say I learned a lot about what it means to be a leader, that leadership is not about being at the forefront of the Student Union .... It's about serv­ice, putting yourself in the mid­dle of what people care about. 
"It's paradoxical that by follow­ing you become a leader. But that's a very Catholic message," said Baron, who believes his faith has grown through his leadership nxperinnce. 
Friendships have formed as well, bonds the three say that grew somewhat unexpectedly. 
"Not to get all rnminiscing or anything, but not knowing Dave that well, not knowing Liz that well, and now they're two of my closest friends," Shappell said. "It's been a fun ride." "Lizzi and I finish each other's sentences now," Baron said, half-jokingly. 
Kozlow, a junior, will take over as Judicial Council president Saturday. Baron, who is graduat­ing, will be attending law school in the fall. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

"The administration really does take us seriously. . .. And I think we did I take advantage of that) this year." 
While his interactions with members of the administration have helped his administration achieve its goals, for Baron, those conversations have tran­scended the working environ­ment and developed into lasting relationships. 
"I consider myself extremely lucky to have seen Notre Dame from an angle that most students don't get to see," he said, "to come to know personally this assembly of people who have committed their lives to further­ing the mission of the University." 
Baron said he considers Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman "one of my greatest friends" and Jenkins an "introverted leader, as a lis­tener too ... his sheer ability to listen and lead at the same time." 
"That's shaped me in ways I have even yet to figure out," Baron said. 
While Shappell attested to the deep rapport between this year's student government administra­_tion and the University, she said it was relationships with stu­dents that made the experience stand out for her. 
"It's been more working with peers ... motivated to improve this University," Shappell said. "You're grown up and you're still in college, and you're acting like 

--------------------~-~-------------­
----------------~----­




ORLD & NATION 


Friday, March 31, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Carroll speaks out about captivity 
BAGHDAD -Her room was tiny, with a small adjoining bathroom and shower. She couldn't hear any sounds from outside. And the windows were frosted and covered with drapes. 
On one occasion in Jill Carroll's 82 days in captivity, the kidnappers brought her a newspaper. On another. they let her watch a little television. She had little idea what was going on in the outside world. 
Still. she says, "It's important people know that I was not harmed." 
The 28-year-old American reporter's hostage ordeal ended around midday Thursday when she was left on a Baghdad stroet in front of a Sunni political party ofliee. Wearing a green Islamic head scarf and a gray Iraqi robe. Carroll walked inside. 
Shn was then driven 20 minutes to party headquarters. where she called her family and gave an interview to Baghdad Telnvision beforn being handed over to U.S. authorities. 
Nations work together on economy 
CANCUN-President Bush and the lead­ers of Canada and Mexico worked to iron out disagreements over trade and border security Thursday and to keep a North American economic edge against competi­tion from rising powers like China. 
The three leaders, dressed casually in opnn-collared shirts, strolled together am{Jng the ancient Mayan ruins at Chiehnn ltza before sitting down for more intnnse one-on-one meetings at a beach­front resort hotel. Mexican President Vicente Fox planned a lavish dinner for his guests. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Jury deliberates on Moussaoui's fate 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -The jury weighing Zacarias Moussaoui's role in the deaths on Sept. 11, 2001, asked for a definition of "weapons of mass destruction" Thursday as it worked to decide whether the al-Qaida con­spirator is eligible for the death penalty. 
The jurors obtained the definition as deliber­ations neared four hours. U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema told them the term includes airplanes used as missiles. One of the three convictions on which Moussaoui could receive the death penalty is conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction. 
The nine men and three women, who got the case late Wednesday, then returned to deliber­ate whether Moussaoui is a calculating terror­ist responsible for the deaths of Americans on Sept. 11 or an al-Qaida lackey with delusions of grandeur who had no role in 9/11. 
Mine survivor returns home early 
SIMPSON, W.Va. -Randal McCloy Jr. was enveloped in loving chaos when he came home Thursday. It seemed a little overwhelming not only to the "miracle miner," the only survivor among 13 men trapped by an underground explosion in January, but also to his 1-year-old daughter, Isabel. Her wailing didn't subside until she sat on her father's lap. 
McCloy's homecoming is a wonder to his doc­tors, who first feared he wouldn't survive and later expected his recovery to take about twice as long as it did. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Mayor vows to keep hospital open 
GARY -Acting Mayor Dozier T. Allen Jr. said he'll fight to keep Gary's only hospi­tal from shutting its doors because of financial losses of nearly $2 million a month. 
During a news conference on Tuesday, Allen said he plans to work with state leaders, lawmakers and administrators at Methodist Hospitals' Northlake Campus to address the budget woes hospital execu­tives predict could force the hospital to close within two years. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 5 
BAHRAIN 

At least 48 die in ferry accident 
The al-Dana capsizes in Persian Gulf just a mile from Bahrain shore, 63 survive 
Associated Press 
MANAMA -A ferry car­rying up to 150 people capsized Thursday night in the Persian Gulf off the coast of Bahrain, and at least 48 bodies were recovered, the country's coast guard chief said. American divers and a 
U.S. helicopter aided the rescue effort. 
Coast guard chief Youssef al-Katem said at least 63 people survived. A passenger on board the ferry calling from his cell phone was the first to alert oftkials that the ship was listing, he said. 
The official Bahrain News Agency said the ferry -the al-Dana ­was on an evening cruise that was to last several hours. It overturned less than a mile off the coast, it said. Television footage showed the ferry capsized but not sunk, with rescue workers walking on its brown hull. 
U.S. helicopters and divers joined the rescue operation launched by Bahrain's coast guard. Bahrain, a tiny island nation on the western side of the Persian Gulf, is home to the Navy's 5th Fleet. 
Rescue teams brought bodies covered with white sheets to shore, and hospi­tal workers hurried them to waiting ambulances. Scores of officials and rel­atives waited on the dock watching small rescue boats with flashing blue lights bring more bodies and survivors. 
There was no indication of what caused the ferry to capsize in what appeared to be ideal weather condi­tions. The government dis­missed terrorism as a cause, and the news agency quoted Interior Ministry spokesman Maj. Mohammed Ben Dayna calling it an accident. 
"It's tof'l early to say what caused the acci-

dent," Ben Dayna said. 
Al-Katem said an inves­tigation was underway. The ferry's owners said overloading could have caused the ferry to cap­size, according to Bahrain television. 
The passengers were thought to be a mix of Bahrainis, nationals of other Gulf Arab nations and Westerners. Health Minister Nada Haffadh told al-Arabiya television that survivors who arrived at hospitals included nationals of India, South Africa, Singapore and Britain. 
Information Minister Mohammed Abul-Ghafar, interviewed on al-Arabiya television, said the passen­gers included 25 Britons, 20 Filipinos, 10 South Africans and 10 Egyptians. 
Haffadh said 24 people were hospitalized and that other survivors had been released upon arrival on shore. Television footage showed survivors, appear­ing to be in shock and their hair still wet, squat­ting on the floor of a hos­pital. Many of them cov­ered themselves with blankets. One male sur­vivor was shown being treated for cuts to the head. 
Interior Minister Sheik Al Kahlifa said most of the 
ferry's passengers were employees of a Bahrain­based company. 
Al-Katem said there were 150 guests at a din­ner party aboard the ferry. The guests, he said, ate dinner while the ferry was still docked and that up to 20 of them disembarked before it sailed. 
Cmdr. Jeff Breslau, a spokesman for the U.S. Navy, told The Associated Press that the U.S. military aided the rescue effort. The Navy has had a pres­ence in Bahrain for more than 50 years. 
"We're sending divers, small boats and a helicop­ter," Breslau 10aid. 

Army prohlbits use of some armor 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Soldiers will no longer be allowed to wear body armor other than the protective gear issued by the military, Army officials said Thursday, the latest twist in a running battle over the equipment the Pentagon gives its troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Army officials told The Associated Press that the order was prompted by concerns that soldiers or their families were buying inadequate or untested commercial armor from private companies -including the popular Dragon Skin gear made by California-based Pinnacle Armor. 
"We're very concerned that peo­ple are spending their hard-earned money on something that doesn't provide the level of protection that the Army requires people to wear. So they're, frankly, wasting their money on substandard stuff," said Col. Thomas Spoehr, director of materiel for the Army. 
Murray Neal, chief executive offi­cer of Pinnacle, said he hadn't seen the directive and wants to review it. 
"We know of no reason the Army may have to justify this action," Neal said. "On the surface this looks to be another of many attempts by the Army to cover up the billions of dollars spent on inef­fective body armor systems which they continue to try quick fixes on to no avail." 
The move was a rare one by the Army. Spoehr said he doesn't recall any similar bans on personal armor or devices. The directives are most often issued when there are prob­lems with aircraft or other large equipment. 
Vetera'ns groups immediately denounced the decision. 
Nathaniel R. Helms, editor of the Soldiers for the Truth online maga­zine Defense Watch, said he has already received a number of e­mails from soldiers complaining about the policy. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 31, 2006 
Mitros 
continued from page 1 
about the school's history. 
"Out of our term. I think I am most proud of' what we did with lleritage Week," Mdldull' said. "It really raised awareness and left students yearning to learn more about our history, wherea..<; in the past, students could [notf have ean~d less." 
The week earned a lot of attnn­tion and positive feedback from thn College community, Mitros said. 
"I am so proud of the way the wnek turned out." Mitros said. "It was a huge success." 
While Mitros and Mclldull' met success with lleritage Week, they 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
Children's Defense Fund are speaking at 9:30 a.m. and 2::{0 p.m. respectively. 
The conference includes presentations on a wide vari­ety of topics including immi­gration, human rights, reli­gious eon flict and peace through economic develop­ment. Interested students should check the Kroc Institute Website for a full list of presentations. 
The peace con~rence promisns to be a rewarding experience for all who attend, Walsh said. 
"The annual Notre Dame Student Peace Conference works to enlighten students from the Notre Damn commu­nity and beyond on how to work for a morn just and peaceful world," Walsh said. 
"We hope to do so by con­fronting the vnry serious challenges to pnace that we· face and by envisioning real ways to overcome these obstacles," he said. "We hope the conference inspires stu­dnnts to transform this dia­logue into action in their own daily lives and in their profes­sional careers." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonnJ@nd.edu 

Write for News. 1-5323.' 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
2.5 Categories of Books 

• 
ls,ooo Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

FOR THE SKY! 

said they also dealt with disap­pointments and criticism -most of whkh stemmed from the can­cellation of the College's annual Pride Week. 
"Most students try to pin the cancellation of Pride Week on us," Mdldull' said. "We did not have any hand in that process. It was the Student Academic Council that had the fmal say in that mat­ter." 
Other challenges for Mitros and Mclldull' included learning how to balance their office responsibili­ties with their class schedules as well as learning to handle diflcr­ent opinions among BOG mem­bers. But Mitros said these chal­lenges were small compared to what some administrations have had to deal with in the recent pa..<>t. 
"We have been pretty lucky this year that there weren't really any huge issues that came up," she said. "Looking back on recent years at Saint Mary's, other administrations have faced so much more than we did." 
While criticism has been mini­mal, Mitros and Mcllduff said some people questioned the seri­ousness of their administration. Some members of the College community claimed BOG did not conduct itself in a professional manner, Mitros said. It was not their intention to be unprofession­al, Mcllduff said. 
"I would say our term was very non-traditional," Mcllduff said. "Kellye and I took a path less traveled when approaching how to run a board." 
Both women said they dealt 




IPIIDTALKSM 

THI fMTIIT WA~ TO~ 
with opposition by looking objec­tively at the criticism and their own actions. 
"I think it is important to address a problem and acknowl­edge that I am human," Mclldufl' said. "Constructive criticism is valuable because it helps me grow as a person and as a leader. Without it, I wouldn't have direc­tion or a sense of where I need to improve." 
While both women said the end of their term is bittersweet, Mitros and Mcllduff are ready to move on to other interests. Mellduff also said she is ready to take on the challenge of becoming student body president. 
"I am sad that my term as stu­dent body vice president is over but at the same time I am ready to meet with the new Board and to become next year's student body president," MellduiT said. "I enjoyed this year and hope sue­cess continues into next year." 

For Mitros, the end of her term coincides with the end of her years as a Saint Mary's student. While she hopes to remain an active part of the Saint Mary's community after graduation, Mitros said she will miss being able to serve her fellow students. 
"To the students ofSaint Mary's, I would just like to say thank you lor a fantastic year," Mitros said. "One of the greatest plea..<>ures of my life has been serving you and I hope you can also look back on this year with as much fondness a.<> I do." 
Contact Lauren Lavelle at llavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


------~ 


speedta!kw 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates ­


offer good through 4/29/06) 
~US. Cellular. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 
Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and regional plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Cred~ approval required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This Is not a tax or government-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage ro•nded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our tem1s and conditions. Buy one get three free requires a two-year service agreement and mail-In rebate. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTatk'M: SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular Speedlalk· subscribers. SpeedTalk Is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanced servJces covernge areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call. your wireless calls will go directly to VoiceMall. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services covernge area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. 02006 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

Friday, March 31, 2006 

Dow 
11,150.70 -65.00

}ones 
UfJ: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,178 163 2,084 2,181,098,490 

AM£X 




~DAQ ····"'i1~~jjjl,!!j(,1Miiiall1!fJii!ll!ilittl:::[
S&P 500 1,300.25 -2.64 NIKKB(rol<yo)· •..• :j~~-~~~llll~rJiiiWllllml!! FTSE.IOO(London) 6,015.20 +56.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.31  +0.13  42.0~  
LEVEL 3 COMM INC (LVLT)  -8.04  -0.45  5.1 ~  
SUN MICROSY5 (5UNW)  -1.90  -0.10  5.1 ~  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.61  -0.12  19.7(  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -1.20  -0.05  4.1;  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +0.94  +0.45  48.55  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.38  -0.17  44.85  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.50  +0.50  48.92  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.26  +0.26  48.26  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.70  67.15  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 13.20  591.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.93  81.78  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.4550  
EURO  0.8222  
POUND  0.5730  
CANADIAN$  1.161 I  

IN BRIEF 
Delphi to ask judge to cancel contracts 
DETROIT-In a move that would send shudders through an ailing U.S. auto industry, Delphi Corp. was expected to ask a federal judge to cancel its union contracts Friday following months of trying to reach an agreement with General Motors Corp. and its unions to lower workers' wages. 
Delphi, the largest U.S. auto supplier, had set a deadline of Thursday to reach an agreement to lower wages for its 34,000 U.S. hourly workers, but it appeared unlikely Delphi would meet that goal since the United Auto Workers and GM hadn't agreed to Delphi's latest wage proposal as of Thursday afternoon. 
In a message on its Web site Thursday, the United Auto Workers said Delphi would file motions to void its contracts on Friday morning. Delphi spokesman lindsey Williams said the com­pany wouldn't comment on that posting. 
Williams said Delphi was still in talks with GM and its unions as of Thursday afternoon and hadn't set a deadline for those talks to end. On three other occasions, Delphi has delayed filing motions to cancel its contracts to continue negotiating with GM and its unions. The company has the option of delaying again. 

Small businesses lose out in contracts 
WASHINGTON -Small businesses lose out on hundreds of millions of dollars in Energy Department contracts each year because the gov­ernment often gives no-bid work to large finns on flimsy grounds, congressional auditors say. 
A report by the Government Accountability Office, obtained Thursday, looks at small business con­tracting practices at the department, whose $22.8 billion in annual awards for research, nuclear weapons maintenance and environmental cleanup make it the largest civilian contracting agency. 
The report says the agency failed to meet small business contracting goals of 5.5 percent or lower in four of the last five years due to lack of controls, poor planning and questionable assumptions that smaller finns couldn't handle the jobs. 
The Energy Department "is clearly constrained by the department's traditional reliance on a limit­ed group of large finns and universities to manage high-cost projects in which public safety and national security are important concerns," says the report, scheduled to be released next month. 
THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 
Stocks lower after GDP report 
Renewed inflation fears, new data on gross national product affect Wall Street 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Renewed inflation fears left stocks mixed Thursday as new data on the nation's gross domestic product bolstered the Federal Reserve's view that the economy remains strong. 
Investors fretted after the Commerce Department revised the nation's fourth­quarter GOP, which was raised to an annual growth rate of 1. 7 percent from an earlier 1.6 percent esti­mate. The slowdown in growth -GDP grew at 4.1 percent in the third quarter -was blamed on an unex­pected drop in government spending and business investment. 
But while the final GOP reading matched econo­mists' expectations, the department's chain deflator -an inflation measure ­rose 3.5 percent, above forecasts for 3. 3 percent growth. Investors have been watchful for any hint of inflation amid signs that the Federal Reserve will keep hiking interest rates to control price increases. 
"I think you're seeing the market raising its estimates on economic growth, but that also may mean higher rates," said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist for ING Investment Management. to 2,340.82, reaching its reached a two-month high said the results still indi­"So we're still digesting second straight five-year as investors worried about cate a tight labor market. what all this means, and high. political tension over Iran's More employment means the result so far is a flat-to­Bonds continued falling nuclear arms program and more people spending, lower market." amid concerns that rising a fourth straight weekly which could increase 
The Dow Jones industrial yields will draw away drop in U.S. gasoline demand and spark infla­average fell 65.00, or 0.58 interest in stocks, with the reserves. A barrel of light tion. percent, to 11,150.70, after yield on the 10-year crude settled at $67.15, up Yet despite high oil prices opening the session in posi­Treasury note jumping to 70 cents, on the New York and overarching concerns tive territory. 4.86 percent from 4.80 Mercantile Exchange. about inflation, the lack of 
Broader stock indicators percent late Wednesday. Fears of higher interest massive selloffs after the were narrowly mixed. The The dollar was mostly rates were exacerbated as Fed's rate hike shows the Standard & Poor's 500 lower against other major the Labor Department stock market remains bull­index lost 2.64, or 0.2 per­currencies, and gold prices reported that weekly ish, according to Brian cent, to 1,300.25, while the rebounded. claims for unemployment Belski, senior equity wealth Nasdaq -composite index Crude futures pushed benefits fell by 10,000 to management strategist at rose 3.04, or 0.13 percent, past $67 per barrel and 302,000 last week, and Merrill Lynch. 

Venezuela takes on Exxon Mobil 
Associated Press 

CARACAS -Venezuela had a blunt message this week for Exxon Mobil, one of the world's most pow­erful oil companies: Get off my crude-rich turf. 
Venezuela is tightening its squeeze on the oil industry, telling oil companies to give the state a greater share of profits -or get out. 
Oil Minister Rafael Ramirez on Wednesday said Exxon Mobil Corp. was one of the companies that 
would "prefer to leave  ...  rather  
than  adjust"  to  recent  policy  
changes.  

"We said we don't want them to be here then," Ramirez told the state TV broadcaster adding, if "we need them, we'll call them." 
Exxon Mobil indicated Thursday it had no plans to pull out. "ExxonMobil de Venezuela contin­
ues to have a long-term perspective of its activities in Venezuela," it said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
The flap helped push the price of oil above $67 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Thursday as the market reacted to the latest sign of tighter state-con­trol of energy around the globe. 
Venezuela is taking on Big Oil at a time when rising oil prices, political instability in the Mideast and Nigeria and new buyers in Asia have put the world's fifth-largest oil exporter in a winning position. 
After snubbing Exxon Mobil, Ramirez said Venezuela has other eager partners, including state companies from Russia, Iran, China, India, as well as traditional oil companies. 
The new climate has given Venezuela the flexibility to diversify "away from Western investors and incorporate state-owned companies from allied countries ... more will­ing to abide by new, tighter terms," said Patrick Esteruelas, analyst at the Washington-based Eurasia Group. 
The government has increasingly sought projects with state-con­trolled oil companies in friendly countries. Last year, Venezuela granted exclusive licensing rights to certify and quantify reserves in blocks in the Orinoco tar belt to seven companies, including China's CNPC, India's ONGC and Iran's Petropars. The only western oil major included was Spanish­Argentine company Repsol YPF. 
The trend is driven by President Hugo Chavez's distaste for corpo­rate multinationals, which he accuses of looting his country's oil wealth over the years. He enjoys strong support for his efforts to take more industry profits for use in social programs for the nation's poor. 

page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 31, 2006 
Study findings show prayer does not benefit recovery 
Associated Press ward" in understanding the effects The researchers said family and groups pray for particular plication, versus 52 percent of of prayer, said Dr. Charles Bethea, friends shouldn't be discouraged patients, starting the night before those who were told it was just a
NEW YOHK -Does praying fi>r 

a eo-author and cardiologist at the from telling a patient about their surgery and continuing for two possibility.
a siek person's recovery do any 

lntegris Baptist Medical Center in plans to pray for a good recovery. weeks. The volunteers prayed for Paul Kurtz, professor emeritusgood? 
Oklahoma City. "Intercessory Experts called it the largest and "a successful surgery with a quick, of philosophy at the StateIn thn largest scientific test of il'i 
prayer under our restricted for­best-designed study ever to test healthy recovery and no complica­University of New York at Buffalo,
kind, heart surgery patients 

mat had a neutral effect." the medical effects of intercessory tions" for specific patients _ their and chairman of the Committeeshow1~d no benetit when strangers Dr. Herbert Benson of Harvard prayers -praying on behalf of identities known only by first for the Scientific Investigation ofprayed li>r their recovery. 
Medical School, co-principal inves­someone else. That's different name and first initial of the last Claims of the Paranormal, had aAnd patients who knew they 
tigator of the study, from studying the name. blunt response when asked why
were being prayed for had a 

agreed. "We cannot effect of a person's The patients, meanwhile, were he thought the study found noslightly higher rate of complica­come to a conclu­"Did the patients prayers and spiri­split into three groups of about ellect of prayer. 
tions. The researchers could only sion, except to say think, 'I am so sick tual practices on 600 apiece: those who knew they "Because there is none," he

1-,'lli~SS why. Several scientist'> questioned the that by this study that they had to his or her own were being prayed for, those who said. 'That would be one answer." 
design, with its limi­health; many stud­were prayed for but only knew it lie added that while he tries toconcept of the study. Science "is 
not designed to study the super­tations, this is what call in a prayer ies of that have was a possibility, and those who keep an open mind, he's seen no we found." team?"' shown a positive weren't prayed for but were told it good evidence for such an effect in
natural." said Dr. Harold G. 

The researchers effect. was a possibility. past studies. The new work, heKoenig, dirnctor of the Center for 
al'io said they didn't The new study The researchers didn't ask said, "gives added emphasis toSpirituality, Theology and llealth 
Charles Bethea
know why patients followed about patients or their families and those who have been skeptical." 
at the Duke University Medical who knew they study co-author 1,800 patients at friends to alter any plans they had Koenig, of Duke UniversityCenter. 

were being prayed six medical cen-for prayer, saying such a step Medical Center, who didn't takeTho researchers who tested the for had a higher ters. It was would have been unethical and part in the study, said the resull'>power of prayer emphasized that 
rate of complications than patients financed by the Templeton impractical. didn't surprise him.
their $2.4 million study eould not 

who only knew that such prayers Foundation, which supports The study looked_for any com­"There are no scientific grounds address whether God exists or were a possibility. research into science and religion, plications within 30 days of the to expect a result and there are noanswers prayers made on anoth­Maybe they became anxious by and one of the participating hospi­surgery. Results showed no effect real theological grounds to expecter's behalf. The study could look the knowledge that they'd been tals. It will appear in Tuesday's of prayer on complication-free a result either," he said. 'There isonly for ellccl<; from the specific selected for prayers, Bethea said: issue of the American Heart recovery. But among patients who no god in either the Christian,
prayers offered as part of the 

"Did the patienl'i think, 'I am so Journal. did receive prayers, 59 percent of Jewish or Muslim scriptures thatresearch, they said. 
sick that they had to call in the The research team tested the the patients who knew they were can be constrained to the pointThe highly anticipated study 
prayer team?'" effect of having three Christian being prayed for developed a com-that they can be predicted." 
"did not move us forward or back-



Nev. explosives test to cause m_ushroom_ cloud 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The last time a U.S. government official was quoted prominently on the subject of mushroom clouds, it was Condoleezza Rice talking about the risk of discovering too late that Saddam Hussein had a nuclear weapon. 
On Thursday it was a Pentagon otlicial musing about the speetaele of detonating a 700-ton explosive in the Nevada desert -a test blast dubbed "Divine Strake" that the official said might remind some of the days of open-air nuclear testing, before the blasts were moved under­ground to avoid the danger of radioactive fallout. 
"I don't want to sound glib here, but it is the first time in Nevada that you'll see a mush­room cloud over Las Vegas since we stopped testing nuclear weapons," said James Tegnelia, head of the Defense Threat Heduction Agency, a Pentagon unit that is working on technieal aspeets of how to destroy deeply buried enemy weapons. 
The United States stopped conducting aboveground nuclear tests in 1963. 
Tegnelia's use of the term "mushroom cloud" seemed to unsettle some in Washington. 
In an entirely different context, Rice spoke prior to the U.S. invasion of Iraqi in 2003 of the risk of waiting too long to con­firm with complete confidence that Iraq had a nuclear weapon. The first confirma­tion, she said, could be a mushroom eloud over the United States. It turned out that Iraq had no active nuclear weapons program. 
Several hours after Tegnelia made the mushroom eloud remark to a group of reporters, his office put out a written statement stressing that Divine Strake was not a nuclear blast, that it poses minimal health and safety risks to the public, and that there are no radioactively contami­nated soils in the vicinity of the planned detonation. 
And the mushroom cloud? 
"All explosives, given the right thermal characteristics, will create a eloud that may resemble a mushroom cloud," the statement said, adding that the "dust cloud" from Divine Strake -scheduled for June 2 -may reach an altitude of 10,000 feet but "is not expect­ed to be visible from Las Vegas," about 90 miles away. 
Tegnelia said the Russian government has been notified to avoid misunderstanding about the nature of the blast. 

lo11s ABO's 
DttHeiHfl witA tAt~. Slats? 
TH£H '(00 MOST S££ THIS! 
• 
•Approximate 

Certlury Certter irt dowrttowrtSouth J3ertd •• 
**FREE Transpo from Library Circle on the :OS of every hour 
free for srudertts with lD artd Or}ly $4 for adult spectators 

Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Model Naotni Catnpbell charged in Manhattan assault 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Supermodel Naomi Campbell was charged with assault for throwing her cell phone at a housekeeper after accusing her of stealing clothes when she couldn't lind a pair of jeans she wanted to wear on "Oprah," prosecutors said. 
She was released on her own recognizance and allowed to keep her passport after her lawyer argued that her famous face would prevent her from fleeing. 
"She is probably the most rec­ognized and prominent model in the world," defense attorney David Breitbart told a judge Thursday in Manhattan Criminal Court. "There is no place she could go and not be recognized." 
Campbell, wearing a white fur poncho, was arraigned on a charge of second-degree assault before Judge Richard Weinberg, who allowed Breitbart to enter a plea of not guilty on her behalf. 
In a statement issued late Thursday, Campbell called the allegation that she hit or injured her housekeeper "com­pletely untrue." She said she had questioned the housekeep­er, Ana Scolavino, about miss­ing items since she started working for the model more than two months ago. 
"She is sadly mistaken if she thinks she can extract money from me by concocting lies by recycling old stories," the supermodel said. "I have asked my lawyer to look into filing both theft and extortion charges against her." 
The housekeeper was treated at a hospital for a cut that required four staples, said Assistant District Attorney Elina Kreditor, who asked the judge to set bail at $3,500 and to order Campbell, who is British, to surrender her passport. 
Breitbart called the request for $3,500 bail "an insult," say­ing his client's Park Avenue apartment is worth more than $3 million and she earns "more than six figures on a regular basis." 
He said Campbell needed her passport for a trip to South Africa next week to visit Nelson Mandela. He asked the judge for orders to keep the house­keeper away from Campbell's apartment. 
The judge said Scolavino, would have to give up her key to the apartment and issued an order of protection against Campbell, telling her she could have no contact with the employee. He scheduled her next court appearance for June 27. 
The assault took place at about 8:30 a.m. inside Campbell's apartment, accord­ing to a criminal complaint. The housekeeper was hit in the back of the head and was treated at Lenox Hill Hospital, it said. 
A woman who answered the after-hours media relations number at the hospital said no one was available to comment 

Bookstore Basketball Captain's Meeting This Friday!!! 
Each team captain, or a representative of each team, should be present at the meeting to receive the tournament packet. 
4:00PM Friday, March 31, 2006. DeBartolo 101. Be there. 


Saturday, Ap @12:00 vs. c 

and that she could not provide any information on Scolavino. 
Campbell was taken into cus­tody shortly after police responded to the hospital to investigate the reported attack. 
Facing a familiar sea of cam­eras, Campbell exited a Manhattan police station short­ly after 4 p.m. in a scene that was part runway, part perp fired her housekeeper earlier this morning," said the state­ment from J.R. Johnson. "We are confident the courts will see it the same way." 
This was not the first time the volatile Campbell, 35, was accused of reaching out and touching someone with a phone. In 2003, the supermodel was sued by a former adminis­trative assistant who said Campbell had thrown a phone at her during a tantrum two years earlier. 
In August 2004, in the same apartment, Campbell and her maid battled it out, with the worker claiming the supermod­el slapped her across the face. Campbell accused maid Millicent Burton of instigating the fight. 
Campbell was discovered at age 15 and launched a career that landed her in magazines worldwide -including the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue. Campbell's high-profile lifestyle has included appear­ances in music videos by George Michael and Jay-Z and a close friendship with Mandela. 
The international modeling sensation has appeared in sev­eral films and dabbled in a musical career. 
The mercurial Campbell has a reputation for angry outbursts and abusive behavior. She pleaded guilty in Toronto to an assault charge for beating another assistant while making a film in Canada in 1998. 
She also battled a cocaine addiction before reportedly get­ting straight several years ago. 
,April2 rovidence 

uffettDay! 
the first 250 fans to early arriving fans 
Iwin tickets to see Buffett in Chic 





oftball 
walk. Scores of photographers, reporters and film crews had gathered to record her depar­ture; she responded by flashing a quick smile. 
In a statement, a Campbell spokesman said the supermodel was not responsible for any assault. 
"We believe this is a case of retaliation, because Naomi had 

The Open Tournament Starts Apri 1 4th! 
Corne out and support the 2006 Bookstore Basketbal I T ournarnent!! 



page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 31, 2006 
Several Israelis killed by Palestinian suicide bomber 
Associated Press 

JEHUSALEM-A Palestinian suieide bomber in the West Bank killed four Israelis after nightl~tll Thursday, just days aller the new llamas Palestinian government took ollice and Israel elected a premier who pledges to pull out the Palestinians refused to lift a finger to prevent terror attacks against Israelis, and we saw the results tonight." 
Just two hours before the bombing, the Israel Election Commission released the official results from Tuesday's election, giving an extra seat to acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's Kadima Party. The party linished with 29 seats of the 120 in the parliament. The hawkish Likud also picked up a seat, giving it 12. The changes were based on counts of votes from soldiers and others not included in the original tally. 

Olmert has pledged to pull out of much of the West Bank and move tens of thousands of Jewish settlers from outlying areas in the West Bank to main settlement blocs. He has said he prefers to settle the conflict with the Palestinians through negotiations, but it not, he would take unilater­al action to draw Israel's borders. 
Olmert has also pledged to take stiff action to halt Palestinian vio­lence. After the bombing, Israeli soldiers blocked roads in the area of the settlement, and Israeli media reported contact with Palestinian seeurity agencies was cut ofT. 
of much of the West Bank. 
A huge blast incinerated a ear at the cmtranee to the .Jewish set­tlmlHmt of Kedoumim, sending plumes of !lame and smoke into the air, the military said. 
Police and Israeli settlers pieeed tognther the story: The Israelis picked up a hitehhiker, who was dressed like an Orthodox Jew. lie was the bombnr and the blast killed ovoryono in the vehide. 
Ollidals said four bodios wnre linmd ul'tor the lire was put out. A fifth body was diseovernd in the ruins of tho vohide a while later, lsraol Hadio reported. 
Tho Al-1\.qsa Martyrs' Brigades, a violnnt oll'shoot of Fatcth, the movnment of Palnstinian Pr<~sidnnt Mahmoud Abbas, daimnd rnsponsibility. It was the first such attack by Fatah since a eoaso-f'ire was doclared in FdJruary 2005, and it came a day aftl~r Abbas sworn in the new Palestinian govornnwnt, dominat­l'd by llamas. 
There was no immodiato eom­rmmt from the Palestinian loador­ship, but Israel was quick to denounce the bombing. 
David Baker, an official in the Israeli Prime Minister's office, said the attack "took place while 

JAMAICA 
Nation svvears in first fe111ale pri111e 111inister 
AP Jamaica's new Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller waves to the crowd after being sworn In Thursday by Governor General Kenneth Hall, right. 
Associated Press 
KINC;STON -Portia Simpson Miller took ol'f'iee Thursday as .Jamaica's first female prime min­ister, pledging to fight violent crime, root out corruption and protect human right'>. 
Thousands turned out for her inauguration including the Caribbean's top leaders as well as the Nation of Islam's Louis Farrakhan and Essence magazine editorial direetor Susan Taylor. 
"The first pledge I make as prime minister is to advance human right'> and individual liber­ties," the 60-year-old leader said. "I pledge to work tirelessly to end all corruption and extortion. 
"Both of these diminish our eco­nomic potential and I will do everything in my power to break the power of the criminals." 

Simpson Miller, known as "Sista 1'," was a long-serving member of parliament who represented South East St. Andrew Parish, one of Jamaica's crime-ridden slums that she says ean be transformed with better schools and more eco­nomic opportunity. 
Simpson Miller beat three oppo­nents to take over leadership of the ruling People's National Party from outgoing Prime Minister P.J. Patterson, who led Jamaica for the past 14 years. 
She said her ascension to Jamaiea's leadership post was "a true manifestation of the Jamaican dream. 
This indicates that any child regardless of circumstances can rise to the top." 
Patterson's administration was dogged by scandals and allega­tions of corruption while the econ­omy lagged and the crime rate soared-a record 1,671 homi­cides occurred last year in the nation of 2.6 million. 
Simpson Miller's supporters say they hope that her becoming the first female prime minister will inspire others in a country where about 12 percent of political posts are held by women. 
GAZA STRIP 

Hamas ministers take office 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY-It may have been a smooth handover, but it was far from orthodox 
The Palestinians' new prime minister was no where in sight Thursday as outgoing leader Ahmed Qureia turned over his office in the West Bank city of Hamallah to his successor. 

And at the Foreign Ministry, eeremony gave way to verbal jousting as the departing min­ister debated with his succes­sor over the need to honor agreements with Israel. 
Israeli restrictions and inter­nal friction led to some bizarre moments during the handover of Palestinian government ministries to Hamas, under­scoring the militant group's challenges as it tries to gov­ern. 

Qureia turned his office to new Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh's deputy, because Israel wouldn't allow llamas ministers and lawmakers to travel through Israel between Gaza and the West Bank ­and llaniyeh was in Gaza. 
Still, Haniyeh insisted the seamless transfer was a testa­ment to Palestinian democra­cy. 'This is proof that our peo­ple is a great civilized people, and the peaceful handover of power will now be a routine that our people will abide by," he said. 
Instead of 100 days of grace, the Barnas government got barely 100 minutes before Western nations, led by Canada and the U.S., moved to cut off funding to the Palestinian Authority, trigger­ing an immediate financial cri­sis that might delay March salary payments to more than 100,000 public employees next week, many of then armed security troops. 
l-lamas leaders said the aid cuts violate the Palestinians' democratic rights, but Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice declared, "The prineiple is very clear: We're not going to fund a llamas-led govern­ment." 
llamas has rejected Western demands to renounce violence, 
reeognize Israel and accept previ­ous agreements between Israel and the Palestinians. The United States and European Union list Barnas as a terror group, as does Israel. 
The Palestinian Authority gets a large part of its $1.9 billion annu­al budget from overseas sources, and may run into difficulties next week when March salaries 

are due to be paid to some 140,000 government employ­ees. 
Haniyeh said the aid cuts hurt the Palestinian people. 
"We were hoping that some countries would respect the rules of the democratic game and that they would have had different positions and not act this way," he said. 
And Foreign Minister Mahmoud Zahar hinted that any country that shuns Barnas 
current
"This is proofthat 

trip. "We've 
our people is a great been very civilized much on the same page,"
people, and the 

she said. peaceful The Quartet han dover ofpower of Mideast 
mediators _
will now be a 

the U.S., EU,
routine that our 

Hussia and people will the United Nations
abide by." 

warned the Hamas-led Ismail Hanlyeh government 
Palestinian Thursday to recognize
Prime Minster 

Israel and 
seek peace talks if it wants to be guaran­teed continued aid. 
"The Quartet concurred that there inevitably will be an effect on direct assistance to that government and its min­istries" if those conditions are not met, the mediators said in a statement. 
Israel has already stopped transferring tens of millions of dollars a month in taxes it col­lects on behalf of the Palestinian Authority. 
will be considered "an enemy of the Palestinian people." He said Foreign Ministry employ­ees would not be allowed to talk to them. 
Hice said the United States was reviewing its Palestinian aid programs to see which onns it would freeze, empha­sizing that the U.S. will not "provide funding to a llamas­led government." 
Hice said she expected to talk about Palestinian funding with Franee, Germany and 
Britain during 
her 

Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
North Carolina introduces lottery 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. -North Carolina lost its label Thursday as the only East Coast state with­out a lottery, getting off to a quick start as commuters, casi­no-players and the curious snatched up the first batch of instant tickets. 
Attracted by the promise of $400 million annually for educa­tion and spurred on by Gov. Mike Easley, the General Assembly narrowly passed a lottery last summer, following the lead of 41 other states and all of its neigh­bors. 
"Why should we be giving our money to Virginia, South Carolina and Tennessee?" Sarah Haynes asked after buying 40 $1 tickets at a gas station north of downtown Raleigh. She was wearing a jacket emblazoned with the logo of an out-of-state casino. "Taxes are already too high." 
More than 5,000 retailers statewide began selling tickets at 6 a.m., shortly after State Board of Education chairman Howard Lee bought the ceremonial first tickets at dawn. 
"This is fantastic,". Lee said, holding up the tickets at the lot­tery's Raleigh office. "This is a great day in the state of North Carolina." 
By midday, Lee had given his five $1 tickets to North Carolina Teacher of the Year Wendy Miller, who won $10 that she then gave back to the state. It was part of the estimated $1.3 million in prizes paid out by mid­afternoon, lottery officials said. 
Ticket sales by then had reached about $6.5 million, well beyond the early $2 million esti­mate of lottery officials. Executive director Tom Shaheen estimated that sales would reach more than $10 million for the day. 
At least 35 percent of the pro­ceeds from every ticket sold must go public-school construc­tion, class-size reduction, need­based college scholarships and a voluntary prekindergarten pro­gram. 
North Carolina will join the multistate Powerball numbers game in late May. 
The lottery law also sets aside up to $1 million to assist prob­lem gamblers and requires strict advertising restrictions. 
Lawmakers started consider­ing starting a lottery in the early 1980s. Easley began pushing the idea again after taking office in 2001, and it gained momentum after South Carolina and Tennessee began lotteries a few years later. 

But resistance to the lottery remained stiff, as Tar Heel nota­bles from the Rev. Billy Graham to retired North Carolina basket­ball coach Dean Smith expressed opposition. 
They and other opponents said the games would siphon money from the pockets of the poor, encourage more compulsive gambling and simply shift educa­tion spending to the lottery with­out adding any new money. 
"People will be led to believe the lottery is a cash cow for edu­cation, and it's not," John Rustin, with the N.C. Family Policy Council, said Thursday. 
Easley and legislative leaders countered that North Carolina residents were paying to educate children in other states by play­ing lotteries there. 
Across the state Thursday, early customers bought lottery tickets along with their coffee and snacks. When Brian Regling stopped at a Raleigh conven­ience store, a clerk and the store manager were still reading instructions about the game. 

Wildfires threaten homes in Amarillo 
Eight homes destroyed, no injuries reported 
Associated Press 
AMARILLO, Texas~ Two wildfires erupted Thursday in this dry and windy city, destroying eight homes and several structures before they were brought under control, officials said. 
There were no reports of injuries. 
About 400 acres burned, though estimates were diffi­cult .because wind gusts of nearly 40 mph grounded Forest Service aircraft, agency spokeswoman Traci Weaver said. The fires were 90 percent contained by Thursday afternoon, she said. 
Several cars burned in a junkyard, and authorities tried to evacuate homes in the area, but most efforts focused on protecting the homes in the fire's path, said Amarillo Fire Capt. Bob Johnson. 
"We did save a lot of (structures), but it was mov­ing so fast," Johnson said. "It kept jumping highways, too." 
The temperature was in the high 60s with a relative humidity of 12 percent. 
Weaver said the conditions were similar to March 12, when hundreds of blazes broke out in the parched region, burning some 960,000 acres and killing 11 people. 
Since Dec. 26, more than 11,000 fires have burned about 4.9 million acres and destroyed about 400 homes, according to Gov. Rick Perry's office. 
The fires were burning about 17 miles from the nation's only nuclear weapons assembly facility, but the westerly winds meant it likely wouldn't be threatened, Weaver said. 
Amarillo, a city of 176,000, is in the Te·xas Panhandle, about 335 miles northwest of Dallas. 


Massachusetts court ruling leaves gay couples confused 
Associated Press pointment for gay rights groups, those eight couples actually marriage laws of their home Political Caucus called the deci­and left uncertainty for received marriage licenses in states, and that Massachusetts sion "a painful reminder that we 
BOSTON -Amy Zimmerman Zimmerman and Wexler, who Massachusetts before Gov. Mitt should not be encouraging such remain second-class citizens." and Tanya Wexler knew their 6-are from New York. Romney ordered that the 1913 evasion." "It's painful to know you'll be year-old son and 5-year-old The court sent their case, and law be enforced. Romney, a Republican who is treated equally under the law if daughter wouldn't sit still for the case of a couple from Rhode In Thursday's ruling, Justice considering a run for president and only if you happen to live details about a state high court Island, back to a lower court, Francis Spina in 2008, applaud­here," she said. "Otherwise, you ruling on the legality of their saying it was unclear whether wrote· that ed the ruling. are completely unequal as a gay marriage, so they agreed to their home states prohibit same­Massachusetts "ft,s painful to know "We don't want person." deliver the news with a simple sex marriage. "has a significant Massachusetts to In oral arguments before the
you ,ll be treated

thumbs up or down. Gay marriage advocates said interest in not become the Las high court in October, a lawyer It wasn't that easy. the ruling means couples from meddling in mat­equally under the Vegas of same­for the couples argued that the "I said, 'OK guys, looks like it's states where gay marriage isn't ters in which law ifand only if sex marriage," 1913 law had been unused for 
a thumbs sideways,"' Wexler explicitly banned can argue for another state, the Romney said. "It's decades until it was "dusted off'' 
you happen to live

said. their marriages to be recog­one where a cou­important that by Romney in an attempt to dis­
here.,,

The Supreme Judicial Court, nized in Massachusetts. ple actually other states have criminate against same-sex cou­which in 2003 made Zimmerman said she wasn't resides, has a the right to make ples. Attorneys for the state Massachusetts the only state to sure what it means. paramount inter­Arline Isaacson their own deter­argued that Massachusetts legalize gay marriage, on "We do consider ourselves still est." mination of mar­risked a backlash if it ignored
gay rights advocate 

Thursday upheld a 1913 state married," Zimmerman, 33. The state "can riage and not fol-the laws of other states. law that forbids nonresidents "There is a limbo element to it." reasonably bel-low the wrong "What the court did today is from marrying there if their Eight gay couples from sur­ieve that nonresident same-sex course that our Supreme really to recognize that it's up to marriage would not be recog­rounding states had challenged couples primarily are coming to Judicial Court put us on." each state to decide what their nized in their home state. the law in a case watched close­this commonwealth to marry Arline Isaacson of the laws will be," Attorney General 
The decision was a disap-ly across the country. Five of because they want to evade the Massachusetts Gay and Lesbian Thomas Reilly said. "This deci­
NOTRE DAME APARTMEN-IS 
4 Blocks f1om Campus on Notre Dame Ave 2 Bed1ooms with Balcony 01 Patio Over 1 ,000 Squa1e Feet:. of l_iving Space Entry Secu1ity Laundry Facility Available P1ivate Off-Street Parking 10 Month-Leases 
Now Takin A lications of Next School Yea1
-

Fo1 Mo1e lnfo1mation CaJ·J 
574-514-2057 
01 E-Mail Nicole at 
Nicole_Soko@hotmail.com 
sion does not impact in any way Massachusetts citizens." 
Reilly said the legality of the marriages of out-of-state cou­ples who received licenses would have to be determined in their home states on a case-by­case basis. 
New York's top officials have said same-sex marriage is ille­gal there, although that inter­pretation of state law is being challenged. Rhode Island law does not specifically address same-sex marriage, but leading politicians there also oppose it. 
According to the Registry of Vital Records and Statistics, 7,341 gay couples tied the knot in Massachusetts between the first marriages in May 2004 and December 2005. 
The state does not _track how many out of state couples were given licenses in Massachusetts. 
Opponents of gay marriage are working to put a question on the November 2008 ballot that would define marriage as only between a man and a woman. 
The question has gathered the required signatures from regis­tered voters and now needs leg­islative approval to be placed on the ballot. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, March 31, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. !lox n9. Nmre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINf:SS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama C;ottuinukkala Ass·I: MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Karc Malone V!EWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MAllY's EDITOII: Kdly Med1an PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GAAI'IIK.S EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERnSING MANAGt:ll: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTIIOU.EII: jim Kirihara 
WEll ADMINISTilAfOII: Damian Ahhotr SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alt•jandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ('i74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@>nd.~du EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4'i41 obsmc@lnd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4'i40 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Nmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collcoge. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possibk. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of th~ Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters .md columns pre.<ent the views of the amhors and not n.-cessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free cxprt•ssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcttt•rs to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~rions regarrli11g Observer policies shouU be directed to F.ditor i11 ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rhc <li'IIK:rver (lJSI'S 'j•)t) 2-4000) j, publ~wd Mond•y 1lnnugh ~uday cxccp1 during n..m .111tl vau1i1m pcnum. A u1t..t1puon 111 The OhKrvcr ia, $1!10 fm one ~':tdt:lOil ynr; $''\fur nnr ..mtn.1cr. 
1'hc t,.)~M"r U. puhli~hcd .u: POSTMASTER 02-t Suuth Dimng f I.all ~nd addres. corrections (0: None Dame, IN 46~'itJ·077tJ The Observl!t PcriodkJ.I po~tagc: p.mt .1.1 Nou-e Dame P.o.Bt,ln9 .mJ .addidnt~~d mailin~o~ offices. 014 South Dining Hodl 
Notre Dame, IN -46556-0n9 
The Oh\Ctvcr ia .1 mcml'ler uf the Aaud11cd Pres~. All rcpmdul-.:hm righu .arc r~N:rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Mary Kate Chris Khorey Malone Kyle Cassily Amanda Michaels Chris Hine · 
Jenny Hames Scene Viewpoint Chris McGrady Joey King 
Graphics Matt Hudson 

Face book: know what you're sharing 
They're watching. student leadership positions." And don't say you didn't sec it coming. At neither school has thn administration doled out puni­From your underage roommate's tagged photos of his or tive measures based solely on infractions spotted on 
her visit to a local bar rn a friend's membership in a ques­Facebook -marking a linn that shouldn't be crossnd. The tionable group, the material publicly documented on the outside scrutiny is far from illngal, since the only requirn-Faecbook Web site has finally caught the attention of . ment for Facebook membership is an '.edu' n-mail address. University administrators who have created accounts and This allows administrators, future employers, poliee and viewed student profiles. virtually anyone who has had an '.edu' e-mail addrc~ss at 
From its seemingly innocent beginnings of linking friends some point in his or her life to access the site. at colleges and universities across the nation, It's important to remernbnr that as a public the Facebook has most recently morphed into O Th domain, Faeebook requires users to bn respon­a "watchdog" tool that allows administrators \:)server sible for what they post -or are associated and law enforcement officials a tempting with -on the site. Given the examplns of glimpse into what many students falsely con­Facebook crackdowns at other universities
Editorial 

sider their private worlds. paired with some Notre Damn and Saint Mary's 
While University officials have said they do faculty and administrators' admitted Facebook not peruse student profiles in a quest to uncover duLac vio­usage habits, it is ignorant to think that what you post on lations, Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk the site is for your friends' eyes only. said there is no policy "that would prohibit or require" the Unless you make it that way, that is. utilization of Facebook in the disciplinary process -an Bottom line: Be carefuL ambiguous stat1~rnent that clouds any future speculation. You can't keep administrators from trying to peek, but 
At Saint Mary's, monitoring of the site may have addition­there are easy ways to protect yourself from their serutiny. al implications for students. Director of Hesidence Life He-set your privacy settings to only allow-friends to see your Michelle Russell said the College is preparing "to explore profile. Untag your photos. ways to utilize Facebook to communicate with students and And remember that you aren't the only face looking at to determine if these sites should be considered when hiring your Facebook profile. 

The Last Waltz 
Next weekend marks St. Mary's fun dates. I talked to a few them hanging all over the plaee. I thought Senior Formal-a night which I about it-they would love to come. that I had put all of this behind me have heard many refer to as "drunk Great. But have friends visiting or when I donned the cap and gown prom." My friends and classmates tickets to baseball games that day. four years ago. are anticipating a 
Great. Now my friends and family are great evening -a So now I'm feeling pretty dejected. · laughing at me. They think it is hilar­sort of last hurrah Here I think I've got it made with a ious that I am having such trouble. with the friends great guy and great friends, but I My dad called and said he'd be happy they have made over can't even get a date to some dance. to go with me. I'm not even sure I the past four years. It then dawns on me could count on that. To be quite honest I that life has come full With my date history I'd am not so excited. circle. This is most like­turn into the Joan
" ... a perfect
I didn't even really ly the last dance I'll Rivers joke about the want to go the need to find a date to go reminder ofwhy if girl who was so ugly
Molly

dance, but I found with and I'm having no that she got stood up
it were up to me
Acker

myself getting roped luck. Can we say high for the father-daughter
there would be no
into buying a hun­school? The month lead­dance. dred dollar ticket Nobody Likes a ing up to high school more dqnces." Here I am, so fortu­for an evening that Dumb Blonde dances was a notorious­nate to have a wonder­doesn't even include ly stressful time for me. ful family and friends, an open bar. My friends convinced I recall putting my head and I can't find a date. 
me to come by pulling out the "we in my shirt (a nervous habit of mine) It is an all too fitting way to cap off only have a few more weeks" card. listing all possible dates and making the last eight years of my education 
My really good friends, who obvious­up reasons why none of them would and a perfect reminder of why if it ly know me even better, pulled out ask me. If you didn't go to the dances were up to me there would be no the "you'll get to get a not only were you not more dances. An event that lasts for 
new dress and heels" fulfilling your role in only a few hours causes all these card. I was sold. I was student government problems. Needless to say, I'm keep­
"J didn't even 
even briefly looking for­that requires you to ing my fingers crossed that some ward to the night. really want to go to attend events, but even poor soul will be willing to spend his That was until tho the dance, but I worse, it was social sui­evening feasting on undercooked issue of who I would cide. chicken, drinking cheap booze, and
found myselfget­
bring came up. I I have found myself making idle chit chat. Actually,
ting roped into 
thought this would not waking up in cold though, I think I have a few good be a problem. Not sur­buying a hundred sweats after having leads on dates. After all, that guy prisingly~ I checked to nightmares of what life who finds the term "Fighting Irish"
dollar ticket for an 
sec if ~y boyfriend was like in high schooL offensive seems like a lot of laughs,
evening that
could come first. One Along with the pressure and I doubt he'll have anything going would think this is a doesn't even of f)nding "someone to on on a Saturday night. definite "yes". Think walk in the door with"
include an 
again -it seems that there are all the pic­Molly Acker is a senior communica­
open bar" 
first year law students tures. Everything was tion studies and humanistic studies get take-home finals captured on film-be it double major at Saint Mary's. She this time of year. I the fashion crimes com­can be contacted at acke6758@lsaint­decided not to sweat it. I knew I mitted in shades of lavender, marys.edu would have had the best time with maroon, and blue, the date that was The views expressed in this column him, but I have some great guy shorter than you or who couldn't are those of the author and not friends that would also make really dance, the hairstyles with curls necessarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"/have come to believe that the whole 


SubmitaLetter
How do you feel about people other 
than 

world is an enigma, a harmless enigma 
college student., viewing your Facebook profile? 

that is made terrible by our own mad 
attempt to interpret it as thouph it had an
a. 
Not concerned. 

b. 
Slightly concerned. 


underlying truth. '


to tbeEditor at
c. 
I censor my profile. 

d. 
I do nm use Facebook 


Umberto Eco 
"Poll appears courtesy of 

www.ndsmcobsefVe.f.com 
Italian novelist 
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based 
. "' 
on 238 responses. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, March 31, 2006 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Unite for higher -wages 
Just this week Notre Dame hosted a confer­ence on white privilege. Generally speaking, white privilege refers to those systemic advantages in this society that members of the white "race" are granted solely on the basis of their membership in that group of people with white-colored skin -without any consideration of individual members, aspirations or achievement. Among the many benefits that being white automatically assures a person, perhaps the most signifi­cant is the ability to ignore issues of race and racism; that is, to claim colorblindness. 
Though it often overlaps with the white kind, there is another, distinct type of privi­lege system that is just as prevalent in America: it is the one based on socio-eco­nomic class. On account of this "rewards" program, people who have money are enabled to ignore those who don't. Indeed, it is a uniquely moneyed luxury to claim that money doesn't matter. But this privilege extends further. America's treasured myth of meritocracy, that Horatio Alger story in which hard work invariably assures success, allows the economically comfortable classes to believe that everything they have is the result of their own hard work-and is com­pletely unrelated to their completely unearned inheritances of all sorts: money, reputation, education, childhood environ­ment, etc. Conversely, this economic fantasy (a fantasy because there is a whole class of jobs in the United States on whose wages alone, no matter how long or hard you work, you cannot survive) also allows the well-off to imagine that if a person and her or his family are poor, it is somehow that person's fault­even, by some inexplicable stretch of the imagination, ifthat person is working. 
Though my purpose here is to argue for the necessity (a humanitarian, as well as a Christian, necessity) of a living wage for cam­pus workers, I have brought up these issues of race and class-based privileges because I feel that they are extremely pertinent to situ­ation of the living wage campaign here at Notre Dame. More precisely, I am claiming that it is because the majority of the students here come from very well-off families, and because all of the administrators here are fmancially well-off, that there is not more support for a living wage for campus work­ers. What I mean by this is that I truly believe that almost every individual associated with this University would like for every other individual associated with this University to have enough to eat, to have access to ade­quate healthcare, to live in a safe house and area and to afford decent clothes for them­selves and their children. But I feel that it is our class-based capacity to deny social and economic injustice, since we ourselves proba­bly have not been victims of it, that permits us to avert our engaged attention away from those people who work here at this school, for US, everyday, and yet WhO are often unable to keep themselves and their families above that mystical (to us) poverty line. 
Since we the students (but also the faculty, the alumni, our parents, etc.) make up this University, if a critical mass of us demanded a living wage for all campus workers, the administration would undoubtedly make this happen. After all, this is not an issue of scant resources, but of budget priorities (think: the new main entranceway). However, our money buys us the privilege, which we accept, of ignoring this matter of inadequate wages and feeling apathetic towards cam­paigns that try to make the University's eco­nomic policies more humane, more just. But, in truth, a wage system that does not pay each worker enough to survive and to sup­port her or his family on the worker's income alone is not simply the concern of the work­ers or of volunteer groups like CLAP -it is a problem for all of us. This University's eco­nomic policies are our own. And if we do not challenge them, we enforce them. 
Patrick Wall 
junior 
O'Neill Hall 
March 30 
Wages a Catholic responsibility 
Many Roman Catholic institutions, which served as vehicles for social mobility for poor and working class Catholics in the 20th century, are now resisting requests that they pay their workers a living wage. 
The country's 238 Roman Catholic col­leges and universities are a case in point. Over the last hundred years these institu­tions have helped millions of families move solidly into the middle class. They have also shaped the spirituality and ethics of mil­lions more young adult Catholics. 
This story is borne out in my own family. My grandfather never finished high school. He worked in the auto factories of Detroit and ran a corner drug store in Akron. But somehow his parents managed to send him to Notre Dame in 1948. For my father and for our family, Notre Dame was a ticket to the world of business and to the middle class. 
My wife and I graduated from Notre Dame in 1977 prepared for our careers and equipped with an adult faith that has served us well as we raise our own family. Two of my nieces now attend Notre Dame and are doing well academically even as they participate in a wide array of service projects. 
But Catholic colleges -and indeed all faith-based institutions-cannot just live off the ideas and traditions of the past. Historian Jaroslav Pelikan has said that "tradition is the living faith of the dead" not "the dead faith of the living." 
If places like Notre Dame are to be the "living faith of the dead" they must go beyond the idea that the only things that really matter in Catholic universities are the success of the students and the quality of the research. Their challenge is to see their mission in a broader way and be lead­ers providing living wages to their non-pro­fessional employees. 
Last fall, students at Notre Dame launched the Campus Labor Action Project to bring together students, workers, faculty, alumni and community allies to work for living wages on Notre Dame's campus. Their work mirrors efforts in 35 other col­leges and universities to raise the wages of their non-faculty workforce so they too can have a shot at owning a home, saving for retirement and sending their children to college. 
The movement for just wages is rightly aimed at Notre Dame and its $4 billion endowment. But the same question should be put to all Catholic institutions ­parochial schools, hospitals and congrega­tions included. Are we practicing what we preach when it comes to our teachings about what constitutes a just wage? Are our institutions responding to the demands for justice of their prophets and saints-or to the lower bar of what the market requires?All across America, there are families like mine -only Mrican American, Caribbean American, Hispanic and Asian -who need Roman Catholic institutions to do for them what they did for my parents. In Notre Dame's case, instead of being forced to give its workers a living wage, it should be the national Catholic leader of the effort. 
Thomas Lenz alumnus Class of 197:? March 26 

Military contract not an1biguous 
In response to Jonathan E. O'Reilly's letter (U.S. Army does­n't honor ROTC contract, March 28). O'Reilly has failed to men­tion anything regarding the ver­bal oath every officer takes upon accepting a Commission, which concludes "I will well and faith­fully discharge the duties of the office upon which I am about to enter." Unlike enlisted personnel, commissioned officers take an oath to serve "freely and without mental reservation" at the behest of the Commander-in-Chief, and are therefore granted the unique responsibilities and obligations of this esteemed office. One of the obligations is to serve as long as one's services are deemed neces­sary, not by the individual, but by the organization. When an officer resigns his or her commission, it is a request to resign, a request which may be turned down. 
I am not questioning O'Reilly's dedication or faithful eight years of service to the Army, but as an officer he should know that the Army's needs supercede his own needs or desires. This is made clear in any ROTC program or other commissioning contract. As a student who will be commis­sioned as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Marine Corps this May, it has been made explicitly clear that I may be required to serve beyond the minimum (the exact word used in the contract) four years of my commitment, and that res­ignation is a request which could be denied. If this was not made clear to O'Reilly at the time of his commissioning, that was a failure of his ROTC staff, but I can attest to the fact that currently the ROTC staffs are stressing the pos­sibility of being held beyond the minimum requirement. 
O'Reilly alludes to this at the end of his letter where he wants this clause pointed out to him in his contract. As future officers and leaders of young men and women of the enlisted ranks, we are expected to be fully responsi­ble for our actions, including reading and fully understanding what our office actually entails. It is not anyone else's responsibility to make sure the· officer candi­date understands his or her obli­gation to fulfill that office. Again, I am not arguing that O'Reilly does not have a legitimate claim to be released from his oath, but his letter shows gross ignorance toward the actual commitment officers are expected to make upon being granted the special trust and confidence of the Commander-in-Chief. 
Wtlliam Sullivan 
senior 
off campus March 28 


·Two sides to contract interpretation 
Regarding the letter, "U.S. Army doesn't honor ROTC contract," by Jonathan E. O'Reilly (March 28), I feel it is important to see the other side of the issue. 

I was in Army ROTC at Notre Dame from 1989-1993. My contract for service with the U.S. Army required eight years of service, and I served four years on active duty and another four in the "inactive reserves," where I served with no unit and did not participate in any military activities. 
However, the total length of serv­ice for my contract was "indefi~ nite," meaning that, unless I resigned my commission after com­pleting my obligatory eight years, I was subject to recall into either the active reserves or active duty. I could request resignation once my eight-year commitment was satis­fied. I did resign at this point, and it was accepted. 
However, officers who have com­pleted their obligation are not guaranteed that their resignations will be accepted, especially in a time of war. If their military spe­cialty or rank is in short supply, it is possible that their resignation will not be accepted (a situation referred to as a "stop-loss"). In short, the ability to resign is subject to the needs of the Army, even if one's contractual obligation for minimum service has been met. 
So, a critical distinction must be made between the minimum length of service a cadet must serve in return for a scholarship (eight years) and maximum length of service (indefinite unless a resigna­tion is accepted) the Army may require by the contract signed by ROTC cadets. 
I cannot speak to O'Reilly's spe­cific circumstances, such as his mil­itary specialty and whether there is a "stop-loss" for that specialty, but I can tell you that, though four peo­ple might have been able to sue their way toward an honorable dis­charge, I know of others in similar situations who have accepted the "call-up" and fulfilled their duties as best as they could, despite the hardships. They didn't see it as a breach of contract on the part of the Army, but rather a case of the Army's exercising an authority the contract allows it to exercise. 
Incidentally, this is also true of officers who enter the Regular Army and serve their entire careers on active duty. Once an officer is Regular Army, he or she has an indefinite obligation, unless he or she resigns the commission or retires. It's not just an issue with Reserve commissions. 
The key here is that anyone sign­ing a contract needs to be very clear about what that contract requires -not just the minimum requirement, but also the maxi­mum -especially when it comes to the military. 
Kris Hull alumnus Class of 1993 March 28 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Friday, March 31, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Cultures collide in Heaney's 'Burial at Thebes' 

DVD REVIEW 

'Ae Fond Kiss' a multicultural'Romeo and Juliet' 
By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Writt"r 

"An Fond Kiss" is the story of' an inde­prmdent Scottish woman and a first-gen­eration Pakistani man who fall in love in middle-class Clasgow. When their family and friends discover their love, scandal breaks and threatm1s to tear them apart. 
Sound familiar'! Yeah. there's nothing particularly groundbreaking about this Homeo and .Juliet-likn plot. But director Ken Loaeh gives the story the spin it needs to be fresh and appealing. 
The film addressns the issues of' race, immigration and religion in multicultural Britain. beginning with the younger sis­ter's class spm~eh stating, "I reject the Wnstern simplification of a Muslim." lndend the problems this family faces are anything but simple, focusing on how Muslim's are viewed in British society during our modern age of terrorism. "Ae Fond Kiss" is indeed provocative, intense and fabulously up-to-date. It's a great love story by a renowned director. 
Casim (/\tta Yaqubl is the jewel of his tight-knit, first-generation Pakistani fami­ly. !lis parPnts haw struggled greatly to raise and educate their children in a city they do not understand. The audience discovers that Casim's father is busy building an extension to their house, so that Casim can live there with his arranged bride-to-be, Jasmine. Casim is resigned to this fate, valuing the happi­ness of his family above all else. That is, until he meets Raisin (Eva Birthistle), a music teacher at his sister's school. She is smart, talented, beautiful and extremely independent. She is also white and Catholic. 
Despite his fast-approaching marriage, Casim asks Raisin out, she accepts and they begin seeing each other frequently. She sees the club he deejays at and the space he dreams of turning into his own club. Casim soon calls off his marriage with Jasmine. His family is devastated and is shamed by the entire Pakistani community. Casim struggles greatly from the heartache he has caused, while Hoison tries to understand his situation despite not having had a family for many years. 
One might assume that Roisin can loose nothing by this relationship (and indeed Casim suffers much more), but wh..en Casim and Roisin move in together out of wedlock she is rebuked by her local parish priest and forced to resign from her teaching position at the Catholic school. Prejudice is rampant in both com­munities, with Roisin and Casim fighting to stay together. Finally, Casim leaves his family, knowing that it is, sadly, the only way he can be with the woman he loves. 

"Ae fond Kiss" is the first major film for both of the leads. Their inexperience is often evident and they sometimes do not quite carry the gravity of their role. However, their innocence helps the film in many ways. The two sometimes seem nervous in a subtle way, indicating the feelings of a new romance. They grow more comfortable as the film progresses and have remarkable on-screen chem­istry. 
Director Ken Loach is an internationally acclaimed British director, who began working as a television dramatist for the BBC in 1963. Throughout the 1990s he rose to international acclaim for his fea­ture films containing highly provocative and often radical political messages. He is not afraid to display the worst aspects of society. But "Ae Fond Kiss" is not typical for Loach. It takes place in comfortable, middle-class Scotland, free from drugs 
LEE/The Observer King Creon (Sean Sweany), left, and the messenger (Jim Schneider) star in "The Burial at Thebes." The play is Seamus Heaney's translation of "Antigone." 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
A~sis1ant Scene Ediwr 

Two distant cultures -Irish and Andnnt (;reek -are brought together in thn performance of' "The Burial at Thnhns." The play is Irish poet Seamus Heaney's translation of Sophodes' Greek tragndy "Antigone," and the production 1:ombirws these two distinct influences. 
The production is sponsored by the Irish Studies department and the dassics dnpartment. The shows this weekend are set for Friday at S p.m. and Saturday at 2 
p.m. and S p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre. 
"The play is appropriate for this University because it has a strong con­nection with Irish culture," director Andrew faulkner said. "Notre Dame has a strong Classics department and a strong Irish Studies department and the play bridges between the Irish and the classi­cal." 
The play centers around Creon (Sean Swrmny). who represnnts the traditional and rigid values of the state. A conflict arises when Antigone (Meg Trucano) dis­obeys an edict Creon issues regarding the burial of her brother, who died fighting against their state. Sweany is a Scene writer for The Observer. 
The Irish and Greek elements emerge in the production in diverse ways. Immediately noticeable are the costumes -some are distinctly Greek, some dis­tinctly Irish and others a combination. Antigone's white chiton is distinctly Greek, while Haemon (Andrew Hayes) sports a costume with Irish designs. On the other hand, Antigone's sister Ismene (Jennifer Melillo) wears a colorful costume that melds Greek and Iri!:lh influences. 
Several of the actors in the play speak with an Irish lilt, which very overtly adds an Irish bent to the play. Heaney's transla­tion of the play adds some English idioms to the Greek tragedy, which also adds to the melding of the two cultures in the pro­duction. 
'This production of 'A Burial at Thebes' is unique because it tells a •story, which at heart is ancient Greek tragedy, with an Irish taste to it," Jim Schneider (Messenger) said. "The elder characters in the play use an Irish accent, but the younger ones work with a toned down American accent. This difference helps build the tension between old and new, the traditional and the untraditional." 

Another interesting facet of the produc­tion is the presence of the chorus. The chorus is an integral part of any Greek play, and they play a central role in the progress of the play. In "The Burial at Thebes," the chorus, composed of three women -Marisa Behan, Maureen Mullen and Elizabeth Rogalski -who sing, dance and speak throughout the play. Their unaccompanied singing, dancing and singing add a unique dimension to the play as a whole. 
While classical Greek tragedy is thou­sands of years old, the themes that are presented are still a part of our culture today, Behan -the chorus leader-said. 
In particular, the themes present in "Antigone" and the translation of the story presented in "The Burial at Thebes," still resonate with the present day. 
"Seamus Heaney -who wrote/translat­ed 'Antigone' into 'Burial at Thebes' ­saw the story as a sort of political allegory, where King Creon's 'for us or against us' mentality resembles President Bush's rhetoric concerning the war in Iraq" Gavin McDowell (Guard) stated. 
"However, I've always read the play on a religious level -as a story about what happens when civil authority refuses to submit to divine authority." 
The play can be read on multiple levels, and the combination of cultural influ­ences, particularly in lleaney's version of the play, makes it especially open to var­ied interpretations. 
While the play deals with serious issues like politics, religion, family and duty, it manages to evoke emotions while still being entertaining. The unique combina­tion of Irish and Greek influences seen in this production add to the play and make it especially appealing to the Irish -in this case, the fighting Irish of Notre Dame. 
"I think that Notre Dame audiences will particularly resonate with the Irish bits of the production, but hopefully t.hey can M persuaded into thinking of the 'Antigone' story while being simultaneously enter­tained," Meg Trucano (Antigone) said. 
"The Burial at Thebes" updates a clas­sic story with a production that celebrates its diverse influences. The combination of Irish and Greek elements, while different, comes together in an exciting way in this performance. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

Casim (Attam Yaqub) is a star-struck lover in Ken Loach's "Ae Fond Kiss." 
and gangs, with characters that have ideals, hopes, dreams and a sense of humor. 
"Ae Fond Kiss" may not be highly origi­nal, or a landmark piece for Loach, but it is a remarkable love story with a highly relevant call for tolerance. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 

Junkins: St. Pabick's Day conflicts with values 
By BARE HEINYGIRL News Writer 
University President Father Jim Junkins announced Thursday that the exclusion of St. Patrick's Day from Notre Dame's academic calendar will continue indefinitely due to deep conflicts between the popular Irish-American holiday and the University's Catholic character. 
Since St. Patrick's Day -and its trademark green beer, cloth­ing and vomit -occurs annually on campus every March, outside observers could easily believe Notre Dame endorses the holi­day's values, Junkins said. 
"This decision has nothing to do with pressures from alumni or the Church," he said, looking up from a cash pile of donations to lovingly stroke a framed pho­tograph of Pope Benedict XVI. "The concern here is not with censorship, but with ... well, yeah, I guess it is censorship. Deal with it." 
Adjustments to this year's aca­demic calendar -whose extended four-week Christmas break resulted in March 17 falling when students were away from Notre Dame for spring break -will soon be made per­manent, Junkins said. 
"With students gone, there won't be anyone to embarrass the University by drinking in class or falling off balconies," the president said. "That way, the officers and I can celebrate the holiday the way God and Our Lady intended it -in an aca­demic setting, like 339 O'Shaughnessy." 
Unlike in his recent addresses concerning "The Vagina Monologues" and the former Queer Film Festival, Junkins did not ask various campus con­stituencies for feedback about his St. Patrick's Day choice. 
"Can you believe faculty and students actually wasted all that time writing Viewpoint letters and e-mailing me about their opinions?" Junkins said incredu­lously. "Between flying my 
see BAN/page 3 



Ordinance bars students from city 
Common Council member Yumm Itsjello said she pro­posed the ordinance after her constituents complained about Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students having cracked-out naked orgies in the South Bend residents' living rooms. But other behavior is just as problematic, she said. 
"If a police officer can hear any bit of noise coming from your house when his face is pressed up against the win­dow, you are just too loud," Itsjello said sternly. "We're talking about something extremely disrespectful, some­thing that will keep the entire neighborhood awake -espe­cially after normal nighttime hours like 4 p.m." 
Splash and ltsjello said the Council considered waiting until students were away from campus for the summer to pass the new ordinance -as the group did for the amend­ment in July 2005 -but ulti­
see GET OUT/page 4 By REGINA GEORGE 


Queen Bee 
Following months of tension between South Bend residents and Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students over off-cam­pus parties and inflammatory stereotypes, the South Bend Common Council on Thursday passed a new housing ordi­nance banning students from living anywhere in the city. 
Students living in houses or apartment complexes off-cam­pus have until 11:59 p.m. April 1 to vacate the premises, and must take all of their belongings and vehicles with them, Assistant City Attorney Nan-Cheryl Splash said. 
"Despite all the bitching about that amendment we passed last summer, we only got six real evictions out of it," Splash said. "So this will be like one HUGE eviction ­we're getting rid of all the snotty, spoiled, puking, forni­cating brats at once!" 

Nevv ad is aired by University 
ND tops 'Candle' with God appearance 
By MO'THAT BOOZE News Writer 
Amid much speculation during the last several weeks, adminis­trators finally confirmed Thursday that the new University institutional spot, set to air during halftime of all 2006 Notre Dame football games, will star none other than God Himself. 
"We've been in talks with Him for a while but didn't want to let the cat out of the bag until it was a done deal," University spokesperson Lon Highcliff said. 
The commercial, according to 
see HOLY/page 4 


SMC takes revenge on Shockular tvvosollle 
By MEAGHEAEN O'NEALL£ News Writer 
A group of Saint Mary's stu­dents calling themselves Mooney's Posse kidnapped Notre Dame junior Alec Black and sen­ior Erik Powerless from their respective residences Thursday night and are holding the pair hostage somewhere in the Saint Mary's tunnel system. 
Black and Powerless are best known as the creators of The Absurder's comic strip "Shockular," which raised eye­brows and ruffled feathers on campus all year with its cynical humor and sexual innuendo. 
In a ransom note issued shortly after the kidnapping, members of Mooney's. Posse stated Saint Mary's College and its students are the butt of the joke in a dis­proportionate number of Shockular comics. 
"Saint Mary's women are sick and tired of being portrayed as unintelligent jersey chasers who go around telling people they attend Notre Dame," the state­ment read. "These images serve only to promote hurtful stereo­types in our community. Letters to the editor and complaints made directly to Mr. Black and Mr. Powerless have gone unheed­ed. As such we have been forced to take matters into our hands." 
see KIDNAP/page 3 



Duve LeBaron reveals all 

By MORE POWERFUL 
THAN YOU 
Emeritus 
You know he's a hardcore Kelly Clarkson fan. You probably guessed he forbid his 6-foot female vice presi­dent from wearing heels. You may even know he sleeps over at Father Poorman's house. But there's 

still a lot you don't know about outgoing student body president Duve LeBaron ­and that's all about to change. 
In a recent interview with The Absurder, LeBaron revealed a side rarely seen by his adoring Notre Dame· public, expounding on topics from his future political ambitions to where -in a pinch --:-he would hide his 
student senators' dead bod­ies. . 
The Absurder: What do you consider your biggest achievement as student body syco-I mean, president? 
Dove LeBaron: Well, first of all you have to under­stand that you don't pick your issue. Your issue picks you. And you wouldn't 
see JEDI/page 4 

page 2 The Absurder+ PAGE DOS-Saturday, April 1, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Eat fresh 
Iley, that long, rambling story you're tnlling sounds just like my last Inside Column. 
I couldn't help but ovnrhear your eon­vnrsation about how every time you real­ly hate when 
Subway has a long line. and I have to say. it sounds just like my lm.;t Inside Column f(>r The Absurder. 
Our sharnd opin­ion rngarding the unnneessarily long 


line that one must 

wait in to got a sub 12-lnch ..• turkey sandwieh just proves that, while seemingly trivial, Staffbitch this issun nnnds to bn publishnd in a public /iwum to inspirn others who share our vii)WS. The Inside Column is perfect f(>r sueh issw~s. While they an~n't plaend jn the same eatngory w.; morally diflkult prob­lmns like abortion, war and the poten­tially ommsive naturP of colingo maseots, t.lwsn arn things that am~et student Iii(~ dirPctly nvnry day. I too bngan my story by setting up the sonwwhat nnn~ssary bark~-,rrowul f()r my story that was ultimatPiy pointlnss and rnquin~d eontimwd intnr:jections to k!H)p tlw listnrwr/rnadPr updatnd. '((> quotn my i<L<>t column: "It snmns lik1~ every t.imn I walk by Subway thorn is an PIHIInssly long line just to get a sandwkh. Doesn't anyone at NotrP Dame eat any­thing nlsn? I w1mt to Subway once at 1 
a.m. after a long night of studying and thorn was still a linn. Granted, it wasn't <L'> long <L'> it normally is at lunc:htimn. hut I rnally just wantnd a 6-inch turkey sub on honey oat brnad with swent onion saucn and having to wait for it just madn IIW angry mwugh to write this column. Most of l.lw time I'll just walk by wlwn tlw line is long. but nwry so often I'll get in linn and end urn the long, boring wait just to get. a sandwich. My lrnshman year roommat1~ wa<> always getting Subway, and slw ran out of Fh)x l'oinL<> so fast and would oftm1 try to mooch oil' of me." 
The things you said about wanting to improve the situation made nw think that nithnr you had read my eolumn or that I had rnally managed to tap into the pulse of studnnt opinions about Subway on campus. 
A<> I wrote in my last Inside Column: "The growing length of the Subway line, along wit.l1 issuns like aeademir, freedom and gender relations, should be of great eon1:ern to studenl'i on campus. If Notre Dame wanl'i to continue il'i continued J.,Tfowth as an academic institution it should deal with this problem head-on. Hopns to direct t.lw line growth would be a temporary solution, but ultimately, the university should eonsider both expand­ing Subway and ollilring othnr /(JOd options to studenl'i on eampus. Without eontinund nmpha'iis on the variety of ((H>d options available to students oul'iide of the dining halls, Notre Damn will lose a part of what ha'i made it great over the years." 
I'm so glad that I inadvertently hoard your thoughl<; on Subway. It tells me that in however small a way, the Inside Column I was pressurnd into writing at midnight by someonll from the News l>epartmnnt during a weak moment and prodw:ed in less than 20 minutns is real­ly speaking to the student body. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are probably those of The 1\hsurder. since we can't remember which editor was too drunk to read t.his. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Absurder never makes mistakes. Ever. And if we did, we really wouldn't want ro hear abour rhem. Especially from little runts like you. Call us at 1-4141 ro hear Mr. Garrison from Sourh Park say, "You go ro hell. You go to hell and you die." 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU LIKE TO DO IN YOUR SPARE TIME? 

football.,, 

JENNI Absurder 

~bsurder em~Ioyees Cyle Kastley, far left, and Smatthew Wedburgh, far right, exhib­It a very public -and strangely symmetric -display of affection. 
BEATOFF 
Walking student detained 
NOHTH QUAD -A stu­dent was detained late Wednesday night for walking across the quad. An NDSP ollicer, who was on patrol, saw the student while perched on his A1V and eat­ing donul'i. The student was suspected of trafficking cocaine wit.l1 intent to distrib­ute. 
While there was no visual evidence that would suggest the student was carrying an illicit substance, the ollicer on patrol had an itch on his calf which he took to be a sixth sense indicating that the student might be up to no good. The student was questioned and released, but NDSP is considering sending the case to HesLife pending the results of a 20-page questionnaire that was dis­tributed to his peers. NDSP said they want to know more about how people feel about the incident before they take the next step. 

Endowment "Rushed" 

SNITE -University offi­cials, in a surprise move, decided this week to invest the entire $4 billion+ endow­ment fund on a toilet for the Snite Museum. The toilet is storied to have had its porce­lain graced by the great Chuck Norris, the legendary martial arts master and movie star. 
"We've been looking to acquire more and more pieces of historical signifi­cance, and I think we've managed to grab something that will make a real splash," said University CFO Scott Malappropriate. Students protested the move Thursday by flushing copies of DuLac down campus toi­lets, causing a massive back­up of campus sewer systems -and ironically, the only working toilet left on campus is the newly purchased "Chuck Norris Toilet," which is currently locked in a room in the Snite. 




ladies.,, 
IN BOXERS 
Editors of the Irish Hover will bn shoving copies of their "newspaper" into studnnts' hands in South Dining Hall tonight from 5-R p.m. Students who rnsist will immediately be labnlnd Satan-worshipping libm·­al baby killers. 
The Irish men's and women's basketball teams will be hosting a coed naked beer pong tourna­ment in the Joyce Clmter tonight from R p.m. until someone besides Chris Quinn or Megan Duffy makes a shot. The event is free and open to the public, except the Leprer,haun Legion. 
Thn mnn of Keenan Hall will bP staging a retaliation against Zahm at 2 p.m. today. Hesidenl'i will be vomiting not only under the Zahm rector's window. but also on his Bible, under his desk and inside his pillowcase. 
University President Father Jim Junkins will be holding a town hall meeting for the University community to discuss Academic Freedom and Catholk Character on God Quad today at 4 p.m. Junkins will not be in attendance; however, former University spokesman Fat Borin~ will field questions in the presi­dent's absence. 
The PSA. CLAP, V-Day, AllianceND, College Democrats, College Hepublieans and Hight to Life will not be holding protests on the quad, in the Main Building or next to DeBartolo today. Apathetic students are encour­aged not to notice. 
The Notre Dame Fraudit and Advisory Services Department will host an open house titled "Don't Be Afraid of the Big Bad Wolr' from 1-3 p.m. today. Director Bill Iapalooni promises not to look at your expense reports if you bring him a beer. 

7:11P.M. 11:59 P.M. 


78 -20 

John Zabowski  Baby Finn  Farty Booney  SharkFace  Robby Borton  Donald Malley  
Irish safety  Irish quarterback  Irish quarterback  Irish wide receiver  Irish offensive lineman  Irish defensive  
lineman  
"Hit people ... in the face."  "Shave my.. arms.  "Secretly play interhall  "Brush my hair."  "Lasso Texas cattle ... and  "Run, bitch."  

7:07A.M. 10:42 AM. 2:34P.M. 4:20P.M. 
a:: 
UJ :::t: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
...1 
ct 
(.) 



...I 

An.n Arbor 56 I 32 Acapulco 9? I 90 Austin 85 I 57 Columbus 58 I 31 Kankakee 43 1 27 Orange County 65 1 23 Ph1lly 59 I 38 Seattle Grace Hospital 23 I 52 Somewhere in Middle America 45 1 43 The Ritz-Carlton San Francisco 67 1 41 
~-~~-~~~-----------------~~------------­
Saturday, April 1, 2006 The Absurder+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


McFrien previews 'Code' 
Famous Notre Dame profdefends himselfagainst plagiarism charges 
By BOLLY WIFFLIN 
NewsWri£er 
Father Dick McFrien -the Notre Dame theology professor and nationally renowned CNN, NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox News and WNDU commentator who faced plagiarism accusations twice this year-held a conference on campus Thursday to discuss his work on the upcoming film adaptation· of "TheDa Vmci Code." McFrien served as an advisor for the fllm, and during his lecture previewed scenes from the movie in which he claimed his influence was most visible. 
McFrien began the lecture by welcoming listeners and thanking them for their support during the plagiarism controversy. McFrien insisted he has no fears about further accusations, saying, "Fra~y. my dear, I don't give a damn. 
The rest of McFrien's opening remarks, while welcoming, inspired some confusion: "Call me IshmaeL Friends, Romans, countrymen, this experience has been the best of times, and it has been the worst of times, but I have always depended on the kindness of strangers." would be like. 


The first scene shown to the When asked if he continued to crowd, described as "titanic" by pursue further work with "The McFrien, interestingly showed a Da Vinci Code" director Ron large boat with Leonardo Howard, McFrien responded by DiCaprio and Kate saying "I'll make Winslet rather than him an offer he the billed stars of the can't refuse." He film, Tom Hanks and "The truth? You declined to com­Audrey Tautou. In can't handle the ment on what response to seeing a exactly the offer
truth!"

clip from the film for to Howard would the first time, entail. McFrien exclaimed, Father Dick McFrien The lecture "I feel like the king ended with
cable news whore 

of the world!" McFrien reveal­
Questions about ing his plans for the appearance of the immediate the unbilled DiCaprio and Winslet future -the release of a new in the clip from what was billed book. The project, tentatively as "The Da Vinci Code" arose called "The Code of Da Vinci," from several audience members. has "absolutely no connection to McFrien replied by saying "The the similarly titled novel or to my truth? You can't work on the film handle the truth!" based on said He subsequently novel," McFrien refused any further "Frankly my dear, I said. questions on that Several audi­
don't give a damn."

topic. ence members 
The next scene asked questions featured a character Father Dick McFrien regarding not seen in Dan not a copycat whether or not Brown's novel, Darth McFrien would Vader, and mysteri-consider turning ously took place in a his own book galaxy "far, far away." McFrien project into a feature film. claimed that he was "unable to McFrien expressed some interest reveal the context of the scene in finding a studio to option his without ruining the film" but told movie, provided that they could audience members to "use the "show [him] the money." force" to better understand the relationship of this scene to what Contact Bolly Wiffiin at they imagined the rest of the film cardinalnewman@nd.edu 
Kidnap 
continued from page 1 
In exchange for Black and Powerless' release, the Posse demanded the strip be discon­tinued in The Absurder and the newspaper be screened for any content that presents The College or its student body in a negative light. If their stipula­tions are-not met by Monday, Mooney's Posse said, Black and Powerless will 

Senior Maygen O'Brien admit­ted some of Black and Powerless' comics are funny but others are "wildly inappropri­ate." 
"How would Notre Dame stu­dents like it if a couple of Saint Mary's women drew a bunch of cartoons highlighting the worse stereotypes about Domers?" she said. "Would they really want to see themselves portrayed as socially inept nerds who can only interact with the opposite sex when they are wasted?" 
Reaction to the 
kidnappings at 
Notre Dame was 

never seen the  'Those Shockular  surprisingly  
"glint of the Golden Dome c;tgain but instead  guys are huge jerks."  muted. University officials encour­aged prayer for  
will remain eter­ the safety of Black  
nally under the aura of the Bell  Maighan O'Sullivan SMC chick  and Powerless but said they would  

Tower." 
Police said they believe the hostages are being held some­where below Le Mans Hall and are working to determine their specific location. Saint Mary's officials screened their phone calls and locked their office doors Thursday to avoid having to comment on the situation at this time. 
Animosity toward Black and Powerless has been building for months, and a large crowd of students assembled on the Le Mans green Thursday night to express support for the kidnap­pers. 
"Those Shockular guys are huge jerks," said sophomore Maighan O'Sullivan. "They took their jokes too far and now they are paying for it. I hope they never make it out of the tunnels alive." 
not take an active 
role in securing 
their release. 

"The truth is Black and Powerless, with their crude humor, have become a bit of lia­bility to the squeaky clean repu­tation of this institution," the administration said in a state­ment. 
While some Notre Dame stu­dents expressed concern that there will be no Shockular strip in Monday's paper, others sym­pathized with Mooney' Posse. 
"Saint Mary's students are not the only ones insulted by the Shockular jokes," said junior Meaegahan O'Leary. "There are other groups in this community who have also been deeply offended. I wouldn't describe this as a huge loss." 
Contact Meagheaen O'Nealle at Belle4life@acrossthestreet.com-


Work for 


We are ... 

• 
the campus magazine that prints whenever we feel Iike it 

• 
more than just the Gipper, even if most people may think differently . 

• 
really good at printing 49,82 3 pictures of ourselves in the Sarcastic 


promote and celebrate a pagan lifestyle. However, after the holi­
Ban 
day's organizers agreed to continued from page 1 change its name to "All Hallows 
Eve: Ghosts, Ghouls and trustee entourage to Rome and Christian Responses," Junkins planning the first­decided it could still anniversary-of­take place at Notre my-inauguration "!mean, we Dame. gala, who has the Students and fac­
wouldn't have Yom
time to look at all ulty swiftly respond­
Kippur, or, God
of that? ed to the president's "If the presi­forbid, Martin announcement by dent of the United dividing into cliques
Luther King Day." 
States doesn't and screaming at read, the presi­one another. dent of Notre Jim Junkins "Doing away with Dame shouldn't University president St. Patrick's Day is a have to either." despicable blot on 
Junkins added the University's rep­he fully supports the goals of St. utation of academic freedom and Patrick's Day -"The need to intellectual achievement," history promote Irish-professor Ihave American her-Tenure said. 
one

itage is "{This] way, the "Father Junkins' 
unequivocally power trip has gone 
officers and I can
shared by all at too far. I miss Monk this University," celebrate the letting the U.S. he said -but holiday the way News and World doesn't think the Report rankings
God and Our Lady 
holiday is the boss him around." appropriate intended it -in an Right to Sobriety means to achieve academic setting, president Guinness them. Scaresme dis­
like 339
"Given the dis­agreed. tinctive character O'Shaughnessy." "Finally, a and aspirations of University president Notre Dame, you who stands up for
Jim Junkins 
can't have just what Notre Dame is 
University president 
any holiday on really about," campus," Junkins Scaresme said, said. "I mean, we dropping to his wouldn't have Yom Kippur, or, knees in prayer. "Forbidding God ,Corbid, Martin Luther King stuff. What could be more Day. Catholic than that?" 
The president said he also con­sidered banning Halloween on Contact Bare Heinygirl at don­the basis that its title seems to tyoudaretouchchristmas@nd.edu 

..---~-------------------~-­
page 4 . The Absurder+ CAMPUS NEWS Saturday, April 1, 2006 
then smiles and says, ''I'm off to "It wasn't until Junkins met with has chosen to include Himself in year's "Candle" spot is the size of the Dome to visit my mother. See the pope that God seriously con­the project, but there are other the envelope. 
Holy 

you in the fall." sidered taking the role," said perks. "We made this year's envelope The role of God was originally Highcliff. "Once Ben -tha,t's what "We don't need any special much larger because some
continued from page 1 

scripted for screen star Charlton we call the pope around here; effects technicians, as God takes believed that the small envelope Ilighelifl', fnaturns a prospective Heston, who had agreed to the we're very close -told God He care of all that," Highcliff said. featured in last year's ad was a student who visil'i a chapel every part, but administrators wanted to should take the part, talks began Highcliff would not comment on rejection letter," Highcliff said. day to pray and make a sizeable do "better than that," llighcliff in earnest." how the University originally "We didn't want to give the e<L'ih donation. Then, on the third said. Talks with God began in The pope told God the commer­established direct contact with the impression that those who pray a day, the student receives a visit Dneember, but did not conclude cial would be good for His image Almighty, only saying, "We have lot don't get into this Univer~ity." from (iod, who hands thn student until" after University President and make Him more accessible to some pretty powerful alumni." his Notrn Damn aeeeptanec letter, Father Jim Junkins' trip to Rome the people, he continued. The other major difference Contact Mo'That Booze at whieh emil<> a hnavnnly glow. c;od . in early February. Administrators are thrilled God between this commercial and last behindthe8ball@nd.edu 
What can you tell us about Determination. Empathy. that? Terrorist.


Jedi 
Duve LeBaron: [stares The Absurder: Right. blankly) Sounds like she'll be great.
continued from page 1 
The Absurder: Duve'? Do you have any regrets as Duve LeBaron: Next ques­you turn over the presiden­believn thn issues that picked tion. cy'? 
mn. lssuns as small as to-go 
The Absurder: All right. Duve LeBaron: Well, 

cups, and as overarching as 
What are your plans for after between dealing with the 

academic frnedom. Issues as graduation? South Bend Common Council, univflrsal as a living wagn, 
Duve LeBaron: Well, right serving on the Board of and as local as a city ordi­now I'm planning on attend­Trustees, building respectful 
nance. Issues that all 
ing law school at Harvard, relationships with adminis­touched my heart and my Yale, Chicago, Duke, trators, sucking up to the desire to serve. Issues-

Michigan or outer space. press, implementing the 
The Absurder: Okay, okay, The Absurder: Outer College Readership programeasier question. Who is your 

space? and keeping the student 

favorite administrator? 
Duve LeBaron: Yes, I'm a union in line, I have been too 
Duve LeBaron: Gosh, I 
huge Star Trek fan. [pulls busy to address one impor­respnct them all so much. I figurine from desk drawer] tant campus issue -three­

mean, thnre's Father 
See? legged cats. But people need Jenkins, of course. He wrote 

The Absurder: We see. Put money to care about cats. So me such thoughtful letters of that away. the cats remain. 

recommendation. And I have 
Duve LeBaron: [looks The Absurder: [dumb­

Father Poorman's cell phone crestfallen, closes drawer] founded]
number. But it's not just 
The Absurder: You've spo­Duve LeBaron: Thanks for 

priests. Dr. Affleck-Graves 
ken very highly of your suc­the exit interview. I'll put in 

and I are on a first-name 
cessor, Frizzi Sharrell. Would a good word with Father basis. Burish and Crnkovich, 

you compare her to any Mark. And if there are any

too. And I could never forget 
great contemporary leaders? dead bodies in the ceilingBrian Coughlin. Did I men­

Duve LeBaron: Osama bin tiles tomorrow, you know 

tion I have Father Poorman's Lad in. where .to find Frizzi bin 
cell phone number? 
The Absurder: What? Ladin. 
The Absurder: Yes, Duve. 
Duve LeBaron: Frizzi and 

Ilow about your life outside al Qaeda have four qualities Contact More Powerful Than 
of student government? 
in common. Strong will. You at gogocubbies@nd.edu 


BJs -Tuesday 
.

STUDENT 
University would intercede on the off-campus students' behalf', 

Get out 
Associate Vice President for 
Residence Life Will Jerk folded 

his arms, shook his head and mately decided it made no dif­stuck out his tongue. ference whether or not students As they packed their beer were present to defend them­bongs, .condom stashes and selves. meth kits Thursday night for 
"Well, obviously, but they did­their impending exodus to n't have to go and SAY it," stu­Mishawaka, Granger and dent body sycophant Slaveto Elkhart, students lashed out Poorman said sulkily. "Hey, I'm against the South Bend resi­still talking." dents whom they blamed for 
Off-campus president the new law. Matthew Wormsaregross "At first, I felt a little guilty popped his collar and declined saying this s**thole would never to comment. live up to my standards," senior 
The announcement of the St. Pete's Street resident ordinance prompted angry Mydads Amillionaire said. "But reactions from students and now we have proof that South landlords. Bend townies are uneducated, 
Shark Krymer, owner of low-aspiring, low-achieving and Krymer's Monopolies, which generally NOT nice." controls 99.997 percent of stu­Senior Washington Street res­dent housing in South Bend, ident Ipee Inpublic was more said the Council was infringing blunt. on his right to profit. "F*** this f""**ing excuse for a 
"Oh, and it's pretty inconven­city, I can't f""**ing wait to grad­ient for the students, too," uate," Inpublic said, giving his Krymer added hastily, punching neighbors the finger as he buttons on his diamond-studded backed his Hummer out of his cell phone. "Tell me, are the driveway. "Abate THIS." townies this hostile in 
Granger?" Contact Regina George at When asked whether the a.rmyofskanks@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO BE 21 YEARS OF AGE TO CONSUME ALCOHOL AT THESE 


Nick Lachey is a F·ing Poser ESTABLISHMENTS, BUT IF YOU THINK YOU'RE OLD 
Monday:
ENOUGH WE WON'T SAY NO. 
SKIP CLASSES! 11 am-2am Binge for Free! 
Tuesday: Townie Night Free Haircuts & Medical Tests 
Wednesday: Sexual Trivia Night, 

"Sword Fighting Pianists Every Night" 
EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT: 
$3.00 Anything Goes

INTOXICATION NIGHT 
Thursday:

LET US TICKLE YOUR THROAT WITH 
$2.00 Imported Girls 

We PayYour Tab! 
Drink Free 

FREE CREAMSICLE SHOTS ALL NIGHT 
LONG!!! 
Friday: 

Free Pregnancy Tests LOCATED BEHIND TRUMAN'S IN HELL 
Every Tuesday, 5pm -9:30pm 
with Student I D 


Sunday: $4.00 Bloody Mary's $10.00ACID
Must Have Student ID & Insurance 
Champions
Eat Out Only, Free Parking! 
•w "\'( rnn: DA:0..1E 
YOUR BAR'S 

·--------------------------~· 
AD HERE!

This Friday Night...
Poorman's Patio 
I 

fl~f~~~r:E lEU~~({)j~~l~~ ~ ~ 
I
MONDAY: 
Call now to reserve thisOpen Daily from I 
ace painting & Lawn Darts

$1.00 Kirk's Krunk Juice 
space. Anything about 
I
1Oam to Parietals I in the Pot-a-Gold on the Rainbow alcohol, drink specials, 

I 

ed Rover Tournament (5 on 5, no athletes)
WEDNESDAY: 
or alcohol-related
I
Free Sluttle I ake your own Dreamcatcher!!!

Chastity Contest -Win 
events can't be men­ride home! 
I 

am trip to Gas Station on the South Side!
Tuition* 
tioned per our policy,
1 
I 
but we promise people 

I No Drinking; Just Fun!!! 
will get the idea. 

tuition is for one minute of enrollment at ND, or you can have a free water I 
·---------------------------~ 
Saturday, April 1, 2006 The Absurder+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 

-

IS BACK!!! 
r 
...And to celebrate, we're giving away free beer for 72 straight hours starting this Friday at lam! 
You may also enjoy our new ''Under 21 Lounge'' where nothing over 14% alcohol is served...Just 
like Campus, but you can smoke inside and we won't tell if~,you sneak a few shots or play pong. 
Complete this coupon in case you lost your ID 
hint: if you put on here that you were born before April 1, 1985 you can get it! 
Name:_________
__..,..,..,....~~~~ 

-
Date of Birth:__/ _____,/~---------------~­
"Please nate~ we wW only re-open if we can get all the .kings horses and all the kings men to put us back together again~ Sorry. .. 
1 
''we bought off the cops, so buy off our beer!'' -l~ 
• 
•I • 
1 ~ 
1 
•
•
• 
•
1 
1 
1 • 1 
I 
I 
j 
-
page 6 The Absurder+ SPORTS Saturday, April 1, 2006 


-
Losing 
continued from page 8 
an 87-84 loss to Mkhigan in Ann Arbor in the second round of the NIT on March 20. The loss was the fourth overtime loss f!1r Notre Dame this sea­son. 
"I know wn lost to Michigan, but I'm proud of this ~-,rroup," Frny said. "They fought, they fought hard. We really are the Fighting Irish. Did I tell you how much I love this team?" 
Notre Dame failed to make the NCAA Tournament for the third straight year, as it fini'ihed 6-10 in the Big East, good for a No. 12 and final seed in the Big East Tournament. 
The Irish lost every close game th1~y played in, including Pittsburgh, DePaul, Syracuse, Marquette, Georgetown, Villanova, West Virginia, Louisville and Connecticut. But the Irish didn't let small point margins get them down. All year they fought back ... and lost. Fought back ... and lost. From Beve Bobak's fallaway three at Marquette to Fyle Cowarly's tip in to propel Villanova ahead, the Irish eouldn 't win a game in the last two minutes if their scholar­ships depended on it. 
However, despite Notre Dame's inability to win close games, athletic director Kevin Blaek stands behind his loving, tie-less maeh. 
"Ike Frey is a proven winner," Black said. "lie won at Delawarn and DeMatha and he will win at Notrn Damn. Unlike previous eoaches who were only suecessful Monday through Sunday, he is consis­tent in his losing ways. But I have uttnr confidenee in his ability to turn this program 



around. After all, we were so 
dose in so many games ... so 
dose. Did I tnll you how mueh I 
lowl Notre Dame?" 
Frey reflected on his fifth sea­
son as the head eoach at Notre 
Dame, one that was filled with 
missed last-second shots and 
failures to win a dose game. 
"I really love thi'i team," Frey said. "I know they got flustered at the end of games, turning the ball over too much and waiting until the last second to take a bad shot, but they're a great buneh of guys. They really are." 
Frey reiterated that he wouldn't have done anything differently thi<> season, even if it meant the Irish would fail to win those close games again. 
"I will go to my grave with Bliss Gin shooting the ball," Frey said. "I Ie could shoot from the top row of the bleachers with .08 seeonds left-I would­n't care. I put all my trust in Bliss -he's the man. I really love that kid." 
However, Frey has come under fire as the state-of-the­art Moyce Center has failed to fill up for games this season, and the Irish continued to struggle just three years after making the Sweet 16 of the real tournament. 
But Blaek responded to criti­ci'im of Frey by saying that he still believed in him as a person and a basketball coach. 

"Frey has been a great repre­sentative of Notre Dame," Black said. "I know he will eventually find a way to win games, because he is a disciple of Coaeh Z at Duke. Coach Z i'i a pretty good coaeh and we're jLL'it waiting for it to show up in Ike. After all, it's only football where ~e're impatient with eoaehes. 
Contact Working Overtime at Irish@whoneedsthencaa.com 
Control 
continued from page 8 

enough," hn screamed. Then Cheis held out his left hand, coven~d in Super Bowl jewelry. "Kiss the rings," Cheis said. 
Notes 

+CheisTV will be supported by money raised from The Shirt sales. Though some students an~ skeptical of purchasing the fan shirt in the future. 
"If it's yellow, I'm not buying it. This year's shirt was the worst fan shirt I've ever seen," said every student. 
+The commercials for ChcisTV will consist of Chuck Norris videos. 
Contact The Cap at Precision@rhymerips.com 

Commonwealth. "I am thoroughly excited to "I just wish someone would return to Delaware, where I
CAA 

acknowledge that was able to cul­we exist," Irish "I am thoroughly tivate my
continued from page 8 

cross country coaching abili­
excited to return to 
"We have made a commit­runner Bephanie ties," Frey said
Delaware, where I was
ment to excellence in football, Badia said in Thursday night now it's time response to the able to cultivate my 'during halftime 
for basket­
conference coaching abilities. I of the NIT 
ball. and we change. :·Maybe Championship
think Kevin has made
think the CAA the CAA is the game. "I think is the plaee to place to do it. If the right choice in Kevin has made do it," Black George Mason switching conferences." the right choiee said. can be famous in switehing Since the this way, why not conferences ­
Mike Frey
move is effec­us?" I just hope he tive for all For Notre Irish basketball coach doesn't start sports, all Black Dame basketball switching up Irish teams coach Ike Frey, the chance to the coaching staffs next." will now face the likes of play against the Fightin' Blue Drexel, James Madison, Hens of Delaware is the most Contact Patriot Envy at Towson and Virginia exciting. UNDFAN@caa.com 

"defending the dome since there was booze on campus" 
-Carry a Gun (or Tazer) -Impress Your Friends &Meet New People! 
-Feel Important (and SCARY!!!) -Free Vide~ Training Program -Chase Down your Friends -Ride a Moped (late shift only) 


No Experience Necessary! Call 5-5555 for more info! 
THE ABSURDER ­
OINTLESS
Saturday, April 1, 2006 
page 7 
We're better than you 
It has recently come to our attention that some tragically sions in America -right up there with lawyer, garbage­
misguided Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students think they are too good for The Absurder. You know the type ­the guy who brags to his friends that he only reads Shockular and PastryLand because our reporting is too "juvenile" for his refined tastes. Or the girl who scoffs at the debates in the Pointless section because they never mention "real 
A~rdcr 

issues" like immigration reform or Nick and Jessica. If this sounds all too familiar to you -yes, you ripping out the cross­word puzzle, three words of which you will 
Ediactually finish -consider this your wake­up call. 
It's been scientifically proven time and again that jour­nalists are not only drastically more intelligent than the rest of the population, but also happier, savvier, funnier, sexier, richer, more truthful, sexier, hotter and more attractive. Furthermore, these traits are multiplied when discussing journalists at the college level-one need only look at The Absurder's newsroom for evidence of this fact. Yet journalist remains one of the least-respected profes­
man and assistant rector. Why the contradiction? Obviously, jealousy is a factor-who wouldn't envy the 
high-profile, glamorous lifestyle found in the South Dining 
· Hall basement? -but we suspect it runs deeper than that. We think you're intimi­dated. 
Admit it, Absurder haters. You couldn't be more terrified of this publication. Our enormous power to independently set the 
ton.al .. 

tone and topic of campus conversation, to determine a student government adminis­tration's fate, to publish incriminating 
birthday ads, to print Saint Mary's swimming stories no 
one will read-all that overwhelms you, doesn't it? It's 
easier to just tune it out, isn't it? 

We thought so. So think twice the next time you're tempt­ed to declare yourself above The Absurder's standards. We know where you live, we know all your dirty secrets and we're not afraid to splash them across the-front page. 
If only every profession could be so noble. 
Fire Barley Cheis 
Don't get me wrong, I think our football program has been at its very best from Sundays to Fridays, but I think its time we took steps to improve the way our program performs on Saturdays. When I first heard that Barley Cheis was being hired to be our coach, I was worried that he would bring the same results to Notre Dame that he had in New England in the NFL. Unfortunately, I was completely correct. 
9-3! Are you serious? That's not even anywhere near the success a program like Notre Dame should be having. We should have won 13 games last season, easily. Hyrone Twillingham, who is perhaps the greatest molder of men to ever coach football, would have easily had us play­ing in a National (GolD Championship at season's end. But more importantly, there wouldn't be any excuses being made. None of this "it takes five years to implement a system" or "we played hard and things didn't go our way" BS. Any other coach wouldn't make excuses, he would just get it done. 
Then there's the recruiting, or lack thereof, for that matter. Sure, Cheis gets up at 4 a.m. every day to start working, but how inept is he if he can't get things done dur­ing normal working hours? At least Twillingham could get things finished by noon or so and hit the back nine before sunset. I just question Cheis' work ethic and commitment to the job. Furthermore, why are we looking at recruits for two years from now? Shouldn't Cheis be concerned with teaching the guys about integrity and character in the 
spring? Again, I just don't think he has his priorities straight. 
And finally, there's the reason no one wants to talk about, but I'll say it. Affirmative action. I know we cele­brate diversity at Notre Dame, as should all institutions for that matter. But hiring a guy like 
Cheis just to paint a prettier pic­ture of Notre Dame, with little regard to his actual football know-how and coaching abili­ty, is just plain wrong. 
How long will it take for us to realize that Cheis is just floun­dering about in this profession with no real plans or direction for how we're going to win games? Hopefully, the administration and Board of Trustees will see this situation 
for what it really is and act. 
Tyrese Billingham Seattle, Wash. Class of 1969 
March31 

Laugh at Shockular, with my blessing 
Looking down on Notre Dame from serve the important function on campus thi.m the Notre Dame social scene? heaven, I have observed many angry of reminding you all not to take your­Priests, sisters, I assure you it is OK to conversations among administrators, selves so seriously. And while some of laugh at the popular perception of your faculty and students about the content of the strips certainly flirt with the line profession. Administrators, your certain "Shockular" cartoons. Even my between appropriate and inappropriate, University will not be any less Catholic if chosen disciple, Barley Cheis, has been you must remember there is some truth students openly talk about sex. Women, provoked to anger by Alec Black and to every joke. you know you make just as much fun of Erik Powerless' work and admonished For example, the Nov. 1 comic poked guys as Shockular does as you, so why The Absurder for running "offensive car­fun at female students and their choice don't you submit your own comic for toons." of Halloween costumes. Can you honest­next year? 
But I say to you, my children, I am not ly tell me ladies, that you nor any of your And to all the rest of you, just lighten offended by Shockular. Neither is my Son friends use Halloween as an excuse to up, will ya? -who frequently appears in the comic dress in ridiculously scanty clothing? I -and therefore you should not be believe a quick search of your Facebook God either. While some might think Black pictures would prove otherwise. And is offcampus and Powerless are overtly rude, they there any topic more ripe for parody March 31 
You were 
so right all along about 
the war 
-

in Iraq ... and this 
-

is why 
I am writing in response to Iworship Humsfeld 's March 27 letter to the editor, which was written in response to my· March 25 letter titled "The war in Iraq is an inexcusable moral outrage." 
After thoughtfully reading Rumsfeld's letter multiple times and carefully consid­ering her opinion of our country's current military action in Iraq, I have come to the conclusion that she is in fact correct and President George W. Bush was wise to invade that country. 
As Rumsfeld so eloquently and convinc­ingly states, Saddam Hussein was a cruel dictator who needed to be removed from power in order to ensure world stability. The fact that our original purpose for going to war -finding and destr.oying weapons of mass destruction -turned out to be a farce does not diminish the fact that the Iraqi people now have the joy of living under a peaceful system of democracy. 
Nor does the now-obvious lack of ties between Hussein and Al-Qaeda under­mine the infrastructure building we are doing in cities like Baghdad and Basrah. In her Pointless letter, Rumsfeld also con­vinced me that not only should the United States government keep our troops in Iraq, the number of troops should actually be increased. It was silly of me to think our presence was "disruptive and deadly" as I stated in my original letter. 
Our soldiers are not viewed as the enemy, they are seen as liberators just as they were in Vietnam 40 years ago. "United States marin.es serving in Iraq are 
-

not only protecting the freedom of the Iraqi people, they are bring to them the blessing of American democracy," Rumsfeld writes in her letter. 
After being a strong opponent of the war in Iraq for the last three years, I am tremendously grateful to Rumsfeld and the Pointless section of The Absurder for showing me the errors of my ways and ­pushing me to reconsider my stance. The Pointless section continues to serve as a wonderful forum for intelligent and hon­est discussion on seriously global issues such as the Iraq war and the Notre Dame mascot. 
lma Convert 
Lewis Hall 
sophomore 
March 31 
TODAY'S STAFF ABSURDER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Bare Heinygirl The Cap Henrietta Van Rowengartner 
If you worked for Scholastic, how badly Sam Pandingo 
would you want to kill yourself? 

'7 know, right?" 
Hair Smelley MoThat Booze 

Pike Jilloon 
Vote at www.ndsmcabsurder.com
Meagheaen O'Nealle 

most powerful student on campus
Sancho ManThong 
by 5 p.m. today. 
Bolly Wrlllin 

-

THE ABSURDER 
PORTS
Saturday, April I, 2006 page 8 
---=-======= 
-
fOOTBALL 
Cheis achieves total control 

By THE CAP Sports Writer 
-Notre Dame head football eoaeh Barley Cheis has a long­term eontraet, high expeeta­tions and the respeet of his fans. And 
now, he has absolute 
1:0n trol. 
CheisTV, a eable net­work avail­abln to all on-earn pus Notn~ Damn 


students Chels beginning next fall. will broadcast 24­hour programming to promote the football program's superi­ority. 
"I win. It's what I do," Cheis said Wednesday from his throne in the Guglielmino Center. "Whether it's football or television, I win. I've never lost." 
At any point during the day, a student will be able to rm:eive messages and watch press confenmce re-runs with their "favorite Irish coach," a press relpase, a.k.a. e-mail, from sports information diroc­tor Bug Chalker read Thursday evening. 
The athletic department sees the move as essential in main­taining the "tradition and wholeness" of the Notre Dame image. 
"See, the thing we weren't comfortable with, in a sense ­with the way things were play­ing out here -is that students could obtain information from other sources about coach Weis," Notre Dame assistant athletic director Jim Liesler, referring to Intt1rnet and print media sources that actually followed Notre Dame football, too. "And that wouldn't benefit all the parties involved, includ­ing the athletie department. We can't have any kind of well­rounded perspectives here. 
"One clear message gets the point aeross." 

Cheis was out on campus Thursday promoting the televi­sion venture, showing brief elips as examples of the net­work's programming. At one point during a slide show in LaFortune Ballroom, Cheis stopped the presentation and made three inattentive mem­bers of the audience do pushups. 
"Nine and three is not good 
see CONTROL/page 6 

SMC ATHLETICS 
SMC starting its own football tean1 like ND 
tract with NBC, Saint Mary's

By SMC PREDATOR 
games will be broadcast on local 

Sports Writer 
South Bend cable channels and radio, according to Notre Dame

-The Belles have had enough, athletic director Kevin Black. and it's time for tradition to Belles first-year coach Hannah cross Business Route 31. Saint Barbara said she is enthusiastic Mary's College is starting its own despite the fact that only 11 girls football team. .----------, -or, "young lady ath­"Eieven national letes"-came to the
II 
championships and ~ PJ first tryouts. 
~ • • .•&c...,_ ,,..~ 
seven he1sman wm--·· -"We're legends,"
-ND"'ners?" Belles offensive Barbara said. "The 
tackle Sally Slay, skep-....-•. tical of Notre Dame's t.:) t' history of prominence, !-;/ said Thursday. "Is that it'?" 
Saint Mary's president Darrell Hooney said he expects the College not only to break con­vention with the announcement. lie also presumes the Belles will dominate their opposition ­who could not comment ­immediately. 
llowever, while Notre Dame has a national television eon­
~· .. fact that the College · (" ·,.· has finally given its girls the freedom to pursue football is pretty legit." Hecruiting expert Dom Menning said the Belles are already hot on the recruiting trail and are poised to secure 20 players from his annual top 100 Jist. 
Contact SMC Predator at ilovepowderpufl@lsmcfuotball.com 

CENSORED BY BARLEYffhe Absurder Notre Dame king coach Barley Cheis yells at a director during the filming of his new CheisTV, which will air next fall. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Frey leads team. to lose close gam.es 
Coach still 'loves his team' despite losses 
By WORKING OVERTIME Sports Writer 
Despite his and his team's best efforts, Notre Dame basketball eoach Ike Frey and the Irish just muldn't win a dose game thi'i sea­son -and two weeks later, Frey 
was finally able to speak wi1h The Absurder about it. 
"It's just been sueh a tough year," Frey said, showing some emotion as he sat in his new office, previously the home of for­

Frey

mer football eoaeh Hyrone Twillinghmn. "I love this team more than any team I've ever coached ­even more than my son's park dis­triet teams. They just couldn't get it done." 
The Irish ended their season with 
see LOSING/page 6 
ND ATHLETICS 

ND joins CAA due to George Mason basketball successes 
By PATRIOT ENVY Sports Writer 

In a stunning move, Notre Dame athletic director Kevin Black announced Thursda,y Notre Dame would be leaving the Big East Conference to join the Colonial Athletic Association· in pursuit of bas­ketball greatness. 
"As we watch George Mason in the Final Four this weekend, our fans can now realize that next year that can be Notre Dame," Black said in a press conference. "We expect nothing but the best from our basketball pro­gram, and this is the step in the right direction." 
Black said all other Notre Dame sports would also be a part of the CAA -with the exception of football, because Irish head coach Barley Cheis refused to allow it. 
"All of our teams will bene-"We felt the Big East wasn't fit from the competition of good enough for us any­the CAA," Black said. more," Black said. "At Notre "However, the senior leader-Dame we hold ourselves to ship of the University decided the highest standard, and the football will not be joining CAA is just that in basketball. the conference. The money " ... It's good in other sports, received from the exclusive too." contract with NBC is essen-The Big East had seven tial to pay,...----------------, teams in this mine and year's tourna-C h e i s ' ment, but the salaries, in Irish didn't addition to make it in helping some after finishing students." 15-13 overall 
The move and 6-10 in comes in light the Big East. of Mason's The Irish also dramatic and failed to win a historic run to the Final Four game in the Big East as a No. 11 seed. LSU and Tournament, dropping their Florida, both SEC teams, and first game to Georgetown. UCLA, a Pac-10 team, round But Black maintained that out the Final Four. The Big Notre Dame basketball was East had just two teams in doing just fine. the Elite Eight and four teams in the Sweet 16. see CAA/page 6 
en 
FIESTA BOWL
SIGNING BONUSES 
SUDOKU 

DRINKING RANKINGS 
NOTRE DATING 
FOOTBALL 
LLI 
Despite the huge hit her 

Shoup claims top 
PW 13 Notre

1-
(.') Business Majors 
Hank 1.5 seconds 
South Quad, 7 
lover J.A. Mawk put on 
p.m. Friday

z $1,000,000, Arts 
Matt 1.5 days 
spot 
Dame 6 
her brother Baby Finn dur­
and Letters 

In an event sponsored
Hank dominates Matt

a: s 
ing the game, Blaura is still

c= = Majors 0 
by the Congregation of
in their first ever 

ResLife director jumps 
Led by a stout 
committed to the relation-

Once again, business 
matchup of the new 

to No. 1 after posting 
the Holy Cross, students 
defense, the Purple
c::a:: 
ship, according to an ABC 

can speed-date on the
majors make more money 
numbers game, as Matt 

scandalous pictures on 
Weasels defeat the Irish 
interview, aired 25 times.
couldn't count to 9. 

his Facebook profile. 
quad to find soulmates. 
in Notre Dame Stadium.

a.. =sooner than anyone else. 
en 
pageBeOnTV
page$ 
page First Base 
page 20
page 1/5
~1,3,4,5,67~9 

-
THE OBSERVER ­
CENE

Friday, March 31, 2006 page 15 
DVD REVIEW 
Acting powers 'Violence' 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com David Cronenberg's "A History of Violence" centers on Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen). Stall shows an eerie violent streak when his diner is nearly robbed. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assistant Scene Editor 
The title of the film "A History of Violence" doesn't lie -the film is raw, bloody and emotionally devastating. It boasts fantastic performances from a bevy of talented actors, and while the story gets lost at times in the sheer grittiness of the film, it is a deeply powerful portrayal of one of humani­ty's most basic instincts. 
"A History of Violence" centers on Tom Stall (Viggo Mortensen), a seem­ingly normal everyman living in a small town in Indiana. His life changes radically when he displays a somewhat eerie proficiency for killing when his diner is almost robbed. His violent act, while portrayed as heroic, only leads. to greater and more esca­lated violence in the 
"The film displays
world around him. His ground on the film's pro­brutal exhibition eventu­a variety oftypes duction. ally calls his identity into A lengthy deleted scene
ofviolence ... and it 
question and manages to is included on the DVD,
reveals the 
tear his family apart. and it includes optional The film displays a destructive power director commentary. variety of types of vio­Along with this lengthy
in all ofthese 
lence, from heroic to scene is the featurette
forms.,

senseless, youthful to sexual, and it reveals the destructive power in all of these forms. The story itself in the film, while important, is truly in place so as to allow violence to occur and wreak bloody havoc on the characters, reveal­ing its universally damaging effects. 
Acting emerges as the greatest draw in "A History of Violence," with wrenching performances from numer­ous characters. Mortensen manages to balance the family man warmth and cold-blooded killing instincts that his character exhibits with great skill, while Maria Bello is a whirlwind of emotions as his wife Edie. Supporting comes from Ed Harris and William Hurt, who was nominated for an Oscar in the Best Supporting Actor category for his work in "A History of Violence." 
Director David Cronenberg doesn't shy away from showing 
A H" t 
graphic, disturbingly 
· 

violent images. This unflinching portrayal of violence is alternately disturbing and powerful, and is what ultimately gives the film its gut ­wrenching emotional impact. 
"A History of Violence" is part of a recent trend in Hollywood -films based on graphic novels. The film is based on the work by Vince Locke and John Wagner and joins recent graphic novel -inspired cine­ma like "Sin City" and "V for Vendetta." 
The DVD of "A History of Violence" features a number of features that enhance the viewing of the film. There is audio commentary from Cronenberg that provides some insight into the film as a whole, and there are three fea­turettes included as well. The first, "Violence's History: U.S. vs. International Versions," compares the 
U.S. cut of the film to the more graphic international release. "Too Commercial for Cannes" looks at the film's release at the French film festival, while the third feature "Act of Violence," which 
clocks in at 65 minutes, provides the entire back­


"The Unmaking of Scene 
44" which details how the scene was made and why it was ulti­mately axed from the film. 
The graphic, brutal nature of "A History of Violence" can make it diffi­cult to stomach. But the film provides a deeply moving commentary on the role of violence, not only within families but as part of human nature as a whole. 
The extras on the DVD add insight into the film's purpose, but in the end, it is the film itself that stands alone as a somewhat complicated work. While viewers may leave the film with con­flicted feelings, it is impossible to remain untouched by the raw emotion­al power of the film. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
fV" I 

NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

-
-
--
-

-
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 31, 2006 
-
NHL 

Roloson makes 20 saves in 4-0 Edmonton win 
-Senators blast Rangers 4-1; third period rally sparks Detroit over Nashville; Afanasenkov leads Lightning past Atlanta 
Associated Press (hand) and Chris Phillips (knee), and Wade Hedden missed the 
EDMONTON, Alberta game to travel to Saskatchewan l>wayrw Holoson's timing was on Thursday to be with his ail­perfect for the Edmonton Oilers. ing mother. 
Holoson made :w saves for his "I asked a couple of guys if first shutout with Fdmonton, a they could meet a challenge and 4-0 vktory over the Los Angeles they responded," coach Bryan Kings 4-0 on Thursday night Murray said. "It was a team that moved the Oilers into a tin hockey game, a team effort. A three-way tie for sixth place in lot of people did a real fine job. 
-
the Westnrn Confnrenen. That's what hockey is." "It's important for any goalie Fedor Tyutin had the lone coming to a new team to get his goal for the Rangers, and first shutout," Oilers coach Jlenrik Lundqvist made 28 Craig MacTavish said. "It could­saves. n't have come at a better timn." Ottawa finished 3-for-9 with Holoson, making his 12th the man advantage, while New straight start since a trade­York was 0-for-6. deadline deal with Minnesota, "It's tough to take so many has two shutouts this season penalties," Lundqvist said. "I and I X in his NIIL eanwr. thought 5-on-5 we played pretty "I senmnd to be square all well and got some scoring night long and pucks were hit­chances. They just played smart ting mn," Boloson said . "We and seemed to wait for our have to keep that killer instinct penalties. They have a great going." power play." Sergni Samsonov, Jaroslav Jagr, who had four assists Spaenk and Ales llemsky each Wednesday night in a 5-1 road had a goal and assist, and Balli victory over the New York Torres also scored. Islanders to break Jean "We have made it easier on Hatelle's franchise scoring oursnlves," said Samsonov, record, assisted on Tyutin's goal --another deadline piekup who to push his NHL-Ieading scoring has throe goals in his last four total to 114. Jagr also has an games. "Hollie shut the door for NIIL-leading 52 goals, tied with us." Adam Graves for the team 
The 1Oth-place Kings lost for record. third timn in four nights to drop In Chara's absence, Andrej l"ivn points behind the Oilers, Mezsaros was given the chal­the season on a two-man winning streak. The Predators' to help the Lightning beat the Anaheim and Vancouver. lenge of shutting down Jagr. advantage early in the first last loss at home was Feb. 9 Thrashers on Thursday night, 
"It's a lack of desperation and "This was a big opportunity period, and Eaves made it 2-0 against Detroit. leaving seventh-place Atlanta a lack of effort," said Jeremy for me to show the coach I can with his 16th on another two­Holmstrom tied it at 2 on a seven points out of the final Hoenick after his second game play 30 minutes if need be," man advantage at the 13-power play with 35 seconds left Eastern Conference playoff spot back with the Kings after sus­said Meszaros, who played minute mark. New York coun­in the ·period, deflecting the with 10 games left. taining a chip fracture in his 29:55. "My focus was to keep tered less than a minute later puck past Tomas Vokoun. With the victory, Tampa Bay right ankle. Jagr in check and not letting on Tyutin's backhander. Shanahan gave Detroit the remained tied with New Jersey 
Torres opened the scoring at him score any goals. I think I Heatley added his 43rd goal lead at 1:42 of the third period, and Montreal for sixth place in 
1:43 of the first period with his had a pretty good game." of the season on another power skating in front of the crease the Eastern Conference with 83 27th goal of the season, and Jagr said he rarely pays play in the second, and and backhanding the puck past points. On Thursday night, New Samsonov made it 2-0 on a attention to who is or isn't on Schaefer scored his 19th in the Vokoun for his 33rd goal. Jersey beat Buffalo 3-1 and power play with 2:59 left in the the ice and admitted he was third. Williams completed the scoring Montreal edged Washington 3-2 period. feeling under the weather due "Special teams are big," with 4:06 left, beating Vokoun in overtime. 
Spacek scored a power-play to a cold. Senators center Jason Spezza with a wrist shot. "Right now, time is running goal in the second period, and "When I play games I don't said. "That's how you're going The two teams played to a 2-2 out," Atlanta coach Bob Hartley llemsky, with his first goal in 14 really care. Everyone is to win games down the stretch." tie in the first period, with said. "We don't have any points games, completed the scoring in replaceable," Jagr said. "I just Nashville capitalizing on one of to give to anyone. We will need the period. tried to help the team." Red Wings 4, Predators 2 three power-play opportunities some great performances from 
With the loss, the Rangers Brendan Shanahan and Jason and Detroit scoring on one of everyone." Senators 4, Rangers 1 remained four points ahead of Williams each had a goal and four. Tim Taylor and Paul Ranger The Ottawa Senators found a second-place Philadelphia in an assist in the third period to Sillinger struck first on the also scored for the Lightning.
-
way to overcome the absence of the Atlantic Division race. The help the NHL-leading Detroit power play, beating Legace at Taylor snapped a 28-game goal­three top defensemen -and division winner is in position to Hed Wings beat the Nashville 13:29. scoring drought, and Hanger's keep NIIL-scoring leader get the No. 3 seed in the confer­Pn~dators on Thursday night. Kris Draper tied it at 14:09, goal was the first of his 67­Jaromir Jagr in check. ence and the loser is expected Tomas Holmstrom and Kris and Hartnell scored 27 seconds game NHL career. Hay Emery made 24 saves, to open against Buffalo in the 4-Draper also scored, Steve later. Tampa Bay goalie John and Chris Neil, Patrick Eaves, 5 series. Yzerman assisted on the two Grahame's bid for his third Dany lleatley and Peter "We worked, we tried things, third-period goals and Manny Lightning 4, Thrashers 3 shutout against Atlanta this Schader seored in Ottawa's vie­but collectively we weren't on Legace made 32 saves. Dmitry Afanasenkov and the season ended when Steve -tory over the New York Hangers the same page," Rangers coach Mike Sillinger and Scott Tampa Bay Lightning made a McCarthy scored from the blue on Thursday night. Tom Henney said. "They really Hartnell scored for the big playoff push Thursday night line with 9:16 left. Vyacheslav The Eastern Conference-lead­need a break, but I'm not mak­Predators. The loss was -at the Atlanta ThrashC"rs' Kozlov and Bobby Ilolik added ing Senators played without ing excuses." Nashville's fourth straight and expense. goals for the Thrashers in the defensive partners Zdeno Chara Neil scored his 16th goal of also ended a six-game home Afanasenkov scored two goals final 2 minutes. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full  Area houses and apartments for  Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1.5 baths,  NEWI http://ndrental.tripod.com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
WANTED  time weekdays during summer. Part time or full time in the fall. Previous  rent. Log ontoMichianaRentals.com. Call 574-993-RENT (7368)  CIA. Gas stove,microwave,fridge, & WID. 2-car garage.  Tickets O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James Taylor. Call 272-7233.  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  
experience required. Fax resume or  Walk to NO. $1 ,400imo ($350 per  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
Nanny wanted for infant & toddler.  letter to 574-251-1898.  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  room). 574-277-1875.  TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more  
site:mmmrentals.com  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE  information. see our bi-weekly ad in  
- WTHF during academic year & 6  Contact: Gary 574-993-2208 or  Furnished 4BR house near NO.  CALL 277-1659.  THE OBSERVER.  
weeks in summer full time.  FoR SALE  grooms@ ourwebspot.net  ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­rnent,yrd.  THE BEST HOME IS NOW AVAIL­ NEED A CAMPUS JOB FOR NEXT  
ND family.  Just 1 block from campus!  287-4961.  ABLE FOR THE COMING  YEAR? Join the Student Activities  
4 bdrml2bth newly remodeled  For lease. 4 brand new 3 bedroom  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-6  staff. Real Jobs. Real Experience.  
Contact 246-0572 or  house near campus. $87,000. 220­ condos ranging from  Looking for lodging for home foot­ STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES  Real Money. Application deadline is  
ekenned1 @nd.edu  8666.  $1500-$2200 per month.  ball games?  2773097  Monday, April 3. Visit:  
574-243-4554 ext.203. No utilities  Call574-276-8417 for details.  sao.nd.eduljobs for more info.  
Dance and Music Teaching Positions Area s largest dance school is expanding. Part time posi- FoR RENT  included. 4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus.  Furnished 4BR house near ND.  PERSONAL  Here's a shoutout to B. Murphy!  
lions available for summer and  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  $1350. 220-8666.  ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­ New Month's Eve Party in Siegfried  
2006-07 school year.  HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM  ment,yrd.  Have lead on investigation. Meet  4A tonight.  
Lake Cottage 4 rent Aug. to May.  me on 4/7 at Mt. Olympus (aka)  
Fax qualifications to 574-633-2160.  532-1408  269-699-5928.  287-4961.  Washington Hall. Mercury  Hot girls need onlyapply.  

-


OUND THE NATION ­
Friday, March 31, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRr: SERVICES page 17 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
New Jersey 42-28 .600 Philadelphia 32-38 .457 10 Boston 30-42 .417 13 Toronto 26-45 .366 16.5 New York 19-51 .271 23 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 57-14 .803 

Cleveland 42-29 .592 15 
Milwaukee 36-35 .507 21 
Indiana 35-35 .500 21.5 
Chicago 31-40 .437 26 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 48-23 .682 

Washington 37-33 .523 10.5 
Orlando 28-44 .364 20.5 
Atlanta 22-48 .323 25.5 
Charlotte 20·52 .269 28.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Denver 40·32 .559 Utah 34-37 .470 5.5 Minnesota 30·41 .409 9.5 Seattle 29-42 .400 10.5 Portland 20-51 .299 19.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 47-23 .692 LA Clippers 41-29 .600 6 LA lakers 38-34 .507 10 Sacramento 36·36 .500 12 Golden Stale 30-40 .431 17 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. .GB 
San Antonio 55-16 .788 :.:::.:;. Dallas 54.18 .776 1.5 Memphis 41-31 .561 14.5 New Orleans 33-37 .484 2U Houston 31·40 .433 24 
NCAA Men's Baseball Top20 
team record previous 
1 Georgia Tech 16·1 1 
2 Clemson 10-3 2 
3 Rice 15·5 3 
4 North Carolina 13-2 4 
5 Tennessee 13-2 5 
6 Mississippi State 11-0 6 
7 Cal Slate-fullerton 14·6 7 
8 Florida State 18·1 8 
9 South Carolina 13-2 9 
10 Arkansas 16·1 10 
11 louisiana State 16-3 13 
12 Nebraska 11-2 14 
13 Oregon State 11-5 11 
14 Tulane 12·6 12 
15 Florida 14-6 15 
16 Arizona State 17-5 11 
17 Stanford 11-7 16 
18 Texas 13-9 21 
19 Washington 15-5 NR 
20 Georgia 11-2 NR 
around the dial 
NBA 

Memphis at New Orleans, 7 p.m., ESPN LA Lakers at Seattle, 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN'S lACROSSE 


Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -The lawyers for Duke men's lacrosse players said Thursday that police and an outraged community will owe the team an apology after DNA tests are completed -tests they said will prove no one on the team raped an exotic dancer. 
Four attorneys repre­senting nearly all the 46 players forced to give samples protested what they said was a presump­tion that their clients attacked the dancer or kept quiet about what happened. No one has been charged. 

"We believe that the DNA will show that that this not true. We believe that a full and complete and fair investigation will show that it is not true," lawyer Joe Cheshire said. 
Investigators are still collecting evidence, but District Attorney Mike Nifong has said in recent days he already believes a crime occurred. Even if the state crime lab's DNA analysis proves inconclu­sive or doesn't provide a match for any of the ath­letes, Nifong has said he'll have other evi­dence. 
"If the only thing that we ever have in this case is DNA, then we wouldn't have a case," Nifong said Wednesday. 
This week, university president Richard Brodhead suspended the highly ranked team from play until the school learns more about the accusations. But Cheshire said Nifong and police have created a mob mentality that has tainted the men "before the evidence has all come out in a way that they will never recover." 
Nifong's office did not return calls Thursday seeking a response to the criticism. 
English professor Melissa Malouf said she is one of those prepared 
_,. 
....... 
for the DNA tests to prove inconclusive . 
"I don't think the DNA is the case," she said after speaking at an out­door protest near Brodheag's office. "Guys can wear condoms." 
According to the appli­cation for a court order seeking DNA samples from the team, a nurse trained to treat rape vic­tims and a physician who treated the woman said they witnessed symptoms consistent with sexual 

-
assault. The document also includes details of a search of the house where the woman said she was raped for about a half-hour. 
IN BRIEF 
Ochoa ties record for best 
round in an LPGA major 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif.-Lorena Ochoa had only 100 or so people following her record round Thursday in the Kraft Nabisco Championship, which was fine with her. She was able to hear that familiar voice, her father urging her to attack the flags and stick it close. 
"Just like this," Javier Ochoa said to her after Ochoa began the first round with a 9-iron to 2 feet birdie. 
And she obeyed; knocking down flags on a calm morning in the desert, piling up birdies until she was in the record books with a 10­under 62 that gave her a four-shot lead over 16-year-old Michelle Wie. 
Wie got all the attention and matched her best score on the LPGA Tour, a bogey-free 66 in which she played with poise and precision and had a birdie putt on every hole. 

Boeheim wants to see more 
teams in tourney 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jim Boeheim wants more schools playing in the NCAA tournament, and his ·coaching­colleagues appear to agree. 
The Syracuse coach believes the tournament field should expand from its current 65 teams and hopes to start lobbying for an increase Friday during a meeting with the National Association of Basketball Coaches. 
"I have a number in mind, I think it should probably be about four to six, somewhere in there," Boeheim said Thursday. "The problem really is that it shouldn't come down to logistics." 
The field expanded from 48 to 64 in 1985, then added a 65th team to the field in 2001 when the NCAA increased the number of automatic bids from 30 to 31. 
Boeheim believes the rapid increase in Division I schools, to more than 300, and increased parity, as demonstrated by George Mason reaching the Final 
-
Four, indicates its time to include more teams. Roddick continues slide 
with loss to Ferrer 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Andy Roddick shanked a service return, sending the shot straight up, then took off his cap and used it to catch the ball. 
Give Roddick credit for trying to make the best of a difficult day. He hit another bump in his bid to shake an early-season slump Thursday, losing to David Ferrer 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 in the quar­terfinals of the Nasdaq-100 Open. 
Roddick, who slipped from third to ­fourth in the rankings last week, has yet to reach a final this year. 
"I feel a lot better leaving this tourna­ment than I did a couple of days before this tournament," he said. "I feel like I'm on the verge of playing really good tennis again." 
Roddick's biggest weapon -the serve-betrayed him against the 11th­seeded Ferrer. In the first set he made only 35 percent of his first serves. 
-
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 31, 2006 
MLB 
Anna Benson askS for divorce fro111 Orioles pitcher husband 
Associated Press 
FOHT LAUDEHDALii -Anna Benson has requested a divorce from Baltimore Orioles pitcher Kris Benson, who still believes the New York Mets traded him in response to actions by his impulsive wife. 
Anna Benson, an actress and model who has posed topless, liled for divoree in Atlanta on Thursday. The petition for divoree elaims the marriage is 
"irretrievably broken." The eouple has been mar­ried for seven years. 
Kris Benson initially protest­ed the deal that sent him to the Orioles. But now he thinks the Mets did him a favor. 
"I was a little upset because I enjoyed my time in New York and I feel like they had a good team coming into the season," Benson said in a recent inter­view. "But now that I realize the opportunity I have, it's going to be a good eareer 
move for me." Now, it appears as if he will go at it alone. 

In 2005, his first full season with the Mets, Benson allowed three runs or fewer in 19 starts. He was 10-8 with a· 
4.31 ERA, but New York won 17 of the 28 games in which he pitehed. 
Despite those numbers, the right-hander was traded to the Orioles in January for pitchers Jorge Julio and John Maine. There was speculation 

that the deal was.perpetuated by the behavior of Anna, who has her own web site and pub­licly discussed intimate details of their sex life. 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya contended that Anna Benson was not a factor in the trade. Kris Benson isn't buy­ing it. 
"New York is just a world of its own. I knew that coming in, but you learn that a little more when you get put in the spotlight like that in a nega­tive and undeserving way," Kris Benson said. "It was a lit­tle frustrating at the time beeause people kind of believe what they read. For her it's been a little tough, because 
they kind of portray her in  a  
negative light."  
Anna  Benson  wore  a  

provocative dress at the team Christmas party, and there was talk that she was consid­ering posing nude for Playboy. Kris Benson bristles at the memory. 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Gamecocks beat Michigan at MSG 
Victory gives South 
Carolina second NIT 
title in as many years 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK South 

'carolina eertainly didn't begin tl111 s1mson hoping to repeat as NIT champions. 
The c;amncocks were, how­nvnr, happy to end it that way and lwcome only thn second sdwol to win eons1~cutive NIT lilies. 
Tarence Kinsny scored 21 points and Tn~· Kelley added 20 and seven assists to help South Carolina beat Michigan 7(,-64 on Thursday night. 
Wilh four starters back from last year's NIT champs, the Camecocks began the season with hopes to graduate to an NCAA tournament berth this season. That didn't work out, though South Carolina (23-15) made a late run at an auto­matic bid before losing the Southfmstern Conference title game 49-47 to Florida. 
-
Back in the NIT, the Gamecocks made the most of. it and joined St. John's, which 
won the NIT in 1943 and 1944, as the only teams to win back-to-back championships. Kentucky was the only other learn ever to play in conseeu­livn championship games (1946-47). 
The SEC eould make it a

-tournament sweep with Florida and LSU playing the NCAA Final Four on Saturday. Henaldo Balkman added 10 points, 11 rebounds and six bloeks and was named the MVP of the tournament for South Carolina. Daniel Horton, who was the MVP of the 2004 NIT, scored 1X points to lead Miehigan (22­10), which was trying to win its second championship in three years. Chris llunter and Brent Petway eaeh added 12 for Miehigan. which won the tilln 
-in 2004 with most of the samo players who lnd this ynar's run to Madison Square c;ardnn. Trailing 24-14, Miehigan went on a 7-0 run to doso to 24-21 on Bon Colnman 's 3­pointnr with fi:07 IPI't in the half. Tmnpnrs flarnd soon aftnr w lw n Ba I k rn a n b I o c ked 1'1~tway 's shot. Bat k rn an grahhnd tho loose ball and caught Petway with an elbow in tlw lip. Pntway rnspondnd, 
shoving Balkman to the 11oor for an intentional foul. 
The play seemed to spark the Gameeoeks, who closed the half on a 13-o run. Dwayne Day hit two 3-pointcrs during the spurt as South Carolina built a 39-27 halftime lead. 
South Carolina opened the second half with an X-3 run as Kelley hit two 3-pointers to make it 47-30. Miehigan could gel no eloser than nine the rest of the game. 
With the vietory, South Carolina eoaeh Dave Odom improved to 21-3 in the NIT and now has 100 wins with the (;amecoeks. lie also led Wake Forest to the title in 2000. 
The Gameeocks advanced to the ehampionship with a 78-63 win over Louisville on Tuesday night. 
Balkman seored 2:3 points and Kinsey added 21 in that win. 
Courtney Sims seored 18 points to help Miehigan beat Old Dominion 66-43 in the semifinals. 
The Wolverines fell to 7-2 all-time in the semifinals and finals of the NIT. They also had won the· championship in 1984, 1997. 


Famed Irish Prostitute Molly Malone Knew That Sex Sells... 
But This Just Isn't That Type of Party. 
Join Pangborn Hall & the History Club Friday, March 31st, 9PM to lAM, NDH F Wing 

Fighting Ir-ish Baseball vs. Pittsbur-gh 
FridayJ-March 31 
@o:05pm 
Saturday, April 1 @1:05pm Sunday, April 2 
@ 12:05pm Admission for Stud~nts 
-
-------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
-

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
100,000 fans expected in Indy for Final Four 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Marc Sawyer figures he won't sleep much this weekend. 
The 21-year-old UCLA senior was flying with sfweral friends to Columbus. Ohio, late Friday, then renting a car and driving three hours to Indianapolis. Once here, he'll don a blue and yellow outfit that includes col­ored glasses, gym shorts, a T­shirt, knee socks and a pompom to cheer on the Bruins in the Final Four before returning to Los Angeles 30 minutes before his first class Tuesday morning. 
Whirlwind trip? You bet. 

"We're just running on adren­aline once we get there," said Sawyer, a San Diego resident who is president of The Den, UCLA's student athletics fan club. "We're not even going to want to sleep." 
Thanks to a monthlong buildup, multimillion-dollar ad campaigns and celebrity-stud­ded entertainment, this year's Final Four will be a far cry from the event's humble beginnings in 1939, when only eight teams competed for the title. This weekend, when an expected 100,000 fans descend on down­town Indianapolis for the culmi­nation of a nationwide basket­ball frenzy, the tourney will have transformed itself into a full-out extravaganza. 
"When a sporting event moves to the next level and becomes a big event, it's more than just attending the games 

0 GlUT UVE BANDS... 
NIGBI 

-it becomes a destination point on everybody's calendar of events," said John Rowady, president of rEvolution, a Chicago sports marketing agency that partnered with the NCAA to promote various game packages. "I think (the Final Four) has moved into the realm of being a rival to the Super Bowl." 
Included in the lineup is a free, two-day music festival headlined by Indiana rocker John Mellencamp and featuring last season's "American Idol" winner, Carrie Underwood. 
The NCAA's Hall of Champions museum will be open for a marathon 100 straight hours to mark the gov­erning body's centennial. Thousands of entertainment­minded fans were expected to visit an interactive festival at the Indiana Convention Center. 
That doesn't count the scores of private parties, hospitality rooms and VIP events for spe­cial ticket holders and corpo­rate partners who have shelled out thousands of dollars for all­inclusive Final Four packages. 
All the while, CBS will be broadcasting games on 11 jumbo screens throughout downtown. 
"I think consumers expect more of a total fan experience now," said Vince Thompson, president and chief executive officer of the Atlanta-based Creative Presence Partners, which is working with the NCAA and Coca Cola Co. to put on the musical festival. 
Fans aren't the only ones demanding more. 
Big corporations use tickets to top sporting events such as the Final Four, the Super Bowl, the Masters golf championship and the Kentucky Derby to schmooze their best customers. 
"The Final Four is becoming one of the premier events in the country from a corporate per­spective," said David Lord, chief executive of RazorGator and PrimeSport, an online ticket broker based in Los Angeles. "It's becoming more and more the approach of the big spon­sors to leverage these events as opportunities to get close to their big clients." 
RazorGator expects to send as many as 4,000 customers to the Final Four -half of them through corporate packages that include work meetings, a casino night and special appearances by top coaches and players. 
Evolution's premier package costs $55,000 and includes 10 lower-level seats in the RCA Dome, a four-night downtown hotel stay and access to other VIP events. 

SATIJDAIIOP. 

EGEND 
F NOTRE DAM

NO C~OVI~Il ID IU~O'D 

..... 
.· 
-

-

r-------------------------------"_________________________ ____ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 31, 2006 
-
NBA 
Pacers honor Miller, .... fall to Phoenix, 114-104 

Marion scores 29 to lead Suns, Indiana has lost 6 of 8 games 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -The capaci­ty crowd that showed up at Conseco Fieldhouse to watch Reggie Miller's jersey retire­ment ceremony had nearly van­ished by the fourth quarter. That's because the Pacers didn't resemble the team Miller turned into a contender with his countless clutch shots. Shawn Marion scored 29 points, Steve Nash nearly had a triple-double, and the Phoenix Suns beat Indiana 114-104 Thursday night to snap a two­game losing streak. Nash finished with 15 points, 13 assists and eight rebounds. "Miller Time" never came because the Pacers were out of the game so early. Phoenix led 58-44 at halftime and 92-78 at thH end of the third quarter. Phoenix entered the game averaging a league-best 108 points. The Suns' offense was too sharp for Indiana's fourth­ranked scoring defense. "They had some bigger guys," Marion said. "We were trying to force the tempo of the game. They couldn't run with us and it showed." Indiana got no eloser than nine points in the second half. "They make you play their 
-
tempo," Indiana point guard Anthony Johnson said. "If you don't make shots, they can dominatn you. We would put up a string of baskets and you look up at the board and you're still down by 12." 
Peja Stojakovic scored 25 points and reserve Danny Granger added 16 for the Pacers, who were again without Jermaine O'Neal to start the game and watched their injury woes grow during it. 
Indiana (35-36) has lost six of its last eight games and dropped below .500 for just the second time this season. 
"I don't think anybody in this locker room expected to be one game under .500 at this point," Johnson said. "I don't think anybody expected to be one game under any time this sea­son. We can talk about it, but now it's time to just show up and play ball." 
Phoenix (48-23) bounced back from back-to-back blowout defeats. The Suns lost 110-72 at New Jersey on Monday and 132-110 at Milwaukee on Tuesday. 
"Wn're back to the team we were, the team that won 47 games," Phoenix coach Mike D'Antoni said. "We're going to be pretty good. Those other two games we got out of synch a lit­tle bit, started pressing a little bit." 
O'Neal was inactive after reaggravating his groin injury earlier in the week. Stephen Jackson sprained his ankle in the second quarter and did not return, and center Scot Pollard missed the second half with a sore foot. 
"We knew they were coming in undermanned, so we really needed to get this one tonight," Nash said. "They still have a lot of dangerous guys on that team, even without Jermaine O'Neal." 
The Suns shot 52 percent from the field and forced 17 turnovers. 

-

SMC TENNIS 

Belles try to avenge defeat 
Saint Mary's will face Olivet Nazarene and Wheaton this weekend 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Coming off its first confer­ence loss, Saint Mary's will have a chance to get back in the win column when it takes on Olivet Nazarene at 2 p.m. today and Wheaton College at 5 p.m. Saturday in the Jack Schwarz Memorial Classic Tournament in Wheaton, Ill. 
As this weekend's tourna­ment is sandwiched between eonference matches, the Belles players will have a brief reprieve from the pres­sure of the conference sched­ule. The team hopes to put that break to good use, sen­ior Kristen Palombo said. 
"Tournaments like this take the pressure off for a little while because we know that no matter what happens, it won't affect our conference standing," Palombo said. "We're able to try new things in these matches, and we're able to work on parts of our game that we might not be comfortable using in confer­ence matches." 
Saint Mary's will still be taking this weekend's match­es seriously, though, and will be facing some difficult com­petition. Olivet Nazarene has won two NAIA Region III-VII Championships and made three NAJA National Tournament appearances since 2001. This year, Olivet 

Belles junior Kelly McDavitt hits a shot against Albion April17, 2005. Saint Mary's will play Olivet Nazarene and Wheaton this weekend. 
Nazarene boasts a 3-1 record, having won their last three matches. 
-Wheaton will present an even greater challenge for the Belles, as they enter this weekend with a record of 6-0 and are currently ranked No. 
18  in  the  nation  by  the  
Intercollegiate  Tennis  
Association.  

In addition, two of Wheaton's players are ranked in the region. 
Freshman .JQrdan Hook is currently the No. 5 player in the central region, and she comes into this weekend with an unblemished record of 19­0. 


NOW SELLING 
FROM THE 1705 
UNITS AVAILABLE FOR 
574-273-2000 
FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS 
2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 

VISIT OUR FURNISHED MODEL OR DUBLINVILLAGE.COM 

4.35 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 SSMITH@COOREMAN.COM 

Senior Elizabeth Maclellan, a two-time winner of the CCIW Player of the Year award, is currently the No. 2 player in the central region. 
The team, however, sees the benefits of playing against such strong competi­tion. 
"No matter what happens regarding the outcome, it makes you a better player," Palombo said. "You have to try harder, come up with shots you didn't know you had, and you have to expand your game." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 



Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


MEN'S GOLF 
Squad to play in Augusta 
ND will try to bounce back from mediocre finishes during break 
By JOE QUINN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will head south 

to Augusta, Ga. this weekend 
to take part in the Augusta 
State Invitational at 
Champions Retreat Golf Club. 
After finishing eighth at the Border Olympics March 18 and 11th at the General Jim Hackler Invitational March 13, the Irish are anxious to start competing for tournament championships, and, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said, there's no better place for that than Augusta. 
"Just the name Augusta brings to mind thoughts of championship golf," Kubinski said. "I feel we are ready to start playing our A-game, and what better place to do it than Augusta, Georgia." 
Kubinski said he hopes this is the weekend where the team returns to the form it showed in the fall. 
"We had such a strong fall season, I just want the guys to match that this weekend," he said. "We played top-20 golf [all fall] and now is the time to prove to everyone else that we are a top-20 program." 
The Irish will take on some 

of the top teams in the country 

in Augusta. UCLA leads the 
field coming in ranked No. 5 in 
the country according to the 
GCANBridgestone Top 25. 
In addition to the Bruins, the 

tournament field boasts three 
DUSTIN Mloi~NioLLA• 
Irish sophomore Greg Rodgers putts in last year's Notre Dame Invitational. Notre Dame will travel to Augusta, Ga. for the Augusta State Invitational this weekend. 

Tennessee  State  (No.  11),  
Tennessee  (No.  12)  and  
Clemson (No. 14).  

Besides the four top-20 teams, there are five more teams just outside the top 25 and the top ranked team in Division II, South Carolina ­Aiken. 
While the Irish are one of the few teams competing in Augusta that is not ranked in the top 50, Kubinski said he is confident about their chances. 
"If we can play like I know we can play, we'll show that we're closer to the team we were in the fall than the one that's been playing this spring," he said. 
Kubinski is going to tweak his line-up for the weekend, adding freshman Josh Sandman. Sandman's out­standing play in qualifying rounds this past week, accord­ing to Kubinski, is the reason for the move. 
"We played in three [qualify­ing rounds] this past week and [Josh] finished behind only Cole [lsban] and Scott [Gustafson]," Kubinski said. 
Kubinski said Sandman's proficiency near the hole will help the Irish this weekend. 
"[Josh] always exhibits fan­tastic short game. I'm hoping he'll add a little something to the mix down in Augusta," Kubinski said. 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 
·­

TENNIS 
Sharapova advances 
I • • 

on opponents InJury 
Russian star fails to convert four match points, endures boos 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Maria 

Sharapova blew a big lead, 
drew boos for taking a bath­
room break and won only when 
opponent Tatiana Golovin was 
forced to retire in tears 
because of an ankle injury. 
The hollow victory Thursday 

night earned Sharapova a 
berth in the final at the 
Nasdaq-100 Open. 
Sharapova failed to convert 

four match points in the second 
set and played for another 7 5 
minutes before Golovin twisted 
her left ankle and fell chasing a 
shot in the corner. 
A trainer taped Golovin's 

ankle. The French teenager 
played one more point, hitting 
a return wide, then called it 
quits with Sharapova serving 
and leading 6-3, 6-7 (5), 4-3, 
ad in. 
The stadium was less than 

half full when the match ended 
at 11:40 p.m. EST, but the fans 
were noisy. Three times they 
jeered Sharapova for taking a 
break leading 5-4 in the second 
set. 
The interruption didn't deter 

Golovin, who won the crowd's 
favor by completing her come­
back from a 5-1 deficit in the 
set to force a third set. 
No. 4-seeded Sharapova's 

opponent in the final Saturday 
will be No. 12 Svetlana 
Kuznetsova, who advanced by 
beating top-ranked Amelie 
Mauresmo for the second time 
in five weeks, 6-1, 6-4. 
Andy Roddick hit another 

bump in his bid to shake an 
early-season slump, losing to 
David Ferrer 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 in 
the men's quarterfinals. 
Roddick, who slipped from 
third to fourth in the rankings 
last week, has yet to reach a 
final this year. 
"I feel a lot better leaving this 

tournament than I did a couple 
of days before this tourna­
-

ment," he said. "I" feel like I'm on the verge of playing really good tennis again." 
The loss cost Roddick a shot at top-ranked Roger Federer in the semifinals. Defending champion Federer rallied from a break down in the opening set and beat No. 9-seeded James Blake 7-6 (2), 6-4. 
Federer extended winning streaks of 25 consecutive matches against Americans, 46 matches in a row in the United States and a record 22 in a row in Masters Series events. He has reached the semifinals in his past 13 tournaments. 
"Maybe I'm a slow learner," said Blake, who also lost to Federer in the Indian Wells final two weeks ago. "But he doesn't make it easy. I'm start­ing to feel like one of those bas­ketball players in the early '90s. You feel like you make Michael Jordan play well, but then every time he comes up and beats you and makes you realize why he's the best." 
Like Federer, Sharapova is bidding for back-to-hack titles after winning at Indian Wells. She's 2-2 against fellow Russian Kuznetsova, winning their past two meetings. 
Sharapova led the No. 22­seeded Golovin 5-1 in the sec­ond set and held four match points serving at 5-3. But the situation inspired Golovin to raise her level of play, and she hung on by winning a series of long rallies to cut the deficit to ­5-4. 
Sharapova requested a bath­room break. Because of the timing of the request, the chair umpire initially turned her down before relenting. 
Fans jeered as Sharapova trotted off the court and booed again when she returned. 
Golovin twice held serve to force the tiebreaker. She reached set point at 6-5, then hit a forehand that skipped off the net cord and landed on the baseline for a winner. Sharapova challenged the call, but instant replay confirmed the ruling, and the crowd erupted. 
-
Friday, March 31, 2006 

-· 
WoMEN's CREW 
Rowers ready to churn -waters of Mission Bay 
top honor for women at the

Team travels to San 
Classic. The cup features night-person races. Notre

Diego to participate 
Dame's probable varsity line­

in annual Classic up will consist of coxswain 
Maria Romano and rowers 
Julie Sobolewski, Amanda
By TIM KAISER 
Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura 

Sports Writer 
Pearson, Allison Marsh, Mf11issa Felker, Megan Boyle This wecknnd the Irish will and Sarah Palandech. They travel to southern California will look to improve upon last to race in the San Diego year's time of 7:03.21, which Classic. earned them eighth place. 
The raees, which will host Teams of Irish rowers will over 3,500 competitors, will also compete in the JV and be held in Novice races. Mission Bay in The Irish fared San Dingo. Both well in their last men's and "/ thought we competition, win­womon's colloge ning six of seven
raced well and 
teams will com­races at the
hard under hard
pete, along with Lubbers Cup in club teams from conditions." Grand Rapids, all age groups. Mich. despite Thousands of hailstorms and
Martin Stone 
spectators are turbulent water.
Irish head coach 
expected to Irish head attend the event, coach Martin which is one of Stone was tlw rn o s t p o p u I a r th e I r is h pleased with his team's per­compntn in every ynar. formance and is looking for­
Howing relies on its premier ward to seeing what his team national events, like the can do at the Classic. Classic, to raise interest in tho "I thought we raced well sport. College coaches use and hard under hard condi­thn Classic to scout high tions," Stone said school programs arter last week­for good rowers. end's com petition
"I'm happy how
The Classic in Grand Hapids. began in 1<J76, a we handled the ''I'm happy how joint effort racing conditions, we handled the between the San racing conditions,
and I could see
Diego Howi ng and I could see
that each ofour
Club and the that each of our ZLAC Howing boats improved boats had Club for women, improved from
from the previous 
and the first the previous
week."
event !'natured week. As I told eight schools the team, they from the west Martin Stone can be happy coast and the with their per­
Irish head coach 
Naval Academy. formance today, 
This year's but we now need event will feature the Naval to focus on next weekend's Academy, Washington, Long regatta at the San Diego Crew Beach Stattl, San Diego State, Classic." UC-San Diego, UCLA, UC­The races begin at 7:30a.m. Santa Barbara, Harvard, Yale, on both Saturday and Sunday, Stanford, UC-Berkeley, Duke and end at 2:30p.m. and Virginia. 
The Irish will compete for Contact Tim Kaiser at the Jessop-Whittier Cup, the tkaiser@nd.edu 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the inter areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. M our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
Ifyou are looking for 

(I) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a sec· major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos.l@nd.cdu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 6. Late applications will be accepted only if openin1 still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING Monday April 3 SPM, 209 O'Shaughnessy 
-

"Surprise Symphony" and "Lord Nelson Mass" 
Featuring the South Bend Chamber Singers, the Notre Dame Chorale, Brian Manternach, Stephen Lancaster, Laurel Thomas and Sarah Daughtrey. 
Sunday, April 9, 2:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Notre Dame 
Tickets: $20 Adults, $10 Students SouthBendSymphony.com or call 631 ~2800 
IJUNE H. EDWARDS ! 



CONSULTING GROUP 
Darners Wanted 
IBB Consulting Group, the leading boutique Strategy and Technology Consulting Firm focused on Convergence issues in Cable, Broadband and Wireless industries is looking for Undergrad Seniors and 2-year MBA candidates. Strong technology industry interest is a must. No minimum GPA required. 
Relocation to Philadelphia preferred. 
Please send cover letter and CV's to Michael Wong (Class of 1996) at rnichaelw@ibbconsulting.com 
-

Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish travel to face Huskies 
8-1 ND squares off against struggling UConn zn Storrs 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to continue their winning ways as they face Connecticut today at 1 
p.m. in Storrs, Conn. 
After avenging their 21-12 loss to Northwestern with a dominating 18-2 win over Canisius, No. 10 Notre Dame heads into Friday's game against Connecticut with an 8-1 record. 
After the win over Canisius, senior captain Crysti Foote was named to the Tewaaraton Award watch list. 
Its matchup against the Huskies is Notre Dame's sec­ond Big East game this sea­son. 
The Irish currently hold a 1-0 record in the Big East with a March 17 win over Loyola-Maryland. 
Against the Huskies, the Irish will face last week's Big East Player of the Week, midfielder Shannon Burke. Burke earned the award by scoring 10 goals in two games against Quinnipiac and Harvard. little to celebrate this sea­won its first Eastern College 
Notre Dame and son. Athletic Conference (ECAC) Connecticut have essentially Riding the wave of the Championship in school his­switched positions in the most successful season in tory. lacrosse world this season. Connecticut history in 2005, Irish coach Tracy Coyne 
The 2006 Irish have been a the Huskies have struggled and team members were surprise with their nearly to a 2-4 record thus far in traveling and were unavail­perfect record and convinc­2006. able for comment Thursday ing turnaround from last Connecticut capped its night. season's 3-12 mark. stellar 2005 season with a 
Aside from Burke's suc­12-5 record and a No. 15 Contact Chris Williams at cess, the Huskies have had ranking. The progran:t also cwillill@nd.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Tean1 opens conference season against Adrian 
2-1. They fought back and
Belles split two games a 9-1 win in game
claimed two.
against Manchester 
The Belles, who have been earlier this week strong at the plate all year scored six runs in the fifth inning alone. Third baseman By DEIRDRE KRASULA Laura Heline and designated Sports Writer hitter McKenna Corrigan each drove in two runs in the 
The Belles will play their game. first Michigan Intercollegiate Freshman pitcher Kristin Athletic Association (MIAA) Amram struck out thirteen g a m e batters, Saturday at 1 breaking the p.m., taking "/ think that Adrian is a school on Adrian record, in the
team that is often 
College at second game.
overlooked, so we need to
home. The win was While Saint play with the same Amram's' 
Mary's (10-4) intensity we do against fifth of the 
has had season.
teams that we know are
more success Sullivan this season very talented." said the than the Belles will Bulldogs (9-try to keep
Erin Sullivan 
7), Belles the intensity
Belles head coach 
head coach from the sec-Erin Sullivan ond game said her team is taking noth­against Manchester going into ing for granted. this weekend's game. 
"I think that Adrian is a "We just need to come out team that is focused and often over-ready to play," looked," Sullivan Sullivan said. said. "So we "We just need to "We are a truly need to play with talented team
come out focused 
the same intensi­and our offense
and ready to play.''
ty as we do has been domi­against teams nating. If we hit that we know Erin Sullivan the way we have are very talent­been hitting all
Belles head coach 
ed." season, we will ·­
The Belles 'are have two more coming off a wins come split in a doubleheader Saturday night." against Manchester on Wednesday. The team strug­Contact Deirdre Krasula at gled in their first game, falling dkrasula@nd.edu 
Is law dying? 
Come find out. 
0 0 0 

Law's Quandary: The (Always) Imminent Death ofthe Law 
alecture by 

Steven D. Smith Warren Distinguished Professor ofLaw University of San Diego School ofLaw 
Law School Courtroom 4:00p.m. Friday, March 31, 2006 
Steven Smith is one ofthe nation's foreltwst scholars in the area oflaw and religion and teaches in the areas oflaw and religion and constitutional law. 
SMC GoLF 
Belles look to defend Purple and White title 
Squad set new course record last season at Foxfire Golf Club 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
The Belles will look to defend their championship at the Purple and White Invitational, hosted by Capital University this weekend at the Foxfire Golf Club in Lockbourne, Ohio. 
The Belles shot a tourna­ment record 357 as a team last year to defeat 12 other teams at the Players Club Course. 
Capital University comes into the meet off a win last weekend, shooting a total of 352 to triumph over Ohio Northern by two strokes. The Crusaders were led by Charissa Mills on Sunday who fired a team-best 85 to tie for third-place, while Emma Stowe was two strokes behind with an 87. The meet begins Friday morn­ing at the Players Club Course before moving to the Foxfire course on Saturday for the final round. 
Megan Mattia, last season's Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) most valuable player, will look to improve on her top-20 fin­ish at the tournament last year. 
Mattia and the Belles fin­ished 11th in cold and snowy conditions last weekend at the Northern Kentucky Spring Invitational. 
Mattia led the Belles with an 82 on day one and a 79 on day two for a total of 161 (+17) ­good enough to earn her 30th place in the 91-golfer field. The Belles showed off their young talent with contribu­tions from a sophomore ­Katie O'Brien with a score of 169 in 49th place and a fresh­man -Alex Sei with a score of 177 for 66th place and fin­ished ahead of Division I ­Dayton. 
In addition to Mattia, the other two seniors made big contributions. Nicole Bellino had a score of 171 good enough for 56th place and Kirsten Fantom had a score of 175 for 63rd place. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdorner 1 @nd.edu 
-
Friday, March 3 I, 2006 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish offense ready to tnovv dovvn Big Green 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Irish defenseman James Severin cradles the ball in an 8-4 win on Feb. 26 over Penn State. 
-Squad fresh off 11 goal performance tn win over Brown 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Wrircr 
After an 11-5 victory over Brown Wednesday. Notre Dame looks to finish the week undefeated when they take on Dartmouth at Moose Krause Stadium Sunday at 12 p.m. 
Notre Dame's 11 goals against Brown marked its largest scoring output of the season, and Irish head coach Kevin Corrigan said he is look­ing for his team talked about the Brown game as a statement game. After sullkinntfy making their statement ·wednesday, Corrigan said the Irish will look at Sunday's game as a momentum-builder. 
"We know how important it is to have momentum going into league play," Corrigan said. "It's not just momentum for league play, though, because every game counts for the NCAAs. The last two years we've benn the seventeenth team in the 16-team NCAA tournament. If there's any­body who knows that every game counts, it's us." 
A tough Dartmouth squad 
stands in Notre 
Dame's way this 
weekend. 

offense to turn "We know how Dartmouth is 
in a similar per­important it is to currently 4-3 on formance the season, and
have momentum
Sunday. it's coming Off a 
"!Against going into league 12-9 win over Brown!, we did play." No. 11 Albany. a IH~tter job of The game before dodging and that, the Big
Kevin Corrigan 
aggressively try­Green were 
Irish head coach 
ing to get to the blown out, 14-2, 
goal," Corrigan said. "Also, when you play as many good dnfonses as we have, your offense starts to react to the defense rather than the defnns1~ react to the o!Tensn." 
Another positive aspect from the Brown game was the vast improvemnnt in facn-o!Ts. Although face-ofT specialist Taylor Clagntt was still sidn­lined with an injury, snnior rnidfielder Steve Panos was 

-
nll"netive, helping the team win I I of 20 faee-offs, a major irnprovenwnt over the 6 of 22 face-oils the team won in their first game without Clagett -a loss to llofstra. "Steve did a t1~rrific job last week, and we really hope that he ean do it for us again this week," Corrigan said. After losing to the Pride. the 
by No. 3 
Maryland, but the Irish aren't giving as much weight to that performance. 
"I dnfinitely think that the Albany game is more indica­tive of who Dartmouth is," senior co-captain DJ Driscoll said. "They just never really got into the Maryland game. We're going to expect the best from them." 
Notre Dame rested Thursday after its game Wednesday, and they haven't had much time to prepare for Dartmouth. 
"Coming off a short week, the game is more about your match-ups and less about adapting to the other team, so we're going to focus more on ourselves," Corrigan said. 
Contact Greg Arbogast garbogas@nd.edu 
TRACK AND fiELD 

Team to host outdoor event 
Distance runners to participate in Nike Stanford Invitational 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Wrirer 

The Irish team welcomes four regional foes Saturday to Moose Krause Stadium for the first outdoor home meet of the season. 
The last time Notre Dame hosted an outdoor lwnw meet was almost two years ago on April :~. 2004. The team hopes to repeat their effort in that meet. which earned Notre Damn 10 event victories. 
"The early season meets are all about getting some good times under your belt and starting ofT the ypar in a 
strong way," said sophomore sprinter Zaeh l.abrecque. 
Labrecque will run the I 00 and 200-meter races for the Irish Saturday.· 
Notrn Dame will also snn its first conference action of the out­door season as DePaul eomes to South Bend. The meet will thn Blue Demon's 
lOth in the 400-meter run. 
Detroit-Mercy of the Horizon League, whose full team will be at Notre Dame this week­end, also sent three of their 
runners to the indoor invitation­al held at the Loftus Center in February. 
Another Horizon League team.. Loyola­Chicago, will also be competing this weekend. The Ham bier men opened up their outdoor season placing 12th in Tuscaloosa, Ala. at the Alabama Belays. The 
women's team failed to place dnspite thH 4 x 100 relay team setting a new school record 

"The early season meets are all about getting some good times under your belt and starting offthe year in a strong way." 
Zach Labrecque Irish sprinter 
with a timn of 
49.25 seconds. 
Central Michigan will round out thn field Saturday. The Chippewa men have pullnd out of the mont. but 17 members of the women's squad will be there for their first outdoor meet. 
None of the four teams will be at full strength high school athletes are scheduled to compote. 
"Some of our best athletes will be missing this weekend, so in that sense it will hurt 

"Some ofour best athletes will be missing this weekend, so in that sense it will hurt us." 
Zach Labrecque Irish sprinter 
us," Labrncque said. "Wn still think we will bn able to do well." 
Irish junior Thomas Chamney will lead the small Notre Damn contingnnt hnading to Palo Alto. lin is a main contender to win the HOO­nwter race after being namnd an All-American at the NCAA Indoor Championships. 
On thP women's side, Molly lluddle and Stephanie Madiit will make tlw trip to Palo Alto. lluddle makes her season debut aftpr sitting out th1~ win­ter with a leg injury. 
"A lot of the girls havn bonn running well in thn past fnw weeks and they are showing that tlwy are ready to raee fast," Madia said. "We are all excited to get some regional quafiliPrs this weekend." 
Madia traditionally runs the livn-kilometer event but is giv­ing hnrsPif a break this week­end after qualifying for the NCAA Hegional Tournament last wenknnd in Tucson. Ariz. She will competn. in the 1,500 meter run. 
"I want to keep my speed pretty consistent because my ultimatn goal is to continue to improve my timtl in the 5,000," Madia said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu ­

second of the season after last weekend's performance at the Southern Illinois Spring Classic. Only one DePaul run­ner, freshman Gabe Harris, competed at Notre Dame ear~ lier in the year at the Alex Wilson Invite. Harris tlnished 
this weekend as many of the distance runners will be rac­ing in the na.tionally known Nike Stanford Invitational. The annual outdoor tourna­ment attracts elite runners from across the country and more than 4,000 college and 


Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
instead of doing my home­work, and I would study the ·
Knute 
landmarks," Sears said. continued from page 28 
"There was a red dot in the 
map of Kansas that indicated a 
here." Knute Rockne Memorial." 
The memorial service will When he read a story in the start at 10 a.m. CST and South Bend Tribune about the include a ritual football toss anniversary of the crash and and prayers. Family and the memorial in Kansas, Sears 

friends of the seven other vic­tims on the night will be in atten­dance. 
Emma helped organize some of the pilgrims, assisting chief organizer Pat Heis, a 1985 graduate of Notre Dame. Heis has been making annual pilgrim­ages since he was in college. 
"A bunch of my roommates -like college guys do ­just decided they wanted to road 
':4 bunch ofmy roommates -like college guys do ­just decided they wanted to road trip and see where the big, concrete marker that's seen in a lot ofNotre Dame football films is." 
Pat Reis Notre Dame alumnus 

trip and see where the big, concrete marker that's seen in a lot of Notre Dame football films is," Reis said. "So they said, 'Let's go find that thing.' So they set off for the Middle­of-Nowhere, Kansas when they met this Easter Heathman guy who gave them a tour. And we've been doing it ever since -and the last 20 years since we graduated." 
Reis said around 7 5 pilgrims made the journey in 1991 to celebrate the 60th anniversary, which has been the largest turnout since they began the pilgrimage. 
Jim Sears, a fellow member of the class of 1985, said his trips to the crash site began in 1984 when he and his friend AI Gates, a 1984 Notre Dame graduate, decided on March 30 to drive to Kansas that night. 
"I had a road atlas in my car, and I used to page through it decided to make the trip. 
"I put the two things together and called up the one person I knew was doing less homework than I was -AI Gates -and I proposed it to him, and he did­n't hesitate -he said, 'Let's go,"' Sears said. ")The monument] salutes our alma mater Notre Dame and all the things Rockne did. 
"This is another 

way to celebrate this ... great man." 
Since then, a contingent of Notre Dame alum­ni and "subway alums" -fans of Heathman was a 14-year-old out in the fields and one of the first to arrive at the scene. He has been guiding visitors to the site ever since. 
But Heathman's sister, Sue Ann Brown, and Heis organ­ized most of the pilgrimage this year, with the help of some friends like Emma. 
Heis said this year's pilgrim­age has attracted greater attention than any of the previ­ous ones, thanks in large part to the notability of a 75th anniversary, combined with the accessibility of the Internet -something that was not available for widespread use before the 60th anniversary. 
"There's definitely a height­ened interest this time," Reis said. "It is a tragic day -you lose site of that sometimes. It is a celebration of Knute Hockne's life and the seven other people who died that day. We try to celebrate their lives in the best way, but at the same time, it's a very tragic event; it's somber." 
The range of emotions and motivations for different pil­grims will be mixed, Heis said. 
Minneapolis resident Joe 
Pupel and his wife 
brought their three 
sons -ages 10, 8 

the University who and 4 -from
7The monument] 

did not attend the Minnesota to cele­school -have salutes our alma brate Rockne's life. made the pilgrim­mater Notre "We've decided age annually. to share a little bit
Dame and all the 
Reis took over of American histo­
things Rockne 

the majority of ry with them so planning for this did.,, they can remember year's event from a little bit of their 89-year-old Easter heritage and expe­
Jim Sears

Heathman, an eye­rience the impor­
Notre Dame 

witness to the tance of [Rockne's crash. alumnus death]," Pupel said. 
"He's basically There will also done all the work be a moment of to accommodate silence and memo­and host whoever shows up on rial service in Rockne's native the anniversary date of the Voss, Norway. plane crash," Reis said. "[He's] the caretaker of the site." Contact Ken Fowler at 
At the time of the crash, kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

On the 75th Anniversary of the Death of Knute Rockne The Notre Dame Athletics Department Presents "Knute Rockne and His Fighti~g Irish" A 52-minute Video Documentary Showings at 3:00, 4:00, 5:00 and 
6:00 p.m. Friday March 31, 2006 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium Admission is Free 
Shark 
continued from page 28 
[and] get the off-speed working," he said. "Hopefully I can get some pitches to go along with my fastball just to make everything a little bit smoother." 
The Irish hurler will face Panthers southpaw Rob Brant. Brant is 2-3 with a 4.42 ERA and 37 strikeouts in 36.7 innings pitched. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri said it will be important for Samardzija to deliver a quality outing to start the weekend set. 
"This is obviously a huge series for us," Mainieri said. "You need to take care of busi­ness at home in our conference because the 

"Hopefully I can
road games are against Panthers. just such tough get some pitches to junior right-han­games to win." der Kyle Landis.
go along with my
Pittsburgh Landis is 2-1
fastball just to
enters the week­with a 3.71 ERA end on a four make everything a in nine appear­game losing little smoother.,, ances but has streak, high­made just two lighted by a starts. He has 
Jeff Samardzija 
three-game allowed 23 hits sweep at the Irish pitcher in 26.2 innings, 
four, five, six runs, we should figure -out a way to win the game.'' 
In the second game of the series, Notre Dame junior right-hander Jeff Manship will take the mound for the Irish for Saturday's 1:05 p.m. first pitch. 
Manship will face Panthers junior righty ace Paul Nardozzi. Nardozzi is 4-2 in six starts with a 3.32 ERA and 49 strikeouts in 43.1 innings pitched. 
Mainieri said Pittsburgh's strikeout ability will minimize the Irish hit-and-run game. In part because of a slew of failed hit-and-runs this year, the Irish are just 28-of-47 on stolen base attempts. 
The series finale begins at 

1:05 Sunday and will pit Notre Dame senior lefty Tom Thornton 
hands of West Virginia in 
Morgantown last weekend. 
"You have to respect all your opponents, and we know Pittsburgh is a very good team," Mainieri said. "Pittsburgh's like a wounded dog right now with [its back] against the wall." 
The Irish enter having won four in a row. Sophomore hurler Wade Korpi threw a complete game shutout ahd struck out 11 batters against Western Michigan Wednesday. 
"You define momentum in baseball as the perfonriance of your starting pitching ­and Wade Korpi gave us great momentum," Mainieri said. 
Notre Dame enters the series batting .293 with an on­base percentage of .395. Mainieri said that while the oyerall numbers are good, the Irish still lack consistency. 
"It's the heart of the order, the middle of the order ­where you should be getting your greatest production ­that has been so inconsistent for us," he said. "If we can just figure out a way to score 

holding opposing hitters to a .225 batting average. 
Thornton comes in after nearly throwing his second straight shutout against Georgetown March 25. He threw eight-plus innings with­out allowing an earned run but was relieved in the ninth as two infield errors allowed three Hoyas runners to score. 
Despite the late-game lapses in Thornton's last start, Mainieri remains confident in the Irish defense. 
"If we could get a little bit more consistent on offense ... we can be a pretty dangerous team," he said. "And with our pitching and defense, some­times it doesn't take a lot of runs to win the game." 
Mainieri said he is confident in his team but knows the dangers of a struggling Pittsburgh squad. 
"They know this is a critical weekenp for them, too," he said. "They're going to come out there and really battle." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
-
Friday, March 31, 2006

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 

Senior Sara Schoonaert huddles with teammates during Wednesday's 1-0 extra-innings victory over Bowling Green. 
Big East 
continued from page 28 
of business in thP conferenefl. 

"Wn have amazing talent, motivation and lnam ehernistry, and wlwn we bring all of these aspects to the field we are one gwat ball dub." l.nnn said. 
Thn Friars. who face Notre l>anw in two games Sunday afternoon, also conw to South Bend firing on all cylinders. Bnf'ore losing to Hutgers last wenkend, l'rovidenee had reelml oiT night straight wins to bring its rneord to 15·5 on the year. 
Unlike the Huskies. the Friars have been winning games by big scores-including a 7-2 win ovnr Villanova,-an 11-1 defeat of Hutgers and a 16-7 blowout of Fairleigh Dickinson in recent weeks. 
The Irish pitching starr has succeeded in shutting down big bats all year long and is confi­dent it will be able to do the same with the Friars. 
"As a whole, we always try to focus on keeping the ball in the park and giving our hitters a chance to win the ball game," Fuemmeler said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Eagles 
continued from page 28 

win three of the six singles matches ro claim the win. 
The two wins in singles carne from No. 5 Kiki Stastny and No. 6 Katie Potts who has only lost once in dual matches this snason. 
"The whole tf~am fought hard in thn last match," Potts said. "We've itlso had a great snason. so now we just need to play gn~at tennis in the upcoming matchns." 
Eastern Mirhigan heads into tlw contest with an impressive (>-I win over Ball State last Saturday. The Eagles now stand at h-6 overall and 1-1 in the Mi-d-American Conference. 
In the match. Eastern Michigan elaimed the doubles point with wins from their Nos. 2 and 3 doubles. Playing at No. 2 for the Eagles was the duo of Catherina Bestahorn and Elizabeth 
Syrova  and  at  No.  3  was  
Falvia  Micati  and  Laura  
Fernandez.  

Leading the team in singles is Syrova at No. 1 and Aditi Krishnan at No.2. 
"Although IEastern Miehiganl isn't ranked as high as us, we never want to underestimate any of our opponents," Potts said. "We are expecting great matches from them." 
The Irish feature two highly ranked doubles teams. Leading the team is the No. 3 duo of juniors Christian and Catrina Thompson at No. 1. The Thompson's are coming ofT a 9-7 win over Vanderbilt's Amanda Fish and Amanda Taylor. Following the Thompson's is the No. 29 pairing of sophomore Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft. The third Irish team is the twosome of seniors Kiki Stastny and Lauren Connelly. 

In singles, No. 30 Catrina Thompson leads the team at No. 1. Thompson is followed by No. 74 Christian Thompson at No. 2. 
"We are really looking for­ward to playing at homo after having sevnral matches away," Nelson said. "Getting a win against Eastern Miehigan will be a great way to start lthe upcoming series or matches on the roadl." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

Forget everything you learned at Notre Dame! 
It's who you know. 
Robert Putnam 
t•rof{·..-.sor of t•u blic PoIif\' 
' 


Sunday, A11ril 2 at 4:lJOpm j(·Jrdan AudifC)rium .Ptr'\t•ndo,.a Ccllh•gt• c)l Rusin•~ss 
R( ,, )1•rt I1,;Jtn.,rn'"' ll< tt: 1k. Ht}.l,Jing i\l.:r.•>t"'1 o;,(~~·m"" 1o ll,)vr· r:.trut:"l.: .1 r. ht)fd •.-..·dl• 11ldll~ (O!l( f·rrwd •.-.:rlh lht~ d•:"< lint~ ta;· cnnK l'r'u,.1 ,1~ 1 4•111~·111 in tnt• l ,'nil·t'd l.;,t.~fpo;; 0\'l*r 1hP I.J,t 1h@r1V '\/i!l1;!1f'S, 
~ l • I $' ." 
·:\ qUf·-.1 ion .1nd .~na..\\ l!r ...... ·o.ston \'\ iII iollc;,-.,, l~"roi~··~t;or Pa11n..am·, J1rt•'i<t.'l11,tti<t>l1. 

husin<~ss.nd~t·du/socialcapilal 

Y'•'lll~ll't•.!llll• ~ ·:•o ....11 .....1'.'< 'Ill Llll•·"'"'·''~l !I I I i hoi • ~Hat .. o'li""-"1 • H iHit 
''" ...........,. '".Ill "' !• ·~ ... "''"' ....... ,, .,, 
HI· o. •• , l._,d :;1·; II L•lll · ''illl ill• 'lhl'""' Pl H I ~~~ •e< 'o 

-

Friday, March 31, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
Where's Chad? Is 
he still at hockey 
practice? He said some 

'mighty ducks' 
challenged them 
to a high stakes 
scrimmage. 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 33 Route markers DOWN 1 Royal protection 35 RR place 1 Political 12 Swift quality 38 Infrangible columnist Thomas
15 Vitamin C, e.g. 39 Directory data: Abbr. 2 Lacks of energy 
16 "Another Green World" musician 40 Solara, for one 3 One who sings 
17 1990's White 42 Friend of but maybe House chief of "Ralphie boy" 
shouldn't 

staff 44 Words of 4 Inflammatory 18 Largest U.S. resignation stuff youth org. 45 Person who's 5 Runners 19 Certain 
authorized to 

6 What cribs are
shorten a

connection 
used for

sentence 7 Array on a bar 
makers 
46 Former New 

20 Gets the word 
shelf
York senator

out? 47 Tanning need 8 It's fruit-flavored 
22 Whom auditors audit 48 Alternative to 9 Inked art, for eBay short
23 Remiss 52 Sight seer 10 Key word 
25 Hangouts 53 1996 Emmy­
26 Spherical cereal 11 Steadily took in 
winning role in 

27 Little jingle 12 It always has a
a sitcom 28 Custom 
home

54 Lottery-running 29 Representation org. 13 Raid targets of tuning fork 55 Game that 14 Warmed by the sounds 
involves fire 34 Sets off 38 Former Falcons 46 The Great 31 List opening a door 21 Animate coach Dan (Victor Borge's 
35 Composer of 
nickname)

22 the opera 40 Acquire
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Bird 
"Brandenburgers 49 Some Eng.

'";'1~";";'1;.:;, 23 Consumes with 41 Put down 
in Bohemia" majors get them 
flair 

43 Word 24 Puts forth 36 Eight-line verse immediately 50 Alma mater of form · preceding some NPR's Tom and
26 It literally means 
signatures Ray Magliozzi: 
"thing to wear'' 37 Newspaper 
Abbr.
inits. since 44 More like a

29 Slangy greeting 
1851 swami 51 Storm dir. 30 Verb for a historian For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
31 Victorian-era 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
novelist 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 32 Indiana-born crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. composer/writer 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

33 Busy times at past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). fast-food Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young restaurants solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $1.00 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name 
Address 

City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 

letter to each square, Nice job, Miss Jones to form four ordinary words. 

I 
ENSIO 
j
I [I II 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CAFTE 
j
I I r (] 

HALNIE WH~N TH~ BOSS 
j 
GAY~ H~R A PAT ON www.jum61e .com • TH~ SHOUL-D~!<., SH~ FOUND IT--­REFUGI 
[IJ I I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

"[ I I I I I I I]" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow} Jumbles: DERBY FETID COOKIE GUILTY Saturday's Answer: Although he was a vegetarian, the diner had a­"BEEFY" LOOK 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Meshach Taylor, 58; Louise Lasser, 66; Joel Grey, 73; Johnny Messner, 35 
Happy Birthday: Stop putting pressure on yourself and start to do the possible. This can be a highly energetic year, but getting started will be the problem. Surround yourself with people who can support you emotionally. A change is headed your way by year-end so prepare to accept something new. Your numbers are I, 13, 22, 27, 33, 38 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business early today so you have plenty of time later in the day for socializing and romance. You may have to take care of the needs of an older relative. Organization will be the key to fitting everything in. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Digging your heels in and refusing to budge may work against you in the end. Don't oppose the very people who are trying to do something to help you. Anger will not help you find a solution to a disagreement. 
*** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you find yourself a little confused about someone you recently met, stick to your longtime friends. Problems with authority figures or while traveling can be expected. Do something to help a cause you believe in.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Good times are ahead if you take part in activities 
"" that include a lot of people. You will make new friends or even get involved in a business partnership. Put a little time aside for love and romance. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may know exactly what it is you are trying to accomplish. Expect some opposition along the way. Take the path of least resistance and steer clear of people who like to play devil's advocate. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Hope you've planned a day trip or business trip. You will make the greatest gains if you are en route both personally and professionally. Your mind is open to change and new ideas. ***** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get angry about the things that aren't happening in your life. Do something about it and hold on to what you've got. There will be plenty of people trying to take your cash without your giving it away. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A new partnership will give you a positive spin on something you've been trying to do for some time. You can make deals and sign contracts. Consider starting or expanding your own business interests. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A stubborn colleague may put a hold on -...
what you are trying to accomplish today. Prepare to deal with this person before it's too late. Do whatever it takes to drum up the support you need. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can't win at a personal level, and chances are good that you will have trouble with your peers today. Book into a spa, get a massage, go to the hairdresser, get a consultation with a makeover expert, but don't just sit around trying to force people who aren't going to budge. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can expect to face difficulties with someone regarding emotional issues you probably don't want to deal with. You aren't likely to be able to talk someone into changing his or her mind, so don't bother. Prepare yourself for your next big adventure. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): The more you do with friends or the more involved you become in your community, the more you will get in return. Consider the relationships you have with different people, and if you haven't been getting anything back, you may want to let go. **** Birthday Baby: You are quick, intelligent and you can create your own opportunities. You have pizzazz and discipline --a rare combination. You are creative, sensational and very capable of being a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I 
l I 
l 
l 
1 
-~ 
•
1 
~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 31, 2006 
page 28 
BASEBALL 

Blood in the water 
Samardzija ready to lead Irish against Pittsburgh in Big East home opener at Eck Stadium 
By KEN FOWLER 
Spom Editor 

Notre Dame right-hander Jeff Samardzija will make his 2006 home debut tonight as the Irish (14-10) begin a three-game series against Big East foe Pittsburgh (11-12) at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"It's going to be exciting­especially being a Big East game -coming home and get­ting that first start of the year," Samardzija said after Notre Dame's 2-0 vietory over Western Miehigan Wednesday. "We'll see, hopefully it'll be a good opener on Friday under the lights." 
Samardzija enters the eontest with a 2-1 record and a 3. 72 EHA in five starts. He has struek out 10 and allowed 26 hits in 29 innings. 
Samardzija said tonight's start will be important as the team starts to get deeper into its schedule. 
''I'm just trying to take advan­tage of it nvnry time we gnt out -bring the control around 
see SHARK/page 25 

ND SOFTBALL 
1

Doubleheaders m.ark 
opening of league play 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Aces look to avenge first defeat 
Team hosts Eastern M_ichigan in first match after Vandy loss 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
After suffering their first loss of the season to No. 11 Vanderbilt on Wednesday, No. 2 Notre Dame returns back home to face Eastern Michigan today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 2:30 pm. 
The loss ended the teams 16 match winning streak. 
"We are ready to rebound from the loss Iagainst Vanderbilt] and have a great match," senior Kelly Nelson said. "We have been very suc­cessful this season so far, and we are motivated to finish out strong." _ 
In their last mateh against the Commodores, the Irish began the match by sweeping the doubles point but failed to 
see EAGLES/page 26 

Irish have won five of last seven games before Big East opener 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins confer­ence play this weekend with a pair of doubleheaders at Ivy Field. 
The Irish will see a combi­nation of strong defense and powerful hitting as they wel­come Connecticut and Providence for two games each in the Big East's first weeknnd. 
"Any time you play tough competition early on it pre­pares you for the conference," right-handed pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler said. "We know what we have will have to do beat teams later on in the year." 
The Irish finished their pre­eonference schedule at 14-10. Out of thn I 0 lossns, only two have been by more than one run, with three coming in extra innings. 
Notre Dame has won five of its last seven games, with the only losses in the past two weeks coming in one-run games against No. 2 Texas and No. 7 Alabama. 
"We are definitely ready to take on the Big East," catcher Mallorie Lenn said. "We plan on winning the conference this year." 
The action begins on Saturday at noon in the first of two games against the Huskies. Connecticut (14-11) comes into Saturday's games having won six straight con­tests and eight of their last 10. 
The Huskies have been get­ting it done on the mound, shutting out their opponents in four of the eight. On Wednesday, the squad defeat­ed Holy Cross 11-0. 
The Irish are still confident they will be able to take care 
see BIG EAST/page 26 
fOOTBALL 

Pilgrims to honor Rockne 
75th anniversary of 
X:n:ute 'Rock,ne
coach's death will be 

'.Burn :M.I.l:rcli ...b J.ddd 
1912 Tllird-team AU-Amlricu
marked with tribute 
1

I 1913 Third-teamAJJ..Ammcan By KEN FOWLER 
1 1914 Graduates 1111pa cwn laude in chemiatty Sports Editor 
1914 Becomlt alliltlat coadl UDder J•Harper
1 

j \ ,--1918 88COIIIIII bud coach u.Hlrper retirel
At 10:48 a.m. today, a small 

' ' 1920 Rocbe Judi ND to IIQOQd IU'ai8fU
section of the Flint Hills of 
UllidefHfllld MUOD
L

Kansas will return to the quiet 
1924 Rocbe--lead ND wiDa utioul
state that consumes it on most 
c:h"""*""thip at 10-0

days of the year -and to the 

1929 Notra Deme ac-9-0 to win niiCiOilll
serenity it held every day until 
eh.poaMip

that minute 75 years ago. More than 100 pilgrims are 
·' r

1930 Non Dame'I 10-0 NCOrd eGDJ Rocbe INICOIIId ltraifht tide
expected to surround a stone 
.,., -193llt.oc:bekilW iD p1ue erub outside
monument just outside of 
• . Buur., ltaa.
Bazaar, Kan. today and pause for a moment of silence at that 
Observer Graphic by MATI HUDSON 

time, marking the anniversary of the death of Notre Dame said via telephone from Kansas something that was not done football coach Knute Rockne in City, Mo. last night. "It's a very until that point. one of the first commercial important moment in many "People understand to be the plane crashes in American avi­different ways." death of the greatest football ation history on March 31, The political fallout from coach who ever lived, and that 1931. Rockne's crash forced the is true," Emma said. "But 
"[It) is a tremendously Aeronautics Branch of the additionally, there are many solemn but yet very powerful Department of Commerce -the different socio-political ele­anniversary in our nation's his­predecessor to the Federal ments that come from tory, and I don't think that is Aviation Administration -to Rockne's life and his death an overstatement," 1984 Notre release the results of aero­Dame alumnus Chuck Emma space accident investigations, see KNUTE/page 25 
en 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

SMC SOFTBALL 
ROWING 
MEN'S GOLF 

(.) Notre Dame vs. 
Irish vs. Eastern 
Notre Dame vs. 

Saint Mary's vs. 
San Diego Classic 
Augusta State 
z Dartmouth 
Michigan 

at Miss1on Bay 
Invitational
Connecticut 

Adrian
::5
li: w 

Sunday, 12 p.m. 
Friday, 2:30 p.m. 
Friday, 1 p.m. 

Saturday, 1 p.m. 
Irish rowers will com-
Notre Dame golfers
= 
~ 

Irish enter game 
Aces look to get back 
No. 10 Irish enter 

Belles enter game 
pete for the Jessop­
face three top-20 oppo-

Whitier Cup against the 
nents at the Champions

against Big Green after 
on the winning track 
game against Huskies 

after a doubleheader 
with an 8-1 record. 

nation's top crews. 
Retreat Golf Club. 

11-5 win over Brown. 
after 4-3 loss to Vandy. 

split with Manchester.
a.. ti ct 

en 
page 22 
page 21

page 24 
page 24 
page 23 
page 23 

-








