
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 100 FRIDAY. MARCH 3. 2006 
Mendoza rejects 'gates,' external transfers 
By KAREN LANGLEY A<sistant News Editor 
As increasing numbers of stu­dents have dneidnd to major in business during tho past sever­al ynars, tho Mendoza College of Businoss has chosen to addrnss rising inlnrnsl by keep­ing Nolrn Damn students as its priority. While any Notre Dame student in good standing can choosn to pursun a major in business -or any othnr aca­dnmie an~as -at any limn, the Collngn of Businnss is no longer ac1~npling transfers from other un ivorsitios. 
Notre Damn students have 
always benn able to transfer freely between the colleges, and that is not about to change. But during the past five years, tlw college has been cutting back on admitting transfer stu­dents from outside the University ­and in the fall of 2005, the eollege admitted zero exter­nal transfers. 
Dean Carolyn Woo of the College of Business st:ressed the cumulative ell'ects of accepting extnrnal transfer studnnts -a step that greatly increases an already large student popula­tion. 

"We're not obligated to take external transfers," she said. "We should serve Notre Dame students before external stu­dents. 

"It's like carrying a 350­pound body on knees designed for 200 pounds. The wear and tear is eventually seen." 
The College of Business should definitely not grow larg­er, Woo said. At one point, the College graduated 30 percent of University students, though peer universities typically have 8 to 12 percent of their under­graduates enrolled in business, she said. 
"There are so many majors in the University," she said. 'There is no reason all [the stu­dents] should be in business." 
In the fall of 2005 there were 1,543 sophomores, juniors and seniors enrolled in business, down from 1,806 in the fall of 2001. 
Two years ago, then­University Provost Nathan Hatch met with Woo to diseuss the possibility of enacting gates to admission in the College, requiring a rising sophomore to have a 3.0 GPA to enter, said 
see BUSINESS/page 3 

Dorms interview RA candidates· 
Current resident assistants, rectors talk to applicants about issues, faith, ambitions 
By KAlTLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Whnn Paul I lagan was apply­ing to bn a residnnt assistant (B/\1 in Zahm llall last ynar, he knnw part of his job would bn encouraging -or discouraging -thn dorm's notorious tradi­tions. 
Now, llagan is intnrvinwing prospndivn Zahm HAs, and the isstw of upholding Zahm's iden­tity is a qunslion lw and the otlwr HAs are posing to the applintnts. 
"Wn ask qtwstions about how llwy fnnl about. our donn cui­turn. becausn obviously Zahm has a vnry uniqun or outspoken eulture, so lwn talk aboutl how llwy would want to ehangn it or nurturn it," Hagan said. 
see SELECTION/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Graduate keeps ties withSMC 
Alumna returns to campus, shares book 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saim Mary's Editor 
On May 17, 2003, Nnw York 

Times bestselling author and 
Saint Mary's alumna Adriana 
Trigiani delivered a hilarious 
eomrneneemcnt address at the 
College. Titlnd "Guts, Blind 
Faith, and Sun Bloek," it had 

graduates and their families 
rolling on the LeMans Hall 
Green. 
"As of eight o'clock tomor­
row morning lyour parents! 

would like you to leave tlwm 
alone ... Your mothers have 
asked me to tell you that thnir 
homes are not storage bins. 
Please, w lw n you move on, 
takn your junk with you," 

Trigiani joknd. 
The scene exemplified the 

warm rnlationship Trigiani has 
rnaintairu~d with her alma 

mater since graduating in 
19Hl and moving on to a dis­
tinguishod writing earner. 
"Adri has just bonn vnry, 

very gnnnrous [with Saint 
Mary's students] and I think 
she is with hnr readers too," 
English dnpartnwnt chair Max 
Wnstler said. · Af'ter relocating from South 
Bend to Nnw York City, 
Trigiani founded an all-fnmaiP 
comedy troupe "Thn Outcasts" 
and later worknd as a writer 
and producer for television 
shows such as "The Cosby 
Show," "A Different World" 
and "City Kids." ller 1996 doe-
see TRIGIANI/pagc 4 


Stretch of Douglas Road to close 
By KArlE PERRY As.~i.<tam News Editor 
With plans set and a vrsron nstablishnd, the University is ready to eontinue its quest for developnwnt with the campus roads projed -a proeedure that will foree the elosure of some heavily traflkked routes on and around campus next W£Wk. 
A portion of Douglas Hoad between .Juniper and Ivy roads will bn elosnd from Monday until early May, University spoknsman Dennis Brown said in a stalnment Wednnsday. 
Part of Bulla Hoad, east of ~~arnJHIS, and part of Ivy Hoad, north of Vannss Strnnt, will also lw elosnd to motorists 
see DOUGLAS/page 6 


Slovv Webmail access investigated by OIT 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
While rushing is a way of life at Notre Dame, slower­than-usual Webmail serviee is frustrating students, faculty and administrators who rely daily on the Notre Dame e­mail system. 
The slowed performance arose during the past two to three weeks, said Paul Russell, Senior Systems Administrator for the Offiee of Information Technologies Messaging Serviees team. Husselr said OIT is working to address the situation. 
"We arn paying attention to the issue," Hussell said. "We arc painfully aware of thn problem." 
orr has discussed and implemented both short-and long-term solutions, Hussnll said. There are a number of faetors that aiTeet server per­formance, and orr is investi­gating the best way to pro­ceed in addrnssing eom­plaints, he said. 
Hussell said the Webrnail problem is a eomplex issue that doesn't have a simple or straightforward solution. Though Webmail problnms have benn the most prnvalnnt, Hussoll said that all e-mail users havn benn aiToetnd by slower spnnds, ineluding thosn using Outlook l•:xprnss and Eudora Mail. The dillkul­
see E-MAIL/page 8 
Friday, March 3, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Miracle w-orkers 
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger wasn't exaggerating when he called it the daily miracle. 
The legendary New York Times publisher wasn't talking about col­lege newspapers, of course. But his famous remark sums up perfectly how The Observer manages to appear on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses five days a week. 
Beats me. 
Even after lead­ing the newspaper for a year, I still don't understand how we did this 140 times, or why nearly 200 students sacrifice chunks of their GPAs, sleep and social lives for the sake of creating a campus newspaper. 
Me, I can't really pinpoint one moment when or one reason why I decided The Observer would domi­nate my Notre Dame life-that I'd blow ofT classes for reporting assign­ments, instinctively dissect dinner conversations for story ideas, spend more St. Patrick's Days typing in the basement of South Dining IIall than chugging on a College Park balcony. Somewhere between Heturn to Glory and Monk Moves On, between saying no to the London Program and yes to the Editorial Board, I fell in love with journalism, added the news to my extensive list of addictions and resolved to make The Observer shine. 
Of course, some just ealled it selling my soul. And they have a point-I'm not so nai've as to think everyone commits to this newspaper to the same extremes or does it for the same reasons. There are those who do it for the notoriety (Alec and Erik), for the money (Nick and Sam), or because of their boss's various bribes and guilt-trips (you know who you are). There are those who, frankly, I expect to stop showing up any day now. And then there are those -Pat, Heather, Mo, Sarah, Mike, Maddie and all the rest -who long ago decided, to my immense gratitude, that The Observer was where they'd make their Notre Dame identity. 
At the end of my term, I'm realizing that our individual motivations mat­ter less than the one reason we all have in common-even if we don't all admit it-that isn't exactly con­crete. 
It's trudging into DeBartolo or the dining hall on two hours of sleep and watching students hungrily grabbing newspapers from the stacks. It's sur­veying the restless audiences waiting for Father Jenkins' inaugural address or academic freedom speeches and catching administra­tors, faculty and students alike por­ing over each page. It's braving the swarming Bookstore on football Fridays just for the satisfaction of seeing alumni fight for copies of the newspaper you slaved over until 5:30 
a.m. the night before. It's holding each issue knowing you've con­tributed to 40 years of student sweat, integrity and fearlessness. 
So yes, intangible is an understate­ment. But after an unforgettable year of proudly witnessing the talent, pas­sion and dedication this staff pours into The Observer, I know I'll never consider "daily miracle" overstating the case. 
Contact Claire Heininger at 
cheining@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW HAS THE CONSTRUCTION ON DOUGLAS ROAD AFFECTED YOU? 




values." when I drive to responsibility. " work." 
And a little-bitty thimble of popcorn, please. 
OTTAWA -Budding Canadian film makers looking for a big break may want to think small -about 2 inches by 2 inches to be exact ­organizers of Canada's first mobile film festival said Wednesday. 
Mobifest producers are looking for bite-sized films that are up to 60 second.s long and pro­duced for viewing on cellphones and other handheld devices. 
"The big picture is that there's a billion (mobile) phones worldwide and an 
TODAY 


Joey Brown Bronwyn Fullard Patrick Essien Molly Phister ·Maggie Jesperson 
freshman sophomore senior sophomore sophomore Fisher Pasquerilla East St. Ed's LeMans LeMans 
"It is imposing "It's really "Not really, 7 don't have a "It made it on my Catholic frustrating too much car. So, no." difficult to get 

with his school group on Friday stuck a wad of chew­ing gum on the painting, which is worth an estimat­ed $1.5 million, the Detroit Free Press said. 
The barely chewed Wriglefs Extra Polar Ice gum left a residue stain about the size of a quarter in the lower left-hand cor­ner of the painting, the newspaper said. 
The boy was suspended from Holly Academy, a Detroit-area charter school he attends, the newspaper reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
increasing percentage of them are playing back video," said Duncan Kennedy, president of Nownow Corp., which is producing the contest. "It's a new distribution channel for independent film making." 
Boy sticks gum on valuable painting 
DETROIT -Painter Helen Frankenthaler's landmark abstract work "The Bay" just got a little more abstract -to the dis­may of Detroit museum offi­cials. 
A 12-year-old boy visiting the Detroit Institute of Arts 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

to my student observing. " 
IN BRIEF 
Saint Mary's senior Ashley Peltier will present her senior comprehensive play "Angel: A Nightmare in Two Acts" today at 7:30p.m. in the Little Theater in Moreau Hall. The play is free and open to the public. 
The Irish men's basketball team will bid farewell to seniors Saturday, when the team squares off with DePaul in its final home game of the 2005­2006 season. Tip-oil" is at 4 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The 2nd annual Holy Cross Mission Lecture, 'The Word of God is not Chained: Images for Mission in Cultw·es," will be pre­sented Sunday at 7:15 p.m. in the Moreau Seminary Auditorium. 
John Carr, Director of the Department of Social Develo­pment & World Peace, will speak on "Political Responsibility and Religion: Faithful Citizenship in the 2006 Elections" on Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium 
The Jazz Clinic with the Clayton Brothers will perform Saturday at 2 p.m in the Notre Dame Band Building. The event is part of the Collegiate Jazz Festival and is free and open to the public. 
A conference titled "Reading Between the Lines: Scripture and Community in the Dead Sea Scrolls" will take place at 
10:30 a.m. Monday in McKenna Hall auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 


33 
22 
..... 
ct 
(,) 



0 

HIGH 37 HIGH HIGH HIGH 40
...I 
LOW 30 LOW LOW LOW 25 



Atlanta 62 I 45 Boston 36 I 24 Chicago 36 I 23 Denver 62 I 31 Houston 68 I 59 Los Angeles 65 I 47 Minneapolis 31 I 24 New York 34 I 29 Philadelphia 45 I 27 Phoenix 80 I 59 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 50 I 30 Tampa 77 I 35 Washington 47 129 
' • 4 I I I ' • • • • • I 
I 

Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Business 
continued from page 1 
Assistant Provost !'or Admissions l>an Saradno. "That goos against tlw culture at Notrn Damn," Saracino said. 
For now at h~ast. it was dtH·.id­nd that ga tPs both <·.an and should hn avoidPd. 
Woo PrhoPd Saracino's analy­sis, adding that this stancn madn NotrP DamP uniquP. 
"Almost all schools I know havo gatns to tlw husinoss pro­gram." slw said. "If INotrn llamnl an~npts stud11nts, they should hav.~~ a<~cnss to any major thny want. 
Assistant Dnan of tho Collngo ol' Busirwss Samuol Caglio agnwd with Woo's snntinwnts, saying thorn an~ "no ongoing discussions" as gates arn "not appropriatn !'or Notre Damn." 
"If you're h1•rp at NotrP Damn, tho option to study businnss is yours." c;aglio said. 
l~vnn ir tlw University worn willing to install gatns, tlwre would bn no practical way to scrnnn applicants for their majors without changing the structun1 ol' the First Ynar of Studins program -a wnll­nstahlishml system that allows l'rnshnwn to nxplorn various acadnrnit: options. 

"Tiwrn arn many subjncts at Notw Damn that !incoming! stu­dnnts a ron 't familiar with -like nnginnering and business," Saraeino said. 
Appli<~ants do notify the Ol'liee ol' Undnrgraduate Admissions of what thoy plan to major in, Saracino said, but 15-20 per­cnnt of st.udnnts chango their major bntwnnn whnn thny apply and wlwn they register for elass tho summer before l'rnshrnan year. Morn than two or every three undergraduatns at Notre Damn change their major bet.wnnn application and gradu­ation, with many changing two or thren times, hn said. 
This is as true for business majors as !'or studnnts in thn other collnges, Gaglio said. 
"We have a lot of students than actually majoring in busi­move into and out of the ness." Collnge," hn said. While the College will always 
Tho statemnnt of intended try to !ill any openings in cours­major snrvns therol"ore as an aid es, Gaglio said students from to departments other colloges that might snnd may not always 
information to "If /Notre Dame} be abl11 to take 
ineom ing students, busin11ss elee­
accepts students, 
but plays no roln in tivns, du11 to the applicants' they should have alr!lady-maxi­chances of acenpt­access to any mized nnrollnwnt ancn, Saracino by business
major they want."
said. majors. 
"An undergradu­"We havn to ate education Dean Carolyn Woo givo priority to doosn't teach you business students,
Mendoza College of 
to bn something, as tho coursos are

Business
but to bn some­nneessary to thnir one," Saracino degrnns," he said. said. "Any seats we 
Saracino said career-oriented have arn available, but that is a students who would like to limited number." cxploro other academic areas Class siz11s cannot be before pursuing a business increased, he said. carom· may still gain some busi­"There is a pndagogieal limit ness knowledge with extra to the size of any dass on eam­sp<wes in their sclwdulns. pus," he said. "It hurts the qual­
"Students can [take business ity or the class if' you go beyond elassesl as electives," Saracino that. Wn've put all our limits at said. "There are other ways that number." 

Gaglio said high nnrollmnnt in any cours11s st11ms !'rom stud<mt interest in tlw matorial. 
"Students should study what thny lovP," hn said. quoting psy­chology specialist Anrn VPntnr. "Tiw <~oursns w11 oll'nr appeal to studnnts." 
For thosn students to whom business a p peaIs, tl111 ro a rn many pluses to pursuing a busi­Iwss major at Notre Damn, Woo said. 
"Businnss training is vnry broadly applicablo," she said. "All organizations, in ordor to bo nf'f'netivn, rnquirn a enrtain organizational intnllignn<~n." 
And Notrn Damn students will continue to havn tho option to choose Business, just as they may study Arts & Letters. Seinnee, 1\nginonring or Architneturo, without admis­si<Jns gates. 
"Wn eouldn't be morn eon­vincnd that what wn have is thn h11st systnm," Saradno said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
0 
p E 
R 
A 
N 
0 
T 
R E 
D 
A 
M E 
TICKETS AT 
LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 
CALL 


631·8128 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 3, 2006 
their favorite book [of the lering "My nun, my nun." "I am very grateful to hear Village with her husband, Tim course]." "[As a student] I was an that my books are being read Stephenson -an Emmy


Trigiani 

In addition to using her unsophisticated, high-energy at my beloved College," award winning lighting direc­
continued from page 1  work to teach literary analy­sis, Haigwood said, she holds  ball of undirected fire, and luckily my professors took the  Trigiani said. "I am at the beginning of what I hope will  tor for The Late Show -and three-year-old daughter,  
umentary "Queens of the Big  Trigiani up as an example for  talent underneath all that very  be  a  long career in bo-oks so  Lucia.  
Time"  won  the  Audience  current students.  seriously and gave me incredi­ when I hear that my books are  "Being a mother sobered me  
Award at the Hamptons Film  "I always mention that she is  ble opportunities," Trigiani  being used in  up," she said. "I  
Festival and toured interna­ an alumna because I think it is  said.  the classroom,  never  worried  
tionally.  important for  our students to  Saint Mary's affection for  I  want  to  about anything  - 
It was a screenplay called "Big Stone Gap," however, that gave rise to Trigiani's career  know what our graduates are doing," Haigwood said. Senior Clare Hoyt knew the  Trigiani is matched equally by her love for the College. In addition to her 2003 visit, she  holler, 'No, wait, I'm get­ting better at  "When I think about Adri, I think as bad  really, I'm one of those people who is not afraid of  
as a  well known novelist and  name  Trigiani  before  she  has returned to campus sever­ this  - prom­ as some things are in  anything."  
made her a  dorm room name  enrolled at Saint Mary's. Her  al times for book signings,  ise!"  the world, there are  Westler,  who  
at Saint Mary's. In 2000 she published her first book, 'Big  mother was a classmate and friend of the author. She read  DeZenzo said, and she is ten­tatively scheduled to attend  The writer has even gone  people like her trying  described his for­mer student as  
Stone Gap,' about a  30-some­ several  of  alumnae  so  far  as  to  to turn it around."  "the  funniest  
thing-year-old woman of Italian descent living in a Virginia mining town. Two  Trigiani 's novels, one as part of  "I was an unsophisticated, high-energy ball ofundirected  weekend in June. Further,  employ recent Saint Mary'sgraduates.  Max Westler  women on the planet," said any Saint Mary's  
more books based on the same  class,  and  fire and luckily my professors  the College  Allison Roche,  English department chair  woman who con­ 
character, "Big Cherry Holler" and "Milk Glass Moon," fol­lowed, rounding out what is  said she enjoys her writing  took the talent underneath all that very seriously. "  is men­tioned explicitly  a 2005 alum­na, currently works as  tacts Trigiani can expect a timely response. He has  
now known  as  the Big Stone  style.  i  n  Trigiani's personal assistant in  no  shame in  dropping her  
Gap Trilogy. Her three most recent titles, "Lucia, Lucia," "The Queen of the Big Time"  "I think it is very good for  Adriana Trigiani Saint Mary's graduate  Trigiani's work. In "Milk Glass  Manhattan. "I love to hire Saint Mary's women, and Notre Dame for  name in class and said the College has a dependable friend in New York.  
and "Rococo" all made the  the school,"  Moon," the  that matter, because I know  "When I think about Adri, I  
New York Times bestsellers  Hoyt said. "It just shows that  main character, Ave Maria,  how well-trained and [well­ think as  bad  as some  things  
list and have been popular  people that go here can be  insists her daughter  - set on  read]  graduates  of  these  are in the world, there  are  
selections  for  book  clubs  very successful and it is  a  attending architecture school  schools  are  - and you take  people like her trying to turn  
across the country.  really good selling point."  at the University of Virginia ­ work seriously, which is  a  it around," Westler said.  
"It's  a  big deal when you  Trigiani's  books  are  a  at least visit Saint Mary's  must if you are going to work  
make the New York Times list  favorite at the Saint Mary's  before making her final deci­ with me," Trigiani said.  Contact Megan O'Neil at  
because authors know it's an  bookstore, said bookkeeper  sion.  Trigiani lives in Greenwich  onei0907@saintmacys.edu  
impossible list to crack  ...  It  Bob DeZenzo, with "Big Stone  

was very sweet the first time Gap" at the top of the list. and since then, sweeter still," Sales are particularly strong Trigiani said. during alumnae weekends, 
After receiving it as a gift, DeZenzo said. junior Allison Beyer read "Big "I do a lot of touring and I Stone Gap" unaware its author meet a Saint Mary's girl, or was a Saint Mary's graduate. three or 10, at every stop," She enjoyed the book so much Trigiani said. "The Saint she went on to read "Big Mary's-Notre Dame communi-Cherry Holler" ty of [graduates and "The Queen has] been very of the Big Time" "I was surprised by kind to me, as -her favorite how very much they well as their of the three. children."
enjoyed reading 
"I just really Prior to Saint
her."

liked the char­Mary's alumna acter develop­Mary Campe's ment in ["The 2003 graduation,
Laura Haigwood 
Queen of the Big she was not
English professor 
Time"] and how familiar with [Trigiani] Trigiani's novels. describes the relationships The novelist's speech was so between the sisters," Beyer powerful, Campe said, that said. her grandmother ordered a It made her excited and copy of the graduation video. proud when she finally "It touched everybody in the learned Trigiani was an alum­audience," she said. "She did na, Beyer said. such a good job of [connecting 
Trigiani's novels are not con­toJ not only the students, but fined to the private~ book­with parents, grandparents shelves of Saint Mary's stu­and siblings." dents, however, they are being Campe promptly went out utilized in literature classes at and purchased a copy of the College. Trigiani's "Big Stone Gap" and 
English professor Laura said she understands why the Haigwood included a work by writer has been so successful. the writer on one of her Professors who taught course's syllabus for the third Trigiani remember her as time this semester. Students flamboyant and fun. Sister are often able to relate to Jean Kiene, who was men­Trigiani's Catholic, European­tioned by name in the 2003 descendent characters, commencement speech, said Haigwood said, and her books as a student Trigiani would lend themselves to thoughtful wear bold flower print dresses discussion of women's issues. and decorate her papers with 
"I was surprised by how drawings. When she spotted very much they enjoyed read­her across campus or in the ing her," Haigwood said. dinning hall, Kiene said, she "Some people would say it was would attract attention by hol-


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 



h£00:::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXVI 
CHANT AND POLYPHONY FOR THE FIRST SUNDAY OF LENT 

SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 AND 9:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 2005 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
TICKETS $3 
DEBARTOLO

Saturdav, March 4 
vs. Depaul at4pm 
First 500 fans will receive a Notre Dame wallet sponsored by 
CHASEO 
...One htcky fan \Vill win 2 round-trip tickets on 
~ 
to their choice of Las Vegas or Orlando! 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 3, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gunmen attack top Sunni politician 
B/\GIII>/\D -Cunmnn attaeknd thn dis­ablnd ear of Iraq's top Sunni politieian Thursday. killing onn bodyguard and wound­ing liv•~ aftnr tho Sunni leader spnd away in another vdlidn. Thirty-Pight other pcopln clied in a nnw round of violnnen. 
/\l'tnr the attaek. /\dmm ai-I>ulaimi, leader of tlw largnst Sunni parliamentary bloc, rnfusod to assign blamn and called for restraint to blunt tlw spiraling stH:tarian vio­lnrH:t~ that has taknn about 500 lives since FdJ. 22, wlwn a Shiit•~ shrinn was bombed in Samarra. 
"I don't aeeusn anyone ... I consider it aed­dnntal, and I call on my hrothnrs for snlf­rnstraint and to contain what happened bnt:ause Iraq is higger than /\dmm and his guards," ai-Dulaimi told The /\ssoeiated Prnss. 
Suicide bombing kills U.S. diplomat 
K/\H/\CIII -!\ suieidn bomber who was hloeknd from driving into the U.S. Consulate slarnrnnd instnad into an /\nwri<:an diplomat's ear Thursday, killing tlw nnvoy. The foree of tho blast on the eve of l'rnsiclent Bush's trip to Pakistan blew tl~t• lJ .S . vtdliel e i n to t h e g r o un d s o f a holt-!. 
Tlw attack killed three other people, wounded 52, and shattnrnd windows in the consulatn and on all I 0 floors of the Marriott llotnl. Tm1 ears wern destroynd, and eharrml wnwkago was llung as far as 600 fnt~t away in onn of the most heavily guardnd arnas of tlw volatile southern eity. 
B u s h , i n rw i g h b o r i n g In d i a , q u i e k I y vownd to stiek with his plan to fly to Pakistan's capital. Islamabad, on Friday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Independent Katrina probe wanted 
W/\SHINC;T<lN -Lawmakers from both partins said Thursday a newly disclosed vidnotape of a pro-Katrina brief'ing for Prnsidnnt Bush and top administration ol'li­dals raisns new questions about government rnsponse to the storm that l'loodnd New Orleans and killnd morn than 1,300 people. 
Sen. David Vittnr, H-La., said the video "makes it pnrfeetly d11ar once again that this disaster was not out of the blue or unforesee­able. It was not only predictable, it was actu­ally prmlicted. That's what made the failures in rnsponso -at the local, stato and foderal !lwei-all thn morn outrageous." 
Tho vidtw, obtained by The Associated Press, "eonlirms what we have suspeeted all along," said Senate Demoeratic Loader Harry Heid of Nevada, eharging that Bush adminis­tration oflkials have "systematically misled tho /\meriean peoplo." 
Nurse sentenced to life in prison 
SOMEHVILLE-!\ nurse who killed at least 29 patient..:; WIL'> sent to prLo:;on filr the rest of his life Thursday after his victims' loved ones angrily branded him "vnrmin," "garbage" and a "mon­stnr" who ruined lives and shattered their faith in tho nwdieal profbssion. 
Charles Cullen -one of' the most prolific killt>rs tlw U.S. hnalth earn industry has ever senn -oscapod tho death ponalty after making a dna! with prosecutors to tell them whieh patinnts hn kiiiPd with hard-to-detnet drug injeetions. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Smoking ban off to a clean start 
IN DIAN/\I'OI.IS-Shiny red ashtrays dot­t•~d a handful of' nnw wrought-iron tables on thn sidewalk Wedrwsday outsidn Palomino restaurant in Downtown Indianapolis, proof that a smoking ban had arrived. 
Tlw first day u n d n r t h c now r ult> s in Marion County and Grennfinld seemed to go smoothly as businnsses, workers and patrons adjustnd to limits on smoking in public plaens. The Marion County llealth llt~partrnent n~portnd few eomplaints of pno­ple running afoul of the ban. 
CoMrruo FROM THE OBsERVER's WJRE sERVJCEs page 5 
INDIA 



Nuclear deal made with India 
Officials say Bush's next stop in Pakistan carries risk of terrorist activity 
Associated Press 

NEW DELHI-White House ol'l1cials enlcbrated a landmark nuclear deal with India but looked ahead with some anxiety to President Bush's next stop in Pakistan, a dan­gerous front line in the war on terror. 
The president flies to Islamabad late Friday, a day after an American diplomat was killed in a suicide bombing in Karachi, Pakistan's largest city. There was ovidenee the diplomat was targeted, U.S. ol'ficials said. 
"Terrorists and ki Ilnrs are not going to prevent me from going to Pakistan," Bush said Thursday at a news con­ference with Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. 
Bush said it was impor­tant to tako a stand with Gon. Pervez Musharraf. tho military leadnr who took power in Pakistan in a 1999 coup. 
"Arter all." Bush said, "he has had a direct stake in this fight -four times the terrorists have tried to kill him." 
Stephen Hadley, the president's national secu­rity adviser, said security risks and precautions had been assessed before Bush's decision to go to Pakistan. 
"It is something that they reassess up to the point where we head to Pakistan," Hadley said. "/\nd at this point people are comfortable that the necessary precautions are in place. But this is not a risk-free undertaking." 
The slain U.S. diplomat was identified as David Foy, a foreign service offi­cer. 
The centerpiece of Bush's visit to India was the agreement to share nuclear reactors, fuel and expertise with this ener­gy-starved nation in return for its acceptance of international safe­guards. 

The accord, which reverses decades of U.S. policy, would end India's long isolation as a nuclear maverick that defied the world and developed nuclear weapons. India agreed to separate its tightly entwined nuclear industry -declaring 14 reactors as commercial facilities and eight as mili­tary -and to open the civilian side to interna­tional inspections for the first time. 
The agreement must be approved by Congress, and Bush acknowledged 

that might bn difficult becauso India still refuses to sign the Nuclear Non­Proliferation Treaty. 
''I'm trying to think dif­ferently, not stay stuck in the past," said Bush, who has made improving rela­tions with India a goal of his administration. Celebrating their agree­ment, Singh said, "We have made history today, and I thank you." 
The U.S.-India nucloar deal was seen as the cen­terpiece of better rela­tions between the world's oldest and most powerful 
democracy  and  the  
world's  largest  and  
fastest-growing one.  

Bush aeknowlndged that Washington and New Dnlhi were nstranged dur­ing the Cold War. when India deelared itself a nonaligned nation but tilt­ed toward Moseow. "Now the relationship is chang­ing dramatically," he said. 
India has morn than 1 billion pnople, and its booming eeonomy has created millions of jobs and consumer dnmands that have attraeted /\meriean businesses. Its middle dass has swell1~d to 300 million -more than the population of tho United Statns. Still, SO p1~rcent of Indians livn on lnss than $2 a day. 
Senate chooses to renew Patriot Act 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -The Senate on Thursday gave its blessing to the renewal of the US/\ Patriot Act after adding new privaey protections designed to strike a better balance between eivil liberties and tho gov­ernmont's power to root out terror­ists. 
The 89-10 vote marked a bright spot in President Bush's troubled second tnrm as his approval ratings dipped over the war in Iraq and his administration's responsn to Hurricane Katrina. Renewing the act, Bush and congressional Republieans said, was key to pre­venting more terror attacks in the United States. 
Bush applauded the Senate for overcoming "partisan attempts to block its passage." The House was expected to approve the two•bill package next week and send it to the president, who would sign it before 16 provisions expire March 10. 
"This bill will allow our law enforcoment officials to continuo to use tho same tools against terrorists that are already used against drug dealers and other criminals, while safeguarding the civil liberties of the American people," Bush said in a statement l'rom India. 
Critics held their ground. !\ December filibuster led by Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wis., and joined by several libortarian-leaning Republicans, forr.od tho Bush admin­istration to agron to mod11st rww curbs on tho government's power to probe library, bank and other records. 
·Feingold insistod those new protee­tions arc eosmotie. 
"/\mnricans want to defnat terror­ism and they want the basic charae­ter of this country to survive and prosper," hn said. "Thny want both security and liberty, and unless we give them both -and we ean if we try-we have failed." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 3, 2006 
Selection 
continued from page 1 

The RA selection process is either underway or completed in all 27 residence halls. Students interested in applying for the position submitted an application and three letters of recommendation to the Office of Student Affairs in mid-January. Though dorms differ slightly in how they conduct their selection process, the rectors, assistant rectors and current resident assistants usually hold a series of interviews, and then the rec­tor makes the final decisions. 
Anne-Marie Hick of Welsh Family was awarded an RA spot last week. She found the appli­cation process ­which included mesh well," Hagan said. 
In his interviews, current Morrissey RA Dan Reynolds asked juniors questions about how they understand the dorm's character and what they can contribute to residence life. Reynolds also asked candidates about their faith lives. 
"[Resident assistants should be] willing examples of consci­entious faith, no matter what kind of faith it is," Reynolds said. 
In the resident assistant description on its website, the Office of Student Affairs says RAs should possess Christian values evident in their lives and in their lifestyles. 
Hectors will make their RA picks by today, and the Office of Student Affairs will inform all applicants of their status 
three separate int­"[Resident assistants March 10. erviews in one should be] willing Thinking hour -to be fairly back over the
examples of 
easy. past year, 
"The interviews conscientious faith, Hagan said go over everything no matter what kind being a resi­from how would dent assistant
offaith it is. " 
you handle it if you is a great job to were aware of one have on cam­of the girls in your Dan Reynolds pus. In addition section being Morrissey RA to lowering the 
bulimic to what do you think is the biggest thing you're going to have to give up," Rick said. 
In some dorms, competition for an RA spot, which includes free room and board, can be tough. Zahm Hall has 16 appli­cants this year for seven spots. Other dorms, like Morrissey Hall, have less intense competi­tion. Matthew Schultheis is one of nine Morrissey juniors apply­ing for eight spots. If he's offered an RA position, Schultheis wants to help Morrissey residents adjust to life in the dorm and at Notre Dame. 
"I feel like I've had great role models in my life, particularly freshman year," Schultheis said. "I hope that I could make fresh­man year easier and more ful­filling for the freshmen as my HA did for me." 
Alexis Phillips, an RA in Pasquerilla East Hall, has been helping to interview 18 appli­cants for six spots. The competi­tion was stiff last year as well, Phillips said. Phillips says she has enjoyed spending her final year at Notre Dame as a leader in her dorm. 
"I've learned a lot about myself ... how to deal with all kinds of situations. things that I never would have thought I'd have to deal with," Phillips said. "I think it's very rewarding. I would do it again." 
While the hall staff considers each applicant's leadership skills and personalities individu­ally, they also try to pick a group that will work well together. 
"When you are picking seven people, you want different per­sonalities that are going to 
expenses of 

attending Notre Dame, the privilege of being respected by other resi­dents and being a leader in the dorm makes the job one Hagan recommends. 
"It helps you grow up and mature ... [and to] be in a lead­ership position as opposed to [being] the person the RAs are trying to control," Hagan said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Douglas 
continued from page 1 
during this period. 

The purpose of the closings is to allow construction to begin on a roundabout at the Douglas-Ivy intersection and is "necessary to widen Douglas Hoad," vice president for Business Operations Jim Lyphout said. 
The road closures will also permit the completion of a 
new four-lane road - North  
Twyckenham Drive  - east of  
Notre Dame campus.  

Brown said once construc­tion is completed in May, the extension of Twyckenham from Edison to Douglas, and on to Juniper, will likely improve the time it takes motorists to travel "in every direction near Nutre Dame." 
"This four-lane north-south corridor will be much faster than [the] current route through campus with stop­lights," Lyphout told The Observer in an article pub­lished Sept. 27, 2004. "It will be a better road and a faster road." 
This spring's roadwork is part of a larger campus roads project, which Lyphout said is estimated to cost $23.77 mil­lion. Primarily launched in response to safety concerns arising from a predicted increase in pedestrian traffic -due to construction on the northern area of campus ­the project is also part of a master plan that restricts how far the campus will ulti­mately expand. 
"We have a blue line that tells us how far we can spread outwards, because we don't want a sprawling, non­walkable campus," Lyphout told The Observer in the Sept. 27, 2004 article. 
Lyphout said all new con­struction will rest within the blue line -a decision that necessitates the closure of Juniper Road once all alter­native routes are in place. 
The section of Juniper Road that bisects campus will close in August, Brown said. 
The University, local gov­ernment officials and the general public negotiated for three years about the campus roads project until it was eventually approved by the Saint Joseph County Council on June 8, 2004. 
Brown said one concession made by the University dur­ing this procedure was its agreement to build a new north-south roadway on the eastern edge of campus. 
Brown said motorists who enter campus along its north­ern edge -from the east on Douglas -should use Clev­eland Road to Juniper on the north and Edison Hoad to Eddy on the south for the duration of the road closing. 
Additional closings will occur in May due to construc­tion on another portion of Douglas and on Saint Joseph's Drive, Brown said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 


ND benefactors to be recognized 
Special to The Observer 

More than 250 University of Notre Dame benefactors from 28 states will be honored on cam­pus Friday and Saturday (March 3 and 4) during the biennial Scholarship Fellowship Recognition Weekend. 
Hev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, will wel­come the guests at a reception Friday evening at which students will have an opportunity to meet the men and women who have underwritten their educations. 
"The big highlight of the recog­nition weekend for our guests is always the chance for them to get to know some of the students studying under their benefac­tion," said Louis Nanni, vice president for University rela­tions. ''I'm not sure who enjoys these meetings more, our stu­dents or our donors." 
The weekend also will include a panel discussion, titled "Fulfilling the Promise: The Undergraduate Education Experience and Teaching, Research and Graduate Studies," featuring Thomas G. Burish, Notre Dame's provost, and Dennis Jacobs, vice president, associate provost and professor of chemistry and biochemistry, who was named the U.S. Professor of the Year in 2002. 


~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, March 3, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,028.07 -25.46

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE 1,393 176 I ,832 2,154,639,640 

AMEX I,K87.03 +8.73 NASDAQ 2,311.11 -3.53 NYSE. g,l26.58 -4.05 S&PSOO 1,2g9.17 -2.07 NIKKE.I(fokyo) 15,909.76 0.00 FTSE. IOO(London) 5,X33.00 -11.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  +9.78  +0.31  3.48  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.54  -0.32  20.48  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -0.12  -0.05  41.61  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.62  -0.13  20.93  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.08  -0.01  12.80  


I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.07  +0.49  46.3E  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.44  0.00  44.8i  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.21  +0.55  46.1 ~  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.84  +0.39  46.7(  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.39  63.3i  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +4.60  570.4(  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.15  90.8E  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.830(  
EURO  0.830~  
POUND  0.5701  
CANADIAN$  I .I 3 I~  

IN BRIEF 
Bankruptcy may be in Dana's future 
TOLI~I>O -Dana Corp.'s inability to make $21 million in interest payments this week prompted investors and analysts on Thursday to wonder whether the struggling auto parts maker is moving doser to seeking bankruptey proteetion. The eompany's stoek took another divn, falling 40 pnrc1mt. 
Standard & Poor's Batings Serviee and Moody's lnvnstors Servien lowered their ratings on Dana. 
"The negative outlook rnlleets the eontinuing uncertainty of Dana's ability to renegotiate its bank faeilitins, avoid a Chapter 11 filing, and stnm tlw erosion in its operating performance," Moody's said in a statnment. 
Dana said it has a :HJ-day grace period to make the intnrnst payments, which were due Wndnnsday. Failing to make that deadline would allow those who hold tho debt to aecel­nratn its maturity. 
In 2000. Dana had morn than 6,400 employ­nos at 11 Indiana plants. Since then the compa­ny has downsized, selling faetories and announcing plans to dose and soli moro, trim­ming its work force in thn stat1~ to 2,000. 
National debt may increase with vote 
WASIIINGTON -Hnpuhlieans in the Senate facn a difficult but necessary vote in coming weoks to allow the Trnasury borrow to pad the $H.2 trillion national dnbt by another $7HI bil­lion. 
The need to irwrr.asn the legal limit on the debt has I >mnocrats eag1~r to uso the debate to blast Pn~sidm1t Bush and his GOP allies in Congrnss fiw tlwir fiscal stnwardship. 
"During this administration, Anwriea's debt, that is, tlw total of tho delkiL'i has inereasod by $:J trillion," said S(Hl. Max Baueus of Montana, top Dmnocrat on the Finanen Cornmittoe. "That's a 40 (Wrcent iruTnase in tho nntire federal dnbt <u:eruml by our wuntry in its entiro history." 
Treasury oflidals briefnd Senate staff aides Thursday and told tlwrn that without an increase in tlw govnrnnwnt's ability to borrow, it would dnl'ault on obligations for tho first time in history sonwtimn during tlw wook of Man:h 20. That is an unthinkablP prospnd that would roil finandal markets and darnagn the governnwnt's credit rating. 
Stocks lower on retail worries 
Disappointing sales prompt some new concerns about slowdown in economy 
Associated Press 

NHW YOHK-Nervous 
investors bid sto(:ks mod­
estly lower Thursday as 
disappointing rntail sales 
reports promptod fresh 
eonenrns about a slowdown 
in the nconorny and a 
dropoiT in corporate rev­
enues. A surge in oil prkns 
also spurn~d selling. 

While many big-name retailers n~ported solid, if uninspiring, sales for February, the majority of monthly retail sales were below Wall Street's expec­tations -a disturbing sign for investors who hope con­sumer spending will remain robust in tho face of expoet­ed interest rate increases from the Federal Heserve. 
"The economy is slowing, not to the point where any­body's really worried, but if eorporate profits slow along with it, you're going to want to see the Fed l'inish up with rato hikes," said Huss Koesterieh, senior portfolio manager at Bardays Global Investments in San Francisco. "But the Fed is going to err on the side of inflation. So the one cata­lyst that could move the markets out of this trading range d(wsn't seem to be there right now." 
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 28.02, or 0.25 percent, to 11,025.51. 
Broader stock indicators Exchange. to each new bit of data. slowing consumer spending also fell. The Standard & The retail worries over­"You look at the past and falling retail salns, Poor's 500 index lost 2.10, shadowed another sign of three days, we're down, up more rate hikes eould fur­or 0.16 percent, to strength in the labor mar­and down again," said ther slow eeonomic growth, 1,289.14, and the Nasdaq ket. First-time jobless Arthur Hogan, chief market which is why investors composite index dropped claims rose by 15,000 last analyst at Jefferies & Co. punishnd retail sector 3.53, or 0.15 percent, to week to 294,000, aceording "Without any real catalyst, stocks. Among those 2,311.11. to the Labor Department. and really, without know­reporting retail sales, dis­
Bonds fell for a seeond The small increase kept ing what the Fed will do, count merchants and straight session, with the claims below 300,000 for we're going to bounce department stores fared yield on the 10-year the seventh straight week. around here for a while." best. Treasury note rising to 4.64 The claims data, howev­The Fed meets March 28, Dow industrial W<ti-Mart percent from 4.59 percent er, did not provide any and is likely to raise the Stores Inc. narrowly beat late Wednesday. The dollar additional clarity on the nation's benchmark inter­Wall Street's expectations lost ground against other overall economy. The est rate to 4.75 percent. with a 3.2 percent incmasn major currencies, while week's economic data, Wall Street will be watch­in sales at stores open at gold prices rose. while plentiful, has been ing closely for signs least a year, while rival 
Unrest in oil-producing mixed, leaving investors whether the March rate Target Corp. saw a 3.6 per­regions as well as higher with their uncertainties hike will be the last in the cent jump in same-store natural gas prices helped about economic growth recent string of increases, sales, also bnating analysts' boost crude futures. A bar­and prompting what or whether the Fed sees foreeasts. Wal-Mart slippnd rel of light crude settled at Arthur Hogan, chief market more signs of inflation to 9 cents to $45.06, while $63.36, up $1.39, on the analyst at Jefferies & Co., combat. Target fell 86 cents to New York Mercantile called a knee-jerk reaetion Against a backdrop of $53.71. 

Threat keeps pilots in negotiation 
concessions from pilots, the union said doubt they've ruled it out."
Associated Press 

last month. But the union and the eorn­Tho airline has said a strikn muld put pany said last week that they had it out of businnss lilr good. Pilol<i would MINNEAPOLIS-The tlweat of mutu­reached a framework for an agreement lose even morn than most workers if ally a.ssurnd destruetion kept Northwest on who would fly small jets for that happnned, bemusn their largo pnn­Airlines and il'i pilol'i at the bargaining Northwest, which had b(lfm at the heart sions are cut the most if thn governnwnt table on Thursday. of the pilot's strike throat. Pilots aro also has to bail out Northwest's pension. And 
Though Northwest had the power to pressing for protection if Eagan, Minn.­with the industry in layoll' rnodn, getting impose a cost-eutting contract of its basod Northwest is sold or split up, and a job at another carrier would b11 clilli­ehoosing, the pilots' threat of a strike for a share in the company onee it eult. that eould wreck the nation's fourth­emerges from bankruptcy. "I've had pilots who've n-mailnd me largest airline made that unlikely. Industry watchers and the pilots saying they'rn so li1d up they're willing 
Northwest spoknsman Kurt Ebenhoch union hoth said it was unlikely to fall on their swords," said Vaughn has dodined to address tho issue direct­Northwest would impose its terms. But Cordle, chinf analyst at AirlineForncasL'i, ly, but said the company intended to Daniel Pr.tree, dean of the business eol­who also llins part-time for a difl'ernnt knep talking. · lege at Ernbry-Riddle Aeronautical airline. "Now think about that for a 
"W1~ eontinue to negotiato, and we are University, said it wasn't out of the ques­second -is that a silly thing to say. making progress on reaching a consen­tion. to take it to tho point that thny'rn sual agreement with our pilol<i," he said. "I don't think it's something they willing to shut down the airline out 
The eompany wants $358 million in would do lightly," he said, but added, "I of principle'?" 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 3, 2006 
E-01ail 
continued from page 1 
ties seem to stem from mail servers interacting with other University servers, and changes made to one type of server affect the other, he said. 
B.ussell said it is difficult to find and maintain a balance that keeps everything working properly. 
"OIT is presently tuning existing servers to optimize their performance at the moment," he said. 
Russell said that 10,000 to 12,000 people check their Notre Dame e-mail accounts at least once per day. Usage tends to peak during the late morn­ing and mid-afternoon -and more users ofhm means slower service, Russell said. 
To adequately address the problems with slowed service, Bussell believes the University will probably have to purchase and use more hardware for the service. However, since it is the middle of the semester, Russell said that other short-term changes would be more benefi­cial. 
Ile mentioned temporarily reconfiguring a balance in the system. On Thursday, OIT tried switching Webmail's support to one server in the hopes of speeding up page-loading, but the change did not alleviate the delays. 
"We have been monitoring the service, and we hope that we'll be able to implement effective changes and alleviate the problem quickly," Russell said. 
Several students said they were frustrated with the slowed e-mail. 
"I have noticed the problem, and it's really annoying," freshman Amanda Gonzales said. 
Though sophomore Alison Nowatarski was also con­cerned about Webmail's speed, she was relieved to know the issue was not unique to her computer. 
"I definitely have experi­enced slow Webmail," she said. "I didn't realize it was a prob­lem across campus. I thought my browser was just slow." 
Classics professor Andrew Faulkner said he has noticed the Webmail problems during the last month. 
"On the whole, I think the system runs well, but I was experiencing some delays in being able to take attachments off of the server," Faulkner said. "That said, I am not at all expert when it comes to com­puters, so I am most often unsure whether these prob­lems are my own fault." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
N.J. killer of 22 people gets 11 life sentences 
Former male nursing home worker murdered patients with hard-to-detect drug injections 
Associated Press 
SOMERVILLE, N.J. -A for­mer nurse sentenced to 11 consecutive life terms for the murders of 22 people in New Jersey left the families of his victims hurt once again. 
During an emotional sen­tencing hearing Thursday, Charles Cullen refused to explain himself, apologize or even tell a judge why he did not want to talk after relatives of his victims confronted him for the first time, calling him "a monster" and "vermin." 
"After today, we will finally toss aside his name and face, like the garbage he is," said Emily Stoecker, whose mother, Eleanor, was murdered. 
Cullen -one of the worst serial killers ever discovered within the U.S. health care sys­tem -escaped the death penalty after making a deal with prosecutors to tell them which patients he killed with hard-to-detect drug injections. 
He had pleaded guilty to murdering 22 people in New Jersey and trying to kill three others. He is scheduled to be sentenced March 1 0 for seven murders and three attempted murders in Pennsylvania. 
Cullen, 46, has claimed to have killed up to 40 people during a career that spanned 16 years and 10 nursing homes and hospitals. 
"You betrayed the ancient foundations of the healing pro­fessions," Superior Court Judge Paul Armstrong said as Cullen stood motionless, his eyes closed. 
Cullen was fired from five nursing jobs and resigned from two others amid questions about his practices. But he always managed to find anoth­er job, in part because hospi­tals did not share their suspi­cions for fear of being sued. 
New Jersey and Pennsylvania lawmakers have since passed legislation pro­tecting nursing homes and hospitals from legal action when reporting disciplinary actions taken against employ­ees. 
About 60 relatives of the vic­tims attended the sentencing. Cullen, wearing a sweater over an open-collar shirt, sat quiet­ly during much of the hearing. As the family members spoke, he kept his eyes closed, frus­trating some of the relatives. 
Cullen said he had "nothing to say," disappointing families who had hoped to hear him explain why he committed the crimes. 
Some family members said they wished Cullen could die as his victims did, by lethal injection. 
"I want you to die tomorrow so that you can meet God tomorrow because guess what? There ain't no door out of hell, baby," said Debra Yetter Medina, the grand­daughter of victim Mary Natoli. 
John Shanagher, whose father was murdered, said his family "will never feel safe in a hospital again. We will never feel we can trust the medical profession again." 
Dolores Stasienko of Kitty Hawk, N.C., said Cullen "will always be known as the mon­ster." She held a photo of her father, Giacomino "Jack" Toto, 89, who was murdered in 2003. 


Anintal activists convicted in NJ 
Extremists found guilty of using Website to incite threats, vandalism 
and resort to criminal activity to advance their politieal views," Caulfield said in a statement. 
The jury deliberated over three days after a three-week trial. 
The defense rested after just one day, and used testi­mony from the group's presi­dent, Pamelyn Ferdin, a for­mer child star who was the voice of Lucy in the "Peanuts" movies and played Felix Unger's daughter Edna on TV's "The Odd Couple." She was not charged. 
Ferdin said Thursday that the jury was fooled by the government's case and that a judge's order to remove vic­tims' names and home addresses from its Web site reeked of fascism. 
"This is a scary path for all Americans," Ferdin said. "Here is a government, a feckless federal government, who spent millions of taxpay­er dollars to wage an assault on all our constitutional rights." 
Ferdin became leader of the group in 2004 after its former president, Kevin Kjonaas and the others were indicted. 
Also testifying was one of the defendants, Joshua Harper, who said that he opposes injuring any life form, including humans. But he also said it is all right to throw rocks through some­one's window as long as the person isn't home. 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. -An ani­mal-rights group and six members were convicted Thursday of using their Web site to incite threats, harass­ment and vandalism against a company that tests drugs and household products on ani­mals. 
The group, Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty, maintained its actions were 
through megaphones at all hours outside their homes. 
One woman said she received an e-mail threaten­ing to cut her 7 -year-old son open and stuff him with poi­son. A man said he was show­ered with glass as people smashed all the windows of his home and overturned his wife's ear. 
The defendants, all in their late 20s or early 30s, were not accused of 

protected under the First Amendment.  "Here is a government, a  directly making threats or carry­ing out vandal- 
The  federal  feckless federal  ism.  Instead,  
government charged that SHAC waged a  government, who spent millions of  they charged ineiting  were with the  
five-year cam­paign against Huntingdon Life Sciences, post­ taxpayer dollars to wage an assault on all our  harassment with their Internet postings. SHAC, based  
ing on  its Web  constitutional  in Philadelphia,  
site information about the lab's  rights."  and six of its members were  
employees and  charged  with  
those  who  do  Pamela Ferdin  animal  enter­ 
business  with  former child star  prise terrorism,  
Huntingdon,  stalking  and  
including their  other offenses.  
home  phone  numbers,  They face  three  to  seven  

addresses and where their years in prison and fines up children attended school. to $250,000. 
Many of those people saw Mike Caulfield, their homes vandalized, and Huntingdon's general manag­they and their families er, said the verdict was "a received threatening e-mails, victory for democracy, faxes and phone calls. Many research and patients." were also besieged by pro­"The government and this testers parading with photos jury have sent a strong mes­of mutilated animals and sage to those who would screaming "Puppy killer!" ignore the democratic process 
Peach farnters braced for frost 
Associated Press 
ALBANY, Ga. -Georgia 
and South Carolina peach 

growers have cleared the first 
hurdle for producing the 
sweet, juicy fruit, but they are 
still a long way from the fin­
ish line. 
The trees have the neces­
sary number of chill hours 
below 45 degrees needed to 
bloom properly and produce 
fruit. Now, as the trees are 
about to bloom, growers hope 
to dodge a late freeze that 
could kill the blooms and rob 
them of a full crop, growers 
say. 
"We pretty much have a 
solid month or three weeks 
where we bite our nails," said 
Robert Dickey III of Dickey 
Farms Inc. in Musella, west of 
Macon, where the tempera­
ture dipped into the mid-20s 
Monday morning. "They're 
about a week or so away from 
blooming." 
Georgia and South Carolina 
are the South's two major 
peach-producing states. 
Georgia is known as the 
"Peach State," but South 

Carolina usually has a larger . crop. 
Martin Eubanks, a senior 
commodity merchandizer for 
South Carolina's Department 
of Agriculture, said growers 
in his state will be watching 
the weather closely for the 
next few weeks. Most of South 
Carolina's peaches are grown 
in an elevated, well-drained 
area known as "the ridge" in 
the central part of the state. 
"We have reached adequate 
chilling hours, so we should 
be OK," Eubanks said. "Our normal full bloom on the ridge is March 15 and we seem to be right on course for this season." 
Georgia's 2004 crop was considered one of the sweet­est in a decade, but a combi­nation of problems -includ­ing a cool, wet spring, a dis­ease outbreak and the rem­nants of hurricanes that swept through the state ­made for disastrous produc­tion last year, said Kathryn Taylor, the University of Georgia's peach specialist. 
In middle Georgia, where the bulk of the crop is grown, buds are beginning to form on some trees. 
"Another week of warm weather and we're going to see some color out there with the early varieties," she said. 


Despite an unusually warm winter, peach trees have accumulated more than 1,000 chill hours in middle Georgia and more than 600 hours in southern Georgia. 
Frost is a concern to some Georgia growers until Easter. 
Harvesting the $50 million to $65 million crop will begin in mid to late April in south Georgia and about a month later in Middle Georgia, where 90 percent of the state's 15,000 acres of peach­es are grown. 
California, the nation's No. 1 peach producer, has about 70,000 acres of peaches and supplies about 45 percent of the domestic crop. South Carolina ranks second with 17,000 acres and Georgia, third. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~-------------------­
Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 


McCartney, wife lllake statelllent lVith seals 
Former Beatles heartthrob travels to Canada with members ofanimal rights organizations 

Asso,ialcd Press 
ON Till\ ICI\ FLOES IN TilE (;UJ.F OF ST. I.AWHI\NCE ­Paul McCartney and his wife took to tlw frigid ice lloes ofl' tho Atlantic (kean on Thursday in a bid to halt Canada's annual slaughter of' weeks-old snal pups. 
Animal rights activists eon­tend the killing of tho don-eyed hahy Slmls, who arn often dubbed to d1mth. pierced with boat hooks or skinnml alive, is l'nwl and unnnc1~ssary, but lish­nmwn say they badly neml tho inconw. 
Tlw McCartrwys, drnssnd in orangn tlwrmal jumpsuits, trav­nlnd in lwlir.optnrs with a dozen journalists, and nwmbors of the llumarw SociPty of thP Unitnd Statns and thn British-basnd Hnsp1~d for Animals. 
llundn~ds of snals and their llully whitn pups, only days old, wnn~ lolling on the icn in the Cult' of' St. Lawrence. tlw moth­ers taking brnaks from nursing to bob in the water to fish. Thn pups will shnd their white fur within two w1wks. when they b1w.onw game for fishermnn, who gnt up to $70 eaeh fi1r thoir pidL-; and blubber. 
Thn former Bnatln acknowl­edged residents have huntod seals filr hundreds of' years. 
"Well, in our vil~w. that doesn't makn it justif'iahle," he said. "Plenty of things have been going on for a long time, like slavery. Just because it's been going on fi1r a long timn doesn't make it right." 
The MeCartneys rolled on the ke with one pup, whkh gently nipped at lleather Mills McCartney and mewed for its motlwr. She nxpressed sadness it and others would likely be killed in a li~w wec~ks, their polts going mostly to Norway, China and Hussia. 
"They sell the baby seal skins for fashions and fur -that's what's so horrific about it," said Mills McCartney. 
The former Beatie implored fishermen to turn instead to eeotourism like whale watching, as communities have done along the Atlantic Coast. 
"This is one of the groatest wildlife speetades on Earth," he said. "It's vnry rare that you can eome to a beautiful, wild place like this. In our view, it would make more stms1~ to look at eco­toul'ism." 
Sealers say the hunt has kept their communities al'loat for eenturins. 
"lle'll go out thero and cuddle up to a whitecoat and thoy look beautiful, you ean't get away from that and it is cruel, you can't get away from that either, but it's something we've done for 500 years," said Jack Troake, a 70-year-old sealer. "It's helped to sustain us. We go to bed with a full stomaeh, a tight roof' over our head. It's part of' our culture, our history." 
The United States has bannnd Canadian seal products since 1972 and the European Union banned white baby seal pelts in 1983. 
The British government is also eonsidering banning seal goods. Hespect for Animals and the llumane Society of the United States, whieh coordinated the McCartneys' visit, are encourag­ing a boycott of Canadian seafood. 
"I think the McCartneys are two of the most visible people in the world, and with them draw-

Paul McCartney and his wife Heather, left, pose with a seal pup on the lies de Ia Madeleine In the Gulf of St. Lawrence Thursday. 
ing attention to the fact that this hunt is still going on, this is going to get that message out," said Hebecea Aldworth, a Nowfimndlandor who is observ­ing her seventh seal hunt for the Humane Soeiety of the United States. 
Aldworth has doeumonted on video tho gruesome nature of the hunt, in which the wailing pups are bludgeoned or shot dead, their blood spilling over the ice. 
She said the McCartneys quizzed her about the slaughter, inducting the economic benefits for fishermen, whose livelihoods were devastated when the Atlantic Oeean cod stocks dried up in the mid-1990s. 
Canada's Departmont of Fisheries and Oceans insists the seals are not killod bnforo they shed their white fur -typically two to three weeks after they are born. 
"All these animal rights groups take people out there to pose with these euto little ones. To suggest that they're out there dubbing these little white furry ones is just wrong. That's com­pletely banned," said Phil Jenkins, a department spokesman. 
The government endorses 

the hunt as a cultural right and announeed a manage­ment plan in 2003 with a quota of 975,000 seals over throe years. 
About 325,000 seal pups were killed last year, bringing local fishermen $14.5 million, whieh they say their families badly need. The start of this spring's hunt has yet to be announced as mild tempnra­tures have made the iee thin. 

Bill faces opposition in Senate 
Proposal calls for new imrnigrant rights 
Associa1cd Press 
WASIIINGTON -Ef'l'orts to allow illegal immigrants to eventually become legal U.S. residonts were given little chance of winning eongrns­sional approval as the Senate bogan work on an nlnetion­year immigration bill. 
Thn legislation pits several Hepublican constituencies against each other. Soeial eonsnrvatives and govnrnors say tho tide of illegal immi­grants is overwhnlming thnir state budgnts, but busirwsses say they want to keep them as a source of labor. 
Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Arlen Specter, H­Pa., said he does not object to allowing illegal immi­grants to earn legal porma­nent residency after sevnral years of work. as proposed 
by Sons. John  McCain,  H­ 
Ariz.,  and  lid ward  M.  
Kennedy, 1>-Mass.  

"The political reality is that is going to be very, very diff1­eult to do and to get a bill, if there is no penalty to pay for coming into this country ille­gally," Specter said. 
Specter's committee held its nrst meeting aimed at try­ing to complete a bill by the end of March that aeeommo­dates all sides in the most controversial domestic issue before Congress this year. 
"I havo seen virtually no agreement on anything. Emotions are at an all-timo high," Spocter said. 
President Bush has been hoping to doliver a tempo­rary worker program that would allow illegal aliens to keep their jobs in hotels, restaurants, nurserins, agri­culture and other businesses that rnly on low-wagn labor­ors. 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 

,_
l 
.·~ 





Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 

Spring Break Service Trip to the Gulf Coast-March 13 -March 17 Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Applications available in the ACE office, 112 Badin Hall 



THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, March 3, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 

Ass1; MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsS'I; MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah V.~bulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sportsJ@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe adrninisrration ofeirher inscirurion. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements b~ on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhruugh letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Q=rions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed tv Editor in ChiefCktire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The:: Ol»ervcr (USPS S991.4000) ill publl$hcd Mond.a.y through Friday m::cqn during exam and vac;uion periods. A $uhscription to The Ob$tt1/tt b $100 (or()nt academic yean S55 for one .emester. 
The ~M:r l$ publisb¢d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Sc:nd ~C:Qrmctiomto: Notre Dame. IN 465'»-0779 The ()b,erv~ redodkal po.suge paid ;at Notm OllltlC W.B<><779 .md .additional nuiling offices. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
N••« D'"''· IN 46556-0779 
The Ob~ver 1:1 ;a; member of the ~'ociatcd Press. All teptoduaion rig,ha are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mary Kate Chris Khorey Malone Dan Murphy Karen Langley Joe Quinn Katie Perry Scene 
Jenny Hames Chris McGrady Viewpoint Tae Andrews Joey King Ram a 
Graphics Gottumukkala Matt Hudson 
Changes a step forward for G LBTQ students 
One erects a "coming-out closet" on South Quad. The other hosts a coffee hour in CoMo. One periodically saturates cam­pus with orange T-shirts to draw the public eye. The other consistently has Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman's ear. 
Clearly, unrecognized gay and lesbian student group AllianceND and the University Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs -this week renamed the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students -have very different approaches to the issue of homosexuality at Notre Dame. 
But they share the same worthy goal of mak­
O 
Jhe

ing gay, lesbian, bisexual, trandsgendered. 
queer and questioning (GLBTQ) students feel However, AllianceND members -and all accepted and comfortable at a Catholic univer­Notre Dame students concerned about the
E!Jltorial
sity. That's why -though it stops well short of University's stance on homosexuality -have granting a gay and lesbian student group of'Ji-reason to cheer the restructuring and cial club status -the step of restructuring the Standing increased student membership and leadership of the Core Committee is an encouraging one. Council. Notre Dame has characteristically been hesitant to 
Notre Dame has had its chances to grant official recogni­raise the tense issue of homosexuality on campus. But the tion, denying several groups' appeals throughout the last changes to the Core Council show the administration recog­decade. Two years ago -in what was arguably gay and les­nizes -with Notre Dame perennially ranked at or near the bian organizations' best shot at that status to date -the top of the Princeton Review's "Alternative Lifestyles Not An unofficial group OutreachND brought to campus the head of Alternative" category -that the University does have a peer Catholic institution Boston College's official gay/straight problem that must be addressed. alliance, who gave an impassioned speech to coincide with By acknowledging that gay and lesbian students should be Notre Dame's first "Gay? Fine by Me" T-shirt demonstration. better served at Notre Dame, and by making a genuine effort 
Yet OutreachND was still denied official status in 2004, and to seek more student input about how best to accomplish recognition appeals have lost significant steam since. The that goal, the University has taken a significant and orange shirts that once seemed so revolutionary have admirable step towards fulfilling the "Spirit of Inclusion" it declined in shock value -which may be both a positive and promises. 
l.ErrER TO THE EDITOR 
Basketball correction 
I would like to correct two errors that I found in my prior letter to the editor in Viewpoint ("Higher stan­dards for men's basketball" March 1). Notre Dame has participated in men's bas­ketball in the Big East for 11 seasons, not 14, and if the team were to finish this season with 4 wins, it would only equal their worst win total in their con­ference history. I apologize for the errors, which derive from the fact that what has been 11 years of mostly for­gettable basketball has seemed like at least 14 as measured by its agonizing nature. But here is a more 
· important fact, it has been 20 years exactly since Notre Dame last finished in the top 10 nationally in this sport, and that has seemed like 50. The point remains the same, it has been too long since Notre Dame men's basketball really mattered on the national stage and immediate changes are in order at all levels (institutional commit­ment, coaching and facili­ties) if success is to be obtained again. 
john P. Chute alumnus Class of 1986 March I 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think about the tuition 
a. 
My family can afford it. 

b. 
ANotre Dame education is worth $45, 137. 

c. 
I'm worried about the financial strain. 

d. 
I'm worried about the lrend this sets at Notre Dame. 



*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 614 responses. 
U-WIRE 


Everybody writes 
I've long considered the act of writing on the walls of a bathroom stall to be akin to abandoning a shoe on the side of the high­way: I never do it, but empirical evidence leads me to believe that plenty of people do. 
The trip to the bath-. room was actually a David break from thesis Baumgarten 
research, and it occurred 

The Daily
just a few minutes after I 

Princetonian
learned from my reading 

Princeton
that credit for the first 

University
"blog'' is given to some­one named Dave Winer, who created his revolutionary web log way back in 1996. Useless as this fact may be, it had me thinking about blogs as I journeyed to the commode. 
So there I was, casually glancing at the various messages that covered the stall walls. And then, suddenly, Eureka! I realized I was reading a form of "blog" -a bath­room log -that easily predates anything found on the internet. 
The more I thought about it, the more the comparison made sense. Just like web logs, bathroom logs are a forum for a wide breadth of content: lowbrow humor and sexual innuendo, political rants and social commentary. The quality is similar, too. Both types ofblogs are mostly crap (cheap pun fully intended, thank you). 
I found the content of this particular blog particularly noteworthy. Like most stalls, it is home to plenty of comments unprintable in any publication other than "Hustler," but it also includes numerous quintessentially Princetonian entries, ranging from the des­perate -"Who wants to write my thesis? 3/16/04"-to the disaffected-"Ah, sophis­ticated Princeton intellectualism." 
My favorite blog entry, though, is the one scrawled in black Sharpie high on the left wall (from the vantage point of a comfort­ably seated individual, that is). It is William 


'Submit atetterI 
Ito"the"Ediior at ;
iwww.ndsmcobserver.com r 
negative development. And while it's not certain that Notre Dame will continue to deny gay and lesbian organizations club status, the University has thus far held firm, with Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Sister Mary Louise Gude telling The Observer this week that there is "absolutely no talk" from the administration about officially recognizing AllianceND. 
Amidst this challenging atmosphere, AllianceND should be commended for its persistence in the club application process, as well as its leaders' articulate arguments distin­guishing Alliance's functions that an adminis­trative standing committee cannot fulfill. 
Shakespeare's Sonnet 59, a love poem in which the bard writes that the object of his affection is a muse unrivaled in all of histo­ry. The tender verse is, to say the least, com­pletely out of place in a bathroom. The cog­nitive dissonance bothered me enough, in fact, that I began pondering what motivated the blogger. 
Perhaps the sonnet was scrawled in a moment of inspiration -plenty of people do their best thinking on the john, after all. If John Nash made a habit of solving equations and proofs on library window panes, it is certainly possible that a similarly affected English professor uses library bathroom stalls as a similar medium of inspiration. 
Still, that wouldn't explain the 99 percent that do not qualify as academic in nature. Perhaps, I thought, humans have something in common with wild animals: the instinct to mark their territory when emptying their bladder. 
My point: I'm quite certain that the instinct to blog -in one form or another ­is one shared by all of humanity, and it's not nearly as revolutionary or novel as it might seem. Long before awkward adolescents recorded their teen angst with their key­boards, their ancient peers did the same with quill and ink. Perhaps web logs are more public than their historical predeces­sors were, but man's desire to express him­self remains constant. 
Everybody writes -that much is clear. Similarly, as children's author Taro Gomi told us, "Everybody Poops." Which means, I think, that bathroom logs are simply a prod­uct of convenience. 
This column first appeared in the March 2 edition ofthe Daily Princetonian, the daily publication ofPrinceton University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"More than print and ink, a newspaper is a collection offierce individualists who somehow manage to perform the astounding daily miracle ofmerging their own personalities under the discipline of the deadline and retain the flavor of their own minds in print." 
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger former New York Times publisher 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, March.\ 2006 page 11 
Envisioning March 'sadness' without Coach Brey 
Most of thn Big East's basketball teams eagerly prnpan~ for "March Madness," but Notre Damn is once mom drifting in medi­ocrity, ban~ly qualifying as tho lowest tour­nanwnt seed. I lead basketball coach Mike Bmy has become the University's basketball equivalent or liJrrnl~r lwad liHltball coach Tyrorw Willingham ­unworthy to eontinue eoaching at Notre Damn. 
From all accounts, Broy is a wondnrli1l person, grnat role model, stieklnr f'or aea­dmnk excelleneo and a detail-oriented basket­ball tartidan. Sadly. f'rom thn standards set recently by llnivnrsity Pn~sident Fatlwr John Jnnkins and tlw Board of Trustees, lw has f'ailnd to maintain their bottom linn -wins. losses. post-season appearancns and financial gain. So who is the Charlie Wnis of basket­hall lun~hing in the wings? 
IL matters not what this writer thinks of Brny's eoarhing or rnrruiting talents. It mallPrs not how tlw ollkial Notre Dame athleti<~ web sit1• spins Brny's virtues while sucking tlwir thumbs and pouting in their patented self-righteous style that typically sours otlwr univ1~rsities against Notre Dame. Tlw sitP sulks. "Notre Damn is tlw only team !rom orw of thn six major eon­liH·enrns (ACC, Bf(; EAST, Big Ten, Big 12, 

Gary Caruso 
Capital
Comments 

Pac-1 0 and SEC) to have a winning record in league play and not receive an NCM 
bid in each of the last two seasons." 
Priorities at Notm Dame are dictated by the administration without rogard to conti­nuity nor righteousness. They mandate that academic "freedom" must give way to a "Catholic character" concept which is never wholly based on the ethical works of Jesus accepting others as much as based on a strictly controlled dogma that pres­enl<> a University image for public con­sumption. Academic priorities that once stood above athletic competition fell when Weis replaced Willingham. Ironically, Weis, with a first year 9-3 record, failed to equal Willingham's first-year 10-3 record, although the University did cash largo BCS chocks both years. Interestingly, Weis has yet to provo if he can win "the big one" in the college ranks. 
Brey has little chance of weathering cries for his release if tho administration holds true to its precedent. With 17 wins (9-7 in conference) two seasons running and the likelihood of 17 wins again this year (but a poor 6-10 conference record), Brny's game dock is about to wind down. Thn unenrtainty of his fate lies in how a rough shod riding athletic dnpartment and a "win, win, win" mentality among various trustnns approach Brey's dnmisn. 
Will the same bumbling athletic depart­nwnt receive blessings from administra­tors to unceremoniously and publidy bounce Brny like Willingham, or might thny demonstrate discretion, professional­ism and class by reaching an agreement with 13rey behind dosed doors'? Oflering a final year to coaeh -with or without the public's knowledge of the agreemnnt­would have boon the principled way to treat Willingham. It is the only right-mind­ed way to approach 13rey. 
Make no mistake. This writer could care less if Brey coaches longer than Digger Phelps. Of eourse we alumni want Notre Dame to win, and frankly we wonder why the athletic department cannot correctly investigate a coaching applicant's resume. Well, actually we do understand that the "Good Ole Boy" culture still reins in the athletic world. 
But some alumni definitely do not understand why Notre Dame cannot attract first class coaches who can sustain the winning consistency of Southern California in football and Duke in basket­ball. It worries others that the "Catholic charactnr" do!-,'llla espoused by adminis­trators actually limits coaching opportuni­ties. Willingham's treatment bolsters such thought. 
Ara Parsegian's non-Catholic back­ground and knack of beating the Irish with h~sser teams won him a coaching job basnd solely on merit. Many wonder how a high school coach and an assistant with no head coaching experience deserved past opportunities to guide football programs. Both. however. did possess the Catholic character aura Notre Damn likes to por­tray. 
Academic governance should be as oasi­ly recognizable and eonsistent as our national freedoms. Yet University dogma tarnishes truth with its notion that fren­dom lit within its religious character. University loaders with pure hearl<> can function without worries about their pub­lic images. If tho message is that acadmnie excellence ranks over athletic national championships, thnn all eoaches, rngard­less of whether or not a eoach just hap­pens to be the first minority lwad coach in University history, should not be evaluated by how much posl<;eason money ontors University colTers. The truth lies some­whore botween academics and athletics, so the search for the pnrfect coach needs to be a measurnd, mutually agrnnd upon collaboration between Univorsily and coach. 
One alumnus noted that Division I coaching is like traVI~ling first dass on an airplano. Athlntie dnpartments like Duke, and several Catholic universities without Catholie character hang-ups, hin~ the first dass eoaches -whiln Notrn I >anw upgrades il'> coadws to lit its image. Brny's frequent llyer card is about to be canceled. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Uame '73, is a politi­cal strategist who sertwd as a legislatitw and public affairs director in President Clinton;., administration. /lis column appears every other Friday. 1/e ('an {}(' contacted al hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
University concern asylllllletric 
Civen l.hn nxtnnsivn diseussion stimulated by llnivnrsity Prnsidont Father .John Jenkins' remarks about-and restrictions put upon ­the play "The Vagina Monologues," and the n~naming and rm:asting of the Quoer Film Festival, a couple of simplo points have escaped nxamination. Tho first has to do with an aspnet ot' staging the play: "Tho Vagina Monologues" is tlw sort of tlwater that rewards produetion by amatnurs. Any numbnr of mid-level theatrical endeavors profit by an often unstated ratio: level ol' dillieulty to put on versus what proportion of tlw work's nwrits will bn rntained however donn. In othnr words. how mueh bang for your huck do you got? 
"Tho Vagina Monologues" is not badly served when done by nonprofessionals. whereas if a group of young people with a couple woeks or rl'lwarsal was to stagn, say, "The Merchant of Venien," the distance bet.wnen what tho play could b1• if donn well, to what it is when done badly, is quite large. Some theater art is harder to do justin~ to than other art. This is one rea­soB that Thornton Wildnr's "Our Town" is so of'ten do11n in high sdwols and by amateurs. It's dillkult to do too bad a job with it. Again, a lot ol' mid-lnvel thnatnr art, such as "The Vagina Monologues," eontinuos to live because of this favorabln relationship bot ween demands or the play and its nxecution. 
The second simple point is the question of why "Tiw Vagina Monologues" is done year after year. One could ask that question of tho Bengal Bouts. Both "Tho Vagina Monologues" and the Bengal Bouts aw hyper body eonseious. Both have bonn produn~d year after year to raise money for a good cause. And both arn part of evolvml traditions, largely eontinuod by dedicat­Pd stu(h~nts. 
Now, the Bnngal Bouts may have some critics, tlwsn who don't lind rnueh edification in two young nwn boating on one another, one hoping to vanquish his opponent, pnrhaps nven to knoek him sm1selnss. The Bengal Bouts may or may not be tlw sort of pnrformance that embod­ies the Catholic 1·.harad1~r. or the mission or the llnivnrsity (though it earns money fi1r foreign missions). Some homophobes might even lind such a spnetadn of half-nakod young men grap­pling with and pumnwling each other ofl'ensivo. 
1-'or a variety of reasons, staging "The Vagina Monologuns" has beeome a tradition among female students here at Notn~ Dame. They pass it down to one another; it is not a faculty-centric production, just as the Bengal Bouts have very little academic faculty involvement. But the bat­tling young men have not been the subject of tho president of the University's eoncern and sanc­tion. 
The problem of "The Vagina Monologues" echoes one or the dilliculties of the firing of Tyrone Willingham, the first of President Jenkins' largo decisions. That became national news because of race. Tyrone Willingham hap­pens to be black and that made his !iring more notorious and newsworthy. "Tho Vagina Monologues" is an all-female show, fixated on the subject of women. The Queer Film Festival was all about, well, queer film. There is a trend hero. As in the case of Tyrone Willingham, what many people outside the University see is Notre Dame reaeting to groups, not individuals, not ideas, not even ideologies -just blacks, women, gays. 
The two simple things I started with certainly can lead to complications, as they have. But one last thing is why Jenkins decided to make "The Vagina Monologues" the focus for reconciling the problems he and others percoive exist con­cerning the Catholic character of the University. Given the University in all its aspeets, "The Vagina Monologues" is one of the smallest things imaginable: A play put on by students in a most humble way as a fund raiser for locally abused women. It is a small, small thing. Too small, one would think, to bother the president of a great university. Why pick on it? Why not, for instanee, pick on the University's stock port­folio and see what sort of companies and prod­ucts the University is supporting with its money'? But, "The Vagina Monologues" must have both­nred some people morn powerful than the f'mnale students who put it on each year -and not just the right-wing organizations who com­plain about the play's performance at Catholic colleges, the same crowd that hounded Father McBrien with exaggerat1~d plagiarism charges. "The Vagina Monologuos" must have had ene­mies in high places. And that is not so simple. 
William O'Rourke professor departmen1 of English March 2 
Watching Bengal Bouts 
The bright llood of light eul<> tho world in half. The separation is physically reinforced by rope, by canvas, but morn pownrf'ully, by tho seemingly inviolable line of darkness that divides the room; one half brilliant. breathing, awake-the other half passive and waiting. Nothing exists but the lighted ring, and th1~ two lonnly men who stand inside of it. They arn only conscious of their bodies, of' their sweat, and of the exhilarating mix or fear and excitement that arises from the anticipation of physical exhaustion. pain, and the thin linn between victory and defeat. All around them. there is only a soa of black. But that sea is watching, hoping and fearing-and waiting lilr the bell. 
I have been part of the sea of darkness. I have hoard tho boll ring, have watched the fighters exchange punches, and have felt the waves of excitement and despair that swoop through the hlacknnss. Ono of the most striking things about boxing is that the crowd sharos in the emotion of the light; thn punches make us cringe, they knot our stom­achs, they rip the hoarl<; out of our bodies. Tho eontnst eapturns our emotion, our energy, our imagination. Wn, tho liu:nlnss crowd. sit transfixed by the violent dance of the ring bneausn it is more than a contest of individual skill and willpower: it is a gnnuine nxprnssion of character, of the beauty or human strenh>i.h and weakness. 
It is an understanding of' those things-of human charactnr, strnngth. and weakness-that the Bengal Boul<> cultivates. Tho stu­dents who spend several hours every day toning their bodies and sharpening their minds in the depths of the Joyco Center arn learning more than the cadence of punching exercises. Continually pmssod to achieve by their eoaches and captains, they learn how to sacri!ico themsnlves to something higher; they come to know the meaning of physical and mental exertion, or determination, and of dndkation. And those lessons are not only physieally strnn~-,>i.hening, they am spir­itually fiillilling. llow else can onn explain why ovnr on1~-hundrnd and twenty Notre Dame studenl<> arn irresistibly drawn to tho Boxing Club year after year? Through the blood and sweat slwd during thnir inten­sive training, they eome to know the power or their bodies, tim power of the bonds formed betwoen brothers, and the power of their God. 
Every young man who summons thn strnn~-,>i.h to don thn blue and gold and dares to cross that stark division botwonn tho light and darkness -the division between observer and lighter -has lnanwd those lessons. They fight fix victory, but they also light lin· nach other, for Notre Dame, and for all of the Bangladeshis who will fm~l the healing salve of' their dedication. They have boon enasolnssly drilled, they have pushed their limits, they have saerilicnd thmnsnlves liJr thn sin1ple love of the sacrifice. And as they dane1~ around tho lighted ring, they represent the perfnetion of amateur athlntidsm. Watehing them is beautiful, it is inspiring, it is a gift to every ono of us who silently sil<> in the darkness, nach of' us holding our bm!tth as wn share their emotions. 
Patrick McGill Yale University Class of 2006 March 2 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Friday, March 3, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Bogart, Cagney headline film noir festival 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Writer 

Names like James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart, images of dark detec­tives' offices and back-end New York alleyways, jarring music and frightening violence -all are hallmarks of a particu­lar brand of Hollywood cinema known most widely by its French name, "film noir." 
This weekend the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC) plays host to a number of acclaimed fllm noir classics in the latest of its fllm festivals. 
The diverse selection of films, both Freneh and American, reflects the best and most famous characteristics of the genre. Eaeh has put a distinct stamp on a typical set of fllm conventions. 
The lirst of the two French films, the 1937 classic "Pepe le 
Humphrey Bogart, a Steve McQueen, a Jean-Paul Belmondo or a Bruce Willis." 
The second featured fllm is also the sec­ond pairing of one of Hollywood's favorite screen couples in Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall. "The Big Sleep" is widely considered to be a hallmark of detective stories, taking Bogart's character and plot type from "The Maltese Falcon" and reformulating it with a witty script and skilled performances. 
In "The Big Sleep," Bogart's Christopher Marlowe is hired to protect the youngest daughter of an American General, falling in love with his older daughter Vivian (Bacall) along the way. 
"The story hardly matters, though -it's all about the denouement," a recent arti­cle from reel.com said. "This is an exer­cise in high style that Hollywood often attempts and almost never attains." 
"The Big Sleep" is praised for its smooth 
and polished 


Moko," is the story of Film Noir Weekend style, as well a French gangster liv­as its charac­ing in the Casbah Featuring the classic films: teristic but 
neighborhood of Pepe le Moko, The Big Sleep, Touch of Evil, unique char­
Algiers. Pepe is the Le Cercle Rouge, and Kiss Me Deadly acter forma­kingpin of the Algiers tion. crime circle, but with Browning Cinema "Bogart's 
Freneh and Algerian See performingarts.nd.edu for exact times Marlowe is a 
police closing in, he struggles to elude them while falling in love with Gaby, a Parisian tourist. 
Film historians view "Pepe" as a corner­stone for its time. It was remade nearly frame-for-frame a few years later in the American film "Algiers," as well as being a significant influence on "Casablanca" and other later films. 
"Julien Duvivier's flawlessly entertaining 1937 film single-handedly introduced a now classic character: the raffish, conflict­ed, tragic anti-hero," film critic Jiirgen Fauth wrote in an article for about.com. "Without Pepe Le Moko, played by Jean Gabin, there would not have been a 
man relaxed 

with himself, not just cool, but humorous in the face of danger," the article said. 
The third picture, Orson Welles' 1958 triumph "Touch of Evil," is viewed by crit­ics as harkening the end of the reign of ftlm noir in Hollywood. It tells a complicat­ed and intricate tale of murder and fea­tures an oddly Hispanic Charlton Heston. Welles' characteristically unique cine­matography proves no exception here. 
"Welles and his cinematographer, Russell Metty, were not simply showing off," Roger Ebert said in his online review, having noted the film's famous three­minute opening shot. "The destinies of all of the main characters are tangled from beginning to end, and the photography makes that point by trapping them in the same shots, or tying them together ... " 
"Le Cercle Rouge," the fourth film of the festival, features the typical jewel heist but with exceptional characters and per­spectives. Alain Delon stars as Corey, a thief recently released from prison who joins forces with a murderer and a former cop to pull off what will be the greatest of all robberies. With an obsessed police superintendent, Mattei, on their tail, an impending sense of doom and guilt haunts the criminals. 
"Gliding almost without speech down the dawn streets of a wet Paris winter," Roger Ebert said in a May 2003 review, "these men in trench coats and fedoras perform a ballet of crime, hoping to win and fearing to die." 
The festival's final film, "Kiss Me Deadly," is a curious combination of film noir and science fiction. Opening with a near accident and closing with an explo­sion, the film chronicles the tail of private eye Mike Hammer (Halph Meeker), spPcif­ically after he picks up a femme fatale hitehhiker (a young Cloris Leachman). 
"Deadly" is one of film noir's most unique and poignant examples and is acknowledged as a significant inspiration for the French New Wave in the 1950s. 
The ftlm features a manic seareh for the "great whatzit," a symbolically modern Pandora's box, which proves violently dis­astrous for the film's characters. The overall tone of doomed protagonists dis­tinguishes the feel of "Deadly" as down­right slimy. 
"Though Hammer is presented here as a modern day Pandora, it's less disturbing that he finds evil than that he doesn't have to look very far to fmd it," Heilman said. "It's seeping through every crack of every dirty sidewalk trying to get at him." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
SCENE fEATURE 

Chart-topping country music pair spurs sales 
By LIZ BYRUM 
Assisrant Scene Editor 

With a collection of multi-platinum albums, a successful marriage, three beau­tiful children and a new joint tour about to kick off, there might not be a luckier duo than Tim McGraw and Faith Hill. 
The famous country eouple, who live on a large estate outside Nashville, Tenn., with their daughters Maggie, Gracie and Audrey, just keep dimbing the country lad­der. 
Ovnr thn past year, Hill released her first new album sinee 2002's "Cry." This new release, titled "Fireflies," takes a wide turn away from the eommereial glitz that had become the cent1~r focus of Hill's more recent albums. With the help of songs like "Mississippi Girl." (in which llill sings "They might know me all around the world I But y'all I'm still a Mississippi girl") and "Dearly Beloved," a goofy tune about a shotgun wedding, Faith Hill takes a trip ba1:k to her eountry roots. 
Since the album was released on Aug. 2, 2005, it has reached number one on Billboard's Top 200, and has remained on the charts for close to 30 weeks. llill has also seen success with the most recent sin­gle released from the CD -a new power ballad duet with her husband of ten years, Tim McGraw. The soulful song, titled "like We Never Loved At All" is about the heart­break and misunderstanding that comes with the end of a relationship. Hill's voice is as powerful and beautiful as it has always been, and the compliment of McGraw's country lilt creates the perfect tone for the subject of the song. The music video for "Like We Never Love At All" portrays Tim and Faith as 1960s performers -complete with amazing sets, lighting and costuming. 
On his own time, Tim McGraw has been preparing for the release of his second greatest hits album, "Tim McGraw Greatest Hits, Vol 2: Reflected." Although this CD will not be released in stores until March 28, the album is sure to please McGraw's loyal fans, as it includes all or his latest and greatest hits. Favorites on the album include ballads like "She's My Kind of Rain," "Live like you were Dying" and the emotional "Red Rag Top." On a lighter note, songs like "Real Good Man" show McGraw definitely has a fun side ("I may be a real bad boy I but baby I'm a real good man"). The album also includes "Over and Over," McGraw's crossover duet with rap­per Nelly, which has never been released on any of Tim's COs before now. 
Accompanying the release of his new greatest hits album, McGraw will follow in the footsteps of his .good friend and fellow eountry cr'Jilll.. «e~enny Chesney, by star­ring in a 'TY s'},'cial, "Tim McGraw: Reflected" on NBC April 5. The show will feature a look at McGraw at home at his Nashville farm and a performance at an intimate New York Club. This summer, McGraw will also follow up his role in the film "Friday Night Lights" with another movie, "Flicka," about a young girl who adopts a wild mustang. 

On April 22, the famous couple will take all of their hard work on the road as they reunite on stage for a joint tour for the first time since their original "Soul2Soul" Tour in 2000. The new "Soui2Soul II" Tour will be .tke flr$.Jime since their previous tour that Hill has taken her show on the road. Until now, she has spent most of her time with their young daughters. In a recent interview with Oprah Winfrey, the eouple said that now that their girls are a little older, they feel more comfortable giving them some freedom on the road. This gives Hill the time to prepare and dive baek into their tour (as usual, their daughters will be traveling with them as they roam the coun· try). 
With a new tour that is quickly selling out large venues around the country, and many other personal and professional ventures awaiting them, it doe~n't seem like McGraw and Hill's talent or luck will run out anytime soon. If fans are lucky enough to snatch up tickets for the "Soul2Soul II" Tour, they will not be disappointed by either of these successful country perform­ers. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 

Friday, March 3, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 
Schaefer overcomes jitters and tough foes 
Senior entered tournament as No.2 seed after shoulder surgery ayear ago 
a split-decision semifinal loss By TIM DOUGHERTY 
in the 155-pound weight class. Sports Writer 
Jlis problems started one day during the six weeks of When senior Bengal Bouts training in the fall of his soph­co-captain Greg Schaefer omore year, when Schaefer wakes up on fight-day morn­dealt a punch but his shoulder ings, the radio would not let is on and he's him take it moving back "We have to carry on the back. Instead and forth in of throwing a
tradition. We have to help
his Notre fist, he threw Dame Ave. pound into the guys' his shoulder apartment, heads that we're raising right out of trying to keep socket.
money for the missions in
his jitters A surprise
Bangladesh."
from bossing setback for the him around. accountancy lie arrives Greg Schaefer major, his at the Joyce shoulder prob­
boxer

Center hours lem bothered before his him throughout scheduled match that day. lie training. The shoulder popped checks his look in the mirror out again during the first -analyzing his phantom round of his sophomore fight, punches at a fantasy opponent which he could not continue. hours away from their dance "You don't want to get sur­in the dark. Then hn does his gery, unless you absolutely best to devoid his mind of all have to," he said. "So I tried things boxing. to let it heal on its own." 
lie even strums a little gui­But it happened again dur­tar -anything petty to keep ing training his junior year, from obsess-and this time ing over the "it stayed canvas "Every guy you ever out," requir­KERRY O'CONNOR!The Observer 
Senior Bengal Bouts captain Greg Schaefer, right, deflects Phil Albonetti's punch during
dream he fought, you have a mutual ing a suc­
has been cessful sur­Schaefer's quarterfinal victory in the Bengal Bouts at the Joyce Center Tuesday. A year after running respect for that person. gery last shoulder surgery, Schaefer is the No. 2 seed in the 160-pound division. down for One ofthe great things March. years. about the program is the "The sur­have far to take it. watching," Schaefer said. "I describing it as one of the 
"I get real gery went A native of Granger, Ind. told myself if I got into Notre ugliest matches you've ever
camaraderie you get with 
nervous," f i n e , " and alumnus of Penn High Dame that was definitely seen." Schaefer fellow boxers. It's a Schaefer School, Schaefer's Bengal something I wanted to do. So I Those early fights remain said. "I think different type said. "It has­Bouts wait began before he signed up freshman year at printed into his memory a lot of the n't slipped entered Notre Dame as a stu­activities night." because they began friend-
offriendship. " 
guys do." out so far. dent. Now he is a captain, devot­ships. · .­
F o r This season's He remembers his father, a ing to the boxing program "Every guy you ever fought," Schaefer, Greg Schaefer going well. I Notre Dame professor, asking three to four he said, "you though, the boxer feel pretty him to come watch some of hours a day, six have a mutual pre-fight has confident." his students fight. That expe­days a week -respect for that
"Your nerves start
been longer Now as the rience hooked Schaefer right an experience person. One of than "a lot of the guys." A No. 2-seeded senior in the where it counted-the adren­more rewarding going and everyone is the great things nagging shoulder injury has 160-pound bracket, this tour­aline gland. than he could about the pro­
yelling at you. A lot of
kept him from finishing a nament is Schaefer's final "I was amazed that all these have imagined gram is the
guys will lose all 
tournament bout since his opportunity to take home the guys were pounding on each as a high camaraderie freshman debut that ended in title -though he would not other -with all their friends schooler. their technique when you get with He said it is a fellow boxers.
they go out there, but 
great feeling It's a different
you've still got to
helping the type of friend­novices, who he maintain everything ship." estimates make Amid all the
you've learned." 
up almost half lessons learned the program, and causes "to teach them Greg Schaefer helped, a move and see boxer Schaefer does them do it in not forget what the ring." first drew him After four to the program. years of participating in After all, his nickname is Bengal Bouts, his position Greg "Still Shaffdogg from the means much more to him than Block" Schaefer -that block a chance to pound lists. not far from campus in 
"We have to carry on the Granger, from where his tradition," he said. "We have father first whetted his to help pound into the guys' appetite with that unexpected heads that we're raising visit to the Bouts. money for the missions in Since then he has trained, Bangladesh. rehabilitated and -hardest of 
Our president sends out a all -waited. solidarity report on how our He remembers that feeling, efforts have helped someone though, right before it is time from Bangladesh survive. I to take the ring, and he knows can't say I've ever done any­how important it is to main­thing quite like it before." tain focus amid all the hoopla. 
One of those co-presidents is "It gets really intense," he Schaefer's friend senior Mark said. "Your nerves start going Basola, who happens to be the and everyone is yelling at you. defending champion at 160 -A lot of guys will lose all their and Schaefer's only higher­technique when they go out seeded foe. there, but you've still got to 
Their friendship, like their maintain everything you've boxing history, traces years learned." ago to their time in Keough For Schaefer, the wait to Hall, where Basola is still a compete is over, but he hopes resident assistant. he still has the pleasure of at 
Schaefer remembers one of least one more fight-day wait his first freshman matches to come. KERRY O'CONNOR!The Observer against Basola, an evenhand­


Senior Bengal Bouts captain Greg Schaefer, right, winds up to punch Phil Albonetti during ed spar that saw turning Contact Tim Dougherty at Schaefer's quarterfinal Bengal Bouts victory at the Joyce Center Tuesday. heads and wild swings, tdougher@nd.edu 
~ ~ 
I I 
' 
Friday, March 3, 2006 
The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 3 ' 
Traditions of toughness 
First-year boxer Brian DeSplinter is brother of three-time champ but blazes his own path in this year's Bengal Bouts tournament 
By ERIC RETTER 
Spom Writer 
!\ lot of kids follow the ath­
lntk trails tlwir oldnr brothers 
blaznd for tlwm. 
Not so many walk in the nxaet footstnps. 
l.ikn his oldPr brotlwr Mark 
lwforn him. frnshman Brian 
l>nSplintnr has started his box­
ing r.arnnr and earri•~d on the 
torch of a family tradition. 
Bnforn tlw lirst snason of his young Bengal Bouts earner canw to a dosn -I>PSplintnr lost his quartnrl'inal fight to Mirhatd Schmitt FPIJ. 28 ­1>1\Splintnr rnflnelPd on his progr11ss through tlw nwn's boxing program. 
"I ean't bnlinvn I madn it through tlw training and all that sort of thing. I didn't think I'd hn abln to," hn said. "It startnd ofT !with mn wonder­ing! wlwtlwr or not I eould gnt through the workouts -and thnn whnthnr or not I could in thn ring.... h's pretty amazing how far I've eomn. 
Throughout his first year in tlw ring, Brian did his best to piek up where his brother, a 2005 graduate and three-time Bnngal Bouts ehampion, left ofT. 
"I talked to him !before my l'irst round fight!." Brian DeSplintnr said. "lie told me what I should do bnfore the bouts, mentally and stuff like that. lie's bnnn a lot of help." 
Some of that help ramo this past fall, during the noviee season, when the older DnSplintnr rnturrwd to South Bend and hnlpnd his youngnr brotht\r work on some of the lirwr points or thn sport. 
"I wPnt hark to campus this ynar whiiP lw was in training, and it was amazing," Mark l>nSplintPr said. "I would get in thn ring with him, Iandi it was fun. with tl11• pointPrs I gave him. corning to prar~tirn and snPing how good lw was ­SI'Ping how it all rarrw tognth-Pr." 
l'f'l'haps lll'rauSI\ of his sur­
•~nss in tlw ring, thn nldor llPSplintPr didrr't initially talk to his hrotlwr about boxing. 
"lip didn't want to givn mn a lot of lwlp at lirst, bneausn lw didn't want to rnakn nw think that I had to Ibox I." Brian I>PSplintnr said. 
But as Brian lll'gan showing irHTPasing intnrnst, his oldnr brothnr stnppnd in and lwgan to pass his wisdom on to his younger brother. 

"lie emn1\ down to the box­ing room once or twice, moved around with me and showed me some stuff," Brian DeSplintnr said. 
While the story of' an older brother helping his younger sibling along an athletic path is an old one, the relationship between the DeSplinters has a unique link. In each of their most recent seasons, each brother has worn a blood­stained sweatshirt to each and every practice throughout the season, never washing it between the beginning of the semester and tho end of the bouts. 
The tradition started during thn 2004 novice season last ynar, when Mark DoSplintnr. a snnior captain, was working out af'tnr a practice. 
"1/\ friend and II were down­stairs Iin the boxing room I whon wo roally shouldn't have !won.... I was fighting pretty woll, and I kinsd of' got a little eoeky, throwing kind of' wild punches and not rnally pro­tecting rnysell'," Mark DnSplintnr recallnd. "/\11 of' a suddon, rny friend eornes underrwath and just nails me with a right hand and almost shattms my nose. It exploded ... and my sweatshirt just got covered in my blood. I was dosn to not being able to fight that yoar bneauso my nosn was so busted up, .blending ovory time it was touehed." 
Instead of calling it a bad praetice and writing the injury off as a mistake, Mark DeSplinter instead chose to make an example of the inci­dent. 
"What I did was, I never watched the sweatshirt, because it reminded me that you can lose so easily if you every got cocky, so it reminds me never to get cocky." 
In part because of the super­stitious luek the bloody sweat­shirt brought his brother last season -DeSplinter dominat­ed the 165 class to win his third title -Mark opted to fol­low down the same path when a similar incident occurred. 
"When I got a bloody nose on my sweatshirt !early this sea­son! I said 'nope, not gonna wash it until I win," Brian DoSplinter said. 
Though he didn't advance as far as he wanted, DeSplinter won his first fight, and, if' be keeps true to his word, his swnatshirt will bn dean before he reports to practice next January. 
/\s his brother Brian's career progrossns, Mark DeSplinter hopes that his sibling will get thn same meaning out of' the program that he got. 
"Bengal Bouts was the best thing I did at ND," Mark said. "There's nothing like it." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

PHIL HUDELSONfrhe Observer 

Brian DeSpllnter, right, punches Jim Duffy during preliminary round Bengal Bouts action Feb. 
21. DeSpllnter lost In the quarterfinals to Mike Schmitt. 
Junior John Bush's grandfather Jack won a Bengal Bouts title as an NO student in 1952 
Sinee beginning his career,

By ERIC RETTER 
.John Bush has also received 
Sports Writer 
advice from his great undo Joe 
Bush -Jaek Bush's brother ­
and another former Beng;tl 
When Jack Bush last fought Bouts participant. for the Bengal Bouts "When I was horne for Heavyweight crown in 1952, the Christmas, lmy grandl'athnr and division was still filled with foot­II, would talk about it, he would ball players using the program ofl'er his adviee," John Bush said for off.<>eason conditioning, eam­"lie and his brother both did it eras eaptured eaeh fight for tele­-they fought each other in t.hn vision audiences, and Hocky chan1pionship actually -and Marciano had never lost a light. they both would give nw tlwir 
Fifty-four years later, when his two eents." grandson, John Bush, enters the In those meetings, .John quick­ring for a match being filmed for ly pieked up on whose lessons IH1 CSTV, the only dill'eronce will be should pay morn attnntion to. the absenee of football players in "I listnnml morn to my J.,'Tand­the weight class. pa .Jaek, hn eJHied 
For John Bush, up victorious in thn his grandfather's "[My grandfather/ end," .John Bush legacy has played a said.
would offer his 
part in eneouraging In thn 54 ynars
advice. lie and his
him to get a pair of since thn fight, 16-ounee gloves brother both did it mueh l'amily legend and step into the has developed
... and they both 
ring. Like his around it. According 
would give me
grandfathnr .Jack to Jon Bush -who Bush more than 50 their two cents. " was two years years ago, John younger than .Jack Bush is a member Bush -their moth­
John Bush
of the boxing club er sat him down and
boxer
at Notre Dame -told him to take it 
and Sunday he will attempt to further family comparisons as he lights in the Bengal Bouts' heavy­weight championship light. 
While family played an impor­tant role in his boxing aspira­tions, John Bush -now in his second year competing in the Bouts -decided to fight for numerous reasons. 
"I started after freshman year, after seeing the fights and how exeiting they were," he said. "There was also influence from my grandpa, because my par­ents told me he had done it." 
In these two years, John Bush has found his experience rewarding. 
"I like it a lot so l'ar bneause. first ofT. it helps add balanen with academies and stul'f like that," John Bush said. "Secondly, I like it beeausn it's a 'good way to stay in shape, obviously, and thirdly, it's a great way to mm~t a bunch of guys." 
Beyond that, his fighting career has given him a common ground with his grandfatlwr, a 1952 Bengal Bouts champion. 
''l'vn talked to him on a cnrtain level and !tried to teach him a couple things!," Jack Bush said. 
easy on his senior brother. llis time would come, .Joe's mother said. Jack, however, good-natumdly disputes the rumors. 
· "No, nothing like that hap­pened," Jack Bush said. "We were both pmtty good lighters, lbutl I was a right-hander and had a pretty good jab." 
John Bush also confirms the story as legend. "That's all spnculative," he said. Still, those lighl'i hold a special place in .Jaek Bush's rnnmory. 
"They worn televised in Chil:ago I in thosn days I. and Horky Mareiano was Llw rnl'm·­nn," .lark Bush said. 
For his part. ihn nldnr Bush had bonn hoping his grandson would makn thn championship, giving him a rhancn to n•visit his alma rnatnr. 
I'd lovn to eomn, particularly il' .John madn thn finals," .Jack Bush said in an intnrvinw with Tlw Obsnrvm· Fnb. 25. "I ((•It bad not coming last year to tlw ct-ln­bration ol' tlw 75th anniwrsary." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer John Bush, left, punches Matt Bono during their quarterfinal match Feb. 28. Bush defeated Clarence Ervin III In the semifinals Thursday to earn a spot In the Sunday's heavyweight final. 
page 4 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 3, 2006 
125-pounds 


PICKS 
ERIC RETTER 
Gelchlon 
KEN FOWLER 
Gelchion 

The championship in the 125"pound weight class features sophomore Will Marra against freshman Matt Gelchion. 
Marra has fought twice to makeit to the finals, defeating Nicholas McLees on Tuesday when the referee stopped the fight in the third round before· winning a split decision over top-seed Peter Sarpong. 
· Gelchion has fought for only 30 seconds in the 
entire tournament, )Q:locking out Nate Serazin in 
the semifinals on Thursday night. 
While Marra has proven to be an aggressive fighter, Gelchion, with less than a minute under his belt, will he rnore ofa question mark~, · 

145-pounds

PICKS 
ERIC RETTER 
McGill 
KEN FOWLER 
McGill 

150-pounds 

The 145-pound weight class championship pits junior Andrew McGill against junior Tommy "Fightin' for Milk" Forr. 
McGill, a captain and one of the more technically skilled fighters in the program, has yet to be tested, as he has cruised through his first three matches. 
Forr has utilized an all-out attack to bully oppo­nents. While it has worked thus far. he has sometimes tired towards the end of fights. Against McGill, a very-well conditioned fighter, Forr's conditioning may be an issue. 

PICKS 
ERIC RETTER 
Shapot 
KEN FOWLER 
Shapot 

In the 150-pound weight divisiop, freshman John ''The Highlight" O'Connell will square off against Bret "The Mail Never Stops" Shapot. 
O'Connell has won unanimously in all of his fights, demonstrating a deadly combination of speed and power. 
Shapot, who has been outsized at times during the tournament, but is a smart and fundamen­tally strong fighter. 
The battle between these two lighters should be intense and back-and-forth. 

Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ BEN GAL BOUTS . page 5 
160-pounds 

Sophomorn Jnfl'rey llausfeld will face senior cap­
PICKS 

tain Greg Schaefer in tho finals of the 160-poundERIC RETTER weight division. . Jlausteld. a hard-puncher with a tendertcy fbr wild­
Schaefer 

nHss, will be looking to defeat the second captain ot' KEN FOWLER his Bengal Bouts campaign. Schaefer shi1uld look to keep the fight from turning
Schaefer 

into a brawl, whieh would benefit Hausfeld. 



165-pounds 

The championship in the 1 h5-pound weight dass
PICKS 
will feature senior Charlie Gough against law studnnt ERIC RETTER Billy Hederman. The two fighters have a similar style, as both have
Hederman 
ell'ectively used their jab to ereate opportunitins dur­KEN FOWLER ing fights. !Iederman showed he has the power to stop fights early, TKO'ing Matt llazlebeek in his
Gough · 
quarterfinal mateh. 




170-pound 

Tho 170-pound championship will pit two smart
PICKS 

and f1Xperiencod fightflrs in sflniors Brian Nicholson ERIC RETTER and Andrew Brnslin, a captain. Nicholson, a much taliM fighter, should use his jab
Nicholson 

and extensive rcaeh advantage to keep the smaller KEN FOWLER Breslin away. Bmslin should try to get underneath Nicholson's long arms and use his hooks -one of
Nicholson 

his butl.er punches-to work Nicholson's body.
. ·. ·-'' 



CRUISERWEIGHT 

The Cruiserweight title fight will feature senior
PICKS 

.Johnny Griffin against sophomore Patrick K. Ryan.ERIC RETTER Griffin. arguably the best .fighter in the bouts, is an aggressive fighter with great power. A quick puncher; 
Griffin 

Grillin should look to capitalize with big combina­KEN FOWLER tions. Hyan should look to keep his distance and pick his spots, brin!,ring a full attack when he doeides to
Griffin 

(mgage Grillin. 
SUPER HEAVYWEIGH 



ONY CUNNINGHAM V. BRIAN KOENE 
The Super-lleavyweight division final will pit junior 
PICKS 

Tony Cunningham against junior Brian Koenen. ERIC RETTER In his earlier fights, Cunningham has often charged diredly at his opponents. While often effective, these
Koenen 

bombardments have at times been reckless and gen­KEN FOWLER erally leave him exhausted. Koenen should look to move and avoid th1~ charges and land more con­
Koenen 

trolled combinations if Cunningham gets tired. 
180-pound 

In tho 180-pound division, s1~nior ,kiT (;olcm will
PICKS 
take on junior Dan Ward. ERIC RETTER The two l'ightnrs employ eontrasting styi1\S, as Ward is one of' the toughest lighters to hit and loeus­
Ward 

es on quick, preeise punches, whill\ Golen is nn 
KEN FOWLER aggressive and tedmically sound fightor with Jots of power.
Golen 

Golen must i~rml.'ie the.Lempo of tlw fight tQ.win . 

76th Annual Bengal Bouts 
S_unday, March 5, 2005 
1:30 p.m. 

Joyce Center Arena 
Fight Previews by Eric Retter Photos by Claire Kelley Graphics by Matt Hudson and Dustin Mennella 

Friday, March 3, 2006
page 6 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS 
Breslin philosophical about Bengal competition 
Senior captain lookingfor victory in hisfirst trip to the tournament championship 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
He's a resident assistant, an engineer and a golfer. But a street fighter? 
Not really. 
"''ve never been in a fight," senior Bengal Bouts co-captain Andrew Breslin admitted. 
But that doesn't count his three years of boxing experience at Notre Dame, of course. Breslin, a senior from Alumni Hall and native of Sugarload, Penn., start­ed boxing after being inspired by a friend during his first year at Notre Dame. 


"Freshman year, one of my· good friends was involved and he went to the finals," Breslin said. "He beat a bunch of the captains along the way --kind of an underdog story. He ended up los­ing in the fmals, but that in itself Breslin said the competition of is why I started boxing." boxing is unlike anything else. 
Breslin, who played soccer and "The pit of your stomach drops tennis, ran cross-country, and ·out and you don't really know now skis, said he had never what you're doing and all of a boxed before coming to campus. sudden a· bell rings," he said. 
Four years later, he finds "And once the bell rings, it's like, younger boxers look-it's that self-actu­ing to him for guid­alization, self­ance. realization."
"It's a complete
"For the most part, Breslin said
reflection ofself,
the most rewarding that the individ­part is kids, when and that reflection ual nature of they want to learn boxing is one of
ofselfallows you 
and you can see it in the most 
to carry it on
their eyes that they demanding parts want to be better, through everything of it. they Just constantly "A lot of people 
you do in your
are asking you ques-· have written
life."

tions," Breslin said. about the mirror "That's really where work we do and being a captain Andrew Breslin also about the comes in. The kids lines between
captain
who want to make the lights and the that leap from being dark," he said. a novice boxer to a good boxer, "When you're in the ring, it's you we're their outlet for that, and and the lights. You never really that's the role I see myself play­see who's in front of you, the ref­ing this year." eree is just some voice you don't 
There is more to captaining even pay attention to. It's just than training, though. you, and it's that time where it's 
"Being a captain is the most just you and what you can do." rewarding thing in Bengal Bouts Breslin lost in the preliminary because we run practice, we run rounds as a sophomore in his the ad sales, we run ·pretty much first year of competition. everything," he said. "Last year, I lost very, very close split decision in the semis," he said. His opponent eventually won the championship by default. 
"Based on my performance last year is why I became a captain this year.... Anything short of winning this year wouldn't be a disappointment, but I have the skills and the ability to win this year, whoever I'm facing in my bracket." 
Breslin, a mechanical engi­neering major. will be working in Cincinnati for General Electric next fall. He has accepted a posi­tion in the company's Aviation Edison engineering development program. 
"It's a complete renection of self, and that reflection of self allows you to carry it on through everything else you do in your life," Breslin said. 
His passion for Bengal Bouts is for the boxing and also the mis­sion. 
"Initially, the attraction to box­ing was the boxing," he said. "The mission was just kind of like 
· icing on the cake.... Once I got the full story I was hooked -it was boxing [and] raising money." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Cruiserweight Griffin looks for second title in three years 
siders it the best boxing experi­ing in the Bouts for the first decision to Billy Zizic, a power­to help you -it's reallyBy CHRIS KHOREY ence of his life. time in 2004 -he participated ful graduate student, in one of focused on your:.J>elf," ,Griffin 
Spons Writer 

"My favorite memory of box­in practice as a freshman but the closest matches of the tour-said. "That and the fact that ing is the championship fight was unable to fight due to ill­nament. you're training with your oppo­Winning it all in his first tour­sophomore year," he said when ness, The Observer called him But this has nents all year, nament is hard to top. he. was crowned the champion "one of the best natural fight­been a more "It's not like a regular that's one of Johnny Griffin. the top-seed­of the light heavyweight divi­ers the Bengal Bouts has seen reflective year. the most
boxing gym where you 
ed cruiserweight in this year's sion. in years." As one of the rewarding 
bouts. did just that -and con-Although Griffin was compt-In 2005, Griffin lost in a split senior captains have a personal trainer, parts. training in 2006, Griffin random guys watching to with those guys has worked ·all year long.
help
. not only to pol­pushing each 
ish his own you -it's really focused other and 
skills, but also on yourself" pushing each to help other." improve the Griffin first
Johnny Griffin 
skills of others. got involved 
"It was a lot captain with Bengal easier when I Bouts during was a member instead of a his frnshman ynar, but a bout captain," he said. "They're with mono interrupted his first looking to you [for a lot or lead­season. ershipI. ... It's a whole different "That's what got me into box­standpoint." ing in general --my freshman 
The senior philosophy major year, the boxing table at has worked to balance his own Activities Night," he said. "I workouts, captain's duties and caught mono so I couldn't do it schoolwork. freshman year, but sophomore 
"It takes a lot year I went out and more time, you I just loVf~d it. I like help with [younger it so much more
"It was a lot easier 
boxers'] practice than team sports and then go back when I was a because it's just out and practice you, all the respon­
member instead of
and still gp,t your sibility. If you win 
a captain."
praetico dono." he its all on you, if you said. "[Then! get lose it's all on you." your ·homework Johnny Griffin Griffin. a natiw of dono after threo Sacramento,
captain
hours of helping California. plans to llVMyone else. attend law school 
Griffin said boxing at Notre next ynar. But hn will take thn Dame was unique in how it training experiences and combined a team aspect with friendships away from his the individual nature of boxing. Bengal Bouts experience. The 
''I'd say training [is the most friendships are uniquP because challenging part!," he said. a Bengal Bouts boxer will lind "Boxing is a team sport tho himself in the ring fighting way Notre Dame does it. It's against his friend. not really a team sport." "In the end you have to go 
The difference between train­out there and light each other," ing for Bengal Bouts and train­he said. ing for another boxing tourna­What happens afterwards? ment are seen in the workouts ''lie's your best friend again." the fighters go through. Only in Bengal Bouts. 
"It's not like a regular boxing

Senior Johnny Griffin, left, dances in the ring Thursday during his semifinal win over sophomore gym where you have a personal Contact Chris Khorey at Peter Courtney. Griffin will seek his second Bengal Bouts title Sunday in the finals. trainer, random guys watching ckhorey@nd.edu 
Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 7 
Long hair earns Stypula No. 2 seed 
By DAN MURPHY SportsWriter 
BPI'on~ his sophomore year ol' colil~gn, Stu Stypula had nnvnr sot foot insidn or a boxing ring. 
But his rnlnntlnss work ethic -and a Iitt!11 h«' I p from a throwback haircut -earned tl111 junior 0110 of SiX spots as a Bnngal Bouts captain this ynar and tlw No. 2 snPd in tho ISO­pound weight dass. 
"ITiw 2005 c~aptainsl said I had bonn selndPd bncausn at tho time I had long hair and tlu•y wanted to rc1introduce 'thn shag look' into thn program c~aptainship," Stypula said. 
Stypula is not a stranger to his position. flo captairwd his high school's cross country and lacTossn tnams. 
lin dnscribnd his lnadnrship roiP as a "doubln-ndgnd sword." Stypula said his min as a raptain is time-consuming, PSpPC"ially aS IJIOSI of tho train­ing s11ssions ar11 dPvotc>d to instructing youngnr boxnrs or hP i ng a praet ic:P parlne r for othtH'S. 
ThP captains have to arrive Wl'll hl'for11 all of tho oth11r l"ighttws in ordnr to gd in thn workouts tlwy rwnd to bn phys­ically pn•par11d to wmpntn. 
But Stypula lwlieves that in som11 ways. his rww roln and t h 11 co mm itnwnt that goos along with it havo improved his work nthir and helped him bnconw strongnr. 
"I have been inspired by a sense of leadership to work harder and be a better boxer than I would be if I wasn't a captain," he said. 
If Stu "Beans" has really improved his technique, hn is bound to mako somn noise in the 1~0-pound division this ynar. This was the second straight year Stypula earrwd the No. 2 seed in the tourna­ment. 
But lw has no intnntions of resting on his soP.ding laurels. 
"I hope to bn a contender for the division champion," he said. 
Stypula had no problems get­ting through the first round in last year's 1SO-pound class. lie raced oiT against senior Michael Sinfring and came away with tlw unanimous deci­sion. 
In the next round. "Beans" sparred with Doug "Sudden Death" Bartnls. Dnspite putting up a good light, Stypula fell to tlw nvnntual division champion in the quartorlinal round. 
But winning was not his main goal when lw joined Bongal Bouts. As a two-sport athlete in high sdwol, Stypula was sim­ply looking for a way to stay in shape while loarning a new sport. 
"I also wanted to lind out if I was as tough of a guy as I thought I was," he said. "I found out that boxing isn't always about being the tougher guy." 
Stypula said tlwsfl words res­onato with Bm1gal Bouts com­pntitors, as their lights are only a small part of the work that the boxers put in towards rais­ing money for the Bangladeshi missions. Thf1 fighters organize countless hours of promotion and fund-raising to make tlw event a financial success. 
"The money feeds incredible amounts of pP.ople as well as clothing and educating them 
and playing salaries for many of the workers ovm there," he said. 
The junior biology major also takes away a great deal of knowledge from tlw program that he has given so much time and ofl'ort. 
"Bengal Bouts has delinitnly prepared me to handle any sit­uation in life through persevor­anee and hard work," Stypula said. "It has also taught me to work for a purpose higher than myself." 
Stypula said he wants to <~on­tinun his work as a captain next season, but he is intent on making his mark as a champi­on this year so hn can dndieatn 
even  more  time  to  training  
younger boxers  as  a  senior  
captain.  

Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Bengal Bouts co-captain Stu Stypula punches Jeff Golen during Thursday's 180-pound semifinal match. Golen won Thursday's match by split decision, ending Stypula's title hopes. 
Dis0bedient son becomes Bengal Bouts captain· 
Andrew McGill's work ethic in the gym earned him title after his sophomore year 
fights. and in bP.tween thfl
KYLE CASSILY rounds she zooms in on my face 
Sports Writer 
to sen if I'm alright," MeGill 
said of his parents' continued 
Tho last words Andrew concern. Md;ill's l'athPr said to his son McGill has dorw more than as lw dropped him oiT for l'msh­avoid a knockout in tho ring; he man oric~ntation worn simple, has nxcnllnd in the program to yet dear: "Don't join Bnngal become a captain via hard Bouts." work and a strong ring pres­
Md;ill, a native ol' Erin, f1ncf1. I'Pnn.. initially intc>ndnd to hned As a freshman, MeGill made his l'atlwr's advice, which t~amn it to the quartnrfinals in the from a desire not to sefl his son 140-pound weight elass and tossed around in thn ring. But last year lost in tho semilinals. tho now-junior and Bnngal This your the lighter will com­Bouts captain has no rflgrnts in pete in the 145-pound wflight disolwying his rather. class -in order to focus more 
"I triml to easn into it," MeGill on personal health than the said or tolling his father he size or his opponents. j oi rwd tlw boxing program. "This year I stayed healthy, "Aftnr coming up the lirst year not losing the weight. and and seeing me light, lmy par­developed my skills," he said. nntsl saw I eould keep up with "''m lighting bettor than ever." thnsn guys and MeGill lost in not got my nose the semifinals bustnd in. They "After coming up the first last year in a calrnnd down bout with Mike
year and seeing me fight,
and flnjoyed McCann -a
/my parents/ saw I
watching." match he 
Md;ill first could keep up with these describes as joirwd the box­guys and not get my the toughest he ing dub with has facP.d. rious." looking up to you, asking you "If someone buys a ticket, it 
nose busted in. " 
no intnntion or McCann hit Another key component for questions, watching you box feeds a family for a weok ­sparring or with force and McGill is intense training. The and trying to learn from you," from just buying a $10 ticket," nntnring tho Andrew McGill the post-spring past two years he has spent MeGill said. "It's a great honor lw said. "It's a nieo fnflling to tournanwnt-lw break place­more than thme hours a day in to be involved with an event of know that you're disciplining
boxer 

mnrPiy saw it ment of the the gym getting in l'ighting such history, and follow in the yourself. You'rp, making as a way to gnt fight left MeGill shape and teaching novice box­long line of tradition." friends, getting in shape, learn­in shapP with snvnral otlwr in the best or shape. ers the ropes. McGill stresses not only the ing how to box. but at the samn friends. "Tho key when you go into MeGill said his work ethic boxing aspnet of tho Bengal time you're being a great bene­
But hn steadily broke his way that ring is to plan ahead what was a factor in his selection as Bouts, but also the charity lit to such a groat organization into sparring <~ontnsts and then you want to do," McGill said. captain for this year, and he work it promotes in Bangladesh as lloly Cross missions." dneidnd to fight in the annual "Tho person who stays with now works to teach young with the Holy Cross missions. Not bad at all for a guy who tournanwnt to raise money for their plan and carries it out, lighters how to succeod both in He said he feels pride in being disobeyed his parnnts. lloly Cross missions in will win. You dictate the pacfl, the ring and in life with the involved in an organization that Bangladesh. you dictate how the fight is gloves ofT. helps to bettflr the lives or those Contact Kyle Cassily at 
"My morn always films the fought and you should be vieto-"You have a 150 guys all suffering in poverty. kcassily@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 3, 2006 
Chasing dreants 
Chris Calderone seeks a Bengal Bouts title to avenge 2005 semifinal loss 
the whole thing," Calderone said. 
By KYLE CASSILY ''I'm not pushing anything but 

Sports Writer 

I'm hoping to win the whole thing," he said of his hopes for 
Chris Calderone knows from this year's Bouts. experience that to be the best, Calderone's interest in boxing you have to beat the best. grew out of the lack of another 
The junior Bengal Bouts cap­sport at Notre Dame -varsity tain and No. 1 seed in the 155-wrestling. Calderone wrestled for pound weight class four years in high has faced a tough school and joined
"[Bengal Bouts has] 
draw of opponents in the Boxing Club in
probably been the
the past and says he search of a substi­is ready to be the top best thing I've tute to the sport. lighter in this year's "I kind of ended
done at Notre 
Bouts. up liking boxing bet­
Dame so far." 
As a freshman in ter," he said. "I just the 160-pound really liked the sport weight class, Chris Calderone and the whole 
Calderone won in Bengal Bouts pro­
boxer 
the preliminaries, gram was just great. only to drop a tough bout in the It's a teamwork thing, but you quarterfinals to eventual cham­also get to compete individually pion Colin Kerrigan. too." 
The next year -his first at Calderone admitted that when Chris Calderone takes a punch from Nathan Dyer in their semifinal bout at the Joyce Center 
155 -Calderone slugged his he joined Bengal Bouts he did Thursday. Calderone won the match and will face Zachary Jara in the finals Sunday. way to the semifinals where he not know much about the charity faced Bengal Bouts president side of the event. Since then he heck of it; your boxing for a great with comrades he doesn't have underclassmen and be a leader Galen Loughery. Loughery has learned the value of the cause." the ability to see as often. in such a respected program. knocked off Calderone and went Congregation of the Holy Cross' Calderone said he enjoys the "You make some great friend­"We had some great upper­on to win the weight class. For Bangladesh missions. group training aspect of the club, ships," he said. "Everyone's classmen that taught me as a the second straight year, "After I became a part of [the as it gives a sense of teamwork working together, you're holding freshman," he said. "It's proba­Calderone had been handed Boxing Club], it was added incen­and friendship akin to high mitts for other kids, you're push­bly been the best thing I've done defeat at the hands of the cham­tive to stay with it," he said of the school athletic teams. ing each other." at Notre Dame so far." pion. missions that Bengal Bouts And now that the former Now that he is a junior captain, 
"It made it harder because it funds. "It gives added purpose to Morrissey resident lives off-cam­Calderone relishes the opportu­Contact Kyle Cassily at felt like, 'Wow, I would have won it. You're not just boxing for the pus, Calderone enjoys training nity to improve the skills of kcassily@nd.edu 

Basola goes from novice to captain in a fe-w short years 
several months to prepare forBy CHRIS KHOREY the Bouts come March. 
Sports Writer 

However, the group does accept a few new members at the start When Mark Basola first heard of the spring semester. These of Notre Dame's charity boxing fighters come in knowing their tournament, he had never training will be even more fought in his life. intense as they race against 
"I heard about !Bengal Bouts] time to be ready for the Bouts. the summer before corning here "We get a select few who do -from some family friends," start doing the program in the the senior said. "!Joining] was spring," Basola said. "They're really out of character for me. I real novices so we have to work had never thrown a punch hard to make sure they can par­before my freshman year at ticipate in the fights and do Notre Dame." well." 
For Basola, who played bas­Training sessions, which can ketball and swam in high take up 20 hours per week as school, the Bengal Bouts novice the tournament nears, are as program served as a way to rigorous, if not more so, than transition into a totally new any varsity sport. sport -one that was much "The workouts are very struc­more demanding than anything tured," Basola said. "First we do he had done before. Older box­our calisthenics -we call them ers and alumni coaches taught 'cals.' We do 333 push-ups a day him the nuances of the "sweet because we want to do a total of science" of boxing and helped 10,000 by the end of the season. him through the rigorous train­Also we do 500 sit ups per day. ing. "On top of that we do our 
Basola said those mentors training and form work, which were crucial in his development is where we teach the novices as a boxer. how to fight." 
"The novice program was my Although the training is many other responsibilities "[Bengal Bouts co-president] onship last year. introduction to boxing," Basola intense, Basola said he does not aside from training younger Nate Schroeder shouldered In his first two years, Basola said. "I got to see what the condone excessive weight loss to fighters. almost all of the administrative advanced to the second round workouts are like. It also got me compete in a certain weight "You have to be on top of work," Basola said. "We also but was unable to win more into some semblance of shape. class. everything," he said. "You have have eight captains in the club. than one match. He said he's It's much more physically "We try to discourage that as to work with ... RecSports to do They organize the training and improved a lot technically from demanding than basketball in a much as possible," he said of the paperwork for the Bouts, work with the novices." those early bouts. lot of ways." fighters "cutting" weight. "We you have to make sure that Also working with the pro­"[My freshman year] I was 
Now, Basola is repaying the tell them not to do anything donations are coming in. You gram are Bengal Bouts alumni, really nervous and really excit­favor. As Bengal Bouts co-presi­crazy." have to get the ads for the pro­including law professor Charles ed," Basola. "I kind of lost con­dent, he is tutoring young fight­Besides physical workouts and grams, which is how we make Rice, University pilot Pat Ferrell trol and started throwing ers not only to hold their own, technical instruction in boxing, most of our money. You have to and Tom Suddes, a Notre Dame punches without thinking." but also to excel in the ring. the novices receive valuable make sure the training is up to alum who travels from Ohio This year, Basola was upset in 
"A lot of my time with the pro­experience sparring, which is speed. You have to make sure every year to help with the the quarterfinals by sophomore gram is taken getting the important to overcome the psy­that there are EMTs in the pit so Bouts. Jeff Hausfeld, one of his pro­novices up to speed," Basola chological hurdle of climbing we can spar. And you have to "We've got some dinosaurs in teges. Hausfeld defeated Mark said. "We make sure they talk to into the ring to fight another make sure the coaches are up to the program that come back Hinken Thursday in their semifi­us when they need help. They person. speed so they know what's going year in and year out," Basola nal bout and will take on Greg come to us to ask questions so "You're very alone in boxing," on." said. Schaefer in the finals Sunday at we can build them up and make Basola said. "It's you and anoth­Of course, Basola is not alone As for the senior, his four year the Joyce Center. them better lighters." er guy in the ring and you have in organizing the 150-plus mem­Bengal Bouts career has seen 
Most freshmen start training to fight with your fists." ber club and 130-plus fighter many ups and downs, culminat­Contact Chris Khorey at in the fall, giving older fighters As co-president, Basola has tournament. ing in his 160-pound champi-ckhorey@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, March 3, 2006 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

Wobbly 'Domino' lands face first 

Runway model-turned bounty hunter Domino Harvey ( Keira Knightley) tracks down ball bond jumpers In director Tony Scott's latest -and worst -outing. 
Once known as the
attractiveness at least prom­Of course, all of the ism! to make up lbr any mer­genius behind "Top blame for this can be cenary shortcomings. Trading placed squarely on the
Gun," Scott is in a 
in lipstick for bullet-shell cas­shoulders of director Tony 
tailspin free-fall 
ings, Knightley appeared Scott. Once known as the poised to capture both her here nearly as bad genius behind "Top Gun," wantnd quarry and the hearts Scott is in a tailspin free­
as the one that 
of' teenage mains across the fall nearly as bad as the
killed Goose. 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene ( :ritic 
With a slick pnwinw trailer, "Domino" looked to f'eaturn the coolest on-screen bounty huntor appearam:e since Boba Fett in "The l·:mpim Strikes Back." Well, maybe tlw coolest bounty hunter not to wear Mandalorian armor. 
Although Fott's taciturn perlimnanee is a tough aet to f'ollow, thn pres­enen of' Keira Knightley sheer 
country -dead or alive. Whil!l she more or less suc­cPeds as a fmnme fatale, the film as a whole~ sufli~rs from an awful plot and over­ly complkatnd cinematography. 
Through a series of' poorly-done and very brief' flashbacks, the film only oll'ers a glimpse of Domino's childhood. Following tho d11ath of' her father, young Domino becomes an angst-ridden rebel without a eause. She also takes to randomly whip­ping around a pair of' nunchaku. The pair­ing of girl-next-door appeal and sweet nunehuk skills eombines to make her Napoleon Dynamite's trophy wife. 
As an angst-ridden teenager with an Avril l.avigrw-like ethos, Domino naturally derides to pursue a earner as a f'ashion modnl. Tragi<:ally, her willingness to Pngage in listirufls on and oil' the runway prows her inability to assimilate into the world of heautif'ul peopl(~, and she soon opts out. 
l·:sraping from tlw superlidal world of' 'J021 0 to a world of' I X7s and 911 s. I>omino d('rides to pursu(' a carnnr of' dan­g~·r and ('xdt('IIH'nt as a bounty huntnr. Al'l('r rhopping otT lwr hair in f'avor of' a tomboy 'do, slw mmplc~tes hPr transition f'rom Posh Spii'P to Scary Spkn by joining up with l·:d (played hy Mickey Bourke) and <:hom (hlgar Hamirc~z), a pair of' veterans who slw hopes will l.<~ach her tlw tricks of l.lw trade. 
llownv('r, tlw way t.lw 
would-be criminals. 

llerein lies the main problem of Domino -the film tries too hard to be cool. Instead of' letting it come naturally, it tries to force it. Dressed like wannabe rock stars, Knightley and Co. look like members of the now-defunct band Croed, with per­formances nearly as strained as Scott Stapp's vocals. Wielding shotguns in lieu of guitars, they are dearly trying to change the ro(:k industry motif to "Sex, drugs, lock 
'n load," but fail miser­
ably. 

one that killed Goose. 
Using cinematography similar to his last film, "Man on Fire," Scott again elects to use a perpetual motion approach in shooting Domino. This geL<> old quickly-he can't keep the cam­era still, always zooming in and out, or flit­ting around. With this recently developed case of cinematographic ADD and a few artistic montages, Scott clearly has delu­sions of art-house grandeur. 
In reality, shaking the camera only makes the audience want a dose of Dramamine. What all of this proves that "Domino" is a cliched action film posing as an indie flick. 
Some of the more "artistic" montages wnre designed to show the perspeetive of being tripped-out on mescalin. In fad, one of' the DVD extras is a f'eaturette (mtitled "Bounty Hunting on Acid: Tony Scott's Visual Styln." 
Thn sheer awfulness of' this film is (mough to make any viewer wonder what mind-altnring nareotics S(:ott was doing wlwn he cooked up this bomb. Tho only thing this lilm has going f'or it is Keira Knight.ley's hotness fitctor. 1\ven in all lwr hip-hugging jnans glory, she is barely enough to save "Domino" from the dread­ed land of' one-dover ratings. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd.edu 

thr·(•e of' thmn are dressml up. it nmkns tlw audience wond(~r if' Oomino truly 1(-ft Llw wc.pd of.J;ttshion or nwrely weQt ell' o. photo shoot in ·the desert. 
F(mturing dosigrwr jeans, aviator sunglasses and lots of' squinty gazes, tho trio ,y,·•
· · 
looks more prepared to shoot a l.nvi's eommnrdal than draw a lmad on any 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 3, 2006 
BENGAL BOUTS-SEMIFINALS 
Perez continues to dominate 132-pound division 
By JACK THORNTON and TIM KAISER Sports Writers 
125: Peter Sarpong vs. Will Marra 
The first bout of the evening played out like a dogfight, as Zahm sophomore Will Marra outlasted off-campus senior Peter Sarpong for a split decision win. To begin the first round, the two fighters shot out of their corners and traded hooks and jabs with­out any defense. Sarpong was quicker though and gained con­trol of the tempo, but a late hit after the bell most likely cost him. 
Sarpong kept up his attack in the second round, pounding Marra with a series of hooks. The sophomore held his own, howev­er, and turned the tide in the third round. An obviously exhausted Sarpong dropped his delimses, allowing Marra to run him around the ropes with a vicious series of hooks. In the end Marra just had more gas in the tank, coming back to defeat Sarpong by split decision. 
125: Nate Serazin vs. Matt Gelchion 
In the next fight, all freshman Matt Gelchion of Fisher Hall needed was 30 seconds and one nasty hook to defeat Seigfried sophomore Nate Serazin. Gelchion dodged a hook from Serazin and came back with a brutal right hook that dropped Serazin to the mat. After giving him a standing-eight count, the ref called the fight. 
132: Chris Izaguirre vs. James "The Beast from the Beach" Carlson 
A clash of styles resulted with Zahm sophomore Chris Izaguirre beating sophomore James "The Beast from the Beach" of Fisher Hall by a split decision. The two came out tentatively in the first round, with neither boxer gain­ing the advantage. The taller Izaguirre danced around Carlson, using jabs to keep The Beast from getting inside, and finally took control of the match in the second round with a flurry of left-right hooks as the bell sounded. 
Carlson strived to get back into the match, but Izaguirre used his speed and size to maintain dis­tance, and got into an effective rythym of low-high hits. Carlson managed to garner a few points with an effective series of jabs at the end, but it wasn't enough. 
132: John Biddle vs. Kris "EI Azteca" Perez 
Kris "El Azteea" Perez, a fresh­man from Morrissey turned in one of the most dominant per­formances of the night, taking out Fisher sophomore John Biddle in the second round. Working with his height disad­vantage, El Azteca quickly estab­lished a pattern of low left jabs to the chest followed by right hooks to the head. Coming from such a low angle, every punch from Perez worked like an uppercut, knocking Biddle off pace. 
After falling once and strug­gling to land punches in the first round, Biddle came out firing in the second, momentarily gaining the advantage. El Azteca snatched it right back though, and dropped his opponent for good 1:30 into the round with a mean left-right combo. 
140: Patrrick "Homewrecker" Garrison vs. Lawrence "The Boston Massacre" Sullivan 
Defending the honor of Fisher Hall, Lawrence "The Boston Massacre" Sullivan laid out Keough sophomore Patrick "Homewrecker" Garrison in the second round of their fight. Showing more quickness and agility, Homewrecker gained the early advantage by landing sev­eral counter-hooks off misses by the Boston Masacre. 
Sullivan wasted no time in the second round setting things right, as a brutal right and left hook forced Garrison into the ropes and earned him a standing eight count. Sullivan then wrested con­trol of the fight as Homewrecker began to lose his speed and Sullivan's bigger punches made contact. Garrison received anoth­er stanidng eight count after a huge right hook from The Boston Massacre, and the ref stopped the fight 1:24 into the second round. 
140: Mike "Soldier" Schmitt vs. Mike "Just Call Me Merck" Hennig. 
Mike "Just Call Me Merck" Henning controlled the match against a determined Mike "Soldier" Schmitt in the fight. Just Call Me Merck came out to win right away, laying a series of brutal left and right hooks that swept across his body. Schmitt tried to keep Henning away with jabs, but Henning was unfazed by his opponent's attack, fighting with a style that can best be described as "downhill." 
Soldier lived up to his moniker, however, and kept coming back for more, and even gaining the advantage briefly in the third round. In the end, however, Henning's aggressive style worked as the O'Neill junior won by unanimous decision. 
145: Andrew McGill vs. Chris Hanlon 
Zahm junior Andrew McGill cashed in a dominanting per­formance, defeating O'Neill jun­ior Chris Hanlon by unanimous decision. McGill was far too quick for his opponent, dancing around Hanlon throughout the entire match, and effectively dodging him until the fmal bell. 

While Hanlon struggled to land punches, McGill set up shop, using his speed to get off quick jabs, and then coming across with giant hooks. Hanlon man­aged to keep McGill away in the third round, but the Zahm junior was too much for him. 
145: Dan Rodgers vs. Tommy "Fightin' for Milk" Forr 
The next fight played out like a roller coaster ride, and Tommy "Fightin' for Milk" Forr overcame Dan Rodgers to win by a unani­mous decision. In a fight where defense was secondary, Forr and Rodgers traded the advantage several times in the first round with a plethora of unchecked punches. The two boxers toned it down in the second round, with Fightin' for Milk landing some big left jabs and a huge uppercut to the body. 
Forr's guerilla warfare style wore out at the end of the third round, as Rodgers began pum­meling his exhausted opponent on the ropes. It wasn't enough though, as the judges gave Fightin' for Milk the win. 
150: John "The Highlighter" O'Connell vs. Brian Tyrrell 
Freshman John O'Connell defeated junior Bryan Tyrrell by unanimous decision. After a quiet first round, Tyrrell landed a big right hook on The Highlighter's face that sparked the match. Tyrrell went into overdrive, pushing his opponent into the rings with a fast series of left-right hooks. 
In the third round, the crowd tried to rouse The Highlighter to victory with a "John, John" chant, but Tyrrell connected on another vicious right hook that made the audience gasp before the bell rang, sealing the victory. 
150: Bret "The Mail Never Stops" Shapot vs. Jesse Brawer 
Alumni sophomore Bret "The Mail Never Stops" Shapot defeat­ed Keenan sophomore Jesse Brawer by split decision. Though Brawer held a definitive size advantage, Shapot was able to keep his opponent at bay with fundamentally sound quick jabs and counter-hooks. The two traded several good punches in the third round, but it was a fair­ly quiet match, with The Mail Never Stops landing more punch­es and garnering the close win. 
155: Chris Calderone vs. Nathan Dyer 
Chris Calderone won by unani­mous decision over fellow junior Nathan Dyer. The match began with the two fighters trading jabs, before Calderone opened up with a series of hard hooks ­missing a few -but connecting on most. The second round saw more of the same, but the con­stant punching left the fighters winded by its conclusion. In the third, Calderone continued his onslaught of hooks to Dyer's head and body, and Dyer, missing most of his shots at the aggressive Calderone, was forced to clinch 
multiple times. 
155: David Weirson vs. Zachary Jara 
The fight between juniors David Weirson and Zachary Jara began with a fairly even first round, with both fighters aggres­sive and throwing looping hooks from the start, but Weirson scored some quick jabs to the body of Jara near the end of the round. The second round saw both fighters on the canvas, although Weirson fell after get­ting clocked by a hard right from Jara, while Jara slipped coming out of a clinch. The fight lasted only 58 seconds into the third round, where a few more right hooks from Jara gave him the technical knock out. 
160: Jeffrey "Werewolf of London" Hausfeld vs. Mark Hinken 

Sophomore Jeffrey Hausfeld defeated freshman Mark I link en in a slugfest which saw little to no defense by either boxer through three rounds. Right from the start, the fighters exchanged jabs and crosses, and 1-linken 's nose began to bleed after absorb­ing so much punishment from Hausfeld. The bout's second round was much less frenetic, with both fighters clearly winded from the first, but the two boxers came out strong at the start of the third, with Hausfeld landing hard shots to Hinken's face and body to earn him a unanimous decision. 
160: Alex Duffy vs. Greg Schaefer 
Freshman Alex Duffy dropped a match by unanimous decision to senior Greg Schaefer. The fight began with an even first round, with both boxers throwing sus­tained combos throughout. The second round saw more flurries of punches, and Schaefer's offen­sive put Duffy on the mat. In the third the fighters both kept their pace, but Schaefer landed some solid jabs and crosses to ensure his unanimous victory. 
165: Charlie Gough vs. Adam Burns 
Senior Charlie Gough beat jun­ior Adam Burns by split decision, on the strength of his powerful jab combinations. The two fight­ers repeated the same sequence over and over throughout the fight. Gough would back Burns up against the ropes and connect on a few shots, then cover up as Burns unleashed hooks and uppercuts. Gough was able to secure the win by landing a few hard jabs to Burns' face in the third round by which the few fighters were exhausted. 

165: Billy Hederman vs. Stephen Hansen 

Law student Billy llederman won a close fight against junior Stephen Hansen by beating his opponent's ability to fight right out of him. Hansen began the fight by dodging Hederman's punches and throwing counters, but a hard jab to the face from Hederman in the beginning of the second round turned the fight around. By the third, Hansen was throwing hooks, but looked to be on his last legs as Hederman connected with jab combinations. 
170: Brian Nicholson vs. Michael O'Connell 

Law student Brian Nicholson defeated senior Michael O'Connell by using an aggressive strategy and landing punches to O'Connell's head. Nicholson came out swinging with jabs and cross­es, but O'Connell blocked most of Nicholson's punches and coun­tered a few. Nicholson began the second round the same way, but this time connected with a num­ber of quick jabs to O'Connell's face, giving him a bloody nose. Nicholson continued his onslaught in the third, knocking out O'Connell's mouth guard and throwing hooks at O'Connell's body 
170: Andrew Breslin vs. Jeffrey Schaal 

Senior Andrew Breslin beat fel­low senior Jeffrey Schaal by split decision in a hard-fought battle of seniors. Schaal began the fight by throwing tight hooks at Breslin's body, which Breslin countered with quick jabs and a few looping hooks. Schaal's style worked to perfection in the sec­ond, and he connected with his hooks to the body, but Breslin opened up the third with same hard shots to Schaal's head. Schaal took a standing 8 count, spelling the end of the fight. After their bout was over, the exhaust­ed lighters shared a vigorous hug and received a standing ovation from many members of the crowd. 
Contact Jack Thornton at 
jthornt4@nd.edu and 
Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser@nd.edu 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline tor next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Area houses and apartments for  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  3-6 BDRMS.  
rent. Log onto  rentals, $1200/mo.  $195/PERSON  
FoR RENT  MichianaRentals.com.  57 4·250-7653  MO.,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07  PERSONAL  FoR SALE  
Call  329·0308  
574-993·RENT (7368)  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­ 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 BED·  UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06·07  HISTORIC HOME·CHAPIN PK.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don  A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled  
ROOM HOMES  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes.  SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ 2800 s/f+base,LR w/f.p. 4  not go it alone.lf you or someone  house near campus. $90,000. Call  
MMMRENTALS.COM  Web site:mmmrentals.com  ROOM, TWO BATHS.  bdrms,study +  you love needs confidential support  220·8666.  
532·1408  Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or  HURRY. 235-7234  finished 3rd fl.  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
grooms@ ourwebspot.net  FOR MORE DETAIL.  Full appliances +  Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more  3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY  
123 NO Ave. 3·bdrm,1.5 bath.  WID, 3 porches.  information, see our bi·weekly ad in  LAKE. WALK TO CAMPUS.  
Call574·229·0149.  Furn.house Corby.  1·7 bdrm. homes starting @  413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util.  THE OBSERVER.  329-0308  
574-309-3105  $200/student,  574-2322167  
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st  or  Thanks for the memories.  1993 Volvo 850 GLT, superb condi·  
2006·07. Security,phone included.  A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus.  mo. free.  574·2613184  I love you all,  lion, 95,000 mi.  
315·3215.  All appliances included. Pets wei­ Call574·250·7653  www.xog.com/property/413WestNa  especially Shirley and Jack.  $4200.  
ndstudentrentals.com  come. $1350. Call 220-8666.  or visit bluegoldrentals.com  varre.html  ·Claire  631·5082.  

Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
WBC loses four big names 
Ramirez reports to camp instead of tourney 
AssociatcJ Press 
On thn sanw day Manny Hamirnz finally joinnd his Hod Sox teammates, Vladimir Cunrrnro, Billy Wagtwr and C:.C. Sahathia pullml out ol' thn World Baseball <:lassie. 
Hamirez arrivPd at spring training Wndnosday, six days lll'l<'r Boston's first full-squad workout and ono day aftor Major Loagun Basnball's mandatory rnport.ing dalo. lie was given pnrmission by t.ho t.Pam to show up late so he !'ould continuo working out twar his Miami homo. 
Tho enigmatic slugger arrivnd with his agents and otlwrs in a pair of spifl'y vohi­dos: OIW copper, onn silvm·. lln sported dark orango drnad­lorks and was on tlw field for only an hour. And ho passed up SPVnral chanees to say he's plnasml to still be with tho Hod Sox al'tnr hn askPd to bn traded following last season. 
"I'm hnre. I'm here," Hamiroz said whPn asked if lw's happy to bo with Boston. 
llo wouldn 'l nntortain ques­tions about past trade rumors. 
"My main foeus," he said, "is gnlling prepared for the sea­son to help Boston win." 
llo also conlirmed he won't play for the Dominican Hopublic in the World Baseball Classic, which begins Thursday night U.S. time in Tokyo when South Korea plays Taiwan. The Dominican Hepublic's t1rst game is next Tuesday against Venezuela. 
"I'm not ready, so I'm not 
IFREEtI 
Dummies® travel mug with purchase. 
While supplies lasL 

going to go out there and make a fool of mysnlf," he said. 
Hamirez isn't expected to play in Thursday night's exhi­bition opener against Minnesota. but Boston manag­nr Tnrry Francona didn't expnet him to be out of the lineup for· long. 
''I'm finn. I'm line," Hamirez said. "I guoss a lot of people want nw to b11 back and that's why I'm horn." 
Guerrero pulled out of the WBC, saying hn will not play for the l>ominiean team becausn of the deaths of his thren cousins last weekend in a car aeeidnnt. 
"I feel mentally that I cannot go out there and play to the 
lnvnl  and  compeln  for  my  
country,"  Guerrero  said  
through  a  translator at Los  

Angeles Angels eamp in Tempe, Ariz. 
Wagner and Sabathia dropped off the United States team and were replaced by Washington right-hander Gary Majewski and Yankees left­bander AI Leiter. 
Wagner, the All-Star closer who signed a $43 million, four­year contract with the New York Mets during the offsea­son, said he needed more time to get his arm in shape. 
"I just didn't feel like I was ready yet," the hard-throwing lefty said in Port St. Lucie, Fla. "I want to do what's right for me and my country, and I'm not a very good pitcher in March. I didn't want to hurt the (WBC) team." Sabathia also said he would-
n't be ready to pitch in the WBC and he doesn't want to risk an injury that eould cost his Cleveland Indians. Ilis withdrawal leaves the U.S. team with only three starters on its 14-man pitching staff: Jake Peavy, I>ontrelle Willis and Hoger Clemens. 
Also in Port St. Lucie, Brct Boono retired at Mots camp, the culmination of a swil't decline for a player who was one of baseball's best second basemen only a few years ago. 
"This rnally gives me some closure," Boone said, his eyns moist at a morning news eon­ferenee. "I went out this winter and worked as hard as I could, and it would have been easy to walk away aftnr last yoar." 
Boone's production plum­meted dramatically since the 2003 season. The three-time All-Star was cut by Seattle and Minnesota last year, when he batted .221 with seven homers and 37 HBis in 326 plate appearances. 
The 36-year-old Boone agreed to a minor league con­tract with the Mets in January and came to spring training with an opportunity to win the starting second base job. But the four-time Gold Glove win­ner called it quits before New York even played its first exhi­bition game. 
"Physically, I think I can still do it. It wasn't as easy as even three or four years ago, but I had lost the edge. I couldn't look in the mirror and think that I would get that edge back," he said. 
select Dummies® titles* 
PGA 

Tiger stays in front at Ford Championship 
Woods has lead over Mickelson after eight under performance 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson resumnd their duel at opposite ends of Dora] on Thursday, and tho outeonw didn't change. 
Woods was still one shot bet­ter. 

In a balmy start to tho Florida swing, Woods again reaehed the 603-yard 12th hole in two shots and ran off a string of birdies along the back nino of the Bluo Monster for an 8-under 64 and a one-shot lead over Mickelson and four others in the rord Championship at as ever. 
There wnrn throaty ehnnrs whnn Lofty made a 12-foot birdie putt on No. 5, and one man yelled, "Yeah! lin's letting Tignr know that hn's t:oming!" 
At that point, Woods was only about 250 yards away as lw walked down the I 4th fairway. lie hit !J-iron into 10 font. tlw start of thrnn straight birdies that shot him to the lop of the lnadnrboard. I lis 64 was his best score in the first round on the PGA Tour sinen a (,3 in thn 200:{ Western Open, whieh he went on to win by live. 
It was sizzling stuff, even though it was only Thursday. 
Thorn arn still lhrnc days IPI't, and loads of other players capa­ble of denying fans an encorn. 
Camilo 
Villegas, one of 
several promis­

Doral. "/ knew 7 was lead­ing rookies who "This guy Tiger hit llw ball a
ing, so try to get up
seems to play well mile, birdi<!d
there somehow. " 
every day, every four straight week," Mickelson holes until set­said. ''I'm just try­Tiger Woods tling for a two­ing to keep pace. putt par from
golfer
I'm trying to maybe have another shot at dueling out with him on Sunday, and I'm glad that he's playing well. I've got to do my part and stay with him." 
Woods won last year in a scin­tillating showdown between golfs two biggest personalities, with Woods pulling ahead on a 30-foot birdie putt at No. 17 and Mickelson lipping out a birdie chip on the last hole. 
They teed off at the same time Thursday, but on opposite nines. 
They were together only on the leaderboard, although both had some catching up to do on a day when 60 players broke 70 and 116 players were at par or better. 
"The times I looked at the board, neither one of us were up there," Woods said. "We weren't leading. I knew 7 (under) was leading, so try to get up there somehow." 
Woods got off to a hot start on a tropical afternoon with birdies on three of his first four holes, including a tee shot within a foot on the 222-yard fourth hole. Mickelson made three straight birdies around the turn, and while his gallery was about one­fourth the size of those watching Woods, they were as passionate 
Meet and break bread with a community of recent college grads who are currently serving the South Bend community in their post graduate volunteer year with Holy Cross Associates 
about 8 feet on 
the 18th. That 
put him at 65, 
along with former PGA champi­on Hich Beem, Hyan Palmer and Mark Wilson, one of five players who got into this elite field with a top-1 0 finish in Tucson last week. 
At times, it seemed like a replay from last year. 
Woods had 282 yards to the hole on the monster 12th hole, and hammered a 3-wood that floated enough in the air to dear the bunker and reach the green. This time, he had to settle l'or a two-putt birdie, bouncing on his feet as the ball trickled to a stop inches from the front of the cup. 
Then there was Mickelson, facing a 30-foot birdie chip after having to lay up on the par-S eighth. The ball ran hot toward the hole, spun out of the cup and Lefty threw his head back in disbelief. 
The good news for Mickelson? It's only Thursday. 

And with a mild breeze in the afternoon and soft conditions, no one could afford to take their fool off the gas if they wanted to keep their positions. 
"If you shoot even par, you're going to get run over here," Woods said. 


----------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------~------~----------~----, 
page 16 
NBA 
Cleveland co111es back on Murray's late three 
Cavaliers sneak by Bulls with buzzer beater in Chicago 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Ronald Murray made a 3-pointer from the right side with 3. 9 seconds remaining, and the Cleveland Cavaliers escaped with a 92­91 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Thursday night after blowing a 25-point lead. 
Murray, acquired from Seattle at the trade deadline, scored 11 of his 13 points in the fourth quarter as the Cavaliers snapped a five-game losing streak. 
The winning shot came after Kirk Hinrich's free throw gave the Bulls a 91-89 lead with 
11.6 seconds left. The Bulls had one final shot to win it, but Andres Nocioni missed a 3-pointer at the buzzer. 
Down 10, the Bulls scored 11 straight points midway through the fourth quarter, tying it at 81 on I-linrich's 3­pointer and taking a one-point lead on Ben Gordon's free throw with 3:01 left. 
LeBron James, who aver­aged 34.5 points in the first two games against the Bulls, scored 33 -none in the final 
7:40. He had 19 at halftime, matching his total the previ­ous night in a loss to Sacramento. 
With forward Drew Gooden 

out with flu-like symptoms, 
second-year pro Anderson 
Varejao got the first start of 
his career and responded with 
13 points and six rebounds. 
But he missed two free throws 
with 18 seconds left and the 
Cavaliers down 88-87. 
Eric Snow added 14 points 

and eight assists. 
Hinrich had 25 points and nine rebounds, two nights after he had 30 points, 13 rebounds and nine assists in a 111-100 victory over Minnesota. 
Luol Deng finished with 18 points and 10 rebounds, and Gordon scored 16. 
Down 75-60, the Bulls start­ed the fourth quarter with an 11-2 run to make it 77-71. 
With the score 81-71, Nocioni's basket started the 11-point run that gave the Bulls their first lead of the game. Murray stopped it with two foul shots, and the lead went back and forth. 
Gordon's floater gave the Bulls an 88-87 lead with 39 seconds left and Deng hit two free throws to make it a three­point game with 16 remaining. After Murray scored on a drive, the Cavaliers fouled Hinrich with 11.6 seconds left. 
Bulls forward Malik Allen was back in the starting line­up after being taken to a hos­pital with a sprained neck during the Minnesota game and scored four points in 17 minutes. And Chris Duhon played 17 minutes after leav­ing that game with a bruised jaw. 
Allen said doctors told him he would probably miss a game, but he felt fine after he warmed up during the morn­ing shootaround. 
His range of motion is "a ton better" than it was on Wednesday. 
Allen injured his neck when he rotated to defend the Timberwolves' Rashad McCants on a drive to the bas­ket early in the second quar­ter. As he fell backward, his head hit teammate Darius Songaila's leg. Allen was immobilized and carted off on a stretcher. 
A few minutes later, Duhon took a shot to the face when he tried to take a charge against Minnesota's Justin Reed and was done for the night. 
Duhon was already sore after taking an elbow to the jaw from Gordon in practice on Monday. 

GMAT I GRE I LSAT I MCAT I OAT I OAT I PCAT. 
Take a FREE practice test at this event and you'll receive a detailed score analysis and exclusive strategies to help you prepare for Test Day! 
Saturday March 25th, 2006 MCA T, LSAT, GRE, & GMA T practice tests at Saint Mary's College Register Today!! 
ENROLL  limited seats are available. Caii1-800-KAP-TEST  
TODAY  or visit kaptest.comjpractice.  
.. Test names are regtstered trademarks ot thetr respective owners.  6PGA0003  

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 3, 2006 
BENGAL BOUTS -SEMIFINALS 
Ward looks to defend title 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

180: Dan "Poundtown" Ward vs. Robert Lochridge 
Junior Daniel Ward defeated senior Robert Lochridge by unanimous decision. The first round was uneventful, with almost no punches landed, as both boxers dodged each other's shots and clinched before any damage could be done. The two fighters contin­ued their emphasis on defense in the second, blocking while landing body shots, before Ward landed a few shots to Lochridge's head at the end of the round. Ward also won the third on the strength of a par­ticularly hard jab to the face of Lochridge. 
180: Daniel Stypula vs. Jeffrey Golen 

Junior captain Daniel Stypula dropped a close match to sen­ior Jeffery Golen by split deci­sion. The first round was back and forth, but Golen landed a few more body shots on Stypula. The second and third rounds were back and forth again, but Golen got the upper hand by countering some of Stypula's shots and landing some solid punches of his own to get the win. 
Cruiser Weight: Johnny Griffin vs. Peter Courtney 
Senior Johnny Griffin turned in a dominant performance in his win by unanimous decision over sophomore Peter Courtney. Griffin opened with an incredible flurry of punches, and Courtney stood for an eight count just seconds into the 
HOLY CROSS MISSION LECTURE AT NOTRE DAME 
match. Griffin spent the rest of the first dodging punches and landing hooks to the body and uppercuts to Griffin's stomach. The fight was stopped early in the second after Griffin knocked Courtney down with one of his furious punch combi­nations. 
Cruiser Weight: Patrick K. Ryan vs. Christopher Adams 

Sophomore Patrick K Ryan beat senior Christopher Adams by split decision in a close fight that was decided in the final round. The two fighters each landed body shots and pep­pered each other's faces with jabs throughout the first two rounds, but Hyan was able to counter-punch his way to victo­ry in the third, as the two exhausted fighters struggled to stay on their feet. 
Heavyweight: Nathan Schroeder vs. Patrick Mcinerney 

Senior Nathan Schroeder defeated sophomore Patrick Mcinerney by split decision, as the captain Schroeder put his experience to good use. Mcinerney had a huge height and reach advantage, but Schroeder began with a quick combo to Mcinerney's face that resulted in a standing eight count, of which there were two for Mcinerney in the first round. Schroeder continued to throw hooks to Mcinerney's face and head, and while Mcinerney got in a few hard shots of his own in the later rounds, it was not enough to overcome Schroeder's impres­sive start. 
Heavyweight: Clarence Ervin Ill vs. John Bush 

Senior Clarence Ervin III lost a close match to junior John Bush by unanimous decision. Bush had a huge advantage in reach over Ervin, and while Ervin was able to pepper Bush's head with hard jab combinations throughout the fight, Bush was able to land more shots on the shorter Ervin and come away with the victory. 
Super Heavyweight: Tony Cunningham vs. Eric Delaporte 

Junior Tony Cunningham beat much older and taller Law student Eric Delaporte by unanimous decision in the first Super Heavyweight bout of the evening. Cunningham was able to fight Delaporte against the ropes in the first, but Delaporte was able to connect on some thunderous shots. Cunningham hit the canvas in the second, but was able to come back in the third with a powerful punch that knocked Delaporte's headgear off. 
Super Heavyweight: Brian Koenan vs. James Bent 

Brian Koenen defeated James Bent by split decision in a very close match, the last of the night. Both fighters were surprisingly agile and while each landed powerful shots, they were able to dodge out of the way of most of the damage. The two fighters appeared even throughout the fight, but Koenen connected with a few combinations in the third round to get the victory. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
• STARKLOFF, 

PROFESSOR EMERITus: THEOLOGY AND CuJ.TU!lAJ.. ANTHHOPOLOGY, Rr(;Js CoLLEGE AND ST. LouiS UNtVEHSITY 
Sunday, March 5, 2006 at 7:15pm Moreau Seminary Auditorium 
Discussion and Reception to Follow 
Sponsored by Holy Cross Mission Center Co-Sponsored hy Moreau Seminary, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concems, Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Theology department. and the Institute for Church Life 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 3, 2006 CoMPI LED rRoM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  pts.  
1  Duke  27-1  1791  
2  Connecticut  25·2  1725  
3  Memphis  26-2  1628  
4  Villanova  22-3  1605  
5  Gonzaga  24-3  1508  
6  Texas  24-4  1399  
7  George Washington  24-1  1378  
8  Pittsburgh  21-4  1236  
9  Ohio State  21-4  1209  
10  Illinois  23-5  1116  
11  Tennessee  20-5  976  
12  Boston College  22-6  971  
13  North Carolina  19-6  814  
14  Washington  22-5  804  
15  UCLA  22-6  717  
16  West Virginia  19-8  661  
17  Florida  22-6  628  
18  Kansas  20-7  514  
19  Oklahoma  19-6  502  
20  Georgetown  19-7  480  
21  LSU  20-7  426  
22  North Carolina State  21-7  385  
23  Iowa  20-8  234  
24  Nevada  22-5  193  
25  Michigan State  19-9  178  

NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
tuam record pts. 
1 North Carolina 26·1 1150 2 Duke 25·2 1072 3 LSU 25·2 1064 
4 Maryland 26-3 1004 5 Ohio State 25·2 949 6 Rutgers 23-3 913 7 Connecticut 26-3 877 8 Tennessee 25-4 827 9 Oklahoma 25·4 824 10 Baylor 21-5 715 
11 Arizona State 23-5 641 
12 Georgia 20-7 624 13 Stanford 21·6 589 14 Purdue 22·5 559 
15 DePaul 23-5 555 16 Michigan State 27-8 470 17 Utah 20-5 285 
18 BYU 22·3 264 19 Louisiana Tech 21-4 258 20 Minnesota 19-8 243 21 New Mexico 20·7 178 22 Temple 21·7 171 23 Florida 20·7 133 24 Vanderbilt 19-9 133 25 Texas A&M 21-7 112 
Big East Men's Basketball 
team conj.' ovr. 
1 Connecticut 13-2 26·2 2 Villanova 13-2 23-3 3 West Virginia 11-4 20-8 4 Georgetown 10-5 19-7 5 Pittsburgh 10-5 21-5 6 Marquette 9-6 19-9 7 Seton Hall 8-7 17-10 8 Syracuse 7-7 19-9 9 Cincinnati 7-8 18·11 10 Rutgers 6-9 16-12 11 Louisville 6-9 18-10 12 NOTRE DAME 5-10 14-12 13 Providence 5·10 12-14 14 St. John's 5-10 12·14 15 DePaul 4-10 11-14 16 USF 0-15 6-22 
around the dial 
NBA 

Washinginton at Philadelphia, 7 p.m. ESPN LA Clippers at Utah, 9 p.m. ESPN 
GOLF Ford Championship at Doral 3 p.m. USA 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -The NFL delayed the start of the free-agent si!-,'lling period by throe days Thursday, seven hours after tho owners had seemed to end all hopn lor a labor contract extension. 
Tho move came just as a number of toams far over the salary cap wore about to dump high-paid voter­;ms. It provides a cooling oil' period for the leaguo and the NFL Players Association to reach a deal and keep thosn cuts under control. 
A bizarre day of twists and turns began when the ownors took just 57 min­utes to rubbP.r stamp a rec­ommendation by their labor committoe to turn down the union's final oll'er-a meet­ing so short that many peo­ple who expected a long session showed up after owners had alnmdy left. 
"The situation is as dire as dire can be," commis­sioner Paul Tagliabuo said after owners and team ofli­eials raced for nights that had taken them thousands of miles for a meeting of less than an hour. 
Stwen hours later, it was­n't quite as diro, although league otncials cautioned that nothing had been done. 
Still, NFL spokesman Greg Aiello noted in a state­ment that the union had agreed to push back the free-agency deadline "to provido time to resume negotiations." 
That is an indieation that despito the rhetorie, contact continuos bctwnen Tagliabue and union head Gene Upshaw, who havn always had a dose rnlation­ship. The union is asking for 60 pereent of the league's total revenues to go to tho players, the NFL is olli1ring 56.2 pereont. 
The extension puts ofT free agoncy for a class led by two running backs: NFL MVP Shaun Alexandor of Seattle and Edgerrin James of Indianapolis. 
Thern arn two years left. on tho labor agreement first signed in 1993 and extend­od continually before tlw doadlino. 
But unlnss thoro is an agrnnmnnt, then~ will lw no salary cap in 2007, whkh could ernate big-spnnding "havns" and low-revenul' "havn-nots," a situation that has provailod in other sports such as baseball. That also has traps for teams and players: a player would be eligible for fn~o agoney only after six years 

·.
instoad of tlw eurrnnt four; thorn would bo no salary minimum, and annual rais­es would bo limitod to :{0 pnrcont. 
IN BRIEF 

Reds pitching_ coach has 
cancer, stays with team 
SAHASOTA, Fla. -Cincinnati Hods pitching coach Vern Huhle has cancer, but plans to stay with the team while getting treatment. 
The 55-year-old Huhle informed Hods players on Thursday morning, then accompanied the team to Lakeland for its spring training opener, an 8-5 loss to the Detroit Tigers. He didn't disclose the type of cancer he has. but said doctors expect him to make a full recovery. 
"My doctors feel that they've caught it at an early stage and it is very treatable," Huhle said in a state­ment. "I plan to maintain a presence in spring training, but there will be times when I am away from the team for a few days as I receive treat­ment." 
Huhle declined to comment beyond his statement. The cancer was detected by a blood test given to players and 
coaches as part of spring training physicals. Huhle lives in Sarasota and will be treated by doetors in the area. Francoeur ho_pes to remain 
successful in Braves lineup 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -In less than a year, Jeff Francoeur has gone from having 335 at-bats at Double-A Mississippi to being a possible start­ing outfielder for the United States in the World Baseball Classic. 
That's just a typical leap for the precocious Francoeur. 
After Francoeur made his major league debut with the Atlanta Braves on July 7 last season, he played as if determined to show he should have spent the full year in Atlanta. 
He was hitting .413 at the end of July and was still around .350 in late August when his smiling face was featured on the cover of Sports Illustrated. By early September he was tied for the National League lead in outfield assists. After the season, he was third in rookie of the ynar votii:!_g.McNair to remain a Titan 
for one more season 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -The Tennessee Titans dneidnd Thursday to pay a $1 million fee that will keep quarterback Steve McNair with tho team this snason but allow him to becomn a rroo agnnt after 2006. 
The move means the Titans won't have to pay a $50 million option that would have extnnded MeNair's eon­tract through 2009, the quarter­back's agent said Thursday. Still, McNair will take up more than a quarter or the team's salary eap space. 
The future of tho NI•'L's 2003 co­MVP had been in doubt with tho Titans faeing pressure to get undnr the eap by Thursday. 
"What this amounts to is thny deeided to pay $1 million and not add three years to his contract, so this is his last year. At the end of this 
-----------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 3, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish confidence high entering Sunday's match 
After gaining a No. 5 national ranking, team is ready to take on Illinois 
point this season. 
By DAN TAPETILLO The Irish are the only pro­
Sports Writer gram in the nation to post three 
ranked teams. The No. 2 pair­
Equipped with the new-found ing of Catrina and Christian sense of confidence that comes Thompson have led the Irish at with being a top 5 team, the No. 1 for most of the season No. 5 Irish are anticipating and are 8-1 this season. Sunday's 11 a.m. home contest Following at No. 2 is the No. 29 against No. 49 Illinois. twosome of sophomore Brook 
"We are hoping for a great Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft. match and to eontinue playing The No. 49 duo of seniors Kiki great in doubles and singles," Stastny and captain Lauren Irish junior Catrina Thompson Connelly are the No.3 doubles said. "Everyone has been really pairing for the Irish. foeused in praetice and being "Getting the doubles point is in the top five has really given really important for a team the team a new mentally," Notre sense of confi­Dame sophomore
"Being in the top 
dence." B a i I e y Last weekend, five has really Louderback said. the Irish (10-0) given the team a "I think it is what defeated No. 51 has really helped
new sense of
Wisconsin 6-1 on to give us momen­
confidence. " 
Saturday and tum going into the shutout No. 27 singles matches. Indiana Sunday, Catrina Thompson There is a lot less extending their pressure when
Irish player 
11-match home you only need to Illinois' season has been Despite an impressive 6-7, 6-3, this year," Thompson said. "But winning streak. get three of the punctuated with both success 1-0 (3) win from sophomore they have a competitive team Especially heartening. both vic­six singles matches to win." and failure. After beginning the Macall Harkins over the so we won't be underestimating tories claimed the doubles Louderback said she is look­season with a winning record, Boilermakers' nationally them." point -giving the team confi­ing for similar impressive per­the Illini have dropped their ranked Hala Sufi at No.1, dence as it headed into singles. formances all the way down the last four matches. Last week­Purdue proved to be too strong The Irish are now 1 0-for-1 0 in lineup this week, as Illinois will end, the Illini dropped a 6-1 for Illinois. Contact Dan Tapetillo at earning the coveted doubles not be a pushover. decision to No. 32 Purdue. "Illinois has struggled a little jtapetil@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Spartans return to vvinning vvays against No. 25 Badgers 
to do that. I'm proud that we in double figures for the fadeaway 3-pointer jump­to take over the game and helpDavis scores 2 7 and did it the hard way. When you Badgers (19-9, 9-6), who had started a run early in the sec­Paul out." 
do that, your kids get mentally won four of the previous five ond half. The Spartans led 48-Michigan State shot 58 per­grabs nine rebounds tougher." and had faint hopes at a share 36 before Tucker, the Big Ten's cent in the second half and 51 Michigan State improved to of the league title. But those leading scorer, took charge percent for the game, improv­to lead Michigan State 37-11 in games played in hopes were dashed on with 19 second-half points. ing to 13-1 when they shoot at 
March over the last eight Thursday. But Tucker missed two free least 50 percent. 
years. With a home win over Badgers guard Kammron throws that would have cut the "That's the ball game right in
Associated Press Illinois on Saturday, the Taylor came into the game deficit to 59-57, and Ager there, that stretch from the 5­EAST LANSING, Mich. -Spartans would lock up a first­averaging 15 points, but answered with 12 points in a minute to the 2-minute mark," Michigan State coach Tom Izzo round bye in next week's Big scored just nine on 4-for-18 span of 2:22 before fouling out Wisconsin coach Bo Ryan said. was on Paul Davis all week to Ten tournament. shooting. with 1:01 left. "We get a couple of free be aggressive going to the bas­"It's just like being in the Wisconsin led 23-13 midway "I felt I had to do something throws that don't get in. It's a ket and play big in the middle. [NCAA] Tournament now," said through the first half before like that," Ager said. "I sat out couple-of-possession game It looks like the senior center Brown, who took three Michigan State got going. A 7-for a long time and had to there, and that's where you'd was listening. midterm exams Thursday, then 0 spurt late in the first half make up for it somehow. I had like to keep it." 
Davis controlled the paint, scoring 27 points and grabbing nine rebounds to lead Michigan State (No. 23 ESPN/USA Today; No. 25 AP) to a 74-65 victory over Wisconsin (No. 25 ESPN/USA Today; unranked AP) on Thursday night. 
"You hate saying coach is always right, but there's no question that changes my game and my mentality," Davis said. "The biggest thing was to post strong and get to the foul line more often." 
In his next-to-last home game, Davis was 9-for-12 from the field and 9-for-10 at the line for Michigan State, which had lost two in a row and four of five to fall out of the race for the Big Ten title. 
Maurice Ager had 19 points despite being in foul trouble for much of the game and Shannon Brown scored 18 for the Spartans (20-9, 8-7), who reached 20 wins for the sev­enth time in nine years. 
"If you're always going 11-0 or 12-0 in the preseason, you ean get 20 wins easier," lzzo said. "If you're playing other people, it's a lot more difficult drew praise from lzzo for his defense despite a case of leg cramps. "It feels like one-and­done time. And we have to play that way for 40 minutes." 
Alando Tucker scored 23 points but was the only player helped the Spartans go up 35­31 at the break. 
Davis had 12 points and Brown had 10 in the first 20 minutes, when the Badgers were just 2-for-6 at the line. 
Brown's alley-oop slam and 
What Next in Iraq? 
www_francisforuscongress_com 

Check Us Out!! www.homecityice.com 


Great Job Opportunities!! 
Hiring SIUdonts Parl·Tim• NOW Mid Fllff•Timo During Summer &Bnlalcs 
Flexible Hours & GREA'[ ~!! We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us! 
Solllngbrook 1-800"3<10.01 $2 North Wob..tor 1-300-622-6566 Fl Wayne 1-801).62.2.6556 Marlco 1-801).64N994 Banton HorO.t 1-800-457-4423 Soull Bond 1-too-167-4423 CI'OWn Polnl1-80o-157-4~23 SpringRald 1-800-642·8994 
No Experience Necessary. Tt:lilllll 011s ~ dUilng ""hoctond work irl l!l!2l!lfi during r;vmmer braiJk.. W.. olfer Sc/!ocMo Ffol<lb{l{lv. S!arllrainlrlg tlQW. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend I 
www.homecitvice.com 

Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish host Alex Wilson Invite 
NCAA spots are up for grab? this weekend 
By JASON GALVAN Spons Writer 
Tho Irish arn sot to com pete this wnnknnd at the Alnx Wilson Invitational at the Loftus Sports Cnntnr today at 5 p.m. and Saturday at 10 a.m. 
Tlw Invitational is the last opportunity for athletes to qualify for nationals and ­with this in mind 
-those dose to 
"We're hoping to go
making the eut 
out and accomplish
arn looking to take their pnr­something. " formanen up a noteh. 
Kurt Benninger 
Tho Notre 

Irish runner
Dame men and 
women are com­ing orr an out­standing per­formance at the Big East Championships, where the men narnod an unprecedent­nd II th straight linish among tho top three and the women earnod tho first place trophy. 
Now, tho athlot1~s from both squads arn looking forward to IHtrning spots to compete in tho NCAA championships March 10 and 11 in Fayetteville, Ark. 
"I just 1111od to focus see
000 

if I can up my heights and try to make it to nationals," Irish froshman pole vaulter Mary Saxer said. "If not, it's not the end of tho world, but it would bn groat il' I did." 
Surprisingly, Saxer may not make the eut despite an out­standing season which saw hnr take second place at the Big East moot and break a school rocord by dearing a 
height of 4.05 meters at the Notre Dame Invitational in January. For her to make the NCAA meet, Saxer must take her per­formance a step further and break the school record she set a little 

over a month ago. 
Others looking to tune up before the national competi­tion inelude junior All­American Kurt Benninger. Benninger was unable to compete at the Big East meet two weeks ago after suffering through a nagging Achilles tendon injury that has ham­pered him all season. llowever, Benninger insists he is feeling fine and ready to compete this weekend. 
''I'm really exeited to go out there and race again," Benninger said. "I want to see where I'm at take some of
00. 

the rust off' and get ready for (tho( NCAAs, which is the big goal." 
Benninger has only been able to compete at two meets this indoor season. Ilowever, he made the most of his chances. At the Notre Dame Invitational, he ran his sec­ond sub-four minute mile and plaeed lirst at the meet. 
The junior will not be com­peting in the mile this week­end. lie will instead run as part of Notre Dame's distance medley relay team. 
"We're pretty confident we can qualify in this event and we're hoping to go out and accomplish something," Benninger said. 
Junior Thomas Chamney, who will compete in the meet's signature Alex Wilson 800 meter run, is coming off an impressive performance at the Big East meet. Thomas took home first place in the event with a time of 1:48.62 -provisionally qualifying him for the NCAA meet. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 

Three ND swimmers attempt to qualify for the NCAA meet 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The Big East Champion Irish will send three compotitors to Purdue this weekend for the Last Chance Meet. 
Event coordinator David Fraseur said the meet is an opportunity for athletes to quali-

FREE Checking with a FREE Visa® Check Card I Just another of our many free products and services. NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org ln~pendant of th• Unlv•tllty  
Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543.  

fy for the NCAA 

"The meet is all 
Championships. this fast in tho 
.Juniors Brian about the l'irst 100 meters Freeman, Nick individual." of' the 200. It will Fanslau and be nice just being Drew MacKay abI o to go all out 
Brian Freeman
will represent and not havo to the Irish in West Irish swimmer worry about l'in­
"The meet is all about the individual," Freeman said. "In my case I'm trying to experi­ment with more sprinting and get away from my mid-dis­tance races." 
Freeman, a candidate to qualify for the NCAA meet as a member of' Notre Dame's 800 freestyle relay team, will compete in tlw 100 freestyle and 100 backstrokn instoad of' the 200 versions of those events. 
"My best timo in tho 100 free is about 48.5," Freeman 
said. "This can bo 
faster eonsidnring 
I am usually going 
Lafayette. 
The meet is also an opportunity for swim­mers to try their hand at events different from those they normally swim. 

ishing another 200." Fanslau plans to compete in the 200 f'rcostyle and 100 fly. 
"You never know if' you'll end up compnting in a dil'f'tlr­ent (racn( next year," he said. "The 200 freestyle may be a possibility for me." 
MacKay will compete in the 100 backstroke as oppos!ld to his usual 200. 
"Preparation hasn't rnally been that dii'J'ernnt," Fanslau said. "We rested a lot for the Big East meet. We've just bonn having a lot of' fun this week." 
Freeman said the eompeti­tion at the meet will be lierco. 
''I'm sure there will be some fast swims becauso it is a last chance meet and people want to get their Inationals qualify­ing) times," Freeman said. 
The final chance meet is taking placn two weeks al'ter the Irish defeated second place Pittsburgh by 224.5 points to capture their sneond conseeutive Big East Championship Fob. 18. 
Besides Freeman, othor Irish swimnwrs with a chanco at competing in tho NCAA Championships March 23 in Atlanta include Tim Handolph in the 100 breaststroke and Jay Vandenberg in the 1,650 freestyle. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
. •,'
< 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, March 3, 2005 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
No. 17 Notre Dame defeats Ohio U. 18-6 
SOFrBALL 
Irish travel to Oklahoma 
Team will play five games in three days in Tulsa tournament 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will answer a lot of questions this weekend as it makes its first appear­ance at the Best Western Airport -Tulsa Festival today through Sunday in Tulsa, Okla. 
No. 17 Nebraska headlines a list of tough opponents for the Irish. The schedule also includes Big XII power Kansas and host Tulsa (8-3). 
"This is definitely going to be a more challenging week­end," Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. "We are going to see where we stand and what we need to improve on, so we are really looking forward to the opportunity." 
The first opportunity to prove themselves comes this afternoon at three o'clock against the national power­house Cornhuskers. Senior Heather Booth is projected to start for the Irish. Booth won two last weekend and only gave up one run in 15 innings against Memphis. 
"[The pitchers] really did their job last weekend," Ganeff said. "Right now our main concern is scoring. We are hitting well, but we just aren't scoring runs." 
The team left a total of 28 runners on base in a tourna­ment in Miami last weekend -an average of one per inning. 
Ganeff said the Irish have concentrated on situational hitting this week and are hoping to lower that number drastically this weekend. 

With today's match-ups against the high-powered offenses of the Cornhuskers and Golden Hurricanes -who have 
week with a Sunday morning game against Stephen F. Austin. The Ladyjacks come into the weekend with a 5-6 record after dropping two of three to Northwestern State earlier in the week. 
"We are ready to play some good competition this week and show to the rest of the 
teams  how  good  we  are,"  
Irish  infielder  Sara  
Schoonaert said.  
Schoonaert,  along  with  

Booth and junior Stephanie Brown, was named to the all-tourna-


ND explodes for 10 second halfgoals to put away Bobcats 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS Sports Writer 
Coming into the game ranked 17th in the country, the Irish proved to the women's lacrosse world that their stellar start to the sea­son is no fluke in beating Ohio 18-6. 
In a physical and emotion­ally charged game, the Irish and Bobcats committed a combined 74 fouls. Notre Dame netted 10 goals in the second half. 
Under the leadership of senior captains Crysti Foote and Carol Dixon, the Irish implemented a strong offen­sive scheme, setting up crushing fast breaks and using speed to their advan­tage. 
While Bobcat goalkeeper Jen Heup had a career game with 15 saves, Notre Dame's relentless pressure on the offensive side of the ball proved too much for the ail­ing Bobcats. 
Irish goalkeeper Carol Dixon made seven saves in goal. 
The Bobcats emphasized ball control -committing a season-low 16 turnovers ­but faced a 21-4 deficit in draw controls against the Irish. 
Foote continued her scor­ing streak, notching the lOOth goal of her career. She tallied four goals and four assists. Foote was also named this week's Big East Player of the Week. 
Jillian Byers showed her offensive prowess Thursday, contributing three goals and two assists. The one-two punch of Foote and Byers, combined with the rest of a strong Irish offense, created an almost unstoppable attack. 
As promised, the Irish opened the game with a powerful and frenzied attack. Five of the team's goals were scored in the first 17 minutes. Notre Dame con­tinued to drive the ball down the field, leading 8-4 at the half. 
It was more of the same in the second half as the Irish tallied five unanswered goals in 13 minutes. 
Bobcat freshman Kiersten McLouth's inspiring goal late in the second half proved to be for naught, as the Irish continued to work the ball offensively, scoring the last four goals of the game. Senior attack Brittany Fox scored three of the last four goals. 
The Irish hope to extend their perfect season as they face Cornell at noon Sunday in the second game of a four­game homestand. 
Contact Chris Williams at cwilli11@nd.edu 
put up seven ment team
"[The pitchers] really did 
runs in each last week­
their job last weekend. 
of their last end. three wins­Right now our main Schoonaert the team will and Brown
concern is scoring. We are 
need to capi­have com­
hitting well, but we just
talize on bined for every scoring aren't scoring runs. " eight of the chance they teams' 12 get in order stolen bases
Kris Ganeff 
to stay in the so far this
Irish assistant coach 
-game. 
The team will play another doubleheader on Saturday against Kansas and Northern Iowa (3-6). Booth and Brittney Bargar will split time on the mound in those two games. 
Bargar also had a big week­end in Miami lowering her ERA to 3.9 and notching her 24th strikeout in just 23 innings pitched this season. 
Notre Dame finishes the 
year and neither has been thrown out yet. The speedy duo has 
also  posted  nine  runs  
between them in  the  first  
nine games of the year.  

"I am confident going into this tournament and just want to show the team how to play for the love of the game," Schoonaert said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalisrn 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Thursday, March 9, 2006. 

'.' 


hiday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

Cornell 
continued from page 24 
a season slated with snvnn horne wntnsts -Corrigan said this yPar mado snnsn. With tlw l.of'tus Center hooked for the /\lex Wilson Invitational this wPeknnd, tho Cornell game proved an nasy lit, bringing an nnticing matc~hup to Chieago Iacrossn fans. 
Part of' the ovont's planning is to build nnthusiasm for the hnginning of' thn 2006 Major l.nague l.<uTossn stmson in May -whkh wnlcomes the expan­sion franchiso Chieago Machine, who will play tlwir games at Benedictine University. 
I>ospitn tho hoopla surround­ing thn game, tlw Irish need look no f'urther than last year's disappointing defeat to stay li1eusnd on the game iLsnlf'. 
"They'ro a vnry good team," said Corrigan of' the Big Hod, who boat Binghamton 16-3 in thnir snason opnner last week. "Wn'r«l going to have to play wnll to boat thmn." 
Snnior co-captain ILl. Driscoll acknowledgnd the ehallnngn the Irish liten. 
"Thny'ro good at just about «W«lry aspect of' the game," ho said. "They'm coming in ranked alwad of us. Wn're expecting a dogfight." 
If' tlw Irish delimsn hopes to be as nl'fnctive as it was in last wonk's H-4 win over then No. 14 l'«lnn Stale, it must contain Inside l.aerossn prnseason first­team /\11-/\mnrkan -and 2005 snmnd-ln<unnr -Jon Boulukos. Boulukos, an oflimsivc midlinld­nr who scored 29 goals and r«lc.ordml 14 assisls last ynar, is orw of Cornell's two prnseason Tnwaaraton Trophy nominees li•r the nation's best player. 
"lin is a very strong kid, good sized and shooLs tho hoek out of tlw ball," Corrigan said. "They do a good job of getting him opportunities. They are a 
What's your scholarship? 

Find your scholarship opportunities at our re-launched Scholarship Channel. 
Visit www.ndsmcobserver.com 
rsowcred by 
(!)Bro~eS~J,oi~Ar 
patient tnam and they know how to get what they're looking for, and he's one of the things they're looking for." 
If' Driscoll and the defense cannot eontain Boulukos, he still must get by sophomore goal­tender Joey Kemp, whose first intense action as a college play­er 1~ame after replaeing Stewart Crosland in the third quartnr of last year's loss at Cornell. Making his return against the Big Red, Kemp is coming ofT a 13-save performance against Penn State, in which he made several splendid stops. 
While the Irish defense con­cnntrates on stopping Boulukos and the Big Hod attack, attack­man Pat Walsh -a Tewaraaton nominee himself'-hopes to spark an Irish offensive surge af'ter only recording one point in last week's triumph -the team's final goal with under two minutes lef't in the game. 
!\ strong showing by the Irish can do nothing but help the Notre Damn rneruiting eiTort. 
"The game is growing out there," Corrigan said. "There are cnrtainly more guys playing at the I >ivision I level." 
Ono such player was three­time /\11-/\merican in the mid-
90's; Irish midfielder Todd Hassas. 
Rassas -whose father was an All-American football player for the Irish -played laerosse at Loyola Academy before tak­ing his game to Notre Dame and one year in the MLL in 2003. Though he is a member of the 2002 and 2006 U.S. national teams, Hassas' day job has kept him from playing further in the MLL. That day job actually brought him back into town last weekend -when Corrigan said Hassas was protecting President Bush as a member of the U.S. Secret Service. 
A•;; for this weekend, Corrigan hopes the current Irish can guard their net as well as one f(lrmcr player guards his boss. 
"There were periods in last year's game when we looked absolutely awful," said Corrigan. "We turned the ball over and dido 't play very smart. I think we're in a little better shape this year." 
Tickets for Saturday's game are $6 pre-order on www.lacrosseameriea.com and $8 at the game. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Regionals 
continued from page 24 
NCAAs has a better chance of 
winning," men's foilist Mark 
Kubik said. "Basically nvery­
one will be supporting each 
other so we get two qualifiers 
lin each weaponl, but on the 
whole it's individual." 
The qualification proeess is slated so that 40 pen~ent of the score depends on initial seed­ing, and the remaining 60 per­cent depends on Saturday's performance. 
Each team is allotted only two feneers per weapon, for a total of six fencers per sex and 12 overall. 
That added stipulation means that some of Notre Dame's fencers -despite a top five ranking -might not qualifY, 
"Many will be fencing against each other for a posi­tion," Kubik said. "It's going to be a pretty stressful weekend, and I wouldn't say a lot of them are worried, but they're pretty anxious. It's probably going to be the most tense match of the year." 
The initial seedings have already been decided and the early returns arc very positive for Notre Dame. On the men's side, Karol Kostka, Greg Howard and Aaron Adjemian are all ranked in the top four of epee, whlic Mark Kubik and Jakub Jcdrkowiak arc 1-2 in foil. In the sabre, Patriek Ghattas, Matt Stearns and Bill Thanhouser hold the top three spots, meaning two will most likely qualify while one will not. 
Neither fencer has a defini­tive experience advantage, either. Stearns competed at Nationals the last two years, while Thanhouser is one of the most highly ranked Americans on the Junior International Cireuit. 
While the Thanhouscr­Stearns competition will be exciting, things are just as intriguing on the women's side. 
In women's epee, the top three spots belong to Wayne State's Anna Garina and Justyna Konczalska and Northwestern's Sharon Sullivan, while Notre Dame's Amy Orlando and Madeleine Stephan round out the top­five. 
''I'm sure there arc a lot of people who should definitely qualify for women's epee, and there's also only two spots and four really good girls," women's sabre Ashley Serrettn said. 
tf,lt ~utb &tad Aw.. ~utb f>•nd, Indiana 4t,t,f1 (?74) lSS~ 1&~1 

Spring Break Specials 15 °/o off all 

includes Adidas Adilettes, Nike 
10% off 

Gome in or c.a\\ for All Shorts 1"... uhirtu for 1our te-am 
~a\J •nd& Marc.b n. 2.00(, ~bi\t r,upp\i•r, \ar,t
l'\OUI'$: 

Monda1-fridaf 10 am to 1 pm ~aturda1: to am ~ (, pm vi&it our we.b&ite.: $uncby: 11. noon-5 pm www.soue.re.t,.ntt 
Notre Damn also has Adrienne Nott, Emilin Prot and Melanic Bautista in the top fivn of womnn's foil, and Marini Zagunis and Valerie Providenza 1-2 in women's sabre. If Notre Dame can per­form to its snedings (as wnll as Northwestern and Waynn State), rival Ohio State might only snnd one female fnncnr to Lhn national championship meet. 
In total, Notre Damn has 15 fencers currently in qualifying position while the Buckeyes only have four. Last week, Ohio State beat Notre Damn overall in the Midwest Foneing Confcroneo Championship. 
Since last week's sceond place finish, the team has switched its focus to lochniqun and overall fen ei ng ex peri­enee. 
"Basically the full squad has been trying to fence as much as possible -less conditioning and morn bouting," Kubik said. 
"We feneed really hard this weekend to get rnady and to make sure no Ohio State foilisl makes it this weekend," women's foilist Haehel Cola said. 
In addition to qualifying as one of' the top five spots. f'eneers ean make the team as alternates. 
"I would like to qualify as an alternate for NCMs, because I just want to go and see every­one fenee," Serrette said. 
Fencers ean also make the NC/\1\s by garnering one of two at-large bids. 1\djemian earned one last year and Orlando did the year before that. 
Despite the potential for teammate versus teammate 
...
matches. Cota says the Irish will rally around what's best for the squad. 
"Aetually, the attitude is really nice because everybody understands you have to fenee your best ... thoro's eompeti­tion of' eourse, but everyone wants what's best," Cota said. 
Cota, who can't fenee this weekond because of an injury, said she and her teammatns are doing whatever thny can to improve the spirit -oven making ribbons for those com­peting to wear. Cola was also confidnnt in the team's ability to qualify in all 12 spots. 
"There's gonna be some pretty ltoughl eompetition," Cota said. ''I'm pretty confi­dent we'll qualify all the f'eneers we need, but it's going to be a fight and we'll be up to the ehallenge." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
Friday, March 3, 2006 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
professional dome where weatlwr is not a factor is a good experience for his team. 
"It's a much different atmosphere than we're used to," he said. "But it's an excit­ing thing because you're play­ing in a Major League stadi­um, you don't have to worry about getting gamns cancelled due to weather, and you don't have to worry about factors like wind and wetness affect­ing anything -so that's all fun." 
After this weekend. Notre Dame has one more tourna­ment on the road before com­ing home March 21 to face Wright State. 
The Big East season starts March 25 on the road when the Irish face Georgetown. For this reason, Mainieri said it is imperative for his team to play the best teams it can now. 
"There's no question that we're playing the toughest teams that we can find," 
Mainicri said. "You're not going to beat them all. You try to beat them all, and you hope that your team just keeps get­ting better so that when you get to conference play your team has really gelled." 
But, he said, the Irish are always better later in the sea­son than now, when they have to play on the road for a month before having any home games because of the South Bend weather. 
"We have to play quite a few games on the road to start the season. and our team's always a better team in April and May than we are in February and March because we're playing so many road games and we're just getting the sea­son started," Mainieri said. "When we finally get to play some home games, it really helps our team quite a bit. We're going to go out there this weekend and just try to improve in every facet of our game, particularly in taking advantage of our scoring opportunities." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


][JRISJIHI( 

De01ons 
continued from page 24 

A win Saturday would give the Irish the No. 12, 11 or 10­seed, depending on results from other conference games. It would be the sixth post-sea­son berth in Irish coach Mike Brey's six years at Notre Dame. But if 
That also goes for the sce­nario in which Rutgers wins and Louisville and Providence lose. Or it would apply if Rutgers, Louisville and Providence all win. 
The Irish also could end up with the No. 11 seed if St. John's beats Rutgers, Providence beats Marquette and Louisville beats 
Notre Dame "... it,s going to be Senior 
loses, its five 

Night for us, so it,s going 
wins will not 

be enough to to be a pretty good clinch one of atmosphere.,, the 12 spots in 
the league 

Torin Francis 
tournament. Even if Notre Irish center 
Dame wins, there are sev­eral possible scenarios in which it could end up with the No. 12 seed in the Big East tournament. If St. John's beats Rutgers Sunday, Louisville beats Connecticut Saturday and Providence loses to Marquette Saturday, the Irish will be the No. 12 seed. 
Connecticut. Or, they could be the No. 11 seed if St. John's b e a t s Rutgers and Louisville a n d Providence win their respective games. 
N o t r e Dame could 
grab the No. 10 seed if St. John's, Providence and Connecticut win -a likely possibility if Providence can defeat Marquette on the Golden Eagles' senior night. 
DePaul beat Notre Dame earlier this season 73-67 on Jan. 7 at Allstate Arena. In 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
• FREE CCHA PLAYOFF 
• 'WIN A SEMESTER OF BOOKS 
T-SHIRT TO FIRST 300 FANS 
FROM THE HAMMES 
(GATES OPEN AT 8:30) 
ND BooKSTORE 

•FREE PAPA JoHN's PIZZA TO 
•FREE PAPA JoHN's PIZZA TO 
EARLY ND/SMC/DCC STUDENTS 
EARLY ND/SMC!BCC STUDENTS 
FREE ADMISSION FOR ND/SIIC/BCC STUDENTS 
(WHILE SUPPLIES U.ST) 

Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANT WORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
6ENllE.MEN, OF THE. 
e,oA~b 0 F '1"RUS I P~Ese:NT -ro 'jou 
M'j PLAN  FOfl.."THE.  
1'-\0NK.  MA\..L.O'j"  
LISR.AR~  Of'  1'1-\E.  

FU"IU~E.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Former 60 Preceder of Washington duo many a goal
1 Antique store? 37 Stepped in like
7 Violin Superman
components DOWN 15 Make a ball 
38 Somehow 1 Unpopular 39 Resort of a sort 
worker

16 Ladle 40 Old TV control 2 Cast 11 Secrets abbr. 3 Sea predator18 Holder of an 41 Old protest grp. 4 National afternoon headquarters of service 42 2000 Olympic J.C. Penney, Dr
gymnast_

19 French flag Pepper and Raycolor, in France Frito-Lay45 Rhoda's sister
20 "Shoot!" 5 Paper strip for 
on "Rhoda" 

21 Where workers old computer
48 Passiontide time

may do the data 49 Dogsbody, so to
daily grind? 6 Energy Star org. 
speak

22 Excited 7 Toledo twinkler 
pointer's 50 Mark of a Command to adistinctioncomment 

dog 24 1999-2001 
54 Isabel Allende's 9 Just so Broadway birthplace 10 Fail to keepmusical revue 56 Meet, as 11 Surrounded by expectations25 Editorial 12 "Donacartoonist Rail 57 Child's cry at a Pacem" (Latin parade, perhaps 28 Listener 

hymn)58 "Harrumph!"
29 From, in some 13 Plays for a 34 Famous name 44 Hero of Charles 51 First name names 59 Kids' game sites sucker in newspaper Frazier's "Cold among clothiers publishing Mountain"
14 Ancient burial 52 HuntsmanANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE stone 45 Topper with a
35 Like many a Center players 


tab
20 Popular snack mistake chip 
46 Voluptuaries 53 Work with mail36 Kin of -ists 47 Places for many23 One of The 55 Old TV's 42 Fashion stained-glassJacksons Clubdesigner Perry windows24 Fates 43 Olympus 49 Tender in 56 Narrow25 Kind of salad 
alternative Tijuana waterway26Zip 
27 British title For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a29 Castle with credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
many steps Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday31 Paper carrier 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 32 Part of a Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 sentence: Abbr. past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 33 Showy bird's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young mate solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
1\ riA'S BOO~<-~. I:c "joV.II41Nl;:. we.. A PII--IBJ>.L.L AR.E. (:.oiNt:! lo MAC..HII'.JE. A
1 \SAL.L~OOM A
1 

RoTAIINu 0LA$S 
WILLSHORTZ 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.'· 
. ' 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each squar.e, 
to form four ordinary words. 
CHACO 
j
I' rx 
1Cl2006 Tribuna Madia Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
EXOID 

rJ lu
1 

HEBLED WHAT THE: MlNE:R DE:LIVE:RE:D AT
I I I 


THE: E:ND Of
www.jumble.com 

HI? ?HIFT. LIDIAN 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

I [ J [J 
Answer here: 
> 
(Answers tomorrow) , IJumbles: DOWNY CLOAK DAMPEN WEEVIL Yesterdays Answer: What the young judge did when he finished researching the case-LAID DOWN THE "LAW" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Titr.mi Thiessen. 31; Ri.:hard Dean Anderson, 55: Gail O'Grady, 42: Mariska 1-largitay, 41 
Happy Birthday: This may turn out to he an emotional year. hut only if you haven't taken .:are of issues that have been hanging over your head for ~omc time. Rid yourself of the burdens you have been carrying around with you, once and for all. and you will see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's time to slop letting negativity consume you. Instead. light for the positive and you will find yourself in a new headspace. Your numbers arc 3. 14. 2!!. 32, 3!!. 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't stan anything today that will lead to a confrontation with someone you love. You have to keep things light and put yow efforts into where you see yourself heading in the future. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Visiting a friend will lift your spirits and guide you down an interesting new path. You have plenty to .:ontribule, and if you do. you will join forces with someone interesting. **** GEMINI <MIIY 21-.June 20): Consider your past and the people you have mel along the way. Someone from your past may be able to help you. but you must not let him or her take over. Pace yourself and ~lay in.:ontrol. *** CANCER (june 21-July 22): Emotional matters may be difficult to deal with today. An older friend or relative may not understand what is going on. Your explanation will help and bring you closer together. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding your financial situation will surprise you. You can make good decisions regarding your health. The more you do to make improvements. the better you will feel. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Partnerships can be fonned. hut make sure that you are both on the same page before making any promises. Once you have your plans laid out, nothing will stop you from achieving your goals. **** LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What you think is going on and what is really going on will not coincide. Back up and refrain from voicing your opinion until you have a better understanding of what everyone else is doing. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all about love, creativity and getting to the bottom of-things. You can fix a lot of the troubled areas in your life if you are precise, detennined and dedicated. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An older relative will appreciate what you do to help out. Your luck is changing, and you may tind yourself in a windfall. You may have a change of heart. Grovel if you must. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get down to business and let whoever you care about know what you are thinking and how you feel. It may be your only opportunity to do what's right and to set the record straight. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to take better care of yourself. Set a new regime that will help get you back into shape using exercise, proper diet and ·a healthier lifestyle. Take the initiative to improve. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are certainly in the picture, but so is your ability to produce something very creative and unusual. Strive to reach your goals and you will feel satisfied. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and caring and know how to get things done. You strive to do your best and will take on more than your share in order to help. You are a thoughtful, kind and concerned friend. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
,. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 3, 2006 
page 24 
fENCING 

Regional power 
Notre Dame hopes to take all available Midwest berths in the NCAA Championships 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 

The Irish are poised to qual­ify several fencers for the NCAA Championships at the Midwest Fencing Regional this Saturday in Cleveland, Ohio. 
The top five finishers in all of the women's events as well as men's sabre and epee will qualify for the NCAAs. For the Men's Foil, .only the top three finishers in the Regional earn a berth. 
Unlike last weekend's Midwest Fencing Conference Championship, the Regionals is based solely on individual competition. The meet will feature pool play followed by direct elimination. 
Individuals from each team will compete in all three weapons to earn a berth to the NCAA Championships in Houston, Tex. March 15-19. 
"It's team-oreiented in the sense that whatever team qualifies more people for the 
see REGIONALS/page 21 


MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish take on Big Red in Illinois 
·Contest between two ranked teams will be first for Chicagoland 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

The Chicago area has never 
hosted a Division I men's lacrosse 
game. 

That will change Saturday at 
noon when the No. 12 frish face 
off against No. 8 Cornell in a 
marquee non-conference game 
at Benedictine University in Lisle, 
Ill. 

Lacrosse America is sponsor­ing the game -technically an Irish home contest. Notre Dame ''lost to the Big Red 11-10 in 
Ithaca, N.Y. last season. 

Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said 
his team has been interested in 
setting up a game in the Chicago 
area for several years, and -in 
see CORNELL/page21 
BASEBALL 

Team excited to play in 111ajor league park 
Dairy Queen Classic in Metrodome will host ND, three others 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

Despite his Notre Dame squad's 2-2 finish at the Service Academies Classic last weekend, Irish coach Paul Mainieri is looking for much of the same from his 
--team at this weekend's Dairy Queen Classic in Minneapolis, Minn. "I think if we play just as well as we did last weekend that we have a chance to be successful," Mainieri said this week. "We just need to take more advantages of our scor­ing ~pportunities this week­end. The Irish start the weekend this afternoon when they face Nebraska (5-2), ranked as high as No. 4 by College Baseball, at 12:15. Senior lefty Tom Thornton (1-0). who 
gave up no runs in seven innings in his first start last weekend, will take the mound for the Irish against Nebraska's Joba Chamberlain (1-1, 1.93 ERA). Thornton was named the Big East Pitcher of the Week after his seven shutout innings against Indiana State on Feb. 23. 
Saturday, Notre Dame sends Jeff Samardzija to the mound to face Minnesota's Dustin Brabender for the 6:35 p.m. matchup. 
The tournament concludes Sunday as Notre Dame squares off with Arizona at 
11:05 a.m. Jeff Manship will pitch for the Irish against the Wildcats' Brad Mills (2-0, 
1.86 ERA). 
All of the tournament's games will be played in the Metrodome, the home stadi­um of the Minnesota Twins. This year the Golden Gophers are set to play 24 of their 26 home games there. Last sea­son, Minnesota played 19 games there, going 11-8. 
Mainieri said playing in a 
see BASEBALL/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND one win from tourney 
Team will face DePaul Saturday at the Joyce Center 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN and 
PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writers 
If they win, they're in. 

Notre Dame (14-12, 5-10 Big East) can clinch a con­ference tournament berth Saturday with a win over DePaul at the Joyce Center in its final regular-season game. With a loss, the Irish season is over. 
"DePaul [is] going to be another battle we have to win -going against a team that already beat us earlier in the season, we have to get them back," Irish forward Torin Francis said Wednesday night. "[We have to] get this win." 
DePaul (12-14, 5-1 0) wal­loped Syracuse Thursday night at home, 108-69, behind 27 points from for­ward Karron Clarke and 21 from guard Sammy Mejia. 
see DEMONS/page 22 


MEN'S SWIMMING 
BENGAL BOUTS 

MEN'S BASKETBAlL 
HOCKEY.
1\!D WOMEN'S BBAU 
BENGAL BOUTS 
LLI 
c.:» 

z Three Irish swimmers 
The Irish seniors look 

The Irish will host
Championship fights 

Notre Dame travels to 
Fighters prepare for 
will try to qualify for the 
to extend the end of 
Alaska-Fairbanks in a
are set after Bengal 

Hartford, Conn. for the 
championship bouts
::5 

NCAA Championships 
their careers through 
three-game series to
Bouts semifinal action 

Big East tournament 
Sunday at the Joyce
c:s 

at the Last Chance Meet 
the Big East tournament 
begin the CCHA play-
Thursday. 

this weekend. 
Center Arena. 
c:c 

in West Lafayette this 
and beyond. 
offs starting tonight. 
weekend.
!;: 
Irish Insider 

Irish Insider
page 19 
pages 14 and 16 
Irish Insider 

Irish Insider 
..., 
' 1 • 4 • .• .. , 
•• j .... 

1 
I • I 1 1' l I I • I\'' I I I ''I i I • I I 

r . 
\. t f, • I • t
•: I 1

~" 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 3, 2006 
Irish start with Bulls and hope for Huskies 
Notre Dame faces South Florida in first round of tournament 
By KEN FOWLER 
Spans Wri£er 
Notre Dame looks to improve its NCAA Tournament prospects this weekend in Hartford, Conn., as the Irish square off against South Florida in the first round of the Big East Tournament at 6 p.m. Saturday. 
Both No. 10-seed Notre Dame (17-10, 8-8 Big East) and No. 7-seed South Florida (19-1 0, 9-7) seek to wrap up a likely spot in the upcoming Big Dance. 
"I'd like to keep winning just because. we don't want to be waiting for a week to see where we go," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said Tuesday after Notre Dame's 72-65 win over Pittsburgh. "It would be nice to win a couple games and know that we were in." 
The Irish entered their con­test with the Panthers at No. 34 in the most recent Ratings Percentage Index (RPI), and South Florida checked in at No. 32. 
The NCAA Tournament selection committee uses the RPI as one of the major tools in seeding the 64-team brack­et. 
McGraw said she thought an RPI under 40 would likely earn the Irish a bid to the 


Irish guard Tulyah Gaines shoots a jumper during Notre Dame's 72-65 victory over Pittsburgh at the Joyce Center Tuesday. 
FIRST ROUND BREAKDOWN 
tournament, as 33 teams earn automatic bids by winning their respective conference championships. 
"No. 34, that's pretty good," she said. 
Notre Dame and the Bulls played once this season, a dramatic 68-64 South Florida victory at the Joyce Center Jan. 28. Bulls forward Ezria Parsons hit a 3-pointer with two seconds left in regulation to force overtime, and Irish guard Megan Duffy missed a three of her own that would have tied the game with three seconds left in the extra ses­sion. 
"[Our] biggest focus is ... to get some wins and get to the NCAA Tournament," Duffy said. 
After Notre Dame's 41-point second half against Pittsburgh -the team's third consecu­tive win -McGraw said that is a distinct possibility. 
"Now we're back on track," she said. ''I'm thrilled with the way we're playing. Three games in a row, our confi­dence is high." 
Duffy said the team has momentum heading into Hartford. 
"We're in good position now, where we need to win ... a couple games in the Big East Tournament [to be sure we get in the field of 64]." 
The 6-foot Parsons had nine points and 14 rebounds in the game. 
For the Irish to win Saturday, they must contain her and 5-foot-11 forward Jessica Dickson. Dickson fin­ished with 18 points and six 
rebounds in finished just The winner of the Irish­
"It would be nice to win
the teams' 2-of-12 shoot­Bulls game will face the No. 
a couple ofgames and
earlier meet­ing on the 2-seeded I-1 uskies of ing know we,re in [the night. Connecticut Sunday at 6 p.m. 
Notre Dame NCAA Tournament].,, "I thought in the second round. If the will look for 6-Schrader did Irish win both games, they foot-3 senior a phenomenal will play in the conference forward Muffet McGraw job," Panthers semifinals Monday at 6 p.m. Courtney Irish coach coach Agnus against No. 3 DePaul, No. 9 LaVere and 6-Berenato said Pittsburgh or No. 11 foot freshman after the Cincinnati. forward Lindsay Schrader to game. "We don't have any bottle up the two Bulls for­[guards] to combat her size. Contact Ken Fowler at wards. Against the Panthers, She did a very good job on the kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

LaVere centered the post defense and Schrader often rotated over to help against 6­foot-3 Pittsburgh center Marcedes Walker, who 
boards, and she was able to turn and score." 
South Florida beat Georgetown 71-5 7 Tuesday night in its last regular-sea­son game Tuesday. 

GRAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
I. I I,' 
'.' • ~ ? I ''.' I I I i • I I If 1 
Friday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Allen thrives off the bench one year after injury 
Sophomore guard tore her ACL in last season's NCAA Tournament but now is excelling on the court 
By ERJ C RETTER 
Sports Writer 
I lor coach didn't expnct her to pnrform at thn level she has this snason. 
Neither did conventional mod­kat wisdom that said after an injury like tlw one sophomore J{uard Cham! Allen sull'ernd last March -a torn ACL -a player typically wouldn't be a major eontributor until one year latnr. 
"Wn thought March," Notre Damn head eoach Muffet McGraw said about Allen's rnturn bnforn tho team's Feb. 19 gamo against Connecticut. "I didn't really expect her to be playing lextnndnd minutes! until .January." 
Wlwn tho Irish take on South f."lorida Saturday the Notre Damn guard will play in her 
28th game this snason, and she improved the overall level of her has logged meaningful minutes game. This fact has shown in every Irish contest of the mainly in her oll'ensive output, 2005-06 slate. as she has scored in double lig­''I'm pleased," McGraw said. ures in six of the past seven 
"She's surprised  games. During  
us by coming back early." For her part,  "At the beginning of this season, I was  that time, she e a r n e d McGraw's  
Allen, who averages 8. 7 points and 24.4 minutes per gamn. has made her rehabilita­ really focused on recovering andjust getting into playing shape."  praises. "I felt like in the last three games !before Connecticut] she's looked  
tion and return to the team a priority.  Charel Allen Irish guard  like a different player," McGraw said on  


"At the begin­ning of this season, I was really focused on recovering and just getting into playing shape. And I say I'm about thorn -I'm about 100 pnrc(mt," she said. 
Over the last month, Allen has 
Feb. 18. "I real­ly think that she's getting better every game." 
Allen, however, has shown scoring promise all season, and her 16 points Tuesday against Pittsburgh matched her total against Michigan Nov. 18 -the team's first game of the season. 
"My coach is telling me, encouraging me, to shoot morn," Allen said. "I guess she has faith in me and I have faith in myself. so right now I'm just looking for my shot a little more." 
Throughout the past seven games, a majority of Allen's points have come in the second half. Often, the team has been down when Allen begins to score big. Against Villanova on Feb. 7, Allen led the team's effort to claw back from a 21­point deficit to force overtime ­scoring all of her 14 points in the second half behind 7 -for-1 0 shooting. 
"Maybe I should turn it on a little bit earlier, because I always turn it on at the end and we're ... losing," she said. 
Allen has also been a consis­tent force under the boards all season, ranking third on the team with 4.4 rebounds a game despite playing at guard and carrying a guard's frame. 

"I just go in there and try because people underestimate me because of my size," Allen said. "They don't really look to box me out so I try to grab every loose change that our forwards don't pick up." 
In part because of that men­tality, Allen's 24.4 minutes per game ranks third on the Irish in the category. However, she still has barely cracked the starting lineup, having started just one of the team's 27 games. 
"I think we need a spark off the bench," McGraw said. "I think that she gives that great lift coming in off the bench. 
She's played well and wo thought about starting her, but if wo changed the lineup, I'm not sure who would give us that eneq.,ry oil' the bench." 
Dospite not being on the eourt to start games, Allen says she has felt no diminished value in coming oil' the bench. 
"That's all I wanna do is play, whether I start or whether I come off the bench," she said. "Whatever coach feels like doing with me, I'll do whatever she asks." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Irish not sure which squad will show up to play 
Team has been inconsistent, falling to weak squads but hanging with league's best 
Who's going to show up? embarrassing 74-61 loss to tournament, where the Irish throughout the season. Pittsburgh-and losing to 
That's the biggest question Seton llall, a team that fin­desperately need a strong Though the team has become two more -South Florida for the Irish this weekend as ished with three wins in the showing to keep their NCAA more consistent in recent and Villanova, in overtime. they head to Hartford for the Big East. Tournament hopes alive, games, many of their games When the tournament starts Big East tournament. Because of this, it's no sur­Notre Dame needs to break have been marred by long Saturday, Notre Dame has the 
Over the 
prise that Irish coach Muffet out of the pattern that has scoring droughts and offen­opportunity to reverse many course of McGraw described her team become too common this sea-sive struggles. of their close losses, beginning the season, as "frustrating to watch" after son. While improving the offen­with South Florida. No. to­Notre Dame lost a heartbreak­Yes, the Irish have heart, sive consistency has been one However, to make any kind seeded er to South Florida-its and have of of postseason run, the Irish Notre opponent in Saturday's first shown it in McGraw's will need more than the stan­Dame has round -squandering a 15-their Heading into the Big East focus dard halftime spnech to get proven it point second-half rally and numerous points in them out of a funk. If they
tournament, where the 
can hang losing 69-65 in overtime Jan. comebacks practice all start the game off nat, they
Irish desperately need a
with any­28. from big­season, the run a good chance of being on 
Eric Retter 

one, that it For much of their season, it time strong showing to keep team has a westbound plane Saturday can play S Wi . has seemed at times that two deficits. In continued night.
their NCAA Tournament
good teams ports nter Irish teams have played every do-or-die to be a In the history of conference
hopes alive, Notre Dame 
and that it game: a first-half team that games­streaky 10-seeds, the Irish might can erase deficits. digs itself a big hole and a the only needs to break out of the squad. prove to be one of the better This is the team that came second half one that desper­type of "If I knew ones, and the team has a
pattern that has become too 
back from 15 down to beat ately lights out of them. games that how to chance to make noise this 
common this season.
Pittsburgh Tuesday. This is At halftime of Tuesday's Notre explain it, weekend. the team that overcame a 12-game, when the Irish were Dame will we would For that to happen though, point dnlicit to beat I>nPaul down by 10, senior point play from have a bet­they need to avoid the 78-75 on Jan. 17, This is the guard Megan Duffy gave the here on out-this coolness ter record than what we have droughts and dnlkits that team that erased a 21-point team her final regular season under pressure will be a very now," sophomore guard have plagued the starts of dnlkit against Villanova Feb. halftime talk. valuable asset. Charel Allen said. many of tlwir games. 7 before falling 69-65 in over­"We looked Llat out there. I At the same time, the Irish Over the course of the sea­From now on, seeond-half limn. didn't think we were working are only coming back from big son, the Big East has provon Notre Damo will noed to pull a 
When tlwy want to, they can hard enough," Duffy said. deficits because they continu­that, top to bottom, it is one of doublo shift. play with anybody. "Nothing that I don't normally ously find themselves in them, the most eompetitive eonfer­
llownver. thn Irish (17-10, say." and they have trailed by at ences in college basketball. The 11iews expressed in this H-8) havn had S(W(~n of tlwir As has become the pattern, least 10 in 12 games this sea­During thtl regular season, the column are those of the I 0 losses eo me by I 0 points or second-hall' Notre Damn sent SOIL Irish generally played the nine author and not necessarily 
morn. including a 29-point the game to overtime and Much of this relates back to teams ranked ahead of thom those of The Obsenwr. drubbing at the hands of the eventually won 72-65. the on-court inconsistency closely, beating three­Contacl Hri(: 1/(•l/er at f)pJ'aul Bltw Demons and an lleading into the Big East Notre Dame has showed Marquette. DePaul, and eretler@nd. edu 
I I I I 1 \I • I r I • o 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 3, 2006 
Deal and deliver 
Point guard Megan Duffy has taken on the role ofpasser, scorer and leader in four seasons at Notre Dame 
double-digit scoring streak to By KEN FOWLER 12 games, the longest such Sports Writer 
mark of her career. Notre Dame was just 1-3 in the Big East and Megan Duffy has had people losers of three of four when the in her face all year. streak began. Now, the Irish 
''I've been faced, I feel like, have won three consecutive with every kind of defense," crucial games -scoring 70 or Duffy said. "They've put players more points in each game -to that are taller than me, like 6-greatly improve their NCAA foot athletic players and scrap­Tournament chances. py players. There's been box­"It was definitely a little dif­and-one's, and most game's my ferent being in that position, but defender never leaves me." I think I've had to have that 
The senior preseason All­[scoring] mentality all year," American entered the 2005-06 she said. "Sometimes it has to campaign with a reputation as be a little stronger when we're the nation's top pure point struggling to score." guard, but her team this season Notre Dame has struggled was different than the Irish mightily at times in a wildly squads she had led from the inconsistent season, but head point in the past. So her role coach Muffet McGraw said changed. And opposing teams there is always one constant on had to adjust. the team. 
"I've always been a point "We definitely have gotten to guard," Duffy said. "I get my that point where you just want kicks out of setting people up to give up, and we've battled and seeing them score." through that," McGraw said. "I 
Playing with standout forward think that's a real testament to Jacqueline Batteast last season, Megan Duffy and the character Duffy's 178 assists were the that she brings to the team. She third most by a junior in team never quits, and the team just · history. But a year later, really feeds off her." Batteast is gone and the prod­The team fed off Duffy of-8 from the free throw line in hard other teams try to break five, six months. I can't be uct of Chaminade-Julienne H.S. Tuesday when the 5-foot-7 the extra session and finished her poise. absorbed in it too much in Dayton, Ohio, has evolved senior laid a hard foul on 6-with 10 points in the five extra Duffy said the toughest part because that's when you start into Notre Dame's top scoring foot-3 Panthers center minutes. about scoring is the bulls-eye playing poor and mentally get weapon on offense. Marcedes Walker on a collision The ice in her veins is so evi­that rests on her jersey. After out of it." 
"I think the entire season that forced Walker to take a dent that Pittsburgh head coach the Pittsburgh game, Berenato Duffy said while she is looking coming in, I realized I had to be breather and turned the emo­Agnus Berenato refused to foul said the Panthers' main goal in forward to a possible career in a scorer from the point guard tional tide of the game. The Duffy with 22 seconds remain­the contest was to keep Duffy the WNBA, she is also trying to position, which is a little differ­team fed off Duffy Feb. 22 when ing three days later because she below her scoring average. enjoy her experience at Notre ent for me," Duffy said. she hit 5-of-9 from 3-point thought it would be an exercise But now it's not just opposing Dame and as a co-captain of the "Normally, your first role as a range in a 22-point perfor­in futility. teams keeping a close eye on team with fellow senior, for­point guard is to set everybody mance. And the team fed off her "Why foul?'' Berenato asked. Duffy -WNBA teams are ward Courtney LaVere. up, and I still have to keep that Feb. 25 when Duffy iced a win "Megan makes her free throws. scouting her as a first-round. "It's been a tremendous four in my mind." the Irish desperately needed in Why, when we played so hard pick for the 2006 draft. During years for me," she said in the 
Duffy enters this weekend's Cincinnati. for 40 minutes, let her get two the Big East television broad­press conference after Notre Big East Tournament as the "I feel like the first half of more points?" cast of Notre Dame's win over Dame's win on Senior Night. "I conference's eighth leading games, sometimes I find myself It's just that simple when Cincinnati, former Connecticut wouldn't trade it for anything. scorer, averaging 15.5 points being a little too passive out Duffy's at the line late in the and New York Liberty star Playing for Coach McGraw, and per game. Her assist totals have there," Duffy said. "Once the game-opposing coaches don't Rebecca Lobo said she expected with my teammates and with fallen from 5.39 per game as a second half comes -and over­even hope the 89-percent free­Duffy to be a top-1 0 pick. my sidekick here, Courtney, it's junior to 4.25 this season, but time -I've got to be able to throw shooter will miss. "She's got all the skills ... to been a lot of fun." her scoring is up-from 12.3 step up my game. Whether it's McGraw said Duffy knows she lead a team," Lobo said. Duffy ended Senior Night with points per game. . knocking down free throws or can make the big shots and her Duffy said she has tried to the ball in her hands as 
"My assists have down this getting some good shots for the example is the best thing for a suppress all thoughts about a Berenato's Panthers moved year, but I kind of knew that team." young, struggling team like this future in the WNBA for now. back and allowed her to cross coming into this year," Duffy That she has done, and that year's Irish squad. "The past two years, I've real­half court. said. "I can't get too bogged she has taught her team. "It's been challenging for the ized that it's a dream of mine "I was lucky to have my hands down with that or frustrated "That's one thing I know players to really keep them­and a goal of mine to play pro­on the ball the last few sec­with it." about this team -we're going selves up," the coach said. "I fessional basketball," she said. onds," Duffy said. "It's a good 
After scoring 11 points in to keep fighting," Duffy said. think that's where we really "It's one of those things that you way to go out." Notre Dame's 72-65 Senior During Notre Dame's 75-66 feed off Megan because she keep in the back of your mind. Night victory over Pittsburgh overtime victory over the never loses her confidence." My senior year has kind of been Contact Ken Fowler at Tuesday, Duffy extended her Bearcats, Duffy coolly sank 8-And that's no matter how a job interview for these four, kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


KIRSTEN HOELMER/The Observer 

At left, Irish point guard Megan Duffy defends Pittsburgh guard Mallorie Winn Tuesday during Notre Dame's 72-65 victory on Senior Night. Right, Duffy delivers a cross-court pass against the Panthers. The senior co-captain finished the regular season averaging 15.5 points and 4.25 assists per game. 
---~..~..---.-.-.~,~..-------.~.-,-----c--.,-c-.-~•• ,·~,J ,-,'-,-.-,, ',, '• • I I' I\ I/, I • 1 1 ·, • , t 1 1 o I I I I • I I I t \ ' ' I ' \ ' ' I t I f ~ ' -t I I I j I I ,''I' 

. \' 
1 ~ I ' \',' 
\\f. I I I I •
'I '' \. ~ ' 'I I.',. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 3, 2006 
ND meets familiar foe to open playoffs 
Irish, Nanooks faced off to finish regular season last weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports W rirer 
It's possible that Notre Dame and Alaska-Fairbanks have for­gotten that other college hockey teams even exist. 
The Irish and Nanooks, who squared off for two games last weekend at the Joyce Center in each team's regular season finale, will play again at the same arena in a three-game series tonight, Saturday and, if necessary, Sunday in the first round of the CCHA playoffs. 
Tonight's contest will begin at 
7:35 at the Joyce Center. 
"It's an interesting scenario, to play four games, possibly five, in a row against one team in the same place," Fairbanks coach Tavis MacMillan said. 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said game planning is more complicated in a rematch scenario. 
"You know their strengths and weaknesses and you figure out your strengths and weaknesses against them," Jackson said. "It's easier to some extent but it can also be more difficult because you have to get into more detail. 
"We have to make some adjustments based on their strengths." 
The Irish and Nanooks split last weekend, with Notre Dame 
· taking a 4-1 decision Friday and Fairbanks winning 2-1 Saturday. The two teams ended the regular season tied for eighth in the twelve-team CCHA with 26 points., but the 5-3 advantage in head-to-head goals for the Irish gave them home ice. 
Although the two teams are evenly matched record-wise, they use very different styles of play. Fairbanks, whose players own a 15-20 pound weight advantage on average over the Irish, will try to force the puck into the corners and use players like 6-3, 223 pound left wing Kyle Greentree and 6-3, 226 pound left wing Jordan Emmerson to dig it back out and create scoring chances. 
Notre Dame captain and right wing T.J. Jindra said Fairbanks' aggressive and physical style of play reflects the size advantage they have over most opponents. 
"They like to dump the puck and get on our defenseman, so we have to see that and we have to make adjustments for that," he said. 
Jackson said after seeing the Nanooks strategy last weekend his team has been preparing in practice to counter it. 
"I think we have to come up with ways to avoid allowing them to be overly physical with us," Jackson said. "If we move right and support the puck right, we can avoid hits." 
Along the front line, the Irish have gotten their most produc­tion this season from left wing Mike Walsh, center Josh Sciba and right wing Erik Condra. The trio has combined for 33 goals and 80 points this season. 
Last Friday, however, offen­sive production came from a much more unlikely source. The little used fourth line of left wing Garrett Regan, center Tony Gill and right wing Evan Rankin combined for two of Notre Dame's four goals -both in the first period. Regan scored his third career goal on assists from Rankin and Gill, and Rankin scored his eighth career goal on a pass from defenseman Wes O'Neill. 
"A fourth line has to have some kind of identity to it," Jackson said. "They're not big but they have a lot of energy and they feed off each other well. Getting a couple goals out of those guys was great." 
The Nanooks countered the early scoring burst from Notre Dame's fourth line by going to a three-line rotation after Rankin's ·goal. Jackson respond­ed by matching his lines against those sent out by MacMillan and giving his fourth line little to no playing time for the rest· of the series. Jackson said he will not employ that strategy this week­end. 
"My hope is to go into the weekend playing four lines, regardless of what they do," he said. 


In net, Notre Dame will rely on junior Dave Brown, who has started 29 times this season and given up 2.50 goals per contest. He was named February's CCHA Player of the Month Wednesday. 
Fairbanks has rotated fresh­man Chad Johnson and sopho­more Wylie Rogers in goal for most of this season. While Johnson has the lower save per­centage -2.55 to Rogers' 2.61 -and started Friday's game against the Irish, he was pulled in favor of the sophomore after allowing three goals in the first period. Rogers also started Saturday's contest, but MacMillan did not say who will start this weekend. 
Regardless, Jackson said his team will be facing quality goal­tending. 
"They've got a great 1-2 punch," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised to see them come back with Johnson. We can't overlook goaltending as one of their strengths." 
First Round Series First Round Byes 
8 Notre Dame Sf 1 9 Alaska-Fairbanks 18 
2 

7 Ferris State d 
3 

10 Ohio State • 
4 

6 lake Superior H 11 Western Michigan • 
5 Nebraska-Omaha. 12 Bowling Green~ 
Miami of Ohio a Michigan State {l 
iiiiii¥1f+

Michigan •.....-­

PLAYOFFS 
With Junior Parents Weekend, Bengal Bouts and the Midwest Conference . Fencing Championships requiring the temperature to be turned up in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse in the last two weeks, Jackson said he has been disappointed with the quality of his team's home playing surface -calling it "the worst of the season" after Friday's game. 
"It has not)li{lg to do with our personnel, it just has to do with our environment," he said. "It's not fair for [Bengal Bouts] to freeze or for us to have bad ice. It's not our rink staff's fault, they're dqing the best with what they have to work with." 
:Warmer temperatures in an ice rink soften the ice and make it uneven, a fact that impacts the game dramatically, Jindra said. 
"If it's soft, you have to protect the puck more," he said. "The chances of turning the puck over when it's in the corner are much greater. Still, both teams have to ~ate on the ice. It's the same ice for both teams." 
Hather than make the almost 8,000 mile round trip back and forth to central Alaska, the Nanooks chose to spend the week in South Bend, practicing at the Joyce Center and commu­nicating with their professors via email. 
"Our team is more comfort­able on the road than we are at home, to some extent," MacMillan said of his travel­hardened squad. 
The closest CCHA competition for the Nanooks is Northern Michigan, located 3,200 miles away in Marquette, Mich. Fairbanks j-oined the CCHA before the 1995-96 season, com­pet$g as an wdependent before that. The oilly other Alaska school that plays Division 1 hockey, Alaska-Anchorage, com­petes in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association (WCHA). 
The Irish and Nanooks will face off at 7:35 tonight. Saturday's game and Sunday's game, if necessary, will start at 7:05. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Goals per game 2.59 

2.38 
Goals allowed per game 2.76 

2.38 
Penalty kill percentage 
.805 .884 
Power play percentage .178 
.162 
. ,--,-,c-r----------­
.-------77~--------~77~.-.-.----~~~--,-,--~..~~~---,--~~~~~~------~~~~~.-.-.-,-.------~--.-.-.-.--~-----~~,~~-.------­
o I 'It l I I, I I \' 4 f I 'I'. \'I' • I\ I' I , • I, 
hiday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Right at home, half a world away 
Fairbanks decides to stay in South Bend between end of regular season and beginning of playoffs 
. .: 

stun;, so it's not mueh of a pmb­centrale .on hockey here. ForBy KYLE CASSILY 
lem. our guys it's hockey, hockey,
Sporl.' Writer 
Alaska-Fairbanks head coaeh hockey, which is a great envi­Tavis MacMillan has had no. ronment for me to be in. On the 
This road trip has had a little trouble kenping his team from flipside I don't get the other morn to otTer Alaska-Fairbanks suiTering cabin fever. Tho part -the big part of my life ­than its typieal :i,500 mile squad has followed a set sclwd­which is my family.". tn~ks. In all the Nanooks will ule filled with evnnts to pass havn dealt with two conseeutivn time. Wearing out W111~km1ds of eutthroat hockey, The Nanooks spnnd nvery The greatest challenge for the nearly two weeks In a South morning praetieing in the Joyce Nanooks so far this trip has Bond hotel, a majority of the Center in preparation for the been illness. A day or two after tnam falling ill and even the Irish this weekend. Lunch, last weekend's series wrapped supernatural. strength training, and a two­up, the Alaskans started to !'all 
hour study session occupy a one by one to an upper respira­Hunkering down majority of the team's after­tory ailment. MacMillan esti­
AftPr splitting last weekend's noon until dinner. The past few mates that three-quarters of his s1~rins with the Irish, the nights the team has spent at team has been stricken by the Nanooks deeided to stay in the mall or lounging around the bug. town while waiting for this hotel. "You're in a hotel and it's all weekend's first round of the The team even took a road confined, so it's tough to get playoffs ratlwr than return to trip within a road trip on away from one another," Fairbanks. As a result the Wednesday night when they MacMillan said. "You get sick Nanooks havo IHwn forced to watched the Chicago -everybody gets sick. So the IH~adquarter thmnselves out of Blackhawks battle the Nashville challenge for us right now is .Joycn Center ice surface. lin the l<H~al .Jameson Inn since Predators at Chicago's United trying to get healthy by game Ghostbusters found it comparable to the Fd1. 22. Center. time." The hotel has even provided Carlson Cnntor ice his Nanooks 
"fo:veryonn likns being around As the team gets closer t.o Greontree acknowledged that the Nanooks with several play on in Fairbanks due to the Pach other," sophomore left game day however, video ses­hotel life has contributed to the deviant ehallengcs of its own. lack of hot spots along tho wing KyiP Cm1mtrne said of tlw sions and pre-game rituals will team's ailing state, but he is Humors have llown around thn boards. Pucks hit against tho liHun hnin~ stuck in a hotnl for start to como into play more fully confident it will have no team that several murders took .Joyce Cnntor boards do not ri<:­long p1~riods of time. "We'd and more. effect on this weekend's play. place in Hm. 307 of the oelwt wildly, as is of'ten found rat.lwr be at home, but we're "llockoy-wiso it's not bad at "It happens," he said. Jameson Inn-a room inhabit­in many other arnnas. prdty corn fortahle on the road. all," MacMillan said of the "Coming into the playofi's we're ed by several Alaska players. "The corners don't como as In Alaska we travnl a lot and team's situation. "I get to con-going to have to suck it up." "There's some weird things fast at you as in Michigan StatP 
that have been going on," or Bowling Grnnn," MacMillan Hitting the books Greentree said. "The TV would said. "They're really roundnd. 
It's easy to forget amid the just pop on by itself and doors Tho puck is in tho corner and playoff buzz and long trips that would fly open. I'm just glad you're already on top of the n11t the Nanooks are not just hock­I'm not staying in that room. when you got to the eornnr tlw ey players, but full-time college Geez, I'd be scared s--less ya way they round lin MSU and students. know." BG]. But here the eorners arn a 
In order to stay up on their The Nanooks have not kept lot deeper, which is more simi­classes, the team has instituted themselves confined to the lar to what we havn." study sessions where the play­Joyce Center ice facilities while But when it all comes down to ers must catch up on school­on campus. Several players it-it's all about the hockey. work. have wandered around campus And that is what MacMillan, 
Prior to leaving for South checking out landmarks and Greentree and the rest of the Bond, MacMillan conducted a getting a feel for college life Nanooks take as the greatest grade check on his players. The here at Notre Dame. benefit of this 3,500 mile trip. results were positive, only five "It's really mild here, it's not "Whnn we're back in C's in 125 course !,>Tades. cold at all," Greentree said of Fairbanks, not only tho players 
"They take a lot of pride in South Bend's climate. "We got but also us eoadws gnt pullnd tl111ir academics," MacMillan to check out tho football stadi­in so many dill'eront dirnetions said of his players. "They're um. We just kind of looked in. with people's wants and working hard -they're staying took a quick peak. We cruised needs," MaeMillan said. "Being in communication with profes­around a bit, we saw the at this plaen and boing at that sors. The Internet is a powerful library. We've got an overall plaen for mnntings. So from a tool now. Aeadnmically years glimpse of everything and it's purn hockey standpoint -this ago this would have been a big pretty cool." is as good as it gnts for us." problnm, but nowadays with While his players cheeked out computer apd e-mail you ean Touchdown Jesus, MaeMillan Contact Kyle Cassily at stay up on stuff." turned a trained eye toward thn kcassily@nd.cdu 
-
Jackson, team primed to make deep playoff push 
l.adins and gnntlemen, wel­Lake Supnrior State !.akers in recruits year after year. season and the power play run is tho polar bear-sized come to thn Jnff .Jackson era. 1992 and 1994. lie barely lost This crew looks to be in for unit is ranked fifth in the Nanooks of Alaska-Fairbanks. 
For those of you upfamiliar out on a third in 1993 to the long-term overhaul of an CCHA in successful conver­On avoragn the Nanooks out­with thn first-year Irish head Maine's Jim Montgomery Irish club coming off a miser­sions. weigh the Irish by seven to hockey coach and his team, when Montgomery put on one able five-win season. They Dave Brown has been a wall eight pounds per man and are these next of the top offensive perfor­have taken what was viewed between the pipes since 1.4 years older. This age dif­fnw wonks mances ever by a college play­as a rebuilding year and trans­December, playing in 25 out of ference may seem negligible will bn a er -scoring three goals in the formed Notre the last 26 games until one factors in that the crash third period to erase a two­Dame into a seri­and posts a 2.50 Nanooks have only six juniors eoursn. goal Maine deficit. ous contender Jackson brings a goals against and seniors. Tho Irish have 14 Jump on the Montgomery now dons a head­for the CCHA pedigree ofregular average for the upperclassmen. bandwagon set for Jackson's Irish as an title. season. Few have traveled the CCIIA
and postseason
now befon~ assistant coach. A serious con­Irish blueliners playoff road morn successfully 
success to an Irish
it's too latn Ask any long-term college tender when the have surrendered in the past thim Jaekson. lie's -this Notrn hockey fan about team sits only in team that has only 17 goals in finely tuned his squad to han­Damn hock­Montgomery's 1993 Black eighth-place in the last 10 games, dle the rigors of a physieal
made only one 
ny tnam is Bears and you will get a look the league stand­four of which Nanook squad and thn disd­
NCAA tournament
going of disgust. They were that ings? Without a carne in a 7-4 plinnd Irish ·appear poised to plaens. good. doubt. appearance. defeat of Bowling corral Fairbanks for a second 
.Jackson brings a pndigrne of And the former Black Bear is Jackson has Green. round hid. rngular and postsnason suc­only the tip of the ieebnrg reversed last A painfully slow .Jaekson knows how to win cnss to an Irish loam that has when it ci11nes to the crack year's anemic offense. Notre start to the season-the Irish and if hn nvnr nn1~ds a madn only orw NCAA tourna­Notrn Damn coaching staff Dame's top goal scorer in initially posted a 1-5 record -remindnr of how it fn11ls to los!' nwnt appearancP. Inside .Jackson has assnmbled. 2004-05 had six tallies. There has given way to a 10-9-3 .tally -he just has to look down tho Collngn ll1wkny lists him as Associate head coach Paul are seven Irish players with since Dee. 2. In that span bnneh at Montgonwry. orw of t.lw 16 greatnsl. col loge Poolny brings ynars of experi­six or more goals this season. Notre Dame has faced four hoc:kny coadws of all-time, ence as lwad coach of Last year Cory McLnan lnd the teams currently in tlw national The uiews expressed in I his onI' of only fivP ;u:tive coachns l'rovidnncn Collngn and as an tnarn with 22 points -this top-20 and a total of six oppo­column are those (~{the author -induding Michigan's Hed All-Amnrican at. Ohio State. season thern are livw players nents were ranked whnn they and not necessarily those(~{ BnrPnson. Tllirtnnn-year Irish vetnran with 22 or morn points. Team faced thn Irish. The Obsenwr. 
lin won two national cham­assistant coach Andy Slaggnrt goal production has inercased Thn first roadblock in tho Con/.act Kyle Cassity at pionships as lwad coach of llw contimws to bring in strong by 32 pereent ovnrall from last way of an Irish CCI lA playoff kcassily@nd. edu 




,~-------,-----; --;-\ -.--· -;-;-----.---~-­
f.: 
\I I: • • i I 1: I' '. 
. ,.. I\ I I' , • l' I.' f . 1 I, I'
t) I
j t 
page 4 Friday, March 3, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Physical play a hallmark of previous matchups 
they couldn't see what hap­Jeff Jackson said. "There's a era! times. cial for the Irish to avoid
4-1 ND win Feb. 25 
pened, the referees called reason that's a quote. But if "[The Fairbanks players] overdoing the physical play
featured 17 penalties five penalties on the play -we let that contempt come told me all game they would because the Nanooks are big­including a game misconduct before our ultimate goal, it's be gunning for me," Brown ger at most positions. on Irish defenseman Chris going to hurt us. We can't said. ''I'm not afraid of any­"They average 10-15 
By CHRIS KHOREY Trick. take cheap shots or we'll be body." pounds per man more than Sports Writer The near-brawl at the end killing penalties and giving Saturday's 2-1 Nanooks win our team," he said. of the game was the result of up goals. The same is true for was signifi-MacMillan 
With 3. 7 seconds left in 60 minutes of hard hitting them." cantly clean­said he Notre Dame's 4-1 victory and emotional play that typi­Friday's game featured 17 er, with the "We have a young team knows the over Alaska-Fairbanks fied the two-game, season­penalties and 45 penalty min­two teams and the guys have some Nanooks Friday, as fans stood up to ending Notre Dame-Alaska­utes, including 21 minutes combining have a size
some energy . ... They
leave, an altercation broke Fairbanks series and should handed out for the skirmish for just four advantage out near the Nanooks goal. return when the Irish and at the end of the game. No penalties, have to learn to over most of Almost every player on the Nanooks square off agajn to one was immune from the but the channel it.'' their oppo­ice was seemingly nearby open the CCHA playoffs. rough play, as Notre Dame importance nents and and, while players and "Familiarity does breed goalie Dave Brown was of the con­that he does
Tavis MacMillan
coaches from both teams said contempt," Irish head coach knocked into his own net sev-test could be game plan seen on the Nanooks head coach accordingly, ice nonethe-but that he less. "Last would never weekend was like a playoff condone intimidation or dirty weekend for us and it was play. like a playoff weekend for "We're a big team," he said. them," Notre Dame captain "But I don't like stuff after 
T.J. Jindra said. "If anything, the whistle. I like spirit, I like what it's like is that we have energy. You've got to get into two playoff weekends in a the game, be [passionatel and row." just play hockey." 
Both coaches took their Despite amassing 27 penal­teams to task after Friday's ty minutes as a team in contest, Friday's vic­imploring tory, the them to focus "There's too much at Iri-sh are their emotion still the sec­
stake to take stupid 
and energy ond-least 
on scoring penalties. " penalized and not on team in the hitting oppos­CCIIA, aver­
Jeff Jackson 
ing players. aging just
Irish head coach 
"We have a 16:18 of young team penalty time and the guys per game. have some energy.... They Fairbanks is ninth in the have to learn to channel it," twelve-team league. averag­Fairbanks coach Tavis ing 22:06 per game. MacMillan said. Brian Aaron was the refer­
Jackson said the impor­ee for both Friday and tance of the contests made it Saturday's games, assisted by especially key to keep penal­John Philo and Mark ties to a minimum. DesRosiers. Heferees for this 
"There's too much on the weekend's playoff series have 
line," he said. "There's too yet to be announced. 
much at stake to take stupid 

Notre Dame forward Michael Bartlett fights for the puck with a Ferris State player in a 4-llrish penalties." Contact Chris Khorey at 
win Feb. 10. Tough play from Bartlett and others will be key against the physical Nanooks. Jackson also said it is cru-ckhorey@nd.edu. 
HEAD TO HEAD 
COACHING GOALTENDING DEFENSE fORWARDS SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
LLI

·­
:E 
c:( 

Q 
LLI 
0::: 
t­
o 

z 


In his first season at the helm of' the Irish. Jackson has righted a ship that appeared to be sink­ing just a year ago. He has assembled a crack group of coach­es that complement each other well. MacMillan. in his sec­ond year at Fairbanks, has crafted a strong defensive team that only allowed 2.82 goals per game this season. His Nanooks have fought top teams like  Junior Dave Brown has held down the fort all year with a goals against average of' 2.50 in CCHA play. He struggled the first half of' the season but since has been lights out. Freshman Jordan Pearce has proved an effective backup. Freshman Chad Johnson and sopho­more Wylie Rogers have split time for most of the season and have played well. Johnson started Friday's con­test with Notre Dame,  Irish blueliners have proved consis­tent game after game. Notre Dame has sur­rendered just 2. 59 goals per game thanks to solid play from Brock Sheahan, Noah Babin, Chris Trick, . and Wes O'Neill. Fairbanks' style of play favors a defensive system, and its intimi­dating size backs it up. After surrendering three goals to the Irish in the first period Friday, the Nanooks allowed just two in the  Senior Mike Walsh, junior Josh Sciba, and freshman Erik Condra have combined for 80 points this year. All four lines can score, as evi­denced by goals by fourth-liners Evan Rankin and Garret Regan on Friday against the Nanooks. Kyle Greentree and Curtis Fraser are both threats to hit ty hard and score often. physical style, but their However the Nanooks power play has strug­are dead last in goals gled to score, convert­per game in the ing just 16 percent of CCHA at 2.38. A red their opportunities.hot Dave Brown will Since the Irish aren't  The Irish power play ranks No. 5 in the CCHA, but the penalty killing has been sieve­like. Notre Dame aver­ages the second fewest penalty minutes per game in the conference, so its penalty killers are rarely thrown into the flre. The Nanooks have the league's best penal­kill due to their  The Irish will be playing their third straight home game, which isn't the advan­tage that it would be if Fairbanks had to travel. Notre Dame is 4-1-1 in their last six games and has been playing well since Christmas. The good news is the Nanooks decided to stay in South Bend between weekend serieses. The bad news is they have lived in a hotel for two weeks, a rash of illness tore through the team  
Michigan and Miami to a standstill all year long. Despite Macmillan's success, you can't argue with Jackson's pedigree. Two nation­al championships in three appearances with Lake Superior  but was pulled after allowing three first period goals. Fairbanks' two headed monster has been effective but inconsistent this year. As a junior, Brown has more experience, and has been stand­ next flve periods com­bined. Both teams have solid bluelines, but Fairbanks~ larger playe:r:s give them the ed,g{). Their. size allows them to win most battle1f"f "• v  further frustrate their anemic offense. The Irish have the clear offensive advantage in an oth­erwise defensive game. Expect low­scoring contests to rule the weekend  penalized very often, it may not matter. Both teams excel in one area and struggle in the other. The Irish ranked first in the CCHA;, in8 the power play until''they went o~ fQr•.6 against 'the  and they suspect one of their hotel rooms is haunted. The Irish are riding a hot streak and playing at home, while the Nanooks are just glad not to be on an air­plane. None of the Irish players reports being 
State don't lie. He has what it takes to lead the Irish to the nation­al elite.  ing on his head in recent weeks. He should shut down the Nanooks.  corners (~(,up •, r reach :m~}{~~; ·· e checks more "effec­tive.  and Irish forwards to face an uphill battle against the Nanook defense.  Nanooks' stone wall penalty kill last week­end and dropped all the way to flfth.  sick, and rowdy crowds at the Joyce Center will give Notre Dame an added edge.  


~0~...~ .. ~.~0~ .~0 0~. ... 0~ .... ·0~.~ .....~~,~~..... ·~·.~·.·,~~~:·:·:·0 :.· .0' . 0.. ~.·,·:~0·:· -0·. ~
...~0.~. ~0 ~ ....~0 .~0 0~~0~ .....~.0000~ .....~ ... · .... ..... '~ .. · 
'.I' I • I I. '.I '' It I,. I .. , I' '.I'. If., f • It,. ''' 


I I It' 'I I I 
I I ( < 'I J f I • I I •, ' ' ~ I I I ''I;
,· \ Itt 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 3, 2006 
Seniors deserve Saturday's opportunity 
Call them painfully unlucky. Call them underachievers. Be fed up with Notre Dame men's basketball. But then also rec­ognize that Notre Dame ­believe it or 
·..·.··.·(:[:
not-is on the verge of 

-' 
accomplish­
-0 
ing what it set out to do at the begin­ning of the season. 
"""' 
That's 
Pat Leonard 
right, the Irish-the 
Sports Writer 
team with five confer­ence wins and a knack for los­ing the close one-will quali­fy for the Big East tournament with a win over DePaul Saturday. 
Of course, that's easy to say, looking at the Blue Demons' lowly conference record. It's more difficult to do, remem­bering Notre Dame's 73-67 loss to DePaul at Allstate Arena Jan. 7. 
But the Irish have the advantage of playing where they'd rather be (at home), against a lower-level confer­ence team, in an atmosphere that will recognize, honor and celebrate the careers of three of its biggest impact players. 
Chris Quinn, Tarin Francis and Rick Cornett all have waited for this opportunity. That's not to say their dream heading into college was to earn a conference tournament berth. Three years ago, that dream was nearly an automat­ic reality for Irish players. 
But it wasn't a given coming into this season that this team would be able to reach Madison Square Garden in one piece -or get there at all. In fact. by oftentimes playing lazy defense, surrendering offensive rebounds and failing to execute down the stretch of games, the Irish seemed likely not to qualify as the confer­ence schedule progressed. 
But this team needed time to develop. 
Plagued by poor on-floor leadership last season and injury in the previous one, Notre Dame had to regroup as it entered 2005-06. Quinn got the ball and the responsibility, and he responded by becom­ing one of the Big East's top guards while earning Academic All-American hon­ors from ESPN The Magazine, among other accolades. 
Quinn never had to take the most important shots and the final drives when Chris Thomas was at Notre Dame. Francis hasn't fully returned to his former self since having back surgery in 2004, though he's certainly made progress. And Cornett, well, the backup forward never had an oppor­tunity -for reasons still unknown -to showcase his talent until this season. 
It trickles down to the younger guys. 
Russell Carter, who some critics are calling the Big East's most improved player, took time to grow into his role and did not have the opportu­nity last season because Jordan Cornette was too busy gunning 3-pointers in his stead. 
Colin Falls has remained consistent as a shooter, but his game -like most shooters ­thrives on the chemistry of the guys he plays with. If they play together enough as a group, basketball players begin rec­ognizing where each other wants the ball and where they'll be in certain situations. 

But none of this really clicked, it could be argued, until Notre Dame's 102-91 romp of Seton Hall Feb. 18. Notre Dame's offense Bowed. Baskets were happening so quickly, Pirates coach Louis Orr couldn't believe it. And Cornett could be seen throw­ing down a furious two-hand­ed dunk through a hard foul late in the second half, descending to the floor and staring down his defender, screaming in frustration and exuberance over the dominat­ing performance his team had just set forth. 
This begs a question: where has that been all year-that passion and efficiency. Why hasn't Notre Dame shown it until so late, and when it shows that fire, only in spurts? 
Two reasons. Because Notre Dame is not as athletic as most of its Big East opponents, and because the Irish fail to adjust to game situations. 
In the Seton Hall game, the reason Notre Dame won so convincingly was that Brey appeared to run more set plays, sending back-to-hack sets with slight variations that confused the Pirates defense and made the Irish look like a firing squad. That translated into fewer transition opportu­nities for Seton Hall, and that was the game. 

But Notre Dame hasn't stuck to that formula. It has played 'not to lose' in many games, forced then into close games as the clock winds down. And the Irish then put the ball in the hands of Quinn who -'­while fully capable of breaking down most defenders one-on­one -simply has not had the practice prior to this season of being the man at Notre Dame. 
But he has become just that, illustrated most recently by his willingness to involve oth­ers in the .victory over Providence Wednesday that put the Irish in this position. And Francis and Cornett have joined Quinn in the team's final push. 
That is how this team should and will finish -behind its seniors, its captains. Because regardless of how many close games they've lost or final plays they've seen fall short, these guys are starting to get it. 
They deserve this final chance for redemption -all three of them-however sim­ple and insignificant a confer­ence tournament berth would seem. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 

Murphy epitomizes the Notre Dame student-athlete 
extent to which he can affect 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN the Irish. Murphy works hard in 

Associate Sports Editor 

practice but said he likes to stay quiet during games because 
Notre Dame senior Chris 
there is not much he can say.
Murphy has witnessed events But when Murphy shows up

from a different perspectiv.e 

to practice, he said he works 
than his teammates during his just as hard as his teammates 

two-year career with the Irish. 

knowing he will likely not be 
Murphy was a member of the playing in the next game.
2004-05 team that missed the 

Murphy also understands 
NCAA Tournament and suffered when he goes home, he returns 

a tough first-round NIT loss to to his life as a student. Where 

Holy Cross. The Irish senior 

some of his teammates might
returned this year for his final live together, Murphy signed the 

season to watch Notre Dame 

lease for his current house 
lose a number of close games sophomore year with his non­

and fight for a spot in the Big basketball friends. 
East tournament. 

"There were times this sum­"(You want to] see Chris mer where some of my room­Quinn get a couple wins, [and] mates were here and I would 
see those guys who are seniors get up at five to work out and get wins," Murphy said. "And they would still be up from the 

even last year we had so much night before," Murphy said with 

talent, but we never really put a smile. "That happened a cou­it together. It was hard to sit ple times." 

back and watch all that ... it's So when Notre Dame fightsalmost worse not playing." 

for its postseason life Saturday
The rarely used walk-on for­

against DePaul, Murphy will 
ward is a member of the Irish ' assume his customary role onbasketball team. He wakes up the bench.
for practice with his team­

He said he wonders how col­mates, suits up for games with 
lege would be different if he 
his teammates and reports to Irish senior was a student, and ships I had made with my team­play professionally, and he had played at a school where 
summer workouts with his nothing more, for his first two mates and the friendships I had made the choice to go to Notre he received more playing time, teammates. The only difference years in South Bend. made before I was on the team. Dame. 
but Murphy has enjoyed his
is, once the game begins, But when he made the bas­"Before I looked at athletes "I realized I was kind of time at Notre Dame regardlessMurphy's role virtually ends. ketball team before his junior differently, now I look at normal burned out after basketball my of minutes. 
"I was treated just like a year, Murphy also became a students [differently] -I have senior year," Murphy said. 
"I don't regret coming to
scholarship guy at practice," college athlete. And while his both perspectives and I think So for two years, Murphy was 
Notre Dame at all," Murphy
Murphy said. "The only differ­teammates have simultaneously that's helped out a lot and made a normal undergraduate. But said. ''I'm going to graduate ence is they play in the games, handled both lives during their it a lot better here." he said he began to miss play­
with a degree at Notre Oamc, and I don't. careers at Notre Dame, Murphy Lafayette College and other ing as time passed and decided and I think I'll do all right with 
"Everyone wants their shot, has experienced both lives at East coast Patriot league to try out for the team after his a career, so I'm not complaining but I know my role and I don't separate times. schools recruited Murphy out of sophomore year. 
too mueh."

expect anything." "The balance between that is Benet Academy in Downers Murphy understands he is in Murphy did not always lead hard sometimes," Murphy said. Grove, Ill. But the senior for­a different position than his Contact Bobby Griffin at this life at Notre Dame. The "l had to balance the friend-ward said he knew he wouldn't teammates and knows the rgriffi3@nd.edu 

--.---,-­

' r • • 1 1 1 t t ~ ~ 
• ' I I ~ \ 

''I I I 'I I i' 
'' ''\I 1 r .. ' • I I i I It, 
Priday, March 3, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Misleading point 
Irish guard Chris Quinn looks like a regular student but has become a top Big East threat 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Assodarc Spons Editor 
Not n~ ll a m n s ~~ n i o r poi n t guard Chris Quinn nrnerged from tlw locknr room Monday ready to answnr questions about. thn most important week of his snnior snason -maybe of his nntirn Irish career ­minutns after tnammates Hussnll Carter and Kyle McAlarnny walkml through the lobby. 
Cartnr was w1~aring a large T-shirt, loosn bask1~tball shorts and diamond narrings. McAlarrwy had on an oversized sweatshirt. and large l'leeee pants -typical out.lits for eol­lngn baskntball playnrs. 
But Quinn looknd nothing likn thn snwnd-lnading seornr in arguably tlw bnst wnfnrenee in thn country. Thn unassuming guard. wnaring a black flneee, jnans and running shoes, looknd morn likn an nconomics major than a top Big East bas-· kntball playnr. 
That's pari. of what makes <)uinn such an interesting story. Thren ynars ago, he was an unrneognizahle freshman playing bnhind guards Chris Thomas and Matt Carroll. Fast­forward to today, and his coach is mnntioning his name with evnry basketball player's three favoritn lettnrs-NBA. 
But Quinn's snnior year has not had a storybook script. The Irish guard has bonn responsi­bln for leading Notre Dame through a difficult season in which it has lost 1 0 conference gamns by a combined 35 points. 
"[Quinn isl really a stable guy," Irish eoaeh Mike Brey said Monday before practice. "lie's always handlod his busi­ness, he's been amazingly rnsilim1t Iandi I think he's been hardPrwd -and I mean that in a positive light -by experi­
IHH:I~s." 
And while Notre Dame has struggled closing out tough gan11~s. sonw of Quinn's success hasn't he1m fully appreciated. 
Quinn has solidil'ied himself as one of the best players in the Big East, if riot the country. llis 21.2 points per Big East game puts him seeond in a lnagun full of future NBA prospoets. 
But it's Quinn's willingness to lead Notrn Dame on the lloor that rnmains his biggnst asset. Nobody hates losing more than Quinn, but nobody also is more willing to accept the responsi­bility. 
Average college student 
McAlarney remembers meet­ing Quinn during summer praetiee. lie had considered Quinn a shooting guard while watching him on television last season and was shocked to see his leadership abilities during workouts. 
"When I came here": I was like, 'Wow this kid is legit. he's tho real dna!."' MeAlarnny said. "A lot of peopJp, underes­timate him every game, but now I think the country knows hn's onn of the best guards in tho country." 
McAlarnny's initial feeling was not unique. Quinn has established himself' as a top player in the Big East this sea­son, but it totik three years for national audiences to recog­nizn his on-court ability. 
Much of' this is due to his slnnder, inconspicuous appear­ancn -one atypical of an elite eollegn basketball player. But that's exactly what Quinn has become. 
Heading into Wednesday's game at Providence, Quinn was among the top five in the Big East in seven major statistical categories -minutes played (l'irst). points per game (sec­ond), assists (second), 3-point lield goal percentage (second), froe-throw percentage (third), assisVturnovnr ratio (fifth) and 3-point liold goals made (fifth). 
And Quinn's average build has allowed his opponents to overlook his abilities in the past. But as this season has progressed, opposing coaches are beginning to take noticn of' 

GEOFF MATTESONfThe Observer Notre Dame guard Chris Quinn shoots over Marquette guard Wesley Matthews in an 80-72 Irish loss Saturday. 
the Irish captain. 
lie doesn't rely mueh on l'lashy moves but has the awarHness and athletieism to compensate for his lack of' llair. lin also has shown an ability to gnt his teammates involved all season. His 6.0 assists per game is seeond-bost in the Big 1\ast by nearly a full point mar­gin. 
"I think he's going to be underestimated for his entire career, because you look at him and he looks like a normal college student," McAlarney said. "lie has some deceptive quickness about him [and I he just goes by you." 
Quinn's performance this year has put him in an unfa­miliar position. Arter spending throe seasons in a secondary role, he is now in the natiimal spotlight. 
lie was always confident in his ability (he said ho thinks he's one of tho bnst guards in thn country) but is still shocked when he is viewed dil'f'erently than his peers. 
"I don't think of' myself' as a eelebrity -I think of myself' as a regular guy like most pno­ple," Quinn said. 
Quinn said it feels like yester­day he admired not only pro­fessional and college players but also varsity high school players. It would be easy for a player of Quinn's caliber to develop an ego, but tho senior guard has maintained a sense of humility and is overwhelmed by the attention he receives. 
"It means a lot to me ... to be looked up to by people," Quinn said. "When I was younger, I always looked up to people, as well. As I've grown and matured, now I have other people looking up to me the way I looked up to other people -it's pretty cool." 
Not-so-average future 
But even though Quinn looks more like a typical Notre Dame student than a potential first team All-Big East player, his appearance belies his career path. While Quinn is still adjusting to the spotlight, he might have morn attention ahead ol' him. 
"lie has made hirnsnlf an NBA prospect, dearly with tho l'eedbaek I've gotton with the year he's having," Brey said Monday before practice. 
Brey said he has recnived ealls expressing interest in the senior guard -a situation l'ow anticipated. 
"When we signed him, nobody would have projected lhe would be an NBA player!." Brey said. "As a matter ol' fact, I don't think many people would have projected that in July, or even October or November. But there's been a buzz about him, and I'm happy." 
That sudden buzz might seem pHculiar given Notre Dame's 5-10 conference reeord this season. But Quinn has earned respect for putting the team on his back, aceopting responsibility l'or Irish losses and recording impressive indi­vidual numbers in the process. 
"It's easy to be captain of a team that's 15-7 and eruising along," Brey said. "Not only do wn ask a lot of' him on the floor, lbutl he's had a lot ol' dnmands as a captain and a loader." 
Brny said he doesn't know whore Quinn ranks nationally among top players -or even top point guards -but the coach said his captain would receivo attention l'rom NBA organizations once the season ends. 

Quinn does not speculate where he will bo playing pro­fessional basketball in the future, but he does express an interest to play somewhere ­whether it's in America or Europe. 
"''m definitely looking for­ward to playing professional basketball somewhere next year," Quinn said. "At this point, I'm just focusing on fin­ishing out my senior year in the best way possible, and then after the season, I'll takfl a step back and sen where I lit. 
"Personally, I think I'm right up thore with anybody." 
Quinn routinely speaks with old Notre Dame playors who have gone on to prol'essional careers both in the NBA and Europe. lin gets l'nedbaek !'rom players like Carroll (NBA, Charlotte Bobcats) and Thomas (Fabriano, Italy). Just last weekend, Thomas stayed at Quinn's house after the Marquette game. 
"All those guys really help me a lot," Quinn said. "Just seeing the different things thar' arc out there and the different ways of going about it [helps[." 
Focused on the present 
Before Quinn starts worrying about his future career in pro­fessional basketball, he is responsible for loading the Irish in their final game of' the season Saturday against DePaul. 
"He eertainly isn't thinking about [next yearI." Brey said. "He'd like to maneuver this group his senior year into some postseason stuf'f'." 
Quinn didn't onvision such a tough final sl.rnteh. Broy said getting to the Big East tourna­ment was going to be a chal­lenge, but Quinn said hn expected to make it to Nnw York f'rom the beginning. 
"lt has been a tough year." Quinn said. "It hasn't gone exactly thn way we Ihad I 
planned it at the lwginning of 
the year. There have been a lot ol' dose games. 
· "As a snnior, it's not thn way 
you want to go out. but you can't change it now." 
But while Quinn can't chango the past, hfl does have eontrol over what is left ol' this season. When Quinn has played well, Notre Dame has put itsell' in the best position to win games (Quinn is averaging 22.4 points in live league wins). 
Quinn's teammates have complete l'aith in their starting point guard and his ability to lead Notre Dame down this tough final stretch. lin seored 16 points in th1~ second half against Providnncn Wednesday to keep the Irish from losing thn must-win game. 
"[Wnl as a team, we've hnnn through a lot," MeAlarnny said. "Just watching IQuinnl deal with it thn right way hnlps tho team." 
So whiln Quinn might fnnl nostalgie with his eollegn earner winding down, he knows he must rmnain f'ocusnd and not think about past mis­takes. Quinn said it upsets him to think he might only play in one NCAA Tournament-his freshman year, thn lr·ish advanced to the Sweet I(J ­though he also said he'd drivo himsnll' crazy il' ho got earrind away with "what-if's." 
But thnrn is one dear what-il' Quinn is l'oeused on. Boating the Blue Demons would give the Irish a Big East tournament berth and would allow Notre Dame to continuo its season. A loss would bring tho nnd of' Quinn's collegiate carnnr. ·­
So once again, it's up to Quinn. The season might come down to another game situa­tion. And thnn l.lw Irish guard will have to nxehange his hlaek North Faee l'or his black jersny, transl'orrning !'rom a standard collngn student to a standout collngn athlete. 
But Quinn is used to that role. Only this year, pnople al'l~ starting to take noticn. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi@nd.edu 
I 
I & 
, 'I I I\, 
I I· 1 I I I 

• t I I , fl. I I 'f.'' 

Friday, March 3, 2006

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
The future can wait 
Irish forwards Tarin Francis and Rick Cornett have blurry destinies but a common current goal 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Torin Francis' NBA pre-draft camp T-shirt hangs ironically on his 6-foot-11, 252-pound frame as he walks casually into the Joyce Center arena on a Monday afternoon. 
The Notre Dame senior has two days before he must put his team on his back -a back that under­went surgery two years ago ­and push them to the Big East tournament. 
But Francis also has more on his mind than the average college senior handles. 
He yearns for success, as he experienced his freshman season in a Sweet 16 appearance. He remembers setback and defeat, not only in recent postseason tournaments but also in individ­ual growth. 
Back surgery at the end of his sophomore season, a humbling and brief flirtation with the NBA Draft last spring and a return to South Bend have made the senior Irish forward who he is -a role player who averages a low career double-double (11.1 points, 10 rebounds) and has a chance to play professionally, no more and no less. 
And with personal goals and team aspirations weighing equal­ly heavy on his mind, Notre Dame's senior forward and tri­captain realizes his up-and-down college basketball career is near­ing its conclusion. 
"I haven't had the season I wanted to for myself personally," Francis said Monday before prac­tice of 2005-06. "but it's not too late. We still have a couple games left, and there's still time." 
And there's one of Francis' best friends. who has become his brother in quiet frustration, visi­ble maturity and urgnnt senior year play. 
Rick Cornett. known by many as the 'other' Notre Dame senior forward, stands now side-by-side with Francis as the Irish enter Saturday needing one more win to earn a Big East tournament berth. 
And that's significant because, up until this year, it was always one or the other. Don't misunder­
"! haven't had the
stand. They're ship players] -I great · friends. season I wanted to was a little nerv­They even made ous, !especially
for myself,
sure to have simi­withl Francis with
personally, but it's 
)arly light class back surgery com­loads their final not too late. " ing back." semester. Brey also knows 
"Our schedules Cornett has been
Torin Francis
kind of match up frustrated with his 
Irish forward 
as far as having playing time, but 
tatives of a relentless Notre Dame team. 
From background to forefront 
Cornett has played an average of 10.2 minutes per game in his four years as Francis' backup, his assumed role before this sea­son. 
Beginning at the end of last season and continuing into 2005­06, Cornett has played not only in place of, but alongside of, Francis. And Notre Dame has reaped obvious benefits when Cornett plays more minutes. 
He's averaging nearly 13 min­utes per game now. And this sea­son, in the 13 games in which Cornett has logged 14 or more minutes, the Irish have averaged 
5.8 more points per game (82.5) than they have for the season's duration (76.7). They also have given up 2.8 more points per game than they do without his increased presence, but on a team that values outscoring opponents with a highly efficient offense, Cornett has stood out this season as a valuable asset. 
That's the good news. But Cornett, who hails from Country . Club Hills, Ill., has not played as much throughout his career-or this season -as he would have liked. 
"Any competitor wants to be on the court and [tol play," Cornett said. "I just really have had to accept my role here and realize that some games I may play a lot, some games I may not, and not be upset about it but just keep working hard. Because when ... they call me to go in there, I have to be ready to contribute and do well." 
Questions remain as to why Notre Dame never applied the red-shirt tag to Cornett in order to retain a year of eligibility dur­ing seasons in which he saw min­imal action. Brey promises the staff deliberated long and hard on the issue and concluded each season that the Irish needed Cornett in a jersey. 
"The Hick Cornett red-shirt dis­cussion took place many times in the fall, and not necessarily his freshman year," Brey said. "Do you hold him out maybe in one of the other years? But given where 
our numbers were -10, 11 [scholar­

one or two class­es now," Cornett said Monday. "We worked hard from the beginning ju.st to get all our work out of the way." 
Schoolwork, that is. Now, the two IJlUSt continue to battle each other in practice while fending off the opposition in crucial games, on a mission to prove thnir worth as individual players and their team's worth as a legit­imate Big East contender. 
"A little bit of my feeling is, if we're gonna do this Nnw York City thing, we should put it in their hands," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said of his two senior big men Feb. 23. "Either get us there or [don't]." 
Francis and Cornett have been frustrated for different reasons and have succeeded at difl'erent times, but as a pair, they have become dual weapons on the court (who knew?) and represen­
the coach said it 

took Cornett a while to fully realize what he had to do to earn minutes. 
"The one thing he and I have always talked about is, in the off­season, being really committed,". Brey said. "And each summer he's learned the commitment level to play at this level really is intense. He's done more each summPr. This summer was the most productive for him. He invested in the big man camp. 
"lie does have other interests, Iandi that's healthy. That's well­rounded, but also then too you want kind of a maniacal focus." · 
Cornett calls listening to music . a serious interest but says bas­ketball is his primary passion and is not sure he has lacked the necessary focus during his career. But, as Brey documents, the senior has handled his situa­tion admirably -enough for 
Brey to call for a re-vote of team 
captains in January, leading to 
Cornett's joining Francis and 
Quinn as tri-captains thereafter. 
"The one thing about this 
young man is [that] his attitude 
has always been excellent," Brey 
said. "He comes in and accepts 
his responsibility ... He may go 
back and say, 'Gosh, I think I 
should be doing more, but if 
that's the way they're setting it 
up, I'll do it.' He's had a great 
frame of mind, and I respect him 
for that." 
, Through success and failure 
Francis entered his senior sea­
son with his own issues and goals 
-some of which, as in Cornett's 
case, remain unfulfilled. 
Francis has started in the mid­
dle for Notre Dame for four 
years, with the exception of being 
sidelined by a herniated disk in 
his back late during the 2003-04 
season. He began a promising · 
career averaging 11.1 points and 
9.5 rebounds his freshman sea­son playing alongside Matt Carroll, Dan Miller, Torrian Jones and Chris Thomas into the NCAA Tournament's Sweet 16. 
Then, the team lost valuable 
players, and injury crept into the 
picture. 
Notre Dame settled for the 
National Invitation Tournament 
(NIT) the following season, 
though Francis had been averag­
ing career bests of 14.2 points 
and 12.8 rebounds before injur­
ing himself just over halfway 
through the schedule. 
Francis has regained confi­
dence this season and found his 
role, but during his junior season 
he struggled. And overall, even 
Brey admitted Francis does not 
"bounce" off the floor like he 
used to following back surgery on 
March 8, 2004. 
"I think I've definitely pro­
gressed as a player," Francis 
said, acknowledging -as his 
coach also did -that he's 
improved in several facets of the 
game despite lower statistics. "I 
think I might have had a good 
year freshman year, but now I'm 
doing a lot of things better than I 
was freshman year as far as 
playing defense, getting more 
assists and getting more 
rebounds ... I think it's just that 
we haven't really gotten to where 
I've wanted to as a team these 
past few years like I did my 
freshman year." 
Francis also is realistic, though, 
about where he stands as an 
individual talent. 
"Kids, over their four-year 
career, become educated to what 
reality is," Brey said. 
Surprising many after what 
Francis admits was a sub par 
junior season, the Boston, Mass. 
native declared for the NBA Draft 
to be held in June 2005 and 
worked out at a pre-draft camp, 
where he got a T-shirt along with 
some humbling advice. 
"A couple guys just told me I 
should go back to school and 
spend this year to develop some 
more," Francis said. "I played 
pretty well at times, and other 
times I just played O.K. So that 
was the indicator that maybe I 
should come bnek ... land] have a 
good [senior! year personally and 
win as a team." 
And he claims hP entered the 
draft as much to learn from the 
best players in the country as he 
did to qualify for the world's top 
league, an intention Brey con­
firmed. 
"Putting his name in last year was more of an .educational process than [his thinking], 'I'm good enough to go,"' Brey said. "It wasn't an arrogant move on his part ... The crazy thing about the draft [is if] you have a good two days in Chicago, you can be the 25th pick and then work out for some guys. 
" ... Whenever he was eligible for the NBA Draft, whether it was his freshman year, his junior year or this spring, he was gonna be in a dogfight to scratch his way into the league. He's realistic about that. The one thing he can do is he can make a living play­ing. th,~ game somewhere for a while. 
What the future may hold 
Brey said he feels Cornett also has the ability to ~nake money by playing basketball after gradua­tion, and his backup senior for­ward seems intent on aiming for just such a career. 
lie's not focused on career aspirations yet, though. Cornett wants to leave a legacy at Notre Dame, and he wants to do it alongside his friend, teammate and fellow captain, Francis ­something the starting forward welcomes. 
"[Rick's] a scoring threat, he's a threat on defense and he goes after the boards," Francis said. "I .think when.. coach Brey has played us together this year, it's worked." 
Francis scored 18 points and grabbed 12 points as the catalyst to Notre Dame's 82-75 victory over Providence Wednesday. Cornett played sparingly, but even when he doesn't ·See as many minutes, both seniors remain major reasons why this group has been so resilient through a difficult conference slate. 
"That's the type of guys we are," Francis said. "Coach Brey and the coaching staff can only do so much. For us, it's how we go out and practice. how we pre­pare for the games and whether we're mentally ready for the games. 
"We could have thrown in the 
towel a long time ago, but why 
would we if we still have the 
opportunity to do big things'!" 
They each had the opportunity to throw in the towel, on them­selves and on the team. Hut now all they can think about is that New York City thing. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 






