

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame welcomes most diverse incoming class 
Incoming students boast high test scores, strong credentials 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The University has high expectations for the class of 2010, and given their stellar credentials, the roughly 2,025 students in this year's fresh­man class should have no trouble rising to the challenge. 
The Class of 2010 is the most diverse in Notre Dame's history, with minority groups making up 24 percent of the incoming freshman class, said Dan Saracino, assistant provost for enrollment. In prior years, the percentage of minority students has hovered around 22 percent. 
All 50 US states are repre­sented in the freshman class, which also boasts students 
from 41 nations. 
Freshmen come from as far north as North Pole, Alaska and as far south as La Paz, Bolivia, Saracino said. 
"It's a great mix or kids," he said. 
Eighty-six percent were in the top 10 percent of their class. Seventy-three percent earned varsity letters in high school. 
And they were selected from 
see FRESHMEN/page 9 



ROTC students suit up for orientation 
Freshmen Army, Air Force, Navy participants arrive for training 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
While many members of the Class of 2010 have been marching to the Bookstore to purchase "The Shirt," freshmen in Notre Dame's Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) pro­gram have been wearing uniforms of a different kind. 
Notre Dame's Air Force, Army and Navy ROTC New Student Orientation drew approximately 70 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Bethel College, Indiana University South Bend and Valparaiso University to campus last week. 
"New Student Orientation is a whirl­wind introduction into military bearing, customs and courtesies, uniform wear and physical training, so .each day incorporates a bit of each," senior cadet Eileen Shannon said. "Not only does ori­entation explain what ROTC is all about, it also shows the new cadets what they will be capable of in a few short years." 
see ROTC/page 9 


Reality hits post 
Frosh-0 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
If every day were Freshman Orientation weekend at Notre Dame, dorm T-shirts would be the official uniform, icebreak­ers and egg tosses would replace classes and the beats of Chamillionaire would pulse nightly from the walls of the Joyce Center. 
The three activity-filled days do end, though, and on Tuesday, college begins. And often, the transition from high school to college presents chal­lenges to first year students. 
For freshman Adam Twardzik, his pool of class­mates will grow from 31, the size of his high school class, to his approximately 2,025 Notre Dame classmates. Twardzik said the new situation would 
see TRANSITION/page 9 


College's Class of 2010 largest in last five years 


Freshmen to tour South Bend 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Students often spend Freshman Orientation weekend unpacking and meeting their classmates -but this year, the Senate Community Relations com­mittee and the city of South Bend are teaming up to expose new students to opportunities available beyond the shadow of the Dome. 
The student government, Mayor Steven Luecke's office and several local businesses are sponsoring the first-ever "Explore South Bend Tour." 
Mikki Dobski, director of communications and spe­cial projects for the 
see TOUR/page 11 



ByKIMABEEL News Writer 
The 426 members of the Saint Mary's class of 2010 are not just academically gifted ­they also form the largest incoming freshman class since 2001. The freshmen arrived on campus Thursday morning from 41 states and three countries outside the U.S. 
The Class of 2010 has raised the bar academically, boasting an average ACT score of 25 and an average SAT composite based only on critical reading and mathematics of 1160. 
The freshmen enter with an 
see COLLEGE/page 11 
page 2 INSIDE COLUMN 

Hop over that fence 
Just before my parents dropped me at Stanford Hall three years ago today, my mom told me something. 
"l'vlike, you have the world by the tail on a downhill swing," she said. "Take advantage ofit." 
Your mom >'~ill probably give you the same type of advice todav. 
Now that "rm a senior and entering my fourth year at the only plaee T ever wanted to go, 


I can tell you that Mike Gilloon 
she's probably 
right. 
So listen up. Editor in Chief 
As a freshman, I was so happy to be 
here that I forgot why I eame. 
After three years of living a dream, I've realized Notre Dame is-in one sense -no different than an:ywhere else. 
Natural Lite and quarter dogs still make you fat. · 
Thme minutes studying calculus and three hours playing NC'.AA 2007 still leads to bad grades. 
Dancing to Journey at an SYH is still not cool. But-drunken fist pumping aside ­this plao~ is pretty special. You will have aeeess to the widest alumni network in the world. You will take classes from proli~ssors who arP tops in their fjeJd. You ""ill live on the most beautiful campus in the eountry. 
You might even see a national title. 
The triek is to take advantage of your opportunity. Maybe you remember Mrs. Smalls in "The Sandlot." 
Most of you were about six years old when that movie debuted, but she's the mom who tells her nerdy son Scott ­the new kid on the bloek -to get out of the house and into some trouble. 
So he did. 
He put down the Erector Set in his bedroom and headed to the baseball diamond. 
It took some help from Benny "The Jet" Rodriguez, but in one summer Smalls made a bunch of friends, learned how to cook Smores and even had James Earl Jones hand him a base­ball signed by the 1927 Yankees. 
None of that would have happened if he stayed in his room. 
It might be easy to stay in your room onee Frosh-0 ends and school begins. You won't know anyone outside of your section and the jump from senioritis to the First Year of Studies c:an be rough. 
You aren't going to immediately feel at ease arow1d here, even if it's the onlv school vou ever wanted to attend. · 
But once you go out of your way and shake off your shyness, you'll never want to leave. Sign up for Interha.ll sports or attend a dorm Ma.:;s. 
Visit with a teacher after dass and get to know everyone in your hall. You're new, you're smart and you're scared. You're Eagle Seouts, elass presidents and football team captains. You scored higher on entrance tests than almost every kid in the eountry. You're at a sehool that most only see on NBC. 
There's a bit of Scott Smalls in all of you. And the only way to make the best of the biggest opportunity you'll ever have is to take a risk and leave your room. 
It's easy to feel content just being at Notre Dame. That's why it's important that you don't. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those cithe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Saturday, August 1,9, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR INCOMING FRESHMEN? 






Jenn Mahlke  Michael Devitt  Maura Rouse  Tommy Clarkson  Rachael Stroval  Alan Bauer  
sophomore  senior  senior  senior  senior  junior  
LeMans  Dillon  Opus  off-campus  Opus  Hsher  
"Don 't run in  "Put your  "Don't lose your  "Come visit  ''Don't eat the  "Enjoy the  
rainboots."  carpet down  !D.,  Clover Ridge. "  beef"  .football  
.first."  season.  

ORIENTATION WEEKEND 

1:OOpm -Official Orientation 
12:00pm-Orientation Picnic 

Joyce Center 
Library Green 

3:15pm-Parent Orientation 
2:30pm -Open House 

Joyce Center 
Student Center 

8:00pm -Meetings with 
4:30pm -Orientation Mass 

Rectors and Hall 
Angela Athletic 

Staff 
Facility 

Residence Halls 
10:00am-Eucharistic Liturgy 10:45am-Farewell Brunch 
Joyce Center Noble Family Dining Hall 
11:30am-Box Lunch 
Joyce Center 
12:00pm-The Spirit of Notre Dame 
Source: University of Notre Dame. Saint Mary's College JEFF ALBERT/Observer Graphic 

Joyce Center 
TODAY TONIGHT SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
c:: 
LLI 
:a: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 


(f 
(f
.... 
<
(.) 

HIGH 70 HIGH 75 HIGH 78 HIGH 81 HIGH 79
...0 80 

67 LOW 57 LOW 63 LOW 61 LOW 63 LOW 64 
Atlanta 91 I 71 Boston 83 I 70 Chicago 78 I 69 Denver 78 I 63 Houston 91 I 75 Los Angeles 84 I 66 Minneapolis 73 I 58 New York 84/74 Philadelphia 87 I 72 Phoenix 106/84 Seattle 83/58 St. Louis 96 I 71 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 87/74 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Saturday, August 19, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Local businesses get boost as students move in 
Area stores, restaurants advertise discounts, specials as they anticipate major sales increase with back-to-school rush 
hers in the store, said inventory supervisor Heather Planert. "We're treating the rush just like any holiday," she said. 
Pinnacle Athletic Club on Edison Road has received calls from students inquiring about membership sign-ups, said gen­eral manager Jim Bradford. 
Bradford is grateful for the students because this time of year tends to be flat for health clubs. 
"August and September are usually slow months, but the students coming in offset that," he said. 
Undergraduates are not the only intended consumers of local businesses. 
Cody and Erin Groeber, recently married, are third-year law students looking to furnish their new home. Furniture Now Outlet was one of the area stores they visited and liked because of the low prices they found. 
"We've been doing a few car­loads the last few days," Erin said. 
Craig Summerix, a first-year store manager of Furniture Now, said he is not sure what to expect as far as the number of patrons goes, but that he is sure his sales will have a "big bump." 
Summerix expects to see off­campus students and incoming freshmen come into the store in the coming week. 
Local restaurants also took steps to attract students to their establishments, as they are often good customers through­out the year, said John Cataldo, general manager of Bruno's Pizza. 
The popular restaurant is hav­ing a student appreciation night next week and is offering addi­tional coupons on its Web site, Cataldo said. 
Gas stations are also vying for student business. 
Greg Evans, general manager at Speedway gas station, wants students to join the Speedy By RYAN SYDLIK 

News Writer 
With more than 8,000 Notre Dame students slated to arrive in South Bend by Sunday, local businesses are prepping for their arrival -and a likely boost in sales. 
Superstore Meijer on Grape Road in Mishawaka has stocked up on items usually needed by college students, said General Manager Michael McKinnies. They have everything from rock climbing wall and plenty of giveaways. 
Modern rock station 103.9 WRBR is also slated to broad­cast from Meijer during the two­day event. 
For setting up dorm rooms, students often turn to large home improvement stores like Home Depot or Lowe's. 
"Lowe's is good for building a loft and getting a carpet," said Matt Medlock, a resident assis­tant in Alumni Hall. 'Til proba­bly be going there very soon." 
Bed Bath & 
Beyond is trying 
sophomore and F r o s h -0 Commissioner Dan Canders has been to Meijer three times already to pick up food and other necessities. 
"It's good because you can get things you forget at home, like shower stuff," he said. 
To lure students -especially freshmen -the store is plan­ning a celebration on Friday and Saturday. Events for the store's "traveling road show" include an XBOX competition, a Dance Dance Revolution tournament, a this weekend. 
Assistant Store Manager Steve Rutz said that he wants students to take advantage of the company's "pack and hold scan items" sys­tem. The service allows students to find and pay for items at any Bed Bath & Beyond in the coun­try and then pick them up at the Grape Road location. 
Borders Bookstore is prepar­ing for the increase in student shoppers by bringing in more back-to-school supplies, as well as having a few more staff mem-Rewards Program, which allows people to get gift cards for store items when they buy gas. 
Stephanie "Toni" Williams, a disc jockey for 95.3 WAOR, said she loves seeing the students come back to South Bend. 
"They are definitely huge for our economy," she said. "We need to embrace them the best we can." 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
futons, laundry to take advan­
"[Students] are 

baskets and tage of incom­
definitely huge for our

hangers to ing students by kitchen and economy. We need to placing a giant bath acces-"Students
embrace them the best 

sories, sta-Welcome" sign
we can.

tionery and over its main storage contain­entrance. They ers. Stephanie "Toni" Williams also extended Knott Hall 95.3 WAOR disc jockey store hours for 


What's on the agenda? 
This is a question asked often on campus, with Notre Dame's unified Web-based calendar system that lists events for all segments of the University community. It's the one place where students, faculty, staff and the general public can find out about all the major events scheduled on campus. 
Agenda organizes events by category, such as Arts & Entertainment, Academic Dates, Student Life, Lectures and Conferences, Health & Recreation, Religious Life, and Service, as well as by day, week, month and even year. 
Come visit our multipurpose calendar for your one-stop scheduling experience. 
The calendar link is on NO's home page or directly at http://agenda.nd.edu 
Welcome to campus! 
Transfer student enrollment grows for ~06-~07 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's maintain standards but admit greater number oftransfers, face on-campus housing shortages 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
NewsWrirer 
As freshmen try to adjust to college life, 173 additional stu­dents on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses face the same challenge -just at different schools than last year. 

at Notre Dame and this year was no different. 
"On-campus housing was especially limited for transfers this fall because of the large first year class and a larger percent of seniors choosing to stay on campus," Joyce said. "Approximately 20 to 25 per­cent of the incoming transfer 
students have 

One hundred forty students are enrolled as transfer students to Notre Dame,  "Ninety-eight students applied for transfer admission this fall versus 90 in 2005 and  been offered on-campus housing at this point." The office of Residence Life  
while 33  are  84 in 2004."  and  Housing  
enrolled  at  has  worked  
Saint Mary's. For fall admission,  Dan Meyer vice president  closely with transfer stu­dents and  
Notre  Dame  Enrollment Management  their families  
received about 500 transfer  Saint Mary's  to solve hous­ing issues, she  
applications,  said.  

said Susan Joyce, associate An online message board director of admissions. created exclusively for admit­Of those, 175 were admitted ted students provided them 
and 140 are enrolled, she said. 
"The admit and confirm numbers are higher than last year. We typically enroll about 125-130 students," Joyce said. 
One hundred nine of the transfer students are of sopho­more status and 31 are junior status, she said. 
Saint Mary's also experi­enced an increase in transfer numbers, Vice President of Enrollment Management Dan Meyer said. 
"Ninety-eight students applied for transfer admission this fall versus 90 in 2005 and 84 in 2004," he said. 
The College accepted 50 of the applicants and 33 have enrolled, he said. 
Fifty percent of the enrolled students will transfer into the freshman class, 35 percent into the sophomore class and 15 percent into the junior class, Meyer said. 
Meyer and Joyce both said that standards for accepting transfer students have remained the same throughout recent years. Basic require­ments for transfer considera­tion at either institution include a minimum 3.0 GPA in previous college coursework. 
The increase in the number of transfers combined with a larger freshman class has cre­ated issues with the availabili­ty of on-campus housing at both schools. 
"Housing was tight this year, so we did encourage local students to live at home the first semester," Meyer said. "Normally this is not a major issue, but the size of the first-year class pushed things to the limit this year." 
Limited on-campus housing has historically been an issue with a way to "talk to each "It's been several years since transfers with opportunities to other about finding apart­[the school of architecture has) meet, such as a sub sandwich ments and roommates," Joyce had room to admit transfers," party in LaFortune Student said. she said. "!The school is) limit­Center, lakeside bonfire and 


Transfer students interested ed by the space Iavailable! in bus trip to the Warren Dunes. in thn University's business or Horne during tho third year." There arc also events planned arehitceture programs faced Despitn the unavoidable to inform students about cam­another chal-obstaeles pus life including the manda­lenge whnn transfers tory information fair and the considering "On-campus housing was l'aee, the transfer information panel Notrn Damn. especial~y limited for University where students can ask ques­Joyce said works to tions.
transfers this fall because 
due to provide stu­Transfer students at Saint enroll mont (~{the large first year class dents with a Mary's arc not provided with a limitations and a larger percent of smooth tran­specialized orientation, but t h 0 sition by are invited to participate in
seniors choosing to stay on
University offering a the first-year student summer stopped campus." special orientation program if they admitting transfer ori­are transferring in with less transfer stu-fmtation. than sophomore-level stand­
Susan Joyce 

dnnts into. Joyec said ing, Meynr said. 
associate director 

the Mendoza tho Notre "I think we need to consider 
Admissions

Collegn of Dame orien­a speeial transfer orientation Business in Notre Dame tation is session to bettor meet the the fall of organized unique needs of these stu­2005 and the and run by dents," he said. "!school on architecture has 20 current stud1mts. never admitted many transfer The orientation itinerary Contact Laura Baumgartner at students." includes activities that provide lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
103 IT Center Building http:/Ioit.nd.edu/store 574-631-7477 

It's not too late! 

But the clock is ticking. The start of classes is just around the corner. 
Be ready with accessories at educational prices from the Notre Dame Computer Store. 
Pick up software or an Ethernet cable in-store at 103 Information Technology Center. And be sure to check out our student prices for Microsoft Office ProfessionaL We're open[ 

Special Orientation Hours 
Saturday, August 19 9:00 am-12:00 Noon Sunday, August 20 1 :00 am-5:00 pm 

Computer problems? Our fully authorized war­ranty repair center is right next door. See us soon at the Notre Dame Computer Store for all your technology needs. 
ND Icon and computer store address info, but 
make sure to include web address this tirne as 
not rnentioned anywhere else. 
~ lJ NIVER S IT Y .0 F 
~NOTRE DAME 
Office of Information Technologies 
© 2006, University of Notre Dame 


for the 2006-2007 Academic Year 
From the Division of Student Affairs 
Ms. l~nn Firth Sr. Susan Dunn, O.P. 
Associate VP for Student Affairs Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 316. Main Building 631-2685 631-5550 
AL(;OHOL &DRIJG EDUtlffiON 
Ms. Annette Eaton, Interim Director 311 LaFortune Student Center 631-7970 

Mr. Lee Svete, Director 248 Flanner Hall 631-5200 

Rev. Mark L. Poorman, ~.S.~. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-7394 


Mr. lVilliam Kirk 
Associate VP for Residence Life 316 Main Building 631-6144 

Ms. Jennifer Monahan 
Executive Assistant to the Vice President 316 Main Building 631-5550 
Sr. ~Jean Lenz, O.S.E 
Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 
Dr. G. David Moss 

Assistant VP for Student Affairs 316 Main Building 631-5550 
CA}IPllS ~IINISTRY 
Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C., Director 316 Coleman-Morse Center 631-7800 


GENDER RELATIONS ~ENTER 
Ms. Heather Rakoczy, Director 217 LaFortune Student Center 631-9340 

MllLTmlJLTUR.~L STUDENT PROGRAMS &SERVmES 
Ms. Iris Outlaw, Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 631-6841 

SECURITY 
Mr. Rex Rakow, Director 204 Hammes-Mowbray Hall 631-5555 
UNIVERSITY COllNSELING CENTER 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Director University Counseling Center 631-7336 
llNIVERSITY IlEALTil SERVICES 
Ms. Ann E. Kleva, Director Student Health Center 631-7497 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Mr. Bong Miquiabas, Director 204 LaFortune Student Center 631-3825 

RESIDENCE LIFE &IIOUSING 
Mr. Jeffrey Shoup, Director 305 aMain Building 631-5878 

STUDENT .~CTIVITIES 
Mr. Brian Coughlin, Director 315 LaFortune Student Center 631-7308 

Hurricane Katrina ravages Gulf Coast. Jenkins inaugurated as University President. Trustees travel to Rome. 


By AMANDA MICHAELS and KELLY 
MEEHAN 
News Writers 
Hurricane Katrina slams into coast 
On Aug. 29, 2005, the most devastat­ing storm in recent memory ravaged the Gulf Coast and torn through tho lnv­ees protecting the city of New Orleans, killing thousands, leaving millions homeless and inflicting damages some total in the hundreds of billions of dol­lars. 
Its name was llurricane Katrina. 
As the country turned ·its attention and its aid to the areas al'f'eeted by Katrina, the membors of the extended Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family rushed to help not only its own, but all those stranded by the storm. 
The student governments and other student organizations from both schools made strides to help those hurt by Katrina, ineluding a large-seale University-sponsored stadium relief col­lection held during the Michigan State home football game Sept. 17. The pre­liminary total raised from that effort was over $240,000, with money still pouring in from smaller collections. 
A large portion of the funds went to Catholic Charities USA, the Congregation of Holy Cross in Louisiana and members of' the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) in the devas­tated areas. 
Twenty-five ACE instructors were in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama, with several more Saint Mary's and Notre Dame graduates working in a similar area with organizations like Teach for America. 
They stayed on even after many of their schools were closed to help rebuild, and to instruct refugees. 
At Notre Dame, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart held nine consecutive days of prayer, while the Center for Social Concerns organized Hurricane Katrina Response Day and an Academic Forum for Disaster Relief to both aid relief efforts and educate the communi­ty about the issue. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's alumni from around the country pooled their resources to aid in disaster relief, while many University and College students spent their winter and spring breaks in New Orleans and other affected areas helping with the rebuilding effort. 
Both institutions also went beyond donating money and supplies, as Saint Mary's took in several students whose colleges were closed by the storm. Notre Dame officials -including University President Father John Jenkins -went to New Orleans to view firsthand the destruction of Hurricane Katrina and meet with Archbishop Alfred Hughes and other community leaders. 


Jenkins is inaugurated 
On Sept. 23, 2005, University President Father John Jenkins was inaugurated as tho 17th president of Notro Dame. 
In his inaugural address at the Joyce Center, Jenkins spoke about the quest for knowledgn, tho unity bntweon faith and mason and the role of community and call to service. 
"With rospeet and gratitudn for all who mnbraced Notre Dame's mission in earlinr times, lot us rise up and ombrace tho mission for our time," Jenkins said in his inaugural addrnss. "This is our goal. Lot no one ever again say that we dreamod too small." 
Jnnkins said his goal was for Notre Dame to be the top Catholic university in the 21st century for research and learning. 
University President Emeriti Father Theodore llnsburgh and Father Edward Malloy blessed the incoming president after his address, and distin­guishnd guests inducted Indiana gover­nor Mitch Daniels, Provost Thomas Burish, Alumni Association President Timothy Brady, Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy, Faculty Senate chair Seth Brown and lloly Cross Provincial Superior David Tyson. 
A picnic and fireworks followed Jenkins' address on South Quad. 
Classes were cancelled for two days allowing students to partake in the inauguration events, including an aca­demic forum featuring Tom Brokaw as the moderator on Thursday afternoon and a Friday morning Mass. 
City passes housing ordinance amendment 
A city ordinance amendment passed over the summer of 2005 not only threatened the South Bond social scene, but also cost several students their apartments. 
Campus-wide opposition swirled as students questioned the passage of the Public Nuisance Ordinance that allowed the city of South Bend to send a notice to abate to both the tenants and the landlord after the first incidence of a noise violation. If neither the tenant nor residents respond and illegal activities continue, the tenant can be fined any­where from $250 to $2,500. If the land­lord, however, opts to evict the tenants within 30 days of notification, the civil lawsuit will be dropped. 
This threat led Turtle Creek Management to evict six students ­who were notified of their eviction upon returning from fall break -for a party thrown on the weekend of Sept. 9-10, where 100 minors were cited for underage drinking. 
In response to the evictions, then-stu­dent body president Dave Baron con­fronted the ordinance implications along with the Student Senate Community Helations committee by presenting a resolution to the South 
2005. 

Bend Community Council meeting Feb. 27. 
Council members said they would consider the propositions of amending the ordinance by sending a notice to abate after the second violation or allow landlords to pass their fines on to tenants to reduce the tendency to evict after only one violation. 
Council members said they were impressed with Baron's desire to coop­erato with them on meeting mutual goals and making community relations a priority at Notre Dame. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell and student body vice president Bill Andrichik have also verbally committed their administration to improving com­munity relations. 
SMC replaces two top administrators 
In January 2006, Saint Mary's College found itself having to replace two top administrators as Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm and Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White each individually announced they would vacate their position at the con­clusion of the semester. 
After serving as vice president of Student Affairs at the College for 11 years, Timm announced she would be leaving at the end of the academic year to begin her presidency at Mount Mary College in Milwaukee, Wise. 
"This is the next move in my life," Timm said in an interview Jan. 17. "In lots of ways, this will be a new begin­ning for me -a new beginning profes­sionally and a new beginning personal­ly." 
Like Timm, White will also leave his post as a Saint Mary's vice president to head another academic institution ­Wabash College. 
White -who had served Saint Mary's for 17 years -will begin his presidency at the nationally ranked men's college July 1. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney has named business and economics professor Jill Vihtelic as the interim vice president and dean of faculty until a permanent replacement is found -a position Mooney said VIhtelic might fill for the next two academic semesters. 
Mooney said she hopes to f:tll the vice president of Student Affairs position by the start of the 2006-07 school year, but has yet to release the names of any potential candidates. 
Jenkins speaks on academic freedom 
On Jan. 23 and 24, University President Father John Jenkins spoke to faculty members and students about the interaction of academic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. 
The address -almost the same for both groups -outlined Jenkins' con­cerns about the inconsistency of the University's sponsorship of certain events in light of Catholic teaching. Jenkins asked for continued dialogue 

Campus debates academic freedom and Catholic character. CLAP demands living wage. 'Monologues' not prohibited. 
e e






10 ev1ew 

•2006 
events in light of Catholic teaching. Jenkins asked for continued dialogue on the issue before a formal policy announcement. 
Jenkins said events sponsored by the University or one of its units -including academic departments -that are deemed to conflict or appear to conflict with Catholic values "should not be allowed at Notre Dame." 
Under specific scrutiny was the contro­versial and sexually explicit play "The Vagina Monologues," which had been performed on campus for five consecu­tive years as part of the anti-violence against women V-Day campaign. Though Jenkins praised the play for its goals, he criticized the "graphic" ways it attempt­ed to achieve them. 
"The Vagina Monologues" was held in an academic setting this year -per­formed in a classroom and followed up with a series of panels addressing the issue of sexuality -as part of an effort to address concerns like Jenkins'. 
The wave of response to Jenkins' speech -which he said was intended to open dialogue on the subject, and not be a fmal decision on anything -was mas­sive, flooding dorms, classrooms, publi­cations and student and faculty govern­ments. 
An e-mail account was opened for the opinionated to express their concerns to Jenkins, who promised to read every last letter. 
The most outspoken were the oppo­nents of Jenkins' statements, who fought any serious restrictions placed on what could and could not take place at Notre Dame. The student organization United for Free Speech was created primarily as a means to defend academic freedom on campus. Many, though, supported Jenkins, including South Bend-Fort Wayne Bishop John D'Arcy. 
For more than two months, the cam­pus was embroiled in an often-circular debate, awaiting Jenkins' fmal decision. 
'Monologues' not prohibited 
Ten weeks after his opening address on academic freedom and Catholic char­acter, University President Father John Jenkins released a statement on April 5 detailing his decision after listening to arguments from both sides of the debate. 
Jenkins emphasized the importance of balancing Notre Dame's Catholic values and its presence as an internationally recognized academic institution. 
"The Vagina Monologues" -the con­troversial play at the heart of the discus­sion-would not be prohibited on cam­pus, Jenkins said, but like any other per­formance, would undergo approval every year. He also praised the play's new academic setting as appropriate and suggested it could serve as a model for other such performances. 
To further advance the goal of elimi­nating violence against women, Jenkins said he supports both the future produc­tion of a play written by student organiz­ers of the "Monologues" entitled "Loyal Daughters" and the formation of an ad hoc University committee to address gender relations and sexual violence composed of administrators, faculty and students, with Jenkins as chair. 
Jenkins also said academic depart­ments are "best situated to decide what events should or should not be spon­sored" and have the responsibility to make clear that their sponsorship of an event does not imply endorsement -a large point of contention during the aca­demic freedom debate. Jenkins' decision gave department chairs and College deans a large amount of responsibility in handling contentious issues, while set­ting up a process for dealing with any problems that go beyond the bounds of the department. 
Many faculty members and students expressed their satisfaction with Jenkins' conclusion, though the most enthusiasm came from approval of the University president's open dialogue throughout the decision-making process. 
Several loud dissenters disapproved of the decision, however, including law pro­fessor emeritus Charles Rice -who called for Jenkins' resignation -several faculty members and Holy Cross priests and South Bend-Fort Wayne Bishop John D'Arcy. Jenkins acknowledged the opposition, saying the University benefits from a strong, two-sided debate. 
Trustees convene in Rome 

For the first time, Notre Dame's Board of Trustees convened in Rome for its annual winter meetings on Jan. 31 and Feb. 1, meeting with key Vatican lead­ers. participating in an academic confer­ence and conferring two honorary degrees in the process. 
The trip was touted both as an oppor­tunity to renew ties with the Vatican and as an avenue to improve understanding of how the University can better serve the Church. 
A meeting in Rome had been on the Board of Trustee's agenda for several years. and University President Father John Jenkins' first year in office was deemed an appropriate time by mem­bers. 
Trustees met with numerous Vatican officials, including representatives of the Congregation for Catholic Education, the Pontifical Council for Social Communications, the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace and the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith and the Secretariat of State. 
Jenkins and other members of the Notre Dame delegation were also per­sonally greeted by Pope Benedict XVI after his public audience Feb. 1. 
The conference the group attended, "Contribution of Catholic Universities to the Church and Culture," featured addresses by Jenkins, Rino Fisichella, auxiliary bishop of Home and rector of St. John (Pontifical) Lateran University and Notre Dame Trustee Daniel Jenky, bishop of Peoria, Ill. 
Honorary degrees were presented to Fisichella and L. Frances Rooney III, U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See. 
The event marked Jenkins' first major trip as University president and a new era in Notre Dame-Vatican relations. 
Campus Labor Action Project mobi­lizes 
This year, a new social action group made itself known at Notre Dame -the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP). Formed by students in the fall of 2005, CLAP welcomed workers, students, fac­ulty~ alumni and others to join their effort to secure a "living wage" for cam­pus workers. 
The living wage -a movement insti­tuted into policy at institutions nation­wide, including Harvard University and Georgetown University -is the hourly rate of income that a worker in a specif­ic area must make in a 40-hour work­week to support a family of four. To establish a living wage at Notre Dame, CLAP suggested a minimum $12.10 per hour wage, or $25,164 a year, for University employees. 
On March 8, members of CLAP passed out copies of their 11-page report on the living wage and its potential implemen­tation at Notre Dame to several University officials, including University President Father John Jenkins, Provost Tom Burish, Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves and Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
In the report, CLAP outlined three goals, which included meeting with Jenkins, Jenkins making a public com­mitment to the principle of living wage and creating a joint task force of stu­dents, workers, faculty and administra­tors to address worker issues and come up with a just policy. 
CLAP supported its cause with several petitions and was backed by Notre Dame's student government, arguing its efforts were part of Catholic social teaching. Affieck-Graves issued a state­ment April 19 responding to CLAP's report. maintaining the University already provides a "fair and just wage" for its employees by including benefits on top of their base salary. 
CLAP responded with a rally and final­ly a sit-in in Jenkins' office on May 2, still demanding the joint task force out­lined in its earlier report. Jenkins issued a statement that day saying he entrusted the matter to Affleck-Graves, and the University was committed to paying just wages and benefits to its workers. 
As the semester ended, members of CLAP were left unsatisfied. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu and Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Freshmen welcomed to campus during Frosh-0 
Dorm commissioners tailor activities for new class, encourage early discussion ofgender relations, alcohol use 
dorm." staffs. 
By STEVE KERINS 

Gender relations were of "Thoy will givo l'nodbaek News Writer 
particular importance for and guidanen to the Frosh-0 Prosh-0 plannflrs. Some past staffs rngarding opportunities While the majority of activi-Frosh-0 events received for balanced programming," 
. ties planned for this week­attention from students and· Hakoczy said. end's Freshman Orientation administrators after com­Problems have arison in tho are similar to those of previ­plaints about past when ous years, members of the awkward sin-that balance Notre Dame community will gle-and was missing notice a few key differences mixed-gender and when the
"We've tried to do
emphasized in this year's pro­activities. focus of the grams. Fishflr roe­activities that activities be­Although the University has tor Father didn't encourage ... carne meeting made no significant changes Hobflrt Moss mombors of
coupling, things that you 
to the program, the orienta­said although t.ho opposite
could enjoy whether 
tion staffs in the residence the hall has snx, shn said. 
halls have worked to tailor not planned you're male or female. " "I think a 
their activities to meet the any significant worst-caso 
needs of incoming students, dPparturfls sePnario
Marissa Buck 
said Peggy Hnatusko, associ­from the tra­would be a 
Frosh-0 commisloner 
ate director of student activi­ditional Frosh-first-year stu­ties. 0 structure, a dent who 
"Some halls may be consid­eomponont on l'ools discon­ering planning activities that gender rela-nnetod from mirror popular culture from tions is always included. tho Notro Damn community this summer," Hnatusko said, "Thoro's a regular [gender following [Frosh-0 [." Hakoczy referring to an relations[ pro­said. "Hather, I think wn activity mod­gram for all should providl) diverso oppor­eled after the the halls to tunitios to l:orHHH:t so that our
"/ think we should be 
game show involved in," new students might l'nol at
provide diverse 
"America's Got Moss said. home." Talent." opportunities to Gender Hela­Thn GHC has dnsigned a Junior Mar­tions Center program for this ynar's orien­
connect so that our 
issa Buck, a (GHC) Director tation wrwkend called 
new students might 
Cavanaugh Hall Heather Ba­"College liAS Issues: Frosh-0 com­feel at home. " koczy expeets Hookups, Aleohol and Sexual missioner, said positive chan­Assault." It will be ineluded in her orientation ges in this the mandatory orientation for
Heather Rakoczy 
staff made year's orienta­all f'reshmen on Sunday,
director

some slight tion program. Hakoczy said. changes to last Gender Relations Center A team of stu-Within some rnsidnnce year's schedule dents under halls, certain activities have when making plans fo·r the the direction of Ilnatusko and also bonn rostruetured to class of 2010. the Student Activities Office address gender relations eriti­
"We're trying to do a lot has formed the Student cisrn. more in-dorm activititJs," Campus Orientation Committ­"We were asked to encour­Buck said. "We changed one ee, now in its fourth year, to age mingling with the oppo­activity that had been with serve as consultants to the site sex, but not to have it be another dorm to just our residence hall orientation polarized," Buck said. "We've 

This word is way overpriced. 
;\n v:.'htr.n thvv :1 r~r ~ 'tp:r-·~ ··.·i=: -:: 
tliJH j.f\:, It%-'"· ck•Uhthti-· -,,., Jt :Shartttl.f)g., but that rn y, ', ··<>-,,_,,, .· . 
I, The tntwe ~~Mnou& ntatNa N 1:h,, >,,,,_.,. 
)f1&l control tlf China by nwaT\.'1 ,f 
l difficuld!:'$, panty owmg t(1 thw wAr: hv 
:J by Japan, partly owing tn the wtthtwlld: 
e British Inspector-General ofCt:W\I<,Irfi'l 
mys: 

his country (China] could be ten­the Government provided with a stroke ofthe fi)reigner's pen, while t be bankruptcy pure and simple. political chaoo, the Customs Rev­\ast year exceeded all records by h':$ sanctioned by the Washington nt revenue to liquidate the whole bt in \I vwry few years, leaving the kw the Government, The w btM rv find a Government to 
tried to do activities that did­n't encourage ... coupling, things that you could enjoy whether you're male or fnmaln." 
But gender relations aren't thn only concern for orienta­tion leaders. 
Last spring, the Campus Life Council passed a rnsolution encouraging Frosh -0 leaders to insert cautionary material about third-party Web sites in the booklets they distribute to incoming freshmen. But llnatusko said thoro has been little talk among Frosh-0 leaders and Student Aetivities 
about the issues regarding sites like Faeebook.com and MySpace.com. 
"There was no diseussion (between the Student Activities Office and the Frosh-0 Commissioners! on privacy issues relating to social networking sites," Hnatusko said. "Although per­sonal privacy and the public nature of such sites is very important to consider when placing any personal informa­tion on the Web." 
DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer Juniors Patrick Coleman, left, and Ben Solomon, center, help freshman Daniel Salas check in at Keough Hall Thursday. 
l 
1 
Saturday, August 19, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


FreshiDen 
continued from page 1 
the largest pool of applicants the University has ever received. 
The Office of Admissions received an unprecedented 12,800 applications this year -and just 3,490 students were admitted to the University. 

"We're gender 
What makes know that Notre this class unique blind in Dame is the per­is the staggering fect place for
admissions." 
number of stu­them." dents who chose Saracino said Notre Dame once Daniel Saracino the University is they were accept­assistant provost for "extremely ed, Saracino said. enrollment proud" of the 
Fifty-eight per­cent of admitted students decided to enroll, the highest yield the University has ever experienced. 
Saracino said more students are choosing Notre Dame because the University is com­mitted to meeting the financial needs of admitted students. 
"Notre Dame for the last 10 years has been meeting 100 percent of full demonstrated [financial] need of every single student. ... That says to every single student, 'If we admit you we will make it possible for you to come,' and that makes the students who want to come actually enroll," Saracino said. 
"Another thing that has con­tributed to the increased yield, the University is doing a great job in helping students who have been admitted realize what is available here,-" he said, noting the University's effort to help admitted stu­dents get in touch with cur­rent students. 
"Our goal is to not lose one student because of unan­swered questions," Saracino said. "We make sure that they 
diversity in the 
freshman class. 

"If we're educating the lead­ers of tomorrow and we don't have a significant representa­tion of ethnically underrepre­sented students, than we're not doing it," Saracino said. 
The class' gender break­down bucks the national trend, Saracino said. The class is 53 percent male and 47 per­cent female, which reflects Notre Dame's applicant pool. 
"We're gender blind in admissions," Saracino said. Other notable facts about the class of 2010: 
+ 
85 percent are Catholic. 

+ 
24 percent are children of alumni (the highest of any uni­versity in the country, 


CLASS 
OF 
2 
0 
1 
0 

Saracino said). 
+ 
92 percent did community service in high school. 

+ 
53 percent were involved in the performing arts in high school. 

+ 
37 percent were involved in student government. 

+ 
13 percent were editors of high school publications. 

+ 
7 percent were senior class or student body presi­dents. 

+ 
8 percent are first-gener­


ation college students. 
+ 5 percent are Eagle Scouts. 
"We're trying to create a class that is the most talented -intellectually and in terms of character and values.... They will add much to the University and it will be an exciting year at Notre Dame," Saracino said. "You'll be walk­ing across campus and hear­ing Spanish spoken more than you ever have before." 
Last year's freshmen stepped onto campus as 
University President Father John Jenkins began his first year at the helm of the University and head football coach Charlie Weis became the new face of Notre Dame football. 
"It's tough to top that," Saracino said. "Perhaps what these freshmen have to look forward to is a national cham­pionship in football." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Transition 
continued from page 1 .. 
"take some getting used to." 
The sense of being a little fish swimming in a big pond is com­mon among incoming fresh­men, said Susan Steibe­Pasalich, director of the University Counseling Center. Students tend to compare their freshman year in college with their senior year in high school, which is useless, she said. 
"Again and again you're going to be a freshman, whether it's in a new relation­ship, or at a new job ... you're going to be on the bottom rung," she said. "Transition is just something that takes time." 
Academics are the main con­cern for freshman Michael Carilli, who said his high school was "not exactly big on aca­demics." 
''I'm really worried I'm going to flunk out the first semester," he said when asked about the upcoming transition. 
First Year of Studies Assistant 
Dean Kenneth DeBoer had more hope. 
"All Notre Dame kids are smart, but some relied on rote learning and memorization in high school," he said. "The courses in college are more challenging and require a dif­ferent set of skills ... In time, the students find they have these skills." 
FYS advisors like DeBoer pro­vide an outlet for freshmen con­cerns and point them in the right direction. The advisors meet with students during the first week on a walk-in basis and in September for introduc­tory meetings. Upperclassmen peer advisors also meet with freshmen during September and October. 
"In our sessions, we try to make the students feel comfort­able," DeBoer said. "We find out what they want to do and we help them do it." 
Both Twardzik and Carilli were concerned about separat­ing from their families, espe­cially the latter who is leaving four siblings behind. 
"Any homesickness or nerv­ousness is counteracted by members and two rectors spoke their excitement to be walking to resident assistants about the the quad or visiting the Grotto," move from high school to col­he said. lege. "Differences" was a major 
Karen Dillon graduated from topic in the discussion. Notre Dame in 1983 and is Steibe-Pasalich said that, for sending her eldest daughter new roommates, the differences Elizabeth to her alma mater. could range from income She said she is confident that bracket to drinking habits to Elizabeth's transi-religious beliefs. tion will go Such differences smoothly. can lead to a
''I'm really worried 
"I know there's sense of not fitting 
I'm going to flunk
a lot of support in, she said. there," she said. out the first "We suggest "There are close first year students
semester." 
relationships in get to know each the dorm; the RA's other," she said. 
Michael Carilli 
are available and "What looks like a keep an eye on freshman problem might the kids in the not be a prob-sections. The rec-lem." tors ... I know when I was DeBoer said that problems there, our rector made sure she often arise between roommates. knew each student in the He recalled a summer program dorm." on campus for 75 freshmen and 
Students may also have diffi­their parents when a lecturer culty adjusting to their new posed a question to the audi­"family," or more specifically, ence: how many had ever their roommates. shared a room? 
Steibe-Pasalich said a 2003 Not one hand went up. panel comprised of FYS advi­"It's a challenge," DeBoer sors, Counseling Center staff said, "but it's a good chal­lenge." 
Parents, too, must acclimate themselves to their new family, sans one member. 
"It will definitely be different around the house without [Elizabeth]," Dillon said. "[My younger daughterJ Bridget is concerned that she will get far too much attention from her parents." 
Students often cite weather differences as a transition issue. However, Carilli, a New Mexico resident, had already purchased a winter jacket to prepare for Midwestern win­ters. 
"Apparently the area around Notre Dame is fit for human habitation," he said. "So, I think it's going to be okay." 
Ultimately, most students adjust to the college lifestyle, DeBoer said. 
"By April, they are more con­fident as students," he said. "They have picked up the tools they need to be successful." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
Shannon and her staff led 23 Air Force ROTC freshmen in the New Student Orientation -a 40 percent increase iJ:, participation from last year, she said. 
Michele Laning, a freshman from Valparaiso {Tniversity, said the prospect of job experience in college and the appeal of tuition assistance drew her to join Notre Dame's Air Force ROTC program. She said although the 6 a.m. wake up time was the earliest she 
has gotten up all s  nmer, she has  
had a very positi  e experience  
this week.  

For Saint Mary':. freshman Air Force ROTC cadet Elizabeth Mitchell, ROTC is a family tradi­tion. 
"My dad participated in Navy ROTC when he was a student at Notre Dame," Mitchell said. "It's been great meeting all of the other cadets in my class and the upperclassmen this week. 
"We've done so many different things -from learning how to march, salute, the Air Force song, and wear our uniforms, to taking the Air Force Officer Qualifying Test and participating in social activities. It's been challenging, but fun." 
New Navy ROTC midshipmen began their orientation Aug. 13 and marked the end with a fun run on campus Friday morning, said Lieutenant Greg Keigher, coordinator of the New Student Orientation. 
"Orientation week provides a crash course on military eti­quette, uniforms, policies and how to function as a military unit," Keigher said. 'The NROTC staff really emphasizes team­work, camaraderie and Navy tra­dition." 
Keigher said the goal during New Student Orientation is to prepare the new midshipmen to function as "knowledgeable members of the NROTC battal­ion." 
"Upon graduation, all of these midshipmen will become military oflicers, and many will be leading sailors and marines into battle ;J.gainst thf\ 'Nar on terror," Keigher said. 
Similar to the Air Force ROTC New Student Orientation, an early wake up call is a hallmark of the Navy's New Student Orientation. 
"A day during 0 week is pretty 
. long," Keigher said. "It starts around 6:15a.m. and doesn't end until10 p.m." The sun hadn't even peeked over Saint Mary's Lake Thursday morning when the new Navy ROTC midshipmen gathered on Carroll Field in their blue and white gym uniforms just before 
6:30 a.m. Shouting words of encouragement to each other, the new midshipmen took a mock Physical Readiness Test that included a sit-and-reach, timed sit-up and push-up tests and a timed one-and-a-half mile run. They will take the oflicial PRT in October, battalion commanding oflicer Erin Smith said. 
"0 week sets the tone for disci­pline :wrl professionalism and instills an understanding of the military chain of command for the rest of the year," Smith said. "The Navy requires attention to detail and the concept of working as a team, so we try to instill this as much as possible throughout the week." 
Smith recalled the feeling of accomplishment that came with her own completion of the New Student Orientation when she was a freshman. 
"The entire week is very chal­lenging and you spend some time questioning why you're putting yourself through it, but in the end you realize that there is a pur­pose behind everything and that you have just pushed yourself to new levels and made it through," Smith said. 
Four sophomores and four jun­iors joined 15 new freshmen in the New Student Orientation, cadet battalion Commander Eileen Kamykowski said. 
"'In a typical day, the new stu­dents woke up at 5:15 a.m. for Physical Training and spent the remainder of the day getting acquainted with everything from weapons, ranger tactics and urban warfare to repelling and putting on camouflage paint," Kamykowski said. 
Senior cadet Matthew Donnelly remembered what the orientation was like for him his freshman year. 
"It was a really good experi­ence for those of us who had little or no experience with the mili­tary," Donnelly said. 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 

' 





*
I 

y 

I 


R 


• 
*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News, Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics, Ads & Bttsiness to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily. 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 11 




College 
continued from page 1 
average GPA of 3.7 -the highest average GPA since the entering class of 1996. Fourteen percent of freshmen ranked in the top 10 percent of their high school graduating classes. 
Last fall, 1,180 applications were submitted, marking the second highest 
1993, Director of Admission Mona Bowe said. 
Bowe said the diversity of the class is mostly due to the increased participation of cur­rent students in recruitment efforts. 
Meyer said the College has recently altered recruitment efforts by intensifying its focus on 10 percent of an inquiry pool of 25.000 high school seniors considered most likely to apply to Saint Mary's. 
The College 

total in the past focused its travel
"Growth is 
1 7 years. Of the on targeted high 944 admitted something the schools, Bowe applicants, 426 College can said, and admis­have registered sions counselors
reasonably
for the 2006-07 and current stu­school year. handle.'' dents spent much 
Vice President more time on fol­for Enrollment low-up with
Dan Meyer 
Management Dan prospective stu­
vice president 
Meyer said the dents. 
Enrollment
school received "The more cur­applications from Management rent students are 44 states and 13 involved, the countries and more we can was pleased to see an increase maintain a positive quality. in applications from Arizona, This is a college-wide effort," Colorado and the Chicago Bowe said. area. Meyer and Bowe maintained 
While 26 percent of incom­a positive outlook about the ing freshmen are either College's increasing enroll­daughters or granddaughters ment, but said if enrollment of a Saint Mary's alumna, a continues to rise, the College record 10 percent of the class might have to place caps on belongs to minority groups -the nursing or education pro­a number that has not been grams to maintain their quali­seen at Saint Mary's since ty. 

Stops on the tour include the East Race Waterway, the
Tour 
Century Center and the College Football Hall of Fame.
continued from page 1 
At the end of the tour, stu­mayor's office, said the city dents will mingle with believes it is important to Luecke, representatives from make students feel welcome the city council and Notre 
in  South  Bend  Dame  student  
and give them information early on about cultural and entertainment attractions.  "There's actually a lot to do in South Bend that most people don't  body president Lizzi Shappell. Lunch will be provided for all participants by popular local  
"We've inter­faced with Notre  realize."  pizzerias. The idea  to  
Dame  on  so  introduce Notre  
many different  Josh Pasquesi  Dame students to  
levels," Dobski  senior  South Bend as  a  
said. "Now what  component of the  
our project is is  Frosh-0 weekend  

to really focus on the students grew out of the Community themselves." Relations Committee (CRC) 
Monday at noon, students created by former student will board Transpo buses for body president Dave Baron. the approximately hour and a Senior Josh Pasquesi, chair­half tour of the city. Local man of the committee, has volunteers will talk about been involved in organizing their experience living in the the tour. His goal is to give city and highlight what makes students a positive first South Bend unique. impression of South Bend. 
The college's ultimate total enrollment goal is "around 1,700," Meyer said. 
Although the incoming class has brought the College's enrollment to just over 1,500, residence halls are not at capacity. Two floors in Regina and McCandless Halls remain vacant. 
"Growth is something the College can reasonably han­
die," Meyer said. 
Additional sections have already been added to classes to accommodate the larger number of freshman students, and administrators anticipate adding more in the future. 
Saint Mary's also received 198 transfer student applica­tions, 50 of whom arrive on campus this weekend. 
Bowe said students are 
"If people have the idea pant a free iPod and several that there are trashy townies restaurants will give out gift out there, it's not going to be certificates. a good relationship to start Pasquesi aims for approxi­with," Pasquesi said. mately 200 participants for 
Pasquesi, who worked in the first of what he hopes will the mayor's office this sum-be an annual event. 
mer as a commu­ Pasquesi  and  
nications  and  the  mayor's  
special projects intern, said the  "We just see this as  office are mistic the  opti­tour  
tour  should  a real positive step  will  result  in  
enlighten stu­dents who are not aware of all that South Bend  towards continuing the great relationship  improved town­gown relations, especially in light of the con­ 
has to offer. "There's actu­ally a lot to do in South Bend that  [between Notre Dame and South Bend]."  troversial amendment to the disorderly house ordinance  
most  people  passed last sum­ 
don't realize," said Pasquesi, pointing out that  Mikki Dobski mayor's office  mer by the South Bend Common Council, which  
South  Bend  is  allows the city to  
the home of the  send residents  a  

Silverhawks, the Olympic tri­notice to abate after just one als for kayaking and theater. noise violation. 
To encourage freshmen to The CRC plans to work to sign up for the tour at increase the mutual involve­DomerFest on Saturday, ment of Notre Dame in South Transpo will give one partici-Bend and Notre Dame, attracted to Saint Mary's for a multitude of reasons, but both Bowe and Meyer agreed the College's high academic stan­dards, strong faculty, talented athletic teams and opportuni­ties for leadership are the fac­tors that ultimately lure stu­dents to Saint Mary's. 
Contact Kim Abeel at kaheelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Pasquesi said. 
Upcoming plans include a discussion between communi­ty and University leaders and information fair for off-cam­pus students. 
Dobski said there are advantages to living in South Bend and she hopes the tour will make incoming students aware of the opportunities the city offers. 
"Obviously students have discovered the bars and we want to be able to, especially with the freshmen, to show all of these other aspects," Dobski said. 
She hopes freshmen will use the information they get on the tour and take advantage of South Bend's attractions. 
"We just see this as a real positive step towards continu­ing the great relationship [between Notre Dame and South Bend]." Dobski said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kciely@nd.edu 


Incoming freshmen participate in academic code tutorial 
Special to the Observer Is it cheating to find home­work answers online, or in the back of a textbook, and make corrections before handing in the assignment? What if a student turns in a science experiment or a term paper that he or she did for another class? Is it cheating to recycle old work? When is it okay to use infor­mation from the Internet? Or from your roommate, for that matter? Incoming undergraduates have been pondering such ques­tions this summer as part of an electronic tutorial that exposes them to Notre Dame's recently revised Academic Code of Honor. Students must success­fully complete the multiple­choice tutorial before they can sign the University's honor code pledge, a precursor to enrolling. 
"We needed to do something more to make students familiar with the honor code," said Thomas Flint, a philosophy pro­fessor and Faculty Honor Code officer. Along with associate provost Dennis Jacobs, he directed the creation of the tutorial with assistance from several faculty and student members of last year's University Code of Honor Committee. The tutorial's tran­sition to an online exercise was the work of Chris Clark of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 
The new Web-based program takes first year, transfer and returning students through a series of case studies in four areas where honesty issues fre­quently arise: acceptable collab­oration with other students, fal­sifying data, test taking, and plagiarism. Throughout the summer, incoming students quickly took to the challenge, with 85 percent succeeding on their first attempt. 
The case studies are fictional but reflect classic honesty dilemmas, if not a flair for plot and character development. They feature such instructors as Professor Chirac, a French teacher; the "legendary" anthropology teacher Michigan Smith; a forestry instructor named Pine; and an ROTC instructor (teaching Aerial Warfare) named Professor Weis. (A key requirement of the honor code is that students reveal when they have worked with others. Thus. Flint credits com­mittee colleagues with some of the punchier content. Dottie Pratt conceived Michigan Smith and Sam Gaglio's subcommittee invented the forester Professor Pine.) 
Sometimes the fictional stu­dents in the case studies face a situation that is complexly nuanced. Often, however, they just didn't leave enough time to complete their work. 
Time, says Flint, is a big fac­tor in honesty cases. 
"Students have made it clear that decisions to cheat are often made when they feel they don't have enough time to do their own work honestly," he said. "Sometimes the students proba­bly are just too busy to get everything done. Often, of course, they've simply put things off, are starting to write a paper the night before it's due, and succumb to the temptation to cut-and-paste from the Internet." 
Good moral judgment alone is probably not enough to help a student succeed on the tutorial; they need to have read the code. 
That's deliberate, Flint said. 
"We do want our new stu­dents to be thinking about the importance of academic integri­ty in general, but we also want them to be familiar with how those general principles are applied here at Notre Dame," he said. 
Two incoming freshmen who succeeded on their first try and who carefully read the student guide to the honor code before completing the exercise say it opened their eyes to the honesty issue. 
"It really made me think about the different areas of cheating and how things that we don't normally consider to be cheating really are," said Laura Verwilst of South Bend. "I used to think of cheating as simply looking off someone else's test or having a cheat sheet." 


p Pick-up vaur Ticket APPiicatian 
ND On~Campus Undergrads (except Freshmen) ............... In your mailbox ND First Year Students ......................................................... August 20, 6:00pm, Joyce Center ND Off~Campus Undergrads ................................................ August 21, 10:00 am-3:00pm, Notre Dame 
Stadium Gate Cat Off~Campus Safety Fair ND Law/MBA/Grad Students ............................................. From your College Saint Mary's Students............................................................ From Saint Mary's College 
Obtain vour lonerv number on londav, August 21, 
9:00 am -5:00 pm, Notre Dame Stadium Gate B 
Lottery numbers will be distributed by class. Each student may bring up to TEN applications. In order to purchase tickets seated together, you MUST obtain consecutive lottery numbers 



for each application in the group. 
Magic Number Drawing on londav, August21, 
1:00 pm, Alumni Field lien's Soccer vs. St. FrancisJ 
Magic Number will be drawn and announced at halftime of the game. Email announcements will be made following Magic Number drawing, and can be found at http://sao.nd.edu after 10:00 pm. 
A separate Magic Number will be drawn for Law/MBA/Grad students. 

pPurchase vaur seasan tickets 
If your lottery number is within __ (see below) of the Magic Number, ticket sales will proceed as follows:
at the Stadium Box OHice 
Students will be seated by class. Your lottery number 400 Start time 
determines the Ticket Distribution order for each class 
400-800 20 Minutes past Start time 
(right). To purchase tickets, bring Ticket Applications and 
800-1200 40 Minutes past Start time 
I. D. cards, along with payment. Cash or check only. 
1200·1600 60 Minutes past Start time 
Checks should be made payable to "University of Notre 
1600-2000 90 Minutes past Start time 
Dame", and include your local or cell phone number, name and address. A maximum of 10 Applications and 
If you have no seating preference
I. D. cards, including your own, may be presented by or no lottery number, show up 2 hours 
each student to purchase tickets. 
past Start time. 
I

MONDAY ' TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
I I 
9:00am-5:00pm 7:00am-12:00 pm 7:00am -12:00 pm 7:00am-12:00 pm Lottery numbers SENIORS purchase tickets LAW /MBA/GRAD students FRESHMEN purchase distributed at Notre Dame at Notre Dame Stadium purchase tickets at Notre tickets at Notre Dame Stadium Gate B. Box Office. Dame Stadium Box Office. Stadium Box Office. 
7:00pm 1 :00 pm -5:00 pm 1:00pm-5:00pm Magic Number drawn at JUNIORS purchase tickets SOPHOMORES purchase halftime of the Men's at Notre Dame Stadium tickets at Notre Dame Soccer game. Email Box Office. Stadium Box Office. announcements will follow. 

College continues linkage progralll vvith Class of 2010 
Saint Mary's collaborates with Holy Cross College to grant acceptance to students with academic potential 
By LISA GALLAGHER  College as long as they partici­pate in the linkage program  ing" from the program. And while the graduation  and Holy Cross to be challeng­ing.  number is due to the fact that the students who are offered  
News Writer  for their first academic year,  rate of Saint Mary's students  "[This] is an opportunity for  participation in the program  
which  they  will  complete  who participate in the pro­ students to strengthen their  must decide whether to accept  
For nearly 20 years, Holy  largely at Holly Cross.  gram is slightly lower than  academic backgrounds," Ford  the invitation or go to  a  col­ 
Cross and Saint Mary's have  These participants live  on  traditional students, Meyer  said.  lege  or  university that may  
taken  advantage  of  their  the Saint Mary's  said the gradua­ Senior Amanda Shropshire,  have already accepted the stu­ 
neighboring locations by col­ campus  while  tion rate of those  a former participant, said she  dent  on  a  full-time  basis,  
laborating on a little-known academic program for fresh­men. The Saint Mary's/Holy Cross  taking four class­es at Holy Cross and one at Saint Mary's each  "I always wanted to go to Saint Mary's, and now  students is still higher than if the linkage program was not offered  thinks the linkage program is a good idea as students are able to complete their core electives.  Meyer said. "When we admit [students] to the program, we see that as a positive," Meyer said. "[The  
linkage program has granted between 30 and 50 incoming freshmen acceptance into  semester. If at the end of the academic  that I'm finally here, I love it."  at all. "The program is great if you  "It's good I took them at Holy Cross, when I probably would have had trouble with  program] is also positive in that it does allow a student to prove herself."  
Saint Mary's on a conditional  year the linkage  really want to go  them at Saint Mary's," she  But for students who would  
basis. The program is a way for the admissions committee to  program student maintains a cumulative GPA  Meghan Corcoran sophomore  to Saint Mary's," said sophomore Meghan  said. She said the program "pre­pared me for the workload  rather not drive to and from classes, juggle advisors from both Saint Mary's and Holy  
offer prospective students who  of  3.0,  she  is  Corcoran,  a  for­ that Saint Mary's has."  Cross and take courses located  
may not have strong academic  accepted  as  a  mer linkage pro­ While the program has gar­ on two campuses, the linkage  
backgrounds  a  chance  to  full-time sophomore at Saint  gram participant who led an  nered praise from participat­ program may not be right for  
attend Saint Mary's, said Dan  Mary's.  But if she does not  orientation for incoming pro­ ing students and involved fac­ everyone.  
Meyer, Saint Mary's vice presi­ meet this criteria, she may  gram participants.  ulty members, usually only an  "I think it was beneficial to  
dent for enrollment manage­ either apply to be admitted as  Cara Ford, assistant director  average of 10 of those accept­ me," Corcoran said.  "I always  
ment.  a  transfer student at Holy  of first year studies and head  ed into the program actually  wanted to go to Saint Mary's,  
After reviewing applications,  Cross  or  apply  to  another  of  the  linkage  program,  participate each year.  and now that I'm finally here,  
the  admissions  committee  institution altogether.  worked with Corcoran on the  This year, however, only  I love it."  
identifies students they think show academic promise and offer them acceptance to the  Meyer said he has generally found that students do well academically after "graduat­ orientation. She said that stu­dents have generally found the classes at both Saint Mary's  nine women chose to partici­pate in the program. The smaller-than-usual  Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO1@saintmarys.edu  

WAKE UP THE ECHOES 

Junior trombone player Matt Collins held his chin and his instrument high as the Notre Dame Marching Band kicked off its 161st year with a campus marchout Thursday morning. 

Join us at our Back To School Event! 
Comcast is proud to be the provider of cable television and enhanced video products for the University of Notre Dame. To get more information on optional products and services that will compliment the service already provided in all undergraduate residence halls, visit us during the Fall Mall at Stepan Center. 
• Comcast Digital Cable with ON DEMAND VISit Comcast during Fall Mall • High-Definition Television Service atStepan Center . • Digital Video Recorder Service 
• Digital Music Channels 
-r Thursday, August 17th 
• International Premium Channels 12:00 p.m. to 7:00p.m. 
• Selecto Completo Hispanic Tier 
• 
Friday, August 18th 



• Sports Packages on Pay-Per-View10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
• 
Saturday, August 19th 

10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
• 
Sunday, August 20th ~omcast~ 

12:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
• 

www.comcast.com/notredame 


Notre Dame ranked highly in new surveys 
Special to The Observer 
Two new surveys have rated Notre Dame among the leading universities in the nation. 
The 2007 "How to Get into College Guide" published by Kaplan/Newsweek cites Notre Dame among the 25 "new Ivies" in higher education, and Washington Monthly magazine ranked Notre Dame 13th in its survey of national universities. 
The Kaplan/Newsweek list of "new Ivies" recognizes universi­ties whose "first-rate academic programs, combined with a population boom in top stu­dents, have fueled their rise in stature and favor among the nation's top students, adminis­trators and faculty -edging them to a competitive status rivaling the Ivy League." The selections were based on admissions statistics and inter­views with administrators, stu­dents, faculty and alumni. 
Among the other "new Ivies" are Emory, New York, Rice, Vanderbilt and Washington Universities, UCLA and the Universities of Michigan, North Carolina and Virginia. 
The Kaplan/Newsweek "How to Get into College Guide," which is available on news stands Aug. 21, also contains articles on the admissions process, financial aid, and stan­dardized tests. The rankings are available online at http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id!l 4325172/. 
The second annual Washington Monthly College Rankings rate universities on three primary criteria: perform­ance as engines of social mobil­ity ("ideally helping the poor get rich rather than the very rich to get very, very rich"), scientific and humanistic research, and an ethic of service to country. Among the specific areas of evaluation are total research spending, the number of doc­toral degrees granted in science and engineering, the number of students in ROTC and the Peace Corps, and the percentage of and support for Pel! Grant recipients. 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology ranked No. 1, fol­lowed by the University of California, Berkeley; Penn State University; UCLA; Texas A&M; University of California, San Diego; Stanford University; Cornell University; South Carolina State University; and the University of California, Davis. 


Hesburgh documentary to air 
Program features interviews with Condoleezza Rice, Ara Parseghian 
Special to The Observer 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh is the subject of a new documentary television program to be aired Wednesday at 8 p.m. on WNIT. 
The program, "God, Country, Notre Dame: The Story of Father Ted Hesburgh, C.S.C.," concerns Hesburgh's priestly ministry, his career in higher educa­tion, and his role as a public servant. It includes inter­views with several of Hesburgh's colleagues and friends, including all of the living former U.S. presidents; Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, a Notre Dame alumna and former University trustee; former Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian; and Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, former archbish­op of Washington, D.C. It is narrated by Notre Dame alumnus and television celebrity Regis Philbin and actors Sean Astin (who played the title role in the film "Rudy") and Clarence Gilyard. 
Hesburgh, now 89 years old, stepped down as Notre Dame's leader on June 1, 1987, ending the longest tenure at that time among active presidents of American colleges and uni­versities. Since his retire­ment he has remained active, working in his office on the 13th floor of the cam­pus library that is renamed in his honor. His 1990 auto­biography, "God, Country, Notre Dame," became a national best seller, and in 2000 his long public service career, which featured 16 presidential appointments, was recognized when he became the first person from higher education to be awarded the Congressional 


For your convenience, the following Student Service Offices will be open under the "Golden Dome" 
1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
Gold Medal. 
Father Hesburgh's consid­erable impact on Notre Dame is suggested by a statistical comparison of the University in 1952, when he became president, and in 1987, when he retired. Tho annual operating budget went from $9.7 million to $176.6 mil­lion, the endowment from $9 million to $350 million, and research funding from $735,000 to $15 million. Enrollment increased from 4,979 to 9,600, faculty from 389 to 950, and the number of degrees annually awarded from 1,212 to 2,500. Also during the Hesburgh era the governance of the University was transferred from the founding religious communi­ty, the Congregation of Holy Cross, to a two-tiered, mixed board of lay and religious trustees and fellows in 1967, and women began to be admitted to the undergradu­ate program in 1972. 




Welcome Students 
Regular business hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday 
Student Accounts Financial Aid Student Employment Immigration Services Undergraduate Admissions Residence Life and Housing 100 Main Bu ld ng 115 Main Bu ld ng 115 Main Bu ld ng 121 Main Bu ld ng 220 Main Bu ld ng 305 Main Bu ld ng 
Holy Cross nun Gude retiring after 25 years 
Special to The Observer 
Professor Frank O'Malley, one of the most affectionately cele­brated "bachelor dons" of Notre Dame history, famously said of the University's older buildings that "there's blood in the bricks." He was speaking of the years of work, worry and loving witness that have made the place what it is. He was speaking, perhaps unwittingly, of himself. lie could as easily have been speaking of Sister Mary Louis Gude, C.S.C. 
''I'm one of the last Holy Cross sisters at Notre Dame," said Gude, who is addressed and referred to by all who know her simply as "ML." She is retiring after a quarter of a century of multifaceted professional serv­ice to the University, in its resi­dence halls, its classrooms, its administrative offices, and any of several places on and off­campus to which her vocation has drawn her. 

"Retiring," in this instance, is merely a technical designation of professional status. People like Gude are incapable of inac­tivity. 
A member of the faculty of Notre Dame's Romance lan­guages and literatures depart­ment, Gude has an enviable reputation as a scholar of 17th century French fiction and 20th century French intellectual his­tory. Her publications include two books, "Le Page Disgracie: The Text as Confession" and "Louis Massignon: The Crucible of Compassion." 
In 1983, while chairing the modern languages department at Saint Mary's College, she moved across the road to Notre Dame to become assistant rec­tor at Notre Dame's Breen­Phillips Hall. She successfully managed these two demanding careers until 1987, when she became rector of Farley Hall, serving in that post until 1993. She stayed on the Notre Dame campus teaching French, and became assistant vice president for student affairs in 1998. 
Although a remarkably mod­est, even self-deprecating woman, Gude confessed some degree of pride at her work in the student affairs office as chair of the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs (recently renamed the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students). 
"I think it's the work with our gay and lesbian students that I'm most satisfied with," she said, "and let me tell you, it's not the easiest work in the world. On the one hand, we're committed to affirm Church teachings on sexuality, and on the other hand, our commit­ment obliges us to do all we can to respond to their needs and to make Notre Dame a welcoming place." 
University President Emeritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy and University President Father John Jenkins have praised the committee's efforts over the years, and vice president of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman recently described it as indispensable to the University. 
Gude's pride is amply justi­fied. Tirelessly at work in a ministry which all but guaran­teed the fury of passionately held, deeply opposed, and vehe­mently expressed convictions, she endured the recriminations of angry activists while estab­lishing a secure and charitable institutional environment in which gay and lesbian students would be heard, respected, and, most importantly, loved. 
"Basically, my method was hanging in there. I just refused to go away," she said. 
Even now, she won't be going too far away. 
''I'm looking forward to this translating gig," she said, refer­ring to her participation in an international conference of lloly Cross sisters last month in France. "Later on, I'll probably find something to do around Saint Mary's and Notre Dame." 
No one who knows Gude is surprised by those plans, but they are good news all the same. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 19, 2006 page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 1vfike Gilk>l>n 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MA.'<AGER Maddie Hanna Jlni Kitil:rara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Ram<! Gotturnukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Amona.cci 
Mary Kate Malone 
SPORTS EDITOR Ken Fowler 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Joey King. 
Scu"!E EDITOR: Brian Doxrader 
SAINT !vfARy's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHI<'.S EDITOR: JeffAJbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WED ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
~YSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574} 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574} 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@n&edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsne\vs.l@nd.edtl 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vie'h'Poim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574.) 6;H-4543 sporud@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-454(} scene. J@mLedn 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.!@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574} 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer i~ the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the studenrs of d1e University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisemems, is not governed by policies ofthe adm.inismuion of either instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comem. The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chiet; P.1anaging Editor, Assistant P.1anaging Editors and deparanenr editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views of d1e authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The tree expression ofall opinions duough lerrers is encour4ged. Letters w the Editor mnsr be signed and must include contact intonnation. 
Que,.tions regardir1g Observer policies shO;Uld be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gillotin. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obset>lft (USPS 1~9 2:·401)(~ l$-puhli~hed Mc"f1:da;t.thr>::mgh Fdd:ay ~ept dutlng a.am and v,ocarion pt~. As.ubsa:ipdon tG 'I'h>! Obserw ~ $1{10 tbh1m aclde:mk year; $55 fu-r one ~tmmcr. 
The Ol)l<ww' i~ fJIJblv.hd al~ OZ4 $outh Dining H:l.l! &~ml :ddrn.s.s UJtrt::clliltllo; to: Nnln:: fh.mc, tN 4655(Wf779 ·rhr-O{~scr~cr 
Pt:rindit~l jJI.l.~t\1!-,>t: f.Y.!Kl llt NIJUC f>.tmc l!O. "&m'Tii) 
:md :~rlrlitim~:ll mailing off>(;~. 024 Snm.ll Dmir.;g.H:~ll 
Norr-t> l.r.ww, iN ~jjt;..nm 
'ilii: Ol"~~Crvtt is. a membr:r ~~ tht ,'\mlci~rOO Pr~ All trp~~.rductiqn right$ an­~rvc.'>'.l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mary Kate Malone Ken Fowler Kate Antonacci Chris Khorey Eileen Du1Ty Kyle Cassily Kaitlynn Riely Tim Dougherty 
Ryan Sydlik Scene Viewpoint Brian Doxtader Joey King Marty Schroeder 
Illustrations Graphics Beth Wernet JeffAlbert Graham Ebetsch 
Highway signs 
I never knew I wanted to go to Notre Dame. It took three years and three visits to South Bend to eonvinee me this was it. 
I wasn't swaddled in blue and gold blan­kets as a child, wasn't ~ taught the Victory March along with my ABCs, wasn't trucked out t.o the Bend each fall for the first home game of the season. 
So if Frosh-0 is your official welcome into the Notre Dame family -like it was for n{e -then this column is for vou. 

A few weeks into my freshman year, I fell hard for this tra­dition-steeped school. And I'm sure you will too. 
During my overblown search for the "right" sehool, I became a walking college guidebook. I read various rankings reli­giously. I had seen the same information sessions so manv times that I eould antici­pate every perli;etly posed picture of smil­ing students, every statistic meant to impress eager applicants, every eomy, parent-pleasing joke. 
Maybe you were the same way. And maybe you fought (mdlessly about 

Maddie Hanna 
Managing 
Editor 

the choice with your mother, like I did. 
When I wanted to look at California schools and argued that they weren't much farther from Wisconsin than the East Coast schools I was eonsidering, my 
mom shut me do\\'11 in1mediately. "It's 
symbolieally farther," she said. 
Boston was the same. "I don't want to drive 20 hours to see my kid!" Duke'? My mom thought the dorm tradition of burn­ing benches before basketball games was just too "destructive"-never mind that the students rebuilt them atlervvard. Even hometown favorite UW-Madi<;on was out of the running. "Mad, you're going to get tear gassed on Halloween!" 
The drama cuhninated in a heated argument when my mom decided Georgetown would somehow corrupt me. The screaming was at that high pitch that only an irate mother can produce. "I don't want you to grow up to be a hard-nosed politician!" The showdovvn left me fuming, but as I cooled dmvn. I became frustrated. I had been all over the country (OK, excluding California) and still.hadn't fig­ured it out. 
vVhat. reallv mattered, I realized, was what eouldn~t be quantified-what I felt. And that had nothing to do \Vith guide­books. I came to my senses.] stopped arguing for the sake of arguing. And I made my third trip to Notre Dame. 
My morn and [ drove from Milwaukee to 
. South Bend through stormy weather ~Uld 
horrible Chicago-Indiana traffic. It was 
miserable. But suddenly the sky opened 
up, the sun carne out, and we got off the 
freeway and saw the Dome. 
I'm not big on signs or superstitions, hut 
my mom still tells that story. You are here 
for a reason. It's that feeling in your gut 
when you first stepped onto campus. That 
overwhelming realization of how lucky 
you are to be here. That sense of home. 
Don't worry ifyou aren't a legacy. Not 
everyone is. Don't. worry if it took you a 
while to figure out thi<; was it Not all of us 
have kno\\'11 since birth. So what ifyour 
roommate's parents are double Domers 
who spend most of Frosh-0 weekend rem­
iniscing about their tmdergrad days? 
You're here. You belong. Go make the 
most of it. 

Maddie Hanna is a junior French major 
and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy 
minor from outside A!ilwaukee, V\iisconsin 
(she'd say Mequon, but that:o:; usually met 
with blank stares. Then a,qain, some peo­
ple don't know where Ilfilwaukee is). 
Despite too many hours spent slal'in,q 
away at The Observer. she firmly lJelieves 
she is lil'in,q 11ze Life. Contact Afaddie at 
mhannal@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of71te Observe~: 
A small measure of peace 
As a Film, Television and Theatre diseiple, I continually find myself fasci­nated by the way life's realities are reflected in the movies. Every tilm ­from the all-time greats on down to the most mundane and mediocre ones ­contains elements that awaken memo­ries and stir the senses. Often the piet.ures we remem­ber most vividly are those that remind us of people we love. places we admire or simply an emotion that trig­gers fond recollec­tions of a particular time in our lives. 
College is no dif­ferent. Hollywood has been mining this source for decades, amounting t.o hun­dreds of films that broach the subject, some more successfully than others. Whether it's a quirky character, unex­pected plot curve or a singular line of dialogue, there's something universally familiar about these films. 
With this in mind, I tried to recall a scene from a film that most strongly reminded me of my Notre Dame expe­rience. And, while my first gut instinet was to write a loving ode to the spiritu­al wonders of "Rudy," for the sake of originality I forced myself to broaden my horizons. 
Surprisingly, the film that. surfaced most often wasn't the tale of a pint­sized walk -on with barely a speck of athletic talent. It was direetor Edward Zwick's "The Last Samurai." 
The film chronicles the account of American Civil War veteran Nathan ,\lgren -played deftly by Cruise ­and his eapture at the hands of Katsumoto (Ken Want.anabe), a noble Japanese warrior unwilling to let the way of the svvord expire. As Algren begrudgingly seU.los into his eivil cap­tivity, his attitude towards the sam u­rai's adherenee to the time-honored traditions of Japanese culture changns from one or animosity to genuine won­der. A wayward warrior most of his 

Rama Gottumukkala 
Assistant Managing 
Editor 

life, Algren admits to a mysterious presence shrouding this small Japanese village deep in tho moun­tains, a presence that envelops him despite its unfamiliarity. He tries to col­lect. his thoughts in a journal, strug­gling to put on paper his wavering alle­giances. 
"This marks the longest I've stayed in one place since I left the farm at 17 ," begins Algren. ''I've never been a churchgoing man, and what I've seen on the field of battle has led me to question God's purpose. But there is indeed something spiritual in this place. And though it may forever be obscure to me, I cannot but be aware of its power. I do know that. it is here that I've known my first untroubled sleep in many years." 
When I first saw "The Last Samurai" in theaters, I was comfortably settled into my sophomore year at Notre Dame. But something about those words, penned by screenwriter John Logan, lodged in my mind like a wel­come splinter. I wasn't aware ol'it then, but they would eome to epitomize what Notre Dame means to me after what seems like a lifetime here. 
Although I was born in India, my family has been moving almost nonstop sinee I was three years old. In fact, by the time my Notre Dame career comes to a close. I will have lived under the shadow of the Golden Dome longer than any of the dozen other places around the world I have called home. When people ask where I'm from, my stoek answer is usually, "All over, but I currently live in [blank)." It's much easier than trying t.o spew out recollec­tions of the spots in India, England and the United States where some of my fondest memories remain. ­
And while my Jesuit high school experience never felt unwelcome, I was raised Hindu and eontinue to learn something new about the Catholic faith everyday. In fact, the first time I was within earshot of a homily eame during ninth grade at a required high school Mass. As the only Hindu in attendance. I ff-1H lost as I clumsily tried to mimic the words and gestures of a foreign liturgy, wondering whether L'd ever lit in. 
Fortunately, almost a decade later, all I have to do is glance across Notre Dame's campus to find my answer. Whether it's the green plains of the Quads or the shimmer of the lakes on a crisp fall day, there's something about this eampus that demands a quiet attention. While the Notre Dame family continues to be the driving force · behind our University's relevance, I ean't help but feel there's something else at work here, something spiritual. 
People talk about the Notre Dame eampus as a dosed bubble, sheltering her students from the rough realities of the outside world. But I'd like to think there's something peaeeful about this campus and this community that keeps pulling us back, often decades after we graduate. 
A lifetime's worth of memories are paeked into this place by graduation's end. But above all, Notre Dame is home. For the better part of four years -five if you're lucky-this campus is all we know. Home isn't always where you think it is, but often where you're fortunate enough to find it. Or realize where it's always been. 
Glancing up at the auric light reflect­ing off Our Lady, it's hard to verbalize exaetly what. makes Notre Dame spe­cial. 
All I can do is recall that scene from "The Last Samurai," in whieh a quiet understanding creeps across Algren 's face. He finally understands what he's found. Home. 
Rama Gottumukkala is a fifth-year Film, Television and Theatre major who hails from all m•er and enjoys learning stenography in his second home, the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. He currently resides in Houston, but looks forward to many more u•orld­ly tra1•els in the years to come. He's been ready for his jlj'th-year at Notre Dame fzis whole life and, despite lzis best efi(Jrls, couldn't resist making this column a "Rudy" lovefest. Contact llama at r,qottumu@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of 11ze Observer: 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 16 Saturday, August 19, 2006 
Campus leaders welcome Class of 2010 
Dear Class of 2010, 

With the beginning of a new academic year, I extend a warm welcome to all new and returning students of the University of Notre Dame. In particular, I wish to congratulate and welcome our freshmen and transfer students. We are excited and grateful that you are here, and it is our intention to help you achieve all of your goals and ambitions. 


Over the course of your time at Notre Dame, I encourage you to make the most of each moment. Be open to engaging new friends, those who may have very similar or very different personal stories and perspectives. Embrace each classroom experience as an opportunity to expand your knowledge, hone your talents, and share your ideas. If you live in a resi­dence hall. explore the multiple ways that you can contribute as a leader. When you face challenge, know that you are not alone and do not hesi­tate to seek support from those around you. Finally, in all that you do, take a few moments each day for personal reflection to refresh your spir-
Jenkins it. One of the primary objectives of Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, is to develop young minds that are prepared to make positive contributions to the world and help solve society's challenges. We are confident that you possess the talent and desire to make meaningful and lasting contributions to the university community and to the world. Once again, welcome to Notre Dame. May you soon come to feel at home on campus, and to love this place, as do so many graduates of past years. I hope to meet you in person over the course of your time, and throughout that time, I will keep you in my prayers. In Notre Dame, 
Reverend John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. President University ofNocre Dame August 19, 2006 
Welcome to the Notre Dame Family. Whether you join us as a first-year undergraduate, a transfer student, or a new graduate/professional student, it is an honor to be among the first to welcome you to the University of Notre Dame. On behalf of all of us who serve in Student Affairs, we are glad you are here and hope that you will soon feel comfortable calling this place home. 
This University offers a host of incredible resources that exist to help you do just that. Our 27 undergraduate residence halls and two graduate residence facilities are at the heart of the very real sense of community that is one of the most distinctive features of a Notre Dame education. The quality of the student service departments in the Division of Student Affairs is unparalleled; these offices include Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, the Counseling Center, the Gender Relations Center, Health Services, International Student Services and Activities, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, the Office of Residence Life and Housing, Notre Dame Security/Police and Student Activities. The staffs in your residence halls and graduate residences are present to assist and to support you in your transition to life at Notre Dame. 
Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth. 
As a community, we draw our strength from the unique and diverse gifts offered by each of you. We hope that all of you will be able to achieve the goals you set for your­selves this year. 
I hope that I will have the opportunity to come to know as many of you as possible in the months ahead. Until I am able to greet you in person, please know that you have my very best wishes for a year filled with all God's blessings. 
Father Mark Poorman Vice President for Student Affairs University ofNotre Dame August 19, 2006 
On behalf of the University of Notre Dame duLac student body, we welcome you to this great institution. As we are sure you know, your acceptance is no small accomplishment, and you should be proud of yourself. We are already a stronger family because of your deci­sion to become a member of our community. 
These first few days as a Notre Dame student will be both exciting and overwhelming. In between the chaos of moving in, orientation activities and saying goodbye to your parents, we encourage you to take a moment to appreciate the journey you are about to embark upon. 
This weekend is the first step. Get to know your roommates. Participate in every Frosh-0 activity. Be introduced to the vibrant faith life at the Orientation Mass. Notre Dame is about thinking in innovative ways, conquering new obstacles and simply hanging out with friends. We encourage you to take part in this multi-faceted spirit and not just see, but feel what this University is all about. 
Once you establish yourself on campus, we encourage you to become involved. Break out of the Notre Dame bubble and get involved in the South Bend community through the Center for Social Concerns. Reflect on your years ahead at the Campus Ministry Freshman Retreat. Relive your glory days as, a high school athlete on one of the many interhall athletic teams. Notre Dame has a rich tradition of academics, athletics, faith and community. We hope you take advantage of the many opportunities to grow in these areas over the next four years. 
Many challenges lie ahead in this journey; be sure to have fun along the way while form­ing lasting relationships. Your friends, professors and classmates will be an essential part of your college experience, reflecting the most remarkable aspect of Notre Dame: Her people. 
Treasure your time here, whether cramming for an 8 a.m. fmal or ordering pizza at three in the morning with friends. Feel free to stop by the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune to talk about student life or simply to introduce yourself. We look forward to meeting you. 
Best of luck and God bless. 
In Notre Dame, 

Lizzi Shappell Notre Dame student body president Bill Andrichik Notre Dame student body vice president August 19, 2006 
On behalf of the faeulty and staff at Saint Mary's College, I extend a warm weleome to the Class of 2010 and to our transfer students. As a graduate of Saint Mary's and now its 11th president, I care deeply about this special place, and about you, our students. As Saint Mary's students, you are fol­lowing in the footsteps of generations of remarkable, accomplished women, 
and, like them, your talents will leave your distinct mark on the College. 
At Saint Mary's we will challenge you. We will help you learn the extent of your capabilities and how to use them well. You will receive an excellent Holy Cross education -an education that is committed to the development of the whole person. 
As a Catholic college, we cherish intellectual pursuits because they enrich our understanding of God and 

God's creation, which in turn helps us build and sustain Mooney more just and equitable communities. We hope one result of your Saint Mary's education is that you will develop a sense of obligation to the common good and that your life and work will reflect that understanding. 
We have a proud 162 year tradition of educating women to make a differ­ence in the world. Now it is your turn to make history at Saint Mary's College. I look forward to accompanying you on this journey. 
Carol Ann Mooney President Saint Mary's College August 19, 2006 

Dear Class of 2010, 
On behalf of the entire student body, we would like to welcome you to the Saint Mary's College family. We are excited that you have chosen to attend Saint Mary's for the next four years. Throughout this year we hope you will realize that you have made an excellent choice. 
From classes to extracurricular activities, you will find that Saint Mary's is truly a remarkable place. We encourage you to take full advantage of the many opportunities available to grow intellectually, socially, spiritually, and personally. Join a club, sign up for an intramural sport or even run for office. Most importantly, make sure you realize the potential you have to transform the lives around you as a Saint Mary's woman. 
Saint Mary's fosters a supportive learning environment that is absolutely amazing. Your classmates, as well as current students, faculty, administra­tion, alumnae, and trustees are all cheering for you to succeed. They have faith in you and will be supporting you every step of the way, from saying goodbye to your parents at orientation to walking across the stage at grad­uation. Moreover, the next four years are just the beginning to your life as a Saint Mary's woman. 
We hope that you will feel at home here and love Saint Mary's as much as we do. If there is ever anything either of us can do to help you, please do not hesitate to contact us, whether it be in passing or in our offices in 225 Student Center. We look forward to meeting you. 
Weleome home, 
Susan Mcllduff Saint Mary's student body president Maggie Siefert Saint Mary's student body vice president August 19, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Saturday, August 19, 2006 page 17 
'Grip and Rip' your way through Notre Dame 
In light of this weekend's PGA championship in Medinah, Ill., it seems an appropriate time to tell one of my favorite stories about a past tournament champion. 
John Daly was a young, 22-year old kid from Arkansas who traveled to the 1991 PGA Championship as the ninth alternate. He received word that he would be playing in the tournament at 2 a.m. the morning of the opening round, only after eight golfers had bailed. 
Daly fired opening rounds of 69-6 7 and went into Saturday on top of the leader board amidst little pressure from the media and Friday afternoon crowd. After a 69 on Saturday, The Lion headed into Sunday as a fan favorite, poised for a storybook ending. 
Here's where it gets interesting. 
If you don't know that John Daly is a long hitter, well then in the words of The Dude, "You must not be a golfer." For most of the weekend, Daly, who led the PGA Tour in driving distance from 1991-2002, got by with hitting driv­er and lob wedge into the green (an impressive feat con­sidering most people can't hit a lob more than 50 yards). 
But on the back nine Sunday, Daly was looking at a dif­ficult par four where hitting a driver might have put him in a tough location. Sensing Daly's hesitation, his caddy looked him the eye and said, "Rip it, John," handing him his favorite club. 
For those of you still reading, you must be wondering what this has to do being incoming freshmen at Notre Dame. It's probably a bit of a stretch, but bear with me. 
In the back of Daly's mind there was a voice telling him to make a quick adjustment that might be the safer approach. He could have hit a 3-wood and had a better look at the hole. Nobody would have shaken their head at his decision and plenty would have credited his maturity. 
But instead, Daly went with his gut. He relied on the club that had put him in the position to win golfs fourth 

Bobby Griffin 
Assistant Managing Editor 

major of the season -when he should not have been there in the first place. For roughly 65 holes he had gripped and ripped his way to the top of the leader board and instead of playing it conservatively, he went with what got him there. 
My only advice to you as freshmen is to take a similar approach. 
Over the next four years, you will all invariably face challenges that will force you to examine the best course of action. As you experience change and development, you will begin to make decisions in a more calculated manner with respect to how you've handled situations in the past. 
It's normal, really. A huge aspect of maturity is the way we handle life's little challenges. How you react to a prob­lem as an 18-year-old might be very different than how you will see it in three years. 
But that doesn't mean you have to change what you are. Your strengths are your strengths, and don't be afraid to rely on them. 
For instance, have you crammed for tests your entire life and gotten by fairly well? Don't fool yourself. That's not changing in college. 
But instead of looking at the people who are spending hours in the library every night, understand that it is sim­ply not you. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't at least try to fmish assignments in a timely manner, but don't be intimidated by students with a different work ethic. 
This works on the flip side, too. If you know that in order to do well in class, it's imperative that you work hard on a daily basis, don't be influenced by your friends who can blow things off and worry about it later. They are no better than you; they just operate differently. 
Instead of winning tournaments by crushing drivers, they have mastered chipping and putting. Know your lim­itations and play to your strengths. 
Look, I'm not advocating blowing off your responsibili­ties. That will put you on thin ice at Notre Dame faster than you can say Zbikowski. But you all have succeeded thus far in your lives operating in many different ways. 
Don't let the patterns of others affect what has gotten you to where you are. 
Instead of seeing aspects of your individuality as imped­iments to your success, view them as part of your overall package. If you have never been able to sit down and analyze numbers, you probably won't be much of a math­ematician. , 
But you might be the best danm salesman in the office. 
So whatever you do, don't view college as a huge obsta­cle that you will have to somehow conquer despite your limitations. Look at everything that got you to where you are as the backbone of who you are, for better or worse. Nobody is perfect and everyone would like to do things a little different. 
But despite your differences, you all have one thing in common. You were all admitted into Notre Dame, and probably a number of other top 20 universities. You all have shown somebody along the way that you are special people wfth distinct qualities. 
Some of you are athletes and others are artists. Some of you can do advanced linear algebra and others think a matrix is a Keanu Reeves movie. Some of you can quote 19th century literature and others only focus on the sports pages. 
You are who you are, and it has impressed people along the way. Remember that. 
By the way, Daly made par on the hole. Now it's your turn. Just don't be afraid to take out the driver when everyone else might be using a 3-wood. 
Bobby Griffin is an assistant managing editor at The Observer. He is a senior American Studies major who is enjoying the possibility ofseeing the Yankees win the World Series, Notre Dame win the national title and the Giants win the Super Bowl, all in succession. He enjoys Miller Light, Pot Limit Omaha and New York strips. He expects John Daly to make the cut at this year's PGA Championship. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Taking a chance on change 
I cried. Not only did I cry, I sobbed, heaved and wailed -any way you look at it I was a complete, total and utter mess. 
From the Jamaica Shaka to Domer Fest and a Taste of Saint Mary's, I had partici­pated in every awkward 
mixer possible. I shook the hands of dozens of Katies, Megans and Katherines, perfected the set-up of my cozy McCandless Hall dorm room and even tested my seemingly shy social skills at the then off­

campus drinking mecca Kelly Meehan Turtle Creek, but none 
Saint Mary's
of that seemed to ease 
Editor

the tensions brewing inside of me. 
My volcano of emotions erupted just hours before my parents hopped back into their mini-van to travel over 300 miles back to my home in Poland, Ohio. 
As I curled up crying on my futon at the conclusion of the College's freshman orien­tation I was not upset because I was sad, homesick or lonely -I cried because I knew I would never be the same. 
Until that exact moment I generally knew what to expect with each passing moment of life. All the basic elements that I had become overly familiarized with in the duration of my seemingly simple 18 year life -who my best friends were, where we 
hung out, what my teachers were like and when dinner would be ready-vanished during Frosh-0 weekend. 
Sitting in my 1 Ox14 cinderblock dorm room on that steamy August afternoon in 2003, I had been given an opportunity that I could not yet comprehend. I barely knew what was in store for me in the next four years of my life, but I had an inkling it would be like nothing I had ever experi­enced before. 
After being on campus for just a few days, I realized my time at Saint Mary's would present me with a variety of chal­lenges and heartbreaks, but it would also enrich my life with a sense of happiness and fulfillment that I had never known. 
Although I doubted my rationale for opt­ing to attend an academically rigorous sin­gle-sex college in the middle of Indiana for a few hours that day, I would not trade a single moment of my college experience for anything. 
The distraught confusion that over­whelmed me at the conclusion of freshman orientation was the driving force that pushed me to take advantage of all Saint Mary's had to offer. 
I knew I could float through these next years, cutting corners and making a few friends here and there, or I could seize each opportunity that came my way. 
Going away to college was the major leap in the series of risks I would force myself to take during my college experience. The true essence of collegiate life lies within these generally difficult decisions each of us must make-some we can foresee, loom­ing in the distance, while others sneak up behind us, forcing us to make an immedi­ate decision that may ultimately change the direction of our lives. 
It is crucial to realize sometimes spon­taneity spices up the monotonous schedule that is all too easy to embrace while in col­lege. Avoiding collegiate doldrums calls us to become perhaps a little more daring than we had ever imagined. The inner superhero emerges as when you challenge yourself to do something you never thought you would do. So study abroad, participate in a service trip or play an intramural sport -even if you are lacking athletic ability. 
Just three short years ago I was a naive 18-year-old girl wallowing in worry and self-pity as I anticipated my mysterious future. I only wish I could have peered into the future for just a moment to fully realize Saint Mary's would not only develop my mind spiritually and academically, but would also serve as a platform that allowed me to travel the world, achieve my journal­istic goals and make the best friends of my life. 
Today I congratulate you for overcoming (or at least beginning to adapt to) the initial challenge of your fantastic four-year jour­ney. You will truly enjoy the ride. Embrace the unique opportunities that lie in front of you today, for most of them remain dor­mant until you discover them, breathe life into them and make them your own. 
Kelly Meehan is the Saint Mary's Editor at The Observer. She is a senior communi­cation studies major at Saint Mary's. Kelly can be contacted at kmeehaOl@saint­marys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 18 
Saturday, August 19, 2006 
Downtown South Bend 
N 


1. Bistro on the Race 501 N. Niles Ave. 'son the pricey side. but Bistro on the Race is one of the very best restaurants in South Bend. The traditional fare includes an assortment of steak. fish and chicken dishes. Not for everyday or casual dining, but a good place to take visiting parents on football weekends. Casa Del Rio 1705 South Bend Ave. those looking for more authentic Mexican than Taco Bell, Casa Del Rio delivers on its promise of "a real taste of Mexico." Standard fare includes enchiladas, fajitas and 
but the best deal is probably on Tuesdays, when tacos cost a mere dollar. Colonial Pancake House 508 N. Dixie Way affordable and delicious alternative to breakfast places like IHOP, the Pancake House is a great way to start the day. The portions are generous. but be warned -the restau­
keeps "breakfast" hours and often closes by one in the afternoon. Fiddler's Hearth 127 N. Main St. p,.,,...,..,.. the most Irish restaurant in South Bend, Fiddler's Hearth doubles as a Celtic restaurant and a pub. Often featuring live music (including bagpipes on Friday evenings), Hearth has an inviting, rustic feel that appeals to both students and families. . Hana Yori 3601 Grape Rd. this traditional Japanese steakhouse is pricey, you're also paying for the show. Chefs prepare food right at the table, with a menu that includes steak, chicken and shrimp. interact with the chefs at large tables that contain a stove in the middle and watch as they create volcanoes out of onions and flip shrimp tails into their aprons. Lula's 1631 Edison Rd. is a hip, relaxing coffee shop located right off campus that also serves a variety of sandwiches. A popular place to meet, study or just hang out, Lula's offers indoor and outc:loor seating for cool fall days. 
. Macri's 214 N. Niles Ave. laid-back Italian-American restaurant featuring mostly pasta and sandwiches, Macri's is a good place to relax and hang out. The average entree costs less than $8, which makes one of the most affordable dining hall alternatives in the city. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Saturday, August 19, 2006 
Page 19 
Getting Out From Under the Dome 
A guide to life in and out ofthe Notre Dame bubble 

One of the few places open 24 hours, Nick's Patio offers casual Greek dining at affordable prices. A mecca for late-night studiers, Nick's Patio is a good alternative to typical fast food any time of the day. 
9. 
Rocco's 537 North St. Louis Blvd. One of the best pizza places in South Bend, Rocco's decor is adorned with pictures of past coaches and famous visitors who have also enjoyed one of the restaurant's pies. Though a bit more expensive than the chains, Rocco's more than makes up for it with the quality of its pizzas. 

10. 
The Vine 103 W. Colfax Calling itself "The Purveyors of Fine Wine and Food," The Vine is a funky, classy change of pace from traditional South Bend fare. The steaks, pastas, seafood and pizza are delicious, and the atmosphere is unmatched. 


A ttt1Fial<C t L<O> ]fll§ 
1. Chippewa Bowl -225 W. Chippewa Ave. With "2 for I Tuesdays" and $0.99 games on Wednesdays, Chippewa Bowl is an inexpensive option for some weekday or weekend fun. This is a place for those nights when the workload is light and you do not want to spend much money. 2-3. Cinemark Movies 14-910 W. Edison/Kerasotes 16-450 W. Chip­pewa Ave. Both of these theaters -the two most popular among students -offer the big blockbusters. Cinemark, on Edison, is the closer theater for those who want to see a popular movie and do not want to drive. But Kerasotes also offers some diverse fare, showing smaller budget, limited release films. 
4. University Park Mall -6501 Grape Rd. Only a bus ride away, the University Park Mall is a good place to meet your general shopping needs. The large department stores include JC Penney and LS Ayres, and specialty shops range from Banana Republic to Yankee Candle to Journey's. 
lF<O> O> t lhallll ~'~<e<e lk<e1r11dls 
Drummer's Circle The drummers of the Band of the Fighting Irish gather on the steps of the Main Building on Fridays at midnight, performing cadences and cheers heard throughout Notre Dame Stadium on Saturday. Pep Rally A pep rally is held in the Joyce Center every football Friday at 6 p.m. The Notre Dame march­ing band leads skits, speeches and cheers. The team arrives midway through the rally, with head coach Charlie Weis and a few players giving speeches. Watch for special guests, alumni and past players, like Joe Montana, Tim Brown and Chris Zorich, all of whom spoke last year. Pregame Traditions Saturday morning pregame traditions are anchored by the Notre Dame band, which performs on the steps of Bond Hall before marching to the stadium. The football team and coaches can be seen on their customary walk from Mass at the Basilica to the stadium before the game. 
JElflltt<e1rtiati1num1elflltt A1rolUnntd <Ca1m]plu£s 
The DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts The DPAC offers a wide range of concerts, plays, films and other performances. Upcoming events include the Summer Shakespeare performance of "The Comedy of Errors" and various film screenings. Current information about upcoming events can be found on the DPAC Web site: http://performingarts.nd.edu Legends Legends periodically hosts concerts, which range from campus bands to big name acts such as Gavin DeGraw, the Walkmen and Virginia Coalition. WVFI WVFI is a student-run radio station that also features student DJs. Current schedules can be found on its Web site: http://www.nd.edu/-wvfll 
lEiattt i1n1~ iF Alr<o>1unnt<dl 
~ 


Cafe Commons If you're in the Mendoza College of Business, Cafe Commons is a great place to get food like soup, salad, sandwiches, fruit, coffee and a wide array of drinks. Open Monday through Friday, 7:30 a.m. to 5 
Cafe de Grasta A close choice for Mod Quad residents (but a hike for everyone else), Cafe de Grasta is located on the first floor of Grace Hall. It has a by­weight salad bar, coffee, wraps, stir-fry and a wide selection of drinks. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Found on the first floor of Bond Hall, Cafe Poche may go unnoticed by most non-architecture students. It offers deli sandwiches, soups, baked goods, drinks and coffee. Open Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 3 
Decio Faculty Hall Expect to be surrounded by professors if eating in Decio Faculty Hall, housed in the same building as many offices. Coffee and sandwiches are the regular fare, and it's a great place to meet with a teacher. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Greenfields is located in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, and offers a variety of global cuisine for between five and eight dollars a dish. The fare is far more eclectic than expected, and the best part is that it accepts both Domer Dollars and Flex Points. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 2:30p.m. 
Located in the Law School, the Irish Cafe is not exclusively for law students and is the closest option to Main Circle. Baked goods, salads, sandwiches and soups are just some of the foods offered. Open Monday through Friday, 7:30a.m. to 3 p.m. 
Legends While it also hosts shows and other entertainment, Legends is primarily 
a full-scale restaurant and bar that serves various Notre Dame-themed dishes and American fare. Open Monday through Thursday, 11:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 to 9 p.m.; Friday II :30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 12 a.m.; Saturday 11:30 a.m. to 12 a.m. Closed Sundays. 
Located behind South Dining Hall, Reekers is a 24-hour haven for stu­dents. With relatively inexpensive grill fare, personal pizzas, sandwich­es, smoothies and ice cream, it is a popular and often-crowded hangout. 
It also has several televisions. 
One of the most popular cafes on campus, Waddicks is conveniently lo­cated on the first floor of O'Shaughnessy. A large selection of baked goods, food and drinks are available, but the coffee and espresso may be the most popular options. Open Monday through Friday, 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
Information compiled by RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA and BRIAN DOXTADER 
NFL 

New stadium a splash of optimism in the desert 
Once woebegone Cardinals franchise signs impact free agents, has high hopes for upcoming campaign 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -The new silver palace shimmers like some desert mirage in the western suburbs of Phoenix. 
Yes, the Arizona Cardinals ­a franchise that long set the standard for futility in profes­sional sports -finally have a home. 
This is a team that seems reborn. 
In addition to their $455 million stadium, the Cardinals signed Edgerrin James, one of the top running backs in the game, as a free agerit, and drafted a Heisman Trophy­winning quarterback, Matt Leinart. They have the best tandem of young receivers in the NFL and, believe it or not, are sold out at home for the season. 
Could the tentacles of pro football parity reaeh all the way to owner Bill Bidwill's long-vilified operation? 
"People are starting to understand that we aren't fooling around," said Bidwill's son, Michael, Cardinals vice president and general counsel. "We want to build a champi­onship team." 
Until the fancy trappings and big names translate to victories, though, the term "same old Cardinals" will be hard to erase. 
"The only way you can change people's perception of j.our team is by winning," wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald said. "We've got all the pieces. No more excuses." 
This is the oldest of football franchises, tracing its roots to the late 1890s, when a neigh­borhood group played in south Chicago under the name Morgan Athletic Club. 
In 1920, the franchise was a charter member of what would become the National Football League. Charles Bidwill bought the team for $50,000 in 1932 and his widow, Violet, moved it from Chicago to St. Louis 28 years later. 
Sons Charles and Bill shared ownership from 1962 until 1972, when Bill Bidwill took over sole ownership. He moved the Cardinals to Arizona in 1988 with nothing more than a handshake prom­ise for a stadium. 
Meanwhile, the team lost, lost and lost some more. 
In their years in the desert, the Cardinals have had one winning season, going 9-7 in 1998 and upsetting Dallas in the playoffs for the franehise's first postseason victory since beating Philadelphia for the NFL title in 1947. 
The success proved fleeting, and crowds dwindled. 
Few wanted to sit in the metal bleachers of Arizona State's Sun Devil Stadium under the scorching sun to watch bad football.The play­ers, meanwhile, sweated and suffered. 
"The heat index was just off the charts," said Ron Wolfley, Cardinals radio analyst who played for the team from 1985-91. "If you were a farmer, you'd tell your cattle to stay inside." 


AP Arizona Cardinals players take the field before their Aug. 12 preseason game against the Pittsburgh Stealers. 

In 1996, Bidwill brought son things that other NFL teams Michael, a former federal are able to do," the younger prosecutor, into the organiza­Bidwill said. tion with the charge to get a The result, he said, was stadium. "having the cash to go out and 
With the team's lack of pop­spend money to sign players ularity, it was a struggle. like Bertrand Berry, Kurt 
But in 2000, after an ingen­Warner and Edgerrin James, ious campaign that down­and being able to extend the played the Cardinals while contracts of our core group of focusing on improving base­players like Adrian Wilson and ball spring training faeilities Anquan Boldin." and building youth sports James was the big prize. The 11elds, voters approved a hotel four-time Pro Bowl back, who tax and car rental sureharge topped 1,500 yards each of the to help build the facility. last two seasons for the 
The Cardinals put in $155 Indianapolis Colts, surprised million and the result was the the NFL by signing a four-year, silver mono-$30 million lith in contract with Glendale, Arizona.
"/ can't speak on the
which fea-"If you want tures a past. I don't know to be winners, retractable you've got to
nothing about the past, 
roof and a do what the
and I don't really worry 
natural grass winners do, field that about the past. " and from Day slides out of 1 when I got the stadium here, they've
Edgerrln James
into the done what the
Cardinals running back 
desert sun winners have when not in done," James use. said. "l ean't 
The stadium, Michael Bidwill speak on the past. I don't said, has changed everything know nothing about the past about how what had been a and I don't really worry about notoriously pflnny-pinching the past. I just know that since organization does business. the day that I got here, they're 
"We started a couple of doing everything that winning years ago, when we knew that teams do." we had the stadium secured, The signing of James and that it would open in 2006, the drafting of quarterback where we could start changing Matt Leinart spurred ticket our business operations plan sales. and our football eap manage­And a team that hadn't sold ment plan and start doing out a home game in six years will find itself playing to a full house of 63,400 every home game. 
Yet skepticism abounds. 

In coach Dennis Green's first two seasons, the team went 6­10 and 5-11. The offensive line is suspect, and without a ground game, the spectacular plays of young receivers Fitzgerald and Boldin won't be enough. · 
Warner, the former Super Bowl and NFL MVP who at 35 is the quarterback designated to lead the team to success while Leinart learns, said the team is trying to build "a cul­ture of winning." 
A state-of-the-art stadium does not guarantee suecess. 
"Houston got a new stadi­um," James said, "and they haven't done nothing." 
But standing in the cav­ernous home locker room after the team's preseason vic­tory over Pittsburgh, Bill Bidwill expressed "relief and satisfaction" that the building was finished. 
A quiet man who prefers Michael to be the franchise's public face, he said he thinks people no longer doubt his commitment to winning. 
Wolfley, a four-time Pro Bowl speeial teams player, captured the sentiment of those who had long suffered the ridicule that eomes with being a Cardinal. 
''I'm happy for the players. I'm happy for the fans," he said. "I'm happy for anyone who ever bled Cardinal red." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\>.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

4 bedroom,2 bath, tri-level. Lots of  2 rooms in private home w/sepa- NO vs Mich need 4 GAs together  
living space,safe neighborhood, 3  rate entrance for football weekends.  
FoR RENT  miles to NO. 2 car garage, all  Shared bath.  TICKETS  email davidrschulz@ yahoo.com  PERSONAL  

 kitchen appliances, lawn care  
B&B lodging w/alum for NO football  included. $1200 per month plus first  Close to NO.  FOR SALE: NO TICKETS.  WANTED:  Hi Emily and Bridget  
games. 574-243-2628 or gary­ & last months rent.  Notre Dame tickets.  
theresa@ yahoo.com  57 4-272-5453.  57 4-259-8603.  232-0964  251-1570  It's good to be back.  

Saturday, August 19, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

r--------------------------­The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Saturday, Augusst 19, 2006 
-

I ~ I 
' 
• 


Enjoy FREE Food & Beverages PLUS Friday and Saturday only.•• 
• 
Inflatable Climbing Wall 

• 
FREE Airbrush Tattoos 

• 
x-aox. Racer Competi.tion !. WRBR. ''The Bear'' wi.l.l be... at.. :the 




store•.•.and much, muchmore!* 


r--•meljer COUPON•--, 
: 10o/oOFF* :
I WITH COUPON I 
I *ON YOUR ENTIRE GENERAL MERCHANDISE PURCHASE! II Excludes: Grocery. Meijer Gas Slallon and C-Siops, HBC, Alcohol. Tobacco, I I Prescrlplions, Gin Cards, Lonery, Poslaye, Park and tnlerlainment Trckets I and Layaway Not to be combined w1th other discount coupons. Only good 
: alUm Mishawaka Grape Rd. sture. 111111111111111111111111111111 : 
Good 8!18·8/20106 1 08820 56993 s
._ ____________.. 
~ 1•111Ji;t:!l~t:tliw11fi!/1116•1'1llnl1~4;liil!t@il ~ 
*Activities subject to change. Fre~ items ythile75() J~st 
~ 6) Z!ploc. lJ!) 
DURACEL,.L 3NI BRITA 

The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Bonds' trainer withholds testimony from grand juryhearing 
Anderson continues to refuse from commenting about acquaintances, including Pats QB, may face prison time 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds'" personal trainer may go back to jail for refusing again to testify about his acquaintances before a grand jury. What he told federal prosecutors, however, has dragged Tom Brady's name into the BALCO case. 
In a June statement to pros­ecutors about his intentions to stay mum, Greg Anderson said he and the New England Patriots quarterback had spo­ken over the phone -but never established further con­tact. 
"I had only one brief conver­sation with Tom Brady regarding a potential future workout," Anderson said. "I never had another phone con­versation with him and never discussed it with anyone." 
Anderson also told federal prosecutors June 23 that he would continue to withhold testimony from a newly assembled grand jury that is reportedly also investigating track coach Trevor Graham. 
"I will not ever make state­ments about other people," Anderson said in the state­ment, which was included in court documents unsealed Wednesday. "That has always been my position and will tion on it," Patriots continue to be." spokesman Stacey James said. 
On Thursday, prosecutors ''I'm not going on hearsay." planned to ask U.S. District Anderson has refused on Judge William Alsup to send four different occasions to tes­Anderson to prison if he tify before federal grand stands by that policy. juries investigating Bonds. He 
Paula Canny, an Anderson was released from prison July attorney and friend, said 20 after serving 15 days for Brady's name appears along refusing to testify, but only with "10 to 20" other athletes after that grand jury's term that Anderson's grand jury expired. subpoena lists as people the Government lawyers are 
trainer should  investigating  
be prepared to  whether  
answer tions  ques­about.  "I will not ever make  Bonds under  lied oath  
Canny  said  statements about other  when he told  
investigators may have gotten Brady's name from Anderson's  people. That has always been my position and will continue to be."  an earlier grand jury he didn't k n o w  
phone records  whether the  
seized by the government, t h 0 u g h  Greg Anderson personal trainer  substances given to him by Anderson  
Anderson does- w  e  r  e  
n't refer to any  steroids. The  

other athletes in his brief grand jury probe also report­statement. edly is focused on whether the 
Brady attended the same San Francisco Giants slugger Bay Area high school as paid taxes on the sale of hun­Bonds. His agent, Donald Yee, dreds of thousands of dollars couldn't be reached for com­worth of sports memorabilia. ment Wednesday, and the New The New York Times report­England Patriots declined ed last month that the grand comment on Anderson's state­jury is also looking into the ment. possible involvement of 
"I don't have any informa-Graham, the track coach of Marion Jones and Justin Gatlin, who tested positive earlier this year for elevated testosterone. 
Anderson previously served three months in prison after pleading guilty to steroid dis­tribution and money launder­ing stemming from the gov­ernment's investigation of the Bay Area Laboratory Co­Operative, which that alleged­ly supplied Bonds and other elite athletes with perform­ance-enhancing drugs. 
Some legal experts see Anderson as the key to prov­ing the perjury allegations, since Bonds reportedly testi­fied that the trainer gave him two substances that fit the description of "the cream" and "the clear" -two per­formance-enhancing drugs linked to BALCO. 
In 2003, Bonds reportedly testified to the grand jury investigating BALCO that he believed the substances were flaxseed oil and arthritis balm, not steroids. 
Anderson also could offer insight into the doping calen­dars bearing Bonds' name that were seized when federal agents raided Anderson's house, according to court papers connected to the steroids probe. 
But Anderson's lawyers say he shouldn't have to testify because of the numerous leaks of secret grand jury tes­timony to the San Francisco Chronicle during the course of the four-year investigation. 
Chronicle reporters Lance Williams and Mark Fainaru­Wada have written a book based largely on leaked testi­mony. 
A federal judge has told the reporters they must tell a grand jury who leaked them secret testimony. The pair have said they would go to jail rather than reveal their source or sources. 
Anderson's lawyers also say the agreement he made with prosecutors to plead guilty last year in the BALCO case stip4lated he wouldn't have to cooperate in the investigation. Anderson also shouldn't have to testify because he was the target of an illegal wiretap, they argue. 
The new grand jury order­ing Anderson's testimony can stay in session for as long as 18 months. 
By law, an intransigent Anderson can be locked up for the grand jury's full term, though a judge can free him sooner if convinced he never will talk. 
.~ 
Visit our eaUy really big new store, save a ton f money and get good stuff that elps us help the poor.. 

3408 
drnore Trait. 
South Bend 
234-6000 Open on-Sat, 9-6... 


CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students Welcomes the Class of 2010. 
We members of the Core Council are administrators and gay and lesbian students who are aresource in identifying the ongoing needs of our gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. By implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay, lesbian, and bisexual issues, the Core Council strives to eliminate homophobia and make Notre Dame aplace that accepts and prizes the uniqueness of all its students. 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students will host aRECEPTION for interested first-year students: 
Monday,August21~ 
1:30·3:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse Building (3rd Floor Lounge) 
Visit our web site at http://www.corecouncil.nd.edu/ 

Elway's losses helping Manning find success 
NFL 
MVP's patience thin with playoff failures 
Associated Press 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. ­Peyton Manning went out of his way during the offseason to seek out two guys who know how it feels to miss a golden opportunity. 
It just so happens that Mike Shanahan and John Elway also know what it's like to bounce back. 
What became of Manning and the Indianapolis Colts last sea­son sure had a familiar ring to it: A dominant regular season, clinching home-field advantage with a month to go, going into the first round with rested starters -and falling flat. 
All that happened to the Broncos in 1996, with a shock­ing loss to the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
"Their feeling was similar to ours," Manning said this sum­mer, relaxing during a break in training camp. "The sickness, the missed opportunity. It's as low as it can be. You work so hard to get home field these days." 


The subtext? That same Denver team went on to win two consecutive Super Bowls. If Manning wants to shake the persistent notion that he can put up numbers but can't win the big one, he'll have to follow in Elway's footsteps. 
"It's a great lesson," Manning said. "They took their time to put it aside and not feel sorry for themselves. And making their peace with the football gods, they did something about it and played a little angry the next year and won two in a row. 
"That's what I'd like to do. I'd like to win Super Bowls. Bowls. Multiple. Not just one." 
Playing a little angry might be a good place to start. 
Elway told Manning that the Broncos' dismay at that bitter loss to the Jaguars made them more eager to come back quick­ly. They ended up with a wild­card slot the following season -forcing them to play hard all the way -and beat Green Bay in the Super Bowl. 
But anger isn't Manning's comfort zone. Intellect and a ferocious work ethic are. 
That frenetic motion that fans see on the field _ pointing and waving at the line of scrim­mage; calling audibles or faking them -is a manifestation of the intelligence. The fact that he can communicate his vision to teammates speaks to his tire­less striving for perfection. 
Manning is a leader by exam­ple, spending countless hours studying and throwing to his receivers in offseason workouts. 
"Forty straight outs," he says. "Not an out, then a post, then some other route like a lot of quarterbacks do. It's repetition, repetition, repetition, so that when you're in a game, it's automatic." 
His teammates reciprocate. 
"If Peyton asks me, I'll do it. If I ask Peyton to do something, he'll do it," says Marvin Harrison, his favorite receiver, who is on course to finish his career second only to Jerry Rice in many receiving categories. 
Manning, meanwhile, already broke Dan Marino's season record for touchdown passes in 2004 with 49, and has a real shot at eclipsing his career passing records. If he never wins a title, though, he and Marino will have that in -com­mon, too. 
Maybe it's too early to label Manning a loser. But he remains a non-winner. 
"The Super Bowl question is legitimate," he said. "''ve done a lot, but that's one thing I haven't done since I've been here." 

Colts coach Tony Dungy ­who also carries that label with a sparkling regular-season record but no Super Bowl -is quick to point to another great athlete who started to hear the whispers. 
"You forget that they were saying that about Michael Jordan after the Bulls kept los­ing to Detroit," Dungy said. "They said he'd never win. Then he won six champi­onships. Peyton will win. He just has to finish it once and he'll keep going." 
Until last season, Manning's playoff losses were to arguably better teams. Although he played horribly in two playoff losses in Foxborough to New England, it's only fair to point out that both times the Patriots were en route to their second and third Super Bowl titles. 
But for the better part of last year, the Colts were the best team in football. 
Their run to 13-0 was the only topic that could trump the antics of an obstreperous wide receiver then with the Eagles. Not only were they the favorite to get to the Super Bowl, but they appeared well on their way to becoming the first team besides the 1972 Miami Dolphins to go unbeaten. 
With home-field advantage well in hand, Indianapolis lost at home to San Diego on Dec. 18, a loss that was followed by the death of Dungy's son. 
The perfect season gone and a cloud of sadness hanging over them, the Colts regrouped and began to gear up for the play­offs. 
Manning and the rest of the starters sat for most of the last two regular-season games, a loss at Seattle and a win over Arizona. 
Then it all came crashing down at the RCA Dome. 
In the Colts' first playoff game, a blown replay call, a shoestring, game-saving tackle by Steelers QB Ben Roethlisberger and a shanked, game-tying field goal by Indy's Mike Vanderjagt all added up to a bizarre and shocking loss to Pittsburgh. 
For his part, Manning was bad early, so-so later and good when it was too late. Another playoff loss, another stamp in the impression that Manning can't win the big game. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Pittman keeps legs churning along, despite little fanfare 
Associated Press tion and fanfare. best the third-most recogniza­"I don't see that I get over­230 pounds -a full head of 
The Ohio State tailback ran ble player on an explosive looked," he said. "My time will steam straight ahead at 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Antonio for 1,331 yards -the lOth­offense led by quarterback come. Everything must come whomever's in his way. He's Pittman had a spectacular best single-season mark in Troy Smith and receiver Ted to light sooner or later. I just everything that a tailback has 2005 season with little atten-school history -and he's at Ginn Jr. have to maintain and do what to be in the Big Ten." 
I've done since last year -be Tell that to the Big Ten productive." coaches. 
His teammates and coaches, Minnesota's Laurence however, recognize his value Maroney and Wisconsin's to the Buckeyes. Brian Calhoun were first-team 
Last winter, some Buckeyes all-conference selections in fans heralded the balloting by the signing of Chris coaches last year,
"My time will come
Wells as the next w i t h great Ohio State ... I just have to Northwestern's back. Running maintain and do Tyrell Sutton and backs coach Dick Penn State's Tony
what rve done.,,
Tressel, brother Hunt on the second of head coach team. Jim, went so far Antonio Pittman Pittman more as to compare Ohio State than held his own Wells to Cleveland against three of
running back 

The Sports Information Office • IS looking for student assistants for the 2006-07 school year. Any stu­dents interested in becoming ac­tive in Irish athletics should come to an informational meeting on Mon., Aug. 21 at 6:30 p.m. in the Sports Information Office (Joyce Center second floor inside Gate 2) or call Bernie Cafarelli at 1-7516 for more information. 
Browns immortal Jim Brown. 
When a broadcaster asked offensive coordinator Jim Bollman last week if Wells was just lying in wait to take Pittman's job, Bollman nearly lost it. 
"Now wait a minute. Antonio Pittman is THE No. 1 tail­back," Bollman said, his eyes narrowing and his voice ris­ing. 
Bollman pointed out that only one back in Ohio State history -Archie Griffin ­gained more yards (1,577) as a sophomore than Pittman. 
"All the great backs who have been here and Archie's the only guy to gain more yards than him as a sopho­more?" Bollman continued, still boiling. "C'mon. Who's going to come in here and take his place? No way." 
Smith said Pittman is the linchpin of the offense. 
"Antonio Pittman to me is probably the best back that I've ever played with, the best back I've ever handed the ball to," he said. "He's only 195 pounds and he runs like he's 
them in head-to­
head matchups (Ohio State didn't play Wisconsin and Calhoun). Maroney went for 117 yards and a touchdown against the Buckeyes, with Pittman rush­ing for 186 and two TDs. Sutton ran for 93 yards and caught a scoring pass and Pittman had 132 yards and ran for one score. 
In Ohio State's only Big Ten loss, Pittman and Hunt fought to a statistical draw, the for­mer going for 58 yards on 15 carries and the latter 64 on 16. 
Pittman has tried to school Wells this year, showing what a team player he is. 
Despite his big rushing total a year ago, he said he'd like to go for 1,700 yards this season. 
What means more to him, however, is the strong endorsements from his team­mates and coaches. 
"That means a lot, but this is a new year," he said. "I feel as if I'm coming in here as a freshman. I'm hungry. It's up to me to hold the job and prove myself once again." 

NFL 
Favre shows unequaled, unexpected optimism 
.­
around. Favre, perhaps the most rBc­threw interception after intnr­The "Favre watch" grated on
QB focused only on 
"I really believe that we're ognizabln and popular player in ception. Packers fans -even famous his own performances going to be bBtter than pnopln the league over the last dozen What else was he supposnd to ones. 
think we will," Favre said. years, has always represnntnd do? "I don't think I was really get­But it wasn't so long ago that hope for Packers fans. And if "We talked about it," said vet­ting that frustrated," said Associated Press Favre himself was one of the he's optimistic about the team's eran fullback William NASCAH champion and skeptics. talnnt, maybe thny should bn, Henderson, o1w of the few Wisconsin native Matt Kenseth, GREEN BAY, Wis. -Where Favre had CheesPiwad Nation too _ oven if Favro adds the remaining links to the team's who visited the team's training others see question marks, on high alert for months in the important cavoat that this is Super Bowl years. "It was tough camp on Wednesday. "But you Brett Favre sees potential offseason as he openly won­also the most inexperienend to handln. lie and I both had a know, you watch it, and you're exclamation points for the dered whether tho Packers had team he has ever playnd on. lot of' sleepless nights, coming in like, 'What's going to go on? Green Bay Packers this year. done enough improving to make Or maybe Favre just had to early, staying up late, simply What are they going to do? 
Of course, Favre also thought another year or football worth talk himself into believing the because we weron't used to Man, I've got to know before he saw plenty of big plays his while. Pueknrs got significantly better. that. Losing has nevnr been a the draft!' You know how it is: developing on the field last year After finally ending his retire­Green Bay finished 4-12 last part of either of our histories." The bigger fan you are, the -and 29 of them fizzled into ment saga in year, its l'irst los­Favre insists if running backs more you watch all that stuff." interceptions. April, Favre ing season with Ahman Green and Najeh Packers chairman Bob Harlan 
Favre opened his 16th train­says he has Favre under cnn­Davenport, wide rncniver Javon was flooded with calls and let­ing camp by proclaiming this put aside "/ really believe that ter. Walker, tight end Bubba Franks ters from fans expressing con­year's Packers "the most talent­concerns "I had spoiled and center Mike !-'lanagan had cern that general manager Ted
we're going to be better 
ed team that I've been a part about the myself because I not missed significant time last Thompson and new coach Mike of." a pronouncement as bold, Packers' than people think we thought that as season, it would have been a McCarthy were trying to chase improbable and perhaps ill­commitment will." long as I was the dill'erent story. off Favre and begin rebuilding. advised as many of his trade­to winning starting quarter­Still, the Packers fired coach Harlan called many fans per­mark off-balance touchdown right away back, we would Mike Sherman after the season. sonally, assuring them that
Brett Favre 
passes. rather than always have a Favre went into the oll'season McCarthy and Thompson were 
The 36-year-old three-time rebuilding. Packers quarterback chance," Favre unsure about retirement and in constant contact with Favre, MVP insists last year's dismal "All that is said. spent the next four months waf­but didn't want to pressure him. season can be blamed mainly in the past Favre explains fling about his football future. Harlan says he always figured on injuries. This year, he says a now," Favre he tried too hard lie made occasional public pro­Favre was coming back, mix of returning veterans, new said. ''I'm here to play. I'm very to make up for the absences of nouncements that offered dues, because a "great competitor" free agents and young players satisfied with the decision I injured teammates last year, but no firm answer, about his wouldn't retire if he thought he can produce a quick turn-made." throwing up his hands as he retirement plans. could still play. 
SKIING 
World record holder extends skiing streak to 1,000 days 
Hertrich travels both hemispheres, battles frigid temperatures, volcanoes searching for altitudinal adventure 
Associated Press and kept going. locale to meet skiing friends maintain Mt. Hood in Oregon He began logging his vertical Hertrich follows winter by than it is to set a world record. during the race camp season. elevation with a sophisticated 
Rainer Hertrich loves what he traveling from Oregon and Yet, setting records is certainly Hertrieh grew up in Boulder, altimeter watch. Skiing daily does so much that he hasn't Colorado to Chile and on his mind. Colo., learning to ski at an early was an easier calculation to taken a day off since Nov. 1, Argentina, zigzagging the "When I passed the first year age. A typical career path was compute. 2003. Americas to ski year-round. mark, that was a big mark," he not in his future. lie dreamed of Ilertrich has weathered bru­
No sick days. No vacation When it's winter in the U.S., said. "When I passed 500 days, things beyond the confines of a tal conditions along the way. days. He doesn't need them. he'll be here. And when sum­that was a big mark to me at classroom or an office cubicle. But he's continued to ski _ 
After all, Hertrich is not stuck mer comes, he ventures to the the time." "I didn't want to go to college. through bitter cold, frostbite, in an office or making sales Andes for South America's win­Following day 1,000 of his I thought about the outdoors rain and illness. calls. He's crisscrossing down ter. feat, he was a bit mystified on while in class," he recalled. "The worst days were when another ski slope to keep his It's there he finds the right his daily Internet blog by all the His thoughts have not I'm camping in my tent, it's world-record streak alive. conditions for the other world attention: "For some reason, changed since he was young. raining and I know I have to 
Hertrich reached the mile­record Hertrich set in his 1 ,000 days on skis seems like a The best part about skiing is go," he said. stone of 1,000 consecutive days marathon: vertical feet skied. big deal to a lot of people." "the freedom, being up on the There have been close calls, of skiing when he barreled He has already skied 34 mil­And while he's having way too mountain, and the scenery." too. Before flying to South down Oregon's Timberline Ski lion vertical feet. To put that much fun to contemplate the In 2003, his skiing endeavor America, for example, he's area on July 27. Though he sur­into perspective, on an average accomplishment for too long, began when he discovered an learned to take pre-dawn runs passed the next-longest streak day he skis 33,000 vertical feet. there was more than the usual elite dub at Jackson Hole, Wyo. on Mt. Hood before going to the long ago and already holds a That is higher than Mt. Everest. exuberancn in his online diary -for those who had skied 6 airport on a travel day. place in the Guinness Book of ''I'm going to South America following the day when he set million vertical feet in a year. One time in Chile, he rented a World Records, there's no sign for the adventure and keeping the record: "Great day, snow, llertrich was up for the chal­car at the airport and got lost in the ultimate ski bum plans to up the vertical feet," he said. and fun!!! I think J'll have to lenge, and he soon surpassed Santiago. He almost did not stop. "The adventure part is really wake up alive one more time that mark, skiing more than 7 make it to the slopes before the 
"To me, it's flat-out fun," said my reward to myself." and ski tomorrow." million vertical feet. day was over. Another time, he Hertrich, a 45-year-old tele­In a telephone interview from Hertrich lives and breathes "You have to ski every day," hopped a bus to the mountain mark skier. "I don't know of any Oregon, Hertrich sounds like a the cold environment. His day­he said, "and you have to ski a not realizing it was the scenic other sport where you can go man of few worries. He is not to-day job as a snow groomer, lot every day." route. that fast on your feet." married and has no children. manieuring and maintaining the With all this skiing, he began Perhaps the most bizarre, 
The previous record was held There is no one to question his very slopes that he skis, suits to wonder if he was near any though, was when he hiked up by the British skier Arnie freewheeling ways. his passion perfectly. In the record. lie was, and that's when an active volcano since it had Wilson, who skied 365 consecu­His drive seems more for the winter months, he works on his test of endurance against more snow to ski down than tive days in 1994. Hertrich sur­adventure of the next great Colorado's Copper Mountain Mother Nature and himself neighboring mountains during a passed Wilson's mark in 2004, downhill or a visit to a new and in the summer he helps truly began. dry spell in Chile's winter. 
MoNDAY, AuousT 21@ 7:00PM " FREE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE MAGNET TO THE FIRST 2500 STUDENTS, SPONSORED BY rtf!!tffifb. 
vs. ST. FRANCIS (PA) 
"UP TO 5 LUCKY NO, SMC, OR HCC STUDENTS COULD WIN A 
ALUMNI FIELD 2006 FOOTBALL STUDENT SEASON TICKET BOOKLET 
"COME ENJOY FREE FOOD@ THE PREGAME BBQ PRESENT BY STUDENT 
llOOfiT Atll'i\11\'. 

ACTIVITIES f.1'Ti\ (WHILE SUPPLIES lAST) 
~ 

--~ 
' 
Saturday, August 19, 2006 page 27
The Observer + SPORTS 

LOU AT THE BOOKSTORE 

NFL 
For111er Charger Leaf hired to coach D-11 QBs 
after four seasons best remem­bered for dreadful play, injuries 
CANYON, Texas -Ryan and clashes with coaches, team­Leaf's eyes are bloodshot and mates, reporters and fans. his hair is matted down at the So, how exactly did he end up end of a 17-hour workday. here, at a campus much closer 
The new quarterbacks coach to Amarillo than the Rose Bowl at West Texas A&M sets aside or NFL stardom? And what's he his Styrofoam tobacco spit cup doing teaching kids? and pauses to check the upcom­"I think the failure in the NFL ing schedule. has humbled me in the fact that 
It'll be another long day all I don't think I'm the best," Leaf right, with practice, meetings said. "I think I have some and plenty of time stuck in his knowledge that can help." cramped office. Leaf estimates Leaf's unlikely journey to he spends at least 70 hours a Canyon began in late 2003, week in his new job at this when his post-football life had Division II school -all for no hit rock bottom. paycheck. He was unhappy in his 9-to-5 
Yes, this hardworking volun­financial consulting job, wh~ch teer coach is the same Ryan threw him into such an Leaf who was supposed to take unhealthy, inactive rut that he the NFL by storm but instead ballooned to about 50 pounds just stormed around. The same over his playing weight, or guy who was taken second in "close to three bills." He rarely the 1998 draft, behind only left his house and, even when Peyton Manning, then retired he did, didn't feel comfortable in 
the city where he blundered most. "The people in San Diego did 
Associated Press 
103 IT Center Building 
not move on," said Leaf, who was booed and benched regu­
http://oit.nd.edu/store 
larly while losing 14 of 18 starts 
574~631 ~7477 
with the Chargers. "They would never say anything to my face. It was always behind my back, or little punches in the paper." 
While he was eager for dis­tance from his NFL past, in November 2003 he realized how 
But the clock is ticking. The start of classes is just 
much he missed college football. He called his former coach at Washington State, Mike Price, and they devised a plan to get 
Be ready with accessories at educational prices around the corner. · 
him back into the game. Leaf started by going back to
from the Notre Dame Computer Store. 
college at WSU and finishing his degree. Price, now the coach at Texas-El Paso, encouraged Leaf
Pick up software or an Ethernet cable in-store 
to apply at West Texas A&M and recommended that coach Don
at 103 Information Technology Center. And be 
Carthel give him the job. 
sure to check out our student prices for Microsoft 
"We all know, just as Ryan knows, that he messed up when 
Office Professional. We1 re open! 
he was younger," Carthel said. "But in the right environment, Ryan Leaf can use his good qualities and really help some­
Special-Orientation Hours 
body achieve some great things. That's the Ryan Leaf that we're all looking for." 
Saturday, August 19 9:00 am-12:00 Noon 
The quarterbacks he would coach didn't know what to think
Sunday, August 20 1:00 am--5:00 pm 
when he arrived in February. 

"I was wondering who found him and where he was and how they got ahold of him and got him here," backup Keith Null said. 
Starter Dalton Bell said "never in a thousand years would I have thought he'd be my quar­terbacks coach." Having seen Leaf's infamous meltdowns on television, he thought, "Man, maybe this guy could be a jerk." 
Computer problems? Our fully authorized war­
"But," Bell said, "he's a really good guy." 
ranty repair center is right next door. See us 
And a decent coach. too. 

Bell and Null said Leaf imme­diately improved their funda­
soon at the Notre Dame Computer Store for all 
your technology needs. 

mental throwing motion and helped with their timing, pocket presence and reading defenses. 
NO Icon and computer store address info, but 
It's not like those things were terrible before. West Texas A&M
make sure to indude web address this tirne as 
led Division II in passing offense 
not mentioned anywhere else. 
last year by ·averaging 364 yards and 40 points per game, prompting Baylor to hire away 

UNIVERSITY OF 
the offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach. That
NOTRE DAME 
opened the job Leaf filled. Bell said Leaf has plenty of patience and advice. He said
Office of Information Technologies 
Leaf told him: "Any time you're 
feeling down and out, you can 
come to me because I've proba­
© 2006, University of Nwe Dame 
bly been there." 
Saturday, August 19, 2006 

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Tea111s take advantage of new transfer rules 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE. Fla. Florida coach Urban Meyer spoke out against tlw NCAA's new graduate-transfer rule in May, calling it a loophole that needed to be -and eventually would be-closed. 
lie's more approving now. especially since cornerback Ryan Smith used the rule to leave Utah, enroll at Florida and give the Gators some much-needed depth in the sec­ondary. 
"I like it this year. I won't like it next year," Meyer said. 
Cal coach Jeff Tedford and Vanderbilt coach Bobby Johnson might agree; they also accepted transfers under the new legislation. Others, though, have questioned and criticized the rule that allows athletes who graduate and have eligibility remaining to transfer without the penalty of sitting out a season. 
"It's a bad rule because any­thing that encourages disloyal­ty is an awful thing," Duke coach Ted Roof said. "It's awful for college football, and it's the wrong message to send to young men -that it's OK to do that sort of thing." 
The Division I board of directors passed the legisla­tion in April, giving accelerat­ed student-athletes more options when it comes to pur­suing graduate degrees and waiving the normal one-year waiting period if they decide to transfer. Although most coaches believe the rule won't have a widespread effect, they fear it will encourage pro­grams to secretly recruit play­ers who qualify to transfer. 
It might have already hap­pened. At least three promi­nent players have taken advantage of the change. 
Smith started 12 games for Meyer and the Utes in 2004 and had 44 tackles and an interception. He started the first five games last year, but was replaced in the lineup midway through the season by the new coaching staff. 
He left Utah after spring practice, saying he was physi­cally and mentally exhausted from the game, but quickly began making plans to move to Gainesville. 
His transfer somewhat coin­cided with the departure of cornerback Avery Atkins, who was released from his scholar­ship in June after he was accused of striking the mother of his 2-month-old child. 
Smith said he considered transferring long before Atkins' troubles. But he also didn't choose Florida solely for its graduate program in edu­cational leadership: he wanted to be reunited with Meyer and position coach Chuck Ileater. 
"It could possibly affect 
overy school in tiH1 wrong way," Hoof said. "I doubt that tlw intent of ovnry rule is to enhance tho quality of tho gamo and tlw oxperience. But this is OIHl I know a lot of poo­plo don't agroo with." 
Hoof acknowlodges being somewhat biasnd. having lost a two-year startor on tlw offonsive linP to Cal becauso of the legislation. 
Guard Tylnr Krieg graduatnd from Duko in May with a bachelor's degren in political science. He transferred to Cal to pursue a master's in educa­tion, but he basnd the movn mostly on football. 
"The lack of success at Duke had a lot to do with my deei­sion," Krieg said. "It definitely was super frustrating going through four losing seasons at Duke. You put everything you have into it. Football is a large part of your college life." 
Not surprisingly, Tedford supports the rule. 
"If we had a fifth-year guy who wasn't completely happy, I would be OK with him trans­ferring," Tedford said. "Of course, you would hope that a guy in his fifth year would have an investment in the pro­gram." 
That didn't seem to be the case for Arizona quarterback Richard Kovaleheck. He start­ed the first seven games for the Wildcats last season, com­pleting 125 of 220 passes for 1,350 yards and 10 touch­downs. 
But after losing his starting spot to freshman Willie Tuitama, Kovalcheck decided to transfer to Vanderbilt. Kovalcheck, a senior with 11 career starts, could be the player to replace first-round NFL draft pick Jay Cutler. 
Unlike Roof at Duke, Arizona coach Mike Stoops backed the move. 
"In Richard's case, he lost his job and had a chance to play somewhere else," Stoops said. "More power to him." 
Other coaches might not feel the same way. 
"That rule was a strange one when it came out," Boston College coach Tom O'Brien said. "I guess if you graduate and you're dissatisfied and you want to go play some­where else, you can just pack up and go. It's beyond me." 
Although Meyer took advan­tage of the legislation, he still believes NCAA members and conference representatives will vote to override the legis­lation in January. 
Until then, though, the rule could help some teams and hurt others. 
"I think overybody's suscep­tible nnll t11ey should be wor­ried because it can negatively affect anyone," Hoof said. "The rule nf1eds to bn changed." 


MLB 

Giants catcher out for year 
Concussion symptoms recurfor Matheny two months after injury 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCISCO -Mikn Mathnny had bngun pownr washing his dnck last month whnn tlw symptoms rnturnnd. Ilnadat:lws. Fogginnss. Short­term nwmory loss. 
All wnrn signs tlw Ciants eatehnr had yet to rncovnr from tlw concussion that has sidnlinnd him sinen May :~1. and now for tho rnst of the season, following a snrios of foul tips that caromnd ofT his mask with sueh for~:n that they damag1~d his brain. 
Even tho lightost bit of exertion -such as elimbing stairs -is too m ueh for Matheny, who's known for having played through all sorts of aehes and pains dur­ing a 13-year career. 
This time, he took enough blows in succession to put him on the disabled Jist at the end of May. More than two months later, his brain still hasn't healed. It's tough for him to wateh his teammates on TV, Jet alone take in a game in person. 
"I walk into a room and for­get why I went in there," Matheny said, sitting in San Francisco's dugout before a recent game. "I forget things I've never forgotten before. I've lost my wallet and phone I can't tell you how many times. 
"Sometimes I shake my head and laugh at myself," he said. "There's nothing I can do about it." 

A concussion is a shaking of the brain that causes chemi­cal changes. Athletes suffer an estimated 300,000 of them nationwide each year, according to the Sports Concussion Program at the University of Pittsburgh Medieal Center. Most recover fully, but experts believe a person who suffers a concus­sion is more prone in the future. 
Repeated trauma of the brain can result in cognitive and neurological disabilities, even death. 
"With a single concussion, you're going to recover," said Dr. Micky Collins, assistant director of the University of Pittsburgh concussion center where Matheny has been treated. "The problem is, when you have a concussion and undergo these chemical changes, you're a lot more vulnerable if you have a sec­ond before the first one is recovered." 
While comparatively rare in baseball, concussions have ended celebrated careers in other sports. NFL quarter­backs Troy Aikman and Steve Young eventually had to call it quits after too many con­cussions. 


Saturday, August 19, 2006 

PREPPING FOR TECH 


NFL 

Colts looking for kickers 
Without Smith and Vinatieri, Indy seeks emergency backups 
Associated Press 

TEHRE HAUTE, Ind. ­Backup kickers should send job applications to the Indianapolis Colts. 
Adam Vinatieri and punter llunter Smith are both injured and expected to miss Sunday's preseason game against Seattle, leaving the Colts scrambling to find replacements. 
On Wednesday, that meant trying out backup quarter­back Shaun King at kicker and tight end Ben Utecht at punter. Dungy appreciated their efforts, but by Thursday, he'd already decided the Colts needed to add two experienced kickers for the preseason home opener. 
lie said after the morning workout that the team would probably sign kicker Shane Andrus and a punter. 
Andrus came to training camp in the unenviable posi­tion of having to beat out Vinatieri. widely regarded as the NFL's best in the clutch, a rflputation he earned after making two Super Bowl-win­ning kicks for New England. The Colts signed Vinatieri to a five-year, $12 million con­tract in March. 
So it was no surprise when Indy released Andrus, a free agent from Murray State, on Monday when five new play­ers joined the roster. 
Then the rash of injuries that depleted other areas 

finally hit the Colts' special­
ists. Vinatieri sprained his 
left ankle -or plant foot ­
while running. He hasn't 
practiced since. 
Dungy initially planned to 
use Smith as the backup, but 
that changed Tuesday when 
the punter strained his groin 
and missed practice the past 
two days. So the coach 
improvised. 
While King tried kicking for the first time in his life, Utecht returned to a spot he ·once held at the University of 
Minnesota. 
The results were mixed. 
"I should have retired after 
my first one," King joked 
Thursday. "I hit the first one, 
then got in a rut." 
Utecht was the Gophers' 
backup punter until his sen­
ior season when a sports 
hernia forced him to give up 
the role. 
Utecht said 
it was the 
Haute on Wednesday to watch practice but has .nDt yet re-signed. 
Most of the Colts other key play·ers have returned to practice.The biggest names, aside from Vinatieri and Smith, missing from Thursday morning's practice were safety Mike Doss, defensive tackles Corey Simon and Montae Reagor, guard Ryan Lilja and wide receiver Brandon Stokley. 
All are significant contribu­tors, but Lilja, Simon and Reagor have all missed at least one week. Doss has missed the last two days of practice after aggravating a calf injury that kept him out most of the first two weeks of camp. 
Stokley's injury is the most serious. He sprained his left 
ankle Sunday, 
and he could 
miss the Colts' 


first time in regular-season
"I hope we don't punt as
nearly four opener on
often as we did last 
years he'd Sept. 10. tried punt­week. Maybe we'll just The Colts ing in any­have also con­
score touchdowns or go
thing other sidered having
for it every time. " 
than a Simon undergo playful surgery on his manner. Tony Dungy sore knee. 
''I'm pret­Tests have
Colts head coach 
ty comfort­able in those situa­tions," Utecht said. "Somebody asked me yester­day if it was like riding a bike, you don't forget. It did­n't take me long to get used to it again." 
Dungy was more impressed with Utecht's results than King's but apparently was not convinced he should use Utecht Sunday night. 
"We've already found out he can be an emergency punter for us, if we nond it," Dungy said. 
Andrus returned to Terre not yet indi­
cated why 
rookie safety Jahmile Addae became light­headed during Wednesday morning's workout, Dungy said. 
Addae was to have more tests Thursday in Indianapolis. 
Dungy said there was another way the Colts could deal with their kicking dilem­ma-don't punt Sunday. 
"I hope we don't punt as often as we did last week," he said. "Maybe we'll just score touchdowns or go for it every time." 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Talented frosh join Irish 
Waldrum adds five scholarship players for fifth-ranked team 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame needed to replace two All-Americans, a four-year starting goalkeeper and a starting senior mid­fielder after they graduated in May. No problem. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum signed five players to letters of intent in February, and four more have joined the team to start the 2006 cam­paign, as the team kicks off with a preseason No. 5 rank­ing. 
Waldrum announced the signings of forward Michele Weissenhoffer, defender Haley Ford, goalie Kelsey Lysander and midfielders Courtney Rosen and Amanda Clark Feb. 5. 
He later added defenders Mara Paz de Araujo, Rachel VanderGenugten and Ashley Galovic and midfielders Amber Lattner and Micaela Alvarez to the team's fall ros­ter. 
"We've been very pleased with all five," Waldrum said after Notre Dame's 5-0 victo­ry over Xavier in an exhibi­tion game Thursday on Alumni Field. "They've all come in like veterans." 
Weissenhoffer, who scored a goal and added an assist in the win, will take the roster spot of Katie Thorlakson. Thorlakson was a two-time All-American who tallied 18 goals and 35 assists (71 points) her senior season after leading the Irish to a national championship in 2004 with 23 goals and 24 assists. 
Weissenhoffer was a club teammate of Clark, who led the back line of their Eclipse Select elub team that won national titles in 2004 and 2005. 
At 5-foot-6, Clark offers the physical ver­satility both to shut down opposing 
"They've all come in
offenses and eran Bohn. stretch the like veterans. " Westfall was field as a sidelined this defender or preseason with
Randy Waldrum 
midfielder. an injury but
Irish head coach 
The fresh­man class' natural mid­fielder, Rosen, is a product of Brecksville, Ohio, and has played on the U.S. U-17 and U-18 national squads since she was 15. 
While Rosen, Clark and Weissenhoffer all were highly sought-after recruits, Waldrum said the 5-foot-9 defender Ford slipped under the radar of many other pro­grams. 
Ford was a dedicated play­er in high school, regularly traveling five and a half' hours from her hometown of Midland, Texas, to Dallas to play with her club team, the Dallas Texans. 
"It's a lot easier now," Ford said of' living on campus within a few minutes of' tho practice field. 
Her defensive responsibili­ties will be important as Notre Dame enters 2006 without graduated defender Candace Chapman and goal­keeper Erika Bohn. 
That's where Lysandor comes in. 
She, senior Nikki Westfall 
and junior 
Lauren Karas 
will combine to 
replace the vet-
will be ready to compete for the starting job this week. 

"We love !Lysander's! ath­leticism," Waldrum said. "One thing I like about her is her confidence. She didn't come into this in awe." 
The freshmen will be put to the test when the Irish take on Iowa State Aug. 26 at 1 
p.m. on Alumni Field. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Nine new players will suit up for 2006 Belles 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Trying to build on an 11-7-1 record and a third-place MIM finish a year ago, Saint Mary's will add at least nine new fresh­men to its roster this season. 
Saint Mary's head eoach Caryn MacKenzie said that while the roster has not bnen linalizod, tho freshnwn began practice Thursday. Opon tryouts will be held Monday to fill as many remaining slots as Mackenzie sees lit. 
"We nevnr know [who we will have on our rost1)rl until we see them on the liel"d," Mackenzie said. "We won't know until Monday what our team will look like." 
Mackenzie said that the nine freshmen who startod Thursday -Briana Cantu (Austin, Tx.), Katy Durkin (Pontiac, Mich.), Colleen Ferguson (Dunlap, Ill.), Molly CaiTney (lludson. Ohio). Samantha Coudreau (Lake Forest, Ill.), Michelle Bedinger (Jaspnr, Ind.), Bridget Hornayne (Mundnlein, Ill.), Jessica Slean (Allison Park, Penn.) and Katie Wehrli (Fort Wayne, Ind.) -will be slotted into positions once Maekenzie sees them on the prac­tice field. 
"I don't get too wrapped up in positions," Mackenzie said. "What they do for me may be totally dif­ferent then what they did for their old coach." 
While the Belles only lost three seniors ol'f last year's team, Mackenzie said there are plenty of opportunities for the freshmen to see playing time. 
"It's just a matter how talented they are and how quickly they make the transition to the colle­giate level," she said. 
Mackenzie needs to replace most of her back wall after losing defenders Carrie Orr, Shannon Culbertson and Maura SchoPn to graduation. Orr was a first-team aii-MIAA pick last season. Junior Justine Higgins, who started 16 games in 2005, is the lone return­ing starter in the baek. To fill the holes, MacKenzie said she may move midfiolders to defense. 
"There's certainly an opportuni­ty for anyone to play there," she said. "The opportunity is there if you're willing to make the plays." 
Up front, the Belles return 2005 leading scorer Lauren Hinton, who netted 14 goals in 19 games last season. Her sister, senior Ashley !linton, also returns aftor scoring four goals from her start­ing midfield spot. 
At goalie, senior Laura Heline returns after starting all 19 games last season when she post­ed six shutout<; and allowed a lit­tle over a goal per game. 
Saint Mary's begins its season Aug. 26 at Anderson. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Piane vvelco111es 12 nevv fresh111en 
Walker, Hagerman, Kiley lead new class 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Associare Sporrs Ediror 
With a multi-year contract extension extension in hand, Irish coach Joe Piane will begin his 32nd season at Notre Dame with 12 new faces on his roster. 
After losing four top seniors ­Tim Moore, Kaleb Van Ort, Sean O'Donnell and Vinny Ambrico -Piane said the freshmen will have a chance to make an imme­diate impact. 
''I've got some holes to fill," he said. "We're going to have some pretty good kids, but we're going to have to fill in with some fresh­men." 
Piane singled out freshmen Brock Hagerman of Markleville, Ind., Greg Kiley of Saratoga Springs, N.Y. and Jake Walker of Ellwood City, Penn. as the lead­ing candidates to run with Notre Dame's top seven early in the season. 
Hagerman won the individual Indiana state cross country championship last fall, while Kiley was the New York state champion in the indoor 1,600 meters. Walker recorded the fourth fastest high school indoor 3,000-meter time in the nation as a senior. 
Piane said other freshman may also contribute, but that several of the twelve in the incoming class -mainly middle-distance track runners -will be on the roster purely to stay in shape for track season. 
The Irish coaching staff sent each new runner a packet with workout instructions at the beginning of the summer. The program included a slow buildup in mileage, starting at 35 miles per week and growing through­out the summer. Piane also asked his runners to compete in several road races. 

The idea, Piane said, was to acclimate the freshmen to run­ning longer distances. College cross country races are 10 kilo­meters, twice the distance of high school. 
"That's a heck of a jump," Piane said. "What I'm asking them to do is run their high school best twice in one race. There really aren't other sports that are analogous." 
While Piane said the newcom­

2Q%off 
any single item* 
9 llllliJIJIJIII~~~~~IIt 
or 

'$2Qoff
: I any $100 or !I more purchase* :I 
j J i t li . i :~~E~.:,~:r~:t~~;;:::;:.;~ l : 
I ~!\~Xr~s. ~)~. !<JU:!':tlftAid Pl"t) urn: Sea·:es. Sh:11llef :matw 1 l Mauti~. Tc:~p:.:r-Pedlc. Uc"y. Tile ur.it mar;! L..Wdef. cusltKn 1 -~ )'.~:.-d<1.¥ ill tN: ~ Gard:;. (~1-'lll!it !):; r.o:mr..a"! w~lh any otttr.r :­
1 ewi.W\ll'of!"e!Got.:IXKliYJI:vii!:Ult.ffla'::ls~ptr::tl$;;.ssar.d l 
l Ciin:'lll! be IJ:.&ri With 1mL-m'n lh l'k1S c.."eflit card li:'S! pwct\3.~ 1 
I c:fft'f. 01.~ 1~tnt;;;orr~ rr::rt ap;..ljy ?:ease~ !Al!e & tt<:.c;_:u f~K 1 
~ oo:.a!t') Cc11pon elq)iras Septembet :30. 1.0!l6. J 
. ' ,
:-'~ .......-~ ......""__....... ..., .... ~~-~:'!!':~~r.c~.~-1:,: 
Crib Comforts 
D 2 St1eet Sets. Includes flat & 1itted sheets, pillowcase(s). Check wittl your college to see if you need X-Iong sheets. 
D 1 Com1orter or Quilt (Choose eitt1er poly or down-fiiled.) D 2 Duval Covers (11 you chose a down comforter.) 0 2 Blankets (It's always good to have an extra.) 
D 2Pillows 
D 4 Pillow Protectors 
D 1 Mattress Pad 
D 1 Fiberbed/Fealherbed 
D 1 lnftatable Aero Bed 
D 1 Accent Rug 
Hit The Showers 
D 6 Towel Sets 
0 1 Shower Uner 
D 1 Shower Ring Set 
D 1 Electric Toothbrush 
D 1 Over The Door Hook 
D 1 Blow Dryer 
D Shampoos & Conditioners 
D 1 Curling Iron 
D 1 Electric Razor 
D 1 RoiJe and Slippers 
0 1 Bath Rug 
D 1 Shower Radio 
D 1 Cosrnel;c Organrzer 
D 1 Colton Swab/Ball Holder 
D 1 Manicure Kit 

ers have stuck faithfully to the program, it hasn't always been easy, according to freshman Jim Notwell of Upper Arlington, Ohio. 
"In high school, our workouts were pretty light. Our coaches tried to make sure we didn't get hurt, with shin splints and things you can get if you run too much," Notwell said. ''I'm doing twice as much running now as I ever did in high school in terms of mileage." 
The Irish open fall practice Sunday and will run their first race Sept. 8 at the Valparaiso Invitational in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Clean It 
D 1 Tabletop Ironing Board D 1 Hand or Stick Vacuum D 1 Cylindar Hamper D 1 Compact Iron D 1 Drying Rack D 2 Laundry Bags 
Cram Time D 1 Bulletin Board D 1 Desk Lamp D 1 Floor Lamp D 1 Desk Organizer Set D 1 Bed Rest D 1 Lap Desk 0 1 Waste BaSket D 1 Paper Shredder D 1 Dry Erase Board 
[] 2 Floor Pillows [.]1 Throw 
Must Haves [] 1 Clock Radio D 1Telephone 0·1 Fan D 2 AlbumsiPhoto 
Storage Boxes 0 2 Extension Cords D 2 Squid Multi-Outlet 
Plug Aciapters D 1 Door Mirror D Batteries D Wa;l Hooks D Frames ancl Posters 
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
New runners vie for five positions 
Connelly stresses high expectations 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Associate Sports Ediror 
In the process of reloading a squad that lost five of its top seven runners to gradua­tion after last season, Notre Dame coach Tim Connelly brought five freshmen dis­tance runners to bolster his roster. 
"There are some of them that we think can contribute right away," Connelly said of his class of 2010, which starts practice with the team Aug. 21. 
Last season, then-freshman Hamsey Kavan burst on the scene, finishing No. 11 in the Notre Dame Invitational in her first collegiate race and holding down the team's fourth position for most of the season. 
This year, Connelly said he has three runners that may make an immediate impact 
Molly Sullivan of Elmhurst, Ill., Beth Tacl of St. Cloud, Minn. and Lindsay Ferguson of Greenfield Center, N.Y. 
Ferguson holds the nation­al high school record for the 2,000-meter steeplechase and ran the second-fastest high school time in the nation in the 3,000 meters during indoor track season last fall. 
"She's a pretty talented kid and a really good competitor, so we're counting on her to make an impact right off the bat," Connelly said of Ferguson. 
Sullivan spent most of the summer nursing an injury, but Connelly said he expects her to be ready when prac­tice starts. 
"She's a little behind, but we think she'll catch up quickly," Connelly said. 
Dominique Taylor (Gary, Ind.) and Maria Analisa Sandoval (Los Alamos, N.M.) will also practice with the team, although Connelly said they most likely will be train­ing for track season and are not expected to compete in meets. Both will compete in middle distances for the Irish track team in the winter and spring. 
Connelly said Taylor and Sandoval may compete in cross country down the road. 
"We've had a bunch of kids over the years that have taken a few years before they were ready to con­tribute at cross country, but once they've gotten out on the cross country course, they've been great," he said. 
Connelly sent each of the runners detailed instructions for their summer work outs last May. 
"We set a mileage goal and then move up to it," he said. "When we get close to the goal we start adding speed and tempo workouts as well." 
"What we want them to do and what they do are some­times two different things," he said. "Usually after their freshman year they'll have a much better idea of what we want them to do. More than anything, over the summer we just want them to be real­ly diligent and train really consistently." 
Still, Connelly said his most important expectation for incoming freshmen over the summer is that they work hard. 
"If they train consistently, they'll probably be ready for what we ask them to do when they get here," he said. 
The Irish open their season Sept. 8 at the Valparaiso Invitational in Valparaiso, Ind.· 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
WHISTLE BLOWING 


KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer Notre Dame strength and conditioning coach Ruben Mendoza evaluates the football team during practice Wednesday at Cartier Field. 
Frosh foursome hits the Irish links 
MEN'S GOLF 
American Junior Golf Association puts Fortner at No. 48 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Fore is a dirty word in golf. But the sound should be very nice to Notre Dame this year. 
In the case of the men's 
golf team, four is the number of incoming freshmen expected to bol­ster the lineup of an already very impressive Irish squad. 
Incoming freshmen Doug Fortner (Tustin, Calif./Foothill H.S.) and Kyle Willis (Lake Forest, Ill/Lake Forest HS) signed letters of intent last fall, and Olavo Batista Filho (Sao Paulo, Brazil/Chapel HS) and Carl Santos-Ocampo 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Brown expects rookie impact 
Incoming class includes three Prepvolleyball.com All-Americans 
huge," Brown said. "There's By ERIC RETTER no question that as a group Associate Sports Editor they're going to play a major 
part in the team's success, 

As the Aug. 26 season open­counting this year and obvi­er against Bowling Green ously into the future." nears, almost half of Notre Outside hitters Megan Fesl 
Dame's players  and  Christina  
are preparing to  Kaelin and mid­ 
play their first game in an Irish uniform. After finishing the 2005 season 30-4 and ranked No. 12 by the American  "/ think the impact [the freshmen] are going to have as a group is going to be huge."  dle blocker Kim Kristoff -all of whom were listed as part of Volleyball's Fab 50 high school seniors last year -will lead the  
Volleyball C o a c h e s Association  Debbie Brown Irish head coach  class. The trio repre­sents the first  

progress her rookies have made. 
"The freshmen are coming in and just stepping up and being right in the middle of things," Brown said. "If some­one walked into our gym right now there's no way they would know who the freshmen are and who the upperclass­man are, because [the fresh­men] are fitting in very well and doing a great job." 
And they're competing for almost every starting spot. 
"I think it's wide open," Brown said. "The coaching staff is going to have a tough time picking the starting line­up, because it's just really competitive and [the players are],pushing each other every year, then moved back to Brazil to finish his high school education. 
day.  
Brown,  however, does not  
see this as a nega­ 
tive.  
"It's going to be a  

Kubinski expects that Batista Filho will need some time to adjust to playing in America again. 
"The fall season will be an acclamation period [for him)," Kubinski said. "I think he'll become more competitive in the spring and the rest of his career here." 
While all four freshmen 

"Character was maybe the single biggest factor for this recruiting class. While these guys may come from all over the U.S. -and outside it -all four guys are in the same mold regarding 
character and work ethic. " 
Jim Kubinski Irish head coach 
have enjoyed success on the links, they have succeeded in other areas as well. Both Batista Filho and Santos­Ocampo were members of the National Honor Society at their respective high schools. Santos­Ocampo also received the prestigious AJGA Bob Carter Sportsmanship Award for his play on the jun­ior tour. 
"Character was maybe the 
(Naples, Fla./Community School of Naples) joined the 

"'"team: in July. The foursome is the first full recruiting class under Irish coach Jim Kubinski. "I'm very excited about it," Kubinski said. "They're a very talented group of play­ers." All four incoming freshmen have resumes with high school experience and time on the main junior tours ­three on the American Junior 
single biggest factor for this recruiting class," Kubinski said. "While these guys may come from all over the U.S. -and outside it -all four guys are in the same mold regarding character and work ethic. They all approach the game the right way." 
That approach will be important as the team is in the midst of a resurgence. 
In the 2004-05 season, 
Notre Dame post­
ed a school­

Golf Association "This year's class record team­(AJGA). stroke average of
is very talented, 
Fortner leads 292.77. The Irish the group with a though, and I also won their 
73.11 stroke think you could third consecutive average on the Big East title and
see two, three, or
AJGA tour in competed in 
even all four in
2006. He has their third con­also been as the starting secutive NCAA high as No. 43 regional tourna­
lineup at some 
on the ment. Notre
point this 
Golfweek/Titleist , Dame rose as rankings for season. high as No. 12 in junior golfers. t h e He currently Golfweek/Sagarin
Jim Kubinski
stands at No. 48. Performance
Irish head coach
Santos­Index ratings. 
Ocampo has 13 career top-25 finishes on the AJGA tour and has a 7 4.43 stroke aver­age in 2006. Willis isn't far behind, with a 76.14 stroke average this year. 
"[The AJGA] is the best predictor we have to predict­ing if success in high school will translate to success in college," Kubinski said. "One reason is because the cours­es they play on the junior tours are so difficult. They're very comparable to college courses as they have long holes, thick rough, and difficult pin placements." 
Batista Filho doesn't have a 2006 AJGA stroke average because he has played in Brazil. Batista Filho finished second in the New York state tournament his sophomore 
If last season 
was any indica­tion of how Notre Dame freshmen typically perform, Kubinski has nothing to worry about. Sophomore Josh Sandman was one of the team's key players late in the 2005-06 season, post­ing scores of 70 and 71 to help the Irish win the Big East championship. 
"You don't usually see freshmen make a huge con­tribution, but Sandman exceeded our expectations," Kubinski said. "This year's class is very talented, though, and I think you could see two, three, or even all four in the starting lineup at some point this season." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
(AVCA), Notre Dame bid farewell to five seniors, including second­team All-American Lauren Brewster and Lauren Kelbly, who received All-American honorable mention. 
Head coach Debbie Brown then signed seven freshmen, earning the attention of recruiting followers. Volleyball Magazine listed Notre Dame as the No. 3 recruiting class in the nation, behind Texas and Penn State, while Prepvolleyball.com ranked the Irish fifth. 
In large part because of the young team's potential, the AVCA ranked Notre Dame No. 21 in its preseason poll despite the fact that the Irish return only two starters from last season's team. 
"I think the impact [the freshmen] are going to have as a group is going to be 
time  that  the  
Irish have signed  
three  Fab  50  
players  since  1997,  when  
Denise  Boylan,  

Christi Girton and Jo Jameyson all 

'Tm seriously
entered Notre good problem to Dame. All three not even in a have," she said. entering freshman ''I'm seriously just
position to say
were also All­not even in a posi­
at this point 
Americans, accord­tion to say at this ing to who could or point who could or Prepvolleyball.com. who might or might
who might or
They will be not be [in the start­
might not be 
joined by setter ing lineup]. Jamel Nicholas, [in the starting "But I can guar­also a lineup].,, antee you that Prepvolleyball.com there will be at All-American, mid­least two and dle blocker Tara Debbie Brown maybe three and Enzweiler, outside Irish head coach maybe four fresh­hitter Serinity men that are going Phillips and defen-to be starting and sive specialist/libero Colleen having significant roles." Nolan. 
Throughout fall practice, Contact Eric Retter at Brown has raved about the eretter@nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMEtt 
WASHINGTON PROGRAM 
I.,ive, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring sen1cster. 
FIRST YEAR STUDENTS & PARENTS: Info Meeting, Saturday, August 19th, 4:30 p.n1., 131 DeBartolo Hall. Or contact the Washington Program Office, 163 Hurley, (574) 631-7251 or wp@nd.edu. Deadline to apply for next academic year is November 15th. www.nd.edu/-wp 
MEN's SoccER 

No.16 ranked freshman class takes to the pitch 
College Soccer News ranks both 2006 squad, rookie players highly a season after appearance in NCAA round of 16 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Entering the season, 16 seems to be the number most associated with Notre Dame. 
The Irish, who advanced to the Sweet 16 in last season's NCAA tournament, begin their 2006 campaign ranked No. 16 in the nation by College Soccer News. 
After the Irish successfully signed another strong recruit­ing class, College Soccer News gave Notre Dame's incoming freshmen the same ranking ­No. 16. 
"They're a very good class," head coach Bobby Clark said Tuesday. "We've had a lot of good classes the last few years, but this certainly is another one, with some very outstand­ing players." 
This year's freshman class includes two high school All­American midfielders in Justin Morrow and Michael Thomas, who scored 42 and 41 goals, respectively, in their high school careers. 
Additionally, two Irish fresh­men won All-State honors, as midfielder Dave Donahue was named to Massachusetts' All­State team twice, while Tamba Samba was an All-State for­ward in Indiana in his senior season. 
Joining them as rookies on the roster will be defender John Schaefer, midfielder John Baumgardner and goalkeeper Philip Tuttle. · 
While these seven players are a talented group, they may face an uphill battle if they plan to see significant minutes early on in the season. Notre Dame will return nine starters and 14 monogram winners from a year ago, including All­American midfielder Greg Dalby. 
"We've got a very strong returning group, so we're not in a position where we need to hurry anyone in," Clark said. "At the same time, if anyone deserves to be in, they'll be in." 
In the few weeks that the freshmen have been practicing with the team, Clark has seen an improvement in the play of his rookies. 
"All of them have actually done pretty well [in practice through Tuesday]. They've all shaped up, [and] they've all shown promise," Clark said. 
Before the Irish played their first of two exhibitions on Thursday at Drake, Clark was optimistic the games would 
shed  a  better light  on  the  
potential  impact  of  the  
youngest team members.  

"At the moment they're still learning, still learning the sys-tern," Clark said. "Until you've seen them play in a real game, it's difficult to know where they are." 
Clark also said he plans to give his new players plenty of time to learn the system and make an impression. 
"I try not to judge youngsters too early, because if you judge them too early before they're ready and before they get com­fortable, you can perhaps come to the wrong conclu­sions," he said. 
Hegardless of how much playing time they will see this season, Clark is confident that all the freshmen on the team will continue to improve and will serve as a solid foundation for upcoming seasons. 
"You can learn by getting thrown into the deep end, or you can learn by working everyday at practice with qual­ity players," he said. "Good players will learn by competing for time with experienced play­ers. If they're good players, they're going to be fine." 
Notes: 
+Notre Dame will play its home opener Monday in an exhibition game against St. Francis at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. The team will ask for a $1 contribution from all those in attendance to support Grassroot Soccer, a program that aims to combat the AIDS epidemic in Mrica using soccer as a means of communication. 


Last season, the Irish took in slightly over $2,500 at the gate, and that number was matched by both a Notre Dame soccer alumnus -who wishes to remain anonymous -as well as the Notre Dame soccer camps, meaning the Irish were able to donate nearly $8,000 to the program. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


r--------­
! 
page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Saturday, August 19, 2006 
t spot at Mount Union College to follow her husband's career,
Henley 

which involved a move to Florida and a stint as an ele­continued from page 36 mentary school teacher, but 
Kachmarik said she has found 
Though the decision not to a home at Saint Mary's. retain Bender as head coach "I believe that Coach Henley surprised some will be able to in the communi-build a very suc­ty, Kachmarik cessful basket­
"[Henley's] values 
says it was a ball program result of Bender and goals for her over the next few and the school program were a years, "moving in dif­Kachmarik said.
great match with our
ferent direc­"Any time during 
tions," as Saint goals as a college transition, Mary's took a and department." chango can be bold turn when positive and I it hired Henley. think she will
Lynn Kachmarik
"We have ele­bring positive
athletic director
vated the posi­changes to the tion from part­Saint Mary's program immedi­time to full-time, ately and her which allowed us success will be to do a national search for the measured on and ofT the bas­first time for our basketball ketball court." coaching position," Kachmarik Henley said she will bring said. "an up-tempo coaching style 
"[Henley's] that centers values and goals around funda­for her program mentals."
"I believe that Coach 
were a great Henley played
Henley will be able to
match with our at Ohio Northern goals as a col­build a very University, lege and depart­successful basketball where she ment. My expec­earned a bache­
program over the
tations are for lor's degree in 
the basketball next few years. " sports manage­team to continue ment and com­to climb in the munication arts
Lynn Kachmarik 
MIAA basketball in 1997, before
athletic director
rankings and earning a mas­
Saint Mary's 
continue to have ter's degree in great academic athletic adminis­success as well. tration while a I want our team to have fun graduate assistant at Loras while working to their poten­College in Dubuque, Iowa. tial as student-athletes and role models on campus." Contact Tim Dougherty at 
Henley resigned from the top tdougher@nd.edu 

Louisiana State, where he Samardzija, as the senior played as a student. already turned professional
Schrage 

Mueh like Mainieri, in baseball, inking a five­continued from page 36 Sehrage focuses on the year, minor-league deal with 
important "fundamentals" of the Cubs. Schrage might just be strike-zone pitehing and And Samardzija is just one becoming associated with solid defense. of many reliable faces from the players after Mainieri's "You've got to put your the past several seasons 12-year kids in as that Schrage will have to tenure at many situa­replaee. The team also lost Notre Dame. tions as possi-southpaw starter Tom 
Schrage ble in prae­Thornton, shortstop Greg said he spent "They need to learn to tice," Schrage Lopez, first baseman Craig much of the trust us as a coaching said. "The Cooper and outfielders Matt summer con­players need Bransfield, Alex Nettey,
sta.D: and we need to
tacting play­to know it's Cody Hizzo and Steve
learn to trust them."
ers and get­important." Andres to graduation. ting to know Schrage What's more, junior right­the team. Dave Schrage built his cre­handed starter Jeff Manship "They need dentials in signed with the Minnesota
Irish head coach 
to learn to fundamental Twins two weeks ago after trust us as a baseball being drafted in the 14th coaching staff. under Jim round. and we need llendry, now But Sehrage sees a certain to learn to trust them," he tho general manager of the positive in the high turnover. said in an interview with Chieago Cubs. "I think it's better to be The Observer Wednesday. Hendry hired Sehrage as younger than have eight 
The players' trust might be an assistant at Creighton -returning starters," Schrage easier to gain than other­his alma · said of tak­wise because of tlwir new mater ing over a
"I think it's better to be
coach's background. Schrage artor he fin­new squad. began his coaching carenr in ished his sea­younger than have And he 1984 with Mainiori in son with also thinks
eight returning 
Florida at St. Thomas Mainieri at the coaching
starters."
College (then known as St. Thomas. ehange will Biscayne College), whore he "lie's some-help the served as a graduatn assis­body who's Dave Schrage team focus tant working on outfield been special the next few
Irish head coach 
defense and hitting. to me in my months as it 
"I just fell in love with life because I gears up for coaching, and I think Paul wouldn't be in this profes­the spring schedule. had a lot to do with that -sion today if not for him," "It helps make the fall making the experience posi­Sehrage said of Hendry. [practices! a little bit more tive," Schrage said. "One of Now, he has another con­meaningful than they have tho things that Paul taught nection to Schragn. Hendry been in the past," Schrage me was to treat your playnrs drafted and signed Notre said. "This fall will be differ­in a very caring way and be Dame two-sport star JolT ent. Everyone is coming in honest to them." Samardzija in this summer's with a dean slate." 
Mainieri resigned in July amateur draft. to take the vacant head But that means Schrage Contact Ken Fowler at coaching position at won't get to coach kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Frosh 

continued from page 36 
Dame's baekup running back a year ago. That's given freshman Munir Prinee a better shot at the backup running back job. 
Walker has been impressed with Prince's quickness through­out camp. 
"The first thing you think of when you talk about my man Munir is speed," Walker said after the team's evening practice Wednesday. 
Another No. 2 job with fresh­men in the mix is at quarterbaek. Zach Frazer and Demetrius Jones, both highly ranked recruits, have been sharing snaps with sophomore Evan Sharpley in the battle to backup Quinn. 
"Both are good physically," Weis said. "But obviously Evan has the mental advantage." 
On defense, Notre Dame added Sergio Brown, Jashaad Gaines, Leonard Gordon, Raeshon McNeil and Darrin Walls in the second­ary. Brown, Gaines and Gordon came to Notre Dame as safeties, while MeNeil and Walls were hyped cornerback prospects. 
The team also added four freshman receivers: West, Robby Parris, Richard Jackson and Barry Gallup. 
"It's pretty rare when you get a big reeeiving class like that of four guys coming in for a team, for one," said senior receiver Jell" Samardzija. "And then two, when you've got four guys who look like they could play in a week or two. It's real boosting. 
"It brings that confidence to the offense knowing the young
00. 

guys are pieking up right where everyone else left off where they left the program." 
KELLY HIGGINSfrhe Observer 

Left, freshman offensive lineman Sam Young waits at practice Tuesday at McGlinn Fields. Freshman kicker Ryan Burkhart watches Contact Ken Fowler at drills with teammate Mike Anello looking on behind him. kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  29 Match, e.g.  58 Caesar's  
1 Talk big  33 Long-jawed fish  empire, for short  
5 Five-digit extension  34 Lubber 35 Gazebo wall  59 To a smaller degree  
9 Hooverville home  36 Together  
14 Show disrupter, possibly 16 Pick-up line?  37 Naval inits. 38 Spy satellite 40 Nautical day's beginning  DOWN 1 "I don't you!" 2 Placed on a  
17 Quality of Bartok's music  42 French strawberries  scale 3 Links in certain  
18 Bar  43 Coal substitutes  chains  
19 Your first-grade teacher, now 20 Spheres 22 1950's  45 Vaulted areas 49 See 53-Down 50 Bit of fine print  4 Like composer Niccolo Paganini 5 Heaven-born  
marketing  51 Suggest itself  6 French ally  
disaster 23 Tiger Woods's alma mater  52 Break one's word? 55 Tomb marker  7 Take home a Clear orders  
25 The Pleiades, e.g.  56 Temporarily satisfied  9 Stand against a wall  
27 Cardholder's 57 1960 Everly problem Brothers hit ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -;::,-~:-r.:,  10 "Works and Days" poet 11 Very close friends 12 Bad weather  28 It rarely takes anything 29 Woodland spirit  39 Mexicans do business in it 41 Sci-fi author's award  48 Future experts 49 Ranch animal, informally 50 "Suspect" star,  
portent  30 Automatically  44 Drawn  1987  
-:::+:-:t-':""h::-1  13 Slapstick group, briefly  31 Means of production  46 Not at all bumpkin ish  53 With 49-Across, "The Wizard of  
.-.r.~~~~~~~~~  15 Bishop who  32 Like chronic  47 Adlai's 1956  Oz" lyricist  
supported Richard II, in  injuries  running mate  54 Right away  
Shakespeare  For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a  
....,....,~11!111 ~+..;;.811!11~:+.~~  21 Food for moles  credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  
23 Civil War issue  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  
24 Certain wing feather  crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  
-;:t-:-:+-::+:~~  26 Stick around to  Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young  
see  solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.  


ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 


'jDV. MO'IE..i> A\.l-"JJUR  1-\E..'S  ALREI'ib~  A :J'f\'De:t:>  -TI-\~RE.  \S  A  c...RAP\..oJ.\b  
s-ruff IN "\E.l.?  C.OL.U:.c.:£  S\\.lt>€..1'~1  Of  bo~Ms,  ANb  \  
T:UE.. \0 K \S  E.'i-\RA  2.4  AL READ'\  ¥-.t-·~OW  A  FE.  
THE.Ii<..  NA.l'\E.S ...  
"THERE~  ONE:.  
STARTS  WITH  
I  

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
THYAS 
± 
©2.005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LEBIE 
1 

rJ [ J 

WHAT THE: KING
tGRONTS t 
E:X'PE:RIE:NC.E:O 
WHE:N HE: WAS
I J I J 

www.jumble.com A.WA.KENE:O BY THE PROTESTERS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to fonm the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tiffani Thiessen, 31; Richard Dean Anderson, 55: Gail O'Grady, 42: Mariska Hargitay, 41 
Happy Birthday: This may tum out to be an emotional year, but only if you 
haven't taken care of issues that have been hanging over your head for some 
time. Rid yourself of the burdens you have been carrying around with you, once 
and for all, and you will see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's time to stop 
letting negativity consume you. Instead, fight for the positive and you will find 
yourself in a new headspace. Your numbers are 3, 14, 28, 32, 38. 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't start anything today that will lead to a 
confrontation with someone you love. You have to keep things light and put your 
efforts into where you see yourself heading in the future. ** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Visiting a friend will lift your spirits and guide 
you down an interesting new path. You have plenty to contribute, and if you do, 
you will join forces with someone interesting. **** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider your past and the people you have met 
along the way. Someone from your past may be able to help you, but you must 
not let him or her take over. Pace yourself and stay in control. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional matters may be difficult to deal with 
today. An older friend or relative may not understand what is going on. Your 
explanation will help and bring you closer together. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding your financial situation will 
surprise you. You can make good decisions regarding your health. The more you 
do to make improvements, the better you will feel. *** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Partnerships can be formed, but make sure that you 
are both on the same page before making any promises. Once you have your 
plans laid out, nothing will stop you from achieving your goals. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What you think is going on and what is really going 
on will not coincide. Back up and refrain from voicing your opinion until you 
have a better understanding of what everyone else is doing. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all about love, creativity and getting to 
the bottom of things. You can fix a lot of the troubled areas in your life if you 
are precise, determined and dedicated. ***** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An older relative will appreciate what you 
do to help out. Your luck is changing, and you may find yourself in a windfall. 
You may have a change of heart. Grovel if you must. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get down to business and let whoever you 
care about know what you are thinking and how you feel. It may be your only 
opportunity to do what's right and to set the record straight. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to take better care of yourself. Set a 
new regime that will help get you back into shape using exercise, proper diet 
and a healthier lifestyle. Take the initiative to improve. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are certainly in the picture, 
but so is your ability to produce something very creative and unusual. Strive to 
reach your goals and you will feel satisfied. ***** .,. 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and caring and know how to get things done. 
You strive to do your best and will take on more than your share in order to help. 
You are a thoughtful, kind and concerned friend. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Saturday, August 19, 2006 
page 36 
fOOTBALL 

New fall, new faces 
Weis welcomes 28 freshmen; Young, Prince and Burkhart fight for time 

'­
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
The reinforcements are here. 
During spring practice, Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis said the team's 25 incoming freshmen would provide impor­tant depth during fall camp. 
"I think the biggest area of con­cern is our offensive line depth chart until the reinforcements come in here," Weis said March 21 at the team's annual spring media day. 
They've arrived, and they arc battling each other and returning players for spaces on the depth chart. 
But the new faces on campus are not the only ones that will be new to the field when the Irish kick off against Georgia Tech on Sept. 2 in Atlanta. 
Three freshmen for 2007 came to Notre Dame in January. Offensive lineman Chris Stewart, running back James Aldridge and wide receiver George West were the flrst early entrants in school history, enrolling for the 2006 
BASEBALL 

Schrage. takes over for Mainieri on dia111ond 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
After 16 years of head coach­1-_'-,~_-·····._ ··IIIII.•..•_'_.·_·•··.·
.... .•. ·.. ing experi­ence at mid­m a j o r Division I 
tr t
colleges, 
""'~'""'-'' 

D a v e 
Schrage
Schrage believes he is fully prepared ­and fully enthused -to replace Paul Mainieri as Notre Dame's skipper. 
''I'm excited to take this job," Schrage said during his intro­ductory press conference July 
18. "All the hard work and coaching comes to fruition today." 
Schrage comes to Notre Dame after four years leading Evansville. Before that, he coached at Northern Illinois and Northern Iowa. 
The toughest challenge for 
see SCHRAGE/ page 34 
spring academic semester and participating in spring practiens. 
The 6-l'oot-5, 340-pound Stewart entered Notre Damn as a guard, where he will likely play a backup role this season. I lis fel­low freshman, 6-foot-7, 292­pound Sam Young, has fought for a starting job after arriving on campus this summer. Along with sophomore Paul Duncan, Young figures prominently in the battle for starting right tackle. 
If' Young starts, it will be only the fourth time in school history a true freshman has started any games on the o!Tensive line. The last freshman to accomplish the feat was Hyan Harris -now the team's senior left tackle. 

Harris, who started eight games in 2003, said the six fresh­men offnnsive lineman are far more advanced than he was when ho eamc to Notre Dame. 
"I think all of our l'rnshmen that eame in could legitimately per­form and contribute to this team at our first game," Harris said. "Sam Young, in partieular, I don't make those decisions -they are eoaehing deeisions -what he 
KEN FOWLER/Observer Graphic 

has going for him is he's very coachable and he works tremen­dously hard and he's very eager to play." 
Whoever wins the right tackle job will have the dual role of pass blocking for fourth-year starting quarterback Brady Quinn and run-blocking for junior tailback Darius Walker, who gained 1,196 yards on the ground last season. With senior Travis Thomas expected to start at linl.'backer in 2006 after serving as Notre 
see FROSH/page 34 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Henley controls Belles court 
Bender's replacenzent comes to team with collegiate experience 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's emerged from a busy off-season with new head coach Jennifer Henley in charge of the Belles as 
they  head  toward  a  new  
position  on  the Divisio n III  
landscape.  

Henley eomes to Saint Mary's with five years of 
head coaching experience at Division III Mount Union College in Alliance, Ohio, where her teams went 43-87 with two seasons at .500 or better in 2002-03 and 2004­05. 
Athletic Director Lynn Kachmarik said Henley is the first eoaeh to take over the Saint Mary's program with prior college head coaching experience. 
"I am incredibly excited to begin this season," Henley said. "My goals are to build on last season's success and improve upon our MIAA fin­ish. I want our student-ath­
letes to reach their full potential both on and off the court." 
Henley will be taking over a squad that finished 11-15, including a third-place finish in the conference after being picked to place seventh in the nine-team league. The 2005-06 performance set a new school record for league wins since Saint Mary's joined the MIAA in 1997, earning former head coach Steve Bender MIAA Coach of the Year honors in his first year with the Belles. 
see HENLEY/page 34 


NO VOllEYBALL
MEN'S SOCCER 
MEN'S GOLF 

MEN'S X-COUNTRY 
SMC SOCCER 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
w 

u Six teen th-ra n ked 
Irish coach Debbie 
Irish head coach Jim 

Irish coach Joe Piane 
Caryn MacKenzie's 
Irish head coach 

z freshman class looks to 
Brown brings in a 

said he expects several
Kubinski's first full 
squad has nine new 
Randy Waldrum said he 

help Irish to another 
strong recruiting class to 

runners to compete for 
players and will hold
recruiting class features 
was "very pleased"
::5 
replace a steady senior 

spots when the season
NCAA appearance. 
= three American junior 
open tryouts Monday. 
with the preseason per-

begins Sept. 8.
group. 

standouts and a 
formance of the team's
4 

Brazilian. 
freshmen.

!i page 33 
page 32 
page 31
page 32. 

page 30 
page 28 

en 



