
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 63 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 2006 
Ugandan initiative to provide aid, research 
University awaits selection ofpartner village, develops related intellectual, charitable projects 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the sec­ond story in a two-part series examining the goals of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative in Uganda, the involvement of the University's administra­tion. faculty and student body and the international organi­zations that will contribute to the project. 
The Notre Dame community will soon be turning its talents in the classroom toward a cause that calls for real world, global application. 
The Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI) partners the University with a Ugandan vil­lage in an initial five-year ven­ture that will attempt to build up every institution in the region -ranging from the healthcare and education sys­tems to the HIV/AIDS preven­tion programs, to the water supply systems and the vil­lage's infrastructure. 
The effort, say those involved, will require the work of the entire Notre Dame com­munity. 
"We will work with local institutions and villagers to 
see UGANDA/page 6 



SMC, ND see increase in abroad apps 
Hundreds from the College show desire study internationally 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
With more than 200 Saint Mary's students heading overseas to study every year, graduates of the College -48 percent of whom will have gone abroad -can call the world their classroom. 
Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWlL) at the College is proud of the numbers Saint Mary's boasts, but sees an opportunity for them to rise even higher. 
"When you have that many par­ticipating [in abroad programs], it internationalizes the home campus as well," she said. 
see SMC/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Vigilance advised off cam.pus 
Students warned of potential for break-ins 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
As students prepare for finals and look forward to a month away from school, many are also taking preventive security meas­ures to keep their property safe over break. 
This year, several break-ins of off-campus cars and houses over the fall and Thanksgiving breaks have already been reported ­and the Christmas holiday is usu­ally the time when most break­ins occur, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
On Dec. 4, Notre Dame Security/Police sent an e-mail to the Notre Dame student body with advice about security before and during break. 
"We often experience an increase in thefts just before breaks, especially from Library study areas and the dining halls," the e-mail read. 
Students were encouraged to participate in bike storage, follow the guidelines for keeping cars in D2 South "Lock-Up" and take advantage of Christmas Break storage. 
"The first thing is the storage program. [Students,] bring over [to NDSP] anything valuable that could be stolen that you're not bringing home," said Cappy Gagnon, manager of event securi­ty and student employment at NDSP. 
Students who reside off campus face increased security problems, and are most often the victims of theft. 
see SECURITY/page 9 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Group debates bowl ticket policy 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
The media frenzy surround­ing the BCS selections found its way into LaFortune, where the Council of Representatives (COR) discussed student ticket privileges for football games during its meeting Tuesday night. 
Members brought forth stu­dent concerns about the lot­tery for Sugar Bowl tickets, expressing the apprehension that with a "one ticket per l.D." policy, it is possible for a student to win tickets, but not his friends. 
see COR/page 6 



TC, Castle Point w-arn residents differently 
By EILEEN DUFFY AND 
BECKY HOGAN 
News Writers 
Since an amendment to the South Bend disorderly house ordi­nance passed in the summer of 2005, designed to crack down on off-campus housing violations, some apartment complexes have changed their policies regarding eviction of residents. 
Before the ordinance was amended, tenants were allowed three reported noise violations before the city of South Bend could send them a notice to abate. Now, the ordinance allows the city to send a notice to abate after just one reported noise violation. 
The city also sends a notice to abate to area landlords, who have mixed reactions to this stipulation in particular: if the noise violation reoccurs, both the landlord and the tenants get fined -unless the landlord evicts the tenants within 30 days of the receipt of notice of the prohibited conduct. 
Francie Schmuhl, community manager of Turtle Creek Apartments, said once Turtle Creek receives a notice from the city that someone has received a letter of abatement, its legal team then sends a letter to the resident. 
Since the 86-citation raid at Turtle Creek on Sept. 1, Schmuhl said there have been no violations 
see WARNINGS/page 4 


University notes rise of student interest in less popular locations 
By KATIE MCDONNELL News Writer 
With 938 applicants applying to 27 programs spanning the globe, Notre Dame is poised to continue its climb among top universities for study abroad programs in the 2007-08 school year, after being ranked sixth in the nation for participation per­centage by the Institute for International Education. 
Down only slightly from the 959 who applied to study abroad this academic year, next year's number of applicants is typical in the trend that finds 50 percent of Notre Dame students spending either a summer, semester or year overseas (or in 
see ABROAD/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A final vvord. Or two. 
Self-righteous rant begins ... now. 
I first realized I was talented in high school, when I was already using college-ruled paper. Since that day, I calmly bided my time to step into the lime­light of the 
Alec White
only inde­pendent news source for the 

Comic Illustrator
Notre Dame community, and in my freshman year I met a person that would irrevocably change my next four years. After I dumped her, I met Erik Powers. 
My first conversation with Erik was a lewd joke with the punch line "a skunk killed with an axe." A bit of wit and fortuitously inappropriate last names propelled us into candi­dacy for the presidency of Our Lady's student body. Five-hundred five votes and several children's drawing books later, Erik and I were cartoonists with a knack for the unnecessary. 
Causing controversy was never our main goal, but it sure found us. Editors, Coach Weis, some girl Annie, maybe Jesus and of course Saint Mary's all let us know that we were doing something right. I under­stand that each complaint may have contained some validity, and I have learned from them some valuable lessons. After all, stereotypes are not representative of individuals, but they are, quite often, hilarious. 
This past semester I have.enjoyed the opportunity to skewer my own Notre Dame experience. I thank everyone that has taken time to read Jocular, even if they were really just stumped by the Jumble or Crossword, and I thank Erik Powers for unknowingly taking the blame for my bad work. 
For over a year-and-a-half I have spent more time with Microsoft Paint than my family, friends or school­work. I mostly learned that the undo button will only work three times, and that my roommates would chuckle at Guernica if it got me to shut up, but I would do every bit of it over again. 
Over break, Erik and I will work on a book of every strip ever pub­lished or censored, and maybe you will find a laugh or two in it. For now it is time to leave the daily Notre Dame world and focus on a career that doesn't involve panhan­dling from my parents. I cannot be thankful enough for having had the opportunity to have a daily voice here on campus. 
When I first arrived on campus, my rector challenged me to leave a mark on this campus. He probably meant something less heretical, but what can you expect from a self-pro­claimed high Anglican? 
I hope that the comic strip has enhanced your Notre Dame experi­ence because the opportunity to share it with this whole community (including Saint Mary's) has certain­ly made mine. 
... And buy the book in case I can't get a job. 
Contact Alec White at awhite4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT FOR CHRISTMAS? 


Jim Bochnowski Mike Ball Nate Barbera Anne Barbera R.J. Komhaas Katie Crawford 
junior grad student senior freshman senior junior 
Fisher offcampus off campus Lewis off campus Welsh Fam 
"World peace. "Parole." ''A rhinoceros. " "Lots ofsnow ''A Sugar Bowl "/ want wassail 




,

victory. juice. 
IN BRIEF 
Today is the last day of classes for Notre Dame stu­dents. Study days are Thursday and Friday. Finals week begins Monday. 
Jeff Jackson, the head coach of Notre Dame's hock­ey team, will discuss the first part of the season and upcom­ing games at noon today at Legends. 
The Notre Dame's women's basketball team will play Purdue tonight at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Christmas at the <:oMo Benefit Concert by the ND Celebration Choir is tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in the first floor Coleman Morse student lounge. International students will provide reflections of Christmas in their home coun­tries. There is no admission charge, but a freewill offering 
will  be  sent  to  St.  Jude's  
Primary  School,  Jinja,  
Uganda.  

All full-time faculty and staff are invited to a Christmas open house Thursday by University President Father John Jenkins and officers of the University. The event lasts from 2:30 to 5 p.m. and will be held on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors of the Main Building. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club will perform its Christmas Concert Friday from 9 to 
10:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 




HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
No, just kidding. and R.J." Revenge on my enemies. 
Flatulence forces plane to land 
NASIMLLE, Tenn. -It is considered polite to light a match after passing gas. Not while on a plane. 
An American Airlines flight was forced to make an emer­gency landing Monday morn­ing after a passenger lit a match to disguise the scent of flatulence, authorities said. 
The Dallas-bound flight was diverted to Nashville after several passengers reported smelling burning sulfur from the matches, said Lynne Lowrance, spokes­woman for the Nashville International Airport Authority. All 99 passengers and five crew members were taken off and screened while the plane was searched and luggage was screened. 
The FBI questioned a pas­senger who admitted she struck the matches in an attempt to conceal a "body odor," Lowrance said. She had an unspecified medical condition, authorities said. 
Officers keep record of beautiful women 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­Two Swedish border control officers risk disciplinary action for keeping a photo collection of "exceptionally beautiful" women that passed through their checkpoint, police officials said Tuesday. 
The officers, who were working at a ferry terminal near Stockholm, made photo­copies of the women's pass­port photos and placed them in a binder. They also noted the date of birth next to each entry, the Stockholm police department said. 
The binder contained instructions on how to com­pile the collection, and orders to make backup copies in case the binder would go missing or be confiscated by "evil-minded bores," police said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0:::: 
LLI 
~ 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
<1: 
(,) 



0 
HIGH 32 HIGH HIGH HIGH 34
.... 
LOW 18 LOW LOW LOW 20 




Atlanta 58 I 32 Boston 45 I 26 Chicago 29 I 24 Denver 42 I 20 Houston 67 I 41 Los Angeles 7 4 I 49 Minneapolis 22 I 11 New York 46 I 31 Philadelphia 46 I 28 Phoenix 74 I 45 Seattle 50 I 36 St. Louis 40 I 29 Tampa 76 I 55 Washington 49 I 28 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Service group discontinued 
Indiana chapter ofHoly Cross Associates program ends after 27 years 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
At its triennial meeting in June of 2006, the Indiana chapter of the Congregation of Holy Cross decided to dis­continue its lay service organization -the Holy Cross Associates (HCA) ­after 27 years of existence. 
"I can't speak for the Holy Cross, but we're under the assumption that they want to renew ties with us and reen­ergize their interactions with the associates," Holte said. 
Holte insisted, however, that "everything is tied to the Holy Cross community." 
The HCA is primarily con­nected to the greater 
Congregation 
of Holy Cross 
Father Gary "We have concerns through its Chamberland, "co-facilita­
over the program's 
Holy Cross task tors" a
financial balance and
force director Holy Cross and a visiting its appeal. " priest and a professor of the­lay alumna of ology at Notre the program.
Father Gary Chamberland 
Dame, says the These co­
director

HCA was discon­facilitators tinued for prac­Holy Cross task force attend one 
tical reasons. 
"We have con­cerns over the program's financial balance and its appeal," he said. 
Chamberland cited the pro­gram's limited number of applicants -only 12 to the domestic program by the March deadline for the HCA's report to the chapter -as a sign that it possibly has run its course. 
HCA Acting Director Steve Holte -who made it clear that it was the Congregation's decision to suspend the HCA, not his ­disagrees. 
"What Father Chamberland said might be true about the Chile program, but it's not true about the domestic pro­gram." 
Holte acknowledged that financial balance is always hard to achieve in a volun­teer program, but he disput­ed Chamberland's claim that the HCA has limited appeal. 
"We can always take more associates," he said. Currently, Holte said, there are 14 domestic associates in the HCA. 
According to Holte, the pri­mary reason for the discon­tinuation -which he called temporary -by the HCA was a need for "closer ties to the ministry and mission of the Holy Cross." 
dinner each week at the associate house and help associates 
"draw  personal  meaning  
from  their  
daily  activi­ 

ties," accord­"We are viewing the associates in ing to Holte. HCA as going on a the field won't 
Associate change, and I
one-year hiatus after 
houses are hope that the located in local this year. We've Holy Cross' communities discontinued the level of support that have a to us won't
program with the 
strong Holy change either," Cross pres-hope that something he said. ence, and that encourages lay The associate Associates are community is
service will get 

encouraged to still unsure of
resurrected. " 

get involved in the direction the local Holy that the Holy Cross parish Cross will take
Father Gary Chamberland 
as lectors, to continue its
director

Eucharistic commitment to
Holy Cross task force
ministers and lay service. 
cantors. 
Despite the decision, Chamberland believes there is a future for lay service in the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
"We're viewing the HCA as going on a one-year hiatus after this year. We've discon­tinued the program with the hope that something that encourages lay service will get resurrected," he said. "Most probable is that we'll have some sort of one-year service program, like it has been, but re-envisioned." 

O'Laughlin Auditorium • Moreau Center for the Arts 
(574) 184-4626 • MoreauCenter.com 
Both Holte and Chamberland agreed that the pending discontinuation of the HCA does not invalidate the past 27 years of work that the program has done. 
"We praise the efforts of the HCA and we believe there are good things in place, but it's time to assess the pro­gram's direction," Chamberland said. 
The Associate program, which attracts participants in their first few years out of college, focuses on four basic "pillars" of community, serv­ice, spirituality and simple living. These pillars shape the daily experience of the associates during their year­long commitment as active members of the program. 
Despite the arrest of long­term commitment from the Congregation of the Holy Cross, Holte expects current commitment to remain. 
"Our level of 
support to 
"We're still 
just trying to figure out what exactly the chapter wants from us," Holte said. 
Chamberland, who served as an associate from 1984 to 1985, wants to see a Holy Cross lay service program continue in some form. 
"My time as an associate was one of the strongest periods of formation in my life," he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

Catnpus Ministry plans ND Prayercast project 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Religious organizations across the nation continue to integrate communications technology with faith to reach increasingly savvy congrega­tions -and Notre Dame's Campus Ministry is no excep­tion to the trend. 
Following the spread of worship into television, radio and the Internet, Campus Ministry offers several oppor­tunities for spirituality out­
side of tradi­"It's a way for them according to tional settings. Warner.
to link into Notre 
The Basilica of He suggested
Dame spirituality, 
the Sacred the commute to Heart contin­and to encourage work, a walk ues to broad­around campus
them to remain active 
cast a weekly or a workout in
in the Church. " 
mass on the the as great Hallmark chan­opportunities to nel, and next Steven Warner listen to the semester, director podcast and Campus "be inspired."
Liturgical Resources 
Ministry hopes to kick off a new project called ND Prayercast -the University's answer to the growing popu­larity of what some call "Godcasting." 
"Godcasting," a term coined by the San Diego-based Godcast Network, describes the use of video and audio technology to share sermons, scripture and other forms of worship in both private and public settings. Its name comes from the type of Internet broadcast known as a "podcast," through which users can make a digital recording available for public downloading. 
Steven Warner, director of the Notre Dame Folk Choir and Liturgical Resources for Campus Ministry, said the new ND Prayercast project ­his brainchild -is intended to reach college-age students and recent college graduates, both at Notre Dame and beyond. 
"It's a way for them to link into Notre Dame spirituality, and to encourage them to remain active in the Church," 

$69.00 pfus t~ 
S/fTV(]{(})_ji'Y .J_jf:Nl}.JI(]{'Y13_, 2007 
~P,YJSP_. CJlLL 574-631-200 TO~(]{~ <YOV(]{~O::M 
he said. 
The project is still in the "seedling stage," according to Warner, with the launch date anticipated as this coming Mardi Gras. At this point, Warner said, the project will consist of 20-minute weekly podcasts featuring song, scripture, reflections, inten­tions, psalms and more. 
Anyone with a computer will have access to the pod­cast and those with mp3 players or iPods will be able to download the material from ndprayer­cast.org, 
While Warner 

and Basilica rector Father Peter Rocca agreed that both the Basilica's broadcast and the upcoming ND Prayercast project have "wonderful" benefits, they also warned of some dangers. 
"It would be a bad thing if people substituted gathering to worship (with the televised broadcast or Prayercast)," Rocca said. "The danger ... is that religion could become a privatized affair." 
"Liturgy has always implied involvement," Warner added, explaining that the Prayercast should be used to supplement traditional wor­ship. 
Warner said he saw the Prayercast as an opportunity to spread the faith in a world dependent on technology. 
"This is a medium we'd bet­ter be [using]. at least on the ground level," he said, "to cultivate a spiritual life so that any person listening decides to go deeper." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

r-----------------­
~--~-------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Referring to a study done by the University of Minnesota, Meyer-Lee said the primary rea­sons students opt not to study abroad are the four F's: family, fear, finances and faculty {or curricular challenges). 
After surveying students at Saint Mary's, the most prevalent obstacle for students nationally -fear -does not seem to be an issue. 
"Although there are very occa­sional questions after highly publicized security concerns, our participation does not seem to have been dampened at all by general fear," Meyer-Lee said. 
CWIL also makes a conscious effort to give financial support, as not to hinder students from their potential experience. 
While certain majors are not as flexible for studying abroad, most students can work around those obstacles if they begin planning early. 
"The factor that was men­tioned to us that did not come up in the [University of Minnesota study] analysis at all was such a high level of involvement in the Saint Mary's on-campus commu­nity that [students] don't want to leave it," she said. 
Students can choose between 17 international programs, the most popular being Rome, Seville and Maynooth, Ireland. Students can also travel to more obscure places like South Africa and Austria, for example. 
"Our menu is quite varied for a school of our size, yet all of our programs still retain the very close faculty and administrative oversight and quality that our students expect from Saint Mary's," Meyer-Lee said. 
CWIL, along with other admin­istrative leaders at the College, encourages the growth of the international studies program. 
"Our administration is fortu­nately very supportive of inter­national study as an integral part of an excellent liberal arts education, and therefore our participation has very steadily grown over the past four years," Meyer-Lee said. 
She said she attributes the program growth to a long and strong commitment to maintain and expand them, beginning with the Rome Program founded 37 years ago. This program attracts nearly 100 students annually and is the most popular location to study. 
Peter Checca, Italian professor and counselor for the Rome Program, has noticed a signifi­cant increase in his program since 2002. 
"The number of participants [in the Rome Program] has grown by about 20 percent [since 2002]," he said. "We expect further growth since, beginning this year, the depart­ment of modern languages will offer a major in Italian." 
Typically, between 55 and 65 students participate in the Rome Program in the fall and between 35 and 45 in the spring. This year's numbers are slightly lower, with 97 participants ver­sus 108 last year. 
While the Rome Program attracts the largest pool of appli­cants, programs in Spain and Ireland are also popular. 
Karen Chambers, psychology professor and director of the Ireland Program, sees steady numbers heading into the pro­gram's 30th year at the college. 
Each year, about 20 students are selected to participate. This year, 16 students are studying for the whole academic year, five only for the !all and six only li>r the spring. 
Students typically live with three or four Irish roommates on the National University of Ireland (NUl) Maynooth campus. 
Seville, Spain is another popu­lar program ai the college. This year, seven Saint Mary's stu­dents and 10 Noire Dame stu­dents are studying through this program. There is also the option of a three-or seven-week session during the summer in Seville. 
Jennifer Zachman, Modern Languages professor and Spanish foreign study advisor, recognized the increasing inter­est in the program. 
"In a recent meeting for those interested in studying in Seville next year, there were over 30 attendees," she said. "As more and more students see the importance of doing cultural and language immersions and the benefits of a Spanish major or minor, more and more students elect to study abroad." 
Saint Mary's students, Meyer­Lee said, continue to recognize the benefit of international stud­ies. 
"Students will learn academic content in the very best context, gain competence in intercultural relating, become a global citizen, grow as an individual, acquire valuable career skills and expe­rience their own adventures," Meyer-Lee said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Warnings 
continued from page 1 
and no evictions at the apartment complex. 
At Ca..<Jtle Point, the enforcement is different. Because the Castle Point Apartments are outside the South Bend city limit and therefore not under its ordinances, properly manager Judy Logan deals with housing violations in her own way. 
"I don't think !the South Bend disorderly house ordinance] is fair," Logan said. "I think people should be put on notice, especially if they're not harming another human being. Just a gathering of people for a party does not." 
At Castle Point, she first sends a letter of warning to the apartment residents if a neighbor or a night watchman brings a situation to her attention. 
"If I have to write a second letter of warning, then that letter goes to the co-signer the second time, because they're responsible for what occurs to that apartment also, so I let them know," Logan said. "For students, more often than not it's their parents. And that, more often than not, nips it in the bud." 
Logan said the third letter sent to a disruptive Castle Point resident asks them to leave. 
Logan said she has not had to evict anybody for a "partying type" of violation this year. 
Ann-Carol Nash, assistant city attorney for South Bend, said there's often confusion surround­ing the disorderly house ordi­nance. 
"If conduct which is prohibited by the ordinance takes place and is verified by the police department, then I send a notice to abate to the occupant and the owner," she said. 
At the first offense, she said, the decision to evict is left up to the landlord. 
"I think there are some miscon­ceptions [about the disorderly housing ordinance!,'' she said. "The landlord doesn't have to evict tenanl<;, but [the landlord] may be taking a risk if the offense is repeated." 
Nash said once a student repeat­ndly violatns the disorderly house ordinance, the city has the option to file a lawsuit against both the landlord and the resident, asking the court to impose a monetary fine on both parties. 
"I really haven't had to file any lawsuil<; [this semester], although I have sent letters to abate," Nash said. "I've been pleased I haven't had a lot of repeat actions [by stu­dents]." 
For Schmuhl, the most common student offenses include failing to make paymenl<; on rent and utili­ties and violating the disorderly house ordinance. 
"Ever since this school year, I believe that I have the best stu­dents living here," she said. "We have had no serious problems." 
Schmuhl said she believes Turtle Creek's policy of encouraging "a community environment built on principles of mutual respect," in combination with the South Bend ordinance, allow residents to quiet­ly enjoy their homes. 
"This has always been our policy and I would anticipate that other housing organizations, including other managers, the city of South Bend and even the University, would have the same expectations of their residents" Schmuhl said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at 
rhoF2@nd.edu and Eileen 
Dutty at eduffyl@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 Corvw1un FROM THE OBsERVER's WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Poisoning suspects safe in Russia 
MOSCOW -The chief prosecutor said Tuesday Russia would not allow the extradi­tion of possible suspects in the poisoning of a former KGB agent in Britain and he dismissed as "nonsense" allegations by another ex-secu­rity officer of a death squad for Kremlin critics. 
Prosecutor General Yuri Chaika also con­firmed that a potential central witness in the case, another former agent who met with Alexander Litvinenko in London on Nov. 1, the day Litvinenko believed he was poisoned, had been hospitalized. 
Litvinenko, 43, died Nov. 23 in London, and doctors found the radioactive isotope poloni­um-210 in his body. In a deathbed statement, he blamed President Vladimir Putin for the poisoning. The Kremlin has vehemently denied the accusations. 
Chaika said Russian prosecutors would fully cooperate with Scotland Yard, which has sent a team of British investigators to Moscow. 
India asked to cut Kashmir loose 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -President Gen. Pervez Musharrafsaid Tuesday that Pakistan is willing to give up its claim to Kashmir if India reciprocates and agrees to self-governance in the disputed Himalayan region that they have fought over for decades. 
The comments, in an interview aired by India's NDTV network, were among Musharrafs strongest yet to encourage a settle­ment in the bitter, 58-year dispute since the South Asian rivals began peace talks nearly three years ago. 
There was no immediate reaction from India's government, and Musharraf's spokesman accused NDTV of "twisting" the president's comments to suggest that Pakistan was making a unilateral offer to give up its claim to Kashmir. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hunt continues for missing father 
MERLIN, Ore. -Searchers scoured a narrow canyon in Oregon's snowy Coast Range on Tuesday for a man missing for more than a week in the rugged area while his wife and two young children, rescued just the day before, recovered in a hospital. 
A helicopter with heat-sensing equipment joined other helicopters, snowmobiles and foot patrols Tuesday in the hunt for 35­year-old James Kim of San Francisco. Trained dogs and horse patrols were on standby to help in the seach. Trackers had followed his footprints until dark Monday night. 
Officials said it appeared that Kim was within five miles of the car he'd left Saturday morning in search of help. 
WWII camps to remain as a warning 
WASHINGTON -Notorious internment camps where Japanese-Americans were kept behind barbed wire during World War II will be preserved as stark reminders of how the United States turned on some of its citizens in a time of fear. 
As one of its last acts, the Republican-led Congress on Tuesday sent President Bush legislation establishing a $38 million pro­gram of National Park Service grants to restore and pay for research at 10 camps where the government sent people of Japanese descent after the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Library picks up pieces. after fire 
WILLIAMSPORT, Ind. -Demolition work has started on the town's fire-damaged library build­ing as the library's staff tries to regroup in its temporary home. 
The Williamsport-Washington Township Public Library opened Monday its temporary location at an American Legion post, although library Director Chris Brown said it would be a couple weeks before it is able to circulate books again. 
In the meantime, the library is now accepting books and other materials that were checked out before the Oct. 8 fire that destroyed its 4-year­old building and nearly everything that was inside. 
Gates seeks new Iraq approach 
New defense secretary says military winning, but stabilization a major challenge 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Robert Gates, the White House choice to be the next defense secretary, conceded Tuesday that the United States is not winning the war in Iraq and warned that if that country is not stabi­lized in the next year or two it could lead to a "regional conflagration." 
At a Senate confirmation hearing that was long on praise for Gates and short on criticism, the man President Bush chose to replace Donald H. Rumsfeld said he is open to new ideas about correcting the U.S. course in Iraq. He said the war would be his highest priority if confirmed as expected. 
Gates, 63, said he believes Bush wants to see Iraq improve to the point where it can govern and defend itself, while seeking a new approach. "What we are now doing is not satisfacto­ry," Gates said. 
"In my view, all options are on the table, in terms of how we address this prob­lem in Iraq," he added. He did not commit to favoring any specific new course, saying he would consult first with commanders and oth­ers. 
Asked point-blank by Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., whether the U.S. is winning battles that we fight," Gates "If you want to try get a "depends on the conditions in Iraq, Gates replied, "No, said. "Where we're having nuanced and full under­on the ground." He also said sir." He later said he our challenges, frankly, are standing of where Bob that if confirmed he would believes the United States is in the areas of stabilization Gates stands on these issues go to Iraq soon to consult neither winning nor losing, and political developments with regard to the president with U.S. commanders. "at this point." and so on." and his policies and the defi­Asked later whether 
At the outset of an after­At the White House, press nition of what it is to win announcing a specific troop noon session of questions secretary Tony Snow was and Iraq and what it takes, withdrawal timetable would about Iraq and other sub­pressed by reporters about then I think you're going to send a signal of U.S. weak­jects, Gates began by telling Gates' answer that the U.S. find he agrees" with Bush, ness, Gates said it "would the committee he wanted to is not winning in Iraq -one Snow said. essentially tell (the insur­amplifY on his remark about that seemed to be in conflict The spokesman rejected gents) how long they have to not winning in Iraq. He did with the president's own any notion that Gates' wait until we're gone." not withdraw the remark position. assessment of the war The hearing was noncon­but said, "I want to make Snow said that Gates' tes­would be demoralizing to frontational, with occasional clear that that pertains to timony, taken in its entirety, U.S. troops. "What I think is hints of humor from Gates. the situation in Iraq as a shows he shares Bush's demoralizing is a constant Much of the questioning whole." view that the U.S. must help effort to try to portray this from panel members was 
He said he did not want Iraq govern and defend as a losing mission," Snow focused on whether Gates 
U.S. troops to think he itself. said. would provide independent believes they are beirfg "I know you want to pit a Gates was noncommittal advice to Bush, and the for­unsuccessful in their fight between Bob Gates on questions about whether mer CIA director assured assigned missions. and the president, it doesn't and when to begin a U.S. the committee that he would 
"Our military wins the exist," Snow told reporters. troop withdrawal, saying it not shirk from that duty. 

FRANCE 
Big 6 talk about punishing Iran 
Ministry brought together diplomats But Lavrov suggested Russia was
Associated Press from the United States, Britain, not ready to support broad sanc­PARIS -Six world powers gath­China, France and Russia -the tions. ered for talks Tuesday, divided on permanent members of the U.N. "We believe that to impose these how to punish Iran's defiance of Security Council -as well as kind of sanctions would be ... dispro­
U.N. demands to halt its nuclear Germany and a representative of portionate to the real situation. We program and facing a new threat European Union foreign policy chief will achieve the opposite results," from Tehran of retaliation if they opt Javier Solana. Lavrov said in Brussels, Belgium. for sanctions. "We all want to cut off Iran's abili­"We believe this is wrong. We will 
The United States, joining France, ty to seek support for its enrich­work in a more responsible way." expressed hoped the closed-door ment program," said Undersecretary Iranian President Mahmoud talks in Paris would secure agree­of State Nicholas Burns, the U.S. Ahmadinejad ratcheted up pressure ment for imposing sanctions against participant at the discussions. Asked by vowing Tuesday to stick by the Iran. But Russian Foreign Minister when he expected Russia and China nuclear program and issuing a new Sergey Lavrov said imposing wide­to join the others in supporting a threat to downgrade relations with ranging sanctions would be "irre­Security Council resolution, Burns the 25-nation EU if European nego­sponsible." replied: "This afternoon would be a tiators opted for tough U.N. sanc­
The talks at the French Foreign good time." tions. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
COR 
continued from page 1 
"I know for my friends we've had a lot of concerns like [what to do if1 only one of us gets tickets," said Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow. 
However, Hall Presidents' Council co-chair Brian Lowery argued that the policy for obtaining bowl tickets pre­vents students from buying more than one ticket and sell­ing them to non-Notre Dame students. 
"With large numbers of peo­ple entering the lottery and the chance that a second tick­et might go to a friend or fam­ily member rather than a stu­dent, then it might be benefi­cial to only have a one ticket policy," he said. 
Student Union Board Manager Patrick Vassel agreed, recalling that "last 
year a lot of students [were saying] 'yeah I'll buy one [tick­et] and sell one.' I think we'd be hard-pressed to say we haven't heard of people selling tickets even at face value.'' 

The decrease in the number of home football tickets avail­able for parents was also dis­cussed. Next year, only two tickets will be available to parents for only one football game, as opposed to the previ­ously offered four tickets to two football games. Student body president Lizzi Shappell said some students have expressed the sentiment that "limiting family tickets to two tickets is going to limit how many of their family members will be able to come in for stu­dent weekend and parent weekends." 
Lowery suggested a correla­tion between restricted avail­ability family tickets and the availability of season tickets. 

"It's interesting that the par­ent tickets are being reduced at the same time that they are implementing season tickets," he said. 
Vassel agreed, remarking that "thirty-some years [have passed] since there's been sea­son tickets available ... it doesn't seem to be a fair cor­relation -at least for stu­dents." 
In other COR news: 

Club Coordination Council president Kerry Kilbourn highlighted various activities and responsibilities of the CCC as it was the organization spotlight for the week. Kilbourn said the CCC focuses primarily on allotting money to various student clubs. Last year, club requests totaled $550,000, later brought down to $480,000. Kilbourn said the CCC is automatically guaran­teed 33 percent of the annual Student Union budget to divide among various organizations. 
Shappell asked for any fol­low-up on last week's discus­sion about promoting more student awareness and involvement in student gov­ernment. Several suggestions revolved around Web sites, including putting a link to stu­dent government on the Notre Dame's homepage. 
Though there are plans to revamp the school's Web site, student body vice president Bill Andrichik said "the Web group that is in charge of developing [Notre Dame's webpage] wanted to keep the homepage pretty simplified, so I doubt there would be a direct link on the homepage.'' 
Contact Sonia Rao at 
srao 1 @nd.edu 

Uganda 
continued from page 1 
increase agricultural produc­tivity, connect [the Ugandan] people to information and markets, eradicate preventa­ble diseases and expand access to basic healthcare and education," NOMOI director Father Robert Dowd said. 
Funded by the contributions of University Trustee Ray Chambers, the NOMOI will work with constructive inter­vention strategies previously used in the Ugandan village of Ruhiira, southwest of the capi­tal city Kampala. 
NOMOI assistant director Tim Lyden, a 2002 Notre Dame graduate, said he expected Notre Dame to be assigned to an exact village later this month, as the selec­tion committee of Ugandan representatives and United Nations consultants was still in the process of choosing the University's partner village. 
He said he knew the village would be located in the Mpigi district of the country, west of Kampala and close to the city of Nkozi, home of Uganda Martyrs University -the nation's premier Catholic uni­versity. 
Lyden said Notre Dame con­tacted Uganda Martyrs to establish a relationship of cooperation and solidarity that will allow NOMOI participants to utilize the local university's resources and knowledge of the region's community devel­opment needs. 
"Uganda Martyrs University has strong programs in agri­culture, public health, devel­opment studies and business, and Notre Dame has strengths in civil engineering, the bio­logical sciences, the social sci­ences and business as well," Lyden said. "Together, the strengths of our two universi­ties align with the key spheres of investment of the Millennium Villages Project." 
Lyden said he thought the assets of both institutions would facilitate collaborative research projects and the study of the results of the project, as observed in the vil­lage once the partnership and the intervention model are determined and implemented. 
"It is the goal of this initia­tive to provide faculty and stu­dents, both graduate and undergraduate, with research and internship opportunities that contribute to human development," Dowd said. 
"We have been contacted by dozens of students that have not only expressed interest and enthusiasm for the project but want to get involved and furthermore have proposed concrete ideas for fundraising, campus activities, independent research study projects and advocacy options," he added. 
One of the students that con­tacted Dowd and Lyden -and did become involved in the NOMOI -was sophomore Tess Bone, whose independent research project will examine the organization, mobilization and implementation of the NOMOI in Uganda. 
"As this is the first time a university has undertaken such a responsibility, I think it is essential to understand the process," she said. "I hope to better understand [the steps of this process] and to study them to produce a thoughtful analysis that could be helpful as it applies to this project, but may also serve as a refer­ence for other universities considering a similar endeav­or." 
Bone said Dowd and Lyden allowed her to observe the activities and organizational meetings of the NOMOI's Student Advisory Council, which contributed consider­ably to her understanding of the project's progression on campus. 
She also said the University has supported her desire to research African development and poverty alleviation, offer­ing research grants, encour­agement and academic avenues that provided the opportunity to pursue these interests -and to travel to the selected partner village in January with Dowd, Lyden and University President Father John Jenkins, among other Notre Dame representa­tives. 
''I'm very grateful for this opportunity, and I think that Notre Dame students need to make Africa a priority as well because of the real ability to help that we have as a univer­sity," Bone said. "Our finan­cial, intellectual and numeri­cal base has great potential." 
She said students should keep their eyes open next semester for the various opportunities to help Africa that will be available though different campus organiza­tions, including Amnesty International, the Africa Faith and Justice Network and the MDG Task Force, among many other organizations. 
The task force recently col­lected money for bed nets to prevent malaria mosquito bites in Africa. 
If not through active involve­ment in these organizations or donations, Dowd said students could still join the NOMOI project simply by "attending discussion groups, learning more about the situation and informing others about it." 
He encouraged representa­tives on the Student Advisory Council to inform their elec­torates of the NOMOI's goals through presentations and dis­cussions across campus and in the residence halls. 
"Notre Dame can only be the Catholic university it strives to be if it devotes its time, talent and treasure to solving real world problems, problems that are dehumanizing and that prevent people from real­izing their God-given poten­tial, problems that are essen­tially the result of ignorance, indifference and injustice," Dowd said. 
He and Lyden are working on the official NOMOI propos­als that will be submitted to Jenkins and Chambers, and finalizing the details of the January excursion to the University's partner village. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 


St. Jude's Primary ~chool, Jinja, Uganda
w1th the 

ND Celebration Choir and Christmas reflections by ND International students 
Wed., Dec 6th, 7:30pm 

First floor Coleman Morse lounge Free Admission, but an offering will be taken. 

2007-2008 
Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 

http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 16, 2007 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,331.60 +47.75
Jones 
UfX Same: Down: Composite VolumE 2,038 175 1,212 2,755,702,210 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.36 +0.16 44.4: 
INTEL CP (INTC) ..0.47 -0.10 21.1: 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.83 -0.16 5.4' 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.68 -0.20 29.1: 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE +0.20 +0.009 4.44: 
13-WEEK BILL -0.41 -0.020 4.85( 
30-YEAR BOND +0.44 +0.020 4.561 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.05 +0.002 4.38: 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.30 63.4: 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.30 650.6( 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.45 91.9! 
Excha Rates 

YEN 114.845( 
EURO 0.7501 
POUND 0.506~ 
CANADIAN$ 1.143: 
IN BRIEF 
Big Apple clamps down on trans fats 
NEW YORK -New York on Tuesday became the first city in the nation to ban artery-clogging trans fats at restaurants, leading the charge to limit consumption of an ingredient linked to heart disease and used in everything from french fries to pizza dough to pancake mix. 
In a city where eating out is a major form of activity -either for fun or out of hectic necessity -many New Yorkers were all for the ban, say­ing that health concerns were more important than fears of Big Brother supervising their stom­achs. 
"I don't care about what might be politically correct and what's not," said Murray Bader, nursing a cup of coffee at Dunkin' Donuts on Tuesday morning. "I want to live longer!" 
The 72-year-old Manhattan resident called the ban a "wakeup call" for a public often unaware of the risks of artificial fats. "This stuff clogs up your vessels," he said. "When it comes to health, we only have one life." 
Toni Lewis, catching a quick dinner at McDonalds before her child's piano lesson on the eve of the vote, acknowledged that yes, it might be going too far for the city to tell people what they can and can't put into their stomachs. But, she added: "I welcome the intrusion." 
"This is New York," she said. "People eat out a lot. We don't have a choice. We need someone to make it a healthier proposition." 
Myspace gives sex offenders the boot 
NEW YORK -The popular online hangout MySpace said Tuesday it will develop technologies to help block convicted sex offenders, the site's lat­est attempt to address complaints about sexual predators and other dangers to teens. 
MySpace is partnering with Sentinel Tech Holding Corp. to build and deploy within 30 days a database that will contain the names and physi­cal descriptions of convicted sex offenders in the United States. An automated system will search for matches between the database and MySpace user profiles. Employees will then delete any pro­files that match. 
Parents, school administrators and law-enforce­ment authorities have grown increasingly worried that teens are at risk on MySpace and other social-networking sites, which provide tools for messaging, sharing photos and creating personal pages. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Stocks rise as pressures relieved 
Market gains as wages and benefits show sluggish increase, service sector up 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street 

rallied for a second straight 
session Tuesday after easing 
wage pressures and 
stronger-than-expected serv­
ice sector activity raised 
prospects that the economy 
could cool gradually and 
leave room for the Federal 
Reserve to lower interest 
rates next year. 
Investors applauded Labor Department figures showing wages and benefits increased at a much slower pace in the third quarter than had been estimated. Recent concerns about infla­tion had eroded some hopes that the Federal Reserve would start lowering interest rates next year. The central bank has said inflation remains its primary concern. 
Meanwhile, the Institute 

for Supply Management, a 
trade group, found activity in 
the nation's services sector 
rose at a faster rate in 
November, giving a further 
boost to investor sentiment. 
An index reading of 58.9 
was above the 55.5 that had 
been expected and the 57.1 
seen in October. 
"Certainly that ISM num­ber was a nice surprise to the upside but for me the numbers that were more important were the unit labor costs and the produc­tivity number" from the Labor Department, said The Russell 2000 index of third quarter, a hefty drop comes on the lOth anniver­Scott Wren, senior equity smaller companies climbed from the 3.8 percent rate the sary of remarks by former strategist for A.G. Edwards 1.57, or 0.20 percent, to a agency reported a month Federal Reserve Chairman & Sons. "You're not getting new closing high of 797.42. ago. Also, growth in worker Alan Greenspan in which he as big a kicker off this data The index also passed the productivity slowed to an famously asked how as you might have six month 800 mark for the first time annual rate of 0.2 percent, investors were to know ago because the market is Tuesday, moving as high as though the increase still when "irrational exuber­pretty fairly valued." 801.01. topped an earlier estimate ance" had unduly escalated 
The Dow Jones industrial Bonds fell, with the yield that had productivity as asset values. 
average rose 47.75, or 0.39 on the benchmark 10-year unchanged. Christopher Piros, director 
percent, to 12,331.60. A 2.5 Treasury note rising to 4.45 "I think more and more of investment strategy and 
percent increase from Coca­percent from 4.43 percent we've seen inflation start to portfolio management for 
Cola Co. and a 2.3 percent from late Monday. The dollar roll over," Wren said, noting Prudential Investments, con­
rise from Walt Disney Co. firmed against other major many investors have been tends valuations are "still 
helped the blue chip aver­currencies, while gold prices concerned recently that quite reasonable" and notes 
age. fell. growth would slow too that earnings have held up 
Broader stock indicators Light, sweet crude settled quickly. He believes investors well. However, he believes 
also rose. The Standard & down 1 cent at $62.43 a bar­should remain cautious. "It many investors are down­
Poor's 500 index gained rel on the New York is a little worrisome that playing the risk of a pro­
5.64, or 0.40 percent, to Mercantile Exchange. more people aren't calling nounced economic slowing. 
1,414.76. The index hit a The Labor Department for a recession out there "I don't see a recession 
six-year high of 1,415.27. report found costs of wages because I hate to see when coming but I think there is 
The Nasdaq composite index and benefits per unit of out­everyone is thinking the some risk that the slowdown 
was up 3.99, or 0.16 per­put increased at the annual same way." is deeper than some 
cent, at 2,452.38. rate of 2.3 percent in the Wren's call for vigilance investors have factored in." 

Productivity falls as orders plunge 
Associated Press Analysts said this downward revision unchanged since the summer with ana­
should ease fears at the Fed that wage lysts expecting the Fed to remain on 
WASHINGTON -Growth in worker pressures were threatening to send hold next week at its last meeting of the productivity slowed sharply in the sum­inflation sharply higher. year. mer while wages and benefits rose at a "Based on these numbers, the Fed The good news on inflation helped rate that was far below a previous esti­can rest easy about the threat of infla­Wall Street rally for a second straight mate, a development likely to ease infla­tion," said Nariman Behravesh, chief session. The Dow Jones industrial aver­tion worries at the Federal Reserve. economist at Global Insight, a private age rose 4 7. 7 5 points to close at 
Productivity edged up at a 0.2 percent forecasting firm. "The only debate now 12,331.60. 
annual rate in the July-September seems to be about when the Fed will In other economic news, the 
quarter, the Commerce Department cut" interest rates. Commerce Department said that orders 
said Tuesday. That was slightly better Behravesh said if inflation remains to U;S. factories plunged 4.7 percent in 
than the zero change reported a month benign and the overall economy contin­October, the third decline in the past 
ago. . ues to show weakness, the central bank four months, and the biggest drop in 
Wages and benefits per unit of output might move as soon as March to start more than six years. The manufactur­
increased at an annual rate of 2.3 per­cutting rates. ing sector is starting to experience the 
cent in the third quarter, much slower After raising rates for two years to adverse impact from this year's slow­
than the 3.8 percent advance previously make sure inflation did not get out of down in the overall economy with auto 
estimated. hand, the Federal Reserve has left them sales and home construction suffering. 
page 8 PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 6, 2006 

thursday
february1 

12:00-2:30pm 
diversity reception 
a networking opportunity for students 
and organizations embracing diversity 
•

monogram room, Joyce center 
all are welcome to attend 
, --~:()0 -8:00 gm­
,, ' ,.., ' ' 

findoutmore! 
., . i.
.•.
The Career Center .'.,
.. ,,f.1 

careercenter.nd.edu/dynamic.php ?content=WCI F2007 
·uNJVERS!TY OF NOTRE DAME . . 

,----------­
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
be accepted in the spring than in the disappointment in that only two stu­
the cruel world," Gagnon said. 

fall." dents applied for the same number 
"When you live on campus,

Abroad 
Security

Combining the program at of openings in the Paris program 
you don't see the impact of 

continued from page 1 University College Dublin and the that offers students a year at the 
continued from page 1 crime outside of campus. 
other option at Trinity College, Notre Science Po, "the Harvard of 
When you move off campus, 

Washington D.C), according to Dame's Dublin program has 79 France," Douthwaite sli.id. 
During Thanksgiving break, you might not be prepared." 
Peggy Weber, assistant director of applicants for the spring semester ''I'm disappointed about that ­
senior Mike Hennig and his The neighborhoods that stu­
operations for off-campus pro­and can only accept around 40. two elite programs for the very flu­
roommate, who live on dents live in also attribute to 
Washington Street, were the their vulnerability. 
grams. Douthwaite said the department ent language learner should have 
Three hundred forty-eight appli­often invites students turned down sparked more interest," she said. 
victims of burglary. "Unfortunately our students 
cants listed London as their first­by their first choice to consider Students who have submitted 
"We got home and our door live in neighborhoods at risk, 
choice destination-the most popu­studying in the fall, an offer students applications for the 2007-08 school 
had been broken open. There due to the low rent," Gagnon 
was dirt on the floor. Both of said.
lar program. But London is also the "would be wise to accept ifthey had year will receive notification letters 
our computers, my printer, Gagnon said burglars, who
largest program, hosting 130 stu­chosen a program as oversub­sometime in February. 
stereo, TV... it was all gone," often target young people,
dents each semester. scribed as Dublin." "Our policy is to let every student 
Julia Douthwaite, assistant The 2007-08 applications saw get their first choice ifat all possible 
Hennig said. know which homes student 
provost for international studies, surprising increases in the pro­first," Douthwaite said, and added 
Though they called the residences and when those 
police and filed a report, noth­students will be away. He said
named Oxford as the most competi­grams in Kampala (Uganda), both that those who are not inunediately 
tive program because students must Chinese programs and Cairo, admitted will be notified of their 
ing has been recovered and students should "maintain 
be invited to apply and the numbers Douthwaite said. position on a waiting list. 
they have heard nothing from good relations with neigh­
are very limited. Rome, Toledo and While the "policy is to do the "There is a complicated and ener­
the police. bors" and let them know 
Dublin are also in high demand, she utmost best to get students into their getic process," Douthwaite 
"This is not the first time when the house will be empty 
said. first choice program," she said, the explained, as students confirm 
this kind of thing has hap­so they can report anything 
pened. We've had five or six suspicious to the police.
Each July, the department of budget allocations will not allow all spaces in programs and other stu­
international studies plans to predict students to be placed in these rela­dents are offered open spaces after 
cars broken into this semes­Students should also let their 
student interest in each of its pro­tively newer and less traditional the initial round of acceptance let­
ter," Hennig said. "iPods, landlord know when they are 
stereos ... they've all been leaving and returning.
grams. choices. ters. She pointed out that a student 
stolen. We've called the police Students can also call the
"We try to predict interest," Douthwaite named this fall's aca­could be dropped from the program 
Douthwaite said, "but it's always demic forum and the Kroc Institute's any time before departure if his or 
and sometimes they don't SBPD to request a "vacation 
unpredictable." emphasis on bringing noteworthy her academic record fails to live up 
even send somebody. They home watch" while they're 
just take the report over the away, Gagnon added. 
Other than in London, where the speakers to campus as reasons for to the program's standards. 
number of students is fixed by the increased interest the new study While the number of applicants 
phone." He also suggested that stu­
Hennig did mention that his dents make sure doors are
facilities available, the budgeted abroad program in Uganda. may seem daunting, Douthwaite 
home security alarm was mal­dead-bolted, windows are
number of available spaces for most "Undergrads want to do some­said her office has a desire to 
programs is up for negotiation. thing to help change the world and accommodate as many students as 
functioning and that it has locked and there is no shrub­
Spaces remain consistent for both they're curious about Africa," she possible. A price cannot be affixed to 
since been fixed. bery blocking the windows 
fall and spring semesters, as rooms said. "I really credit our student the experiences gained by studying 
"Our neighbors had a secu­where burglars could hide. It 
in dorms or with host families need body with the number ready to go to abroad, she said. 
rity alarm and were not bro­is also a good idea to buy an 
be filled for the entire academic these challenging locals." "The opportunity to learn in a 
ken into," he said. "It's inexpensive timer light, he 
year. Cooperation with the Center for totally new way, to have the oppor­
required to have a security said. Anything that makes the 
alarm or you're going to get house look occupied lessens
Students more commonly list the Asian Studies and the Asian lan­tunity to walk through the streets of 
spring semester as their first choice guage and literature department the city that you're learning about, 
robbed." the chance of a break-in. 
-a trend Douthwaite considers "a may have helped recruit students to read the newspapers, to be 
Gagnon said he believes If students have any ques­
new phenomenon in the past couple for the East Asian programs, which immersed in the cultural environ­
there are several reasons why tions, they should call NDSP at 
off-campus students are so (57 4) 631-5555.
years." include Beijing, Shanghai and ment is just incalculable," she said. 
A competitive program like Toledo Tokyo, she said. "We don't have the smells and the 
vulnerable to break-ins-one The South Bend Police 
of which is the mindset of Department did not return
received 23 fall applicants and 52 The only program with more tastes and the sounds of these cul­
Notre Dame students. calls for comment. 
for the spring -a disparity which spaces than applicants was the tural locations here on campus." 
"Truthfully, our students are

Douthwaite deemed "unfortunate yearlong opportunity for five fluent 
for those students" because "it will Italian speakers to study Bologna, Contact Kathleen McDonnell at 
very trusting, which is great, Contact Eva Binda at 
but it's not a good thing out in jbinda@nd.edu
be more of a challenge for them to Douthwaite said. She also expressed kmcdonn3@nd.edn 

La Alianza presents ... 
A Latin dance party with free food and fun! 
Wednesday, Decen1ber 6th Legends 9plll-12alll 
E~;ee l!~sliirts t• lrstlllslulents 
page 10 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
ITALY 

Indictments sought in CIA kidnapping 

Associated Press 
MILAN, Italy -An Italian prosecutor on Tuesday r{lquested the indictment of 26 Americans and five Italian secret service officials in the 2003 kidnapping of an Egyptian cleric in Milan ­a case that continues to be an irritant to U.S.-Italian relations. 
Prosecutor Armando Spataro said the indictment request is aimed at CIA agents and the for­mer head of Italian military intelligence, Nicolo Pollari, for alleged involvement in the kid­napping. 
Prosecutors have identified all but one of the Americans as CIA agents, including former station chiefs in Rome and Milan, and the 26th as a U.S. Air Force offi­cer stationed at the time at Aviano air base near Venice. 
Last month, Spataro asked the center-left government of Romano Prodi to request the Americans' extradition; he has not received a response. 
The operation was believed to be part of an alleged CIA "extraordinary rendition" pro­gram in which terrorism sus­pects are transferred to third countries where some allegedly are tortured. It is the first known prosecution of alleged partici­pants in such operations, which have come under growing criti­cism by America's allies in Europe. 
The United States and Italy have an extradition treaty, although it was not likely that CIA agents would be turned over for trial abroad. In some instances, only the aliases of the agents are known. 
The previous government of conservative Silvio Berlusconi had refused to request the Americans' extradition, and con­tended his government and Italian secret services were not informed about the operation and did not take part. 
Berlusconi, one of the United States' staunchest allies in the war against terrorism and the invasion of Iraq, expressed sup­port for Pollari. 
"Gen. Pollari was one of the few to fight terrorism in the front lines, with the result that he came under the scrutiny of all Italians. Let's ask the govern­ment how it intends to protect those like Pollari who go up against terrorists, and the good name of our intelligence and Italy's reputation abroad," Berlusconi said. 

Pollari was replaced last month as part of a purge that also included the heads of the civilian secret service agencies. Pollari, 63, had long resisted calls for his resignation that only intensified with the abduction case. He took over SISMI, the Italian military intelligence agency, in 2001 after holding key posts with Italy's financial police and civilian secret service agency. 
Besides Pollari, the request also names his former deputy Marco Mancini, and three other secret service officials. 
Pollari has insisted in question­ing before parliamentary com­mittees that Italian intelligence had no role in the cleric's disap­pearance, while Mancini, who was arrested this summer, is said by his lawyers to be cooper­ating with prosecutors in impli­cating his boss. 
Osama Moustafa Hassan Nasr, an Egyptian cleric and terrorist suspect, also known as Abu Omar, was allegedly abducted from a Milan street in February 2003 and flown out of Italy from Aviano. 
Among the Americans named in the request are Robert Seldon Lady, a former station chief in Milan, and Jeffrey Castelli, iden­tified as a former CIA chief in Rome. 
Spataro also is seeking indict­ments on charges of aiding and abetting against two other secret service officials and the deputy director of the newspaper Libero, Renato Farina. Four oth­ers -three secret service offi­cials and a reporter for Libera ­were dropped from the investi­gation. 
From the outset, U.S. officials have declined comment. A lawyer for Lady, the only American who was living in Italy when arrest warrants were issued, said she was surprised by the indictment request. 
"Even the documents of the prosecution show that he was not an organizer. If anything, he was someone who obeyed orders," lawyer Daria Pesce said. · 
Lady left the country before the warrant was served. Pesce said he lives in the United States, but declined to say where. 
Prosecutors raided Lady's home near Turin last year, col­lecting a central piece of evi­dence -a picture of Nasr taken in January 2003 on the street where he was allegedly abducted a month later. 
Investigator increases interaction 
Klimczak's revamped position aids Saint Mary's security director 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 

In an effort to encourage stu­dent interaction and increase campus safety, Saint Mary's has expanded its security depart­ment by adding an assistant director. Stan Klimczak was pro­moted to this role last month after joining the security depart­ment in March. 
Klimczak said the assistant director position will cover many duties that were previous­ly performed by the investiga­tor/programmer. He said the new role is essentially "an expansion of the investigator/programmer posi­tion." 
'The position was created to enhance the security depart­ment to make it more efficient and to give the director more help with some of the things he needed assistance with," he said. 
Director of Security David Gariepy echoed Klimczak's description of the role of the assistant director. 
"The assistant director is not actually a new position," he said. "It is a position which used to be called investigator, but has new and expanded responsibili­ties. The assistant director will continue with investigative responsibilities, but will be more heavily involved with training of officers and creating infonna­tional programs for staff and students." 
Gariepy also said the assistant director will serve as the direc­tor of security in his absence. 
"My hope is that through the expanded duties of the assistant director, we, as a security department, will be better able, through training, to provide for a safer and more secure cam­pus," Gariepy said. 
Klimczak said he will face sev­eral challenges as he adjusts to his new job, beginning with the task of defming exactly what his role as assistant director will be. 
Increasing student involve­ment and attendance is one of Klimczak's primary goals. He said the College currently has programs to educate students on domestic violence, alcohol abuse and drug abuse. 
"The same basic programs that pretty much everyone has because those are the main things that are a threat or con­cern," he said. 
However, Klimczak said he would like to change the way this information is relayed to the student body. 
"Instead of dictating from the top down, saying you do this, I'd like to work with students and have involvement to create ways to present those programs," he said. "I guess some of the class­es and programs haven't been well attended and we want to increase attendance. I think the way to do that is to increase interest and involvement and make it more relevant to stu­dents." 
Klimczak said he will be meet­ing with Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson next week to discuss ways to encourage student interest and participation. 
Changes to the current system could include the creation of committees within each resi­dence hall that would interact 
with security to generate pro­grams for smaller groups within their hall. 
"I think you get more across in the smaller group than the dis­cussion where you try to con­centrate everyone in a large group at the same time," Klimczak said. 
Another area Klimczak said he would like to focus on is training for security personnel. 
"One of the goals of myself and the director is to work on officer training in the security department," he said. "We want to provide more and better training to make them more effi­cient and to better serve the community. We are always look­ing to upgrade and improve our­selves." 
Gariepy also stressed the importance of the College com­munity and the security depart­ment working together to ensure the department contin­ues to fulfill the community's needs. 
"The assistant director and I share a common desire to pro­mote safe habits by students, to provide timely information and tips to [the College! community and to foster a desire by all to help in the effort to make the campus a safer, healthier envi­ronment for all to prosper," he said. 
Prior to his employment at the College, Klimczak served as an officer for nearly 33 years in the LaPorte County Police Department, where he was the assistant chief for the past two­and-a-half years. 
After retirement from the force, Klimczak said he was "looking for another challenge. So that's why I came here," he said. "A second career I guess." 
Contact Laura .Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

STUDY DATES AND TIMES: December 7: 7am to 3:00am Midnight Snacks! December 8: 7am to 3:00am December 9: 7am to 3:00am December 10: 7am to 3:00am 

Final• Week! December 11-14 Romn• available except when scheduled by the Regi.•trar's office. 
December 15 De.Bartolo Hall closes 30 minutes after last exam scheduled by the Registrar's Office. Midnight Snacks available during Study days. 
See Builtling Support Personnel ifyou ltave specific needs: Room 103, 104. 

Coleman-Morse: December 7-December 14. 1•t Floor: 7:00am-4:00am 2"<1 floor : 7:00am-3:00am 3'u Floor: 7:00am-12am 
See Building Support Person ifyou have specific needs: Room 101 


O'Shaughnessy: Rooms available for open study except when scheduled by the Registrar's office. 
December 7 & 8: 8:00am to 1:00am December 9-12: 8:00am to 3:00am December 13 & 14: 8:00am to 1:00am Rooms: 106, 107, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118,206, 207,208, 209. 
i~' Good Luck with Finals i~' 



~· 


HAMMES~. 
NOTRE DAME ~ 
Double Points at Buyback
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcatalog.com 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDfiOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631·4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd..edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including .advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qz=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed UJ Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observa-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxc.cpt: during exam and -..acarion periods. A subscription ro The Ob&crvcr is. $IIl0 for one actdcmic year; $55 fur om: ~mareL 
The Obstrvtt is published ac POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address comcrions ro: 
Norre Dame. IN 46SS6-0779 ThcO!=va 
l'triodio! ~t paid at Noue O;unc P:O. Bo':(779 
.md additional ma.iling offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 

None Dame, lN 46-556-0n9 
The Obsc:rvcr is a member ofthe Associated PrCS.'i. All reproduaion rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Kyle Cassily Kate Antonacci Greg Arbogast Kelly Meehan Bill Brink 
Ryan Sydlik Scene Viewpoint Sean Sweany Kara King Graphics 
Jeff Albert 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A phartnacist's right to religion 
According to the fourth Indiana Senate Bill: 
No person shall be required, as a condition of train­ing, employment, pay, promotion, or privileges, to do any of the following: 
(1) 
Agree to perform or participate in the per forming of abortions. 

(2) 
Dispense: 

(A) 
a medical device or drug that may result in, or that is intended to result in, an abortion; or 

(B) 
a birth control device or medication. 





Because birth control is often a religious issue, as is the case in Roman Catholicism, a pharmacist's first amendment right to free exercise of religion must be protected. A pharmacist should not be forced to aid in an immoral act, the use of birth control or even worse, the use of possible abortifacients that prevent fertilized eggs from implanting in the endometrium. Numerous states across the nation have justly passed laws similar to Indiana's with regards to pharmacists and the distri­bution of birth control, but several states have failed to protect a pharmacist's rights. 
Obviously there is more to take into consideration than the pharmacist's rights; each time a pharmacist refuses to fill a prescription, a patient has been denied legally prescribed medication. According to the Supreme Court, as seen in Griswold v. Connecticut and Eisenstadt v. Baird, a woman's right to access contra­ceptives is protected by her right to privacy. A woman's right to access contraceptives is not a right specified by the constitution whereas the right to free exercise of religion is. It only makes sense that a clearly stated first amendment right, the free exercise of religion, trumps a right drawn in the penumbra of the amend­ments, the right to privacy, in the pharmacist situation. 
Furthermore, I live in Indiana and have not heard of any patient that was unable to attain her birth control medication. It is unreasonable to force a pharmacist to act against his or her religion in a matter so important as life or death -especially when practicing his or her religion does not truly infringe on another person's rights. 
Nicholas Lynch freshman St. Edward's Hall 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ninety percent ofeverything is crap." 
Theodore Sturgeon American author 
Dec. 4 

A dying history 
Across the nation, military history is gasping its last breath. Fewer military historians are hired as professors and even fewer schools offer courses which study the conduct of war. Sadly, Notre Dame is among the universities leading a quiet crusade against military history. We have over 30 full-time history faculty members, but not one is a military historian. Even in their self­described interests, not a single professor lists "war" of any era, although half list religious, gender, and race relations. We are fortunate enough to have Lieutenant Colonel Jordan, but he teaches here for Army ROTC, not because the history department hired him. 
A casual observer might point to certain courses, such as "America in the Civil War," and claim that wars are still studied by Notre Dame students. The hard truth is that classes like "America in the Civil War" discuss everything from war widows to draft riots -everything, that is, except the war itself. In fact, a look at the syllabus for Notre Dame's course on the Civil War reveals that not a single day of class focuses on any battle. 
If you are a professor reading this article, you are likely pulling out your hair, screaming that battlefield tactics have no place in an academic classroom. But is "guns'n'generals" history really not relevant, or do academics simply not want it to be? Integrating battlefield history back into our coursework is not only possible, it is essential. 
Take, for example, the Battle of the Crater. We already read about the Emancipation Proclamation and runaway slaves join­ing the Union army. By shunning military history, however, we do not read about the black soldiers specially trained to spearhead the Union assault at Petersburg. At the last minute General Meade lost his confidence in the blacks and replaced them with white soldiers who had not been trained for the assault. The result: over 5,000 Union soldiers massacred. 
Ignoring the tactical details of battles like Petersburg only weakens our history curriculum. Why did Meade lose faith in the black soldiers? Was this decision a question of prejudice, a loss of confidence in his sub-commanders, or perhaps a matter of politi­cal ramifications? These are provocative historical questions-but sadly, questions our students will never have to ask or answer. 
Maybe instead of pondering those questions we should start by asking why our history department has not hired a professional military historian since Robert Kerby, in the 1970s? His classes were among the most popular in the history department, so why is it that after retiring he was never replaced? Or, in terms that General Meade might understand, why have Notre Dame and other top universities lost faith in the relevance of military histo­
ry? 

Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.nd~mcob~erver.com 
Greg Wagman junior Keough Hall Nov. 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Dignity consists not in possessing honors, but in the consciousness that we deserve them. " 
Aristotle Greek philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Controlling animalistic impulses 
Asking the wrong question 
The Viewpoint has been host to numerous disputes and controversies in its time, yet the question of whether or not human beings are animals caught me by surprise. Dan Amiri, in his Nov. 21 Letter to the Editor ("Encourage chastity, not 'free talk"') attempted to make the point, among others, that human beings are more than animals. He was trying to emphasize the fact that unlike animals, we have reason and free will, and we can use these to decide to go against what our baser passions sometimes tell us to do. When an animal's instinct tells it to have sex, it cannot disobey, because it has no higher reason or will to tell it otherwise. Humans. because we are rational animals with a free will, can disobey this desire. In fact this very mastery over our baser passions is a mark of our humanity. 
In a discussion of premarital sex on campus (Joey Falco, Nov. 20, "Disloyal fathers"), perhaps this point needs to be raised. While it's true that some, perhaps even many, students are having sex outside of marriage, does the frequency of the practice make it morally defensible? Falco and others are right to bring our attention the problems of sexual assault, rape, venereal diseases and unplanned pregnancies, which often go unnoticed at Notre Dame and other campuses. Plays and movements such as "Loyal Daughters" and "The Vagina Monologues" seek to make people aware of these devas­tatingly painful realities. Yet one must realize that they are the consequences of a larger problem, one which the very proponents of these plays often serve to exacer­bate. 
A culture of sexual "liberation," without definition of sex's proper place within society or one's life, will neces­sarily lead to a climate of sexual unrestraint. Amiri sought to remind us that we can rise above our animal­istic instincts and choose to restrain our sexual impulses for a greater good. The question, then, is not if man is an animal, but whether we as a society can truly live up to our humanity. 
Chris Spellman 
senior 
off campus Dec. 5 
Choosing virtue 
I would like to respond to many recent letters concerning whether or not humans are animals. Humans are indeed animals, but we are animals with rational and volitional capacities; that is, we can think and we can choose. Our most fundamen­tal choice is to be rational or not, to think or to fol­low animalistic instinct. Our proper mode is to be free and rational persons choosing to act in accor­dance with reason and nature. Sure, we are able to act like brute animals, for this is part of the free­dom of choice proper to us. But our perfection is found elsewhere. 
In the words of Aristotle, "Man, when perfected, is the best of animals, but when separated from law and justice, he is the worst of all." What do I mean by "acting in accord with nature?" Nature in this sense is not wild. On the contrary, acting in accordance with nature requires that we act in a way which is best suited to our happiness as rational animals. How do we best achieve happi­ness? Anyone who has pursued wealth, pleasure, fame, or power to excess knows that they are empty and do not provide consistent or true happi­ness. Specifically with regard to pleasure-seeking, many students find themselves enslaved to their passions and unable to act freely -each week their need for sexual satisfaction increases. Indulging in the passions and allowing them to rule us turns us into brute animals. We become enslaved, irrational and out of control. 

Happiness is ultimately found in virtue. The above things are good and must be seen as such. But virtue truly frees us and allows us to follow the lead of our intellect. The above things, when sub­ordinated to and governed by reason, are truly good. Only when we seek the good freely and rationally are we able to achieve our fmal end: happiness. And for us to be able to do that, we must first be trained in virtue. 
But humans are not at first perfectly and inde­pendently free to choose virtue. We naturally tend toward following our passions and instincts, toward animalistic behavior. This does not mean that we are not free to choose virtue, but that it requires external help. Anyone who has ever raised a child knows that humans must be trained 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

in virtue, trained to be free. In the words of St Thomas, "Man is free insofar as he is rational." Our freedom cannot be achieved apart from rea­son. For our will to be strong enough to follow the dictates of reason, we must be trained in virtue so that the passions are rightly ordered. 
With regard to the more recent letter citing Pope John Paul II: all humans have "higher capacities," but they may not be actively manifest in a particu­lar human. Just because the rational and volitional capacities of the unborn are not yet manifest, does not mean that they lack dignity as persons. The late Pontiff was not making the claim that all par­ticular humans are rational or spiritually free to choose virtue. He instead was saying that even if a given human behaves like a brute, by choice or by chance, he nevertheless has dignity as a human person. So, I would argue that in our culture and on· college campuses in particular we lack the very "external help" which is so necessary for the devel­opment of virtue. 
Let's not be deceived: in no way is the "dog," your average college student, under control, to use Dan Amiri's analogy ("Encourage chastity, not 'free talk,"' Nov. 21). We tend to be enslaved to our pas­sions. We need to choose to behave rightly, but we are not yet completely able to do this on our own. To succeed in choosing virtue, we need, in part, to be disciplined and trained in virtue externally, in addition to internal conversion. 
We are able to choose virtue, but not without help. I humbly remind anyone in authority, either in families, in the Church, or at this university, that true leadership is found neither in completely muz­zling wild dogs nor in letting them run free. Rather, a misbehaving and untrained dog must be trained through active and systematic discipline. We can be separated from law and justice by our own choice or by the failure of our leaders. In either case the result is the same: we become the worst animals of all. 
Jon Buttaci sophomore Morrissey Dec. 2 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Alums 
deserve 
tickets too 
I am writing this letter to respond to the request of Mr. Mueller (Dec. 4, "Parents deserve tickets") to give parents more football tickets. While I could not agree more that parents make a football weekend complete, I have to say that I think maybe Mueller does not real­ize how few tickets even alumni receive. The fact is that while I enjoy watching our team even when we aren't the best, everyone (including me) is going to be more interested when the team is in the top 10. There are only so many tickets to go around. I got shafted this year, so did my friends. In fact I think most alum­ni under the age of 30 got shafted. You have to put in your dues before you can expect tickets. And, it is true that money talks to the administration. But, when you graduate and try to compare Notre Dame to other universities you'll find there is no basis. Notre Dame can continue to up my minimum annual donation nec­essary to obtain tickets because I'll pay it and you, the curreht student, will benefit. Give the guys in the dome a break-they are trying to keep Notre Dame on top. 
Carrie Graf alumna Class of 2005 Dec. 4 
TI-lE 0HSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Writer 

A tribesman is brutally captured and this noble son is sold into bondage, his life for­feit. Tormented by his instinctual need for freedom, he makes a last gasp at freedom. 
The nearest emotional predecessor to Mel Gibson's "Apocalypto," an epic fable set amongst the fall of a crumbling Mayan civilization, isn't even a film at all. It's an acclaimed television series from the late 1970s-Alex Haley's "Roots." 
The similarities between the two are numerous, not the least of which is their ability to burrow into the mind and gnaw at your conscience. With shocking imagery that bruises the senses, it's hard to ignore what's being said. The only difference is that "Apocalypto" comes with the kind of baggage that would sink a lesser film. 
The tagline to "Apocalypto" -"No one can outrun their destiny." -applies just as aptly to Kunta Kinte, the 
Jaguar Paw manages to flee his captors, a magnificent chase begins. 
The world of "Apocalypto" is one of pri­mal, almost unearthly beauty. Jaguar Paw (Rudy Youngblood) lives amongst his rami­ly and friends, a proud member of a tribe that has hunted the surrounding jungle for generations. But Jaguar Paw's tranquil life is shattered when he and his brethren are captured and sold to Mayan rulers. 
Sitting atop thrones of opulent splendor, these monarchs demand human sacrifice to appease the gods and seek blessings li>r their flagging crops. Jaguar Paw's end is one of hundreds freely offered to suit their ignoble means. As he mounts a fateful escape, Jaguar Paw races towards his family and a life he hopes to preserve for his sons and their sons after them. 
Billed as a period piece by a direetor who has stamped his name on two of the most profitable enterprises from that genre, "Apocalypto" is a further evolution of Gibson's craft. "Braveheart" and "The 
Passion of the Christ" were 

emotional center of Haley's ..--~-:-:=-="=".,...,..,o-:==-.,......,..., unmitigated successes. The generational masterpiece, as former won the Academy it does to Jaguar Paw, the Award for Best Picture in lead of Gibson's tale. Kunta's 1996 and granted Gibson destiny is sealed as soon as he's sold to a Best Director honors, and the latter drew slave ship heading for America. But when in over $610 million worldwide. But with a July arrest for drunk driving and a subse­quent anti-Semitic tirade still fresh media fodder, Gibson's latest passion project has drawn the public's eye for all the wrong reasons. Thankfully, "Apocalypto" is a lilm that rises above the storm douds that sur­round Gibson, offering an experience unlike any other in recent years. 
In an October interview with ComingSoon.net, Gibson cited his desire to make a chase movie as the principal moti­vation behind the film's genesis. 
"And I thought, well, there's all kinds of chases. There's train chases, car chases, horse· chases. I thought, a foot chase! ... That's as minimum and as primal as it gets: it's just feet, just running," Gibson said. "So of course then you start search­ing for an environment in which that could have happened." 
Primal is the most apt description for Gibson's fight or flight thrill ride. The envi­ronment Gibson chose -the jungles of Mexico -is the perfect staging ground for a lilm that packs more adrenaline than a handful of Hollywood blockbusters. With foot races away from panthers and hur­dles over jungle ravines, "Apocalypto" is a rush to behold, a picture that hinges on pure sensation rather than a deeper meaning -which is both its greatest strength and its harshest weakness. 
Over its course, "Apocalypto" takes a sharp detour from the deep feeling and quiet poignancy that pervades its first half hour. Though Gibson settled on authentic Yucatec Maya to communicate the film's deep sentiments, there's nothing foreign in the profound love shared by husbands and wives, fathers and sons and extended fam­ilies. When this harmony is broken, the ensuing bloodletting is vicious and unset­tling, violence that spirals through to the very edge of the film's conclusion. And per­haps that's the point here -the heavy price of freedom. 
Supported by lush cinematography and moving performances, this film is another demonstration of Gibson's undeniable tal­ent behind the camera. When the dust set­tles, will "Apocalypto" stand the test of time? "Roots" has. Sadly, "Apocalypto" hinges the fate of an entire civilization on the turmoil of one man's life -a lofty goal, but one that's ultimately short sighted. 
By film's end, it's hard to shake the feel­ing that Gibson's purest reason for con­ceiving the film was realized -that all he made was a chase film, and nothing more. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at 
rgottumu@nd.edu 
THE PASSION OF MEL GIBSON 
If you've seen the trailer for Mel Gibson's "Apocalypto," you were no doubt intrigued. But what makes this film differ­ent from other Hollywood box-office­busters? The answer lies in the controver­sies surrounding direc­tor Mel Gibson. 
Laura Miller
Although many peo­ple have trouble accepting the ethical 

Scene Writer 
decisions of Hollywood's rich and famous, it rarely keeps them from attend­ing films. But the controversy surrounding Gibson indicates that he might be an exception to this trend. Here are a few things to consider before going seeing Gibson's newest flick: 
If you, like most, are annoyed by Hollywood's constant trouble with the law, consider that Gibson has been arrested twice for drunk driving, and has a long history of drug and alcohol abuse. The first was in Canada, where he was fined $400. 
The second occurred in the United States, where he received three years probation. 
A more politically oriented person might wish to consider that Gibson is actively against: stem cell research, abortion, with­drawal of life support (as in the case of Terri Schiavo), and gay and lesbian equal rights. He is for the death penalty. Despite his general pro-life stance, consider how Gibson reacts to a critic. He says of an unauthorized author of a biography, "I don't think God will put him in my path. He deserves death." 
For those who are socially aware, know that in 2005, Gibson raked in a heaping $185 million. Publicly announced dona­tions (that could be easily located) amassed to a mere $11 million, about 6 percent of his total income. Oprah Winfrey donated 22 percent of her annual income in the same year, coming to a total of more than $50 million. Most devout Christians, Jews and Muslims consider an appropriate tithe to be about 10 percent. 
Many Catholics show concern for Gibson's religious ideologies, but his stances are potentially even more offensive to non-Catholics. Gibson's version of Catholicism is one of the most striking aspects of his personal life. He is a part of the Catholic Traditional Movement (CTM), which concludes an oflicial statement of their origins in a quote from St. Pope Pius V (1570), "And ifanyone could ... ever dare to attempt any action contrary to this order of ours .. .let him know that he has incurred the wrath of Almighty God and of the apostles Peter and Paul." 
The CTM considers most of the docu­ments of Vatican II to be heretical, believes that under no circumstance should any­thing ever be changed in the structure of the Catholic Mass, that all Masses should be conducted in Latin, and that every pope since 1960 has been "spurious." 
CTM also believes that Mary is equal to Jesus in her status of mediator and redeemer. In order to support this move­mont, Gibson has founded his own church called "The Church of the Holy Family." Membership is exclusive. ;, ·•·"'"'""; 
This is not an attempt to start a boycott, but a call for people to spend their money carefully. If you are upset about paying your taxes because you don't like what they are paying for, how is buying a movie ticket much different? Buying a movie tick­et is a statement of support for the actors and directors of a particular film. Viewers are handing over their money to conse­quently be enraged by how it is being used. And then viewers spend even more money pushing their old money through the court systems of California. More than ever, it is time to weigh entertainment and ethics against each other. In some movies, they can't both win. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


....---------------------------------------------------~-~-----------­
THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
page 15 
-


,," 
~f lh@ C)b~@V~@V '~ t!/"II @hvi~t9ma~ Gitt9 Guitd@ ~'7fl 
\ bg Th@ Sc@D@ Staft I 
Books: 
"I Uke You: Hospitality Under the Influence" by Amy Sedaris Actress and comedian Amy Sedaris dishes out her own humorous guide to hospitality complete with recipes and crafts. Chapters include "A Rich Uncle Comes to Visit" and "lumberjack lunch." 
"The Audrey Hepburn Treasures" foreword by Sean Hepburn Ferrer A must-have for any Audrey Hepburn fan, "Treasures" serves as a pseudo-scrapbook of Hepburn's life. It includes reproductions of her birth certificate as well as letters she sent to friends and family. 
"Treasure of Khan" by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler The popular Dirk Pitt series returns in this latest Cussler book, where Pitt and friends must stop a murderous tycoon's plans for wor1d domination. The action ranges from Hawaii to Mongolia and Siberia in this adventure thriller. 
"Thirteen Moons: A Novel" by Charles Frazier "Cold Mountain" author Charles Frazier returns with "Thirteen Moons," the story of Will Cooper, a man whose remarkable life stretches from the great battles of the Civil War to the invention of the telephone. 
Gadgets: 
iRiverCiix An alternative to the iPod Nano, the iRiverCiix includes features like a built-in FM radio tuner, voice recorder and alarm clock. It can also be integrated with both Windows Media Player 11 and MTV Urge. 
iPod Nano Now in a 4 GB size, the new Nanos can store more in a variety of colors. Rather than simply white, black or silver, the Nano can be green, pink or even red. 
DVDs: 
"Pirates of the Caribbean -Dead Man's Chest" Captain Jack Sparrow sails the biggest film of the summer into stores on a special-features loaded DVD. Fans can swashbuckle with the whole "Pirates" crew in anticipation of next summer's third film. 
"Saturday Night Uve: The Complete First Season" Finally, an entire season of "SNl" is on DVD and it comes in the form of the groundbreaking first season with the series' original Not-Ready-For-Primetime Players. Included are all 24 episodes with original music and cast member screen tests. 
"The Complete Superman Collection" Finally, the male answer to the "Sex and the City" DVD collection -the ultimate grouping of Superman films brings Clark Kent back to life in stunningly redone visual splendor. 
"An Inconvenient Truth" With a package made from 100 percent post-recyclable materials, AI Gore's environmental documentary features a captivating slide show that not only makes the viewer believe in the reality of global warming, but also in the reality of Gore's coolness. 
Music: 
"Dreamgirls: Music from the Motion Picture" The soundtrack of the much-anticipated, Oscar-buzzworthy musical "Dreamglr1s" features the vocal talent of Beyonce and the powerhouse voice of Jennifer Hudson. look for Hudson to steal the picture and the soundtrack. 
"Eminem Presents: The Re-Up" The latest project from Eminem features new artists Ca$his, Stat Quo and Bobby Creakwater. The album is compiled in a mix-tape fashion in order to promote its up and coming artists. 
Video Gaming: 
I Wii: Officially the most unique and creative gaming system of the season, the Nintendo Wii has finally arrived. What makes the Wii so interesting is its wireless, motion-sensitive remote. 

"Gears of War" A great new title for the Xbox 360 gaming system, "Gears of War" uses cutting edge graphics to profile the quest of humankind to fight a monstrous race known as the locust Horde. 
"NCAA Football 2007" With interactive elements such as living the life of a student athlete and maintaining a high GPA and also better football intelligence and gameplay, NCAA Football 2007 is the latest and most in-depth video game in the EA series. 
"Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six: Vegas" The newest in a popular first-person shooter series, the sin-city version has received high ranklngs for its detailed graphics and realistic gameplay. The game takes full advantage of any next-generation console and is a must have for any gamer • 

. : ......:.· ..:~"':/·~,,}..___ 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
By JOHN SIEGEL Scene Writer 
WVFI Music Director John Siegel com­piled a list of the top albums of the past semester. Individual opinions from members of the WVFI staff and the weekly charts from the past semester are the basis for the list. 
There are new releases by old favorites from both the independent and mainstream music scenes. Many inde­pendent artists transitioned to main­stream record labels and began new chapters of their careers. Some new faces also made big splashes this past semester and left a last impression on listeners. · 
The Hold Steady: "Boys and Girls in America" . 
The Hold Steady's first release for Vagrant Records builds off of the high points of their previous albums "Separation Sunday" and "Almost Killed Me." Front man Craig Finn continues telling tales of love, faith and the odd characters that inhabit Finn's Minneapolis. 
Guitar riffs run wild, but the band also knows how to slow things down on tracks like "First Night" and "Citrus." The album also highlights Finn's improvement as a singer. His gruff voice balances the right amount of edge and melody to cement The Hold Steady's sta­tus as the best bar band in America. 
Brand New: "The Devil and God are Raging Inside of Me" 
Brand New returned from their self­imposed exile from the world of emo with a confident and intense follow up to 2003's "Deja Entendu." Primary songwriter Jesse Lacey approaches the songs with the same struggle between arrogance and insecurity that "Deja Entendu" displayed. However, Brand New shows how much they have grown as musicians and artists, using more complex instrumentation and producing sometimes soothing and sometimes
-
chaotic music. 
Bob Dylan: "Modern Times" 
Dylan's 31st studio album debuted to both critical acclaim and wild success. "Modern Times" proves that Bob Dylan is still making relevant and thought-pro­voking music. The music on "Modern Times" falls somewhere between more traditional country and folk, but Dylan's artistry overcomes any reservations lis-


Joanna Newsom: "Ys" 
The track list of Joanna Newsom's lat­est album is only five songs long. However, Newsom's second album con­tains almost an hour's worth of music. Newsom composes longer and more ornate songs on "Ys." Newsom's voice still stays in the foreground with its ele­gant soaring and charming chirping. A full orchestra accompanies her unique voice and signature harp. The orchestra adds interesting layers to each song and enhances the Newsom's lyrical tales. 
Cold War Kids: "Robbers and Cowards" 
Cold War Kids are one of the year's indie rock success stories, having built up hype with a series of EP's and tours over the past year. Eventually, they released their full length album "Robbers and Cowards" in October. The album highlights the blues-influenced vocal and piano talents of Nathan Willett. The band backs Willett up with a quirky mix of guitars drowned in echo, overdriven bass guitars and loose drumming. Willett's voice is filled with enthusiasm and a soul not often found in today's rock music. "Hobbers and Cowards" opener "We Used to Vacation" contemplates a family man's struggles to deal with his despair and his family. Cold War Kids approach the song with teners might have about either country or folk. 
Ben Kweller: "Ben Kweller" 
Ben Kweller has mellowed in his mid­20s and his latest album showcases his newfound musical and personal maturi­ty. Kweller's third release gains from its clear production, which removes the harsher elements of Kweller's early releases. 
The songs on "Ben Kweller" center on piano melodies and acoustic accompani­ment, but Kweller is a gifted songwriter who can add emotion and energy to simple arrangements. Kweller also looks into himself, recalling his past on the intimate track "Thirteen." Kweller's latest is a credit to his songwriting and a preview of his potential as a top-notch musician. 
TV on the Radio: "Return to Cookie Mountain" 
Fans may have been apprehensive of TV on the Radio moving to a major label, but "Return to Cookie Mountain" shows that any fears are unfounded. TV on the Hadio delighted both critics and fans with a more straightforward approach and energetic songs like the single "Wolf Like Me." TV on the Radio fan and Classic Hock legend David Bowie guests on the track "Province." 
In recent years, Montreal has established itself as one of the most interesting and successful music scenes in recent years. The Arcade Fire, Wolf Parade and Islands all started in Montreal. All three bands also have enjoyed breakout success outside of Canada. Malajube is another one of these bands from MontreaL and employ the same elements that make other Montreal bands interesting and successful. Their musical talent overcomes a potential barrier given their French lyrics. "Trompe-l'oeil" is full of fun pop songs. The rollicking "Montreal -40oC" is an energetic and enjoyable jumble of keyboards, drums and loud guitars. 
The Decemberists: "The Crane Wife" 

"The Crane Wife" was one of the most highly anticipated releases of 2006. The Decemberists produce 12 tracks, weav­ing their way through Japanese folk tales and stories of family feuds. Lead singer Colin Meloy's slightly nasal voice gives "The Crane Wife" a charming and personal quality. The Decemberists show that they are able to run the gamut of songs, from the love ballad "0 Valencia!" to the epic and wandering "The Island." The band gets a little help from Death Cab for Cutie's Chris Walla. In the end, The Decemberists make a great album that balances the epic, the earthly and the odd. 
Lupe Fiasco: "Food and Liquor" 
In recent years, many hip-hop artists out of Chicago have found success nationwide. Lupe Fiasco is the next in the line of Chicago rappers to have done this. Taking cues from Kanye West, Fiasco produced his debut album to completely take over the creative direc­tion of his music. The result is a mix of Fiasco's personal experience and his observations of life. The lead single "Kick, Push" discusses the problems of some of his friends, but emphasizes skateboarding as a way to escape every­day problems. 
Contact John Siegel at jsiegell @nd.edu Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


COMING TO THE DPAC NEXT SEMESTER
FROfv1 


E 
Chris Thile and Edgar Meyer Friday, January 19, 2007, at 8:00 pm Tickets: $30, $25 faculty/staff, $25 seniors, and $15 all students Bass legend Edgar Meyer returns to DPAC, performing an evening of bluegrass with the help of Nickel Creek's mandolin player 



Chris Thile. 
New Orleans Jazz Orchestra Saturday, February 3, 2007, at 8:00 pm Tickets: $36, $30 faculty/staff, $30 seniors, and $15 all students NOJO -the ensemble that defines and celebrates America's own native musical 
ARTIST~ HUMANITARIAN. 

form, jazz -presents "New Orleans: Then and Now;' directed by trumpeter Irvin Mayfield. 
Hungarian State Folk Ensemble Tuesday, February 13, 2007, at 7:30 pm Tickets: $36, $30 faculty/staff, $30 seniors, and $15 all students The Hungarian State Folk Ensemble per­forms a rich, colorful program of traditional Hungarian and Gypsy folk dances. 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
The U.S. vs. John Lennon (2006) Directed by David Leaf PG-13, 96 minutes 35mm print Fri, Dec 8 at 7:00 and 10:00 pm Sat, Dec 9 at 7:00 and 10:00 pm 
Double Indemnity (1944) PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by Billy Wilder Not Rated, 1 07 minutes 35mm print Sat, Dec 9 at 3:00pm 
Plerrot Le Fou (1965) All You Need is a Girl and a Gun: Pre-1968 Cinema of Jean-Luc Godard Directed by Jean-Luc Godard NR, 110 minutes French Language with English subtitles 35mm print Thu, Dec 14 at 7:00 pm Sat, Dec 16 at 3:00pm 
Alphaville (1965) All You Need is a Girl and a Gun: Pre-1968 Cinema of Jean-Luc Godard Directed by Jean-Luc Godard NR, 99 minutes French Language with English subtitles 35mm print Friday, December 15, 2006, at 7:00 pm
DIRECTED BY 
Le Petit Soldat (1963)
DAVID LEAF 
All You Need is a Girl and a Gun: Pre-1968 Cinema of Jean-Luc Godard Directed by Jean-Luc Godard NR, 88 minutes French Language with English subtitles 35mm print Sat, Dec 16 at 7:00 pm 
Les Carabiniers (1963) All You Need is a Girl and a Gun: Pre-1968 Cinema of Jean-Luc Godard Directed by Jean-Luc Godard NR, 83 minutes French Language with English subtitles 35mm print Sun, Dec 17 at 4:00 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday nights at 11 pm on NDtv Channel 53 
-

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
NBA 

N owitzki, Mavericks get back to winning ways 
Randolph ensures that return trip to Michigan is a happy one as his 31 points, 13 rebounds lead Portland over Detroit 
Associated Press Howard has developed into Portland 88, Detroit 85 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.­the perfect complement to Detroit basketball fans have The Dallas Mavericks weren't Nowitzki, and the fourth-year fond memories of Zach swingman had led or co-led Handolph's days at Michigan
too happy about losing their Dallas in scoring in three of State.
12-game winning streak, and 
the last four games. On They aren't enjoying his prothe struggling New Jersey Nets Tuesday, he and Nowitzki career quite as much.
wound up paying for it. 
scored all of the Mavericks' Handolph had 31 points and
Dirk Nowitzki scored 26 points in a 13-4 run midway 13 rebounds Tuesday night,

points and Josh Howard added 
through the fourth quarter including a go-ahead basket23 to lead Dallas past New 
that gave them an 88-71 lead with 21.6 seconds to go, and
Jersey 92-75 Tuesday night. In its 106-97 loss to the 
with 3:10 left. the Portland Trail Blazers With Nowitzki scoring a snapped a five-game losing
Wizards on Monday, Dallas 
quiet 10 points in the first half, streak with a win over Detroit.
played lethargically until late Howard picked up the slack "This is a big win," he said.
in the game and at one point 
trailed by 31 points before ral­with 15 points on 7-for-10 "You can't do better than this shooting. -starting a road trip by beat­
lying in the fourth quarter. 
Coach Avery Johnson detect­"He has the ability to con­ing one of the best teams in the tribute when he's not scoring, league."
ed a somber mood on the trip and he's keeping the right Randolph had a career-highnorth. 
level of concentration for 37 points in his last trip to the
"We were really embar­rassed," he said. "The plane longer stretches," Johnson Palace, a 93-89 loss on Dec. 
said of Howard. 20, 2005.
was quiet, the bus was quiet. 
Vince Carter scored 20 "I love playing in Detroit," heUsually some guys are playing points for New Jersey, which said. "I went to college around
games, but there were no 
has lost seven of its last nine here, and I love coming back." 
games being played. That's a games but is still tied with Richard Hamilton had 25 forgood sign. We don't take losing 
Toronto atop the Atlantic Detroit, which lost its second
well." 
Division at 7-10. Even with the straight after an eight-gameThe Mavericks never trailed league's hottest team in town, winning streak.
against the Nets, built a 17­
the Nets couldn't match the "This was a horrible loss forpoint lead in the third quarter 
Mavericks' energy on either us," said Chauncey Billups,
-
and held off a New Jersey rally end of the floor. who kept the Pistons close with 
early in the fourth. Howard 
"It just seemed like Dallas eight points in the final 4 min­attributed the fast start to the had a great sense of urgency utes. "These are the kind of
way the Mavericks ended 
and we weren't able to meet games that can haunt you lateMonday's game. 
"We did an excellent job in it," Nets coach Lawrence in the season." Houston 118, Golden State Chuck Hayes grabbed a 
the fourth quarter and it car­Frank said. "We just didn't Detroit also lost Sunday in 90 career-high 15 rebounds and 
ried over to tonight," he said. seem, for whatever reason, to Charlotte. The Trail Blazers The game in hand, Tracy Juwan Howard added 11 points 
have a great deal of pep in our and Bobcats are a combined McGrady used the third quarter and 11 rebounds for the
"We knew what we needed to do." step." 12-24. against Golden State on Tuesday Hockets, who shot 54 percent "We haven't had a sense of night to polish his repertoire. (45-of-84) against the NBA's urgency in the last two games," McGrady scored 13 of his 31 worst defense. Pistons coach Flip Saunders points in the quarter as the Yao manhandled Golden 
said. "When you win eight in a Houston Hockets routed the State's big men, making 12 of 17 row, you start maybe feeling Warriors. shots, most of them dunks and too good about yourself." "I was trying to do some layups. 
Juan Dixon's jumper broke explosive things that I haven't "This is my job, man," Yao an 80-all tie with 2:13 left, and been doing all year," said said. "They put single coverage after Billups made a technical­McGrady, who hit 13 of 25 shots on me. So all I had to do was foul free throw, Jarrett Jack hit and dished out seven assists. catch the ball and go." two shots from the line to give "This was a great opportunity to Houston was the fourth the Trail Blazers an 84-81 go out and try that because we straight opponent to reach at lead. had a comfortable lead. I'm just least 108 points against Golden 
Hasheed Wallace's layup trying to take it to another level State. The Warriors came in made it a one-point game, and now." allowing an NBA-worst 106 Dixon missed a long jumper McGrady showed no effects points per game. before Billups gave the Pistons from the concussion he suffered Monta Ellis scored 19 and the lead with a 22-footer. after taking an elbow from Baron Davis added 18 points for Randolph answered with a teammate Dikembe Mutombo in the Warriors, who've lost four in driving jumper over Tayshaun Saturday's win over Cleveland. a row since coach Don Nelson Prince, putting Portland ahead In a 30-second sequence in the earned his 1, 199th career victo­86-85. third quarter, McGrady picked ry. Nelson is trying to join Lenny 
Hamilton missed twice at the off a steal, drove for a break­Wilkens as the only coaches to other end and Jack increased away layup, then hit a 3-pointer reach the 1,200-win plateau. the margin to three with a pair from the top of the key. Nelson was in no mood to talk of free throws with 2 seconds "I surprised myself tonight about the elusive milestone after to play. Hamilton shot an air­with some of the things I did," the game. ball at the buzzer. he said. "We dido 't play well offensive­
''I'm happy," Portland coach Yao Ming added 27 points and ly or pass or move the ball or Nate McMillan said. "We just grabbed eight rebounds for the execute our game plan," he beat an unbelievable team on !lockets, who've won six of their said. "We proved we are not the road after some disappoint­last seven games and six in a ready to play the best teams in ing losses at home." row at the Toyota Center. the NBA." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need diving coach part time 2-3  
LOST AND FOUND  afternoons/wk.  
Girls & boys teams.  
LOST: Spiral notebook, teal cover  
with angels with trumpets on the  Call Washington High School  
cover. Call Tom 631-9806.  Athletic Dept.  
FOUND: winter hat near  57 4-283-7206.  
Engineering Bldg. Call Tom 631­ 
9806 to identify.  BABYSITIER NEEDED. Local lam­ 
ily is seeking babysitter for 1-1/2  
year-old boy. Flexible hours,  
Tues/Thurs. preferred.  
WANTED  Must have references. 574-271-0747.  

WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt. Seeking babysitter for 2 & 4 yr old $100 for quality shirt. Call Dan at girls, approx 10 hrs/wk. Prefer after­712-251-0930. noons. Contact sbaer@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Contact Gary 574-993-2208. 
BEST HOUSES & CHEAPEST RENT offered by ND GRADs. Available 07-08 or NOW. Call312­545-5123. 

One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area available Spring semester. Laundry & security. $575/mo. Call574-283­0325. 
ATIN: GRAD STUDENTS & FAG­ULTY: Elegant Park Avenue Victorian. 3 finished levels, 4 bdrms. all hardwood floors, marble fireplace, ceramic tiled bath, French doors to patio, bay windows in dining room. 
Call Marcie 574-247-9330. 

3 bdrm, 2 baths, newly renovated home close to ND/SMC. Avail. 07-08, possibly Spring 06. Call 574-289-7791. 
Leasing 2nd semester 2007. Also UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do leasing 2007-08. Stadium Club not go it alone. If you or someone Condominiums. Call Susan 574-you love needs confidential support 243-7530 or email: stadiumclubcon-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue dos@ sbcglobal.net Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our web NO BASEMENT OR ATIIC BED-site at ROOMS!! Houses available now & http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­next semester & 07-08. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Students/faculty/staff. $350/bdrm. in The Observer. 
Walk to ND. Clean,safe areas. BEST WEBSITE EVER: Call 574-273-4889. http://www.nd.edu/-rwilson7/ 
Bowl Game Projections:  
Notre Dame-31, LSU-28  
PERSONAL  Ohio State -41, Florida -24 Michigan-27, USC-14  
the other two BCS games do not  
Merry Christmas. everyone.  merit predictions  



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVERs WIRE SERVICES page 19 
-

team 

New Jersey Toronto New York Boston 
team 
DetroH Cleveland Indiana Chicago Milwaukee 

Eastern Conference,···Southeast• •••········· team record >r< last 10 Orlando 14~5 
Allanta 7~8 Miami 7·9 Washington 7·10 Charlotte 5·12 

Western Conference;Southwest 
team record pete< lastt()· • 
Dallas 13·5 San Antonio 13·5 Houston 12·5 New Orleans 8.-8 Memphis 4~13 


Westem Conference, Northwest 
team .re!CQrd p~re; •last l.O 
Utah 15"4 ,789 H Denver 10·5 ,667 8~2 Minnesota 7"9 ;438 5"5· Seattle 7·11 741. 3"7 Portland 7·12 7·12 3-7 
Western Conference,. Pacific 
team record pert; last10 LA. lakers 12·5 · ~706 • 8~2 Phoenix 10·6 .625 9~1 LA. Clippers 8·8 ;500 3-7 Golden State 9·10 .474 .. 3•7 Sacramento 8-9 ;471 3·7 
team 
1 UCLA 2 Pittsbutgh 3 North C•hltina 4 Alabama 5 OhiOState 6 TexasA&M 7 Duke· 3 Florida. 
9 lSU 1o Wichita Stale 11 Wisconsin 
12 Kansas 1a Washington 14 Arizona 15 Butler 16 Memphis 17 Marquette 18 Gonzaga 19 Connecticut 20 Nevada 21 Syracuse 22 Oklahoma Stale 23 Maryland 24 Xavier 25 Georgia Tech 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Villanova at Oklahoma 7 p.m., ESPN Memphis at Dayton 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 


-
-. 

-
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The Blues didn't stop at retiring Brett Hull's No. 16 jersey on Tuesday night. They also arranged to name a street after him. 
Just the jersey would have been plenty for Hull, who thanked his enforcers for taking good care of him, admitted to his old coaches that he knew he could be a hand­ful, and even thanked the media while bragging that his exploits certainly made their job easier. 
"To have an organiza­tion think that much of you is more than one guy can ask," Hull said. 

Hull's nickname, "Golden Brett" was a takeoff of father Bobby Hull's moniker, "Golden Jet." The pair are the only father-son combina­tion to each score 600 goals and 1,000 points, and now they're the only father and son to have their jerseys retired in any sport. 
The banner with Hull's number was slowly raised to the rafters to a Neil Young rock song with appropriate lyrics: "Old man take a look at my life, I'm a lot like you." 
The team also arranged to call the street that bor­ders their arena "Brett Hull Way." 
Hull outscored his dad, 741-610. Bobby Hull's No. 9 was retired by the Chicago Blackhawks in 1983. 
Adam Oates was among the 20 former teammates who attended the cere­monies before the Blues­Red Wings game. The present Blues players all wore No. 16 during warmups, just as they all wore No. 2 during Al Macinnis' jersey retire­ment ceremony last April. 
"Brett, nothing com­pares to the three years I got to play with you," Oates said. "It was the 
highlight of my career." 
Chairman David Checketts made honoring Hull a top priority when his ownership group took over last summer. He was hopeful that the occasion, which prompted the first sellout crowd of the sea­son for a struggling fran­chise often playing to half-capacity or less, would spur the beginning of a revival. 
Hull recalled a fiery dressing-down from Brian Sutter, his first coach with the Blues, as pivotal in his career. The rookie said he thought Sutter was going to tell him, "Boy, am I lucky to be coaching you." 
IN BRIEF 

Ten finalists named for baseball NASCAR to air on DirecTV in 2007 New video system allows college Hall of Fame's broadcast award season, will debut at Daytona 500 athletes to attend classes digitally 
COOPERSTOWN, N.Y.-Dizzy Dean, CHARLOTTE, N.C. -The sport INDIANAPOLIS -Former St. Ken Harrelson and Joe Nuxhall are that already offers unprecedented John's basketball coach Mike Jarvis among 10 fmalists for the 2007 Ford fan access is going one step further has seen college athletes struggle to 
C. Frick Award, presented by the in 2007, allowing DirecTV viewers to balance class work with a team's baseball Hall of Fame for major con­watch an entire NASCAR race from schedule. tributions to broadcasting. behind the wheel. Now he's offering a virtual solu­
Denny Matthews, Bill King, Tom NASCAR HotPass will debut on tion to help those players succeed. Cheek, Tony Kubek, France Laux, DirecTV at the Daytona 500 in Jarvis has teamed up with VBrick Graham McNamee, and Dave Niehaus February and offer fans at home the Systems on a product aimed at also were candidates announced opportunity to watch a race from a helping athletes improve their aca­Tuesday. Harrelson, Matthews and driver's vantage point. Subscribers demic performance by attending Niehaus are the only ones still active. will have access to five channels ded­classes through a digital video sys­
Fans cast more than 75,000 votes in icated to individual drivers, who will tem that can be played on comput­November at the Hall of Fame's Web change every week. ers, cell phones or iPods. A presen­site, with King (11,943), Nuxhall Each channel will have up to six tation on it is expected at this (8,049), and Harrelson (6,795) being cameras and two isolated announc­week's Intercollegiate Athletic selected for the ballot. The other seven ers focusing solely on one driver for Forum in New York City. broadcasters were chosen by a an entire race. Viewers will have "The first solution is improving research committee from the muse­access to in-car audio communica­attendance. You and I know that if um. tion, real-time statistics and cameras you're not there, it's hard to do 
Voters based selections on longevity, covering every angle from inside the your job well," Jarvis told The continuity with a club, honors, includ­race car to the pit box and all around Associated Press. "The other part is ing national assignments such as the the track. retention.... This gives youngsters World Series and All-Star Game, and HotPass is the brainchild of Fox the opportunity to repeat classes popularity with fans. Sports chairman David Hill. over and over." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
NFL 
Young leads Titans from rebuilding to red hot
-
Rookie quarterback has coach, teammates excited about future 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -It's as close to "I told you so" as Tennessee Titans coach Jeff Fisher will ever get. 
Fans wanted him fired. His 

-
owner wouldn't give him a vote of confidence. And the once-domi­nant franchise turned doormat hit its lowest point with suspen­sions and off-field issues to com­plement an 0-5 start. 
And now? 

The Titans (5-7) are one of the NFL's hottest teams, winners of five of seven, with the last two featuring riveting comebacks. The playoffs, which seemed at least two years away, suddenly are a mathematical possibility, and Fisher's job couldn't be more secure. 
"I said a long time ago that these guys are working hard, and they trust each other," Fisher said. "When you have those com­binations of good things going on, things eventually will turn around." 
Like this? 
The Titans tied for the second­best comeback in NFL history in the final 10 minutes with 24 


Join the Official Notre Dame Allstate Sugar Bowl Tour! 

Stay in the French Quarter to cheer on the Irish and Laissez Les Bon Temps Rou/er! 
• Accommodations for 3 nights Stay in the heart of the 
-
• 
Game ticket (optional) French Quarter in the middle 

• 
Exclusive Bowl Tour Reception of all the action -close to 

• 
Notre Dame Pre-Game Party Bourbon Street and Allstate Sugar Bowl activities!

• 
Game day transfers 

• 
Game Program 


• 
Souvenir Special rates have been 

• 
Commemorative Name Badge secured for Notre Dame 

• 
On-Site tour directors Students -but hurry, these 

• 
All taxes and handling fees rooms are going fast! 


MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS TODAY! Visit AnthonyTravel.com or call (888) ND-BOWL1 (888-632-6951) 
~~Jiavef• 77w Official Tm,·el Partner ofthe Univasity <!lNotre Dame 
unanswered points against the New York Giants on Nov. 26. They then rallied from 0-14 in beating two-time NFL MVP Peyton Manning and the Colts with Rob Bironas' 60-yard field goal in the final seconds. 
"It is almost like a statement to let people in our division and peo­ple around the league know that we are almost back to where we were," linebacker Keith Bulluck said. "So they know what hap­pens when we start rolling." 
Credit for the franchise's dra­matic turnaround goes to Fisher, the coach other teams wish they could steal, and Vince Young, the rookie quarterback the Titans chose to rebuild around. 
The franchise that had four playoff berths in five seasons slumped to nine wins combined the past two years, mired in a salary cap mess and forced to build through the draft. Steve McNair, the quarterback for 11 seasons, was too expensive and too old to do the extra work needed, and the Titans botched his departure in their worst move since deciding to play a season in Memphis. 
Wanting to save money on a $23.46 million salary cap hit, they had a trainer tell McNair he couldn't work out in their build­ing anymore and fought his grif~v­ance through arbitration. They let his agent negotiate with Baltimore after they drafted his successor in Young, then held off trading McNair until June, infuri­ating fans. 


Publicly, Fisher said MeNair gave them the best chance to win. Fisher already had Norm Chow at offensive coordinator, a coach known for developing quarterbacks. 
But it was Fisher, only the 12th man in NFL history to coach 200 games with the same team, who changed some of his ways. He· 
_ rS'\ 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 ~~ {/)~ 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 
took the Titans away for training camp, moved up practice times and pointed out every positive. No bashing that might crush young spirits. 
And Fisher started Young in the fourth game; the rookie has responded beyond anyone's expectations. He is 5-4 as a starter and became the first rook­ie quarterback in NFL history to lead his team from 14-points down to victory thanks to uncan­ny poise under pressure. 
"Guys just started to believe," running back Travis Henry said. 
That doesn't include a rally in the Titans' first victory this sea­son after trailing 14-3 at Washington before winning 25­22, or a pair of one-point losses: 14-13 at Indianapolis and 27-26 to Baltimore after blo'A'ing a 19­point lead. Young put them in position to win against the Ravens before a blocked 43-yard field goal. 


Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Mediocre NFC is a log jam 
Philadelphia, Atlanta, New York and Carolina all alive with .500 records 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Going .500 gets fans upset, coaches in trouble and players released. 
Except in this year's NFC, where a break-even mark is 
looking playoff-worthy. And  a  
winning record makes you  a  
Super Bowl contender.  

When the Philadelphia Eagles beat the Carolina Panthers on Monday night, it created a four-way logjam for the two NFC wild-card berths between those teams. the New York Giants and Atlanta -all at 6-6. 
So while teams possibly headed for 10 wins in the AFC are wondering if it will be enough to get them into the Super Bowl chase, mediocrity _not parity_ in the other con­ference might well be reward­ed with a trip to the postsea­son. 
"Well, it's a crazy year, so anything is possible," Eagles coach Andy Reid said. "We're just taking it one week at a time; we're not going to worry too much about getting into the playoffs or anything else." 
History usually hasn't been kind to .500 teams. Since the NFL went to a 16-game sched­ule in 1978, seven 8-8 clubs reached the postseason, with the 1985 Cleveland Browns actually winning the AFC Central. The other six were wild cards. 
But recent history has been more positive for such posers, with two 8-8s making it in 1999 (Dallas and Detroit) and two more in 2004 (Minnesota and St. Louis). Indeed, even a 7-9 finish could be good enough in the NFC, which brings St. Louis, San Francisco and Minnesota -all 5-7 and all decidedly average or worse -into the equation. 
Which raises the question whether the lack of artistry on the field by these teams is off­set by the excitement created in cities where next April's draft would, by now, be the main NFL topic. 
"That's the way the NFC is this year, and because of that every game is like a playoff game," said Philadelphia kick­er David Akers, whose 25-. yard field goal beat Carolina on Monday night and created the four-way tie at 6-6. 
"It was a playoff atmosphere out there," Akers said. "Next week is going to be the same thing, because each game is so critical to win going down the stretch. You never can tell and if you don't give up, maybe good things will happen for you." 
Really good things, such as division championships and byes, definitely will happen to teams with more wins than losses in the NFC. The Bears are 10-2, own the North title and could clinch home-field advantage throughout the con­ference playoffs this weekend. 
Dallas, New Orleans and Seattle all are 8-4 and, with wins Sunday, could secure at least wild-card spots. Of course, the Cowboys host the Saints, so one of them won't get that prize right away. 
But as long as they get 
another victory, they all should be playing in January. 
Of the 6-6 teams, who has the edge -even if they wind up 8-8? · 
Maybe nobody. All four teams play each other twice. Atlanta finishes by hosting Carolina and visiting Philly. The Panthers are home for the Giants this Sunday. New York follows that by hosting the Eagles, and Philadelphia fin­ishes at home against the Falcons after three straight road games. 
All are struggling -that's how you get to 6-6, after all ­and show few signs of putting together a winning streak this month. 
Carolina (four) and New York (five) already have had such strings, but the Panthers also have had three two-game losing streaks and the Giants are mired in a four-game skid. At least the Panthers don't have the turmoil on and off the field that has plagued the Giants. 
Nor does Carolina have the string of injuries plaguing New York, Philadelphia and Atlanta. 
"We're still .in there, but it makes it harder for us," Panthers defensive end Mike Rucker said of the 6-6 grid­lock. "We have to play lights out now. We've been here before and that's what we have to get across to the younger guys and let them 
know  there's  a  sense  of  
urgency."  
Not to mention  a  sense  of  
mediocrity.  


University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
8:00 p.m. ' Saturday, December 9, 2006 
2:00 p.m.' Sunday, Dccclnber 10, 2006 
LIIGHTON CONCERT HALL DH\ARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
I'ICKHS $10/$8/$5/$3 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
MARIE P. DEBARTOlO 

CENTER FOR THE PERFORMiNG AIUS PHONE 574-631-2800 DEPARTMENT OF MUSJC 

NCAA FOOTBALL COMMENTARY 
While Carr stearns, Meyer rises to top ­
Give Urban Meyer some credit. At least he didn't beg. Whined a bit, yes. Got every­one's attention, sure. 
Did every­thing, in Tim Dahlberg fact, that Lloyd Carr 
APSports

had a chance to 
Columnist 

do to impress both his coaching brethren and whoever the vot­ers are in that other poll the BCS uses to determine who plays for its mythical national championship. 
The difference then was that Meyer got it, and Carr didn't. The difference now is that Michigan is going to the Rose Bowl and Florida is playing for the national championship. 
The BCS system may be flawed, but there was no great outcry outside of Ann Arbor, Mich., when the genie popped out of the bottle Sunday night and decreed that Florida would play for the national college crown. 
Michigan really had little to complain about anyway. The school, after all, is part of the cabal put together to ensure that big schools will long rule college football and not have to split the millions of dollars they pocket annually with their poorer cousins. 
The answer is it was directed at the system." 
It wasn't, of course. It was directed at his fellow coaches and the people at something called the Harris Interactive poll who decided this thing. They decided because the computer was fed so much information it regurgitated it all and incredibly decided the two teams were dead even. 
Did Meyer's words matter? Hard to say, because Florida built a pretty good case of its own on the field and won arguably the toughest confer­ence in the country. 

It also helped that the team ­that plays last has the last chance to make a good impression and Florida played two games after Michigan put the pads away. And there was­n't a great appetite to see Michigan and Ohio State in a rematch. 
Call it insurance then, even though Carr and the fans at Michigan were calling it some­thing else. 

"Inappropriate," Carr huffed before learning his team's fate. ­"That certainly is going to stir a controversy and who knows what that's going to lead to." 
Yeah, who knows where that 
leads. Mass rioting? Global warming? Horrors, maybe even a national play­

That didn't 'The system was off. stop Carr The interest­
flawed. There should be
from pouting ing thing is, 
before Florida a playoffin college that while was selected football." Carr was busy about how tending to his Meyer had X's and O's a
Urban Meyer
the audacity few years ago, 
Florida coach 
to campaign Meyer was 
for his team's right to be in the game.· What wasn't mentioned, of course, was that by doing so Carr was indirectly making a case for his own team to be in the title tilt. 
Carr thought it was beneath his dignity to have to cam­paign for his team. Results on the field were supposed to be the only thing that counted. 
Must have slipped his mind that there's no playoff in col­lege football. Without one, the job of any good coach expands to not only winning games but to manipulating the system. 
Think figure skating, ifyou will. Get judges to believe· you deserve to be No. 2 before you get on the ice, and there's a good chance you'll end up at No. 2 when you get off the ice. 
That's why you've got to admire how Meyer, proving to be every bit as much a politi­cian as a football coach, grad­ually built his case for another team to play Ohio State in the days after the Buckeyes beat Michigan in the final regular­season game of the year for both teams. 
"The system was flawed," Meyer said. "There should be a playoff in college football." 
Besides, who wants to see two teams that just played each other play each other again? 
"It was a discussion about the system and how they select who plays for the national championship," Meyer said. 'That's all it was. You can spin that all you like. 
learning all he 
could about 
the BCS sys­
tem. His inter­est was piqued in 2004, the same year his Utah team bust­ed into the BCS and Auburn was passed over for the title game even though it went undefeated. 
That was also the same year another coach did something no one had done before _ talked his way into a Rose Bowl. 
That would have been Mack Brown of Texas, who practi­cally begged members of the media _ this was before The Associated Press removed its poll from the process _ to move his team up in the stand­ings ahead of the University of California, which desperately wanted a Rose Bowl berth itself. 
"If you've got a vote, vote for us," Brown said. ''I'm asking you to do that and I'm asking everyone across the nation. This team deserves to be in the BCS. They deserve to go more than some teams that are being talked about." 
Brown got his votes, and Texas got its bowl. Meyer, meanwhile, got a lesson he tucked away just in case he ever needed it. 
Because he was smart enough to use it, Florida will be playing for the national championship. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Amid heavy criticism, -Bovvden vovvs. to return 
FSU coach says he still has passion to win a national title 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bobby Bowden took some shots in his 31st sea­son at Florida State. 
His Seminoles went 6-6. His son, Je.ff, resigned as Florida State's offensive coordinator after six years of being a light­ning rod for criticism. 
The 77 -year-old Bowden called it his most "trying season." Don't think for a second it'll be his last. 

-"I could step out so easily," he said Tuesday, hours before he was to be inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame. "Go retire and have a good time. I don't want to do that. It's like a fighter. A fighter always thinks he's got one more good fight. "As a coach, I still want to win a national championship." Bowden and 13 players, including Emmitt Smith, Bruce Smith and Heisman Trophy win­ners Charlie Ward and Mike 
-
Rozier, were elected to the Hall of Fame in May, along with Penn State coach Joe Paterno. 
Paterno was also to be induct­ed Tuesday night at the National Football Foundation awards banquet in New York, but he's still recovering from leg surgery. His formal induction was delayed until next year. Paterno broke his leg and injured his knee when two players crashed into· him on the sideline during a game against Wisconsin on Nov. 4. 
Paterno cracked that he didn't 
want his wheelchair to get in the 
way at the ceremony. 
"He's afraid it'll bump my walker," Bowden replied. 
"''d right rather have him be here," Bowden added. "I feel like it's kind of been a Bobby and Joe show and without him it feels like something is missing." 
The other players inducted into the Hall of Fame were Colorado running back Bobby Anderson, Miami defensive back Bennie Blades, Minnesota defen­sive lineman Carl Eller, Washington defensive lineman Steve Emtman, Baylor safety Thomas Everett, Air Force defensive lineman Chad Hennings, Tennessee offensive lineman Chip Kell, Purdue quar­terback Mike Phipps and Stanford linebacker Jeff Siemon. 

They'll be enshrined at the Hall in South Bend, Ind., next summer. 
Bowden and Paterno, the win­ningest coaches in major college football, were also this year's winners of the NFF's Gold Medal. Previous recipients include seven 
U.S. presidents, Baseball Hall of Farner Jackie Robinson and actor John Wayne. 
. Florida International coach Howard Schnellenberger, the former Miami coach who along with Bowden helped turn Miami­Florida State into one of college football's premier rivalries, said no teams were tougher to pre­pare for than Bowden's. 
"His teams have always been the same. They been top-notch from a preparation standpoint. Top-notch cond itioningwise. They've always been enthusiastic and aggressive," Schnellenberger said. "We're fortunate we have a 50-50 per­centage him. Three out of five at Miami and 0-1 at Louisville." 
Florida State fell on hard times this season. The 'Noles were the defending Atlantic Coast Conference champion and picked to reach the ACC title game again. But the Seminoles were hit by injuries, forced to play numerous freshman, and never found consistency on offense. Florida State tries to avoid its first losing season since 1976, Bowden's first in Tallahassee, in the Emerald Bowl against UCLA on Dec. 27. 
Since Jeff Bowden began run­ning his father's offense six sea­sons ago, the Seminoles haven't been their old explosive selves. Jeff had taken much of the blame for the problems. Finally, last month, he stepped down. 
"It was strictly his move," Bobby said. "I would never have forced him out. Blood's thicker than water. I'd get myself out first." 
IRISH DANCER 



Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Thursday, December 7 12:00 p.m.-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome and confidentiality IS assured Lunch will be served 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 


'+­

Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NHL 
Bouchard wins game with little brother's move 
Wild right wing's backhander in shootout snaps afour-game skid for Minnesota, gets 22-year-old out ofcoach's doghouse ­

seconds left in the second peri­od. 
Jason Chimera and Anson Carter staked Columbus to an early lead with goals within 2:38 of each other in the first period. 
The Blue Jackets entered the game with a 1-19-1-1 all-time mark against the Avalanche, their lone win being a 5-4 over­time victory in Columbus on Feb. 28, 2004. They had never won at the Pepsi Center (0-9-0-1). 
Peter Budaj stopped 18 shots. He posted a shutout the last time he faced Columbus on Nov. 17, stopping 25 shots in a 3-0 win. 
Budaj was stepping in for Jose Theodore, who sat out with a hip flexor injury. 
Columbus has now killed 21 straight power plays over the last five games. The Blue Jackets killed four on Tuesday night. 
Modin's goal came on a pass from Manny Malhotra, who was on his knees and falling toward the ice when he sent the puck across the goal crease to Modin. 

Chimera scored his fourth of the season when he tipped a shot by Budaj, and Carter added Associated Press Bouchard needed the shootout "We knew they'd play well Khabibulin stopped 35 shots. his fifth of the season after pick­goal to avoid further irritating tonight." "We had some chances in ing up a loose puck near the goal 
-
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Already in Wild coach Jacques Lemaire. Bochenski sneaked a wrist overtime," Khabibulin said. and directing it in. his coach's doghouse, Wild for­"I asked (Bouchard) to back shot past Fernandez to give "Hopefully next time they'll go The game was Colorado's ward Pierre-Marc Bouchard check a few times in the third Chicago a 1-0 lead in the first in." 1,OOOth since moving to Denver needed a new trick to work his period and he wouldn't so I sat period. White tied it eight min­The Wild have played without in 1995-96. The Avalanche way out. him down," Lemaire said. utes later before Smolinski Marian Gaborik for 20 games, debut in Denver was a 3-2 win 
Marc-Bouchard scored the Brian Rolston and Todd White snuck away with the puck and Pavol Demitra for seven and Wes over Detroit on Oct. 6, 1995. winning goal in a shootout to also scored for the Wild and notched a short-handed goal at Walz for 11. All three players carry the Wild to a 3-2 victory goalie Manny Fernandez stopped the end of the first to make it 2-1 have skated with the team in Sabres 4, Lightning 1 over the Blackhawks on Tuesday 27 shots for his first victory since in favor of Chicago. recent days, but it is unclear Daniel Briere needed 429 night, snapping a four-game los­Nov. 11. Rolston took a pass from Wyatt when any of the three will games for his first NHL hat trick. ing streak. The loss ended Chicago's Smith and tied the game with a return. It was worth the wait. 
Bouchard scored the winner in three-game winning streak and breakaway goal early in the sec­Briere had three goals, includ­the shootout, stuffing a back­prevented Savard from becom­ond period. Blue Jackets 3, Avalanche 0 ing two during a three-goal first bander into the net past ing the first Blackhawks coach to Fernandez, who has played Fredrik Norrena got his sec­period, as the Eastern Blackhawks goalie Nikolai win his first four games. poorly during the last month, ond straight shutout and the Conference-leading Buffalo Khabibulin while falling down. Savard replaced Trent Yawney stopped two Chicago shots in the Columbus Blue Jackets won in Sabres beat the Tampa Bay 
"I have to give credit to my as head coach last week and was game's final seconds to help Denver for the first time in fran­Lightning on Tuesday night. younger brother for teaching me rewarded for his strong start send the game into overtime. He chise history, a victory over the "400 something games, I don't that one," Marc-Bouchard said. with a contract extension also received an ovation from Colorado Avalanche on Tuesday know why," Briere said. "I don't "He taught me that move in the through the 2007-08 season ear­the sellout crowd after stopping night. know how to explain it. It's a summer and I figured now was a lier in the day. a Patrick Sharp wrist shot with Norrena finished with 42 great feeling to finally get one." good time to bring it out." Brandon Bochenski scored his 1:20 to play in overtime. saves, including 21 in a barrage Briere completed the hat trick 
Added Blackhawks coach first goal of the season and "(Fernandez) is enjoying the in the second period. Norrena from in-close with 7:39 left to Denis Savard: "It was a just a Bryan Smolinkski added a short­game again," Lemaire said. "The stopped 21 shots in a 4-0 win play. He has 143 career goals, great move. Obviously it works." handed goal for Chicago. first part of the season he was over Edmonton on Saturday including 13 this season. 
Bouchard's brother Francois "You'd like to get two points in happy and really enjoyed play­night. "When nights like this happen, plays Major Junior hockey in a game like this, but our overall ing. He looked like that again Fredrik Modin scored his sev­it's just not about yourself," Quebec. The elder Marc-effort was great," Savard said. tonight." enth goal of the season with 4.3 Briere said. "I have to give my 
linemates a lot of credit because 


page 24 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 6, 2006 

For an application, email Teamwork~nd.edu Deadline: December 1Oth, 20{f6 


eamwor ·· for omorrow 


Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Michigan 
continued from page 28 
the Notre Dame defense is giv­ing up to entire teams (1.35 goals per game). 
Hensick is joined on the same line with senior David Rohlfs and junior Kevin Porter, who have 10 and 13 goals respec­tively. All three have been drafted to play in the NHL. 
"The problem with Michigan is that you defend on Hensick, and Porter scores. You defend on [Andrew] Cogliano, and !Chad] Kolaric scores," Jackson said. "They have too many weapons to focus on one guy." 
The Irish defense added another aspect to its game this past weekend from freshman Kyle Lawson, who scored his first collegiate goal on a shot from the point in Saturday's 6-2 win over Alaska. Lawson also tallied an assist in the game for his eighth point of the year, tying senior Noah Babin for the most points on the team by a defenseman. 
Lawson also found out this weekend that he was selected to play for the U.S. National 
Team in the 2007 IIHF Junior World Championship in Leksand, Sweden over winter break. 
"It's just an honor to be a part of [the national team] and hopefully we can go and win a gold medal," he said. ­
The New Hudson, Mich., native becomes the 1Oth Irish player to be named to the national roster. The last two players to make the cut were Rob Globke and Brett Lebda ­current NHL players -in 2001. 
"That's a real plus for him, we'll miss him at Christmas time, but it's a good opportunity and a good sign for our pro­gram" Jackson said. 
The tournament starts Dec. 26 and continues until the championship game Jan. 5. Lawson will miss a two-game conference series with Northern Michigan and possibly a Jan. 5 matchup with Robert Morris. 
Notre Dame will then finish off its winter break schedule with a Jan. 24-25 series against Lake Superior State. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Student Open Skate S'!_!_urday December 9,2006 
~~Joy:~~~:~~~~::k 
Bring your ID It's Free! 
Open to Notre Dame, 
Florida 
continued from page 28 
practice that's not South Bend," associate coach Matt Tallman said. 
Notre Dame will have little time to bask in the Florida sunshine, as the team will train vigorously over the two-week period. 
"We mostly do two-a-days for the time we are down there," Tallman said. "It's a better atmosphere mentally. We'll be outdoors in the sun." 

Welsh said the team uses this opportunity to get in shape for its meet against Northwestern (currently No. 9 in the CSCAA poll) and the Big East meet Feb. 14-17. 
"There's no time to get in shape once school starts again," he said. "You have to already be in shape." 
After completing their training, the Irish will face Oakland in a dual meet Jan. 
12. Notre Dame previously bested Oakland by 106 points in the Dennis Stark Relays Oct. 6. It will then head to Cleveland State to take on Duquesne and Xavier the fol­lowing day. 
"Oakland has improved much over the last few ­years," Welsh said. 
Notre Dame is off to a fast start this season, winning the Stark Relays, posting a 4­0 record in dual meet compe­tition -including its first win over Purdue in 19 years -and finishing third in The Ohio State Invitational last weekend. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Bulldogs 
continued from page 28 
"You tell her, 'Take it to the hole, make something happen,"' Henley said. "She has the ability to draw con­tact and is strong enough to take contact." 
The team, however, strug­gles in the rebounding and turnover department. Saint Mary's has been out­rebounded in six of its seven games this season and turns the ball over 1.4 more times per game than its oppo­nents. 
A resolution on both issues may be imminent, however. Against Carthage, the Belles scored 18 points off turnovers while holding Carthage to 15. And fresh­man Anna Kammrath has appeared as a bona fide glass player, averaging 11.3 rebounds per game in the past three games. 
"Kammrath is stepping up, doing what we asked her to do," Henley said. 
The Bulldogs are currently 3-1 (1-0 in the MIAA). Although without individual stars, the team averages 72 points per game and holds 

Saint Mary's guard Bridget Lipke readies to shoot Feb. 11. against 
its opponents to 59 points 

Kalamazoo. Lipke has 73 points in seven starts for the Belles.
per game. Freshman for­ward Kim Olech leads the Bulldogs with 11.3 points importance of team defense, a lot of kids who can step up per game and 7.3 rebounds keeping people off outside and knock it down. It comes per game, shooting 55 per­the paint, and locating back again to rebounding cent from the field. Junior shooters in transition and our pressure defense guard Nichole Roose sinks a defense," Henley said. forcing turnovers." blistering 63 percent of her "They're young and scrappy. 3-point attempts. they're playing a lot of dif­Contact Bill Brink at 
"I've got to stress the ferent players and they have wbrink@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
Tennessee, Xavier and Iowa in against McAlarney, who challenge, but I'm not backing black to Thursday night's the Paradise Jam tournament scored 18 points Sunday in dow,? at all, so it's going to be game. Notre Dame wore black
Tide 
continued from page 28 
guard Kyle McAlarney said. 
A win over the Crimson Tide 

-would give Notre Dame (6-1) a major quality victory, which will help the Irish if they are on the NCAA Tournament bubble. "Our resume looks so great if we beat Maryland and Alabama," McAlarney said. "They're a great team, one of the best in the nation, so it's going to be a tough test for us. But they're coming to our house, so they should be the underdogs, and we expect to win." A win, which would be Notre Dame's sixth in a row, would also catapult the Irish into a stretch of five Christmas break games against mid­major teams while they warm up for their Big East opener Jan. 3 against Louisville. "If we win this basketball game, we put ourselves in a really good situation to finish out our non-conference sched­ule and head into the Big East," Irish forward Rob Kurz said. "It gives us a few mar­quee wins for sure." The Crimson Tide (7 -0) has defeated its opponents by an average of 17 points. The trip to the Joyce Center will be Alabama's first true road
-game, however. The Tide beat Middle 
Purdue 
continued from page 28 
Huskies. 
"This is obviously the best team we've played this year," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We've really got to make it just a great game to make it a game." 
Notre Dame struggled from the field Sunday, shooting just 
34.1 percent from the floor including a dismal 1-for-14 performance from beyond the 3-point line. 
Still, McGraw plans to con­tinue shooting the long-range jumpers. 
"What we're working on is 

"We·ve really got 
making more 15-from the floor. footers, to get our to make it just a Forward Lindsay touch, then mov­Wisdom-Hylton,
great game to
ing out to the 3-who averages 14.6
make it a game. ,,
point line," she rebounds and 9.3 said. "We're still assists, has been going to shoot Muffet McGraw there to pick up threes." the slack for
Irish coach 
Charel Allen will look to spark the Irish offense. The junior guard is averaging 15.9 points per game to lead the team. She is also pulling down 5.1 rebounds per contest, current­ly third on the team behind freshman guard Ashley Barlow and center Erica Williamson. 
Allen was named to the Big East honor roll following her performance last week, where she averaged 18 points, six rebounds and two steals per game in three contests. 
"I think she's playing really well," McGraw said. "She's been our most consistent [player]. and I think she's doing everything we need her to do." 
Barlow will also likely figure prominently into the Irish offense. She has averaged 
10.4 rebounds and 5.4 rebounds -both second on the team -coming off the bench this season. 
The Boilermakers will be 

in the Virgin Islands, during 
its  only  trip  away  from  
Tuscaloosa.  
"They're  similar  to  

Maryland in that they've got big, long, athletic guys up front, and they got skilled guys at the guard and wing positions," Notre Dame guard Colin Falls said of the Crimson Tide. "It's gonna be the same focus for us as far as we have to protect the paint, and we have to rebound the basket­ball. If we can do those two things on the defensive end, I think we'll give ourselves a shot." 
Forward Jermareo Davidson, averaging 15.3 points per game, leads the Crimson Tide offensively. But he isn't the only scoring threat. 
"[Davidson's] a great play­er," said Kurz, who will prob­ably have the task of guarding Alabama's leading scorer on Thursday. "It will be a chal­lenge for all of our forwards." 
All five Alabama starters are averaging double figure points. 
One of those five is All­America point guard Ronald Steele. Steele missed two games earlier this year due to injury, but is expected to play against Notre Dame. 
"He's one of the best players in the country," Falls said. "He makes them go." 
Steele will be matched 
headed up by senior guard Katie Gearlds, who leads the team with 16.5 points per game. Gearlds is one of four Purdue players averaging dou­ble figures, and McGraw antic­ipates that she could cause problems. 
"She can shoot from long range, she can put the ball on the floor, she can pass," McGraw said. "She's such a complete offensive player there's not a lot of ways to stop her, especially when there's the other ones out there that you have to guard." 
Gearlds, who, according to McGraw, is dealing with foot problems, has been slumping as of late. In her past two games, she has shot just 5-of-30 
Purdue. Wisdom-
Hylton scored 21 points and blocked five shots against Gonzaga. 
"They have great balance," McGraw said. "You can't key on any one person because really any of the five of their starters can beat you." 
Notes: 
+Sophomore forward Chandrica Smith will not play tonight. She missed the last three games with an inflam­mation in her foot, McGraw said. 
"It just hurts when she puts pressure on it, jumps [or] runs," McGraw said. "That's kind of [an I important part of the game." 
+Notre Dame's Jan. 23 game at Marquette has been pushed forward an hour. The game will now take place at 7 
p.m. in Milwaukee. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edn 
the win over the Terrapins. fun. 
"I think that will be the matchup," McAlarney said. Notes: "But I think we'll probably +Irish coach Mike Brey has play a little zone too.... It's a requested that fans wear uniforms in Sunday's win over Maryland. 

Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

MASTER OF SCIENCE IN EDUCATION PROGRAM 
Ranked #10, Best Graduate Schools of Education, 
U.S. News and World Report 
One year program option in 
• Elementary Teaching • Secondary Teaching • • Advanced Teaching • • Higher Education Administration and Pol icy • 
Early Admission Deadline Fall 2007 January 5, 2007 
Monthly Information Sessions and Thursday Morning Drop-Ins Available 
Call or Email with questions: (R47) 467-1458 msedprog@'mail.sesp.northwestern.edu 
Visit our website at 

www.sesp.northwestern .edu/msed 
,,, IsN'T IT TIME YouR CAR PAID You? 
' I 
Financing a new vehicle can be challenging. 
We make it easy, and we'll give you 1% Cash Back on any auto loan! Plus, we offer the same low rate on 
new and used auto loans. Apply today! 

Visit our on campus location 021 LaFortune Student Center 
rl1 NOTRE DAME 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 



Wednesday, December 6, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
WE..L-L, ANOTHE..f... SE.f'.\E.':.~E.~ boNE.  f'Re:.'T \'/ 500N \NE..' LL '6E.., . (:rAAt)UA\INI::r ...  ... \NILL PRot'>ASL'{ (:to S'j -:lUS""t" 1>6 ...  WAN""T To  
W\"\\-\.  QU\C\<..L'I-··  (:J~A:bUA!E...  
\-\0\.t>  1'-\E..  

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KOBOR 
j 

1 1 r [] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Rese!Ved. 
NOOLC 
1 
rJ 
CARBIF 

j 
1 

ri (]
www.jumble.com 
SUTTOM 

rI J rJ 
A: AT 

.. rI I xJ" rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: NOVEL IMBUE WOEFUL MOTIVE Saturday's Answer·.
I What they needed to listen to the book on tape ­VOLUME VOLUME 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


-
WHE::I<E:: THE: BAND E::NDW UP WHE::N THE::II< CONC.E::I<T FIZ-Z-L-E::D. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Whines 70 It's not good to Kind of pit at a 42 Hospital room 
do this at the rock club staples 
sun 71 Bottom
5 Locks up 43 Ending with 10 Epsilon follower aero-DOWN
14 On the subject 45 Lifesaver, of maybe 1 Longtime name on "Today"
15 Make sense 46 "Spare me!," 
2 Workers' 16 U2's Bono, e.g. e.g. 
protection org. 
17 Start of a quip 47 Quip, part 3 3 Rung from a returning 
50 Sound during 

4 Brisk seller vacationer 
shearing 20 Animal with a 
5 Part of a 
51 Smog control 

dinosaur find snout grp. 
6 Sugary drinks 21 Rumble, e.g. 
52 Scenery 7 Lay off 

22 Some hasp. cases 8 Libertine's 
55 London institution since feeling23 Mai 

1785, with "The" 

9 Gets back at25 New Haven 59 Egypt's Sadat angrily
student 63 End of the quip 10 Promgoer's woe
27 Quip, part 2 66 Competent 11 "Hey!" ... "Hey!"
36 Site of tiny 
.•• uHey!" ... "Hey!" ...
orbits 67 Poly-follower 12 Kenneth37 Norwegian saint 68 1950's British Grahame's 38 1960 Everly P.M. 

Hall 
Brothers hit 69 Stag party 13 Marchers in 

39 Ferdinand, e.g. attendee single file 
18 Kind of tradition ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
19 "Good riddance" 
-:="T"C:T:"":T"":""-r.= 

.;.mm~+ri-1 24 Lottery player's happy shout 
-:-:illli-~~::-1 26 Nigerianlanguage 
27 Croc's head or -=+.:+....,iilll!~~t-=-t-=+~!!IP!!II tail? 
28 New Mexico -=+.;;+~;,..t county ?"
29 "What's it 30 Root of diplomacy 
-:-:+::::+:;+.:-t 31 ~:vY~~~ar 
-:-;.+-:+:+.::-! 32 Turn inside out --L---'--'--' 33 Carpet fiber 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 It may be within 48 Common 57 "Como a judge's grasp Spanish boys' usted?" names
35 Start of 58 Litigant hazarding a 49 Give on the 
60 Hall-of-Famerbackguess 
Boggs52 Ripoff

40 Put under 61 Sailing
53 Isle of exile 41 Ear part 62 Monthly check 
54 Usage fee 44 Diamond org. 
56 Faddish 1990's 64 "Understand?" 46 Gambols computer game 65 Wrath 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Frankie Muniz, 21; Julie Khaner, 49: Morgan Brittany, 55; Little Richard, 74 
Happy Birthday: You will have to go about your business quietly this year to avoid attracting too much attention and possible opposition. Keeping things simple and on lrack will be the most important thing. Stay focused and intent on reaching your goals. Excess will be your enemy and being frugal your friend. Your numbers are 13, 17, 22. 29. 37. 48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): It's lime to take a little spin down memory lane. Once you do, you will know exactly how to clear up loose ends so you can move forward without any baggage. Love relationships are looking good. This is a fabulous day for talks and to get things happening. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Use your talents to benefit you instead of letting upset. disappointment or anger get the better of you. Today is all about the way you handle nthcrs and the way you handle money. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Just hold things together and don't appear fickle and you will have everyone eating out of your hand. You will be high on life and love and can make some major headway in both your personal and prufessionallifc today. 3 stars 
CANCER !June 21-July 22): If you can keep a secret. you will be successful. You need to use your head, your wisdom and your know-how to get your way. An older or more experienced individual will help you see lhings clearer. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Everything is looking like fun and games for you. A challenge will put you in a better position. Emotions will be close to the surface, allowing you to get answers and clear the air. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take a close look at what everyone else is doing before you volunteer your services. Make sure you don't take advantage of others or let them take advantage of you. This is a good time to reflect and to make self-improvements. 2 stars 
LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stop procrastinating when you have so much going for you. Talk about your plans and you will stir up interest. Love is on the rise and you will feel much more stable in your efforts to succeed. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything that you have been working so hard to achieve is finally starting to fall into place. Talk to people who can make a difference to your future. Sharing at this point will give you the added momentum you need. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can blow situations out of proportion at an emotional level or you can turn this into a highly progressive and passionate day. It's up to you. Stop and think about the end result and consequences before you make your move. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A serious look at your investments will reveal what you have to do in the future to ensure fmancial security. A creative look at the way you make your money will help you pick and choose a little more wisely in the future. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a stab at doing something you are good at and you will fmd a way to make some extra cash. A legitimate attempt to help others who may have fallen into a similar trap that you have experienced should be what you strive to do. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): This is no time to share your thoughts. Stick close to home and keep your mind on the things you have to get done. Take care of matters that have absolutely nothing to do with your personal life. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are insightful and secretive yet outgoing and domineering. You are a master magician and a willing and able competitor. You know your path and will follow it. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.comfor confulential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, December 6, 2006 
page 28 
-
HOCKEY 
Irish trek to Wolverines' unfriendly Yost for grudge match 
By DAN MURPHY Spons Writer 
Notre Dame will face its third top-10 opponent of the year when it heads to Ann Arbor Friday night to take on Michigan at Yost Arena. 
The No. 5 Irish (12-3-1, 7-2-1 CCHA) will play a home-and­home series with the No. 7 Wolverines (12-5, 8-3 CCHA) that finishes Sunday at 3:05 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. Just one victory this weekend would be enough to match the team's win total from last season. 
"I knew we would be better this year, but I didn't think we would be this much better," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
A pair of victories this week­end would also catapult Notre Dame over Michigan into sec­ond place in the CCHA stand­ings, and the team could sur­pass Miami for the overall lead, depending on how the RedHawks fare against Ohio State. 
Jackson's team will need to continue to play well in its own zone -the Irish lead the nation in team defense -in order to get by the explosive Wolverine offense. The Wolverines have scored 79 goals in the first half of the season -the third best mark in the country, behind No. 1 Minnesota and No. 2 New Hampshire. 

"We have played some pretty big offensive powerhouses, so we just have to keep doing what we've been doing," Irish goaltender Dave Brown said. 
Senior T.J. Hensick leads the team -and the NCAA -in scoring with seven goals and 26 assists through 17 games. He creates more offense individu­ally (1.92 points per game) than 
see MICHIGAN/page 25 

NO BASKETBALL 
National spotlight 

see TIDE/page 26 29. Right, guard Charel Allen drives against the Indiana defense Sunday during the 54-51 Irish loss. see PURDUE/page 26 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Warmer waters await ND 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The No. 16 Irish will be· hard at work over Christmas break, going on their annual training trip to Boca Raton, Fla., from Dec. 28-Jan. 10 before taking on Oakland Jan. 12 and Cleveland State Jan. 13. 
"This is all about getting ready for February," Irish head coach Tim Welsh said. "It's a very hard work period for us." 
The team will stay in hotels near the campus of St. Andrew's Prep School and take advantage of the school's outdoor facilities and weight rooms during its two weeks of training. 
"Essentially it's a place to 
see FLORIDA/page 25 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope third time the charm with Adrian 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's came close in the past two games, but wasn't able to pull out a win. It'll have one more shot tonight against Adrian College before returning to South Bend. 
The Belles (1-6) have lost their last two games by only six points, but they're only shooting 36 percent from the floor in that span. 
"We're not being patient on offense, and we're not working for the best shot," Saint Mary's coach Jennifer Henley said. 
Henley attributed some of the offensive struggles to opposing defenses focused more on stopping junior guard Alison Kessler -the Belles' leading scorer, with 
17.9 points per game. 
"We're playing Alison a lot more minutes, so it's hard to get her a break," Henley said. "Other teams are gun­ning after her as well, and 
she has to work harder  on  
offense  because  she's  so  
successful."  

But opposing defenses are unable to stop Kessler once she gets to the free-throw line. Kessler shoots 82.4 percent from the line in an offense designed to create situations where she can draw fouls. 
see BULLDOGS/page 25 


NHl NCAA FOOTBAlL NFL NFL NBA 
NBA 
w 

(.) Wild 3 Despite criticism from The mediocrity of the Titans quarterback Trail Blazers 88 
Mavericks 92 

z Blackhawks 2 alumni and boosters, NFC has left wild card Vince Young strives to Pistons 85 
Nets 75 

Wild center Pierre-Florida State coach spots up for grabs. lead Tennessee back to Portland upends Dallas gets back to its
:s 

Marc Bouchard's Bobby Bowden refuses prominence. Detroit with a last-
= 
winning ways with shootout goal wins to call it quits. minute shot by Zach 
victory over New Jersey. 
cc 

game for Minnesota. Randolph.
!; page 23 page 21 page 21 page 20 page 18 page 18 




