
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 123 THURSDAY. APRIL 13,2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SENATE 
Ad hoc conunittees, titles finalized at 111eeting 
University 
•

preparing for Easter 
Religious services to highlight holiday break 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will suspend academic pursuits this week­end in favor or the celebration of Christ's passion and resur­rection. 
Many students will travel home for the four-day break from classes, while others will join their parents to attend the various liturgies and services at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Senior Madeleine Heck will stay on campus to work on her thesis, but also to be part of the RCIA baptisms while serv­ing as a sponsor. 
"The girl I am sponsoring already received her sacra­ments, but we are both staying here for the rest of the group, and to attend the liturgies at the Basilica together," Heck said. 
Sophomore Ali Donovan is looking forward to using the break to spend time with her family. 
"I participated in an Appalachia service project over spring break, so I didn't have an opportunity to see my par­ents then," Donovan said. "''m just really excited about having a few days off and spending them with my family." 
Donovan and her parents will be traveling together to California to visit family during the holiday. 
Despite the departure of 
see EASTER/ page 4 
Multicultural group officially recognized 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate News Editor 
MAC is back. 
Two weeks after the Student Senate voted down an amend­ment to grant permanent status to the ad hoc Minority Affairs eommittee, senators approved a revised amendment Wednesday that established the group consti­tutionally as the Committee on Multicultural Affairs. 
By also renaming the Committee on Diversity Affairs as the Committee on Social Concerns and delineating the responsibili­ties of the two newly titled com­mittees, the amendment addressed the concerns that pre­vented the passage of the original Minority Affairs committee amendment. 
The amendment charges the Committee on Multicultural Affairs with representing and advocating for "racially and eth­nically marginalized" students, while the Committee on Social Concerns will be responsible for issues arising from religious diversity, sexual orientation and socioeconomic differences. Both committees will make recommen­dations to the Senate. 
After the Minority Affairs com­mittee was established as an ad 
see SENATE/page 6 



Meal serves up Jewish traditions 
Students ofall religions welcomed to Seder dinner on Wednesday 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
With most of the Notre Dame community focused on preparations for the end of Holy Week and the celebration of Easter Sunday, a small group of students departed from traditional Catholic Lenten practices to observe the Jewish feast of Passover with a Seder meal Wednesday night. 
Approximately 30 students gathered in Welsh Family Hall to recall the escape of the Jewish people from slavery under the pharaoh of ancient Egypt. The Seder meal, typically celebrated the first two nights of Passover, tells the story of the Exodus and uses food and drink such as bitter herbs and wine to symbolize events in the birth of Israel. 
Members of the Notre Dame Jewish Student Club were present at the meal, but the partici­pants were mostly non-Jewish. The leader of the 
see PASSOVER/page 4 

College pianist playing for charity 
Proceeds will benefit 'Music and Healing' 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
When Saint Mary's senior Jill Vlasek takes the stage next Wednesday for her final piano recital at the College, she will not only be gracing the audience with her musieal skills, but will also be working to improve the lives of many. 
Just one year ago Vlasek, a music major and Atlanta native, was unsure of the direction her post-graduate life would take, but that all changed the day she met Chris Robinson, the director and 
see PIANIST/page 6 


Senior takes proactive inunigration approach 
Dingeman confronts issues with local effort 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
At a time when immigra­tion is a hotly-debated topic around the country, Saint Mary's senior Katie Dingeman is taking a more constructive, hands-on approach to addressing the issue by coordinating an effort to help local immi­grants deal with the chal­lenges they face today. 
The South Bend communi­ty is home to Meskhetian Turk immigrants from Russia and Liberian immi­grants, with whom Dingeman said she first came in contact through her work at the Refugee and Immigration Services of South Bend. 

While writing her senior comprehensive project ­which focused on the inte­gration of immigrants -Dingeman said she realized there was a "disconnect" between what immigrants expected of American life and what they experienced once they were settled. 
"As a case manager at 
see REFUGEES/page 8 

r--------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 13, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pushing the envelope 
l'vn bonn told, on multipln occasions. that a mousn is morn intimidating than rnn. 
I'm not sum whnthnr that's a compli­nwnt or a dmractnr !law but pnrhaps it nxplains my strong nnml to Mary Kate Malone snnm like a ruin-breaking rnbPI. On occasion, News Editor f' II decidn to stop bning goody-goody MK and push thn nnvelopn. You know, show pt~oph~ that I can break ruins and gnt away with it. 
Not surprisingly. I gnnnrally fail at. doing this. But lwy, at lnast I try. 
CW·il~ in point: 

A fnw wonks ago my roommate's sis­ter. Meg, was visiting Notre Damn. Wn wnrn all going to dinnnr on a Thursday 
night and dncidnd it was ridiculous to 
makn Mng, who had no II> card. pay $10 f(Jr hnr nwal. lnspirnd to take chargn and solvn thn problmn. I told 
Mng to usn my II> and I would snnak in. 
"No onn will catch me, I promisn," I said. "Como on you guys, I can totally do it without gntting caught. I'm good at this kind of thing, okay?" 
l convinr.nd everyone easily (though I'm not surn how). 
Wn walked to North Dining I Jail plan­ning our scheme. I'd walk in with a <Towd and bury myself inside it. Then I'd stmtlthily snnak into the back room bd'ore anyone could notice. When we arrived, I hustled in bnhind my friends, avoiding eyn contaet with the food serv­ien worker. My friends swept up behind mn and we scurried into tlw back hot food area. Pride swept over me. I did it! I broke the rules and got away with it! 
Suddenly, a firm hand grabbed my arm. "IIEY! IIEY YOU! WHAT DO YOU TIIINK YOU'HE DOING? YOU DII>N'T SWIPE YOUH CAHD!" The l(lOd serviee woman I thought I had so stealthily deceived was loudly scolding me in front of what felt like the en tim student body. My "bad-ass-ness" was crum­bling. I panicked and starting lying. 
''I'm so sorry!" I said. "I forgot my J.D. card and didn't want to go back to my dorm! I'll leave right now. I'm sorry! It won't happen again!" 
I wasn't intimidating. I wasn't rebel­lious. So I walked to the other end of North with my head hung low, and paid $10 filr my meal. 
You think that would have taught me a lesson. It didn't. 
Tuesday night my seetion in Farley had a "mandatory" seetion meeting. I'm not sure why, but I dndded I wasn't going to go. Mandatory, schmandatory. So I went to Hecker's instnad. No big deal, right? Wrong. 
I think I talked about skipping the meeting more than anything else all night. I stared at the dock, worried. What if they kick me out of Farley? What if I move to the bottom of room picks? What if my roommates don't cover lor me? 
I never got in trouble but my own hruilt was enough to eonvinee me that I've got a long way to go before I prove my li:mrlessness to the world. 
Okay, so maybe it's taken 20 years to realize I'm not an intimidating, rule­breaking rebel. 
But praetiee makes perfect. 

Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of lhe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives fi>r the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR EASTER? 



Kentucky." 
IN BRIEF 
A Tenebrae Service will takn plaee today at 11 p.m. in the Basilica of the Saered Heart. 
"Ben llur," the 1959 film starring Charlton lleston, will be shown at 7 p.m. today in the Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Notre Dame softball will play a doubleheader against DePaul today starting at 4 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame men's tennis will face Louisville today at 
3:30 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on St. John's at 12:05 
p.m. Saturday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The third annual Spring Cut-A-Thon will be held at Salon :lOl Spa, Miehael and Co. 2 Salon and Spa and Hair Conneetion Salon and Day Spa April 23 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. For a $15 donation partieipants can get a haireut, manicure or massage. Proeeeds benefit Sex Offense Services, the rape erisis een­ter for St. Joseph County. 
Notre Dame alum and author Tony D'Souza will give a reading from "Whiteman," his first novel based loosely on his experi­enees as a Peaee Corps volun­teer April 25. The free read­ing will take plaee at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hospitality Room of South Dining Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


75 55 

HIGH LOW 

Carol Matasci  Erin Rogozinski  Sarah Hirschman  Tiffany Garcia  Kristen Drahos  Mariana Montes  
freshman Farley  sophomore Lyons  sophomore Lyons  sophomore Lyons  freshman Welsh Family  sophomore Lyons  
"1/itchhiking to Cincinnati, because I'm staying with a  ''I'm going on an Easter egg hunt with the Mrs. "  "Taking home these two crazy girls."  ''I'm eating ham with Ron."  "Guarding Guillermo -my bike -from the squirrels."  ''I'm going to the best city in the world-Louisville,  

friend. but she won't let me stay in her car." 

Jesse McGannon, front, makes a diving attempt to block Kasey Farrell from catching a frisbee at Ultimate Frisbee Team practice on South Quad Wednesday. The warm weather had many sport enthusiasts out on the quad. 
OFFBEAT 
School books wrong 'Jon Stewart' for gala 
OGDEN, Utah -An embarrassed eharter school has discovered it booked the wrong Jon Stewart for its annual gala. The DaVinei Aeademy thought it had made a deal with eomedian Jon Stewart, star of "The Daily Show" and host of this year's Aeademy Awards, to appear next week. 
It sent out 500 invitations to businesses and planned for 900 people. 
But last week, it learned that it had booked Jon A. Stewart, a former motiva­tional speaker, businessman and part-time professional wrestler from Chieago. 
Rescuers go high-tech to save trapped cat 
NEW YORK-Reseuers used drills, miniature eam­eras, eat food and even a 1­pound raw fish in a desper­ate effort Wednesday to entiee an 11-month old eat named Molly from behind the basement wall of a Greenwieh Village deli­catessen where she has been trapped for 12 days 
The effort was renewed early in the day when work­ers heard the eat meowing again after several days of silence that had given rise to fears she had died. "That was a motivator to try again," said Mike Pastore, field direetor of Animal Care & Control of New York City, a private ageney that han­dles animal reseues on a eity eontraet. 
Pastore led the reseue team trying to loeate the peripatetie pussyeat with a tiny video eamera attaehed to a plumber's snake. But the sound of the drill may have spooked Molly to retreat further into the maze under the front wall of the 19th-century briek building. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LIJ :::z::: 
!;;: 
LIJ 
3: 
...... 
c:r: 
(.) 0 

HIGH 75 HIGH 65
..... 
LOW 55 LOW 55 

78 55 

77 57 

Thursday, April 13, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Easter brings Catholic beginnings 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
Blooming flowers, Easter cele­bration, Opening Day -'tis the season for beginnings. 
At Notre Dame, candidates and catechumen are starting a new journey of their own, into the full practice of Catholicism. 
On Sunday April 2, 13 candi­dates became full members of the Catholic Church. They received the Sacraments of Eucharist and Confirmation at the 11:45 a.m. mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
This Saturday at the Easter Vigil Mass in the Basilica, 16 cat­echumen -those who have not yet been baptized -will receive the sacraments of Baptism, Eucharist and Confirmation. 
"With the total number of peo­ple involved, this has been one of the biggest years in my time here," said Tami Schmitz, who leads the initiation programs. "For the Easter Vigil Mass, it's the most ever." 
After months -and in some cases years -of learning about Catholicism, the candidates stepped forward with their faith. 
"My faith has always been important to me," senior candi­date Hunter Craig said. "Over the last four years, I came to realize that Catholicism was the best expression of my faith. I felt it allowed me to participate more fully in the love of God." 
Candidates are those who were baptized either into Catholicism or another faith, but have not been fully received into the Catholic Church through the Eucharist and Confirmation. 
"These folks have been bap­tized in a religion other than Catholicism, and they needed to be received into the Church," said Schmitz. 
Candidates and catechumen decide to become Catholic for a variety of reasons, she said. Some have Catholic friends or family members who influenced them, some are attracted to the traditions and some have been influenced by Notre Dame's Catholic culture. Regardless of how they came to it, all have a desire to become closer to Catholicism. 
"I was at first attracted to the Catholic Church because of Catholic Social Teaching and their emphasis on implementing justice in our world," sophomore candidate Mazie Tsang said. "I liked that Catholics were chal­lenged to live like Christ and to love their neighbor, whomever he may be." 
To prepare, candidates and catechumen take classes through a program called the Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults {RCIA). Classes begin at the start of the school year and meet every Sunday morning for two hours, Schmitz said. Each candidate and catechumen has a sponsor who leads them through the RCIA process and beyond. 
Craig said he chose his girl­friend of two-and-a-half years, senior Lindsay Cook, as his sponsor because he "thought it would also be a nice way to bring our faith experiences together." 
Schmitz said about two-thirds of candidates and catechumen find their own sponsors. Others, like sophomore candidate Katie Keyser, choose sponsors from within Campus Ministry. 
"The RCIA directors actually chose [my sponsor] for me, and it worked out great. She is amazing, and I am so glad I got to know her," she said. 
In addition to teaching stu­dents about Catholicism, RCIA creates a community where can­didates and catechumen can ask questions, face challenges and grow in faith together. 
"The whole community aspect in RCIA is one of the most rewarding features of the entire process," Keyser said. 
Candidates said some of the greatest challenges in becoming Catholic were staying patient with themselves, and explaining their decision to others. 
"I was nervous because I remained loyal to my home church for almost ten years, and I disliked the thought of aban­doning that to which I am loyal," Tsang said. "Yet, I did not feel I was fully nourished in my church, whereas I felt my faith nourished and challenged in the Catholic Church." 
As they begin their new paths this Easter, the RCIA students ­now Catholics -all have an added reason to celebrate. 
"If you ever get a chance to be a part of this beautiful process, don't hesitate," said Keyser. "It's wonderful." 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Red Rose Gala put at forefront of tneeting 
Group approves $375 donation for subsidy 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
The Red Rose Gala, an amend­ment to the constitution and offi­cer elections were the main con­cerns at Wednesday's Graduate Student Union meeting. 
After a request for a ticket subsidy by Kaitlyn Redfield, President of the Feminist Voice and CARE, a $375 donation was approved unanimously by the GSU council for the "Red Rose Gala: A Benefit to Aid Local Survivors of Violence Against Women." The donation is to be used as a $5 per ticket subsidy for tickets to the event that are purchased by graduate students. 
"Though discussions have often been heated, one point exists on which everyone can agree -violence against women is intolerable, and as a community, we unconditionally stand united to end it," Redfield wrote in a letter addressed to the GSU. 
"Together we stand to demon­strate that violence against women is intolerable," she wrote. "Please help us support those in our community who most need our assistance." 

In regards to organizational business, the GSU council voted unanimously to amend its con­stitution to appoint representa­tive to University committees so as to have a stronger role in shaping Uniyersity policy and advocating for the graduate stu­dent population. 
The topic of elections was also addressed by the council. Elections for next year's officers will be held April19, when pres­idential nominee Michael Lundin and co-vice presidential nomi­nees Timothy Schoenharl and Misty Schieberle will be running unopposed. 
One other important topic dis­cussed was the Health Fair to be held at the University Village May 6 from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. The Health Fair will include a fire truck, a HealthWorks hummer, seatbelt and blood pressure checks, alternative medicine booths, free food and other points of interest. 
President of the GSU council Misty Schieberle ended the meeting on a lighter note by say­ing she suspected people were stealing nice chairs with wheels from the graduate student com­puter cluster in the library and replacing them with uncomfort­able chairs without wheels. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Depl-~r Irish Language & Lileralure Keough Inslilule for Irish Srudie;s 

Language Courses., Fall 2006 
IRLL 10101:01 Beginning Irish I TR. 9:30-10:45 Prof. 6 Conchubhair 
IRLL 10101:02 Beginning Irish I MWF 10:40-11:30 Prof. MacLeod 
IRLL 10101:03 Beginning Irish I MV\TF 8:30-9:20 Prof. Nf Thuairisg 
IRLL 10101:04 Beginning Irish I 1\liV\TF 8:30-9:20 Prof. 6 Conchubhair 
IRLL 10102:01 Beginning Irish II M.VVF 1:55-2:45 Prof. ~acLeod 
IRLL 10102:02 Beginning Irish II MWF 8:30-9:20 Prof. MacLeod 
IRLL 20103:01 Intermediate Irish TR 9:30-10:45 Prof. Fogarty 
IRLL 20103:02 Intermediate Irish TR 1 1 :00-12: 15 Prof. Fogarty 
IR.LL 20203:01 Advanced Readings in Irish Culture TR. 12:30-1:45 Prof. 6 Conchubhair 
Lirerarure Courses., Fall 2006 
IRLL 20109:01Celt-ic .I-:Teroic Lit:erat:ure TR. 5:00-6:15 Prof. Fogarty, 
IRST 20538:01 Irish Prison Lit:erat:ure TR 1 1:00-12:15 Prof. O'Brien 
IRLL 40306:01 The Irish in Their CJvvn J¥ords TR 2:00-3:15 Prof. McQuillan IRLL 40310:01 Ideology. Poet:ry & Politics in JacobiTe Ireland W 6:00-9:00 Prof. 6 Buachalla 
IRLL 30107:01 The Hidden Ireland TR 2:00-3:15 Prof. 6 Buachalla 
I.RLL 40308:1 l\4odern Irish Poetry TR. 3:30-4:45 Prof". Nuala Ni Dhomhnaill 
IRST 403 1 1 :01 Visit:s t:o Bedla~n TR 9:30-10:45 Prof. Fox 
IRST 90535:01 Irish Lirerat:ure TR. 6:30-9:00 Prof. Deane 
For further information, contact 422 Flanner Hall sobricn1 (a),nd.cdu 631-6250 
Depl. ofIrish Language & Lileralure Keough Inslilulefor Irb;h Srudies 
Thursday, April 13, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Easter 
continued from page I 
many studnnts, campus will bn knpt busy as tlw Basilica, thn choirs and South Dining llall nagnrly prPparn for tho linal days of lloly W1wk. 
"Tlwn~ an~ many dilTonmt choral g:roups partiripating in this wooknnd's sPrviens. and Office of thn Basilica of the Sacred lloart. 
South Dining llall, which will remain open during the w1wknnd. also expects large crowds. General Manager Mare Poklinkowski said approximately 2,(J00 people arn likely to come to the tra­ditional Easter buffet on Sunday~ 
Thn bull"et will oll"cr popular menu itnms, as well as more 

thoy have all dndicatnd an nxtraordinary amount or time and effort to thnir rnspnctivn rnpnrtoi rt~s." Dirnctor of Campus Ministry Stnvnn Warner said. 
Warner said thn eombinnd mnmbnrship of thnsn choirs ­whkh indudn thn Liturgical Choir, thn Folk Choir, the llandbnll Choir and the Basilica Schola, among others ­is approxirnatnly 
"There are many di}Jerent choral groups participating in this weekend's services, and they have all dedicated an extraordinary amount oftime and effort to their respective repertoires." 
Steven Warner director Campus Ministry 
intricately prepared dishes. 
For exam­ple, the lamb that will be served on Easter Sunday is in fact prepared in both din­ing halls, as the oven time required is greater than that of any other meal a single dining hall usually handles. 
Visitors can also expect to be greeted by 
150 musicians, all of whom have bnen rnhearsing on a daily basis this WPPk in antici­pation of Eastnr. 
llownvnr, thnsn and other proparations for the I·:astnr 
snrvicns sueh as rlowPr dneorations and trartir. llow arrangnmnnts, to name a fnw 
hogan months ago, Warrwr addod. 
Tlwir l"inal dforts will be soen and lward in the liturgins the Basiliea has prepared, which includn the Mass of the Lord's Supper Thursday evP.ning, the ice sculptures, fruit displays and Easter baskets on every table Sunday. 
"We are painting approxi­matnly 1,000 eggs to decorate the Easter centerpieces and 
"We are painting approximately 1 ,ooo eggs to decorate the Easter centerpieces and baskets, which the students enjoy doing." 
Marc Poklinkowski general manager South Dining Hall 
Celebration of the Lord's Passion on Good Friday, the Paschal Vigil Mass on Saturday and Easter Sunday Mass, among others. 
In previous years, atten­dance at these services has surpassod 1,000 -a figure composed of students, faculty and members of the South Bend community, said the 
baskets, 
whieh the 
students 
enjoy doing," 
Poklinkowski 
said. "Those 
shifts always 
fill up a lot 
quieker than 
the dish­
washing 
shifts that fol­
low the buf­
fet." 
Throughout 
the weekend, ·Poklinkowski said he expects roughly 1,300 
students at every meal, a good estimate of the amount of students that choose to stay on campus during the break, which is more than the amount that stays here dur­ing Thanksgiving or any other break. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Passover 
continued from page I 

meal, typically the l~tther figure in a household, was instead a Catholic priest. Father Miehael Driscoll -who teaches a gradu­ate level course on the Eucharist and has led Seder meals in the past -walked the participants through the liturgy with his knowledge of llebrew songs and Jewish customs. For sophomore Usa Zickuhr, Wednesday was her first Seder and she said she was pleasantly surprised by the joyful­
. ness of the celebration. 

"I've always been into the Jewish religion and I saw this as a good opportunity to get an understanding of the traditions and maybe participate in them," Zickuhr said. 
Habbi Michael Signer, an Abrams Professor of Jewish Thought and Culture, deseribed the PXperience Of being Jewish at a Catholic university as a chance to share his religion's eustoms with members of a different faith. 
"We focus on very different 'events,' but both Passover and Easter disclose a similar focus on remembering the poor and less fortunate, the ne1~d to empathize with those who are oppressed and provide occasions for hope in a very dark and eruel world," Signer said. 
The structure of the llaggadah madings makes the Seder meal a family-oriented evnnt. The lituq.,ry includes dialogue between par­ents and their children in the form of question and answer sequences to pass on the symbol­ism within the meal. In the litur­gy, children question their par­ents about the moaning behind the different food and drink served. 
"Parents are having their ehil­dren eat their history," Driscoll said. 
Monica Zigman, the president of the Jewish Student Club, is staying at school this year during Passover week and will observe the two Seder meals of Passover without her family. 
"You're used to the type of Seder meal your family has and being around your family," Zigman said. "Going to other Seders, it's just different cus­toms." 
Zigman said it is sometimes dif­ficult fi>r her to live out her faith at Notre Dame, not because of the Catholic nature of the University, but because of the laek of a Jewish community. Even in the Jewish Student Club, Zigman said, only three or four out of the 15 members are Jewish. 
"llopefully, through the Jewish dub growing in population, there will be a more aetive Jewish com­munity," Zi!,'1l1an said. 
Second year law student HaehP.l Woloek celebrated the first night of Passover in Welsh Family Wednesday, but will return homo to eat the seeond Seder with her family. Wolock said attending a Catholic university has not nega­tively impacted her faith life, 
"I think a lot of people hem ­their faiths are very important to them so they'nl respectful or other people's traditions," Wolock said. 
During Passover, some Jewish families in South Bend invite Jewish Notre Dame students to join in their Seder meal. The Jewish Federation of Saint Joseph's Valley, a large communi­ty in South Bend, serves a large faction of the local Jewish com­munity. 
The Federation's pro!.,>Tamming and soda! services diro<tor Ethel Bartky recounted the history of the Jewish people under slavery and the symbolism behind the observation of Passover. 
"Through the Seder, we attempt to bring alive for us today that Exodus experience," Bartky said. "We arn suppos<~d to feel as though we were slaves in Egypt and we are libnratnd. beeause lhr Jnws, history is not a dead thing. It is a very living thing." 
Bartky said though the influ­ence of Notre Damn and its Catholic traditions arc palpable, tho Jewish community has lived and survived as a minority popu­lation for thousands of years. 
"The minority exp£;rienee is something that's vnry familiar. I think li>r the most part pnople go about their business," Bartky said. "We live with Christmas all the ti~e ,; .. It's part of bPing in Amenca. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

The Snite Museum of Art and the Department of Art, Art History, and Design congratulate the following Student Show award recipients 
The Emil jacques Gold Medal ofFine Arts The Emil jacques Silver Medal ofFine Arts Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Art History 
Undergraduate Level Ist prize Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Studio Art Radwan and Allan Riley Prize in Design Eugene M. Riley Photography Prize Mabel Mountain Memorial Award Fr. Lauck Award (Best ofBA Show) 
Design Studio 

Snite Museum's Walter R. Beardsley Award 
Undergraduate Graduate 
William & Connie GreifAward 
Julia Burke  Kathryn Lancos  
Jennifer DeAngelo  Julie Lewis  
Caitlin Efta  Matthew Masoni  
Lauren Hallemann  Mary (Molly) McAuley  
Amanda Kay  Alexandra Moore  

Erin Prill Julie Lewis 
Erik Rocca 
Jennifer DeAngelo Katherine Powers 
Caitlin Efta 
Catherine Schmidt 
Anna Scott Lee Elsey 
Erin Prill Ernest Milsted 

Katherine Mountford 
Katherine Powers 
Erin Prill 
Catherine Schmidt 
~~ 
SNITEARJ'
Murcum of 


---------------------------------------, 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 13, 2006 CoMPILED FROM Tt-H OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCEs page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bomb threat lands British plane 
LONDON -Fighter jets escorted a com­mercial plane carrying 172 people to an airport in Scotland on Wednesday after a passenger passed the captain a note saying there was a bomb on board, and the plane landed safely, authorities said. 
Ryanair Flight FR25, a Boeing 737 en route from Paris to Dublin, Ireland, was escorted to Glasgow's Prestwick Airport, which was closed for about two hours while army explosives experts searched the plann. No bomb was found, Strathclyde police said. 
Mghans sell stolen U.S. intelligence 
BAGRAM. Afghanistan -A shopkeeper outside the U.S.-led coalition headquarters in Afghanistan was selling computer memo­ry drives Wednesday containing seemingly sensitive military data stolen from inside the base -including the Social Security numbers of four American generals. 
This shopkeeper was apparently not the only merchant in local bazaars trying to get some cash in exchange for hardware and software containing such files. 
The surfacing of the stolen computer devices has sparked an urgent American military probe for the source of the embar­rassing security breach, which has led to disks with the personal letters and biogra­phies of soldiers and lists of troops who completed nuclear. chemical and biological warfare training going on sale for $20 to $50. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Couple falsely claims sextuplets 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -Police said Wednesday they were trying to determine how many donations were received by a couple accused of falsely claiming they were the new parents of sextuplets. 
Sarah and .Kris Everson of Grain Valley admitted the scam when questioned by police, authorities said, and expressed no remorse. They could face criminal charges for collecting cash and other gifts. 
Police Chief Aaron Ambrose said detec­tives would seek records on donations made through a bank fund set up for the Eversons. a post office box established to receive mailed gifts and an online PayPal account that allowed visitors to the couple's Web site to give money. 
Prosecuters drop Patriot Act case 
STAMFOHD, Conn. -Federal prosecutors said Wednesday they will no longer seek to enforce a gag order on Connecticut librari­ans who received an FBI demand for records about library patrons under the Patriot Act. 
The American Civil Liberties Union, which sued on behalf of the librarians, said it will identify them once court proceedings are completed in the next few weeks. 
U.S. District Judge Janet Hall ruled last year that the gag order should be lifted, saying it unfairly prevented the librarians from participating in a debate over how the Patriot Act should be rewritten. 
Prosecutors appealed, but U.S. Attorney Kevin O'Connor said Wednesday that the appeal no longer made sense. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Convicted mother gets court order 
FOHT WAYNE -A woman convicted of drowning her 2-year-old daughter obtained a protective order against the girl's father after she was released from prison earlier this week. 
Judi L. Noe, 36, served one year and 13 days in prison on a charge of voluntary manslaughter for drowning her daughter, Brieana Jaide Noe, in June 2004. 
The girl's father, Brad May, said Tuesday he was not surprised by the order. granted by an Allen Superior Court magistrate. He has been critical of the decision to release Noe. 
ITALY 


Prodi to modify U.S. relations 
New Premier staunch critic ofIraq War, promises to withdraw troops by year's end 
Associated Press 
ROME For most Americans, Italy will still be the country of luxury wear, good food and fine wine. 
But a new center-left gov­ernment led by Romano Prodi could bring changes in Italy's relationship with the United States, including a return to the "old Europe" that opposed the war in Iraq and has worries about what it considers Washington's aggressive foreign policy. 
Ties with the United States could face their first trial when Prodi is asked to push for the arrest and extradition of 22 purported CIA agents who have been accused by an Italian prose­cutor of kidnapping an Egyptian cleric from Milan as a suspected terrorist. 
Italy has been a close ally of the United States since the Cold War, playing a leading role in NATO over protests from the Italian Communist Party, the largest Marxist movement in the West. 
The country accepted U.S.built nuclear missiles in Sicily to counter a Soviet missile buildup in the mid­1980s. During the air war over Kosovo in 1999, NATO planes staged air strikes on Yugoslavia from Aviano air lie statements make clear lems." not good policy. base in Italy. he intends to focus on closer As for Iraq, he said there "Something is destined to 
But conservative Premier relations with other was really no difference change," said Germano Silvio Berlusconi raised the European countries and between his and Dottori, an analyst at relationship to a new level work for a joint European Berlusconi's policies, since Rome's Center for Strategic after taking office in 2001, Union foreign policy, saying his rival "had come around" Studies. "The idea is to calling President Bush "my only the bloc as a whole can and begun withdrawing make the EU a leading play­friend," breaking with counterbalance American troops, with all to be out by er in international politics France and Germany by power. the end of the year. and this automatically supporting the invasion of Talking Wednesday with Speaking to supporters in includes a project to reduce Iraq and sending 3,000 sol­foreign journalists, Prodi his hometown of Bologna on American hegemony." diers there after the fall of used the word "Europe" Wednesday evening, Prodi The first test could be Saddam Hussein. repeatedly when asked how said his Cabinet would dis­over the alleged CIA kidnap­
Now, Prodi, a staunch his government would deal cuss the pullout timetable ping of a radical Egyptian critic of the Iraq war, is set with China, Iran and the when it first meets, cleric from a Milan street in to become Italy's next pre­Balkans. "because we did not want 2003, an operation believed mier after official results l-Ie said in a major foreign this war," according to to be part of an "extraordi­showed his center-left coali­policy address last year that Italian news agencies. nary rendition" strategy to tion won national elections Washington should recog­· Prodi said this week that transfer terrorism suspects earlier this week, although nize a "more united Europe he wants a "constructive" to third countries where Berluseoni has demanded a is not a challenge or a relationship with some allegedly are subject recount and refused to eon­threat to American power, Washington, but also has to torture. European human cede. but a crucial ally in the said that serving as a "jun­rights groups have assailed 
Prodi's platform and pub-management of global prob-ior partner" to the U.S. is the practice. 


Moussauoi jury hears cockpit tape 
gers tried twice to ram their way into In those remaining two minutes,
Associated Press 
the cockpit with a drink cart. more voices are heard than earlier, 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -The tape begins Prosecutors thought it would help con­including some saying in English: with a hijacker saying in broken vince jurors that Sept. 11 conspirator "Go. Go." English: "Please sit down. Keep remain­Zacarias Moussaoui deserves to be exe­"Move. Move." ing seating. We have a bomb on board. cuted. "Push, push, push, push, push." So sit.'-' A half-hour of chaos ensues At least these people may now know Then in Arabic: "Give it to me. Give it before a final utterance: "Allah is great­why investigators and victims' relatives to me. Give it to me." est." Then nothing but the roar of static. who have heard the recording before Finally in Arabic: "Allah is the great­
Jurors and a couple of hundred came to varied conclusions about what est. Allah is the greatest. Allah is the courtroom spectators got a glimpse happened. greatest. Allah is the greatest." Wednesday into one of the remaining "Is that it? I mean, shall we pull it The government rested its case short­mysteries of Sept. 11, 2001: the har­down?" one hijacker asked in Arabie ly after the first public playing -other rowing final moments of United Flight two minutes before the 757 jetliner than for investigators and victims' rela­93, when passengers tried to retake the slammed into a Pennsylvania field with tives -of the only audible cockpit plane from al-Qaida hijackers. 33 passengers, seven crew members recording recovered from the four jet­
They heard a murky 30-minute cock­and four hijackers. "Yes, put it in it, and liners hijacked by al-Qaida in the pit recording. It sounded like passen-pull it down," another replied in Arabie. nation's most deadly terrorist attack. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 13, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
ho<~ committee at the beginning 
of' the fall semester, conf'usion 
nnsuml about the role or the 
Committee on Diversity Affairs, 
which previously had been 
responsible li1r addn~ssing issues 
of multkulturalism and diversity. 
Sheena Plamoottil. the new 
chair of the Committee on Social 
Concerns. f'ully endorsed the 
amendment of her committne's 
name and mission. 
"I think lthe mission statement( 
truly en<~ompw;ses everything we 
are and everything we want to 
aeeomplish this year," she said. 
Helining the committee names 
was a major element of' the 
amendment. 
Chin!' nxecutivn assistant Liz 
Brown. charged with oversneing 
both committees, spoke with 
Director of Multicultural Student 
Programs and Services Iris 
Outlaw about the amendment 
and iL'> prncisn wording. 
Brown said Outlaw advised her 
to strip tim eommittee's title of 
the word "minority," which 
Outlaw said can be seen as 
derogatory. 
Multi<:ultural All'airs committee 
chair Unstinne Del.emos praised 
the choice of the nnw name, 
whieh avoids the confusion some 
sfmators said existed between 
eomrnittens <li~signnd to address 
"minority" and "diversity" issues. 
"This is an effective name not just bemuse lit isllnss ambiguous and less offensive. but also because of its institutional rele­vance," Dnl.emos said. 
The usn of' "social concerns" is appropriate at Notre I>ame, she said, as it pa:rallels the Center lilf Soda( Concerns, which addresses similar issues as the committee. 
At the fall Board of Trustees meetings, Dnl.nmos said the for­nwr Minority Afl'airs mmmittee received the full support of the Trustees al't.Pr prnsPnting a state­ment of purpose very similar to that in the nnw amendment. 
Tlw Com m i ttm1 on Multicultural Afl'airs has specific goals of' working on the recruit­ment and tm1ur<1 of minority fac­ulty, improving the experience of rnsidence hall lifn for minority studnnL'> and addrnssing issues of eultural compntPndes in the cur­riculum, Del.nmos said. 
Brown worked to revise the anwndnwnt with formnr student body president Dave Baron, stu­dent body president Lizzi Shappell, I>nLemos, Plamoottil, f'ormer Minority AITairs mmmit­tnn chair Hlwa Boyd and li1rmer I>iversity All'airs eommittee chair Sarah Liu. The group decided to f'orm a f'oeus group of students with varying )!wpfs of' student govnrnmnnt experiPn<~e inten~st­ml in tlw issun to advis11 them on r<~visions to th11 am11ndment. 
"A lot of work has gonn into this," Brown said. "W1~'ve looked at it from 1wnry angle possibln, I can protty much guarantee." 
Discussion on the arnendnwnt was btinf' and fot:usnd on the wording of' the Multicultural Af'f'ai rs ·cornrn ittne description. Morriss<~y sPnator Patrick Brown propos1~d an amnndmnnt to the amnndnumt which would change the tnrrn "racially and ethnically marginaliznd students" to "stu­dPnts of a radal or nthnic minori­ty." 
Kennan senator Chris Bensley spoke li1r many senators when he defended the original choice of' language. 
"I bnlinve it's dnar that every­one who work~~d on it spent a lot of' time and nllort working on lan­guag~: making sun~ it was right," Beeslny said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 


Pianist 
continued from page 1 
founder of the Foundation for Musie and Healing. 
"Dr. Hobinson did a presenta­tion for the music majors about the Foundation for Music and I leafing locatnd in South Bend," Vlasnk said. "I was totally hooked and wantnd to know how I could gnt involvnd." 
Following the presentation, Vlasek approached Hobinson to ask how she could work or con­tributn to the foundation, which gives nwntally or physically handicappnd childnm and adults the opportunity to praetiee and learn both vocal and instrumen­tal rn usieal skills. 
Vlasnk was offernd a part-time summer job with the foundation, which allowed her to work with her special needs students in a studio at the Jameson Inn on Houle 33. 
"I think Jill's enthusiasm for life and ... ambition and drive to meet people help her to do a great job," Hobinson said. "You nned to have the energy to work in this ljobl-this is a more intnnse kind or work ... 
New Courses -FALL 
2006 
PORTUGUESE & -BRAZILIAN STUDIES 

Brazilian Portuguese Language & Culture I ROPO 10103 
Carnival in Cinema & Literature ROPO 40956 Offered in English 
Department of Romance Languages & Literature 
Vlasek said a typical lesson During the first half of her con­consists of working with not only cert, Vlasek will play classical the studnnl'i, hut sometimes their piano works, followed by a per­parents and siblings as well. formance of her own piano and 
"Some students have a very vocal compositions. strict routine, and some you can Vlasek said she anticipates never plan what is going to hap­many of her students and their 
pen  because  if  families will be  
they give you a great opportunity  "/ think Jill's  present at her concert and that  
you  have  to  go  enthusiasm for life  audience mem­ 
with them and take it," she ·said. "You have to lis­ and ... ambition and drive to meet people  bt~rs will "lind it in their hearts to share the gift or  
ten to them." The non-profit foundation holds  help her to do a great job. "  music with oth­ers." Vlasck's May  
lessons in instruc­ graduation from  
tional studios at  Chris Robinson  Saint Mary's will  
Jameson Inn, the  director and founder  not  mark  the  
Logan Center, Goshen College and Memorial  Foundation for Music and Healing  end of her com­mitment to the Foundation for  
Hospital.  Music  and  
Instructors  Ilcaling. She will  

receive a salary, requiring stu­start working there this summer dents to play for their lessons -as a full-time instructor. whieh is precisely where Vlasek's Although the Atlanta native vision comes into play. always saw herself returning to 
She said she hopes audience the south after completing her members in attendance at her degree, she said the thought of April 19 senior recital at 7:30 staying in South Bend is "grow­
p.m. in Little Theater will make a ing onlher]." monetary donation to help fund "It is kind of niee Ito stay in the scholarships for students who areal," she said. "I feel like I have cannot afford lessons. really built my life up here the last four years ... it is nice not to have to pick up and reloeate." 

The Foundation is currently only located in South Bend, how­ever Vlasek said she believes it has potential to develop on a national level dun to its unique naturn. 
Hobinson, who said the !'nun­dation receives ealls from as far away as Los Angoles and Texas, also shares this' vision. lie said there is a widespread need for the Foundation's services. 
Vlasek said the limndation dif­li~rs from traditional music thera­py in that student'> receive actual musical instruction-something they traditionally might not have to opportunity to have. 
A'i V1asek embarks upon a new era in her lili~. she said her deci­sion to use her talents to help others has been nothing but a joyous experience. 
"Seeing the successes of my students has been the best part of my work," she said. "StudenL'> that have trouble talking are talking more. They are gaining huge amounL'> of' self confidence, and they are learning how to really love music." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, April 13, 2006 



Dow 
11,129.97 +40.34

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,696 148 1,526 1,960,661,790.00 

AM£X 
NASDAQ 

NYSE 
S&PSOO 
NIKKEI(Tol<yo) ,,.,,,::·:t::WJ::CC~:· 
fTSf IOO(London) 6,000.80 -15.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.02 +0.01 41.93 

INTEL CP (INTC) -0.21 -0.04 19.12 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.80 -0.04 4.97 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.26 +0.07 27.20 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +0.84 +0.03 3.62 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.89 +0.44 49.76 
13-WEEK BILL +0.22 +0.1 0 45.82 
30-YEAR BOND +0.96 +0.48 50.51 
5-YEARNOTE +0.88 +0.43 49.05 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.29 70.09 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.90 601.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.53 80.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.5300 
EURO 
0.8262 

POUND 0.5716 
CANADIAN$ 1.1492 
IN BRIEF 


Stocks rebound from Tuesday losses 
NEW YORK -Stocks ended a quiet session with a moderate gain Wednesday on strong earnings news and a decline in the trade deficit. 
Wall Street rebounded from Tuesday's losses after Circuit City Stores Inc. reported its earn­ings jumped 65 percent. The electronic retail­er's news, coming off an upbeat earnings report from Alcoa Inc. early in the week. reas­sured investors nervous about rising commod­ity prices and their impact on corporate prof­its. 
In economic news, America's trade deficit improved in February, as the imbalance with China dropped to the lowest level in nearly a year. But the overall deficit was still the third highest on record. The deficit for the first two months of this year is running 13.5 percent above the pace in early 2005, a year when the 
U.S. deficit hit an all-time high of $723.6 bil­lion. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that the deficit fell to $65.7 billion, a 4.2 percent decline from January's record imbalance of $68.7 billion. 
We have a minor stabilization of the market after a couple of slightly softer days," said Stuart Schweitzer, global markets strategist at JPMorgan Asset & Wealth Management. "No big surprise." 

Alabama reforms income tax policy 
MONTGOMERY-Alabama's dubious distinc­tion as the only state to levy income taxes on a family of four making less than $10,000 came to an end under a bill Wednesday signed by the governor. 
Under tax-~utting legislation that will take effect in January, the threshold at which such families will start paying income taxes will rise from $4,600 a year to $12,500. 
"For decades, Alabamians have labored under the nation's most unfair tax system," Gov. Bob Riley said. "Well, in Alabama today, that unfair system ends." 
The GOP governor worked with the Democrat-dominated legislature and Alabama Arise, a church-funded lobbying group for the poor, to get the tax break passed after years of seeing similar bills fail. 

Tt-IE OBSERVER 










USINESS 
page 7 

Skilling testimony continues 
Ex-Enron executive denies knowledge of illegal activity at former company 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON-Jurors received another business lesson from Jeffrey Skilling the professor, discovered he's angry at the govern­ment for bringing fraud and conspiracy charges against him and heard more repeat­ed assertions he did nothing wrong that led to the implo­sion of Enron Corp. 
Reprising a strategy from the previous day, Skilling's attorney, Daniel Petrocelli, used the 28-count criminal indictment against Skilling as a roadmap Wednesday to counter the government's case against the former Enron chief executive and his co-defendant, Enron founder Kenneth Lay. 
Skilling is charged with fraud, conspiracy, insider trading and lying to auditors. Lay, who also plans to testifY, faces six counts of fraud and conspiracy. 
Specifically addressing the conspiracy charges in the indictment, Petrocelli in a series of rapid-fire questions asked Skilling if he and Lay were engaged in a criminal conspiracy, discussed break­ing the law, entered any "agreement, wink, bear hug, anything by which you were to do illegal things together." 
"This is completely untrue," Skilling said of the charge in the indictment. 
Instead, he said the pair of executives formed a "good team." 
Asked if he was aware of anyone breaking the law at Enron, Skilling said the com­pany had internal controls designed to detect such problems. 
"I was aware of no illegal activity at Enron," Skilling replied. 
And if he had learned of the criminal activity of then­Enron Chief Financial Officer Andrew Fastow, who skimmed millions from the company and has pleaded guilty to conspiracy, Skilling said he would have called the FBI, adding quickly, "I 

might have a little hesitation now." "A little angry at the gov­
ernment?" Petrocelli said. 
"Yes," Skilling responded. 
"Think you've been falsely accused?" the attorney asked. 
"Yes," Skilling said. 
Before proceedings began, Skilling prefaced his third day on the stand in his own defense with a hug and kiss for his wife, Rebecca Carter, at the courtroom rail, then walked toward the witness chair. Petrocelli said he was likely to finish his question­ing of Skilling by the end of the day Thursday. Cross­examination of the key wit­ness wasn't likely until next week, the 12th week of the trial. 
Responding to other specifics in the indictment, Skilling denied lying about use of unreported reserves to pump up earnings and defended his statements that Enron was not merely a company dominated by spec­ulative trading activity but had hard assets like power plants and pipelines. 

Twice Wednesday, Skilling left the witness chair and spoke directly to the jury like a college professor lecturing a class. He drew a chart to explain how energy trades worked at Enron and then a second time lectured them with an explanation of a large illustration that tracked Enron's trading activity and the volatile swings _in the energy market in 2000. 
In each case, U.S. District Judge Sim Lake left his chair at the bench for another seat in the courtroom to get a better look. Some jurors also stood to watch. 
"Does that make sense?" Skilling, wrapping up at one point, said to jurors. 
"They can't answer your question," Petrocelli remind­ed him. 
Skilling also disputed earli­er testimony that the shift of some functions of Enron's struggling retail business group in early 2001 to its highly profitable wholesale trading unit was to hide loss­es. 
"Not in my mind," Skilling said of the reorganization. 
He was countering testi­mony in February from David Delainey, once one of his most favored executives, who pleaded guilty to insider trading in October 2003. Delainey told jurors he reluc­tantly went along with the Skilling-approved plan to hide $200 million in losses. 
Delainey said he told Skilling in a March 2001 meeting the move lacked integrity because losses could just be written off. Delainey told jurors Skilling asked him, "What do you want to do?", which he took as code to "get in line" and go along with it. 
GM: Delphi workers won't strike 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-General Motors Corp. executives don't believe Delphi Corp. workers will strike, said Robert Lutz, the Detroit auto maker's vice chairman of global product development. 
"We just absolutely refuse to believe that there's going to be a strike," Lutz said Wednesday on the sidelines of the New York International Auto Show. "We're gonna work our way through it." 
He added, "None of the three par­ties would benefit from a strike, not the UAW (United Auto Workers), not Delphi, not General Motors." GM, which owned Delphi until a 1999 spinoff, is the supplier's largest customer. 
The industry veteran also said GM is on the upswing and expressed faith in GM Chief Executive Rick Wagoner. Wagoner has faced criti­cism for GM's continued market­share declines. 
_ Delphi, operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, has filed a motion asking a judge for permis­sion to cancel its labor contracts. No action is expected until June. Delphi, the UAW and GM are embroiled in three-way negotia­tions, as Delphi tries to slash labor costs. 
Delphi has about 6,000 employees in Indiana, most of whom work at the company's Electronics & Safety Division headquarters in Kokomo. It also has about 700 workers at an Anderson plant that's due to close. 
Delphi's unions, most notably the UAW, have said a strike would be likely if Delphi receives approval and voids the contracts. 
When asked if GM was stockpiling auto parts in anticipation of a Delphi strike, Lutz said the auto maker is "taking prudent planning measures as necessary." 
Lutz dismissed speculation that the world's largest auto maker will be forced to file for Chapter 11 pro­tection, weighed down by high labor and raw material costs and competition from overseas. 
"Imminent GM bankruptcy was always fiction, created by Wall Street and the media," Lutz said. 
GM shares rose 81 cents, or 4.2 percent, to close at $20.03 on the New York Stock Exchange. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, April 13, 2006 
Refugees 
continued from page 1 

refugen snrvic:es, I kept hnar­ing tlw same questions and problems over and over again from tlw immigrants, and I thought thern had to be a more niTnetivn way of addrnssing them," Dingeman said. 
Dingnman said her observa­tion lnd her to apply last smneswr for a 
welfare office." 
Dingeman said currently the program has 15 Liberian and about eight Meskhetian Turk adult participants, as well as around 15 Liberian and four Meskhetian Turk children. 
When Dingeman created the program she said she request­od the assistance of her fellow refugee services employee junior Hachael Stowe with the organization of activities for the immigrants' children. Dingeman and Stowe worked 
together to 

Bridging select Saint
"During the adult 
College with Mary's student 
Community workshops, myselfand volunteers to 
grant through several volunteers assist with the tlw join t sup­care of the
generally do various 
port of the children, and
activities with the
Center for according to Women s children. We have had Stowe they lnterCulturctl have been able
a era}~ day, a movie 
Leadnrship and to plan many
day in Vander Vennet 
the Office for activities. Civic and and a game day "During the S 11 e i a I adult work­
outside on Library
Hngagement. shops, myself
Green."
This grant and several funded the cre-volunteers gen­ation of the Rachael Stowe erally do vari-
Cultural and refugee services employee o us activities 
Community 
Orientation for 

Hefugnns program at Saint 
Mary's. 

Dingeman heads thn pro­
gram with assistance from 
~oeiology d1~partmnnt chair 
Susan Alnxandnr and Hnfugee 
and Immigration Services of 
South Bond. 

According to l>ingeman, the 
program was created follow­
ing a "participatory learning 
in action modnl," where adult 
immigrants participatn in a 
series of eight discussion 
workshops allowing them to 
"take an active role in their 
loarning." 

She said she fel'ls the work­
shops -whid1 cover topics ranging from thn laws and rights of the Unitnd Statns, nmployrnenl, grnen card forms, history and culture ­.hPltnr address tlw problems immigrants facP when first arriving in the U.S. than the thn~1~-hour oriPntation sossion provided by rPfugnn serviens. 
"IThe inunigrantsl arn 
tnarhing me just as much as 
I'm I.Parhing thnm," 
l>ingornan said. "I grow a lot 
morn from tlw intnraction in 
tho workshops during skits 
and otlu~r activities tlwn I do 
fmm driving thPIII to appoint­
nwnts or !wiping thnm at thn 
with the chil­

dren. We have had a craft day, a movie day in Vander Vennct and a game day outside on Library Green," she said. 
Stowe said that she was "very excited" to be involved with the program because it provides "refugees with a place to come together and discuss issues they arc facing" and gives "them an opportunity to reflect on American culture -both in contrast and similarity to their own -in order to become part of their new cul­ture in the United States." 
After Dingeman graduates this spring, Stowe will be tak­ing over as the driving force behind the program, which shn says she will only slightly chango if funding is approved again. 
"My goals for next year will dnvelop from feedback of the peopln currently in the pro­gram on what thny thought was ospneially good or dil'fi­eult," Stown said. "But the only considerabln chango I can imagine is making the program year-long instead of only a semnstnr." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO l @saintmarys.edu 

THE DEPARTMENT Of MATHEMATICS PROUDLY PRESENTS 
The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics 
to 
Senior Honors in Mathematics Major 
Eric Staron 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Vincent Lyzinski 
and 
Aumann Prize for First Year Honors Mathematics Students 
Andrew Manion 
and Haaser Scholarships to 
Adam Boocher, Vincent Lyzinski and Leslie Follmer 
and 
J & C Sophomore Award in Mathematics 
Julie Lederer 
and 
The Kolettis Award in Mathematics to 
Andrew Craker 
MEXICO 

Many migrants rush to border 
Anticipation of guest worker plan spurs major northern movement 
Associated Press 
NOGALES -At a shelter overflowing with migrants air­ing their blistered feet, Francisco Hamirez nursed mus­cles sore from trekking through the Arizona desert -a trip that failed when his wife did not have the strength to go on. 
He said the couple would rest for a few days, then try again, a plan echoed by dozens reclining on rickety bunk beds and car­pets tossed on the floor after risking violent bandits and the harsh desert in unsuccessful attempts to get into the United States. 
The shelter's manager, Francisco Loureiro, said he has not seen such a rush of migrants since 1986, when the United States allowed 2.6 mil­lion illegal residents to get American citizenship. 
This time, the draw is a bill before the U.S. Senate that could legalize some of the 11 million people now illegally in the United States while tighten­ing border security. Migrants are hurrying to cross over in time to qualify for a possible guest-worker program -and before the journey becomes even harder. 
"Every time there is talk in the north of legalizing migrants, people get their hopes up, but they don't realize how hard it will be to <Toss," Loureiro said. 
South-central Arizona is the busiest migrant-smuggling area, and detentions by the U.S. Border Patrol there are up more than 26 percent this fiscal year -105,803 since Oct. 1, compared with 78,024 for the same period a year ago. Along the entire border, arrests are up 9 percent. 
Maria Valencia, a spoklls­woman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection, said the rise in detentions did not necessarily mean more people were cross­ing. She attributed at lnast some of the additional detentions to an increase in the number of Border Patrol agents. 
"We've sent more technology and agents there. and I think that's had an impact," she said. 
But Loureiro, who has man­aged the shelter for 24 years, said the debate in the U.S. Congress has triggen~d a surge in migrants. In March, 2,000 migrants stayed at the shelter -500 more than last year. 
Many migrants said they were being encouraged to come now by relatives living in the United States. 
One of them is Hamirez, a 30­year-old who earnnd about $80 a week at a rebar factory in Mexico's central state of Michoacan. 
He spent an entire night walk­ing through the Arizona desert with his wife, Edith Mondragon, 
29. When her legs cramped, their guide abandoned them and the coupln turned them­selves in to U.S. authorities. They were deported. 
But they said they would try again when they regained their strnnhrth. 
"We want to try our luck up there," Mondragon said. "Wn can't go baek to Michoacan because there is no future there." 
Hamirez said the draw was not only the prospect of work in Minnesota, where two of his brothers milk cows on a ranch. He was also excited about the idim he might be able to do it legally. 
"My brothers said there is plenty of work thero, and that it looks like they will start giving [workl.permits," he said. 
Many of the migranL<> also arn bning driven by a desirn to get into the United States before the likelihood that lawmakers fur­ther fortify the border. 
Sinen the United Statos tight­ened security at the main cross­ing points in Texas and California in the 1990s, hun­dreds of thousands of migrants have turned to the hard-to­patrol, mesquite-covered Arizona desert, risking rape, robbery and murder at the hands of gangs and now facing armed U.S. civilian groups. 

Thursday, April 13, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Analysts gather at vvar sytnposiUlll 
Gathering evaluates average American's level of interest in Iraq war 
Associated Press 

CARLISLE, Pa. -What are the implications if a nation goes to war and its people barely pay attention? 
Roughly 150 military leaders, policy analysts and academics gathered at the Army War College on Wednesday to address that question, with the 
U.S. beginning its fourth year of a cont1ict that has killed more than 2,300 American troops. 
A main concern, analysts say, is that Americans may lose patience with the fight against terror­
ism in Iraq and else­the situation
'The notion that 
where, and ultimately in Iraq -less
somehow a nation is 
decide that the fight than the 47 is costing too much in only at war if percent that money and lives. everyone is growing closely fol­
Despite the two lowed the 
a victory garden is
fronts in Iraq and mining disas­
silly.,,
Afghanistan, ter in West President Bush has Virginia. And not asked for person­far more peo­
James Carafano
al sacrifices on the ple were
author
scale of those made closely follow­in World War 11. "Winning the Long War" ing news 
when Americans bought war bonds and rationed sugar and other goods. 
Also, because the U.S. has an all-volunteer military, fewer peo­ple have a personal connection to a service member than was the case, for example, during the Vietnam War. when many sol­diers were drafted. 
"It's extremely important then to ensure that the population itself both recognizes the neces­sity of the action, but is also will­ing to accept and bear some of the burden," said Army Lt. Col. Nathan Freier. director of national security affairs at the college's Strategic Studies 
''A HAPPILY 




ADDICTIVE COMEDY.'' 
GENE SHALIT, ATODAY 
"Easily the BEST AND WICKEDEST COMEDY of the new year." 
PETER TRAVERS, 'Re}JingStone. 
"A marvel of perfect casting, "The best American crisp dialogue and comedy since BITING WIT••• 
'The 40-year-old
the first truly 
Virgin."'
MUST-SEE, 
MICHAEL PHILLIPS, 

laugh-out-loud <fhirll!lO [ribune comedy of the year." "TWO THUMBS 
CHRISlY LEMIRE, 
UP:"'
.ApAssociated Press 
Ebert@RoeiiEH' 


THANK YOU 
FOR SMOKING 
Based on the best-selling novel IRI~ UIIIAI
® ··=·· ® www.foxsearchlight.com -~...~eo!\;-=~~ 
NOW PLAYING AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU 
CHECK LOCAl liSTINGS fOR THEATRES AND SHOWTIMES 
Institute. 
Opposition to the war in Iraq has been more subdued than it was during the Vietnam War. Attendance at demonstrations last month marking the third year anniversary of the Iraq war was far short of the millions who protested the 2003 invasion and the first anniversary in 2004. 
The public's interest in Iraq has dipped since the 2003 inva­sion, when close to six in 10 were closely following news about the war. Polling early this year found 40 percent paying very close attention to 
about high 

gas prices in October and November of last year, according to the Pew Research Center. 
Bush has said a future U.S. president and a future Iraqi gov­ernment will decide when all troops leave Iraq -indication that the fight could last years longer. 
Just 35 percent of the public approves of the way Bush has handled the war -his lowest approval rating on that issue in AP-Ipsos polling. 
Army Col. Pete Mansoor, who commanded troops in Iraq, said it is difficult for the administra­tion to call for deep sacrifices. 
"Before you ask for shared sacrifice, there has to be consen­sus of shared goals and objec­tives, and if you look at any opinion poll, the nation is deeply divided over what the war on terror means, and how to prose­cute," Mansoor said. 
James Carafano, a research fellow at the conservative Heritage Foundation think tank, said he believes Americans have sacrificed by sending troops to war and paying taxes. The amount of resources devoted to the fight should be in proportion to what is needed, Carafano said. 
"The notion that somehow a nation is only at war if everyone is growing a victory garden is silly," said Carafano, co-author of t~~ book "Winning the Long War. 
. In a long war such as the cur­rent effort against terrorism, Carafano said, "you are as con­cerned about maintaining the productive capacity of the state as you are about getting the ter­rorists, defeating the enemy. That means you have to give equal weight to ens;uring the state is healthy and competitive over the long term." 
Paul Severance, a retired Army officer who was in the Pentagon when it was struck on Sept. 11, 2001, by a plane hijacked by terrorists, said it worries him that he does not see as many American flags flying today as after the attacks. 
"A nation just can't wage a war independent of what the people are willing to sacrifice," said Severance, who now teach­es at the National Defense University. "In the longer term, I'm just worried we're going to get complacent." 
Bausch & Lotnb: Eye infections a tnystery 
Company scrambles to reassure investors 
Associated Press 
ROCHESTER, N.Y. Bausch & Lomb Inc. scram­bled to reassure investors Wednesday as federal health officials try to unravel the mystery of whether its newest contact lens solution is to blame for a flurry of potentially severe eye 
infections. "We haven •t begun to $3.42, or 7 
The source of percent, to
estimate the ripple 
an apparent close at spike in effect that all this $45.61 on Fusarium ker­negative publicity Wednesday atitis infections on the New
will have on other
linked to the York Stock 
ReNu with ReNu products or Exchange. MoistureLoc other geographical "We haven't 
contact-lens begun to esti­
markets.··
solution mate the rip­remains ple effect that unknown, and Ron Zarrella all this nega­
it could be chief executive tive publicity 
weeks before 
an explanation 
is found, its 
chief executive, Ron Zarrella, 
said Wednesday. 
The eye-care products 
maker halted U.S. shipments 
of the cleaning solution 
M~mday while the Centers for 
Disease Control and 
Prevention investigates 109 
reports of infection in 
patients in 17 states dating 
to June 2005. The company 
had already cut off ship­
ments from its Greenville, 
S.C., plant to the Far East in 
February after dozens of 
reported infections surfaced 
in Singapore, Hong Kong and 
Malaysia. 
Company and government 
scientists have looked at 
more than 100 possible fac­
tors, from chemical ingredi­
ents, batch tanks and pro­
duction lines to packaging 
and shipping procedures, 
and "through all of that 
analysis, we haven't found a 
correlation with anything," 
Zarrella told analysts during 
a conference call. 
"There's been theories all 
the way from, 'Has the 
tsunami ... hurricanes and 
the effect of environmental 
factors created mold levels 
that are unprecedented?"' 
Zarrella said. "Hight now, 
we're trying to deal with the 
close-in factors of ensuring 
we don't have a formula 
problem or a contamination 
problem in our manufactur­
ing facilities. And nothing 
indicates that we do." 
Fusarium is commonly 
found in plant material and soil in tropical and subtropi­cal regions. Without eye­drop treatment, which can last two to three months, the infection can scar the cornea and blind its victims. Symptoms can include blurry vision, pain or redness, excessive discharge and increased sensitivity to light. · Federal health officials have made no direct link between HeNu and the infec­tions. But a high incidence of the affected people had used the cleanser, which contains new-generation moisturizing and conditioning agents. ·Bausch & Lomb began selling the brand in late 2004 and generated $45 million in U.S. sales last year -a small portion of its more than $2 
billion in annual revenues. 
The company, which also makes contact lenses, oph­thalmic drugs and vision-cor­rection surgical instruments, stopped short of recalling the solution but merchants led by Wal-Mart Stores Inc. began removing it from store shelves Tuesday, analys'ts lowered their ratings and the stock took a tumble. 
After plunging 14.6 percent to a 2 1/2-year low Tuesday, 
the shares fell 
another 
will have on 
other ReNu 

products or other geographical markets" such as China and Europe, where no such eye infections have been reported, Zarrella said. 
The company will mount a vigorous brand-building campaign to try to stem the impact, he said, but the reverberations were already widening. Walgreen Co., the nation's biggest drugstore chain by revenues, took the extra step of removing all ReNu brand products and Moody's Investor Service moved toward a possible rat­ing downgrade. 
Bausch & Lomb has also been grappling with account­ing troubles at its Brazilian and South Korean sub­sidiaries in recent months, and Zarrella said the compa­ny was unlikely.to meet an April 30 deadline to file its annual report for 2005. 
Soon after stopping ship­ments of ReNu in Singapore and Hong Kong in February, Bausch & Lomb said it began contacting corneal-treatment centers and eye-care profes­sional groups in the United States to be on the lookout for a rise in Fusarium infec­tions and re-emphasize sani­tary lens-care habits among patients. 
In some cases where oph­thalmologists tested lenses, lens cases and the ReNu cleanser, "the solutions remain sterile and the lenses and the lens cases are con­taminated with Fusarium," Zarrella said. 
The St. Louis-based American Optometric Association alerted its 30,000 members to "the importance of reinforcing good wear and lens-care practices among their patients," said Angela Panzarella, Bausch & Lomb's corporate vice president for vision care. 
"You try to build in some margin of safety so the prod­uct will continue to perform even with some extreme use," she said. "But funda­mentally any product will fail if some reasonable care is not taken -if, for !'Xample, the patient doesn't change the lens-care product and the lens case over time." 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 13, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Politicians also deserve blame 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

TI1e Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refiiSe advertisements ba.~ed on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the rnajoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Ao;.~istant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must includt· contan inf(,rmation. 
Qtmtions regarding Observer policies should be dirmed to F.ditor in ChiefMilu Gi/!oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l hr { lh~rvcr (USPS ')IJY 1·4fl0(1) i~ puhli.,hed Mund.1y thruu~h Fnd.ty cx~..ept ~lurini!> I'X.IIIl .uul \OI.lllliuu pcrmd~ A ,uh..rcpuuu Ill ncc Ol".crvcr ~~ ,J 1(If) filr 11/IC ;JL:adcmtt 
you: $~'\ lur unt> \t'IIIC:\tt:r. 
Th~· nh""rvrr U1 publi,hnl ;~t: I'OS'I'MAS'I'l-'.R tll4 .l!outh !Jinw~; 11.•11 ~cud ;uldrC!II ~·orrct:tiot"L' tt•: Nuttc D;tmc, IN 46~%-077'J ·ntr{ll'li!Crvn l'rriudi~:.~lt"'''iltt;c: p.ud 111 Ntl(rc llamr 1~0. ISur 77'1 .u.tl .uliliuunJI m~illllK utTin.>:t 024 Snmh I lining H.1ll 
Nnur [).:une, IN 46S56-0n9 

nlf Oh)~fVC'( i~ J ll)(tllbtr \If th( As.,..u,~tcd rres~. All reproduction riglm .lf( 
r~crvc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey Jon Piarulli Ken Fowler Marcella Berrios Tim Dougherty Viewpoint Greg Arbogast Alyssa Scene Brauweiler Liz Byrum GraJlhics Jnfl' Albert 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~Submit aLetter "It is error alone which needs the support ofgovernment. Truth can stand by itself" 
i to tbe Editor at Thomas Jefferson founding father 
·www.ndsmcobserver.com 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Pau Ia Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert GriHln 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan Puo·m EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WED ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alt·jandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(571£) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6:) 1-5323 obsncws.1 @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-530:3 viewpoinr.1@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
ScENE DesK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
"Thls country has lost control of its bor­ders." Three years after President Reagan said that, a 1986 amnesty covered 2.7 mil­lion "illcgals" amid promises of border control. Two deeades later, "illegals" have quadrupled to 11 or 12 million. Let's look at this issue in light of Catholic teaching. 
The "original gift of the earth to the whole of mankind" entails a "universal destination of goods" which applies to the earth itself-Catechism, No. 2403. This gives rise to the right of a person, in the words of Pope John XXIII, "to enter a country in which he hopes to ... provide more fittingly f(w himsell' and his dependents." That right is not absolute. "[P[rosperous nations are obliged, to the extent they are able, to welcome the for­eigner." For the "eommon good," they may condition "the right to immigrate." And "immigrant<> are obliged to respect with gratitude the ... heritage of the country that receives them, to obey il<> laws and to assist in carrying eivic burdens." -Catechism, No. 2241. We can note here three points: 
1. 
The United Statp,s has a right and a duty to mgain control ofil<> borders, north and south, so that persons can enter only with permission: "Illegal immigration," said Pope John Paul II, "should be prevent­ed [and it is] essential to combat ... crimi­nal aetivities whlch exploit illegal immi­grant<>." 

2. 
"Governments," said John Paul II, have a duty "to regulate the migratory flows with full respect for the dignity of the 



Charles E. Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
persons and ... families ... mindful of the requirements of the host societies." Once the borders are secured, reasonable erite­ria must be set for future admissions. That involves debatable issues, including doubt­fully enforeeable "guest worker" proposals to admit immigrants for a limited pPriod. Nor is there any obligation to admit politi­eal agitators with no credible prospect of supporting themselves. In any event, as John Paul II said in "Ecclesia in America" in 1999, "the Church in America must [defend] against any unjust restriction the natural right of ... persons to move freely within their own nation and from one nation to another." 
3. What about the "illegals" now in this country? Whenever you see a problem that cries out for a government solution, look for the government program that caused the problem. For two decades and more, presidents, senators and representatives of both parties have abdicated their duty to control the borders. Enforcement person­nel are too few to protect the borders and to detect illegals within the states. When they arc detected, too often nothing hap­pens. Some members of Congress have pressumd ollicials to overlook violations by influential constituents who employ ille­gals. 
In tort law, if you knowingly allow per­sons to use your land, you may conler a license, or even an invitation, on them, especially if you dismantle the fence that formerly prevented their entry and if you stand by and watch them enter. 

The politicians' refusal to enf()rce the border is, at least in major part, for the benefit of employers who want cheap labor and who support the politicians who enable them to get it. This is the flip side of outsourcing jobs to foreign countries. You can't readily oul<>ource an onion field, a construction or restaurant job or poultry processing. Non-enlim~ement of the border brings the cheap labor to the employers, with the medical and other needs of those "illegals" possibly shifted to the taxpayers. This is "neoliberalism" which, as John Paul II described it, "considers prolit and the law of the market as il<> only parameters, to the detriment of the dignity of and respect due to individuals and peoples." 
The politicians' refusal to enlbrce the borders has impliedly invited not only hon­est aliens seeking better pay but also crimi­nals, security risks and committed terror­ists. Such persons, on detection, should be deported if not imprisoned. But otherwise law-abiding "illegals," who were impliedly invited by our own ollicials' dereliction of duty. should be allowed to remain as long as they otherwise obey the laws. They should have a chance for pnrmanent resi­dence and citimnship, but only at the end of the line after those who eame here legal­ly. As the Catholic Bishops urge, immediaW family members. im~luding at least parenl'i, spouses and minor ehildrnn, should bn allowed to join them. 
Popular wrath. on talk shows and clse­whnrn, should be dirnetnd, not at those otherwise law-abiding "invitees" but at the politicians who subordinate thn common good to their own bnnnlit and to the bot­tom-line intnmsl'i ol'inllunntial cmploynrs. The politicians and those they serve arn the real "illcgals." 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. !lis column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 13, 2006 . page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Of Condi and cartoons 

All right, Saint Mary's women, listen up. 
Some of us are angry about the Jockular cartoon. Some of us are upset. Some of us are frustrated. I'm sure that some of us think it was amus­ing, although I've yet to hear from any­one claiming that particular emotion. 
After I read the cartoon, I was in the "upset" category, not so much over being called a "parasite" as over the knowledge that the authors of Jockular were going to get exactly what they wanted -that is to say, a colossal uproar. 
The purpose of the cartoon was to make us look ridiculous. What Jockular does is not original-the authors of tabloids do it all the time when they make up far-fetched stories about people who are currently in the media spotlight. A story about alien abductions is automatically more eye­catching when it's someone of impor­tance -say, Condoleezza Rice -being abducted. 
As a result of the great things our women are doing, Saint Mary's is in the spotlight. Now, while I won't digni­fy the authors of Jockular with any emotions so complex as jealousy or bit­
What's in a joke? 
terness. I do acknowledge that some Notre Dame students might feel that way. Jockular got wind of this senti­ment, mixed a faulty understanding of actual parasitic behavior with some bona-fide sophomore doltishness, and voila-The April 6 strip was born. I say, good for them. Adolescent male stupidity was something I had hoped to avoid in college; that's actually one reason I chose to matriculate to Saint Mary's (which I did, by the way, with­out any knowledge of our big rooms). 
Rice does not react to anything writ­ten about her in the tabloids because she knows it's not true. More impor­tantly, she knows that tabloid readers do not expect it to be true because, well, they're the tabloids. As with any victims of obviously untrue press, it's time for Saint Mary's women to recog­nize that the best way to retain our dignity might be to let some of it go. In the end, we'll find we have more than enough left over. 
Kimberly Burkart freshman Saint Mary's College April12 

In an April 12 Viewpoint letter, the Saint Mary's Board of Governance defines a joke as "something that is funny and makes others laugh" and then goes on to implicitly character­ize the infamous Jockular "parasite" joke as an unfunny lie. But there is never an explanation of what does, in fact, make a joke funny and laughable. In my experience, a rea­sonably popular description of a successfully funny joke is one that employs a small percentage of truth and a large percentage of exaggera­tion. 
Conveniently, this idea applies to the two comic strips also published on April 12. Jockular suggests that Count Chocula Cereal "may cause heated affirmative action debate" and CroissantWorld says that class registration will be replaced by a "punch the monkey" system. I do not consult the comics as a source of daily news and, therefore, do not believe that people are actually choosing classes by whacking mon­keys or getting into arguments about the color of their cereal, just as I do not believe that Saint Mary's students are parasites. 
I do, however, recognize that our class registration system is flawed and our campus has a tendency to erupt into debate over almost any issue, and that is why the jokes are funny. The point then is that from my Notre Dame student perspective there is a small amount of truth behind the exaggeration of the par­asite joke. 
People have recently defended the relationship between the schools as being characterized by equal oppor­tunities, but in some cases that does 
not ring true. In my experience, there is no opportunity at Saint Mary's equivalent to attending a Notre Dame football game or a nationally-televised Big East basket­ball game. The fact that those opportunities are available to Saint Mary's students is not a problem unless it infringes upon the ability of Notre Dame students to take advan­tage of the same opportunities, as was the case in years past when Saint Mary's received an allotment of basketball season tickets despite the fact that there were not enough to meet the demand of Notre Dame students. 
While it may not be an issue of critical importance it is, nonethe­less, one reason why students at Notre Dame feel that the relation­ship with Saint Mary's is slightly unequal. The affiliation between the two schools is not parasitic and it is, in many ways, mutually beneficial, but it is not completely equal either. That observation is not an attack on the character of Saint Mary's, it is simply the truth about the nature of our connection. But for some rea­son, no one wants to say it in a rea­sonable manner. I can understand why the parasite joke might not make a Saint Mary's student laugh, but if you cannot acknowledge the comical exaggeration of most jokes then you are not very likely to ever appreciate or laugh at one, because spreading "false statements as hilarity" is what comedy is all about. 
Jonathan Umpleby sentor off-campus April 12 


Belles lighten up 
Every day I get The Observer and flip to Viewpoint to see what debate is raging. The past few days, after reading the responses to the Jockular comic, I can only say that Jockular has been taken far too seriously. As many comics today, Erik Powers and Alec White are satirists, so obviously they use Jockular to poke fun at everyday events. 
We've all seen The Simpsons, Family Guy or South Park. During every episode, they target a different aspect of daily life to laugh at, sometimes even things dear to us. But do we take offense? No. Those of us who can recognize and appreciate satire just laugh and turn up the volume. That's exactly what I'm calling all Belles to do: laugh and turn up the volume. Don't take it personally that Saint Mary's is this week's target of satire, because that's all it is-a little sarcastic fun. 
In no way do I feel that I am betraying my fellow Belles through this opinion. I love Saint Mary's; hence the reason I am here and not at Notre Dame. I am proud of this school and the women in it. But I feel that we should not take things so much to heart. Ethel Barrymore said, "You grow up the day you have your first real laugh at your­self." So lower your shields, put down your weapons, pick up today's Jockular-and have a good laugh. 
Maggie Yancy Andrea Beres freshmen Saint Mary's College April12 

U-WIRE 


Immigration serves as a diversionary issue 
Immigration in the news. Oh, help, evolu­tion, the two-party system and immigra­tion. Surely somewhere there are radishes engaged in something of more intelligence. 
If perception serves, immigration is not an issue of importance, at least no more than it Jonas Hogg was a year ago, five 
Kansas State 

years ago or 10 years 
University 

ago. It seems, then, that 
Kansas State 

immigration has 
Collegian

become an issue because the politicians wanted one, and the cable networks obliged. 
We are apparently to believe that immi­gration is a problem, although we are not told whose problem it may be. 
Having spent much time in New Mexico it does not seem that New Mexicans view immigration as an ill. Spanish is spoken widely, which I am told should be offensive (although Spanish-speakers do not seem to mind that I speak English). There are the standard problems of poverty and violence that one would expect to fmd in Maine, Alaska or Saskatchewan. 
The idea that immigration is a burden is new to them. Congress, though, has obvi­ously given it thought. 
The U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill in December that would define "illegal aliens" as felons and mandate the construc­tion of a 700-mile fence along the Mexican border to deter immigration. Have these oafs any grasp of reality at all? 
Perhaps it should be guarded by uni­corns, or maybe talking cabbages. Fantasy land solutions should not be half­assed, after all. 
The Senate "guest-worker" program seems logical, with the caveat that bureau­cracy will not solve problems bureaucracy creates. 
No one, though, has ventured a guess as to why this has become such a burning issue. In recent news, the Iraq war sours, the economy declines, corruption runs like water through our nation's capital, our president approaches censure -yet none of this receives the flash and dalliance of immigration. At last estimate, immigration to America has not been a fresh story since, 
say, 1492. But now that it is laid before us, what do we make of immigration? 
The standard arguments follow: national security, territorial sovereignty, economic burdens, unfair competition. 
National security and territorial sover­eignty may be viable issues, though I have not yet heard of Mexican terrorists, and many immigrants are politically and social­ly active both here and in their native coun­try. 
Economic burdens are often cited, yet numbers to substantiate the claim are lack­ing. Migrant workers spend money, create capital, open businesses, work and gener­ate tax revenues. This is burdensome? 
Unfair competition, or "they're here to take our jobs," is a loud claim. Have you any acquaintances who have lost jobs to migrant workers? Do you know anyone who knows of someone who has? 
A recent Associated Press story spoke of workers who traverse the swamps of south Florida, in summer, looking for saw palmet­to. The workers were Honduran, Mexican, Panamanian -no Americans of any sort were to be found. 
If migrant workers are willing to perform difficult labor for lower wages, it seems the free market is acting as it should. Nothing prevents our native-born poor from seeking employment in the same manner except reliance upon the welfare state. Perhaps the slothful simply resent the industrious. As far as the intelligent can tell, the immi­gration debate is diversionary. Real prob­lems exist and worsen every day. Immigration is not one of them but is a con­venient scapegoat and allows Congress to avoid action on matter of substance. 
The unwashed clamor over imaginary problems, and snarling patriots woof at the border while the nation sinks into decay. 
This column originally appeared in the Aprilll edition ofthe Kansas State Collegian, the daily publication at Kansas State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
-------~---~ 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 13, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

'Me and My Gang' consistent pop-country 
By LIZ BYRUM 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Just hearing the title of their latest CD dues country listeners in to the fact that the men of Hascal Flatts don't take them­selves too seriously. "Me and My Gang" is the pop-eountry band's first studio release since 2004's "Feels Like Today." The album is made up of much of the sanw melodic harmonics that have defirwd the group sinee its inecption, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. 
Thriving in a musical genrn that exists in a constant tango between real country and pop pleasantrins. Has1:al Flatts has continually succeeded in creating entnr­tailling pop-heavy music disguised as country that is okay for adults to enjoy. In fact, the only real evidence of legitimate c:ountry that ean bP found on this album is the song "Backwards," whieh takes lis­teners through a fast-paced twangy les­son of "what you get when you play a country song backwards." 
Hascal Flatts first formed when second cousins Jay DeMarcus and Gary Levox enlisted Joe Don Rooney to join them as a substitute guitarist during a gig at Nashville's Printer's Alley. They gained immediate success with the release of their first self-titled CD and its first single, "Prayin' for Daylight." The harmonies that make Hascal Platts stand out have paid off. Since the release of its first album, the group has won the Country Music Association's (CMA) Horizon Award in 2002, as well as the CMA's Vocal Group of the Year Award for three eonsecutive years (2003 through 2005). 
The first track on this fourth studio release, titled "Stand," is an inspirational, somewhat corny piece about picking up the pieces and putting them back in place. Although it may not be the most powerful song on the album, its strong chorus, which includes the lyrics "Cause when push comes to shove I You taste what you're made of I You get mad you get strong I Wipe your hand shake it ofr I Then you stand," leaves an agreeable feeling in its wake. 
"What Hurts the Most," the first single 
released from 
Me and My Gang 
Rascal F1atts 
Lyric Street 


Recommended tracks: 'Stand,"What Hurts the Most,"Me and My Gang,"My Wish' and 'Yes I Do' 

"Me and My Gang" stands out with its beautiful instrumentation. It is once again a prime example of the harmonic bal­lads which have made Hascal Flatts famous. Enhanced special features on the CD also take lis­teners to the group's website, where they can view the making of the song's music video. This is their first long-form music video, produced by Shaun Silva, and fea­tures a plot line centered on a teenage girl's struggle with the loss of important male figures in her life. 


Rascal Flatts makes a departure from its well-known sound on two tracks on the album. In the title track, "Me and my Gang," the band channels Big and Rich as they sing "With me and my gang I We live to ride, we ride to live I Me and my gang I Jump on that train I Grab hold of them reins." The song also steals a talk box guitar sound that was made famous on the well-known Bon Jovi hit, "Livin' on a Prayer." 
The second song that could make lis­teners stop and question if they are really listening to a Rascal Flatts CD is "Yes I Do." This song, with a simple "yes, I miss you" theme, begins with a swaggering reggae beat that seems more like some­thing on a Kenny Chesney album. However, as soon as the recognizable voice of lead singer Levox chimes in, it once again becomes clear which country erooners are creating the simplistic, reli­able sound. 
Rascal Flatts goes one step further on "Me and My Gang" to please its adoring fans. There are not only 1:{ new tracks included on the dise, but additional new live versions of three past hits, "Love You Out Loud," "Mayberry" and one of their most popular hits, "These Days." 
Although they don't introduce any ground breaking new sounds on "Me and My Gang," Raseal Flatts continues to suc­ceed at giving their fans exactly what they want -fun, consistent sounds that are pleasing to the ear. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 

'Sing-A-Longs' a curious cross of feel-good nostalgia 
By CHRIS McGRADY 
Assistanr Scene Editor 
Past sunny days, best friends and fun times -some memories never get old. Jack .Johnson's latnst efl'ort "Sing-A-Longs and Lullabies !'or th1~ film Curious George" is a lwl'ty dose of nostalgia, and in this case. is just what the doetor ordered. 
While reminiscent of' much of' his prnvi­ous work. Johnson's sound on this album never fades or bneonws tirnd. While some artisL-; are criticized for their lack of vari­ety and growth, here it works for Johnson. I lis feel-good, "warm day on the beaeh" sound is the type of auditory eandy that has the ability to bring the listener back to his youth. This CD in particular is geared toward a younger audience, hiding moral and lifi~ lnssons in the music. 
This efl'ort featurns Johnson paired up with other popular artists, including up­and-!:ornnrs Ben llarper and Matt Costa, as wnll as tried and true favorite G. Love. Thn best songs on the CD are the ones that feature the accompaniment of these prominent musicians, including the songs "Jungle Gym" (featuring G. Love), "Lullaby" (featuring Matt Costa) and "With My Own Two Hands" (featuring Ben llarper). 



Johnson, famous for his melodic strum­ming and lackadaisieal sound. originally struck gold as a direet result of his pro­fessional surfing eareer. After studying tilm at the University of California-Santa Barbara, Johnson helped produce a surf­ing documentary aptly named "Thicker Than Water." Johnson provided the music for the film, which received high praise for both its cinematography and -more importantly -its accompanying soundtrack. Johnson chose to follow a career as a musician, and scrapped his surfboard for a guitar. The direct result of this decision was a beachcomber's dream. Johnson's "no shoes, no shirt, no prob­lem" style has made his sound the theme music for a whole sub-eulture of living. 
"Sing-A-Longs and Lullabies" opens 
with the song "Upside Down," an upbeat tune with a Caribbean-vibe. This song is the prototype of one of Johnson's songs -lively and soft-spoken, but definitely not under-spoken. Furthermore is "People Watching," where the usual island­inspired guitar is mixed with some playful piano chords. The result is an entertaining mix. Next is the more subdued track "Wrong Turn," that seems to speak of a painful break-up. The song is also typical Johnson, featuring acoustic guitar picking and a soft style of singing that has come to be his signature sound. 


"Jungle Gym," featuring G. Love, is the type of sound that can't help but remind the listener of past times. The next song, "We're Going to Be Friends," is a remake of the version by White Stripes and is well done. This track may be recognized from the soundtrack of the popular movie "Napoleon Dynamite." 
"Lullaby," featuring Matt Costa, is one of the top two songs on the album. Costa and Johnson's voices compliment each other brilliantly, and the guitar work on the song is soulful and strong. 
The best song on the CD -"With My Own Two Hands" -features Ben Harper and is the type of song that the listener can hear over and over without it growing old. As the song crescendos, it becomes more enjoyable, and by the end of the track, the listener is only ready to hear more. Once again, Johnson's voiee meshes wonderfully with his aceompaniment, as Ben Harper's impressive -albeit unusual -voice strikes well with Johnson's restrained tone. 
"Sing-A-Longs and Lullabies" is a strong album, but not a great one. Despite Johnson's familiar sound and warm tone, the listener cannot help but notice that most of the songs are very similar. llowever, the fact that his albums can be quite homogenous and still maintain their musical attractiveness is a testament to the efl"ectiveness and talent that Johnson possesses. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Thursday, Aprill3, 2006 
page 13 
SCENE FEATURE 

Religious movies find niche in Easter season 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 

Scene Writer 
There was a time when movie pic­tures were considered the work of the devil-back in the 1920s. This associ­ation of religion and the cinema is as old as the medium itself, but there have been points in film history where reli­gion has become the focus of a film. People have their own opinions of how religion should be treated on film and these opinions range from the respect­ful. to the artistic, to the musical. A plethora of religious films are available this Easter season to anyone with $3 and a Blockbuster card. 
The Ten Commandments (1956) 
Directed by the prolific Cecil B. DeMille and starring Charlton Heston as Moses and Yul Brynner as the obsti­nate Rameses, this film brought the story of Exodus to the silver screen in epic proportions. This film clocks in at 3 hours and 40 minutes so this would be the ideal film for relaxing after that big Easter dinner. 
It is notable for the gargantuan cast used in the making of the film, which included 14.000 extras and 15,000 ani­mals. 
The special effects were also cutting­edge. To create the sandstorm in the film, DeMille used tied down airplanes from the Egyptian Air Force. The part­ing of the Red Sea, one of the most memorable scenes in the film, was an amazing accomplishment in 1956. 
Jesus Christ Superstar (1973) 
Based on the Andrew Lloyd Weber stage musical, this film is an amalgama­tion of the Gospels and hippies. With its rock music and Biblical message, it was hailed by some as a way to bring Jesus' word to the masses and criticized by oth­ers for associating Jesus with hippies. Judas is chased by tanks and the cast arrives at and leaves the set in a Volkswagen bus. 
This may not be for everyone, espe­cially those with a more traditional view of the Gospels. But if viewers are looking for a completely divergent take on the Gospel from the Passion plays performed at churches, this may be the one to cheek out. 
The Passion of the Christ (2004) 
Mel Gibson's controversial film about the last hours of Jesus was one of the most widely discussed films of 2004. Many Jewish groups condemned it for racism, alleging a questionable depiction of the Jews, while many Christian groups hailed it as an accurate representation of the Gospel account of the Passion. 
Whatever one may think, this is not a film for the faint of heart. The scourging at the pillar and the crucifixion are dis­played in full detail down to a close-up of a nail being driven though Jesus' hand. 
Jim Caviezel and Monica Bellucci put in excellent performances as Jesus and Mary Magdalene. Rosalinda Celentano also performs marvelously as Satan. This film is noted for its exclusive use of Aramaic and Latin for the script but is subtitled for the large percentage of the general populace who are not Biblical scholars. 

The Last Temptation of Christ (1988) 
On the opposite end of the spectrum from "The Passion of the Christ," Martin Scorsese's vision of the Christ parable focuses on the incarnate Jesus. Starring Willem Dafoe as Jesus and Harvey Keitel as Judas, the film explores the personal difficulties the historical Jesus would have encountered in his ministry. A Catholic himself, Scorsese encountered scathing remarks from many who claimed the film was heretical and the Catholic Church went so far as to place it on its banned list of films. This is a thought-provoking film that may offend many. But it provides an excellent com­parison to "The Passion of the Christ" ­both films provide two very different takes from two Catholic directors. 
All of the aforementioned films are an attempt to navigate the stories of the Bible through the eye of the cinema. They approach religion from different vantages but are all sincere in their own exploration of humanity's relationship with the divine. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
CD REVIEWS 
Powter's distinctive, melodic sound crosses Atlantic 
By LIZ BYRUM Assistant Scene Editor 

There's nothing like a song called "Bad Day" to put someone in a good mood. That's exactly what Daniel Powter's first single did throughout Europe in 2005. That mood has now spread to the United States with the release of Powter's self-titled debut April 18. 
Powter, born in British Columbia, Canada in 1971, began to hone his musical talents when he began playing the violin at age four. With the influ­ence of his pianist mother, his main instrument became the piano by the time he was a teenager. 
Powter eventually studied music at Grant McEwan College for two years before dropping out due to difficulties with dyslexia. 
Between his time in college and the release of his debut album, Powter moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, and became entangled in drug use. After almost a decade of cocaine abuse, 

communities of Africa. 
Powter's music is most definitely characterized as "pop," however he creates a unique sound that cannot be heard from other artists today. Piano melodies wind through
Recommended tracks: 'Bad Day/ 'Hollywood/ 

almost every song on the album, but
'Styrofoam,"Song 6' and 'Free Loop' 

each one remains Powter entered a rehabilitation center where he dealt with his addiction for almost two years. Although on the first listen the now-famous song "Bad Day" may seem like a carefree tune, it was partly written about those two horrible years Powter spent pulling his life back together. He considers it his way of helping prevent young people from making the same mistakes he did. 
Today, "Bad Day" has become a sen­sation on radio stations all over the world because of its smooth vocals and bouncing beat. The song has even gained commercial success as the theme song for a European Coca-Cola campaign, and as a heavily played song on the fifth season of American Idol. "Bad Day" currently holds the No. 1 position on Billboard's Hot 100 List, and has been present on the chart for the eight consecutive weeks since its debut. 
After recovering from his addiction, Powter took his act on the road in 2005, where he toured Europe and played in the Berlin Live 8 benefit con­cert, which raised awareness for the 
poverty stricken 

distinctive and recognizable. The slow­er songs on the album, including "Styrofoam" especially highlight Powter's vocal and piano playing skills. 
The faster paced songs take listeners on a trip to a '70s dance floor. One of the best includes "Hollywood," a scathing tune about the artificial world of stardom in the city. With lyrics that include, "You could be my star for weekends I Do you like your Hollywood?" it's easy to see how Powter feels about the subject. 
The only song on the album that appears questionable is "Jimmy Gets High." The song seems to be another reflection of Powter's time as a drug addict, with lyrics like "Jimmy you know I Everybody hates you when you're living off your rock 'n' roll I So you get high tonight." Although the song begins with a simple but effective sound, it takes a downward turn as Powter's voice continues to climb high­er and higher. 
As is evident in "Jimmy Gets High," the only thing that keeps this CD from getting a higher rating is the slight screech that echoes out of a few of Powter's songs. Like nails on a chalk­board, it's downright disturbing. 
With all of the pop music crowding radio stations all over the world, Powter is a refreshing move away from the norm. 
His form of pop gives new meaning to the word, and takes listeners back to another time. If nothing else, "Daniel Powter" will put a little bounce in your day. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, Aprill3, 2006 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles hope to stay lllentally sharp 
Five-day rest offers chance to work on game before taking on Tri-State 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 

After an eight-game run in which they swept defending MIAA champions Alma, split with Hockford and swept both Bethel and Calvin, Saint Mary's has five days off before taking on Tri-State Monday at St. Mary's Field at 3:30p.m. 
!lead 1~oach Erin Sullivan said the Belles' goal was to go .500 over the eight games, which were played over a four-day stretch. 
The tnarn exceeded her expectations, going 7-1 to extend its record to 21-7 overall and 7-1 in the MIAA, good onough for first place. 
Sullivan said the Belles will try to improve despite their place at the top of' the confer­ence standings. 
"If you obtain your goal, you make [your next goal) a little bit harder," Sullivan said. 
Freshman right-hander Kristin Amram has helped lead the Belles to the top. Arnram was named MIAA pitcher of the week last week for the second consecutive week. 
Amram earned three wins over the eight-game stretch, striking out 30 batters in 21 innings. She allowed two runs and walked only six . 
Tri-State is ranked fourth in the MIAA with a 3-1 record in league play and 15-13 over­all. 
The Thunder are led offen­sively by sophomore center fielder Karly Hooker. Hooker has batted .422 driving in three doubles and two triples. She has also scored eight runs, had seven HBis and live stolen bases. 

Hooker is also a defensive force for Tri-State, making only one error in 13 fielding chances this season. 
Saint Mary's hopes to be able to carry the momentum it has gained from the past eight games over to Monday's contest against Tri-State. 
"We are going to take what we have learned and tweak it to make ourselves better," Amram said. "We don't want to lose our momentum." 
Sullivan says her team is going to use the short break to work on the mental part of its game. She feels the Belles are already physically ready. 
"We are going to take this time to relax," Sullivan. "(We are going tol get mentally ready for Tri-State." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
SOCCER 



French soccer fans ridicule footballer 
Associated Press 

PARIS -Warming up on the sideline, a black player jogs toward fans at the Pare des Princes soccer stadium. As he gets closer, a barrage of monkey chants explodes -"OOOII! OOOH! OOOH!"-and racist insults fill the air. 
Such scenes are increasingly common at the home stadium of Paris Saint-Germain, or PSG, one of France's top soccer teams. 
And they stain elite soccer leagues elsewhere in Europe, raising fears a global sport that calls itself "the beautiful game" is getting uglier. 
Many of the fans yelling insults are members of white hooligan gangs that prowl the stadium grounds on game day, looking for a rumble with black and Arab members of a multiethnic rival gang. 
Interviews with gang members and repeated visits to PSG games found that racist hooligans oper­ate openly and with almost total impunity at the 43,000-seat sta­dium on the western outskirts of Paris. 
Soccer, with its many black stars, should be a showcase of multiracial harmony -especial­ly in France, whieh draws heavi­ly on talent from its former African colonies. 
Instead, brawling soccer fans have emerged as the extreme fringe of a deeply troubled France -one whose problems indude grappling with stifl'ening resistance to immigration. After the riots that engulfed immi­grant-dominated French suburbs last fall, beer-fueled racism in soccer has taken on an even more menacing tingo. 

MLB 
Maddux earns 320th win to vault Reds out of first place 
Griffey leaves game with injury; Pedro retires Guillen to end bases loaded jam, leads New York over Washington 
Associated Press Adam Dunn in the fourth. The old Sheffield in the DH spot and against the Tigers. a season-long warning to eut the 
Heds threatened in the sixth gave Bernie Williams his first "He looks very healthy and beanballs after the Nationals' 
CfiiCAGO -A classic perform­after two singles, but Maddux start in right field since Aug. 6, strong to me," Leyland said. Jose Guillen declared "enough is ance by Greg Maddux two days fanned Dunn and got 1992. "Not having to go out on defense enough" when Martinez hit him before his 40th birthday carried Encarnadon on a fly ball to end "It did help. I didn't have to will be a big help for him during twiee in the same game last the Chicago Cubs to a 4-1 victory the inning. Maddux finished with think about defense," Shef'lield the year." week, baseball theater at its best over the sloppy-fielding two walks and seven strikeouts. said. "I felt good today. I felt Contreras (1-0), who stretched was played out in the bottom of Cincinnati Hods. strong in my last at-bat." his winning streak to nine games the sixth. 
Working quickly and using an Yankees 12, Royals 5 Jason Giambi had a pair of RBI dating to last season, struck out Martinez (2-0) struek out Jose assortment of pitches and One day as the designated hit­doubles, Derek Jeter scored two and allowed six hits and one Vidro for the first out to bring up speeds, Maddux (2-0) allowed ter did wonders for Gary three times and Sheffield fin­walk. Guillen with the bases loaded in three hits and a run in six Sheffield. ished with three hits as New "Today, I was ready from the a one-run game. After innings Wednesday to get his The Yankees' slugger broke York tagged Royals starter get go," Contreras said through Martinez's first pitch was a ball, 320th career win. out of an early slump with a Jeremy Affeldt (0-1). an interpreter. "I was ready catcher Paul Lo Duca called 
One day after hitting six homer and four RB!s, and from the start today. I wasn't time, went to the mound and homers, the Heds had live errors Shawn Chacon overcame a White Sox 4, Tigers 3 ready from the first inning gave Martinez a hard "Let's go" -throe by third baseman shaky start to earn his first win Jim Thome looks like he's against Cleveland." pat on the behind as they parted. Edwin Encarnacion -to help of' the season in New York's vic­headed for a big season -just He gave up two runs to the Three pitches later, Guillen hit Chieago build a 3-0 lead. tory over the Kansas City Hoyals ask Detroit manager Jim Indians in the first inning of his a 91-mile-per-hour piteh to the 
Cincinnati has another con­on Wednesday. Leyland. first start this season and has shortstop on one hop, and cern. Center fielder Ken Grill'ey While many of his teammates Thome homered for the sec­only given up one since. Martinez got out of the inning .Jr. left the ganu~ in the fourth started strong, Sheffield entered ond straight game and Jose with a routine double play to inning with still'ness in the back hitting only .207 with one homer Contreras tossed eight strong Mets 3, Nationals 1 end the Nationals' last real of his right knee. lie walked in and four HBls. innings to lift the Chicago White Pedro Martinez escaped a threat. the first and struck out in the top lie got some encouraging Sox over the Tigers Wednesday. bases-loaded, no-out jam and Except for that one inning, of the fourth before Hyan Freel advice before the game from Thome has live homers after finished with seven strong Martinez was impeccable. No replaced him in center in the batting coach Don Mattingly and getting just seven in an injury­innings in New York's victory one eould accuse him of throw­bottom of the inning. Yankees special adviser Heggie shortened final season in over the Washington Nationals ing at anybody because he bare­
Maddux didn't surrender a hit Jackson, plus a bit of a break Philadelphia, which traded him on Wednesday night for the ly strayed from the strike zone, until Encarnacion hit an HBI from Joe Torre. to Chicago in November. He Mets' fifth straight win. allowing only three hits and double after a two-out walk to The manager put the 37-year-added a double and scored twice With both teams playing under walking one. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Highly motivated, ethical/socially 1113 N. Twyckenham. Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 TC is an udderly amazing human--­responsible. entrepreneurial. go-Remodeled ranch, all new interior. SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east err bovine being. LOST & FOUND getters with desires to make a 3bdrm,2ba w/basement. Walk to of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact TICKETS meaningful impact on transforming ND. Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, MOOOve the ball around FOUND: Rosary with blue beads on the international business world Call 574-850-6773. Noah Davey 574-271-4060 O.A.R. tix first 3 rows. Call272­
Saturday, 4/8. between library and Stepan Chemistry. Call 1-5608 lv. message. 
WANTED 
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full time weekdays during summer. Part time or full time in the fall. Previous experience required. Fax resume or letter to 574-251-1898. 
Need extra $$$? I need person(s) to sell Rockne commemorative 75th anniversary bookmarks. Call 272-9289 for more info. or visit www.rocknebookmark.com 
while making a large amount of $$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students for part time, full time, or summer employment to work for commis­sion. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m 
FoR SALE 
Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND Campus! Make your dream of homeowner­ship a reality. 1232 sq It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @ 993-5060. 


FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMM­
RENTALS.COM 532-1408 
4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269-663-2299 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 slf+base,LR w/fp,4 bdrms,study +finished 3rd fl. Full appliances + WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey 574-271-4060. 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web Site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot. net 
Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms 
1.5 baths. C/A & WID. Gas stove, oven, microwave & refrigerator. Hardwood floors in bdrms & tile in bathrooms. Big driveway & 2-car garage. Close to ND-1023 Talbot off of South Bend Ave. $1,400/mo. Utilities not included. Need security deposit. Call277-1875 Cosimo. 
7233. 

TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
TOP$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. 574-232-0964. 


PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
MILK the clock Run the udder play Ogden Nash would be proud: 
The cow is of the bovine ilk; One end is moo, the other, milk. Lauren Lake is one angry woman Bill Cosby is one funny man 
Jello pudding In related news, I'm gonna vote for the Gov. of Delaware in 2008 
If a train wreck could hit 538 homers, his name would be Ken Griffey Jr. 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 13, 2006 COMPilED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. en 
New Jersey 47·31 .603 Philadelphia 37·41 .474 10 Boston 32·46 .410 15 Toronto 26·53 .329 21 ;5 New York 22·55 .286 2U 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 

team record pet. GB 
Detroit 63·15 .808 Cleveland 47·31 .603 16 Indiana 38·40 .487 2S Milwaukee 38·40 .487 25 Chicago 37-41 .474 26 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 51-27 .654 Washington 39-39 .500 12 Orlando 34-44 .436 17 Atlanta 24-54 .308 Z7 Charlolle 2Z-56 .Z82 Z9 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB Denver 44·34 .564 Utah 38·39 .494 5.5 Seattle 33-45 .423 11 Minnesota 32-46 .410 12 Portland 21·56 .273 22.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

team record pet. Gil Phoenix 51-26 .662 LA Clippers 44-33 .571 LA Lakers 42•37 .532 Sacramento 41-38 .519 Golden State 30-47. .390 
team 
San Antonio Dallas Memphis New Orleans Houston 
NCAA women~ss Top 25i 
I><lints·· ,,,,..
No. team record 
1 Arizona 29·3 49$ 2 Texas 35·3 470 3 UCLA 28·2 447 4 Alabama 29-4 
. 42'7 5 Stanford 26·4 418 6 Tennessee 27-4 399 7 Oregon State 25·2 385 8 Cal 
29~3 .374 9 Arizona State 34·3 356 10 Georgia 28-8 299 11 La-Lafayette 23-6 288 12 LSU 31·5 267 13 Michigan 11*9 266 14 Washington 25•8 262 15 Northwestern 1H 212 16 Texas A&M 23·9 210 17 Auburn 22·8 172 18 Oklahoma 23·10·1 156 
19 Nebraska 20-6 144 20 Baylor 19-13 123 21 Louisville 19·4 82 22 Mississippi State 27-8 64 23 DePaul 11-7 49 24 Fresno Slate 20·13 43 25 Southern Illinois 19·4 33 

around the dial 
MLB 

Philadelphia at Atlanta, 7:35 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
New York at Cleveland, 8 p.m., TNT Dallas at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m., TNT 

DUKE LACROSSE 

Associated Press 

DURHAM, N.C. -A small group of boosters and others close to the Duke University lacrosse team have hired President Clinton's former lawyer as part of an aggressive pub­lic relations effort to argue that the players did not rape a woman at an off­campus party. 
Bob Bennett, a former federal prosecutor and Washington attorney who represented Clinton in the Paula Jones sexual harass­ment case, is serving as a spokesman for a group calling itself the Committee for Fairness to Duke Families. 
He is not expected to represent any players, but he has joined the chorus of those who fear for the rep­utation of the team and the university. 
"It is unfortunate that members of the Duke com­munity, players and fami­lies are being judged before all the facts are in," Bennett said in a state­ment. "A lot of innocent young people and the fam­ilies are being hurt, and unfortunately this situation is being abused by people with separate agendas. It is grossly unfair, and cool heads must prevail." 
The group has asked to meet with Duke President Richard Brodhead. Neither Brodhead nor Bennett returned calls for com­ment. 
No charges have been filed while District Attorney Mike Nifong presses on with his investi­gation of allegations that a stripper was gang-raped at a team party March 13. Earlier this week, lawyers for the players said that DNA tests failed to connect any members of the 4 7­man team to the alleged attack. 
The players' parents ­initially silent -have also started to speak out. 
Brian Loftus, who has two sons on the team, wondered Wednesday why Nifong was continuing to press ahead with the case. 
"I don't understand it," said Loftus, of Syosset, N.Y. 
Nifong has refused requests for an interview. He is running for another term in May and took part in a candidate forum Wednesday evening, in which he reiterated that he believes a medical exam of the alleged victim indicates a crime occurred. 
"The fact is, I didn't pick the crime. I didn't pick the time," Nifong said at the forum. "But I'm going to do the case right." 
IN BRIEF 

Ward ready to defend her Lewis remembered on his Dechy advances in Family
title at Takefuji Classic 25th anniversary Circle (:up 
LAS VEGAS -Wendy Ward ARLINGTON, Va.-With the lay­CHARLESTON, S.C. -Nathalie knows what it takes to win the tra­ing of a wreath and the playing of Dechy of France won for only the ditionally low-scoring Takefuji taps, Joe Louis was remembered second time in eight matches this Classic. at Arlington National Ceremony on season, defeating Anna Tatishvili 7­
"You have to be more aggressive, Wednesday on the 25th anniver­5, 6-4 Wednesday to advance to the for sure. I also think a three-day sary of the boxing great's death. third round of the Family Circle tournament kind of lends itself to Family and friends gathered at Cup. that; you have to get off to a fast Louis' grave, beneath the long Dechy, ranked No. 24, injured her start out of the gate," she said. branches of a splendid oak tree knee in December and has struggled 
Ward got off to a fast start last not far from the Tomb of the to regain confidence. year, shooting an opening 7-under Unknown Soldier. "The Brown "I've been losing (in the) first 65 over the Las Vegas Country Club Bomber," the nickname etched on round lately, so it was really good to layout. Then she kept it up, with all his tombstone, was remembered have this first win," she said. "I three rounds in the 60s and a 16-as a black sports hero who tran­couldn't practice and I couldn't real­under 200 to win the 54-hole event. scended the divisions of race in the ly be fit when I started this season." 
Lorena Ochoa finished second at segregated 1930s and 1940s. All seeded players in early 202, followed by Paula Creamer Louis was heavyweight champion Wednesday matches advanced in and Shi Hyun Ahn another shot from 1937 to 1949. His most mem­the $1.3 million clay-court tourna­back in a third-place tie. orable victory came Oil_ June 22, ment. 
The 6,550-yard, par-72 Las Vegas 1938, when he avenged a loss to Marion Bartoli of France dis­layout presents a different kind of Germany's Max Schmeling with a patched defeated Yuliana Fedak of challenge for the LPGA players, first-round knockout at Yankee the Ukraine 6-4, 6-3. American Jill said Ward, who had 18 birdies and Stadium, a blow to Adolf Hitler's Craybas, named to the Fed Cup only two bogeys in the 2005 tour­campaign for Aryan supremacy. team earlier in the day, lost to Maria nament. Santangelo of Italy 6-4, 7-6 (5). 

~~~--~--­

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2006 
NO SOFTBALL 
Irish battle Demons to kick off Holy Thursday 
i AmbrosefThe Observer 
Notre Dame first baseman Linda Kohan stretches for the put out In Tuesday's 6-0 win over Ball State. 
NO looks to stay atop Big East standings with DePaul doubleheader 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Wriccr 
Notre Dame hopes to improve its Big Hast record with a dou­bleheader against conference neweomer DePaul today. 
The double dip against the Blue Demons (18-11, 5-3 Big Hast) will bn games No. 43 and 44 all time with thn Irish (24­17, 7-1)-a series which DePaul leads 26-17-I. 
After a short Easter break, Notrn Damn will head to Evanston, Ill. April 18 for a one gamn matchup with Northwestern. 
The Irish and Blue Demons split a doubleheader in the annual meeting last season. 
But this year the Irish hope to oulmateh DePaul and stay near tho top of the Big East stand­ings. Hiding the wave of a 6-0 win over Ball State Tuesday ­and having just one Joss in leaglll~ play this season -the Irish are confident they can sueceed against DePaul. 
"DilPaul is on a bit of a down slope and I think we can over­come that." senior catcher and eaptain Mallorie Lenn said. "We just want to stay on a high note and keep winning." 
Notre Dame head coach Deanna (iumpf has been work­ing on fundamentals during the team's praetiees all season, something she said will keep the players focused on their porformances. 
"We've bonn working on the basics in practice, doing a Jot with mechanics," freshman starting pitcher Brittney Bargar said. "If we can bring our A­game against DePaul we can do well." 
One major aspect for the Notre Dame's "A game" all sea­son has been its mental focus and intensity, Bargar said. 
But Lenn feels that the DePaul game will be good for the team to keep its intensity high -possibly as high as it has been in the past three games, in which the Irish have collected 46 hits. 
"These are all three impor­tant games coming up," Lenn said. "We are playing two tough teams and they will be really good wins for us." 
Notes: 
+ Notre Dame senior third baseman Meagan Huthrauff was named Big East player of the week. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

storage space 
Lighted & Paved 
Free Lock with Every Unit 4 Month Special: May through August for Notre Dame Students 
5x10 ... $149 + DEP 10x10 ... $199 + DEP 
Call574.247.7805 
Between Notre Dame and Airport at the corner of Mayflower and Edison 

"Undergraduate Research in Arts and Letters: Opprtunities for Studentsn 
Thnr.rd~ Apnl2~ 2006 Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The purpose of this forum will be to provide students with information about two important sources of funding for undergraduate research -the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program and the Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards will speak about their experience of writing proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. 
Sponsored by the institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Office of Undergraduate Studies. 



NOW SELLING 
FROMTHE 1705 
UNITS 
AVAILABLE FOR FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS -2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 

VISIT OUR FURNISHED MODEL OR DUBLINVI LLAGE.COM 
435 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 SSMITH@COOREMAN.COM 







server. 


Thursday, April 13, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish try to stick it to Hoyas 
ND forgets Duke loss, travels to Georgetown for league showdown 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Coming off an 11-10 loss 
last weekend to No. 4 Duke, .Notre Dame looks to rebound against conference foe Georgetown Saturday at 
noon in Washington, D.C. 
The No. 10 Irish (10-2, 2-0 
Big East) have had success so 
far this year in conference 
games and hope to stay 
focused against the Hoyas (8­
2, 2-0). 
Notre Dame head coach 
Tracy Coyne is confident 
about her team despite the 
loss to Duke -and also feels 
that there are only slight 
adjustments needed for her 
team to get back to winning 
ways. 
"We were almost flawless 
against Duke, playing com­
petitive, hard-fought 
lacrosse," Coyne said. "The 
one thing we need to work on 
is our execution at the end of 
the game." 
One Irish player who 
excelled throughout the 
game was goalie Carol Dixon, 
who was named the Big East 
defensive player of the week 
thanks to her 22-save per­
formance in the . game 
against the Blue Devils. 
During practices this week, 
Coyne has reviewed what 
mistakes from the Duke 
game the team needs to cor­
rect for the Georgetown con­
test, including extensive film sessions. 
"We know that we do a lot of things really well, and just want to keep working on things that will help us win games," Coyne said. "We would not be where we are now if we weren't good." 
By working on fundamen­tals such as draw controls, Coyne hopes to keep her team focused on itself rather than the opponent. Coyne said the main philosophy for this season's Irish squad has been constantly improving aspects of their own game while thinking of future opponents for only small parts of practices. 
"We definitely want to fine­tune our game," Coyne said. "We are a 10-2, top-10 team, and we got that way through executing -which we are 


WE'VE GOT THE 


TURTLE CREEK 



Stop In and Register to Win! 
1710 E. Turtlecreek Drive South Bend, lnama 
going to keep doing the rest of the season." 
Saturday's game against the Hoyas marks the halfway point in Notre Dame's Big East schedule. As only six schools in the league have women's lacrosse teamsk, the regular season champion will earn the league's auto­matic berth to the NCAA tournament as there is no Big East post-season champi­onship. 
Even with the absence of a conference tournament, Coyne is optimistic about her team's chances this season. 
"We have played hard all season and plan on winning the [conference] to get the bid," Coyne said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu · 

APARTMENTS 
Xtreme~ Close to Campus Xciting Renovations Inside &Out Xtraordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-8124 
GET GEARED UP! We're giving away anewlx>x360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 
~Hods: 
M-F :  9:00 AM-6:00  
Saturday:  10:00 AM-5:00  
Smday:  1:00PM-5:00PM  


TRACK AND fiELD 
Top athletes head vvest to Mount SAC Relays 
Many others attempt to qualify for NCAAs at Indy Relays Sunday 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
The Irish track and field team will send several a.thletes to California this weekend to com­pete in the Mount San Antonio College Relays in Walnut, Calif., while the rest of the squad heads to Indianapolis Sunday for the Indy Relays. 
Some of the men's top sprint­ers, jumpers and field athletes and the women's distance run­ners will head to the Mount SAC Relays, which will take place from Friday through Sunday. 
Meanwhile, more than 50 other athletes will drive to Indianapolis. 
Irish head coach Joe Piane said that he would like to see some Irish competitors in each meet post NCAA qualifying times. 
Last week, at the Miami (Ohio) Invitational, Notre Dame captured seven victories and five Irish athletes qualified for the Big East Conference Championships. 
"Our performance [at Miami] was okay," Piane said. The conference qualifiers for 
Notre Dame were Elizabeth Phillipp in the women's 3,000­meter steeplechase, Lauren Biscardi in the women's high jump, Kellen Lewis in the men's 400-meter hurdles, Jeff Mensch in the men's discus and Mike Schubert in the men's hammer throw. 
Piane added that the team still has several athletes that have yet to qualify but hope to compete in the Big East Championships, which will be held May 5-7 in Storrs, Conn. The coach said he believes that these athletes should be in good position to reach that goal this weekend. 
"We rested a lot of athletes lrather than have them com­pete at Miami]," Piane said. 
The Mount SAC Relays is one of the most prestigious ama­teur meets in the country each year and Piane said he is excit­ed for the Notre Dame athletes who will compete. 
"It's gigantic for us," Piane said of the event, which fea­tun~s hundreds of teams from throughout the country. 
Competing for Notre Dame in Indianapolis will be sprinter Michael Webber, distance run­ners Vinny Ambrico and Tim Moore and throwers Garet Koxlien and Meghan Horn, among others. 
Contact Fran Tolan at fto1an@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Sailing coasts to first, fourth place finishes 
Peris, Bauer overcome adversity to win races 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's sailing club again raced split squads in two regattas this weekend, at Wisconsin and Ohio. Five Notre Dame Sailors headed to the annual Wisconsin Three­Way hosted on Lake Mendota in Madison, Wisconsin. The regatta consisted of three divisions: A and B took place in 420s, and C was in tech dinghies. The team finished fourth out of sixteen teams overall. The highlight for the Irish on Saturday was sopho­more skipper Tim Roy's first place finish in Hace 4 of the C Division. 
On Sunday, sophomore skip­per John Dailey and fresh­man crew Paul Cordes fin­ished third and second in the two A-Division races, while freshman skipper Jaci Chase and senior crew Kathryn Hoodecheck finished fourth and second in the two B­Division races. 
Wisconsin won the event with Minnesota coming in second. 
Four Irish sailors team competed in the Ohio University regatta where the Irish finished first after 20 races with a low total score of 49 points. Sophomore skip­per Chris May and junior Crew Amy Becker finished second in the A division tak­ing first in two races, fourth in one race due to an unlucky wind shift, and second or third in the remaining 7 races they sailed. ~ 
Despite two capsizes, fresh­man skipper Joe Peris and sophomore crew Alan Bauer finished first in four of their ten races taking the lead in the B-division and helping to solidify the Irish performance at the regatta. 



-

page 18 Thursday, April 13, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles steal final four 111atches for 5-4 rally 
Dingler wins decisive match tO Seal COmeback Win, erase 4-1 deficit 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Writer 
In its most important contest of thn snason, Saint Mary's won the final !'our matdws to earn a dramatic comeback vietory over Kala-mazoo Wed­nPsday at the Saint Mary's T1111nis Center. 
With sole possession of third place in the MIAA on the line, things did not look promising early for the Belles as Kalamazoo sprinted out to a 4-1 lead by winning two or thrnn doubles matehes and thn first two singles matches. 
The Saint Mary's duo of Mary Elizabeth Campbell and Tara O'Brien beat thn Hornets pairing of Cennva Garcia and Lindsay Zuhlker 6-1. 6-3 in the first match ofT the courts. But the momentum shifted toward Kalamazoo in the final two doubles matches. 
The Belles doubles tnams of Kristen Palombo and Graen Cordon, and Kelly McDavitt and Calie Mulcahy both had their doubles matches last for over two hours and end in third-set defeats by the seorns of6-7 (4), 6-1,6-3, and 4-6,7­5, 6-4, rnspeetively. 
But rather than pack it in, the Belles used the long matdws to their advantage. 
"We all wanted to make up for our losing our doubles matdws," Palombo said. "The fact that our doubles matehes went for over two hours ­and then we had to turn around and our play singles matehes in 10 minutes­really tested our condition­ing." 

After losing their doubles matehes, Palombo and her teammates used that eondi­tioning to rally the team to victory. Palombo, MeDavitt and Muleahy rebounded from their losses to capture straight-set victories in sin­gles. 
With the vietory of the Belles' MHiissa Dingler over Kalamazoo senior Hashelle Shalimi, Saint Mary's came from behind for the 5-4 victo­ry. 
"We all had a pretty good handle of' our singles match­es," Palombo said. "The fact that we were able to win such a long match really showed us that all our hard work had paid off. I think we were in better shape than them." 
After the long doubles matches, the Belles needed minimal time to dispatch of' Kalamazoo in the singles con­tests. 
Palombo defeated the Ilornets' Megan Fink 6-3, 6-3, McDavitt topped Laura 
Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
Spencer 6-4, 6-0 and Mulcahy
beat th-e Hornets' Smita Gudipati 6-4, 6-3 to comple­mmit Dingler's win. Wednesday's victory brings 
Saint Mary's record to 10-6 overall and 5-1 in the MIM. It also gives the Belles sole possession of' third place in the league. 
With Saint Mary's next mateh at e~nf'erence leader Albion Tuesday at 3 p.m., the team will have an opportunity to elimb further up the eonfer­nnee standings. 
"Our win over Kalamazoo really gives us a lot of conli­denen," Palombo said. "llopefully we can use it as momentum beeause we'll need to keep our strong per-­formam:e going when we play Albion." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Irish try to clinch No. 1 seed 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
A year is a long time, but the Irish remember Louisville. 
On May 14 of last year, then­No. 32 Notre Dame fell 4-1 to the Cardinals, ranked No. 33 at the time. 
Sheeva Parbhu had Notre Dame's only victory, and Hyan Keckley and Barry King took one doubles match. 
Almost a year later, the Cardinals will faee the Irish again, this time at the Courtney Tennis Center today at 4 p.m. in the last match of Notre Dame's regular season. 
"I would think the guys remem­ber that match," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "We went away feel­ing that they had played very well and we had not played a good match. I don't think many of our players felt they had given a very good accounting of themselves. I'm confident we're going to be motivated." 

The Irish are No. 17 in the national rankings with a 14-7 record, while Louisville is No. 29 with a record of 15-6. The Cardinals are 1-0 in Big East play, and this will be the first con­ference match for the Irish. 
"The winner gets the No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament," Bayliss said. "If the Big East Tournament is rained out, the highest remaining seed in the tournament gets the NCAA bid." 
Although both the Irish and Cardinals are virtualloeks for the postseason, a Big East tourna­ment win is a good way to build momentum before the NCAAs. Despite Notre Dame's higher ranking. Bayliss knows. Louisville will provide tough competition. 
"They play great doubles and their different players have dif­ferent styles but most of the top part of' their lineup they play good quick strike tennis," Bayliss said. "They're big and strong and aggressive ... and their lower lineup is very, very consistent." 
The Irish are coming otT a 5-2 win over Southern Methodist University, which junior Hyan Keckley missed due to illness. 
The standout doubles player has been erueial to getting poinL<; in the singles lineup. 
"It cHrtainly helps our comfort level [to have him backl." Bayliss said. "He's had the best reeord on the team all year and he's been a money player for us. It's got to be reassuring to have him back in the saddle." 
The match is the final of the regular season for the Irish and also the final regular-season mateh for seniors Patrick Buchanan and Erie Langenkamp. 
Bayliss plans to thank the sen­iors for the eontribution, but wants the team to stay loeused. 
''I'm eonlident we're going to be motivated," Bayliss said. "I never know how we're going to play, but I think we'rt1 cNtainly goiug to have a certainly high ellort levPI." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu.edu 

NationalCity~
BroadwaySeries 

1. 
CALL THE MORRIS CENTER BOX OFFICE OR GO ONLINE 574.235.9190 WWW.MORRISCENTER.ORG 

2. 
GO TO THE MORRIS PERFORMING A.RTS. CENTER BOX OFFICE 


211 NORTH MICHIGA.N STREET, SOUTH BEND, IN 
3. A.LL 

YOU GOTTA WORK A AT THE DOOR, 
RIGHT' FOR 20 BUCKS LITTLE-THE 1ST 2 ROWS ARE t20 CASH* 
ON SALE 2 HOURS BEFORE THE SHOW 
STARTS WEDNESDAY! APRIL 19-20 MORRIS CENTER 
~---.w.s.e:rJ 
~BllO.\DW.U' THEATRE lEAGUE
For group rates, call 574.246.6085 'i~Maklngalllffurencc W OF SOllB BEND, bt. vnnT.aiteforrent.oo• 
*Subject to applicable service charges 
Thursday, Aprill3, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
LeBron sprains ankle in road loss to East-leading Pistons 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. ­Cleveland Cavaliers star LeBron James left the game against the Detroit Pistons on Wednesday · night with an injured left ankle and did not return. 
"It's sprained pretty good, but nothing serious," James said after Detroit's 96-7 3 victory. "You never really know until the next day, but I've had them before, and this is nothing that bad." 
James landed awkwardly while being guarded by Tayshaun Prince on a three­point play late in the third quar­ter. The MVP candidate hopped on his right foot, keeping weight off his left foot, and was checked out on the court by Cavs athletic 

.trainer Max Benton. 
Following a timeout, James made a free throw to complete his three-point play and was taken out a second later. James left the court moments later and had X-rays taken. The Cavs said 



TRY OUR NEW 
12
11 

VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 
Only $4.99 
($1.00 for each additional topping.) 
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery Delivery hours: 6pm-1 am 
Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 12" Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of an 18" pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until 5/12/06. Not Valid with other offers or promotions. 





LARGE PIZZA $ 


99
Cheese & 1 Topping 
Add'l Toppings
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 


52750 IN 933 
(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

574-243-1122 
Visi1 us on the Web at www.marcos.tom Cl2006 Marco's Franchising. t.LC 4831-206 
$1.25 Each 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, 
r:!~f~.a~=~~~e~h::~:: ::~r:.ac?o~ 
at participating locations only. · 


his status is day to day. 
Cleveland hosts the New York Knicks on Thursday, and the Cavs might decide to play it safe by resting James because they can't improve or hurt their posi­tion as the fourth-seeded team in the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
"If I don't feel 100 percent tomorrow, I won't go," James said. 
James had 22 points on 8-of­18 shooting through three quar­ters and Detroit was leading 75­51. 
Early in the fourth quarter, Cavs forward Alan Henderson dislocated a finger on his right hand on a missed dunk and did not return. 


Student Survival Ualue Meals! 
#1 Large Hopping Pizza ~6.00 #2 Medium Hopping Pizza &an Order of Breadsticks $6.00 #3 One Small Hopping Pizza &2Cans of Coke $6.00 #4 Two Small Cheese Pizzas ~6.00 #5 10 Buffalo Wings, One Ranch, One Can of Coke #6 8pc Breadsticks, 8pc Cinna Stix &Two Cans of Coke $6.00 555 deal: 
Th(ee Mepium Hopping Pizzas $5.00/each
(Mm. 3p1zzas) 

Call Us!  MONDAY THRU THRUSDAY 4PM-1AM  
271-0300  FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 11AM-2AM  
1627 Edison Rd.  SUNDAY 11AM-MIDNIGHT  


Proprierors Warren & linda 
?inlOriJinaf:Azza in 'Joaml 
Since 1951 

Congratulations Graduates! Come celebrate with us! Open Sunday, May 21st 4-10pm 
537 North St. Louis • South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 

'Diae·9tt Rocco's has Dine-In Delivery Sewite Service Available! Call (574) 675-9999 



Local Tradition Since 1975 
Call for Campus Delivery: 273-3890 or 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2006 
Colorado 
continued from page 24 
vide an opportunity for Notre Dame (7-2, 1-0 GWLLl to seize control of' the GWLL standings. Along with Ohio State (4-4) and the Irish, DenvPr (H-4) and Air Foree (6-5) sit atop the league standings. 
Two wins will help Notre Damn keep the league's top spot -and a possible automatic NCAA tournament bid -with two games remaining in the conf'nrnncn snason. 
Thn Irish arn coming ofT a dis­appointing 9-H win at Butler Saturday, in which thny f'ailml to brnak away from the Bulldogs (3-7. 0-1 c;wu.) thanks to inconsistnnt nxncution that knpt tlwm from putting thn ball in thn nnt. 
"The word that we are using this w1wk is rnlnntlnss," Irish 1~oach Kevin Corrigan said. "We havn to bn rnlnntless in thn pur­suit of' thn nxncution wn'rn look­ing for. It's something that does­n't snap into plaee. It's some­thing that you have to keep working at." 
Though Notrn Damn holds an H-1 advantage ovnr Denver in thn serins history, Denver won the last nHwting IJ-6 last season at Moose Krau.se Stadium. Friday's game in Denver will be about morn than rnvenge. The l'ionnnrs are the final ranked f'on for tlw Irish this ynar and should provide the toughest hurdln thny need to dnar to be able to take the league titln for the lirst time since 2002. 
Becausn of' this, although Corrigan and his stall' havn benn prnparing game plans for both teams, thny are focusing the players' attentions solely on Dnnver this week. 
"We can't prepare for Air Foree until we take care of Denver," he said. "It means our timeframe for prep for Air Foree is short. The coaches are taking care of that. But we want the players concentrating on Denver. We'll look at Air Force on Saturday morning." 
Corrigan said Denver plays a bolder style of lacrosse than the Irish usually see. 
"The thing about Denver is they try to get you into a game you're not used to playing," Corrigan said. "They play a ehaotie defensive style that tries to get you with pressurn and double teams. But then, on thn other end, they're not in a hurry on the ofTensive side." 
Thn Pioneers enter the eontest with the f'ifth-highest scoring offense in the country at 11.25 goals per game. Corrigan believes the key to shutting down the high-powered Denver ofl'nnsn will be found in transi­tion play, an area where Notre Damn has outplayed its oppo­nents with an .800 suecess rate in dearing, compared to its opponents' rate of .690. 
"Their offense eomes from their dflf'ense a lot," Corrigan said. "They're creating turnovers and converting them. Keeping them out of transition is the key to holding them down, and that starts on the other end of the field." 
Corrigan said he believes the Irish will be successful if they. ean eontrol the game tempo they arn aeeustomed to playing. 
"lllmposing your style on them is important," he said. "lWei don't want to play a reac­tionary game." 
Senior eo-captain def'enseman ILl. Driscoll said he thinks the Irish's ninth-ranked scoring defense (6.HIJ goals pnr game) ean eontain the Pioneer ofl'ense by eliminating the mistakes they made against Butler. 
"Butler kind of gave us a wakeup call," Driscoll said. "Maybe some kids were looking past them to Denver. But we have to treat every game like its win or go home because so many teams are looking to win the league." 
Regardless of the outcome of the Denver game, the Irish will have to regroup and prepare themselves for Sunday's contest against Air Force. Though the Faleons play a totally different style than Denver, Corrigan said the coaches' preparation will ensure the Irish are not sur­prised. 
"At this point in the year, we've seen everything we're going to see," Corrigan said. "There's not that mueh new under the season. We're going to see some zone from Air Foree -maybe a healthy dose of it. It's a matter of' taking [Saturday[ to get our legs back and refresh ourselves a little bit." 
Driscoll is eonf'ident in the Irish's ability to quiekly rel'ocus their attention, espeeially since the Irish faeed a similar situa­tion two years ago when No. 1 H Notre Dame downed Air Force 12-2 and followed that with a 14-13 win over No. 17 Denver. 
"We've been grinding at it in praetiee since the fall," Driseoll said. "Mentally i(s just eone(m­trating on the task at hand and taking it one step at a time. Just getting our legs back is just going to be our biggest problem [preparing for Air Foree[. I think being a senior, going out there two years ago and having the experience out there will help." 
Notre Dame's 14-13 overtime win against Air Foree last year was the Irish's 17th straight against the Falcons. 


Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
MeLaughlin (Kansas State and Washington). Notrn Dame went 120-35 when Davis was with the program. 
"I know we're going to have really good candidates to look at for the position and we'II bn fine, we'll recover," Brown said. "We'll just miss him. lie's brought a lot to the program ­he's a great teaeher." 
Davis worked with the middle blockers, and graduating S£mior Laurnn Brewster recalled how he worked with her and the oth­ers at that position, making it a strong point of the Notre Dame program. 
"lie worked a lot with us.... lie's an amazing eoach," she said. "lie knows how to motivate players -you'll find that in coaching, not all coaches have that talent and he's able to do it." 
Brown said that Davis will bring grnat reeruiting skills to 


MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 
Boise State as well, whern he is sehedulnd to take over Friday. 
·"lie's a very good reeruiter," she said. "I In evaluates talents very, very well and identifies potential and all those types of things ... building relationships with prospective student ath­letes and the pamnts lis impor­tant[ and he does a_really good job with that." 
Brewster and Brown both agreed that teaching -a crucial skill for a eoaeh -was another of Davis' strengths. 
"I IB has played the game, but more importantly he's just a really good teacher," Brown said. "lie ean help the player make the little adjustments that are going to make big dil'f'Br­ences in the outeome of the way they play." 
These skills will be important for the Broncos, who have never been to an NCAA tournament. The team graduates only two players from the 2005 season after finishing 8-18 following a 1 7-12 season record in 2004. 
Davis graduated from Northern Arizona with a degree in physical education. Early in his career, he worked as the ath­letic director and assistant prin­cipal at Brethren ·Christian High School in California. In addition to his head coaehing experience, he spent two years as an assis­lant eoaeh at Northern Arizona. 
Since the beginning of his time at Notre Dame, Brown said she knew his goal was to be a Division-1 head coach. 

"I think we're pretty lueky to have kept him for five years because he's really qualified, and there's no doubt he'll do a great job as a D-1 head coach," Brown said. 
Brewster endorsed his qualifi­cations and dedieation as well. 
"lie has been working for this for a long time and he's been working under a great coach, Debbie Brown -he's learned a lot from her," Brewster said. "This is what he's wanted and this is what he's been working for and I know he's going to do great at it." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Graduation Weekend: Your stomach will thank you. 
After four years and over 3,027 dorm meals, you deserve at least one outstanding meal that isn't served on odining hall troy. 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops • seafood 
If there is one positive the Irish can take from their Butler win last Saturday, Corrigan said that they will be ready if either of this weekend's games come down to another nail biter. 
"We've certainly established the fact that in the fourth quar­ter of the game, we're not going to fold up and back away from the challenge," Corrigan said. 
Corrigan expects similar results this weekend. 
"The biggest thing is for us to play smart play and with disci­pline and to play confidently," Corrigan said. "We need to go out there and play loosely and make the plays we need to play. I'm very confident in our guys right now and how much they care and how hard thBy're working so I feel very good about where we are going into the weekend." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


DELUXB ~fOOTBALL FACKAGB 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS t:AAl O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 ~ICHTS HOTEL RESERVATIOf'\5 

•CROU\ID 
TRAVH TO/~ROM COIISHJM 


•CATERED RALlY TH[ fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per re,servation (Check or Cuhi 
GO IRISH! 

CATERING SO F'AST

WOilLD'S GllEATEST SANDWICH DELIVEilY 
YOU'LL F'REAKI 

SOUTH BEND 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR.-574.277.8500 MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST.-574.968.4600 

Thursday, April 13, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Dury 
continued from page 24 
The freshman worked out of several jams early in the game but settled down and did not allow a runner on base past the fourth inning. He struck out two Spartan batters -the last one looking -to escape a bases loaded situation in the second, and he ended a fourth­inning threat by forcing Manchester left fielder Danner Partridge to ground into a dou­ble play. 
"I thought [Phelps] showed a lot of conlidence and a lot of poise, something that you want to see in a rookie," Dury said. "This is really the first time he's got to come out here and really show everybody what he's got. lie's got a great future ahead of him and I was really happy to see him succeed out there today." 
Dury's three-run line drive in the fourth opened the flood gates, extending Notre Dame's lead to 4-0. A switch hitter, Dury batted from the left side of the plate and turned on an inside fastball from Spartans lefthander Marcus Miller with the help or a stiff wind blowing out. 
"The three-run homer kind of opened up and let everybody relax a bit including Phelps," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "He didn't have to be perfect with every pitch like he would be in a one-run game. It was a big blow for us." 
Notre Dame right fielder Danny Dressman took a bases­loaded walk later in the fourth to score Alex Nettey, who had reached base on a bloop single to left. Irish shortstop Jeremy Barnes then ripped a two-run single up the middle, opening the lead to 7-0. 
Irish infielder Eddie Smith followed Barnes with a sacri­fice fly to right field that scored Dressman and gave Notre Dame an 8-0 advantage. 
"Usually when the weather warms up, our hitting gets bet­ter," Mainieri said of the rally. "I don't know if it's the climate or just the fact that we've 


DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer Irish designated hitter Mike Dury, center, jogs off the field with left fielder Steve Andres, left, and infielder Eddie Smith after hitting a three-run homer in the fourth inning Wednesday. 
played more and the guys are getting more comfortable." 
Irish first baseman Craig Cooper began the scoring for Notre Dame with a leadoff homer in the first that sailed over the wall in right-center. 
"Cooper hit that ball good, but I think he got a little help from the wind," Mainieri said. "I don't know if that would have been a home run under still conditions, but you know what -the wind blows here a lot. We teach our hitters to take advantage of the climate if the wind is blowing that way." 
Manchester scored its two runs in the ninth inning off Irish freshman reliever Brett Graffy. Spartans designated hitter Zach Scott reached first on an infield single and scored on center fielder Scott Tarnowski's triple to left cen­ter. Tarnowski then scored on Manchester first baseman Zac Birely's sacrifice fly to right. 
Graffy settled down and struck out Spartan third base­man Jordan Adams and induced a groundout by Treesh to secure the 8-2 win. 
Notre Dame takes to the dia­mond again today at Frank Eck Stadium with a double­header against Big East rival St. John's. The opening pitches are scheduled for 12:05 and 
4:05 p.m. and the series finale will take plaoe Saturday at 
12:05 p.m. 
The Irish are currently tied for first place with the Hed Storm in the Big East standings -each h_olding an 8-1 record. 
The teams split league hon­ors last season, with the Bed Storm taking the regular sea­son title and the Irish reigning as champions of the tourna­ment. Both received NCAA tournament bids -the only two Big East teams to earn berths. 
"This is the biggest day of the year, there's no question about that," Mainieri said. "It's going to be an enormous series. We're excited, I'm sure St. John's is excited. Let's get it 
on." 

Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
"Harden has length, and he'll really get out there with his length and bother people -a lit­tle bit like [Irish guard Hyan] Ayers does," Brey said. 
Brey said he would continue to pursue other recruits for the 2010 class, even though Notre Dame has already equaled last year's total of four incoming freshman. The Irish have two potential scholarships left to give. 
"(We're] always working, always digging," Brey said. "We are exploring all the time so we certainly feel good adding these two to the two in the fall. But we will continue to explore the trans­fer avenue as well as the high school avenue." 
Brey is familiar with signing players deep in their senior years. Irish guard Russell Carter com­mitted late and has become one of Notre Dame's most productive offensive players. He was named the team's most improved player Wednesday at the 2006 basket­ball banquet. 
Brey also said it is important to find recruits who want to come to Notre Dame. He said because the school is such aunique place, a prospect needs to want to be a part of the program from the beginning. 
"!Peoples and Harden! wanted Notre Dame and that's very important with our situation," Brey said. "There wasn't a whole lot of indecision in their thought process, and I love that as much as I love how they handle the ball or feed the post or shoot the jump shot." 
Peoples and Harden, both perimeter players, join a Notre Dame team that was among the best offensive squads in the Big East. The Irish were second in points per game (76.4), first in 3­point shooting (40.3-percent) and second in 3-pointers made (9.6 per game). 
Notes: 
+ Notre Dame held its 2006 banquet dinner at the Joyce Center Wednesday night. Irish seniors Chris Quinn, Torin Francis, Rick Cornett and Chris Murphy spoke for about 15 min­utes each before Brey added clos­ing comments. 
Despite finishing 16-14 ( 6-10 Big East) and not advaneing to the NCAA tournament for the third conseeutive year, Brcy said he felt a closer connection with this group than any previous Irish team. He also praised the team for its character throughout the season. 
"We didn't hang a banner or play in the NCAA tournament, but I truly feel this group was repre­sentative of this university," Brey said. 
Franci~ Cornett and Murphy all addressed their time at Notre Dame in different ways. Francis said the challenges he faced at Notre Dame helped him emerge as a man. Cornett joked about his fluctuating playing time and even thanked the fans fof their positive chants when he was on the bench. Murphy provided one of the lighter moments of the night when he joked about his role as a walk-on practice player. 
"Every single game I played in, we won," Murphy said before wondering out loud why Brey never played him more during game situations. 
But the most poignant moment of the night came from Quinn. The Irish guard led Notre Dame on and off the court through its difficult season where numerous games were lost on last-second possessions. 
"I love the game of basketball and everything I do; I use basket­ball as an example," Quinn said. "Because of what I've been through -what my teammates have been through-I think we'll be better in the future." 
Quinn was named the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley's Rockne Student-Athlete Award winner. He also won the Notre Dame Monogram Club MVP Award. 
Notre Dame handed out individ­ual awards earlier in the night for most improved player (Carter), best defensive player (forward Rob Kurz), best rebounder (Francis), outstanding freshman (guard Kyle McAlarney) and team player (guard Colin Falls). 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
rR~h~!!E B~7!!,1!,~LL 
vs. St. John's @ Noon vs. St. John,s @Noon (Doubleheader) 
The first 160 fans wiH receive a Notre Dame beach towel sponsored by 

First 200 fans receive FREE Freshman & Sophomore trading cards 
Thursday, Aprill3 
vs. Depaul @4&6pm 


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 13, 2006 
WAKE UP THE ECHOES 


"[Thomas] is not selfish, and he's not looking for any individ­ual credit," Walker said. "Travis works so hard not only on the offensive side of the ball, but also on special teams. I think he's out there on every special teams I play I." 
While offensive and defensive players each voted for the cap­tain on their side of the ball, the entire team voted for the special teams' captainship. Quinn won the ofl'ensive selection in a "run­away vote," Weis said. 
"I think he did a great job as the offensive captain, especially being picked as an underclass­man," Weis said. "I was really proud of the way he handled himself on and oil' the field, and I think that the team really looks to Brady for leadership, which he provides." 
On defense, Weis said he thought the players made the right selection because of the way Zbikowski plays. 
"I don't know if I'm going to be able to take this -a whole year of having to listen to some guy from the South Side of Chicago," Weis quipped. "But I think he definitely exemplilies the tough­ness in players that I look for." 
In 2005, players voted on the "Irish football House of Representatives," a leadership committee with one member from each position group, at the same time as voting for cap­tains. Weis said the team will choose the leadership commit­tee at the end of fall camp in August. 

front 
,A.gt;(\;,,.;f'*\ 

-
.......
,
._.......
--"'­
0~-::::.:-:.: 
...................~ ...­
.,.. ....~-·.......... 
..,.._...............
~ 
:::::...""::~"'=----·'-.
.......~.............,.....
·--­
.... ..._._
...--­
·~..... ....
~ ~ 
• • ¥! .............. 

-w-w-w.rocknebookmark.com 
Made 1n the U.S.A. 
Have us send it direct to your home. 

'\\, ..~.,.,

A Must Buy before you leave for summer vacation. {··:}.. :f!"i:l·:f.-w·<@" t:=~~, 
A keepsake for a lifetime . A Must Buy for family, friends and subway alumni. 
J&K Card, LLC 



Captains 
continued from page 24 
ex<unpln, and that's kind of my philosophy as well." 
Quinn will be the oll'nnsive cap­tain for thn second straight sna­son. and Zbikowski will take over fi1r graduating senior linebacker Brandon I loyte on defense. 
Thomas was selected for the special teams role, whieh was a week-by-week honor awarded by coaches in 2005 and based on play from the previous game. Thomas is a member of the kickoff coverage and rnturn team and has played on punts and extra points as well. As Notre Dame's No. 2 running back last season, the rising sen­ior rushed for 266 yards on 6:3 carries behind Irish starting running back Darius Walker. 
Notes: 

+ Weis said he prepared a scouting report for the team's opening game Sept. 2 in Atlanta, Ga. 
"I was torn between giving you the scouting report on Georgia Tech, which I have right here in this folder, which would have been real impressive, by the way [and announcing the captains]." he said. "I have !Georgia Tech's! injuries in spring ball; I'm pretty happy with myself." 
+ Weis will announce rosters Wednesday for the Blue-Gold Game April 22. 
He said he formulated a style of scrimmage that will accom­modate for the team's current lack of depth, especially on the offensive line. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 



Thursday, April 13, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

one letter to each square, But I'm
That's not appropriate

to form four ordinary words. comfortable 
> 
NEWIT 
I I I 


©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WOYDD 
j 
1 

rx I I 
I MURQUO j 
1 

rx I I 
www.jumble.com
tYURKET 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 

...,.,_..LJ_,_.£J.._ __,__ suggested by the above cartoon. 
_,___...J...___j
XJ I I I 
lmt.Er: IT WAS 

"[I I I J"( I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: FEVER BROOD ENTIRE MILDEWYesterday's 
Answer: When the illegally parked cars blocked traffic, the cop-TOWED THE LINE 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-t-:-4-:-t-:-t 23 It has a cedar tree on its flag 
25 Jack who created the film rating system 
26 Punch elicitations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
64 False god 
65 Sri Lankan language 66 Blue shade 67 With 69-Across, 
what each set of letters in parentheses represents 
68 '54 event on Bikini atoll 
69 See 67-Across 
DOWN 1 Late-night party 
attire, for short 2 Intoxicated 3 Like Bruckner's 
Symphony No. 7 
4 Message not left after the beep? 
5 "Here's to you!" 6 Form 1 040, line 32 deduction 7 They may have 
twists 8 Big spout 9 "Lohengrin" soprano 
10 Power, slangily 
11 Urge (on) 
12 "Zip it!" 
13 The U.S.S.R. had the first civilian one 19 Former Mideast leader 21 Mineral source 

WILLSHORTZ 

28 Making 40 Comics 57 Flutter rosy-cheeked 
41 Key 58 Father-and-son 29 Purplish-red 
43 Simultaneously White House flower name
47 Biblical mount 
30 Florida university 59 Bad-mouth48 Hosp.
whose mascot is designation 61 Word with code

the Hatter 50 American vintner or exam
33 Popular ice cream 52 Bent 62 Little of 36 "_doing ... " 54 It's not true 60's pop 38 Winsome 56 "Get !" 63 Court locale 
-

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ 
._.;.
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Riley Smith, 28; Claire Danes, 27; Nicholas Bn;ndon, 35; David Letterman, 59 
Happy Birthday: Believe in your own abilities this year if you want to prosper. You show great potential but, ifyou take on too much, you may lose ground or head in the wrong direction. Your numbers are 6, 19, 24, 29, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Put your plan in motion but first correct any past mistake. Don't let a change of plans fluster you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't think that anything is too much to accomplish. Plod along steadily and refuse to look at the magnitude of the job. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't meddle in other people's affairs. Avoid confrontations and focus on what you can do. A little ingenuity will go a long way today. You can expect to upset someone who is jealous of your talent. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love is in the air. Don't let your stay-at-home attitude stop you from getting out and meeting new people. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Question what you are being told today. The truth is likely to be stretched and that may lead you in the wrong direction in a personal matter. Friends and relatives will help you keep things straight. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your emotions take over, especially in the workplace. Remain as confident and calm as possible if you want to be eligible for a raise or new position. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do what appeals most to you. This is a perfect day to engage in a creative hobby, spend time with friends or make personal changes. Short trips will help you make a difficult decision. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make all sorts ofchanges to your personal life and living arrangements. An interesting relationship will develop quickly but may leave you confused. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Drawing attention to someone else in order to stay out of the line of fire will only make you look bad. You will make a far better impression by taking care of business instead of running away. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Business is looking very good. Take a unique approach and everyone will want to jump on board. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You really have to set your priorities straight and get down to business. Someone may try to lead you astray but, if you rely on yourself and your own research, you will discover that anything is possible. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything may seem to be up in the air. Don't get discouraged; instead, deal with the matters that will bring the highest returns and let everything else fall by the wayside today. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, determined and never back down. You are imaginative, creative, energetic and outgoing. You are capable of whatever you set your mind to. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Movement in choregraphie 5 Crusades tactic 10 Heavyweight champ Willard 14 One best 
avoided 15 Synthetic fabric 16 "Fear Factor'' 
comments 17 Put one's foot down 18 Women-only affair? (G.K.) 20 Mary's boss on "The Mary Tyler Moore Show" 22 Pitman, who invented shorthand 23 Brownish color? 
(O.S.) 27 Drudges 31 Maternally 
related 32 Scarers 34 Home sick 
35 Card game named for an island 
36 Conditions 37 Reason out 39 Brewery 
wagons? (D.E.) 41 Your left, say? (A.W.) 42 Five-time Super Bowl champs, 
for short 43 Some batteries 44 Leaky noise 45 Can. province 46 Flexibly snouted 
mammal 48 Aquarium fish 49 Stall call 51 Smelly heart or 
kidney? (F.M.) 53 Set one's sights 
on 55 60's tour site 56 What a Hell's 
Angel might take? (C.P.) 60 "_your pardon!" 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, April 13, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey announces Harden, Peoples for Class of 2010 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey announced the signings of high school seniors Jonathan Peoples and Joe Ilarden Wednesday in a press conference at the Joyce Cnntnr -brin1-,Ting the total num­ber of Irish recruit'> to f(mr aftnr Luke llarangody and Tory Jackson committed in l'all2005. 
"I like the fact that they've won and they came from good high school programs and they were accustomed to winning," Brey said. "I think because they have pretty good size and strength already, and they have a feel for the game -guys like that have a chance of being in there quicker." 
Peoples (Bellwood, Ill.) averaged 
15.2 points, four assists and three rebounds his senior season at St. Joseph's High School in Westchester, Ill. The 6-foot-3, 210-pound guard played varsity four years and led his team to a 28-2 record his senior season. 

Peoples helped St. Joseph's win the East Suburban Catholic league title three consecutive years. He received several all­state selections as a junior and senior. 
The guard finished his high school career with 1,237 points on 51-percent shooting. lie also added 339 rebounds, 285 assists, 120 steal<> and 54 blocked shots. 
"He's got strength, he's got ath­letic ability and he plays old," Brey said about Peoples. "As far as physical presence ... we cer­tainly can use that on the perime­ter." 
Harden (Acampo, Calif.) aver-

FOOTBALL 
Calling all captains 
Quinn, Zbikowski, Thornas voted to lead team for 2006 season 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
There's a new triumvirate in town. 
Notre !>arne quarterback Brady ()uinn. strong safety Tom Zbikowski and running back Travis Thomas will be tri-eap­
-
tains li1r tlw 2006 season, Irish coach Charlie Weis anrwunced Wednesday. 
Quinn said the eaptains bring diiTnrnnt attitudes to the team but all havn at least one leader­ship quality in eommon. 
"Between the thrnn of us, we're pretty dill'erent personali­ties," he said. "I think the biggest thing that !Zbikowski and Thomasl bring is to lead by 
see CAPTAINS/page 21 aged 17 points and 10 rebounds his senior season at St. Mary's lligh School in Stockton, Calif. The Stockton Record named him eo­player of the year following his senior campaign. 


The 6-foot-7, 210-pound guard was also a leader on a prep team that went 31-4 and won the Sac­Joaquin sectional championship. 
see RECRUITS/page 21 
BASEBALL 
Dury's bat helps slay Spartans 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame freshman right­hander David Phelps pitehed seven shutout innings and des­ignated hitter Mike Dury launehed a three-run home run over the right field fence with a little help from Mother Nature as the No. 21 Irish (24-X, 8-1 Big East) beat Division-Ill Manchester College (20-5) 8-2 Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame used a seven-run fourth inning to extend its win­ning streak to 14 games, and Phelps seeured his second career win by seattering four hits and fanning seven Spartan batters. 
see DURY/page 21 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish assistant Davis to be Broncos head coach 
By KATE GALES A.sociatc Sports Editor 
Tho Irish sidelines will be dif'­f'nrent this fall. as Notre Damn assistant eoaeh Hobin Davis has aeeept1~d the head coaching job at Boise State. 
Boise State athletie direetor Gene Blnymainr announced Davis' hire Friday. The Notre Dame sports information dnpartment informed local media of' the hiring in a news n~lnas1~ Wednesday. 
Davis spent live years at Notre Dame, and was head coach at Biola University (Calif.) before coming to South Bend. 
"We'll miss him tremendous­ly," Irish head eoach Debbie Brown said. "lie's not replace­able because he's just a very valuable member of our pro­gram." 
Davis becomes the fourth assistant under Brown to go on to a head eoaehing position at the Division-! level, joining Devin Scruggs (Nevada). Steve Schlick (Cal Poly) and Jim 
see DAVIS/page20 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

League contest a mile high 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
No. 9 Notre Dame will face its toughest three-day streteh of the year this weekend as it heads to Colorado to battle No. 18 Denver Friday in Denver before traveling south for an Easter Sunday showdown with Air Force in Colorado Springs. 
The two league contests make up the middle of four straight conference road games for the Irish that pro-
see COLORADO/page 20 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer Notre Dame defenseman James Severin moves upfleld In an 8-7 win over Dartmouth April 2. 
U) SMC TENNIS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

TRACK & FIELD 
SMC SOFTBALL
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
NO SOFTBALL 
w 

t-
(.) Saint Mary's 5 
Louisville at 

Mount SAC 
Irish at Hoyas 
Thunder at 
DePaul at 
z Kalamazoo 4 
Notre Dame 

Relays 
Saturday at noon 
Belles 
Notre Dame 

With both squads 2-0
a: 5 
Saint Mary's took sole 
The Cardinals visit the 

Notre Dame sends its 
halfway through the 
Saint Mary's is gear-
The Irish host a Big East

== possession of third 
Irish today at 4 p.m. in a 

athletes to the renowned 
league schedule, the 
ing up for a conference 
doubleheader today at 4
Cl: 
place in the MIAA with 
battle for the conference 

meet in California this 
contest could shape the 
showdown with Tri­
p.m. before taking on

a. =:;: a comeback victory. 
title. 

weekend. 
conference title race. 
State Monday. 
Northwestern Tuesday. 

U) page 18 
page 17
page 18 
page 17 

page 17 
page 16 







