
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
University promotes active staff role 
Jenkins emphasizes importance of values 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to reach all mem­bers of the University communi­ty, administrators conducted four Town Hall sessions for Notre Dame staff today and Wednesday, emphasizing each worker's role in achieving the institution's academic and spiri­tual success. 
"This is a chance for us just to speak to you generally about the University, thank you for your efforts and talk about where we want to go in the future," said University President Father John Jenkins, who delivered a similar -but more academical­ly focused -address to faculty members Tuesday. 
see MISSION/page 8 

STUDENT SENATE 
Shappell discusses meeting with Council 
City officials defend ordinance amendment 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 

Student government leaders came to Wednesday's Senate meeting fresh from debating sticking points of the city's dis­orderly house ordinance with members of the South Bend Common Council -but the conversation ultimately did not result in the removal of the 
see SENATE/page 8 



Affleck-Graves details campus plan specifics 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
Executive Vice President John Aftleck-Graves grounded the oth­erwise ideologically lofty Town Hall meetings held today and Wednesday for Notre Dame staff in more concrete specifics, explaining employee performance initiatives, University budgetary concerns and campUs construction plans. 

"The most frustrating thing for many of you is that you work at Notre Dame, but fmd out about many projects from the newspa-_ per instead of us, so I want to give you a sense of what's going on over next year," Affleck-Graves said. 
As part of an effort to make 
see PLANS/page 6 

Deere CEO speaks at Berges Lecture Series 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
In today's corporate climate, it's the task of company leaders 
to develop, implement and maintain their organi­zations' com­mitment to ethical prac­tices, a busi­ness execu­tive said 


Wednesday. Lane 
Hobert W. Lane, chairman and chief exec­utive officer of Deere and Company, delivered the third lecture in this year's Berges Lecture Series, which addresses issues of ethics in business. 
Lane devoted a large portion of his presentation -which was entitled "No Smoke, No Mirrors: Straight Down the Middle" -to outlining the role of business leaders both in pro­moting an ethical culture within their own companies and in restoring public faith in busi­ness. 
"Frankly, these recent situa­tions in the United States are very ... disappointing," Lane said, referring to the wave of 
see LANE/ page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDcourse material put online 
University joins new OpenCourseWare site 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame has joined a group of universities from around the world offering materials for some of their courses free of charge via the Internet. 
At the invitation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Notre Dame signed on to the OpenCourseWare Consortium, launching its own OpenCourseWare Web site Sept. 20. The site currently fea­tures materials for only eight courses, but the University plans to eventually post materi­als for 30 courses during the year-long pilot program. 
While MIT ultimately intends to offer materials for all of its 1 ,000-plus courses, other American universities are fea­turing the courses for which they are best known. For Johns Hopkins, that means medical school courses; for Harvard, law school courses; and for Notre Dame, courses on some­thing the Consortium feels Notre Dame does best. 
"MIT and the other members of the consortium found Notre Dame's focus on courses hav­ing to do with the 'human con­dition,' in the broad sense, very appealing, and a very valuable addition to the overall OpenCourseWare movement," said Alexander Hahn, director of the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. The 
see COURSES/page 4 


Calllpus SublVay tops U.S. sales 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Though it occupies only a small niche in LaFortune, Notre Dame's campus Subway is one of the fast food chain's biggest sellers. 
Notre Dame's Subway is 
ranked very highly in sales both regionally and nationally, according to Dave Prentkowski, director of Food Services. 
"During the regular aca­demic year the Notre Dame Subway is typically the num­ber one sales store in the geo­graphic region we are part of ... [which] includes northern 
see SUBWAY/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 28, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Television, ·-without pity 
At the beginning of the evening, I was going to write a serious Inside Column. Serious commentary about a serious subject. Something about being dis­turbed by the Career Fair being com­pletely domi­nated by hard­Amanda Michaels core business­men, and the 
Assistant News 

Post-Graduate 
Editor

Service Fair frighteningly overrun with missionaries. It even had a nifty title: "Fair is fair?" 
But now it's rounding on 1 a.m., I still have to finish helping put today's news section together and I know better than to try write scathing social commen­
• tary when I can't think straight. So, though I promised myself I would never publish mindless drivel under my name, I don't have much of a choice anymore. Televisionwithoutpity.com. For any­one that loves your TV with a hefty serving of unbridled sarcasm, this is your Web site. Staffed by a slew of "freelance recappers," each with their own special ability to turn a phrase, its motto is, "Spare the snark, spoil the networks." The most popular shows on television are recapped weekly, and then archived for future perusing pleasure. It's really a beautiful way to procrasti­nate -even an episode you've already seen seems new under the sardonic stares of TWOP's staff. I use it to follow the shows I love but can't get at Notre Dame -mainly, "Project Runway," which I'm too cheap to pay $1.99 for on iTunes-and the shows I just plain love, like "Grey's Anatomy" and the newly-added "Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip." Who doesn't love Aaron Sorkin? Below, I've included just a sample of the type of recappage you get on TWOP. If I had world enough and time, I could compile an entire page's worth of cheeky quips, but this will have to do. It's not only one of my favorite moments on last season's "Grey's" (of the many) but also includes just a taste of recapper insight. You might need to be familiar with the show to get the humor in it, but I have a feeling that quite a few of you already are. 
Courtesy of AB Chao of TWOP: 

Fool and the Gang visit Bailey with their big prom problem, but don't quite know how to address it. She tells them to spit it out, so Alex says the problem is with the colors, and the balloons. 
"Under the Sea! No, it's Titanic! Hey, let's go with Tears in Heaven; no, too morbid!" 
George says they're very, very hope­ful that Bailey speaks Teenage Girl. Bailey does not let them down, as if there were any doubt, and her rapid­fire response is too excellent not to transcribe verbatim: 
"Silver and white. It's mystical and magical without being over the top. Ever see Fashion Week in New York? Lots ofsilver and white runways and backdrops, that's because no matter what color the clothes are, they pop. " 
'They pop?" echoes Promlet One. 'They POP." quoth Bailey. I am so in love I would switch sides 

right now. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for tbe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize tbat we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST PART OF GOING TO AN ALL-WOMEN'S COLLEGE? 








Maribeth Sarnecki  Kelly Gasior  Amanda Brewer  Kelly Biedron  Kellie Anderson  Libby Singelyn  
senior LeMans  sophomore LeMans  junior l/oly Cross  sophomore Holy Cross  sophomore Holy Cross  sophomore LeMans  
"Cohabitating."  "There's never a shortage of chocolate!"  ''The opportunity to experience a strong sense of  "Classes without guys and being able to wear  "When you are mad at boys, you don't have to deal with  "It's like a giant sleepover all the time!"  

female solidarity in a close community setting. .. 

sweatpants and them ifyou sweatshirts all don't want to." 
the time." 
IN BRIEF 
Former Indiana Congress­man and Majority Whip John Brademas will be sharing his experience and answering questions in a talk entitled, "How to Effect Change in Government." It will take place today at 3 p.m. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. The event is sponsored by the Notre Dame College Democrats. 
A panel discussion: "The War in Iraq: What Now?" will take place today at 12:30 p.m. at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The event includes faculty panelists George Lopez, Keir Lieber, Dan Lindley and Jerry Powers and will be moderated by speech­writer to President Clinton, Heather Hurlburt. 
Another installment of the "Pizza, Pop and Politics" series will take place tonight at 5:30 in Coleman-Morse with "The Midterm Elections and the War in Iraq: A Conversation with Foreign Policy Expert Heather Hurlburt." 
A lecture entitled Pope Benedict XVI in Regensburg "The Catholic Church and Islam: Allies or Adversaries?" will take place today from 4:30 
p.m. to 6 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Junior Class Council invites all students to join 80 children from Boys and Girls Club at Stepan Center today from 3:30 p.m. to 6 for an afternoon of fun and games at the inaugural Community Kickoff Carnival. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 65 HIGH 75 LOW 48 LOW 57 
Atlanta 77 I 59 Boston 75 I 54 Chicago 53/46 Denver 69 I 37 Houston 84/68 Los Angeles 84/ 61 Minneapolis 54/43 New York 74/61 Philadelphia 78/59 Phoenix 101 /76 Seattle 72/52 St. Louis 60/51 Tampa 86/68 Washington 78/60 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Anna Matveeva, associate fellow at the Crisis State Research Centre of the London School of Economics, spoke Wednesday at the Hesburgh Center on "Politics and Security in Central Asia: Opportunities for Peacebuilding." Full coverage of this event can be found on page 3 of the News section. 
OFFBEAT 
Sea lion paints for fish 

PITTSBURGH -Some artists suffer for their work. Maggie, an 11-year-old sea lion at the Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium, gets to eat dead fish for hers. Kesha Phares, a zoo trainer, has been teaching the animal to paint since last year. 
It took three months to get the animal to hold a paint brush and touch the bristles to paper. 
Phares picks the paint col­ors -sea lions are color­blind -and puts paint on the brush. The paintings are done one stroke at a time, with Maggie getting a fish after each stroke. 
Sexy dancers forbidden near Thai troops 
BANGKOK, Thailand­Thailand's military coup leaders may be losing their sense of humor. Five days after instructing soldiers to keep smiling, the ruling council decided Wednesday that there is a limit to how much fun soldiers should have. 
They ruled that sexy dancers were forbidden near tanks and tourists were no longer permitted to handle weapons when pos­ing for photographs with troops still deployed in Bangkok. 
The military toppled 
Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra in a bloodless coup Sept. 19. 
At first the ruling generals turned a blind eye when a troupe of go-go dancers with naked midriffs and sexy camouflaged pants perfo'i·med in front of the tanks to be followed the next day by dancers in tra­ditional attire. 
But on Wednesday, Deputy Supreme Commander Gen. Boonsang Niempradit said the go-go dan~ing was "not appropri­ate. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRlDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::1: 
!ci: 
LLI 
~ 
....I 
<C 
CJ 

0 
HIGH 55
..... 
LOW 35 


45 35 

57 43 

63 
43 

Thursday, September 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Guest lecturer discusses Central Asia 
Speaker from London School of Economics addresses political, social instability 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
NewsWrirer 
Anna Matveeva, associate fellow at the Crisis State Research Centre of the London School of Economics, spoke Wednesday at the Hesburgh Center on Central Asia's present potential for political and civil instability. 
In her lecture, entitled "Politics and Security in Central Asia: Opportunities for Peacebuilding," Matveeva identified poor governance and drug trade as the main factors of instability in Central Asia. She also examined the roles the international community has played and will continue to play in the region. 
To begin her talk, Matveeva defined the countries that compose Central Asia as Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. She also cited a debate concerning whether or not Afghanistan may be included as a Central Asian country. 
"[Afghanistan's] people ethnically, culturally, historically are related to some of the countries of what is now Central Asia," she said. 
Matveeva said Central Asian coun­tries are "Third World countries but not with Third World populations" and "nations which are in urgent need of development." Most of the countries are afflicted with "low living standards, growing infant mortality, growing prob­lems of poverty and deprivation," she said. 
Matveeva took care to distinguish the realities of Central Asia from those in Third World post-colonial Africa. 
"The deprivation is quite different," Mateeva said. "The degree of education among people is also different." 
Because many of the Central Asian countries were once part of the United Soviet Socialist Republic, oppression is often used as a "problem-solving tool," she said. Matveeva emphasized the vul­nerability of governments there, and explained that it is not uncommon for governments to present themselves as the only alternative to anarchy -as "the last bastion of order." Thus, such governments are able to frighten people 
into upholding them out of fear of the alternative. 
"And that," Matveeva said, "is a kind of propaganda that has some defi­nite mileage." 
For some of these countries, succes­sion and power change has the 
potential to turn out badly, she said. Matveeva cited the regional challenge of the drug trade as a 
"Democratization is seen by many as a covert weapon ofWestern influence.,, 
Anna Matveeva associate fellow Crisis State Research Centre 
viewpoint along with the complexities of democratization ... If we allow democratic structures to take root, whole societies may unravel," Matveeva said. "Democratization is· seen by many as a covert weapon of Western influence." 
What must be done in Central Asia and what the international community must come to understand, 

possible corrupting factor to present and future government. 
"Afghanistan is emerging as a place of drug production, drug trafficking ... Russia is a booming market for drugs," she said. 
As to what extent drug money might affect the politics of Central Asia, Matveeva had no answer. 
"We cannot really say that current elites are drug lords," she said. 
However, Matveeva alluded to a pre­carious future for Central Asian politics in light of the drug trade. 
As for the role the international com­munity plays in Central Asia, Matveeva said little attention was paid to the problems of the area throughout the 1990s. Moreover, Matveeva explained that there exists for Western culture a great difficulty in addressing the prob­lems of Central Asia, because the democracy so integral to Western socie­ty is not a form of government that seems sustainable in Central Asia. 
"Sept. 11 brought Central Asia into 
Matveeva said, is an emphasis on "problem solving techniques conducive to very gradual solutions ... an empha­sis on state building needs to happen along with police reform and an end to corruption." 
The long-term goal that may be able to effect change and connect the area with the developed world is for "people of Central Asia to interact with the out­side world," she said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
Dor111 throvvs quad carnival 
By BRIDGET KEATING News Writer 
When Hurricane Katrina slammed the Gulf Coast, Welsh Family answered the call to serve and sprung into action with what has now become its signature event: the Welsh Family Block Party. 
Tonight from 8 p.m. to midnight, the Whirlwinds are inviting the entire Notre Dame community to join them on West Quad for this second annual event. This year, proceeds will go to "Room To Read," which establishes schools and educational infrastructure for young girls in Third World coun­tries. 
Hall presidents Lauren Murray and Lauren Shuttleworth led their hallmates through Welsh Family Spirit Week, which began Monday and has included an evening with Executive Director of the Alumni Association Chuck Lennon, Women's Day with Mary Kay facials and hip-hop yoga. Tonight's open block party is the week's highlight and will emphasize Notre Dame and hall pride. 
The Block Party will feature classic carnival games and fun throwback prizes such as goldfish and finger traps. Student body president Lizzi Shappell, vice president Bill Andrichik, rectors and various campus leaders will be sent swimming in the dunk tank. A full slate of entertainment will be on hand, including Ebb and Flow (formerly Harper Valley Drifters), Steppers, Harmonia, ND Bagpipe Band and ProShow DJs. 
Voluntary donations will be collected throughout the evening to benefit "Room To Read," a charity voted on by Welsh Family residents. After earning $1,000 last year for Katrina relief, the women are hopeful for a solid showing once again tonight. 
"This is a fun event that brings Notre Dame together to contribute to a worthy cause," Murray said. 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 

The beacon in multi-mil.lion dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $38 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the credit affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's leading private managers of high yield debt obligations. With approximately $13 billion in committed capital, · Sankaty is aworld-class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi-million dollar investment decisions. 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer. 
Information Session: Thursday, September 28th, 7:30-9:30pm Room 114, Flanner Hall 
Pre-game reception: Saturday, September 30 10:00am until game time 
Place: Stadium lot Look for red and white balloons 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, October 3rd 
1st Round Interviews: Wednesday, October 11th 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 28, 2006 


Lane 
continued from page 1 
scandals that has hit American business in recent years. 
The loss of public trust in business has generated certain trends, Lane said. 
In a company not known for ethical practices, "potential employees might think that there are no rules, that anything goes," he said. 
Acknowledging growing con­cerns over the long-term securi­ty of American jobs in the face of globalization, and the obsta­cles these might cause for the future of corporate ethics, Lane downplayed the role of out­sourcing in recent changes in the economy. He said that out­sourcing accounted for "less than two percent" of job loss, and that workers' wages consti­tute the same portion of annual GOP that they did 50 years ago. 
Lane spoke about the place of ethics in an increasingly global business environment, a theme that has appeared in each of the Berges lectures this year. 
"Much of John Deere's growth in the 21st century will come from countries [whose] laws are very different [from those in the U.S.]," he said. Lane argued that, because of "inevitable" trends in globalization, many companies will face challenges in upholding their codes of ethics abroad. 
Based on these realities, "it is essential that businesses work responsibly with legislatures to develop and enact ... public policies," he said. 
Lane also addressed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and similar recent legislation on cor­porate ethics, another common topic in this year's Berges lec­tures. 
"[Sarbanes-Oxley] has trans­formed procedures and respon­sibilities [in] almost every aspect of organizations," he said. "[It] is a price that U.S. business is paying to restore investor trust." 
Although high profile scandals have kept the public on edge, Lane said it is important that investors and consumers know that most companies "have been 

tocampuso~ 
October 23 & 24 




lanned 
nancy? 
you love needs help please call. 
support and assistance ift,fiil'ab.fe at Notre Dame: 
Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Campus i\1inistry, 1-7163 Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
vigilant for a very long time" in matters of business ethics. 
"Somehow the word needs to get out that most businesses are run by people of high integrity," he said, arguing that the cur­rent situation in corporate ethics is "not as bleak" as it might seem. 
Throughout the lecture, Lane cited the importance of ethical leadership in business. 
As the chief executive of John Deere, "I must be a steward of this business and personally accountable for its legacy," he said. "After we have exhausted all [possibilities] to win business legitimately, we will walk away." 
The goals of corporate ethics, Lane said, don't need to conflict with those of productivity, profit and expansion. As an example, he cited John Deere's stated commitment to "integrity with performance." John Deere employs 47,000 employees in more than 100 countries and has been a mainstay in the pro­duction of agricultural machin­ery for more than 150 years. 
The Berges Lecture Series is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. The next lecture in the series will be entitled "Leadership and Ethics" and will take place Nov. 1. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
materials you find compelling," Hahn said. "That may stimulate 
Courses 
the development of interdisci­continued from page 1 plinary courses." 
OpenCourseWare differs from Kaneb Center is responsible for online courses, for which a stu­overseeing Notre Dame's dent pays to learn, keep con­OpenCourseWare project. tact with the professor and 
Classes like "Terrorism, earn college credit. Rather, the Peace and Other movement presents "complete, Inconsistencies," "Faith and the but static presentations of African-course materi­American als," Hahn said. Experience" The Web site's 
a n d ""So, what this is ... is presentation of 
"Introduction to the featured
an electronic
Philosophy" are courses is among the eight academic expression indeed detailed, 
for which mate­ofwhat Notre Dame is complete with 
rials are avail­syllabi, calen­
about at its core. " 
able online. dars, download­Because able PowerPoint accessing Alexander Hahn presentations course materi­Kaneb Center director and quizzes. 
als online Soon to come requires no reg-are videotaped istration, the lectures, which number of peo-Hahn said the ple using the Web site is University is currently filming. unknown. The project uses a Visual images like streaming hit counter to measure the video or even photographic number of daily visitors to the stills, Hahn said, make studying Web site, but Hahn said that OpenCourseWare a "richer figure was unavailable due to experience." the newness of the site. Hahn said the faculty has 
Funded by a $233,000 grant been very generous in its time from the William and Flora and energy commitment, but a Hewlett Foundation, Notre videotaped lecture would no Dame's OpenCourseWare proj­doubt decrease a professor's ect is targeted toward people planning time -extra time both outside and inside the which "quite frankly, a lot of University community. professors don't have," accord­
"What made me immediately ing to philosophy professor Bill positive toward this opportunity Ramsey, whose "Introduction to was the fact that Notre Dame Philosophy" course materials and certainly its founding order are online. [the Congregation of Holy "It would save time and effort Cross] are very much mission­involved in going back and oriented," Hahn said. " ... So, revising lectures, which is what what this is ... is an electronic I had to do," Asfaruddin said. academic expression of what "That's a viable alternative, I Notre Dame is about at its think. And I think a lot of pro­core." fessors may actually choose 
Holy Cross missions through­that option." out the world -like high Also saving the professors schools from Bangladesh to time are Course Production Ghana to Chile -might also Assistants [CPAs], undergradu­benefit from these materials, ate and graduate students who Hahn said. He also said the compile lectures and collate program is discussing transla­information before placing it tion possibilities with Chair of online. Asfaruddin called hers, Romance Languages and senior David Poell, "indispensa­
Literatures Ted Cachey and ble." Chair of East Asian Languages What remains in question is and Literatures Lionel Jensen. whether the program is indis­
"I would personally love to pensable to the University ­have my syllabus available, for for, like almost all academic example, in Arabic," said pro­endeavors, there are costs fessor Asma Asfaruddin, whose associated with the "Islamic Societies of the Middle OpenCourseWare project. Still, East and North Africa" materi­Hahn says he plans to write als are featured online. "I think another letter to the Hewletts. that would be a great idea -"We certainly envision anoth­I'd love to get feedback from er application to the Hewlett people in the Middle East." Foundation when this one is 
Within Notre Dame's bound­over a year from now," he said. aries, OpenCourseWare poten­" ... I think this is just a very tially benefits students select­worthwhile effort that Notre ing their courses and even their Dame is involved in here. careers. The Web site might "This is, in my view, com­also connect faculty in a new pletely consonant to what Notre way, Hahn said. Dame, at its best, is all about." 
"Imagine the possibilities ... there might be a colleague in Contact Eileen Duffy at another college whose course eduffyl@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE ()HSERVER'S W!RE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Gunman enters Colorado school 
EU increases carry-on restrictions 
BRUSSELS, Belgium -European Union air safety officials on Wednesday backed tight­ened rules on the amount of liquids and size of carry-on baggage passengers can bring onto commercial flights -even as the U.S. has eased its restrictions. 
The stricter EU-wide security rules are a response to Britain's discovery on Aug. 10 of a plot to bring down U.S.-bound flights with liquid-based explosives. 
The European Commission said its tighter limits on liquids will enter into force in early November. The rules would let passengers carry on no more than a fifth of a pint of liq­uid per container. All such containers will have to be in a clear plastic bag to be checked at security stations. 
The rules also limit carry-on baggage to a maximum of 22 inches by 17 inches by 10 inches -not much bigger than a briefcase or laptop bag -although exceptions could be made for some items such as musical instruments. 

Saudi Arabia to build border fence 
DUBAI -Saudi Arabia is pushing ahead with plans to build a fence to block terrorists from crossing its 560-mile border with Iraq -another sign of growing alarm that Sunni­Shiite strife could spill over and drag Iraq's neighbors into its civil conflict. 
The barrier, which hasn't been started, is part of a $12 billion package of measures including electronic sensors, security bases and physical barriers to protect the oil-rich kingdom from external threats, said Nawaf Obaid, head of the Saudi National Security Assessment Project, an independent research institute that advises the Saudi government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

House approves interrogation bill 
WASHINGTON -The House approved leg­islation Wednesday giving the Bush adminis­tration authority to interrogate and prosecute terrorism detainees, moving President Bush to the edge of a pre-election victory with a key piece of his anti-terror plan. 
The mostly party-line 253-168 vote in the Republican-run House prompted bitter charges afterward by House Speaker Dennis Hastert, R-Ill., that opposition Democrats were coddling terrorists, perhaps foreshad­owing campaign attack ads to come. Democrats responded that the GOP leader was trying to provoke fear. 
Republican leaders are hoping to work out differences and send Bush a final version before leaving Washington this weekend to campaign for the Nov. 7 congressional elec­tions. 
Bush urges leaders to cooperate 
WASBINGTON -President Bush appealed to the bickering presidents of Pakistan and Afghanistan on Wednesday to put aside their differences and "strategize together" over din­ner on ways to prevail in defeating the com­mon enemy of terrorism. 
Standing between Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharraf and Afghan President Hamid Karzai, Bush emphasized "the need to cooperate, to make sure that people have got a hopeful future" in both countries. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana sees surge in West Nile virus 
INDIANAPOLIS -A late summer surge in human West Nile_ cases has pushed Indiana's tally so far this year to 30 human cases -the most since 2003. 
The State Department of Health reported this week that 16 new cases of West Nile disease have been confirmed among Indiana residents, more than doubling the state's 2006 total to 30. 
More cases are expected in the coming weeks as Hoosiers who've fallen ill with flu-like symp­toms seek treatment and are diagnosed with West Nile, James Howell, a veterinary epidemi­ologist with the department, said Tuesday. 
Suspect takes six hostage, critically wounding one before committing suicide 
Associated Press 
BAILEY, Colo. -A gun­man took six girls hostage at the high school in this mountain town Wednesday, holding authorities at bay for hours before shooting and critically wounding one of the girls, then killing himself as SWAT team members moved in. 
The gunman, believed to be between 30 and 50 years old, was cornered with the hostages in a sec­ond-floor classroom and released four of them, one by one. 
Park County Sheriff Fred Wegener said authorities decided to enter the school to save the two remaining hostages after the suspect cut off negotiations and set a deadline. He said the sus­pect had threatened the girls throughout the four­hour ordeal and had shielded himself with the hostages. 
The gunman was not immediately identified, and the sheriff was at a loss to explain a motive. 
"I don't know why he wanted to do this," Wegener said, his voice breaking. 
After the suspect entered the building, hundreds of students at Platte Canyon High School were evacuat­ed in a scene that recalled the horror at Columbine just a short drive away. 
Students said the beard­ed suspect wore a dark blue hooded sweatshirt and a camouflage backpack. The sheriff said the man threatened to set off a bomb he claimed to have in the backpack. The man was also toting a handgun. 
Authorities had what they described as "spo­radic" negotiations with the suspect and urged him to contact them for more discussion. Officers eventu­ally crept close to the building, and there were reports of an explosion inside. 
A short time later, some­one wheeled a gurney inside and took an uniden­tified person to a medical helicopter parked on the school's football field. 


Lynn Bigham, who described herself as a fami­ly friend of a wounded hostage, said the girl had just turned 16. 
"I think she's very strong, I've been praying she'll be OK," she said. "She's real bubbly. Every time you see her she gives you a hug." 
The last hostage was unharmed and talking with authorities. 
The sight of students fleeing the high school in long lines, and of frantic parents scrambling to find their children, evoked memories of the 1999 attack on Columbine High School, where two students killed 13 people before committing suicide. 
Students described a chaotic scene inside after the intercom announced 
"code white" and everyone was told to stay in their classrooms. 
The high school and a nearby middle school were evacuated. Jefferson County authorities -who also handled the attack at Columbine -sent a bomb squad and SWAT team to the high school. 
''I'm just terrified. I'm terrified," said Sherry Husen, whose son plays on the high school football team and was told not to return to school from his part-time job. "I know so many kids in that school." 
Students from the two evacuated schools were taken to an elementary school for a head count. Ambulances were parked in the end zone of the school's football field, and a tank-like SWAT team vehi­cle was parked nearby on a . closed highway. 
Parents pressed authori­ties for details but had little information on their chil­dren. 
Bill Twyford said he received a text message from his 15-year-old son, Billy, a student at the high school, at about 11:30 a.m. It said: "Hey there, there's a gun hijacking in school right now. I'm fine, bad sit­uation though." 
Twyford said he had not heard from his son since then and was not sure if he was among the hostages. 
Michael Owens, who has one son at the middle school and another in the high school, said the anxi­ety was worse because of the memory of Columbine. 
"It's like an earthquake," he said. 
GERMANY 


Iranian nuclear program debated 
Associated Press 

BERLIN -Senior Iranian and European Union negotiators held five hours of talks Wednesday on Tehran's disputed nuclear program amid sug­gestions the U.S. might be willing to defer seeking sanctions for a few weeks ifa diplomatic resolution was in sight. 
EU foreign policy chief Javier Solana and chief Iranian nuclear negotiator Ali Larijani went into their meeting at a Foreign Ministry facility by the side of Lake Tegel on the outskirts of Berlin 
without making statements to reporters. 
German Foreign Minister Frank­Walter Steinmeier, who was not partici­pating in the talks, said he was opti­mistic progress could be made. 
"I have the expectation that the talks today will be successful," Steinmeier said. "I think that today we will not get any final news, but hopefully in the course of tomorrow." 
Solana would report back to the six countries trying to persuade Iran to give up its program to enrich uranium, he said, "and then it will be decided together if there are conditions for a return to the negotiating table." 
The negotiators met for five hours of "very intense" talks before adjourning until Thursday, said Solana spokes­woman Cristina Gallach. 
Germany has joined with the perma­nent U.N. Security Council members­the United States, China, Russia, France and Britain -in pressing Iran to give up what the U.S. says is a nucl~ar weapons program. Iran says its program is peaceful. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Notre Dame Experience," to be non-salary, Affleck-Graves said. vations to the existing building. and residential space on Eddy introduced this November. ND The money for salary and benefit The extension will parallel Notre Street. The concept is to create a
Plans 

Voice distributes a survey to staff increases comes primarily from Dame Avenue on the site where "college town," he said. Work is continued from page 1 members, in which they can funds marked for unrestricted the former Post Office currently projected to begin in 14 to 16 
anonymously express to the posi­usage, which made up 69 percent stands. An arched bridge-"rem­months. Notre Dame not only "a fabulous tives and negatives of their experi­of the 2005 University revenue -iniscent of the Lyons arch," A project to renovate the power place to come to" but also "a great ence working for the University. a limit that Affleck-Graves said Affieck-Graves said -will link the plant has already started, accord­place to work," the University will Responses will help establish what makes significant raises in salary new and old wings. ing to Affieck-Graves, who said the implement a new performance the current problems with the sys­difficult. Construction on that project is goal is "to change the output of management system for its staff. tem are, and subsequent surveys Affleck-Graves also related expected to begin next summer, the power plant and make it a lit­
"We want each of you to feel a will determine if the changes plans for future campus develop­with the old post office set to be tle more attractive." sense of mission, so we what we made have improved the issues in ment to the gathered staff, indicat­taken down within the year. This winter, the University will want to do is work on a perform­question. ing that as the University grows The site of the University Club -begin the first phase of the Coming ance management system that "[ND Voice] will help us see the along with its aspirations, it will a popular restaurant among Home project, which provides for allows us to link our mission and problems and try to do things to require "support services and new returning alumni -is earmarked the construction of mausoleums in objective to everyone," he said. fix them, and then try to measure facilities." for a new engineering teaching the crowded on-campus Cedar 
Using a projected graphic, if there's been some important To the audible gasps of staff and research center. Grove cemetery for the ashes and Affieck-Graves illustrated the rela­strides toward improvement," he members, Affieck-Graves worked "We don't know exactly what it's bodies of Notre Dame alumni and tionship between individual per­said. through a slideshow that showed going to look like ... but it will be a students. formance goals (or, "What I can do The University is also putting in the history of construction on very complex building," he said. "[The lack of burial space] is a to contribute") and core value place a hotline run by an external campus incrementally between It too will be done in the Gothic problem, because we have people competencies ("How I'm expected party, where employees can 1842 and 2005. The final slide­style, Aflleek-Graves said, poten­scattering ashes on all sorts of to act"). The goals of each depart­anonymously report any problems picturing the current state of cam­tially mirroring the Eck Center places on campus, which, among ment -and even each employee -ethical or otherwise -they feel pus -included nid sections that and Hammes Bookstore across other things, is against Catholic -are expected to align them­they cannot report to their super­indicated where building projects the street. teaching," Affleck-Graves said. selves with the greater mission of visor. are planned for the ncar future. To add some green space to the Finally, he touched on the the University. "Corporations have a system He pointed out the projected increasingly full campus, Notre "Athletics Master Plan," which 
"Achieving our aspirations alone like this, usually just to add anoth­locations of three out of the four Dame Commons will be laid out includes the renovation of Joyce is not enough," he said. "We must er avenue to bring to attention planned residence halls -two between the DeBartolo South (the basketball arena), the do it the right way." areas of concern," he said. just east of Pasquerilla East and Performing Arts Center and reorientation of the JACC entrance 
Affieck-Graves also emphasized Affleck-Graves warned staff Knott where Juniper Road is cur­Angela Boulevard. to face the parking area and the Notre Dame's commitment to members to remain patient while rently being cleared, and one to The sketch Affleck-Graves construction of a new softball field developing the abilities of staff the performance management the west of McGlinn Hall. showed the group featured a land­in the southern part of the existing members. system is put into place over the Ground is expected to be broken scaped area and a second campus athletic fields. 
"We want all of you to have the next year and a half. for the first of these dorms by entrance located where Juniper "All of this is just an update of feeling that Notre Dame is the best "This process is more for you February, and it will be ready for currently meet'l Angela. what you expect to see," Affieck­place in the world to work at it, than us, so please, give us feed­occupation by fall 2008, he said. "The concept of this space is to Graves said after explaining the and it is important for us to let you back," he said. Though the definite location of the create an open, welcoming area projected campus map. develop to whatever level you Affleck-Graves then touched first new hall will not be con­on campus," Affieck-Graves said. Response from the staff mem­want to," he said. briefly on the University's financial firmed until October, Affleck­"We want to be more inviting to bers present at 11 a.m. meeting 
In order to ensure that each situation, focusing specifically on Graves speculated that it would be South Bend community." Wednesday was positive. employee is living up to his or her the budgetary limitations that at the West Quad location. Work is expected to start on this "This was all very informative ­potential and embodying the mis­restrict salary and benefit increas­And unlike the most-recently space in February or March, he it's interesting to see where cam­sion of the University, formal per­es -perhaps in response to vocal constructed dorms -the four on said. pus came from and where it is formance reviews will be conduct­pressure in favor of a "living West Quad -the new construc­He then described the redevel­going," said Alan Bigger, director ed consistently, and annual salary wage" for campus employees from tion will be in the "throwback" opment of the Northeast of Building Services. "This was a increases will be tied to perform­the student-run Campus Labor Gothic-style, similar to that of the Neighborhood Project -also great step to help connect with the ance, Affieck-Graves said. Action Project Jordan Hall of Science, Aftleck­known as the "Eddy Street staff:" 
Administrators are also putting The University expenses for the Graves said. Commons" -which includes, into place a new program called 2005 fiscal year were 64 percent A new wing is al'lo planned for among other plans, the construc­Contact Amanda Michaels at "ND Voice: Understanding Your salary and benefits and 36 percent the Law School, along with reno-tion of two blocks of retail, office amichael@nd.edu 
. 




Eat, drink and be Irish 
(In moderation, ofcourse.) 
Enjoy heartyfare and a pint to wash it down with at ... 

Brigid's is a bit of Ireland in your own backyard -just seconds from campus at Waterford Estates Lodge. With its dark ales, rich stouts, exuberant food and lively conversation, Bri<~id's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the Hreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And the/reopen seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterford Estates Lodge has hotel rooms at reasonable rat.e..-,; fur upcornin<<S N D nx>tball weekends. Even lower rates -fix North Carolina and Army.) 

Thursday, September 28, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,689.24 +19.85

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,044 124 1,263 2,702,553,940 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.12 -0.05 40.72 
INTEL CP (INTC) +2.15 +0.43 20.39 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.57 -0.08 5.00 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.88 +0.24 27.44 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +3.21 +0.07 2.25 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE +0.20 +0.009 4.594 13-WEEK BILL -0.1 I -0.005 4.750 30-YEAR BOND +0.45 +0.021 4. 73 3 5-YEARNOTE +0.11 +0.005 4.558 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.95 62.96 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +6.20 603.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 89.43 
Excha Rates 

YEN 117.5000 
EURO 0.7873 
POUND 0.5293 
CANADIAN$ 
1.1 I 14 

IN BRIEF 
Tyson Foods settles hiring lawsuit 
WASHINGTON -Tyson Foods Inc. has agreed to pay $1.5 million to settle allegations that the company discriminated against women and minorities in hiring, the Labor Department announced Wednesday. 
The money will flow to more than 2,500 people affected by the settlement, the depart­ment said. 
The allegations of hiring discrimination involved six facilities in Arkansas and Oklahoma. The allegations emerged during government compliance evaluations conduct­ed from 2002 through 2004. 
Tyson Foods, in a statement, said that com­pany officials had denied the allegations and had stated that there were legitimate reasons for not hiring the applicants. The company said it entered into the settlement to avoid costly and protracted litigation. 
Tyson Foods remains "committed to treating all job applicants fairly," said Ken Kimbro, senior vice president of human resources. 

Shareholders vote to sell Univision 
LOS ANGELES -Shareholders of Spanish­language broadcaster Univision Communications Inc. voted Wednesday in favor of selling the company for $12.3 billion to a private investor group that includes media mogul Haim Saban. 
The deal priced at $36.25 a share in cash was approved by more than 80 percent of the shares that voted, which in turn represented more than 60 percent of company's outstand­ing shares, Univision said. 
In addition to what it is offering for the shares, the investment group would assume $1.4 billion in Univision debt. 
The transaction must still pass regulatory approval, but is expected to close next spring. 
The consortium of investors includes Madison Dearborn Partners, Providence Equity Partners, Texas Pacific Group, Thomas 
II. Lee Partners and Saban's Saban Capital Group. 
Univision dominates the U.S. Hispanic media market through its three television networks -Univision, TeleFutura and Galavision ­more than two-dozen television stations, a recorded music division, Internet portal and Spanish-language radio stations. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Consumers question gas prices 
Many Americans believe that politics are afactor in the sharp drop at the pump 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Energy 
experts pin the sharp 
decline in gasoline prices on 
basic market forces. Tell 
that to many motorists, 
however, and their eyes roll. 
Two out of five Americans 
believe the November elec­
tions and politics -not eco­
nomics -are behind the 
plunge at the pump. · 
Hetired farmer Jim Mohr 
of Lexington, Ill., rattled ofT 
a tankful of reasons why 
fuel costs may be falling, 
including the end or the 
summer travel season and 
the fact that no major hur­
ricanes have disrupted Gulf 
of' Mexico output. 
"But I think the big 
important reason is 
Hepublicans want to get 
elected," Mohr, 66, said 
while filling up for $2.17 a 
gallon. "They think getting 
the prices down is going to 
help get some more incum­
bents re-elected." 
According to a new 
Gallup poll, 42 percent of 
respondents agreed with 
the statement that the Bush 
administration "deliberately 
manipulated the price of 
gasoline so that it would 
decrease before this fall's 
elections." Fifty-three per­
cent of those surveyed did 
not believe in this conspira­
cy theory, while 5 percent 
said they had no opinion. 
Almost two-thirds or those owners concede has been motor fuels at the National notion that President Bush, 
who suspect President Bush steeper than usual. Association of Convenience or any politician, had the 
intervened to bring down The retail price of gaso­Stores. power to muscle around a 
energy prices before line has plunged by 66 Jay Hicker, president of global market. 
Election Day are registered cents, or 22 percent, since Ricker Oil Co. in Anderson, The plunge in prices, 
Democrats, according to early August to average Ind., which owns about 30 Halff said, is the result of 
Gallup. $2.38 a gallon nationwide, gas stations and supplies growing domestic invento­
White House spokesman according to the Energy fuel to 30 more, said he's ries of fuel, slowing eco­
Tony Snow told reporters Department. That is 42.5 thrilled to see pump prices nomic growth and toned­
Monday he was "amused" cents lower than a year sinking so fast. down rhetoric between Iran 
by the suggestion "that the ago, when the country's fuel More customers are buy­and the United States, 
president has been rigging output was devastated by ing mid-grade and premium which has been critical of 
gas prices, which would hurricanes Katrina and gasoline, he said, and Tehran's uranium enrich­
give him the kind of magis­Rita, which damaged plat­they're spending more cash ment program. 
terial clout unknown to any forms, pipelines and inside his convenience The selloff has been mag­
other human being." refineries across the Gulf stores, where profit mar­nified, Halff said, by the 
"If we're dropping gas Coast. gins are higher. recent retreat from the 
prices now," Snow said, With competition fierce to ''I'd much rather sell market by many speculative 
"why on earth did we raise sell the cheapest fuel on the them a doughnut or a foun­investors who got burned 
them to $3.50 before?" block, gas is selling for less tain drink," said Ricker, by the late-summer volatili­
The suspicion among U.S. than $2 a gallon in many whose stations are selling ty. That said, "the sky is not 
motorists follows a post­states. regular unleaded for a few falling," said Halff, who 
summer decline in gasoline "They want to gain mar­pennies above $2. believes oil prices will likely 
prices that even veteran ket share," said John Fimat USA oil analyst head higher again this win­
analysts and gas station Eichberger, director of Antoine Halff scoffed at the ter. 

Fugitive CEO captured in-Namibia 
mend them for their vigilance," she News reports in Israel speculated
Associated Press 

said. that he may have been hiding out in 
NEW YORK -The fugitive former Mauskopf said she would seek a small Sri Lankan fishing village. 
chief executive of leading voicemail Alexander's swift extradition to face Two other defendants, former 
software maker Comverse charges in federal court in Brooklyn. finance chief David Kreinberg and 
Technology Inc. has been captured A call to his defense attorney in New former senior general counsel 
in Africa following a two-month York was not immediately returned. William Sorin, surrendered in 
international manhunt, U.S. officials The manhunt was launched in late August and were released on $1 mil­
announced Wednesday. July shortly before authorities lion bond each. 
Details of the arrest of Jacob unsealed a criminal complaint The complaint unsealed in federal 
"Kobi" Alexander in the Republic of accusing Alexander and two other court accuses the three men of' mak­
Namibia were not immediately avail­former top executives of secretly ing stock options more lucrative by 
able. But in a statement, U.S. manipulating stock options for per­backdating their exercise price to a 
Attorney Hoslynn Mauskopf credited sonal profit. low point in the stock's value. 
local officials in the southwest Before he disappeared, Alexander, Usually, a stock option's exercise 
African nation for assisting the FBI 54, an Israeli citizen and a U.S. per­price coincides with the market 
in the capture. manent resident, allegedly trans­value at the time of a grant to give 
"We are very grateful for the ferred $57 million to Israel, fueling the recipient an incentive to drive 
Namibians' swift action and com-speculation he may have fled there. the price higher. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
controversial eviction clause. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell, student body vice president Bill Andrichik, Community Relations commit­
tee  chair  Josh  Pasquesi,  
Judicial  Council  chair  Liz  
Kozlow  and  Northeast  
Neighborhood  
Council student  


representative "Our concern has to ators discussed 
specifically about employment 
Krystal Hardy do with lesser the accessibility 
initiatives and campus con­
came to the of student gov­
struction, Burish and Jenkins
incidents that 
Health and ernment for 
referred more broadly to how
happened last year 
Public Safety students who 
staff members fit in the 
committee that we don't believe want to join. 
University's greater goals. 
Wednesday to Keenan sena­
Burish set the session's inclu­
warranted eviction." 
discuss and tor Chris 
sive tone by using his time to 
suggest poten­Beesley sug­
thank the staff on behalf of 
tial changes to Lizzi Shappell gested survey­
administrators, faculty mem­
the disorderly student body president ing the fresh­
bers and students. 
house ordi­nance, which sparked a backlash from stu­dents when it was amended in summer 2005. 
The amendment to the ordi­nance reduced the number of noise violations required for the city to send residents a notice to abate from three to one. The law goes further by also sending landlords that notice to abate -but drops all fines against the landlord if he or she evicts the resident within 30 days of receiving the notice. 
But despite the group's efforts, Council members ulti­mately rejected student gov­ernment's initiative to strike the eviction clause from the ordinance. 
The meeting was "a good discussion," Shappell told sen­ators, but Council members reportedly said the clause must remain in the ordinance as a defense for landlords who must deal with disorderly ten­ants. 
While she understands those sentiments, Shappell said the ordinance is sometimes taken too far. 
"Our concern has to do with lesser incidents that happened last year that we don't believe warranted eviction," Shappell said, referring to the six evic­tion notices that were sent to students living at Turtle Creek Apartments in fall 2005. 
Shappell said Council mem­bers and student government leaders agreed that eviction should only follow "egregious" ordinance violations. However, Council members said that can be done without changing the ordinance itself. Instead, they believe better communication between student tenants and their landlords will help reduce the number of evic­tions, Shappell said. 
"They're interested in chang­ing the ordinance in practice, not rhetoric," she said. 
But the conversation is not over. Shappell said the group will probably meet again in three months to evaluate the ordinance again. 
In other Senate news: 
+At the urging of Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood, sen­


Mission 
continued from page 1 
Jenkins was joined by Provost Tom Burish and Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves, who each took a portion of the allotted hour to speak to the hundreds of staff members who flocked to the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
While Affleck-Graves spoke 
men in student 
government to learn how they became involved, while Breen-Phillips senator Maris Braun said dis­seminating information in the weeks prior to elections would be helpful. 
Director of Communications Alex French said his office ­which is only in its second year of existence -already has six freshman members. But he noted that some dorms have had problems with their Judicial Council representa­tives, who should have infor­mation about elections. 
When Lockwood asked about the accessibility of the student government Web site, Shappell admitted that the site has not been updated since fall 2005. Student government recently received the software for a brand new Web site -only to realize that it is not compatible with the office's computers. Once a new computer with a Pentium 4 processor is pur­chased, the site will be running and updated "regularly," Shappell said. 
+University Affairs commit­tee chair Aly Baumgartner 

"Unfortunately those who work in the academic side in the University often don't thank you [the staff] enough ... Because you're as good as you are at what you do, it's easy to take you for granted," Burish said. "A university is like a city ... a city which works because of you. You run the city that is Notre Dame." 
Burish described stall' mem­bers as "role models" for stu­dents, often stepping in in place of parents to offer guidance and support during the undergrad­uates' important years of growth. 
"When [students] are praying or studying or in class, you make it possible for them to do what they do, and when they're not in class, you give meaning to their life at Notre Dame," Burish said. "You do it all for them while they're here, and you do the same for the facul­ty." 
Jenkins reiterated this senti­ment. 
"I feel a special connection with each one of you," he said. " .. .I know that what you do, the to both its Catholic character and constant quest for improvement. 
"The great promise of Notre Dame is to bring together the spiritual and moral values of the Catholic university with true excellence of the tradition­al academic university," he said. 
Jenkins said a colleague from Harvard University told him, "If Notre Dame ever had to shut its doors, there'd be no one to take its place." 
Jenkins outlined strategies for realizing a greater vision for the University -one that puts it as one of the world's preemi­nent academic institutions that manages to retain its distinctive Catholic character. 
The plan focuses on continu­
encouraged members to attend the first-ever Student-Alumni 

Office of International Studies 
Reception on Friday. 

152 Hurley Building
The event is open to all stu­

T: 631-5882
dents and is the first of three 
student-alumni receptions. It will be held in the Eck Center at 3:30p.m. 
Baumgartner said it's a casu­al, "no pressure" opportunity for students to chat with for­mer Notre Dame students. 
"These are people who have done well for themselves, and we all know how the alumni network is a great thing to tap into," Brown said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 


mmalone3@nd.edu 


support you give us, the sup­port you give students and fac­ulty, makes this place the great place it is. I'm extraordinarily proud to be president of this great institution." 
Jenkins went on to laud Notre Dame's unique place among academic institutions, speaking of the high standards to which the University is held. 
Whether meeting with Pope Benedict XVI, President George 
W. Bush or leaders in academ­ics, Jenkins took away the same message every time. 
"What they all communicated in the different ways is a spe­cial expectation, a special hope ing to nurture unsurpassed undergraduate education, small but excellent graduate and pro­fessional programs and vibrant residential life committed to moral and spiritual develop­ment, he said. 

Specific points of direction for this year include a push for recognition of Notre Dame as a premier research university, more recruiting of Catholic fac­ulty and improvement of inter­nal organization, communica­tion and teamwork. 
At the heart of this develop­ment is a set of core values Jenkins focused on as the essence of the University and 
for Notre Dame," Jenkins said. "They expect us 

"Unfortunately
to be a great uni­versity and pro­those who work in 
duce great grad­the academic side 
uates, but they 

in the University 
also expect some­

thing more than often don't thank 
that." you [the staffl That "some­
enough."
thing more" is what Jenkins called Notre John Jenkins Dame's "special University president sense of pur­pose," connected 
its members ­including the staff. 
"Core values are very impor­tant. They are things that absolutely every­one should have in mind, because this is part of what it means to be part of Notre Dame," he said, citing integrity, accountability, teamwork, lead­
ership in excellence and leader­ship in mission. 
Jenkins asked each staff member to recognize these val­ues and integrate them into their work, setting the highest standards of behavior every day. 
"As I said, at the core of Notre Dame are special spiritu­al and moral values, and each and every one of us contributes to that spirit," he said. 
Affleck-Graves used the last part of the meeting to elaborate on the University's efforts to ensure the presence of these values, and to make Notre Dame "a great and rewarding place to work." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at 
arnichael@nd.edu 




INNSBRUCK 
2007-2008 Academic Year 
Information Meeting with Hannelore Weber 
"Yes, you CAN... fit Innsbruck into your major!" 
Sunday, October 1, 2006 118 DeBartolo 7:00pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/~intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.l5(tilnd.edu Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
salads every 60 seconds, With more than two million according to the company Web different sandwich combinations 
Subway 

site. available, the continued from page 1 Notre Dame restaurant is a
"During the regular 
students down popular choice Indiana, and northern Ohio and an estimated academic year the among students parts of Illinois not including 400 sandwiches Notre Dame Subway is looking to burn Chicago," he said. per day, most of s o m e
typically the number 
Nationally speaking, Notre which are FlexPoints. 
one sales store in the 
Dame's Subway has "reached as turkey, which is "I get a differ­high as number three in the "consumed at a geographic region.'' ent thing every United States" in terms of sales. rate four times time I go," said The rankings are issued by greater than freshman
Dave Prentkowski
Subway's corporate communica­any other Brianna Muller. tions, and other Subway stores meat," he said. director of Food Services "That's the only 
that perform at a similar level are located in other universities, some military bases and Las Vegas casinos, Prentkowski said. 
Subway has 26,534 restau­rants in 85 countries, serving around 2,800 sandwiches and 

This large consumption contributes to Notre Dame's . Subway "typically [having] the highest number of 6-foot sub and party tray sales in the region," Prentkowski said. 

September 28 

You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study 
Introduction of the Fellowship Office 

11 9 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 1 04 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OJ~ 

NOTRE DAME 
place I really go 

in LaFortune because of the variety and it's also really healthy too." 
Contact Sonia Rao at srao1@nd.edu 
fRANCE 



Space surgery a success 
Doctors make history in zero-gravity conditions 
Associated Press 

MERIGNAC -Braving queasy stomachs, a team of French doctors took to the skies Wednesday for the first opera­tion on a human being in zero­gravity conditions, removing a cyst from the arm of a man as the aircraft soared and dived to create weightlessness. 
The five-man medical team made history by slicing off the yellow growth that floated away from the patient, tied to a string. Doctors worked in inter­vals of 22 seconds during condi­tions of weightlessness. Coincidentally, it took 22 inter­vals to complete the surgery. 
The operation, more than three years in the making and part of a three-phase explo­ration of weightless surgery, paves the way toward one day performing surgery in space via a surgeon or a remotely con­
trolled robot. It also is an experiment that may one day be instructive for a future med­ical emer­gency on the international space station. 
The flight lasted three hours, but the operation took just over eight minutes 
"We have done a simple ern city M Bordeaux.
technical procedure, but 
The pilot of
everything we noticed 
the speciallyshows that operating on a designed 330 
human in space conditions Zero G air­
craft cut
will not present 
back the 
insurmountable problems." engines at the peak of a climb, allow­

Dr. Dominique Martin 
ing near­

medical team leader 
about the same amount of time that such surgery would have taken in a hospital, doctors said. 
Three surgeons, two anes­thetists and a cameraman were strapped to the walls with mountain-climbers' gear as the aircraft dipped and soared in roller coaster-like parabolas to achieve intervals of weightless­ness. 
"We have done a simple tech­nical procedure, but everything we noticed shows that operat­ing on a human in space condi­tions will not present insur­mountable problems," said Dr. Dominique Martin, leader of the medical team. 


Ne:xt T-u.esday 
The surgery went "exactly as we had expected," he told reporters. 
Patient Philippe Sanchot ­chosen because he is an avid bungee jumper, hardened to the shocks of G-force strains -was given a local anesthetic and remained awake throughout the operation. 
''I'm just a little tired, but it's because my head is spinning," Sanchot, 46, said. 
The relatively minor proce­dure was meant to give a pre­liminary idea of what surgery in space might be like, providing information about how blood flows in zero gravity or whether special equipment was needed. 
Doctors said the test was partly designed to rebut naysay­ers who claimed that surgery is unlikely -if not impossible ­in space. 
In the experiment, the plane flew loops 20,000 feet to 27,560 
feet over the 
southwest­
weightless 
drift down­
ward. After a near nose-dive, the pilot soared upward at angles of up to 45 degrees. 
"At times, we bantered to one another, 'Be careful! Don't twist it,"' Sanchot recalled, a band­age on his right arm. "It was to loosen up the atmosphere." 
The surgical team was forced to work quickly: the effect of weightlessness came in brief intervals, with waits and battles with nausea in-between. 
''I'm not crazy about these parabolic flights. While it's an extraordinary sensation, I don't do this for fun," Martin said. "In the last parabolas, I felt a bit of gastric reflux." 
The sensation would be famil­iar to fans of amusement parks who know the stomach-churn­ing feeling of roller coasters as they heave over a climb, then descend in a near free fall. 
TV film showed doctors oper­ating in what appeared to be near normal conditions ­except for a small pink object floating near their hands. A doctor flicked it away at one point. A piece of tissue then eerily floated upward. 
Doctors acknowledged the relatively minor excision was a far cry from more complicated surgery that could be needed on the International Space Station, but suggested it was an impor­tant first step. 
Martin said there was no telling what kind of operations were best suited for weightless conditions. 
"If I had two hours of weight­lessness, I could have removed an appendix -or whatever ­but we had 10 minutes to show an operation was possible in these conditions," he said. 
"We showed our materials were adequate, the operating room we created was opera­tional, that the monitoring of the patient didn't pose any problems," Martin said. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 28, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

The importance of image 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kare Antonacci 
Mary Kate.Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERfiSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-53f3 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of!J:le administration ofeither • institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directedto Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th< Q!oer..,. (USPS 599 ~000) ~ publiduxl Mornlay <hro>W> F<l&y =<p< dwing clC-am and v:teation periods. A subscription ll;} The Ob&crver is $100 for one academic. year; $55 fur one scmcsreL 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining l;iall Send addres5 oom:crions :r:o: Notre Dame. IN 465-56-0779 Th<Ob== Puiod.i.cal postage p,tid at None D.am:c= P.O. Box779 and additionaJ mailing offic<;$. OZ4 S<Mh Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, IN 4&5%-0779 
The Observer Is a rMmber ofthe As:sociat«< Press. All n:produa:ion rights :m: 
r~rvcd. 

Eight Halloweens ago, the most popular costume was not that of a witch or a warlock. Instead, it was the guise of a former White House intern -Monica Lewinsky. 
Many autumns later, as Americans flock to costume shops for their 'Superman Returns' Evil Bizarro latex masks (predicted to be one of the year's hottest cos­tumes), Monica Lewinsky's name -along with what she did to earn her place in history ­has not been forgotten. 

Everyone is known for something. Unfortunately for former President Bill Clinton, his image is inextricably linked to a beret-wearing intern. 
In his post-presidential years, Clinton has tried to amend his image in a rather Jimmy Carter-esque fash­ion. 
After Carter's presidency, it seemed as though he was destined to be remembered as that man from Georgia who mishandled the Iranian hostage crisis. In his post-presiden­tial years, however, Carter highlight­ed his humanitarian side. Now Carter is known as that man from Georgia who mishandled the Iranian hostage crisis but won a Nobel Peace Prize. Not too shabby. 
As for Bill Clinton, he too has tried to highlight his humanitarian efforts, most recently through his Global Initiative program. But few people want to hear about that. After all, now the only impeached president of our generation has also been blamed by some for our generation's greatest tragedy, Sept. 11, 2001. And that is what people want to talk about. 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey 
Grind 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
When Fox News Sunday's Chris 
Wallace asked Clinton about his 
administration's failure to kill Osama 
Bin Laden, Clinton erupted into a 
rage that will certainly not win him a 
Nobel Prize -this because he tried 
to protect what remains of his 
already-tarnished image. 

But what's in an image? And why .was it so important for Clinton to defend his? 
You can ask current President 
George W. Bush (the one who hopes 
that his image will be forever linked 
to 9/11, not because he caused the 
tragedy, but because -in his opinion 
-he was such a valiant leader in the 
midst of it) about that one. When his 
approval ratings sank into the 30 
percent range in the spring of 2006, 
Bush adamantly argued that this 
wouldn't matter. He claimed that his­
tory would nonetheless remember 
him as a great president. 
And who wouldn't want to be 

remembered as great? Who wouldn't 
want a Ronald Reagan-esque funer­
al? 

Millions of people watched Reagan's 
2004 funeral on television; it was the 
smash hit of the summer. Following 
his death, a plethora of roads, parks 
and libraries were renamed in his 
honor. Even during his lifetime, some 
members of Congress petitioned for 
Reagan to replace Franklin D. 

Roosevelt (who was well-liked him­
self-ranked the third most popular 
President in the same Gallup poll that 
ranked Reagan as the most popular) 
as the face of the dime. 

But not everyone can be a Ronald 
Reagan. 

Take seventeenth President Andrew 
Johnson, for example. He was the 
first President to be impeached, and 
that is all that many Americans know 
about him. 

And as for the most well-known line 
attributed to thirty-seventh President 
Richard Nixon? "I am not a crook." 
But he was. And that is all that many 
Americans know about him. 

Everyone has an image; it is what others remember about you when you fade from their lives. You might be that girl who always wore sandals (even in subzero temperatures). that boy who asked too many questions in class or that president who did a lit­tle more than paperwork in the Oval Office. And more likely than not, that image means something to you. 
Call Clinton's Fox News episode what you will-a freak-out, a smackdown, etc. But do not say that in his shoes, you would not have been angry as well. For goodness sake, his image was at stake. 
Clinton appeared on the show to talk about his Global Initiative, which has thus far raised millions of dollars to stop climate change, alleviate poverty and mitigate religious and ethnic conflict. Perhaps he is an out­standing humanitarian. Perhaps he hoped for a Jimmy Carter-esque image turnaround, so that people would remember him fondly. 
And isn't that what everyone wants? To be remembered fondly? 

But for now, Bill Clinton's image is that of a red-faced and angry finger­wagger who may or may not have been able to prevent the Sept. 11 attacks, and who did, in fact, have sexual relations with that woman, Ms. Lewinsky. 
I don't know many people who would want to be him -even for Halloween. 

Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Michaels Jay Fitzpatrick Maureen Mullen Chris Hine Liz Harter Dan Cooper Should Notre Dame continue Viewpoint Scene early action admission? Alyssa Erin McGinn Brauweiler 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Jeff Albert at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

fSubmitaLetterI"If being an egomaniac means I believe in what I do and in my art or music, then in that respect you can call me that ... I believe in what I do, and I'll say it."
rto the Editor at , 
John Lennon musician

Iwww.ndsmcobserver.com 

TH_E OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 28, 2006 page 11 
Sweating the big stuff 
U-WIRE 

Parental priorities a bit off key 
My parents say that is the job of a parent to do all they can to make sure their child has the tools to be successful when they get into the "real world." They have done everything they can to give me all that I need. I plan to do the same for my children, and will go the ends of the earth to get them all they need. 
How would you feel if it was well within the 
Jesse

reach of your parents to pay for schooling, but 

Pence

they refused? Or even worse, if they refused to pay for school, but bought other luxuries for 
East Carolina

their own life and made it seem like it's a chore for you to be their child? University 
East Carolinian

Why even have children if you are unwilling to give up your comfortable lifestyle to provide for your family? Even the lowest of the animal kingdom will defend their children until they are ready to leave the nest to fend for themselves. 
One of my best friends from back home, Jim, has been my friend for as long as I can remember. I invite him to family weddings, and I go to his family parties. I know all of his family extremely well; I just cannot manage to respect his father. 
Jim's dad owns a construction and remodeling company that is doing very well, he drives a BMW and has all the luxuries in his home you could ever want. He simply refuses to pay for Jim's col­lege tuition. "I didn't go to college, and look at where I got," is his explanation for not paying. Since Jim's father does not pay tuition, he leaves it up to his ex-wife, who works as a hairstylist, and Jim. 
Jim's mom helps him out as best she can, but you can imagine the strain it puts on the household between bills, household expenses for two kids, plus tuition. I would be severely less sore about the whole situation if Jim's dad didn't go on lavish vacations each summer. 
On a moment's whim (literally, they bought the tickets a day before) they will f1y to Aruba, the Bahamas or nearly anywhere else. All expenses are paid for by Jim's father; but he refuses to pay for Jim to go to school. See the aggravation? 
It gets better. The vacations that Jim didn't ask for then become a debit against him. So does a dinner out, or any night out where they are together and he pays. "Dad, I need some money for books." 
"I took you to Aruba and out for dinner last night, you can man­age to get books. You should be thanking me for taking you." So he works his butt off to pay for school, expensive rent in down­town Chicago near school and anything else he may need. It seems to me that Jim's father would rather have a drinking, partying­buddy than a son. 
Jim has all my respect that he works so much and is able to keep his grades up. Anyone who works to go to school, whether it is out of necessity or not, deserves a lot of respect. Unfortunately, Jim's dad doesn't get any from me. 
How about these parents stop finding reasons to NOT help out, and be a responsible parent and do what they can to make sure their children have the tools to be successful. Get your priorities straight already. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 27 edition of the East Carolinian, the daily publication at East Carolina University. The views expressed in this article are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 


listen up, bikers 
Let me paint a picture for you, and bik­ers, pay close attention. We pedestrians will thank you later. 

The day is Monday. The place is Baylor. The time is early. Too early. In fact, it's so early that I forget to 
Will
lock the door to my 


Parchman
apartment. In other words, I made a dona-
Baylor
tion to Waco's fine 
University
gamut of pawn shops. 
The Lariat
It's so early that I actually see the NoZe brothers lifting weights with Phi Gamma Delta at the McLane Student Life Center. 

It's so early that I actually go 30 seconds without seeing a T-shirt advertising some rush event that took place in the third stall of the men's bathroom of Cashion Academic Center on Nov. 12, 2005, titled "Tizzy at the Toilet '05!" 
It is actually so early that my car decides to sputter and the engine dies. 
When machines deign the hour as unac­ceptably early, I'd say you are overstep­ping the bounds of human cruelty. 
So, if this picture hasn't begun to form in your mind yet, it was pretty early. 
Monday mornings are for los­Reasonable expectation ers and 8 a.m. classes are is a good thing. If bik­really a design to fool ers expect us to freshmen to "get your avoid them, they classes done early," I should stay off was forced to beat the the sidewalks. dusty trail and walk And try avoid­to class. ing me next 
Walking to class is time. not such a terrible Seriously, it's thing. Lord knows I 8 a.m. You need the exercise. have to aim to But let me tell you, knock me over. walking to class was So the next much easier when I time you are lived on the first floor hustling to of Penland Residence class, my biking Hall and this higher brethren, remem­education thing was still ber me, the guy you new. embarrassed in front 
Now my classes are more of the entire school on like candy corn: You eat it wheri Fifth Street twice last 
it's put in front of you, but you can never really figure out why. 

As my walk wears on, my mind is an amalgam of thoughts. Thoughts of sleeping in exuberantly overpriced beds, thoughts of sleeping in exotic places, thoughts of sleeping while James Taylor gently plays me to sleep with a version of "Fire and Rain" specifically tailored to my desire to sleep through all of my classes. 
Basically, everything I deem important at 8 a.m. on a Monday. And it sure isn't beginning golf. 
So as my glorious thought process rolls on and I finally reach campus, I am inter­rupted by what appears to be Superman running 10 minutes late to class. 
I suddenly snap out of my thoughts of sleeping in verdant meadows in time to see the glint of steel and then glorious blue sky (I cannot confirm that the sky is actually blue.at 8 in the morning, so I made it up). I had been knocked on my backside by a shiny new bicycle. 
I realize that biking is an efficient mode of transportation that has been used by great figures in history -giants of the moral compass like Ghengis Kahn, the Brawny Man and Chuck Norris. 
I get that you are late to class and you need to find a way to jimmy-rig your bike onto an over-full bike rack. 
But won't you think of the tired, sweaty and possibly disgruntled pedestrians? 
If you own a bike and you use it to get places, congratulations. I know your par­ents are proud. But for the love of Zeus' beard, cut us warriors of the walking path 
a break. Watch where you're 
week. 

I'll be the one over there in the corner putting back the pieces of my shattered social life. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 27 edition of The Lariat, the daily publication at Baylor University. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Yesterday we celebrated the feast of St. Vincent de Paul, a French priest who left the comfort of his assignment in the court of Queen Margaret of Valois to spend the rest of his life serving the poor and sick, along the way also founding the Fathers of the Mission 
(often called Vincentians) and the  
Sisters of Charity. He is known for  Kate  
ransoming thousands of slaves in  Barrett  
North Africa and for ministering to  
the galley-slaves confined to the  FaithPoint  
dark bottoms of boats by the hun­ 
dreds and chained to their oars.  

Vincent de Paul seemed always able to separate the big stuff from the small; to recognize what he really needed to worry about; to refuse to get caught in the petty and minor wranglings of wealthy court life that he might spend his time with the largely ignored, impoverished and ill-educated peasants of France. 
Hmm. I don't know about you, but unless I pay atten­tion, most days I don't have much to worry about beyond whether my kids have done their chores, how to get them to soccer or swim practice on time, what I'm going to fix for dinner and whether that shirt I want to wear tomorrow is ironed. However, events come along that remind me how blessed I am to have such small concerns. Last Wednesday, Sept. 20, two friends of mine each lost a long-ill parent to death. I just read yesterday the story of a man who got his 
hand blown off by a grenade while reporting on a story 
assignment in Iraq. He has now written a book about 
the young amputees he met, who moved him deeply 
while he healed from his own injuries. I regularly need 
to be shaken up, to remember that my day-to-day con­
cerns pale in comparison to suffering that surrounds 
me right here in South Bend, where we have not one 
but two missions to serve the homeless, both of which 
are often filled to capacity; where multiple food 
pantries serve the poor every day (including our local _ St. Vincent de Paul Society); where people I probably 
pass on the street or shop next to at Martin's are lone­
ly, or worry about illness or job security or debt. 
Perhaps we ourselves have overwhelming concerns 
weighing us down. Maybe we find the consideration of 
poverty or illness or war too far from our own experi­
ence to grasp. Lest the needs of our world or even our 
community seem too vast to think about, we have to 
remember that our God loves us so deeply that "even 
the hairs of your head are all counted" (Luke 12:7). 
And even though his own land is filled with hatred and 
bloodshed, with people brutally at war with each other, 
God still attends with limitless love to our worries and 
needs and prayers. 
In Sharon Creech's Newberry Award-winning book 
Walk Two Moons, a character named Mrs. 
Winterbottom asks her daughter, "Do you think I lead a tiny life?" The size of our lives isn't measured by how far we travel, the prestige of our professional lives, the wealth we accumulate or how well we're esteemed by others. Rather, what matters is whether we pay atten­tion, as Vincent de Paul did, to those people who most need us, to those situations which most need our prayers, our talents, our treasure, our loving care. 
It's OK to worry about the little things; sometimes we do need to sweat the small stuff. We just can't ever for­get that the big stuff is out there, needing our ferv-ent prayer, needing whatever we can offer. The fact that you're reading this means that you are abundantly blessed-with literacy, with adequate food and shel­ter, perhaps on your way to completing a Notre Dame education. In the midst of so much, we would do well to pray with the words of St. Vincent de Paul: "We should strive to keep our hearts open to the sufferings of others, and pray continually that God may grant us that spirit of compassion which is truly the spirit of God." 
Kate Barrett is the director ofresources and special projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at Barrett.28@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
CD REVIEWS 

Justin is bringing 'Sexy Back' with new CD 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
If the statement ''I'm bringing sexy back" sounds at all foreign, then you have likely been living under a rock somewhere for the past few moths. In fact, the phrase has become so popular that it is likely the hundredth time you've heard it this week. 
And music fans are glad for it, since it has been four years since their last Justin Timberlake fix. Now 25, Timberlake is back on the scene to save everyone from the presently bleak music scene and revive the sexy with his album "FutureSex I LoveSound." Apparently, the former Mouseketeer turned N'Sync member, is now a sexy soul man. 
Timberlake took his first step toward independence with the solo album "Justified." Taking its inspiration from the King of Pop, Michael Jackson, it was merely a small step toward his sexy makeover. "FutureSex I LoveSound" borrows its flamboyance from the Prince of "Purple Rain." And in case people are still somehow confused or unclear of his sexual inspiration, Timberlake has carefully titled the first five tracks "FutureSex/ LoveSound," "SexyBack," "Sexy Ladies," "My Love" and "LoveStoned." 
Feeling rather frisky-and free of his manufactured boy-band image­Timberlake wants to get a little risque with this album. Honestly, though. how much is believable of lyrics like "Dirty babe/ You see these shackles baby I'm your slave/ I'll let you whip me if I mis­behave," when coming from the squeal­ing voice of an all-too-innocent JT? 
Nonetheless, the album is full of qual­ity singles. So there is really no point in choosing a favorite. All of the songs possess a certain naughty, club-like· vibe that will keep a listener's attention for the album's entire 71 minutes. In fact, one could probably spend an entire night in the club listening and dancing to this album alone. 
First, listeners should tune into qual­ity digital get-downs like "My Love," which is set to be the next single for 




release. Another good pick is "Damn Girl," which features 
Justin Timberlake 
Black Eyed Peas 
singer Will.i.am, 
or even "Chop Me 
FutureSex I LoveSound 
Jive 

Up," with rap artist T.l. But steer clear of ~ "What Goes L..:=-------__JI Around .. ./Comes Recommended tracks: 'FutureSex I LoveSound,' Around," since 
'Damn Girl/'My Love,' and 'Chop Me Up' :~~;;to;i~berlake 

Hendrix's legacy survives with new 'Blues' album 
By NATHAN HOGAN Scene Critic 
Whether you just got an exam back, lost your keys or had to spend an after­noon fixing a flat bike tire -some­times it's hard not to feel down. While commiserating with friends might seem like the best solution, sometimes talk­ing can't express it all. The Jimi Hendrix compilation album "Blues" serves as the perfect mix for conveying every woe. 
Hendrix may not seem like an obvi­ous artist here, since blues icons like 
B.B. King and John Lee Hooker come to mind first. Plus, Hendrix grew up in the Pacific Northwest -a far cry from the blues bastion of the Deep South. 
But Hendrix spent his childhood lis­tening to his father's collection of blues singles. When he picked. up his first acoustic guitar. he started to play along to those records. After taking up the electric guitar, he took what he had learned from the blues and developed his own unique style. 
A self-taught musician, the left-hand­
ed Hendrix played a right-handed Fender Stratocaster guitar turned upside down and re-strung to suit him. 
This album highlights the impact blues had on his music by focusing on 11 tracks that show off his roots. 
The album starts off with an acoustic version of "Hear My Train Comin'," a track with a healthy mix of vocals, acoustic bends and humming. A live electric version of the same track clos­es the CD, though its focus is quite dif­ferent. 
He adds his renowned electric guitar riffs, which become the dominant fea­ture of the song. Despite the shift in instrumentation, Hendrix still main­tains the same attitude of the original song -a testament to his ability to sing through the guitar. The riffs become the expression of the lyrics, embodying the hums with electronic distortion. 
Another notable track is "Red House," which was a live Hendrix favorite. The track lets the listener in on the conversational chemistry between Hendrix and his guitar. He pours out his soul through his lyrics, 

,-----------------r============;J then pauses and 
Jimi Hendrix 
Blues 
MCA 


listens as his gui­
tar consoles him through the mis­ery. Its heavy tone keeps the song pulsing. The song "Bleeding Heart" follows the same type of progres­


sion, though it '------------'I adds even more 
Recommended tracks: 'Hear My Train Comin',''Red drag. House,' and 'Once !Had A Woman' "Mannish Boy"
adds a driving 

L---------------------------------------------~ 
-is over his former relationship with Britney Spears. The antithesis to "Cry Me a Hiver," it is still another' lame rec­ollection of a former flame. 
Perhaps the most disappointing aspect of "FutureSex I LoveSound" is that the majority of Timberlake's vocals are electronically distorted. Although Timberlake is said to have co-written every song, hip-hop producer Timbaland is credited for producing a whopping 12 of the album's 14 tracks. Where Timberlake brings the girlish high-pitched singing voice, Timbaland brings the hot, disco-inspired beats. 
While the result is certainly worth­while, keep in mind that very little of its innovation can actually be attributed to Timberlake himself. 
This album is as much (if not more so) Timbaland's as it is Timberlake's. 
Anyone with a decent voice could have sang the back-up vocals for these funkadelic beats, but not everyone has the pretty-boy image to back it up. So don't be fooled by the artificiitl "mack­daddy" makeover -Justin Timberlake is the same nice boy that America knows and loves. 
The only thing he proves with this "FutureSex I LoveSound" is his knack for collaboration. That, and the fact that Timberlake is still a heartthrob. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 


beat and faster rhythm to the blues progression. It has a groovy, funky feel to it, but the influence of blues is still evident in the licks. 
A I'Bw of the tracks, including "Catfish Blues," "Voodoo Chile Blues" and "Once I llad a Woman" focus more on the essence of the blues guitar. They allow Hendrix to jam out to the blues, which adds more spice since it gives the jam a theme and an inspiration. 
Hendrix may have led the psychedelic revolution with his rock music, but he always carried the roots of rock -the blues -with him in his works. 
This album was released as part of the Experience Hendrix series, which was designed to better benefit Hendrix's survivng family. The songs have all been digitally remastered in this new release. 
While some might say the freestyle jams can be a bit of a turn-off, this album is a great way for fans of rock to step into the blues. The best way to lis­ten to the CD is from beginning to end without skipping, because, if you're feelin' the blues, who wants to skip a track'! 
So get that exam back, hit the books, fix that tire and console yourself with the soulful rhythm of Hendrix and his blues-soaked guitar riffs. 
Contact Nathan Hogan at nhogan2@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Jackass' sequel brings humor to new lows 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
It all began with a much-censored and always-controversial television show on MTV. One movie and two spin-off televi­sion shows later, the boys of "Jackass" are back in "Jackass: Number Two." 
At the end of the movie, Bam Margera says, "I hope there's no Jackass 3." After what he and the rest of the guys endure throughout the film, it is not hard to sym­pathize with his senti­ment. The stunts 
the boys are back in their full glory: Johnny Knoxville, Margera, Steve-O;Chris Pontius, Ehren McGhehey, Preston Lacy, Jason "Wee Man" Acuna, Ryan Dunn and Dave England. While the original show and movie distributed the anguish equally amongst them all, it's clear this time the movie is playing up the names of its two biggest celebrities: Margera and Knoxville. After "Jackass," Margera received his own spin-off show on MTV, "Viva La· Bam," which focused on his pranks around the home -often directed at his uncle Vito. He frequently had 

filmed in this movie Dunn, England
Jackass: Number Two
have defmitely upped 
and Steve-0 on the the ante from both show with him. the previous movie Knoxville has and various television come into his own shows. After this out­as a movie star,
Director: JeffTremaine
ing there aren't too with leading roles
Writers: Sean Cliver and Preston Lacy 
many ways for the in the 2005 films
Starring: Johnny Knoxville, Bam 
crew to top its own "Dukes of
Margera, Steve-0, Chris Pontius, and
antics -aside from Hazzard" and
Ryan Dunnwinding up in the hospital. 

Although the stunts are more advanced, the shtick is the same as always. "Number Two" is a series of short sequences of the sado-masochists performing random acts of idiocy and harassing each other merci­lessly. There are more daredevil stunts included in this movie, but this time the guys are more self-conscious of being filmed -an aspect that was missing in the first movie. 
There are also countless bulls and snakes; the guys seek pain from those animals more than any others. 
Although they have mostly gone their separate ways since the first movie, all "The Ringer." 
Knoxville is the clear leader, often pushing for the stunts even though the others have backed out. He proudly stands alone while getting bit­ten by anacondas or charged repeatedly by bulls -and he does it all with a smile. One stunt involves anti-riot land mines, and after the device is demonstrated, Margera and Dunn opt out. Knoxville then berates them into taking the punishment, gleefully standing in the front to take the pain. 
Despite his leading role, Margera is far more cynical this time through. He fre­quently comments on how far the stunts have gone and several times tries to back 
CD REVIEW 
'Blood Mountain' is an oasis of sharp individuality 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
A major label album doing something off the beaten path is something to behold. 
Metal band Mastodon's latest release, "Blood Mountain," is precisely that, as the band weaves poetic lyrics with smashing guitars, driving drums and melodic singing. Sometimes great and sometimes bordering on sonic chaos, this album won't be liked by everyone. It is not quite "radio friendly," but it is different-and should be commended. 
"Blood Mountain" opens with the raging "The Wolf is Loose." This may be the friendliest of all the tracks as the long gui­tar solos are kept to a minimum and it delves into what might be called "pop sen­sibilities." But this tenuous connection is broken by frontman and bassist Troy Sander's gritty and abrasive vocals. As the drums pound through the song, he pounds through such strange lyrics as "The hero of the gods I the crossing of the threshold I 

,-----------------------------r=================~ 
bands, including

Mastodon 


the Dillinger Escape Plan and
Blood Mountain 
·Today is the Day. 

the belly of the whale I refusal of return." 
The traditional method of writing lyrics that either conveys a story -or at least something cohesive -is stretched to its bare limits with Mastodon. All of the songs on "Blood Mountain" exhibit lyrics similar to this. Closely read, there is a connection between all the lines, but it takes some thought and is not spoon-fed to the listener. Mastodon wants to rock sonically and lyrically with the listener ­instead of handing him or her something easy and bland to digest. 
Mastodon began in Atlanta, releasing its debut EP, "Lifesblood," on Relapse Records WHEN. Its unique mixture of metal and hardcore birthed two more albums following the EP, "Remission" and "Leviathan," in 2002 and 2004, respec­tively. "Leviathan" brought the band to the attention of music critics who noticed what it could do when put to the task. These two albums were released on the same label as its EP, but with "Blood Mountain," Mastodon has moved the major label Reprise Records. Reprise, though a major label, has created a solid 
lineup of 
metallhardcore 
Reprise I Wea 

L___________________J 
l'f • 1 
TAT I
Recommend d e tracks: I The vvO; lS Loose, 'Capillarian Crest,' and 'This Mortal Soul' 
~----------------------------------------------~ 
The freedom Mastodon has to pursue its own style is respected by Reprise, and "Blood Mountain" 
doeS nothing but
confirm this. Guitar solos that go on for days 

out. Throughout the movie, Margera is reduced to tears three times -one time because of genuine fear when the guys lock him in with a cobra. 
Aside from their horribly disgusting and dangerous stunts, the guys have several skits where they harass the general pub­
lic. In one of the funniest scenes, producer Spike Jonze walks through the streets of LA disguised as an elderly woman whose shirt keeps coming undone, leaving her sagging in front of the horrified onlookers. 
Due to the guys' ever-growing celebrity, there are also countless guest stars ­including the Three 6 Mafia, John Waters, Tony Hawk and Jay Chandrasekhar (Super Troopers) -who add to the absurdity of the situations. 
Although there is nothing truly unex­pected, "Jackass: Number Two" contains countless immense and grotesque laughs. It is defmitely a movie best seen with lots of other people who find people slamming into walls and eating unmentionable atrocities hilarious. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

-.... 

Photo courtesy of whiplash.net Brent Hinds, guitarist and vocalist for Mastodon, performs songs from "Blood Mountain" during its Unholy Alliance tour with the group Slayer. 
characterize this musical style, and, while they do become slightly monotonous, lis­tening to guitarist Bill Kelliher wail on his axe is an experience. "Capillarian Crest" bleeds from the speakers. 
Sanders weaves through the song, tran­sitioning from melodic singing to metal screaming with ease and in appropriate spots. Kelliher's guitar sets the raucous pace and never lets up. The song is as much about the lyrics as the sonic experi­ence. Half the song is sung in Mastodon's unique lyric style while the other half is devoted to the band playing and kicking some rear. 
Not everyone would want to see this band live. 
Most people weaned on pop radio and the likes of Beyonce, Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera will probably be confounded if they pop "Blood Mountain" into their CD players. 
However, no matter what one listens to, this album deserves a chance. It isn't per­fect, but it is different, smart and knows exactly what it wants. Compared to what 99 percent of people are listening to 99 percent of the time, this reeks of individu­ality and peculiarity. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
?r 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
MLB-NL 


Pujols lifts Cardinals, Astros beat Pirates in 15 innings 
outs for his second save iu four 
Dodgers keep wild­
chances. Greene scored easily on a 2-2
card lead with 6-4 win 
pitch in the dirt by Tyler Johnson that deflected off 
Associated Press 
catcher Yadier Molina's glove 
ST. LOUIS -Albert Pujols' and spun away to the right. go-ahead three-run homer with Gonzalez attempted to score two outs in the eighth inning from second when Molina had was the difference in St. Louis' trouble locating the ball, but 4-2 victory over the San Diego Molina made a nice recovery to Padres on Wednesday night, throw him out at the plate. ending a seven-game losing Scott Holen had been in a 3­streak during which the for-29 slump with one RBI Cardinals' NL Central lead before his run-scoring single in shriveled to 1 1/2 games. the fourth tied it at 1 for St. 
Pujols hit a 1-0 pitch from Cia Louis. Meredith into the third of four The Padres roughed up the decks over the left-field wall to Cardinals' top two starters, Jeff erase a one-run deficit. He had Suppan and Chris Carpenter, in driven in one run in the previ­the first two games of the 
ous five games before the series. Anthony Reyes, a 24­
booming shot eased the year-old rookie, had a lot more 
Cardinals' frustration. success. 
St. Louis has won only two of Reyes held San Diego to one its last 10, five of the losses by run on five hits in the first one run apiece. While the innings before tiring in the sev­Cardinals were struggling, sec­enth. He went to a full count 
ond-place Houston was streak­with leadoff batter Geofi Blum ing. The Astros entered their before walking him and fell Houston's comeback within a makeup game Monday night in for the save, his first since 2004 
•game against Pittsburgh on behind 2-0 against Young comeback as the Astros rallied Philadelphia before winning the with Tampa Bay . Wednesday with seven straight before getting pulled after 108 from five runs down to beat the first two of a three-game series victories. pitches. Pirates on Wednesday night, in Pittsburgh. Los Angeles 6, Colorado 4 
The Cardinals got to the San He struck out six, fanning their eighth straight win that "Seeing the Cardinals win Derek Lowe won his seventh Diego bullpen after Chris Young Termel Sledge three times and kept them close to St. Louis in makes it even more crucial for straight decision and the Los followed a near·no-hitter with Mike Cameron twice, and the NL Central. us going into extra innings, and Angeles Dodgers held on to seven dominant innings, ending walked four. "I've complained all year understanding we move to 2 their lead in the NL wild-card the Padres' six-game winning Heyes overcame a shaky about not being able to get a 1/2 out with only four games race by overcoming a three-run streak. St. Louis also reduced start, needing 30 pitches to get run in from third, so I'm going left for us if we lose," Ausmus deficit to beat the Colorado its magic number for clinching out of the first trailing 1-0. to kiss his lunch for getting that said. "Obviously it was a crucial Rockies on Wednesday night. a third straight division title to Dave Roberts drew a leadoff one in," manager Phil Garner win." The Dodgers entered four after the number was walk, stole his third base of the said of Ausmus' game-winner. Houston, held to one hit over Wednesday one game ahead of stuck at five for six games. series on strike three to Sledge The Astros didn't gain any the first five extra innings by the Philadelphia Phillies, who 
So Taguchi drew a leadoff and scored on Piazza's two-out ground for the first time during three rookie relievers, finally played at Washington. walk against Scott Line brink (7-single. their winning streak but, won it against Jonah Bayliss (1-Lowe (16-8) got the win 
4) and Aaron Miles walked with Young retired the first 11 bat­almost as importantly, didn't 1) in the 15th. despite scuffling through six one out before Pujols greeted ters with the help of a double lose any as they stayed 1 1/2 After Eric Bruntlett walked innings and getting roughed up Meredith, who entered the play, throwing a first-pitch games out with four to play. and Craig Biggio's sacrifice for four earned runs and 10 game with a 0. 72 ERA, with a strike to seven of the first eight The Cardinals cut their magic bunt turned into a fielder's hits. two-out blast estimated at 425 hitters, before giving up the number for winning the divi­choice, Orlando Palmeiro sin­Jonathan Broxton pitched two feet. tying run in the fourth. Pujols sion to four by beating San gled to center. Ausmus then hitless innings of relief and 
San Diego pinch-runner singled with two outs, stole sec­Diego 4-2 on Albert Pujols' fought off a two-strike pitch to Takashi Saito pitched the ninth Khalil Greene had scored the ond and went to third on homer to end a seven-game los­lift the fly to center that scored for his 22nd save in 24 go-ahead run on a wild pitch Piazza's wild throw before scor­ing streak. Biggio. chances. with two outs in the eighth. A ing on Rolen's single. ''I'm sure everybody saw that, "We had chances to win, but The Dodgers fell behind 4-1 strained ligament in his left Young dominated otherwise, so I've got to applaud these they finally scratched out the entering the sixth with Rockies middle finger has kept Greene retiring 10 of the next 11. guys for a great effort and get­run we had been working to right-hander Aaron Cook (9-15) out of the starting lineup most ting results," Garner said. "We get," Pirates manager Jim in command. But J.D. Drew's of the month since Aug. 17, but Houston 7, Pittsburgh 6 have to plan to win 'em all and Tracy said. "But our young two-run triple put Los Angeles he's scored the winning run Once the Houston Astros got still it may be not enough, but relievers, to do the job they did, within striking distance, and three times in the span. into the 11th inning, the 12th, the bottom line is everybody is pitching against a club playing the Dodgers scored three times 
Mike Piazza had an RBI single the 13th and later, they didn't still playing." for its playoff life ... they really in the seventh· to secure their for the Padres, who have a one­need anyone to tell them they He was right -most of the grew up tonight." 14th win in 18 games against game lead over the Dodgers in had to beat the Pittsburgh Astros knew the Cardinals had Chris Sampson (2-0), the Colorado this season. 
....-the NL West and a magic num­Pirates. They already knew it won, yet the tired team perse­Astros' starter Monday night in Andre Ethier, pinch hitting for ber of four. Los Angeles beat from the out-of-town score­vered to win its fourth game in Philadelphia, pitched 2 2-3 Lowe, tied it at 4 with a run­Colorado 6-4 Wednesday night. board that showed the St. Louis four nights in three ballparks. scoreless innings to win it and scoring single, and a bad throw 
Tyler Johnson (1-4) got the Cardinals winning. They finished off a four-game run the Pirates' losing streak -by shortstop Troy Tulowitzki last out in the eighth and Adam Brad Ausmus' sacrifice fly in sweep of the Cardinals at home all against contenders -to six. allowed Wilson Betemit to score Wainwright got the last three the 15th inning finished off Sunday night, then won a Trever Miller got the final out the go-ahead run. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. need­ed, customer sales/service, condi­lions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today 574-273-3835. 
$10 itunes or Burger King gift card 4 your tips on how to do well in col­lege 4 book by pub.wr. One 15 min.ph.interview 9/28,10/1. em sallyburns@hotmail.com for appt. 
FoR SALE 
Investment homes for sale near ND. 866-521-8989. 
During Football Season -Do not Rent or Hotel it. Buy apartment complex. 10 one-bdrrn furnished units. 4 miles to ND. Great invest-mentor convert to condos. Call Larry 574-255-9363 or 257­0039. 
1999 HONDA CIVIC. Blk. 78K miles. 1 owner. Sporty. Runs great. $6,600. 286-1861. 
Special collection of vintage ND football items on display and avail­able for purchase at the College Football Hall of Fame every home game Friday starting 9/29 from 9 a.m. to 6 ~.m. Caii574-257-0039. 

FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegqldrentals.com 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 
House for home games. 4 doors from ND. Call Gary at 574-993­2208. 
RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. Transportation, tailgating & lodging. 574-243-5547. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­259-8603. 
2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. $275 ND Football Wkends; $200 Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400. 
White Pigeon, Mllake house near toll road. 3 da wkend. Home games $1 k. 260-768-4422. 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www. N Dstudentrentals.com Upscale Football Weekend House ­Escort Optional. 574-993-8333 keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net 
Home game lodging 20 min.to ND in a B&El log home in the woods. $200 for the weekend. 269-362­0300. 
Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Fbaii,Sr, Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER-Spring/Summer. Mike:312-618­4722 
2 rooms in ND staff home. 1.2 miles to ND. Grad student pFeferred. 57 4-876-9467. 

B&B rooms for ND games (not Stanford). $100-125 night 3 mi from ND. 574-631-4632 work; 574-234­8507 home. 
Bed & Breakfast,ND home games,2bedrrns, private bath,6 miles west of South Bend Airport, call574-289-2919 and leave message. 
Granger house for rent-football wknds. 5 bdrm; 10 min to ND. 574-276-3929. 
3 bdrm home for ND home games. Close to ND. 574-288-9366. 


TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­
ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378. 
Travel with STS to this years top 10 Spring Break destinations! Best deals guaranteed! Highest rep com­missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group discounts. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK­ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY games. Call 517-351-1992 or order online 24/7 at WWW.JAMESTHETICKET­MAN.COM we have tickets local or nationwide. 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ATIORNEY Lyn Leone available. Underage consumption, DWI. 574-272-1968. 
Spring Break 2007 Celebration. 20th Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours. Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6 or more. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1800-426-771 0. www.sunsplashtours.com 

Thursday, September 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB-AL 

Yankees rout Orioles, grab lead for ho111e-field advantage 
Tigers lose to Blue Jays, Twins falter to Royals 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Yankees put out their top-hit­ting lineup for the first time and teed off on the Baltimore Orioles. 
Jason Giambi, Bobby Abreu, Jorge Posada, Johnny Damon and Robinson Cano all homered in a rout Wednesday night, an imposing display by New York's potent offense as it prepares for the postseason. 
Chien-Ming Wang (19-6). selected by the Yankees to start next week's playoff opener, tied Minnesota's Johan Santana for the major league lead in wins, allowing four runs and 10 hits over six innings in his regular­season finale. 
Giambi and Posada each had four RBis as the Yankees romped to a 13-2 lead by fourth inning. Gary Sheffield had two 
hits, including his first extra­
base hit since May. 
Yankees manager Joe Torre 
used a spring training 
approach, taking out most of 
his starters by the late innings, 
and he brought in closer 
Mariano Rivera to pitch the 
seventh. 

New York heads into the post­season with pitching questions -Randy Johnson has been pushed behind Mike Mussina to start Game 3 because of his bad back -but the Yankees' bats look mighty, with every starter getting a hit and scoring a run. 
Sheffield and Hideki Matsui are back after missing most of the season with wrist injuries, joining Abreu, acquired in late July from Philadelphia. Giambi returned Wednesday following a six-game absence caused by a torn ligament in his left wrist. Cano, among the league lead­
·ers with a .343 average, was in 
the No. 9 hole, and Torre didn't 
even have room for Melky Cabrera or Bernie Williams among his starters. 
"We have some pleasant problems to solve before next Tuesday," Torre said before the game. 
Orioles manager Sam Perlozzo joked about the bat­ting order after looking at it. 
"Try to figure out which one of those guys you put on to get to the next guy," he said. "In all honesty, I don't know that there would be a better lineup than that in postseason play offen­sively. That doesn't mean they can't be beaten." 
Giambi erased a 1-0 deficit in the second inning with his 37th homer, a two-run drive down the right-field line off Kris Benson (11-12). Giambi, who had a third cortisone injection last Thursday, had been homer­less in 65 at-bats since Aug. 20. 
Abreu hit a solo homer in the five-run third, when Posada hit a three-run drive. Damon homered leading off the five­run fourth, Cano connected for a two-run drive off Winston Abreu in the sixth and Derek Jeter nearly joined them in the seventh, when he doubled off the center-field wall. 
Baltimore lost its fourth straight. Benson gave up eight runs and eight hits in 2 2-3 innings, his shortest start since May 24, when he lasted two innings at Seattle. 
Toronto 7, Detroit 4 

Ted Lilly pitched six strong innings and the Toronto Blue Jays hit four home runs in a 7­4 victory over Detroit on Wednesday night, but the Tigers held on to their one­game lead over Minnesota in the AL Central. 
The Twins lost 6-4 to Kansas City on Wednesday, dropping Detroit's magic number for clinching the division to three. If the teams finished tied for first, Detroit would get the divi­sion title by winning the season series 11-8. 
The Tigers (95-63) fell one 
Law & .... 

Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00p.m. and will be held in Law School room 110. 

Thursday, September 28,2006 
Human Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 


Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Community on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 


Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March 1, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
game behind the New York Yankees, who beat Baltimore 
16-5, for the AL's best record. 
Toronto's victory, its lOth in 15 games, moved them ahead of Boston, which lost 11-0 to Tampa Bay, and into second place in the AL East. The Blue Jays haven't finished as high as second since 1993. 
Lilly (15-13) beat the Tigers for the first time since 2003, allowing three runs -one earned -and five hits in seven innings. He did not walk a bat­ter and struck out nine, giving him 21 in 15 2-3 innings against Detroit this season. 
B.J. Ryan, the fifth Toronto reliever, pitched the ninth for his 36th save. 
Nate Robertson (13-13) strug­gled in his final start before the postseason, allowing six runs and 10 hits -including four homers -in 4 2-3 innings. Robertson had only allowed six earned runs in his previous five starts combined. 
Bengie Molina hit a three-run homer, his 19th, in the first, improving his career numbers against Robertson to 5-for-8 with three homers. 
The Blue Jays made it 6-0 with three solo homers. Gregg Zaun's career-high 12th homer gave Toronto a 4-0 lead in the fourth, while Glaus and Hill chased Robertson with homers in the fifth. 
In the Tigers fifth, Ivan Rodriguez hit a solo homer and Placido Polanco added a two­run shot, his fourth in 444 at­bats this year. 
Kansas City 6, Minnesota 4 
David DeJesus and Mike Sweeney homered, Mark Redman pitched eight strong innings, and the Kansas City Royals ended an eight-game losing streak with a victory Wednesday night over the Minnesota Twins. 
Redman (11-1 0) allowed three runs and nine hits for the Royals, who won for the first time· since a 7-4 home victory Sept. 16 against Seattle. John Buck went 2-for-4 with two RBis. 
Joe Nelson worked the ninth for his ninth save, allowing a leadoff homer to Michael .._ Cuddyer. 
The victory was the first for Kansas City interim manager Billy Doran (1-5), who is filling in for Buddy Bell. He is still recovering after having his ton­sils removed Friday. 
Minnesota remained one game behind first-place Detroit in the AL Central with four to play. The Tigers and Twins have clinched playoff berths, but the division champion still has to be decided. If they finish tied, Detroit would win the divi­sion title because it won the season series 11-8. 
Rondell White was 2-for-3 with two RBis for Minnesota, which had won four straight. 
Carlos Silva (1 0-15) lasted just four innings for the Twins. The right-hander gave up five runs and six hits, including the two home runs. Silva has allowed 38 homers this season, worst in the major leagues. 
The poor start won't help Silva's chances of making Minnesota's postseason rota­tion. Manager Ron Gardenhire said before the game that the Twins will use four starters for the first round of the playoffs, though it's unclear who will fol­low Johan Santana and Boof Bonser in the rotation. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
NFL 

Wayne to rejoin tea111 after brother's death 






FLY FOR FREE! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what it's really like. 
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on Tuesday, October 3, to take you on trial flights. 
Get in the air. We're looking for a few college students who have Get some information. the smarts, skills and interest to be a Marine pilot. The flight is on us. 
CoN 1AC 1 YouR MARINE CoRPs Ot11nR SELLe liON TEA\t 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
Capt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Clayton 
765-479-1275 
OSOLAF@MARINES.USMC.MIL 
MARINE OFFICER PROGRAMS 
MARINEDPFICER.CDM 

AP 

Indianapolis receiver Reggie Wayne makes a reception during Sunday's game against Jacksonville. The Colts won 21-14. 
back and play. If not, everyone
Colts wideout could 

understands that family comes first."
play Sunday vs. Jets 

Wayne is one of the key com­ponents in the Colts' high-scor­
Associated Press 

ing offense. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts Last year, Wayne caught a receiver Reggie Wayne is career-high 83 passes to lead expected to return to the Colts. It was the first time Indianapolis on Thursday and someone other than Marvin could be available to play Harrison led the Colts in recep­Sunday against the New York tions since 1998, Manning's. Jets. rookie season. Harrison had 82 
Wayne left town Sunday night receptions in 2005. 
after finding out  In  the  first  
his older brother, Rashad, had been killed in a traffic  "I have talked to him and I told him  three games this year, Wayne has caught 14 passes  
accident that day in Kenner, La. Reggie Wayne has been in Louisiana  we're praying for him and thinking about him."  for 284 yards and is fourth in the NFL in yards receiving.  
all week to help the  Quarterback  
family make funer­al arrangements. "The last conver­ Peyton Manning Colts quarterback  Peyton Manning said he under­stood the funeral  
sation I had with  might be Tuesday,  

him, he said he'd be back in a day most teams have off in the Indianapolis sometime tomor­NFL. row," coach Tony Dungy said "I have talked to him, and I Wednesday. "Right now, I think told him we're praying for him he will play." and thinking about him," 
Dungy was not sure whether Manning said. "I know he's Wayne would going through a return in time for tough time and Thursday's prac­whatever he tice. 
"Right now, I think wants to do, he'll 
Wayne's 32-year­do. But I expect old brother was he will play." him to play." killed Sunday Dungy has said morning when the that the team
Tony Dungy
delivery truck he would try to get

Colts coach 
was driving as many players, crashed into a coaches and highway guardrail. team officials to Police said Rashad the funeral in Wayne was pronounced dead at Louisiana as they could, and he the scene. and Manning said they and oth­
Linebacker Cato June, one of ers wanted to attend. Wayne's closest friends, said he It's the second tragedy to hit thought Wayne would try to play the Colts in less than a year. Sunday. Last December, Dungy's oldest 
"He's doing as best he can," son, 18-year-old James, commit­June said. "If he's feeling well ted suicide in a Florida apart­enough, I'm sure he'll come ment. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
IN 




ATHENS, GREECE 

INFORMATION MEETING 
*************************************************** 
Thursday,Sept.28,2006 
5:30pm-7:00pm 129 Hayes Healy 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 For Fall 2007, Spring 2008 & Academic Year 07-08 
~---­

-------------------, 





OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NCAA Football Strength of Schedule 
team percentage 

1 Indiana .73529 2 Florida .71815 3 Connecticut .71428 4 Minnesota .70458 5 Illinois .69696 6 Iowa .68571 7 Cincinnati .67647 8 Southern California .67567 8 Michigan .67567 10 Stanford .66666 11 Auburn .65000 12 California .64705 12 Mississippi .64705 12 Arizona .64705 15 Oregon .63636 15 Baylor .63636 15 Washington .63636 18 Iowa Slate .63333 19 NOTRE DAME .62857 19 Mississippi Stale .62857 21 Ohio Stale .62162 21 Penn Slate .62162 23 Tennessee .61764 24 Colorado .61290 24 Texas A&M .61290 
Men's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Top25 
team  record  previous  
1  SMU  10·0-1  3  
2  Clemson  S.0-1  1  
3  Maryland  8+0  6  
4  Washington  8-0-0  4  
5  Virginia  8-1-0  2  
6  South Carolina  8-1-0  11  
7  Illinois-Chicago  7-0-2  9  
8  North Carolina  8-2-0  18  
9  West Virginia  7-1-2  8  
10  San Diego  7+0  NR  
11  Wake Forest  7-2-0  7  
12  Old Dominion  7-1·0  13  
13  Fordham  6-0-2  12  
14  Duke  7-1-1  5  
15  Memphis  H·O  15  
16  South Florida  5-2~2  16  
17  NOTRE DAME  5-3-2  NR  
18  Santa Ctara  5-2-2  NR  
19  Central Connecticut  4-2-1  NR  
20  Brown  5-1-1  RV  
21  James Madison  7-1-0  RV  
22  UC Irvine  6-1-1  NR  
23  St. John's  6-2-1  NR  
24  Colgate  5-0-2  NR  
25  UAB  5-3-1  25  

MIAA Soccer Standings 
league  overall  
team  record  record  
1  Calvin  2-0-0  10·0·0  
2  Adrian  1-0-0  3·5·0  
3  Olhtel  1-0·0  3·5·0  
4  Saint Mary's  1-0·0  2·5·0  
5  Albion  1-1-0  8·3·0  
6  Kalamazoo  1-1-0  4·3·0  
7  Hope  0-1-0  3-5-1  
8  Tri-State  0-2-0  0-8·0  
9  Alma  0-2-0  2-7·0  

NFL 


Associated Press 
DALLAS Dallas Cowboys receiver Terrell Owens denied a police report Wednesday that he attempted suicide, saying he became groggy after mixing painkillers with supplements. 
As if to prove he's doing fine, Owens went from the hospital to catching passes from quarterback Drew Bledsoe within two hours, then proclaimed himself "very capable of going out there and playing on Sunday" -despite what­ever happened Tuesday night and a broken right hand. 
Owens said the confu­sion likely stemmed from an empty bottle of pain medication found by his publicist, who was with him at the time and called 

911. He said the rest of the pills were in a drawer. 
"I was non-responsive when she made that call," Owens said. "She made the call out of her judg­ment for my well-being." 
Appearing in a news conference at team head­quarters a few hours after leaving a hospital for what a police report described as "a drug overdose," Owens wore workout gear and no bandage on his right hand. The star receiver smiled and seemed more amused than peeved at the latest ruckus surrounding him. 
Owens, 32, blamed a combination of hydrocodone, a generic form of Vicodin, with all­natural supplements for making him ill. 
"It's very unfortunate for it to go from an allergic reaction to a suicide attempt," he said. 
Rescue workers arrived at Owens' home around 8 
p.m. Tuesday and took him to an emergency room. When word spread, publicist Kim Etheredge said it was an allergic reaction. 
But the story shifted Wednesday morning when several media outlets received a police report ­that had yet to be released by the authorities -say­ing Owens had attempted suicide by overdosing on the painkillers, even put­ting two more pills into his mouth after an unidenti­fied friend, later identified as Etheredge, intervened. 
The police document, first reported by WFAA­TV, said Owens was asked by rescue workers "if he was attempting to harm himself, at which time [he] stated: 'Yes."' 
"I was kind of out of it," Owens said. "I can barely even remember the doc­tors, much less the police officers asking me ques­tions." 
around the dial 
NCAA FooTBALL Auburn at South Carolina 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL Oaks Christian at Venice 10:00 p.m., ESPN2 
IN BRIEF 

Chargers safety admits to 
shippmg cough syrup 

SAN DIEGO -Chargers strong safety Terrence Kiel admitted to ship­ping at least two parcels of prescrip­tion cough syrup to Texas, DEA offi­cials said Wednesday, a day after the player was arrested at team head­quarters. 
While Kiel did not tell the DEA his motive, the agency in Texas has found widespread abuse of codeine-based cough syrup mixed with soft drinks or drugs and referred to as "lean," said John S. Fernandes, the special agent in charge of the San Diego office. A pint bottle of "lean" can cost between $200 and $325 on the street, he said. 
Kiel grew up in Lufkin and played at Texas A&M. 
Kiel was arrested on two counts of transporting a controlled substance and three counts of possession for sale of a controlled substance. He is scheduled to be arraigned on Tuesday. 
Colts punter, ex-ND _player 
apologizes for trash talk 
INDIANAPOLIS -Colts punter Hunter Smith apologized Wednesday for adding fuel to a growing trash­talking rivalry between Indianapolis and Jacksonville. 
After Indy beat Jacksonville 21-14 on Sunday, Smith likened the Jaguars to a standup comic who uses vulgari­ty and lacks class. 
Smith said what set him off were the personal fouls called against the Jaguars. It was the second straight games between the AFC South foes in which Jacksonville drew multiple penalties for personal fouls. 
"As football players, I think it's our responsibility to be models of sports­manship and on-field integrity to everyone, especially to kids," Smith said. "I get frustrated when I don't see that. We have issues of that on the Colts and it's on every team. I apologize for saying that, it was an off-the-cuff statement." 
Burton still focused despite
recent success 
DOVER, Del. -Even with his win­less drought over and a spot on top of the points standings for the lirst time since 1999 secured, Jeff Burton's sleepless nights likely won't end. 
"I haven't lost sleep because I haven't won," Burton said. "I know that's difficult to understand. As miser­able as I am sometimes, I'm not good at enjoying the moment. But the posi­tive to that is, I don't relish on the bad either." 
The winless streak was bewildering for someone who used to be consid­ered one of NASCAR's more promising drivers: 175 races, no victories, two teams, and one question mark about his spot at Richard Childress Racing. 
Burton said the only ingredient needed to turn around his career was the same one he used to pass Matt Kenseth with six laps left to win at Dover International Speedway: patience. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No. 2 ranked Auburn hits the road to face S. Carolina 
aware of Rice. "He's a guy that and just five catches and no South Carolina back who's Irons can't wait to see theGamecocks will try to can win ballgames for them. touchdowns by Rice -in its become a Tigers star after lan­stadium he last stood in three lie's very danger-opening two guishing on the beneh at years ago.
end Tigers' win streak 
ous," the coach games with Blake Williams-Brice Stadium. "It's like playing at LSU in
"He'll try and trick

said. "We'll do a Mitchell starting Irons leads the SEC in rush­Baton Rouge. It's real loud," he lot of talking you here and there. at quarterback. ing yards per game -and he said. "At South Carolina, their
Associated Press 
about him this He is a fun guy to Since Newton could have a strong desire to fans are so dedicated. They're COLUMBIA -Steve Spurrier week in scouting took over, the add to that total against his loud whether the team's doing
prepare for. " 

doesn't have the champi­reports." Gamecocks have former school. bad or good." onships or the stars at South This will be the put up 72 points. "I think he will look at this as Some Auburn players see the Carolina that he did at Florida. third game that Tommy Tuberville and Hice has got an opportunity to play against prime-time special as the Still, Auburn coach Tommy Syvelle Newton his season going. some former teammates, go chance to keep themselves in
Auburn head coach 

Tuberville took some extra starts at quarter­The Gamecocks back to where he started. the minds of poll voters -and steps to prepare for the crafty back for the will also have pay Other than that, after tho first college football fans -as the ball coach. Gamecocks. South Carolina close a.ttention to David Iron's few plays it won't make a lot of team that belongs in the 
The second-ranked Tigers (4-had only managed 15 points -brother, Kenny, the former difference," Tuberville said. national title game. 
.-
0, 2-0 Southeastern Conference) face Spurrier and 5outh Carolina (3-1, 1-1) on Thursday night. With a short work week to prepare for the Gamecocks, Tuberville had his staff study tape of Spurrier's 
offensive schemes a week ago to get a jump on things. 
Extra work? Aren't these the same Gamecocks who were shutout by Georgia and barely held on for a 27-20 victory against Division I-AA Wofford? The South Carolina team that lost 48-7 at Auburn a year ago? 
"He's still Steve," Tuberville said. "He is still going to want to do some things a little dif­ferent. ... He'll try and trick you here and there. He is a fun guy to prepare for." 
Spurrier laughs that off. He says he's cut down his play­book just so his team can move the ball a little. 
"We couldn't hit anything down field the first couple of weeks so we decided, 'Hey, there's no sense practicing all this all week. Can't hit it any­way," Spurrier said. 
The Gamecocks showed some signs of life last week with Sidney Rice catching a school-record five touchdown passes in a 45-6 rout of Florida Atlantic. 
Auburn, though, is third in the country in scoring defense after surrendering only a field goal in its first two SEC games. The Tigers have beaten 19 of their past 20 league opponents -accomplishing much of that with a salty defense that does not allow standouts like Rice the freedom to make plays. 
Gamecock receiver Mike West was a junior college teammate of Auburn corner­back David Irons. West said Irons would likely chatter away at Rice to get him off his game. 
Rice, who has 16 catches for 312 yards the past two games, says he's ready. "I don't let anybody get in my head," he said. 
All of Auburn's defenders, Tuberville said, will be well 

GET 
OTICED 


GET THE ALL NEW KATANA™ by Sanyo® 



S49·99 
> Choose from three great colors 
Black, Blue Sapphire or Cherry Blossom Pink 
> Ultra-thin design 


>Twice the battery life of other thin phones 
> Built-in Bluetooth 
You can also choose from 
> Built-in VGA camera our great selection of 
> Sprint PCS Vision° enabled 
> large external display 


After savings equal to the value of the phone. . Sprint PCS Vision Phone KATANA'" by Sanyo~ After 5180 instant savings and 550 
Requires in-store purchase and activation with a mail-in rebate. reg. S279.99 each. Requires in-store purchase and activation of a new line of service on a 2-year agreement with Vision. new line of service on S39.99 or higher service plan with atwo-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 
T.ulll 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service ls only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
OPEN SUNDAYS! 
PRtl fRRED REtAilER~·
SPRJNTSTOR1:'S:· 
NILES,MI
MISHAWAKA

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Bask.Comrm.micatlons
Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. llth St.

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sunday .• , •. l2pm-5pm 
University Park Mall 
269-357·0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall across Mon.-Fri..... 10am-8pm 
6501 Grape Rd. 
574-277·4360

574-277-7727 from McDonald's Sat.......... 9am-7pm 
574-243-2100 
CONVENIENT
Se habla Espanol 

SUNDAY HOURS 
.,Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network~; reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail·· able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com for details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and activation by 9/30/06. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts excluded. Phones Subject to availability. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 9/30/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward" logo are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 
,----------------------, Thursday, September 28, 2006 TheDbserver + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Martial arts help Marshall alum_ 
Pennington turns to karate to improve skill 
Associated Press 
lIEMPSTEAD -While sitting at home recovering from his second shoulder surgery last winter, Chad Pennington was watching tape of some of his passes. Something suddenly dicked. 
"The one thing that the shoulder injury did do for me, and really having two shoulder injuries, it really showed some flaws in my mechanics," the New York Jets quarterback said Wednesday. "I always thought I used my body weiJ to throw, but I really didn't. 
"I was really an arm thrower, and that's why the ball would die on me a lot." 
The balls are flying for Pennington now, and he credits videotape and karate for help­ing him become one of the NFL's top passers this season going into Sunday's game against the Indianapolis Colts. Always knocked for not having enough arm strength or zip on his passes, Pennington has shown quite a bit more of both this season -even after two shoulder operations. 


"My feet somehow weren't planted in the ground when I was throwing and the ball would flutter," Pennington said. "So I really had to look at that, look at some film and break it down. My dad helped me look at that. He's seen me throw for 30 years, so he looked at that, too." 
During his rehabilitation this offseason, Pennington focused on rebuilding the strength in his arm as well as perfecting his mechanics. He watched films of John Elway and other strong-armed quarterbacks, and saw that they used their lower bodies and turned their hips more than he had. 
So, Pennington incorporated karate into his workouts, think­ing it might help. 
"Throwing a punch is similar to throwing a football," he said. "When you really break it down, and when you really look at it, it's really similar." 
While he's far from being a Karate Kid, Pennington still uses martial arts as part of his workout routine. 
"What karate has done for me has helped show me how important a good base and good foundation is, how to incorporate those hips and your core to throwing a football," he said. 
One karate chop at a time, it's all worked so far. Pennington said he would like to think he's throwing better and with more velocity than he did even before the surgeries. 
"If my quarterback likes to think that, then it is that," wide receiver Laveranues Coles said with a smile. "Whatever he says, it is. He gets no discrep­ancies from me." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Rice leads Rutgers to unbeaten start 
Tailback is fourth in nation with 604 yards 
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY -Ray Rice planned to play for Syracuse, a decision he made early in the recruiting process. 
But when the Orange changed coaches, Rice had second thoughts -which Rutgers coach Greg Schiano viewed as a second chance at getting the talented tailback to play in New Jersey. 
"I got the sense that some­thing might be going on up there around their bowl game," Schiano said. "I said if it hap­pens, we've got to take a run at Hay. As soon as that happened, I called him personally, because we felt we had missed the opportunity because he'd com­mitted so early." 
Schiano was the first coach to contact Hice, trying to sell the player on a program that had been languishing at the bottom of Division I -A for years. 
Rice hopped on board and quickly become an integral part of the rebirth of Rutgers foot­ball. With Rice leading the way, the unbeaten Scarlet Knights ( 4-0) are ranked for the first time in 30 years and cellar­dwellers in the Big East no more. 
"When you meet a coach who really cares about a program, you want to buy into what he's preaching," Rice said. "I came and visited with my mother, and it was an unofficial visit, but he didn't rush us out of there. He had flights scheduled depending on what time I could come. I thought, 'This guy's putting other stuff on hold so he can sit down and talk to me."' 
The speedy Hice ran for 1,120 yards as a freshman last sea­son, and through four games this season is fourth in the nation with 604 yards. He is on a pace to smash J .J. Jennings' single-season school mark of 1,353 yards set 33 years ago. 
The rest of the Scarlet Knights are also poised to better last year's breakthrough perform­ance. A season after appearing in their first bowl game in 27 years, the Knights head into Friday's game at South Florida looking to go 5-0 for the first time since their perfect 1976 season. 
The addition of Hice to a backfield that already included versatile fullback Brian Leonard has formed one of the country's most potent tandems. Leonard is a bruising runner who leads the team with 16 receptions and is in the top 10 among active Division I-A players in career touchdowns (40). rushing attempts (585), receptions (169). rushing touchdowns (27) and rushing yards (2,352). 
Their running styles are as dissimilar as their body types: at 6-feet-2 and 235 pounds, Leonard has five inches and 40 pounds on Hice, whose nick­name is "Sizzle." 
"He's big, fast and he runs over people," Rice said. ''I'm small and short, and quick. He's a great role model. I le does it by example, not vocally." 
Leonard first saw Rice play at Rutgers Stadium in the Governor's Bowl, a game pitting high school all-star teams from New York and New Jersey. 
"He made some awesome plays in that game," Leonard recalled. "I didn't expect him to come in and make the same plays right away in college, but he did." 
Their bond extends beyond football. 
Leonard, a fifth-year senior from Upstate New York, also considered attending Syracuse but was persuaded by Schiano to help rebuild a program that ended a·25-game Big East los­ing streak in 2003. 
Landing Hice, a native of New Rochelle, N.Y., a suburb just north of New York City that Syracuse has always recruited well, was another sign of the shift in power Schiano has helped orchestrate in the East. 
Offensive linemen Pedro Sosa and Jeremy Zuttah, two blue­chippers, turned down offers from more successful programs to stay in New Jersey and play for Rutgers. 
Along with center Darnell Stapleton, a JUCO transfer from nearby Union, they anchor a unit that helped Rutgers rush for 1,947 yards last season, the most for a Scarlet Knights team since 1995. Leonard and Rice combined for 1,860. 



Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 3 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbi<n, and bisexual members of !he Notre Dame family. their friends, and supparters !o an mformal coffee a! the Co-Mo. 
Evecy()ne rs welcomeand ooo!ldentmlity is assured. 
CORE CUUNC!L 

FUR GAY &lESBIAN 
STUDENTS 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
PrCKJdly Prtstnts in Sooth Btnd HD/Army Football Wftktnd Conctrt CMA £r Grammy Homintts "Best Htw CCKJntry Artists" 

u 


SOGARI.fitiD 
Special Guvst 

TAYLO~ SWIFT FRIDAY NOVEMBER 17 8:30p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center South Brznd, Indiana 

Tickets On Salt Saturday Sept. 30 ot 10om ot Morris Box Office, Sounds in Goshen. 


JARS OF 

CLAY 

Matt Wertz ILtigh Hash Thursday October 19 7:30p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center Sooth Brznd, Indiana 


Sooth Btnd, Indiana 


Rock & Roll Hall of Fame Members 

NFL 
Vick near bottom of passing stats 
Falcons quarterback among worst in league 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. ­This looks familiar: Three weeks into the season, Michael Vick is mired near the bottom of the NFL's passing stats. 
His rating: 23rd. 
His yards: 28th. 
His completions: 47 percent. 

"I know everybody is going to look at the stats and say it looks bad for me," the Falcons quarterback said Wednesday after a two-hour practice. "But this is a team game. Everyone has to do their job. And I don't feed into the stats book. I just want to be credited for wins and losses." 
In that respect. the Faleons (2-1) are off to a good start, beating a couple of NFC South foes before losing to New Orleans in the emotionally charged reopening of the Superdome. 
While the Monday night defeat can easily be attributed to the Saints' passion in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, it raised a common red flag for the Atlanta offense. When the Falcons have trouble running the ball, are Vick and those around him capable of winning the game through the air? 
Not against New Orleans. Vick completed only 12 of 31 passes for 137 yards, though his numbers were skewed by at least five drops -including a certain touchdown that slipped away from normally sure­handed tight end Alge Crumpler. 
For the season, Vick has con­nected on 32 of 68 throws for 369 yards, with three touch­downs and one interception. Those numbers look downright puny alongside quarterbacks such as Philadelphia's Donovan McNabb, who has thrown for a league-leading 960 yards. 
"''m extremely happy with Mike. It's difficult not to be happy with Mike," Falcons coach Jim Mora insisted. "There's no column on the sta­tistic sheet for dropped passes. 
It just shows completions, attempts, percentage and rat­ing. When the receivers drop the ball, the numbers are not going to look as good. And our receivers dropped some balls the other night." 
Atlanta's wins over Carolina and Tampa Bay were powered by a dominant running game that prominently featured Vick. But the Saints were not fooled by the shotgun option that so confused the Buccaneers. limit­ing the Falcons to 117 yards on the ground -less than half of what they averaged in the lirst two games. Vick, in f'act, was the team's top rusher with 57 yards. 
Of course, the Falcons know they weren't going to put up a rushing average of 279 yards over a 16-game season. The passing game would have to take on a bigger role, and Mora is pleased with Vick's progress in the West Coast-style offense that gave him trouble the last two years. 
"It's better, a lot better," the coach said. "It's a lot better from the standpoint of deci­sion-making, timing, breaking down the progressions, know­ing where to go with the ball a lot quicker. The problem Monday night was we dropped five passes. And New Orleans covered well. They got their hands in there and knocked a lot of balls out." 
The protection for Vick was another concern. The Falcons' undersized line is better suited for the zone blocking schemes of the running game. When playing off their heels, the guys up front often have trouble set­ting up an effective pocket around No. 7. 
The Saints sacked Vick five times and smacked him around on nine passes he did get away. 
The Faleons may have gotten away from their running game a little too quickly, trying to catch up through the air after the Saints jumped to a 14-3 lead in the first quarter. And there were more struggles in the red zone; Going into Sunday's home game against the Arizona Cardinals (1-2), Atlanta has gone more than 6 1/2 quarters without scoring a touchdown. 

"It is a very real concern, but we feel like we can get through it," Mora said. "We will get through it." 
The Falcons have been a run­oriented team since Mora took over as coach in 2004. They led the league in rushing the last two seasons and are on the way to doing it again, which partially explains Vick's ordi­nary passing stats. He ranked 21st in passing efficiency in 2004, when Atlanta reached the NFC championship game, and dropped to 25th last sea­son. 
Vick said he's still getting used to a relatively new group of receivers. 
Michael Jenkins is in his sec­ond year as a starter. Roddy White is in his second year, period. Ashley Lelie is still learning the offense after being acquired from Denver during the preseason. 
"We're still working hard together," Vick said. "This is really our first year together with the crew we have out there now. We're still working on our chemistry." 
And how long will it take to get there? 
"It's not going to happen overnight," Vick said. "Maybe it will be all year long. Maybe halfway through the year we'll have it down." 
Mora is confident that Vick's passing numbers will look much better by the time the season is done. 
"If you take the emotion out of it and just try to gauge where we are, I like the progress we are making in the passing game," Mora said. "It's not reflected in the numbers yet, but it will be as we go through the year." 


THE BEACH BOYS 
SPECIAL GOEST ERIC BORDOti &TttE AtiiMALS 
Sunday ttovember 12 7:30p.m. 
Darlfnrn•ilut Arts Ctnltr 

Ticktts On Salt fit Morris Box Office, Supqr Sounds In Goshen Chorgt By Phone 574/235-9190 Or Online www.rnorrisctnttr.org 

Bus Route Changes During Notre Da1ne Hon"Je Ga17-.es 
Effecting Routes #5, #7 anc:l The Sweep 
The #5 bus vvi/1 bypass St. 1\//ary"s beginning vvith the 9.-20 a_rrL trip out or South Bend and vvi/1 continue that vvay for the remainder or the day. 
The #7 bus vvi/1 bypass the ND Carnpus beginning vvith the 9:20 a.rn. trip out or South Bend. There vvi/1 be NO service rrorn 6~·20 p.rn~ to 8:20 p.rn~ After that, the busses vvi/1 run to the ND library. 
The Svveep begins running at 9.-oo a.rn. and vvi/1 stop at -to_-30 a_rn_ It vvi/1 resurne 
service again at 8:00 p.rn. 


Please call our inFo line For rnore det-ails 233-2"'13 "'/ 
Thursday. September 28, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
TRENCH WARFARE 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Notre Dame defensive end Victor Abiamiri applies pressure against Georgia Tech in the 14-10 Irish win Sept. 2. 
Football 
continued from page 24 
Fields. 
Last year Lewis was one of the most dominant teams in Interhall, entering the play­offs as a No. 3 seed. This season the team says it has played well, but the Chicks haven't always seen the results they've hoped for. 
"Although the first couple games have been tough, they have been good learning experiences," Chicks captain Mia De La Rosa said. "Lewis is ready to come out and play this weekend." 
The Chicks lost a 6-0, sea­son-opening heartbreaker to Howard. 
The following week, Lewis took on McGlinn, falling to the Shamrocks 6-0 -a team that Breen-Phillips defeated 25-6 last Thursday. 
The Babes' season got off to a rough start after facing several of Interhall's top squads. The Babes fell to last year's champions Pasquerilla West -in their first game 20-0, the BP defense unable to stop the quick Purple Weasel offense. 
But last week, the Babes started to turn things around. The offense used a short-pass strategy to put 25 points on the board against McGlinn, while the defense 
easily  handled  the  
Shamrocks' offense.  
Breen-Phillips has a  young  

squad this year, forcing prac­tices to focus on teaching the freshmen the unique game of women's interhall football. 
"We have a young group this year," said captain Megan Olhenforst. 
"But from our practice we have started to learn how to come together to get the job done." 
McGlinn vs. Pangborn 
With a young team filled with freshmen, McGlinn has used its practice time to teach its young players the responsi­bilities for their new positions. 
"We have gotten through their heads what their jobs are," McGlinn captain Madeline Boyer said. 
The Shamrocks hope this extra practice will help them rebound from a tough 25-6 loss to Breen-Phillips Sunday when they play Pangborn tonight at 9 p.m. on Riehle Field. 
"We have worked on run­ning routes and teaching [the freshmen] so they know their jobs more clearly," Boyer said. 
Pangborn has good reason to be confident stepping onto the field tonight. The Phoxes' 20-6 win over Howard on Sunday displayed an impres­sive defensive performance, including five interceptions by Meghan Bescher and a late­starting but potent offensive attack also led by Bescher. 
"We have worked on run­ning through the offense in practice in hopes of getting off to a better start than the first half of the last game," Phox captain Katie Riemersma said. 
Pangborn does not plan to change much of its defensive strategy. 
The Phoxes hope to continue putting pressure on the oppos­ing offense -a plan that has been effective so far this sea­son. 
But with the Shamrocks working to improve their own defense, the Phoxes will have to work harder to find the seams against McGlinn. 
The inexperienced McGlinn offense has also been practic­ing hard this week in prepara­tion for Bescher's uncanny knack for the interception. 
"I think the offense is more in tune with each other," Boyer said. "We [want] to start off with a bang and give Pangborn a little unexpected competition." 
Contact Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu and Sarah Thomas at sthomas6@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Lapira 
continued from page 24 

brought his season total to 11 and padded his lead as the Big East's leading goal scorer. 
"Joe Lapira is Joe Lapira. He scores goals," said Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark. "He's a one man wrecking crew at the moment." 
Lapira played the entire first half for only the second time this season. Previously, Clark has elected to use more of a four-man rotation up top with Lapira, Justin McGeeney, Kurt Martin and Bright Dike. 
"We wanted to emphasize the game wasn't over," Clark said. "[LapiraJ is just such an impor­tant player to the team at the moment, and we wanted the team to know that the game was still alive." 
It wouldn't be until the 73rd minute that Notre Dame put the game away for good. Senior midfielder Nate Norman scored a brilliant individual goal after he weaved his way through multiple defenders and unleashed a shot into the cor­ner of the goal from just inside the penalty area. Norman, who leads the team in assists, put his name on the scorers chart for the first time this season. 
"Once Norman's goal went in, that was it for [Marquette)," Clark said. "There was no way back." 
Dike put the fmishing touches on the game, scoring Notre Dame's final goal in the 82nd minute. After muscling his defender out of the way to con­trol a ball out of the air, the sophomore forward took a 
SKY HIGH 
Goals 
continued from page 24 
on goal, besting Marquette by a margin of 19-9. Notre Dame leads the Big East in shots with 196. Meanwhile, Marquette -in the Big East 


out-shot Marquette seven to three. For the season, it holds a 79-33 advantage. 
Not surprisingly, Notre Dame also holds a slight lead in total goals scored. After Wednesday's four-spot, the 

JENNIFER KANGffhe Observer 
Irish -who score in bunches

Irish defender Matt Besler dribbles upfield in Notre Dame's win 
when they score at all ­

over Marquette Wednesday at Alumni Field. 
have surpassed West Virginia cellar with a 1-9-1 overall mark-has managed only 79 shots in its 11 games, while allowing opponents to tally 166. 
N o t r e Dame, con­ference leader in corner kicks, 

touch toward goal and ripped a shot from just inside the 18­yard box into the lower corner of the net. 
"We followed up well [from Saturday's win over Pittsburgh]." Clark said. "It was as comprehensive a 90 minutes as we've played all season." 
The Irish, who have won two consecutive Big East games, have built up some momentum just in time for Saturday's showdown with Seton Hall. The Pirates are currently in fourth 
1/zu.tJdtif{J
Korooke 9 pm -1om 

~~ 
Reader~· 1 
·\Ooicef' 
~.._, 
!. l\ :. 
"" '-., 
for the conference lead in 

place in the Blue Division, one 
goals scored with 22. Going 

spot ahead of Notre Dame. 
into and coming out of 

Notes: 
Wednesday

+ Senior midfielder Ian 
night's 

Etherington did not play in 
game, the "Suddenly they get a was no way Wednesday night's game after 
Golden back [for
goal, and suddenly the 

Eagles have Marquette]."suffering a deep bone bruise 
just seven whole thing changes. We Clark said. 

against Pittsburgh on Saturday. Sophomore Cory Rellas started 
goals -a wanted to put the game The Notre in Etherington's place. Clark 
number one Dame bench
to bed."

higher than would not be Etherington would be out. 
did not know how long 
the amount excluded of times they Bobby Clark from putting Contact Greg Arbogast at 
have been Irish coach one past 

garbogas@nd.edu 
shut out. However, 


PAMELA LOCKffhe Observer 
Irish cornerback Darrin Walls, left, dives at Spartan quarterback Drew Stanton, center, during Notre Dame's 40-37 win over Michigan State Sept. 23. 
"Let's be honest, I'll settle for four goals. IfI was guaranteed four goals every week, I'd be happy." 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
to see goals scored, a game against Marquette might still be the best bet. With 24 goals allowed, the Golden Eagles are at the bottom of the league. 
Surprisingly, head coach Bobby Clark didn't label Marquette Notre Dame's weakest opponent. 
"I don't think it was the easiest team we've played [this] year," he said. "I think we've actually lost to teams that have been easier than that. ... We lost to UAB. and we dominated that one as much as this one." 
For much of the game, Notre Dame's main concern was to avoid putting it into 



Flot Screen TVs in every booth I NFL Sundoy Ticket 
setuletn lite 
#1
--=-·uns 
..... 
Sports Bor
SPORTS BAR 
cruise control against a visi­bly inferior opponent. Even though the Irish took an early 2-0 lead, Clark left goal-scorer Lapira in the game until the 61st minute. Wednesday marked only the second game -and the sec­ond in a row -that Lapira had played the entire first 
half. 
''When you score early, it's easy to get in the mindset that game is over," Clark s a i d "Suddenly they get a goal, and sud­denly the whole thing changes. We wanted to put 
the game to bed." 
The Irish weren't able to "put the game to bed" until the 72nd minute -well after Lapira and fellow starting forward Justin McGeeney had ended their nights. 

Midfielder Nate Norman dribbled through a handful of Marquette defenders and fired it in from 15 yards to give the Irish a three-point lead with 18 minutes to play. 
"Once that 
went in, it 
Golden 
Eagle keeper Marc Dettmann, and Bright Dike beat him in the 82nd minute for Notre Dame's final goal. 
With the way they played and the talent disparities between the two teams, the Irish probably could have put up even more goals Wednesday night. 
Clark, however, had no rea­son to be anything but pleased. 
"Let's be honest, I'll settle for four goals," he said, laughing. "If I was guaran­teed four goals every week, I'd be happy." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

t:?anzp~ ..s='ho-ppe~ • ..s='o-a~h L?12nd 
vvvvvv.Bet:vveent:heBuns_com 
--------­ --­ ----­ ----­ 
--­ 
-·--------~--­ 

Thursday, September 28, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, I expect to be
to form four ordinary words. 
an officer 
YOSUM 

rJ 
1 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ZOONE 

rJ
t 1 
RICION 

WHAT THE: HOT­SHOT SALE:SMAN
J [J [] 
www.jumble.com WANTE:D WHE:N HE: 
JOINE:D THE: Ar<MY. METIKS 
j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 
HIS"[ I I I I I I I I I]" 
(Answers Monday) 
Jumbles: USURP CLOVE MOROSE SEXTON 
Yesterday's 
Answer: Hard to avoid at the seashore ­"OVEREXPOSURE" 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 32 Some journalism 62 How the 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Avril Lavigne. 22; Stephan Jenkins. 42: 1 Archie Bunker's 
grads, for short murderer kneels Shaun Cassidy, 48; Meat Loaf, 59 in a whodunit?
word before 33 Sponsorship: 
Happy Birthday: Act swiftly and you'll have no regrets. It's when you decide to flir "fatso" Var. 66 Autobahn sight back and forth that you run into trouble. You can change your direction. professionall~ 5 Spike in low but don't do so for the wrong reason. Your numbers are 13, 15, 29, 31, 38,44
34 Poem title start 67 Frank's partner temperatures in the comics 
37 Sydney's home: ARIES (March 21-April19): Join forces with someone you love, trust or want to 11 Sgt. Snorkel's Abbr. 68 Some pump it form a partnership with. This is the perfect day to talk commitment, deals or even dog money issues that may have caused problems in the past. 5 stars 
39 How to score in 69 Margret and 15 Declined basketball from H. A., creators of 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You aren't thinking too clearly today. Take that as a 16 Like some close up? forewarning. You are likely to be financially impractical if you mix love and money
Curious George mutual funds 70 Bagpipe sounds Someone you meet through work will show interest in you. 3 stars 
43 Decryption org. 17 Say it loud, say 71 Take-out order? 
44 Any of the GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try your hardest, do your best and don't let love get 
it proud 
dwarfs in "Snow you down. You will be emotional, flippant and probably equally to blame for any 18 How to make White" incident that develops today. 3 stars 
DOWN 

an answer on 45 Geometrical 
1 Cut off CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will be in a creative cycle so don't waste time 
"Jeopardy!"? 
finding arguing with people about what you want to do. Instead, quietly go about your busine" 
21on symbol 
21 Fighting Tigers and present your plans when they are complete. 3 stars 
47 Merchandise ID 

of the N.C.A.A. 3 Ball field? 49 Tach readings LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've got everyone's attention so why cause problems fo1
22 _ Freed, the 4 Prefix with 
yourself by exaggerating. Stick to facts and everyone will have far more respect for 

51 Blush meterso-called Father 
you. 2 stars 

of Rock and Roll 53 Small business 5 Like some 23 Bread, for one person crossings: Abbr. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Think about ways to make your life easier--a better method or service for your home that will ease your workload. Then you will be abh 

24 Words of 57 Kind of question 6 Roomie 
to make better decisions and put more effort into doing what's most important. 4 star: 

concurrence 58 Sojourn 7 Graff of "Mr. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Being wishy-washy will only make people think you ar<

26 King's specialty? 59 "Unfaithful" Belvedere" 
incompetent. Be more assertive. 3 stars 

29 Classic group of co-star, 2002 8 Chicken on a Puzzle by Harvey Estes 12 menu SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be inclined to take on too much or promise mon
61 Div. of Scotland 35 Actor Jean-46 Soother 56 Pee Wee of the 
than you should. Step back and look at the possibilities. Lots of changes can be

31 Certain girder Yard 9 Batting instructor Claude Van big league 
47 Hullabaloo expected with friends, children and your professional direction. 3 stars 
Charlie 36 Group mailing 48 Sneak peek, 
"NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1 0 Early capital of 60 "Darn it all!" SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Keeping secrets will not be your forte today. B<
tool 

modern-style
Macedonia careful not to let someone talk you into doing or saying things you'll regret later. Ym 38 Summer refuge 50 Beat in will disappoint someone if you can't respect his or her wishes. 3 stars 
11 In base 8 63 Miss the mark 
40 Bodega setting wrestling
12 Red square CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Things will not be as they appear. Don't trust tha
52 Got a load of 
41 [This is very 64 Winter product someone will tell you the truth or that you will be able to ferret out the information 
13 Drove (around) 
annoying] 54 Romeo's rival you require to make a decision. Sit tight and refuse to let anyone take over. 3 stars 
name prefix14 One side in 
42 Tiger Beat 55 Mount _,
baseball AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things are looking good and a turn of events will cover subject Utah peak 65 Nod, maybe put you in a winning position. Money can be made. A commitment to someone you
negotiations 
really want to be with will ensure that you spend more time together. 4 stars 

19 "April Love" composer For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Nothing will be etched in stone. You don't have to sticl Sammy credit card, 1-800-814-5554. to a game plan if it isn't working for you. Speak from the heart. 2 stars Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
20 Rears 
Birthday Baby: You are clever, witty and know how to get what you want. You wil 25 Spars go to great lengths to keep the peace and to see that everyone is playing fair. You art 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
strong-willed and determined but don't push others to be the same as you. 


-=+-::+.:-:+::-i 27 Suppress past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 

28 Dog treat solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
consultations

30 Tofu base 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
-

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip_~---­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
page 24 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
The Finest hope to rebound against Ducks 
By KATE DONLIN and SARAH THOMAS Sports Writers 
Farley's Finest seek their first victory of the season as they take on Howard at 7 p.m. tonight at Riehle West Field. 
Farley has faced a tough schedule early on in the sea­son, playing both teams from last year's Interhall champi­onship game -Pangborn and Pasquerilla West -in its open­ing matchups. 
In its first game, Farley lost a 6-0 heartbreaker to the Phoxes in a defensive battle. The fol­lowing Sunday, the Finest were plagued by penalties and lost 20-0 against a tough Purple Weasel defense. 
Despite the rocky start, Farley captain Kim Crehan has been able to take something positive away from the first couple games. 

"The first two games helped us realize what we need to improve on, and we have had a couple practices this week to prepare," she said. 
The Ducks say they have have improved after their 0-5-1 record last year. 
In its opening game, Howard managed to shut out Lewis on its way to a 6-0 victory. The Ducks realized they needed to spark their offense if they wanted to be successful this season. But despite its best efforts, Howard was unable to contain the quick Pangborn offense Sunday. The disap­pointing 20-6 result gave the Ducks their first loss of the sea­son. 
That won't satisfy the Ducks this week. "We have mostly been work­
ing on our offense in practice and trying to be more consis­tent in terms of our attack," Howard captain Catherine Krug said. 
Breen-Phillips vs. Lewis 
Lewis hopes to reap the bene­fits of weeks of intense practice when it takes on Breen-Phillips tonight at 8 p.m. at Riehle West 
see FOOTBALL/page 21 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Golden goals 
If routs can be called pedes­

By GREG ARBOGAST trian, then Wednesday night's
Sports Writer 
contest was certainly a pedes­trian game.
Unlike many of its games this Notre Dame (6-3-2, 4-2-0)

season, Notre Dame's game 
controlled anagainst Marquette was never in 

outmatched

doubt. 
Marquette
The Irish scored goals on two team, getting

of their first three shots and two goals
never looked back, cruising to from forward a 4-0 victory Wednesday night 
Joseph

at Alumni Field. 
Lapira in theWith the win, Notre Dame first 11 min­improved its record to 6-3-2 (4­

utes on its

2-0 Big East) on the season. By 
way to top­Eric Retter

picking up three conference ping the
points, the Irish will -at worst 
Golden Associate 

-remain alone in fifth place in 
Eagles 4-0. Sports Editor 

the Big East Blue Division, and 
Truth is,

they have a chance to catch 
Notre Dame had no acceptable

either Seton Hall or alternative but to dominate
Providence. 
the Golden Eagles. 
Like many other Irish oppo­
Statistically, the two unitsnents this season, Marquette are on the opposite poles of 

was unable to stop Notre Dame the Big East record book, andforward Joseph Lapira. With 
that fact played outgoals in the second and 

Wednesday night. 

eleventh minutes, Lapira JENNIFER KANG!The Observer 
The Irish dominated in shots 

Irish striker Joseph Lapira, right, guards the ball from Marquette defender Mike Carlson in Notre see LAPIRA/page 22 Dame's 4-0 win over the Golden Eagles Wednesday. Lapira scored twice in the victory. see GOALS/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's, Cusack try to stay successful against Bethel 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer  game, the Belles lost by the same score in the second game before tallying 30-18 and 30-28  "I like our ability to drive and win," Schroeder-Biek said. "What l didn't like was putting  Bethel has been very inconsis­tent so far this season, alternat­ing wins and losses in its last  "We have fantastic chemistry," Schroeder-Biek said. "That is a huge strength and it helps to  
victories to win  ourselves in that  seven games. The Pilots have  carry us through when we are  
After an impressive first half of the season, Saint Mary's will  the match. Freshman  "Itfeels so good to know  position to have to come back.  had a three-game win streak and an eight-game losing streak  struggling with our game." David also emphasized the  
look to continue its success when the second half begins tonight at 7 p.m. at Bethel. The Belles concluded the first  L o r n a Slupczynski recorded a dou­ble-double in the  everyone on the court is working together toward the same goal."  We need to improve our desire to com­pete from start  this season. Saint Mary's is led by libero Anne Cusack, who was recently named MIAA specialty player of  value of the team's chemistry. "It feels so good to know everyone on the court is working together toward the same goal," David  
half of the season with a 3-1 win  effort with  15  to finish."  the week. The senior averaged  said.  
over MIAA opponent Tri-State  kills and 19 digs.  Amanda David  The  Pilots  7.2 digs and 1.2 service aces per  "Having this chemistry helps  
on Tuesday -improving the team's conference record to 4-2  Setter Amanda David also had a  Belles setter  improved their record to 8-13  game in the Belles' two matches last week. Cusack currently  us to be successful because it gives us confidence in each  
on  the year. Senior Kristen  strong  effort  with a  3-1 win  leads the conference with 7.31  other during high-pressure  
Playko posted 26 digs and a  with 57 assists.  over  Grace Tuesday. Junior  digs per game in MIM play.  moments."  
match-high 19 k1lls to lead the  Belles coach Julie Schroeder­ Erica Bruxvoort led Bethel to  The Belles hope their strong  
Saint Mary's offensive effort.  Biek had mixed feelings on the  the victory with 14 kills, four  bond can lead them to  a win  Contact Michael Bryan at  
After a  30-28 win in the first  team's performance.  aces and seven blocks.  over Bethel.  mbryan@nd.edu  




~fl ~CAA football NFL NFL Ml~-ll Ml~ -~l 
..... 

c.,) Jets quarterback Chad Auburn at South Cowboys wide receiv-Colts wide receiver Yankees 16 Cardinals 4 z Pennington uses karate Carolina er Terrell Owens denies Reggie Wayne returns Orioles 5 Padres 2 ~ to improve mechanics, earlier reports he today to practice after Chien-Ming Wang Cardinals first base­
..... 

recover from knee sur-The Tigers face the attempted suicide the death of his brother. picks up his 19th win as man Albert Pujols'
c:s 

gery. Gamecocks in a key SEC Tuesday night. every Yankees starter three-run home run 
~ 

matchup. scored Wednesday. ends St. Louis' seven­!;: game skid. 
page 19 page 18 page 17 page 16 page 15 page 14 





