
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLUME 40: ISSUE 74 THURSDAY, JANUARY 26,2006 
ND looks forward after speeches 
Questions remain on Speculation centers sponsorship, image on events' fates 
By MADDIE HANNA ' By KAREN LANGLEY 
A..sociatt• News Editor Assistant News Editor 
University President Father The annual campus presenta­.John .Jenkins spoke with convic­tions of "The Vagina Monolohrues" tion and clarity in his addresses and the Queer Film Fnstival have on academic f'rnndom and provoked controversy since their Catholic dmraetnr this week, but arrival at Notre Dame in rocent profi,ssors and administrators say years, but University President tho futuro implications li1r individ­Father John Jenkins' academic ual dnpartmnnlc.; and thll broader freedom addresses this week image of the University are still · have added a degren of uncer­murky. tainty to the events' status as a 
"This is a situation whnre thP. fledgling campus presence ­very bnst limturns of' Notrn Dame leaving student organizers and can nnwrgn," Provost Thomas department sponsors puzzled Burish said. "Fatlwr has asked about how to proceed. not simply filr people to endorse Though the two events orw action or anothnr n'garding emerged as focal points of' con­'Tiw Vagina Monolohruns' and the tention in Jenkins' Monday and ()twnr Film Fnstival. but he's Tuesday addresses, the extent askml tlwm to hnlp him with a and timetable of any changp,s morn dillkult challenge -how mandated remain undear. dons orw intnhrratn prineiples such Jenkins told The Observer as acadnmi1: frendom and the Tuesday he could not say commitment to the Catholic iden-CLAIREKELLEYffheObserver whether "The Vagina 
Senior Jessica Maciejewski discusses ways the new see FUTURE/page 4 group "United for Free Speech" could mobilize Wednesday. see EVENTS/page 8 
Newly1ormed free speech group strategizes against potential restrictions 
Monologues" and other contro­groups asking for donations and rarely broke in with their own 
By MIKE GILLOON 
versial performances on campus. support. thoughts. News Writer 
"We want to show l.lenkinsl Though nearly all seemed "It was great to see that so 
that there is an extraordinarily opposed to the censorship of many students, on such short 
Snnking to vigorously engage large eontingonltl on this eampus "The Vagina Monologues," the notice, are so interested in work­in University Prosidnnt Father that supportlsl t.hn right to free group did not agree on the best ing hard and thinking through .John .l1l11kins' invitation to eon­spnm:h, lis I eoncerned about con­way to go about stating its case. this issue," Hendler said. "I eame verse on tho issues of aeadnmie straints on acadcmie freedom Some suggestnd aggressively partly to show support for the freedom and Notre Damn's and will fight lilr this causo," said accusing the University of students and partly to hear what Catholi1: rharaetnr, tlw newly­senior Kaitlyn Hndf'ield, who infringing on their right to froe they had to say." fornwd group "United for Free organized thn meeting. speech. Whether one approves or dis­Spenrh" nwl WPdnesday to Hedfidd lnd tho discussion that "Shaming the Univorsity I about approves of "The Vagina organizn romrniltees and brain­produced idnas such as drrulat­its decision I. I think that's the Monologues," Hedlield said, tho storm id1•as in response to ing and delivering a petition in game," senior Peter Quaranto larger issues her group wanlc.; to .Jenkins' nwnnt addross1~s to f<u:­support of free speech to said. protect are free speech and aca­ulty and students. .Jenkins. Attendees also consid­Still others believed working demic lrm~dom on campus . 
J\pproximatPiy 75 studPnlc.; and erod enmuraging tho University with Jenkins in a more cordial Heprcsenting groups sueh as faculty fillnd mudws, chairs and to attach a diselai mer to any way would be the bottor route to the College Libertarians, the tlw floor of' Wl•lsh Family flail's event it b1'1ieves runs munter to follow. Progressive Student Alliance and sodal spare to discuss tho most Catholic principles, staging a Three professors. including the unrecognized gay-straight Plli~dive ways to protnst and pre­visual dmnonstration and writing English prof(Jssor Glenn Il1mdler, vent 1:nnsorship of "The Vagina !otters to alumni and other observed the lively session but see SPEECH/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Boat Club 
•

reinains docked 
Management vows to fight ruling, reopen bar 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writer 
The ship can't sail ynt. 
Campus buzz that thn popular South Bend bar tlw Boat Club -a noto~ious underagn drink­ing haven until police raids forced it to shut down more than a year ago -is on the verge of reopening its doors was temporarily quieted Wednesday when the St. .Josoph County Alcohol and Tobaeco Commission voted to revoke the bar owner's liquor license rather than allow it to be trans­ferred, a board member said. 
But standing inside tho bar Wednesday evening with a small clustor of' d1~jected employees, the bar's manager vowed it was cleaning up its image and should be given a ehance to rebuild its reputa­tion. 
"It's not the same as it was before," when minors could easily gain admittanco, said tho manager, Dahna VanVynekt. She said the bar plans to appeal the commission's ruling and attempt to reopen as soon as possible. 
"We're trying to makn it a better plaen; we want to work with the community; wn want. to attract everybody," shn said. "They may soP tho old imago, but that's OK, we'd like them to take a look . .Just for the tradi­tion of' tho placo -WP 'vo put in a lot of effort and time." 
South Bend resident Josllph 
L. Heady had asklld tho com­mission for a transfer of' tlw license from Boat Club owtwr Michael McNnf'l', who has lwld 
see BOAT/page 6 

Cable installation to cause longer dark periods 
The dark period, the time
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
when students will be without 
News Writer 
phone and Internet service in < ' their rooms during the installa­I 
Without a reliable Internet tion, was originally projected to I I eonnoetion to chat on Instant last thrne weeks for caeh dorm. I Messenger, senior Lisa To has "In some instances, that lthe ~ I fp](. isolatod from lwr off-cam­dark pnriod I is probably going pus friends sinee she returned to last longer than we previo-us­to school from wintllr break. To ly thought," said Jell'rey Shoup, lives in Lyons llall, one of the director of tho Office of !'our dorms currently undergo­Hnsidnnefl Life and Housing. ing wireless lntPrnet and eable Shoup now estimates the installation. installation could take up to six 
"It's lwen hard because I've weeks f'or naeh dorm. gottlln a wireless eard from my Due to eomplieations arising rnctor but tho wirPlnss isn't eon­from the structures and layouts sistnnt throughout the dorm," of' the dorms, Notrn Dame offi­To said. "It's bmm hard finding cials and the University's con­thn hot spots and staying on the wirnlf!Ss." see CABLE/page 6 

----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2. Thursday, January 26, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dancing queen 
This Saturday, I was trying to explain to people why my impromptu Friday night dance performance on a coffee table is unusual. (Dad, I know you're reading this online, and I swear to you, it's not what you think). I have noth­Kate Gales ing against danc­ing in public, on 
Associate
any surface, 
Sports Editor 
although after years of ridiculous, I try to avoid it whenever possible. 
Why don't I dance? Well, when your moves include the infamous "churning the butter" and "the sprinkler," it's hard to avoid unflattering comparisons to more coordinate friends. It could be left­over self-consciousness from when my social life was crippled by Coke-bottle glasses. But finally, after over two decades of awkward moves on the dance floor, and approaching my final SYR, I have realized where I can squarely place the blame for my lack of dance-floor coordination: the American system of Catholic education. 
Counting this year, I've spent 16 years in the Catholic education system. In some ways, this is great. I can always answer the Bible questions on "Jeopardy," and love collared shirts. Unfortunately, I have a long history of extremely awkward school dances, which I believe directly correlate to my school's parochial affiliation'>. 
It dates back to middle school, when Dad would chaperone my seventh-grade dances. As ifbeing 13 i'>n't awkward enough, your father is watching your every move. That alone would scare most adolescent boys away-which, in retrospect, may have been the point. However, the teachers firmly schooled us in the ultimate rule of school dancing: "You have to leave space for your guardian angels." For anyone keeping score at home, that's two guardian angels who need room between the cou­ple, and from my recollections, school policy was that guardian angels were pretty big. 
You would think high school would be easier, given the reputation that Catholic school girls have to uphold. However, I assure you that my small-town high school was having none of that. After taking some more advanced religion courses and realizing that we didn't actually need room for our guardian angels, my geometry teacher advocated a new criterion: All dancers must remain more than 135 degrees from the ground. Yes, you read that correctly, and ifyou whip out your protractor (don't act like you don't have one, you elitist math major), you will realize that that effec­tively negates any sort of coordinated, cool, attractive dancing. Also, you weren't allowed to wear clothes that showed your shoulders, but my lack of fashion sense is another story. 
So when it comes to my moves -or lack thereof-I blame the schools. In the age-old debate of nature vs. nurture, it is clear that I never had a fair shot to develop sweet moves on the dance floor. I'm sure that inside, there's a Kate Gales with smooth steps, not two left feet. You can blame genetics, but I blame my upbringing. Because as my friends will tell you, all I want to do is dance, dance, dance. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Jan. 25 edition of The Observer, a Vagina Monologues supporter was quoted as saying that 1 in 4 women will graduate from Notre Dame having been raped. However, Clery Act statistics said just one case was reported in 2004 out ofthe approximately 4,000 women at Notre Dame. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW HAS THE CABLE INSTALLATION IN DORM ROOMS AFFECTED YOU? 

Belma Torres  Bridget Cullen  Cassie Provenzale  Chris Schenkel  Mike Anello  Ryan Engler  
freshman Lyons  freshman Lyons  junior BP  senior Alumni  freshman Keough  freshman Alumni  
"I got to make new and interesting  "CoMo and I have become pretty good  "We don't have cable yet. "  "I haven't had to deal with it because Father  'This guy comes in at night and watches me  "We haven't had the pleasure yet,  








sleep." but I can't wait!" 
IN BRIEF 
The blood drive will continue today from 9:30 a.m. until 3:30 
p.m. in Rolfs Sports RecCenter. Call631-6100 to register. 
The band Nice Save! will be performing live at Corby's Friday at 10:30 p.m. 
The band Appetite for Destruction will be performing live at Club Fever Friday night. 
"Poetas y Pintores: Artists Conversing with Verse" art exhibit will open Friday in Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's. 
Welsh Family Hall Dance Show presents: "Game Faces" this Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall. Tickets are $4 and can be purchased at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. Profits benefit Hannah and Friends. 
Three panelists will address the question: "Iraq: What now?" at 4:15 p.m. Jan. 31 in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum will give a reading from her debut book, This Life She's Chosen, on Feb. 1 at 7:30 
p.m. in South Dining Hall's Hospitality Room. The event is free and open to the public. 
The 2006 Wrnter Career and Internship Fair will take place from 4 to 8 p.m. Feb. 1 in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. The event is free and sponsored by the Career Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 43 HIGH 33 LOW 25 LOW 22 
friendships with friends." George Rozum is the cable guys a god." that surprise me in my 
, 
room. 


Colleen Garvey, assistant director of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), speaks to students Wednesday about signing up for ACE program interviews. Those accepted into the program study during the summer at Notre Dame and teach at under-funded schools during the school year for two consecutive years. 
OFFBEAT 

Male student wins fight to wear skirt 
HASBROUCK HEIGHTS, 
N.J. -A male high school student can wear a skirt to school after the American Civil Uberties Union reached an agreement with school officials. 
The ACLU announced the deal Tuesday. It will allow a Hasbrouck Heights School senior to wear a skirt to protest the school's no-shorts policy. 
The district's dress code bans shorts between Oct. 1 and April 15, but allows skirts, a policy 17-year-old Michael Coviello believes is discriminatory. 
''I'm happy to be able to wear skirts again to bring attention to the fact that the ban on shorts doesn't make sense," Coviello said in a statement. 
The Hasbrouck Heights superintendent, Joseph C. Luongo, did not return tele­phone messages left Tuesday seeking comment. 
13 years of animal waste damages rectory 
DYER, Ind. -A Roman Catholic church rectory is undergoing more than $100,000 in renovations because of damage caused by more than 13 years of neglect and accumulated animal waste, the church's pastor said. 
The Rev. Terry Steffens said in a letter to parish­ioners that when he arrived at St. Joseph Church in Ju]y, he discovered severe damage to the rectory and has been living at a rectory of a church in nearby Schererville 
The letter said Bishop Dale Melczek had advised Steffens to have the rectory in Dyer, 10 miles southwest of Gary, fumigated before he moved in. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
U.l 
:::1: 
=c 
U.l 

3: 
~ 
..... 
c:( 
(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 38 HIGH 30 HIGH 47 HIGH 45 LOW 32 LOW 28 LOW 33 LOW 38 
Atlanta 56 I 30 Boston 38 I 29 Chicago 41 I 22 Denver 65 I 43 Houston 66 I 42 Los Angeles 63 1 48 Minneapolis 20 1 9 New York 39 I 30 Philadelphia 39 I 26 Phoenix 69 I 45 Seattle 56 I 48 St. Louis I 28 Tampa 69 1 51 Washington 44 125 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Resolution reco111111ends drastic increase in library hours 
By MADDIE HANNA Associall' News Fdiwr 
A resolution proposed by the StudtHll Senate's Academic Affairs committee intended for night owls who like to study past 2 a.m. passod with little co nlrovn rsy a l llw group's Wmlnnsday night nwnling. 
CommitltH~ member and Carroll snnator Jim Grace pre­snnled the rnsolulion, which rn eo mm n n d s llw II nsb urgh Library stay opnn 24 hours a day from H a.m. Sunday until 2 
a.m. Thursday and open 24 hours during tlw unofficial midterms week hnfore spring hmak. 
c;ivnn dorm overcrowding, inadequate study space around 1:arnpus, rosourees speeific to tho Library, otlwr eollegos' pro­emlures ami tlw simple nature of college life. the committee argues, it would be rPasonable 1 to extend Library hours. 
"Some students are getting swept out of thn Library -not literally, but liguralivnly," com­millet~ chair Chris llarris said. 
Currently, the llesburgh Library is open from 7:30 a.m. to 2 a.m. Monday through Friday. 9 a.m. to 2 a.m. Saturday and I 0 a.m. to 2 a.m. Sunday. 
While the hours requested in the resolution are the "best case scenario," llarris said his eomrnitl£w would be willing to t:om promise. 
Several senators questiorwd the logistics of extending the hours, but Grace Hxplained that Library ollidals wanted to sec a Senate proposal before digging into the matter. 
Grace said he was told the llnanecs for the project would "most likely" come from the Library's budget to buy new books and that keeping one floor of the Library open later was not feasible due to fire codes. 
Knott senator Jacques Nguyen wondered if Library officials had already considered the potential of drawing "unwanted visitors" by keeping the Library open 24 hours. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Studnnt body president Dave Baron said he would like Senate to respond to University President Father John Jenkins' request to start dialogue about academie freedom at Notre Dame. 
Consequently, the University Affairs, Gender Issues and Academic Affairs committees each will begin to explore this topic. 
It's to gel as many ideas "out on the floor as possible, so Father Jenkins can hear them," Baron said. "That's what he asked us to do." 
+ Students will not make a p·resentation at next week's Board of Trustees meeting in Home, but student government will still send a brief report, stu-dent body president Lizzi Shappell said. 

The report will update trustees on student govern­ment's activities since the October Board meeting and will mention community relations issues, the Transpo agreement, Eating Disorders Awareness Week, the Catholic Think Tank speaker series and the pro­posed cultural competency requirement, among other top­ics. 
+ After crime rocked several students' off-campus apart­ments over break, it's elear 
community relations are still an important issue. 
So student government has further wedded itself to the cause, encouraging students to join neighborhood watches and researching alarm systems, Baron said. 
He will speak on behalf of the Notre Dame student body regarding the disorderly house ordinance -arguing that notices to abate should allow the chance to abate -at an upcoming South Bend Common Council meeting, tentatively Feb. 27. 
"We don'l want to make this a surprise action," he said. 
+ The laundry room in the basement of LaFortunn has been converted to a study lounge, said Brian Coughlin. director of Student Aetivities. 
lie said the East Lounge is a quiet "but not silent" study spaee. 
"We recognize the lmainl basement lounge is mueh more of a soeial atmosphere," Coughlin said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 26, 2006 
Supre111e Court will 



hear injection appeal 
Death row inmate Clarence Hill argues lethal injections are unnecessarily painful 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Hours 
after staying the execution 
of an inmate who was 
already strapped to a gur­
ney, the Supreme Court said 
Wednesday it would hear 
arguments from the man 
who claims the drug cocktail 
used in lethal injections can 
cause excruciating pain. 
Lethal injections are used · in most states that have cap­
ital punishment, and there's 
been a growing dispute over 
the way they are carried out. 
The Supreme Court has 
never found a specific form 
of execution to be cruel and 
unusual punishment, and 
the latest case from Florida 
does not give court members 
that opportunity. The jus­
tices will, however, spell out 
what options are available to 
inmates with last-minute 
challenges to the way they 
will be put to death. 
Florida inmate Clarence 
Hill, who filed the appeal, 
had been strapped to a gur­
ney with intravenous lines 
running into his arms 
Tuesday night when he won 
a temporary Supreme Court 
stay, Hill's lawyer said. The 
stay was signed by Justice 
Anthony M. Kennedy. 
The full court announced 
Wednesday that the stay 
would be permanent until 
justices decide whether an 
appeals court was wrong to 
prevent Hill from challeng­
ing the lethal injection 
method. 
The argument is expected 
April 26, with a ruling 
before July. 
"What a fantastic day. 
What a fantastic day," said 
Hill's attorney D. Todd Doss, 
who relayed the news to his 
client. "He was happy we get 
to go and present this to the 
U.S. Supreme Court." 
Hill is on death row for 
killing a Pensacola, Fla., 
police officer after a bank 
robbery in 1982. Hill has 
converted to Islam and 
taken the name Razzaq 
Muhammad, although he 
does not use that name in 
court filings. 
A Florida Department of 
Corrections spokeswoman 
said Hill would be moved off 
death watch, a cell block 
adjacent to the execution 
chamber, and back to death 
row. 
Hill argues that the doses 

of three chemicals used in Florida executions -sodium pentothal, pancuronium bro­mide and potassium chloride -can cause pain. The first drug is a pain killer. The second one paralyzes the inmate and the third causes a fatal heart attack. 
The final drug, potassium chloride, "burns intensely as it courses through the veins toward the heart," Doss wrote in the appeal. He said there is "a foreseeable risk of the gratuitous and unnec­essary infliction of pain." 
Hill's case allows the court to revisit a 2004 ruling in an Alabama death case, in which justices said David Larry Nelson could pursue a last-ditch claim that his death by lethal injection would be unconstitutionally cruel because of his dam­aged veins. 
While Hill does not have damaged veins, his appeal cites medical studies about the cocktail of drugs used by Florida and other states. 
"The court may be willing to broaden what can be con­sidered as a civil rights claim," said Richard Dieter, executive director of the anti-capital punishment Death Penalty Information Center. 
Dieter predicted that inmates facing executions in coming months will requests delays, based on the Hill case. 

Tmday f@raary 7th, 2006 •7:30 p.m. 
Morris P9rforming Arts Coler South B9nd, Indiana 
Tick~b ovolloblt ot Morris Box Olfiw Chorgv by phonv 574/235-9190 "-'~;;; .· or 800/?37-6415 @-?~t'i!~·r
www.mornscenttr.org ...... , .......... . 
Proprietors 

·-
------------..
1 I
Warren &Linda 
I 
I I I I I
?irs/ Orirpnaf'Azza in 7oam I 
I I
Since 1951 

I I
$2 off Any Size Pizza I Eat in Only I I Expires March 31, 2006 I 
I I
537 North St louis • South Bend, IN 
I.. _____________574-233-24(,4 ..I 
Future 
continued from page 1 
tity of Notre Dame?" 
But this sense of openness ,---a newly rev\laled quality of Jenkins' presidency -also creates a less certain outlook. 
"I think it's too early in the con­versation to be making judgments about whether our autonomy as a department will be threatened," said Peter Holland, chair of the Film, Television and Theatre Department that has sponsored the Queer Film Festival in the past. "I think the thing that needs [to be] elarified is the difference between sponsorship and endorsement." 
For Holland, who sent a detailed letter to Jenkins Wednesday, there's a schism between the two. He believes Jenkins does not draw the same distinction. 

"We sponsor talks and events and such as a department, but it doesn't mean we endorse any par­ticular view. When we sponsor anything we try to have different points of view represented," he said. "Generally, at least in our department, we don't view spon­sorship as endorsement. That allows for academic discourse." 
Many of the questions Jenkins fielded from faculty and students after his Monday and Tuesday addresses hinged on his frequent mention of sponsorship and its relationship to public image. His critics in both audiences accused Jenkins of being overly preoccu­pied with image and projecting an appearance of Catholic character rather than cultivating its reality. 
But associate professor of phi­losophy and director of the Center for Ethics and Culture W. David Solomon said Jenkins is not a man to worry about perception. 
"I don't think he's overly con­cerned with that at all," Solomon said. "Jenkins was concerned with substance. His concern is not what the wider world thinks about 
Januaty 26 

Notre Dame. We're not trying to please everybody-what he's concerned about are the sacred truths at the heart of the Catholic tradition. 
"I think the stuff about percep­tion is a red herring brought for­ward by Father Jenkins' critics who don't realize how serious he is. We're concerned about what kind of University we should be." 
Jenkins established that serious tone even before he spoke a single word, Solomon said. 
"The tension in the room [Monday] before the speech was quite remarkable," Solomon said. "I don't recall when a president at Notre Dame has commanded the attention of the faculty quite the way Father Jenkins did. In the importance of the community, I don't think we've had anything quite like it since [University President Emeritus] Father [Theodore] 1-Iesburgh announced the 'Fifteen Minute Hule' [placing restrictions on student protest in 1969] so many years ago." 
The "Fifteen Minute Rule" drew a flood of national attention and sparked a slew of national imita­tors as panicking universities across the country looked to Notre Dame's example of where to draw the line on campus unrest. And now the University's national rep­utation hinges in part on Jenkins' eventual decision. 
"I think that the opportunity for Notre Dame to deal constructively and respectfully with this issue in a straightforward fashion, respecting the views of all mem­bers of the community ... would reflect very well on the communi­ty," Burish said. 
But when the discussion ends, possibly somewhere between six and eight weeks from now, Jenkins will be forced to make a decision that will undoubtedly provoke both satisfaction and dis­may. 
The less obvious answer is what effect a decision-should Jenkins decide that certain events could not take place on campus ­
A little Knowledge is 
a Dangerous Thing: So, Come to Meet Us! 
Office of Undergraduate 
Studies, 1ntroduction of 
ildvising team. 

Hammes Student Lounge, Colem.~n Morse. 
Door prizes MP3 player, DVD player and more! 
Must bt) presc•nt ro ·witt 
Contact information: Oftlt:>P of Underqraduat>P Studie\, l04 0'5hauqhl'!f';sy. ~ ·709R 

would have on the type and cal­iber of students and faculty Notre Dame attracts. 
English Department chair Stephen Fredman said he inter­viewed several candidates at a national convention in December looking for teaching jobs at Notre Dame who asked him directly about the campus climate toward gay and lesbian students and fac­ulty. lie mentioned the presence of "The Vagina Monologues" and Queer Film Festival on campus. 
"If word gets out that these artistic events are forbidden in the future, it will be much harder to recruit high-quality candidates ­both Catholic and non-Catholic ­to our faculty," Fredman said. 
lie said he has also seen a letter from a distressed mother con­cerned that her freshman daugh­ter might not be able to perform in "The Vagina Monologues." 
"She was trying to encourage her daughter to stay at Notre Dame and not transfer, but felt it would be hard to continue doing so if her daughter were denied the educational opportunity that per­forming in 'The Vagina Monologues' would afford her," Fredman said. "I can't imagine that this reaction by a student and her parent would not be repeated many times over, should be seen a<; a si:hool that restricts academic freedom in such ways." 
No matter what course Jenkins pursues, he currently sees the impact of his decision on Notre Dame's reputation in a somewhat hazy light. 
"We're at an early stage and I haven't looked down that road, but I think what we have to do first is declare who we are and be true to that, and I think that is what will attract students, not any manufactured presentation," Jenkins said. 
Amanda Michaels contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope's first encyclical stresses love 
V!\TIC!\N CITY-Popo Berwdict XVI said in his l'irsl encyclical Wednesday that the llornan Catholic Church has a duly through its chai·itahln work to influerH:e polilicallead­f'I"S to ease sull'«•ring and promote justko. 
Tlw donmwnl, "God is l.ove," also warns against snx without unconditional lovo, w h id1 hn said risked lu rn ing nwn and women into merchandise. 
ll had bnnn Pagerly anticipated bocause inaugural encyclicals oiTor clues about a pontiiT's major concorns. The 71-page doeu­nwnt can ho seen as an eiTort by Benmliet to sln~ss thn fundanu•nlal lerwt of the Christian faith -lov•~ -and assort the church's duty to exerdse lovn through its works of charity in an unjust world. 
Iran blames U.S., Britain for deaths 
TI·:IIHAN-Iran's president on Wednesday hlamml "thn ocrupic~rs of Iraq" -inferring Llw Unil«~d Stales and Britain -for two bombings that killed at loast nine p•~oplo in llw southwoslPm dly of Ahvaz. 
Tho foroign minister said the bombers were supportml by llw British military, which is based in soullwrn Iraq. Ahvaz has a history of violerwe involving nwmbers of Iran's Arab minority. 
!\ spokesman for British Primo Minister Tony Blair's oiTin~ called the allegations "ludicrous." 
Stale lPlPvision said President Mahmoud 1\hmadinejad issuod a decree ordering his l'on~ign minister and intnllignnce ministnr to invostigatn tlw possibility that "foreign hands" won~ n~sponsible for Tuesday's blasts insido a hank and outside a stale environ­nwntal agoncy building. Forty-six people WPrP WOIIIHIPd. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Inmate guilty of priest's murder 
WOHCI~STI~H. Mass. -A jury on Wednesday r•~jected a prison inmate's insanity defense and found him guilty of lirst-degren murder in the strangulation of pndophiln priest John c;ooghan, a central ligur•l in Boston's dorgy sox abuse scandal. 
.Joseph Druce admiltl~d sneaking into c;eoghan's prison cell in 2003. lin beat and stranglod the hX-year-old defrocked priest. 
Tlw dPI'm1sn had argund that Druce was mnntally ill and und•~r the dnlusion that Cod had chosnn him to kill c;eoghan to snnd a nwssagn to pedophilns around the world. l'rosncutors prnsnntnd a diiTerenl picturn, dnscribing Druen as a eonniving killer who planrwd tho murdnr for wonks so he could lw a "big shot" in prison. 
New planet possibly discovered 
NI·:W YOHK -Aslronomnrs say tlwy'v•~ found what may be tho smallest and most distant plarwt known to bn orbiting a star outsidn our own solar syslnm. 
Tlw work sugg•~sts that such small rocky or icy plarwts may be morn common in llw cosmos than .lupiter-siznd gas giant plan­Pls, rPsnarrlwrs said. Tlw diseovnry also indiratns tlw pownr ol' a rnlativnly nnw nwt.hod of finding such "nxoplannts." 
!\II of l.lw nxoplarwts discovnrod so l'ar around distant stars arn largcw than Earth. ThP nowly l'ound plannl is about !i.!i limns t.hn mass ol' I·:arlh. making it much smallnr than most pnlviously known nxoplannts. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Animal shelter deals with fatal virus 
f:oBT WAYNI·:, Ind.-Tlw city animal shPILPr has had dozPns of dogs sufTnring from a dPadly virus and has stopp1~d its dog adoptions l'or a w1wk. Fort Wayne Animal Car«' & Control starr will con•:nnlraln on scrubbing down tho slwltnr in an nf'f'orl. to kill Lhn virus. 
"W1~ think it's part of' this stretch of mild wnallwr," slw said. Dogs arn out morn, and thn virus is not dying ofT amid the recnnt warnwr lnmperaturns. 

Investigators enter Sago mine 
Dangerous gas levels lowered, allowing evidence collection to begin Wednesday 
Associated Press 

MOHGANTOWN, W.Va. -More than throe weeks after a doadly under­ground explosion, the minn when~ 12 mnn diml was considnred safe nnough Wednesday for l'ndnral investigators to bngin gathering evidence inside. 
Ilazardous levels of car­bon monoxide and other gases had to be vented bel'on~ investigators could get in, Mino Safety and Ileallh Administration spokesman Dirk Fillpot said. 
It wasn't clnar how long tho evidence collection process would lake. 
A few federal investiga­tors had aeeompanied a min•~-rescue team over tho weekend as they rn­enlnrod the Sago Mine l'or the first time since tho bodies of' the doad minors and one survivor were removed Jan. 4, rnon~ than 41 hours al'tnr the explo­sion. The team restarted water pumps and repairnd damaged ventilation sys­lnms. 
Investigators will likely snareh l'or such things as scorch marks and melted plastic, exam·ine equip­ment for signs of a short eircuit, establish whether tho methane dntectors were working and lake air December. of that damage is not yet Tho 14 doaths hav•~ samples to check l'or high­The sole survivor, Hand<ll known. prompted calls l'or loughnr ly combustible eoal dust. McCloy Jr., 26, has been The aceidnnt at Sago was minn safety rules at tho They also will track the slowly emerging from a followed by an under­federal and statn lnvnls. A victims' footprints and look coma at a Morgantown ground conveyor bell lire bill shepherded through through the minors' lunch hospital. Doctors there that killed two miners at the I.egislaturn with pails or other gear left said he is able to respond the Araeoma Coal Alma unusual spnnd this Wl~ek behind. to simple commands and No. 1 mine in Melville. by Gov. Jon Manchin 
The cause of' the explo­follow movements with his Ellery llatfield. 47, and mquirns mine operators to sion has yet to be deter­eyes, but remains unabln Don I. Bragg, 33, died of call l'or lwlp immediately mined, but mine owner to speak. smoke inhalation, state after an aeeidnnl, kPnp International Coal Group lie may have suffered Dnpartnwnt of' Ilna.lth and extra breathing packs Inc. has said it occurred in brain damage from tho Human Rcsourens undnrground and equip an area of the mine that carbon monoxide exposure spokesman John Law said miners with pPrsonal had been sealed in in tho mine, but the extent Wednesday. tracking devices. 

MEXICO 

Smugglers disguised as soldiers 
even regulation military uniforms." The eonl'ronlalion !iO milos oast of 
Associated Press 

Aguilar said both countries were 1\1 Paso started wlwn slate polieP 
MEXICO CITY -Mnxieo insisted investigating tho incident. triod to stop threw sport. utility vnhi­Wednesday that the men in rnilitary­The ineidnn t has raised tensions clos on Interstate I 0. Tlw vohic.lns slyln uniforms who crossml the Rio bntwnnn the United Stales and mado a quick U-t.urn and lwadnd Grande Hiver and confronted Texas Mexico, which were already bicker­south toward the bordnr, a f'ow milns law ollicnrs with guns drawn earlier ing ove1· soeurily problems along away. this wonk worn drug smugglers, not their 2,000-mile-long bonier. Tho Wlwn the SUVs rnac.lwd tho Hio soldinrs. United Statos has proposed nxtnnd­Crando, whi«:h marks tho bordnr, 
Mexiean presidential spokesman ing a wall along the bordnr. some­policn saw t.hn ocrupanls of' a grnnn, Hubnn Aguilar said the FBI supporl­thing Mexico bittnrly opposos. Mnxican 1\rmy-styl«' llulllvnP wailing nd that view. Texas law nnl'orcement oiTieials for tlw convoy, said Hick c;lanrc•y of 
A U.S. law enl'orenment official eonl'ronted armnd lrafficknrs near tlw Tnxas Border Shorifl's' Coalition. confirmnd Aguilar's account, saying lhn Hio Grandn on Monday as what Orw SUV got. stuck in tlw rivnr, and the FBI and ollwr agendns found no looked like a Mnxiean military patrol nwn in tlw llumvnn lri«~d l.o low tho nvidnnce that the men in uniform assistnd the marijuana smugglers as stuck vohidn out. of llw riwr. Wlwn worn Mexican soldiers. The offieial thny escapod back into Mnxieo. that failod, a group of m«'n in dvilian spoke on condition of' anonymity No shots wnrn l'irnd during clotlws began unloading l'rom tlw hncausn the rnallnr is polilkally sen­Monday's confrontation with at least. suv what app•mrnd to l>n hundh~s or sitive in both countries. 10 heavily armed men, U.S. aulhori­marijuana. Thoy l.hnn torehnd tlw 
"Those wnro not Mexican army sol­tins said Tuesday. The lraiTieknrs SUV, (;(aneey said. diers, as tho U.S. govnrnnwnl itself' escaped back into Mexico with much ;\ M1~xiean gowrnmnnl of'fkial said acknowledges," Aguilar said at a of' the marijuana, though tlwy ab<m­l.ho eountry has long n~quin~d its sol­nnws eonf'nroneo. "It is known that doned more than a half-ton of' mari­diers to avoid an aroa orw milo l'rom those are drug trafliekors using mili­juana as they fled and set lim to one the U.S. bordor-an an~a known as tary uniforms and they wore not of' their vehides. tho "alert zmw." 
--~--­

-----------------------------.. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 26, 2006 
Cable 
continued from page 1 
tracting company, Koontz­Wagner, have found it neces­sary to make adjustments to their installation methods. 
During Christmas break, Notre Dame installed cable wires and wireless Internet in Sorin, Welsh Family, Keough and Badin halls. 
"The contrac­

dimensional, it's three-dimen­sional," Guthrie said. 
Wireless signals can pass through the floors of older dorms, but in new dorms with steel decking cement floors, the signal does not travel between levels. To. circumvent this problem, the contractors must experiment with alter­nate installation techniques. 
Guthrie said he is pleased with the progress thus far. The 
four dorms com­
pleted during 
tors are learning 'The rectors and break stayed on as they go," time and on
students have been 
Shoup said. "The budget. The con­
very patient and
first four that we tractors aimed did over very respectful for a less than Christmas break three percent
that this is a big
helped them to error rate in the
project.,
learn how to best wiring installa­organize the tion, Guthrie said. job." Jeffrey Shoup The actual error Contractors rate was less
director 
are currently than one percent.
Residence Life and 
working in the Guthrie and his 
Housing
next batch of team are paying 
dorms -Lyons, lloward, Walsh and Morrissey. 
Hobert Guthrie, University Program Manager for Strategic Initiatives Planning and Programs, is overseeing the project. The original timetable for installation was largely speculation, Guthrie said, since the contractors could not pre­dict the complications that would arise in individual dorms. 
"We have 27 dormitories to do," Guthrie said, "and the issues that we encountered right off the bat are that the last time this was done was when we put ResNet in ... and none of us, including myself, were here then." 
In several dorms, like Badin, Keough and Welsh Family, the conduits in the walls were not large enough to house the new, thicker cable and Internet wires, Guthrie said. The con­tractors remedied this compli­cation by installing larger con­duits to run from the wiring closets in the basement to the dorms' top floors. 
The wiring closets in the dorms are often too small to fit new wires and lack the neces­sary air conditioning systems to keep the electronics cool. Guthrie and his team are reno­vating the wire closets to install the new cable and wire­less systems and to allow for possible future wiring addi­tions. 
Guthrie said ensuring the wireless system can be accessed throughout the dorm once installation is complete is a top priority. 
"Wireless is a bit of an art, because the signal is not two-

close attention to the progress being made on the four dorms currently in the midst of installation. He holds check-up meetings twice a week with the contractor, and building overseers keep watch on the process every day. 
The original estimate for the date of completion was June 
30. The contractors may not actually finish until sometime in July, but definitely before the start of the fall semester, Guthrie said. 
· Though the project is taking longer than originally expect­ed, Shoup is pleased with the residence hall reaction. 
"The rectors and students have been patient and very respectful that this is a big project," Shoup said. 
The University has tried to accommodate residents during the dark period. Temporary wireless connection in dorm social spaces and lounges gives students with laptops nearby Internet accessibility. The 
Boat 
continued from page 1 
the license in escrow since the Indiana State Alcohol and Tobacco Commission forced him to close the bar in December 2004, said Sara Bewley, a county ATC member and Indiana State Excise Police officer. Ready sought the transfer under the ·name Steady's, Inc. 
But McNeff and his attorney Mitchell Heppenheimer didn't abide by the terms of their agreement with the state com­mission that allowed them to sell the bar, Bewley said. 
"It was supposed to be a transfer to a non-related party," Bewley said, referring to the "arm's-length transac­tion" agreement the bar made with the state ATC -an arrangement forbidding McNeff from selling the license to anyone who would allow him to remain involved in the bar. 
McNeff's Millenium Club, Inc., which owns the Boat Club, was attempting to sell the bar to Ready on contract, Bewley said, meaning if Ready broke contract, ownership would revert to McNeff. 
"[Heppenheimer and McNeff were] totally not in keeping with the agreement," Bewley said. "[The decision to revoke the license] was pretty much cut-and-dried." 
But VanVynckt also attrib­uted the board's decision to influence from local business­es and residents who remain opposed to the bar because of its shaky past. 
Excise police first busted the 106 N. Hill St. bar in January 2003, citing 213 patrons­the vast majority of whom were Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students -for under­age drinking. A second raid in December 2004 found 32 minors in the bar, prompting a series of back-and-forth rec­ommendations from the local and state commissions that eventually forced the Boat Club to close its doors. 
Rumors that those doors would finally open Wednesday flew across campus this week, fueled by everything from glimpses of employees enter­ing and exiting the bar to sightings of Miller Light trucks delivering there Tuesday. "I was real excited to go tonight, and 
then when I "We really did board to reconsider found out it think that it was its votes against was just a renewing the bar's
going to happen.,, 
rumor, I was liquor license, then crushed," overruling the local senior Kyle Dahna VanVynckt board and allowing Long said bar manager MeNeff to keep the 
Wednesday, echoing the thoughts of many upperclassmen who remember the bar's earlier days. "As far as memories go .. . you just can't beat dollar pitchers with flipcup tables and good company." 
Senior Chris Trotier said he had hoped for the best Wednesday, but knew he couldn't count on the board's decision. 
"I was definitely upset that it didn't open tonight, although I can't say I was completely surprised," he said. "I mean, as I understand it, they said they would approve it if Mike McNeff wasn't involved, and he was, so it isn't too surpris­ing ... I wouldn't be surprised if it opens within the next month, but I think most of the seniors were pretty bummed it didn't happen tonight." 
The bar could have been ready in time for the inevitable crowd Wednesday night had the board's decision gone its way, VanVynckt said. 
"We really did think that it was going to happen," she said, glancing around her at the newly-scrubbed dance floor and still-graffitied ­with Notre Dame students' signatures -walls. "I was here until 5:00 in the morning [fixing it up]." 
Heppenheimer plans to appeal the county commis­sion's decision to the state commission, which he must do within 15 days, Bewley said. 
The state board has been more sympathetic to Boat 
Club ownership in 
recent years, twice 
asking the county 
license in escrow to 
attempt to sell it. 

As the license hangs in the balance, the bar's employees say they are willing to do whatever it takes to relaunch it. 
"We're seeing what we ean do and what we have to do," VanVynckt said, to nods all around. "There's too much invested here." 
The bar has already taken steps to correct its past mis­takes, she said, including hir­ing police officers to be sta­tioned at all of its doors and implementing stricter stan­dards of checking identifiea­tion -something Boat Club was famous for letting slide. 
"No library cards this time," she said. 
Heppenheimer did not return Observer phone calls seeking comment Wednesday. 
Heather Van Hoegarden con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


University has promised to provide rectors with cell phones and wireless Internet access in order to retain com­munication lines while their dorms are being renovated. 
Guthrie believes wireless Internet will be a well-received addition to th.e residence halls, pointing to a survey conducted last year that showed wireless in the dorms was a chief demand of students. 
"I think the wireless in the dorms is probably the most important thing we're doing," Guthrie said. 
C·OLLEGE 
BOWL 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

really good ideas," senior Curtis Leighton said. "I feel like lately I've heard a lot of anger, antago­nism and resentment. But I feel like people were giving some pret­ty constructive claims -like working with Father Jenkins and not just antagonizing him." 
Sophomore Alex Renfro, a member of the AllianceND, was cautiously hopeful at the end of the meeting. 
"I just think we're going to do everything we can and pray for the best," Renfro said. 
Regardless of how those in attendance believe they should approach the situation, Redfield was impressed with the interest generated on the issue. 
"This is the biggest meeting I've seen in a long time on this cam­pus," she said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


n·~ o,.,~~"' T{J$.1 (;wl -Jr.:~::>.n·:t,~ 'l);j~z-~ ~tw(~ iNuii'""$-,.H 
Whatever your style~ College Bowl is the pl.ace to put your brains. to the test in a fast~paced game that'll let you prove your intellectual dominance. 
Tournament begins February 6 6pm -1Opm @ Legends 
Sign up your team of four at the LaFortune Information Desk Now through Mon., Jan. 30 
Winning team will represent NO at the 
S..~t~' <ia~T*'i!KOW 1'~111·~ 

v t.I&J!'W!i''f. UCG!Nf$ T!'.I'AdlJl, 
H~~t\'lr$Ul"> 





Speech 
continued from page 1 
organization AllianceND, atten­dees spent more than 45 minutes discussing their opinions before breaking into committees in charge of fundraising, taking action, press releases, petitions and form letters. 
Quaranto said he was con­cerned with what could happen if Jenkins decides to put an end to the current production style of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus. 
"The direction of the University is troubling," he said. 
Other students echoed Quaranta's concerns and believed "United for Free Speech" would be an effective outlet to make their opinions heard. 
"I thought people had a lot of 

ACUI regional tournament on Feb.. 24 &25 
at the University of Illinois 




[1jjA. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, January 26, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
·~ 
Dow 

-2.48
jones A_ 10,709.74 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volun 2,238 134 ~5 2,568,497,240 
AMEX 1.825.85 .-::).9g NASDAQ 2,260~--4.60~ NYSE 7.969.49 -3.53 ! 
S&PSOO I ,264.68 -2.18 NIKKE.l(Tokyo) IS,65l.OO 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5, 7 04.40 +70.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC)  .0.33  -0.07  21.21  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -0.43  -0.18  41.26  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +2.54  +0.31  12.51  
SUN MICROSYS INC(SUNW)  + 1.60  +0.07  4.44  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.46  +0.12  26.40  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.86  +0.85  46.55  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +2.03  +0.89  44.79  
5-YEAR NOTE  +2.09  +0.90  44.05  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.28  +0.12  43.07  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.21  65.85  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +4.40  562.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.23  79.45  
Exchan  Rates  
YEN  115.7700  
EURO  0.8169  
POUND  0.5605  
CANADIAN$  1.1516  

IN BRIEF 
Fuji to market vehicles in Mexico 
TOKYO -Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. said Wednesday it will bngin marketing its Subaru­hrand vehicles, including the Legaey sedan, in Mexko, in eooperation with Mexkan business group Grupo Galeria in February. 
Fuji I Ieavy and the group have agreed to set up a notwork of eight showrooms in Mexieo City and other Mexican loeations, with an annual salns goal of 2,000 units by 2008, the automaker said in a statnment. 
Subaru of Indiana Automotive makes about 
I 00,000 vehicles a year at its Lafayette plant. 
Tho Monterrey-basnd Grupo Galeria will set up a new distributor, Subaru de Mexico, to import and market Subaru vnhicles, the state­ment said. 
During the initial phase of the venture, Subaru de Mexico will sell the Legacy, Tribeca and Outback models produeml at Fuji Heavy's 
U.S. manufacturing arm, Subaru of Indiana Automotive Ine., the automaker said. 
Daimler Chrysler announcesjob cuts 
BEHIJN -The automaker Daimler Chrysler AG said Tunsday that it would eut administra­tive stall' by 20 percnnt worldwidn over three ynars, dropping 6,000 jobs in order to save somn $1.2 billion a ynar and make thn eompany h~arwr and more profitable. 
CEO Dieter Zntsehe said the streamlining would boost growth and profits by removing layers of management and improving coopera­tion bntween its divisions, especially Mercedes and Chrysler. Some 60 percent of the jobs to be cut would be in (;ermany, he said. 
"Our objedive in taking these aetions is to ere­uti~ a lean agile strudure. with streamlined and stable proeesses that will unleash Daimler Chrysler's full potential," Zntsehe said in a state­mont. 
Tho euts would amount to 30 pereent at the managmnnnt level and would eover areas sueh as aeeounting, auditing, personnel and strategic planning. The downsizing would eost the eom­pany around $2.4 billion in restruduring costs from 2006 to the end of 2008. 
Daimler Chrysler shams gained more than 5 pereent to 44.67 euros ($54.68) in Frankfurt trading. IL'i U.S. shares rose almost 5 pereent, to dose at $54.84 on the NYSE. 
BB&T adopts new loan policy 
Bank refuses involvement in projects regarding government acquisition ofprivate land 
Associated Press 
CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -Hegional bank BB&T Corp.. one of the nation's largest financial institutions, will make no loans to developers who plan to build eommer­eial projects on land taken from private eitizens by the government through tho pownr of eminent domain, the company said Wednesday. 
"The idea that a citizen's property can be taken by the government solely lhr private use is extromely misguided, in fad it's just plain ·wrong," John Allison, the bank's ehairman and chief exeeu­tive, said in a statement. 
In an interview, BB&T ehief erodit ollker Ken Chalk said tlw bank expeel'i to lose only a tiny amount of busi­ness, but bdieves it was obli­gated to take a staneo on the issue. 
"It's not 1wen a lradion of a pereent," he said. "The dollar amount is insignificant." 
But he addnd: "We do busi­ness with a large number of consumers and small busi­nesses in our footprint. We are hearing from dienl<; that this is an important philo­sophieal i..'isuc." 
Chalk said he knows of no other largo U.S. bank with a similar poliey. 
BB&'C which is headquar­tered in Winston-Salem, ranks among the nation's top property owners' land so Bullock said in a statement. optimistie about the pm1ding 10 banks by assets. developers could build a "BB&T has stepped up and legislation, this is something 
In June, a divided Supreme hotel and high-end condo­recognized its corporate we eould not wait any longnr Court ruled that cities may miniums to keep pharma­responsibility to not be a part to addrnss," Chalk said in a raze people's homes to make ceutical giant Pfizer expand­of this shameful abuse of statement. "We're a eompa­way for shopping malls or· ing in the state. individual righl'>." ny whern our values dictatn other private development. Scott Bullock, a senior In its statement, BB&T said our deeision-making and The 5-4 decision gave loeal attorney with the Arlington, 38 states have reeently operating standards. From governments the power to Va.-based Institute of Justice, passed or are considering that standpoint, this was a seize private property in the who represented homeown­laws to ban the use of emi­straightfbrward dedsion; it's name of increased tax rev­ers in the New London case, nent domain for private simply the right thing to do." enue. applauded the bank's deci­development. Similar legisla· BB&T, with $109 billion in 
The ruling upheld a deci­sion. lion is pending before the assets, operates morn than sion by the City of New "Eminent domain abuse is U.S. Congress. 1 ,400 branehns in 11 states London, Conn., to seize seven wrong and uneonstitutional," "While we're certainly and Wa.shinh>ton, D.C. 

CHINA 

Economy grew considerably in 2005 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI -China's economy expanded by a stunning 9.9 percent in 2005 according to data released Wednesday whieh suggests it may now rank the fourth-biggest in the world. 
Spurred by strong exports and for­eign investment, growth in the fourth quarter was also up 9.9 per­cent from the same period a year ago. 
For all of 2005, China's gross domestic product totaled $2.26 tril­lion, the National Bureau of Statistics said. 
According to recent estimates, that would make China's economy the fourth largest in the world, behind the United States, Japan and Germany. after steamrolling past Britain, France and Italy. 
The economy is showing hardly any signs of slowing down despite efforts by the communist leadership 
to curb excessive investments in construction and redundant facto­ries that have strained transport networks and supplies of energy and other resources. 
Growth in 2004 was 10.1 pereent -a figure reeently revised up from the original 9.5 perennt based on an economic census that uncovered much larger than expected growth in the services sector. 
Chinese economic data are notori­ously unreliable, and some econo­mists questioned whether the fig­ures announeed Wednesday were understating real growth, given a nearly 30 pereent surge in exports and strong domestic spending. 
The 9.9 percent figure "doesn"t quite capture it," said Stephen Green, senior economist for Standard Chartered Bank in Shanghai. "One could say that 9.9 percent is a very convenient nwn­ber; it's not 10 percent. Ten percent might scare people, and might ere-
ate more trade friction with thn U.S." 
While many other countries have yet to release 2005 GDP f'igures. according to the most recent ligures available and projections for tho year, China's economy is now bigger than thosn of Britain. Franee and Italy. 
But while its growth has been meteork. China remains a develop­ing economy -that wealth is spread among a population of 1.3 billion people, a large share of whom live in poverty. 
The Statistics Bureau said GDJ> growth in the first three quarters of 2005 was revised upward from prll­liminary estimates, to 9.9 percent in the first quarter, 10.1 pereent in the second and 9.8 pnrcent in the third, from 9.4 pereent, 9.5 pereent and 
9.4 percent. respectively. 

The economy has consistently overshot ol'licial targets for the past several years. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 26, 2006 
Come early, stay late, same price! 
'Survivor' star failed to pay taxes 
Events 
continued from page 1 
Monologues" could continue to be performed annually on 1:ampus in the play's present form. 
"]I've] given my initial thoughts on that," Jenkins said. "For the next weeks, months . . . I will lis­ten. And when you're listening, you're always open to have your view changed in a certain way. It's the persuasive reasons that I'm intereste~. in, and not simply the numb1~rs. 
The president's speeches may not result in significant changes to this year's production of "The Vagina Monologues," sociology department chair Daniel Myers said Wednesday. Sociology, along with English, will co-sponsor the "Monologues" this year. 
"At the moment, I don't think it'll have any impact," Myers said. "In the short term, we don't plan to do anything differently, and we'll have to see what comes out of the conversations so we'll have to see how we have to react. 
"We're still in a holding pat­tern." Glenn Hendler, director of undergraduate studies in the 
----------------------------.thing we'd actually planned to do 
anyway ... we didn't think it was
On Campus 

a good idoa for one or two people 
to stand for the department." Despite this year's sponsorship 
agreements reached by some academic departments, the possi­bility of such sponsorship of the 
Junior Parent Weekend Special 
February 16-20, 2006 
Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms availab~ for your parents. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The jurors have spoken, and Richard
Weekend donation is $100.00 per parer1t 
Hatch was a loser this time. Reality television's first big star, the "naked fat guy" who
Whether you stay 

won the first season of "Survivor," couldn't outwit the law. 
A jury in Providence, R.I.,
Two, three, or four nights. 
found Hatch guilty Wednesday of failing to pay taxes on the $1 million he
Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. 
won on the CBS reality show, along with other income. He was immediately handcuffed and taken into custody. 
For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
The 44-year-old Hatch faces up to 13 years in prison and a $600,000 fine. Sentencing English department -who was acting chair of the Gender Studies program when it, along with Film, Television and Theatre, was the first academic unit to sponsor "The Vagina Monologues" on campus in 2002-said he didn't recall much initial opposition to the play from the University administration. 
"It was generally pretty cooper­ative." Hendler said Tuesday. "I remember being asked to provide some language with which we could explain this decision pub­licly. As I recall, the University made a statement defending not 'The Vagina Monologues' them­selves, of course, but the decision to stage them. 
"A lot of the discussion was to try to draw a distinction -one that I think Father Jenkins seems not to be drawing here ­between sponsorship and endorsement." 
Hendler said he and the Gender Studies program pursued approval for the "Monologues" in 2002 first through the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, who passed it on to then-Provost Nathan Hatch and then-President Father Edward Malloy for final approval. Malloy was traveling out of the country this week, his secretary said, and The Observer was unable to reach him for com­ment. 
"I assume Father Malloy was in on those discussions, but I never spoke to him," Hendler said. 
But this year was a different story. 
Rather than keeping the deci­sion to sponsor the play among the chair and a few leaders of the English department, the depart­ment chose -both of its own accord and at the urging of Arts and Letters Dean Mark Roche ­to take a department-wide vote, Hendler said. 
It was unanimous. 
Of the 30 or so faculty members (out of a department of approxi­mately 40) who attended the vote, all elected to sponsor the "Monologues," he said. And debate was "definitely more charged" than in 2002. 
"Dean Hoche did not threaten censorship or anything of the sort," Hendler said. "Both depart­ment chairs [English and sociolo­gy] agreed to bring the objections that had been raised [by adminis­trators and faculty members opposed to the 'Monologues'] back to the department and have a discussion with the faculty, which was a new thing, but some­
"Monologues" in future years 
remains ambiguous, said Peter 
Holland, chair of the Film, 
Television and Theatre depart­
ment. 

"Oearly, Father Jenkins is say­
ing it is absolutely permitted under notions of academic free­dom to study ']The] Vagina · Monologues,' to require a class to read 'The Vagina Monologues' and to perform it in class," Holland said. "We're not clear what would happen if -totally hypothetically -the department of FTT decided to put on a pro­duction of 'The Vagina Monologues' as part of the the­ater season. Would we be able to 
do it or not?" 

In his addresses, Jenkins 
emphasized the need to reduce 
"The Vagina Monologues" to its 
academic essence. Accordingly, 
this year's performance will be 
held in DeBartolo 101 on Monday, 
Feb. 13 and Tuesday, Feb. 14, 
said Kaitlyn Redfield, an organiz­
er of "The Vagina Monologues" 
for the past three years. Redfield 
contrasted the newly prescribed 
classroom setting with the pro­
duction's previous location in the 
much larger DeBartolo Center for 
the Performing Arts. 

Organizers of "The Vagina 
Monologues" will also no longer 
be allowed to charge admission to 
the play, a change that Hedfield 
viewed as compromising the mis­
sion of the produetion. In previous 
years, all of the play's proceeds 
have gone to the YWCA of Saint 
Joseph County and S.O.S., a rape 
was scheduled for April 28. 
A year ago, Hatch had cut a deal with prosecutors to plead guilty and they would recommend less than the maximum 10-year sentence. But he changed his mind and decided to fight the charges, arguing that CBS had agreed to pay his taxes. 
Hatch became an instant star in the summer of 2000 when "Survivor" was a TV sensation. Taken to parading around a tropical island wearing no clothes, he came off as an unpleasant and manipulative character -but smart enough to outplay all of his fellow competitors. 
When Brennan Swain won 

Great Rent Speciats Weight Room & .Business Center Huge Swimming Pool Sauna, Whirlpoot & Free Tanning lndoor/Outdoor .Basketb~;ll! & Tennis Gated Community 
499.00 month 2 Bedroom ONLy::; 

crisis center. Those organizations have depended on the $33,000 raised by "The Vagina Monologues" over the past four years to balance their budgets, she said. 
"The intention of The Vagina Monologues' is to raise awareness and money," Hedfield said Wednesday. "If you take one away, it doesn't fulfill its pur­pose." 
While Redfield reacted strongly to mandates she sees as compro­mising the purpose of "The Vagina Monologues," organizers of the Queer Film Festival accept­ed orders to tweak the event's statement of purpose and its name, which Jenkins said could be misconstrued by University outsiders to suggest Notre Dame endorsement of homosexual actions. 
The film festival will now be called Gay & Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives, Spectatorships -a name which event co-chair Martin Laina said "better reflects the academic nature of the event." 
"All parties involved are happy with the name of the event, as it more accurately reflects the nature of the event," he said. 
Laina declined to comment fur­ther Wednesday on the future of the event. 
Amanda Michaels contributed to this report. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 

the first edition of CBS' "The Amazing Race," he said it was a bit strange to suddenly be given a big check -in his case it was $500,000 -with no taxes taken out of it. 
"The first thing you think is 'how can I pay as little taxes as possible?"' Swain recalled. "But you still pay them." 
He hired an accountant to help him sort out his sudden financial success, he said. 
Perhaps Hatch thought the Internal Revenue Service wouldn't notice him; a foolish bet given that more than 50 million people watched him win the game. 
"Maybe he wanted the pub­licity," Swain said, noting that many reality TV participants are desperate to keep the spotlight after it moves on to someone new. He doesn't know llatch, but wondered whether the contestant thought beating the govern­ment would bn an attention­getting device. 
Last week, Hatch's lawyer Michael Minns suggested to reporters that Hatch had caught fellow "Survivor" con­testants cheating and made a deal that the show's produc­ers would pay his taxes if he won. Ilatch was never asked about the allegation when he testified, and CBS and "Survivor" executive produc­er Mark Burnett would not comment on it. 

.....--------------------------­
Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 



Congregation of Holy Cross 
Come Get to know Holy Cross 

Bh~ssed BrlJtller /intire Bes~ette, C:\~(~ 1845-/937 Jlirucle Jf'orker, lltJiy ;\-lttll, flaly ("'rtJss Brlltlter First Beatijietl :\1e111 her tJj' JllJ(V C'ross 
Vo£·atio1t PrtJgralll Dates ..Spri11g ,fie111ester 2006 
Wet/11 estiay, Fehrt1ary 1..  Co,.·b.v Niglzt 8:JOp1n  
Friday-...(}z;nday~ Mar(l/' 3-5  B1·otl1er A11dre Ret1·eat  
Friday, April 7  
 

Friday, Apri/28 Brotl1er A11dre Di1111er 

vocation.nd.edu 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL \(!:)I 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 26, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notr¢ Dame, IN 4655(} . 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garda 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon. ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao OFSIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574} 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK srnc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631~8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colt.lillns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
Qtmtions regarding Observerpolicies shauldbe directed to EditQrin ChiefClaire Htini11ger. 
POST 0FRCE INFORMATION 

The Ob''""'' (USPS 599 2-4000) iJ pubtim.d Mond')' duough friday"''"!" during txatn .md vaou:lon periods. Asu~ion to The Obsctvcr is .$1 ~~or (ltle ~mk yeur. $55 for cme semmt-r. · 
The Ohtt.tvtT is publisblld an POSTMASTER 024 Suurh Dinlog H•ll Send .;~.ddre!lli con~iQ~ ((): N(JU"e Dlmc;,IN 465-56..0779 ThoObnr= . l?'triodica1 po~Uge pa.id ,;1 Now Dam~: P-0. Bo%779 and addi(ioruU m.Uiing off~. 024 South OioingHall 
Not!< Darne.lN 465%ll779 
The Obser\'tt ~ _.. 1ntm.ber -oftbe·Assod:at«!d Press. All repruducti()tl. righu: ar-e 
fesc!tVO:I. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mary Kate Eric Retter Malone Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Greg Arbogast Marcela Berrios Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Liz Byrum Graphics Matt Hudson 
All life worth living 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"/shall pass through this world but once.
ISubmit a.LetterI[ Any good that I can do, or any kindness I can show to any human being, let me do it now. Let me not defer it or neglect it, for I shall not pass this way again. "bEdto ti e·••·· Jtor at Mahatma Gandhi Peace activist
:i www.ndsmcobserver.com 1
~ 
. . . . f 

Since the Jan. 22, 1973 Roe v. Wade decision, 4 7 million unborn children have been legally executed in the United States. The latest Alan Guttmacher Institute report shows 
1,293,000 were killed in 2002. 

The total in 2002 for New York alone, 164,000, is eighty times the number of Americans killed in action so far in the Iraq War. 

These figures Charles E. reflect only surgical Rice abortions and not 
Right or
the uncountable 

Wrong?
early abortions by pills, including many marketed and sold as "contra­ceptives." 
In Roe, the Supreme Court held that the unborn child is a nonperson who has no constitutional right to live and who therefore may be killed at any stage of pregnancy at the virtual dis­cretion of his mother. 
This is the principle of the Nazi depersonalization of the Jews and of the Supreme Court's declaration, in the 1857 Dred Scott case, that slaves were property rather than persons. 
Despite the emphasis on Supreme Court appointments, a "reversal" of Roe will have little effect on the abor­tion culture we have cultivated. This is so for two reasons. 
First, because even the "pro-life" justices -Scalia, Thomas and Rehnquist -have accepted the depersonalization principle by defin­ing a "reversal" of Roe as a return of 
OBSERVER POLL 
What should Notre Dame do about the Queer Film Festival and "The Vagina Monologues?" 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
the issue to the states. 
If you are legally subject to execu­tion at the discretion of another or whenever a state legislature so decides, then you are a nonperson. 
The Court in Roe acknowledged that, if the unborn child is a "person" whose life is guaranteed by the Constitution, the case for any and all abortion "cqllapses." The views of Chief Justice Roberts and nominee Alito on this point are unknown. 
The political pro-life movement, including the Catholic bishops' bureaucracy, actively promotes that "states' rights" solution. That "rever­sal" of Roe would make the right of innocent life depend on geography and would imply that anyone and everyone's right to life can be subject to political bargaining like a highway appropriation. 

As new justices go on the Court, however, a states' rights "reversal" of Roe will be likely. 
The second reason why such an illusory "reversal" of Roe will have little effect on the abortion culture is because technology is making abor­tion a private event beyond the reach of the law. Euthanasia, too, is moving beyond the law. 

The Supreme Court has given the green light to "palliative care," a valid concept in which, however, it can be impossible to tell whether the physician's intent is to relieve pain or to kill. 
The intentional killing of patients by withdrawing food and water happens routinely in cases where, unlike the Terri Schiavo case, the family mem­bers agree that the patient should die. 
Our Culture of Death, in which the intentional infliction of death is an optional problem-solving technique, is a result of the cultural acceptance of contraception. As John Paul II put it, abortion and contraception are "fruits of the same tree." 
If man (of both sexes) makes him­self arbiter, through contraception, of whether and when life shall begin, he will predictably make himself arbiter of when it shall end. 
And contraception accepts the idea that there is such a thing as a life not worth living. 
Benedict XVI accurately described abortion as "an aggression against society itself." The answer to the Culture of Death is The Culture of Life, which builds on the conviction that innocent life is inviolable because it is a gift of God. 
To restore that conviction requires uncompromising political, legal and. educational activity and the provision of help to those who need it, before birth and beyond. As John Paul and Benedict have urged, however, the most effective weapon is prayer, especially in Eucharistic Adoration and the Rosary. 
A suicidal Culture of Death is intrin­sically short-lived. We are on the win­ning side. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plaweki@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Before this campus spontaneously combusts into a fiery ball of emotion over University President Father Jenkins' addresses to the faculty and students, I think everyone needs to realize he did not say the Vagina Monologues would be banned. In fact, they were not even the focus of his message to the students. They were only one factor in calling the subject of academic freedom and the Catholic identity of the University to discus­sion. 
It would seem that Father Jenkins' evaluation of this situation is just and fair. He has not yet instituted any policies, but rather is absorbing opinions first. Anyone can e-mail him, and he has promised to read each one. 
He spoke of a concern that students understand the difference between censorship, which will not occur, and the implications of sponsorship. The University of Notre Dame is founded on Catholic principles as a Catholic institution. Catholics and oth­ers, both nationally and internationally, look to this University as a model of Catholicism. This institution, therefore, must be sure to fulfill its position as a role model in accordance with Church teaching. If the school wishes to maintain its recognition by the Church Magisterium, it must remain in line with Church teaching. There are clearly many issues at stake in this matter. 
The question and answer session that took place following Father Jenkins' address appeared to be skewed and overly rep­resentative of the supporters of the Monologues. It is indeed unfortunate that the advocates of the University's withdrawal of sponsorship (again, not banishment from individual academic classroom or private settings) were not mixed among them, but instead cut off because of time limitations. 
Though time was against me then, through this channel of academic freedom, I would like to encourage my fellow stu-
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Commonality should trump emotion 
dents to calmly and sensibly discuss these issues among not only their friends, but also with those who are "on the other side." I believe that we will fmd more common ground than we expect. I am sure we will all agree on the value of academic freedom. I hope we will remember that the United States also allows for private institutions to also have freedom in preserv­ing their beliefs and creeds, particularly those of religious nature. 
Lastly, as a woman, I want all to understand there are a muli­titue of avenues that exist which offer hope ending the violence against women that so many spoke of after Father Jenkins' speech. Take, for example, the upcoming Edith Stein Conference, Notre Dame Right to Life's desire for a Women's Center on campus or discussions on the Theology of the Body. They may all have a radically different approach than the Monologues, but they all want women, their bodies, and their sexuality to be treated with the utmost respect and dignity. 
I hope members of various factions, representing all sides, will take conscious measures to quell their potent emotions and come together, using their academic freedom, to discuss these matters among one another. I believe if we can understand that Father Jenkins does not wish to alienate women, but rather is carrying out his duty of maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic identity and helping all of us understand the true nature and meaning of academic freedom, we will become a better Catholic and academic institution. 
Mary Elizabeth Walter sophomore Pasquerilla East Jan.24 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 26, 2006 page 1 1 
The speech that wasn't 
/_ast night, I dreamed that President Jenkins prt~sl'nted to the faculty the speech below on "1\cademif' Freedom and Our Catholif' Charaf'ter. "I woke up today. how­mwr. to tlw realizalioll that he'd gillell a 1wry d{/Jerent one. 
Professor
I'd like to extend a 


Glenn Hendler
warm wekorne to the 
faculty and eolleagues who have turned out in Guest Column inspiring numbers. It is an indication that Wll all sharn a r.onr.ern with what I've come to you to talk about today: academie frnedom and the Catholic charar.ter of' Notre Dame. I havn spent mur.h of' thn litlllistnning to fae­ulty opinions and ideas on this topie, and now I hopP to initiate a larger discussion on the issue. I want this discussion to be lively, 1wen lwatnd. but always respnetful. bm:ause I prnsume that everyone horn -studnnt<>, faculty, stall'. and otlwrs-has something to eon tribute to this diseussion and boars good will toward tlw university and it'> mis­sion. 
What niHldS to be said, bdilrn this discus­simi nvm1 bngins, is that censorship is not an option. An institution that censors it'> fac­ulty or il'i student'>, inside or outside the d<L'isroorn, h<L'> no right to r.all it'ielf' a great univnrsity; it is dubious whnther it should call it'inlf a university at all. A university that mnsors eannot eall it'inlf' an intnllectual community, bnr.ausn it dnvaluns the idmL'>, and in some C.!L'>PS IWim the identities. of some of it'> members. A university that enn­sors cannot expect the best student<> to apply to it, and cannot expect to recruit or rntain the best f~teulty. A university that cen­sors any ev1mt. pnrfilrmance, or speer.h pro­posed by individuals, !-,>Toups, or unit'> within it-other than an ar.t of' libel or im:itement of' violence -IHL'i violated the prineiplps not only of' academic freedom but of intnllnetual inquiry it<;elf. My job, IL'i president of the University of Notre Damn, is to make this a great Catholic University, and m; such, I cannot censor, or threaten to censor. 
That is a simple statmnnnt, but it is the truth, and so it must be said. Tho Board of Trustees, the alumni, all those who care deeply about Notre Dame and wish it to be a gmat university must come to understand this truth. I hnrnby eommit myself to edu­cating th1lm on this matt1.1r, and I a<>k you to join me in this LIL<>k. 
I I ern is why I sc1.1 this a<; so important: I have mnw to see tlmt there arn two ways of mnceiving the relationship between aca­demic freedom and our Catholic eharaeter, two options bntween which we must rhoosn. Only one of those ways l1.1ads us toward becoming a groat Catholic univnrsi­ty. In onn way of understanding the two thmnes in my title, a Catholic university is like any otlwr university, but without eer­l!Lin kinds of evenb, pnrfi1rmances, lectures, films. and so on. Somnone-and this is not a job I would want to have-ha'i to dedde what kinds of p,vent'> a Catholic university can and should do without. And, ultimately, 
whnther through direet or indirnct means, 
those things must be c1.1nsorcd, fbrbidden. 
In this first model, Catholieism is quite lit­erally a minus for the university: a Catholic university is a univ1.1rsity minus certain fea­tures. In the second way of und1wstanding Notm Dame IL'> a Catholic university ­whkh is my vL<>ion of Notre Dame -our Catholic character is a plus. 
In this modd, Notre Dame provides it<> student<> with everything they would find at any other great university plus the opportu­nity to view those things through the lenses that our Catholic character ean provide. Those lenses lead our students and faeulty to ask diflercnt qunstions of the events, per­forman cos, conlerenees, and other events that Wl.1 bring to our eampus. 
Those questions indudo L<>suos of dogma and doctrine, of social justice, of the place of mligion in our porsonal and mir public lives. Thes1.1 are essential questions to ask about the issues raised by such event<; as the Vagina Monologuns and the Quenr Film Festival. They am essential questions to ask of' businesses tlmt meruit on cam pus, of politieal figurns who come to spnak h1.1re, and of' each other a<> part of this intellectual community. And they are qu1.1stions that w1.1 at Notre Dame are uniquely equipped to a<>k and to explorn. 
I am not saying this is an easy mission to live up to. But we have the resources here -intnlleetual, moral, and yes, finaneial­to make this possibl1.1. The only thing that will make this impossible is shutting down the oeca<>ions fi>r such di'icussions. To fulfill my vision of Notre Dame, we must ask more ofourselves than other great universities <L<>k of the memb1.1rs of' their community. It will take work to provide those opportuni­ties to encount1.1r Catholic perspectives on diflicult and challenging things tlmt stu­denl'> and faculty choose to bring before our campus community. What I want to result from the dialogue and discussion I'm begin­ning tonight is idea<> about how to make those opportunities happen, and to make them productive. 
A<> an example, let me present to you some preliminary ideas about how we could view the student production of the Vagina Monologues as an opportunity to fulfill my vision of Notre Dame's Catholic character and the place of academic freedom within it -an opportunity that we have thus far not fully taken advantage of. 
The Vagina Monologues raises issues that are crucial to our society as a whole, and are no less crucial to the Catholic Church. The students who perform it each year are eommitted to a struggle against violence against women. 
Their performances raise thousands of dollars each year for local anti-violence organizations. What these admirable, intel­ligent, and committed student<; do is pre­ci<>cly what we want our student<> to do with th~ir education: they use their skills, talent<>, and int1.11lect<> in service to their community. 
Their intentions and actions are unques­
tionably aligned with the mission of both 
our university and our religion, and we 
applaud them. 
There are. however, many maders and viewers of this play who see aspect<; of it a<; in contradiction with these intentions, in conflict with Church teaching on sexuality, and deeply personally oflimsive. I am one of those readers myself. 

As the l1.1ader of a great Catholic universi­ty-and, for that matter, IL'> a teacher, a professor -I feel called to explain these contradictions, to bring them before the performers and viewers, to help them understand why there arc demonstrators outside the door of their performance, why Bishop-D'Arey writes so passionately against the play. My responsibility, in that ease, is to provide the strongest and most persuasive argument I can about the fault'> I see in this play, about the mistakes I think they are making in presenting it rather than taking another approach to their cause. As a teacher and a scholar, I also have the rnsponsibility to listen to those student<; respectfully as well, to prnsume that they are full human beings with sophisticated intellects-that they have masons fi1r what they are doing-rea<>ons I may lmtrn from myself. 
There is no guarantee that the Catholic perspective I present to th1.1m will p1.1rsuade them. That is another truth about academic freedom and intellectual inquiry; there are no guarantees of particular outcomes. 
But suppose we work together to provide fora for discussion of the play-for cri­tiques from Catholic perspectives, from feminist perspectives, from Catholic feminist perspectives, and from others -and enter into a truly intellectual and open discussion with those who read it differently, who don't necessarily share my interpretation of the play, and even those who don't share a Catholic perspective on issues of sexuality (remember, not everyone who teaches at, or studies at, this university, is Catholie, and we don't require our faculty to believe in or uphold every aspect of Catholic doctrine). 
Suppose we make these discussions com­pelling and exciting, and at them we model for our students styles of respectful but sub­stantive disagreement. Suppose that the result of that is that some in attendanc1.1 are deepened in their commitment to their Catholic faith, and those who are not have at lea<>t had a meaningful encmmter with it and gained a deeper understanding of it. 
Won't we then have fulfilled the Catholic mission of our university far more fully than ifwe had not allowed the play to be per­formP.d at all? 
Our challenge is even greater because, as the leading Catholic University, we speak and are visible to a larger public, a larg1.1r constituency, than other universities. ThL<> fact is of course a blessing for Notre Dame, both in terms of the loyalty ofour alumni. fans, and others, and in terms of th1.1 finan­cial support that is a result of that loyalty. 

But this faet brings with it added responsi­
bilities. We have a rnsponsibility to ndueatn 
our alumni and tho rest of' our constituency 
about what we do h1.1r1\ what our mission 
is, and why we believe that tlw path wn are 
taking will enhance both tho academic standing and the Catholie eharactnr of 
Notre Dame. 

No, we can't bring every one of thnm into our da<>srooms and lm:ture to thmn about principles of aeademie freedom. But if tlwy ean undersllmd Coach Weis's elaborate oflensive strategies, tlwy can surnly eorne to undersllmd how a truly trm~ and open debatn both test'> and stmngt.hens our stu­dent<;' litith and eharaeter. and prnparns thom to 1.1ncount1~r a world in which they will face moral challenges a lot morn dilli­cult than a viewing of tim Vagina Monolo~-,rues or a film d1.1picting gay and les­bian people as something other than intrin­sically disordernd. 
They, like our studnnt'>, can undnrstand distinctions betwnnn sponsorship and endorsem1.1nt. betwenn toleration and allir­mation, and recognize that when we allow a pnrfimnance or other prnsentation on (:am pus, we am almost rwver s1mding the rnessagn that we support 1.1vnrything that will b1.1 said or rnpresnntnd in it. 
They ean und1.1rsllmd that what makes Notre Dame a J.,>Tnat Catholic. univ1.1rsity is that we trust that the presnncn of' the Catholic Iilith, it'> ideas and doetrines, and ar!.,'llrnent'i drawn from them. Wn can stand up in a free exchangn of idn<L'>, to idna'i and argument<; that are indilli1rent or opposod to the Catholic faitl1. 
They can understand tl1at wn trust our student<; enough to l1.1t th1.1m see and pnr­form in the Vagina Monologues and to organiz1.1 a Queer Film Festival and se1.1 tlw films in it, and that we trust our studont<> to take seriously the Catholic perspectiv1.1s on sueh event'> that we provide f(Jr thmn, to think about them deeply and make informed and consdentious decisions about how to respond to such event<>. 
Again, I a<>k of you, as a faeulty, that you be willing to tako on the work of creating an institution build on this trust and this faith. More immediat1.1ly, I <L<>k for idoa'i about how best to take advanlltge of the opportu­nities provided by controversial event'> sueh as the two I've mentioned tonight. 
How, in short, can we enhance the Catholic character of our university pmdSil­ly through defending and allirming an uncompromised acadnmic freedom, tlwreby making Notre Dame th1.1 truly J.,>Tnat Catholic university it can and must be'! 
I look forward to hearing your answers to these qunstions, and to working with you to rise to this challenge. Thank you. 
Prqfessor Glenn /lelldler is the Dirc~ctor of l!ndergraduatP .<-;tudies in Hnglish. lie can he reached at ghendler@lld.edu. 
The l'iews expressed ill this column are thosP ofthe author alld not llecessarily those (~{The Observer. 

If not now, when? 
Belim~ the new sornestor pieks up too much spnnd, I would lik1.1 to invite you to tak11 advantage of scnm~ of the programs Campus Ministry oll'nrs during the seeond 
SIHlli~Slnr. 
Thorn aro a numbnr of rntrnat'> that arn Richard V. available in the coming Warner, C.S.C. weeks including two Notre Dame I·:neounter ollilrings, two fmshnwn Faithpoint 
rntnmt'>, a rntrnat filr snniors who are mmn­bnrs of one of our HOT<: unit'>, a senior rntreat, a spring Latino rntnmt, a wonwn's rntreat, and a rntreat for (iay and Lesbian Studnnts. 
Information about all o(' these rntrnal'i and otlwrs are available on our nnwly rnn­ovatml wPb sitn ­www.mrn pusrninistry. nd .ed u 
When I talk with some of you about our mtrnat programs, many of you tell me that you alrnady made a retreat during high s1:hool. Yet these opportunities are offered lilr your spiritual growth in the context of oflfwing you time to gnt away from your normal routine, rnak1.1 new friends in addi­tion to the ones you talk into joining you for the weekend that appeals to you most, and simply to spend a little time in prayer and with your God. 
St. Augustine tells us that there is a part of th1.1 heart of each one of us that only God ean fill. Many thousands of books have bonn written by our spiritual ancestors in the faith which ·d1.1scribc how this process took plam in their lives. 
In our quest to de1.1p1.1n our relationship with Josus Christ, our hearts are not filled with God and God's love once and for all. Hather, as we respond to the God who can make us whole, we gradually come to real­ize how insatiable God's love for us is, and how rewarding it is for us to respond God. 
Many hundreds of students ean tell you how important a one or two day retreat with us has b1.11m in their lives. Often they will say that, for what1.1ver reason, the retreat they enjoyed came at the right time during their time at Notre Dame although they had not planned it that way. 
A number of you know that you want to sp1.1nd more time developing your spiritual life, but it seems as though your life under the Dome will last forever. But it doesn't. 
If one of the reasons you chose Notrn Dame for your undergraduate 1.1dueation was because of its rieh and living Catholic heritag1.1, and your own d1.1sire to incorpo­rate P.verything Notre Dame has to oller you, please take a moment to think whether or not this might bn the right time for you to pay dosnr attention to bm:oming more whole-hearted by inviting God into your lifn. 

A lot of things about you have dmngnd since you went on that high sd10ol rntrnat. You arn not thn same person today you wem then. Maybe it is time to lind out how mueh you have grown in your dnsirn to deepen your relationship with .Jesus Christ and with the Church. Maybe this is the sem1.1ster when you will b11gin to take full advantage of the nxtraordinary richness of' what your tim1.1 at Notre Dame ean be fiJI' you. 
Father Richard V. Wamer. O·iC, is the Director ofCampus Ministry. 1/e can iJe reached at Warrwr.2@lld.edu. 
71ze views expressed ill this column are those qfthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 
CD REVIEW 
Polished sound leads to Stroke of success 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN and KELLY 
DUOOS 
Scene Critics 
Molly: In the last few years, The Strokes have been better known for having a member date Drew Barrymore and for suffering from the sophomore slump than for actually producing music. Fortunately, the band's latest effort, "First Impressions of Earth," is making it known once again for music instead of outside forces. 
The Strokes burst onto the music scene with its album "Is This 11," which spawned the simple but catchy hit "Last Nite." They, along with bands like the White Stripes, were alternately hailed as a return to the stripped.-down roots of rock and denounced as pale imita­tions of its musical predecessors. 
"Room on Fire," the band's follow-up to its first album, didn't receive the crit­ical raves or record sales that the previ­ous one garnered. This caused many to feel the band was more the part of a garage-band fad than a legitimate musi­cal act. 
The band's third album, "First Impressions of Earth," both showcases the band's musical talent and reveals it to have matured a great deal since its first album. There is still a stripped­down quality. to the music, but the melodies and production have improved a great deal. 
"First Impressions of Earth" can't fairly be called the Strokes' return to form -the sound is too different from their earlier albums. It is more accu­rately a picture of a constantly evolving, and improving, band. 
The record starts with the catchy "You Only Live Once," which instantly reveals the more polished and melodic sound that characterizes the album as a whole. The band then kicks into the album's first single, "Juicebox," which is a surprising blend of the Strokes' nor­mal garage-band sounds with a hard­rocking edge. While usually classified as a rock band, this is the first time that the Strokes have really had a song that had that harder, faster "rock" quality. 
One of the best songs on the album is "Heart in a Cage," which displays jumps around between grooves and melodies to create an entirely catchy and better­with-every-listen kind of song. By the time lead singer Julian Casablancas is screaming, "We gotta laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh," you can't help but stomp your feet along with the song. 
"Razorblade," part of which sounds uncannily like Barry Manilow's "Mandy," displays the fact that lead singer Julian Casablancas's voice is bet­ter suited to rock songs that the quasi­ballads. The song itself isn't bad, but it is one of the weaker spots on the album. 

Another feeble song is the slightly atonal "Ask Me Anything." It starts out a strange synthesizer sound, which would be alright as an introduction, but ~oesn't work as the background for the whole song. While listening to it, one keeps expecting the melody to change tempo and kick into a better, faster song, but that move never happens and direction. 
Kelly: Initially, The Strokes' "First Impressions of the Earth" is rather dis­appointing. The songs, at times, sound foreign and very un-Strokes-like, going so far as to resemble bands with lesser credibility such as 2004's euro-darlings Franz Ferdinand and American up-and­comers The Bravery. 
The Strokes' first album, "Is This It," captured the hearts of indie-rock-loving young America upon its release. The 

the song falls flat. First Impressions of Songs like "Ize of 
Earth
the World" sound like old Strokes songs with a little more polish, and others like "Red 


Artist: The Strokes Light" seem to take 
Record label: RCA
that old sound in a 

Release date: Jan. 3 
slightly new direc­


Recommended tracks: 'Juicebox,'
tion. 

'You Only Live Once," Heart in a
Overall, the 

Cage' and 'Vision of Division' 
album is getting the Strokes the well-deserved attention and respect that they deserve as a band. They return to form on songs like "You Only Live Once" and move into new territory as a band with works like "Juicebox" and "Heart in a Cage." The band maintains the same energy it's always had, but it harnesses that energy in a much more effective band's appeal is that it harks back to a time when art rock was in vogue and music as mere­ly a media through which to sell sex was scoffed at. The Strokes, in reawak­ening the notion that rock music is essential and didn't really die in 1994, emerged as the hot new rock band of our generation. 
Offering a juxtaposition of originality alongside familiarity, the Strokes are a band that, whether one grew up on the Velvet Underground or Nirvana (or, bet­ter, both), could relate to and appreciate. Even the band's sophomore album, "Room on Fire," was a surprisingly good and utterly under-rated musical dia­mond in the rough -an album that must grow on the listener, that the lis­tener must put effort into before being able to leisurely enjoy. 

"First Impressions of the Earth" is similar to the second album in that it requires the same commitment required to appreciate the group's previous effort. But once familiarity has been achieved, the listener cannot help but become fond of this album, even if it is clear the lyri­cal content has not noticeably evolved, even after the band's years of progress. 
On "First Impressions," the Strokes do not sound more polished, per se, but (for good or for bad) have lost a lot of the fuzzy, raw, cheap-amp-stacked-in-an­uninsulated-garage guitar sound that had become the trait for which their music was best known. 
Additionally disappointing is that Julian's voice has lost its distance and hazy sound and at times -only at times -takes on a twinge of wannabe euro­trash faux accent (a Ia Brandon Flowers). 
So who is this group and what have they done with the five-man band of slouchy, New York garage rockers we love? Oh, they're still around, even if their presence has been recreated into one that is not as apparent as it has been in the past because of the more polished overall production sound. 
The opening track, "You Only Live Once," features the band's trademark repetition of simplistic yet catchy guitar lines and solos while hit single "Juicebox" rebels against tradition with a predominantly electronic-sounding accompaniment and clearer vocal lines which make it different from any other Strokes material heard until now. "Vision of Division" seems to achieve the perfect balance between the precedent­ed sound of the Strokes' first two albums and their desire to explore new ground as creators of music. 
Strong beats, racing series of guitar chords and a loud-soft duality are remi­niscent of the band's previous sounds while the song climaxes during an unex­pected guitar solo which, coming from nearly out of nowhere, lends a complete­ly fresh and exotic quality to the piece that would have been unachievable by the expectations and formulaic style of the previous two albums. 
While it may take a few listens to develop an affinity for the new sound, "First Impressions of the Earth" is very likable as the Strokes' attempt to get outside of the "Is This It" box. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu and Kelly Duoos at kduoos@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 






CENE
Thursday, January 26, 2006 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Deep Arabian Nights 
Musician Simon Shaheen set to conclude first modern Arab art film series at Notre Dame 
rary Arab art at Notre Dame. philosopher in Medieval Spain. al awareness.
By GRACE MYERS 
The Arab film series, organized by The selections for the film series were He teaches and performs at elemen­
Sc~ne Wrirer 
Browning Cinema manager Jon carefully chosen for their style, diversi­tary schools, high schools, colleges and Vickers, contains films with themes ty and message. Arab cinema is often universities throughout the United The DeBartolo Center for the linking the Arab world with the West. noted for its dramatic regional differ­States in an effort to increase exposure Performing Arts will host its first ever The series is in no way political, he ences, and the series pays tribute to and understanding of Arab culture. lie Arab Film Series from .Jan. 29 to Feb. said. In fact, the films were carefully that. The lilms are unique and highly attempts to inspire peace between 3, celebrating contemporary Arab art selected so the series would not be successful in their regions, although these conflicting groups through an and concluding with Simon Shaheen's politically charged or present any trace some have not been distributed at all in open-minded display of the accomplish­acdaimnd muskal pnrl'ormance on Feb. of a certain agenda. the United States. ments of Arab music. In 1994, he start­4 at S p.m. in Lnighton Concert llall. "We're presenters," Vickers said. "A Summer in La Goulette" portrays ed the Arab Festival of Arts in New The snrins and eonc11rt will provide The series offers the audience the the struggles of York City, an annual students, faeulty and local residents ability to separate themselves from the Muslim, Jewish and exhibition of contem­with einema and current political Catholic fathers who porary Arab artists, musie not orten struggle of the are best friends until The series offers the while creating pro­rfladily avail­Arab Film Series region and view their daughters swear grams for the study of
audience the ability to
abln. the human face to lose their virginity Arab music.
I>ates:Jan.29-Feb.3 

separate themselves 
The films eho­of Arab culture. to men of different A brilliant per­
Films include: Cairo Station and 
SIHl for the "Cairo religions. During this from the political former, Shaheen is
Destiny (Chahine), A Summer in La 
serins are highly Station," a clas­time, the Six Day War hugely popular on col­
Goulette (Boughedir) and Ali Zoaua: struggle of the region 
aeelaimed, sic film from starts, bitterly dividing lege campuses such as
Prince of the Streets (Ayouch) 
and view the human face 
demonstrating 1958, portrays a Jews and Arabs. "Ali the University of
visit www.performingarts.nd.edu for
the accomplish­crippled news­Zoaua: Prince of the ofArab culture. Michigan. where he
showtimes and ticket information 
mnnts and diver­paper dealer Streets," featured in has put on multiple sity of Arab ein-who falls in love the Sundance Film concerts to sold-out ema. And with a beautiful Festival, depicts the bitter struggle for venues. This will be his debut at Notre Shaheen -who performs original but apathetic woman. The dealer innocence under the rule of the Mafia, Dame. fused jazz and classical, Latin bncomes consumed by his passion, kid­featuring a cast of untrained children With the J)J>AC already offering so American and Arab music with an naps the woman and faces the conse­from the streets of Casablanca. much international and foreign art, it is nnsemblo -was nominated for 11 quences. "Destiny," the 1997 action Shifting to music, Shaheen is hailed fitting for Notre Dame to devote a Grammy Awards for the critically adventure by the same director, as a champion world musician, but he whole week now to the accomplish­acclaimed 2001 album, "Blue Flame." addresses religious fundamentalism also devotes much of his time to bridg­ments of the Arab world. 
Together, thesn performances offer and free speech through the struggles ing the gap between the Western and tho first-ever showease of contem po-of a 12th century Spanish-Arabian Arab worlds through music and cultur-Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 
California not a quick fix for lack of quality music 
By CHRIS McGRADY 
A.sisranr Sc~n~ Ediwr 
Musk from Thn O.C.: Mix 5 may be charaetnriznd by the show's theme song. 
Evnryone knows it from the hit Fox show Tho O.C. -by Phantom Planet, thn piano-driven ballad proclaiming, "California here we come." Although this song was eatchy and maintained popularity through the first 2. 7 million times it played, the tunc has lost a bit of its nostalgia in recent months. 
This song, along with nearly half a CD of musical equals, will collectively scream to you, "trash ean here it eomes." 
It's not that the CI> itself' is entirely useless, but for the money, it doesn't snnrn worth it. Along the lines of the plot of the show. the most recent installmnnt of rnusie from the show is mostly watered-down, bottom of the barrel slop. There are several bright spots on the CD, but for the most part, the substance of the music is thinner than Marissa Cooper. 
The first track, "Hoek and Holl 
Queen" by The Subways, is the type of indie-rock that has beeome a staple on The O.C. This is one of the better songs on the CD. giving a feeling of retro-rock that has become popular with the ele­vation of groups such as Jet and The Darkness. 
But it seems that those in charge of the soundtrack for the show are run­ning into the same problem as the writ­ers-there is just not enough material. 
This is evident in the second song from the CD, "Heason is Treason" by Kasabian. 
Largely hollow and inconclusive, the song gives the listener no reason to stay until the end of the traek. The first minute or so of the song is just some sort of moaning sound that is yet to be determined and is not entirely helpful to any sort of musical cause. 
"Wish I Was Dead Pt. 2" by the Shout Out Louds is one of the best songs on the CD. It has the type of sad, morose vibe that makes you want to listen to the song on a rainy day. That is where the song's power lies. 
Track six is a remake of the classic song "Forever Young" done by Youth (;roup. While some things are better 
left alone, the 

remake is well done and defi­
The OC Mix 5 
nitely worth a 
listen. The eighth
Various Artists 
song is "Kids with Guns" by the Gorillaz andWarner Bros/WEA is one of the only tracks by a well­known band. However, per­haps the band did not want to
Recommended tracks: 'Kids with Guns,"Hide and 
lend one of its 
better songs to a 
soundtrack, since 
Seek,"Your Ex-Lover is Dead' and 'Forever Young' 

the song is one of the group's lesser efforts. 
"Na Na Na Na Naah" by the Kaiser Chefs is probably the most over-done song in recent pop music history. Somewhere hidden between rock, retro, sci-fi techno and piano-ballads lays the genre of this song. Whoever rescued it from its awful starting place should kindly send it right back. The song will remind you of the third track, not for it's musical similarity but for it's title (Remember, track 3 was "Wish I Was Dead Pt. 2"). 
The best two songs of the CD are in the last thrne tracks, the first of whieh is "Your Ex-Lover is Dead" by the Stars. The opening line to this song is "When there is nothing left to burn, you have to set yourself on fire." Assuming the listener has neither a) burned the CD in a fiery blaze of Sf\lf-release or b) set themselves on fire by this point, the song is the best of thn mix. Strong string harmonies and generous guitar riffs power this song to greatness. 

The last song is "IIide and Seek" by Imogen Ileap and has a very unusual sound. There are no instruments. but rather just voiees that are layernd heavily with l~ITeets. There is something about this song that is extraordinarily catchy. 
Overall, the CD suiTors from a lack of quality musie. The good songs arn real­ly good, and the bad songs are really bad. But if O.C. fans can stand the bad hall", this CD may just be worth somn attention. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgrad I @nd.edu 
.------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 26, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Pittsnogle and West Virginia fall to Marshall 
opening the season with 17 wins. 
Center guaranteed a 

The Gators (17 -2, 3-2 victory prior to loss, Southeastern Conference) failed to extend the best start in school no regrets after game history with their 80-76 loss to 
Tennessee last Saturday. At first, the Gators looked
Associated Press 

eager to take their first loss out on the Gamecocks (11-8, 2-4) as CHARLESTON, W.Va.-West Joakim Noah had three quick Virginia's first Top Ten appear­inside baskets to put Florida ance in 24 years will be short­ahead 15-6. But South Carolina lived. followed with a 20-6 run to take 
So was its ownership of the control. nation's longest winning streak. Kinsey and Renaldo Balkman 
Mark Patton had 16 points and were two big reasons why. 10 rebounds and Marshall beat Kinsey, a senior, had 11 of his No. 9 West Virginia 58-52 on 19 points in the second half and Wednesday night, ending the steadied his younger teammates Mountaineers' winning streak at as Florida made a late run. 12 games. Balkman, a 6-foot-8 reserve, 
Center Kevin Pittsnogle had cut off the middle for Florida's guaranteed a win for West big men and created an inside Virginia (14-4). but the presence for the Gamecocks. He Mountaineers were held to a fmished with 14 points. season low for points and fell to Taurean Green led the Gators their cross-state rival for the with 17 points, while Noah had second straight year, the first 12, only four in the second half. time that's happened since Balkman had three baskets 1981-82. during South Carolina's decisive 
"After a guarantee like that, first-half run, then had a basket it's a good thing we showed up and a free throw to help the tonight," Patton said. "This is team start the second half with a how it is every year in 9-2 run that gave the Gamecocks Charleston. It is always back and a 38-25 lead. forth like that." Green had two 3-pointers, 
Pittsnogle didn't apo.Jogize for Walter Hodge added one and Al his prediction. Hurford scored inside bucket as 
''I'm still glad I said it," he Florida cut a 15-point lead to 6 7­said. "There's nothing wrong 62 with 38 seconds to go. with what I said. I think it was just more like confidence." Connecticut 66, St. John's 50 
Marshall (8-9) usually finds STORRS, Conn. -Rudy Gay more motivation for this game had 20 points, eight rebounds, the run, including two thunder­sweep the board at home and North Carolina State certainly because the Thundering Herd is five blocked shots and two steals ous dunks. He also had a key pull an upset on the road." could attest to that. considered second fiddle in a and Connecticut survived its first steal and an assist. Rashad Louisville forward Juan Donald Copeland had 22 state with only two Division I test as the top-ranked team in a Anderson's 3-pointer with 4:35 Palacios had 19 points and 12 points, Kelly Whitney added 17 teams. The meeting also occurs bruising victory over St. John's left capped the run and gave the rebounds for his first double­and the Pirates handed the in the middle of West Virginia's on Wednesday night. Huskies a 60-48 lead. double of the season and the Wolfpack their first home loss of rough Big East schedule. The typically physical Big East Cardinals frustrated the the season. 
"They came out with more game got ugly at times. There Louisville 67, Cincinnati 50 Bearcats (14-6, 3-3) with an Jamar Nutter and Paul Gause intensity," West Virginia's Mike were two technicals fouls and LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Taquan array of defenses. each finished with 12 points for Gansey said. "This is kind of like two players -UConn 's Jeff Dean crossed midcourt and Louisville would press one pos­the Pirates (11-6), who dominat­their Super Bowl. It's just anoth­Adrien and St. John's Aaron screamed. And for the first time session, play man-to-man the ed throughout in nearly every er game for us." Spears -were ejected for fight­in two weeks, it wasn't in pain. next then switch to a zone. Each phase of the game. No advan­
It was the Thundering Herd's ing in the second half. Both will Sure ~he sprained left ankle one seemed to leave the tage was as glaring as in first win over a Top Ten oppo­miss the next game in compli­that kept him out of all but 12 Bearcats tentative or confused. rebounds -at halftime, they led nent since beating St. John's in ance with NCAA rules. minutes of No. 22 Louisville's Cincinnati's 25 turnovers were 40-27 on the scoreboard and 1971. The Huskies (17-1, 5-1) moved last five games hurt, but after four more than the Bearcats had had more offensive rebounds 
It marked the fourth straight into the top spot in The knocking down his third straight in their last three games com­{10) than N.C. State totaled on meeting between the schools to Associated Press' poll on 3-pointer early in the second bined. both ends (8). be decided by six points or less. Monday, their first appearance half of a win over Cincinnati on "We didn't come in with the West Virginia has failed to score at No. 1 since January 2004. The Wednesday night, it was time to Seton Hall 83, mind-set that we were going to more than 55 points in the last Red Storm (10-7, 3-3) were com­celebrate. North Carolina State 65 blow them out, we came in three meetings. ing off wins over two ranked "This is my last year, I don't RALEIGH, N.C.-Seton Hall thinking it was going to be a 
Marshall coach Ron Jirsa said teams and gave UConn all it want to play in the NIT and not never got satisfied, not even tougher game," Whitney said. his team "didn't do anything could handle for all but the final even make the Big East tourna­when its lead continued to grow "We had to be tougher, and I special. They just played smart nine minutes. ment," said Dean, who finished and the opponent got increasing­think we established that." and kept themselves focused." That's when Gay took over. with 16 points as the Cardinals ly desperate. Tony Bethel had 15 points for 
Pittsnogle led West Virginia The Red Storm had pulled snapped a three-game losing Perhaps that pleased coach N.C. State (15-4). while Ilian with 20 points but got little sup­within 48-44 on Daryll Hill's streak. "We have to go full throt­Louis Orr as much as anything Evtimov and Cedric Simmons port. Gansey was held to 10 baseline runner with 9:38 left. tle." about his Pirates' stunning victo­eaeh scored 12. points -10 below his average. When the action shifted to the Louisville (14-5, 2-4) never ry over No. 15 North Carolina "We stunk, we had an awful 
Huskies' end of the court, tem­trailed against its former State on Wednesday night. game," Evtimov said. "It's a com­South Carolina 68, Florida 62 pers flared. Adrien and Spears Conference USA rival, forcing 25 "Ideally, that's the kind of plete embarrassment. We're 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Tarence had to be separated and both turnovers to breathe some life mentality you want your team to going to have to come back from Kinsey had 19 points and South coaches ran out onto the court. into its once-foundering season. have," he said. "We challenged this and bounce back." Carolina ended a nine-game los­The Huskies responded with a "We had to have this one," ourselves to take it to another Seton Hall started the second ing streak to No. 5 Florida with a 15-4 run, finally taking a double­coach Rick Pitino said after the level, not just to be content, and half with a 14-3 run that was victory Wednesday night, the digit lead for the first time all Cardinals got their first Big East our guys did it as well as we've helped by a technical foul on Gators' second straight loss after night. Gay had seven points in home win. "Now we have to ever done it." Wolfpack coach Herb Sendek. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Canton House restaurant now accepting applications for full/part time wait staff_ 15 mins. to NO. Call574-232-8182 or fax resume to 232-2044 
ND family in Granger looking for part-time babysitter. Flexible day­time schedule. If interested. please call Renee at 277-3496. 

FoR RENT 
2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN. 329-0308 WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM 
HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Stop overpaying for rent. Visit 
BlueGoldrentals.com 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly. Available Aug_ 06/07, Call 574-232­4527, 269-683-5038. 
1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile to campus. $575/mo_ Laundry. Call 283-0325 
515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per­son, B&G Homes_ 
57 4-250-7653. 
1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person, B&G Homes_ 57 4-250-7653. 
123 NO Ave_ 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. 
Call574-229-0149. 
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants_ 1­7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases. Visit 
BlueGoldrentals.com or call574­250-7653. 

NO grad renting bsmnt studio apt. TV+internet+utilities incl. 574-339­0582 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­traveLcom 1-800-678-6386. 
Steelers 27 
Seahawks 21 

Big Mike and Jonny are my favorite Alumni nonkeys. Love, Liz 
Hey what's up mah, what's gain on? Know you know Kiss. __ 
Seriously, who would read a student government newspaper? SERIOUSLY 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Defense earns Duncan some rest, Spurs cruise to victory 
defend or not hustle or not play
Lebron ]ames scores 
hard on thn other end of the 
38 points to help top floor. You've got to learn that in 
this league, OK, my shot's notthe Atlanta Hawks falling, I can do other things to 
stay involved in this game and 
stay on the floor."
Associated Press 
The Hornets were held to 7S 
OKLAHOMA CITY -A solid points on Monday at Boston, defensive perl'ormanee by the but that came two days after San Antonio Spurs earnnd Tim their highest-seoring game of l>un('.an some extra rest for his the season in a 1 09-9S win at son~ l'oot. New York. 
Duncan s<:ornd 17 points and "You just bounce baek. I the Spurs handnd NAw OrlAans promise you if you let this game its worst dnl'eat in Oklahoma get to you too mueh, you won't City with an S4-(,S win over the be able to perform in the next llonwts on Wndnesday night. game," Paul said. " ... You just 
Thn Hornets' sputtnring take that game as it is and get of'f'nnsn snt a season low in ready for the next one. Shoot scoring for tho sneond straight tho same shots. Ilopp,fully, ganw and gavn the standing­they'll go in." room only erowd of 19,2SIJ lit­Duncan, who matched a sea­tle to dwPr about. son low with 11 points when 
"It was a surprising night. San Antonio lost in Oklahoma l>el'nnsivnly, we wnrn solid," City last month, seored six l>un<~an said. "Wn were very points as thn Spurs got out to a good. Tlwy W<'r<~ driving and 1:~-2 start and never trailed. jumping up into us a whole lot. Van Exel linished the first quar­I thought wn did a great job of tnr with back-to-hack 3-point­k<'Pping tlwm hack and not giv­ers to give the Spurs a 23-11 ing thmn fouls." lead and ef'fnctively eliminate 
Tony Parhr had 14 points any impaet from the erowd. and Nick Van Exel addnd 13, "It's huge on the road," including a season-high four 3-Duncan said. "Obviously, you pointors, as the Spurs pulled don't want to get down becausn away to a 15-point first-half all of a sudden the erowd is on load. top of you and teams play with 
Chris Paul seorod the final six a lot of energy." points of tho half to gnl the The I lornets made only 3 of llornets baek within 42-32, but 17 shots in their lowest-seoring San Antonio pulled away again opening period of the season In the closing seconds of the "One day it's going to end," a laser pointer from the end in tho sneond half. and wern never closer than third quarter, McGrady drove he said. "Hopefully, it's not zone near the llawks' bench. 
Parker's steal was the spark nine points after that. down the lane and got elbowed soon. We were able to get stops James added that this game to llll 11-2 run for the Spurs in the nose by Jake Voskuhl. and get out on our transition was the first in his three-year that put thn game away in the Rockets 102, Bobcats 78 MeGrady crumpled to the floor game." career that a fan used a laser third quarter. It led to a fast Tracy McGrady scored 29 reminiscent of his Jan. 9 col­Chicago coaeh Scott Skiles light against him. break that rosulted in a teehni­points in thrne quarters as the lapse beeause of back spasms said it's just been a combina­"They're like those things eal foul shot for Brent Barry Houston Hoekets snapped a that kept him out of the next tion of the Bulls playing well guys used in high school," and two free throws by seven-game home losing streak five games. and Toronto playing poorly James said. "I hope it's the last Duncan. By the time Nazr with a win over the Charlotte This time, though, McGrady sometimes. we see of them." Mohammnd hit two free throws Bobcats on Wednesday night. sprang up with nothing but a Toronto got otT to yet anothAr The Cavaliers wore winning with 1:]4 left in the third quar­Seldom-used Lonnie Baxter bloody nose. Trainer Keith slow start as Chicago led 2S-16 94-93 with 3:17 left when tnr, tlw Spurs wnm up 62-40. added a season-high 1S points Jones stopped the bleeding with after the first quarter. The Donyell Marshall hit a 3-pointer 
The lead reaehed S0-54 and 11 rebounds and David a towel and McGrady shook his Haptors cut the lead to Jive in that started a 12-4 run that beforo reserves helped the Wesley added 15 for Houston, head and sank a free throw the third quarter, but Chicago ended the game. Marshall, who llornnts avoid a series of disap­which improved to 4-13 at the before leaving the court. · followed with a 10-3 run to fin­buried another :~ with 5S.1 see­pointing franehise lows. Toyota Cnnter. The Hoekets The Hockets led 82-5S after ish the third. onds remaining for a 104-95 
l>unean playod only 24 1/2 hadn't won a home game since three quarters -a higher point Chicago led by as many as 1 S lead, also complained to the minutes in San Antonio's 104-a 91-73 vietory over Boston on total than they've had in 13 full in the third, but Bosh capped otliciating crew about the laser 7(, win at Charlotte a night ear­Dec. 6. games this season. an 11-0 run with an alley-opp light as he stood at the foul line linr and was on thn floor for 32 Matt Carroll had 19 for McGrady didn't play in the dunk after a Chicago turnover, with 9:49 remaining. minutes against the Hornets. injury-deplnted Charlotte, fourth, finishing with eight cutting the lead to 6 7-63 with "They were more when we With the game in hand, he was which dropped its season-high rebounds and six assists. 3:15 left in the third. were shooting our free throws," able to rest the final 5:30. ninth straight game. The Bobeats got outrebound­Chicago, however, followed Marshall said. "I couldn't really 
"I think it's a great situation The Hockets, meanwhile, ed 48-34. Their losing skid is with its own 10-3 run to finish tell when I was shooting my for evnryonn, Aspecially rodn one of their best home­one shy of the team record set the third quarter up 77-66. jump shots." mysolf," said Duncan, who's eourt ofl'ensive pnrformances of last season. Jannero Pargo had four points James, the NBA's third-lead­avnraging a team-high 35.7 the season to their third win in and Duhon made a long 3-ing scorer, hit 15 of 20 l'roe­points. "I felt good tonight. I felt four games. The NBA's second­Bulls 104, Raptors 88 pointer before the shot clock throw attempts, compared to likn I was moving pretty well lowest scoring team shot 46 Chieago ended a 16-game los­expired. 16 of 22 for the llawks. lie and not in a lot of pain, so it percent (39 of 84) and had 26 ing streak to Toronto more than Duhon's 3-pointer made it 93-scored on consecutive posses­was good." assists, a season-high for a three years ago, and the Bulls 80 with 4:33 left in the fourth sions early in the fourth, the 
David West and Hasual Butler home gamn. haven't lost to the Raptors and sealed the game. second of which came on a 3­naeh scored 15 to lead the McGrady, who averaged 39.7 since. "I won't say it was a lack of pointer from the top of the key Hornets, who were 22-for-71 points in Houston's last three Chris Duhon seared 26 points effort," Toronto coach Sam for a 92-S6 lead. (31 pnreent) from the field. games, spent much of the open­to help Chicago beat Toronto Mitchell said. "We didn't shoot "Coming off a back-to-hack, Paul added 14 points. ing quarter muttering to him­for the 12th straight time with the ball well." with a big win last night 
Nnw Orl1~ans' largest prior S!1lf as he missed seven of his a rout Wednesday night. against Indiana, it would have defnat at the Ford Centnr was a f'irst eight shots. He went out Darius Songaila had 19 points Cavaliers 106, Hawks 97 been easy for us to not bring 14-point loss to Boston on IJAe. with 2:38 left and the Hoekets and three other players LeBron James didn't appreci­intensity," James said. "Early 
7. mounted a 16-7 run with a reached double· figures for the ate a fan's attempt to disrupt on, our team didn't have intnn­
It was the llornnts' lowest lineup that included Baxter and Bulls, who haven't lost to the his concentration with a laser sity. I saw that and I had to seoring output since an S3-67 rookies Chuck Hayes and Haptors since ending their pointer. pretty much take over matters. defeat Dee. 17, 2004, also to Luthnr Head. streak on Dec. 6, 2002. So he took out his frustration I've bonn able to take my tnam San Antonio. They tied a l'ran­MeGrady returned with 7:18 "Hight now, they just have on the bumbling Atlanta on my back." ehise low with seven assists left in4.he half and promptly our number," said Toronto's Hawks. Joe Johnson seornd 24 points and narrowly avoided all-time sank a deep jumper to widen Jalen Hose, who was on the "Those things can damage and AI !!arrington added 22 for lows for points (65) and field­the Hockets' lead to 37-24. Chicago team that ended your eyes something bad," the llawks, who have lost sevnn goal pnreentage (30 percent) Carroll swished two 3-point~ Toronto's winning streak. James said. "I was standing at of their last nine. against a Spurs team rankod ers during a 13-1 Bobcats' run "There was a 16-game span the foul line in the fourth quar­.Johnson committed three of No. 1. in the NBA in field-goal late in tho sncond quarter, but a when Toronto beat them as ter when the ref noticed a red his four turnovers in the fourth defnnse. basket and a free throw by well. That's what happens in dot near my forehead. That's quarter. !!arrington had otlll in 
".Just like a lot of young teams MeGrady put Houston up 51-44 pro sports. You hate to bfl on pretty serious." the third. do, if' thny're not making shots, at the break. After the sluggish the baek end of that." James had 3S points, nine "In a dose game like this, then they start to get down on start, McGrady finished the hall' Chris Bosh scored 20 points rebounds and six assists as the you're battling and you ean't thmnsPlves instead of trying to with 15 points. and Mike James added 19 for Cleveland Cavaliers won their afford turnovnrs and allow pick up on thn othnr nnd and Thn Hockets opened thn sec­thn Haptors, who have lost Jive third straight game on them to seorn," Harrington make other things happen," ond hall' with a 10-2 run and of six. Wednesday night. said. "When they were shooting llornnts eoaeh Byron Seott said. stayed in control from there. Duhon said Chieago, which An Atlanta police ol1ieer, who free throws, we won~ taking 
"Them's going to be games Still, llouston eouldn't get out has won three of four overall, declined to give his name, said jump shots. It doesn't work that wlwn you don't make shots. of' thn feel-good night without was usnd its quickness to beat law enforcement was unable to way. You'vn got to attaek the That cannot makn you not one more injury scare. Toronto. find or identify anyone shining basket." 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WlRf. srRvlcrs page J6 
MLB

Men's College Basketball AP Top25 
team record points 
1 Connecticut 1.6~1 1,790 2 Duke 17·1 1;111 3 Memphis 17~2 1,579 4 Texas 16·2 1,541 5 Florida 1'M J.~~o 6 Villanova 13•2 1,429 7 Gonzaga 15-3 1;395 8 Illinois 17,2 .1,209 9 West Virginia 14#a 10 Washington 16<'2 11 Michigan State 15-4 12 Pittsburgh 1H 13 Indiana 1~;~. 14 George Washington 14+ 15 NC State 15-3 812. 16 Ohio State 14·2 738 17 UCLA 15-4 .486 18 Maryland 13·4 41\t 19 Tennessee 12·3 421} 20 Boston College 14·1 399 21 Georgetown 12·4 231 22 Louisville 13•5 219 23 Wisconsin 14·4 186 24 Oklahoma 11-4 166 25 Syracuse 15~4 136 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall streak RPI 
West Virginia 5-I} 14-3 Won12 27 Pittsburgh 5·1 16·1 Won1 9 VIllanova 5·1 14-2 Won3 4 Frank Thomas finishes a swing in his trademark one-handed style in a game last year against the Rockies. The Connecticut 4·1 16-1 Won5 8 A's hope Thomas can provide them with the big bat they have coveted for the middle of their lineup. Georgetown 4·2 13-4 Win3 31 Marquette 4-2 14·5 Won2 32 Cincinnati 3-2 14-5 Won1 18 Sl. John's 3·2 10·6 Won3 106 
Thomas signs free agent deal with Athletics 
Syracuse 3·3 15·5 lost3 24 Rutgers 2·3 12·6 tost2-+68· 
Associated Press "Frank Thomas is a season. After missing the post­
Seton Hall 2·3 10·6 Won1 84 
presence," Beane said. "It's a good day," said season for the second
Louisville 1-4 13·5 Lost 3 81 Providence 1-4 8·8 Win 1 72 OAKLAND, Calif. -"Not only would he be our Thomas' agent, Arn straight year following NOTRE DAME 1·5 10·7 Lost 2 ......101 Frank Thomas called type of offensive player, he Tellem. "From the begin­four consecutive trips to DePaul 1-5 8·9 lost4 59 Oakland general manager would be everybody's type ning, the A's were Frank's the playofl's, Oakland gen­South Florida 0·6 6·13 Lost 8 217 Billy Beane to reiterate of offensive player.... If first choice if he wasn't eral manager Billy Beane how thrilled he would be Frank is healthy, he's been going to go back to has added Thomas and to join the Athletics. good against everybody." Chicago. Frank had a Milton Bradley to a lineup The two clicked at last Thomas, a two-time great meeting with Billy that struggled to score month's winter meetings, American League MVP Beane in Dallas at the win­runs at times last seasonMen's Tennis Top 10 and it led to a contract for who has been slowed by ter meetings and that cre­-and done so without los­the free agent slugger. injuries in recent years, ated a lot of momentum to ing anyone of significance. 
team 

Thomas agreed to a can make an additional getting the deal done. I Beane had been interest­1 Virginia $500,000, one-year deal $2.6 million in bonuses think there was an instant ed in acquiring Thomas for 
2 Florida 


with Oakland on based on plate appear­connection between the months and the deal was 
3 Georgia 

Wednesday, giving the A's ances and not hurting his two. They have the same reportedly in the works for 
4 Illinois Urbana-Champaign 

the big right-handed bat left foot. He played his first philosophy. Frank is very some time. Thomas will be
5 UCLA 

they've been searching for 16 seasons with the excited to come to Oakland the A's primary designated
6 Mississippi 

in the middle of their line­Chicago White Sox, who and he thinks he can con­hitter and join Eric Chavez
7 Baylor 

up. He will be formally won their first World tribute to a good club and and Bradley in the heart of
8 Duke 

introduced Thursday. Series title since 1917 last help the A's win." Oakland's order. 
9 Pepperdine 10 LSU 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Duke at Virginia Tech 7 p.m., ESPN La. Lafayette at Western Kentucky 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Phoenix at Miami 8 p.m., TNT Dallas at Sacramento 10:30 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS 
2006 Australian Open 3 p.m., ESPN2 11 :30 p.m., ESPN2 

IN BRIEF 
Kansas State to hire African­
American coach 
ORLANDO, Fla. -When Kansas State needed someone to replace retir­ing football coach Bill Snyder, the first thing the school decided was who not to exclude. 
Wildcat consultants were told to watch for promising black coordina­tors who may have been overlooked, said Jim Epps, senior associate athlet­ic director. K-State ended up with Virginia offensive coordinator Ron Prince. 
That kind of commitment to diversi­ty wasn't so evident at many NCAA Division 1-A schools, according to a report released Wednesday by University of Central Florida researchers. 
The Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport determined that white males still make up an overwhelming majori­ty of leaders at Division I-A programs, from presidents and athletic directors to football coaches and coordinators. 
Nailon arrested on assualt 
charges 

PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia 76ers forward Lee Nailon was arraigned Wednesday on simple assault and harassment charges stemming from a fight with his wife at home. 
Nailon, a member of the 1994 Indiana high school basketball chainr pionship team at South Bend Ciay, was placed on the inactive list and will not practice, play or travel with the team, Sixers president Billy King said. 
"These are serious allegations, but at this point in time, I think as an organization, we'll let the legal sys­tem run its course," King said follow­ing practice. 
Lower Merion Township police said they were calledto Nailon's home Tuesday afternoon. Nailon's wife, Marti, told the police that the two had argued and that Nailon had hit her. 
Belbin and Agosto shine in 
last Olympic tune-up 

COLORADO SPHINGS, Colo. -Tanith Belbin was the picture of serenity as she skated around the ice, while partner Ben Agosto hammed it up with the crowd. 
The three-time U.S. champions had every reason to feel good at Four Continents on Wednesday, opening up a big lead in their last tuneup before the Turin Olympics. 
"Lots of teams feel better staying at home and just taking it easy and building up themselves in training. But for us, it's definitely bette·r to come here," Belbin said. "These are the same international judges who will judge us at the Olympics and we want their feedback." 
Belbin and Agoston are among the world's best, silver medalists at last year's world championships, and they're favorites to end the United State's 30 year medal drought in dance. 

---------~ 

Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Fortner Knicks executive sues Tho111as for harasstnent 
DAf4~rJJlSK 
~lliiiiiBJ:mWill 
-[OrniffilDIO 
~~ 

or woman, to use me as a pawn the truth" while going through
Team president denies 
for their linaneial gain." internal channels to stop the Thomas said he spoke out harassment.
claims of misconduct, 
despite his lawyers' advice to Thomas and Madison Square
sexual discrimination keep mum because "it is not Garden are listed as the defen­their name, it's not their family, dants in the lawsuit, which it's not their career and it's not charges them with sex discrim­
Associated Press their reputation that's being ination and retaliation. Nl·:W YOBK -Isiah Thomas hurt." Madison Square Garden said rnad1HI with ind igna tion Browne Sanders said she she was fired because she Wednesday ovPr a former team sued Thomas and Madison "failed to fulf'ill professional nxncutivn's fedtHal sexual Square Garden "because I had responsibilities." harassment lawsuit, which no choice." According to the lawsuit filed accuses tho Nnw York Knicks "My pleas and complaints Tuesday in a Manhattan federal president of unwanted about Mr. Thomas's illegal and court, Thomas refused to stop advances, diserimination and offensive actions fell on deaf' making unwanted sexual "dnnwaning and repulsive ears," she said Wednesday at a advances toward her, used hnhavior." news conference at her offensive language and turned Thomas said hn never lawyer's office. "lie refused to others in the organization harassed Anucha Browne stop his demeaning and repul­against her. Sandnrs, the Knicks' former sive behavior and the Garden Browne Sanders said when senior vico prosidnnt of mar­refused to intercede." she sought assistance from her kPLing and busirwss operations, The 4:l-year-old, a former supervisor, Steve Mills, the nor did lw discriminate against Northwestern basketball star president of Madison Square lwr or partieipat1~ in her !iring. who described herself as the Garden Sports, he did nothing. "She did not even work for Knkks' second-highest ranking "I am appalled by Anucha me," ho said, reading from a exncutivn, is seeking reinstato­Browne Sanders' outrageous writtnn statnnHmt at a news ment to her job and unspecified allegations," Mills said. "And I confnrmu~n Wednesday. "I will damages. She said she was was stunned to learn that while not allow hnr or anybody, man lirnd last Thursday "for tolling she was still working for 


Madison Square Garden, she he eould steer opposing playPrs demanded $6.5 million to leave to clubs where he had conrwc­quietly." tions on Saturday nights, hop­
Lawyers for Thomas, Petnr ing they would be sluggish the Parcher and Sue Ellen next day. Eisenberg, called the lawsuit "Thesn fabrieatml and outra­an attempt to makn monny and geous charges eome from an accused her of demanding $(J individual whom MSG fired million upon her departure, because of an inability to fulfill 
more  than  20  p r o f 11 s s i o n a I  
times her salary.  respo nsi hi Iities  
Asked about the suggestion that shn had demand­ "My pleas and complaints about  and who is now seeking a linan­eial windfall,"  
ed the money, one  Mr. Thomas's illegal  Madison Squan~  
of her lawyers, Kevin Mintzer said: "How do you put a price on Ms.  and offensive actions fell on deaf ears. "  Garden al.torrwy Hon Green said in a statenHHJL Tho Knicks  
Browne Sanders'  would  not corn­ 
career? She was the second-high- Anucha Browne Sanders  mont further. "I've known  
est individual in  plaintiff  him since I tried  
the Knicks organ- to recruit him in  
izations, and one  high school and  

of the most senior African­he's a phenomenal human American women in all of' pro­being," coach Larry Brown said fessional sports. I don't know of Thomas. "And the Knicks how you put a price on that." have always treated me well, so When Browne Sanders I guess I'll let it play itself out." sought legal counsel last Browne Sanders said the November, MSG launched its problems began shortly after own investigation but told her Thomas joined the Knicks in to not come to work for three December 2003. In eourt docu­weeks. She was fired last ments, Browne Sanders said Thursday when MSG said her Thomas often berated her and claims couldn't be substantiat­made crude comments about ed. her to Knicks officials, telling 
"They weren't sincerely inter­them not to listen to any of her ested in finding out what hap­directions. Marbury also is pened, they just wanted to pun­accused of acting in a hostile ish her," Mintzer said. way toward her as a result. 
lie said a settlement is Browne Sanders said always a possibility, but if none Thomas' behavior soon became is reached, depositions will snxually chargnd, saying he begin with the intent to go to told her he was "vnry attract­trial. ed" to her and "in lovn" with 
Players were quick to support her and tried to kiss lwr. Slw Thomas at a Wednnsday morn­charges that last month, he ing shootaround. hugged and trind to kiss lwr. 
"I know lsiah and I know hn's and wlwn she pullml away, he an honorable man." Stephon said.·"What, I can't get any love Marbury said. "I know that hn's from you today?" a guy filled with a lot of chanu~­Browne Sanders graduatPd ter, so I think everyone lwre is from Northwestern as tlw Big on his sid11." Ten's wonwn's earner scoring 
The lawsuit also allngns that lnadnr and was a l.wo-tinw con­Thomas told Browrw Sanders f'PrPncP playPr of l.lw ynar. ShP he was pushing for morn was tlw school's athlnl.n ol' l.lw Sunday homn games at noon so dncadn l'or tlw IIJXOs. 

---~--~ ~--------­

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 26, 2006 
NBA 

Pacers and Kings swap Artest and Stojakovic 
should be an intriguing fit with
Trade almost did not 

the Kings, whose franchise makeover now has a more
go through as Artest 

defensive look. stalled deal Tuesday Artest spent parts of six sea­sons with the Pacers, earning Associated Press an All-Star berth and recogni­
tion as the NBA's defensive 
player of the year in 2003-04. 
INDIANAPOLIS The He led the league in steals and Indiana Pacers traded volatile averaged 19.4 points per game forward Ron Artest to the this season before his trade Sacramento Kings for Peja request and subsequent deac­Stojakovic on Wednesday, a tivation. day after a deal between the He was suspended for last teams all but fell apart. season's final 73 games and 
Artest reportedly balked at the playoffs after he charged being dealt to · into the stands the Kings, but during a game at met with Pacers Detroit, precipi­CEO Donnie "[Stojakovic] is one of tating one of the 
Walsh on the best shooters in nastiest brawls 
Wednesday at in league history.
the league and we
Conseco Field­The incident was house and definately feel he can the crowning 
apparently help us right away." touch on one of 
agreed to go to the NBA's most Sacramento. controversial 
Larry Bird 
The trade reputations, and ends a lengthy Pacers president the Pacers finally standoff gave up on their between the extensive efforts Pacers and Art-to support him est, who was deactivated in after his trade request. December after requesting a Stojakovic is the Kings' trade and was suspended most longest-tenured player, joining of last season for his role in the club as an unheralded 21­one of the worst brawls in U.S. year-old rookie in 1998 and sports history. becoming a three-time All­
"Obviously, we're very happy Star. But he is expected to void about getting a player of the final season of his contract (Stojakovic's) caliber," Pacers to become a free agent this president Larry Bird said in a summer, and Kings president statement. "He's one of the of basketball operations Geoff best shooters in the league and Petrie decided to get some­we definitely feel he can help thing in return for his most us right away." successful draft pick. 
Indiana spent several weeks Sacramento made its fourth searching for the right deal, major trade in 13 months, fol­nearly sending Artest to the lowing deals involving Chris Los Angeles Clippers for Corey Webber, Bobby Jackson and Maggette before reviving talks Doug Christie. with the Kings in recent days. Stojakovic seemed likely to 
This trade has been rumored earn a hefty contract when he for three years, with the Kings became a free agent after thought to need Artest's declining his $8.2 million defense just as much as the option for next season, per­Pacers need Stojakovic's haps getting the maximum offense. deal. Instead, this season has 
Artest is due to make $7.15 been dismal for the Serbian million next season and $7.8 star. million in 2007-08, with an He is averaging just 16.5 $8.45 million player option for points per game, his lowest 2008-09. His defensive pres­total since his second NBA sea­ence and infamous instability son, while making just 40.3 


percent of his shots -lowest and shooting. He has missed 11-14 without him, losing five since his rookie year -along eight games because of the of their last six -including a with 5.3 rebounds and 2.2 ITIJUries, including three 30-point loss to Cleveland on assists. straight earlier this month Tuesday night. Jermaine 
He has been bothered by a before receiving a cortisone O'Neal has hinted that players sprained finger, a strained shot. might be concerned about pos­groin muscle and a protruding The Pacers have struggled sibly getting traded along with disc in his lower back which without Artest. They were 10-Artest, and it could be affect­hinders his running, jumping 6 in games he played and are ing their performance. 
Don't gel caught with your pants down In 2007! 
Cover yourself. 
IR 1' "~: r' ~· F4 ( r \ ·uIu 4/ • j.r I. 11: 1... t •• ... ~· (' n u r· f "' ~ H r·i1 .: I~-a m i n •• n ~ ~• I t h ~· {' _!oil H~· "' t !!: ~~ m ,. " : J u ' t :..: o t u 
.I il: I..;FI r.; ..,~, n t'.L·~~•u ;utll pu rt·l""'' HI \t'ft'""l•m l·•~r~~'~<trd-., h~r nur r;n •~rih· h•.mn and. it' lht•-' nmk~· tr.1 11Jnr Ht.., Hot~ t lo(aiitt: •.~ ou :.t•·• 
u FAn· \ •• tu,. Hlfl.~·•: 
BCS AI"· AcCESS' 
MARKET 
NOW OPEN 
.

•n!f------­
T~cketRESE.RVE .coM 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
PGA 
Woods excited to re-enter competitive fray 
Buick Invitational debut ends second longest inactive streak 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO-Even after 10 years defined by his 10 major championships, there are times when Tiger Woods still feels as though he has something to prove. 
The chill of' a Paeific breeze was in his f'a1:e Tw~sday morning when hn rnachnd his ball in the sixth fairway. snmningly too far away to reach thn grmm. 
"No chance to got thnre'!" he said to his caddin. 
Stnvn Williams shrugged his shoulders and told him it was 275 yards to the front of' tlw gronn, a long way considoring tlw wind and tnmpnraturn in thn 50s that knnps the ball from trawling as f'ar. 
"l.et nw show you my stuf'l'," Woods said with a smiln, grab­bing a driver from thn bag. 
lin ripped a low, pierdng shot that held its line until tumbling into the first cut of rough, a few yards short of the green. And this brought another smile. 
"That," he said, "was pure." 
There were few signs of rust for Woods, who makes his 2006 debut at thn Buick Invitational after taking the second-longest brnak of his earner. 
lin missed two months because of knee surgery at thn end of Lhn 2002 season, rnt.urn­ing at thn Buiek Invitational and winning by four shuts. He took six weeks off this time, a self­imposed break to recover from a long year in whieh he spent morn time on the range trying to rnline his swing. 
More than just the six weeks, Woods made it a point not to touch a club until the calendar changed. 
"Once the new year came around and I started to realize I only had a couple more weeks to prepare, to start getting ready, then my mind kind of switched over." Woods said. "Before that, I basically had made a decision not to touch a club until the fol­lowing year." 
IIe spent four days skiing, and the rest of December in southern Calil'ornia to be near his father, who is fighting a losing battle with cancer. Woods said only that Earl Woods was "hanging in there." 
Woods is the defending eham­pion at Torrey Pines, whore the field isn't as strong as it was a year ago. Only three of the top 10 players from the world rank­ing are at the Buick Invitational, tho others being Phil Miekelson and Sergio Garcia. Ernie Els is making his '06 debut at the Qatar Masters, joined by Vijay Singh. 
Woods and Garda, not the best of' friends, will be grouped with Stuart Appleby the first two rounds, starting Thursday on the shorter, easier North Course at Torrey Pines that plays about three strokes easier than the South Course, site of' the 2008 
U.S. Open. 
"I can't wait to get out there and compete," Woods said. "I've missed the eompetition. I've missed the rush of trying to shoot low numbers and win tournaments." 
A year ago, the Buick Invitational was a launching pad. 
Woods had not won a stroke­play event on the PGA Tour in 16 months when he took advantage 
•.........., c.;..._ll "'"' Orlnn. I'IIU~"-~~ s.~. ~~.1.­......-..4.'a4-t. !'II<P, t•-·•.)'W. l.-,Mot..... 
\fe_..,,.,. (.......,.. IU)• ....._ }~.IIIJ~ h.,. ......... -·-a:.w""t.ttt. 1«1. ~. 11JIIXt. w.a......,..;w-.­
~·"'"• Ku)'t t'lahotAAQ, tl!:!t, 0!,1-U. t~ !>tlll'f'11:11d
.,.,..,.l.........., ...,. ,.__..J.~. !o--1.~. ~·'!(""' 
............._('......... '"'"·""--·'~""""~· ~~ 
!ioet..tbii'IN-~. ll""'-IO,(,E'(l, s.-t.t~,l"fttkney,Sw1aofbyft..'t;'l\ot'(l!y,~I.O!'S4 ""....,..,_,,. t:lll-t. U:!-11. ft-*-·· ~.~. \t. n.---.s"" v~ 
k .hlla't. t•.w-.a.~. U'*• .,.,._._. HU.tl.; o.-,s..,. 'll'o::d: 

of late mistakes by Tom Lehman and Luke Donald, to win by three shots. Swing changes with Hank Haney kept rounding into form, and Woods went on to win the Masters, British Open and two World Golf Championships. 
Woods said there is still room to improve, although he is much farther along than he was last year. 
"I don't have as far to go to get ready fur the Masters this year," he said. "Last year, I had a long way to go. I had a lot of different things I needed to fix to be ready for Augusta. This year, it's not as many. The list is a lot shorter, 
Best JJ·ishe... It' the Graduatittg Cl.a.-;s of2006 alfd to the l1'1coming Cia.-.-... of20I 0 
DEDJC4.TJO,"-' 
I« u~ .~1 Iii_,,.._, Up.""'­AII !'otudmt..._ ~ .._"''lolry, St.tlt BMe!a.:llift. 1-r.eb:h. &Dd. t\.;h'4!f'WI<n of(~h<: t~.-tjnr:. \\'l)fl.h"'6o::, .atJ !'.kw Pillll!'b.:u.la.r)' wr ~ touo..'ll'fg St~ 1M to S1-ThutnM A.~ UJ!A-1 1':'4, P.ucrt !\am! o:d'CIII.bol...: !-'~l~ and~ U~tJ<r ot'"'-. I)~--1444-. htnn> S•i&t llf Ad'I'C\ttuun;: 
SCJIOOL: i''OLN\'DI£D: CJRCA-ENROLL,\f£.\'T; LOCA TJON: 0 TilER 
.-..,••••• i.: ....... ·~-~-.I,J;)I}.·IAMd ~-lot""'"­
...,. \lortal'ehoNit. !'::o:>4, 1~~ W.~. )Ol, ~-f'l<"""""oGI'I'IIIII04""'4Mdl(W)i.ll:lfl!,..._t.a...,._l>f,~,(IIOOtiNdmn.,.f') l'.UNI"VI,, ~w.:l. P.-.');~ .....-!>"""""". t,....,.. 
De......, ( ........... Ill!>,, Jw.o&A., ll."'IC', n-:...o: thl. "f-<••-o&Dctu ..-.......,. c~. 1~7(1. ~" ~.w~. ~....... \'m .........,h,.s.; .......,..r--. .... ""·IP"k'J ........to<r <ll'o.l>tl -s.:.....-::o (.-"-'­
.....Mk I'IN""'...., •f""-"'"· 1U1, V ~ ,.......,.,.., :>',,11; W~···· IH' orr...,tot•,. t:,w_,.,,, t._ 'IOJ, r:........., ""*onr<b Uorh• t_........,; ll'l'l, V..w:mt~.~~>~~, !)IJ(WJ.otll.o<..,, b""" ~Joooot•-.....,.,.,..~, l.l'\$.. •.(l((l, ..~.._..,...._.. 14~ • ~'-"'"""" •1~.<11 14 It ll\o: ~~ "'ht;• '-"'.... H~ F•~ l "*"->·,._, J...!IO>. F~ (·-•..;,.. 
••,.....\ 'ah.,rur,., UU, -.,. U,I]I)O.. tt.o.u. """"' 'f.mt. ,.........·'IN-)..luah-llor. I~ f....,. __ J:.Jlo); ~~ik. ()h:, 
f'-.--•l.w........,. ·~ .......... llw·........... Cl (' 
c.......c. , . ..,..........,.. ,..,, ,.._, ,.MO: .....,..._,..,~...
,_.......,Lat,._,, I'OUO ,.~J,~ ........yh-• 
1-C.... ~~. J.ll(l(!. 1'>1!"" .,..,.~,W.O. Y·d Loo Mllwl..,...-..:., 11\l•. l......._ ~~. rt.o~.~o~~r<-~.l'anrrt•-.. a-..a-t~"'..'"""t (»np. U"Q, .__ nJ J't: t~. m-.l.att•<'~~-~&US II~ ""•"• 
flu...,,.._~ 
"l>l. ~·, L~< Ill-~ I,...........,_ 1,», rt.o~ ,._,.~_,. .... a-L_.,_..........._,u,.,.k~"'tr-.hm~·~....,....,....tw'-1~ 
,.._ ....,•• ('........ !W)o~ '·'"; ""'-~• ....._ 
*-.,....,... r....... ••'!?. ~~~lW~~·c~. s-,....,..
I _ __, _...,._,... Mlrr:t. II??,.__,.,._,. s.-,1)01); ~No..,.... ............, _......,.a.-, IM:l,...., (-_, il.b»-,._.0..., ...._ \..._.,.,. ................ UQ(I.-~-~ 
lla4•-Jt...C !1oM fnMt-, lU~ • ._.,, ••u... ~ t'~-·. ('-~t~"­\u.-•1 ~. 1..-l'. •.....-•-·*-.l*S.~.......... "-!:>'*-'­
"-~··~. ,.,,,,_.,_.,.1Q,n..-.r­
Spon.fored by Ford Motor Conrpany, and Bank ofAmerica 
,......, .......... c._., il'IC>l, ,_.,F.

..._~--~..,.....,.,~ ~-•l'llo:IJ. !(ll)r~~-.-..;u:~ 
t'-«1 OIY.Prtq .'\ St.OOO Rdt.tt«-tbtr hnb•w .of ~,.y 100io J'ord \'~, P1tr,..., C:odl 1-1100-~~fOAD II..J. tof,"''"'"'"U. t IM<I, LH ~.C'.ahl._, l,l.'ll{o ~-I& I~ ~XI-:Mt:I .....J.~ 011 :m'.r~ O.au of Altwril'• Otl'vrln1 ~-(.'r,..;J (.'*td A-It \\ ILII a lJ...OOtl (.'udlll,l&Ll. Ptot:~w C:all 1-SOO·~M-B.\SIK 
and the ehanges aren't as big. "From that standpoint, I've got a head start on last year." 
There are other changes out­side of golf. The Tiger Woods Learning Center, an after-school project fur kids in the Anaheim area, will have its grand opening Feb. 10. And he recently com­pleted a $38 million purehase or a 10-acre property in south Florida that stretches from the Intracoastal Waterway to the Atlantie Ocean. 
Woods didn't say when he would move from Orlando, Fla., or where he would play, although he has an invitation from Jack Nicklaus to the exclu­sive Bear's Club. 
"I told Tiger that he is more than welcome," Nicklaus said. "He may choose to come to The Bear's Club, and he may choose not to come here ... may not want to feel like he's imposing on my situation while he's trying to break my record. He's certain­ly been invited." 
Woods said he likely would keep a house or villa at Isleworth, a course that he said was ideal for major prepara­tions. 
And that's ultimately what matters to him this ynar, just like always. 
"Hopefully, I can put together some wins and hltve a more sue­cessl'ul season than I did last year," he said. 
Torrey Pines has been friendly to him over the years. 
Woods and Mickelson are tho only three-time winners of tlw Buiek Invitational, and Woods' worst finish in this tournament was a tie for 10th in 2004, when he missed a playoff by two shots. 
''I've been playing here since I was 12," Woods said. "I've had some success here even in the junior ranks. The golf course just suits my eye." 
Mickelson, who grew up in San Diego, has been playing it even longer, and still likes to sneak out with the public, although that hasn't happened in a few years. 
"l think Torrey Pines South is the hardest golf course I've ever played day in and day out," Mickelson said. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
Craig Cramer, Faculty Organ Re~ital 

Sunday, January 29, 2006 4 & 8 PM, Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Call 631-2800 or visit http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu Tickets: $10 general, $8 ND/SMC faculty & staff, $6 seniors, $3 all students 

Thursday, January 26, 2006 
NFL 
Hohngren atte111pting 
an unprecedented feat 

Coach would be first to win with 2franchises 
Associated Press 
Bill Parcells failed. Dan Reeves, Dick Vermeil and Don Shula never had the chance. 
Now Mike Holmgren has taken a second franchise to a Super Bowl. Can he become the only eoaeh to win with morn than onn team? 
In nnarly four dneades of Super Bowls, only Parcnlls managed to win in his first try, then come baek with another club. But after victories with the Giants in 1987 and 1991, Parcells' Patriots were beaten in 1997 by the Packers. 
Green Bay's coach that season: Ilolmgren. 
Heeves went three times in four years with the Denver Broncos and John Elway, but flopped against Parcells in '87, against Joe Gibbs and the Rcdskins the next ynar, and to George Seifert and the 49ers in 1990. lie also lost to Denver in 1999 while coaching Atlanta. 
Vermeil was a Super Bowl loser with the Eagles in 1.981 to the Raiders, then won with St. Louis in 2000. Shula. pro football's win­ningest coach, fell in 1969 with the Colts to the Jets, then won twice with Miami (1973, '74). 
Holmgren knows the history. lie's trying to ignore it, but hoping he can change it. 
"I think both the playnrs that have gone through Super Bowl games and the coaches that have been there, that helps," says Holmgren, whose Packers lost to the Broncos -by then coached by Mike Shanahan but still with Elway at quarterback-in 1998. 
"Because the more you can talk about it, kind of explain, kind of pave the way for them ... they won't believe what's happening to them. It's difierent. So we kind of pave the way for them a little bit." 
It seems odd that only one of the previous coaches to take dif­ferent franchises to the big game has had an opportunity for double victories. Shula, Reeves and Vermeil are among the most suc­cessful coaches ever. But Heeves was 0-4 in Super Bowls, and Shula went 2-4, losing his first two. 
Vermeil was 1-1, but the loss came first, and he, like Shula and Reeves, now is retired. 
Parcells, now with Dallas, could even have the distinction of get­ting to the Super Bowl with three franchises. He came close in the 1998 season when his Jel'i lost at Denver for the AFC champi­onship. 
Steelers hoping magic continues 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH The Pittsburgh Steelers sense some­thing special is going on here, the kind of season that is remembered and replayed not only for a few years but for gen­erations. 
A season in which a team has to try harder and travel a far more difficult road to win foot­ball's biggest game. 
After a month virtually unri­valed in NFL play­off history, the Steelers are one 
"Somebody should write about a book about this," wide receiver Hines Ward said. "Because it's better than fic­tion." 
But here are the facts: The Steelers haven't won the last game of the NFL season since Jimmy Carter was president and Terry Bradshaw was their quarterback during the 1979 season. 
"You work hard to travel this path, but if you're not able to 
finish the deal 
you 'II be forgot­
Cowherten,"
"If you're not able 
victory away from said. "You have a a Super Bowl to finish the deal, chance to put 
championship you'll be forgotten.,, your name up that, by degree of there with some difl'iculty, might of the great
Bill Cowher
eclipse any of the teams. That's the four they won dur­Steelers coach opportunity that 
ing the 1974-79 seasons. 
The improbable three-game road sweep in the AFC playoffs. A game and a season saved by an improbable tackle -by quarterback Ben Hoethlisberger. of all people. Eliminating Super Bowl favorite Indianapolis a few weeks after the Colts seemed poised to go undefeated. 
There's more: Jerome Bettis closing out a Hall of Fame career by going home to Detroit for the Super Bowl -and over­coming the fumble of a lifetime. Bill Cowher, the NFL's most tenured eoaeh with one team, finally getting another chance for a championship ring in his 14th season. Hoethlisberger resembling John Elway and Joe Montana in the playolTs in only his second season. 
you're selling to 
your players." 
It's also why Cowher is trying to keep this ofT week close to a regular week, even if he knows that is impossible. Cowher is attempting to keep the edge, ambition and motivation the StnelHrs fed off while beating Cincinnati, Indianapolis and Denver during the first sweep of a conference's No. 1, 2, and 3 seeds. 
The Steelers were off Wednesday -they haven't playep or practiced since their 34-17 rout of Denver in the AFC championship game Sunday ­but will work out Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Then, after another day off Sunday, they'll travel to Detroit on Monday to resume preparations for the Feb. 5 game against Seattle. 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
"I always have expected to "We have always expected of the season is to just get very lnast reach her peak level perform well, I just wasn't Mary to be an excellent per­back to where I was last s(m­over the next four years, if not
Saxer 
continued from page 24 
reeord in the pole vault, a mark she broke herself an amazing nine different times. She won the indoor and out­door New York state ehampi­onships in the pole vault, and was also named the 2005 National lligh School Athlete of the Y1mr. 
sure how soon to expeet the results that I have been look­ing for," Saxer said. "It felt good to perform at sueh a high level right away." 
Saxer has been leading the charge for a very impressive trio of pole-vaulters this sea­son for the Irish. Saxer, along with senior Laura lluarte and fellow rookie Kate Mattoon, has helped form a formidable trio. 
former, but for her to perform this well this early is a very pleasant surprise," head coach Joe Piane said. 
Although Saxer has already turned in a great freshman campaign, she is not 100-per­eent satisfied with her per­formance to date. ller personal best in the pole vault, which she set in high school, is 14­foot-3. 
"My goal for the remainder 
NBA 
Kings beat Knicks in OT 
AsstKiatcd l'ress 
NEW YOHK -Though Hon Artnst should make the Sacramento Kings better, there was nothing lw eould do to help them Wndnesday. 
Mike Bibby and Brad Miller did plenty. 
Bibby scornd eight of his :{5 points in overtinw and added I0 assists, and Miller had 25 points and 15 rebounds to lead the short-handed Kings over the New York Knkks 106-102 on Wndnesday night. 
That capped a big day for Sacramento, which acquin~d tlw volatiln Artest from the Indiana Pacers for Peja Stojakovic in a trade shortly bPI'orn the game. 
"I talknd to Hon a cou pte of tinws," Bibby said. "lie comes to play and hn plays hard every night. That's what we need, regardless of what hn dons ofT tho r.ourt." 
Tlw Kings hope Artost. a supnrb all-around player who is orw of' tho lnagun's bnst dnf'nnd­nrs. will join thmn in time for tlwir game at Boston on Friday night. 
In tho meantime, the Kings­playing for tho sncond straight night-usnd only eight players and got just tlm~n points from tlwir bonch while winning for tlw first tinw on thnir six-game nastnrn road trip. 
"Wn nended this win and we dnfinitely thought it was a win wn eould w~t. so we just had to come out and get it," Bibby said. 
Bibby got it for them with another outstanding game. lie scorml a earner-high 44 points in a loss to Philadelphia on Tunsday night. Miller bounced back from a dismal showing in that game, when he was 0-for-8 from the field for two points. 

"Mike was really terrific again tonight and Brad was good tonight," Kings eoaeh Hick Adnlman said. "We really, really needed this win after the last three on thn road." 
Stephon Marbury scored 22 points in his return to the line­up aftnr missing three straight games with a sprained left shoulder for the Knicks, who lost their sixth straight game following a six-game winning streak. 
"It's a humbling game," guard Jamal Crawford said. "You 
never really figure it out." New York was dealing with its own distractions. 
The Knicks began the day by having to deal with questions about a former team execu­tive's federal sexual harass­ment lawsuit filed against team president lsiah Thomas on Tuesday. Thomas defended himself' Wednesday and said Anucha Browne Sanders, the Knieks' former senior vice pres­ident of marketing and business operations, was trying to use him for financial gain. 
Maurice Taylor had 21 points and 12 rebounds for New York. and Eddy Curry contributed 17 points and 1 0 boards. 
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH 
Intern-ational Film Festival 
January 31-February 2, 2006 Saint Mary's College, Vander Vennet Theatre 
Free and open to the public 
Tues., Jan. 31 7p.m. 
Mardi Gras: Made in China 
David Redmon, USA, 2004, 72 min. 
In English, Cantonese, Fujianese and Mandarin with English subtitles. 
tit-/
CENTER Fon WOMEN's INTER(ULTVRAL UADERSHIP 
Wed., Feb. 1 7p.m. 

State of Fear 
Pamela Yates, Paco de Onis, and Peter Kinoy, USA/Peru, 2005, 94 min. 
In English and Spanish with English subtitles. 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME ·INDIANA 
Thur., Feb. 2 7p.m. 
The Education of Shelby Knox 
Marion Lipschutz and Rose Rosenblatt, USA, 2005, 76 min. 
In English. 
(11 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute 
FOR IN~RNATIONAL Ploi.ACG: STUDIES 
Sponsored by The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, the English Department, the Women's Studies Program and the InterCultural Studies Program at Saint Mary's College, and by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame 
son. I want to be able to eon­sistently clear the heights that I was dearing when I was at my peak last year," Saxer said. "It would be great if my provi­sional vault holds up and I end up making the NCAA Championship, but my main goal is just to continue to improve my marks." 
If her past history is any indication, there is no reason to believe that she won't at the exceed it. 
Get thn erasers ready, the record books are about to be rewritten. 
The track and field squad returns to action this Friday at Loftus Sports Center with the Notre Dame Invitational, a tune up for the prestigious Meyo Invitational. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 

ATHLETIC APPAREL 
Tvvo Inajor coinpanies Inerge, Nike looks on 
AP Cleveland guard Lebron James, left, one of Nlke's most famous athletes, meets with NBA great Oscar Robertson Tuesday. 

Adidas-Soloman AG acquired Reebok, plans to compete with giant 
Associated Press 

POHTLAND. Ore. -When it comes to athletic shoes, the home court advantage has been with Nike. 
Hival Adidas has been likn a lightweight going into the ring against a well-conditioned heavy­weight, trying from Germany to take on the swoosh without budg­ing its bigger competitor in the critical U.S. market. 
But Adidas-Salomon AG has just added some marketing mus­cle with the acquisition of Heebok International Ltd., boosting the combined U.S. share of No. 2 Adidas and No. 3 Heebok to 21 percent -enough to be a real contender. analysl<; say. 
"This clearly, in our opinion, will lead to a much morn serious eompetitive environment than tho industry has been exposed to in probably the last five years," said John Shanley of Susquehanna Financial Group. 
Shareholders of Canton, M<L'>S.­basnd Heebok approvod the $3.8 billion takeover by a 98 pnreont margin Wedm~sday, a day aftnr Adidas won Europnan Union n~g­ulatory approval. No antitrust objections were raised by U.S. rngulators. 
Heebok said Wndnesday tlw companins now expeet to closn thn dnal by Jan. :n. a quiek eon­elusion thny hopn will nnd tho uncertainty that had hurt sales and orders to retailers. Hnebok acknowlmlgnd thrne months ago that uncertainty about integration plans had hurt sales, which dedinnd to $912 million in the third quarter of' 2005, from $1 billion in the prnvious year's quartnr. 
Adidas spokesman .Jan Hunau at company headquarters in llerzogenauraeh, Germany, said the Heebok headquarters will remain in Massachusetts while Adida.s will maintain il<; s1~parate 
U.S. headquarters in Portland. 

Adidas plans to keep the brand identities separate as well, and f(Jeus on expanding Hnnbok sales in Europe and Asia "where Heebok is relatively small and Adidas is vnry strong," Hunau said. 
lie also said the combination should save Adidas about $25 million a year in prod uetion and supply chain costs within thrne years. 
Shanley said that Adidas Chairman and CEO Herbert I lainer targeted Hnebok as part of' a delibnrate strategy to eonfront Nikn, based in suburban Beaverton. 
Hunau, however, said the U.S. market was only one considera­tion in tho overall growth plan for Adidas. 
"The North Amerkan husinnss was only one of' the many strate­).,>ic rationales behind our dedsion to acquirn Henbok," Hunau said. 
Shanley said Adidas has been surpassing Nikn in both Europe and .Japan, and its sales have grown in tlw United Kingdom, iL'> honw base in (;ermany, and in soutlwrn J<:urope, "markets where Nike is nitlwr treading water or losing position." 
page 22 Dame student-athletes -Trick volunteers with the D.A.R.E.
Trick 
program in South Bend ele­continued from page 24 
mentary schools. Although he's 
unsure whether they care that he's a real solid citizen," more about his athletic Jackson said. "He does a great endeavors than what he has to job in the classroom and very say about drugs and alcohol, active in community service. the smile that comes across the He's a modest player, but he's kids' faces when he interacts got a big heart. with them is He's got his head equally reward­on straight. He's "[Trick] is the kind ing. the kind of kid "I think we had
ofkid that I would 
that I would be some good stories
be proud to call my
proud to call my to share with son, he's got that son, he's got that them. I was pretty kind of character kind ofcharacter honest about my to him." life experiences,"
to him."

Trick has been he said. extensively "Sometimes it's involved in Jeff Jackson tough with a numerous South nine-year-old
Irish coach 
Bend-area pro­because you're grams, Notre not sure what's Dame-sponsored activities, and going through their head. They with teams in his hometown of haven't really hit the age Troy, Michigan. He is a mem­where they get into that stuff ber of the Notre Dame Student­or get tempted with it. Athlete Advisory Committee, a Hopefully it sticks with them ­role he took over from former it'll be nice to think we helped teammate Neil Komadoski -out." also a former Humanitarian The defenseman -who has Award finalist. played in 23 games this sea­
In his spare time -a treas­son, tallying three assists and a ured commodity for Notre solid +4 plus/minus rating -
Providenm 
continued from page 24 
nance, illustrated no better than by Providenza's performance in last year's NCAA champi­onships. 
During the first two days of team competition -the men's portion of the tournament -Providenza came down with food poisoning and needed to be hospitalized. She was not released until an hour and a half before her bout on the third day of the championships, the beginning of the women's por­tion of championships. She had barely enough time to warm up. 
"I was so exhausted when I got out of the hospital," Providenza said. "So I was just taking one bout at a time and trying to conserve my energy between each one." 
Despite her illness, Providenza managed a score of 19-4 in the 23 round-robin bouts. This record was enough in the women's sabre competi­tion to place her near the top of the standings. She competed in the semi-finals, earning a great deal of respect from her team­mates. 
"It was really encouraging to see her compete that well," jun­ior sabre Matt Stearns said. "She gained a lot of respect for being such a tough competitor. I think it was also inspiring for all the girls competing at the end." 
Though Providenza finished fourth in the women's sabre competition, it was a strong enough performance to help Notre Dame overcome a 24­point margin to edge its fiercest competitor, Ohio State, and win its seventh national title with a score of 173-171. 
"Going into those fmal days, we were concerned," Stearns said. "Even that first day [of the women's competition] we were in a tough spot because we only made up [11 of the 24 bouts] and knew they had 13 real tough bouts the next [and final] day. But our girls fenced amaz­ing and Ohio State didn't come through and it came out in our favor." 
With the help of Providenza and the rest of women's team, the Irish women won a total of 103 bouts-the most wins for a women's program in a single NCAA championship. 
But despite the success found in last year's team, the Irish are looking to repeat. 
"We defmitely have a shot at another title this year," Stearns said. "And it looks like it is going to be another good match-up against Ohio State." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Student Open Skate Friday January 27,2006 7:00-9:00 pm Joyce Center Ice Rink 

nng your ID for $3 skate rental 

which is a sad thought," he said. "You try to put your best effort into making them have a good time and usually it turns out well." 
His community service does not end when he goes home to Michigan either. Trick got involved with the Great Lakes 
The Observer + SPORTS 
also helps to organize the Buddy Walk, an event ltJ.eld with the hockey, baseball and softball teams. The players spend a day with the Downs Syndrome kids and play games with them before embarking upon the Walk. Trick was also involved in the sec­ond annual Kids'. 
Skate with under­Sled Dogs -a
"You try to put

privileged kids sled hockey
your best effort 

from South Bend's team for people Robinson Center. into making them with Muscular "They came out Dystrophy and
have a good time 

and skated with us Multiple
and usually it 

one day after prac­Sclerosis and for tice," Trick said of turns out well. " paraplegics near the event. "They his home put our helmets through his
Chris Trick 

and gloves on and mother.
Irish defenseman 

play with our "You just try to sticks and stuff like give them differ­that. Most of them never skat­ent pointers on how to play the ed before so they pushed the game of hockey and stuff like limits a bit, but that was fun." that," Trick said of coaching 
The pressure of finals and a the team. "I have a couple guys tough hockey schedule could on the team I hang out with. not keep Trick from participat­We go out to dinner and stuff ing every year in the Notre like that. It's cool because obvi­Dame Christmas Party, where ously just the way society looks athletes and South Bend-area at people in wheelchairs in a children's cancer patients different way, it's unfortunate." interact. If all of these events weren't 
"You never know if it's going enough to occupy a majority of to be a kid's last Christmas, Trick's time, he even makes 
Thursday, January 26, 2006 
space in his day to tutor a 
member of the Irish Youth 
Hockey program. The player's 
single mom contacted Jackson 
to see if an Irish player would 
help out her son in school. 
Trick immediately volunteered 
and the two meet several times 
a week now to read and do 
schoolwork. 

"He's always asking ques­
tions about hockey," Trick said. 
"It's cool that he's a hockey 
player it works out well in the 
end, its something else we 
share in common. 

"I think he realizes to play 
the sport at Notre Dame you 
have to take care of school. 
And he's kind of learned that 
out the hard way so far. 
Hopefully he can catch up and 
get back on track." 

So as the Irish continue to 
plod their way up the CCHA 
standings, don't forget to look 
for Trick winning crucial bat­
tles for the puck and catching 
unsuspecting attackers with · their heads down, but also take 
a look behind the boards ­
where he does some of his best 
work. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

AliDa 
continued from page 24 
Belles with 14 points, hit an acrobatic runner in the lane to increase the lead to three. After Alma converted a free throw and held Saint Mary's on defense they had a chance to tie or even win the game. 
But, even though the Scots called a timeout with 13.2 sec­onds to go, they were unable to hit a shot to send the game into overtime. 
Bridget Boyce scored 11 points and Erin Newsom and Nicole Beier each pitched in 10 
for the Belles. Belles one step closer to their It was especially crucial for ultimate goal of hosting an multiple players to create MIAA post-season tournament 
offense in this game because Saint Mary's was playing without starting point guard and MIAA assists leader Bridget Lipke, who missed her second straight game due to an injury. 
"We played well 

"We played well together as a team and that helped to compensate for not having Lipke.'' 
Shelly Bender Belles forward 

game, an honor that goes to the top four seeds in the conference. They currently sit in fourth place with six games to play. The next contest for Saint Mary's will take 
place  this  
Saturday  at  3  
p.m.  at  the  

together as a team and that helped to compensate for not having Lipke," Bender said. 
This victory brought the 
Angela Athletic Center. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Celebrati<..ln o,f tl1e Vigil F'east of homas Aqt.tirtas 
I'atr<)Il Saint <Jf Sttadertts at1d Ut1i,/ersities 

\·Vith tl1e N{)tre IJan1e L.iturgic,ll Cht>ir­BasiJtcil of the Sacred lleart 

"'~r~.•t'.~~'f'•-'d I,"V il:w I.K: ,.w~,, \f<lri~.)in t <mh•r. -.u1d th ;:;.,,'p/trttnt.·IH·· •.~! ·]h~-.A·'·~~., ..tod 
r.Y~~-'1!~-:::.;~"""..il. ~ _..,.hv$<.·· 

Thursday, January 26, 2006 The Obserl'er+ TODAY page 23 
l-IENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DENUC 

j
I I [ (] 
@2006 Tribune Media SeiVices, Inc. All Rights Reservt~d. 
SLEBS 

± 
WHEN THESLEPEN 
BOWL-ER HAD A BAD FRAME, HE WAS LEFT WITH--­

[l) (] 
www.jumble.com

tMEEPID ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon . 

J I [ J 
Ans: 

rI I I ) AND "r I I I I I I ) " -­
(Answers tomorrow) 
Jumbles: AFIRE NOOSE FELONY VERBALYesterday's Answer: 
What the defense considered the star running back-"OFFENSIVE" 

ALEC WI-liTE AND ERIC POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
ADAM FAlRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

AL~IC:li-IT , 1 erue.ss 
Tl4EJI.,e_ IS A LOT OF C.ONTRO\JE.'-'S.'I 
0\JE.~ ~OT 

!:>?DNS.O!i:.\Nll '"THE. \[1'\C.:IINA MCN0\..0 OR. W\-11'\'TEVE:t... ... Blli 
LET5 ?U\ I.-\ STE.N I \ 10\..P '/OU ON OU.R. I'M WA\TINu. E..NP OWr--1 'PL..P...'i I Oi= ..STolt..'i. NO\N Sl"oP 
ONE. STA!t.INL:I A'"f ME... 
E.VE.ll..~oNE 
c_;:;:;-E.N 'J'~ ~ 

CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
<;an you ligure out what's unusual about th1s crossword? It not,  
when you're done, read the first letters of the clues in reverse order.  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alicia Keys, 25; China Kantner, 35; Dinah Manoff, 48, Richard Grieve. 36 ·  
ACROSS  36 Dele undoers  71 Teresa and  
Does battle 5 Name preceding "White Label" 11 Afore 14 Help hold up 15 They're often old and wise 16 Frame fillers in a perfect bowling game  40 Employees who once went up, up and away 44 Please, with "with" 45 "Your Future" sign displayer 46 Time unit in basketball: Abbr. 47 Hearing figs.  Helena: Abbr. 72 Say forcefully 73 Rear end of a slug? DOWN 1 Electric guitar effect 2 Tunic toppers 3 Take ten  Happy Birthday: Pick and choose wisely what you do this year. You will he tempted to scatter your energy, linishing nothing. Be careful not to let others dump added responsibilities in your lap. You will have the di~cipline to get thinp done as long as you are very diligent. organized and well prepared. Your numbcn arc 3. 16. ::?.2. 28, 31, 37 ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Physical activities arc a must today. You will go all-out and show everyone what ynu can do: You are going through a winning streak. Romance is looking good. ***** TAllRUS (April 20-May 20): You will tend to overreact LO personal mailers today. If asked. offer assistance willingly and you will avoid arguments later in the day. Legal matters aren'tlikely to go tht• W<lY you want. Don't be too 4uid. to settle. ***  
17 Exhibited severe  49 Cheapens  4 Eyer  GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): This is the perfect day to 1alk to people who can  
embarrassment 20 Latin stars 21 Enfant's dream 22 Hebrides tongue 23 Title role for Anne Baxter, 1950  52 Uncommercial periodicals 57 Output of an arachnid 58 Testify 59 EssayisVnovelist  5 Ladies' org. since 1890 6 Ems-Weser Canal feeder 7 Had water up to one's ankles  help you reach your goals. Preparation will be what counL~. Ir you have a complain! with someone, speak up and resolve the issues that arc bothering you.*** CANCEH (.June 21-.July 22): As long as you can adapt to the changes going on around you, life will be great. Travel will get you thinking about what you can do with some of the ideas you have mulled over in your mind in ihe past.**' LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Plan to do something social with your friends today. Partnerships will be strained if you are too pushy or demanding. Something yotl  
25 Grimace maker.  James  8 Tequila source  arc responsible for may cause you problems. Take care of these matters yourself.  
maybe 27 North Pole, for Santa 31 It might accompany a MS.  61 Relative of a bolt 65 Approximates the time of completion 68 The Eisenhower years. e.g.  9 You push these at bowling alleys and on VCR's 10 Lifeline for srs. 11 Nudge (oneself)  ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Do something that will enhance your looks or yow attitude. The very people you depend on or who depend on you will cause you the most grief today. Make some changes that will not go over well hut will he best for you. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may not be feeling up to par but it's vital you  
32 Stock ticker 69 Aquatic "grasses" maker's inits. 70 "Housewife" 33 Underclassman? Longoria et al. ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  12 Originator of a popular peanut butter cup 13 Dimethyl sulfate. e.g. 18 Not spend 19 Assails  37 Honorifics for attys. 38 Tours head 39 Lith. and Ukr., once  48 North and South Dakota 50 Informal letter closing 51 Alphabet start 52 Terrific times.  60 It flows to the Elbe 62 Rant 63 Guesstimates at J.F.K.  push yourself today. Much can be accomplished. lillks will lead to important decisions or even advancement. A chanre to d1angc direction looks positive.***' SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful what you say and how you approach people. You can expect to have problems while traveling. Don't let anger role your day. Make the chlmges necessary to make your personal life and surrounding~ better.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Show your emotions, talk ahout your concems and put whatever has been causing you grief he hind you. Once you an  
24 Start of North Carolina's motto 26 Relaxation 27 Encouraging start? 28 TV toon Deputy  41 Lighted-candle occasions 42 Animal milk source 43 Sketched  slangily 53 Not let happen 54 Olympian Z's 55 "Criminy!" 56 Durable fabric  64 Early Hollywood sex symbol 66 High _ kite 67 The Atl. Coast is on it  clear about what it is you want, it will be easy to move forward. Take a new approach to an old idea. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may face some opposition by taking charge, but that shouldn't stop you. Love is in the stars but don't challenge the person you are involved with. Today is about nurturing your personal relationships. *** AQUARilJS (,Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Travel should be put on the back burner. You  
will face some problems if you don't have your personal papers in order or if  
29 Turtledove  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a  you don't stick to rules and regulations. Somet1nc will otTer to help you out but  
30 Embroiders  credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  make sure what this person wants in return. **"*  
34 Leachman replaced her on "The Facts of Life"  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).  PISCES IFeb. 19-March 20): Take care of money matters or investmt'nts. You have to look at the big picture if you want to make the right choice. Today is about adapting to change and making positive moves. u Bit'thday Baby: You are interested in the unknown and always willing to try something new. You are energetic and emotional. You arc an optimist and a  
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young  troubleshooter. You are not afraid to stand up tor your beliefs.  
husband  solvers: nvtimes.com/learnina/xwords.  



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mai1 it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one acadmni.c year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip.______ ­
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 0BSERVEfl 




PORTS
Thursday, January 26, 2006 
page 24 
HOCKEY 
Trick and treat 
Irish senior provides community service in the South Bend area 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Chris Trick anchors the Irish blue line on the ice, but off of it he plays an equally large role supporting the lives of children less fortunate than the rest ­
and he is earning national recognition for it. 
The Notre Dame senior defenseman was named as one of 


seven final-Trick ists Jan. 20 for the 2006 Hockey Humanitarian Award spon­sored by the Hockey Humanitarian Foundation. The award will be given out in a ceremony to be held on April 7 at the 2006 NCAA Frozen Four in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
The finalists for the award are selected from among every men's and women's college hockey team in Division I,II, and III and the winner is announced alongside the Hobey Baker Award for college hockey's top player. 

"It's always nice to get recog­nized for your efforts," Trick said of being nominated a finalist. "It's good for our team as well because all our projects have to do with team stuff. There's always different guys doing different stuff. So it's more of a team award than an individual work." 
Trick was nominated to the Hockey Humanitarian Foundation as a candidate for consideration by Irish head coach Jeff Jackson and his staff. Jackson first took notice of Trick's extra-curricular activities when Trick entered his office to ask if a practice could be moved earlier in the day so that the team could more fully participate in Notre Dame's Buddy Walk for the Michiana Downs Syndrome Society. 
"I could tell from early on when I made him a captain 
see TRICK/page 22 

TRACK 
Saxer impresses early 
in collegiate career 
Pole vaulter came to college with strong high school resume 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 
Freshman pole vaulter Mary Saxer came to Notre Dame with high expectations based on her high school accomplishments, but not even Saxer could have predicted how quickly she would excel at the next level. 
The Blue­Gold meet is tradition­


Saxer

ally the first official meet of the track and field indoor season. But there was nothing traditional about Saxer's accomplish­ment. 
NBA 
LLI Co) Sacramento 106 z New York 102 

Kings guard Mike
s 

= 
-
Bibby scored 35 points and added 10 assists in 
c:a:: 
the victory. 
=: 

page 21 
The freshman posted a vault of 12-feet, 11.5 inches, which provisionally qualified her for the NCAA Indoor Championship. She also would go on to win the pole vault competition at both the Purdue Invitational and the Notre Dame Opener. 
It's safe to say the four­year letter winner from Central High in Lancaster, 
N.Y. has burst onto the scene in a big way. 
"The transition from high school to college has been difficult because of the change in coaching styles," Saxer said. "However, it has been a little easier since I came from a big high school; the competition is on the same level." 
Her remarkable perform­ance right out of the box was the perfect transition from a high school career full of accolades. 
She holds the high school 
see SAXER/page 21 
PGA 

As Tiger Woods enters his 11th season on the PGA tour, he still feels he has a lot to accom­plish. 
page 19 
FENCING 



Providenza sets out to repeat title 
Injured sabre battled food poisoning during 
last year's NCAAs 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 

It's hard topping an NCAA national championship, but that is exactly what junior sabre Valerie Providenza has set out to accomplish. 
Thriving on the momentum of last season, Providenza and the rest of the Irish squad are looking for a repeat of their 2005 nation­al title and continuing Notre Dame's fencing legacy. 
"The motivation to win came toward the end of last year," Providenza said. "So we will only add to the excitement from last year as we get closer and closer to the championships this year." 
The Irish confidence comes from their ambition for domi­
see PROVIDENZA/page 22 


Belles defeat Alma, 57-55 
Kessler leads Saint Mary's with 14; tearn earns its seventh win 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Just a few days after drop­ping a one-point contest at Adrian, the Saint Mary's bas­ketball team bounced back with a 57-55 win over Alma Wednesday night at the Angela Athletic Center at Saint Mary's. The Belles improved their record to 8-11 overall and 6-4 in MIAA conference play with the win. 
Using a wide array of defen­sive looks, Saint Mary's held Alma (8-8 overall, 3-6 MIAA) well below its season average of 72 points per game. The Bellies stifled the Scots potent offense by alternating among a pesky man defense and suffocating 1­3-1, 3-2, and 2-3 z.ones. 
"Everyone played defense with 100 percent effort, and that is why we won," senior for­ward Shelly Bender said. 

Their effort at the defensive moving into a full-court press, end, along with a balanced the Scots cut the deficit to one scoring attack that allowed four with 2:20 to play. But Saint players to tally double-digit Mary's never relinquished the scoring figures, allowed the lead it held since early in the Belles to take a 13-point lead first half. with about 12 minutes to go in Alison Kessler, who led the 
the game. But Alma battled back. After 
N!ll 
NBA 

Sacramento shipped 
New York Knicks 

forward Peja Stojakovic 
general manager Isiah 

to Indiana for troubled 
Thomas was accused of 

forward Ron Artest 
sexu a! harassment 

Wednesday. 
Wednesday. 
page 18 
page 17 
NBA 

Cleveland 106 Atlanta 97 
Cavaliers guard Lebron James scored 38 points in the win. 
page 15 

see ALMA/page 22 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
Marshall 58 West Virginia 52 
Marshall upset No. 9 West Virginia after Mountaineers star Kevin Pittsnogle gau­ranteed victory. 
page 14 





