------------------------------·--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND restructures .GLBTQ group 
Existing Standing Committee renamed the Core Council for Gay and Lesbiafl Students 
creato a wokoming environment The Core Council will have 12 Poorman said. 
' By MADDIE HANNA at Notre Dame, and all within the members total, eight of them stu­The eight studenL<> and student A<sociate News EJiror parameters of Catholic teaehing," dents -the majority or whom eo-ehair position mark a signili­Viee President for Student Afl'airs are gay or lesbian, Poorman said. eant inerease from the Standing The University Standing Father Mark Poorman told The There will also be four adminis­Committee's current six student Committne on Gay and Lesbian Observer Friday. trators representing the members, said Sister Mary Studnnt Needs will soon bocome The Standing Committee serves Counseling Center, the Gender Louise Gude, Assistant Vice tlw Corn Council for Gay and as an advisory board that helps Helations Center, Campus President of Student Affairs and J.nshian Studnnts -a rnstruc­Poorman and the OITiee of Ministry and the OITiee of Student current ehair of the Standing turod group with increased stu­Student Afl'airs identify the needs Affairs. Committee. doni. rnnmbnrship to bnttnr moot of gay, lesbian and bisexual stu­A student and a representative Gude has served as chair sinee campus nm~ds, University ollidals dnnL<> as well as coordinate pro­from the Offiee of Student Affairs l'all 1998 and believes the expan­said Friday. gramming, and Poorman said the -possibly Sister Susan Dunn, sion of the Standing Committee "It's oxeiting -I think it's a Core Council will eontinue to ful­who was recently appointed to into the Core Council -an stop forward in terms of service lill this role. Assistant Viee President of expansion that includes regularly 
t.o our gay, losbian and bisexual What's really changing, he said, Student All'airs -will serve as studonts and making sure we is the group's eomposition. the Core Couneil's eo-ehairs, see CORE/page 6 

Fevver Holy Cross transfers accepted by ND 
Nunzber ofapplications submitted steady 
spring smnester in the last eight 
Hy BECKY HOGAN ynars. About HO I loly Cross stu­
New' Writer dents apply l'or transfer to Notrn 
I>arne each year. 
In orw of the most legendary Susan Joyce, assoeiate direc­tales of a eollngc transfer stu­tor of admissions for Notre dent. Hudy Hw~ttiger makes the Dame, said the deans who road switch l'rorn lloly Cross Collegn transfer applications advise to Notrn Damn. But storins like anyone who hopns to transfer to thn orw portraynd in "Hudy" are Notre Dame to go to the most hncorning lnss eormnon as tho competitive four-year school Univnrsity has aeenptnd fewnr possible -a rneommendation lloly Cross transl'nr applicants that makes it automatieally in rnemtl ynars. more dil'licult to transfer from 
or lhn X5 studl~nls from lloly lloly Cross, which converted to Cross who applind as transfers a four-year eollege in the fall of to Notrn Damn in 2005, 40 per­2003 aft<~r 36 years as a junior cnnt wnrn admitted, according college. to the lloly Cross Web site. This Joyee said the eredit require­snnwstnr. four out or the 15 ments for transfers to Notre applicants from lloly Cross were Dame's School of Engineering LAURIE HUNT and KATIE RIVARDrrhe Observer accnptml to Notre Dame -thn Students walk to class at Holy Cross College. Transferring from lownst aeceptanen rate for a see TRANSFERS/page 4 the College to Notre Dame has become increasingly difficult. 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


University tuition hits 
$33,407 
Increase is fifth in five years at Notre Dame 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News EJiror 
A Notre Dame diploma just got a little more valuable ­that is, in terms of how much it costs. 
The University announced Friday that tuition for under­graduates will inernase 5.H percent l'or the 2006-07 school year -up $1,S65 from the eurrent academic: year's bill. 
Deeided at tho winter Board of Trustnes mentings in Hornn, the total eost for a year or undergraduate edueation will be $42,137, including $33.407 for tuition and $H,730 for avnr­age room and board ratns. Tuition increases for the other schools eonneeted with Notrn Dame are 5.H percent as well, bringing costs for the Graduate Sehool to $32,HOO and both the Law School and Mastnr's of Business Administration Program to $33,670. 
Though any tuition hike is painful for bill-paynrs, this year's incrnasn signals a level­ing out in eornparison to the last five increases. Thn 2005­06 acadnrnic year saw a 7 por­cent rise, slightly higlwr than 2004-05's (~,1) percent and 2003-04's 6.5 percnnt incrnas­ns. The 2001-02 and 2002-03 
see INCRFASE/page 4 



Ordinance changes focus of proposal 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Fdiwr 
Six Notre Dame student govern111n 11 t rep rese 11 ta tives will spoak at tonight's South B1~nd Common Council rnoet­ing about an issun associated this year with rumors and reality, evictions and emo­tions-community ndations. 
l>ospitn student govern­nwnt's opposition to the .July 25, 2005 anwndnwnt of tlw South Bend Public Nuisance Ordinan<:n -a chango that. has rosulted in sevnral stu­dnnt evietions as well as mul­tiple fines and notices to ahato and-studont body prosident Dave Baron said tonight's prnsontation would not be delivored in a "com­bative, conflictual or oven complaining" tone. 
The main foeus, he said, will be to present the student perspeetive on the amend­ment and appeal for the Council's consideration of a resolution passed in Student Senate on Nov. 30, 2005. 
Tho Senate resolution rec­ommends changing South Bend's system· from the cur­rent notice to abate and l'ine after the tenant's first viola­tion, a response that Baron believes encourages land­lords to evict tenants before they havo had a ehanee to abate thn activity. 
Instead, the resolution ree­omrnends one of two options -after the second violation, fining both the .landlord and tenant an amount based on 
see RELATIONS/page 6 
Robinson celebrates anniversary 
Jenkins and Luecke in attendance at event 
By KELLY MEEHAN A~sistant News Editor 
The sometimes-strained ties between Notrn Dame and the greater South Bend eommuni­ty disappeared at the Hobinson Community Learning Center's fif'lh anniversary cele­bration Friday evening. 
. The event brought out many members of the eommunity, ineluding University President Father John Jenkins and South Bend Mayor Steven Luecke, to commemorate thP work of the Conter's volun­teers and rc11oct upon how tho Hobinson Center has strength­mwd the University-communi­ty bond. 
The Center opened in 
see ROBINSON/page 4 


.--------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 27, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Lessons learned 
Nter three and a half years of class presentations and journalism inter­views, a room full of elementary school kids shouldn't have fazed me, right? 
Nevertheless, I found myself quite nervous Thursday as I drove toward Nuner Primary Center in Mishawaka. My friend Becky, stu­dent teacher in a fourth grade class­room there, thought I would be a good addition to her lesson on newspapers. In other words, I was the guest expert. 
Now, I would like you to stretch your memory back to your own ele­mentary school days when there was a classroom visitor. Remember how wise that classroom visitor seemed? How professional? How ... old? 
I felt compelled to do my best to live up to this image. I evp,n wore my most adult outfit: button-down shirt, wool slacks and heels, but I still felt I embodied none of the aforementioned characteristics. Instead, I felt like a stage actress with a tape recorder and notebook as props. 
What I was most concerned about, however, was not seeming grown-up or impressive. I was terrified of being · boring. I had an image of glazed-over eyes staring back at me, or worse yet, heads resting on desks. I didn't want to be yet another reason why kids tell their parents their day at scbool was "tine." 
Nter the students filed in from lunch, settled in their chairs and turned expectantly to me, I launched into my "journalism is exciting" spiel. I told them all about working for The Observer, stalking sources around campus and laying out pages until God-awful hours of the morning. 
After a few minutes I felt myself relax. Maybe I could teach them some­thing interesting about the newspaper business. I certainly believed every­thing I was saying. Journalism is excit­ing, and the hard work is rewarding. 
Further, I had forgotten about the hyperactive energy and the overactive curiosity of the average fourth-grader. After every sentence I uttered, hands shot up in response. Many, of the ques­tions were quite smart and made me consider things that I had not thought about in a long time. 
Once or twice I called on students only to have them forget what they were going to say because they were so excited. Other times the response had absolutely nothing to do with the topic of conversation. A couple of the students had started their own news­paper and they provided me with a copy. 
All in all, it was a very enjoyable afternoon. I got the chance to see my friend operate in her professional envi­ronment and to admire how hard she is .working to engage her students every day. But the afternoon also served to remind why I am pursuing my chosen career path and gave me the opportunity to get excited about my future. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Megan O'Neil 
Saint Mary's Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can, correct our error. 

. ' 
QUESTION OF T'HE DAY: WHO'S YOUR FAVORITE TV SHOW CHARACTER AND WHY? 



Ben Solomon  Christine Clark  Danny Saad  
sophomore Keough  freshman McGlinn  sophomore Keough  
"Mr. Eko and his beat stick."  "Phoebe from 'Friends,' because she's just so funny, out there and not afraid to do anything. Also, I admire her style."  "Chuck Norris -he's the reason Waldo is hiding. ''  

Poll aims to find the best ­kept bathrooms 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. ­Call it the Toilet Bowl. A bathroom supply company sponsoring an online poll aimed at finding America's best bathroom has narrowed the field to five sparkling­clean, sweet-smelling pot­ties. 
A Michigan bistro, a Rhode Island seafood house, a New Jersey casino, an Illinois air­port and an Ohio restaurant are the fmalists in the eon­test, which will name a win­ner in April based on the number each receives in admittedly nonscientific online voting. 
"It's a big compliment, sur­prisingly," said contest organizer Jessica Bensten. "People get really excited." 
Sponsored by Cincinnati­based Cintas Corp., manu­facturer of Sanis restroom supplies, the America's Best Restroom contest was start­
. ed in 2001 to spotlight busi­nesses that maintain "excep­tional hygiene, with style" in their potties. Nominations can be made by anyone, and about 30 are received annu­ally, she said. 
Conn. man tries to sell holy hardware on eBay 
MANCHESTER, Conn. ­Thomas Haley was unload-

aspirations ­to take over the world!" 


ing supplies for his job at Hardy's Hardware when he said something odd caught his eye: the face of Jesus Christ on a piece of sheet metal. 
Now, Haley and a co-work­er are hawking the holy hardware on eBay, hoping potential bidders will agree that the blurry oil stain on the sheet metal does, indeed, resemble Jesus. 
"I mean, it hasn't done anything miraculous as of yet, but seeing it is kind of groovy," said Haley, 23. "Just seeing it brightens people's day" 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
..... 
<C 
(,) 



26 23 


39 30 

52 
34 

0 
HIGH 3:8

..... 
LOW :2:3 


Grace Shen Pete Gargula Tony Salpino 
sophomore sophomore sophomore Howard Keough Keough 
"The Brain, -"Lock from ''The Count because we 'Lost,' because from Sesame have the same his wisdom Street, because 
knows no I'm a math bounds. , major. , 
IN BRIEF 

A "Discussion on Academic Freedom" will occur tonight at 7 p.m. in the basement of Keenan Hall. 
A campus and community conversation about "Understanding· Juvenile Justice in South Bend" will take place at 6 p.m. Tuesday at Robinson Community Learning Center ·on Eddy Street. 
Jim Towey, Director of the White House Office for Faith­Based and Community Initiatives, will speak about "Compassion for America's Poor: What Happens When God and Government Mix" Tuesday at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
There will be a Jazz Coffeehouse at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Asian American Association will sponsor a "Grotto Walk" on Wednesday. They will meet in front of Bond Hall at 11 p.m. 
The opening meeting of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference will take place in O'Laughlin Auditorium on Thursday at 8 p.m. 
AcousticCafe will take place at 10 p.m. on Thursday in the LaFortune basement. 
The Safe Spring Breakdown Festival will occur from 12 
p.m. to 4 on Friday in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

39 28 
Monday, l;ebruary 27, 2006 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Saint Mary's alumnae share service experience in Ghana 
"loads and loads" of school sup­
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
plins to distributn. Gillock said. 
S.tint ,\.1ary·, Fditor 
"Clairo and I had gotten tognthor and t.alknd about things 
Wlwn a rlassmato approarhnd wn could possibly do whon wn LPah (;illork at lunch tiiW day got tlwre." Gillock said. during tlwir sPnior ypar at Saint Whon !Iiggins and Gillock !Vlary's to ask if slw was intnrnst­arrivnd at St. Martha's Catholk Pd in doing snrvil'l' work in Church and Basic Sdwol in (;(wna. (;itlock nxprnssnd intnr­SPptnmbnr and saw how bad the l'st. ni'VI'r nxpl'rting tlw trip situation was for Ghanaian chil­would actually takl' plan•. drnn seeking an mluration, they 
But Clairn lligglns, who pro­finmd thnmsnlvns modifying thoir posPd tlw idt•a. had alrt~ady "radical notions." Gillock said. startPd using hPr con1wctions Tho two women spent thl'ir from tlw Colll'gt' 's "Fri«'nds with thnHHnonth trip living in com­Sistnrs" program to nxplore munity with the Sisters and options l'or tlw two wonwn. tnaching English at St. Martha's. 
"Prior to my junior ynar of col­I Iiggins said hnr dass of 90 stu­IPgn. I fPit this railing to go to dPnts was noisy and oftnn dilli­i\l'rica and I'VI'r sincP, I was cult to control. Ages and abilities 
thinking tlwrt• has  within  thn  class  
to ht• a way for !liP to go to i\f'rica  "It was just an  varind widely because financial  
al'tl'r graduation."  awesome.  constraints often  
I Iiggins said at an slidnshow prnsnn­tation at St. .Josnph's flo usn on  incredibly wonderful experience.  required children to leave school for varying periods of time .  
rampus Saturday.  Physical  disci­ 
lliggins original­ly int.Pndml to trav­nl to Uganda, but  Leah Gillock 2005 graduate  pline was the norm at St. Martha's, I Iiggins and Gillock  
al'tnr working with  said.  

Sr. Madnlinn Tlwrnsa. coordina­Higgins described how she tor of tlw intnrnational S«'rvieo trind to quiet her dass by asking ollir.P for thn Sist.nrs of tlw I loly for their attnntion. with little sue­Cross. "nwrything !'1'.11 into plaee" 
c.t~ss. 

and shl' and Cillork rhH'idnd they "One of the little girls eame up would linanrn tlwir own trip to to me and was like, 'They're not livn and work with Sistnrs of the going to rnspeet you unless you lloly Cross in Kasoa, (;lmna. cane them,"' I Iiggins said. 
MIPr graduating in May 2005, Another time students were l.lw pair lwgan to read up on told to bring machetes -a c;ttanaian history and to household itnm in Ghana -to rnsnarch social and political school to help weed, Gillock said. issuns. Tht~y made ambitious Those who didn't were lined up goals for tlw trip and t:ollnetnd outside of thn building and cannd on both sides of their hands. 

All students in Ghana, those attending both religious and gov­ernment-run schools, wear uni­forms and aw also required to shave their heads. 
"There were times [at the beginning! unless they were wearing earrings I couldn't tell if' they were girls or boys because when they were sitting down you couldn't tell if they were wearing skirts or pants," lliggins said. 
I Iiggins and Gilloek also trav­eled to different regions in Ghana and visited various schools, many of which were in much better shape than St. 
Martha's. Despitn rieh natural resources, the country's infra­structure remains very poor, Gillock said. Roads are in disre­pair and there are few eeonomk opportunities even f'or the edu­cated. 
One of the most powerful images Higgins and Gillock showed was of a mountainous garbagn heap called the "bulla." 
"It is very sad," Gillock said. "It is this huge land fill that cows walk on and def'ecate on . . . and there are also children playing on it and !trying to collnd thingsI." 
The pair said thnir fair skin 
and light hair often attracted attention. 
"IGhanaiansl would como up to us and toueh us, touch our skin and touch our hair bm:ause it was something new, something dill'ernnt." Gillock said. 
Higgins eallt\d tlw trip a "hum­bling experience" and said slw came to realize that bofore o1w can change the world they first must change thnmst~lves. 
"It was just an awesomn, incrndibly wonderful expBri­encn," Gillock said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Compassion for America's Poor: What Happens When God and Government Mix? 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 27, 2006 
Increase 
continued from page 1 
rises, however, w11re the lowest the University had seen in 40 years at 4.5 percent. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown attributed the compara­tively smaller increase from the past two years to a strong per­formance by the University's endowment, as well as greater income from its auxiliary enter­prises, including the Hammes Bookstore, athletics, licensed merchandise and laundry. 
"Because we can draw more from the University endow­ment, there is less of a need to significantly raise tuition," Brown said. 

University President Father John Jenkins announced the tuition hike to parents and guardians of students returning next year in a letter mailed last week. In the letter, he explained that Notre Dame needed the revenue from high­er educational costs "to attract and sustain a superb faculty, administer and maintain a large and complex physieal plant, and secure a peaceful, hopeful and pleasant environ­ment for our students." 
In the letter, Jenkins also affirmed that the University 
"remains firmly committed to being affordable and accessible to a talented and diverse stu­dent body," indicating Notre Dame's total student charges continue to remain below the average of its peer institutions, as determined by the U.S. News & World Heport survey of America's best colleges. In that survey, Notre Dame is listed as the 18th best college in America in 2006, and the 19th best value in education. 
Brown said the University will not only continue to meet all students' demonstrated finan­cial needs, but plans to reduce the proportion of need-based aid constituted by loans, lean­ing more heavily on monetary scholarships. 

"Over the past 15 years or so, our University scholarship aid has grown from $5.4 million to more than $60 million per year, and that's been the highest pri­ority in the University's fundraising and budgeting and continues to be so," Brown said. "So, while the tuition number does grow, financial aid grows even more." 
The funds from the tuition increase will go into the General Operating Budget, which allocates money for a wide range of University func­tions, including the salaries for the faculty and staff and the daily costs of running an aca­demic institution. 
"There is a continuing need to balance the fiscal realities of operating the University while maintaining some constraint lon tuition increases] while needing to improve upon the educational experience we pro­vide," Brown said. "It's a bal­ancing act, like everything else in our world. The costs of oper­ating any sort of organization continually increase, and at the University, tuition helps to drive in a significant way our overall budget." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Robinson 
continued from page 1 
February 2001 to strengthen interaction between South Bend's Northeast Neighb­orhood and Notre Dame. The partnership was · built through interaction and opportunities that revitalized the community. The Robinson Center offers a variety of educational, health and lead­ership programs aimed to enrich the lives of volunteers and participants. 
Jenkins said he -along with fellow key community leaders -remains commit­ted to the Center, which has seen its number of volunteers and employees more than triple in the last live years. 
"[The Robinson Center! is instrumental with forging and sponsoring relationships within the community. I hope to continue to foster this strong relationship," Jenkins said. "The Center brings peo­ple together and makes great contribution to this neighbor­hood." 
As a researcher of town­gown relations. Duquesne University prof11ssor and for­mer Northeast Neighborhood resident Peter Miller returned ship are humility, faith in the neighborhood and hope for the future by both partners. 

"[Robinson Center] increas­es horizontal relationships, and allows for a continued healing and evolution of [res­idents'] relationship with Notre Dame," Miller said. 
South Bend resident Marva Williams said the Center's volunteers work hard to keep the Center on track. 
"Everyone does a beautiful job. They really give the youth something to look for­ward to." 
South Bend Mayor Steven Luecke said he "loved the spirit of [the Center] and the volunteers are the lifeblood of the community." 
"I am grateful for the many relationships that have been developed here at Hobinson Center," Luecke said. "There are some strains between the community and University, but Robinson Center has allowed people to eome together to implement their vision." 
Notre Dame junior and Robinson Center volunteer Shelly Williams was honored with the Fr. Don McNeill, CSC Award for her volunteer work as a tutor and after­school program aid. 
"There is 
something spe­
to his former '7 am grateful for cial about a neighborhood to child when he
the many

share the or she is able to
relationships that 
results of his understand the Notre Dame­have been material being Robinson presented to
developed here at 
Centllr study. th.em," Shellv
Robinson Center.,, 
He said uni­Williams saict". versities gener­"Everyone at ally control the Steven Luecke the Robinson development of Center is unique 
South Bend Mayor


their outside neighborhood. However, Notre Dame has managed to foster an equal partnership of dialogue and decisions. 
"Notre Dame has come together with [Northeast­side] residents to decide what to do," Miller said. 
Miller shared Northeast­side residents' quotes with the audience about the impact of the Center on the community-University rela­tionship. Many said prior to the development of the Hobinson Center they were not pleased with relations, but upon its 2001 opening, they noticed an immediate change. 
·"Togetherness -that is what [the Robinson Center has] done. The community and the Center work so well together," assistant to the mayor Jack Reed said. "They 

• compl11ment each other and it is a wonderful place for young people." 
Miller said the thre1l things that allowed for this relation-

and incredible 
in their own way. I'm simply blessed with the ability to walk into the Robinson [Center] and help children learn." 
Shelly Williams also said she sees the center as a place where the community and University merge into one. 
"The Robinson Center is crucial to the communication between the South Bend community and Notre Dame community because it is a place of fresh ideas, a plaee where the community can voice [itsl concerns, and the University can help provide solutions," she said. 
Luecke said he appreciated the event's large turnout and looks forward to the Center's future. 
"[The Robinson Community Learning Center1 anchors the Northeast Neighborhood as a place of grace, blessing, community and family," he said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Transfers 
continued from page 1 
and the College of Science are sometimes more rigorous than the classes made available to Holy Cross students, making them less competitive within the transfer applicant pooL 
For sophomore transfer stu­dent Colin Ethier, who began classes at Notre Dame in January, getting to Notre Dame certainly wasn't easy. 
He was originally declined admission to the University dur­ing his senior year of high school and opted to reapply after a year attending Holy Cross. 
"It was kind of hard to transi­tion in the middle of the school year, but I have good classes and everyone has been really helpful," Ethier said. "I don't know if IHoly Cross] really helped with my acceptance, but it helped me to prepare [for Notre Darnel. I definitely felt prepared." 
Ethier -who transferred into the College of Arts and 

Letters -said the largest chal­lenge he faced when trying to transfer to Notre Dame was fig­uring out which classes he should take at Holy Cross to secure his acceptance at Notre Dame. 
"The hardest part was making sure that I had the right classes [to transfer]. Everyone tells you something different," he said. 
Sophomore Danyal Kareem transferred to Notre Dame last fall and had to take the highest­level science classes available at Holy Cross in order to get into Notre Dame's College of Science. 
While Kareem said he was glad to have made the switch to Notre Dame because Holy Cross lacked science courses for him to take after his first year, he noted differences between courses at the College and the University -differences that may have ultimately helped him transfer. 
"The classes [at Holy Cross] were smaller and the professors were able to be more involved in the courses," he said. 
Kareem said he feels he may not have had the grades to get into Notre Dame if he had tried 
!/\.;:,::~;·,-,,:;\"!''; \iVi~¥''ib~ fu!W] Wi••,)('ilf ·t·~· 
1.<1 ==:"tt#~~~ M: ~=·f::ff;~j. -: ~--.'"' ~ ·:=·:~,,{~ r:.·fr,-,;.:~·:·<*-..;X.t r;;,'·rt,i:z! :({~.1·\:..;.~t-=:>i~CW·:i¥ ij(:.t,;t ::· 4:\: ¥.~d <~ ~-{",} ~-,_ -~ ~---~ w.J r:=;:_..,x ~ -.' ., ·\-... :··{>~ ··;.··­
,'•;Q< 
< ~'-?:..;:;::::::, ~:,'.\:!.. l~~~H-\fr'~ 

Vfl'ifl~. ilk.r oo.n.hrt!li.Jd:.J mfttn:. 41:5 Wf ~d.Jnht'f Wi1mt< Mwt<--¥f (,, ~i ifi'hilY $;itt 'h!t I>\1J$r$ bwtrrtt 
to transfer from a school with larger class sizes. 
And for Kareem, the hardest part of the transition was not getting used to Notre Dame classes -it was making new friends. 
"A lot of sophomores and jun­iors have already made their group of friends, which makes it harder for transfer students," he said. 
Holy Cross freshman Anthony Garcia, who was previously denied admittance to the University, hopes to reapply in the spring of 2007 to the College of Arts and Letters. 
In the meantime, however, he said he feels that attending Holy Cross allows him to go to school away from home while at the same time learning about Notre Dame's environment. 
"I've heard of many people who have had the opportunity of getting into Notre Dame [after attending Holy Cross], but I also wanted to experience the Notre Dame community altogether," he said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
$,1); .•i!Wi. JitlOJJ t 
St•·~<m1 lt.iart RtektJ!:tfflt:tH up lt) 
$55,1)0(1 iiomul!i ·ti·~ 1u $20.01111 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 27, 2006 CoMPlLED FROM THE 0BsERvnrs WJRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hamas looks for truce with Israel 
<iAZA CITY. Gaza Strip The Palestinians' ineoming prime minister said Sunday that llamas is interestml in a long­term trucn with lsnwl but has no intnntion of' seeking a formal peace agrnnment that would rneognizn the Jewish statn. 
Also on Sunday, Israel's aeting foreign ministnr said Palnstinian leader Mahmoud Abbas is "not relevant" beeause ol' the nltlction victory by thn militant group llamas. 
lsnwl and tlw U.S. consider llamas, win­litH" of .January's Palnstinian elections, a terror group. llamas does not recognize thn nxistence of' a .Jewish state in the Middle Hast and has sent dozens of' suicide bombers into Israel. killing hundreds. 
65 missing miners considered dead 
SAN .JUAN I>E SABINAS. Mnxico-With no hope of finding (,5 missing miners alive, a fnw dozen relatives waited outside a eollapstHl coal mine in nortlwrn Mnxieo on Sunday, hoping nl'l'orts to rneover remains of tlwir kin will begin soon. 
Maria Cantu said she's comn to terms with tho faet that hnr 32-ynar-old son, Haul Villasana. will never emerge from tho mirw alivn. but insisted his remains must lw brought out 
"Tiwy have obligation to gt~t them out of thorn so thny can have Christian burials," slw said. "Thn mirw is no kind ol' tomb for thmn." 
A gas nxplosion Fnb. I 9 raised tho tem­peraturtl insidP thP Pasta de Conchos mirw to 1,110 degrees and released toxic nwtharw and carbon monoxide that gob­hind up rwarly all of the oxygen. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Woman killed in church shooting 
I>I·:THOIT -A suspected gunman who operwd firn with a shotgun during a church snrvkn Sunday morning killed a woman and wounded two people before ho shot himself a miltl away, policP said. 
Investigators lwlinvn a domestic dispute led to tho shooting at Zion llopn Missionary Baptist Church about It a.m., said Sneond l>t•puty Police Chinf James Tate. 
A 1J-year-old child, sitting near the uniden­tiliml woman who died, was hit in the hand by a buckshot pnllet. Tate said. Police didn't know tho rnlationship of the pair. 
As tlw gunman tlt~d tlw chureh, he critical­ly shot a man trying to protect his wife from u carjacking atlmnpt, ortieials said. 
FBI tests: UT substance not ricin 
AUSTIN -Tho FBI detnrminml a powdery substaneo found in a roll of quarters at a University of Texas dormitory was not ricin artnr initial statt1 tests had indicated it was the potentially dnadly poison, a spokesman said Sunday. 
Thn FBI t11sts did not identify tho sub­stance, but they came back negative for tho poison that is nxtractnd from castor bnans, said San Antonio FBI spokesman Hone Salinas. 
"Titert1 wnrn no protnins in there to indi­cate it was in fact ricin," Salinas said. He said was unlikely further testing would be donn. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bass Pro Shops draws more retailers 
POHTMiE -Bass Pro Shops, which is rtH:niving $20 million in state and local ineen­tivns to ltu:atn onn of its nwgastores in a Port.Pr County business park, is wasting liU!n limn in drawing other rt~tailors to tho site. 
Crarknr Barrt•l and l.ongllorn Steakhousn rnstaurants haVtl btwn the first two spinoff dnvt>lopnrs to follow Uw Springfield, Mo.­basPd rntailpr's load and sign on to build stort's at AnwriPit·x at tho Port husirwss park, said Tim llealy. senior vieo prnsidnnt of llolladay Propnrtios, which owns tho park. 
AFGHANISTAN 
Rioting prisoners seize control 
Al-Qaida and Taliban loyalists accused of inciting com1non crirninal inmates 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Summary oxe­
culions' of prisoners took 
place at the· Policharki 
prison during the Soviet 
occupation of Afghanistan 
and tho Taliban rule of the 
country. On Sunday, it was 
the inmates who were in 
charge. 
llundreds or Afghan sol­
dinrs with tanks and 
grenade-launchers sur­
rounded Kabul's main 
prison Sunday al'ter rioting 
inmates seized control of 
much of the facility in an 
uprising that officials 
blamed on al-Qaida and 
Taliban militants. 
Local media reported 
several people were killed 
and dozens injured. But it 
appeared security forces 
had yet to gain aceess to 
parts of the jail under pris­
oners' control, so of'licials 
could not eontirm reports 
of casualties. One official 
said at least four inmates 
were injured. 
Gunshots occasionally rang out as troops tried to knep thn prisoners bottled up. Oflicials said the riot­ers did not have any J'irearms but had armed themselves with small knives and clubs fashioned 
from wrncked furniture. 
Smoke could be seen 
curling out of some cell 
windows. where inmates 
apparently set lire to bed­
ding and furniture. 
Government negotiators late Sunday suspended talks to end the standoll" at tho notorious Policharki jail, which later this year is slated to receive dozens of Afghans currently in U.S. military's Guantanamo prison. 
The riot broke out late Saturday in Block Two of the prison, which houses about 1,:{00 of the 2,000 inmates. Officials said the violence began when inmates refused to put on new uniforms, which were ordered after seven Taliban prisoners escaped last month by disguising themselves as visitors. 

Offieials said some 350 al-Qaida and Taliban loyal­ists were among the il'lmates in that block. Abdul Salaam Bakshi, chief of prisons in Afghanistan, aecused them of inciting the other pris­
oners,  mostly  common  
eriminals.  
lie  said  no  inmates  

escaped from the prison block but guards had been forced out. 
The Afghan army said it deployed 800 soldiers around the prison. Along with NATO peacekeepnrs, they parked at least 10 tanks and armored person­nel carriers outside the gates. 
"We have surrounded the jail. There's no way to escape, Mohammed Qasim llashimzai, deputy justice minister, said. 
llashimzai, who was part of a government delegation that came to negotiate with the prisoners, said at least four inmates had been hurt. 
He said about 100 of the rioters from Block Two had taken control or the neigh­boring wing of the jail housing about 70 women. 
Another senior govern­ment official, who would speak only on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter, said prisoners had dug a tunnel to the women's wing -explaining how they had managed to infil­trate it. 
Ilashimzai said altnmpts to negotiatn the rnlPase ol' the women from the riot­ers' control floundered because of disunity among tim inmates and confusion over their various demands. Prisoners also backtraekml on an agree­ment to hand over thnir injurnd to the International Hed Cross, he said. 
"Unfortunately, tho pris­oners have no unity and have different demands. Thorn's no one leadnr who ean talk to us," llashimzai said as he left the prison around dusk, adding that officials would try to resume rwgotiations Monday. 
lin gave no details about the prisoners' demands. 

NETHERLANDS 
UN to consider genocide charges 
Associated Press 
TilE IIAGUE -Generals and politicians have benn convicted of genocide, but tho U.N.'s highest court will eonsider today whether a nation -in this case Serbia-can bP guilty of humanity's worst crime. 
The stakos potontially includn bil­lions ol' dollars and history's judg­ment. 
Thirteen ymtrs afttlr Bosnia riled tho ease with the lnltlrnational Court of Justice, its lawyers will lay out their lawsuit against Serbia and Montenegro -the successor state for the defunct Yugoslavia -charg­ing it with a premeditated atlnmpt to destroy Bosnia's Muslim population, in whole 01' part. 
"Not since the end of the Second World War and the mvelations of tlrn horrors of Nazi Gllrmany's 'Final Solution' }las Europtl witnessPd the utter destruction of a pnople, for no other reason than thny bnlong to a particular national ethnical, radal, and religious group as such," said the lawsuit's opnning paragraph, drafted for tho Bosnian government by Amnrit:an lawyer Franeis A. Boyln. 
It is onn of tlw most eomplnx and far-rnaehing rulings twer sought from the tribunal. also known as Uw world court. Argunwnts are sdwd­ulPd to takP six wePks, and it liknly will be a ynar before tlw 1f> judgns delivllr tlwir vordirt. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 27, 2006 
Core 

continued from page 1 
reserved space in LaFortune as well as a partnership with a new coalition of students drawn from student government -will help bring "more voices" into the dis­cussion. 
"The push for student involve­ment grew organically, if you will, and was shared by all of us," Gude told The Observer in an e­mail Sunday. 
In 2001, the Standing Committee's student membership grew from four to six students ­a jump accompanied by an increased workload, she said. 
"The Committee became heavily involved in educa­tional programming was given standing status the fol­lowing year. 
Since the Committee's forma­tion, Poorman said the group has directed educational programs on issues affecting gay, lesbian and bisexual students, hall staff pro­grams, CommUnity sessions for freshmen, the Network program to help staff members promote "safe spaces," coffee hours and events surrounding Solidarity Sunday and National Coming Out Day. 
"Part of the impetus for this [restructuring] is we really would like to broaden our sources for this [programming]," Poorman said. 
Tiffany Thompson, a senior who has served on the Standi][lg Committee for three years, said she has seen "a greater desire" for 
and had little time "The push for change build for anything else," among students
student

Gude said. "There during the past few was no breathing involvement grew years. space for the cre­organically, ifyou But she said 
ative energy that there has always
will, and was

had marked the been a need for
shared by all 

Committee's work greater student in its earlier years. of us." involvement on Yet there was such and with the energy elsewhere Standing
Sr. Mary Louise Gude 
on campus -it just Committee. 
chair

seemed like a good "[Students] are idea to reach out Standing Committee the ones that really and create a mech­on Gay and Lesbian touch what needs anism for connect­to be done," she
Student Needs 

ing with more stu­dents who support our gay and lesbian students." 
Poorman, who sits on the com­mittee along with Gude, Director of Campus Ministry Father Richard Warner and St. Edward's rector Father Tom Eckert, said he has attended most of the group's meetings this academic year. 
He said while the "serious con­siderations" to restructure were discussed during the past four to five weeks, the idea is not com­pletely new. 
"Elements of the discussion have been in the works for a while," Poorman said. 
Poorman said University President Father John Jenkins, who attended a Standing Committee meeting last semester, was briefed on the restructuring and was "comfortable" with the changes. 
"Since the creation of the Standing Committee in 1996 and the adoption of our 'Spirit of Inclusion' [statement] a year later, Notre Dame has sought to better address the needs of our gay, les­bian and bisexual students within the parameters of Catholic teach­ing," Jenkins said in a statement Friday. "I am grateful for the dedi­cated work of committee mem­bers the past 10 years, and, with the evolution of this new council, I am excited about this important step forward." 
Gude said it was "hard to say" what the long-term impact of the change would be. 
"Better communication, certain­ly, among those interested in issues facing the gay community, and a chance to work together on given events," she said, 
The Standing Committee was created in 1996, emerging from a hotbed of campus debate. In January 1995, the Office of Student Aflairs banned the unoffi­cial student group Gay and Lesbian Students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC) from meeting on campus. 
The deeision sparked clamor across and beyond campus, receiving national media atten­tion. Then-Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara released an open letter on March 6, 1995 establishing the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs in order to "move beyond the painful polemics that have characterized the discussion in recent weeks." The committee 
said. 
Thompson said she hoped the restructuring would result in greater commmli­cation between campus groups, students and the administration. 
''I'm very excited about the changes," she said. "I think it -will lead to a more efficient group and help connect the Standing Committee to the rest of the cam­pus." 
Andy Magee, a senior who has sat on the Standing Committee fi)r two years, said recent campus discussions surrounding topies · such as the former Queer Film Festival and the unrecognized gay/lesbian student grou:p AllianceND made restructuring necessary. 
"There's a lot that's happened on campus in the past few yeaJrs regarding gay and lesbian stu­dents, and a lot of times it seems the Committee has been behind a bit," Magee said. · 
While Magee said he did not think the idea behind the restrue­turing to increase student involve­ment with the Committee substi­tuted for AllianceND's efforts to win official club recognition from the University administration, he believes it will provide an outlet for the unofficial group. 
"Ideally under this new system they'll be able to say, 'Hey, can you help us with this?' ... The idea is that a student group that wan1ts to do programming [can work through the Core Council]," he said. 
Magee, who is pursuing a dual degree, will maintain his position with the Core Council next year as a fifth-year senior. Members who will be leaving the Committee include Thompson, who will graduate, and Gude, who will retire after the spring semester. 
Eckert said he planned to keep his seat on the Council. Warner was not available for comment Sunday. 
While there is not a specific timeframe for the restructuring, Poorman said he hopes to accept applications this spring from stu­dents interested in sitting on the Council. The next step is to elect a sfudent co-chair. 
Claire I Ieininger contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Relations 
continued from page 1 

what measures were taken to stop the problem after it first occurred, or allowing landlords to pass their fine onto tenants. 
The tension between stu­dents and South Bend has been represented in the back-and-forth debate between Baron and Assistant City Attorney Ann­Carol Nash since the sum­mer. While neither side has shifted positions, Baron said student government's appearance at today's Common Council meeting will be important in continu­ing to push for a student voice. 
"Our attendance at the Council over the summer was important," Baron said, referring to his, off­campus president Matt Wormington and several senators' presence at June and July meetings dis­cussing the proposed amendment. "It was a learning experience for us as student leaders, to see how they went about dis­cussing these matters. This seems like a natural step to take ... to give our perspec­tive on the way it has played out for students." 
The six presenters will be student body vice president Lizzi Shappell, Community Relations committee mem­ber Shawn Finlen. Community Relations com­mittee chair Nick Guzman, Judicial Council president James Leito, Wormington and Baron. 
"Hopefully, they [Common Council members] will engage us beyond the meet­ing," Baron said. "That's, I think, the best-case see­nario." 
But Baron also hopes the presentation will help a new tradition take root-to have student government play a "participatory role" in South Bend. 
"This would be the begin­ning of student participation at Common Council meet­ings, which I think is a more feasible goal," he said. 
And the fight won't end if the Common Council doesn't consider Senate's resolution, Baron said. 
"It would not be the end step at all," Baron said. "At the same time we've been reaching out to the Council, we've reached out to land­lords as well ... to let them know they don't have to evict [student tenants]." 
Baron said the presenta­tion would also emphasize the efforts student govern­ment has taken to promote a healthier relationship between the Notre Dame and South Bend communi­ties, such as the partnership with Transpo and communi­ty relations letter to the stu­dent body passed by Senate on Nov. 9 that "addressed frankly there are some elit­ist attitudes" among Notre Dame students. 
"[We want] to show them we're taking some initiative in our own ranks," Baron said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Et1Jov a double order of chickett steak or cotttbo faJitas let1ough for 1wo) 
·t·:t'ii,r' j-•u·.···~ '1"'1* ft~J, .il•· f" t>n E! +-tn tH'II•.
V . ..;) I .1-t .... QU ~-r: C.. 1.-V."'IJ' 
I AWAKA 
4110 &rape Rd. 
271·1~~0 
Class ouncil 

I 
I Ill 


(February 2 7) 

Vote Online from BAM-BPM https://apps.nd.edu/elections 
For a hst of candidates~ please see the Judicial Council VVebsite at ¥V'NV1J. nd.edul-jcounciI 
If you have any election quesUons1 please ernail jcouncil nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, February 27, 2006 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11'061.85 -7. 3 7 

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite VolullH 1,425 158 1.860 2,104,246,830 
AMEX 1,840.53 +11.69 NASDAQ 2,287.04 +7.72 NYSE s:t26.o3 +18.27 S&PSOO I ,289.43 +0.13 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 16, I 0 .1.91 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,860.50 +24.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICI 
INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.34 +0.07 20.36 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) 
+0.27 +0.11 41.26 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-0.11 -0.03 26.63 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
+0.66 +0.13 19.85 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) 
-0.77 -0.04 5.18 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 45.67 13-WEEK BILL +0.1 I +0.05 44.82 30-YEAR BOND +0.07 +0.03 45.15 5-YEARNOTE +0.11 +0.05 46.2S 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.37 62.91 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +I 0.30 561.2( PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +2.20 89.1: 
fxcha Rates YEN 116.7751 EURO 
0.841 POUND 
0.573 CANADIAN$ 
1.149 
IN BRIEF 
Foiled attack increases oil futures 
WASIIINGI'ON -Crude oil futures jurnpnd 4 pnrennt Friday aftnr a thwarted attack on a massive oil l'aeility in Saudi Arabia rallied a rnarknt alrnady jitlnry about supply disruptions in Nignria and Iran's nudoar ambitions. 
Saudi Arabia is tho world's largest oil produc­nr, with output of about ').5 million barrnls per clay, or 11 p(m:ent ol' global eonsumplion. The targd of llw attack, the Abqaiq oil eomplex in eastern Saudi Arabia, processes about two­thirds of tho eountry's oil before it is exported. 
Sukide bombers in explosives-packed ears attaeknd the heavily guardnd facility but were foiled when guards opennd firn, detonating the vehielns and killing the attackers, Interior Ministry spokesman I.t. Gen. Mansour al-Turki told The Assodated Press. The vehides explod­ml outside thn first ol' three fenees around the sprawling complex, al-Turki said. 
Saudi oil minister Ali Naimi said the attack causnd "a small lire" that was brought under control and that operations were not affected. But tlw ineident heightened supply fears on world oil markets. 
Blackberry suit remains undecided 
HICIIMOND, Va. -BlackBerry owners will havn to wait longer to lnarn the fate of thnir wireless e-mail devices: A federal judge ended a !waring Friday without making a ruling on an injunction rnqu(~st. 
Shares of BlackBnrry's maker, Hesearch In Motion Ltd. of Waterloo, Ontario, got a lift in aftnrnoon trading following the court news as well as tho second favorable decision this wonk from the U.S. patnnt ofliee. 
NTP Inc., a small patnnt-holding firm that suc­cessfully sund HIM for patent inl'ringenlflnt, asked U.S. Distriet Judge James H. Spencer to impose an injunction on the serviee with a 30­day grace pnriod for the parties to work out the dotails. 
Tho Arlington company also recommended that the judge immediately enjoin sales of new BlackBerry deviees and award it an initial $126 million in damages. HIM has deposited at least $250 million in eserow, and NTP says that pot of monny should be rnsnrved just in ease newer BlackBnrry models infringe on it.<; patent.<;. 
Mine safety laws scrutinized 
Recent tragedies raise questions on lack of attention and action in the past 
Associated Press 

MOHCANTOWN, W.Va.­The number remains astonishing -16 West Virginia coal miners dead in a month. 13 of them trapped underground by an explosion, awaiting res­cuers who came too late for all but one. 
The string of back-to­hack, highly publicized tragedies has shaken the No. 2 coal-producing state and the No. 2 coal-produc­ing nation to the core. Anguished families are wondering what went wrong, politicians are demanding new laws, and labor leaders are asking why technology has largely passed them by. 
But coal mine accidents in China, tho world's top producer, kill an average of 16 workers a day. 
"Overall, U.S. mine health and safety-it's still the envy of the world," says Haja Hamani, a pro­fnssor of mining engineer­ing at Penn State University. 
In many ways, experts say the U.S. coal industry is the model to emulate, with safety laws on the books, a federal agency charged with enforcing them and well-funded, health-oriented research. But a false sense of securi­ground communications thousands of lives in New The television satellite ty may have set in as systems and tracking York and at the Pnntagon. trucks had barely lef't West deaths plummeted -from devices to chambers where "The headline wasn't Virginia when a second 260 in 1970 to just 22 last miners with no hope of buried this time," says accident killnd two miners year. escape eould hunker down Grayson, chairman of a in a conveyor belt lire at 
With fewer people dying, and await rescue. newly formed National Aracoma Coal's Alma No. I coal companies had little "I truly believe that as an Mining Association com­minn. Days later, two mon1 reason to change what institution, we were lulled mittee charged with mak­men died in separatn acei­they were doing, says into thinking that we were ing safety-technology rec­dents. Larry Grayson, mining improving," Grayson says. ommendations for the Now, for the third time in engineering professor at "Then all of a sudden, this industry. a eentury, tragedy in West the University of Missouri­sequence of events in Until Jan. 2, few people Virginia eould reshape reg­HoJia. With no financial January said, 'Wait a thought about the 42,000 ulations. incentive, manufacturers minute, you've got a prob­U.S. miners who toil The deadliest aecident in of safety equipment had no lem.' It slammed everyone underground, digging coal U.S. mmmg history motivation to modernize. right between the eyes." to produce half the occurred Dec. 6, 1907 in And with little proof that The wake-up call could nation's electricity. But that Monongah, when an explo­emerging teehnology have eome Sept. 23, 2001, day, an explosion at sion killed 361 men. It was would work as promised, when 13 men died in an International Coal Group's one of several that year most eompanies were underground explosion at Sago Mine trapped a crew and hnlped prompt reluctant to invest. the Jim Walter Resources of 13 hundreds of feet Congress to act on 
Opportunities to take No. 5 mine in Alabama, underground. Twelve men President Theodore advantage of the latest in but then, attention was still died, and the one survivor Hoosevelt's call for creation safety technology were focused on the terrorist must learn to walk and of the U.S. Bureau of lost, from emerging under-attacks that had claimed talk again. Mines. 

Alternative remedies questioned 
Associated Press Those followed similar disappoint­Haupt spnnds about $25 monthly on 
ments for St. John's wort to treat the pills. Debilitating pain returned 
CHICAGO -For years, millions of major depression, and powdered when he quit taking them once, and Amerieans have spent billions of dol­shark eartilage lor some cancers. he said the government's rnsult..., won't lars on alternative remHdies with Yet despite the U.S. government's ehange his mind. unproven effects. Now, rigorous sci­multimillion-dollar investment to sei­"I wouldn't quit taking it again. I ence is starting to test those treat­entifically scrutinize a little regulated learned my lesson," llaupt said. ments and mostly finds them lacking. $20 billion-a-year industry, the big Even the researchers themselves, 
Last week, major government-fund­question is, do the results really mat­funded by the National Institutes of ed research indicated that two wildly ter when so many consumers swear Health, say their results don't neces­popular arthritis pills, glucosamine by these remedies? sarily mean consumers are pouring and chondroitin, did no better than 'Til wrestle anybody who says it's no their money down the drain. dummy pills at relieving mild arthritis good," Carl llaupt, 79, says of glu­"II' someone tells me this is working pain. cosamine and chondroitin, pills he for them, I'm not going to tell them not 
Earlier this month a study revealed credits with helping him resume to take it," said Dr. Thomas Schnitzer, negative results for saw palmetto to mountain hiking, a hobby he quit a Northwestern UnivHrsity arthritis treat prostate problems; last July, ditto seven years ago because of arthritis spHcialist and co-author of the glu­for echinacna and the common cold. pain. cosamine/ehondroitin study. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 27, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Lil' Jon Bon Jovi 

1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim' Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63 l-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 63 [ -4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's C..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qtmtions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l11e Observer (USPS 599-2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t1X£ept during exam and va.cati11n periods, Asulm-ription to The Ob~r:rvt!r b: $100 f!lr one: academic year: $55 for one semem:r. 
The Observer is published at; POSTMASTER 
024 Sotuh Dining Hall Send :~ddrem~ (:Orrecdom to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 Tht Ob$erver 
l'eriodical postage: paid ar No~ Dame P.O. Box779 
and additional mailing oflk<s. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norre-Dame, IN 46556·0779 
The Obsc:I"VCr is J member of the A'SI.x-iucd Press. All reproduaion rights Me tocrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Matt Puglisi Kelly Meehan Kyle Cassily 
Laura Tim Kaiser Baumgartner Scene Viewpoint Molly Griffin 
Margie Rosmonowski Graphics Matt Hudson 

I think we've all had this thought at one point or another. You're at a dorm dance and all of a sudden you hear the sweet serenade of an '80s hair band. You can easily imagine a true fan of this genre, playing~ some righteous licks on his air guitar, mullet flapping in the breeze while his black Quiet Riot T­Shirt and acid­washed jeans declare his lifelong dedica­tion to all things rock. Then you ask yourself, "How could anybody take this stuff seriously?" 
It's easier than you would think, and it's happening again right now. After spending the past weekend in St. Louis, home of Nelly and Chingy, I made a startling realization: hip-hop is the modern hair band. I think at this point I need to make an important dis­tinction. When I say "hip-hop," I don't mean all hip-hop, but rather a distinct brand of it. Just as all the rock bands in the '80s were not hair bands, so too not all hip-hop acts today are the type of hip-hop I'm talking about. From now on, I'll be referring to this specific brand of hip-hop as "bling-hop" to avoid confusion. Think "My Humps" by the Black Eyed Peas, and you'll catch my drift. 
Right, back to my assertion that bling-hop is the modern-day hair band. Initially, they don't seem to have a lot in common. One set wore the tightest leather and cheetah-print Spandex pants that money could buy, and the other opts for all of Subway Jared's old Dockers. One belted like 

Peter Schroeder 
Wlll Write for Food 

banshees, and the other prefers the smooth flow of their rhymes. The Damn Yankees were wondering, "Can You Take Me High Enough?" On the other hand, Lil' Jon just wants you to "Get Low." Aquanet and cornrows. If I placed the Black Eyed Peas and White Snake next to each other, you'd never believe that these groups are, at heart, the same. Trust me, the similarities are there. 
First, let's start with the spelling. For some reason, both hair bands and bling-hop artists decide to give Webster the finger and spell their names like they're cheating at Scrabble. The '80s were a Motley Crue infested with Ratt. In fact, they rocked so hard, they could probably even make a Leppard Def. On the other hand, the spelling of some bling-hop acts today is far from Fabolos. I bet that many people would even declare that these spelling atrocities are Ludacris. The similarities between these two groups are numerous, and poor spelling is just the tip of the ice­berg. lceburg? No, it's iceberg. 
Furthermore, there's the issue of superfluous facial accessories. Hair bands bucked the system by taking to the Avon counters and covering them­selves in rouge·and eyeliner. Also, each member of a hair band (even the key­boardist) had to have a personal hole in the O-Zone above their head from copious hairspray usage. But bling-hop doesn't get a free pass here. Some of these acts decide to coat their mouths with grills made of platinum or gold. In fact, our old friend Nelly just wrote a song about these grills. It's called "Grillz." So we've moved on from spelling, but the similarities persist. 
But lastly and most importantly, the key similarity between these two groups is that the emphasis on their work is the lifestyle rather than the music. Style over substance, crunk over content. Hair bands were about living fast, partying hard, and rocking out. We've all seen the "Behind the Music" specials; it truly was sex, drugs and rock n' roll. It was more important that they lived like a rock star, even if they didn't necessarily sound like one. Likewise, a modern bling-hop artist needs to portray a certain lifestyle. lie needs to have the Escalade rolling on 22's, the house payment hanging around his neck and diamonds crammed wherever there is room for cramming. Just watch music videos from either era to catch these lifestyles. A hair band video consists of lots of hot chicks, driving a fast car or a crazy party. A bling-hop video shows lots of hot chicks (again). riding on some spinners (they don't stop) and popping the Crista!. This is where the heart of their similarities lies; the lifestyle you present is as, if not more, important than the music you create. 
As you can see, the mullet may have faded, but its spirit lives on. It's not that either genre is bad, but it's impor­tant to recognize that they exist as a simple pleasure, not serious artistic expression. I fully anticipate that in 20 years, kids will be at a virtual SYH or jetpack-dancing at the bar, and they'll hear some "It's Getting Hot In Herre," and wonder how we ever bought into this stuff. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. As for plans after graduation. he is open to suggestions. He can be contacted at pschroed@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting Readership in a different vvay 
I am writing in response to a letter submitted by Joe Brutto ("Supporting readership," Feb. 24) about supporting the College Readership Program. In it, he attacks the Club Coordination Council for not supporting the College Readership Program and for providing "funds to a plethora of student run organizations, the majority of which no one cares about." First of all, I want Joe to tell the 1,088 student leaders of these organizations that no one cares about their organizations. Also, I want him to say that to the over 7,000 students that are involved in these organizations. The College Readership Program only pro­vides newspapers for one in four stu­dents on this campus. The Club Coordination Council provides funding that three fourths of the students on this campus will use. 
In addition, biased reporting has led many members of campus to believe that the Club Coordination Council is against the College !leadership Program. This is completely false. Dave Baron, Student Body President, and Beth 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think about the tuition hike? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmeobserver.com 
O'Shaughnessy, Club Coordination Council President, have been working closely together in an effort to find a new way to fund the College Readership Program. 
The Club Coordination Council sup­ports the College Readership Program. It is a great way to keep the student body informed of issues outside of the Notre Dame world. The Council is opposed to the cut in the money that will go toward campus clubs and organizations. 
Every year, students put their passion into creating new clubs and expanding existing ones. These clubs allow stu­dents to do many things they normally would not be able to do. They give stu­dents opportunities to compete in sports in college, perform plays and musicals, complete community service projects, increase awareness of world issues, learn about new cultures and increase their academic knowledge outside of the classroom. 
In addition to improving life on cam­pus, these clubs give students leadership and economic experience for the real 
.Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


world. Cutting the hard line percentage that the Club Coordination Council receives from student activities fees will affect the future of campus clubs and organizations. It will be harder for new clubs to be introduced to our campus and for existing ones to continue. The Club Coordination Council is looking for ways to fund the College Readership Program that will not take away from three of every four students. With the amount of money that comes through this University, there has to be an alter­native. 
In closing, I would like to encourage Joe to join just one of the campus clubs that may remotely interest him. Since his money is already going toward the club, maybe he will see the benefit that over 7,000 students at Notre Dame are already taking advantage of. 
Mary Ann Jentz Club Coordination Council Service Division Representative sentor Feb. 24 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The necessity ofpursuing true happiness is the foundation ofour liberty." 
John Locke English philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, February 27, 2006 
page 9 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pr9ble111s with living wage 
Thoro snmns to be an mnnrging earn­performance-based inernase. Those most pus diseussion on tho proposition of a hurt by wage lloi1rs arn high sehool "living wag1~" ·at Notro Damn, an idea dropouts agod 20-54; the intended bnne­with a long pndigmo of class resentment lidaries of such policies. A wage in itself and rlwtorie lacking in support from is meaningless if it does not fairly repre­pnnr-rnvinwnd neonomie rnsoareh. I lilol sent the skills that one has to o(l'er. Low eornpnllml to oll'or hnre a few reasons not wage-earners would be far better served to adopt such a policy. Let me tirst say by initiatives to increasn the level of their that I do not write to question thn motiva­marketable skills than those who would tions of its supportnrs; I have yet to come artiticially price their skills higher than across anyone on oithor side of tho issue they arc worth to employers. without the best interest or campus These include manual skills, technical workors sirH:ornly at lwart. Ilowever, expertise, interpnrsonal skills and even supporters of tho policy have in my expe­adopting a more prof'nssional appearance rinnco dmnonstratnd an ambiguous -all of' which are signilicantly valued in understanding of the economic repercus­the marketplace. An all'ordable child­sions of a "living wage" and surprisingly l:are serviee for nonprofessional employ­little morn than anoedotal evidence to ees would also be of' far greater benefit support it. than a wage 11oor which could potentially 
Hncnnt ldtnrs published in support of trigger a reduction in one's healthcare, tlw policy stated that tho University pays child tuition or retirement benelits. a starting wage of $6.45 to $10.17 per finally, supportnrs of a wage lloor do hour. That is exactly eormet-it is a not seem to understand that the role of range ol' starting wages meant to bo the University is to provide a service to inemasnd as employees gain experience, students, not to aet as a welf'arn agency. take on gn~atnr responsibility and prove If wages an~ increased across the board, tlwir rdiability in tho workplace. It is a where exactly is that money supposed to rang1~ significantly higher than tho come from? It could only be either a national minimum. which is a rnality for tuition hike or cuts in other areas. Given most entry-level workers. Furthnrmore, the uproar ovnr something as insi~:,rnifi­those letters rwgloeted to mention that eant as moving funds into the College tho average ineomo of minimum wago Hnadership Program, I lind tho latter sce­mnploynos nationwide increases 30 por­nario involving a far greater amount of cont within one year of employnwnt. money unlikely. 
Nnithor have I seen any discussion of With all the hard economic facts laid tax erectile.; based on annual income -a out on the table, I highly doubt that there morn reliable indicator of poverty than would be a majority of tuition-paying stu­wages -whieh are tremendously more dents willing to take on debt and redis­efl'octivo at redudng poverty than wage tribute it in a manner that would hurt lloors. Blltween the Earned Income Tax eampus workers-many of whom would Cn~dit and the per-child tax credit, which lind themselves unemployed once they Congress raised from $600 to $1,000 in fail to merit their inflated rate of com­2003, a family or four can expect to pensation. Job skills and economic reality roceiwl a bonetit as high as $4,536 for are the issue here, not guilt-laden emo­income earned in 2006. tional pleas and certainly not "helping" 
Wage floors, on the other hand, do very some campus workers at the cost of tak­little to contribute to the tinandal well­ing away the livelihood of others. being of workers living near or below the poverty level. They in fact price the low­Matthew Smith est-skilled workers out of the job market sophomore and take a wage boost away from work­St. Edward's Hall ers who would have otherwise seen a Feb. 26 
Chance to set exam_ple 
In response to Alex Forshaw's letter ('"Fair wages' not fair at ·all," Feb. 23) regarding the living wage debate, I feel that it is nec­essary to step back and takfl a look at the purpose of Notre Dame as a university and as a Catholic institution. Mr. Forshaw said, "The University's main pur­pose is to serve its students with the best learning environment possible." This statement is true, but incompletn. The University must snrve its students with tho best learning environment possi­bln-in limns of the Christian community in whieh it strives to be a leader. A neeessary way of doing this is to be an example of Catholic behavior to the students whom the University is teaehing. Paying our employees living wage is one way to be such an exam­ple. 
Many peoplf1 opposed to the liv­ing wagn, including Forshaw, havn mnntioned market-based faetors as reasons for keeping nmployees' wages at current lnv­els, and they are correct in terms or the large-seale economy. Companies in free-market soei­elins arn motivated by the need to make a prol'it, and thus raise their employees' pay only when market forces dietate. Many of these opponents fear that a mandatory increase of the mini­mum wage would cause such companies to "find ways to replace many of them [the employees] with machinery that can get the job done more cheap­ly," in the words of Forshaw. As I said before, this is correct when one looks at the nationwide, large-scale market economy. 
However, Notre Dame is not a profit-based company. Notre Dame is an educational, private­ly-funded institution that is not at the mercy of market forces. This means that its Christian values, not the market, should dictate wages and consequently compel it to raise its employees' wages without reducing their numbers. Considering the size of its endow­mont ($3 billion) and its rapidly­inflating tuition, which will almost certainly rise again next year (with or without a living wage policy). If the University cannot or will not pay a living wage to its staff, its Catholic character in this respect would be, at best, dubious. 
Michael Wodarcyk freshman Alumni Hall Feb. 24 
Gratuitous exaggeration 
According to the reb. 24 Observer ists, etc.l, each stayed in his or her artielo, "Presidential visit conjurns own hotel room "(e.g., husbands and emotion," Notre Dame College wives attending the l'undraisnr Hepublicans co-president Jonathan stayed in separatn rooms) eosting Klingler said something that is most $100 a day and hotels made a mas­probably a gratuitous exaggeration. sive 50 porcent prol'it from each Klingler does not need to mako wild room, hotels would recnive only claims to defend his position. It is $5,000 in profits. Since most hotels essential to Notre Dame's mission (not to nH~ntion restaurants) are not that its students learn to properly loeally owned, much of that money engage in rational debates over would go outside the local area. public issues. Klingler's claim that the local 
Klingl,er was responding to a community reaped hundreds of statement by Notre Dame's thousands of dollars from hundreds Progressive Student Alliance that of outside visitors is likely a signifi­said President George W. Bush's cant exaggeration. Most local com­Bethel College visit was very costly munities lose money from such to the local community's tax baso. It presidential visits. llowever, ovnry­is true that many local police and thing need not be defnndnd on firefighters prepared for Bush's visit l'inancial tnrms. Wn do not nnnd to for two weeks and spent much of argun for something's value by sity­the day dedicated to security ing that it makes money. Klingler around Bush's route and Bethel does add that the visit is valuabln as College. a "tremendous honor" that "will b1~ 
Klingler defends this significant remembered for years come," but expenditure of local tax revenues this is an empty eliche. Surely tlwrn when he states, "The event !brought are more substantial justifications in I hundreds of thousands of dollars for presidential visits. to the community-not only to Notre Dame studnnts should think Mishawaka and South Bend -but before thny speak. Klingler is not to Hoseland and Niles as well, alone. Many otherwise intnllignnt through hotel bookings and enter­students at Notre Damn exaggnrate tainment for the hundreds of extra the facts and use eliehes to defend people that !were] in the community their views. This can be seen in for the event." Observer artides from every side of 
But the $500-a-plate fundraiser the debates over the ()ueer Film for our local congressman was Festival and "The Vagina attended by only 560 people, the Monologues." One of the most basie vast majority of which come from missions of Notre Dame is to make the local area around his small con­its students into effective Catholic gressional district. No one who lives eitizens. This requires that students in this area would need a hotel, and bring the Catholic tradition into lunch was provided at Bethel. Those fruitful, rational dialogue with oth­who went out later that night would ers in public debate. Bad habits of' probably not add much to the local mind are all too common and economy, since local people who can undermine the Notre Dame mission afford a $500 lunch (or the optional to bring the Catholic ethos into the $4000 photo) often go out for food public sphere. and entertainment regardless of an afternoon event. Sean Walsh 
Even if 100 extra people came graduate student from out of town (non-local journal-feb. 24 
ND hotnogeneity a 'crisis' 
"The Vagina Monologues" as performed here looked like a rhetorical attempt to win over Notre Dame from implicitly fearing all sexuality to celebrating female sexuality while demonizing male sexuality. This is progress of sorts. Within the wider debate about how Notre Dame is to retain its Catholic character, I'd like to raise the following concerns. It's hard to be an inclusive community when the judgment of objective disorder plants poison in our heads before we, even start talking. 
There's a danger that our community will drift further from the conversation of the present age. We are closing doors and putting up signs that tighten the concentric circles of the normative around us like a cilice until those drawn here will be more like us. And indeed we may one day look around and real­ize that we have built right here a union of individuals in a community that treads on earth but has its heart in heaven, but at what price? 
The crisis of Notre Dame's homogeneity isn't that we fail to represent -like some perfectly proportioned stained glass window -the eth­nic map of the United States. It's that it sug­gests the signals we're sending out are dis­suading the dilleront from joining us at the discussion table. 
When sending out a message, it's under­standable that Notre Dame should feel accountable to iL.:; alumni; the alumni them­selves serve as a conservative ballast to remind us that ideologically, we're account­able to a great deal more. And it would be fatal to the University's sense of self ifit were to try to deny ilc.; allegiance to the palimpsest doctrine of Catholic tradition; but let's also remember that part of the audioneo lilf those messages we're sending out is prospnctivn students. 
This may be the thin end of the wedge. Some members of the administration who went to see the 1932 Noel Coward play "Design for Living" at the I WAC l<Lc.;t smnostor reportedly came away with the opinion that its themes rendered the play too mature for undergraduates to perform. (;ood art is het­eroglossic, and I don't envy the committee that would be entrusted to artkulate defonsi­ble judgment calls on whieh theatrieal per­formances should and should not bo spon­sored by a true Catholic university. 
Having an explicit and consistnnt proeeduro would at least endow assessmenlc.; with the semblance of legitimacy -and an appeals process ought to be instated for tho same ma­son. But this path will impact diversity (of peo­ple and ol'ideas), contestation and our partici­pation in the richness of contemporary lili~. 
It's good to bo in conversation with people who aro dill'erent than us. Our neurotic publk hand-wringing about our Catholic identity in the academic context jeopardizes tho univer­sality of our eonversations. In the short term it may do this by polarizing tho liold of diseourse around the right answor. In tho longnr-torm it may do this by its eflect on admissions. 
Douglas Ayling 1\raduatc studt·nt Feb. 24 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Monday, February 27, 2006 
DPAC REVIEW 
Simply Shakespeare 
AFTLS downplays staging, highlights acting for 'The Merchant of Venice' 


By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistam Scene Editor 
Actors From the London Stage (AFTLS) performed William Shakespeare's "The Merchant of Venice" this weekend in the Decio Mainstage of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC). The performance was a part of the Spring ArtsFest and also their regular appearance for the semes­ter. 
The play, which is one of Shakespeare's most controversial come­dies, began with a brief prologue that introduced each character and how each actor was going to play him or her. This was an absolute necessity because each actor portrayed multiple charac­ters, sometimes in the same scene. Using costuming or inflected manner­isms, the actors established how they were going to differentiate between each character. 
Often, the changes were subtle, espe­cially in the costuming. At times, a sash or sunglasses were the only notable indicators. In previous plays presented by the AFTLS, this sometimes led to confusion as it became difficult to follow who was who. But this particular group of actors' impressive talent made the play easy to understand throughout. 
"The Merchant of Venice" follows 

Bassanio {Christopher Staines), who needs a loan of 3,000 ducats to properly woo Portia {Isabel Pollen). He approach­es his friend Antonio (Gregory Cox), whose fortune is invested in several merchant ships at sea. Antonio gets the loan from the Jewish moneylender Shylock (Tim Hardy). 
Shylock bitterly hates. Antonio, whom he feels has insulted him for being a Jew. Shylock agrees to the loan on the condition that if it is not fully paid with­in three months, the penal­ty is a pound of Antonio's 
The Actors Frotn

flesh. Meanwhile, Jessica throughout. Hardy's {Louise Yates) has eloped the London Stage affected portrayal of with Lorenzo {Tim Hardy), Shylock was a standout,
almost always put

much to Shylock's chagrin. as was Cox's ability to 
on a good show 

For a comedy, "The shift between characters Merchant of Venice" is and "The Merchant at will. On occasion, he often quite dark. While it ofVenice, was no even carried out entire has its share of funny conversations with him­
exception.

moments, Shylock is a par­self while playing two 
ticularly unmerciful cha.rac­ter, and his ultimate comeuppance still isn't fully deserved. Hardy's portrayal emphasizes the villain dimension, par­ticularly in his powerful rendition of the "If you prick us, do we not bleed?" monologue. But the monologue's place­ment right before the intermission cast a surprisingly dark pall over the rest of the proceedings. 
Additionally, .the A-ctors From the London Stage version of the play ends on a disquieting note, as Shylock's daughter Jessica {Louise Yates), who has eloped with Lorenzo {Tim Hardy) learns of her father's fate. Though Shakespeare probably intended the play to end happily, the ending presented by AFTLS is darkly indefinite. While cer­tainly affecting, this ending seems oddly inappropriate -"The Merchant of Venice" is, after all, a comedy, and an ambiguous ending is thus problematic. 
Still, all of the acting was quite good 
and the play was enter­
taining and swiftly paced 
characters. 
Staines had a hilarious scene as Arragon, whose comical misfortune was much deserved, and Pollen and Yates seemed to have a great time switching between male and female characters. The use of singing -the actors were excellent singers, especially Hardy, who has a background in opera -and brief musical interludes gave the play·a wel­come added dimension. 
The Decio Mainstage was a good loca­tion for the performance. None of the actors used microphones but were still easily audible, even in the balcony. This gave the show a warm, personal feel, and the actors took full advantage of the stage. Most of the time, they sat on stage {even in scenes they were not in), which allowed them to "enter" and "exit" on cue. 
Costuming and staging was minimal, as per the AFTLS standard. Most of the cast wore contemporary clothes {button down shirts and pants), but this wasn't necessarily a deterrent. Never once is "The Merchant of Venice" presented as a period piece, which instead allows the audience to concentrate on the poeti­cism of Shakespeare's writing and the skill of the actors. While the perform­ance did rely on some key props, most of them were actually used to help dif­ferentiate between characters. 
The Actors From the London Stage almost always put on a great show, and "The Merchant of Venice" was no exception. Though only Staines has toured with the group before {as part of 2004's "A Midsummer's Night Dream"), they almost always manage to pull together a great show, despite -or per­haps because of-the performance's artsy minimalism. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, February 27, 2006 
page II 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Gentleman's Agreement' powerful but dated 
edly important when it came out, since By ANALISE LIPARI 
it was chosen as Best Picture at the Scene Criric 
l94X Oscars. 
Tho film is to be commended, howev­
Thr~ world in which dirnctor Elia er, f'or its tackling of a complex and Kazan's "(;nntlnrnan's Agronmnnt" dcwply felt issue at such a time in takns plac~n is strikingly diiTorr~nt from Anwriean history. Examining prejudice thP onP WP know today. Tlw film's sub­acutely and on multiple levels is the jnrl mattf'r deals with tlw issun of anti­film's trun strength. Peck's npisodns of Snmitism in Anwrir·.an and world r:ul­onc~ountnring anti-Semitism, however tuntl idPas or hPlinfs. Kazan attnmpts, subtlr~ or overt, provo to bn the Amo­using thP nvnr-gnntlPmanly Crngory tional pull and strength of tho pieture. l'r•rk, to tarkio this issu!' hnad-on with It. is during tlw smaller ineidcnees of strPngth and suhtlPty, but thn film suf'­prnjudicn that lilA depth or tlw issun f'prs l'rom lwing datnd by its subject comos to light, and Kazan directed mattnr. these momnnts 
l'nrk stars as 
bnautifully. Skylar Grnnn, a One of' the film's subdund but pas­strongnst mo­sionatn magazinn mnnts is when writnr wh.o has Green's young son rr~rnntly movod to Tommy (Dean
Director: Elia Kazan

Calif'ornia with his Stockwell) comes
Writer: Moss Hart 

young son and home from school
Starring: Gregory Peck, John Garfield
mothnr. Groen's after having been
Dorothy McGuire and Celeste Holm
latost assignmPnt taunted for is to writn a pinrn "being" Jewish by on anti-Semitism in America, and his dassmates. The immediate reaction deddns to livn undnreovnr as a .Jew in of Kathy (Dorothy McGuire), Green's order to got a fresh nnw angle on what love interest, insists that it's simply a hn sons as a tired subject riddled with dirty triek, insisting that he isn't really statistics. lin tries to use the oxperi­Jewish. r~nens lw gains firsthand by daiming his For Peek's character, this is more nanw is "(;rnonherg," and the results appalling than the actions towards his arn rather striking. son, as it displays her own subtle preju-
What hurts thn film as it ages is tho dices. Thn widAspread influence of suhjnct mattnr itself. Whiln l'or a mod­Green's experiment, impacting even his ern audience the subject feels some­child, is an understated way for Kazan what tirr~d. it was cnrtainly more rele­to characterize the depth of the issue's vant to Pnr:k and his costars. Thn issue multifaceted nature. of' anti-Snmitism is less prevalent today, "The movie even touches on Jewish and this lack of' rnlnvancy hurts the self-hate," critic Pam Grady said in an film's potnney. The issue was undoubt-article from Reel.eom, "when Phil's sec­retary, Miss Wales (Havoc), who has been passing as a gentile, finds out that Phil has gotten management to bar dis­crimination on the basis of religion at the magazine, telling him, 'It's no fun being the fall guy for the kikey type."' 
The film suffers from choppy editing in several spots, unnflcessarily jarring thfl viewp,r's perception from time to time. Technical issues aside, the subject matter of thfl story overshadows small­er faults in the filmmaking. 
' The film's final moments, espeeially the exchange between Green and his ill mother about the nature of the consti­tution and their shared belief that "freedom for all" ineludcs thn Jews, is arguably overplayed but, again, is pow-

SHOW REVIEW 
Fiestang m_ixes m_odern, traditional in entertaining vvay 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Wrircr 
Taking a eun from the comedic film "Dude, Whore's My Car'!," Notre Dame's Filipino Amnriean Studnnt Organization put on tlw 12th performance of its annual Finstang show this past Saturday. I>ubbnd "lloy! Whore's My .lnnpnny?." Fir1stang XII foaturnd a highly Antnrtaining program ineluding song, dance and comedy, all with a dnli­eiotts traditional Filipino dinner. 
Tho plot of "lloy! Whern's across campus in thA .JACC. Although Justin loses the fight-in hilarious fashion -Dante is the one who gets "punk'd,:' as Justin gets the girl and disproves the age-old saying that "nice guys finish last." 
The evening wasn't all f'un and games, however. As FASO club presi­dent .Johanna Sioson said, "the purpose of Fiestang is to create interest in Filipino culture and share different aspnets that you can't get from a book." To this extent, thn show did a great deal to introduce the audience to all things 
Filipino, from the 
My .lf~epney'!" revolvPs onstage performance to
Fiestang XII 
around Alr~xis (played by tho dneadnnt cuisine, Marissa Buck), who just ./(~atured a highly catnrAd by thn Sari Sari broke up with lwr boyfriPnd entertaining Corporation. Hyan (.Jon Hobinson). Arter As is its custom,
program including 
Pnr.rHtntPring Dante (Vinh Fiestang balances a 
song, dance and
NguyPn ), a smooth customnr combination of tradition­with loss-than-reputable comedy. all with a al dancn routines·with intnrnsts, AIPxis is eompletn­some morn modern
delicious Filipino 
ly oblivious to llw afTnctions numbers. Through thn
dinner. 
show's mix of danens,
of' .Justin (;\ngcdo Gaead), a gPnuinely good guy who is not-so-secretly in lovn with lwr. Camillo c;abrif'l takf'S a gr<~at turn as Thnr(Jsa. Alexis' bPst f'rinnd. In addition . .Jon Park rounds out llw cast as ()Lwntin. llanl.p's hPst f'riPrHI. lluyen Nguyen plays l~va, ()urml.in's girlfriend. 
As tlw play progresses, .Justin and Dante both vie for Alexis' heart. In tlw voin of' "l>udn. Whern's My Car'!," the two of' tlwm down as a slapstir~k duo rivaling that of' Ashton Kutcher and Seann William-Sc:ott. 
After a heated exehangfl, the two face off in an npie round of' fisticuff's matehnd only by the Bengal Bouts lwld 
Fiestang addressns the social dynamic of Filipino-American students who struggle to balance their cultural roots with tlwir lives as con­tom porary American teenagers. 
The first act of' the two-hour show f'r~atured thrc~c traditional perl'ormanc­es. The Ballot Folklorieo perf'ormanee was a prime example of the strong Spanish in11uence on Filipino culturA, as the dance f'eatured thren ladies dneknd out in l1owing traditional dress­ns in addition to their ·Sombrero-sport­ing partners. 
Next on the program was a sakuting pnrformanee, choreographed by 
Covington Doan. Sakuting is an all-male dance mimicking thA heroic feats of Ilokano warriors from the pro"ince of Abra. The signature clashing sticks of sakuting are based on an ancient com­hat training technique. 
Following sakuting was singkil, a dance inllucnced by Muslim culture, which acts out the epic talc of a princess caught in a forest during an earthquake. Followed by her loyal maid, the 
-
-
erful in essentials. It again proves that the quiet necessity of the suhjnd mattnr keeps the film n1levanl. for i'ts time and a potent ~earning oxpnrienr:o for tho modern film viewor. 
The standout. however, is .John Garfield as Peck's childhood friend ­a·nd Jew -DavA· Goldman. (;arfield proVflS the strongest perforrnnr, por­traying the life of' the victim of' a most subduod form of' prejudicn with genuine emotion and a delicatn sense of' realism. 
The film ultimately proves to bn an interesting albeit somewhat datnd look at a hotly-debated issue in Ameriean society. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
As is its custom, 

prinenss (Sioson) is nven­lowed by a modern tinikling tually rescued by a Fiestang balances sequence, jointly choreo­prince. Choreographed graphed by Sioson ai1d
a combination (~{

by Sioson and Gacad, Caead.
traditional dance 

with musical accompani­After the eondusion of the ment by Elizabeth routines with some traditional sngnwnt. l.hn Sullivan and Josh Stagni, show took a turn for thn
more modern

the singkil danen was a modc~rn -and bnc~anw
numbers.

tremendous success. more risqw\ -with a mod­
The second act warmed up with a tra­ditional tinikling performance, choreo­graphed by Davin Costa. Literally meaning "bamboo dance," tinikling involves long bamboo pules being elappod together in rhythm. lnspimd by 
-
the natural movement of tikling birds as they pick their way over rough tor­rain, tinikling dancers skilll'ully navi­gate between tho booming eadencn of the bamboo poles. The tra­ditional tinikling was fol­
Tlw show's intermis­sion featured a stirring inaugural rendition of the FASO Anthem. Performed by David Ladao on the guitar, Jane Lee, Zyra Cortez and Sharon Lam, the song is an acoustic tribute to the friAndship and sense of' family shared by the many mombers of FASO. 
Combining lyries sueh as, "What dub knows how to put on a show/FASO, FASO/What dub can melt, South Bend snow/FASO, FASO" with a brief rap intArlude, the only thing missing from the heartwarming performance was lighters being waved by the multitudes occupying the darkened Stepan Center. As the song gains inernased recogni­tion, thA performing of the FASO Anthem figures to become a porennial stapiA of the annual Fiestang show. 
ern r: o u pIns dance. 

Choreographnd by Nguynn, Park, and Lam, the pnrf'ormanen was scintillating enough to sttHim up twnn the normally draf'ty Stepan Center. 
Much to tlw dAiight of tlw many lad ins in tho audinnr~n. the 1:ouples snqumH:e was followed by a guys' danen, ehorno­graphed by Chris lJiad. Thn show con­eluded with a modern girls dance, elw­rAographed by Ashlny Congjuico and pnrformnd to the Cassin song, "You and Mo". · With over :~50 pnoplt~ in attnndanen, Fiestang XII was a smashing sueenss. For those who didn't makf' it out to the Stepan Centnr, tlwn~·s always a ehanen to catch next yoar's Fiostang. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew I @nd.edu 
...---------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 27, 2006 
FENCING 

Irish finish behind Buckeyes on home turf 
Sterns pulls off upset 
over defending sabre 
national champion 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
If Sesame Street had sponsored this weekend's Midwest Conference Fencing Championship, the number would be "two." The Irish took second place out of a field of 16 

-
teams in all six team categories, earning second place for women's overall. men's overall and combined overall. 
"We did well, but [Sunday] I think we could've done better," women's epeeist Kim Montoya said. "Not that we sucked, but we 

-weren't at the top of our game." Coming in with the No. 1 ranked men's team and the No. 10 women's team, the Ohio State Buckeyes made a powerful state­ment by winning Sunday's team portion with 1,325 points to Notre Dame's 1,260. The Buckeyes took first overall in every category besides women's foil, which Northwestern won. "Earlier this year we beat [Ohio State] in women's, and today they took revenge," head coach Janusz Bednarski said. "It's not a shame to lose against such good fencers, but it is a sigri that you have to work to be better." The weekend was structured with individual competitions Saturday and the team competi­tion Sunday. While placing second to the Buckeyes was disappointing, the weekend was still full of exciting moments. During Saturday's 
Individual Competition, Matthew Sterns pulled off a convincing 15­8 upset of last year's men's sabre National Champion Jason Rogers in the quarterfinals. Moments later in the men's sabre final, Notre Dame's Patrick Ghattas fell 15-12 to Ohio State's Adam Crompton in one of the most memorable bouts of the week­end. 
On the women's side, freshman Emilie Prot improved her already stellar season by taking first in the women's foil, earning the only gold medal for any Irish fencer. 
"The highlight of the match to me is the gold medal won by Emilie Prot," Bednarski said. "She gives us this feeling of potential of a young team." 
Overall; Notre Dame fencers won eight medals in the individ­ual session. Four of them were bronze medals -l\:ladeline Stephan (women's epee), Addi Nott (women's foil), Jakub Jedrkowiak (men's foil) and Sterns (men's sabre) -and three were silver medals won by Valeri Providenza (women's sabre), Greg Howard (men's epee) and Ghattas (men's sabre). 
Bednarski said that perhaps his young team needed a wakeup call. 
"I will say it will bring us to reality ... perhaps this will teach the kids that good talent doesn't explain that good teams will come out and work hard. The kids, maybe, were too confident," he said. 
Shortly after the Championship concluded, the Irish were already looking to the future. 
"This is kind of our chance to scope out the competition and next week we'll be better pre­pared, and I think we'll do a lot better," Montoya said. 

"We're going to be facing the same people next weekend, so it's good to fence them now so we can adjust how we practice for them and prepare for next week­end," Ghattas said. 
Though the Buckeyes' clutch performance might make them the favorites next weekend at Regionals, the·Irish know the Midwest Fencing Conference Championship is not a script for postseason play. 
"It's different at the NCAAs because you can only qualifY two for each event, so it's a totally dif­ferent tournament," Ghattas said. "And from this season, we're much better off than we were last year with 11 fencers qualified, and Ohio State will struggle to get 10." 

When these two powerhouses do collide again next weekend, Notre Dame can count on current World Cup Champion Marie! Zagunis to be fencing for the blue and gold. Zagunis missed this weekend's event because she was competing in a World Cup event in Budapest, Hungary, where she -quite appropriately -placed second overall. 
"There is a lot of work to be done -get new actions, get ready with new tactics against each other," Bednarski said. "We have a very young team, but young people are very ambitious and want more than they can have, which makes this team very unpredicatable. Give them time to mature and they will be very good in the future." • 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Golfers ready to svving away at Lexus Naples Intercollegiate 
coach. While some might worry "We played B-golf during the a more consistent level. pared to the teams Notre Dame By JOE QUINN 
about rust after such a long lay­fall season and still finished in "[We need] a forth consistent faced in the fall season, he feels News Writer 
off, Kubinski feels his team is the top six in all our tourna­player that can supplement Cole it will show where the Irish are ready to go. ments," he said. "If we can get [lsban], Mark [Baldwin] and in relation to other top teams. 
-
Four months ago, the Notre "We had a few guys spend up to our A-game, I think we can Scott [Gustafson]," he said. "While it's not the strongest Dame men's golf team was dis­some time out in beat anyone in the The opportunity to become field we've faced this year, play­qualified from the CordeValle Arizona [over country." that fourth consistent scorer will ing teams like Wake Forest (No.
"We just want to
Collegiate. But today, the Irish Christmas break]. Kubinski has be given to sophomores Mike 21), Florida State (No. 38) and kick off the spring season when and we also had get out there and reason to be opti­King and Greg Rodgers, and if Baylor (No. 20)-there's enough they travel to Naples, Fla. to take the Alumni match compete and come mistic, as Notre they can step up, Kubinski feels good competition that we can part in the Lexus Naples down in Sarasota, Dame beat a num­the Irish will go far this year. see where we are relative to
back with a
Intercollegiate. Fla. which helped ber of ranked "I feel that Cole, Mark some of the best in the country," 
The Irish, ranked No. 46 in the a lot," Kubinski victory.'' teams during the [Baldwin] and Scott are all play­he said." country according to said. fall season, includ­ing really solid, and I would put And while individual members Golfweek/Sagarin Performance If the I'rish can ing a victory over them against any other players may have personal goals for this
Jim Kubinski 
Index, are excited to get back to knock off the rust No. 3 Florida in in the country," Kubinski said. "If tournament, Kubinski says the
Irish ltlead coach
competition. from this four­the Shoal Creek King and Rodgers can step up team as a whole has just one. 
"We've been hitting balls in month hiatus, it Invitational in and post a really good score, we "We just want to get out there Loftus since January, but I think should bode well for the 2006 September. can come back on Tuesday with and compete and come back the guys are excited to get back spring season. While Notre Dame has been a victory." with a·victory," he said. out there," Irish coach Jim Although they're ranked just able to best some of the higher While Kubinski said the overall Kubinski said, who is entering No. 46 in the country, Kubinski ranked teams this year, Kubinski level of competition in this tour­Contact Joe Quinn at his second full year as Irish head feels they have Top 20 potential. wants to get the team playing at nament is not as strong com-jquinn6@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HaiL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
BE ON THE FIELD WITH THE .... IRISH GUARD We need students who are: Returning to ND for Fall 
06. A min. of 6 ft. 2 in. in height. In good academic standing. Info ses­sion on Tues., Feb. 28, at 8:30pm in Montgomery Aud. across from Starbucks in LaFortune. If you can­not attend the meeting, call631­3336. 

FoR SALE 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666. 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Area hous!ls and apartments for fent. Log onto 
MichianaRentals.com. Call 574­993-RENT (7368) 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit 
BlueGoldrE!ntals.com 
123 ND Av•3. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229-01'49. 
3,4,5,6 becroom homes. Web site:mmmmntals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2::!08 or grooms@ourweb­spot. net COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wei­come. $1350. 
Call 220-8666. 

2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 
515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student rentals, $1200/mo. 
57 4-250-7653 1-7 bdrm. homes starting@ $200/student, 

24-hr.maint.,free pool tables. 1st mo.free. Call574-250-7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone.lf you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC. at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Orpheus: Will you stop playing the *#&)%*@#)*fiddle? Eurydice 


.ji -~~~I'· 
OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 27, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
l.narn  rc~mrd  OT  points  
NY Rangers  35-15  8  78  
Philadelphia  33·16  9  75  
New Jersey  30·22  6  66  
NY Islanders  25·27  4  54  
Pittsburgh  14·34  11  39  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT points 
5 79

Ottawa 37-14 
5 77

Buffalo 36·15 8 60
Montreal 26·22 5 59
Toronto 27-25 Boston 24-24 10 58 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division tPa rn rPrord OT points 
Carolina  39-14  4  82  
Tampa Bay  32-22  4  68  
Atlanta  26-26  6  58  
Florida  22-27  8  52  
Washington  19-32  5  43  

Western Conference, Central Division 
lt~am  rnwrd  OT  points  
Detroit  39-13  5  83  
Nashville  34-18  6  74  
Columbus  23·33  2  48  
Chicago  18-31  8  44  
St. Louis  16·31  9  41  

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tram record OT points 
Calgary 33·17 7 73 Vancouver 33-21 5 71 Colorado 32-21 6 70 Edmonton 30-20 8 68 Minnesota 29-25 5 63 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
toam mcord OT points 

Dallas 38-17 3 79 Los Angeles 32·23 5 69 Anaheim 27-19 11 65 San Jose 27-21 8 62 Phoenix 27-28 4 58 
CCHA Hockey 
team conf ovr. 

1 Miami 20·6·2 23-7-4 2 Michigan State 14-7-7 20-10-8 3 Michigan 13-10·5 18-13·5 4 Northern Michigan 14-12-2 20·14·2 4 Nebraska-Omaha 12-10·6 18-12-6 6 Lake Superior 11·12·5 15-12-7 6 Ferris State 10-11-7 15·13-8 8 Alaska-Fairbanks 11-13·4 15·14-5 8 NOTRE DAME 11·13·4 13·17·4 10 Ohio State 11-14-3 15·17·5 11 Western Michigan 7·16·5 8·22·6 12 Bowling Green 8·18·2 13·21-2 
around the dial 
NBA 

Washington at Memphis, 8 p.m., Comcast Philadelphia at Dallas, 8:30 p.m., Comcast 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Pittsburgh at West Virgina, 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma State at Oklahoma, 9 p.m., ESPN Boise State at Fresno State, 12 p.m., ESPNU 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Rutgers, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 
COLLEGE SOFTBALL Stanford at LSU, 1 p.m., ESPNU UCLA at Oklahoma, 3 p.m., ESPNU Arizona at Texas, 5 p.m., ESPNU 

WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 

Associated Press 

TUHIN, Italy -Turin's Olympics, a topsy-turvy mix of marvels and misad­vontures, ended appropri­atoly with a closing-eero­mony Carnevale -a cir­cus-like cnlebration full of downs and acrobats, vibrant and often dream­like. 
Fireworks, confetti and pulsating ballads filled the air. At one point, a winged snowboarder hovered high above ground. as if by magic. 
Some athletes wore red down noses Sunday night as they swarmed across the huge stage of Olyrnpie 
Stadium, waving jubilantly to a backdrop of' bouncy Italian songs. Many of the 35,000 spectators donned devil and angel masks in a closing eeremony doubling as the annual Carnevale fostival eelebrated across Italy this weekend. 
Italy had an oxtm rnason to eolebrato -a brand­new national horo as headliner of' tho lirst.-ever medal cermnony ineluded in a Wintor Games' closing festivities. After an Olympics that often lacked star power, Italy's Giorgio di Centa f"illcd the void with a final-day victory in the 50-kilometer cross­country race. 
The crowd erupted in cheers and waved a sea of tiny Italian flags as d i Ccnta and his fellow medalists strode to tho podium. Helping bestow the medals was eli Centa's sister, Manuela, an lntnrnational Olympic Committee rnembnr and former cross-country medalist herself. 
Before declaring the games closed, JOC prnsi­dent Jacques Hoggo dcseribed the Turin Olympies as "truly magnif­icent." 
"You have succeeded brilliantly in meeting your challenge," he told organ­izers. "Grazie, Torino." 
"Wo'vo donn it," exultnd Valentino Castollani, the organizing committnn ehiof. 
While Castnllani spoko, an intrudnr approached thn mierophonn and shout­oct, "Passion livns in Torino" bef'oro !wing whiskod away by soeurity oiTicors. l'olico said tho man was Spanish: ho was takon into custody f'or questioning. 
Tho spotlight tlwn shirt­eel to Vaneouvnr, host of tho 2010 Gamns, with the raising of Canada's Maplo Leaf flag and a sonorous rondition of "0, Canada" by British Columbia-born opora star Bon I loppner. 
IN BRIEF 

Clemens to "repare for 
WBC at Astros complex 
IIOUSTON -Roger Clemens will take to the mound Monday at llouston's spring training camp, fac­ing minor league batters even though he's not part of the Astros. 
Tho 43-year-old (:!omens wants to pitch in the World Baseball Classic, then decide whether to retire or play a 23rd season, said Koby Clemens, his oldest son and a third baseman in tho Astros' farm system. 
Koby Clemens said his father was due to arrive in Florida on Sunday night and planned to pitch to minor lnaguers in a simulatnd game Monday morning. 
Clemens, a free agent, wasn't oiTernd salary arbitration by l.lw Astros and cannot re-sign with them until May 1. lin eould join anothnr lmun bnfore that, and Toxas. Boston and the New York Yankees an~ rnportedly intnrnstnd. 
llouston general manag1~r Tim 
Purpura said the Astros got permis­sion from Major League Baseball to allow the Hocket to pitch at their !Pring training complex.Triplett wins first PGA Tour event in three seasons 
TUCSON. Ariz.-Kirk Triplett was nowhere near the leadorboard through two rounds at the Chrysler Classie of Tucson. Yet when it was over, it was Triplett hoisting the gold­en conquistador helmet and cele­brating his first PGA Tour victory in three seasons. 
Triplett opened his final round Sunday with five straight birdies and added another four in a row over the back nino, shooting a 63 to earn his third PGA Tour victory and first since the 20(n B1mo-Tahoe Opnn. 
With a 22-under 266, Triplett fin­ishPd a shot ahead of Jerry Kelly. Dully Waldorf. the second-and third­round lnadnr who snemed poised for his first victory in six years, shot 72 and tied for third at 19 under with 
Bubba Watson (70) and llnath Slocum (68).Trammell wins hurdles at indoor championships 
BOSTON -Terrenee Trammell came so dosn to bneoming the first athlete to win two national indoor championships. lnstiHtd, he settled for making the world championships roster in two 1wents. 
Trammnll won his third U.S. indoor title in the 60-mntnr hurdles with a time of 7.4h seconds at the U.S. Indoor Track & Field Championships on Sunday. Dominique Arnold l'in­islwd second in 7 .51. 
Twm1ty minutns al'l.nr winning tlw hurdlns title, Tramnwll finishnd sec­ond in tlw flO in (,,;,:{. LPonard Scott won his lirsl. national titlt~ in (>.52. 
Tlw top two finislwrs in nad1 1went -t~xduding Friday's wnight throws qualify for tlw 200(> world champi­onships in Moscow on March I 0-12. 
''I'm just glad to Jw on thn tnam," said Tramnwll. 
I 
Monday, February 27, 2006 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS
I 
I 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish pitch way to a 3-1 record in Invitational 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame made an impres­sive turnaround this weekend, "posting a 3-1 record en route to 
winning the  Golden  Panther  
Invitational  at  Florida  
International University.  

The Irish saw the rise of a defi­nite No. 2 starter in freshman Brittney Bargar. Bargar, who had pitched some in the Desert Classic in Las Vegas the previous week­end, flashed signs of brilliance this weekend, most notably in Notre Dame's first game against Buffalo, a 1-0 win for the Irish. 
Although the Bulls stymied Irish hitters, allowing only three hits and five walks, Bargar was domi­nant against Buffalo. The only run of the day came in the bottom of the third, with two runners on base and two outs, when Brittany Glynn faked a break for home on a dropped ball, sparking a pick-off attempt from Bulls catcher Lacy Schneider. Schneider's throw was off the bag, and Glynn scored easi­ly from third. 

That one run would prove to be all that was needed for Bargar, who allowed only four hits and three walks against eight strike­outs in the complete game victory. In fact, after a double by Lauren Picciano in the first inning, no Buffalo runner made it to second base against Bargar. 
The Irish also boasted the tour­nament's MVP, pitcher Heather Booth. Booth won the two middle games of the tournament with an ERA of 0.58 and 19 strikeoults while surrendering only eight total hits. Booth, a two-time first team All-Big East pitcher, showed a return to form in Miami this week­end, most notably in her first start against the host team, FlU. 
In a rain-shortened game that lasted only five innings, Booth was perfect in three of them, retiring FlU batters in order in the first (in which she struck out the side), third and fifth innings. While Booth was baffiing opposing bat­ters, the Irish offense gave her more than enough run support for the win. Despite having only one extra base hit -a double by sec­ond baseman Katie Laing-Notre Dame's aggressive base running led to a 5-0 victory. The Irish played small ball to perfection, using five sacrifices, taking extra bases at the right time and work­ing counts to their favor by strik­ing out only twice. 
The Irish continued winning on Saturday morning against Memphis 4-1, again featuring Booth's arm and Notre Dam~;J's bats. Booth surrendered only one run on six hits while also striking out 10 in her second complete game victory of the tournament. The win also demonstrated Notre Dame's ability to get runners on base and move them over when needed. Irish hitters capitalized on mistakes and created their own opportunities against the Tigers, using bunts, hit and runs, steals and errors to keep innings alive and put runners into scoring posi­tion. 

The last game the Irish played was their only loss in Miami, falling 6-5 in a rematch against FlU. This was al<>o the only game in which Iri<>h pitching and fielding were not stellar, as Bargar allowed five runs -only two of which were earned -in three innings of work. The Irish opened scoring in the first with an HBI sin­gle from Laing, but the Golden Panthers responded in the second inning with a two-run double by third baseman Samantha Card. FlU added three unearned runs in the third against Bargar, all of which resulted from a fielding error she committed. 
The Irish had a comeback rally in the fifth, pushing the score to 5­4 behind a solo home run by right fielder Stephanie Brown -who, along with Booth and shortstop Sara Schoonaert, were named to the all-tournament team -and an RBI single by catcher Malorie Lenn. But the rally ended two bat­ters later, leaving the Irish one run short of the Golden Panthers. 
The championship game of the tournament against either St. John's or FlU was cancelled due to rain, and the Irish were named the tournament champions, in1proving their record to 5-4 on the season. The Irish hope to carry this victory into next week­end's tournament at Tulsa, Okla. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Nittany Lions overpowered by Kemp, tenacious defense 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
In the preseason, co-captain and senior defenseman D.J. Driscoll said the difference between playing in the 2006 NCAA Tournament or watching it on TV would be the perform­ance of the Irish defense. In its first test of the season on Sunday, Notre Dame respond­ed to that challenge with an 8­4 triumph over Penn State at the Loftus Center, allowing the fewest goals in over a year, since April 9, 2004 -a 12-2 victory at Air Force. 
Sophomore goalie Joey Kemp recorded 13 saves, including several screaming shots from short distance, to lead a stub­born Irish resistance. 
"It all starts with our defense and Joey Kemp," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "He played very well. Overall we didn't give anything away. We made them earn what they got, and Joey probably stole a cou­ple away that they earned." 
Both teams pitched first quarter shutouts until fresh­man attackman Peter Christman scored 40 seconds into the second frame on an assist by senior attackman Brian Hubschmann. The Irish capitalized on an errant Penn State pass that sophomore midfielder Taylor Clagett picked up -one of his four groundballs -to spark the score en route to a 3-2 half­time lead. 
Christman's goal was the first of two critical goals he scored in his first collegiate game on his only two shots, an accomplishment matched by fellow freshman attackman Ryan Hoff, who scored two goals on four shots. 
Another tough defensive holdout in the third quarter saw only one goal scored. With under two minutes left in the period, Penn State senior attackman -and honorable mention All-American -Nate Whitaker scored the second of three goals for the elusive offensive sparkplug of the Nittany Lions. Whitaker extended his scoring streak to 43 games, encompassing every college game of his career. 

With the game tied 3-3 in the fourth quarter, the Irish fresh­men busted the game open, each scoring consecutive goals to fuel a 5-3 lead the Irish never relinquished. 
"When you get four goals from freshmen, you got to be excited about that," Corrigan said. "They played within the game. They got opportunities, and they made them count." 
Christman and Hoff benefited from a Penn State defense that keyed on star Irish attackman senior Pat Walsh, who had lim­ited opportunities to attack the net throughout most of the game. Walsh, who days earlier was named to the Tewaaraton Trophy watch list for the nation's top player, scored the Irish's eighth goal with 1:55 left in the game -avoiding the first pointless performance of his collegiate career. 
Driscoll led the Irish with five groundballs, pacing the team's 30-27 advantage ovel'­all. 
"D.J. Driscoll played just an outstanding game all around," Corrigan said. "He was very active, played all over the place. He didn't take any bad chances and get himself in trouble." 
Although the Irish needed a fourth-quarter offensive onslaught to secure a win Sunday, Corrigan was pleased with the first three quarters of mistake-free lacrosse that set up the fourth frame outburst. 
"We did have the ball a lot," he said. "In time of possession we were in control. Clagett did a great job of facing off. We wore [Penn State) down a little bit, and [we took) advantage of that in the fourth quarter." 
Corrigan hopes the team's fundamentally sound perform­ance, led by Driscoll and Kemp's defense and Clagett's 10-for-16 face-off perform­ance, will resonate with the team as it turns its attention to No. 9 Cornell next Saturday, whom they will face in Chicago at a neutral site at 1 p.m. 
"If you play a sound funda­mental game and don't make mistakes to give away goals, you can put yourself in posi­tion to win a lot of games," Corrigan said. "There's still a lot of things we can do better. Hopefully we can keep working ha,rd and improve, and we'll have a chance to become a really good team." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

;;:i<;CJ;;to~ ww~~~=;;~t~~~,tv.m ~,.~i 
Great Job (lpportunit:ies!! 
•vWMmMI"M''!'ib<oMni'·##.''MHf-!:'m<i>••*J~ 4-Jk~'Oi''> .C1 ·Jh;,. ?fA .· ·· & ·~!?~li·r·· f!i'{fl
~ ~ME.~ . . ;Ck, . .~"1.-L. 
We offor 10..40·+ hourslwt&ek 
Ro1Jt& Delivery 
$9.00 ~· $12~00/ Hour 574·~234--5309 
. Locatedr Just Minute.s from Campus 
Wro AhH< Hi~v~ PlKliiUiiJW in t.MtKit Clt!M&,, CaN Vt! ·~eyi\'j~ *·4't•~1i!)t M<'lr'·*'*-'··~%lrt·WN trl!t-'~~i!lM~I!K· !%>•WI•• l·~44M'l '1*\\lmH-•.-«t~M'-'i4~' ~ IK'"<i>l·fW"':W-41W
.:;...,..,,"'@'ii l'·aoiifM~ZJ i¥0~ l -·~~k-411'!10 
Mo E;tp$rAmt# Ntt:tJ:Mi~>? f1'4#·ill-fut&J ~· -~ .i@<)i wa. ti l$@§1~· Oiuhi -·hw~·~~· ei'&illi'M~· o!Ji,M}'~··· 
Sc~6Wi4t .a!!\ llt¢ZtVltMt A.$.AJ1, $r!!!1~ & PMtid ! 
www.horneci 
com 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 
Freshman attacker Duncan Swezey cradles the ball during Sunday's 8-4 win at home over Penn State. 
HOlX CROSS COLLEGE 

You can advance the Catholic Mission of Holy Cross! 
HALL llii~ECT<lRS NEEilEl> 2006-2007 li()LY CRC)SS COL,LECiE 
CiRAD·STlJIJENTS LAVi STUDEN~rs 
Undergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about R.t\ vacancies 
CONTACT 
l yl··~·s~ L1"17r:r;·~; IJc:c·~ -N·f..) ·1· :;,·1·)1 r 
.'\... .. .P* .. 1..4 . .[~j.a( :1 . / . . ... ~ ....... lJ 
F<)R MORE INFORMATION 
• 

Monday, February 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish remain unbeaten after weekend sweep 
bel'ore the match due to a wrist and fresh man Keley Tefft. After Sunday's win over Notre Dame wore Connelly and 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
injury. Wiseonsin's No. 30 team of Caitlin Wisconsin, Louderback was Stastny, who downed BYU's Dolly Sports Writer 
"We had to play a little short­Burke and Nicole Reek defeated impressed with the team's per­Chang and Luren Jones 8-3. handed today, because Catrina the Irish pair 8-7 (7-1). formanee in singles play this sea­"We are all rnally steady lin 
The Irish established them­had some wrist problems," eoaeh In singles, No. 32 Christian son. doubles!, and wo all have tlw selves as a powerhouse this Jay Louderback said. "But every­Thompson fell to Wiseonsin's No. "Our doubles has benn good, experienee and eonl'idnnee," wo(1knnd with wins over No. 20 body stepped up." 28 Caitlin Burke 6-4, 6-4 in her but it is our singles that lhavc Stastny said. "lOur toarnsl are BYU and No. 51 Wisconsin at tho Playing at No. 2 for Notre Dame debut at No.1. gotten the job donel in every good and doep." Hck Tennis Pavilion. were seniors Stastny and captain Following at No. 2 was Buck, mateh all season," Louderback In singles, No. 27 Cat.rina 
No. 7 Notrn Damn remained Lauren Connelly, who topped who topped Beek 6-1, 6-1. The said. Thompson was lirst oil' the court. undnfoatod and improved its Wisconsin's duo of Elizabeth win improved Buck's season with a 6-1, (J-1 loss to No. 17 record to 9-0 this year -one win Carpenter and Chelsea Nussloek reeord to 11-6. No. 7 Notre Dame 5, No. 20 Boulyteheva at No. I. short of' the all-time school 8-3. The pairing stands at 9-0 in Tefft played at No. 3 for the BYU1 Playing at No. 2 was Catrina record. Not only did the Irish dual aelion play. Irish with a 6-1, 6-3 win over The Irish got out to a strong Thompson, who toppod Jones 6­dnli1at tough opponents, but they Following at No. 3 for the Irish Nussloek. Stastny played at No. 5 start against the Cougars, sweep­4,6-2. also avenged their lossns to both was the new pairing or freshman for Notre Dame against the ing the doubles matches. Buek followed Thompson with of' the programs from last season. Katie Potts and junior Christian Badger's Carpenter and rallied to "It was a huge boost," Stastny a 7-(J (7-2), 7-h (7-5) loss to 
"I'm rnally nxeitod, beeausn we Thompson. The duo downed the a 6-3, 4-6, 1-0 (11-9) win at No. said. "Onec you have the I doubles Sourkova at No. 3. have never bonn a Top 10 team Badger's Morgan Tuttle and Lexi 4. pointl. you have a lot more The bottom half of the line-up lsinee my f'rnshman year!," senior . Goldin 8-1. "It was a rollereoastcr, bm;ause momentum. Our goal this season dosed out the rnatd1 in two-set. Kiki Stastny said. ''I'm thrilled "It was a tough deal, beeause she would be on a roll with four is to be undefeated in doubles." wins at Nos. 4, 5 and 6. with this exporionen. It is a whole Christian has never played with amazing winners," Stastny said. The Thompson twins played at Tell't, playing fourth in the lirw­new eonlidnncn, and we feel like anyone lexeept for her sister]," "So it was hard to stay in control, No. 1 for the team and finished up, defeated lloldnn (J-1, 6-4. we can beat anybody." Louderback said. "But it gave because you didn't know what to first as they topped BYU's Stastny followed with a (J-4, 6-1 
In their 6-1 win over the [J>ottsl good experience to play ex poet." Anastasia Sourkova and Jennifer win over Chang at No. 5. Badgers, the Irish began the eon­with Christian, beeause Following Stastny at No. 5 was MiCeoli 8-3. The final vietory came f'rom lost by capturing the doubles !Thompson! is sueh a good dou­Potts, who defeated Wisconsin's Following at No. 2 were Buek Potts at No. 6 as shn downed point. with wins at Nos. 2 and 3. bles player." Erin Jobe 6-1, 6-1. and Tefft, who defeated the Mieeoli 6-3, 6-4. I lowovor, the original line-up for The only loss in doubles for the Competing at No. 6 for the Irish Cougars' Olga Boulyteheva and tho Irish was alternd when junior Irish eame at No. 1 from the No. was Connelly, who downed Tuttle Sofia Holden 6-1, 6-4. Contact Dan Tapetillo at Catrina Thompson had to pull out 29 duo of sophomore Brook Buek 6-1,6-0. Playing in the third position for jtapetil@nd.edu 
-
BASEBALL 
Service Academies Classic proves tough test for ND nine 
Irish and gave up just two runs in the bag. Dury hesitated to tag, extra-base hits." double in the top of the ninth oil' 
By KEN FOWLER 
five innings, but the Sooners and the speedy eenterfielder freshman reliever Kyle Weiland. Spom Writer 
scored two in the seventh after a sprinted down the line. Dury then Memphis 7, Notre Dame 6 (10 "It's tough to lose any game, 
throwing error by first baseman overthrew Aaron Reza, who was innings) whether you're winning or losing 
Notre Dame lost two of throe Mike Dury opened the door for eovering from second base, and . Pineh hitter Joey Lieberman it, any loss hurts," Mainieri said. ganws. in the Service Academies Oklahoma. Oklahoma had first and third with sent a two-run homer over the "We've always prided ourselves Classic in Millington. Tenn. this Dury hit a throe-run homer in nobody out. fence for the hometown Memphis on winning the dose ones." weekend. the lil'th to f,rive Notre Dame a 3-2 Stewart retired the next two Tigers in the top of the tenth Senior Matt Bransfield and 
After boating Indiana State in a lead over the Sooners after batters on a strikeout and fiyout, Saturday, and Notre Dame lost a third baseman Brett Lilley non-tournament game Thursday, Chuekie Caullield's two-run blast but surrendered a two-out, two­game in whieh it had a 5-0 lead aeeounted for five of Notre tho Irish (2-2) lopped Air Foree off Manship in the third put run double to Kevin Williams that through five innings. Dame's seven hits in tho gamo. lo'riday but fell to Memphis Oklahoma ahead 2-0. put the Sooners on top 4-3. Southpaw sophomore Wade Bransfield had thrnn hil'> and two Saturday and Oklahoma Sunday, But al'ter Irish southpaw relief "When your pitchers only make Korpi allowed just three hits and RBI in a rarn start in len. linld for losing late-inning leads in both pitcher Sam Elam hit fellow Kevin two mistakes in the game, it's no runs in five innings, but the the 6-foot-1 righty from garnos. Smith on a 3-2 eount in the sev­pretty good," Mainieri said. Tigers chipped away at the Irish Englewood, Colo., while Lilley 
"I think we playnd really good enth, Mainieri brought in the The Irish pitchers struek out lead in the final four frames to went 2-lor-3 with two runs scored baseball." Irish eoaeh Paul right-handed Jess Stewart to face 13 Oklahoma batters but made foree extra innings. and a walk out of the No. 2 hole. Mainieri said. "It's a shame we the Sooners' Joseph Hughes. the two big mistakes -the two­"Our starting pitching was out Mainieri said the inconsistent worn only able to mmo away with "When we had to take Jeff out double and the two-run of this world," Mainieri said. hitting for the Irish eould be a 2-2 record. We played well Manship out of the game, we did­homer. "Because they were all on strict expeeted this early in the season. onough to win all four games." n't have tnany options," Mainieri "When you strike out 13 bat­piteh eounts, we had to pull them "The only negative was tlwy 
said. ters, normally you're going to win early in the games." didn't swing the bat well," lw Oklahoma 4, Notre Dame 3 Hughes dropped down a rou­the game, because you're domi­Will Petersen led the Memphis said. "It's the rnsult of not having .I un ior righthander J off tine sacriliee bunt along the first­nant," Mainieri said. "The dilfer­eomebaek, getting three hits, a lot of at-bats under our belt." Manship took thn mound for the base line but stopped halfway to enee was, two of them were induding the game-tying two-out 
Apply No"' for Suna:rner Study Abroad 
Quito, Ecuador Milan, Italy Paris, France Pueblo, Mexico 
Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain 
Aeelications Due Marc 
1 

See ·· :">'-~:·~~~n:;Jrr~~~~·Pr~'I~l~~1~!n.~_:t~ITn for more infor'maUon on prc:.,grams A online a-t www..nd.eduJ;.....irrUstudla I Ia i .html 
Notre Dame 8, Air Force 2 
Behind the arm of 6-foot-5 righthander JolT Samardzija, Notre Dame grounded Air Foren 8-2 Friday in the opening game of the Serviee Academies Classic. 
"I thought Jell' pitched exeep­tionally well," Mainieri said. 
Samardzija allowed just one run on four hiL.:; in six innings of work, and the Irish bullpen hold on f(w the vietory thanks to a six­run eighth that extended the Irish lead fmm 2-1 to 8-1. 
Eight Irish batters eollnetnd hits, ineluding two for second baseman Hoss Brezovsky, whose throe-run homer in the eighth put the game out of roach. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

.· 
Monday, February 27, 2006 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
said. "We had to stick to our guns and keep doing what we're doing. It wasn't a case of the level being inadecplate, it was a case of win­ning a close match. And we did." 
The match outcome looked bleak after the doubles point, when the Irish (8-4) were swept by Ohio State. 
"That's about as badly as we can play," Bayliss said. "There was no energy, and they just took it to us. I'm glad [Ohlo State] didn't charge us tor the lesson." 
In the top spot, Ryan Keckley and Barry King fell first in an 8-2 decision to Scott Green and Ross Wilson. Green and Wilson hold the 
Bearcats 
continued from page 20
-
as the buzzer sounded. 
"I thought we really showed our poise at the end, because we could have put our heads down and thought the game was over, but we came over, executed the play perfectly and sowed a lot of character to come back from that with two seconds left," McGraw said. "And that's why I thlnk we had the momentum going into overtime." 
In overtime, Schrader opened the scoring with 1-of-2 free throws to give the Irish a 58-57 lead. She fmished with 11 points in the game. 
After Cincinnati's Michelle Jones made a layup to give the Bearcats the lead, Schrader scored again on a feed from Gaines to give the Irish a one­point lead. 
With 2:04 left in overtime and the game tied at 62, LaVere con­verted on a three-point play thanks to Schrader's assist. 
"We wanted to get the ball inside, and Courtney did a great job down low," McGraw said. 
Schrader hit a jumper with 1:26 remaining to extend the Irish lead to five, and Duffy connected on eight straight free throws in the final 42 seconds to seal the win for Notre Dame and fmish with 17 points in the game. 
"Megan at the free-throw line really iced the game for us," McGraw said. 
Humphries was the star of the game for Cincinnati, shutting down DuffY on the defensive end most of the afternoon and putting up 14 points of her own. Humphries played the final six minutes with four fouls but held the senior All-American to just seven field goal attempts in regu­lation. 
The Bearcats' deadliest threat from outside, freshman Shelly Bellman, made just 4-of-14 field goals, including 1-of-5 from three­point range. Cincinnati entered as the second best team in the con­ference from long range but hit just 5-of-20 from behind the arc against an oft-porous Irish zone. 
Gaines finished with 14 points on 3-of-7 shooting from the floor and 8-of-9 from the line. 
LaVere joined DuffY as the hlgh­point scorer in the game, connect­ing on 8-of-11 field goals en route to her 17 points. 
McGraw said a key in getting LaVere involved was the hlgh-low passing the Irish utilized through­out the game to extend the Cincinnati defense. 
"That's out of the Princeton offense, and we've run that pretty successfully throughout year," she said. "Courtney's really good at thn high post." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edn 
nation's No. 1 doubles ranking, while Keckley and King weigh in at No. 51. 
Eric Langenkamp and Sheeva Parbhu also lost 8-2 in the No. 2 spot, as Ohio State's Drew Eberly and Bryan Koniecko clinched the point for the Buckeyes. 
Brett Helgeson and Andrew Roth fought to avoid the sweep at No. 3, but ultimately fell 8-6. 
"I had a few comments for them that weren't very flattering," Bayliss said of his team's break inbetween_ doubles and singles. "I think they realized it was put up or shut up." 
No. 17 Stephen Bass was the first to put up a win in singles, tying the match at 1-1 by defeating No. 42 Devin Mullings in No. 1 sin­gles. Bayliss called ills 6-2, 6-3 vic­tory a "signature win" for the jun­ior, who has now won six straight matches and 13 in a row at home. 
"Stephen Bass deserves a ton of credit," Bayliss said. "Mullings is a tough little street fighter and Stephen just out-toughed him." 
Helgeson, who stands at No. 60 in the national rankings, was next off with a 6-3, 6-4 win at No. 3. The win was more impressive because the freshman -who is 11-0 at home -was still recover­ing from illness. 
When Langenkamp won 6-3, 6-4 at No. 6, the Irish were one match away from clinching the win. 
"Eric did an amazing job at not making many mistakes, but also being willing to step up in the court and take advantage of short balls," associate head coach Todd Doebler said. "Our team got a lot of momentum because he was able to get off the court." 
Sophomore Parbhu would clinch the match before raucous fans in a 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 win at No. 2 singles. 
The crowd had gravitated towards Parbhu and Keckley, both playing their thlrd sets on adjacent courts in the Eck Pavilion. 
"[Parbhu] got a little tight once he knew the match was on the line, but he got more aggressive and regained his composure," Doebler said. 
The crowd remained to see Keckley, one of the team's most consistent wins in singles, post a win over Chris Klingemann 3-6, 6­3,6-4. 
"I think the pressures off !after the match is clinched] but its hard­er to play because all the guys light so hard for the team," Doebler said. "Ryan still wanted to close out that match, just because in the past we've had some really tough matches with Ohlo State." 

Keckley played at No. 4 for the first time with all the starters in the Irish lineup. 
"(It was] a big step moving hlm up to four," Bayliss said. "But, he's got a 10-1 record." 
The Eck drew a strong crowd from both local residents and stu­dent<;, as tills was the tenni'i team's designated Gold Game. 
"It's nice to see that our guys can respond to the support we got," Bayliss said. 
The Irish return to action March 3 as the team travels to the Pacific Coast Doubles Tournament in La Jolla, Ca. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Monday, ~ebruary 27, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Nanooks 
continued from page 20 
wmhinnd goal advantagn ovor tiH' two-ganw s111 gav1~ tlwm thn tinbrnakiH', llw No. S snnd in tlw CCII;\ TournamPnl. and. most importantly. homn-kn advantagn in tlw first round nnxt wnnknnd. 
Thn Irish and ninth-snndnd Nanooks will nwnt again in a bost­ol'-thn~n snrins Friday, Saturday and Sunday -if' Iwcnssary -at tlw .Joyco CPntnr. Thn winnor will advancn to tho snmnd round ol' thn toumanwnt to takn on onn of' tho top snnds -Miami of' Ohio, Michigan Stall~. Mir.higan or Northnrn Michigan -who all nanwd opnning round byos in tho 12-toam tournamnnt. 
Thl' Irish scorod thrnn first-pnri­od goals Friday and worn in control fill' most of' thn ganw. Notm Damn lwad coach .lnll' .Jackson said hn ww; plnasnd with his tnam's lilcus allnr a long sdwol day. 
"f'vl' hnnn a lillln concernnd 
about ..our l;rida~ n.!~ht h.omn gamns, .Jackson scud. Somotimns, it's a lillln hard li1r lhmn to rnfileus f'rom school. Most of' our ~-,ruys havn 
a prPtty intnnsn d<L<>S schnduln on Fridays." Thn Irish smrndjust 4:4:3 into lhn ganw as right wing Miehanl 
Bartlett lilllnd thn back of' tho not for thn sneond time this season. Dnfimsmnan Chris Triek brokH his stick and skated toward the Irish bnnd1. Bartlntt jumpnd ovnr tlw boards to roplaen him and round himsdl' in perlhct position to play tho puck. Thn junior llippod a p1L'>S to center l•:rik Condra and cut to the goal, whom Condra lbund him lbr tho 1-0 load. 
;\ li~w minutos latm·, tho Nanooks struck hark. ;\ turnover at center im l!md to a Fairbanks breakaway and clnli~nsornan Stove Vanooston bi<L<>tncl tho puck past Irish goalie Davn Brown l'rom tho lnlt l'aeo-oll' cirdo. 
Notrn Damn answornd at 13:06 and again at 17:55 with goals from its liJurlh line of Evan Hankin, Tony Cill and Carrett Hngan. Jackson said hn W<L'> pln<L<>antly surprised by the lhrnn players, who usually see loss icn timo then tlw first thron linc1s. 
"''ve had those guys tognthnr boforn," Jaekson said. "Garrett Hogan skates really well, Evan Hankin is a tonadous play11r who plays physical, and Tony Gill is prntly smart. so they work well tognther." 
Hankin scornd the first goal. flip­ping tho puck from a snvere anglo bnhind and to tlw left of' Nanook goalie Chad Johnson. The shot hit Johnson in tl1e back and thnn rico­chotnd olr tho post and into tim net to give Notre Dame the load. 
Hngan, a l'rnshman, addnd his third career goal a little under fivn minutes later when ho pundwd a mbound of a Wns O'Neill shot pm>t Johnson. 
That was all the aetion Johnson would son, as lw was pulled in f'avor of sophomom Wylie Hogers f'or tho remainder of tho game. Hogors hnld the Irish sr.omlnss until tho third period, when right wing Tim Wallaeo seored at the 3:49 mark to put Notm I >mnn up 4-1. 
A<> the game was winding down, a seul'l'le took plaee nea-r the Nanook net whieh msultnd in snv­c~ral penalties, including a game miseonduet lbr Triek. Jaekson said a!'tor the game he couldn't see what was going on but was sur­prised that the sonior would bn involvnd in an af'ter-the-whistlo lll11lee. 
"That's out of' his nature," .Jackson said. "He's not taknn a penalty like that while I've been horn." 
Alaska-Fairbanks 2, Notre Dame1 
The Irish struggled to a 2-1 loss to the Nanooks on Saturday night with heavy playofl' implications on tho line. 
Dnfensmnan Tom Sawatskn got lhn Irish an narly lead with his goal only 1:24 into the first period. Notre Dame worked the puek into Alaska-Fairbanks' zonn with a strong l'orecheck. The puek was sent to Bartlntt on top of' the lelt dr­ele, who dished the puek over to Sawatske on the right point. Sawatske steppod towards tho not and sent a low wrist shot into the 1wt past Nanook goaltcmder Wylie Hogors just inside tho right post liw the 1-0 Irish load. 
Alaska-Fairbanks struck less than live minutos latnr, and seorod twicn in a 48-somnd span, starting wi1J1 a goal by loll wing Aaron Lno at (>:10 of' tho first f'ramn. 
;\ neutral zone turnover by thn Irish allowed Curtis Fraser to split through the Notm Damn dnf'nnsn. Fraser -with the Irish defense dose behind -eame down alone on Brown and attacked to the Jel't sidH of the net. Brown eame out aggrossivn with a poke cheek and made thn initial save, but the puek trickled through his pads l.o tlw middle of tlw ernaso. Leo batted thn puek from undHrnnath the logs of' Irish forward Josh Sriba into an open net to tie tim gamo at 1-1. 
"I assume it must have trkkled through my body and went through the other side of the net, because I overeommittod with the poke ehnek, and I thought I rneov­ered," Brown said. "It's rnally frus­trating, you replay it in your mind, maybe what would havn happnnnd if I just playnd him oiw-on-mw." 
Fairbanks' Kyle Grenntren scornd the gamn-winning goal only seconds lal.tH' on an assist from Kelly Czuy. (;rnmltrnn got llw puck at the bottom of' tlw lnll eirdn and wont opposite side with his shot. Thc1 wrist shot li1und tlw bark of' thn not just undnnmath tho !~ross­bar on Brown's glovn sido filr thn eventual 2-1 final. 
"I thought I<L<>t night W<L'i going to bn like tonight, not that we'd win 2­1, but just thn way thn gamn wnnt," AI<L<>ka-Fairhanks !wad maeh 'l)tvis Mac~Millan said. 
Thn rmnaining two-and-a-half' periods romainod a sr.oroloss, dHiimsivo battle bntwonn tho two teams. Tho teams found them­solves at oaeh othors' throats in many post-whistle skirmishes. 
"!The Nanooksl gave us some problmns in their delimsive zone bontusn of' tlwir rPach and their strength," Jackson said of' Notn) Dmne's inability to seorn. 
Brown stood on his lwad to keep the Irish within striking distance throughout the late periods. lie stoppnd 34 out of thn 36 shots hn l'aend, including 14 savns in the third period alone. 
Contact Kyle Cassily and Chris Khorey at kcassily@nd.edu and ckhorey@nd.cdu 
Neal 
continued from page 20 
rushing spndalist. I think that's what tlwy'rp looking f'or when tlwy go al'tl'r a guy likn Knrry NPal." 
., 
. -·. 
• . :.l ~ ... _ 

Thn only other school that oiTernd Neal a scholarship was Wake Forest. Neal said Duke and East Carolina were the only other schools to show substantial inter­ns!. in him. 
Frank said tho limited number of' olli1rs does not mnan Neal is a nwdiocm mcmit. 
"He didn't have a lot of big­name oll'ers, but he just started sending out a lot of' film," Frank said. 
"Thoro am a lot of big-name players that are out there that Coach We is hasn't ofl'ered ynt, and hn's being pieky with who lw's om1ring. And yet he watches INeal'sl film and feels compelled to eall him first thing in the morning. That gives a large indi­cation of how mueh potnntial he has." 
Frank said he nxpoets Noal to stay firm in his commitment and eall othor recruits to inl1uenee thom to eome to Notre Dame. 
"I don't think he's tho typo of' kid who will just eommit and then start looking around again," Frank said. "I think he will be the kind of guy who will stick with his eommitmnnt." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlcr 1 @nd.edu 
:--::--.L n ...'"II ~ .,.
-1 "!

.11 ......,--,,. n~y, 
.....
.;-,"

-. ',, ~ () [) '"' 
7; n fl -f); c1 f) pn1 ·o 'I"heatre .. 
~rt~nte~& 


·. ~.

,~} uu.~t ..·t .;:*" . 
<O\. 

lla1 n~pn..·:~PU.t(~ti\~ 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 27, 2006 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 
Irish fall flat in game they needed the m_ost 
It's time to stop making excuses and start examining what's wrong with Notre Dame. 
The Irish needed to beat Marquette, plain and simple. 
They need­ed to win their remaining three games to ensure a spot in the Big East tournament 


and they Bobby Griffin couldn't do 
Associate

it. Notre 
Sports Editor 

Dame still has a chance, but it will have to win its last two games and deal with potential tiebreaker situa­tions. 
That's not even the worst part. Given Marquette's intensi­ty and Notre Dame's willing­ness to allow its opponent to control the tempo, a casual fan would not have known which team was playing for its post­season life. 
The Irish should have taken charge of this game and played with the sense of urgency a team playing for its postseason life possesses. But instead, the Irish allowed Marquette to play its own style of basketball, and eliminate Notre Dame's major weapon-its 3-point shooting. 
And when the Irish did make a comeback in the second half, all Marquette needed to regain control was a quick 30-second timeout when down five points. From there, forward Steve Novak hit two 3-pointers and Marquette went on a 12-2 run the Irish could not recover from. 
This leads to another issue. Where was Notre Dame's defensive intensity in its biggest game of the season? Sure, the Irish neutralized their oppo­nent's best player for the most part (Steve Novak), but they also allowed career days from lesser-known freshmen and sophomores (Dan Fitzgerald and Jerel McNeal). 
It is no secret Notre Dame struggles on the defensive end. The Irish have the second­worst scoring defense in the Big East behind Providence, giving up 70.5 points per game. This is not going to change. But there are ways to work around specific team weaknesses. 
While Notre Dame gives up a lot of points, the Irish score more than just about anyone. The Irish have the second-best scoring ofl'ense in the Big East behind Villanova and outscore their opponents by 6.2 points per game (seventh in the league). 
But when Marquette shut down Irish guards Colin Falls and Chris Quinn (who shot a combined 3-of-12 from the field), Notre Dame failed to make the necessary offensive adjustments that could have neutralized its lack of defensive stops. 
Well, almost. Notre Dame did begin feeding the ball inside to senior forward Torin Francis, who had his best game of the season, scoring 16 points and grabbing 15 rebounds. Francis was a force in the paint and continued to show improve­ment in his ability to cn•ate for himself and his teammates. 
But once Marquette retook the lead in the second half, the Irish panicked on the offensive end. They went away from working through Francis (besides guard Kyle McAlarney, who looked inside all game) and settled on quick shots, even though Marquette was smoth­ering Notre Dame's perimeter shooters (the Golden Eagles had the 6-foot-10 Novak on the 6-foot-1 Quinn during spurts). 
This begs a question, too. Why did Notre Dame get away from what was working (feed­ing the ball inside to Francis) when it was trying to save its season? 
As difficult as it is to say given his high character and leadership, some of this blame has to rest on Quinn's shoul­ders. When a team is winning, the best player gets much of the credit. likewise, when a team is losing, the same player bears much of the responsibili­ty. 
Quinn was pressing against Marquette, desperate to get a necessary conference win and fight the demons that must be present in his mind. Quinn has missed the big shot on several occasions this season and it has to weigh on him mentally. 
But this issue extends far past this season alone. If Quinn had been the starting point guard before his senior year, he would not be in the position of having to lead a team while try­ing to figure out how to handle the daily pressure of being the main guy on and off the court. 
Is it head coach Mike Brey's fault? Maybe a little, but it is way more complex than blam­ing a coach who after a Sweet 16 appearance in 2003 was one of the hottest names in the country. Maybe the Irish coach places too much faith in his players and takes a backseat once the game begins. But that's not necessarily a bad thing either-he has confi­dence in his team and knows ultimately his team's perform­ance will come down to execu­tion. 
There's also another way to look at it. Maybe this is not the right approach with this specif­ic group. Maybe Brey needs to take charge and not defer to his captains in game situations. 
Either way, it is too early to call for the coach's head. Let this season play out and see how he develops a new crop of underclassmen that will not burdened by the lasting impact of an underachieving point guard who is now playing in Europe. 
But time is running out, and Notre Dame's season now comes down to two remaining games. It's too late for the Irish to control their own destiny ­they will need help from other teams at the bottom of the con­ference. 
But at the end of the day, Notre Dame's loss to Marquette was just another chapter in a season full of confusion and disappointment. A season that unless something changes in the next week. someone has to begin taking responsibility for. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Bobby Griffin at rgrij]i3@nd.edu 
Eagles 
continued from page 20 
points from forward Steve Novak and 18 from freshman point guard Dominic James. 
The Irish (13-12, 4-10 Big East) fell to No. 15 the in con­ference standings and must win their remaining two games to have a chance at qualifying for the Big East tournament March 8. The Golden Eagles (19-8, 9-5) improved their con­ference record and remain No. 5 in the conference. 
Marquette won the first meeting between the two teams in Milwaukee, Wise., 6 7­65, on a contested last-second shot by Novak Jan. 20. But on Saturday, the Golden Eagles played their game and were shooting foul shots at the end instead of sinking game-win­ners. 
''I'd rather get blown out by 20 than [have] a team just take it from us," freshman point guard Kyle McAlarney said after playing the most produc­tive game of his young Notre Dame career (14 points, 6-of­12 shooting, eight assists, two turnovers). 
Marquette permanently regained momentum with a 9-0 second half run behind three straight 3-pointers -one from Dan Fitzgerald (10 points). two from Novak. The Golden Eagles led 60-56 after Novak's second three fell with 5:57 remaining, despite Notre Dame having built a 56-51 advantage coming out of a 49-49 tie at the 10:58 television timeout. 
"We just had some posses­sions there -both defensively and offensively -after we were up five, [in which] we did­n't get the job done," Irish point guard Chris Quinn said. "And to beat a team like Marquette, you've got to be good in those situations." 
Notre Dame never recovered, though it had a chance. Guard Russell Carter sank two free throws with 3:31 left to cut the Golden Eagles lead to 63-60, and Marquette guard Jerel McNeal missed a shot to give the Irish the ball and a chance to draw closer or tie. 
But one shot clock violation and a turnover later, the Irish saw McNeal follow a Novak miss to send Marquette back up five and out of South Bend with a victory. 
"It hurts," Quinn said of the loss, "but a lot of them hurt." 
Notre Dame lost despite receiving a double-double from forward Tarin Francis by half­time, the first time the senior has accomplished the feat before the half. Francis had 10 points and 12 rebounds at the break but finished with 16 points and 15 rebounds, the most boards by an Irish player in one game this season. 
Notre Dame got away from the inside game down the stretch. Forward Rick Cornett also played only six minutes after making major contribu­tions in a near-upset of No. 3/4 Connecticut Tuesday. And despite McAlarney's perform­ance, the guards struggled as a group, and Notre Dame's offense paid for it. 
Marquette held Quinn (12 points, two assists, four turnovers) to 3-of-12 shooting, and Irish sharpshooter Colin Falls -who averaged 14.6 points before Saturday -did not score until he made two inconsequential foul shots with 
34.1 seconds remaining in the entire game. 
"We subbed [Quinn and Falls] a little bit, tried to loosen them up, rotated them out, just tried anything to change the atmos­phere," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "We need their legs back under them [for the next two games]. 
"I was very matter-of-fact 

with them in the locker room. Obviously we need some help [to qualify for the Big East tournament] now, but we're staring at having to win a tiebreaker with Providence on Wednesday." 
Marquette opened a 14-9 lead with 15:16 remaining in the first half by pushing the tempo and keeping Notre Dame on their heels, as Brey said afterwards, on defense. Notre Dame then scored four straight to cut the lead to one, but the Golden Eagles pulled away and maintained a lead that fluctu­ated between two and seven points until McAlarney hit a three with 5:25 left in the half to cut the lead to 27-26. 
Carter made a three to take a 29-27 Irish lead out of a Marquette timeout, and the Irish led with 3:21 remaining. But the Golden Eagles went on a 9-6 run to end the half, including a last-second lay up from Fitzgerald to send the Irish into halftime down 38-35. 
"If we would have limited transition, I think we would have been in better shape at halftime," Brey said. "We even­tually adjusted to that, but it kind of punched you first." 
Notre Dame players now face the reality of possibly seeing no postseason action at all. 
"You want to say, 'Don't worry about that. We just gotta get ready for Providence again,"' McAlarney said. "But it's really hard not to focus on that because this is what we've been playing for, [what] we've been working for all season, and now it's almost like our chances are going down. 
"But we've just got to keep working, keep bouncing back, because after all the stuff we've been through, I think we can bounce back better than anybody." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

qntr o~ectlon and21st-Ceniury qnie[feciua[ 
Li_fe 

A Series ofLenten and Easter Fireside Chats withthe Dean ofthe FirstYearofStudies 
Coleman -Morse Center First Floor lDunge 
TOPICS 

Journals, Notebooks, and "Aha Moments" 28 February 200 6 5-5:30PM 
life Beyond "IM," "Facebook,"and CellPho nes-Silence, Selective Disengagement, and Self Discovery • 7 Mtrch 200 6 5-5:30PM 
Liberal Learning and Rea ding as Spiritual Disciplines 22 March 200 6 5-5:30 PM 
Creating a "Personal" University -Mento ring Relationships and the Life of the Mind 29 ]\{arch 2006 5-5:30PM 
Lectures, Symposia, and "Starbuck's"-Intellectual Growth B ey ond the Classroom 5 April 2006 5-5:30 PM 
Books, Films, ,\rt,and l'viusic -Your Lifetime Conversation Partners 12 April 2006 5-5:30PM 
l'ormulating a Three-Year U nde rgradu ate Learning Plan 19 ~\pri 1 200 6 5-5:30PM 


Monday, February 27, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
PE~HAP.S 'JOU':b l..\\<.E. US. lo IE-1..1.. 'f0\..1. ABOUT OUK Pl...ATF"o~M 1r-1 ou~ HIP, 
'jE.'T (<.E.l..A~Et>, '-/~T 
~FESSIONI>-1...., 'JE-T 1-\ I P 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+=+:::+:,;.t 10 Person using a library card 11 Less wordy 12 Stock page heading: Abbr. 13 "For shame!" 18 Rude .-:.;++.:-! 22 Brit. legislators 24 Semimonthly tide 25 Joins up 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
?o~-ruF-E... 
55 Makes, as a salary 57 MOeslix alternative 60 "The final frontier" 61 Meadowlands pace 62 fixe (obsession) 63 Belief 64 Trig function 65 Boys 
DOWN 1 Deep in thought 2 Goes by, as 
time 3 Put in place 4 Prefix with 
-hedron 5 Jail cell parts 6 Vase 7 Maiden name 
preceder aActivity with . chops and kicks 9 Early fur trader John Jacob 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

l-\AF-'D 'To WAI.-¥.. IHR-OU.0H DOOI':.'S.. 'WE. 'WE..F-E.. OUTSIDE:, FoR -rwo HOuR~ UNTIL. '-JIJE. \MI'LE ME 1'-rn::.t> OUR S\t£.WP..'jS IN\\\ p.:"f\\1€. Pl.-P..N · 
WILLSHORTZ 


26 Rage 27 Lunar New Year 30 Tennis court call 34 Under 35 Pain in the neck 3610U 37 White wine 
cocktail 38 _Juan, P.R. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
39 "Roll Over 50 Beginning Beethoven" grp. 
52 Lubricate again 40 Healthful cereal 
54 Pot starter 
grain 55 N.Y.C. winter42 Front porch 

clock setting 43 Liqueur flavoring 
56 King Kong, e.g. 44 Overnight flights 
58 Spoonbender 46 Back, at sea Geller 
47 Teases 59 Coal unit 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-· 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ENDOM 
1 
rJ 

«:>2006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SNIFI 
riJ tJ 
HOB LED 
[IJ tJ 
www.jumble.com
tSLOMBY t 
J I I IJ 

A:"[ I I I J-ITJ"[ I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  I  Jumbles: Answer·.  ELDER UTTER FARINA DISOWN Why it was easy for the tailor to measure the king  
-HE WAS A "RULER"  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HOJ{N ON THIS DAY: Taylor Dooley, 13: Erykah Badu, 35: 
Mark Dacascos, 42: Michael Bohon, 52 
H11ppy Uirthd11y: Don'! question yourself or hold hack hccausc someone doesn't agree with what you want to l)o. Satisfy your own needs in order to lind happiness. Life isn't ah(ml passing the time away--it's ahoul doing something rewarding that 
. you can he proud of. Your numbers arc I0. 17, 2K, 34. 39. 45 ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Mingle any network today--an opportunity will take you hy surprise. Lei others know your aspirations and how you plan to get what you want. Your involvement in active groups will allow you to demonstrate your talents. **** TAURUS (April 20-MIIy 20): Partners may cause you to lose sleep, money or both. Cover yourself from unprcdictahlc offenses. Do not sign contracts unless you arc sure of what you arc gelling. Someone will use it against you if you arc open ahout personal prohlcms. ** GEMINI (MIIy 21-.lune 20): You'll he more relaxed and lind it easier to take care of mall~rs that relate to projects you want to pursue. A problem with an acquaintance or partner may leave you wondering if you need lo make a change. Begin lo enhance your physical strength with exercise. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don'llakc what others think or say to heart. Holding hack or not following through with your goals because of someone else would he a mistake. Take a chance on yourself and your anilities and you won't he disappointed.*** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Stop second-guessing what to do or who to Jo things with. Make a commitment. Pleasure trips will tum nul to be beuer than antidpatecl. You can catch up on your correspondence and reading and pick up valuahlc inform;J.lion. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): A relationship is likely to cause you some concern today. Consider if this person is worth all the aggravation. If you arc single or wanting to move on with your life, now is a great time lo get out and meet people who interest you. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful how you handle friends and family today. You may give the wrong impression if you arc too friendly or not friendly enough. You will walk a line line so maintain balance and you will prohahly end up pleasing everyone. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't take on too many responsihilitics. Gelling involved in the personal lives of others will lead to douhlc-trouhlc. Protect yourself from those who would like to meJdle. Be careful what you say lo whom. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>ec. 21): A lillie time spent with friends or traveling ahout visiting will do you some good. The intimnation you acquire will help you make a personal decision. Someone in your family is likely to Jivulge infonnation ahou.t your past you were trying to forget. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk about your plans an<l gather all the feedhack you can. The more information you gather, the heller equipped you will he to make the right decision. You can make extra cash with small investment opportunities.*** AQUARIUS (,Jan. 20-Feh. Ill): Family issues and personal mailers will surface. Don'tlet your emotions run wild or you will make a mistake that can't he rectified. Assess your situation without overreacting or hlaming others. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Using force or emotional manipulation isn't likely to get you very far today. You will have to tell it like it is and suffer whatever consequences come your way. Being insin<:ere or skirting issues will only make matters worse. *** Hirthd11y Baby: You have a very vivid imagination and the ability to envision the impossible and turn it into reality. You arc creative, innovative and very pushy .when you want to gel things done. 
Eugenia's Web sites: a.\·troadvice.comforfun, C'UJ.wnialcut.comforcmifid<•ntial crmsu/tatirms 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHAT THE: COB­BLE:R DID ON A HOT, HUMID DAY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Persistent annoyer 5 Upper or lower bed 
9 Monastery head 14 Author Wiesel 15 Geometry 
calculation 16 Does a prelaundry chore 17 Leader of an 1831 slave 
rebellion 19" or treat?" 20 Rejects, as a 
lover 21 "That's (Dean Martin classic) 23 1960's-70's singer Hayes 24 Bottom line, businesswise 28 Dobbin's doc 
29 Actresses Graff and Kristen 
31 " numbe*r one!" (stadium chant) 
32 Suffix with Brooklyn 
33 Meat that's often served piccata 
34 Tete topper 
35 Faultfinder extraordinaire 
38 1988 Summer Olympics city 
41 It may be kicked in anger 42 Alt. spelling 45 Jai 
46 Duds 48 Opposite WSW 49 "Slow down!" 51 Ban rival 
53 African language 54 "Relax, soldier!" 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 27, 2006 
page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Neal becomes first 2011 commitment 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got its first verbal commitment of the class of 2011 Feb. 23 when 6-foot-2, 225­pound defensive end Kerry Neal told Irish coach Charlie Weis he would accept a scholarship offer. 
"I always wanted to go to Notre Dame," Neal said in a telephone interview with The Observer Sunday. "I plan on coming up [to visit] during spring practice." 

Neal, a junior at Bunn High School in Bunn, N.C., said he has never visited Notre Dame or any other schools in the Midwest, but accepted Weis' offer after return­ing a call Weis left on his high school coach's voicemail early Thursday morning. He said he was speechless when Weis made 
the offer. Neal said Weis was confident he could succeed at Notre Dame. 
"He was like, 'I've been around athletes, and I know one when I see one. And you're one,"' Neal said. 
Along with his admiration for the school, Neal said his family supports his choice of Notre Dame. 
"My (amily, they're behind me 100 percent," he said. 

Mike Frank of IrishEyes.com said Neal has not been rated by most recruiting services yet but will bring a defmite edge to the Irish defensive line. 
"l-Ie's a tremendous prospect," Frank said. "Notre Dame has a lot of defensive ends, but I don't know if they have that true pass 
see NEAL/page 1 7 
HOCKEY 

Northern exposure 
Squad secures eighth spot, home ice in first round of the playoffs 
By KYLE CASSILY and 
CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Writers 
Notre Dame and Alaska­Fairbanks left the last regular-sea­son weekend as they entered it ­deadlocked for the eighth spot in the CCHA -after the two teams split their series with a 4-1 Irish win and a 2-1 Nanooks victory. 
Notre Dame (13-17 -4, 11-13-4 in the CCHA) however, had reason to smile Sunday morning as their 5-3 
see NANOOKS/page 17 


ERIN VRANISH!The Observer Defenseman Tom Sawatske heads up the ice during Notre Dame's 4-1 victory over Ferris State Feb. 10 at the Joyce Center. The Irish split two games with Alaska-Fairbanks this weekend. 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Buckeyes stun1ble vs. squad 
Irish knock of! Ohio State in front of big Gold Game crowd 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

Despite a lopsided loss in doubles, the Irish rebounded to saddle Ohio State with il<> first loss this season in a 5-2 match at the Eck Tennis Pavilion Friday. 
Before an enthusiastic home crowd, the No. 26 Irish reeled oil' four straight singles wins at Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 6 to clinch the match over the No. 11 Buckeyes. 
''I'm really excited about beating a team this good," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "And the thing that is especial­ly gratifying is the number of tough matches we had to play." 
The Buckeyes came into the match 9-0 after an upset of then-Top 10 LSU. The team was 3-0 against Top 20 teams, while the Irish were 0-4. 
"I felt that we were playing at a high enough level to beat teams in the Top 10, and we just didn't get it done, and that the wins would come," Bayliss 
see BUCKEYES/page 16 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Gaines, Duffy lift thE~ Irish to 75-66 OT wirt 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Decked out in its new green away jerseys, Notre Dame used a little luck of the Irish Saturday to pull off a dramatic win over Cincinnati in a crucial conference contest on the Bearcats' senior day. 
Irish guard Tulyah Gaines hit a running layup from the right side off an inbounds play to tie the game as time expired in regula­tion, and Megan Dufl)"s 10 points in the extra session led Notre Dame (16-10, 7-8 Big East) to a 75-66 overtime victory. 
"That's a play we practice a lot 

BASEBAll 
Oklahoma 4 Notre Dame 3 
Jeff Manship's eight strikeouts weren't enough as the Irish fell to the Sooners Sunday. 
page 15 

when we go through game situa­tions a lot," Gaines said of the buzzer beater. "They weren't on me, and Lindsay did a great job of finding me [after] Courtney threw a great pass." 
After Bearcats guard Treasure Humphries broke a 55-55 tie by hitting a jump shot from 12 feet with 2.4 ·seconds remaining in regulation, Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw called a timeout to set up her offense against Cincinnati (17-9, 7 -8). 
Gaines took a Lindsay Schrader tip courtesy of Courtney LaVere's inbounds pass, drove to the lane, elevated and hit the leaning layup 
see BEARCATS/page 16 
ND WOMEN'S TENNiS 
Notre Dame 6 Wisconsin 1 
The Irish downed the Badgers Sunday to improve to 9-0 for the first time since 1984-85. 
page 15 MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Postseason hopes take hit 
No Novak necessary for Eagles to come out on top of ND 
By PAT LEONARD Sporrs Writer 
Marquette completed a season s e r i e s See Also sweep of 
"Irish fall flat
N o t r e 
D a m e in game they Saturday needed the most". night with an 80-72 page 18 win at the Joyce Center behind 21 
see EAGLES/page 18 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Notre Dame 8 Penn State 4 
Freshmen Peter Christman and Ryan Hoff both scored a pair of goals in the victory Sunday. 
page 14 

ND SOfTBAll 
Fla. International 5 Notre Dame 4 
Freshmen pitcher Brith1ey Bargar paid for a costly error as the Irish fell Saturday. 
page 14 


FENCING 
The Irish finished sec­ond in the 16-team field during the Midwest Conference Championships this weekend at the Joyce Center. 
page 12 
MEN'S GOLF 

The Irish kick off spring competition at the Lexus Naples Intercollegiate Invitational in Florida today. 
page 12 




