
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 125 THURSDAY, APRIL 20,2006 
Pope cotnpletes first year as Church leader 
Notre Dame scholars praise Benedict XVI 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Ediror 
One year ago Wednesday, white smoke billowed from the small chimney atop the Sistine Chapel as the bells of St. Peter's Basilica tolled -a beacon for the world marking the introduction of the new leader of the Catholic Church. 
The world looked on in anx­ious anticipation as Cardinal Jorge Medina Estevez announced on April 19, 2005 that after only two days of conclave meetings Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger of Germany would become the next pope. 
The discussion and debate surrounding the leadership role of the next Holy Father that ensued in the 17 short days after Pope John Paul II's death reached its peak as the traditionally conservative cardinal became Pope Benedict XVI -the leader of the Catholic world. 
Controversy swirled amongst Catholics and non­Catholics alike as they ques­tioned the leadership role a then 78-year-old Church doc­trine-abiding pope could pro­vide the complex and ever-
see POPE/page 10 



CLAP, University face wage issue 
Economics professor explains unionization 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Ediror 
Adding a scholarly voice to the Campus Labor Action Project's campaign for a living wage for Notre Dame workers, economics professor Teresa Ghilarducci argued Wednesday that CLAP's demand for a $12.10 hourly wage will be most effective when combined with a union neutrality clause. 
"They are inseparable, but if we were to only choose one, the one demand that would have the most lasting effect on the standard of living for Notre Dame employees would be the union neutrality clause," Ghilarducci said. 
see CLAP/page 11 


Affleck-Graves backs existing policies 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Ediror 
Maintaining the University already provides a "fair and just wage" for its employees, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves issued a statement Wednesday in response to the Campus Labor Action Project's recent appeal for a $12.10 hourly wage for campus workers. 
"In addition to their base wages, employees at Notre Dame also earn a host of additional benefits, all of which add up to a compen­sation package that makes Notre Dame the employer of choice for workers in this 
see STATEMENT/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ebersol to 
•

again go on 'Oprah' 
Former student will discuss upcomingfilm 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 

Notre Dame graduate Charlie Ebersol will appear on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" this afternoon to discuss his docu­mentary film, "lthuteng" ­approximately two months after a emotional first appear­ance where he and his family discussed the death of his youngest brother, Teddy Ebersol. 
Ebersol's film follows the lives of four students for two weeks at Ithuteng Trust, a school in Soweto, South Africa. One woman runs the school of 6,500 students, whose popula­tion includes rapists, murder­ers and rape victims, Ebersol said. lthuteng, which means "never stop learning," is the only school in Africa with a 100 percent -graduation and retention rate. 
The film will be presente.d at the Tribeca Film Festival May 2 and will air December 2 on HBO. 
Ebersol shot the film during the summer between his soph­omore and junior years at Notre Dame. He said he decid­ed to chronicle lthuteng's unique story in a film after interviewing a student who attended the school. 
"At the end of the interview he just looked right into the camera and said 'I'm going to change the world,' and I just 
see EBERSOL/page 6 


'College town' survey to seek student input 
Leaders want to give developer data results 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
Student government mem­bers are gathering data for developers to help create a "College Town" tailored to the needs of Notre Dame students -specifically, getting to and finding off-campus entertain­ment. 
"It is difficult, especially for off-campus students without a vehicle," student body pres­ident Lizzi Shappell said. 
Shappell, former student body president Dave Baron, 
former Senate Residence Life committee chair Mark Seiler and senior business major Brett Hummel began commu­nicating with marketing pro­fessor Tim Gilbride last December to organize an effort to gather student feed­back. 
Seiler said Gilbride helped the students conduct market research to determine what Notre Dame students would want to see in neighborhood development projects. The group then met and brain­stormed about what it would like to see in neighborhood development projects and what other students might want. 
see TOWNIpage 9 

College offers summer session 
Students enroll in 'Got Three Weeks? Get Three Credits' program 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writer 

While the end of the aca­demic year is rapidly approaching for most college students, those enrolled in the Saint Mary's summer session are gearing up for the three­week intensive program, now 
. in its second year at the College. 
Saint Mary's offers the ses­sion, called "Got Three Weeks? Get Three Credits," to both male and female students beginning May 22. Select courses require four to six weeks for completion. 
"We have had a summer ses­sion for a number of years, but 
see SUMMER/page 10 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 20, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Borrovved fan1e 
Nestled in the corner of the food 
court of Midway Airport is a tiny bar 
called Heilly's Daughter Irish Pub. 
It's namnd after me. 
No, it's actually not. But it could 
be. I am Heilly's 
daughter. 
Kaitlynn Riely 
Actually, I am 
Hiely's daughter, 
but you can't tell News 
that unless you Production 
sec it in writing. Editor 
Even though I 
have no connec­
tion whatsoever to Reilly or his 
daughter, I still like to share in the 
family business. And by share in the 
family business, I mean just sit out­
side the pub, in the general eating 
area, and drink a Coke while I plan 
for my Heilly's Daughter post-21 
bash. 
Originally, I thought I would only be able to share in the successful ventures of my extended family when I travel through Midway airport. But over the past few months, I have eome to realize that Notre Dame is one of the best places on Earth to find my last name. I have searched throughout the campus for buildings and programs with the Hiely/Heilly/Hiley namesake to claim as my own, and I must say I've been quite successful in digging up my family's impressive contributions to the University. 
Hiley I fall of Art and Design: I h'avn no talent whatsoevnr in art or design, but this is just a minor detail. I plan to take up pottery and spend my days slaving over a pottery whnnl. When my fellow pottery mak­ers (potters?) eomment on my last name. as they surely will, I will tell them a grandiose tale involving clay, paint, and my great grandfather, for whom the building is named. Why the difference in spelling? Well, peo­ple arc always misspelling my name. My great grandfather was used to it. 
Heilly Visitation Weekend: I will immerse myself in this annual event by inserting into the weekend's itin­erary a meet and greet with the niece of the weekend's founder. I may not have gotten a 1550 on my SAT, and I may not have an accept­ance letter from Princeton, but my uncle did pay for you all to come here. 
Huth Riley, former NO women's basketball player: She's my sister. She's doing well. Yes, I am a lot shorter than she is. And I do hear that quite often. 
Heilly Center for Science, Technology, and Values: Everyone who meets me comments on my wide breadth of knowledge in science, my firm grasp on technology and my deep-seeded values. So it should come as no surprise that this center was founded by my first cousin, who ehanged the spelling of his name for legal purposes. 
Enjoy the contributions of my fami­ly to this University. And next time you fly out of Midway, stop by my Irish pub. You can tell them you know Hiely's daughter. 
Contact Kaitl!/nn Riely at 
kriely@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF POPE BENEDICT XVI? 






Casey Scott Catherine Hake Katie Rossi Michael Scully Reed Fabek Tony Salplno 
junior freshman senior senior senior sophomore Pasquerilla East Breen-Phillips off-campus off-campus off-campus Keough 
"He's a little too "He's kind of "I forgot he "! like eggs "I love that he ''I'm still 
,

conservative for old and existed." benedict more. shortened his disappointed I me. German. , robe to show off wasn't elected 
Comedian named world's unsexiest man 
BOSTON -Comedian Gilbert Gottfried, the voice of the Aflac Inc. duck in tel­evision commercials for the insurer, was crowned "unsexiest man in the world" by an alternative newspaper on Tuesday. 
"The parrot-voiced, pick­le-faced comic is to sexy what Kryptonite is to Superman," The Boston Phoenix wrote. 
New York Yankees pitcher Randy Johnson came in second followed by film crit­ic Roger Ebert, television psychologist Dr. Phil McGraw and Fox television 
TODAY 
0::: 
1.&.1 
:::c 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
....... <C 
(,.) 
0 


his red Versace pope. 

job, he'd much rather be a hockey player. 
Harper, whose Conserv­atives won the January 23 election, is a huge fan of the sport and is writing a book about its early history. He also tries to catch all the games his young son Ben plays in. 
"I love my job as prime minister, but if you could be a hockey player, I mean, what could be better than that?" Harper said in an interview with sports chan­nel TSN due to be aired later this week. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
co-host Alan Colmes. Even actor Brad Pitt made the list, as the newspaper's 100th-least sexy man. 
Osama bin Laden clocked in at number eight. 
George Steinbrenner, owner of the Yankees ­arch-rivals to the Boston Red Sox --also made the list. "Come on, we live in Boston, you knew it was coming," the Phoenix said. 
PM would rather be a hockey player 
OTTAWA -Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper says that while run­ning the world's second largest country isn't a bad 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 70 HIGH 57 HIGH 60 HIGH 54
..J 
LOW 42 LOW 50 LOW 42 LOW 40 
shoes." 
IN BRIEF 

"Exiles," a French and Arabic language film with English subti­tles, is showing today at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for all students, and can be purehased by calling 1-2800. 
The SUB Movie of the Week, "King Kong," is showing in DeBartolo 101 at 10 p.m. today, Friday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. and 4:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturday. Tickets are $3. 
The 2006 design for "The Shirt Project" will be unveiled at 12 
p.m. Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Shirts will be available for purchase immediately after the event. 
The Irish men's baseball team will face Rutgers Friday at 6:05 
p.m. in Frank Eck Stadium. 

Madeline Janis-Aparicio, co­founder and executive director of the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy, will present two lectures on social justice and service on Friday. The first will be at 11 a.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy and the second will be at 2 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo. 
The Irish women's softball team will take on Villanova in a doubleheader Saturday at 11 
a.m. and 1 p.m. at Ivy Field. 

Notre Dame will hold its sec­ond annual Eucharistic Procession on Divine Mercy Sunday. The procession will set out from the Basilica of the Sacred Heart immediately fol­lowing the 11:45 a.m. Mass. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
(f 


HIGH 60 HIGH 65 LOW 40 LOW 40 
Atlanta 79 I 61 Boston 62 I 49 Chicago 68 I 47 Denver 64 I 27 Houston 88 I 67 Los Angeles 77 156 Minneapolis 56 1 43 New York 75 I 55 Philadelphia 78 I 50 Phoenix 93 I 63 Seattle 59 I 45 St. Louis 71 I 52 Tampa 85 I 67 Washington 79 1 52 

~~--­

Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Professor, author vvill give Madeleva Lecture 
Spirituality forum to kick off today at SMC 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Dr. Susan A. Ross, a profes­sor of theology at Loyola University Chicago, will pres­ent the 2006 Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality today at 7:30 
p.m. in Little Theatre at the Moreau Center for the Arts. 
"[Rossi brings a feminist cri­tique to theologies that roman­ticize or demonize the feminine as a symbol of heavenly or pro­fane beauty," the lecture pro­gram states. 
In her lecture, entitled "For the Beauty of the Earth: Women, Sacramentality and Justice," Ross will argue that it is both appropriate and just that women's ways of seeing and doing be valued as well as men's in the Church and in the world. 
Ross has authored three books, including "Extravagant Affections: A Feminist Sacramental Theology," as well as numerous journal articles on the topic of women in the Church, feminist ethics and theology. 
Each year, the Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality (CFS) ­created in 1985 to continue focus of mature theological thought at the College ­selects a prominent female scholar to address the commu­nity through the Madeleva Lecture in Spirituality. 
"These women are stellar examples pf how to integrate faith and human reason," CFS director Kathleen Dolphin said. 
This year will mark the 21st anniversary of the Madeleva series and returns to the tradi­tion of featuring a solo lectur­er. Last year's address, entitled "Vatican II Forty Years Later: Legacy, Leadership, and Unfinished Business," included several Madeleva scholars and marked the College's yearlong celebration of the 40th anniversary of the Vatican II decisions. 
"[These lectures] give a strong signal that we're talking about a post-Vatican II Church here, and the strongest voice for change in the Church is our Madeleva lectures," Dolphin said. 
The Madeleva Lectures in Spirituality were named to honor Sister Madeleva Wolff, who served as Saint Mary's president from 1934 to 1961. Wolff inaugurated the Graduate School of Sacred Theology, which was the first woman's program in Catholic theology. 
"She was a woman of vision, imagination and courage," Dolphin said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOI @saintmarys.edu 
STUDENT SENATE 



Metnbers focus on fall projects 
The Shirt representatives attend meeting, explain goals to group 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Editor 

With the semester winding down, Wednesday's meeting of the Student Senate was a brief affair, as most committees are focused on brainstorming proj­ects for the fall. 
With no new or old business on the floor, the most exciting moment of the evening came when it was brought to the attention of chair of the over­sight committee Chris Hollon ­who was running the meeting in place of the absent president Lizzi Shappell and vice president Bill Andrichik -that the Student Union Constitution stat­ed that in the event the presi­dent and vice president were both absent, the meeting chair was to be elected by the group. Hollon had been "entrusted to run the meeting by [Shappell]," he said, but offered the other senators a chance to nominate someone else. 
Amidst laughter, Hollon him­selfwas nominated and elected. 
Shappell showed up after her Bookstore Basketball game in time to adjourn the meeting. 
At the start of the meeting, president of The Shirt commit­tee Richard Fox and Allison Baranay, also of The Shirt com­mittee, spoke to senators about The Shirt project and the unveil­ing scheduled for Friday. 

Fox also explained where the profits of The Shirt sales go ­something he said many stu­dents don't know. 
"A lot of people don't realize that there is a part of The Shirt beyond what you see at football games," Fox said. "It unifies the student body, and that's great, but it is also a student-run organization that helps fund a lot of student activities." 
Fifty percent of the The Shirt profits go to The Shirt Charity Fund, which helps offset med­ical costs for students in need. Within the Charity Fund itself, a portion of the money goes to The Rector Fund, which helps pay for more day-to-day expens­es, like football tickets or class rings for those who can't afford them, Fox said. 
The other half of the profits supplements the student activi­ties fee budget -comprising 20 percent ofthat budget, Fox said. 
"I just wanted to make you aware of how much The Shirt actually benefits students," he said. 
Baranay said the official unveiling of the 2006 The Shirt will take place at noon on Friday at the Bookstore. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND CULTURE'S CATHOLIC CULTURE SERIES PRESENTS: 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
OIN 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Catholic Q&A 
What is aEucharistic Procession? 
Eucharistic Processions are an extension of the practice of Eucharistic Adoration. Eucharistic Adoration is the spiritual discipline of spending time in contemplation and worship of Jesus Christ fully present under the appearance of bread and wine in the Eucharist, which is reserved in the tabernacles of Catholic churches and chapels. The belief in this "Real Presence" of Christ in the Eucharist grew out of the writings of St. Paul and the four Gos­pel authors. Their teaching made it clear to the early Church, as Fr. John Hardon relates, that "the Eucharistic elements were literally Je­sus Christ continuing His saving mission among [His people].'' The practice of praying before the reserved Sacrament in the tabernacle or exposed in a monstrance (a vessel used to hold the Eucharist for public viewing) developed in the eleventh century and has continued to be popular ever since. 
Eucharistic Processions give Christians a unique opportunity to give public witness to their faith in Jesus Christ and their devotion to the Eucharist, which is the very source and summit of the Catho­lic Faith. Immediately following Mass, the Eucharist is placed in a monstrance which the priest then carries in procession, followed by the congregation singing devotional hymns. Altar servers lead the procession with cross, candles, and incense, and often support a canopy over the priest and monstrance to further honor the Eucha­rist. After leaving the church, the procession normally stops at four separate altars, where prayers and Scripture readings are offered. At each altar, the priest blesses those present with the Eucharist be­fore the procession moves on. After the fourth altar, the procession returns to the church where the priest reposes the Blessed Sacrament in the tabernacle. 
As this Sunday marks the Second Annual Notre Dame Eu­charistic Procession following the 11 :45 AM Mass at the Basilica, you may see the procession as it moves through campus. Feel free to join in, as all are welcome to participate! If you happen to en­counter the Procession but cannot participate, common practice is to genuflect or kneel out of respect for the Eucharist, until the proces­sion has passed. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! . 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo

Campus Ministry 
Web 

Mazie Tsang is this week's featured "Live It" person. Sunday April 2was abig day for Mazie. It was that Sunday, at the II :45am Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, that Mazie became Catholic. She received her First Communion and was confirmed along with 12 other Candidates. During her journey this year Mazie has shared her truly inspiring faith at different times to many people involved in the RCI 
program. It was for this reason that mul­tiple members of the Campus Ministry nominated her to be featured this week. 
Mazie has certainly made her faith journey her own through the many activi­ties she is involved in. This year Mazie is on the Liturgy Committee for Farley Hall, which allows her to be involved in many different aspects of hall spiritual life. She serves as a lector for Farley Hall Masses and also participates in the Farley Hall Emmaus group. Mazie has also recently begun serving as an usher at the Basilica. I cannot think of a more hospitable presence than asmiling Mazie Tsang at the doors of the Basilica welcoming those who come to worship. Anyone who has had the privi­lege of meeting Mazie certainly under­stands what I mean. 
Mazie, thank you for sharing a part of your life with us. You serve to remind everyone of the presence of the Holy Spirit in this Easter season, especially as 16 more Catechumens were received into the Church at the Easter Vigil last Saturday. We in Campus Ministry support you and 
for you as you begin this new journey 
Let us know who out there 
is making adifference! 
Send nominations to 
Brian Vassel at 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Rocket blast hits near U.S . Embassy 
KABUL, Afghanistan-A massive explosion believed to have been caused by a rocket shook the Afghan capital late Wednesday near the U.S. Embassy compound, wounding an Afghan security contractor, officials said. 
U.S. Embassy spokesman Lou Fintor said the blast did not occur on embassy property, and no Americans were injured. Staff mem­bers rushed to a bunker in the compound after the 11 p.m. blast. 
"All embassy personnel are safe and accounted for," Fintor told The Associated Press in a telephone interview. 
A U.S. counterterrorism official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because it is still early in the investigation, said the southwest side of the U.S. Embassy's compound was among the buildings struck in the rocket attack. 
President: Oil price below true value 
TEHRAN, Iran -Wading into oil politics for the first time, Iran's hard-line president said Wednesday that crude oil prices -now at record levels -still are below their true value. 
In statements likely to rattle world oil mar­kets, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad also said developed countries, not producing countries like Iran, are benefiting the most from the current high prices. 
"The global oil price has not reached its real value yet. The products derived from crude oil are sold at prices dozens of times higher than those charged by oil-producing countries," state-run Tehran radio quoted Ahmadinejad as saying. 
"The developed nations are the biggest beneficiary of the added value of oil prod­ucts," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rice: No 'V-E Day' coming to Iraq 
CHICAGO -Even assuming Iraq forms a national government, there will be no immediate end to the violence, nothing like V-E Day mark­ing World War II's end in Europe, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Wednesday. 
Peace will come gradually to Iraq, more than three years after the U.S.-led invasion in March 2003, she said at the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations. 
"Americfl,ns must be prepared for violence to continue in Iraq, even after a government is formed. There will be no Iraqi equivalent ofV-E Day or V-J Day," Rice said. Those are the days of Victory in Europe and Victory in Japan in 1945. 

Senators urge for deadline extension 
WASHINGTON -Forty-eight of the 100 sena­tors urged Republican leaders and the Bush administration on Wednesday to allow people more time to sign up for the Medicare drug ben­efit beyond the May 15 deadline. 
"By extending the enrollment deadline and delaying late enrollment penalties, we can make sure that our constituents are not forced to make hasty decisions about their health care," the senators wrote Majority Leader Bill Frist, R­Tenn. 
The administration has extended the enroll­ment period for some low-income people. That could affect 2 million people whose incomes are below 150 percent of the poverty level ­$14,355 for an older person who lives alone, $19,245 for a couple. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Family, school district settle lawsuit 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana National Guard troops and reservist..<; serving in the Middle East are demonstrating incredible competence and proficiency in their duties, Gov. Mitch Daniels said Wednesday after returning to Indiana from a trip to the region. 
"It was just an enormous privilege to be able to go as a messenger for I know all of our 6 million fellow citizens and communicating to our people in Kuwait and Iraq and N'ghanistan how immensely grateful we are to them, how very proud we are," Daniels said. 

White House officials step down 
Rove surrenders as chief policy coordinator; McClellan resigns as press secretary 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -White House political master­mind Karl Rove surren­dered a key policy role Wednesday and press sec­retary Scott McClellan resigned in an escalation of a Bush administration shake-up driven by Republican anxieties. 
Rove gave up his responsibilities as chief policy coordinator, a posi­tion he assumed just over a year ago that strength­ened his influence over matters ranging from homeland security and domestic policy to the economy and national security. The promotion had left him stretched too thin in the eyes of some officials, as the White House grappled with mounting problems. 
With Wednesday's change, Rove will be able to focus more on politics, fundraising and big-pic­ture thinking with the approach of the November· congressional elections, officials said. 
A major force in the administration from the start, Rove still is expected to have a significant voice in policy but not the day­to-day oversight. Those responsibilities will shift to Joel Kaplan, who was pro­moted to deputy chief of office. Nervous side tlie White House. "I accept it. ... Job well staff from the No. 2 job in Republicans told Bush he am ready to move on." done." the White House budget needed fresh people with In recent months, Bush patted McClellan office where he had new ideas. McClellan had told people on the back and they served as Joshua Bolten's McClellan, the press sec­he enjoyed his job and walked together across lieutenant. retary for nearly three wanted to stay for the long the South Lawn to the 
Bolten took over Friday years, was the public face term. He said Wednesday president's helicopter to as chief of staff with of the White House and a he started to think about begin a trip to Alabama. authority to do whatever vulnerable target in an leaving in the past few But the aircraft couldn't he deemed necessary to administration trying to weeks and concluded, get off the ground because stabilize Bush's presiden­show off new people. He with a new chief of staff, its radio failed, and they cy, and he has moved had been bloodied by con­that it was a good time to had to take a motorcade quickly with changes. tentious press briefings go. He and Bush came to a to the airport. 
With the Iraq war hang­and media criticism about decision in a meeting McClellan will remain ing over President Bush, an administration loath to Monday in the Oval Office. until a successor is the White House has been release information. "I have given it my all, named. Possibilities men­rocked by mistakes and "The White House is sir, and I have given you tioned include Tony Snow, missteps -from an ill­going through a period of my all, sir, and I will con­host of a program on Fox fated Supreme Court nom­transition. Change can be tinue to do so as we tran­News Radio; Dan Senor, ination to a bungled helpful, and this is a good sition to a new press sec­former coalition response to Hurricane time and good position to retary,'' McClellan said. spokesman in Iraq; Trent Katrina -that have help bring about change," "It's going to be hard to Duffy, former White House resulted in the president's McClellan said, his voice replace Scott," Bush said. deputy press secretary, plunge in polls to the low­choked with emotion as he "But, nevertheless, he's and former Treasury est point since he took stood alongside Bush out-made the decision and I spokesman Rob Nichols. 

CUBA 

Pentagon releases Guantanamo list 
to al-Qaida or the Taliban. David Hicks, a Muslim from Australia 
Associated Press The list is the first official roster of charged with fighting U.S. and coali­SAN JUAN -The U.S. government Guantanamo detainees who passed tion forces in Afghanistan. He is one released the first list of detainees through the Combatant Status of 10 detainees selected to be tried held at the Guantanamo Bay prison Review Tribunal process in 2004 and by a military tribunal, on charges of on Wednesday -the most extensive 2005 to determine whether they attempted murder, aiding the enemy accounting yet of the hundreds of should be deemed "enemy combat­and conspiracy to commit terrorism. people held there, nearly all of them ants." Hicks allegedly fought for the labeled enemy combatants. Those named are from Taliban, and Australian news media In all, 558 people were named in Afghanistan. Saudi Arabia and 39 have said British authorities contend the list provided by the Pentagon in other· countries. Many have been he admitted undergoing training response to a Freedom of held at the U.S. prison at with British Islamic extremists, Information lawsuit by The Guantanamo Bay for more than four including Richard Reid, who was Associated Press. They were among years. Only a handful have faced for­convicted of trying to blow up a the first swept up in the U.S. global mal charges. trans-Atlantic airliner with a shoe war on terrorism for suspected links Some names are familiar, such as bomb. 
~--------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Porter. Affleck-Graves reiter­
ated that sentiment in his
StateiDent 

statement, rejecting the need continued from page 1 for a task force that would 
investigate the conditions region," Aflleek-Graves said under which low-wage in the statement. employees at Notre Dame 
In his two-page response, live. Affleck-Graves addressed "While exchanges between specific points in CLAP's 11-the University administration page "Living Wage Report," and various student groups 
calling CLAP's  have  been  
assertion that University  "We already have  informative, in candor,  
employees "fear reprisal" if they speak on their own behalf  several channels in place through which employees can bring  the dialogue is appropri­ately one that regular­ 
"deeply disturb­ing." "We already have several  complaints and concerns ... We encourage employees  ly occurs between the University's representa­ 
channels  in  to use these  tives and its  
place through which employ­ees can bring  mechanisms to share their experiences and  formal employee channels,"  
complaints and concerns.... We  thoughts."  Affleck­Graves said.  
e n c o u r a g e employees to use these mech­ John Affleck-Graves Executive VIce President  Affleck­Graves pledged to  
anisms to share  make  full  
their  experi­ use  of  the  

ences and thoughts," Affleck­Staff Advisory Council -a Graves said. forum where elected staff 
Along with University members from each depart­President Father John ment can speak on behalf of Jenkins and other top admin­workers to "assure istrators, Affleck-Graves met employees that they are with CLAP members on secure when voicing their March 31 to articulate their concerns." response to CLAP's report -Economics professor Teresa a document that provided a Ghilarducci spoke at the framework for a living wage CLAP forum Wednesday night and structures to sustain it. and said a unionized work­
At that meeting, adminis­force could help to establish a trators told the activists that living wage for workers. the issue was between the Affleck-Graves, however, University and its employees said a union should not be -not students, aceording to necessary, since the CLAP lead organizer Kamaria University works diligently to keep an "open and honest relationship" between the University and its workers. 
"Notre Dame has long rec­ognized the right of our employees to unionize if they wish, and has stated that if they do vote to have a union the University will bargain for it 'in good faith,"' Affleck­Graves said. "At the same time, the University has always tried to conduct itself in its relations with its employees so that they would feel as we do: that there is nothing a union can accom­plish that cannot be accom­plished their an open and honest relationship ... " 
A family of four is not an accurate measuring rod when determining a living wage, Affleck-Graves said, since it "ignores the fact that 50 per­cent of the workers in this group have a family size of fewer than four people and many are, indeed, single." 
Affleck-Graves also noted the "very valuable" benefits the University provides to its employees, such as providing coverage of 87 percent of health insurance on average, providing long-term disability insurance for each employee at no cost and providing a pension plan for staff employ­ees at no cost, among other benefits. 
"Our system of compensa­tion is neither fundamentally unjust, as the CLAP document implies, or incapable of fairly addressing those needs and inequities that do exist," Affleck-Graves said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Ebersol 
continued from page 1 
totally believed him," Ebersol said. 
On "The Oprah Winfrey Show" this afternoon, Ebersol will appear with his brother William who directed the 
"I think people, especially students who are living in the United States, look at this film and realize what it is to truly be happy and that happiness is truly a function of your desire to be happy," he said. 
Winfrey will show clips from the film and the Ebersols and Kroger will discuss Ithuteng. At the end of the show, Winfrey 
film,friend Kip "/ think people, and Ebersol will Kroger, who introduce the
especially students 
helped with pro­Geier family, ducing, and his who are living in who have parents. The the United States, become 
Ebersol family involved in
look at this film and
spoke to Winfrey Africa at the in a show that realize what it is to A g a p e aired Feb. 2 about truly be happy and Orphanage after the plane crash the death of
that happiness is 
that killed their daughter. 
youngest son truly a function of At the Tribeca Teddy Ebersol and your desire to be Film Festival, injured Charlie Ebersol and the
happy."
and his father Dick Geier family Ebersol. plan to Ebersol said Charlie Ebersol announce a after the plane filmmaker project they will 
tragedy he was motivated to edit some parts of the documentary and also add to it to reflect his new outlook. 
"After the crash we were kind of inspired to change the film," Ebersol said. "We added music and that kind of ehanged everything." 
Ebersol showed the film in its new version for the first time to students and administrators at Notre Dame in February of last year. He said students reaeted positively to the show­ing and asked good questions about the film and its subjeet. Ebersol said he hopes the doc­umentary gives viewers a "sense of peaee." 
work on togeth­
er. 
Ebersol praised Winfrey, call­ing her "remarkable" and "completely unselfish." She was genuine and personally interested in her approach to him and his family, Ebersol said. 
"I found in spending time with her and doing the show that it's true," Ebersol said. "It's not in any way an act or a far;ade. She's really the real deal." 
"The Oprah Winfrey Show" airs weekdays at 4 p.m. on WSBT Channel 22. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 20, 2006 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
11,278.77 +10.00

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 2,590 103 714 2,598,760,470.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.45 +0.19 42.65 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.88 +0.17 19.56 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.60 -0.03 4.95 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.70 -0.19 27.03 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) +2.45 +0.09 3.76 Treasuries I0-YEAR NOTE -0.66 -0.33 49.74 13-WEEK BILL +0.44 +0.20 45.97 30-YEAR BOND -0.28 -0.14 50.64 5-YEARNOTE -1.06 -0.52 48.66 Commodities UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.82 72.17 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +12.70 636.00 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) +0.10 77.50 Excha Rates YEN 117.5600 EURO 0.8097 POUND 0.5593 CANADIAN$ 1.1404  
IN BRIEF  

Strong earnings assuage rate worries 
NEW YORK-Stocks made a modest advance Wednesday as strong earnings from Yahoo Inc. and United Technologies Corp. helped investors briefly set aside worries over inflation and ris­ing oil prices. 
The day's gains extended Wall Street's rally from Tuesday, when stocks surged on indica­tions that the Federal Reserve may soon end its string of interest rate hikes as the pace of eco­nomic growth appears to slow. 
But while investors received another round of upbeat first-quarter earnings reports, a bigger­than-expected jump in the core consumer price index last month renewed their inflation con­cerns and left them wondering whether the Fed might respond by extending its program of rate increases. 
Meanwhile, crude oil also topped a record $72 per barrel as gold prices climbed to a fresh 25-year high. Continued strength in commodi­ties could soon pose an issue for inflation, said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and market ana­lyst for S.W. Bach & Co. 

Huntington earnings up 8 percent 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-Huntington Bancshares said on Wednesday that its first quarter earnings rose 8 percent in the first quarter, helped by an increase in interest income and revenue from brokerage and insurance operations. 
The regional bank holding company, with $36 billion in assets, said earnings for the quarter ended March 31 totaled $104.5 million, or 45 eents a share, compared with earnings of $96.5 million, or 41 cents per share, a year ago. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial expected earnings of 44 cents per share. Huntington has 380 banking offices in Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan and West VIrginia. 
Net interest income for the company's lluntington National Bank grew by 3.6 percent to $243.7 million from $235.2 million. Non-interest income, however, declined 5 percent to $159.5 million from $168 million. 
The company reported a 16 percent increase in brokerage and insurance income. 
Huntington eompleted its acquisition of Canton­based Unizan Financial Corp. on March 1. The deal was completed too late to have much effect on the quarter. 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Yahoo releases personal e-mail 
Internet company gave Chinese authorities access to a private citizen's account 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -Yahoo Inc. turned over a draft e-mail from one of its users to Chinese authorities, who used the information to jail the man on subversion charges, according to the verdict from his 2003 trial released Wednesday by a rights group. 
It was the third time the U.S.-based Internet compa­ny has been accused of helping put a Chinese user in prison. 
Jiang Lijun, 39, was sen­tenced to four years in prison in November 2003 for subversive activities aimed at overthrowing the ruling Communist Party. 
Hong Kong-based Yahoo Holdings Ltd., a unit of Yahoo Inc., gave authorities a draft e-mail that had been saved on Jiang's account, Reporters Without Borders said, citing the verdict by the Beijing No. 2 People's Court. The Paris­based group provided a copy of the verdict, which it said it obtained this week. 
Yahoo spokeswoman Mary Osako said the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based company is not familiar with Jiang's case. 
"We condemn punish­ment of any activity inter­nationally recognized as free expression, whether that activity takes place in written evidence." It piecing together the evi­tightly controls Web con­China or anywhere else in proved that Jiang and the dence for what we have tent, censoring anything it the world," she said. other activists were plan­long suspected, that Yahoo considers critical or a 
The draft e-mail, entitled ning to "make preparations is implicated in the arrest threat to the Communist "Declaration," was similar for organizing a party and of most of the people we Party. Blogs often are shut to manuscripts called to use violence to over­have been defending," down, and users who post "Freedom and Democracy throw the Communist Reporters Without Borders articles promoting Party Program" and Party," the verdict said. said in a statement. Western-style democracy "Declaration of Jiang also was one of five The group said there and freedom are regularly Establishment" that were activists who signed an were other cases that were detained and jailed under recovered from a computer open letter calling for polit­similar, but it could not vaguely worded subversion and a floppy disk owned by ical reform that was posted release any details because charges. two other Internet activists, on the Internet ahead of they were still being inves­Yahoo also has been criti­the verdict said. the Communist Party con­tigated. cized by rights groups by 
The information was list­gress -a major event -in While China encourages providing information in ed in the verdict under November 2002. use of the Internet for busi­the cases of Li Zhi and Shi "physical evidence and "Little by little we are ness and education, it also Tao. 

Boston Scientific's stent sales lag 
The profit figures include the impact fourth quarter, first-quarter sales of
Associated Press 

of new accounting rules that require Taxus rose 4.4 percent. 
BOSTON -Boston Scientific Corp. companies to record costs for stock­Boston Scientific attributed that gain said Tuesday its first-quarter profit fell 7 based compensation. Boston Scientific to a recent uptick in stent surgeries, percent on declining sales of its top-sell­reported a $22 million stock compensa­which helped offset declining prices for ing heart stent heading into the medical tion charge amounting to 3 cents per stents. The metal-mesh devices keep device maker's acquisition of Guidant share. coronary arteries propped open. Newer Corp., which could be completed as Analysts forecast earnings of 44 cents models are coated with drugs to prevent soon as this week. per share, on average, including stock­post-surgical scar tissue from forming 
Despite the nearly 8 percent drop in based compensation. new blockages, and now account for sales of Boston Scientific's Taxus drug­That consensus estimate did not about $6 billion in global sales. coated stent, the product's sales beat include the effects of a $27 million Paul LaViolette, Boston Scientific's analysts' estimates. The Natick-based charge, or 3 cents per share, that chief operating officer, said Taxus' share company also claimed Taxus is no Boston Scientific reported for prema­of the U.S. market has recently stabi­longer losing market share to a compet­turely ending a gene therapy clinical lized at 53.5 percent, with the rest held ing stent by Johnson & Johnson that trial. by Cypher, a product of J&J's Cordis posted gains last year. Shares of Boston Scientific rose 26 Corp. unit. 
Boston Scientific reported net income cents, or 1.2 percent, to close at $21.7 4 "That to us is a very good sign," for the January-March period of $332 on the New York Stock Exchange. LaVIolette told analysts in a conference million, or 40 cents per share, com­The company said first-quarter sales call. pared with a profit of $358 million, or of its Taxus stent fell to $633 million A Cordis spokesman, Christopher 42 cents per share, in the same quarter from $686 million in the same quarter a Allman, didn't contest Boston Scientific's a year ago. Sales edged upward from year ago, the latest disappointment for market share claim. But he said his $1.615 billion to $1.62 billion, narrowly a product that had fueled Boston company's competing stent continued to beating the $1.59 billion figure forecast Scientific's rapid profit growth after the gain on Taxus last quarter, although at by analysts surveyed by Thomson stent reached the market two years ago. a slightly slower pace than it did last Financial. However, compared with last year's year. 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Class of 2006 Senior Week 
ALL TICKET SALES TAKE PLACE APRIL 24th &25th from 12:00-6:00 PM IN THE SORIN ROOM OF LAFORTUNE 
Saturday. May 13. 2006 BBQ @ Legends 5 p.m. -8 p.m. 
• Music by Senior artists, email nd2006@nd.edu if you would like to play. 
Sunday. May 14.2006 

Chicago Cubs Trip! 
• Cubbies vs. San Diego 1:20 p.m. 
• Ticket Price: $40.0G'person -includes ticket, bus ride, and breakfast! 
• 850 tickets available, so we will be having a lottery.... 
• Ticket lottery on Thursday, April 20th at Legends from 12:00 p.m. -6:00 p.m. Bring up to 3 ND Senior IDs. fuw, 
Monday. May 15. 2006 Quadapalooza! South Quad 4 p.m. -7 p.m. 
• 
Come enjoy a lovely afternoon on the quad with friends 

• 
Music, food, and recreational activities! Feel free to bring Frisbees, footballs, basketballs, volleyballs, etc... 


Tuesday. May 16. 2006 Cedar Point Amusement Park: The Roller Coaster Capital of the World! Sandusky, OH www.cedarpoint.com --184 tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office on the 24th & 25th; first come, first served 
• Ticket Price: $60.0G'person-includes entrance fees, bus ride, and breakfast! 
Wednesday. May 17. 2006 

Senior Class Golf Outing @the Burke Golf Course 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
• Sign-up for teams when picking up tickets in the Sorin Room of LaFortune on April 24th or 25th 
• $25 per team of 4 seniors 
• Compete for great prizes! 
Massages, Manicures, and Martinis! @ ~egends 12 p.m.-4 p.m. • $5 manicures/ $5 massages 
• 
Martinis available through the Legends bar at a special rate 

• 
Enjoy complimentary treats while you pamper yourselfl 


Senior Class Formal Century Center 9 p.m.-1 a.m. 
• Ticket Price: $25.0G' person in advance-includes entrance fee and bus ride; One ticket per NO senior 
• Tickets are $30/ person at door 
Thursday. May 18. 2006 **IMPORTANT** Old to Gold -Location TBA 3 p.m.-7 p.m. 
• Donate clothes, furniture, non-perishable goods, books, etc... Cubs Ticket Lottery! .• April 20th
Last Trip to the Grotto 9 p.m. 
• Meet for a prayer service at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart ··Legends 
• Performances by Notre Dame's Folk Choir and Glee Club 
·· 12:00-6:00 PM
• 
Blessing of class rings 

• 
All will receive Last Trip to the Grotto candle 

• 
Procession to the Grotto follows prayer service Swipe your ID, get alottery number, and check your email or www.nd.edu/-nd2006 to see if your number was drawn. You can


Class of 2006 shirts, fleeces, and 
bring up to 3IDs to swipe. Only seniors
pint glasses will be for sale at events 
with winning lottery numbers are eligible to
starting on April 20th!!! purchase the limited tickets for this event!
Get yours before they're gone! 
---------------------------------------., 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 



Like to talk? 
Love Notre Dame? 
Pick up an Undergraduate Admissions Tour Guide application at the Reception Room (2no floor) of the Main Building. Applications are due by 5 pm on Friday, April 21. Contact Son Nguyen at snguyen@nd.edu with questions. 
Town 
continued from page 1 
Several weeks ago, four focus groups were held -two in Knott Hall and two in McGlinn Hall. In each dorm, one focus group was comprised of fresh­men and sophomores, and one was comprised of juniors and seniors. Ideas that surfaced in the focus groups were later presented to Gilbride and used to generate a survey that will 
soon be admin­istered to stu­dents. 
"No one instructed us to complete this research," Seiler said. "Rather, we were aware that the Northeast Neighborhood Development Project was in 
hearsay." 
"[The] establishment will be there," he said. "It's going to become a reality whether Notre Dame students give a lot of feedback or not." 
The survey will ask various questions about such topics as preferences in restaurants, clothing stores, entertainment, speci-alty shops and trans­portation in order to see "what people have in mind," Seiler said. 
"[Our] intention is to give people an opportunity to fill 
"Our intention is to give people an opportunity to jill the survey out., 
Mark Seiler former chair Senate Residence Life committee 
the survey out," Seiler said. "We will present it to [Executive Vice President] John Affleck-Graves, who will present it to the developer." 
All students are scheduled to receive the survey
through e-mail this week, and it will be conducted through a Web­

the works, and we realized that student input would be valuable information to the University and to the private developer in regard to what students want to see in the development." 
Shappell said the Northeast Neighborhood Development Project -also referred to as College Town -will be south of campus after the closing of Juniper and will reach the Five Points intersection. 
While Seiler was unsure about when ground would break on the establishment, he has heard a rumor that it could be as early next spring -but added that this is "pure based program that immedi­ately converts survey results into data. 
"We can get an idea of how people are responding," ·said Seiler, who took about 10 min­utes to fill out the survey. 
Shappell said the survey is "about as comprehensive as possible." 
"Something within walking distance is something the Notre Dame student body is missing, and I look forward to its implementation -even if it's after my time here," Shappell said. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Cunningham said Benedict an important reflection point Matovina said Benedict XVI do that." XVI's actions and writings for all of us at Notre Dame is has had a "quiet start [with­But with the leadership
Pope 

indicate he is not intending to the fundamental relationship out] any earth-shaking initia­change, the pope's public per­fill the shoes of John Paul II. of love for others to our love tives." sona has shifted. Visitors tend
continued from page 1 

"He is not going to empha­to God." "For following someone who to no longer visit Saint Peter's changing modern world. size his own person," he said. Dillon rector Father Paul is almost impossible to follow, Square to "see the pope 
When Benedict XVI was "He is not going to put forth Doyle said that simplistic, yet it seems like things have been through the window," but chosen as pope, many experts his own personality -his powerful focus on love rather smooth," he said. rather "listen to the eloquent said it would be difficult to instincts are not that way." reflects the message of the Matovina said Benedict and articulate words of Pope lead in the shadow of John Benedict XVI is not as Easter season. XVI's main critics believe he Benedict," Matovina said. Paul ll's impressive papal "mediagenic" as John Paul II, "I think it is beautiful that would have initiated changes Benedict XVI takes more legacy. said Cunningham, describing he started off his first encycli­at a quicker pace. time for himself, keeping an 
One year later, however, the pope's decision not to cal with 'God is Love,"' he Benedict XVI's papal term empty schedule each Tuesday, Benedict XVI has come into become a big public persona said. "He is a very intelligent will likely not endure as long and strives to appeal to peo­his own without attempting to a "considered judgment." and articulate theologian, as John Paul II's, he said, ple's intellect and deep faith, fill the shoes of John Paul II After initially being labeled which is a great thing to have which led many people to he said. in any direct or obvious way, "God's Rottweiler," Benedict in a holy leader." believe he would work quickly Moss said on a visit to Rome said Notre Dame law profes­XVI's emerging "softer side" Doyle said he believes to produce Vatican statements last summer -just a few sor Vincent Rougeau. has surprised many critics. Benedict XVI is off to a suc­to foster great changes months into Benedict's papal 
Bougeau said the pope's "I think that he has sur­cessful start, despite facing something that has yet to term -he noticed that the sole encyclical, "Deus Caritas prised a lot of people who initial criticism and following occur. city had an empty feeling to Est," is a "beautiful and mas­thought he would bring the one the most influential popes Cunningham said it was it, a reminder of the void left terful response to those of his same toughness to the papacy of all time. suspected that these changes by death of John Paul II. critics and supporters who that he had a reputation for "I think there are people would include major moves to But that has changed, Moss attempted to link his ascen­when he was in the congrega­who wish John Paul II would reorganize the internal struc­said, as Benedict XVI "seems sion to the papacy to their tion ... but this was not the be pope for eternity," he said, ture and personnel of the to have grown into the job own agendas." case," Cunningham said. "And I think [Benedict XVI] is Vatican, which would benefit very, very well" through his 
"What 'Deus Caritas Est' One influential aspect of a beautiful success so far." the economy and efficiency sincerity in listening to the suggests to me is that John Paul II's papacy main­Although Benedict XVI was from within. people and ability to clearly Benedict will use his incredi­tained by Benedict XVI is the approximately 20 years older Fisher rector Father Robert emphasize and fulfill their ble scholarly knowledge and aim to unite religions than John Paul II upon being Moss said one of the best yearning for a deeper under­deep love for Catholic tradi­throughout the world. named to the papacy, Doyle changes Benedict XVI has standing of faith through his tion to draw Catholics back to "He gives every indication said he believes the age dif­made during the past year eloquent speaking. fundamental ideas of the of being a pope that is going ference will not hurt his lead­has been the appointment of "I thought Rome was some­gospels and more deeply into to be concerned with the life ership ability. several new cardinals, which what empty without John the spirit of the Second of the Church," Cunningham "I am not sure we're ready broke down the Italian major­Paul II, but I don't think that Vatican Council," he said. said, "But he is going to for two 27-year popes," he ity. is as true or noticeable any­
Theology professor reach out to other religious said. "It takes an extraordi­"He is doing an overall very more," he said. "People are Lawrence Cunningham said bodies, both Christian and nary person to do that well, good job, but I don't see many satisfied that we have a pope the pope's encyclical has been non-Christian." and I don't think those types great changes," he said. "I again." "characterized by being rela­Rougeau said an idea come along with every elec­think people thought he tively brief, profoundly posi­Benedict XVI "stressed in the tion." would reverse John Paul II's Contact Kelly Meehan at tive and deeply theological." encyclical that ... should be Theology professor Timothy policies, but he is not going to kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


SuiDIDer 
continued from page 1 
last year [we] decided to 
expand it to accommodate not 
only our students. but local stu­
dents as well," said Carol Haag, 
assistant to the registrar at the 
College. 
The session operates under 
open enrollment, and students 
can register for any courses as 
long as the prnrequisites are 
filled and minimum of five stu­
dents are enrol11~d in the class. 
Students may register for a 
maxim urn of six credit hours 
but arn advised to research the 
courses because of the intensive 
naturn of the program. 
The summer session is not 
only limited to courses offered 
on Saint Mary's campus. Study 
abroad opportunities in such 
places as Europe, Korea and 
Central and South America are 
also ofl"ered through the Center 
for Women's Intercultural 
Leadership. 
Haag said the program ­which includes courses in liter­ature, ceramics, politics, the­atre, business and music-has gained popularity since last year. 
"For the summer of 2005, we had approximately 70 students enrolled in both the on-campus session and the international session," she said, 
This year, more than 125 stu­dents registered for the pro­gram, with approximately 25 enrolled in the traveVinternship session, Haag said. 
Some Saint Mary's students said they chose to enroll in the session to ease the pressure from busy course loads in the upcoming fall semester. 
"I am taking a math course for education because I do not have time to fit it into my schedule for next semester," junior Kathryn Nussbaum said, "I did not want to take 18 credit hours. I am taking 19 now and it is too much." 
Other participants take sum­mer courses in preparation for study abroad programs. Junior Meggie Wehmer took two sum­prised more people" did not mer courses last year -math enroll in the session. for education majors and an art "Although the classes are education class -so she could intense, it was a great way to choose to take only 14 credit get your classes completed and Come to hours when in Rome. still have time to enjoy the sum­

"I wanted to enjoy my travels mer," she said. and not be bombarded with a Each credit hour of summer Irish {itJrd~os heavy semester," she said. study is $350, meaning one 3­
Nussbaum also enrolled in hour course amounts to $1,050. for fLower-s or i summer school to compensate Financial aid is not available for for her semester in Rome. summer courses, and tuition \ 
"I went abroad so I have been must be paid by Friday, May 19 
balloons to wish your ' 
trying to fit the last of my Gen -which is the last day of class­Eds and my reading minor es for the regular academic courses for next year," she said. year at the College. MCAT-taking friends 
Junior Shana Dolch -who Students from any college or participated in the session last university are welcome to par­
Good Luck or 
year-enrolled in U.S. History ticipate in the summer program and Principles of Accounting II as visiting students. Non-Saint in order to graduate on time. Mary's students must register 

c~ca-ular~J
"Even though it was a lot of by May 5 by sending a tran­work compared to the amount script, letter of good standing you would have to do during the and tuition fees to the College. LaFortune Basement 631-4004 year, it was definitely worth it," pen: Thurs 12:30-5:30 she said. Contact Katie Kohler at 
Wehmer said she was "sur-kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
So, y u w 
t 0 
a lawyer? 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Pre-Law Summer Institute 
JUNE 19-23, 2006 • CHICAGO CAMPUS 
Developed and taught by faculty of the Northwestern University School of Law, this one-week noncredit institute 
introduces participants to five main topics: Introduction to the American legal system, legal writing, analysis, 
sources of law, and the components of oral argumentation. 
• 
Explore a possible future in the legal profession 

• 
Sharpen your critical thinking and analytical reasoning skills 

• 
Network with experienced professionals in the field of law 

• 
Prepare for and get ahead in the law school admissions process 


Register today! 

847-491-5250 NORTHWESTERN www.northwestern.edu/summer UNIVERSITY 
Th<l Nortfl-rl!m -14w Summer Institute Is 1 non;:tedil profrMf! -loped by ltH! Notth-. Uniwnily School 111 LIW •net School of Conllnui"'l Sludieo. 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + NEWS page 11 




Boot catnp death stirs protesting in Florida 
College students talk with Gov. feb Bush 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Gov. Jeb Bush arrived at his office Wednesday and found it besieged by college students protesting the state's response to the beating of a teenage boy at a boot camp. The boy later died. 
Bush met privately for about 10 to 15 minutes with about 30 students, who staged the day­long protest to demand the arrest of guards who were videotaped beating, kicking and dragging the 14-year-old. 
. They also want Bush to pub­licly apologize to the boy's par­ents and to revoke the license of a medical examiner who per­formed the first autopsy and order the findings of a second released. 
After their meeting with Bush, the students called the conver­sation "political" and decided to spend the night outside his office door. 
"We'll stay as long as it takes," said Gabriel Pedras, a Florida State University student who helped organize the protest. "We feel sure he can meet our demands and ensure that justice is served." 
Bush returned from a state trip Wednesday. Arriving at the airport, he said that "no one can feel good about a death like this" but that he could not res pond to the protesters' demands until the probe was finished. 
"It's being done by a very pro­fessional state attorney who's methodically going through all the information," the governor said. "Until that's completed, it's really premature for anybody to take additional action." 
Bush's office said he would meet with the teen's parents on Thursday. 
About 30 students linked arms Wednesday evening and chant­ed "Justice delayed is justice denied" as they moved their protest from the office foyer to the area outside Bush's door. 
Outside the building, about 45 others carried signs bearing the name of Martin Lee Anderson. He died Jan. 6, a day after the beating at a juvenile detention boot camp run by the sheriff of Bay County. 
The medical examiner deter­mined the boy died of complica­tions from sickle cell trait. 
A nationally known patholo­gist, Dr. Michael Baden, observed a second autopsy and said Anderson likely was suffo­cated during the confrontation. 
The U.S. Justice Department is also investigating possible civil rights violations. 
A lawyer for the Anderson family, Benjamin Crump, said he had talked to the students but did not organize the protest. 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 
On March 8, CLAP members delivered an 11-page report to top University administrators that demanded Notre Dame institute a living wage for workers -a practice already in place at several major uni­versities like Georgetown and Harvard. The report also called for the creation of a joint task force made up of campus workers, students, administra­tors and possibly alumni to investigate the conditions under which low-wage workers at Notre Dame live. 
Finally, the report advocated a union neutrality clause, a demand Ghilarducci reinforced Wednesday as the key to achieving the best outcome for Notre Dame workers. 
Calling the goals of CLAP "small, modest and easy for an enterprise like Notre Dame to accept," Ghilarducci explained the feasibility of a living wage at Notre Dame, noting that without organized workers, CLAP's initiatives will be a challenge to achieve. 
But the significance of CLAP's report, Ghilarducci said, reach­es a much larger scale. 
"It is also monumental in terms of Notre Dame's efforts to be a moral conscience and model of moral conscience in American society," Ghilarducci said. "This demand is both small and monumental." 
Ghilarducci said CLAP mem­bers used an extensive method­ology in determining the living wage for Notre Dame workers, and determined a number ­$12.10-that is at the low end of predictions economists have determined as an appropriate living wage. Some economists call for a living wage of $11.93 per hour while others demand as much as $19.83 per hour, depending on what factors are considered when determining what is needed to survive. 

"CLAP has actually chosen a very modest number," Ghilarducci said. 
But the living wage has a fatal flaw, she said. 
"The living wage is not an opportunity wage," she said. "It doesn't budget for things work­ers need to get ahead," she said. "It doesn't account for working class to become mid­dle class ... or for networking like a cell phone. 
"It's also not a fair wage or a relative wage. It was construct­ed without regard to what coaches make at Notre Dame or administration or faculty. ... It's the smallest number possi­ble. What do Notre Dame workers need to get to work every day?" 
Ghilarducci argued that a union neutrality clause must be put in place to ensure that if Notre Dame workers wanted to appeal for a fair wage or opportunity wage, they would have the opportunity to organ­ize and be heard. 
"Notre Dame would not be obligated to meet with janitori­al staff to discuss what the cur­riculum should be in the physics department ... [but] it's obligated to talk about parts of the contract that affect wages, hours, and working condi­tions." 
Federal law already requires employers to engage in bar­gaining if their workers union­ize, and the union neutrality clause would simply reempha­size that requirement, Ghilarducci said. 
But Ghilarducci was quick to point out the steps Notre Dame has pursued to take care of its workers, such as its longstand­ing policy of only using union­ized construction workers. She said Notre Dame was the flrst university to extend a code of conduct to businesses it works with -stating it would not buy goods from companies that have sweatshop conditions or that operate in countries that don't allow workers to organ­ize. 
''I'm very proud of these developments," she said. 
Following her talk, Ghilarducci opened the floor to questions. When asked why workers on campus have been relatively quiet while CLAP's initiatives have been publi­cized, Ghilarducci immediately wrote "FEAR" on the dry erase board behind her. 
"The fear of workers in America for being laid off and not getting jobs of equal pay with benefits has never been higher in the U.S," she said. "One out of 20 workers who join unions are flred for union activity ... even though it's ille­gal." 
Likening students to con­sumers, Ghilarducci said stu­dents have the potential to be "very effective" in bringing about change for two reasons. 
"[T]hey're the largest group and they pay. They're the cus­tomers," she said. "To ask how effective student movements are is also asking how effective consumer movements are." 
Ghilarducci said student movements like CLAP's ­which has similar initiatives to those at Georgetown and Harvard Universities -are most effective with the backing of a union. But Notre Dame workers are not unionized. 
"[Students] were working alongside the union in Harvard and Georgetown," she said. "They were putting exclama­tion points after the demands the union representatives had already made. Students at Notre Dame can't obligate Notre Dame to sit down with worker representatives to bar­gain in good faith. Only work­ers can do that ... you get clos­er if workers have a say in it." 
Ghilarducci acknowledged the existence of the Staff Advisory Council at Notre Dame, where staff representa­tives from each department can bring complaints and con­cerns. 
"[But] the last step in this process is controlled by the employer," she said. "If there's no union, the employer decides if the employer was unfair.... Usually company organizations [like SAC] are established when there's union rumblings." 
Members of CLAP are sched­uled to meet with Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers Friday for a follow-up meeting. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 



Undergraduate
Engage ent Research,111 Scholarly, 
·" and 

Creative Endeavors 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
I Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies 
Venture Fair 
MCOB Giovanini Commons 
10:30 AM, Friday, April21 
Final Business Plan Competition 
MCOB Jordan Auditorium 12:00-1:30 PM, Friday, April21
L _j 

.------------------------------------­page 12 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
NEPAL 



At least 4 protestors killed at rally 
Security forces have now killed 10 demonstrators since April 6 
Associated l'ress 
KATMANDU -Nepal's crisis grow bloodier Wndnnsday when security forees fatally shot four pro-demoeraey protesters as the government imposed a curfew in the capital to prevent a huge rally urging the king to loosen his grip on power. 
Two weeks of often-violent protests and a general strike against palace rule have para­lyznd Nepal, leaving eities short of food and fuel and the country at its most volatile since the monarch seized power 14 months ago. 
The royal government has responded harshly, claiming Nepal's communist insurgents­who are now allied with the opposition -have infiltrated rallies to sow violence. Police have beaten, tear gassed and arrested thousands of protest­ers. 
A total of 1 0 Nepalis, including the four Wednesday, have been slain by security forees in this Hindu kingdom once known as Shangri-La since the opposition launchnd a general strike April 6. 
Ofl'ieials elaimed security forces opened fire only al'ter being shot at during an assault by brick-throwing protesters in Chandragadi, about 310 miles southeast of Katmandu. The government has made such daims in the past, although no shootings by protesters have been independently verified. 

The region's ehief administra­tor, Bhola Siwakoti, also said the demonstrators defied a ban on protests and were looting. 
There were conflieting reports of how many were killed. The Defense Ministry said two people were dead, another Nepali oLTI­eial put the toll at four, and a 
U.N. oflicial said it was live. Both officials spoke on condition of anonymity because the situa­tion's sensitivity. 
The shootings reinforced fears of more bloodshed Thursday, when the opposition hoped to mass 100,000 people onto the ring road that skirts Katmandu. 
Trying to ofl' head the march, which would dwarf previous protests and undercut govern­ment elaims that demonstrators lack popular support, authorities announced a Katmandu curfew from 2 a.m. to 8 p.m. Thursday. 
Soldiers and police were ordered to shoot violators, and no passes were issued to diplo­mats, journalists and Nepali human rights monitors ­hrroups that had received passes in the past. 
"The events show how desper­ate the present royal regime is. It is becoming paranoid," said Dhruba Adhikary of the inde­pendent Nepal Press Institute. "The movement is getting popu­lar, it is expanding and grow­ing." 
The opposition campaign has brought ordinary Nepalis into the streets alongside students and political activists. On Wednesday, some 250 professors held a protest. All were arrested. 
A few thousand people also protested in Katmandu and demonstrators hurled bricks at police, who responded with tear gas, rubber bullets and baton charges. 
While nearly all here said they were hoping Thursday's protest would be peaceful, many said they did not fear violenee. 
"If we are faced with violence tomorrow, we will burn the palace," said Ankil Shresthra, a 22-year-old student. "The king will die." 
Nepal's Hindu royal dynasty was once revered as godlike, and the recent chants of "Hang the king" in Nepal's streets are a major departure from past protests, like the 1990 uprising that led his older brother to introduce democracy. 
King Gyanendra ended that experiment in February 2005, saying he needed to crush the Maoist insurgency that has killed nearly 13,000 people in a decade. 
While many of Nepal's 27 mil­lion people at first welcomed the king's power grab -frustrated by squabbling politicians -the worsening insurgency and fal­tering economy have fueled dis­content. 


New Course: 
MWF (times variable) 
* 
fulfills HISTORY university requirement HJST 30250 

* 
fulfills LITERATURE university requirement ENGL 20213 

* 
fulfills Medieval requirement Ml 20001 


Ill/&1 INSTITlJTE MEDIEVAL 
University of Notre Dame 
71 5 Hesburgh Library 631-8645 
CUBA 


$30 million of food to cotne frotn Nebraska 
New trade deal likely to improve relations 
Associated Press 

HAVANA -Cuba agreed Wednesday to buy another $30 million in food from Nebraska, strengthening trade relations with a U.S. farm state already selling corn, wheat, soybeans and other products to the com­munist island. 
Nebraska Lt. Gov. Rick Sheehy and Agriculture Director Greg Ibach led the trade delegation, which included meat and other agriculture producers on the four-day trip. 
In August, Nebraska Gov. Dave Heineman visited Cuba and signed a separate deal to export $30 million in agrieultur­al products in an 18-month period. Most of those deals have since been completed, said Pedro Alvarez, head of the Cuban food import firm Alimport. 
"We've had a great commerce experience with Nebraska and this shows the desire of many (U.S.} states to work for free trade with the United States," Alvarez told The Associated Press at Havana's historic Hotel Nacional during a breakfast hosted by Farmland Foods Inc. featuring Nebraska pork and other meat products. 
Sheehy said the new deal will include the export of pork, eat­tie, poultry, wheat, corn, soy­beans, dry beans and dairy in the next 18 months. 
"Agriculture is the No. 1 industry in the state and Gov. I Ieineman saw an opportunity in Cuba to expand our markpt," Sheehy said. 
Alvarez said the new trade deal ineludes a $2.8 million meat purchase from Farmland Foods Jne. 
"We're consolidating the links between the state of Nebraska and our country, links that would be strengthen if (trade} restrictions were eliminated," Alvarez said. 
A 45-year-old U.S. embargo against communist Cuba severely limits travel and trade with the island, but an excep­tion created in 2000 allows food and agrieultural produclc; to be sold directly on a cash-only basis. 
Alvarez said Cuba expects to spend between $450 to $550 million on U.S. food products this year from a total of about $1.7 billion allocated for food imports. 
For the past fbur years, Cuba has contracted to buy more than $1.4 billion in farm goods from 38 U.S. states, induding shipping and hefty bank fees to send payments through third nations, according to Alimport. 

INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM 
drawing classes from: 
Anthropology Art, Art History, Design Classics English German and Russian History Music Philosophy Romance Language & Lit. 
eo logy 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

Bausch and Lolllb facing lavvsuits 
Attorney blames companyfor eyefungus, seeks $75,000 per client 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -A Miami attorney is seeking class-action status for a lawsuit blaming Bausch & Lomb for a painful eye fungus he says permanently scarred the cornea of a woman who used its con­tact lens solution. 
The lawsuit, following on the heels of a similar suit filed in New York, alleges the company either failed to remove the fun­gus from the Renu with MoistureLoc eye solution or fos­tered its growth in the manufac­turing process. 
Bausch & Lomb stopped ship­ping the product last week after health officials linked it to 109 cases of the eye fungus. More than 50 of those cases were diagnosed in Florida, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Jacqueline Wartmann, 57, was among those diagnosed with Fusarium keratitis, a fun­gus that causes blurred vision and can lead to blindness, according to the Miami lawsuit, filed Monday. It says Wartmann's corneal scarring has resulted in permanent blur­ry vision. 
A Bausch & Lomb spokes­woman said Wednesday that the Rochester, N.Y.-based company does not comment on pending litigation. 
"Obviously we're working to complete the investigation into these fungal infections as quick­ly as possible," spokeswoman Meg Graham said. 
Wartmann and the six other plaintiffs all used the Renu solu­tion to clean their contacts, and all developed the fungus, said attorney Joel Magolnick. 
The lawsuit seeks $75,000 in damages for each client and class-action status. 
Magolnick said he had received dozens of calls from people in Utah, Georgia, Virginia and Las Vegas -all contact lens wearers who devel­oped problems after using the Bausch & Lomb product. 
"As the manufacturer, they are responsible for it and they are the ones who are going to be held responsible for it," Magolnick said. 
The company's manufacturing plant in Greenville, S.C., which is at the center of the fungus investigation, was cited by the Food and Drug Administration four years ago. 
The FDA said the company failed to adequately investigate the cause of paint chips discov­ered during inspections in 2002 in rooms where containers of eye care products were filled. 
Graham said the problem was resolved. "The quality and sterility of the products made there was never in question," she said. 
The warning did not cite problems with Renu with MoistureLoc, which wasn't manufactured until2004. 
Bausch & Lomb shares rose $1.06, closing at $47.54 Wednesday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Graduation Weekend: Your stomach will thank you. 
After four yeors ond over 3,027 dorm meols, you deserve ot leost one outstanding meol thot isn't served on odining hull troy. 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStatlonMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops • seafood 


Relatives of victitns testify for Moussaoui 
Six witnesses oppose death ofconspirator 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Half a dozen relatives of people killed in the Sept. 11 attacks testified for terrorist conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui on Wednesday. One woman told jurors weighing whether to exe­cute him that her family does not want to "get caught in a whirlpool of sadness and anger." 
Meantime, a leading psychia­trist testified that Moussaoui's failure to learn enough to fly an airplane solo was probably a result of schizophrenia he devel­oped around the time he embraced radical Islamic funda­mentalism in the mid-1990s. 
After two days of argument over the mental health of the 37­year-old Frenchman, many jurors noticeably sat up and leaned forward when they real­ized that victim relatives were coming to testify on behalf of the confessed Sept. 11 conspirator. Last week, prosecutors had summoned almost four dozen victims and relatives who gave heart-rending testimony that left some jurors discreetly wiping their eyes. 
Marilynn Rosenthal, a medical sociologist whose son Josh was killed at the World Trade Center, said her family felt "something good has to come out of what happened" and endowed an annual lecture devoted to under­standing Sept. 11 at the University of Michigan, where she teaches. 
"We all have a very strong 
feeling we do not want to get caught in a whirlpool of sadness and anger," she said. "We have tried to move forward." 
Outside the courthouse, she said she testified "because I thought it was the right thing to do." Asked why she opposed a death penalty, she replied, "Moussaoui is the wrong person to be on trial. There are people in the custody of the U.S. gov­ernment who were central plan­ners." She called Moussaoui "marginal." 
Robin Theurkauf, whose hus­band, Tom, also died in the New York attacks, testified that "the Bible attempts to explain that we are all sinners, all broken people, but all children of God and loved by God." 
Episcopal priest Donald Bane of Wyoming, Del., who lost his son Michael at the trade center, said he felt murderous rage but quickly realized "that instead of just nurturing the anger, I had to try to do something that hopeful­ly will help this not ever happen again." He has since organized Muslim-Christian dialogues. 
Like the relatives who testified for the prosecution, those who appeared on Moussaoui's behalf did not directly testify for a death penalty or life in prison, 


258.9999 
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 


uundergraduate Research in Arts and Letters: Opprtunities for Studentsn 
T!Jursd~ Apnl2~ 2006 Coleman-Morse Lounge 
The purpose of this forum will be to provide students with information about two important sources of funding for undergraduate research -the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program and the Undergraduate Intellectual Initiative. Six undergraduate recipients of these awards will speak about their experience of writing proposals, conducting their research, and seeing their projects to completion. 
Sponsored by the institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the Office of Undergraduate Studies. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 20, 2006 



Sex offender la-ws spark debate 
Professionals question fairness ofposting addresses, information online 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The killings of two men listed on Maine's Internet sex offender registry may offer a grim lesson about the consequences of such reg­istry laws, but defense lawyers and crime wsearchers question whether a thoughtful national debate on thn subject is possi­ble. 
In a dimate where politicians seek ever-tougher punishment and ostracism of sex offenders, they say, few are willing to examine the fairness and risks of registry requiremHnts. 
"We've basically dehumanized these people with words such as. 'predator,"' said psychiatrist Fred Berlin, founder of the Johns llopkins Sexual Disorders Clinie in Baltimore. 
"Every deeent human being wants to protect children," he said, but even suggesting that criminals who have done their time are entitled to rebuild their lives <:an tarnish a politician. 
"It's dose to heresy," Berlin said. 
Evnry state has an online reg­istry with photographs and per­sonal information about convict­ed sex oiTenders, often to be posted for at least 20 years and sometimes filr life. Many states, including Maine, provide offend­ers' exact street address; that information apparently was used by a Nova Scotia man to locate and fatally shoot two reg­istered sex ofl'enders Sunday. 
There have been many cases of vigilantism in the past. rang­ing from harassment and arson to the slayings of two convicted child rapists in Washington state. A man mistaken for his sex-ofl'ender brother was nearly beaten to death with a baseball bat in New Jersey -the state where the 1994 killing of 7­year-old Megan Kanka by a neighbor gave rise to the nation­

wide trend of "Megan's Law" 
registries. 

Though they decry vigilan­tism, police, prosecutors and politicians overwhelmingly sup­port the laws. Maine is main­taining its online registry despite the shootings; the governors of nearby Vermont and New Hampshire rejected appeals by their states' American Civil Liberties Union branches to eliminate the online databases. 
James Backstrom, a board member of the National District Attorneys Association and chief prosecutor in Minnesota's Dakota County, said the reg­istries "are appropriate and needed." 
'The victims of crime and the public in general have a right to know where sex offenders are living," he said. 
Backstrom acknowledged, however, that the registries con­tribute to a serious problem fac­ing Minnesota and other states: Because virtually no one wants sex offenders in their neighbor­hood, they have difliculty finding an appropriate place to live. 
That problem has become particularly severe in states where many towns forbid regis­tered ofl'enders from living near schools, parks and other facili­ties, said New Jersey defense attorney William Buckman. 
"We're essentially seeing peo­ple forced into refugee status," said Buckman, a board member of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. 'The experts say the major thing in preventing recidivism is to allow offenders to rebuild their lives, put down roots. But because of feel-good, poorly thought-out, knee-jerk reactions by politi­cians, the effect is to increase recidivism." 
Those advocating reconsidera­tion of sex offender laws aren't suggesting that authorities back away from vigilant monitoring. 
They note that some states have developed sophisticated risk­assessment systems for deciding which offenders are listed in publicly available registries, so the whereabouts of high-risk offenders are known while less­er risks are granted more anonymity. 
''I'm the first to say, 'Lock up the harmful sexual offenders,"' said Nancy Sabin, who heads a Minnesota-based victims advo­cacy group called the Jacob Wetterling Foundation. 
But not all offenders fall into that category, she said: "We need to step back, take a breath and get more educated about the most effective ways to deal with the issue." 
In Missouri, the state Supreme Court is expected to rule soon on one of the few major legal challenges to a registry system. A class action suit contends the state law is applied too broadly and unfairly punishes those who pose little risk -such as a woman who had consensual sex with a 15-year-old boy when she was 20, and a man classified as a child abuser because he spanked his son with a belt. 
"All these draconian Sex Offender Registry Acts need to be trimmed back -eliminating people who never should have been on in the first place," said Arthur Benson, the lawyer han­dling the lawsuit. 
Jill Levinson, a professor and sex-crimes researcher at Lynn University in Boca Raton, Fla., said the recidivism rate for sex offenders is lower than for most other serious crimes. She urged legislatures to tailor laws so low-risk offenders have the maximum opportunity to reha­bilitate themselves. 
"The intentions are good," she said, "but there's very little evi­dence that these registries improve community safety or protect children." 
Experts think snakes w-ere at hotne on land 
Fossil may be key to how snakes evolved 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -A fossil find in Argentina has revealed a two-legged creature that's the most primitive snake known, a discovery that promises to fire up the scientific debate about whether snakes evolved on land or in the sea. 
The snake's anatomy and the location of the fossil show it lived on land. researchers said, adding evidence to the argument that snakes evolved on land. 
Snakes are thought to have evolved from four-legged lizards, losing their legs over time. But scientists have long debated whether those ances­tral lizards were land-based or marine creatures. 
The newly found snake lived in Patagonia some 90 million years ago. Its size is unknown, but it wasn't more than 3 feet long, said Hussam Zaher of the University of Sao Paulo in Brazil. He and an Argentine colleague report the find in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
It's the first time scientists have found a snake with a sacrum, a bony feature sup­porting the pelvis, Zaher said. That feature was lost as snakes evolved from lizards, he said, and since this is the only known snake that hasn't lost it, it must be the most primitive known. 
The creature clearly lived on land, both because its anatomy suggests it lived in burrows and because the deposits where the fossils were found came from a ter­restrial environment, said Zaher. So, if the earliest known snake lived on land, that suggests snakes evolved on land, he said. 
There has been little new evidence in recent years in the land-versus-sea debate, and "we needed something new," said Zaher. "We needed a new start. And this snake is definitely a new start for this debate." 
He said that although the creature had two small rear legs, it crawled like a mod­ern-day snake and probably used its legs only on occasion, though for what purpose is unclear. 
The creature, named Najash rionegrina, is "a fantastic ani­mal," said Jack Conrad, a researcher at the American Museum of Natural History in New York and co-curator of an upcoming exhibit on lizards and snakes. 
"It's really going to help put to rest some of the controver­sy that's been going around snake evolution and origins," he said. Conrad said he never took sides in the land-versus­sea debate, but "but this is starting to convince me." 
Olivier Hieppel, a fossil rep­tile expert at the Field Museum in Chicago, called the find important and said Najash is clearly the most primitive known snake. 
If snakes did evolve on land rather than the sea, their fos­sil record might be less com­plete because early fossils would have been better pre­served in a marine environ­ment, he said. 
That, in turn, suggests "we may not know all the lineages of early snake evolution," he said. Maybe several snake lin­eages lost the legs of their lizard ancestors independent­ly, he said. 


Mutnps running rampant through Midwestern states 
More than 800 cases of virus reported in Iowa alone during worst outbreak in decades; officials still investigating 
Associated Press  Iowa, the mumps hot spot, is  "College  graduation,  high  such as hearing loss, meningitis  Illinois had more than 80 - 
feeling the pain in some unex­ school proms, we're not recom­ and fertility-diminishing swollen  numbers that dwarf mumps  
DES MOINES, Iowa - In the  pected ways.  mending any be canceled," said  testicles.  reports in typical years. Most  
worst outbreak in nearly 20  When the track and field team  Kevin Teale, a spokesman for the  No deaths and few complica­ other states affected by the out­ 
years, mumps cases are spilling  from Loras College in Dubuque  Iowa  Department  of  Public  tions have been reported from  break were still reporting fewer  
out of Iowa, popping up in at  made the six-hour drive to St.  Health. "We just want to ensure  the current epidemic. Just one  than 50 cases.  
least seven other Midwestern  Louis for a Washington University  that people are aware of the  person  in  Iowa  developed  However, the CDC said it was  
states and perhaps seven more ­ track meet, the runners were  risk."  encephalitis but has  investigating cases in seven other  
leading to promises of extra vac­cine from the U.S. stockpile. There are no deaths and few complications being reported from this virus. which health om­dais believe got a boost from air travel.  sent right back home. "Washington decided that because of the mumps they didn't want schools from Dubuque com­peting," said Tim Calderwood, Loras' sports information direc­tor. Dubuque is in northeast  The source of the Iowa epi­demic is unknown, but Britain experi­enced a mumps epidemic that  "On one hand, given the Boo-plus cases we have, this is a serious situation. "  recovered, said Teale. Once a childhood rite of passage, mumps has been on the wane since a vaccine came along  states. Iowa and Wisconsin officials were seeing cases more often in universities than elementary schools. However, Iowa's Waterloo public sehool district reported 10 cases of mumps - 
But the nation's federal health  Iowa, one of the areas of the state  peaked last year  in the late 1960s. A  seven student..'> and three adults.  
agency said Wednesday it's the largest outbreak in almost two decades with more than 1,000  hit hardest by the mumps. "We always have the health and safety of our athletes and of  with 56,000 The  about cases. Iowa  Kevin Teale spokesman  two-dose shot is recommended for all children, and is  Spokeswoman Sharon Miller said the district is focused on alerting parents.  
cases and it's expected to keep  our competitors as our top priori­ mumps virus is  Iowa Department of  considered  very  "We send a letter home to par­ 
growing.  ty," Calderwood said. lie said  the same variety,  Public Health  effective -but not  ent..<; explaining the situation and  
It's a "cascade of transmission  none of the Loras athletes had  but health offi­ completely  - at  facts about mumps so they can be  
that's going to take a while to  mumps, and "we ask our oppo­ cials  are  still  preventing it. About  on  the  watch,"  Miller  said.  
eurtail and stop," said Dr. Julie  nents to trust our coaches and  evaluating whether there's a con­ 10 percent of people who get  "School  nurses  also  review  
(;erberding, director of the U.S.  know that they would not bring a  nection.  both doses are still susceptible,  immunization reeords to look for  
Centors for Disease Control and  student who is showing symp­ As to its spread in the United  Gerberding said.  situations where there may be a  
Prevention in Atlanta.  toms of mumps to their sehool."  States, Iowa health officials last  That's why there are hundreds  gap."  
Morn than XOO of the cases are  Just 37 of the college's 1,700  week noted that two infected  of people in Iowa - a state of  Meanwhile, Teale said state  
in Iowa. Thn CDC has pledged to  students have caught mumps  Iowa airline passengers carried  nearly 3 million ­ who are turn­ health oflicials are not event can­ 
provide 25,000 doses of measles­ sincn the first case surfaeed in  the disease on  nine different  ing  up  with  the  disease,  eellations.  
mumps-rubella vaccine to the  February,  according  to  the  flights.  Gerberding said.  "On one hand, given the 800­ 
state from the agency's stockpile.  school's health clinic.  Mumps is a virus spread by  So far cases are reported in  plus cases we have, this is a seri­ 
And Merck & Co..  the vaeeine  Iowa public health oflicials say  coughing and sneezing. The most  Illinois,  Kansas,  Minnesota,  ous situation," Teale said. "On the  
maker, is giving another 25,000  the outbreak of the annoying but  common symptoms are fever,  Missouri, Nebraska, Oklahoma  same token, we have 2.8 million  
doses to the CDC for distribution  rarely serious disease is no rea­ headache and swollen salivary  and Wisconsin. Kansas confirmed  people in Iowa, so the relative  
to otlwr states, Gerbording said  son to can<~el events or start  glands under the jaw. But it can  more than 140 cases, Nebraska  risk of any single visitor getting  
in a briefing in Atlanta.  widesprnad immunization clinics.  lead to more severe problems,  reported more than 100, and  mumps is extremely low."  

Thursay, March 20, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Springsteen's 'Seeger Sessions' album takes a folksy turn 
The Boss will release his new album Tuesday, which includes 13 songs with additional bonus tracks inspired by Pete Seeger 
Associated Press Festival). Springsteen, still line in a song that I sang a cer­
damp with perspiration from his tain way. I might mull it over for 
ASBURY PARK, N.J. -Bruce rehearsal, sat backstage for an three days. Maybe longer, right? Springsteen, rock 'n' roll icon, interview with The Associated Now, you know, it's very differ­stands on a cramped Jersey Press that covered his musical ent. I realize it's not necessary. shore stage surrounded by 16 past, present and future. You know your craft better." musicians. There's a fiddle, a The new album is "The Seeger Sessions" fea­banjo, a tuba, an accordion -Springsteen's most sonically tured Springsteen making an and not a single electric guitar. surprising since the spare album in record time. The rock 
The music swells, a glorious "Nebraska" in 1982. hall of farner, who in the past noise, as Springsteen leans into Springsteen compares its vari­went years between releases, the microphone and sings a ety with his second album, "The did the new album in three familiar song: Wild, The days. The 13 songs, plus two "He floats Innocent and bonus tracks, were recorded through the air "After a long time, the E Street inside the living room of a farm with the greatest Shuffle," where house at Springsteen's New
you get a lot more

of ease, the dar­the music Jersey home -with the horn 
secure about what

ing young man on veered from section playing in the hall. the flying tra­you're doing. I spend straight rock There were no rehearsals, no peze." ("Rosalita") to arrangements, no overdubs.
much less time 

The vintage jazz ("New York Springsteen wasn't even sure if
making decisions. 

tale of a high-fly­City Serenade") the results would become an ing, womanizing Incredibly less." to oompah album. circus star is fol­("Wild Billy's "It was just playing music," lowed by "Poor Circus Story"). Springsteen said of the sessions.
Bruce Springsteen 

Man," a rework­Leaning back "I didn't have any intention for
musician

ing of a Blind on a couch, it. I knew that I enjoyed making Alfred Reed song Springsteen this kind of music.... It was from the 1920s. This is the said he was intent on getting really just purely for the joy of music of the moment for out more music, including a doing it. It was a lot of fun." Springsteen: folk songs from group of songs already written Springsteen, 56, is coming off decades past as he releases an for the E Street Band and a fol­a busy year when he toured album of songs culled from the low-up to extensively 
Pete Seeger catalogue. "Tracks," his col­behind his Bob Dylan once went electric. lection of unre­"I was just playing Grammy-win­This is Springsteen going eclec­leased studio ning solo album
music. I didn't have 
tic. cuts. He was "Devils & Dust." "The songs have lasted 100 working on the any intention for [the Last year also years, or hundreds of years, for latter before new album] ... It was marked the 30th a reason," Springsteen explains deciding to do the anniversary of
really just purely for 
in a spartan dressing room after new record. "Born To Run," rehearsing with his new big "After a long the joy ofdoing it. It the classic band. "They were really, really time, you get a was a lot offun." album that 
Photo courtesy of brucespringsteen.net 

well-written pieces of music. lot more secure turned him into 
Springsteen, 56, recorded his latest album in three days from
"They have worlds in them. about what a star.
Bruce Springsteen the comfort of his New Jersey farmhouse. 
You just kind of go in -it's a you're doing," Springsteen playground. You go in, and you Springsteen said musician first connected get to play around." between sips with the Seeger dy songs like "John Henry," continued. "There's still a place 
"We Shall Overcome: The from a bottle of songbook in "Erie Canal" and "Oh Mary, for a lot of that music." Seeger Sessions" arrives water. "I spend much less time 1997, when he recorded "We Don't You Weep." Once Springsteen decided to Tuesday, with a tour to follow making decisions. Incredibly Shall Overcome" for a tribute "I wasn't aware of the vast forge ahead with the project, he (including a trip to New Orleans less. album. His interest grew as he library of music that Pete called Seeger with the news. for the Jazz and Heritage "If used to be, like, there's a delved into the material -stur-helped create and also collect­Seeger asked which songs 

ed," said Springsteen, who was more familiar with the work of Woody Guthrie. "Just this whole wonderful world of songwriting with all these lost voices. Great stories. Great characters." 
Like Seeger, Springsteen is well-known for his role as a social activist. In 2004, Springsteen campaigned for John Kerry and criticized the 
Department of Classics Summer 2006 Courses 
Greek 

CLGR 10111/60111. Intensive Beginning Greek MTWRF 9:30-11:30 & 12:30-2:30,6/20-8/4, 3 credits, Stanfiel This accelerated course provides an introduction to ancient classical Greek for beginners. Students who complete this course are eligible to proceed to the intermediate level of study. 
CLGR 20103/60103. Intermediate Greek MTWR 8:55-11:50, 6j2o-8j4, 3 credits, McLaren This course combines a re\iew ofbasic classical Greek grammar with careful reading ofsuch Greek authors as Homer and Plato. This course prepares students for advanced work in Greek language and literature. 

Latin 

CLLA 10111!60111. Intensive Beginning Latin MTWRF 9:00-12:30 & 1:30-2:30,6/20-8/4,3 credits, Perett This accelerated course provides an introduction to the Latin language for beginners. Students who complete this course are eligible to proceed to the intermediate level ofstudy. 
CLLA 20103/60103. Intermediate Latin MTWR 8:55-11:50, 6j2o-8j4, 3 credits, Krostenko This course combines presentation ofthe remaining essentials of Latin grammar, reinforced through prose composition, \\ith careful reading of Latin authors such as Caesar, Cornelius Nepos, 0\id and Augustine. This course prepares students for advanced work in Latin language and literature. 

Syriac 
CLSS 10111/60111. Introduction to Syriac Grammar MTWRF to:20-12:5o, 6/20·7/7, 3 credits, Amar 

,l~
An intensive three-week introduction to the grammar of Syriac. 
' ···. \ 
... ··.·.·,·..·,·.·,.·

CLSS 10115/60115. Introduction to Syriac Reading ~~·· 
.-... 
·'· 

MTWRF 12:15-2:35, 7/10-7/28,3 credits, Saadi An intensive introduction to basic prose reading in Syriac. 
~ 
CLSS 20120/60120. Intermediate Syriac Reading MTWRF 2:35-5:05, 6/20-7/7,3 credits, Amar Continues the work of CLSS 10115 by introducing students to the reading ofsemi-vocalized and unvocalized texts, including excerpts from Aphrahat, Ephrem, Jacob ofSarug, John ofApamaea, and Bar Hebraeus. 

Arabic 

MEAR 1010t/6o8ot. Introduction to Modern Standard Arabic MTWRF 8:oo-1o:20, 6/20-8/4,3 credits, Saadi This intensive summer course is a basic introduction to all aspects of the Arabic language through a comprehensive and integrated method. 
and other causes. 
Seeger paid a heavy price for his beliefs. During the McCarthy era, he was summoned by the House Committee on Do­American Activities as it investi­gated supposed subversive influences in entertainment. He refused to cooperate and was blacklisted for the next decade. 
So was releasing an album of Seeger's songs during President Bush's second term a political statement? 
''I'll let somebody else sort that part of it, I guess," Springsteen said. "But a lot of 'em seem pretty applicable, you know? 'Mrs. McGrath' is basi­cally an Irish anti-war song, but it's ripped right out of the head­lines everyday today." 
The songs once sung by Seeger "shine a continuing light on a whole set of not just won­derful stories, but obviously a Jot of social issues, the direction the country is going down," he would be on the record. 
"He'd start giving me the his­tory of each song," Springsteen said. "He actually knows about all those things. So it was an enjoyable conversation, and I hope he likes the record." 
Springsteen had no concerns about audience reaction to his foray into a new musical land­scape. He expects "the adventurous 
Bush administra­"Your job as an part of my fans" 
tion for bringing artist is to build a will enjoy the the country to album. And he
box, and then let 
war in Iraq. He's considers change a been a longtime people watch you requirement for advocate for local escape from it." any successful food banks, and musician. played benefits "Your job as an
Bruce Springsteen 
for union work­artist is to build a ers, flood victims box, and then let
musician 

people watch you escape from it," Springsteen explained.· "And then they fol­low you to the next box, and they watch you escape from that one.... Escape artistry is part of the survival mechanism of the job. 
"If you want to do the job well, you have got to be able to escape from what you've previ­ously built." 
There's one other major dif­ference between "Seeger Sessions" and all of Springsteen's previous work: He didn't write a single song for this project. 
"A real pleasure," he said of the break from writing. "Once we put it together, it was like, 'Wow. I can make records and I don't have to write anything.' There are thousands of great songs sitting out there waiting to be heard, and I know a way to act as an interpreter on these th.ings." 
.---------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 16 Thursday, April 20, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Retiring abroad 
PO. llux 779, Notre Damo, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre D•m<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Mikl· l;illoon 

MANAGING EIJITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie IIanna Paula Garcia 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama (;onumukkala A.~s·1; MANAGING ElliTOR: Robcn (;riflin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King Sr01rrs EI>IIUR: Kt·n Fowler SCENE EDITOII: Brian Doxtadcr SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PIIO'IU EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVER'ITSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown An DESIGN MANAGI;R: Nina Pressly CoNniOI.I.ER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian AlthoiT SYSTI\MS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro GerbauJ 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6.}1-7471FAX (574) 6.31-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4'>41 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4'>43 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.Jt1!1nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univcrsiry ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instinnion. The Observer reserves the right to rdiiSe adverrisemems based on content. 
The news is rqxmed as aclurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to rlw Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quntions rrgarding Obsrrver policirr should br dirrct(d w F.ditor in ChiifMilu GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

fhco ( >b.erver {USPS S'J'J l-4000, i• puhiW.1a.i Mon~l.ay duough Frid-.y au~ during eum 1111d vaati(!R per1a.b. AwhkTiJM•on to The Ohk'tw;r b S I 00 fi1r on~: a~o:ademu; yt'#f: $~'5 fur ~'11C' -'Cinn~tcr. 
The Ob.crvtr t. publi.shed at! POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining H.UI Send addre. c:orrmions to: Nutrc D.ame, IN 16~SfJ.CJ779 1he Observer l'rriudlc.~l p<>llilHC po~id .at Nom Dame PO.B<o~~:n9 .md o~.dditiomtl milihng offke!, OH South Dining Ha.ll 
Notre D.unc:, IN 46556~0779 
Tht Ob.\ct~r it .t mcmbtr ofthe ~'ICilu«< Prw. Ail n:produetion right~ o~n 
rc!u~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Chris Khorey Joe Piarulli Jack Thornton 
Maureen Mullen Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Liz Byrum Brauweiler Graphics Jeff Albert Jarred Wafer 
The mayor of the city where I went to high school once spoke at one of the school's awards ceremonies. I Ie was an amiable speaker, and much of what he had to say eonsistnd of the kind of inspirational anecdotes to which high school students are regularly subjnct­ed filf their gennral edification. I have completely forgotten many similar speech­es, but in this case one thing the mayor said has stayed with me ever sinee. 
"When I was your agn," he said, "people kept telling me that your school days are the best days of your life." He paused for a moment to allow us to reflect on just how many times we had heard the very same thing. Then he went on, "I didn't believe it then, and I eertainly don't believe it now." 
My experience of high school wa.<; happi­er than most, but still I f(mnd those words tremendously liberating. I wonder if any of the adults who are always telling the young that these are the best days of their lives really stop to consider how depressing it is to be continually told that your life is about to enter an inexorable dedine. This is my last eolumn writing for The Observer. Since I am not leaving Notre Dame, it isn't appro­priate for me to finish on a valedictory note, but I do have one thing I want to say to the graduating seniors, which is this: however much you have enjoyed and been enriched by your experience here, rest assured, these aren't the best days of your life. 
I started writing these "Englishman Abroad" columns in November, 2002. My first eolumn was mostly concerned with the trials and tribulations involved in acquiring a student visa and getting through customs. 
I had originally intended Englishman Abroad to be a straightforward biweekly humor column, but I broke with that plan completely after reading an article about 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman Abroad 

the incendiary attack on the National and University library of Bosnia by Serb nationalist<;. This had happened in 1992, and since it was the single largest act of book burning in history, I was shocked that I had never heard about it, eonvinced that the story should be more widely knowil. So after two lightheartnd pieces, I made my third column a sombnr reflection on the conneetion bdween book burning and genocide. There were no jokes in the col­umn about book burning-one of the few topics on which I think humor is obliged to absent itself'-but most of the subsequent columns were a hybrid of these early ones, attnmpting to make both jokes and serious poinL<;. Some objected to this approach, taking it as a sign of flippancy. As G.K. Chesterton noted, this objection is ba.snd on the assumption that funny is the opposite ofserious, but timt is wrong; funny is the opposite of not funny and noti1ing else. 
Writing the column has taught me a. lot about the difliculties and dangers of column writing. Colurrurists have a. lot of freedom in choosing what to write about, but in other respects the genre i<> very restrictive. I have a great many opinions, but few of them are 800 word<; long and cutting them down to size is a painfully procrustean enterprise, all the more so because one does the cut­ting in the certain knowledge that some readers will assume that ifyou do not men­tion some partieular argument or statistic, it means you cannot be aware of it. 
Another occupational hazard is the columnist's duty to be interesting. One of the easiest ways to be interesting is to take an extreme view on a. topical political issue, but political commentary is a. crowded mar­ket and these days, to generate interest that way, the view will have to be pretty extreme indeed. I suspect that this is the origin of the centrifugal force that affects so many pr<;~fessional political pundits, pushing them to more and more extreme versions of their political views with the result that ifyou spend too long being professionally opinion­ated, it is hard to avoid self-caricature. 
This centrifugal force is a market force, and I have often thought that tim people who refnr to thn marketplaen of ideas do not take tho metaphor seriously 1mough. A marketplace of idmL'> will only provide ac:eu­racy and truth if accuracy and truth am in demand. That's likdy to bn the ca<;n ifthn itlnas in question concern how to make a b1~tter mousetrap, but if they am about tim pnrfi>rmanee of a particular politician or political party or how bnst to alleviatn poverty, tlw highest demand seems to be for idea<; that flattnr our prm:onceptions and sense of self-righteousness, a<; even a quick glance at the New York Times nonfic­tion besL<;eller list will confirm. One n~cur­ring tlmme over the pa<;t fi>ur ynars ha<; been partisanship and polarization. I have tried to avoid these viees without giving in to the temptation of the mflnxive modera­tion of llazlitt's common sense critic who always supposes that tl1e truth lies bntwmm the extremes of right and wrong. 
Befi.)re I finish, I want to thank all of you who have written to me ovnr the pa<;t fiJUr years. L would also like to thank all the peo­pln who have edited these columns over ti1e pa'>t fimr ynars, and who have doubtless spent a good deal of time wondering how a writer who has regularly pmached on the importancn of the prncise usn ofwords could have so much trouble with such an elementary term a<; "d1mdlinn." 
I have plans for my retiremnnt. I intend to embark on a thrnn month punditry detoxification program in which I don't touch a newspaper and don't read any book or maga7Jne artide concerned with current affairs. If something really impor­tant happens, I am sure someone will tell me. The world will get by just fme for a few months without my having opinions about it, and, like the mayor's comment, that too is a liberating thought. 
Peter Mtlcks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. He started writing for The Observer in the fall of2002. Ifyou wish to contact Peter, he will be at the bar. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not ofThe Observer. 
Easter week 
Again and again in the readings for daily Mass thi'> week, people touched by Jesus after his resurrection are filled with gratitude at ti1eir encounter with him. The Gospels contain story after story of the risen Lord eoming back to his followers and in various ways, bestowing gifts upon them. He appeared to Mary Magdalene in account<> from Matthew's and John's Gospels, 
Kate

and she, "fearful yet overjoyed," did him hom­
Barrett
age and ran to the disciples to tell them the wonderful news. We hear also the story of the disciples who met Jesus on the road to 
FaithPoint 
Emmaus, and who listnned to him explain the Scriptures and recognized him as he broke and blessed the bread at their table. When they ran back to Jerusalem to tell the others, Jesus appeared again, eating with them and giving them the gift of his peace. Simon Peter found himself with a. net so full offish he could barely drag it ashore, and when he did, Jesus even had breakfast ready and a nice fire going. Each of these stories contains a common element: that the people involved didn't recognize Jesus. Sometimes it took just a moment to figure it out, as when Mary knew him by the sound of his voice. Others, such as the disciples on the road to Emmaus, walked and talked with Jesus for perhaps miles and then finally understood as they shared the meal together. The identity of the mysterious stranger on the shore eventually clicked for Simon Peter and his fellow fishermen (the record-setting haul of fish helped), but Jolm's Gospel tells us that they were afraid to ask him ifhe was in fact the Lord. 
Because we so often resemble Jesus' disciples in our hesitant, bumbling and error-prone attempt<> to follow him, this would be a good time to wonder how often Jesus has appeared to us, ollering the gifts of his presence and peace, and how often we too have failed to recognize him . .Jesus has found us, just a<; he went out and found the disciples following his resurrection. lie sought them out and revealed himself through the stories of Scrip tun~ and tl1e breaking of the bread. Sound familiar? We too ean find Christ pms­ent at Mass through the Scriptum rnadings and the Eucharist. Just as his followers and beloved friends did in the joyful, exciting days after he rose from the dead, we too can beeome wholeheartedly aware of Jesus' presence in all the moments of our lives, beginning with our prayer and worship. The unexpeeted as well a<> the nm­tine, the fearsome and tim disappointing; all can be opportunities to search for Jesus' presence and loving gifts. We ought to be able to look at life all around us with enthusiasm and with hope in these resurrection days. Jesus' resurrection from a cruel and humiliating death teaches us, ifwe are aware that he-even on this very day -is seeking us out, that he hasn't yet met a disappointment he can't turn to hope, a. sorrow he can't infuse with joy, an indifferent heart he can't fill with gratitude. Let us allow ourselves to be "found" by the Lord through our heartfelt prayers, through our participation in the Eucharist and through hopeful watehing for his presence all around us. Then we too can, as Jesus a<>ks of us, "go into the whole world and proclaim the Gospel to every creature." 
Kate Barrett is the director ofresources and special projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 


Submit aLetter
Are you going to the 
Blue-Gold game? 

to the Editor at
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserler.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
':4 diplomat is a person who can tell you to go to hell in such a way that you actually look forward to the trip. " 
Caskle Stinnet author 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 20, 2006 page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A response to Father Jenkins 
In his Oosing Statement on Academic Freedom and Catholic Character, University President Father Jobn Jenkins expresses his belief that he has articulated "principles that a large majority of this community can embrace." IfJenkins is right, I feel obliged to respond as a member of the minority. Apart from the decision about whether or not to sponsor a particular play on campus, I share Bishop John D'Arcy's "deep sadness" about the Closing Statement. In my view, the state­ment espouses a conception of the Catholic University based upon a divorce between reason and faith. This divorce will hardly settle the matter about the relation between academic freedom and the Catholic identity of Notre Dame. Moreover, Jenkins' raising of the issue may have unwittingly polarized the University community and damaged Catholicism at Notre Dame. I must say at the outset that I have not been eager to enter the present controversy. Concern for the future of Catholicism at Notre Dame, howev­er, has convinced me to overcome my reti­cence. Please permit me to speak as a Franciscan priest, faculty member and lawyer. 
First, I would like to speak as a Franciscan priest who has attempted to assist in the magnificent ministry of the Congregation of the Holy Cross at Notre Dame. The euphoria expressed in The Observer as a result of Jenkins' Closing Statement indicates that he has made some students very happy. At the same time, I know that there are more than a few good Catholic students who are scan­dalized by the President's action and state­ment. These students believe that violence against women and sexual hara..'isment are wrong not because ofsecular ideology. Hather, violence and harassment are wrong because they are sins against the law of Christ. Likewise, these same students are striving to live in accord with the radical nature of the Catholic teaching on sexuality. At no point in history has it ever been easy to live a life ofchastity. The crudeness and eroticism of certain a..'ipects of contemporary culture have rendered the task all the more difficult. This is true for all of us and espe­cially for the talented young women and men who are our students. 
Although the president's statement uses certain Catholic language, it contains no endorsement of the teaching that the only proper place for the consummation of sexu­al intimacy is between a man and woman united in Holy Matrimony. In fact, Jenkins admits that the Vagina Monologues "stand[s] apart from, and indeed in opposition to, Catholic teaching on human sexuality." Instead of adopting a policy that permits this kind ofspeech, the president of a Catholic university should be guarding against it. For those of us who are committed Catholics, and Jenkins no doubt belongs to this group, we should be doing all in our power to cre­ate a culture that fosters the Catholic truth about the gift of human sexuality and its proper place in the order of creation. My opinion is that there is, to quote the late Pope John Paul II, a "new Spring" of Catholic life blossoming at Notre Dame. I base my opinion on my grace-filled experi­ence here with our wonderful Catholic stu­dents. It is also the case that some of our students are nominally Catholic as a result of inadequate catechetical formation through no fault of their own. Evangelization is needed to invite them into the "new Spring" of Catholic life. I agree with Jenkins that plays such as the Vagina Monologues stand in opposition to Catholic life and culture. For this reason, I doubt that his Closing Statement will nourish the "new Spring." 
Second, please permit me to offer a few observations as a member of the faculty. In his Closing Statement, the president stresses his desire to ensure "the academic freedom to explore the full range of ideas and expres­sions produced by human thought ...," "a wide-open, unconstrained search for truth" and "open, unrestricted academic inquirY," Moreover, he wants to "animate the debate" and "strive to bring these various views into dialogue with the Catholic intellectual tradi­tion." The proposed debate and dialogue seems to presume that our University is at present characterized by a flourishing and pervasive Catholic intellectual life. I firmly believe that Notre Dame is both the best academic institution and most dynamic faith community of the great Catholic universities in the United States. Personally, I feel grate­ful to be a member of the faculty ofa University that I have come to love. I pray for this University on a daily basis. However, I am not so certain that the present state of the Catholic intellectual life here at Notre Dame would make for the strongest Catholic participant in the dialogue with contrary views. I think we ought to be honest and acknowledge that many, and perhaps most, members of the faculty are skeptical about the validity of Catholic truth claims based upon faith. Likewise, many would be suspi­cious about faith claims as proper partici­pants in nublic discourse. Vatican II rightly urged that the Church be open to the world. The on-going dialogue continues to bear fruit for all the participants. It must be admitted, however, that the effects ofthe ensuing dialogue with secular culture have not always been beneficial to the life of the Church. When secular culture rather than the Church begins to serve as the primary forma tor, the effects are not likely to foster the gospel life. The Catholic intellectual life here at Note Dame has not been immune from the negative eff«~cts of the dialogue as it has transpired in the Church over the course of the last four decades. My impres­sion is that secular speech of all types is alive and well at Notre Dame. Rather, it is the Catholic intellectual life that needs to be fostered and nourished. 
Given the less than ideal state ofCatholic intellectual life at Notre Dame, how might the president of the University respond? To be sure, he should not retreat from the dia­logue as it was intended by Vatican II. Whoever the President ofthe University is at this perilous yet promising time, he would be well advised to come to terms with reali­ty, drink deeply from the living fountain of faith and act with all in his power to strengthen Catholic intellectual life. 
Unfortunately, nowhere in his Oosing Statement does Jenkins affirm that Catholic belief is necessarily normative within the Catholic intellectual community. The state­ment creates the impression that Catholicism is just another "good idea" sometimes at issue and to be batted around in the on-going intellectual debate at the University. Without the recognition of the _, primacy ofCatholic truth claims at Notre Dame, the University's own internal dia­logue will fail to ensure integration of faith and reason; and in its dialogue with wider culture, Notre Dame will be a weak partner with little of its own to offer. Truth claims based upon faith and safeguarded by proper authorities remain integral aspects of the Catholic approach to reason. Catholic thinkers as diverse as Augustine and Thomas Aquinas have recognized the need for intellectual humility in light of sacred scripture, tradition and the magisterium of the Church. The Catholic approach to rea­son stands in contrast to the hermeneutic of suspicion and skepticism, which seems to be all too characteristic of contemporary aca­demic culture. Such a rationalist approach labors under the burden of an Enlightenment myth in which rational inquiry is thought to exist independent of viewpoint, tradition and community. To say the least, this myth has long been exposed by scientists, philosophers, cultural anthro­pologists and theologians alike. The ratio­nalist approach is incompatible with Catholic faith. It demands a divorce between faith and reason. Rather than facilitate the divorce, the president enjoys a principal role in setting the conditions for the reconcilia­tion between faith and reason. 
The Catholic tradition respects individual conscience, and not every individual who is a member of a Catholic university communi­ty needs to embrace Catholic faith. However, all members of a Catholic university com­munity are asked to respect faith and the truth claims that flow from it. On an institu­tionallevel, the proper authority must express the University's commitment to the priority ofCatholic truth over all other claims. Frankly, the University needs to hire more devout Catholic professors who cher­ish the Catholic approach to reason and are also top-notch in their respective academic disciplines. I am humbled by the excellent hires that the University has made in this regard. Ex Corde Ecclesiae requires that at least a simple majority of the faculty be practicing Catholics. Jenkins has expressed his commitment to this goal. I doubt that his recent action and statement have advanced the goal. To the contrary, I suspect that the president's Closing Statement will discour­age some prospective Catholic hires. I hope that it will not give cause to present col­leagues to think about leaving Notre Dame. 
Finally, I would like to offer a brief com­ment as an attorney and canon lawyer. The president states that he is "determined that we not suppress speech on this campus." Although this kind ofrhetoric may have a certain populist appeal, I am surprised to read it from the pen of a respected priest­philosopher. Indeed, the Oosing Statement and the accompanying guidelines recognize the need to "supp.ress" certain types of speech at Notre Dame. From the perspective of constitutional law, the first amendment's free speech guarantee is not absolute. Depending on the type of speech, judicial review of government regulation ofthat speech recognizes varying levels of scrutiny. Even government regulation of pure political speech, which requires the highest level of judicial suspicion, may be curtailed by time, place and manner restrictions. In the United States, non-governmental institutions such as universities and colleges enjoy the right not only to regulate, but to suppress, speech on their private property. VIrtually every major educational institution in the United States does regulate and ban certain types of speech. Regulation ofso-called "hate speech" is a good example of the exercise of this right. The canon law of the Catholic Church also recognizes free speech as a quailed and not absolute right. According to 
Section 3 of Canon 212 ofthe Code of Canon Law, speech in the Catholic community is to be freely expressed as long as it "respects the integrity of faith and morals, shows due 
reverence to Pastors and takes into account both the common good and dignity of indi­viduals." In my view, a Catholic University must suppress certain types of speech-albeit 
only on rare occasions. Pornography, racism, obscenity and war-mongering con­stitute speech that has no place in any 
Catholic community. To suppress such speech is not only a right; it is an affirmative 
obligation of the proper authority at the 
Catholic university. The good of the commu­nity depends on such regulation. 
Last May, I had the privilege ofaddressing a large group of alumni meeting here on campus, who posed many questions about the current state and future of Catholicism at Notre Dame. I took this opportunity to express my strong support and admiration for then President-elect Jenkins. On numer­ous private occasions, I have continued to express this support to concerned persons all over the country. His public statements up until his most recent Closing Statement gave me good reason for expressing this support. In light of his previous statements, I must be honest and confess that I was stunned by the recent Closing Statement. Jenkins may be correct that I am in a dis­tinct minority of faculty members who feel this way. Although none of us are indispen­sable, I think that the "minority" is a sine quo non to the health ofthis great Catholic university. The Oosing Statement notwith­standing, there seems to me to be a splendid opportunity to foster Catholic intellectual life and culture at Notre Dame. Some features of the wider American culture are gravely ill and badly need the medicine of Catholic truth. I continue to believe that Notre Dame can be a big part of the cure and not the problem. A University founded under the patronage ofOur Lady ought to be nothing less. 
Rev. John). Coughlin, O.EM. professor oflaw April9 


EDITORIAL CARTOON
Remembering Leader 
Tuesday, Notre Dame buried one of its great teachers, Bob Leader. His "Art Trads" courses were renowned and over-subscribed. Whenever I need to explain Notre Dame to anyone, I use a quote of Bob's from the early seventies, which appeared in Notre Dame Magazine: 
"Parents send us their young because they still believe that this is a special place, a place with an intimate chemistry between student and teacher, and between those two and God Almighty. While concerned that their offspring acquire employable skills, these parents trust their chil­dren will also be marked by encounters with passionate souls who love learning and beauty for themselves and who live the faith of their fathers." 
, John Hannan alumnus class of 1978 Aprill8 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 18 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 
CONCERT REVIEWS 

Mellencamp delivers legendary hits 
By LAURA MILLER Scene Critic 

There is one word that comes to mind when seeing John Mellencamp saunter onstage-legendary. With his moppy sil­ver Jocks and small town persona, Mellencamp delivered a performance at the Joyce Center that was both satisfying and fun. 
The evening began with the up and coming Little Big Town, a band hailed as country's next big thing. While the band has not yet gained the finesse of Mellencamp's long time stage show, it put on a pleasing and cheerful performance. Litth~ Big Town has the talent -it just needs to work out the logistics of lighting, wardrobn and dance moves in order to really bncome a force on the tour eircuit. 
Mnllenearnp and his group obviously had the experience that Little Big Town lacked. The lighting for the performance was fabulous. Purn colors and clean spot­lights allowed for a clear visual organiza­tion of a jam-packed stage. 
Some of the highlights of the show ineluded classics such as "Hurts So Good" and "Jack and Diane." Melleneamp also got the audience mov­ing with his renditions of radio favorites "Pink Houses" and "Authority Song." 
Despite the overwhelming quantity of musk, the sound was well balanced. The diversity of instruments was astounding. Every percussion instrument ever seen in any grade school across the country was on the stage -maracas, tambourines, 
and anything else imaginable. Also included in the entourage were the tradi­tional variety of guitars and drums, as well as a cello, accordion, harmonica, keyboard, fiddle and conga drums. The band was a nice mix of old and new. There were some sounds that were ._unique from the original recordings and -a few younger faces on the stage, but the music remained consistent with the style 
for which Mellencamp has become 
famous. 

It is no mystery why Mellencamp has been successful for such a long period of time. Not only are his songs timeless, but his stage presence is also phenomenal. He seems to enjoy interacting both with the audience and his band. Confidence still oozes from his 55-year-old pores. Because he looked like he was having a great time, his audience did too. He was not bashful about relinquishing center stage to members of his band, creating a karaoke party atmosphere that was essential to keeping the stage show lively and engaging. 
There is, however, a line that all aging performers flirt with. How far is too far? What looks like an old person trying to look young versus just a cool old person? While Mellencamp looks good for his age, it doesn't give him license to act like a 16-year-old. The shirt showed just a bit too much chest, the rolled-up sleeves a little too much arm, and the dance moves -well, some of those haven't been seen since the days of leisure suits. Despite his (sometimes) questionable dancing, Mellencamp's age has served him well in developing a meaningful per­formance. Throughout the evening, he brought up issues such as the living wage, the disappearance of small farm­ing communities and poverty. All of these themes were well connected in his songs, and he was careful to coordinate his movements to the themes he wanted to accentuate. 

"Just take a second to dream," Mellencamp told his audience at the end of his performance. Passing on the sage words of his father -who was in atten­dance Tuesday night -Mellencamp reminded his audience to make time for fun and not to let life pass by. Obviously, Mellencamp has taken his father's advice to heart. After seeing his show, it's safe to say the audience will be heed­ing the advice as well. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 
Aussie trio makes case as future for jam bands 
By BOB COSTA 
Scene Critic 

Today's college students were too young to have been active members of the grunge scene or bear witness to the rise of Dave Matthews Band in its early years. Sure, some may wear a Blind Melon T-shirt, but it was either their older brother's or mass-produced for sale at the local mall. 
To be hip today is to look back for bands of substance like The Clash or Nirvana. Nickelback just isn't cutting it. So, when a new band comes around that shuns commercialism, embraces activism and plays with a live energy that is usually only heard about in questionable tales from Woodstock, the current generation would do well to wake up from their decaffeinated cul­tural sleep and take notice. 
This past Saturday, one of Australia's top roots rock bands played an epic two-hour concert at the Vic Theatre on Chieago's north side. Although multi­platinum stars in the land down under, the John Butler Trio has only recently begun to develop a large grassroots fol­lowing stateside. The trio, led by dreadlocked guitarist John Butler, has opened for the Dave Matthews Band and played at the Bonnaroo festival. The band's American studio debut, "Sunrise Over Sea," was released in 2004. They also just released a double­en live album cut from their recent coneert in Switzerland entitled "Live at St. Gallen." Both albums have slowly begun to sell well as word of mouth about this (uniquely) unpretentious jam band has built online and around the live concert scene. 
Don't be fooled by the jam band label though, since after last Saturday's show at the Vic, it is clear that fans of Jack Johnson or Phish could find a home in the music of the John Butler Trio. The concert was more about raw emotion in many instrumental forms instead of the normal trippy guitar solos that usually permeate this era's myriad of Dead-lite bands. Butler demonstrated his keen ability to con­jure pain and elation during his per­formance. From the lush string arrangements of "What You Want," which was featured on HBO earlier this spring, to the bouncy reggae-folk rhythms of "Zebra," it became clear by the encore that the John Butler Trio doesn't easily fit into any genre. 
For "Peaches and Cream," a bitter­sweet acoustic melody from "Sunrise Over Sea," Butler began the song solo with just his acoustic guitar and one old-school microphone that looked like he borrowed it from Larry King's desk. Butler asked the audience to be silent for the song since he wanted to play it sans amplification. After a few hilari­ous moments of buzzed hippies yelling "Shhhh!" to their friends, Butler began to slowly strum the quiet tune, which has become a minor hit on public and independent radio. Butler began his career playing on the streets of Fremantle, Australia, and the sing-a­long of the simple chorus, "All I know is I All I know is I I love you I Yes, I love you," was quite striking since many in the audience did not know the lyrics when he began playing -but by its conclusion, they were singing along like they were in a bar and the Beatles' "Yesterday" came over the jukebox. 
Butler's infectious roots vibe and the sincerity of his music made everyone, even one security guard standing by the bar, sing those simple lines with Butler over and over until everyone involved felt like they had reached some sort of musical high. Butler has the undoubtedly rare ability to keep his audience's attention, even if this show was their first encounter with the artist. What makes his playing different is that instead of listening for cued riffs from the hit single, Butler's crowds stare intensely at the unique eleven­string in the rocker's hands as he searches for all sorts of sounds coming from the steel strings and the well-trod pedals at his feet. 

The Vic concert's highlight was Butler's solo instrumental, "Ocean." He jammed into crescendo after crescen­do, prodding the audience into an eclectic frenzy where some were screaming in elation and others just grooved silently with their significant other. Butler told the audience that he wrote the song ten years ago, and that every time he played it, it changed in its tone and length. This was intrigu­ing, since it's rare to see a jam band that looks so much into itself for inspi­ration. Many guitarists like Trey Anastasio stare like excited puppies looking for audience approval when they jam. Butler sits still and carves songs out of his soul. Every pick of his guitar is distinct and he rushes noth­ing. For the encore, the stellar opening act and fellow Aussie Jeff Lang took the stage to make the John Butler Trio a quartet. 
Instead of trying to be cool and hip with a Stones shirt or Chomsky book next to a pile of Weezer albums, go check out the John Butler Trio. Forget Phish. Think the future of jam bands that are unpretentious and innovative. This guy could, just maybe, be the next Marley. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, April 20, 2006 
page 19 
CD REVIEW 
McMahon finds success with solo project 


In 2005, Andrew McMahon, above, was forced to delay the promotion of his album, "Everything in Transit," when he was diagnosed with Leukemia. 
By MEG HAN KELLY and TOPHER 
MAHONEY 
Scene Critics 
Meghan: Jack's Mannequin may not be a well known band just yet, but it's on its way. With recent appearances on "Jimmy Kimmel Live," "Last Call with Carson Daly," "One Tree Hill" and even "TRL," Jack's Mannequin has been gaining more and more exposure and an even bigger fan base. ­
Jack's Mannequin is led by Andrew McMahon, who plays piano and is lead singer of the punk rock band Something Corporate. When Something Corporate decided to take a temporary touring break last year, however, McMahon decided it was an opportunity to release songs he had been writing that had a different sound than that of Something Corporate. 
Jack's Mannequin began touring last spring and released the album "Everything in Transit" in August of 2005, but an unexpected turn of events left fans wondering whether the side project would continue. In May 2005, McMahon was diagnosed with Acute Lymphatic Leukemia, a treat­able form of cancer frequently found in children. The 23-year-old McMahon immediately stopped touring to receive treatment. Despite the lack of a sup­porting tour, word about Jack's Mannequin, as well as McMahon's ill­ness, spread rapidly. 
·Now, with McMahon recovered, Jack's Mannequin is picking up steam, getting even more mainstream atten­tion than Something Corporate. After several shows this spring, they will be going on tour this summer opening for 
O.A.R. One of Jack's Mannequin's songs will also be on the soundtrack for the upcoming "Superman Returns" film and another, "The Mixed Tape," is on the "One Tree Hill Soundtrack, Volume 2." 
"Everything in Transit" isn't getting the attention for no reason. McMahon combined influences such as Tom Petty and the Beach Boys along with his personal experiences to create a solid pop/rock album. With its creative lyrics, catchy hooks and a California feel, "Everything in Transit" is the perfect summer CD. 
Like in Something Corporate, McMahon keeps the piano as the main instrument of this album, but uses his lyrical and musical talents to keep the sound fairly diverse. The opening song "Holiday From Real" truly shows McMahon's California lifestyle with its mostly upbeat, beachy sounds, while more somber songs like "Kill the 
Messenger" and "Rescued" maintain 
an emotional, personal feeling. 
Listeners can tell that the album was a very personal experience for McMahon -he addresses issues like getting over a longtime girlfriend and feeling like a stranger in your own town. This album was an outlet for McMahon. This is especially evident in the peppy ''I'm Ready." In the song, he ·briefly pauses and uses dialogue to get his point across, which admittedly takes away from the empowering 
aspect of the song. 

Other songs such as "La La Lie" with its fun harmonica bridge, and "Into the Airwaves," the 
CO's bonus track, are This demands a
Everything in Transit

energetic, rock-based brand of music songs that really make 
that is capable the listener want to of maintaining sing along. One of the a connection most interesting songs with the sincer­
Artist: Jack's Mannequin
on the album is a ity of the lyrical
Record label: Maverick
seven-minute two-part emotion,
Release date: Aug. 23, 2005
song entitled "We despite the
Recommended tracks: 'Holiday
Were Made for Each potential rift
From Real,"La La Lie,"l'm Ready'
Other/You Can Breathe between the
and 'The MixedTape'
Now" that not only words and the 
ends the album, but also seems to sum it up. The first half of the song is very breezy and has almost a Beach Boys sound, while the second half is a little slower and· slightly reminiscent of The Beatles. 
Although some listeners may find McMahon's voice whiny or some of the songs too "emo," overall the album is fun, catchy and creative. It's the kind of CD a person would want to sing to in the shower or play while they're on the way to the beach with friends. McMahon is a talented songwriter and performer who doesn't allow Jack's Mannequin to disappoint. "Everything in Transit" should be everyone's guilty pleasure this summer. 
Topher: The current wave of emo is built on sincerity. The appeal of albums like "Pinkerton" by Weezer or "Something to Write Home About" by The Get Up Kids is partly due to their clear articulation of the muddy, com­plex relationship with the world 
around them. 

musical tone that accompanies them. 
It's clear that Andrew McMahon, lead singer of Something Corporate, understands this concept based on his album "Everything in Transit," the first installment from McMahon's solo project Jack's Mannequin. Based on his own experiences living in Venice Beach, McMahon's first-person narra­tives have a pop-sheen that disguises the oft-moody lyrics. 
The first song on the album, "Holiday from Real," is a sunny piano tune underlined by the depressing thought, "She thinks I'm much too thin I She asks i:ne if I'm sick I What's a girl to do I With friends like this." In the same song, McMahon injects the cool happiness that comes from living in Southern California with the lyrics "Oh-oh, California in the summer I Ah­ah, and my hair is growing long." But the lighthearted simplicity is destabi­lized when he sings "We'd waste our weeks beneath the sun I We'd lie and tell our friends I It's so much fun out here." The lyrics point to a complicat­ed relationship with the place he's from, a tone grounded in equal parts reverence and regret. 
The fifth song, "La La Lie," compli­cates the chorus with the chanted line, "La la la lie." In undercutting the song's words, the line creates a con­versation the song has with itself ­pointing neither to the certainty of having good friends nor the realization that it's a lie. Instead, the song creates a feeling of hesitation born of a lack of trust that McMahon apparently has in himself. 
Other parts of the album appeal on different levels. The second song, "The Mixed Tape," shows McMahon's sharp sense of lyrical ability, employing rhythm and assonance to lines to give them thrust beyond that of their straight message -"As I'm swimming through the stereo I I'm writing you a symphony of sound I I swear to God this mix could sink the sun." "Miss Delaney" has its own Beach Boys' Brian Wilson moment at the bridge, when McMahon's voice is recorded over itself several times in a semi­orchestrated manner. 
This doesn't mean that "Everything in Transit" has no less-than-great moments. "MFEO" goes on far too long, clocking in at over eight minutes. While the song might have been revo­lutionary 10 years ago, the long tracks "Jesus of Suburbia" and "Homecoming" off of Green Day's "American Idiot" and even Something Corporate's own "Konstantine" are much better examples of extended rock songs. Since extended songs like these are so rare, anything short of fantastic tends to be disappointing. 
Besides these minor bumps in the road, McMahon is right on track with "Everything in Transit." 
Contact Meghan Kelly at mkelly8@nd.edu and Topher Mahoney at cmahoney@nd.edu 
courtesy Before the release of his solo debut, Andrew McMahon, left center, was a prominent figure In the band Something Corporate, which took a hiatus in 2005. 
page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
NBA 

Spurs down Suns, set franchise record for wins 
O'Neal scores 24 as Pacers beat Magic to end season at .500, earn No. 6 seed and matchup with New Jersey Nets 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -Setting the fran­chise roeord for wins in a reg­ular season was never a goal of the San Antonio Spurs. 
They fought hard for it anyway against the llouston Hoekets on Wndnesday night. 
Brent Barry scored 19 points and Michael Finley added 17 in the Spurs' 89-87 victory. San Antonio finished the n1gular sea­son 63-l'J, topping the 1994-95 tmtm, which finished 62-20. 

"We're concentrating on the playoffs and our goal is to win the championship," said Barry, who went 7 -for-12 from the field. "But certainly 63 wins means something and says something about how we played all season long." 
Manu (;inobili had 11 points and six assisL'> f(lr the Spurs, who playml without Tim Duncan and Tony Parker. The two stars watched the game from the bench in street dothes, resting f(lr the playofl's. 
Ginobili is rPiieV!~d the postsea­son has finally arrived. 
"Our season is starting in a couple of days," Ginobili said. "The last 10 games, you just wanted the regular season to lin­ish and get ready for the excite­ment. The atmosphere changes in one second." 
The Hockets, meanwhile, wrapped up their third losing season since 1984. They won only 15 games at the Toyota Center, matching the NBA's worst home record and are headed to the draft lottery for the fifth time in seven seasons. 
"It was nothing that other teams did to us," point guard Rafer Alston said. "It was a lot of what we did to ourselves." 
Indiana 89, Orlando 83 
Underachievers for much of the season, the Indiana Pacers look dangerous heading into the playoffs. 
The Pacers beat the Orlando Magie on Wednesday night for their fifth win in six games. Indiana (41-41) will open the postseason Sunday afternoon at Atlantic Division champion New Jersey. 
Jermaine O'Neal had 24 points, 13 rebounds and six blocks to help the Pacers daim the No. 6 seed in the Eastern Conference. As recently as a week ago, it looked as if Indiana might miss the playofl's. The Pacers barely avoided their first losing season since 1997. 
"I just think it really took for us to hit rock bottom to really real­ize we weren't going to give our­selves an opportunity to excel and be fair to this franchise and 

AP Cleveland guard Ira Newble, middle, squeezes between Hawks' forward Josh Smith and teammate Anderson Varejao during the Cavaliers' 100-99 win Wednesday night In Cleveland. 
this city," O'Neal said. 
The strong finish has the 
Pacers thinking big. 
"I still believe this team has a 
lot of potential, and if we play to 
our capabilities we can be fme," 
forward Peja Stojakovic said. 
O'Neal has been back from a 
torn left groin for a month after 
missing 24 games. He has aver­
aged 25 points, 11 rebounds and 
three blocks in the Pacers' last 
five games. 
''I'm going to try to continue to build, and continue to be effec­tive," he said. 
Cleveland 100, Atlanta 99 
This milestone was almost 
meaningless for the Cavaliers. To 
them, victory No. 50 doesn't have 
the significance of Game No. 83. 
Cleveland, once an NBA waste­land, is back in the playofl's. 
With LeBron James resting up for his postseason debut, Cleveland concluded its regular season with a victory Wednesday night over the Hawks, giving the Cavaliers 50 wins for just the fourth time in franchise history. 
"We had fun tonight," forward Donyell Marshall said. "We want­ed to get to 50, and we had fun. This is our last chance to have fun. Now, it gets serious. It's the second season. It's time to go to work again." 
With the win, the · Cavs improved to 50-32 -the first time they've hit the 50-win plateau since 1992-93. Also, Cleveland's Mike Brown became the first rookie eoach to win 50 games since Rick Carlisle did it for Detroit in 2001-02. 
But those record-book nota­tions didn't overshadow some­thing much more important: The Cavaliers will face the Washington Wizards in Game 1 on Saturday. 
"We had our ups and down this year," Marshall said. "We had our share of injuries and tough times, but to come out with 50 wins in tremendous." 
New York 90, New Jersey 83 
With little fanfare and nothing to say about either his future or his stomach problem, Larry Brown returned to coaching on Wednesday night. 
Brown, who missed the previ­ous three games with a stomach ailment, let Herb Williams do much of the work in the season finale at the Continental Airlines Arena. The Knicks avoided their first 60-loss season with a win over the Atlantic Division cham­pion New Jersey Nets. 
"He was giving his input when­ever needed, and telling me cer­tain things to do," Williams said. "But for the most part he let me run the show." 
Brown did not speak with the media either before or after the game. He was escorted out of the arena by security personnel and members of the Knicks' public relations staff. 
Williams said team doctors advised the 65-year-old Brown not to stand too much during the game because of his problem with acid reflux. 
"He seemed OK to me, but he was sitting down for the most part," Williams said. 
Chicago 127, Toronto 106 
Ben Gordon scored 24 points and the Chicago Bulls closed the regular season by beating the Toronto Raptors on Wednesday night to grab the No. 7 seed in the playoffs. 
The Bulls will face Miami in a first-round series that opens Saturday after winning 12 of their final 14 games to finish 41­


41. 
Gordon hit 11 of 17 shots and added seven assists and six rebounds. Kirk Hinrieh finished with 17 points, 10 assists and seven rebounds for Chicago, which finished on a season-high six-game win streak. Luol Dcng scored 21 points and Andres Nocioni added 14 points and 11 rebounds. 
The 127 points were a season high for the Bulls. 
Morris Peterson and Charlie Villanueva each scored 29 for the Raptors (27-55), who ended the season on a 1-12 skid with All­Star forward Chris Bosh nursing a thumb injury. Villanueva had 10 rebounds. 
Chicago began the night tied with Indiana, a game behind fifth-place Washington and a half-game ahead of idle Milwaukee. Washington beat Detroit by 16 and Indiana earned the sixth seed with a six-point victory over Orlando, leaving the Bulls with a first-round rnatchup against the Heat. A loss would have dropped Chicago to the eighth spot. · 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LosT & FouND 
FOUND: Rosary with blue beads on Saturday, 4/8, between library and Stepan Chemistry. Call 1-5608 tv. message. 
WANTED 
Paid Summer Internship. Kymanox,LLC is seeking 1-2 students with energy, talent &a desire to learn about the Biopharma industry. Engineer/technical majors preferred. Highland Park,ll. Go to http://www.kymanox.com/intern for more info. Mr. Perry will be on campus 27­28APR06 for possible interviews. 
I need a furnished room or apt. to rent for June &July. Call Tom Clark 412-829-8602. 
Need extra $$$? I need person(s) to sell Rockne commemorative 75th anniversary bookmarks. Call 272­9289 for more info. or visit www. rocknebookmark.com 
Highly motivated. ethical/socially 
responsible. entrepreneurial, go­.getters with desires to make a 
meaningful impact on transforming 
the international business world while making a large amount of $$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students for part time, full time, or summer employment to work for commission. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co 
m 

FOR SALE 
Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND Campus! Make your dream of homeownership a reality. 1232 sq It, 3-l'car garage. Call Donna @993-5060. 
2000 black VW Bug, BOk miles, new brakes. Asking Blue Book $7900. Call 574-289-0262. 
1113 Twyckenham. Walk to ND! All new interior! OPEN HOUSE SUN. 11-2 Call574-850-6773 for more info. 
FOR RENT 

WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­
ROOM HOMES 
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 

Retail/Office Space For Lease 1 BOO SF at $10 PSF NNN on SA 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Noah Davey 574-271-4060 
Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey 574-271-4060. 
Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at $595. Call277-9372. 
Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms 
1.5 baths. C/A &WID. Gas stove, oven, microwave & refrigerator. Hardwood floors in bdrms &tile in bathrooms. Big driveway &2-car garage. Close to ND-1023 Talbot off of South Bend Ave. $1 ,400/mo. Utilities not included. Need security deposit. Call277-1875 Cosima. 
Large house for rent. 1 8285 Dunn Rd. Walk to class @ ND. 4 h~ge bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge fenced yard. Call317-431-9508 
TICKETS 

TOP$$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. 574-232-0964. 
O.A.R. tix first 3 rows. Call272­7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Christina Partyka is extremely beautiful and really, really cool. 
I think today is some kind of holiday but I can't remember. My short-term memory ain't so good anymore ... 
O'Neill 4A is alive and well. Hooray! 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 CoMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 21 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Boston 11-4 .733 7-10 Baltimore 9-7 .563 7-3 2.5 New York 1·1 .500 6-4 3.5 Toronto 7-7 .500 5·5 3.5 Tampa Bay 7-8 .467 5·5 4 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Chicago 10-5 .667 9-1 Cleveland 9-6 .600 5-5 1 Detroit 1·1 .500 3-7 2.5 Minnesota 6-7 .462 5-5 3 Kansas City 2-12 .143 0-10 7.5 
American League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Anaheim 7-7 .500 5-5 Oakland 7-7 .500 5·5 Texas 6-8 .429 5·5 1 Seattle 6-9 .400 3·7 1.5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB New York 10-4 .714 7-3 Atlanta 8·8 .500 5-5 3 Philadelphia 6·8 .429 6-4 4 Washington 5-10 .333 3-7 5.5 Florida 4-10 .286 3-7 6 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Houston 10-4 .714 7-3 Chicago 8·5 .615 6-4 1.5 Cincinnati 9-6 .600 5-5 1.5 St. louis 9·6 .600 6-4 1.5 Milwaukee 1·1 .500 3-7 3 Pittsburgh 5-12 •294 4·6 6.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 
San Francisco 8·5 .615 6-4 
Colorado 8·7 .533 5-5 1 
los Angeles 1·8 .467 H 2 
San Diego 6·8 .429 5-5 2.5 
Arizona 6·8 .429 4-6 2.5 
NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 
team conf. overall streak 
NOTRE DAME 11-1 28-8 W18 Connecticut 11-3 24·12 l2 St. John's 8·4 24·11 W2 Rutgers 7·5 16·15 W2 Louisville 7-5 16-20 W1 South Florida 1·8 18-20 W1 West Virgina 5·7 25·12 l8 Cincinnati 5·7 20·15 l3 Georgetown 5·7 11·20 L1 Villanova 3·8 11·11 W3 Pittsburgh 4·11 14·20 W1 Seton Hall 4·11 11·23 l4 
NCAA Women's Softball Big East Conference 
team conf. pet. overall. 
USF 8·0 1.000 38-19 
NOTRE DAME 9·1 .900 26-13 
< 

Syracuse 11·3 .786 27~16 louisville 5·3 .625 26-7 Pittsburgh 8·6 .571 27-20 Providence 6·6 .500 23·1H DePaul 5·5 .500 20·14 Seton Hall 5·9 .357 25-21 St. John's 5-9 .357 22-20 Connecticut 4·8 .333 16·21 Rutgers 4-10 .286 11-29 Villanova 2·12 .143 11·28 
around the dial 
NCAA BASEBALL 

Birmingham Southern at Coastal Carolina 
11:30 a.m., ESPNU 
NCAA SOFTBALL 

Texas at Oklahoma, 12 a.m., ESPNU 
NHL 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Michael Nylander sat slumped at his stall and stared ahead with a blank look on his face. 
The gaze was one of dis­appointment and shock. And who could blame the New York forward. 
He and the Rangers had just dropped their fifth straight game and fell from the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference all the way to sixth in a matter of moments. The Atlantic Division title slipped through their hands at the finish line. 
"We had the division on the line for many games now and we didn't come through," Nylander said. "It's starting from zero again now here. The next game is a new season." 
He meant the playoffs but he could've been talk­ing about the crazy finish that was about to occur. 
The real surprise was that it wasn't the Philadelphia Flyers who stole the crown from the Rangers, but instead the hard-charging New Jersey Devils. 
For most of the season, the Rangers sat in first place and they still held the lofty spot Tuesday night when they hit the ice for the finale. All they had to do to wrap up their first division title in 12 years was beat Ottawa. 
Even when it seemed as though they would fall short, the Rangers still were in good shape to fin­ish first because the Devils and Flyers also were los­ing. The one-point lead they carried into the night had a chance to stand up. 
Ottawa stretched its lead to 4-1 early in the third period about the time the Flyers tied and went ahead of the Islanders. Philadelphia was aware that the division was there for the taking. 
During the second inter­mission, Flyers coach Ken Hitchcock walked into the dressing room and wrote the out-of-town scores on the board -Senators 2, Rangers 1; Canadiens 2, Devils 0. 
There was nothing else to say. 
"We knew what was at stake," Philadelphia for­ward R.J. Umberger said. "It was the most fired up we've been before a period all season." 
The shocking turn of events in the season's final hours moved the Rangers down three spots, launched the Devils up two places, and raised the Flyers up a seed. 
IN BRIEF 

Vijay SinJ!h looks to end Course, a 7,422-yard, Rees Jones­Eagles Landing Country Club south slump at lf'ouston Open designed layout that was completed of Atlanta, Webb is again a player 
HUMBLE, Texas -Vijay Singh is in August 2005. to be reckoned with on the LPGA winless in 17 starts on the PGA "They keep changing the golf Tour. Tour, his longest victory drought in course on me," Singh said. Silver appointed deputy 
four years. Webb to plaY. in Florida's commmis10ner of NBA He can snap out of it this week at Natural Championship NEW YORK -NBA Entertainment the event where he ended his last STOCKBRIDGE, Ga. -Welcome president Adam Silver was appoint­
long dry spell, the Shell Houston back, Karrie Webb. ed Wednesday to the role of deputy Open. On Wednesday, the Aussie was commissioner, replacing Russ "I've got good feelings over here," actually summoned to the inter­Granik as the league's No. 2 man 
Singh said. ''I've had great success view room BEFORE a tournament, behind David Stern. in Houston." which goes with the territory when Silver was elected unanimously Singh won the 2000 Masters, then you're coming off a major champi­during the league's two-day board went 50 starts without a victory onship but hasn't been a regular of governors meetings. before setting the tournament scor­part of her routine the past few Silver will retain his responsibili­ing record at the TPC at the years. ties with NBA Entertainment, which Woodlands in 2002. And get this: the media-shy he has run for more than eight The tournament moved to Webb didn't even seem to mind sit­years, while adding those of Granik. Redstone Golf Club in 2003. Singh ting down with reporters. Granik announced in October he 
finished ninth that year, then "I still don't like how much time would step down following this sea­regained his Texas touch, winning it takes up," she said. "But I will son, his 30th with the league and in 2004 and last year, beating John handle things a lot better if I'm 22nd in his current role. 
Daly in a playoff. able to put myself in the spotlight Stern also announced another The event is once again at again." appointment effective July 1: Joel Redstone, but it has shifted across Heading into the Florida's Litvin as president of league and 
the street to The Tournament Natural Charity Championship at basketball operations. 
page 22 
ThursdaY, April 20, 2006' 
NHL 

Cheechoo nabs Richard Trophy for most goals 
San Jose winger nets 56 in third NHL year 
Associated Press SAN JOSE, Calif'. -Jonathan Cheechoo got oiT the golf course Monday night to find 13 new messages on his cell phone's voice mail. "Either something really bad happened, or something really good happened," he said to himself. It was all good: Whilfl the San Jose Sharks' third-year forward was around the 17th hole moments earlier, he had won the Hiehard Trophy as the NIIL's top goal-scorer. Friends, family and teammates were calling to oflilr congratulations. "I never really imagined it, but it's amazing," Cheechoo said after practice Tuesday. "A lot of guys who I have a lot of' respect for when I was growing up have got their names on that trophy. It's still sinking in." Cheeehoo scored 56 goals, the most in the league in live years, and his partnership with center Jon Thornton turned both play­ers into two of the NIIL's most dangerous forwards just in time for the playoffs. The lil'th-send­nd Sharks open Friday night in Nashville. Everything has happened quickly for Cheechoo since Thornton arrivnd in a trade with Boston on Nov. 30. The deal transformed the Sharks ­

and it transformed Cheechoo from a solid third-line forward who scored 28 goals as a sec­ond-year pro in 2004 into an elite wing with his name on some serious NHL hardware. 
"That's one of the most unbe­lievable stories -Cheech scor­ing 56 goals," said Sharks coach Hon Wilson, who paired Cheechoo with Thornton on a hunch that he might be able to nmulate Glen Murray, frequent­ly Thornton's favorite target with the Bruins. 
"I still can't believe it. ... Here's a guy who had to devel­op into a 50-goal scorer (in the minors). The other guys on that list just appeared, and you wait­ed for them to ripen on the tree. It's Brett Hull all over again." 
Wilson isn't the first to com­pare Cheechoo to Hull, another wing with a booming shot and suspect skating abilities who spent time in the minors. Hull developed into the 20th-leading scorer in NHL history, while Cheechoo seems to be on his way to bigger things as well. 
And like Hull, Cheechoo has his quirks. 
"The big secret -once the whole league gets on to this, goals are going to go up around the league -moose meat!" Wilson cracked. 
Cheechoo, a member of the Moose Cree First Nation, indeed said fried moose was his favorite food while growing up in Moose Factory, Ontario, near Hudson Bay. He still seeks it out during road trips, but moose is hard to find in San Jose's Mexican cantinas and steak­houses. 
The puck isn't hard to find ­not with Thornton passing to him. Thornton, the NHL scoring champion with 125 points, assisted on 38 of Cheechoo's 49 goals in their 58 games togeth­er. 
"It's just been real easy for us to play together," Thornton said. "I don't try to analyze it too much. He's a really talented guy, but he's still really down­to-earth." 
Cheechoo might be the NI-IL's top goal-scorer, but he still lives in a one-bedroom apartment too small to hold all the friends and family who traveled to California from their new home in Sudbury,.. Ontario, for the final three-goal barrage of his remarkable season. 
His parents, brother and grandparents were in the stands last Saturday when he got his fifth hat trick of the sea­son against Anaheim. Cheechoo plans to give his Richard Trophy to his father, Mervin, who will probably sit it on the television he uses to watch all of the Sharks' games. 
Earlier in the season, the 25­year-old Cheechoo signed a five-year, $15 million contract extension that begins in July. Thornton, who's just 26, has two years remaining on the lucrative deal he signed with Boston last summer. 


April15'tn was the 1st Annual National Carl Ackermann Appreciation DaY 
"' be sure to wish Carl ahaPPY one, even if alittle belated "' 
Congratulations Fr. Nate With joy and thanksgiving, the Congregation of Holy Cross and Daniel and Susan Wills invite you to celebrate the ordination of their brother and son Rev. Nathan D. Wills, C.S.C. The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by The Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky. C.S.C., Bishop of Peoria: Saturday, April 22, 2006 2:30p.m. at Sacred Heart Basilica "Our mission is the Lord's and so is· the strength for it." (Constitutions, II.20) vocation.nd.edu.  

-~---~~-~ -~ ---~---~------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Garciaparra to begin
Baltimore shuffles outfield 
on the 15-day disabled list. us," Perlozzo said. "He can run 
tvvo-day Minors stint Orioles puts Matos on 
The Orioles transferred him to a little bit, throw a little bit DL, send Majwski to the 60-day disabled list before and ... and he gives us a little Wednesday's game dimension out there until LuisOttawa, sign Terrero Matos has been battling a can throw for us." 
sore right shoulder, which he Terrero, signed as a free 
hurt sliding into second base agent April 6 after being
Associated Press 
on opening day. released by the 
BALTIMORE The He was placed Arizona Baltimore Orioles shuffled out­on the disabled 7Luis Terrero is] Diamondbacks, fielders Wednesday, optioning list Wednesday was hitting .412
an outfielder who 
Val Majewski to Triple-A after being re­(7 -for-17) in six Ottawa, placing outfielder Luis examined by can play all three games with Matos on the 15-day disabled team doctors, positions and he's Ottawa. He bat­list and purchasing the con­and the Orioles ted .239 with
a right-handed
tract of outfielder Luis Terrero purchased the eight homers and
hitter for us.,,

from the Lynx. contract of 34 RBis in 155 "We dido 't want Val sitting catcher Raul games over three on the bench," manager Sam Chavez from seasons with
Sam Perlozzo 

Perlozzo said, adding that. Double-A Bowie Arizona.
Orioles manager
Majewski's recall following an to replace him He is eager to injury to David Newhan was on the roster. make a positive merely "a quick fix." With Newhan and Matos first impression on his new 
Majewski was recalled sidelined, Terrero's speed and club. Tuesday, but didn't play in the versatility could prove benefi­''I'm just ready to play and Orioles' 15-1 loss to Cleveland. cial. do anything," he said. "I play Newhan broke his right leg "He's an outfielder who can hard. If they need me to play sliding awkwardly into second play all three positions and defense, I'll go play defense. base Monday and was placed he's a right-handed hitter for I'll help where I can." 
Department of Music Presents 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
7 7

MONTEVERDI MOZART BEETHOVEN 
7 7
SCHUMANN FAURE STRAVINSKY 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
Tickets ~10, ~8, ~6, ~3 

phone 574-631-2800 or buy on-line at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
~DE BARTOLO 
~ PERFORMING AR1S CENTER 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Nomar Garciaparra's long-awaited debut with the Los Angeles Dodgers may come as soon as Saturday. 
The team sent the converted first baseman on a two-day minor league rehab assignment with Triple-A Las Vegas on Wednesday night. The plan is to let Garciaparra play about six innings Thursday night and get at least three at-bats, then play for a longer stretch on Friday. Having already managed Garciaparra in Boston for two seasons, Dodgers manager Grady Little has developed a better read for when the two­time AL batting champion is right, and when he isn't. 
"He hasn't felt any pain whatsoever, and that's why we're turning him loose," Little said. "If everything goes well, he'll be here in Saturday. If he's physically able to do this, we're ready for him. It's very impor­tant to have one of the guys we're banking on being in our regular lineup being back in there." 
Garciaparra, who turns 33 in July, strained the ribcage mus­cle in his right side on April 2 at Anaheim while swinging at a pitch in the Dodgers' fmal exhi­bition game. The five-time All­Star spent 15 weeks on the DL last season with an injured left groin after signing a one-year 

Los Angeles Dodger Nomar Garciaparra looks on prior to the start of the Dodgers' 2-1 win over the Chicago Cubs Tuesday. Garciaparra will rehab Thursday and Friday with Triple-A Las Vegas. 
contract with the Chicago Cubs. He finished with nine home runs, 30 RBis and a .283 aver­age. 
''I'm excited. I've had three days of batting practice and felt really good, so this is defmitely the next step," Garciaparra said before making the trip to Fresno to join the Las Vegas team. 
"We're doing it to see how it reacts in a game situation. You obviously can't simulate it, so it's better to go out there and see how it feels before you get activated -because if it's not ready to go at this level, it does­n't do anybody any good and it hurts the team more than it helps." 
This was the seventh time the 11-year veteran has been on the disabled list, and this was the first time he began a season on the DL. So in a sense, Saturday will be opening day for him. 
''I'm looking forward to going out there, putting the uniform on and playing. So I'm sure I'll have all those feelings that you have on opening day -anxiety, anxiousness, nervousness, everything," he said. 
Garciaparra also acknowl­edged that he still wasn't 100 percent physically, but that was only because of residual sore­ness. 
"I think the last time I was 100 percent might have been when I was 5, but I'm feeling pretty good," Garciaparra said. 


page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
NBA 

Iverson and Webber apologize for tardiness 
Sixers stars showed up late, did not play in Tuesday's contest 
Associated Press 

CHAHLOTTE, N.C. -Allen Iverson and Chris Webber apol­ogized Wednesday for their actions a night earlier, when they didn't arrive to the arena until just before tip-off and then didn't sit on the bench during Philadelphia's victory over New Jersey. 
The players were on the bench in the first quarter for the 76ers' game at Charlotte, although Iverson returned to the locker room in the second quarter. Coach Maurice Cheeks blamed Tuesday's episode on a lack of communication. 
"I delinitely wasn't trying to disrespect Mo in any way, or the fans, as everybody is talk­ing about," Iverson said. "I've been here for 1 0 years, and to deliberately try to disrespect the fans, I would never try to do that in any way. I'm upset it came across that way." 
Team officials also said they should have informed the media and fans the two stars would not play on Fan Appreciation Night in Philadelphia. 
Iverson, who has been bat­tling an ankle injury, said he told the team trainer on Monday that he wouldn't play against the Nets. Webber, who has a sore back, said he knew moments after the 76ers were eliminated from playoff con­tention Sunday that he would sit out. 
"It was hurting to play," Webber said. "So when our goal was terminated in making the playoll"s, I knew then I was­n't going to play. 
"I think this is just a big mis­understanding. We didn't try to shun the fans or whatever is being reported. When you're not necessarily loved by the medi.~t, the fans are all you have. 
But reporters weren't told 
~ DBLUXB FOOTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Onfy 200 l.:est'rvations Available! 
•2 GA~1E TICKETS 
•2 AIRLINE TICKETS IA.I\} O'HARE TO LAX 
•2 1\IGHTS HOTEl RESERVATIOI\S 
•CRC)U.\JD TRAY!-I T()/~ I{()M (()liSH.J1\t\ 
•CATERED RALLY TH[ rRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE CAME 
Tota I Package: $2,650 rwr rl'~rV<11iOrl 
•Cht>ck or Cash! 
GO IRISH! 
that before the game the play­
ers wouldn't play, and Cheeks 
seemed to indicate the players 
would play when he addressed 
the media before the game. 
Iverson, Philadelphia's lead­
ing scorer at 33 points per 
game, and Webber, second with 
20.2 points a contest, said they talked with Cheeks about the incident. 
"We had a conversation and 
they were very apologetic," 
Cheeks said. "They were sorry 
that this all has taken place, as 
lam." 
Iverson said he hasn't spoken with team president Billy King, who was irate a day earlier. King, who arrived just before the game, would not comment at halftime. 
"''ve said enough," he said. 
Players are required to arrive 90 minutes before the game when they are playing, although some players who are injured will arrive closer to tipoff. 
"I honestly thought as long as I got there before the ball went up, everything would be cool," Iverson said. ''I've been doing it that way my whole career and it never was a problem, even when coach [Larry] Brown was here." 
Cheeks, who was upset at the players' tardy arrival Tuesday, was more diplomatic before Wednesday's game. 
"This was a delicate situa­tion," Cheeks said. "My com­munication with Chris and Allen should have been better. I take ~.esponsibility, I'm the coach. 
As for sitting on the bench, some injured players do, but Iverson said he doesn't like to. 
"I don't like to sit on the bench and be heckled by one or two fans, I just don't like to do it," said Iverson, who watched the Tuesday's game with Webber from the locker room. "I've had that experience and didn't like it. I'm human just everybody else." 
Both players arrived within 90 minutes of game time Wednesday in Charlotte, and spoke to reporters separately. 

NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Indiana hires Legette-Jack 
Former Hofstra coach third to lead Hoosiers in past three seasons 
Associated P.ress 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. ­Felisha Legette-Jack spoke with emotion, passion and humor Wednesday. Less than an hour later, she was eager to get started as Indiana's new women's basketball coach. 
The former Syracuse star who spent the last four years as Hofstra's coach finally got the break she feared might never come -taking over a Big Ten program in the heart of basketball country. 
With Hoosiers players, her husband, David, and dozens of boosters in attendance, Legette-Jack showed everyone the excitement she will bring to the bench. 
"You dream that this is where I want to go," she said. "Then God gives you the opportunity to be the head coach of what will be a women's basketball mecca in the future. Let me tell you, Indiana rocks!" 
She had an overall 54-63 record at Hofstra after taking over a team that had not won a Colonial Athletic Association tournament game in four years. The Pride finished 19-12 this past season and made their first postseason appear­ance ever with a WNIT bid. 
Legette-Jack's first task in Bloomington will be stabilizing a program where she'll be the third coach in three seasons. 
The job opened April 7 when Sharon Versyp resigned after 
WE'VE GOT THE 
F.t~TOil 

Stop In and Register to Win! 
1710 E. Turtlecreek Drive South Bend, Indiana 
J.lrawiog bddoo4130106 

M-F ; 9:00 AM-6:00 PM Saturday: 10:00 AM-5:00 PM Sunday: 1:00 PM-5:00 PM

www.campuscribs.net 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 

tremely Close to Campus citing Renovations Inside &Out traordinary Rents Start At $560* 
888-278-5962 
GET GEAJlEJ) lJF! 
We're giving away anewl><'x360 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live! 
Office Hoots: 

one season to accept the head coaching job at rival Purdue. The Hoosiers were 19-14 last season and made the WNIT. Kathi Bennett resigned last year after five seasons in Bloomington. 
Legette-Jack, 39, signed a five-year contract that pays her at least $200,000 a year. Her base salary is $175,000 and she will receive an addi­tional $25,000 a year for pro­motional work, athletic direc­tor Rick Greenspan said. The deal also includes incentives based on the Hoosiers' success. 
Greenspan and other admin­istrators acknowledged they were looking for someone who would stick around. 
"To build a program, you've got to have longevity," said Stephen Ferguson, president of IU's Board of Trustees. "Her first test will be with the recruiting class coming in and convincing the people who selected Indiana that this is still where they want to come." 
Legette-Jack wasted little time in telling everyone her philosophy: Using a mix of zone matchup and pressure defense, scoring in the 80s and winning consistently. 
Players, who met with her for about 30 minutes before the news conference, liked what they heard. 
"She's very energetic, very passionate about what she does and she seems like a great person," guard Leah Enterline said. 
Greenspan said he inter­viewed many candidates and spoke with dozens of refer­ences before choosing Legette­Jack. 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
NCAA lACROSSE 
Police search Duke dorms 
Nifong hoping to link third man to crime 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Police searched the dorm rooms of two Duke University lacrosse players after the two were arrested on charges of raping and kidnapping an exotic dancer during an off-campus team party. 
District Attorney Mike Nifong said Tuesday he also hoped to link a third man to the alleged attack soon. but he said that person had not been "identified with certainty." 
"It is important that we not only bring the assailants to jus­tice, but also that we lift the cloud of suspicion from those team members who were not involved in the assault," Nifong said in a statement. 
The accuser, a 27-year-old student at a nearby college, told police she was attacked by three white men at a house where she and another woman were hired to dance at a party of lacrosse team members the night of March 13. 
Two team members -Reade Seligmann, a sophomore from Essex Fells, N.J., and Collin Finnerty, a sophomore from Garden City, N.Y. -were arrested early Tuesday. Each posted $400,000 bond and was released within hours. 
Their lawyers assailed the district attorney for bringing the charges after DNA tests had failed to connect any of the team members to the alleged rape. 
Seligmann is "absolutely innocent," said attorney Kirk 
Osborn. Finnerty's attorney, Bill Cotter, said, "We're confi­dent that these young men will be found to be innocent." 
Nifong has declined to say what led to the charges or dis­cuss evidence in the case. The dorm rooms were searched Tuesday night for about two hours, according to resident assistant Taggart White. 
Defense attorneys have said they have time-stamped photos from the party, bank records, cell phone calls and a taxi dri­ver's statement to support Seligmann's claim of inno­cence. Robert Ekstrand, who represents dozens of players on the team, said neither Seligmann nor Finnerty was at the party "at the relevant time." The indictment repre­sents "a horrible circumstance and a product of a rush to judgment," he said. 
Defense attorneys have also alleged that the accuser was intoxicated and injured when she showed up for the party. 
A cousin of the accuser who has been acting as a spokes­woman for her family disputed that allegations in an interview on ABC's "Good Morning America" Wednesday. She identified herself only by her first name, Jackie, to protect the woman's identity. 
"Before she went to the party she was not intoxicated, she was not drinking," Jackie said. "There's a great possibility that when she went to the party, she was given a drink and it was drugged." 
The case has raised racial tensions and heightened the long-standing town-vs.-gown antagonism between Duke stu­dents and middle-class, racially 
mixed Durham. The accuser is 
black, and all but one of the 4 7 
lacrosse team members are 
white. 
Duke would not comment 
specifically on any disciplinary 
action taken against Seligmann 
and Finnerty, but said it is uni­
versity practice to suspend stu­
dents charged with a felony. 
"Many lives have been 
touched by this case," Duke 
President Richard Brodhead 
said in a statement. "It has 
brought pain and suffering to 
all involved, and it deeply chal­
lenges our ability to balance 
judgment with compassion." 
Since the scandal broke, the 
university has canceled the 
team's season, its coach 
resigned and Duke officials 
said they were investigating 
the behavior of the nationally 
ranked team, some of whose 
members have been found 
guilty of public intoxication and 
public urination. 
Neither Seligmann and 
Finnerty was among the team 
members arrested in recent 
years for such offenses as 
underage drinking and public 
urination. 
Finnerty, however, was 
charged in Washington, D.C., 
with assault after a man told 
police in November that 
Finnerty and two friends 
punched him and called him 
"gay and other derogatory 
names." Finnerty agreed to 
community service. 
• Both Seligmann and Finnerty are products of wealthy New York City suburbs and all-male Roman Catholic prep schools. Finnerty attended Long Island's Chaminade High School, where 99 percent of the students go on to college. 

NOW SELLING 
FROM THE 1705 
UNITS AVAILABLE fOR FALL 
-
-2 
--
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-5PM 

TENNIS 
Federer, Nadal win in straight sets to advance 
Guillermo Coria also enters third round at Monte Carlo Masters 
Associated Press 
MONTE CARLO, Monaco­Top-ranked Roger Federer and defending champion Rafael Nadal cruised into the third round of the Monte Carlo Masters with straight set wins Wednesday. 
Guillermo Coria, runner-up the last three years, had to save four match points to beat Paul­Henri Mathieu 1-6, 7-6 (6), 6-4. 
Federer humbled Alberto Martin of Spain 6-0, 6-1 in 46 minutes, while Nadal beat Jean-Rene Lisnard of Monaco 6-4, 6-1 to extend his yearlong winning streak on clay to 38 matches. 
Federer, who has never reached the semifinals at Monte Carlo, is preparing for next month's French Open ­the only Grand Slam event he hasn't won. 
"I've had some fast games, but that one has to be in the top three," Federer said. "I warmed up several times, wait­ing to go on court. Once I start­ed, I found myself 6-0 up in 20 minutes. It was incredible. 
"I couldn't have played any better ... almost." 
It was the first time in 102 career clay-court matches that Federer lost only one game, but it was shy of his quickest victo­ry, set against Denis Golovanov of Russia in 3 7 minutes on car­pet in Moscow, in 2002. 
He next meets local wild card Benjamin Balleret, ranked 351st, who advanced when 13th-seeded Sebastien Grosjean of France retired in their third set because of back pain. 
Nadal broke Lisnard five times to remain unbeaten on clay since his last loss in April last year at Valencia. 
Other seeded players to advance were: No. 3 David Nalbandian of Argentina, No. 4 Ivan Ljubicic of Croatia, No. 7 Gaston Gaudio of Argentina, No. 9 Nicolas Kiefer of Germany, No. 11 Juan Carlos Ferrero and No. 15 Tommy Robredo, both of Spain. 
Coria rallied from 6-1, 5-1 down and squandered six match points before topping Mathieu. 
"It was an incredible match," said Coria, who double-faulted 20 times. "I knew I had to do something as I didn't wan~ to go out with a 6-1, 6-1 defeat. I didn't want to leave a bad image of myself." 
Mathieu felt he had "no right to lose the match." 
"At this level, it is unforgiv­able," Mathieu said. "He was serving so badly, I knew he would give me free points. But he must have thought he was going to lose and just relaxed. I was trying so hard that I tensed up." 
Nalbandian beat Andreas Seppi of Italy 7-5, 7-5 to line up a match with Robredo, and I_Jubicic defeated Florent Serra of France 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
Ferrero, a two-time winner at Monte Carlo and a fo-rmer French Open champion, beat Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina 6-1, 6-2. 
Gaudio, the 2004 French Open champ, won 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 over countryman Jose Acasuso. 
Alessio di Mauro of Italy oust­ed 1Oth-seeded Radep Stepanek of the Czech Republic 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 (4), Robredo beat Olivier Rochus of Belgium 7-5, 6-4, Kiefer defeated Michael Llodra of France 7-6 (4), 6-4 and faces Coria next. 
The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '06" 
NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat,Mon 
page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
POKER 

A111ateurs look to vvin big at pro tourna111ents 
Associated Press 

MASHANTUCKET. Conn. ­With an acn-high straight. George Austin was sitting pretty. a poker rookie with the best hand at a tabln full of veterans in a $1.3 million tournament. 
Onn hour into a four-day event. a made-for-TV story line was devnloping: Hetired electri<:ian stuns the pros and winds up play­ing lhr big llllll1ey. 
But instead of betting aggrns­sivbly with an unbeatable hand. the 61-year-old Massaehusetts man prntnnded to be weak in hopes of trieking his opponent into pladng a fatally big bot. 
It was an amateur move. It gavn his opponent a fren card, a card that imrnndiatnly sent Austin home. 
MornenL'i later, Austin was in an empty hallway, rubbing his fore­head and staring at his polished blaek shoes as the Foxwoods Poker Classie continued without him. 
"I wasn't even thinking about a rtush," Austin said again and again. 
Austin is one of thousands of hopefuls each year who lnarn that the transition from horne games, weekend evenL'i and Internet sites to high-stakes tournament poker is harder than it looks on televi­sion. 
Buoynd by stories of amateurs who win millions, tournament registration has soan~d in mccnt years. The World Series of Poker. whieh attracted fewer than 200 players with a $755,000 top prize a dncade ago. dn~w 5.(,00 entries last year and the payday was $7.5 million. 
But while tournaments aeross the country get richer and mon~ crowded. the final tables where fortunes are won aren't getting any bigger. That means more people than ever are entering with high hopes _ and leaving with nothing. 
Perhaps the most famous new­hie-turned-millionaire story is Chris Moneymaker, a 27 -year-old accountant who learned to play online. bought into the 2003 World Series fi1r $40 and walked away as its $2.5 million champi­on. 
"This means anyone in their home can become a poker play­er," tournament spokesman Nolan Dalla dedared. 
Not so fast, experts say. True, poker is ·a game of chance, but it also requires an ability to read people and calculate odds. Those skills are easy to fake in home games, but the gap between good players and great players widens over a lengthy tournament. 
"It's like a lottery, and we get more tickets," said Erik Seidel, a tournament pro and World Series of Poker champion who has been playing high-stakes games for two decades. 
Bill Thompson, a professor with the Center for Gaming Heseareh at UNLV, eompares it to college basketball. If the NCAA expanded il'i tournament from 64 teams to 128, he asked, would it really give dozens of new teams a chance to win? 
Internet qualifying tournaments and inexpensive satellite events make the path affordable for those, such as Austin, who beat a erowded lield for a seat at the main event. 
MLB 
Record seven pitchers fro111 Venezuela start 
Associated Press 
Carlos Zarn brano didn't know 

he was part of a historic night 
for his native VPnezuela until ·after he pitched. That did nothing to dampen tho nfl'nct tho news had on him. 
Zambrano was one of seven 

Vmwzuolan pitchers that start­
ed in the major leagues 
Tuesday, setting a record for the 
baseball-erazed South 
Anwrican country where tlw 
achievenwnt was heralded as a 
sign of' its growing presence in 
tho game. 
"That's amazing," Zambrano 

said after allowing one run and 
four hits in six innings of the 
Chicago Cubs' 2-1 loss in Los 
Angeles. 
"That proves that Venezuela has a lot or players good enough to be in tho major leagues," he said. ''I'm very proud for my country. for all those people who are playing in thn major leaguos from Venezuela. 
Tony Armas Jr. and Custavo Chacin got the ball for Washington and Toronto, respectively. M11ts right-hander Victor Zambrano struggled in a loss to the Braves. The Angels­Twins game featurod two Venezuelan pitchnrs: Minnesota right-hander Carlos Silva and 
Los Angeles right-hander Kolvim Escobar. Felix Hernandez of' Seattle also started Tuesday. 
"It's good," said Armas, who allowed seven hits and three runs in six innings of' the Nationals' 10-3 win at Philadelphia. "I hope it keeps on growing." 
The seven pitehers got a lot of attention in Venezuela. where the country's sports daily Meridiano said it showed the growth of the country's baseball talent. "Lucky seven," the paper said. "The seven wonders of the world." 
Victor Zambrano said he had heard about the excitement in Venezuela. 
"For the country, that was something very special," he said. 

NBA 

Bogut plays through pain 
Milwaukee Bucks rookie center suffers from chronic migraines 
Associated Press MILWAUKEE -Andrew Bogut starts to feel dizzy, and his vision gets blurry. If the Milwaukee Bucks' rookie center doesn't recog­nize the onset of a migraine headache and take his med­ication right away, it quickly gets worse. "It's terrible," Bogut said. "It's just like someone's hit­ting a hammer inside your head." The chronic headaches also affected Bogut in college, sometimes leaving him bedridden for the day. Ilis last episode came March 24 in Los Angeles, and he did­n't have his medication with him. Bogut had 10 points and five rebounds against the Lakers anyway. It's that kind of understated toughness from Bogut that has helped the Bucks pull off a modest turnaround this sea­son, Milwaukee general man­ager Larry Harris says. "I talk about his basketball knowledge and his competi­tiveness all the time," Harris said. "A lot of guys don't know how mentally tough he is." There hasn't been a lot of national buzz this season about Bogut, a consensus player of the year in college at Utah and the No. 1 pick in last • year's draft. He has seored more than 20 points only twice, and his biggest areas of contribution to date -defense and rebounding on a team that isn't known for either -don't get him on television highlight 

shows. 

But Bogut would rather be known as a winner than a scorer, something he senses isn't the case with some other NBA players. 
"It's human nature," Bogut said. "Some guys want to be the best, and that's how they show it. Me? I think being the best means winning games." 
Bogut does have one stat in his favor: Only three other No. 1 picks since 1985 -Tim Duncan, Chris Weber and David Robinson -have taken their team to the playoffs as rookies. 
Any deeper meaning there? 
"I think I was just lucky to get drafted by a decent organ­ization," Bogut said. 
But Bucks coach Terry Stotts says Bogut has con­tributed a lot to the Bucks' improvement, from a 30-52 record last season to 40-42. 
"What he's accomplished this year is kind of what Andrew's about: lie's about winning, and doing what he needs to do for the team to be successful," Stotts said. 
Bogut doesn't score a lot, but the Bucks haven't asked him to. lie attempted 10 or more shots in only 19 games this season. 



Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
NBA 
Wednesday games finalize playoff match ups 

WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
-w-w-w.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
front 

This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral_ 
• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 

• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 



J&K Card, LLC 


Associated Press 
Kobe Bryant and the Lakers are playing to dodge the Spurs. The Wizards want a win for the first crack at LeBron. 
Los Angeles and Washington are the teams in most control of their playoff futures as the NBA's regular season heads into its final night Wednesday. Also to be determined: the postseason destinations of Chicago, Indiana, Milwaukee and Sacramento. 
The Lakers host the New Orleans Hornets, who had their own postseason hopes before a poor finish. If Los Angeles wins, it would open against No. 2 seed Phoenix, forcing the Kings to face defending cham­pion San Antonio in the open­ing round. 
If the Lakers lose, they finish with the same record as the Kings, who would own the tiebreaker and take the No. 7 seed. Bryant claims to not care which team the Lakers play ­but he averaged 42.5 points this season against the Suns. 
"Not really. We just have to prepare," he said. "Whoever we play, it's going to be tough because it's two great teams. We just have to make sure we do our homework and go out there and try to execute." 
Against San Antonio, which has defensive ace Bruce Bowen, Bryant averaged 30 points but shot only 38 per­cent. 
Washington (41-40) has a one-game lead over Indiana and Chicago for fifth place in the East. If the Wizards beat Detroit -which figures to use mostly reserves -they would lock up fifth and open against fourth-seeded Cleveland. 
"When we ended our season last year, it was in the fifth spot," Wizards star Gilbert Arenas said, "so we're in fifth spot until somebody takes it from us. And the only people that can take it from us is the Detroit Pistons." 
The Wizards can also finish fifth if the Bulls lose at home to Toronto. The Pacers host Orlando. 
If Chicago and Indiana lose Wednesday, the East will have three sub-.500 teams in the postseason. 
The fifth-place team avoids having to play a division cham­pion in the first round. Detroit won the Central Division and is the No. 1 seed, while Southeast champ Miami is second and New Jersey is No. 3 after win­ning the Atlantic. 
Washington's victory over Milwaukee on Tuesday night means the Bucks will need help to avoid finishing eighth and facing the NBA-best Pistons in the first round. 
The Central Division is send­ing all five of its teams to the postseason, the first time that has happened since the Midwest Division did it in 1985-86. 
back 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April20, 2006 
MLB-NL 

Capuano leads Brewers in road win over Astros 
Carpenter and Isringhausen combine to throw a two-hitter and Edmonds homers as Cardinals trump Pirates 4-0 
Associated Press homered in his fifth straight game, tying a team record, and 
HOUSTON -Andy Pettitte is raised his season total to seven. beeorning this year's version of With the score 1-all and two Hoger Clernnns: When he pitch­outs in the seventh, Hickie es, thn Houston Astros don't get Weeks and Jeff Cirillo singled, too many runs. and Miller followed with a dou­
Pettitte lost to the Brewers for ble down the right-field line. the first time since 1996 despite "After my first two at bats, l allowing only two runs in had to make a little adjustment," Milwaukee's 7-2 victory over the Miller said. "He was throwing Astros on Wednesday night. me nasty cutters and I just came 
"We went through this all last out and laid off of it. I got to 2-0 year," Pettitte said. "The oll'ense and tried to go the other way is what it is. I feel lik11 I should and play my game. He made a throw a shutout every time out. mistake with a fastball up, but If I give up two runs and we I'll take it." score oml, ilwn I didn't do my Bill Hall, Weeks and Cirillo had job." HBI singles against Huss 
Corning off a 5-1 loss at Springer in a three-run eighth Arizona, Pettitie (1-3) struck out that made it 5-1. eight and walked ono in seven ''I'm happy with the way we're innings, allowing seven hits. swinging our bats," Yost said. Ilouston has scored 12 runs in "This was not a must-win his four starts -seven came in tonight. The Astros proved last his lone victory, against year that April ad May are not Washinhrton on April 9. important. We had two tough 
Pettitte gave up a go-ahead losses here, and we didn't want double to Damian Millor in the to compound it with another seventh. loss." 
"No mattor what we're doing Ensberg's homer chased offensively, I should pitch bet­Capuano in the eighth, and ter," Pettitte said. "I knew Chris Prince Fielder hit an RBI double was going to throw a good game off Mike Gallo in the ninth and tonight. I le has great stuff. I kind scored on J.J. Hardy's single. of made some mistakes tonight. I "It felt good to have a low­didn't mak11 a pitch to Miller scoring game, a clean game Wednesday. said. "That's how you achieve came after his homer in the when I had to, and that was played with good defense," The right-handed Carpenter the level he has." eighth started the rally. huge, the way Chris was pitching Capuano said. "Our offense car­has been near perfect on the Carpenter (2-1) struck out six "I just go out there and do my tonight." ried over from last night." road the last two seasons, going and walked one to lower his job," Abreu said of the boos. 
Pettitte had won six straight Weeks hit an HBI groundout in 14-1 in 18 starts, and he was ERA to 1.67, and he has allowed ''I'm just trying to help my team starts against Milwaukeo since a the second. Pettitte settled down again in beating the Pirates for only one earned run and 1 0 hits win." 7-5 loss for tlw New York to retire 15 of the next 18 hit­the sixth time in seven career over 22 innings in his last three shot in the fourth to give the Yankees on July 19, 1996. lie ters, fanning six, until Weeks decisions. Repeatedly getting starts. He was coming ofT a 1-0 Phillies a 3-2 lead. dropped to 7-:{ against the singled in the seventh. ahead in the count, he didn't loss to the Heds' Aaron 1-Iarang Browers despite lowering his Milwaukee finished its trip 3-6. allow a runner after hitting Chris on Friday. Atlanta 2, New York 1 season EHA from 6.35 to 5.25. The Brewers are 5-0 in Duffy with a pitch to start the "He doesn't give you anything The big question in the NL 
Chris Capuano (2-2) allowed Milwaukee. lirst until rookie Ronny Paulino twice," Sanchez said. "It's a East early this season is whether two runs and live hits in 7 2-3 singled with one out in the sixth guessing game with him and, Atlanta still has enough pitching innings with eight strikoouts and St. Louis 4, Pittsburgh 0 for his third career hit. today, I was always guessing to hold ofT the New York Mets. two walks to help Milwaukee Chris Carpenter always arrives Paulino was fooled earlier in wrong." Winners of 14 straight division stop a three-game losing streak. at the ballpark thinking he is the at-bat, bailing out on a first­titles, the Braves delivered an lie had been 0-2 in throe earner going to pitch an exceptional pitch breaking ball that broke Philadelphia 7, Washington 6 emphatic answer this week. appearances at Minute Maid game. Maybe that's why he does over the plate. But he worked David Bell and Bobby Abreu Tim Hudson took a one-hit Park eorning in. exactly that so often. the count to 2-2 before lining a turned boos into cheers with the shutout into the ninth inning 
"IIo was as sharp as he could Carpenter limited the Pirates single into short left field. long ball. before finishing with a three-hit be," Milwaukee managor Ned to two hits over eight innings in "I know I got a little careless. I No surprise. The Phillies thrive gem, and Atlanta got another big Yost said. "lie was just great. lin his third consecutive strong threw him a lot of breaking balls on going deep. homer from Andruw Jones in a was so sharp through the sev­start. and Jim Edmonds and in a row," said Carpenter, who A couple of walks and a single victory Wednesday over the enth inning that I hated to take David Eckstein homered in the was aware he had a no-hit bid to a cap a rally? That peculiar Mets. him out." St. Louis Cardinals' victory over going. "That's why it's so hard to run could be just what "You don't look at the lineups 
Houston's Morgan Ensberg the Pittsburgh Pirates on do it." Philadelphia needs to get its sea­and decide who wins the game," 
The Pirates, 11-32 against the son going. Hudson said. "Today was alot of Cardinals in PNC Park, didn't Ryan Howard's RBI single in fun for me personally, especially threaten until Freddy Sanchez the 10th inning completed a the way I started the year." singled and Jason Bay walked comeback and led the Hudson outpitched Tom starting the seventh. But Philadelphia Phillies to a win Glavine in a matchup of All-Stars Carpenter got Jeromy Burnitz over the Washington Nationals in peak form. The. right-hander and Craig Wilson to fly out and on Wednesday night. retired his first 15 batters before Mike Edwards to strike out. "That was a great win. It was­Hamon Castro's leadoff' single in 
"That was vintage Carpenter," n't easy," said Bell, who hit one the sixth and held on with some Cardinals manager Tony La of three Philly homers. "Just to help from his defense. Hussa said. "He had first and get a win in that situation was It was the second stellar outing second, the middle of the lineup, big." in a row for the Braves, who also and he gets out of it. That's what Abreu opened the 1Oth with a got a three-hitter from 22-year­he does. He's got three different walk off Mike Stanton (0-2) and old Kyle Davies in a 7-1 win fastballs, a curve, a changeup, moved to second on Chase Tuesday night. five or six things he throws a Utley's one-out walk. Howard "It's good to see our starting guy. He gives different looks to then ripped a single to right to pitchers go out and perform the different hitters. He's quite a give the Phillies only their sec­way they did the past two days," handful." ond home win in eight games. Jones said. ''I'm really proud of 
As he expects to be. Hyan Franklin (1-1) worked a the way they've been pitching." 
"I really believe that if you scoreless 1Oth for his first win in Mets third baseman David concentrate, and locate your Philadelphia. It was the Phillies Wright made throe errors and pitches down in the strike zone, first win this season when trail­hit a game-ending groundout you're going to be successful," ing after seven innings (1-7). with a runner on after Chris Carpenter said. "I don't go into "There's a reason you're sup­Woodward's HBI single. any game wondering how I'm posed to play well at home," Bell Jones hit his firth homer in going to feel and if I'm going to said. "If you can do that, you'll four games for the Braves, who do well. r feel I'm going to do be in good shape." took two of three in the first well -and I have control of Bell had been booed all season series this season between the that, as long as I execute my by the home crowd after a poor NL East rivals. The Mots fell to pitches down in the strike zone." season and his .225 average, but 10-4 -they won thoir opening 
Burnitz said the problem with they erupted when his homer four series for the Jirsi time in facing Carpenter is he rarely cleared the right-field wall. franchise history. AP makes a mistake. Abreu misplayed a couple of "We'll probably be going back­


St. Louis first baseman Albert Pujols connects on a first inning  "When you pitch with the suc­ balls the previous night and  and-forth all season with these  
pitch from Pirates' starter Victor Santos Pittsburgh. The Cardinals won 4-0.  on  Wednesday in  cess he's had, he's executing every pitch he's got," Burnitz  earned mock cheers each time he caught the ball. The real ones  guys," New York manager Willie Randolph said.  

.---------------------~ ---------------------------~------------------------------­
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
MLB-AL 
Twins beat Angels on Cuddyer's home run 
Javier Vazquez throws a no-hitterfor 61/3 innings as Chicago downs the reeling Royals, who lost their 10th straight game 
Associated Press ings. leadoff single to Esteban "I think J.C. is in a better spot German and was replaced by 
MINNEAPOLIS -With their mentally, so I think it was more Neal Cotts, who immediately starting pitchers struggling, the along the lines of that than him gave up another single, to Minnesota Twins have so far trying to stir up anything with pinch-hitter John Buck. Bobby shown an aversion to early us," Nathan said. Jenks got two outs for his sixth leads. But they've made rallying save, sealing Chicago's ninth just as much of a habit. Chicago 4, Kansas City 0 win in 10 games. 
Pinch-hitter Michael Cuddyer Javier Vazquez watched the hit a two-run homer against ball roll down the third-base Detroit 11, Oakland 4 former teammate J.C. Homero line, his bid for a no-hitter rid­Kenny Rogers never counts on in the 1Oth inning, lifting the ing on where it ended up. Third having success in the Coliseum. Twins to a 12-10 victory over baseman Joe Crede had no play, It just always seems to happen the Los Angeles Angels on either. He was too far back. that way -even on days he Wednesday night. As they both looked on help­doesn't feel at his best. 
Minnesota has trailed in all lessly Wednesday, Doug Rogers won in Oakland again seven wins, including a ninth­Mientkiewicz's slow roller off a and Placido Polanco got his inning comeback Saturday checked swing didn't stray into 1,OOOth career hit and drove in against New York Yankees clos­foul territory. Instead, the ball three runs, leading the Detroit er Mariano Hivera and this seemed to have a mind of its Tigers past the Athletics on surge past the stingy Angels own and stayed fair. And after 6 Wednesday night. bullpen after 9-4 and 10-8 1-3 innings, Vazquez's chance Craig Monroe and Brandon deficits. to pitch a no-hitter was over. Inge also had three HBis each 
"A win is a win in our book, "I mean, what can you do?" for the Tigers, who pounded out and we don't care how we do Vazquez said. "It kind of stinks a season-high 15 hits to win for it," said Cuddyer, who hit an 0-1 that was the first hit. ... That's only the third time in 10 games changeup over the wall in right­part of the game." after starting the season 5-0. center field and sprinted Vazquez, Crede and the White Rogers (3-1) shut down the A's around the bases to meet the Sox did get a victory. Vazquez as usual to move within seven happy mob at home plate. pitched into the ninth, allowing wins of his 200th career victory. 
Romero (1-1) struck out just two hits, and Chicago beat One of his few mistakes came Shannon Stewart to start the Kansas City, the reeling Royals' on a 2-1 pitch to start the sec­inning, but he walked Luis 10th straight defeat. ond that Frank Thomas sent Castillo -who stole second "I was positioned way off the high into the left-field steps for base without a throw and line and back with Mientkiewicz his 452nd career home run. moved to third on Joe Mauer's up there," Crede said. "I tried to "''m motivated to come here groundout before Cuddyer's big dig a ditch to get the ball to go and pitch well," Rogers said. "I hit. foul, but it didn't work. It's just wasn't as good as the other day. 
"We kept playing," manager something where any time you . . . But I pitched well enough to Ron Gardenhire said. "That's see a ball like that or a bunt keep them off balance." what this game's all about." down the line, you know it's Still, Rogers isn't one to focus 
Dominant at times with the going to stay fair because on previous achievements in a Twins, Homero's control prob­there's kind of a lip on the line particular ballpark. What lems and personality clashes right there." meant more to him Wednesday with Gardenhire ultimately led The Hoyals, who had a 19-was helping his new team get Thomas then tied the game Toronto on Sept. 28. 2000, at to his trade to Los Angeles last game losing streak late last sea­back on track. when he led off the bottom half Camden Yards. December. son, managed one run and 11 Rogers, in his first season with a solo homer that moved Conine had three hits, match­
lie recently ticked off his old hits in the three-game series with the Tigers after two in him into a tie for 27th place on ing his season total in one team by saying the Angels' against Chicago. Kansas City's Texas, didn't allow a hit after the all~time list with Gary game. Every Oriole starter had bullpP.n was the best group he 2-12 start is its second-slowest the second until Jason Kendall's Sheffield and Carl Yastrzemski. at least one HBl except for had P.VP.r been a part of, but he behind 1992, when the Royals RBI double in the eighth. The Brian Hoberts -who reached claimed this week those com­lost 16 of their first 17, and 41-year-old lefty improved to Baltimore 18, Cleveland 9 base four times and scored ments were taken the wrong Hoyals starting pitchers are 0-9 24-4 in 44 starts at the If a lopsided loss to the twice. way. this season. Coliseum, and 22-1 in the A's Cleveland Indians didn't raise "We came back and got a cou­
"I want to make a statement: Mientkiewicz said the pitch ballpark since 1995. the Baltimore Orioles' ire, it ple of rallies going in a few This is not about J.C. and the was running in on him. ''I'm aware of it. I don't take it certainly awakened their bats. innings," Patterson said. "We Twins, or whatever," Homero "A hit is a ·hit," he said. "It for granted," Rogers said. Kevin Millar hit a go-ahead, played well. What can I say? We said. "Anytime you lose, it's not was a slider, and I'm definitely "Every start is different." two-run double in a seven-run all contributed." a pleasant situation." not going to apologize for a Detroit gave Rogers plenty of fifth inning capped by Corey 
Joe Nathan (1-0) picked up base hit." offense, too. Patterson's two-run homer, and New York 3, Toronto 1 the win with a scoreless 1Oth. After the hit, Vazquez got an Monroe staked the Tigers to a the Orioles overcame a four-run Alex Hodriguez and Mike He and some of his fellow ovation from the crowd of quick lead when he hit an RBI deficit to beat Cleveland Mussina were happy to be relievers spoke with Homero 26,327. single in the second to score Wednesday night. heading home, especially after about the remark, and Nathan He got an even louder one in Alexis Gomez, who doubled to "They really showed me some a win. said there were no hard feel-the ninth after he gave up a start the inning. character tonight," Baltimore Rodriguez homered in his 
manager Sam Perlozzo said. "I third straight game and know when they came into the Mussina made another sharp dugout and it was 7-3, they start, leading the New York were still chirping about coming Yankees over the Toronto Blue back. Miguel Tejada was saying, Jays Wednesday. 'Let's go, we can get them.' " New York is 7-7 after playing 
Ramon Hernandez had a 11 of 14 on the road. The home run and four RBis, Jay Yankees hDst Baltimore on Gibbons hit a three-run homer, Friday night in the start of nine­and Tejada and Jeff Conine game homestand. each had two HBis for the "We would love be 9-5 or Orioles, who have won five of something like that," Rodriguez seven. said. "But we've been on the 
"You can get waxed like we road for basically 14 days. did last night and come back We're very excited to get and put a performance together home." like we did tonight," Conine Rodriguez said the road start said. "It's a good thing, and it was OK given that the Yankees does a lot for your confidence." traveled to Oakland, the Los 
Jhonny Peralta, Victor Angeles Angels, Minnesota and Martinez and Aaron Boone Toronto -all possible postsea­homered for Cleveland, which son contenders. had beaten Baltimore five "There's probably eight or straight times. Martinez extend­nine teams that are legitimate ed his hitting streak to 14 World Series contenders in the games, the longest in the major American League, and that's leagues this year. very unique because you proba­
A night after a 15-1 loss to the bly haven't had that in over 20 Indians, the Orioles had a sea­years," Rodriguez said. "There son-high 21 hits and batted is great parity in the American around in the fifth and eighth League. There are probably innings. It was Baltimore's three teams in each division 


White Sox starter Javier Vazquez delivers a pitch to Kansas City Royals' right fielder Matt Stairs highest-scoring game since a that can potentially win the in the seventh inning of Chicago's 4-3 victory Wednesday. club-record 23 runs against World Series." 
Thursday, April 20, 2006

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Gonzaga's Morrison elects to jump to Draft 
Associated Press 

SPOKANE, Wash. -Gonzaga All-America forward Adam Morrison dedarnd for the NBA draft Wednesday. passing up his senior season for a chance to be a lottery pick. 
The 6-foot-8 l'loppy-haired, mustachioed forward, who led Division I in scoring last season at 28.1 points per game, is a diabetic and said uncertainty over his future health prospects was a factor in his decision. 
"It's been a great process so far. It's been fun, but I've decided to try to take my game 



TRY OUR NEW 
12
11 

VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 
Only $4.99 
($1.00 for each additional topping.) 
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery Delivery hours: 6pm-1 am 
Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 12" Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of an 18" pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until5/12/06. Not Valid with other offers or promotions. 



Student Survival Ualue Meals! 
#1 Large Hopping Pizza ~6.00 
#2 Medium Hopping Pizza &an Order of Breadsticks $6.00 
#3 One Small Hopping Pizza &2Cans of Coke $6.00 
#4 Two Small Cheese Pizzas $6.00 
#5 10 Buffalo Wings, One Ranch, One Can of Coke 
#6 8pc Breadsticks, 8pc Cinna Stix &Two Cans of Coke $6.00 
555 mal: 

~ee Me~ium 1-Topping Pizzas $5.00/each
Mm. 3p1zzas)  
Call Us!  MONDAY THRU THRUSDAY 4PM-1AM  
271-0300  FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 11AM-2AM  
1627 Edison Rd.  SUNDAY 11AM-MIDNIGHT  

~lt~~n~~~a~&~~P. !~g@S $ 99
• Ham & Cheese • Chicken Club ­
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS! 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivt!ry areas & charges may vary by
52750 IN 933 
location. Excludes other offers. Good 
at participating locations only. 

(N. of Cleveland Rd.­Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
574-243-1122 
Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com 02006 Marco's Franchising, LLC 4831(1}·206 

to the next level and further my career as a basketball player," Morrison said at a campus news conference. 
The West Coast Conference player of the year, Morrison edged Duke's J .J. Redick for this year's national scoring title. He finished second to Redick for the Naismith and John R. Wooden Awards for college basketball's player of the year. 
Gonzaga coach Mark Few said his staff and team were "ecstatic" for Morrison. 
"This truly is a great day. A great day for Adam, a great day for our basketball program and me personally," Few said. "It's the right decision because he and his family went about it the right way.... It's what he wants to do and he is ready for it. He's going to be a great play­er at the next level." 
Morrison surpassed the col­lege accomplishments of Gonzaga great John Stockton. 
But it remains to be seen if he can have the same impact on the NBA. as critics have com­plained about his defense and downplayed his passing and rebounding abilities. 
There is no doubt Morrison can shoot, making nearly 50 percent of his shots, including 43 percent of 3-pointers, even with defenders hanging all over him. Morrison drew compar­isons to Larry Bird, for a simi­lar high release on his jump shot, and Pete Maravich and other scoring greats of the past. 
The 21-year-old Morrison scored at least 30 points 14 times this season and five times scored at least 40 points as he became the second Bulldogs player to win the national scor­ing title. Frank Burgess accom­plished the feat by averaging 
32.4 ppg in 1960-61. 


iSI{OMRII~Zif 
Call for Campus Delivery: 273-3890 or 

.1oo f"'r,AA·l~ 
... 
). 
~·····':·· 

u 
1 18'' cheese $11. 95 tJ 
~~ 

""STUDENT BUFFET THURSDAY,'*$TARTS AT 5:30PM $6.99fizza, Sal¥l, Pasta, Soup and More Go f& bru nosplzza.comto download 
"\· a $1.00 QFF Coupon 
261.0 Prarie Ave. South Beq~ :)N 46614
1 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 31 
···············································~ 
Detroit embraces successful squads 
~ University Resources : • • 
for Gay, Lesbian, & • ••
• • Bisexual Students • 
•e T>iOi iH'"V'"' . •
•
CO!"IVNI ITT I:!It OK 

: G;&V AIIU'! l..£i111!1A~ •
•

e Si'r'ui7C:I!I1' Nttt::Os 
• 

• The Standing Committee on Gay and ••
• •
• Lesbian Student Needs • (Confidential information, education, and resources) • • Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • • members (see web site for student contact info.) • 
• Office of Campus Ministry • • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • • and their friends; pertinent library resources in • • 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) •• Contact: Fr. Dick Warner. C.S.C., at 1-9704 • 
• University Counseling Center • • (Individual counseling) • • Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu • 
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • 
................................................
~ 

Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 



PROFESSIONAL SPORTS 
Red Wings, Pistons earn best records in respective leagues 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Hockeytown or Hoopstown? 
Detroit is both. 
The top teams at the end of the NBA and NHL regular seasons are from the same city for the first time, with the Pistons and Red Wings combining to pull off the feat for the Motor City. 
"It's always cool to be a part of anything that hasn't happened before," Joe Dumars, the Pistons' president of basketball opera­tions, said Wednesday in an interview with The Associated Press. "This is a great sports town, and the fans around here are about to really have some fun following both teams." 
The Red Wings ended the reg­ular season Tuesday with an NHL-best 58 wins, and the Pistons closed Wednesday night against Washington, entering the game with an NBA-best 64 wins. 
"We both established ourselves at home with great crowds, and both have been the best teams on the road," Pistons coach Flip Saunders said. "Different sports, but it's like we've been looking at each other in the mirror." 
Detroit faces the Edmonton Oilers in Game 1 of the first­round playoffs Friday night, and the Pistons will open the postsea­son this weekend against the eighth-seeded team in the Eastern Conference. 
If the Red Wings and Pistons win titles in two months, Detroit will be the first city to have NBA and NHL teams win champi­onships in the same year. 
Anything less will be a disap­pointment for both teams -and their fans -because of a cham­pionship-or-bust mentality that has been cultivated with sus­tained success. 
The Pistons won it all two years ago, came just short of repeating last season and have won 50-plus games five straight years. The Red Wings won three titles in a six-year span before two straight early exits in the playoffs before the lockout that canceled last season. 
Red Wings coach Mike Babcock said his players did not want to touch the Presidents' Trophy _ awarded to the NHL team with the best record _ because they want to hoist the Stanley Cup. 
"We all know what it's about here," Babcock said. For Detroit fans, they know it's 

AP Detroit Pistons forward Rasheed Wallace dribbles against the Washington Wtzards Wednesday at the Palace of Auburn Hills. 
wise to enjoy the Pistons and Red Wings while they're in season because the other two pro teams in town -the Tigers and Lions -will likely let them down . 
Detroit hasn't had a baseball team with a winning record since 1993 and hasn't won a World Series since 1984. The Lions have been the NFL's worst team since 2001, and they have one playoff victory since their last title in 1957 . 
For the Motor City's Big Four, success -or lack of it -seems to come from the top. 
Mike Ilitch owns the Red Wings and Tigers, and his hockey team's reign atop the league was established when he hired gener­al manager Jim Devellano in 1982. 
"Hockey wasn't on the map when Mike Hitch bought the team, but Jimmy D. did a great job by changing that," said Red Wings GM Ken Holland, who has kept Devellano's momentum going since being promoted in 1997. "We would not be the fran­chise we are today without Jimmy D.'s moves and vision." 
Holland kept the Red Wings on top this season despite cutting their payroll almost in half to get under the salary cap because of the NHL's new collective bargain­ing agreement. 
While it was Jimmy D. who turned around the Red Wings, who used to give cars away to attract fans, Joe D. made the Pistons· a championship-caliber team after they sunk following back-to-hack titles he helped them win as a player in 1989 and '90. 
Brendan Shanahan said the Pistons were irrelevant when he started playing for the Red Wings in 1996. 
"It was like they didn't exist," Shanahan said. "It's been great to see what Dumars has done to turn the Pistons around because I root for all of the pro teams around here." 
The Lions and Tigers have been harder to pull for because their owners -William Clay Ford and llitch -have not seemed to find a GM like Devellano, Holland or Dumars. 
That doesn't stop Dumars, who has evolved into a "certified Detroit sports fan" since being drafted by the Pistons in 1985. 
"My wish would be that all four teams could be contenders," he said. "The Pistons and Red Wings are there, and the other two are not far behind. I think the Lions are going to take (Michael) Huff in the draft to help right away, and I think the Tigers have a chance to be in the playoffs." 

page 32 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Saint Mary's first baseman Katie Rashid snares a line drive in the Belles' 9-1 win over Alma April 8. 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Stoner extends season at meet in Indianapolis 
Irish sophomore diver to compete in U.S. Open preliminaries 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Although the men's swim­ming varsity season ended March 24, Sam Stonnr is still going strong. 
The Notre Dame sophomore is diving at the U.S. Open meet in Indianapolis this weekend. 
Stoner finished 17th in the Open's pre-qualifying round Tuesday, moving on to the pre­liminary round today by the skin of his teeth. He was the lowest finisher that still advanced. 
24 divers will compete in the preliminary round, but seven of them were given byns through the pre-qualifying round for their performanee during the regular varsity season. 
"The peopl!1 that arn really good at diving and have done 
CLUB SPORTS 

Men's volleyball takes ninth place at Nationals 
10 members ofsailing 
team travel to Ohio for Buckeye Invite 
Special to the Observer 
Over Easter break, the Irish traveled to Salt Lake City ((Jr the 2006 NIRSA Volleyball Club Championships. 
After four days of volleyball, Notre Dame returned to South Bend after taking 9th place -the highest finish in school history. 
In the !irst match of the tourna­ment, Notre Dame took on Connecticut. After easily taking the first game 25-17, the Irish stumbled in the second game. But thn Irish were too much for the lluskies and held on for a 25-23 win. 
The following match pitted Notre Dame against Cal State­Sacramento. Sacramento knocked the Irish out la'it year in the first round of the Bronze divi­sion. 
Sacramento never let Notre Dame get too far ahead in the first game, which ended with a 26-24 Irish victory. Using confi­dence from the three-game win­ning strnak, the Irish hung on to win the second game 25-22. 
In the n ext match, they faeed the top seed in the pool, Virginia Teeh. The Irish played a solid first game, surprising the Ilokies and winning 25-15. With a tall, solid team, Virginia Tech fought back and took game two from the Irish, 25-22. In the pivotal third game, the Irish took eontrol and won 15-12. !inishing first in their pool with an automatie bid into the c:hampionship pool. 
The two matches on Friday would dncide if the Irish would advance into the Gold or Silver Division on Saturday. The Irish were placed in a pool with Maryland and Pittsburgh. With excellnnt middle blockers, the well in national meets get to skip to the prelims," Stoner said. "Some of the people that are going to be there tomorrow have won national meets." 

Stoner said Irish coach Tim Welsh encouraged him to com­pete in Indianapolis for the. experience of facing a large field. 
"It was one of the biggest fields as far as the numbnr of guys diving in it that I've been in this year," the sophomore said. 
Although Stoner was the low­est advancing diver Tuesday, he said he likes his chances going into the preliminaries today. 
"The thing with diving is that people can do better or worse on any given day," Stoner said. "If I dive my best I have a decent chance." 
The Open prelims are today. The quarterfinals and finals will both take place Saturday in Indianapolis. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Panthers fought admirably. However, it was the Irish who eame out winners, 25-22, 25-22. 
In the final match of the day, the Irish faced eventual National runner-up Maryland. The Irish dropped the first game 27-25. Mer regrouping and cleaning-up their performance, Notre Dame came back to win the second game 25-18. In the third game, Maryland's offensive strength was too much for the Irish, 15-10. With a 4-1 record and a late loss on Friday, the Irish were seeded 9th in the 16-team Gold Division. 

One win away from advancing to the quarterfinals, the Irish were determined to win and keep playing. However, after falling behind early in the match, 1-4, the Irish could not catch up. Santa Clara ended up winning the third game 15-10. This loss gave the Irish a 4-2 record at Nationals and 9th place in the Nation. 
Sailing 
Over the weekend, 10 members of the sailing team traveled to Ohio State for the Buckeye Invitational and Intersectional. The Irish won the Invitational and took third in the Intersectional. 
The Invitational was led by B­Division skipper Mac Russell, with crews Kat Sablo!T, Kathy Monticello and Elizabeth Shelleby. Russell consistently fm­ished first in races and won his division. Skipper Chris May and c:rew Amy Beeker eame in second in their division to clinch the team win in the regatta. 
In the Intersectional the team Jinished third behind University of South Alabama and Christopher Newport University. Skipper John Dailey sailed in the A-Division with crew Paul Cordes. The B-Division was sailed by skipper Tim Roy and crew Kathryn Hoodecheck. 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles lose two to Albion 
Freshmen boost Britons over Saint Mary's in MIAA doubleheader 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's dropped both games of a doubleheader Wednesday against MIAA oppo­nent Albion. 
The Britons swept the Belles 3­0 and 6-2 at Dempsey Field in Albion, Mieh. 
Freshman designated hitter Allison Smart led Albion with five hits and drove in two HBis in each game. Freshman piteher Andrea English threw a shutout in the !irst game, allowing only three hits. 
The first game remained score­less until the bottom of the third when Smart doubled for Albion, garnering her first RBI. Smart fol­lowed up in the bottom of the fifth, doubling again to bring the score to 2-0. Freshman Jenna Hogg singled in the bottom of the sixth to give Albion the 3-0 win. 
Saint Mary's jumped to an early lead in the second game when Audrey Gajor drove in a run off an error in the bottom of the third. Albion took the lead in the top of the seventh when senior outfielder Jessica Loegel doubled to right field. 
Bridget Grall tied it up at 2-2 for Saint Mary's in the bottom of the seventh of-off a !ielder's choice, sending the game into extra innings. 
Albion once again took the lead in the top of the ninth when fresh­man Katie Streeter doubled, driv­ing in two runs. 
Smart followed with another double to give Albion the 6-2 win. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


On Saturday, April29, Holy Cross College is sponsoring the 2nd Annual
Run for Friendship 
Run for Hope, with all proceeds benefiting Holy Cross School, grades 5 through 12, in New Orleans. Suffering
Run for Humanity 
substantial damage after hurricane 
Katrina, the school's rebuilding effort is 
off and running, but they need our help.
Run for Students 
To register for the SK Run for Hope, click www.hcc-nd.edu. On the home page 
you'll find all necessary information and registration forms. 
Run for Hope! 
The cost to participate in the Run is 
$20, which includes a T-shirt and the 
• knowledge that you've helped put a 

great school back on it's feet. 
So don't wait...run over to www.hcc~nd.edu and sign up 
today! 
JENNIFER 

Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
Palombo said. "We have to will not be a conference except we get to play against tournament seeds will be at capitalize on our opportuni­match, the Belles view the new opponents." stake against both the Pilots
Bethel 
ties when we have them." match as a good opportunity. Thursday's match will be and Knights. continued from page 36 Bethel has only played one "Since it's not a conference the last opportunity for the The Calvin match will begin match so far this spring, a 5-match, it's a good opportunity Belles to fine tune their game at 9 a.m. at the SMC Tennis games they played in. 4 loss to Olivet. Saint Mary's for us to practice different before they play their final Courts. 
"We're going to really try beat the Comets earlier this aspects of our game and try conference match of the sea­and focus on converting the season by the score of 6-3. new things," Palombo said. son on Saturday against Contact Greg Arbogast at key points [against Bethel]." Although Thursday's match "It's like a practice for us Calvin. Individual conference garbogas@nd.edu 
Bookstore 
continued from page 36 
to an 11-5 halftime lead and then withstood a second-half run by FEMAture evacuation to win a third-round contest 21-16. 
FEMA was able to narrow the margin with lights-out outside shooting, coming within three points late in the game. The Purple Cobras proved deadly when cornered though,· and stepped up their defensive inten­sity, stopping FEMA's late game was not quite as explosive as Team No. 13 claimed a shut out in the first half to take an 11­0 lead. 
But tempers on both sides of the ball were a different story in the girls' division contest: 
The lopsided score was no indi­cation of the close nature of the game. 
Early on, girls from the polo­popped skirt-sporting Babes scraped the pavement after colli­sions with No. 13ers, establishing quiet tensions that continued to escalate, thanks to only one foul being called throughout the entire game. 
Down 12-0 and frustrated by Team No. 13's physical play, Allison White waited under the rim for a rebound and shrugged off her defender -halfway to the free-throw line -before grab­bing the board and putting it back for the team's first point. The teams continued to bicker back and forth about who had the bigger attitude, leading one player to question whether or not there would be a "beat down after the game." 
During the game, however, the Babes couldn't find an answer to the low post dominance of Liz Frierott and Meghan Callahan. The pair combined for 14 of the team's 21 points, with nearly all of them coming underneath the basket. Frierott also swatted two early balls to set the in-your-face tone that characterized the game. 
"It was a little feisty," Frierott said. "I think they hated us." 
Even if the Babes didn't, the crowd turned on No. 13, the 13th seed of the girls' tournament after last year's Sweet 16 finish. 
"We've got the best fans around," said Kate McHugh, one of the Babes' six graduate stu­dents. 
But Team No. 13 had one spe-­cial supporter Teddy Hesburgh. While the University President Emeritus and world­record holder of honorary degrees was not in attendance, a small dog by the same name graced the sidelines, emblematic of the game's dogged physical play. 
McHugh said fans witnessed more than they bargained for in the cat-fight contest. 
"One girl got to second base with me without my permission," McHugh said. "There was domes­tic violence out there." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu, Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu, Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu and Jay Fitzpatrick at jfizpa5@nd.edu 
The FEMA players were dis­appointed after the game that their comeback fell short. 
"We started out slow, and they got good rolls on their outside shots. In the second half we shot better and played man defense, but they outplayed us in the end," FEMA's Nick Pateros said. 
Final Run 21, Game Cancelled 15 
In a hotly contested match-up Wednesday night, Final Run took down Game Cancelled by a score of21-15. 
The contest, held at McGlinn court.<>. was close throughout. But with good defense and consistent shooting, Final Run -a team of MBA graduate students -was able to pull away late. 
"We're here to win. We aren't coming out here to get beat," Final Run's Jonathan "FinJohn" Keehn said. 
The foul-ridden game was physical from the start with sev­eral hard fouls by both teams. Play was temporarily stopped for blood twice in the first half. Game Cancelled center Peter Kelly scored two points early but was quieted after he was hit in the face going up for a lay-up and suffered a bloody nose. 
"You tried to punch me in the face," Kelly said, after coming down with blood in his hands. 
The game was on the verge of fisticuffs before being broken up by Bookstore officials. 
Kelly was also on the other end of the injuries as he took out Keehn while going up for another bucket. 
"It's Bookstore Basketball-we expected it to be this way," said Keehn, who put up five points for his team. 
Final Run members thought the hard-nosed style of play worked to their advantage, given their age advantage over the freshmen from St. Edward's Hall. 
Game Cancelled was able to jump out to an early lead by spreading the ball around and crashing the boards. The scoring was also well distributed for Game Cancelled. Patrick Sweeney and Matt Verhamme 
surge. "Unfortunately for us, both dropped "We were able three buckets,
we were slower, shorter 
to establish our­and Zach
and less athletic. We
selves inside Fogarty led the early. We started didn ,t have enough of team with five. to tire out in the "We did a
that something else to
second half, but good job earli­
overcome adversity. ,,
we came back to er of moving finish strong," the ball around Globogym guard Cole Davis from inside Martin Lam said. out," Sweeney
ACI guard 
communicated unusually loud on defense, but could not settle their game down until the second half when the intoxicating effects of outdoor basketball wore out. 
Zoo also helped by relaxing on defense and chucking up long­distance bombs, as if an attempt to match the equally ill-advised tosses of Venom -lengthening the game in a way that makes the fans cheer and Bookstore com­missioner groan. 
"It was a fun and enjoyable game," Stefanski said. "Bookstore is all about just having fun." 
Boyle, apparently influenced by the co-ed hanging on his arm after the game, credited their loud crowd for the victory. 
"We had great fan support," he said. "We appreciate everyone who comes out to cheer us on." 
Venom was not sobered by their elimina­tion, refusing 
said. 
Final Run 

forward Mike Borowske led all scorers with nine. While he worked hard for all of his points. he was able to muscle his way far enough into the paint to get good looks. 
Point guard Jim Barnes also made big contributions to the Final Run offense as he con­trolled the ball up top for most of the game. He scored Final Run's 21st point with his third basket in the game. 
Game Cancelled was upset about being knocked out earlier than planned but was optimistic about its chances in the future. 
"Just like Arnold said, 'I'll be back,"' Sweeney said. 
Heavy Petting Zoo 21, Venom in the Veins 10 
While Venom in the Veins team members brought spirit to the game, wild, erratic play helped Zoo establish an early 8-0 lead it never relinquished. 
Venom players donned head­bands made from plastic bags and rubber bands on their biceps -as if they freshly injected their game into their arms -but they were out-strategized by Zoo's decision to inject the rim with points. 
Zoo's Joe Boyle was the anec­dote necessary to counteract Venom, stroking seven points to the team and feeding the ball to big men Matt Stefanski and Vmce Lyzinski -whose Joakim Noah­esque hair begged to be pet. 
Venom players uncontrollably flung their bodies around to save balls and grab rebounds and 
"Just like Arnold said, 
actually to admit to eke out a 21­
Tll be back.,,,
defeat. 17 win. 
"We knew we After Our would crush Team scored
Patrick Sweeney
them the same their 20th point,
Game Cancelled guard 
way -wait, the Lolympians 
who crushed someone? -the way the Romans ... no, the way the Germans crushed the French," said Venom's captain Owen McGovern, who scored three of Venom's 10 points. "Not even close." 
"Maginot Line," added Mark Meisner, referring to the French's ineffectual wall of defense that failed to keep the Germans out in World War II. "World War III did not happen." 
McGovern remained unfazed by the news that they did not, in fact, win. 
"Oh we did," McGovern said. 

Bad Boyz 21, Cooking With St. Lawrence 9 
Cooking With St. Lawrence came out strong against the No. 9 Bad Boyz but faltered late in a 21-9 loss Wednesday. 
While Cooking came into the game knowing it would likely be outmatched, the team fought hard, shooting key long-range jumpers to keep the game close for most of the first half. 
"We figured this game to be a bit non-competitive, but we are going to do our best and have some fun," Cooking captain Charlie Camosy said. 
Camosy was crucial in keeping his team close for the first half, but he and his teammates lost their touch in the second half, allowing the Bad Boyz to pull away. 
The Bad Boyz were able to use strength and speed to outmatch Cooking, getting a majority of the rebounds and a good deal of steals to keep the ball out of Cooking's hands. Bad Boyz also used the fast break effectively, scoring many of the team's points off of quick turnovers. 
Bad Boyz captain Ricky McRoskey said he was proud of his team's effort despite the close halftime score. 
"It was sloppy at first since this was our first game out here, but it felt good once we started run­ning and getting into the flow," McRoskey said. 
Our Team Plays the Full 40 Minutes 21, The Lolympians 17 Despite a hard-fought come­back at the end of the game by 
the Lolympians, 
Our Team Plays 
the Full 40 
Minutes was able 
scored five unan­
swered baskets 

to draw the score close. The main factors in the comeback were a combination of tough defense by the Lolympians and sloppy offense by Our Team, which missed a number of shots at the end of the game. 
"This one was too close for comfort," Our Team captain Paul Laughlin said. "But after this win we feel confident we can keep winning in the next round." 
The game was dominated by the defenses of both teams, as neither team was able to register many offensive rebounds and there were a high number of forced turnovers. By forcing interceptions and steals, each team's defense kept its opponents on their toes for much of the game. 
The tough Our Team defense hurt the Lolympians, whose style of offense included spreading the ball around before a shot. By passing the ball often, the Lolympians were subject to a number of interceptions that led to Our Team baskets. 
In the end, it was the physical nature of the Our Team offense that led to its victory as the team's ability to drive the lane and get tough rebounds helped it advance to the next round. 
Team No. 13 21, Napoleon's Babes 2 Though Napoleon's Babes' uni­forms were dynamite, the team's 

page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 20, 2006 
Notre Dame had trouble hit­the first run of the day, while ling Hockets' pitcher Denise a Linda Kohan single added
Rockets 

Van Vossen's tough offspeed some insurance. continued from page 36 pitching. Another quick inning by 
"In the second half of the Bargar brought the Irish to Coming ofT the Northwestern game, we finally made the bat, and another run -this loss focused and ready to necessary adjustments for time off a Schoonaert single play, the Irish knew a quick the pitching," Irish coach -scored junior right fielder rnbound was necessary. Deanna Gumpf said. "She Carissa Jaquish from third. 
"We just eame out ready to threw a lot of funky, offspeed Hufnagle added two extra win," freshman left fielder stuff. which was a huge dif­runs in the sixth inning with c;essiea Hufnagle said. "We ference from the 68 mph a hard-hit single to center to had to watch fastballs we cap off the Irish score. the ball all tlw were seeing "Gessica finally started way in and "In the second halfof yesterday." using good mechanics and just drive it." the game, we finally Silent in the was able to have two really 
Freshman first three good at bats today," Gumpf
made the necessary 
right-hander innings, the said. Brittney Irish bats After Wednesday's win, the
adjustments for the Bargar got the pitching." were domi­Irish return to Big East play, win for the nant in the something Gumpf has been Irish in last three. preparing for all season.
Deanna Gumpf 
Wednesday's Senior short­"We have to be prepared game, pitch­stop Sara for the Big East, especially
Irish head coach 
ing six strong Schoonaert because we know how impor­innings and and senior tant these games are," Gumpf allowing no runs on four hits third baseman Meagan said. "We have to bring our while striking out seven bat­Ruthrauff each reached base best game every time, and ters. Ahead of the hitters all in the fourth with a single they know that too." game, Bargar finished most and a double, respectively, to of the lead-off batters. start the Irish rally. 
Bargar's performance was A Katie Laing ground ball especially needed during the to second knocked in Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at first half of the game, when Schoonaert to give th.e Irish jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

IPFW 
continued from page 36 

Wednesday -first baseman Craig Cooper's RBI single into left field in the thi-rd inning lengthened the Irish senior's hit streak to 18 games. 
Right-handed reliever Cole Uebelhor (3-4) took the loss for IPFW (14-17) while Irish freshman Kyle Weiland (2-3) 
"Our pitching was outstand­ing," Mainieri said. "I thought that Gruener was phenomenal." 
The Irish led off the home half of the tenth inning with a first-pitch single to left by freshman Jeremy Barnes. Left fielder Matt Bransfield stepped to the plate and hit a deep ball to right field, but Mastodon right fielder Zach Walton got under it for the 
put-out. 
With Barnes 

picked up the still on first,
"When I think back to the
win for his shortstop inning and 2002 College World Series, Greg Lopez two-thirds of pushed a hard
we won an awful lot of 
work. line drive
games in our last at bat
Sophomore towards first southpaw that year. " base. IPFW David Gruener first baseman got the start Caleb Smith
Paul Malnlerl 
for the Irish got leather on
Irish head coach 
and pitched the ball, but it six innings of shot out of one-hit base-the webbing ball -the lone hit a three­and bounded into the outfield run bomb over the left field grass, allowing Lopez to fence. Gruener fanned three reach first safely and Barnes Mastodon batters, walked to advance to third base. one, but allowed only one With one out Gaston earned run the two worked the count full on Mastodon runners scoring on Mastodon reliever Adam the home run reached base Gibson before pushing the on eonsecu tive errors. game-winning HBI sacrifice 
fly to left field, scoring Barnes. 
"When I think back to the 2002 team that went to the College World Series, we won an awful lot of games in our last at-bat that year," Mainieri said. "And all of a sudden this team is starting to win some games in their last at-bat. The more you do that, the more your confi­dence as a team grows -you know you're not out of the game." 
The Mastodons the bag. Walton then reached on a dropped catch at first base by Cooper on a Gruener put-out throw. 
IPFW leadoff hitter Ryan Keena -the holder of both the Mastodons' hits -took advantage of the Irish mis­takes and pulled a three-run long ball out of the park in left field to take the 3-2 lead. 
The equalizer for the Irish came soon after with Bransfield's RBI double to the fence in left cen­

and Irish exchanged  "We played great  terfield, scoring  
blows  in  the  yesterday, but today for  right field­ 
sixth inning and left the frame with a 3-3 tie.  some reason I thought we played a little bit tight. "  er Danny Dressman from third.  
The game would  Dressinan  
remain  dead­ Paul Malnlerl  reached  
locked until the tenth-inning  Irish head coach  base on a deep dou- 
Notre  Dame  ble  just  
heroics.  into  fair  

Brent Alwine and Walton -territory along the left field the bottom of the Mastodon line. Barnes advanced order -reached base on Dressman to third base with back-to-hack errors while a sacrifice bunt. Barnes was Gruener still held a no-hit bid 0-for-7 prior to his tenth­aloft. Alwine ripped a hard inning leadoff hit. grounder to third baseman "I think we were fortunate Eddie Mendiola that rebound­but I think that we made a lot ed off his mitt to the back of of our breaks too," Mainieri 


II\I5H SATURDAY, APRIL 22ND @l!OSPM FREE PoNcHo To THE FIRST 175 
FANS SAINT (If JOSEPH 
Regional Medical Center 
Sc>ltrh &nd • Mi~hawakn • Ph·mour.h 

SuNDAY, APRIL 23RD @12:05PM 
FREE TRADING CARDS SPONSORED BY SERVICE PRINTERS 

-----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, April 20, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Stiller's comedy 60 Pair of pants? partner
1 Electronic 64 Engine speed, journals 33 Stat for Ali for short 34 Science class 65 Lustful looker
6 Stretchy candy feature 
66 Dutch pottery
11 The elder Geo. Bush once 37 Pair of 67 It's definite sneakers?
headed it 

68 Ostentatious 42 Lorne Michaels
14 Lover boy 69 Low cards 
show, for short 15 Trixie's best 
43 Neckline shape 
friend, on TV DOWN44 Took to the

16 Some rush-hour 1 Knitted body
station house

periods: Abbr. part
45 Confessed, with 

17 Pair of socks? 2 Actress 
"up" 
Anderson19 Sch. in Troy, 48 Caught, as with 3 Divine sign 

N.Y. a tree limb 4 Wise up
20 Comes out on 50 "March!" opener top 5 Piglet's mother
52 Time's partner, 21 Funny Conway in brief 6 Gimme putts 
53 Means to 7 Homecoming 
22 Called strikes and balls solving a guest sudoku puzzle 8 Swimming aid 
24 It turns the tide 
54 I love, in Mexico 9 Obscenity 26 Frog-to-be 
watcher: Abbr. 

55 "Tosca" number 28 Spears 10 Violinist
59 Britney Spears's Menuhin

31 Architect Jones " Slave 4 U" 11 Fuel-saving ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
strategy 12 Motivate 13 Stage mutter 18 Plains tribe 23 Driver's stat. 
25 Pearl Buck 
heroine 26 Polynesian pendant 
27 See 38-Down """"".-..:,;.tii!III!-:-B-:+:-1 28 Bratty types 
29 Nasty 
-:':+=+::i+i=-t 30 Charades, e.g. 
-=+=+::+::--! 33 Philosopher Lao-_ 
THE OBSERVER 
.Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

48 Beatified mother 39 Comic Foxx 62 Andy Capp's 
49 Dodge model wife40 Burn the 50 Coquette

midnight oil, 63 Banned 
student -style 51 Get-up-and-go insecticide 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester ­
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andie MacDowell, 47: Tony Danza, 54; Iggy Pop. 58; Charles Grodin. 70 
Happy Birthday: Be fully prepared before you leap into something you've never tried before. A power struggle is likely, and if you don't know your stuff, you may find yourself at a loss. This can be a fabulous year, but only if you put everything you've got into what you are trying to accomplish. Your numbers are 8,22,29,36,38.44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Avoid any sort of emotional upset. If someone is doing his or her best to pressure you into doing something, back away. You have plenty of other choices. An opportunity to meet someone who is good for you is apparent. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more involved you are today in activities you enjoy. the better. Love is looking positive. Start something new, and it will open your eyes to a possibility for the future. Children may play a role in your life today. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do something to please yourself because you won't be able to please anyone around you today. A massage. a hair appointment or a short trip to a mall will spark your imagination. Don't let trivial matters get to you.** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may like to spend time at home, but today you will do far better if you get out and do things with friends. A little romance will perk you up. You will discover some very interesting information. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): No matter what you are working on it will be important to finish on time. You need to prove something to yourself and to others. Ifyou neglect the one you love, you will pay later. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have a change of heart. Love is certainly in the picture, but how you handle it will be the question. Take a look at your past relationships, and you'll know what to do. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your money into your residence or home comfort. Get involved in any opportunity that is competitive or challenging. You can gain ground using your intuitive intelligence today. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have the discipline and the inventiveness to pull something off, far beyond anyone in your field. You will know exactly what you have to do, so don't hold back today. Love can be yours. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may think you have everything under control but, in truth, you probably don't. Don't be surprised if something unexpected pops up at the last minute, leaving you in a dilemma. Prepare to act fast** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A short trip or attending a trade show or conference will result in some fascinating ideas and opportunities. Love will be in a high cycle, so don't forget to include your partner or, if single, someone to whom you are attracted. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money, health and legal concerns should all be taken care of quickly today. Make some changes to your home that will make your life less stressful. You will be lucky, so pick up a lottery ticket. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Engage in family discussions. Someone you are close to will want to introduce you to a new friend. Relationships are looking ... good, so don't hold back. Doing for others will bring tremendous satisfaction. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have plenty of drive and determination, but you are also 
outspoken and willful. You are unpredictable and tend to be attracted to the 
unusual or unfamiliar. 

Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
NO ... NO ..."DoN:.
OH MAt-1 1 "TriOSE. A~E. 
5oM E. ~P..bb~ 5'<-~0ft..\S 
<.~OS'S 'fOUP-. LE.~ 5. 
ON !HAT KID 
\ !lONT 'WA~'T 10 
SE. t.. ALL 11-\E. WA'\ DowN 'fOUR PANI \D\0"1. 
-... 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square-. 
to form four ordinary words. 
CASHO 
1 

rJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
INFEK 
1 
rJ

tDUBACT 
j .... 
J r x I I 
www.jumble.com
tTIGRUD 

IIJ I I 
Ms: 

IT[XIJITJ'liiiiiJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: LUSTY CURVE ABSORB FACADEYesterday's Answer: What the golfing admiral did when it began raining 
-STAYED THE COURSE 

WHY THE: 5TUDE:NT DROPPE:D THE: HISTORY C.L..A55. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, April 20, 2006 
page 36 
BASEBALL 

Extra special 
NO tops IPFW 4-3 in 10 innings to extend winning streak to school-record 19 contests 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

It isn't mentioned in the dugout or on the dia_mond, but Sean (;aston's HBI sacri­fice fly to shallow left field in the bottom of the tenth inning gave Notre Dame morn than a 4-3 extra­innings victory Wednesday over Indiana University-Purdue University Fort Wayne at Frank Eck Stadium -at 19 straight wins, it gave the current squad the Notre Dame single snason record for consecu­tive wins. 
Irish head coach Paul Mainieri said the winning streak has been mentioned only once since it began ­in a team meeting on Monday following a three­gamn sweep of St. John's. 
"The kids aren't going to talk about the winning streak anymore," Mainieri said. "We've got a big game against Hutgnrs on Friday, and that's all we're thinking about. We didn't talk about 
.. it at all-nobody mentioned it at all until Monday." Thn No. 16 Irish (29-8, 11­1 Big East) weren't the only ones to extend a streak 
see IPFW/page 34 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles look to rebound vs. Bethel 
Saint Mary's lost to Albion at home in an MlAA match Tuesday 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will try to bounce back from Tuesday's disappointing loss to Albion in its game today at 4 p.m. against Bethel at the SMC Tennis Courts. 
"It's a really big advantage for us to be able to get back out there so quickly after the Albion match," senior eo­captain Kristen Palombo said. "We have a chance to put the Albion match behind us and move forward with a win." 
Af'ter winning three straight conference matches to move into second place in the MIAA, the Belles were defeated 9-0 by Albion, drop­ping Saint Mary's back to third place in the MIAA. After the match, the team talked about its failure to win the key points of' the many close 
see BETHEL/page 33 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
No. 12 Saltines cruise to 21-7 win over ACI 
Cobras down FEMA; Final Run pulls away from Game Cancelled 
By TIM KAISER, 
DAN MURPHY, 
TIM DOUGHERTY and 
JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writers 

The twelfth-ranked Saltines cruis1~d past ACI 21-7 for a third­round victory. The Saltines jump11d out to a 5-1 lead early and never relinquished it. 
ACI found itself' down 11-2 at the half. but cut into the lead in thn sncond half with a more aggrnssive defensive strategy. 
The Saltines responded by passing the ball inside to their big men, who averaged a six-inch 
height advantage over the ACI del'lmders. In the end, ACI was only able to score live second-half points. 
"Unfortunately l'or us, we were slower, shorter and less athletic," ACI guard Cole Davis said. "We didn't have enough of' that some­thing else to overcome all the adversity." 
The Saltines were glad to get a victory but were still not satisfied with their performance. 
"If [Saltines guard! Carl Anderson had been more in shape, he would have been able to make that two handed layup," Saltines forward Peter Courtney said. 
Globogym Purple Cobras 21, FEMAture Evacuation 16 
The Purple Cobras jumped out 
see BOOKSTORE/page 33 
ND SOFTBALL 

Squad blanks Toledo, 5-0 
Irish rebound from loss to Northwestern with home victory 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Wri rer 

Despite being shut out on only one hit in the first three innings, Notre Dame's bats woke up in the second half of Wednesday's game for a 5-0 win over Toledo at Ivy Field. 
The win showed the ability of Notre Dame (27-13, 9-1 Big East) to recover from tough defeats -like the 3-2 loss to No. 17 Northwestern Tuesday -while maintain­ing its dominance over Toledo (12-29, 3-8 MAC). The Irish have won all eight meetings with the Rockets. 
see ROCKETS/page 34 

en 
SMC SOFTBALL 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

MEN'S VOllEYBALL 
SAILING 
MLB 
MLB 
LLI

1-
Co) Albion 6 
Twins 12 
Brewers 7 
Sophomore Sam 
The Irish took ninth at 

Notre Dame took first 
z Saint Mary's 2 
Angels 10 
Astros 2 

The Belles lost both 
Stoner advanced to the 

the national champi-
Twins pinch-hitter 
Brewers starting

at the Buckeye
cc :3 
preliminaries of the U.S. 

onships in Salt Lake
= 
ends of a conference 
Michael Cuddyer hit a 
pitcher Chris Capuano

Invitational in 
Diving Open. 

City. 
two-run walk-off homer 
allowed two runs and

double header to the 
Columbus, Ohio. 
Cl: 
in the tenth. 
struck out eight.
Britons. 

= 
a.. !; page 32 
page 32
page 32 

page 29 
page 28
page 32 

en ~ 





