
Enthusiasm surrounds season's final home game 
Army game exciting, 
Pep rally attendance nostalgic for seniors recovers for finale 
By AARON STEINER By ROHAN ANAND News Writer News Writer 
Clad in green jerseys, The Joyce Center was teeming Notre Dame's 28 seniors with thousands of students, visi­joined the rest of the tors and alumni during Friday's Fighting Irish to topple Army pep rally before the Fighting 41-9 in their -and their Irish faced Army on Saturday. senior fans' -last home But while the masses turned ­game of the season Saturday. out for Friday's rally -the last 
The game was bittersweet of the season, organized by Hall for some, including those 28 Presidents Council fHPCJ -it seniors and their graduating became apparent this fall that classmates in the stands, but pep rallies hit a low point mid­students said an enthusiasm way through the semester. Given that doesn't usually charac­the decades of tradition behind terize lopsided games also the rallies, students and alumni rocked the crowd. who have noticed a decline in 
see GAME/ page 3 the "We-are-NO" cheer Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. see PEP RALLY/ page 4 

ND near top of graduation ratings 
ByJOE PIARULLI Assistant News Editor 
If there were a national championship combining aca­demics and athletics, Notre Dame might have a tough time finding room for its trophies. 
In the latest NCAA student­athlete graduation ratings, Notre Dame set a gold stan­dard among the 118 Division 1-A football-playing colleges and universities, placing near the top of virtually every reported category. 
Though there are no tro­phies, the rankings, released Nov. 9, serve to measure a school's success in graduating its athletes. 
The 16th annual federally mandated NCAA Graduation Rates Report included students who enrolled between 1996 and 1999. The NCAA bases graduation rates on the per­centage of student-athletes who enter a school and gradu­ate within six years. Students who transfer out are consid­ered non-graduates. 
Notre Dame graduated 89 percent of its student-athletes, behind only Duke University at 90 percent. 
Associate athletic director John Heisler called the rank­ings a big honor. 
"I think it underscores the commitment of the student­athletes and the commitment of the institution to be able to combine athletics and academ­ics at a very high level," he said. "You need to combine those [graduation ratings] with the fact that we're coming off 
see RATINGS/ page 3 

*includes transfer data MADELINE NIES/ObseNer Graphic 
Darfur campaign w-orks to effect change 
By BRIDGET KEATING News Writer 
While LaFortune serves daily as the hub of 
campus, on Friday, the student center played 
host to an effort toward world peace. 
A 6-by-4-yard flag with more than 1,000 signatures and a large "Save Darfur" was hung in the main atrium -one piece of the Darfur Project headed by the Student Senate Social Concerns committee. The prominent location put the global genocide crisis at the forefront of the Notre Dame community. 
But that support will go beyond a day's work. Students behind the campaign are making sure the message gets to those who can effect change in Washington, D.C. 
This week, the Social Concerns Committee will mail the flag, letters and signatures to Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Foreign Relations committee chairman. This 30-year 
see DARFUR/ page4 

CEO gives advice to fresh111en 
Rolls Royce executive speaks to engineers 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
Steven Dwyer, the man responsible for the engines that power America's newest fighter aircraft, the F-35 Lighting II, gave career advice to about 300 freshman engineering students during their Introduction to Engineering course Friday in DeBartolo 101. 
Dwyer, the CEO of the Indianapolis division of Rolls Royce, stressed individualism in career planning. But the most important step, he said, has nothing to do with work. 
"Family comes first," he said. 
Dwyer said no one should ever let someone in the work­place lay out his career for him. 
"You are going to hear you have to go overseas, you have to get an MBA, you have to do this, you have to do that ... baloney," he said. "Don't let people run your life; you run your life. 
"But make sure that family is the heart bfit," he added. 
Dwyer said he values engi­neers that are creative rather than generic and who do not simply go though the motions on the job. 
~·1 can't tell you how many people work at Rolls Royce that are great people, but they'll never get to the next level because all they do is what they think they're supposed to do. They don't create, they don't innovate, they don't break the mold," he said. "For every hun­
see LECTURE/ page 4 
Monday, November 20, 2006 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


My blessings 
With the stresses of upcoming exams, 
projects, and papers, what is keeping me 
motivated throughout it all is the simple 
thought of Thanksgiving break. 
Of all the holidays in the year, 
Thanksgiving 
is definitely Hy Pham 
one of my 
favorites, just 
because it has-Photographer 
n't become as 
commercial­
ized as the rest. Not being about buying 
gifts or spending money on costumes, 
fireworks, or the like, it is a holiday con­
cerned with just spending time with the 
people you love, eating great food and 
reflecting on the blessings you have 
received throughout the year. If you ask 
me, everyday should be Thanksgiving. 
This year, I do have much to be grate­
ful for. Here is my top 10 list of what I am 
thankful for. 
No. 10: Having had another great year 
of Notre Dame football. Although our 
chances now for a National Title game 
are slim, the fact that we have the oppor­
tunity to be in a BCS bowl game for the 
second consecutive year isn't too bad. 
No. 9: Living in the best dorm on cam­
pus, Morrissey Hall. To be clear, I am 
being serious, not funny. Despite popular 
belief, it is actually a cool place to live. 
Yes, our rooms may be small, but hey, 
what we lack in size we do make up in 
spirit and, of course, in total dominance 
of Interhall sports. Congrats to the Manor 
baseball, volleyball and football teams for 
taking home the gold. 
No. 8: Being a part of The Observer 
staff. When you're a photographer here 
at The Observer, every moment's a 
Kodak moment. 
No. 7: Participating in Navy ROTC. The 
training and what I have learned through 
the program have already been priceless. 
I am extre~ely grateful for the future 
opportunity to serve and give back to a 
country that has indeed given me so 
much. 
No.6: The honor and privilege of being 
part of the Notre Dame cross country 
and track & field teams. As their manag­
er, I really do have the best job on cam­
pus. The coaches and athletes are really 
great people. It's all about trust, responsi­
bility and respect, and in this line of 
work, you definitely get a lot of it. 
No. 5: My amazing physique and 
rugged, good looks, which are simply 
irresistible amongst the ladies here and 
around the world. Pretty much self­
explanatory ... 
No. 4: The fact that I am here at Notre Dame. Even as a sophomore, it is still · unreal to actually be here at place I always dreamed of attending. 
No.3: Who can forget all of my room­
mates and my friends, both young and 
old, from here and from the past. Thanks 
for being there when I needed it the 
most. You know who you guys are. And 
for those I make fun of on a daily basis, 
you guys are my friends too. Just remem­
ber, I make fun because I care. 
No. 2: My PHAM-ily who never fail to 
remind me every day that they will 
always love and support me no matter 
what. They are the best, and I can't wait 
to see them. 
No. 1: Last, but certainly not least, to 
be able to know that God is up there 
always looking out for me and having my 
back. Thank You. 
Contact Hy Pham at 
hpham3@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, a column in the Nov. 16 edition ofThe Observer said the Notre Dame men's soccer team had advanced to the NCAA Sweet 16 for the first time. The Irish made it to the Sweet 16 last year, but lost to Clemson. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK IS THE HOTTEST NO FOOTBALL PLAYER AND WHY? 








Talia Daly  Christine Haunert  Calliemae Hoeft  Kimberly Farah  Kelsey Hitchcock  Elsa Summerville  
junior Walsh  junior LeMans  junior McCandless  sophomore LeMans  freshman Walsh  sophomore LeMans  
"D.J. Fitzpatrick ... because I miss him."  "Ron Powlus because when I watched him when I was young, he was everything I  "Jeff Samardzija, obviously, because ofhis h .azr.f"  "John Carlson, because I like his curly blonde hair."  "I'd have to say Neil Kennedy, No. 69, because he's got a great personality and is incredibly  "Brady Quinn ... [sigh/ ... because I just do. ,  

thought a man should be!" 

Ohio lottery picks match Ohio State game score 
CLEVELAND -Ohio State's 42-39 victory over Michigan also was lucky for players of the Ohio Lottery. 
Shortly after Saturday's game ended, the numbers 4-2-3-9 were drawn for the Pick 4 game. 
"You know it happens," lottery spokeswoman Marie Kilbane said Sunday. 
Lottery spokeswoman Mardele Cohen said 401 $1 bets were made that picked 4-2-3-9 in order and each bet won $5,000. The odds of the numbers turning up in that combi­nation were 10,000 to 1. 
Cohen said 913 $1 bets were placed on any combi­nation of the winning num­bers and paid $200 apiece. 
Crossbow arrow sails onto soccer field 
STOCKPORT, England ­A crossbow arrow was fired into a soccer stadium, whistling past one of the players and forcing the amateur game to be called off. 
The game between Woodley Sports and Alsager Town in the Unibond first division was abandoned in the 77th minute Saturday after the referee noticed the bolt embedded in the field. Police were called to Woodley's stadium, and the arrow will be examined. 
"We wondered if it was a firework or something that had gone on that no one else had seen," Alsager chairman Graham McGarry told Sky Sports News on Sunda~ "He brought the managers together with the object and brought the players together· and marched them off, all within two minutes. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY  TONIGHT  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  
a::  
LLI :c  
 
~  
LLI  
3:  ~  ~  ~  
.....  
c( (.) 0 ...I  HIGH  42  HIGH  37  HIGH  46  HIGH  49  
LOW  28  LOW  28  LOW  32  LOW  32  
Atlanta 47 I 29 Boston 47 I 33 Chicago 45 I 31 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 66 I 38 Los Angeles 81 I 54 Minneapolis 44 I 33 New York 48 I 35 Philadelphia 48 I 31 Phoenix 85 I 57 Seattle 50 I 45 St. Louis 51 I 28 Tampa 63/ 44 Washington 47 I 33 


svelte." 
IN BRIEF 
Faculty, staff, students and the general public are all invited to watch Chicago artist Esperanza Gama construct this year's altar for the annual Day of the Dead celebration at the Snite Museum between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Tuesday. The altar will be dedicated to those who died crossing the United States-Mexico border. Admission is free. 
A colloquium on "Simplifying the Nuclear Many-Body Problem with the Renormalization Group," featuring Dr. Scott Bogner of Ohio State University, will take place Tuesday between 2 and 3:30 p.m. in room 127 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. 
At 8 p.m. Tuesday in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of -the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, the department of music will honor its patron saint Cecilia on her feast day with a concert of sacred music. Notre Dame faculty and students will perform a program featuring Gregorian chant as well as the works of Henry Purcell and Lou Harrison. 
The "Quantam Gravity" colloquium, scheduled to take place Wednesday and feature Dr. Lee Smolin of the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics in Ontario, Canada, has been postponed until Jan. 17, 2007. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 


HIGH 50 HIGH 47 LOW 36 LOW 34 
Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Ratings 
continued from page 1 
-this past school year -the most successful across-the­board season in our history in terms of athletics, and it prob­ably becomes more impressive that our student-athletes have continued to graduate at a very high level." 
Notre Dame ranks second on the NCAA's Graduation Success Rate, with a 98 percent, behind only the United States Naval Academy. The GSR, cre­ated two years ago to more accurately reflect actual grad­uation rates by including transfer data in the calcula­tion, was partially a response to the frequency and ease with which students transfer schools. 
Notre Dame graduated 87 percent of all male varsity ath­letes, tying for first with Stanford and Duke on the fed­eral calculations. 
Notre Dame's 94 percent graduation rate of female ath­letes was second behind Northwestern at 95 percent. 
"In all those various cate­gories, we may not be number one, but we're certainly in the conversation in all those differ­ent areas," Heisler said. "I think that shows that the peo­ple that are making the deci­sions to come here are com­mitted to getting their degree and you've also got an institu­tion that's committed to sup­porting that mission." 
Jleisler said the fact that the NCAA rankings are based on students graduating within six years has almost no implica­tions for the Irish. 
"That's probably more reflec­tive of the collegiate culture as a whole ... the vast majority of our students are finishing in four years," he said, noting that in recent years, all of Notre Dame's fifth-year foot­ball players had graduated before that fifth year. 
The national graduation average in football is 55 per­cent, according to the GSR report. At Notre Dame, the number is 84 percent, which ranks sixth. 
In the GSR standings, Notre Dame football's rates finished third at 95 percent behind the Naval Academy and Boston College. 
"Whatever you want to say about what [head football coach] Charlie Weis has done on the field, these last two semesters were the first time that the football program has ever been over a 3.0 in terms of a team GPA," Heisler said. "Being a student and being an athlete -those things don't have to be exclusive from each other, and I think that's the culture that's been created over a long period of time here." 
Part of the success, but also part of the challenge, Heisler said, "is trying to find people who have [great] abilities on the field, who also have those same high objectives when it comes to what they'.re doing in the classroom." 
"You're dealing with some very high profile student-ath­letes in all of these different sports," he said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
"It was more exciting than you expected for an Army game," sophomore Joe Gagnon said. 
While the Irish were the heavy favorite, students said the fact that this was the last home game of the season motivated the crowd. 
Senior 'Jack Calcutt said the game was undoubtedly 

team run onto the field in green jerseys, which are traditionally reserved for important games in which Notre Dame is the under­dog. The choice to wear green this weekend, Gagnon said, was more about hon­oring the seniors in this special game. 
That extra motivation kept student worries to a mini­mum after Army quickly earned three points and ended the first quarter 
ahead 3-0. 
"We didn't 
special, and "It was a great look great [at the mood experience to have first] ... it took 
among seniors awhile to hit 
-to be with really 
was different our stride," than usual. close friends for this Gagnon said. 
"One of the one last game. " Army's lead 
things I didn't last noticed was long, as Darius 
Jack Calcutt 
that a lot of Walker scored people had senior Notre Dame's 
their cameras out," he said. "There was a ton more pic­tures taken this weekend." 
Not only did more seniors bring their cameras, but many also found ways to bring marshmallows into the stadium, despite the fact that students are prohibited from doing so. 
The senior class marsh­mallow fight was clearly larger than usual, Calcutt said. 
''I'm not an expert on this, but I hear from the experts that it was good that we really waited until the last game," Calcutt said, noting that ushers were then less prepared for the incident.· 
Other students said they were motivated seeing the 

first touch­
down early in the second quarter. The crowd's excitement after the first touchdown djdn't seem to die out during the remainder of the game, stu­dents said. 
"It was a little more intense [than usual] -the seniors definitely deserved it," sophomore Thomas Rehagen said. 
The entire game was much more "electric," freshman Sarah Carruthers said. 
For sophomore Kelly Horder, "everything seemed much more important." 
The game also became important as it broke a 20­year losing streak associat­ed with the green jerseys. 
Carruthers said students "freaked out" when they saw the jerseys -some worrying about the bad luck associated with the green, others just excited to see the Irish in a different color than usual. 
Students also cited the post-game events, notice­ably longer than usual, as a highlight of the game. 
"I really liked when every­body started chanting 'Brady' -not just for him, but for all the seniors," Horder said. 
The "Beat SC" chant also roared through the student section in the final moments of the game and during post-game activities, as the Irish prepare to meet rival USC next weekend. 
"It was pretty fun -it kind of turned into a pep rally for USC," sophomore Andy Kocab said. 
For Calcutt, this week­end's game was his last home football game as a student. However, he said he hopes to return regularly to Notre Dame Stadium. 
"This is not the experience I'm going to miss the most," he said, since he will be able to experience home football games in the future. "Granted, I won't be in the student section anymore." 
Nevertheless, it was a spe­cial game for him and his classmates, he said. 
"It was a great experience to have -to be with really close friends for this one last game." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


We now offer the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre Dame Apartments 
835 Notre Dame Avenue • 2-bedroom Apartments 
• 
Spacious 1,1 00 sq. ft. units 

• 
Within Walking Distance to ND (2 Blocks) 


• Off~Street Parking 

• 
On-Site Laundry 


• 
Water Utility Included in Rent 

• 
Central Air 


• 
Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System 


Lafayette Square Townhouses 
424 N. frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom.Townhouses 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


• Off~Street Parking 
• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 



Calf today -these units are renting quickly View aU of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 

Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 20, 2006 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
dre-d of those [people], I'm looking for two to do some­thing really special that hasn't been done before. That's who you want to be." 
Dwyer said female employ­ees have a tendency to be more reluctant at taking pro­motions, and he said they should abandon that tendency if they want to compete in the workforce. 

"Somebody will walk up and say, 'Do you think you could do this for me?.' If you say, 'Excuse me,' you're out." 
After discussing career advice, Dwyer talked about ethics -something he said was "100 percent all the time." 
"Ethics doesn't [just] mean you don't lie," he said. "Ethics means you tell the truth at all the times and deliver good news with the bad news." 
Dwyer said the best leaders do things the way they are comfortable 
"Don't do doing them.
"Ethics doesn't [just] 

that," he said. Otherwise, he 
"For God sakes, mean you don't lie. said, they will 
we're just mak­Ethics means you eventually burn ing break­out.
tell the truth at all

throughs in There are 
aerospace now the times and deliver five key quali­
and women are good news with the ties, Dwyer coming said, that a
bad news." 

through." leader must 
Dwyer also have -hon­warned engi­Steven Dwyer esty, passion, neers to not fret CEO Indianapolis divison compassion, about failure. Rolls Royce teamwork and 
"If you are tal­ented, you will remember every failure in your career," he said. "Be proud of what you do well ... it's a matter of not using your enthusiasm for your next opportunity." 
Dwyer said the balance sheet dictates business. In order to succeed in business, he said, one simply has to 
make money "Everyone in our 
without losing 
it. industry is brilliant; "I can fabri­everyone gets the cate profit, I right answer. But the 
can fabricate 
person that gets there 
profit any time 
first wins. " 
you want. [But] I can't fabricate cash," he said. 
Steven Dwyer
"If you learn 
CEO Indianapolis divison
how a balance 
Rolls Royce
sheet works, 
you learn how to get what you want in the company, in the industry, and for yourself." 
Dwyer said opportunities can arise at any time and that one should be attentive and alert for them. He said stu­dents should learn how to lis­ten, write, speak and work informally. 
"Your opportunities for your career will happen in the hall­way, they won't happen in the board room," he said. 
Pittsburgh $151 Chicago $151 
··~:::"?'~if:,. 
Atlanta $202 
Tenns: All t.nes are based on roundtrip travel and include a 
humor. 

Dwyer said leaders should act fast in their decisions unless speed would compromise someone's safety. 
"Everyone in our industry is brilliant; everyone gets to the right answer. But the person that gets there first wins," he said. 
Dwyer also discussed how 
Rolls Royce engines from Indianapolis power a large portion of modern air­craft, including the Global H a w k unmanned aer­ial reconnais­sance drone, the V-22 Osprey tilt rotor helicop­ter-plane 

hybrid and the E-2C Hawkeye early warning aircraft. 
Rolls Royce has contributed to civil aviation, military air­craft, ships and energy, Dwyer said. He also said his company is the second largest manufac­turer in Indiana, and that it has won the prestigious Collier Award an unprecedented five times since 1987. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 

Madrid $321 Florence $412 Singapore $755 
service fee of 15. Domestic fares include a7.5'16 US transponatlon tax. 
Other taxes and fees vary, depending on the ttinerary and are not included. fares ar• subject 10 availability and change withoul notice. Domestic flights valid Mon-Thu with an 8day advance purchase 2day min stay Including aSal night required and max stly is 30 days. International flights valid Mon­Wed with a 8 day advanc• purchase. Europe/Alia fares valid for departures between Nov 1and Otc 14. latin America fares valid for departures through Dec 9. Australia fares valid for departures between Oct 1and Dec 8. 4day min stay required and max stay is 90 daY> Blackout dates and oth" rellrtctions may apply. 
I c:• StudentUniverse.com 

Pep Rally 
continued from page 1 
attendanee have tried to analyze the problem and find a solution. 
"The pep rallies are supposnd to be something that you look for­ward to," said Breen-Phillips president Grace Myers, "so it was unfortunate that participation dropped at one point." 
Alumni president Jonathan Floyd said he thought rallies wore too heavily weighted toward adults. 
"I talked to alumni who went here back in the 70s, and they felt that in the past pep rallies were for students,'' he said. "But now, they're really toned down and more for the parents. It seems to me that there are more adults there than students, so I don't see a huge incentive to go." 
Since the HPC took the reigns of coordinating pep rallies more than 10 years ago, speakers (including former ·Heisman Trophy winners), music and inter-dorm competitions, such as push-up contests, have been added to the festivities. 
But some students said the ehanges that HPC has implement­ed haven't really been enough to make them more interesting. Senior Patrick Wolohan feels like they're too focused on recogniz­ing the football players. 
"They need to make it more about the students and less about the players,'' he said. 
Other students said the pep ral­lies are just simply too homoge­nous in style. 
"They need to be morn sponta­neous," said senior Steve Tortorello, O'Neill president. "We need to have passionate, surpris­ing and interactive speakers, like 

Darfur 
continued from page 1 
senator has worked to promote peace, as shown in his Nunn­Lugar program which "deactivat­ed more than 6,800 nudnar war­heads that were once aimed at the United States,'' according to his offieial Web site. 
"Lugar was a natural choiee as head of Foreign Helations and being from Indiana," said Chris Meister, a frnshman on the Social Concerns eommittne who brought the issue to the eommittee agnn-Digger [Phelps] and Dickie Vlitale], eome more often. Maybe even Darius Walker rapping about the Bowie-knife incident." 
Carroll president Erie Shaw acknowledged an attendance drop and said the HPC is still working hard to improve pep rally attendance for next year. 
"It sometimes may be diflicult to round up student attnndanee for a pep rally before a game ver­sus Army when Notre Dame is expected to win," he said, "but if people really want to go, they will go. About 20 of 100 Carroll resi­dents went, which isn't bad, but I think overall the participation on Friday was stronger than in the past weeks." 
Some students and alumni have suggested the events return to the Stepan Center, since the building's small size seemed to eneourage more participants to arrive earlier and get more pumped for the pep rallies back in the 1970s. 
But there are "no plans" to move rallies baek to Stepan, said Bryan Lowery, IIPC eo-chair. 
"Even though the JACC will be renovated and we haven't formu­lated any plans because of reno­vations, what we want is for the support to remain constant," he said. 
The wait time also does seem to frustrate some students, since they have to arrive over an hour early in order to aecommodate non-student attendees. But Katie Cordelli, the other IIPC co-chair, said the HPC has no qualms about attendance levels. 
"We've been very pleased with the turnout and support for our football team," Cordelli said. "It's been a much longer season with seven home games this year, so the players and the coaches are so pleased with the constant sup­
da. 
Encouraged by similar move­ments, the committee chose to send the massive symbol to the 
U.S. Senate. 
"The size and striking green color of peace, solidarity and jus­tice,'' Meister said, "is for sheer physical presence -as it is big­gnr than most dorm rooms. It will make an impact and let Congress know that Notre Dame demands aetion against this crisis." 
According to literature provided to students signing the flag, the United States has given the label "genocide" to the slaughter of nearly 400,000 men, women and 




Students 

FIVCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to: Sample Fares from Chicago to: 
Pittsburgh $151 Madrid $321 
Chicago $151 Florence $412 
·::/:~}11:.: 
$202 Singapore 

.. ·. ·. ·· Ifaresart' based on roundtrip travel and Include aStudentUnlve~e service fee ofS5. Domestic fares include a7.5'16 US transportltlon tax. 
and fees vary, depending on the ttinerary and are not included. fares art' subject to availability and change without notice. Domestic fllghtl Mon-Thu with an 8day advance purchase. 2day min stay Including aSat night required and max stly Is 30 days. International ftights valid Moo­with a 8 day advance purchase. Europe/Asia fares valid for departur" b•tween Nov 1and Dtc 14. latin America fares valid for departures through 
Dec 9. Australia fares valid for departures between Oct 1and Dec 8. 4day min stay requirt'd and max stay~ 90 days. B~ckout dat<s and oth" restrtctions 
IC:• StudentUniverse.com 

port they've received from the student body." 
The music at Friday's rally did seem to rile up some of the female audience members, a group of which sang passionately to Kelly Clarkson, Bon Jovi and Madonna. The male attendees, however, didn't feel quite the same way. 
"They need to play more rap or hip-hop music," freshman Michael Lewis said. "I want to hear some of Beyonce Knowles' 'Lose My Breath,' because the music they play now makes me lose my mind." 
Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students also joined the rally, adding to the event's community focus. 
"The pep rallies are fantastic, and we're glad to represent Saint Mary's College here," said cheer­leader Anna Konger. 
Friday was especially important for Konger, who, as a senior, was attending the final pep rally of her college career. Other seniors, like Garret Jost, were excited to visit the Joyce Center to eheer the Irish on one last time. 
"[This memory] will last for the ·rest of my life,'' he said. "I have to be here." 
So did sophomore Connor Nowalk. Despite the struggle to encourage more of his friends to attend the pep rally with him, Nowalk said his loyalty to the Irish is unwavering. 
"I only get three years here," said Nowalk, a transfer student, "and I already feel like I missed out on so much by not being here one year. I want to soak up as mueh as I can. I wouldn't miss it for the world." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
children sinee 2003, but the United Nations has not. The Janjaweed militia, the literature said, devastates villages removing all forms and sources of life including killing its residents and destroying homes, food, crops and livestoek. 
"It is a vitally important project to make Notre Dame aware of this ongoing tragedy," said Sheena Plamoottil, who chairs the Social Coneerns committee. "The strong response shows that we have made progress that. we can build upon." 
The committee spent time col­lecting signatures at dining halls and in LaFortune. Meister said. 
"Giving money is nice to do and appreciated,'' he said, "but sign­ing this flag and becoming edu­cated makes more of an impact on and educate eaeh student." 
Moving beyond this campus, the committee would like to see attention brought to this issue in the media, Congress and the United Nations. 
"If Americans saw the images and realized the atrocities being eommitted today, they would be shocked and disturbed,'' Meister said. "A governmental body not aeknowledging this is condoning it." 
Educational events last week ­in addition to the flag hanging ­included Thursday night's Dillon Hall Green Milkshake Mass, in honor of promoting peace in Darfur. The committee encour­ages students who were not able to sign to eontact their represen­tatives through darfur.a-bar.com and savedarfur.org. 
"At Thanksgiving, we have so mueh to be thankful for,'' Meister said. "What about the people of Darfur? They are thankful not to be killed. This needs to change immediately." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 20, 2006 CoMPlLED FROtv\ THE ()BSERVER'S Wl Rf SERV1Cf:S page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Board denies nuclear help to Iran 
VIENNA, Austria -A Western push to deny Iran technical help in building a plutonium­producing reactor has gathered enough sup­port to be approved by the 35-nation board of the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency, diplo­mats said Sunday. 
Still, differences both within the Western camp and more broadly among different fac­tions on the International Atomic Energy Agency on how harshly to punish Iran for its nuclear defiance persisted on the eve of the opening meeting Monday, said the diplomats. 
Normally, the United States takes the lead in demanding tough action against Tehran for defying U.N. Security Council demands that it freeze uranium enrichment, a possible pathway to nuclear arms. 
But with council agreement on sanctions mired down because of Russian and Chinese efforts to block tough punishment, diplomats said the Americans have taken a back seat to France at the upcoming Vienna meeting in calling for harsher penalties. 
Hezbollah calls for mass protests 
BEIRUT, Lebanon -Hezbollah's leader urged his followers to prepare for mass demonstra­tions to topple the government if it ignores the militant group's demand to form a national unity coalition. 
In a speech broadcast Sunday, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah railed against President Bush's admin­istration, calling Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice a "bloodsucker" and claiming the current Lebanese government is a puppet of Washington. 
He did not set a date for the protests, which he said should be nonviolent. But he told supporters and political allies to get ready to take to Beirut's streets for days or even weeks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rangel proposes draft reinstatement 
WASHINGTON -Americans would have to sign up for a new military draft after turning 18 under a bill the incoming chairinan of the House Ways and Means Committee says he will intro­duce next year. 
Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y., said Sunday he sees his idea as a way to deter politicians from launching wars. 
"There's no question in my mind that this president and this administration would never have invaded Iraq, especially on the flimsy evi­dence that was presented to the Congress, if indeed we had a draft and members of Congress and the administration thought that their kids from their communities would be placed in harm's way," Rangel said. 
Virus-stricken ship docks in florida 
FORT LAUDERDALE -A thorough scrub­bing of the Carnival Liberty began Sunday as the ship docked after a virus sickened nearly 700 passengers on a trans-Atlantic cruise. 
Fourteen guests and five crew remained ill and in isolation when the ship arrived at Port Everglades, according to a statement released by Carnival Cruise Lines, a brand of Carnival Corp. Some passengers were escort­ed off the ship by crew wearing blue gloves. 
Preliminary tests identified the source of the outbreak as the highly contagious norovirus, which had struck several guests just before they boarded the cruise Nov. 3 in Rome, Carnival officials said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Mother volatile weeks before deaths 
ELKHART, Ind. -Angelica Alvarez had recently lost her job, been hospitalized and was struggling with emotional issues in the weeks before police say she killed her four children in the basement of the family's Elkhart home, according to friends and acquaintances. 
Court documents that would shed light on the case have been sealed, but information provided by people who know the 27 -year-old paints a picture of a troubled woman. 
Alvarez is being held on preliminary charges of murder in the asphyxiation deaths of her four children, whose bodies were found Tuesday. 
VIETNAM 

Russia, U.S. sign key trade deal 
Agreement marks last major obstacle in Moscow's 13-year journey to join WTO 
Associated Press 

HANOI-Russia and the United States signed a key trade agreement Sunday, removing the last major obstacle in Moscow's 13­year journey to join the World Trade Organization. 
The deal, inked on the sidelines of a gathering of Pacific Rim economies, is a powerful vote of confidence in Russia -the largest economy still outside the 149-member WTO-and signals its integration into the global trading system. 
It also marks a bright spot in the two counlries' relations that have been marred by disagreements over Iran's controversial nuclear program and Washington's fears of a roll back of democratic free­doms under Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
"I am very pleased to be here today to have the opportunity to celebrate this very important mile­stone as Russia moves one important step closer to becoming a member of the WTO," said U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab. 
"Russia belongs as a full­fledged member of the WTO," she said. "We look forward to continuing these efforts to improve the eco­nomic and commercial ties between our two nations." tions that were sensitive for Before it can join the Economic Development 
Russia's Trade and us we found a compro­WTO, Russia must consoli­Minister Vakhtang Lezhava Economic Development mise." date the bilateral agree­said on Georgian television. Minister German Gref The two countries also ments it has forged with 57 Gref warned Georgia called the deal a "historic managed to overcome the countries. Gref said he against "influencing trade step -the last step -that high-profile question of expected that process to be issues through political signifies the return of Russia's shaky record on completed by the middle of means." Russia to the market prin­protecting intellectual next year. "Hopefully in the near ciples of the world econo­property rights. Pirated After that, the WTO future we will come to an my." films, music and software needs to vote to approve its agreement with Georgia," 
As part of the deal, Gref in Russia cost U.S. compa­membership. But some he was quoted as saying by said that Russia had nies nearly $1.8 billion in questions remain. the ITAR-Tass news agency. pledged to cut import tar­2005. Georgia and Moldova Membership in the WTO iffs on a range of goods -Schwab said that while have threatened to block would mean Russia, a big including aircraft, comput­talks with Russia on the Russia's bid because oil and gas exporter, would er technology, agriculture piracy question would con­Moscow has blocked key receive the same favorable and machinery. tinue at the stage of multi­exports from those nations. tariff rates for its products 
Speaking after the sign­lateral negotiations, she "Without Georgia's con­as other members. Also, ing ceremony Gref defend­expressed satisfaction with sent, Russia will not join Russia and other member ed those concessions. "I Russia's progress: "We this organization. And countries would have to fol­think we found the neces­believe that the bilateral Georgia has not given its low WTO rules in trade dis­sary balance. On all posi-agreement is very good." consent so far," Deputy putes. 

SUDAN 

Military offensive targets Darfur 
force, he added. quarters in the North Darfur town
Associated Press "The janjaweed are still in the of Mellit, he said by phone from KHARTOUM -A large force of town. We're worried for the popu­Darfur. Sudanese soldiers backed by allied lation," Mussabal told The A senior U.N. official in North janjaweed militiamen is sweeping Associated Press by telephone from Darfur said Sunday international through North Darfur, killing civil­North Darfur. observers were receiving daily ians and looting and burning vil, Another rebel field commander reports of raids and casualties !ages in violation of a cease-fire from a separate faction said seven throughout this vast area of semi­agreement, international observers villages were looted and burned to desert pastureland north of the and rebels said Sunday. the ground around Birmaza on regional capital of El Fasher. At least four civilians were killed Sunday. Jar al-Naby said the "The campaign is ongoing, and near the northern town of Birmaza renewed government offensive we are being given very limited on Sunday, said Youssouf Mussabal, began earlier this week, and that access to investigate or treat casu­a rebel leader in the area. Some two civilians were killed in Friday alties," the official said on the 200 pro-government janjaweed raids. phone from North Darfur. The offi­fighters riding camels had moved Hundreds of heads of cattle have cial spoke on condition of anonymi­into the zone, backed by mobile also been rounded and brought ty because of the sensitivity of the army units and the Sudanese air back to the Sudanese army head-issue. 

page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 20, 2006 
Nintendo Wii sells out across country 
Nintendo has said it would
Sony faces newest 

have "five to ten" times as console competitor many Wiis available at 
launch, and will have 
shipped 4 million units by 
Associated Press 

the end of the year. 
NEW YORK -Nintendo The Wii costs $250, includ­Co.'s entry into the game ing one game, half of what console wars, the Wii, went the cheaper PlayStation 3 on sale Sunday, and quickly model costs. The most com­sold out in many stores mon PlayStation 3 model despite stocks that far sur­costs $600, with no inducted passed those of the rival game. PlayStation 3, which went on On the eBay auction site, sale two days earlier. Wiis were selling Sunday for 
"There were enough peo-twice the store price, indi­ple in line to snap up almost eating that supplies are still all the units of the Nintendo tight. The PlayStation 3, Wii that we had in stock, so meanwhile, was selling for 
it was an instant sell­out," said "The people we saw 
Circuit City s p 0 k e s man today were much Jim Babb. more likely to take There were a these games home 
few overnight campers, but and play them and 
most had lined love them rather up in the early thanflip them on morning. 
Spot checks eBay." at New York stores turned Jim Babb up only one, Circuit City spokesman
the Toys R Us in Times Square, with 

Wiis in stock. The store host-exactly when. ed a midnight launch event Launching right after the that drew a crowd of more much-vaunted and techni­than a thousand people for cally sophisticated the sale of the very first Wii. PlayStation 3 is a brave 
The first buyer, Isaiah move for Nintendo, which Triforce Johnson, had been lost the top spot in the mar­waiting outside the store for ket to Sony Corp. in the mid­more than a week. He wore 90s. More recently, Microsoft a Nintendo Power Glove, a Corp. has waded into the wearable controller that market as well. came out in 1989, while The Wii takes a different shaking hands with Nintendo tack than the competition, of America president Reggie forgoing the high-definition Fils-Aime. Johnson said he graphics that Sony has spent had legally changed his billions to develop for the name to include a reference PlayStation 3. to Nintendo's "Zelda" series Instead, Nintendo aims to of games. draw garners and non-
The launch apparently garners alike with intuitive went smoothly, a contrast to game play. The Wii comes the PlayStation 3 release, with a motion-sensitive con­which forced police to dis-troller that the gamer waves perse rowdy crowds at some around in the air, using it as stores around the country. a tennis racket, golf club, 
Sony had about 400,000 steering wheel, gun or PlayStation 3s in North sword depending on the American stores on Friday. game. 
Castle PointApartm.ents 18011 Cleveland Road South Bend, Indiana 
o~~eu.ing 
lndoor/Outdoor+Tean.eand Basketball 
around $1,500, already down about $1,000 from Friday. "The people we saw today 
were much more likely to take these games home and play them and love them rather than flip them on eBay," Babb said. Circuit City 
expects more 
Wiis in stock soon, but Babb could not say 


Proposed tower vvould be tallest 
Belkin wants 75-story building in Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A Boston business­man's proposal to build a 1,000­foot, 75-story glass-and-steel building that would tower over all others is a bold move in a city that favors eolonial era ehureh steeples over skyserapers. 
Steve Belkin's proposed tower would top the eity's current tallest building by more than 200 feet and 15 stories, relloet­ing a resurgence in the down­town commercial real estate market, observers say. 
"I think it's going to make a lot of our other buildings look very boring, quite honestly," said Frank Nelson, a Boston-based executive director with the eom­mercial real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield. "We need it." 
The design by renowned Italian arehitect Henzo Piano emerged last week in response to Mayor Thomas Menino:s eall in February for private develop­ment proposals to replace an aging city-owned parking garage in the heart of the Financial District. 
Officials in Boston and other 
U.S. cities typieally seek to rein in developers' wishes to build high above neighboring offiee 

Cranberries not just for juice now 
Associated Press 
SHAMONG TOWNSIIIP, N.J.­Long a jellied side dish at Thanksgiving, cranberries are increasingly bringing their tart taste and health benefits to products beyond Cosmopolitan cocktails and juice drinks. 
The red berries are turning up in everything from confec­tions and wines to soaps and salsas, with many cranberry growers hawking an array of products at their own stores or over the Internet. 
The Joseph J. White Inc. cranberry farm in New Jersey, the No. 3 cranberry producing state, has even started using them for agritourism. It gives 
574,...272...8110 574-272-8114 FAX www.cppj.com 

Specials! 

buildings, but the sky was the limit for Menino. He encouraged a bold architectural statement to surpass the John Hancock Tower, which for three decades has stood as New England's tallest building at 60 stories and 792 feet. 
The Hancock anchors Boston's Back Bay section along with the 42-year-old, 52-story Prudential Tower. 
In the nearby Financial District -home to the likes of Fidelity Investments and State Street Corp. -most tall build­ings top out at around 40 sto­ries. The last time a new Boston building of more 40 stories went up was in 1987, with the com­pletion of the 46-story One International Place. 
In a city that has managed to save historic structures such as King's Chapel and the Old Statehouse from overshadowing high-rises, reluetance to build high runs deep. A state law restricts new buildings that would cast a shadow on Boston Common, and past proposals to build 50 stories or higher in the Financial District have failed to secure city approvals. 
"We are an old city that is not that tall, so we take a look at each project and make sure it is appropriate," said Susan Elsbree, a spokeswoman for the Boston Redevelopment Authority, the city agency that 
bus rides around flooded bogs during the October harvest to teach visitors all about cranber­ry lore. Growers in Wisconsin, . the No. 1. producer, and in No. 2 Massachusetts have done so for years. 
Cranberry sales -fresh, frozen, in juices and dried for snacks or ingredients in cereals and other products -are approaching $1.5 billion a year in this country, said Ken Romanzi, chief operating officer of Ocean Spray, a huge cooper­ative owned by about 650 North American cranberry growers and some grapefruit farmers. 
The boom of the berry is due to proven health benefits that have fueled marketing cam-will review Belkin's proposal. 
So when Menino called for a project taller than any the city had seen before, the mayor and others hoped several developers would respond by last Monday's design-submission deadline, leading to a competitive selec­tion process. 
But in the end, there was just the proposal from Belkin, the founder of credit card and travel companies, and part owner of two Atlanta pro sports teams, the Hawks and Thrashers. 
However, real estate officials say Menino's failure to bring in more than one development pro­posal is not an indication that the downtown commercial real estate market has failed to break out of a five-year slump. 
They say the office building market is starting to catch up with recent booming residential growth in high-rise downtown condominiums. They cite the Boston office market's vacancy rate of 8.2 percent in this year's third quarter -the lowest in more than four years, according to the commercial real estate firm CB Hichard Ellis. 
Observers say Belkin was the only developer to come forward because he has an edge over rivals to make the most of the hemmed-in Winthrop Square development site, where the sky­scraper would replace the park­ing garage on Federal Street. 
paigns and consumer populari­ty, fast-expanding markets overseas, particularly Japan and western Europe, and a big bust in the U.S. industry in 2000. That year, cranberry prices collapsed amid a surplus driven by farmers expanding their bogs and speculators jumping in after cranberry prices rose rapidly in the late 1990s. 
"It certainly caused people to find new uses for cranberries," said Joe Darlington, a fifth-gen­eration cranberry farmer who runs the 350-acre White farm in Shamong Township, N.J. with his wife. "It's what led us to open (our) store and start the tours." 
Cranberry processors such as Ocean Spray had already branched out to juiee blends a couple of decades earlier, after a prior industry bust. 
In the past several· years, farmers and processors, prima­rily small operations, have introduced cranberry mustard and chutney, gourmet cranber­ry sauces, dried cranberries in trail mixes, cranberry-flavored ice cream, hand lotions and cosmetics made from cranberry seed oil, and even cranberry beer, said Tom Lochner, execu­tive director of the cranberry growers association in Wisconsin. 
Cranberries, native only to North America, also are grown in Oregon, Washington State and British Columbia and Quebec in Canada. 
"People realized cranberries can be used in a lot of different ways," said Lochner, noting there are more than 700 cran­berry products on the market. 
Fine restaurants also have been increasingly using cran­berries in salads, desserts, sauces and stuffing, and the cranberry industry has been circulating reeipPs featuring the bPrries. 

Monday, November 20, 2006 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,342.56 +36.74

jones 
up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,532 156 1,707 2,728,648,050 


s&P 500  1,401.20  +1.44  
Hl~P"..-!i~i:!,;!;:: ,,~~~~!IJ~,~~~;lli'  ',i)il[lil;  
FTSE IOO(London)  6,192.00  -62.90  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  0.00  0.00  44.30  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.03  -0.23  22.10  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.55  +0.03  5.47  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.24  -0.07  29.40  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  . -1.03  -0.048  4.607  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.20  -0.0 I 0  4.945  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.89  -0.042  4.691  
5-YEARNOTE  -1.41  -0.066  4.603  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.45  55.81  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +0.80  622.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.63  92.63  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.9200  
EURO  0.7786  
POUND  0.5269  
CANADIAN$  1.1458  

IN BRIEF 
Toyota to assemble pickups in Texas 
HOUSTON -Toyota Motor Corp.'s latest effort in the U.S. automotive industry is considered its most important, and what a place for it: deep in the heart of Texas, where American pickups have crowded backroads and highways for decades. 
Japan's top automaker is set to begin building its revamped, full-size Tundra pickup Friday at a 
2.2 million-square-foot plant in San Antonio, a move aimed at grabbing a larger share of a lucrative market long dominated by Chevrolet's Silverado, Ford's F-150 and Dodge's Ram. 
The trucks also are made at Toyota's Princeton, Ind., plant. 
On a broader scale, the $850 million invest­ment affirms Toyota's aggressive plans to grow its business as the company poises itself to unseat General Motors Corp. as the world's No. 1 automaker. 
Analysts say it also emphasizes the company's confidence to take on the industry leaders at any level of the business. Toyota already has distin­guished itself in North America with its bread­and-butter Camry sedan, always one of the best­selling cars annually, and its luxury Lexus brand, which has topped J.D. Power and Associates' vehicle-dependability study for the past dozen years. 
AK Steel union dispute unresolved 
MIDDLETOWN, Ohio -AK Steel and the union representing hourly production and maintenance workers at the Middletown Works remain far apart, a company spokesman said after negotiators met for the first time in nearly a month. 
. The company locked out about 2,500 work­ers when their contract expired Feb. 28 and has continued to operate the mill with about 1,800 replacement workers and sa!aried per­sonnel. 
The union's bargaining unit has shrunk to 1,829 since the lockout because of retire­ments and resignations, the company said. 
The International Association of Machinists, which represents workers, presented the union's counterproposal to the company's lat­est offer during an hour-long session Thursday. 
The union said it sent just two negotiators to the meeting, rather than the customary dozen, to streamline talks. 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

California limits ocean fishing 
Sweeping conservation effort protects fragile ecosystem, hurts local fishermen 
Associated Press 
MONTEREY, Calif. ­Flying over California's rugged Central Coast, Mike Sutton pointed to kelp forests and rocky reefs just below the water's surface that will soon be off-limits to fishing under one of the nation's most ambitious plans to protect marine life. 
"We're trying to make sure our oceans are protect­ed as our land," said Sutton, a marine expert at the Monterey Bay Aquarium. 
Despite intense opposition from· many fishermen, California wildlife regulators are creating the nation's most extensive network of "marine protected areas"­stretches of ocean where fishing will be banned or severely restricted. 
The first chain of refuges, covering some 200 square miles and stretching from Santa Barbara to Half Moon Bay, just south of San Francisco, is due to take effect early next year. The state plans similar protected zones along the more intensely fished coasts of northern and southern California. 
Conservationists say such networks are a new approach to saving the oceans from overfishing. They believe California's plan could serve as a model for other states and coun­vation efforts unnecessari­Rivets, a 70-year-old fisher­where fish can grow big and tries. ly," said Vern Goehring, man for salmon, crab and the whole food web can 
"It's the beginning of a his­manager of the California tuna. thrive." toric shift in how we restore, Fisheries Coalition. "There But scientists say more The protected areas will protect and manage our are significant actions must be done to protect include marine reserves oceans," said Warner already under way to pre­marine life. where all fishing will be Chabot, vice president of the vent overfishing in A report in this month's banned, as well as marine Ocean Conservancy. "We're California." • issue of the journal Science parks and conservation doing something that's as Fishermen say the no-fish­warns that nearly a third of areas that will allow some historic for the oceans as ing zones will put more the world's seafood species forms of sport fishing. what Teddy Roosevelt did pressure on areas outside have collapsed -meaning All the restricted zones 100 years ago when he cre­the reserves and could lead their catch has declined by are designed to harbor rock­ated national parks and to increased seafood imports 90 percent or more -and fish, abalone, shellfish and forests." from countries with fewer all populations of fished other species that stay in 
However, the planned marine protections. species could collapse by one area, rather than restricted areas overlap At Monterey's Fisher­2048 if current fishing and migratory fish such as with some of California's man's Wharf, longtime pollution trends continue. salmon and tuna. Sea otters most productive fishing trollers and crabbers say the "We've mismanaged the and other marine mammals grounds, and commercial new restrictions will cripple oceans from abundance into are expected to benefit from and recreational fishermen their industry, hurt fishing scarcity," said Karen the increased food supply. question whether they're communities and leave Garrison, an ocean expert at Governments worldwide even necessary given the Californians with less fresh, the Natural Resources . have been creating marine existing array of state and local seafood. Defense Council. "We can't sanctuaries with various lev­federal regulations. "We're being regulated protect our oceans without els of restrictions for the 
"We're duplicating conser-out of business," said Mike setting aside safe havens past 40 years. 


Stocks end lower on housing lull 
Associated Press five. since the beginning of October. 
Jack Ahlin, chief investment offi­Broader stock indicators were nar­
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a cer at Harris Private Bank, contends rowly mixed. The Standard & Poor's 
robust week on a quieter note that much of the week's optimism 500 index rose 1.44, or 0.10 per­
Friday after the Commerce came from lower-than-expected cent, to 1 ,401.20, marking the first 
Department reported that housing inflation readings. Investors sensed time the S&P closed above 1,400 in 
construction fell to its lowest level in that inflation, the overriding con­more than six years. The Nasdaq 
more than six years. The Dow Jones cern of the Federal Reserve, could composite index was down 3.20, or 
industrials rose moderately, manag­dissipate and perhaps allow the cen­0.13 percent, at 2,445.86. 
ing a fourth straight record high tral bank to eventually lower short­Bonds fell, with the yield on the 
close. term interest rates. benchmark 10-year Treasury note 
The technology-laden Nasdaq "It gives the Fed a lot more flexi­falling to 4.61 percent from 4.67 
composite index pulled back slightly, bility. And elbow room is good when percent late Thursday. The dollar 
following a string of five straight it comes to trying to navigate the was mixed against other major cur­
advances for the major indexes. For economy," Ahlin said. rencies, while gold prices rose. 
the week, the major indexes rose, The Dow rose 36.74, or 0.30 per­For the week, the Dow rose 1.93 
though Friday's move higher was cent, to 12,342.56. That was also the percent, while the S&P gained 1.47 
somewhat tepid as declining issues Dow's new trading high. The index, percent and the Nasdaq added 2.35 
outnumbered advancers on the New made up of 30 blue chip stocks, has percent, as concerns about inflation 
York Stock Exchange by about six to closed at record levels 18 times eased. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAl: NEWS Monday, November 20, 2006 
VIETNAM 

North Korea worries leaders 
Pacific Rim officials gather to discuss country's nuclear program 
Associated Press 

HANOI, Vietnam -They would not put it in writing, but the Pacific Rim's often­divergent leaders joined together Sunday to say they worry about North Korea's nuclear weapons program and to urge the reclusive country to resume disarma­ment negotiations. 
The verbal statement capped five days of diplomatic discussions in the aftermath of the North's first nuclear test on Oct. 9, which raised concerns about proliferation in the region. But the method 
"What was important
of delivery pro­Meanwhile, vided a curious was that the North Korea's culmination to Minju Joson
members ofAPEC
the issue that newspaper on 
came together on a
overshadowed Sunday accused the economic common statement.,, South Korea of topics that are building up the core of the arms in order
David McCormick
21-member to attack the
official
Asia-Pacific country. Economic U.S. National Security "The South Cooperation Council Korean military 
McCormick said. "What was important was that the mem­bers of APEC came together on a common statement." 
The statement urged North Korea to take concrete steps to live up to earlier commit­ments to stop developing atomic bombs. 
"We expr_ess our strong con­cern over the July 4-5 missile launches and Oct. 9 nuclear test conducted by [North Korea], which poses a clear threat to our shared interest of peace and security and our shared goal of achieving a nuclear weapons-free Korean 
peninsula," it 
said. 
forum's mission. 

Even some of the participants were unsure why the statement was not issued in written form, just orally at the end' of the two­day leaders' summit and by Vietnam's president at a news conference after reporters asked him about it. 
"We are seeking an expla­nation for that," Canadian. Prime Minister Stephen Harper said. "We don't under­stand why it wasn't included since it was a joint statement and it was unanimous." 
David McCormick, an offi­cial with the U.S. National Security Council, denied that getting only an oral statement from the summit represented a setback, and said the White House was pleased with the toughness of the wording. 
"The statement was very firm in the need for full implementation" of U.N. reso­lutions on North Korea, is openly clam­
oring that the development and introduction of new weapons are to target the North," the paper said, according to the country's official Korean Central News Agency. "Confrontation with fellow countrymen is a suici­dal act of digging their own graves. War knows no mercy." 
Pyongyang accused South Korea of conspiring with the United States to attack the isolated and impoverished state, an accusation made fre­quently by the North and rou­tinely denied by the U.S. 
It appeared that some APEC members, worried about how security and political issues have increasingly impinged on the group's economic focus, felt that the U.N. and other forums are more appro­priate for a written state­ment. 
And while North Korea is not an APEC member, some 
countries are sensitive to the issue of interfering in other nations' affairs. 
APEC provided a chance for the U.S., China, Japan, Russia and South Korea to try to work out a unified strategy as they prepare to resume nuclear negotiations with the North a year after it walked out. The talks could resume as early as next month. 
President Bush and Chinese President Hu Jintao met Sunday and. agreed that "North Korea should get the message that possessing a nuclear bomb will not have the support of the interna­tional community, but rather will meet opposition," said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Liu Jianchao. 
While virtually everyone agrees that North Korea's nuclear weapon and missile tests could lead down a dan­gerous path to further prolif­eration, differences remain on the best strategy for deal­ing with the North, which has used brinksmanship to gain aid and security guarantees. 
"I don't think North Korea would want to give up some­thing they regard as some­thing precious to them, some­thing that gives them a cer­tain pride and position," Malaysian Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi said. 
"These are realities that we cannot deny, but if we can give them hope of something else they can get ... maybe it could pave a way to come up with a solution, but it's going to be very difficult." 
It appeared that the U.S. did manage to get one North Korea-related addition in the summit's final written decla­ration which appeared to endorse the financial sanc­tion"s that Washington imposed on the North over alleged currency counterfeit­ing and money laundering. The sanctions sparked North Korea's boycott of the six­party talks. 
ENGLAND 


For111er spy poisoned; police investigate case 
Associated Press 
LONDON -·A former Russian spy poisoned in Britain and now hospitalized under guard may have been targeted for his criti­cism of former colleagues and his investigation into the killing of a prominent anti-Kremlin journalist, friends and fellow dissidents said Sunday. 
Col. Alexander Litvinenko, a former KGB agent, said earlier this week that he fell ill on Nov. 1 following a meal with a con­tact who claimed to have details about the slaying of Anna Politkovskaya, the Russian jour­nalist gunned down last month in Moscow. 
A doctor treating Litvinenko told the British Broadcasting Corp. that tests showed he was the victim of poisoning by thalli­um -a toxic metal found in rat poison. He is under armed guard at University College Hospital in London. 
"He's got a prospect of recov­ering, he has a prospect of dying," said Dr. John Henry, a clinical toxicologist who treated Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko in 2004 after he was poisoned during his presi­dential election campaign. Henry said thallium can cause damage to the nervous system and organ failure, and that just one gram can be lethal. 
In an interview with the Sunday Times before his condi­tion worsened, Litvinenko described how he had lunch with an Italian contact who claimed to have had informa­tion on Politkovskaya's killing, which has not been solved. British news outlets identified the contact as Mario Scaramella, an Italian academic who helped investigate KGB activity in Italy during the Cold War. 
"They probably thought I would be dead from heart fail­ure by the third day," Litvinenko is quoted as saying in the Sunday Times. "I do feel very bad. I've never felt like this before -like my life'is hanging on the ropes." 
Police have opened an investi­gation into the poisoning, said a spokesman, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity in line with force policy. 
Glenn Edwards, operations manager at ltsu restaurant where the lunch took place, told The Associated Press that detectives had arrived at the restaurant on Saturday asking for close circuit telflvision footage. 
Litvinenko left Russia for Britain six years ago and has become an outspoken critic of the Kremlin. In a 2003 book, "The FSB Blows Up Russia," he accused his country's secret service agency of stagmg apart­ment-house bombings in 1999 that killed more than 300 peo­ple in Russia and sparked the second war in Chechnya. 
Boris Berezovsky, the Russian dissident and tycoon who was at Litvinenko's bedside on Friday, told The Associated Press he suspects Russia's intelligence services of the poisoning. 
"It's not complicated to say who fights against him," Berezovsky said in a telephone interview. "He's [Russian President Vladimir] Putin's enemy, he started to criticize him and had lots of fears." 
Another friend, Alexander Goldfarb, who organized Litvinenko's emigration to Britain, said FSB agents had threatened against him in the past. 
"He looks like a ghost," Goldfarb said. "He's a very fit man, he never smoked, he never drank, he would run five miles a day, but now he has lost all his hair, he has inflammation in the throat, so he cmmot swal­low." 
Russian authorities did not immediately comment on the allegations. 
Litvinenko joined the KGB in 1988 and rose to the rank of colonel in its successor, the Federal Security Service, knowri as the FSB. He began specializ­ing in terrorism and organized crime in 1991, and was trans­ferred to the FSB's most secre­tive department on criminal organizations in 1997. 
He fled Russia and claimed asylum in Britain in November 2000, two years after publicly accusing his FSB superiors of ordering him to kill Berezovsky, at the time a powerful Kremlin insider. Berezovsky said Sunday that Litvinenko fell out with his superiors after he exposed cor­ruption within FSB ranks. 
Before he left Russia, Litvinenko was jailed for nine months awaiting trial on charges of abusing his office; he was acquitted. 
Kremlin critics claim poison­ing -which is extremely hard to prove -is a common Soviet­era practi~,;e that seems to have reappeared since Putin, an ex­KGB officer, became president. 
"It is not a secret that poison­ing has become some kind of a trademark of a secret war in Russia," Alexander Golts, politi­cal commentator with the Russian news Web site Ezhenedelny Zhurnal, told the Associated Press. "I will not take the risk of accusing the government ... but certain groups have quite overtly been eliminating people they disliked through poisoning. 


Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

McCain calls for more troops 
Senator says increased number ofsoldiers needed to ensure victory in Iraq 
Associated Press every possibility to try to fix this 
situation. Because it's not the 
WASHINGTON -Without end when American troops additional troops to ensure vic­leave. The battleground shifts, tory in Iraq, the U.S. could find and we'll be fighting them itself more vulnerable to terror­again," McCain said. "You read ist attacks at home, Sen. John Zarqawi, and you read bin McCain said Sunday. Laden.... It's not just Iraq that 
Newly empowered Democrats they're interested in. It's the pressed their case for a phased region, and then us." withdrawal of American forces. Sen. Joseph Biden, the incom­They hoped a blue-ribbon advi­ing chairman of the Senate sory panel would propose a way Foreign Relations Committee, ahead for Iraq, while making said he hoped a special commis­clear the U.S. military mission sion considering options for the shouldn't-last indefinitely. way ahead in Iraq would assert 
McCain, a front-running GOP that U.S. troop commitments presidential hopeful for 2008, are not open-ended; propose a said the U.S. must send an over­clear political road map for whelming number Iraq; and recom­of troops to stabi­mend engaging lize Iraq or face 'The consequences Iraq's neighbors in more attacks -in political solution. 
offailure are so
the region and "We are past the possibly on severe that I will point of adding American soil. exhaust every more troops. We 
"I believe the are past the point
possibility to try to 
consequences of of vague policy
fix this situation. ,,
failure are cata­prescriptions. It is strophic," said not an answer just McCain, R-Ariz. to stay. Nor is it an
John McCain 
"It will spread to answer _ though it 
Arizona senator
the region. You will see Iran more emboldened. Eventually, you could see Iran pose a greater threat to the state of Israel." 
With about 141,000 U.S. troops in Iraq more than 3 1/2 years into the war, the American military has strained to provide enough forces while allowing for adequate rest and retraining between deploy­ments. 
But McCain, who spent 5 1/2 years as a prisoner of war after his Navy plane was shot down in 1967, recalled the Vietnam War's lessons. "We left Vietnam. It was over. We just had to heal the wounds of war," he said. "We leave this place, chaos in the region, and they'll follow us home. So there's a great deal more at stake here in this con­flict, in my view, a lot more. 
McCain said he based his judgment partly on the writings of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the al-Qaida leader in Iraq who was killed in a U.S. air raid, and of Osama bin Laden. 
"The consequences of failure are so severe that I will exhaust 
may become a 
necessity _ just to go with no concern for what fol­lows," Biden, D-Del., wrote in Sunday's Washington Post. 
"The fundamental question we must answer is whether, as we begin to leave Iraq, there are still concrete steps we can take to avoid leaving chaos behind," said Biden, who plans to run for president in 2008. 
Democrats poised to take con­trol of the House and Senate are pressing for a substantial reduction of U.S. troops in Iraq and a timetable for their with­drawal, as a way of forcing the Iraq government to rely more on itself. 
"We must tell the Iraqis that we would begin, starting in four to six months, a phased reduc­tion of our troops," said Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., the incom­ing chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Because if you don't do that, they're going to continue to have the false assumption that we are there in some kind of an open-ended way. And it is that assumption on their part that takes them off the hook." 
Incoming House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., agreed. "As a practical matter, there are no troops to increase with," he said. "Our objective was to remove Saddam Hussein and create an environment in which a democracy could be established. That has been done." 
But Hoyer said Democrats would continue funding the existing troop levels, for the time being. 
"That's not an option, of not supporting our troops in the field and making sure they're as safe as we can make them," he said. "Very frankly, their lack of numbers exposes them on a daily basis to danger and death, unfortunately. But clearly, we're going to have discussions going forward as to how we change this policy and change it in the short term, not the long term. 
Gen. John Abizaid, the top 
U.S. commander for the Middle East, told the Senate Armed Services Committee last week that believes troop levels should remain steady for now. He said it was possible to add 20,000 troops for a short time, but it would be unrealistic to raise troop levels as proposed by McCain and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. . 
Abizaid said the American military in Iraq is stretched too thin already, and sending over a bigger, more permanent pres­ence would undercut efforts to force Iraqis to take on more responsibility. 
Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., said he thinks U.S. generals have been put "in a a very, very diffi­cult position." 
"What I don't have confidence in is the policy. And General Abizaid is giving us a diagnosis that is based on the current pol­icy. But that policy has to change, and it can change," said Kerry, who is considering a White House bid in 2008. 
Kerry spoke on "Fox News Sunday," while McCain and Hoyer appeared on ABC's "This Week." Levin spoke on CNN's "Late Edition." Rangel and Graham appeared on "Face the Nation" on CBS. 
Rhodes Scholarships granted to 32 students 
Associated Press 
BOSTON Parvinder Thiara had just finished his freshman year at Harvard University when his grandfa­.ther in India died of infectious diarrhea. The death affected 
him profoundly. 
"Then I found that 2.2 mil­
lion people -1.8 million of 
them are children -die each 
year from infectious water­
borne diseases," said Thiara, 
a chemistry major. 
Thiara's work to improve 
and protect the world's water 
supplies -and prevent 
death's like his grandfather's 
-helped him become one of 
the 32 men and women across 
the United States selected as 
Rhodes Scholars for 2007. The 
students, announced Sunday 
by the scholarship fund, will 
enter Oxford University in 
England next October. 
Thiara, 21, of Rochelle, Ill., 
is the co-founder of an organi­
zation dedicated to improving 
water sanitation technologies, 
particularly in impoverished 
regions. 
"We're trying to develop 
natural products that can be 
grown and easily processed," 
said Thiara, who plans to 
study theoretical chemistry 
and water science policy and 
management at Oxford. 
"We're just trying to develop 
the means to make it effective 
on a rural, local scale.'' 
The scholars were selected 
from 896 applicants endorsed 
by 340 colleges and universi­
ties, and will join scholars 
selected from 13 other juris­
dictions around the world. 
Approximately 85 are selected 
each year. The scholarships 
provide two or three years of 
study, with the total value 
averaging about $45,000 per 
year. 
Rhodes Scholarships were 
created in 1902 by the will of 
British philanthropist Cecil 
Rhodes. Winners are selected 
on the basis of high academic 
achievement; personal integri­
ty, leadership potential and 
physical vigor, among other 
attributes. 
Many of the recipients have 
already spent time overseas. Whitney Haring-Smith spent the summer working for a 
U.N .-funded disarmament program in Afghanistan and also spent time with the U.N.'s refugee agency in Sri Lanka. 
"It was really good to see the nitty-gritty of international relations," said Haring-Smith, 21, a Providence, R.I. native and senior at Yale University. 
He called the Rhodes Scholarship "an opportunity to engage some very important questions about where and how we shape policy." 
Zachary Manfredi, a senior at Atlanta's Emory University, interned in the democracy program of The Carter Center, working on civil society build­ing programs and election monitoring in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Cote d'Ivoire and Haiti. 
"As a Rhodes Scholar I'll get to work on important political causes and also to keep ask­ing important philosophic questions. It's a synthesis of my two greatest loves, justice and knowledge," said Manfredi, 21, of Rochester, Mich. 
At Emory, Manfredi has maintained a 3.99 grade point average while pursuing a triple major in philosophy, international relations and comparative literature, and a minor in French. 
Kevin Shenderov, 19, a bio­chemistry major at New York University, has already been involved in conducting cancer research and was an organiz­er of a world health confer­ence that dealt with problems affecting health services in the developing world. Like his older brother, Eugene, also a Rhodes Scholar, Shenderov plans to study for a doctorate in immunology at Oxford. 
"I want to be able to help create a more effective cancer vaccine," he said Sunday. 
The Shenderov family immi­grated from Ukraine in 1990; both brothers had health problems when they were younger as a result of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant disaster. • 




Interview divides network 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Several Fox affiliates have chosen not to broadcast "If I Did It," the two­part special where O.J. Simpson talks in hypothetical terms about his role in the 1994 killing of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman. 
Lin Broadcasting and Pappas Bro-adcasting, which own a combined nine Fox affiliates, have said they won't air it. Fox has scheduled the Simpson interview for Nov. 27 and 29. 
The television special pre­cedes the Nov. 30 publication of a book where Simpson talks about how he would have com­mitted the murders "if he were the one responsible." 
"After careful consideration regarding the nature of the show, as well as the feedback we received from the viewers of northeast Wisconsin, we deter­mined that this programming was not serving the local public interest," wrote Jay Zollar, gen­eral manager of WLUK-TV in Green Bay. 
WLUK is a Lin-owned station, along with other Fox affiliates in Mobile, Ala.; Toledo, Ohio; Albuquerque, N.M.; and Providence, R.I. 
The Pappas stations said they were uninterested in helping Simpson profit from the project. Pappas owns Fox stations in Omaha and Lincoln, Neb.; Fresno, Calif.; and Dakota Dunes, S.D. 
There are about 200 Fox affil­iates across the country. 
Scott Grogin,. Fox spokesman, said Sunday the network had no comment about the decision by its affiliates. 
Simpson was acquitted in 1995 of murder in a case that became its own television drama. The former footnall star and announcer was later found liable for the deaths in a wrong­ful death lawsuit filed by the Goldman family. 
Judith Regan, publisher of "If I Did It," said she considered the book to be Simpson's confes­sion. 
The television special will air on two of the final three nights of the November sweeps, when ratings are watched closely to set local advertising rates. It has been a particularly tough fall for Fox, which has seen none of its new shows catch on and is waiting for the January bows of "American Idol" and "24." 
The show is expected to draw high ratings among the curious, but there's some question about how much Fox can take advan­tage of it given an expected reluctance of advertisers to be associated with it. 
The Fox stations in most of the nation's biggest cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, are owned by Fox, so they would abide by the network's decision on what to air. 
GOLDEN DRAGON CHINESE FOOD TO CARRY OUT OR DINE IN We're open on Thanksgiving Day! Fast Delivery! Lunch Special54533 Tet•raee Laue. #B. South Bend. IN 46635 only $4.75 (State Rd. ~3 & Ironwood) 7 days a weekTel: (574) 27:1-8899 27:1-3399 from 11am-3pm  
BUY ONE COMBINATION PLATE get a second combination plate for 1/2 price! of equal or lesser value one coupon per visit mention this coupon when ordering and present coupon upon purchase expires 11/22/06  

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, November 20, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 
Disloyal fathers 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
I love it when this campus puts on its question of when something is consent and Blinders in history as millions continue to EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Bible Blinders. like a toddler covering his when something isn't consent." die under these policies in places like MikeGilloon eyes in a game of hide-and-seek and I don't care what percentage of Notre Africa. MANAGING EDITOR BuSINESS MANAGER assuming that he has disappeared; Notre Dame is Catholic or what the sacred mis­I just wonder how the University would Maddie Hanna . Jim Kirihara Dame is legendary for its ability to hold up sion and ideals of this University are; if react if there was a gonorrhea outbreak on a Bible to its virginal rape and sexual assault are common campus. Would the STD simply be brushed 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
eyes and assume occurrences because of the campus-wide aside and ignored, kind of like campus gay AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
that life truly is a..<; St. "culture of silence" mlated to sex, then and lPsbian groups and the football team's NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Paul demanded University policy needs to change. It is a defensive backs? Or would every infected Mary Kate Malone when he condemned disturbing hypocrisy that the punishment student be expelled until they accepted the VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King "fornication, drunk­for rape on this campus is identical to the teachings of St. Paul and returned to absti­SPOIITS EDITOR: Ken Fowler enness," and every punishment fbr consensual premarital sex. nent purity? other form of first No matter how many Bibles we hold in Simply put, "Loyal Daughters" should be 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader century hedonism. lhmt of Mary's virgin eyes atop the Golden treated as a seminal moment in the history 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan With last week's Dome, sex will continue to exi'lt on the of a eo-educational Notre Dame. A student 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella immensely success­ground below it. Sure, it may not happen has boldly and smartly taken the core mes­
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alben 

ful run of "Loyal a..<; often as at more sodally liberal public sage of 'The Vagina Monologues" and 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Daughters" -a play Forty Ounces universities, but contrary to popular belief, essentially watered it down -by baptizing 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly to Falco
dealing with sexual not all Catholics decide to remain abstinent it in St. Mary's Lake, ifyou will-and CONTROLLER: Kyle West assault that play-until marriage. Some would call this a bla­revealed a dark truth about this campus WEB ADMIN1STRATOR: Rob Dugas wright Emily Weisbecker based on actual tant hypocrisy-for a sexually active through art. Instead of protesting the fund­SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud interviews with Notre Dame students -unwed person to still believe in Jesus and ing of this important project by certain those Bible Blinders were put back on, and in the majority of Church doctrine -yet it University groups, the campus should look 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
a barrage of hostile Letters to the Editor is an obvious reality f(>r an era in which into the mirror for a moment <md address
(574) 631-7471 FAX quoting St. Paul inevitably followed. people expect to be able to freely choose the real questions that it raises. 
(574) 631-6927 In an interview with The Observer, histo­what time of day to watch primetime tele­Would Jesus have ignored the problems 
ADVERTISING 

ry professor Gail Bederman reflected on vision through TiVo, what condiments to related to sex going on amongst His people
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
this absurdly hypocritical situation. "There put on their Whoppers and what aspects of even if He disapproved of the practice? I 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

is a cultural problem here," she said. organized religion to follow. like to think that He would have seen the
(574) 631-4542 

MANAGING EDITOR "Student Activities must assume nobody is llealth and safety must supersede bigger picture and the well-being of His fol­
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu having sex, so they can't negotiate uncom­Church law and resulting University policy. lowers as tantamount to the admonish­
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR fortable positions on what constitutes con­If. as "Loyal Daughters" boldly reveaL<;, ment of a taboo activity like premarital sex. (574) 631-4324 
sensual and nonconsensual sex .... They Notre Dame students are being harmed Notre Dame must do the same. Some 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

can't draw lines other than thumbs up or and ignored because of these Bible college students are not going to stop hav­
(574) 631-5313 

thumbs down, do it or just don't do any­Blinders, the University must recognize the ing sex-no matter how angry "fornica­
NEWS DESK 

(574} 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu thing." existence of sex on campus and create tion" makes St. Paul-so the University VIEWPOINT DESK As a result, the legal implications of more resources that allow students to might as well bite the Biblical bullet and do 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu drunken consent and other tricky issues learn about these issues, as other colleges the Christian thing: love thy neighbor and 
SPORTS DESK 

related to sexual assault are never even do. Along those same lines, the recent protect her. 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
mentioned by this University in its effort to renewal of U.S. Conference of Catholic 
ScENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu assume St. Paulian purity. As Bederman Bishops policy condemning contraception Joey Falco is a senior American Studies 
SAINT MARY'S DESK notes, other universities "are able to talk displays a shameful ignorance toward the major and Journalism. Ethics, and smc.l @nd.edu about issues, the gray areas. Because they reality ofHIV/AIDS, a disease that could be Democracy minor. He can be reached at 
PHOTO DESK 

do and can assume students are going to dramatically hampered by increased con­.ifalco@nd.edu 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
. have extramarital sex, even promiscuous dom use. Instead, the Vatican's efforts to The views expressed in this column are
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
extramarital sex, they can talk about fight AIDS with abstinence may constitute those ofthe author and not necessarily 
(574) 631-8839 shades of gray.... You can talk about this the most dangerous example of Bible those ofThe Observer. THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univer:;iry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
Deeper discussion of sexuality needed 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
The work of an artist reads community's response to was mocked. Perhaps the Last, but not least, must we
advertisements based on content. 

the sign of the times. Emily what is written and staged. woman at the Grotto was in serving up collective pain
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of Weisbecker (writer and pro­The audience Thursday night serious in her prayer; the make the community of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, ducer), Madison Liddy (direc­was lively and I examined my snickering and general hoo­women at Saint Mary's the Assistant Managing Editor:; and department editors. 
tor) and the company of own response to the dialogues ha by the audience during the butt of a sexist joke?
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
actors in "Loyal Daughters" with theirs. dialogue convinced me other­Let's probe the reasons why
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
have done just that. The dia­Much of what I saw in wise. So did the content of her we can't or don't portray
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all reader:;. The free logues center stage the tragic "Loyal Daughters" was dis­words. women's friendships as a expression ofall opinions through letter:; is encouraged. battery of soul, heart and turbing. And rightly so. Haw Despite much that was mov­source of healing. Let's dis­Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
body by sexual assault; they sexual violence is hard to see ing and honest about cuss why we can't or don't 
contact information. 

bring to life ways in which and hear. I balanced the need women's experience as repre­stage the deep experiences of 
students struggle with sexual­to shock against the erotic sented on the stage, I expect­religion (what it takes to be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gil/von. ity. Breaking our community speetade much in evidence in ed as we got past the hour good, what it takes to pray) as silence on these matters is the play. However, I could not mark that perhaps we'd see part of sexuality or as respon­
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
exhausting work. get myself to give a pass to some example of women sive to the needs of persons The~ (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxc.cpr during As a new member of the the treatment of religious helping women. Were there (mostly women) who have 
exam and 'V;lC;ltion periods. A suhsc.riprion ro The Ohicrver is $100 for one academic 
year; $)5 for one semester. community, I came to see experience. The student con­no stories in the interview been assaulted. Otherwise, The Observer is published a~ POSTMASTER "Loyal Daughters" because I sidering priesthood was at material about women help­we writers risk making more 
024 South Dining Hall Send addtt:S5 -corrections w: 
Noue Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer was curious about the intel­best very, very odd. And if the ing friends to heal worthy of silence: women's silence. 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.o.Bo.n9 

and additional mailing offkes. 024 Sourh Dining Hall lectual and cultural environ­young man of "faith" who for­the stage? Were there no sto­
Nom Dame, IN 465-56-0n9 
ment in which I now teach gives his partner for her sexu­ries in which women talk Eva Hooker, CSC and write. A writer's courage al past was supposed to be a deeply about sexuality? Is English professor and WTiter-in­residence
in baring the soul of a com­man of faith, spare me, 0 goodness in the community of
Tite Ohscrvc:r ls a member -of the Associated ?re:s.s. All reptodoaion righu are <<=V«i. 
Saint Mary's 
munity is precious. So is the Lord! Even the Mother of God women a bore? 
Nov. 19 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Eileen Duffy Jay Fitzpatrick Joe Piarulli Fran Tolan 
Maureen Mullen Chris Wilson 
1Submit aLetter ' 

Steve Kerins Scene "History is the sum total of the things 
"It is easy to be brave from that could have been avoided. " 
a safe distance."

Viewpoint Cassie Belek 
!tO' tht'Editor'at
Lianna 
Konrad Adenauer 

AesopBrauweiler German politician 
author

1www.ndsm,cobsefver.com
Graphics 
Madeline Nies 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, November 20, 2006 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Loyal Daughters' sparks feedback 
Victin1 is never 'asking for it' 
I'd like the opportunity to refute the claims made by Jonathan Kaltenbach in his Letter to the Editor ("'Consent' is no justifica­tion," Nov. 17). Kaltenbach gives a grossly oversimplified theory as to why rape and sexual assault occur: premarital sex engorges wild desire and rape or assault is the inevitable result. This ideology blames the victims themselves for creating the opportunity for rape or assault ("playing with fire") and then suffering the conse­quences of their sinful behavior ("getting burned"). This alludes to the antiquated (or so I thought) and infuriating notion that a vic­tim of rape or sex was "asking for it." 
Kaltenbach's lofty claim of offer­ing the "real solution" rests on his faulty definition of rape or assault as the result of desire gone wild. If we accept this theory, simply abstaining from premarital rela­tions and keeping the flame from the brushfire of sexual excess will miraculously purge our society of rape and assault. Following this logic, how can Kaltenbach explain the fact that rape and assault occur within the covenant of mar­riage? 
Also, ifwe accept his argument, why aren't men and women being assaulted in equal numbers? Is it just the man who is sexually excessive when he engages in premarital sex with a woman? To put it another way, why aren't the women that engage in premarital sex acts raping men at the same rates that men rape women? 
The key point is that we need to look at what rape is and why it really happens. We can start by acknowledging that rape or assault occurs in a wide variety of contexts and circumstances, con­trary to what Kaltenbach would lead us to believe. Yet there is a common underlying ideology that allows rape to happen: a culture of domination and a complete lack _of respect for the human dig­nity of others. A person who com­mits rape is not simply a nympho­maniacal hedonist. The act of rape shows a clear and danger­ous disregard for the dignity of each person acted out via aggres­sive domination. The harmful ide­ologies and perceptions in the perpetrator's mind are not magi­cally erased by slipping a wedding band on his or her finger. 
Hope for a solution then lies in a long-fought battle to change these societal perceptions. If we estab­lish a truly loving and respectful Christian fellowship in which domination is not tolerated, then rape and assault would not be feasible. Kaltenbach claims our Christian duty lies in sexual restraint and chastity. This may reduce but will not eradicate the occurrence of rape and assault. Perhaps we would better serve the issue by pursuing our Christian duty to support the vic­tims, not to presume they are sex­ually promiscuous and tell them "I told you so." Most importantly, it is our Christian duty to work toward a society in which we respect the dignity of each person. 
Cara Burditt 
seruor 
Pasquerilla West Nov. I? 
Interpretation important 

Peter Holland chides Margot O'Brien in his Letter to the Editor for "her inability to understand what a play is" ("'Loyal Daughters' pro­motes thought and awareness," Nov. 17). But in the very next sen­tence he admits that "[s]ome plays tell you what to think." Given this admission, how can O'Brien be ignorant of whata play is even ifshe interprets "Loyal Daughters" as a play that tells you what to think? As Holland's argument makes clear in the course of the let­ter, his disagreement with O'Brien is not about who better knows what a play is but rather how to interpret the play. 
How does Holland interpret the play? Certainly not as one that tells you what to think. According to Holland, many great plays, including "Loyal Daughters," "force us to be aware of our ethical response but they do not prescribe what that response must be." But we do not get to the end of Holland's letter before we read that his interpretation of "Loyal Daughters" includes a "moral demand" thaf"asks what we can do, as members of a community, to prevent the kind of violence that men and women alongside whom we study, work, and live have experienced." This is a strange interpre­tation to make for someone who has just celebrated the way in which great plays do not tell us what we ought to think. And it would be stranger still ifone were to leave a viewing of "Loyal Daughters" thinking to oneself, "Ought I be opposed to violence against women?" 
Phillip Reed graduate student offcampus Nov.l7 



Catholic identity valued 
I would like to write in response to the Letter to the Editor that appeared on Nov. 15, titled "Attracting Diverse Students to Notre Dame." There are a couple of good points the author makes as the article does recognize that the Catholic identity of Notre Dame is impor­tant and that diversity is also important. However, the article goes on to argue that Notre Dame should try to market its values as not specifically Catholic in order to attract people of other faiths. 
The first problem with the argument is that the author declares Catholic values are not Catholic, but secular. What he probably meant to say was that people of many different faiths can relate to Catholic values because they are so uni­versal, but calling the values secular is not the way to explain this. Catholic val­ues are definitely not secular. 
The second problem with the argu­ment is that the author claims for Notre Dame to be more diverse, we need more diversity of religion, or we need to be less Catholic. Just because the majority of the students are Catholic does not mean the thinking that goes on here is not diverse. Notre Dame is certainly interested in attracting a diverse group of students, but diversity doesn't solely refer to diversity of religion. Students of all different faiths choose to come here knowing the Catholic presence is strong. 
Over the years, it is one of the only Catholic schools in the country that has held on to its truly Catholic identity. When someone brings up Marquette or Georgetown, the name doesn't mean Catholic the way Notre Dame does, and Notre Dame is proud of that. To pur­posefully attract students of other reli­gions would deny words in Notre Dame's own mission statement: "The Catholic identity of the University depends upon, and is nurtured by, the continuing pres­ence of a predominant number of Catholic intellectuals." 
The final problem in the argument comes when the author ·concludes by saying that Notre Dame needs to attract students of other faiths in order to "com­pete with other prestigious universities." Isn't Notre Dame, as Catholic as it is now, as prestigious as other universi­ties? The good thing about Catholic val­ues is that they are universal, so if Notre Dame remains as Catholic as it is, that will not get in the way of finding the diversity the author of the article and I both want. Notre Dame can achieve diversity and prestige without reversing its long tradition of Catholic identity. 
Lindsay Gilbertson freshman 
M~Glinn 
Nov. 18 

Respect Notre Dame first 
While I was happy to honor the memory offormer Michigan coach Bo Schembechler at Saturday's football game, -I thought it was an inappropriate gesture one week after the death of a Notre Dame student, which was not in any way recognized. I can certainly understand not wanting to cause a painful moment for the senior class during its last home game, but having an extended moment of silence for a person unrelated to the Notre Dame community made the lack of any mention of Caitlin Brann very noticeable. The ath­letic department needs to be more careful in the future about such announcements. 
Anne Sutherland 
semor 
Pasquerilla West Nov.l8 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, November 20, 2006 
DPAC REVIEW 

Curtis and Lemmon play for laughs in classic 
CD REVIEW 

Journey delivers solid performance in live recording 
Journey's live album "Captured" is sluggish in the middle but picks up in the end. The band gained popularity once lead singer Steve Perry, second from right, joined in 1977. 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Sometimes music just sounds better live and in concert. For the band Journey, this is definitely the case, as evidenced in its CD release of "Captured." The 1970s and 80s rock band is at its best in this album, which features songs recorded live during its worldwide 1980 "Departure" tour. 
The Journey band, which people so affectionately remember and love, reached such levels of success thanks to the addition of lead vocalist Steve Perry in 1977. Perry's unique and often imitated voice, with its broad range and timber capable of reaching impossibly high notes, became the band's signature in such songs as "Don't Stop Believin"' and "Any Way You Want It." 
Thanks to his abounding energy and distinctive hair, Perry also had a captivat­ing stage presence in Journey's concerts. which made the band a popular commod­ity all around the world. The fame that followed the concerts led Journey to ous shows on the tour. This is not a

Journey 

problem, however, as it sounds just
Captured [Live] 
like a full eoncert, with no majorSony changes in sound 
• 

or vocals . 
The sound quali­
ty, in fact, is excel­
lent and compara­

'L · h ' ' ble to live albums
Recommend d e tracks: ovzn', Touc in', Squeezin, recorded today. 'Wheel in the Sky' and 'Any Way You Want It' The mix of band '---------------------------" and crowd is near-
release "Captured" in 1981, its first live album. 
The CD opens with the song "Where Were You," a high-energy tune that sets the tone for the rP.st of the disc. Popular Journey songs like "Line of Fire" and "Lights/Stay Awhile" are present here and much better than the studio versions. 
A song _entitled "Dixie Highway" ­never recorded in studio -gives an interesting, rarely heard perspective on Journey's body of work. It is from this point that the album takes a bluesy feel, which unfortunately does not work as well on other songs. Aside from the well­liked song "Walks Like a Lady," the mid­dle of the disc drags on account of the blues sound. 
However, the end of the CD rebounds with the immensely popular Journny songs "Lovin·. Touchin·. Squeezin'." "Wheel in the Sky" and "Any Way You Want It" to close out. Performed live, these classics return a true Journey feel to the album and end it on a good note. 
The songs on "Captured" are not taken from one single concert, but rather selected from vari­
~I;mm:ca~ 
in with the usual suspects, Jerry and 
By ANALISE LIPARI 

Joe become "Daphne" and "Josephine," Assistant Scene Editor 
successfully maintaining a week of 
cross-dressing while engaging in all 

With its smart acting, amusing plotline sorts of hijinks. and witty script, "Some Like It Hot" has The film also features the iconic been praised as the best American Marilyn Monroe as Sugar Kane comedic film of all time, and "Nobody's Kowalczyk, one of the pair's fellow perfect" is arguably the most famous musicians and the object of Joe's -or last line in 1950s cinema. This type of rather "Josephine's"-affections, creat­statement might seem like overly lofty ing more than a few complications for praise for the average comedy, but for the man in drag. this 1959 classic starring Tony Curtis In addition, Jerry finds himself' in and Jack Lemmon. no level of praise is more than a small mess when a daffy enough. old millionaire, Osgood Fielding III (Joe 
Taking its cues from screwball comedy E. Brown) takes quite a liking to and a humorous premise, "Some Like It "Daphne," wooing the unwilling Jerry Hot" tells the story of two down-on­into a whirlwind engagement. their-luck-musicians, Jerry and Joe Much of' the film's comedic strength (Lemmon and lies in the sheer Curtis, respectively), ridiculousness of its who are at the Some Like it Hot situations. A scene depths of unemploy­
in which the entirety ment. "''· of Sweet Sue's band 
~ ':1-:A 

The film takes crams into an 
...,..,place in the 1920s, overnight bed on the with Prohibition Director: Billy Wilder train to Miami is 
serving as the set­Writers: Billy Wilder and I.A.L. funny due to both the ting for the crazy Diamond humorous dialogue extravagance of the Starring: Marilyn Monroe, Tony Curtis and the fact that 
times and of the and Jack Lemmon more than 10 people lead characters' dis­are fitting into a guises and antics. The speakeasies of space the size of a roomy coffin, cham­Chicago lore are where Joe and Jerry pagne and cheese in tow as they try to are normally employed, but the Saint have a party. Meanwhile Joe and Jerry Valentine's Day massacre forces the two attempt to contain themselves as Sugar to change plans after they witness the Kane mingles in her nightgown. crime. The way that Joe and Jerry escape 
Fleeing from a vengeful group of multiple times within an inch of their Chicago mobsters, the two slyly answer lives from Spats Columbo, Little an advertisement to play with a Bonaparte and their cronies -scenar­women's band in Florida. In order to fit ios that often involve elevators, stairs 

Photo courtesy of doctormacro.com 
Tony Curtis, left, and Jack Lemmon dress in drag to hide from the mob in "Some Like it Hot." The American Film Institute declared the movie the funniest in all time. 
and everything in between -is also The jazz soundtrack of the film, oftp,n humorous because it's so well done and supplied by the performancp,s of the over the top. band in various sequences, is classy and 
Lemmon and Curtis create a dynamic energetic, adding to the overall feel of comedic team, with the two alternating the movie. between the positions of foil and The film, shown Sunday afternoon as straight man. The nature of their roles part of the PAC Classic 100 series of -the majority of their perl'ormances films in the Browning Cinema, has been are done in drag -lends to a fun regarded by multiple critics and movie comedic rapport and slapstick-type countdowns as among the best of sense of humor between them. While American comedic films. With its Lemmon's Jerry worries about Joe's strength of casting, situational comedy plan to join the girl's band, Curtis in and overall sense of screwball fun, it turn is reluctant to keep up their isn't difficult to see why "Some Like It facadP.s once he starts to develop strong Hot" may, in fact, be perfect. feelings for Monroe's gorgeous Sugar Kane. Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
perfect, and Perry's voice comes through crystal dear. 
Perry interacts well with audiences, and the crowd enthusiasm can be clearly heard in the recording. At times, Perry even lets the audience do the singing for him, a eommon move that made him so beloved among fans. 
It is the crowd that makes this CD worthwhile and better than many of Journey's studio-released COs. Perry and the band feed oil" the energy of the mass­es, and the spirit with which they perform makes the show enjoyable and entertain­ing. 
The wissued album also comes with a lengthy insert full of pictures and memo­rabilia from the "Departure" tour. Perry featurns prominently in nearly every pic­ture, and any image of his long hair and wacky outfits is always good entertain­ment. Also interesting are images of Japanese album .covp,rs from the band's tour in the Far East. 
While not without its flaws, "Captured" stands as one of Journey's better CD releases. The atmosphere of a live con­cert adds a level of uniqueness and excitement that cannot be had with stu­dio-recorded songs, creating an album that any fan of Journey or classic rock can enjoy. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 






NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, November 20, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 41, Army 9 
Going out on top 
Irish cruise past Army in Brady Quinn's last game at Notre Dame Stadium 

By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Brady Quinn jumped into the student section wearing his green jersey and led the crowd in a chant of "Beat SC" after leading Notre Dame to a 41-9 win over Army Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Quinn completed 22-of-30 passes for 218 yards with three touchdowns and an interception in his final home game. 
"[Notre Dame] is really spe­cial," Quinn said. "It's just some­where I will always be able to come back to and have very fond memories and know that it's changed my life in a very good way." 
Quinn found fellow seniors Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight for his touchdowns. Samardzija caught the first Quinn TD toss halfway through the second quarter, and McKnight grabbed one late in the second and early in the third to help the Irish breeze by the Black Knights on Senior Day. 
"I did my best today to take it all in," Quinn said. "Today was a special moment when I looked up in the stands and everyone is still there. Eighty-thousand Notre Dame fans are up anticipating the final lap around the field. It makes me realize how special this place is." 
But it wasn't smooth sailing early for Notre Dame. The Irish reversed a 3-0, first-quarter Army lead with three touch­downs in the second period to go up 20-3 at the half. 
Irish running back Darius Walker broke a 10-yard run up the middle into the end zone to put the Irish back on top of the Black Knights, 7-3, 50 seconds into the second period. It was Walker's fourth carry of the six­play, 50-yard drive during which he picked up 33 yards on the ground and another 15 yards in the air from a Quinn pass. 
But that Irish scoring drive was ahnost derailed before it began. Notre Dame freshman George West fumbled the kickoff return, but Irish defensive. back Kyle McCarthy was there to recover the loose ball. 
"I went and told [the offense], you have to be patient fellas. We're not going to score in big chunks here," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We are going to nick­el and dime them because that's what they have been dictating for you to do." 
The Irish came out in a no­huddle offense on their opening drive, but Quinn threw his first interception in 227 attempts when a pass intended for Sainardzija up the middle was intercepted by Army free safety Jordan Murray and returned for 22 yards. The Black Knights, however, could not mount a drive and turned the ball over on downs at the Notre Dame 30­yard line. 
The Irish added two touch­downs in the third quarter on a Walker rush and McKnight's sec­ond score to open up a 34-3 lead. 
On the first possession after half, the Irish drove quickly up field, earning a first down on their first five plays, then a touchdown on the sixth. The drive was capped by a 5-yard Walker run to the right side. Walker fumbled at the 1, but sophomore receiver David Grimes recovered in the end zone for the touchdown. 
Notre Dame's next drive began after Irish cornerback Mike Richardson picked off Army quarterback Carson Williams on a pass intended for Corey Anderson at the Army 41-yard line. One play scrambling for a 14-yard gain on third-and-eight, Quinn found McKnight for a 24­yard score through the air with 
9:46 remaining in the third quar­ter was set up the play before by a 14-yard rush by Quinn after he was forced from the pocket. 
"They have a great program, and in Quinn, they have a pre­mier football player," Black Knights coach Bobby Ross said. "And the wide-outs, all three of them today, I think they had a heck of a day against us." 
A 27 -yard field goal by Austin Miller gave Army its initial 3-0 lead in the first quarter. The Black Knights drove 4 7 yards in seven plays, including a 23-yard run by running back Wesley McMahand on a sweep to the right sideline that pushed the Black Knights to the Irish 15­yard line. Running back Tony Moore then rushed seven yards to the 9-yard line to set up the Miller kick. 

Army added a touchdown as time expired with a 12-yard pass from second-half quarterback David Pevoto to Tim Dunn to set the final at 41-9. 
Walker scored his second touchdown of the game and the last touchdown for the Irish with a 7 -yard run with 11 minutes left in the fourth quarter. 
"It's always important to get in there and establish the run, so we can dictate the game," Walker said. "We felt like we controlled it the whole time. We could take 20-play drives or whatever it need be to get into the end zone." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Brady Quinn 
Notre Dame's senior quarterback completed 22-of-30 passes for 218 yards and three touchdowns; He also ran for 3 5 yards. 
stat of the game 
6.8 

Average yards per rush for Notre Dame. The Irish finished with 221 yards on the ground, including a season-high 162 by Darius Walker. 
play of the game 
Rhema McKnight's 24-yard TD catch 
McKnight caught the ball on the sideline, spun outside and stayed inbounds for his second score. 
quote of the game 

"Brady is kind ofshy. It was cool to see him get crazy like .that. Sometimes he just needs some help with that." 
Jeff Samardzija Irish wide receiver 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 20, 2006 
report card 
A-
quarterbacks: Quinn made one bad decision and paid for it. Otherwise, the senior was outstanding, as usual. He controlled the game and patiently 
waited for open receivers. 
A 
running backs: Walker hit holes hard and was effective both up the middle and to on the sides. He averaged 6.8 
yards per carry and picked up the 
occasional Army blitzes. 
A 
receivers: Samardzija and McKnight each scored in the final home game for the two. Grimes had five catches 
and a crucial fumble recovery in the 
end zone for another Irish score. 
A 
offensive line: Quinn was sacked only once, and Weis called the 3-yard loss a "coverage sack." The running backs 
had big holes, and early penalties faded quickly. 
A 
defensive line: Landri had perhaps the best game of his career. He was in the backfield all day, with 4.5 tackles 
for loss, two sacks and a blocked field goal. Abiamiri, Frome and Laws also played well on Senior Day. 
linebackers: Brockington had eight
8+ 
tackles as he continued to play well. 
Crum added six tackles of his own, 
8 
C­
8 

including a sack. But Travis Thomas finished the game without a tackle. 
defensive backs: Richardson's two interceptions were a reflection of his consistent play this year. Lambert was solid, and Ndukwe and Zbikowski each had just three tackles thanks to the play of the Irish corners. 
special teams: Samardzija didn't get his hand out of the way on Gioia's missed kick, Renkes' diving tackle prevented an Army kickoff return touchdown and West's fumble nearly cost Notre Dame. Landri's block and Price's punt were the only positives. 
coaching: Army's defense was different from what Weis expected, and it took Notre Dame just two series to adjust. The Irish defense was stout, but the coaches should have gotten the reserve seniors in the game earlier. 
overall: Notre Dame's sluggish start faded fast, and the Irish
3.41 clicked on all cylinders until the game was well in hand. 

adding up the numbers 
Consecutive passes Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw until a first-quarter interception 
226

Saturday. The streak was aschool record. 
16 
Home wins for Notre Dame in the last four seasons. The senior class went 6-6 at Notre 
Dame Stadium in 2003-04 and 10-3 thereafter. 
. Victories lor Irish coach Charlie Weis in his 
19 

first two seasons. The win total is the largest of any Notre Dame coach alter two seasons. 
Points Notre Dame scored in the first quarter. The0 Black Knights held the irish scoreless in the opening period for the first time since Michigan State blanked Notre Dame in the first quarter on Sept. 23. 
Yards rushing for Irish tailback Darius Walker over his past two games. Walker had a season-high 162 yards on the 
315 
ground Saturday. 

90 Career passing touchdowns for Quinn. His three tossing scores moved him to 1Oth on the all-time NCAA list, past Byron Leftwich and Peyton Manning. 
Seasons in which Notre Dame has won 10 or more games. The Irish captured their 
14 

1Oth victory of the 2006 season Saturday, marking the program's first double-digit win season since 2002. 
7 0 Average yards per carry for Irish senior tailback • John Lyons, who rushed twice for 14 yards. 

Roller coaster ride ends elsewhere 

From the time Brady Quinn led Notre Dame Stadium in chants of "Beat SC" from the thlrd row of the junior student section to the time the senior quarterback met with the press, the winds behind Irish sails deflated, and the national championship pic­ture became much clearer-Notre Dame would not be in the title game. 
Michigan had just scored its final touchdown and two-point conver­sion when Quinn stepped up to the podium, his eyes glancing up every few seconds to see the game on the television in the back corner of the room. 
What he saw was Notre Dame's national title hopes fall in a game it could not control, less than an hour after he was on top ofthe world -and NBC's television set -in celebration with fans who thought a solid win over the Trojans would launch the Irish to the Jan. 8 BCS championship game. 
Before Quinn, Derek Landri spoke as Ohio State held an 11-point lead. 
''I'm on the roller coaster still, and I don't plan on getting oft' until January 8," he said. "[The USC] game is going to be like the Michigan-Ohio State game this week. And the winner is probably, most likely, going to the national championship." 
Even Charlie Weis couldn't escape it. He said he had no intention of running two thlrds of the plays Notre Dame practiced before the Army game ­they were designed for USC. He even admitted to having stud­ied every Trojan offen­

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 
was. The last week was probably the 
hardest workweek I've had this year 
for that reason." 
But Weis knew the Irish needed some help even before they would take on the Trojans. 
"Fire away," Weis said as usual to 

begin his post-game press conferences 
before pausing. "By the way, it's 35-24 
at the end of the thlrd quarter." 
But after seeing Notre Dame's worst-case scenario come true -a close win by the Buckeyes -Weis knew his chances at a national title were pretty much gone. 
"Well, I'm trying to be practical here," he said Sunday. "I think that­you know, Ohio State is obviously going to the game. We obviously lost to Michigan at home. I'm well aware of that fact. I think that our best chance, without going being a politician, our best chance is to go out to USC and beat USC and let the chips fall where they may." 
Let the chips fall where they may. That's an expression usually reserved for a deserving team that's trying to fight iL'i way into the championship game. 
Unfortunately for the Irish seniors like Quinn-probably the program's greatest quarterback-Notre Dame is no such team. The Irish don't deserve to make the .title game. They lost by 26 to Michigan at Notre Dame Stadium. 
In the mathematical dictatorship of eollege football today, a team that loses by 26 at home has no rightful claim to primaey. All the chips fell the way Notre Dame needed last week. But this week was a different story. The chips 
fell in a way that will 
prevent the Irish from 

Notre Dame could 
sive and defensive play making an appearanee this year. beat Ohio State, but in the BCS title game. On Sunday, Weis said that's not the point. And in the current sys­the reason for his tem-which Notre 
The Irish forfeited 
advance scout work was Dame was a part of the minimized prep time their right to a spot forming -that's only at home before the Irish in the title game on fair. leave for Los Angeles The six power confer­
Sept. r6.
Thursday afternoon. But ences and the Irish got 
Weis has told white lies about. USC before -remember the strong implications, but never out-right statements, that Notre Dame wouldn't wear green jerseys last October? 
"This past week was a really tough week because now you're forced to do all your work exactly the same for Army and then tack on USC on top of it," Weis said. "That's what last week 
together to form the BCS from the Bowl Alliance to ensure that No. 1 plays No. 2 in the biggest bowl of them all. And Notre Dame should not be No.2, even ifit beats usc. 
For Notre Dame's purposes, let's just forget the arguments about Florida and Arkansas, West VIrginia and any­body else for a second. 
Michigan walloped the Irish at home and lost to an undefeated team by just three points. A rematch is unappeal­ing? So what? The rules these teams established say appeal shouldn't be considered in national title games. There would be no more No. 1 versus No.5 matchups like in 1977, and UM should be ahead of ND. 
Notre Dame and the SEC schools helped create this system. They agreed to the by-laws and have the power to change them. If the Irish don't like the result, they have only themselves to blame -both for making the monster and losing during the regular season. 
Notre Dame could beat Ohio State, but that's not the point. The Irish for­feited their right to a spot in the title game on Sept. 16. Indeed, the normal­ly phenomenal Quinn was responsible for two Michigan touchdowns on his own -a fumble and an interception returned for scores. 
At this point in the season, Notre Dame is a much better team than it was in September. With Darius Walker having the best five-game stretch of his career, the offense is far more consistent and balanced than it was in Week 3. 
The defense has come a long way, too. The Irish average six tackles for loss.-which, compared to USC's six, Michigan's 7.2 and Ohio State's 7.2 is pretty good . 
But the goal of the BCS is to reward teams that get the job done every week. Teams that have loads of talent but lose to better-coached or better­prepared teams shouldn't get a shot to win the title just because they're tal­ented, the BCS rationale goes. 

The only team deserving of any shot at No. 1 is Michigan. The Wolverines lost by three on the road to an unde­feated team. USC didn't show up against Oregon State and failed in its comeback. Florida lost to a vastly over­rated Auburn, Arkansas got demol­ished by USC and the Big East is a league of mediocre parity. 
If appeal is the name of the game, then Notre Dame should be in the thick of the 'Who faces OSU?' conver­sation. But it's not. And the Irish are out. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd. edu 
' I 
Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Seniors make mark 'on a mission' 
Weis says play ofLandri, Richardson indicative oftheir progress through season 

-
to the defense or to the special teams, much maligned early in his Irish By KEN FOWLER 
'That's the way to cover for your dumb career, continued his solid play in 2006 Sports Editor 
head coach."' with two interceptions. 
But Landri's play all day Saturday On the first, Richardson picked off a Derek Landri did it again. hid almost every Irish defensive coach­pass from Black Knights starter Carson Notre Dame's 6-foot-3, 277-pound ing weakness that may have existed. Williams to the left sideline four min­
defensive tackle blocked another field And for his part, Landri said the defen­utes into the second half. Williams did­goal Saturday -this time, a 39-yard sive line's usual "confidence and swag­n't reach the receiver, and Richardson attempt by Army kicker Austin Miller ger" showed up Saturday, along with made his first interception of the sea­with 2:55 left in the third quarter. It sound preparation. son. was Landri's fourth blocked kick of the "We knew what they were going to "We were working on that type of season. bring and how they played," he said. route in practice all week. I was able 
"It's a good thing," Landri said. "It's "What we saw on film was what we to come up and undercut the up-and­one of those things where it's another got." out route," Richardson said. chance to keep points off the board." The senior from Concord, Calif., had He made his second interception off 
But it did more than that. The block seven tackles on the day, including 4.5 backup Army quarterback David came just four plays after Notre Dame for losses and two sacks. Pevoto less than two minutes into the failed to convert on fourth down with a But Landri's play, Weis said, went fourth quarter. yard and a half to go from its own 22. beyond those stats. "Mike has been pretty solid most of 
Even though Irish coach Charlie Weis "When I watched [the tape], it the year," Weis said. "He's probably said it was a "dumb" decision to send seemed like every time I turned around been one of the most steady players we the offense out on fourth down, he was he was in the backfield," Weis said. "It have. I think it was really good for him happy with the result. wasn't just the two sacks. I mean, with those two interceptions, and I 
"It turned out great because we got there's tackles for losses. I mean, he think that he's been -out of all the stoned, I could be miserable, and the was in the. backfield all day. He was players on defense, I'd have to say he's defense held them and we blocked the playing on a mission." been probably one of the steadiest kick," Weis said. "There's a lot of good Landri, however, wasn't the only from the start to the end." things that happened with that bad defender playing on a mission on one.... We block a kick, okay, and that Senior Day. now is a teaching tool where I can say Irish cornerback Mike Richardson, Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Irish defensive tackle Derek Landri blocks Army kicker Austin Miller's 39-yard field goal attempt in the third quarter. Having stuffed three extra point attempts in Notre Dame's first 10 games, the play marked Landri's fourth blocked kick of the season. 
Charlie Jr. convinces dad on kelly green 
Walker becomes fifth Irish running back ever with consecutive 1,000-yard seasons 
on board. most yards in a game behind Army on its side of the field for By KYLE CASSILY It is the first time that the hi<> 186-yard performance last the playing of the United States 
Sporrs Writer 
Irish have won while wearing season against Stanford. Military Academy's 'Alma the jerseys since a 37-3 victory Walker also moved into Mater.' 
The Irish walked out of the over USC in 1985 when the fourth place all-time in career The Irish began the tradition tunnel Saturday clad in their team played the first half in rushing yards, gaining 3,065 last season at home against green uniforms -a move pre­blue and came out after half­and passing Jones. Navy, and have now done it this cipitated by Charlie Weis, Jr. -time in green. The Irish have season for all three service and broke the four-game curse lost four times in the green No prima donna academies. The Black Knights the jerseys had. uniforms since that game, After Quinn jumped into the then joined the Irish in front of 
Charlie Jr. told his father including losses to No. 1 USC stands to lead the stadium in the student section for the play­Thursday night that the team in 2005, Boston College in chants of 'Beat SC,' Weis said ing of 'Notre Dame Our Mother.' should wear the green jerseys 2002, Georgia Tech in the he thought Quinn had been As Army walked off the field, against Army and Weis was 1999 Gator Bowl and Colorado watching his brother-in-law -Weis stood to one side of the easily able to overcome his hes­in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl. Packers linebacker A.J. Hawk -team and shook hands with itation to use them only against and Green Bay's famous every Black Knights player that top-ranked teams. Running away Lambeau Leap. passed in front of him, thanking 
"He goes, 'Well, Dad, you tell Irish tailback Darius Walker "For a guy that's of his them and congratulating them me how special this senior class became only the fifth player in stature, [Quinn] could very eas­on their play. is. It just doesn't seem right school history to eclipse the ily, very easily act like a prima that they don't get an opportu­1,000-yard rushing mark in donna, and he doesn't have one Coin toss nity to be honored as seniors back-to-hack seasons. He set ounce of that in his body," Weis The Irish lost the coin toss going out,"' Weis said. "I the mark with his 13-yard run said. "I think he wanted to and the Black Knights chose to thought for a 13-year old kid to up the middle on the fist offen­share that moment with the receive the ball -the first time make a statement like that, I sive play of the second half. fans, especially 'the student this season that Notre Dame thought it made a lot of sense." Walker joined the ranks of body at the end. He's a really has not had the opening pos­
Weis brought up the ideas to Autry Denson, Allen Pinkett, special person." session of the game. The Irish captains Brady Quinn, Tom Vagas Ferguson and Julius chose to defend the south end Zbikowski and Travis Thomas, Jones with consecutive 1,000-Alma Mater of Notre Dame Stadium. who at first were skeptical. But yard seasons. Walker ran for a Weis and the Irish continued Weis said he only had to call season-high 162 yards against their tradition of honoring the Contact Kyle Cassily at Quinn 'a wimp' and they were the Black Knights, his second-service academies by joining kcassily@nd.edu 
page 3 
•


scoring SUIDITiary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Army  3  0  0  6  9  
Notre Dame  D  20  14  7  40  
First quarter  

Army 3, Notre Dame 0 
Austin Miller 27-yard field goal with 1:46 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 47 yards, 3:07 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 7, Army 3 
Darius Walker 10-yard run with 14:10 remaining. (Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 65 yards, 2:36 elapsed 
Notre Dame 13, Army 3 
Jeff Samardzija 16-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:15 remaining. (Gioia kick failed) Drive: 9 plays, 78 yards, 3:43 elapsed 
Notre Dame 20, Army3 
Rhema McKnight 8-yard reception from Quinn with 1:01 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 9 plays, 69 yards, 3:07 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 27, Army 3 
David Grimes fumble recovery with 13:09 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 78 yards, 1:51 elapsed 
'Notre Dame 34, Army 3 
McKnight 24-yard reception from Quinn with 
9:46 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 4 plays, 40 yards, 1:12 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 41, Army 3 Walker 7-yard run with 11 :DO remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 6 plays, 42 yards, 2:21 elapsed 
Notre Dame 41, Army 9 
Tim Dunn 12-yard reception from David Pevoto with no time remaining. (no kick) Drive: 4 plays, 33 yards, 0:36 elapsed 

statistics 
total yards rushing yards passing yards 



return yards time of possession 


36-58  rushes-yards  35-221  
8-21-2  comp-att-int  22-30-1  
4-172  punts-yards  1-55  
4-1  fumbles-lost  2-1  
4-35  penalties-yards  9-77  
12  first downs  26  
1-3  sacks-yards  3-20  
1-2  field goals-att  0-0  

passing 

Pevoto 7-13-1 Quinn 22-30-1 
rushing 

McMahad  11-41  Walker  24-162  
Viti  11-28  Quinn  5-35  
Moore  9-24  Lyons  2-14  
receiving  

Trimble  3-33  Samardzija  9-87  
Dunn  2-33  Grimes  5-56  
Moore  1-16  Walker  5-25.  
Anderson  1-5  McKnight  3-50  
tackles  

Shrode  11  Brockington  8  
Murray  8  Landri  7  
Laird  6  Laws  7  
Grevious  6  Crum  6  
Craig  5  Bruton  5  
Wright  3  Frome  5  
Scruggs  3  Borseti  3  
Thompson  3  Ndukwe  3  
punting  
Tolson 43.0 Price 55.0 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 20, 2006 
Dressed for success 
Notre Dame came out in green uniforms to honor the senior class and stay motivated a week before facing USC in Los Angeles. The Irish started sluggish but turned things around fast in the second quarter. Darius Walker had his best game of the season, but the star of the afternoon was Brady Quinn. The senior standout didn't have his best game -just the last solid performance in a long line of good days at the home office for Quinn. And the crowd made sure he felt 
appreciated with chants of "Bra-dy Quinn. Bra-dy Quinn." 
....___ 
...... 
JESSICA LEE!The Observer KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 
Top, Irish tailback Darius Walker leaps over right guard Bob Morton while picking up a block from left guard Dan Santucci. Middle right, Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija catches a touchdown pass in front of Army defensive back Jordan Murray. Bottom right, Samardzija celebrates his touchdown catch with receiver David Grimes. Bottom left, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn scrambles past Army linebacker Cason Shrode. Middle left, Notre Dame's Maurice Crum ( 40) and Trevor Laws tackle Army's Wesley McMahand. 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, November 20, 2006 
page 13 

The Evolution of the High School Serial 
... 
: 

TEEN DRAMA FEATURE 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
The primetime teenage drama is a staple in today's television fare, with networks like the former WB even spe­cializing in it. This wasn't always the case. however, since the teen drama is a relatively young creature. 
Early shows created for teenagers tended to be series like "Saved by the Bell." which, while they dealt with teen issues, weren't always taken seriously and were incredibly lighthearted, even when dealing with serious topics. They were also typically half-hour shows that aired in 

the afternoon or on After the success of although it was more of a Saturday mornings. "9021 o ,, came a slew drama featuring teens, as One of the first teen dra­opposed to being a teen
ofshows furthering 

mas to reach moderate drama in the vein of success was the Canadian the stability ofthe "90210." "Degrassi High," which teen drama as its own With the rising success aired on PBS during the of the teen drama, a new
legitimate genre. 

late '80s and early '90s. network was created in 
Its current incarnation is the popular "Degrassi: The Next Generation" which airs on The-N and is credited for using actual teenage actors to play the characters. 
In the 1990s the teen drama truly came into being as recognized today in Aaron Spelling's "Beverly Hills, 90210." The show doolt with issues that teens faced in a realistic and serious manner. The show became instantly popular with young audiences and launched its actors, such as Luke Perry and Jason Priestley, to teen idol status. The show had an incredibly long 10-year run from 1990-2000. 
After the success of "90210" came a slew of shows furthering the stability of the teen drama as its own legitimate genre. 1994 was a great year for the teen drama, bringing to the screen both ABC's "My So-Called Life" and FOX's "Party of Five." Although the show was critically acclaimed, ABC made the mis­take of pitting "My So-Called Life" against a new NBC show, "Friends." "Friends" dominated the ratings, and "Life" was cancelled after only a season, but not before launching the careers of Claire Danes and Jared Leto. 
"Party of Five" saw a great deal more 
success, lasting for six 
acclaimed seasons, 
1995 -The WB -that specifically catered to the genre. Within three years of the network's launch, shows such as "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," "Felicity" and "Dawson's Creek" premiered and met with both critical and popular success. The sophistication of the shows -in writing, acting and content -helped to make the teen drama as legitimate a genre as the typi­cal network drama. 
The WB continued to grow and add excellent shows to its repertoire, such as "Everwood" and "Gilmore Girls." Although series on the WB were meet­ing with high level~ of success, shows airing on the major networks didn't do as well. NBC's 1999 critically acclaimed "Freaks and Geeks" barely lasted an entire season due to its poor ratings. 
It wasn't until 2003 that the teen drama would find its face again on one of the major networks. FOX, the same network who delivered "90210," revamped the genre with "The O.C." Much like "90210" a decade earlier, "The O.C." initially followed a core group of Californian darlings through their exploits and dramas in high school. Now in its fourth season, the characters have entered their first year of college, and the focus of the narrative has shifted from its initial beginnings. 
Although it is a comparatively recent creation, the teen drama has had sever­al outstanding series that easily legit­imize it as a genre. The teen drama, when done well, has the ability not only to entertain young and older audiences alike but also to tackle the serious issues faced by teenagers of any genera­tion. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
The genre of the teen drama gained prominence in the television world with Aaron Spelling's creation "Beverly Hills, 90210." From 1990 to 2000, FOX's "90210" changed the face of television dramas cen­tered on and aimed for a teenage audience. The magic of t11e show's early years can now be recaptured ilirough ilie release of the first sea.<;on on IND. 
"Beverly Hills, 90210" follows the Walsh twins, Brandon (Ja.<;on Priestley) and Brenda (Shannen Doherty), who move from Minnmtpolis. Minn. to Beverly Hills, Calif. and the adjustments they make while making new friends and dealing with the universal struggles of high school life. They quickly become friends with numerous California natives who teach ilie newcomers the ways of Beverly Hills. The guys include often mys­terious and slightly rebellious hotel heir Dylan McKay (Luke Perry), athletic and charming son of a television star Steve Sanders (Ian Ziering) and young and slightly nerdy David Silver (Brian Austin Green). The female counterparts include the always attractive and frequently troubled Kelly Taylor (Jennie Garth), highly opinionated newspaper editor Andrea Zuckerman (Gabrielle Carteris) and Donna Martin (Tori Spelling), who has a barely-supporting role in ilie first season. 
Throughout the snason the kids deal wiili the typical problems that plague most high school students -sex, drugs, alcohol abuse, cheating and relationships. The moral back­bone of the series is present in Brandon and Brenda's pan~nts, Jim (James Eckhouse) and Cindy (Carol Potter). who serve as parent fig­ures for all of the kids, since most of the Beverly Hills parents, stemotypieally, let their children run rampant. 
One of the reasons that "90210" was as successful as it was for an early teen drama was because of it<; well developed and, for the most part, realistic characters. The core characters -Brandon, Brenda, Kelly, Andrea and Dylan -are all thoroughly developed throughout the eourse of ilie first 
season. 


However, the rea­son that the show took a comparatively long time to reach DVD status is because of the dated music. Music copy­rights for television shows have a time limit, and once that time has been exceeded, the copy-rights must be renewed. Many of the shows from the early 90s and before have lost the rights to ilie music, so ilie production compa­nies either have to regain the rights to the music or put new music in the show. "9021 0" decided to go with new music, which, at times, is quite apparent as some of ilie music doesn't flow with the show as well as it should. 

The DVD set comes with all 21 episodes of the first season, including the original pilot episode. The final disc includes several spe­cial features including a "Beginnings" feature with co-creator Darren Star, who also has commentary on numerous episodes. There is a behind-the-scenes featurette as well as a recap of thn whole first season. 
-
"Beverly Hills 9021 0" was a landmark show when it first aired, and it still plays a role in the teen culture of today given its influence on shows that are now airing. Serving as the first outstanding blueprint for the teen drama genre, "90210" is just as rel­evant and entertaining as when it first aired and is a great addition to any collection. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + ClASSIFIED$ Monday, November 20, 2006 
NFL 

Cowboys deal Indianapolis its first defeat 
SteelersI ChiefsI Bears all escape victorious 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas The Indianapolis Colts are perfect no more. And as flawed as the Dallas Cowboys are, they're starting to look like contenders again. 
Tony Romo managed an effi­cient game in his first career start at home, Marion Barber III ran for two fourth-quarter touchdowns and the Cowboys handed Peyton Manning and the Colts their first loss of the season 21-14 Sunday, 
A week after ·becoming the first team to start 9-0 in consec­utive seasons, Indianapolis fell shy in its bid to match last year's 13-0 run, much less the perfect season by the 1972 Miami Dolphins. 
The Colts had escaped close calls all season -like two one­point wins over bad teams at home and five other wins by less than a touchdown -but couldn't overcome four turnovers, their most in a regu­lar season game since Nov. 25, 2001. 
For the Cowboys, this easily goes down as their most impressive win in coach Bill Parcells' four seasons. 
Dallas (6-4) is two games over .500 for the first time all sea­son. With four of the remaining six games at home and with the rest of the division ailing, the Cowboys are in prime position to make a run at the division title. 
It's a stunning turnaround considering how badly they looked in their last home game, a lopsided loss to the New York Giants. 
But a halftime quarterback change that game, from Drew Bledsoe to Romo, has trans­formed the club. The Cowboys have won two in a row and three offour. 
Stealers 24, Browns 20 
With a flick of his wrist, Ben Roethlisberger saved the Pittsburgh Steelers from a sea­son-crushing loss. 
Roethlisberger shoveled a 4­yard touchdown pass to Willie Parker with 32 seconds left, ral­lying the Steelers to a win over the Cleveland Browns, who were minutes away from kick­ing the defending Super Bowl champions into the AFC North basement. 
Roethlisberger, intercepted three times in the first half, threw for 272 yards -224 in the fourth quarter -as the 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Steelers (4-6) avoided a defeat that would have made it almost impossible to get into the play­offs. 
But Big Ben made all the big plays, none as important as his flip to Parker. Roethlisberger had to' shake off rookie Kamerion Wimbley before com­pleting the TD pass, making him 18-for-29 in the final 15 minutes. 
The Browns (3-7) spent all week talking about getting revenge for their 41-0 loss to Pittsburgh on last Christmas Eve, and for most of the day it looked like they would get it. 
But Cleveland's defense could­n't stop Roethlisberger when it mattered most, and the Browns dropped their sixth straight game to their bitter rivals, who have won 12 of the last 13 between the teams. 
After Roethlisberger hooked up with Parker, the Browns drove to Pittsburgh's 22. With 3 seconds left, Charlie Frye threw a jump ball to the back of the end zone that Braylon Edwards nearly grabbed in a crowd. 
But when the ball fell to the ground, several of the Steelers dropped to their knees in relief. Edwards, Kellen Winslow and other Cleveland players con­soled each other after another tough loss. 
Chiefs 17, Raiders 13 
Trent Green looked and felt just like new. He was at his best when Kansas City needed him most. 
After passing for barely 50 yards in his return from a 10­week layoff, the two-time Pro Bowl quarterback coolly threw for 50 yards in one game-win­ning fourth-quarter drive. Hitting three of five in the final minutes, Green set up Larry Johnson's 1-yard go-ahead touchdown run and rallied the sluggish Chiefs past injury-rid­dled Oakland. 
"The majority of games in this league come down to the fourth quarter, and finding ways to get that done," said Green, who couldn't even drive the first couple of weeks after suffering a severe concussion on Sept. 10. 
"I just feel proud I was able to contribute to that part of it and make some throws when we needed." 
The Raiders held a 13-10 lead when the Chiefs (6-4) took the ball on their 20 with 4:53 to play. He hit 3-of-5, including passes of 10 and 16 yards to Samie Parker and a beauty of a 24-yard gainer to Eddie Kennison. 
Johnson, with 1:32 to play, squeezed into the end zone, capping a two-touchdown, 159­yard rushing game on his 27th birthday. 

Bears 10, Jets 0 
Mark Bradley turned and caught the short pass from Rex Grossman, and then realized Drew Coleman was the only thing standing between him and the end zone. 
"Every receiver loves a one­on-one situation," the Chicago Bears' second-year standout said. "It's just you and the DB on the island, and may the best man win." 
On this play, it was no contest. Coleman slipped and Bradley turned the completion into a 57 -yard touchdown 10 seconds into the final quarter, and the Bears beat the Jets on Sunday. 
"lie threw the ball based on where thp corner was," Bradley said. "I turned up inside and there was a lot of daylight. The safeties came down and rolled back to the strong side. That's why it was wide open." 
The Jets blitzed on the play in an attempt to 11uster Grossman, but it backfired. 
"lie made a good move," Coleman said of Bradley. "It hurt, but we were still in the game." 
Well, not really. Chicago (9-1) notched its second shutout this season-the Bears blanked the Packers at Green Bay on Sept. 
10. The Bears, coming off a 38­20 victory over the New York Giants, also became the first road team since the 1999 Washington Redskins to win two straight at the Meadowlands. 
"New York has been good to make this run," said .Johnson, expected to be sidelined from us," Bears coach Lovie Smith who limped into the end zone at eight months to one year. It's said. "Coming here, a tough the end of a 60-yard touchdown the third time in five years place to play, and getting two reception that gave the Bengals McNabb has gone down with six wins is big." a 17-10 lead in the fourth quar­or more games remaining in the 
Next up is another tough road ter. regular season. matchup against New England. "It was a necessary victory. A "It's an unfortunate thing;" must win." said Jeff Garcia, who replaced Bengals 31, Saints 16 Johnson said his right ham­McNabb. 
If anyone doubted how seri­string was hurting, but "Donovan is a competitor, a ously Chad Johnson takes his returned on the next series and leader and he was having a role on the Cincinnati Bengals, caught a 48-yard pass, followed great season." consider this: He was too hurt by a 4-yard TD catch on a quick "He'll be missed." to perform his trademark end slant as the Bengals (5-5) pulled McNabb was injured on the zone celebrations. away. second play of the second quar­
He retained the will to score "I knew Chad was going to ter on a seemingly harmless game-breaking touchdowns. come back in the game," play. 
For a second Sunday in a row, Palmer said. "He had been He was rolling to his right Johnson and quarterback playing so well. He's a tough near the Tennessee sideline and Carson Palmer terrorized an guy." was bumped out of bounds by opposing defense, connecting Kyle Vanden Bosch after throw­for 190 yards and three touch­Titans 31, Eagles 13 ing an incomplete pass. He downs. This time, however, it Donovan McNabb's season is grabbed his right knee and was resulted in a victory over the over early -again. immediately tended to by train­New Orleans Saints that halted The Philadelphia Eagles lost ers before being carted off the a three-game losing skid and their star quarterback for the field. renewed hope of a playoff run rest of the year with a torn knee "If he was running to the side­in the Bengals' locker room. ligament in a loss to the line trying to get out of bounds, 
"''m trying to be as consistent Tennessee Titans on Sunday. I don't take that shot, but he as possible, trying to make sure McNabb will have surgery to reared up and tried to throw it I do all I can to make sure we repair the anterior cruciate lig­and I was trying to get a hand come up out of this hole and ament in his right knee and is in his face," Vanden Bosch said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per,character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

WINTER BREAK WORK $17.25  3-6 Bedroom homes,  GOOOOO GIANTS!!!  
LOST & FOUND  base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. needed, may continue in the  FoR RENT  walking distance,  PERSONAL  What do you calla fish with no  
spring, customer sales/service,  eyes?  
- LOST-Adult cat from Angela Blvd.  con d. apply, all ages 17 +, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, apply  BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-campus homes &  washer, dryer.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  FSH  
Dary gray with white "bib". green ·  now, start after finals. 574-273-3835  weekend rentals.  MMM Rentals.  Do not go it alone.  Maybe I'll turn it into a sport coat.  
eyes,  www.winterbreakwork.com  
10 lb.  Bluegoldrentals.com  Contact Gary  If you or someone you love needs  All hail the mastah of the triple axel.  
neutered male.  confidential support or assistance,  
Kids miss him.  FoR SALE  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008  574-993-2208.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ Did you hear about the new French  
514-232-1584  7819.  tank?  
ND Home Games,  2-6 Bedrooms  Furnished 4-bdr house.  It has 14 gears. 13 go in reverse.  
WANTED  Hassei-Free Lodging. 3 Bdrm home/  www.NDstudentrentals.com  For more information, visit our web site at  and one goes foreward in case the enemy attacks from behind.  
5min.walk from stadium.  Walk ND.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
WANTED: 1990 or 91 The Shirt.  A one-time fee of $99,000 to buy a  Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo.  nant.shtml  Where does the one legged wait­ 
$100 for quality shirt.  nice, clean home for all games. For  Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne 607­ or see our bi-weekly ad in  ress work?  
Call Dan at 712-251-0930  more info call 574-360-8707.  723-"1363 or 607-770-0944.  574-287-4961.  The Observer.  I hop  





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 20, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 


AP 

Donovan McNabb is carted off the field during the second quarter of Sunday's game against the Tennessee Titans. The Titans went on to defeat Jeff Garcia, McNabb's replacement, and the Eagles 31-16. 
McNabb injures knee, out for season 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team points 

1 Ohio State (65) 1625 2 Michigan 
~::·;.; ..

3 usc 4 Florida 1451 5 Arkansas 1365-1307 .,.:;:;:::i;:.:::::. 
,,,,,,,.,,

6 NOTRE DAME 7 West Virginia 1144 8 Louisville 1078 
g 
LSU 1075 10 Wisconsin 1049 11 Texas 1028 12 Boise State 878···················· 13 Oklahoma 856 14 Auburn 822 15 Rutgers 736 16 Georgia Tech 17 Virginia Tech 18 Boston College 19 Tennessee · 20 Wake Forest 21 Brigham Young 22 Catllornia 23 Nebraska 24 Clemson 25 Hawaii 
NCAA Football Coaches Top 25 

team ··· points 1 Ohio State (63) 1575 2 usc 1444 3 Michigan 4 Ftorlda 5 Arkansas tt 
t 
8 9.,.•••. 10 Texas 11 Louisville 12 Boise State 13 Aubulll 14 Oklahoma 15 Georgia Tech 16 Rutgers ..•........ 17 VIrginia Tecli 18 Boston College 19 Nebraska 20 Wake Forest 21 Tennessee 22 Ca tllornIa 23 Brigham Young 24 Clemson 25 Hawaii 
BCS Standing!; 

20 Tennessee .2579 
around the dial 
NFL 
New York Giants at Jacksonville 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
prev. 
1 2 4 3 5 6 8 10 9 12 11 
13m;. 
16 
15 
prev. 
r 
2 3 4 5 7 8 
g 
10 
11 
12i't"• 
14 
13 
6 
17 
18 
21.,
20''''i···:• 
15 

NFL 


Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Donovan McNabb tore a.lig­ament in his right ~nee and will miss the rest of the sea­son, the third time in five years the Eagles will fmish a campaign without their hard-luck quarterback. 
McNabb was rolling to his right and was bumped out of bounds after throwing an incomplete pass Sunday when he grabbed his leg in pain early in the second quarter of Philadelphia's 31-13loss to the Titans. 
He was immediately tend­ed to by trainers, carted off the field and later taken to a hospital. The Eagles said 
IN BRIEF 

Alouettes capture Grey Cup 
on six field goals 
WINNIPEG, Manitoba -Paul McCallum kicked a Grey Cup record-tying six field goals, and the British Columbia Lions defeat­ed the Montreal Alouettes 25-14 to win the Canadian Football League championship on Sunday night. 
Ian Smart scored a touchdown for the Lions, who had the best regular-season record and won their fifth Grey Cup. It is their first title since beating Montreal in 2000. 
"I can't even describe it, it just feels so good," said Lions receiver Geroy Simon, the CFL's most out­standing player. "They did a great job of covering me, but we knew our big guys were going to step up 
and make some plays."  ·  
Lions  quarterback  Dave  
Dickenson  was  chosen  as  the  

game's outstanding player after going 18-for-129 yards for 184 yards. He also ran for 53. 
McNabb, a five-time Pro Bowl selection in the midst of a possible career year, tore his anterior cruciate ligament. 
"That's normally an eight­month-to-a-year injury," Eagles coach Andy Reid said, "so he's done for the year." 
That puts McNabb's timetable for recovery any­where between July and the middle of next season. 
"He's got some hard work ahead of him," Reid said. "He'll get after it." 
Cincinnati Bengals quar­terback Carson Palmer suf­fered a torn ACL in the playoffs last season and made it back in time for the 
Cubs sign Soriano to 
monster deal 
CHICAGO -Memo to the National League. The Chicago Cubs mean busi­ness. The team without a World Series title since 1908 has tackled the offsea­son with a fury and is on the verge of landing Alfonso Soriano, one of the game's top offensive players. 
Soriano has agreed to an eight-year contract worth about $136 million, a major league official told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
The deal is contingent on Soriano passing a physical, according to the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been announced. General manag­er Jim Hendry declined comment Sunday. But earlier he made it clear that the Cubs, who finished 66-96 last season for last place in the NL, were going to be major players in the mar­ket. 
"We won 66 ballgames. We darn sure better be aggressive," Hendry said. 
start of the regular season. But a key to McNabb's suc­cess as a quarterback has been his outstanding mobil­ity, picking up first downs with his feet or buying time for his receivers. 
McNabb came into the game tied with Peyton Manning for the league lead with 18 touchdown passes and was second in the league with 2,569 yards passing. 
Titans defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch, who bumped McNabb out of bounds on the play, said he was trying to get a hand in the quarterback's face as he was trying to get off the pass. 

Duncan leads San Antonio 
over Sacramento 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -Tim Duncan scored a season-high 35 points and grabbed 14 rebounds and the San Antonio Spurs improved their franchise-best road start to 5-0 with a 108-99 victory over the Sacramento Kings on Sunday night. 
The first meeting between the teams since the Spurs beat the Kings in the sixth game of their first-round playoff series in May was a physical game that featured three players leave for the locker room to get stitches. 
Brent Barry scored 11 points off the bench before going down with 22.2 seconds left in the second quarter fol­lowing a hard collision with Ronnie Price. Both players were helped off the court and needed stitches -nine for Barry to close a 2-inch gash on the left side of his forehead and seven for Price on his chin. Both returned, with Barry sporting a giant bandage held on by a headband. 
"I really feel bad for him," Vanden Bosch said. "You know I never play with the intent to get anybody hurt and I've been through two ACL injuries myself and you know my thoughts and prayers go out to him." 
McNabb was replaced in the lineup by Jeff Garcia, who finished the game 26­for-48 for 189 yards and threw a touchdown pass to 
L.J. Smith. 
"You never think he's not going to get up and come back on the field," Garcia said. ".He's a great player and he was having a great year. And he is a leader on this team and he will be missed in many ways." 
team 

1 Ohio State 2 Michigan 3 usc 4 Florida 5 Notre Dame 6 Arkansas 7 West Virginia 8 Wisconsin 9 louisville 10 LSU 11 Boise State 12 Auburn 13 Texas 14 Rutgers 15 Oklahoma 16 Georgia Tech .11 Virginia Tech 
18 Boston College 19 Calitornia 
BCS avg 
1.000 .9263 .9188 .8838 .8198 .8065 ,716& .6803 .6770 .6431 .5640 .5341 .532& .4809 .4225 .3906 .3581 .3260 .2726 


page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 20, 2006 


*

* *
* * * 
* Baby~ * * * *' it~s cold outside! * 
* 
* * * * 
** 
* 

Project Warmth is intended to collect jacketS &COatS from Notre Dame students, faculty, staff~ alumni and friends for redistribution among people in need in the Michiana area and throughout the country. 
Each donor of a jacket or coat will be offered 25o/o off emhlemati(~ gifts and apparel at the bookstore, Offer excludes class rings. 1 item per coupon. 
. . 
Look for donatiOD Sites in the residence halls and other locations around campus. 
More information? socialconcerns.nd.edu 
*
* 

* 


* 



ST. MICHAELS 
CENTER FOR 
NOTRE l)AME ·~~ 


U1 RY
SOCIAL BOOKSJORE 


IN THit f!:C:K Cl1NT£R 

&DRYQ.EANJNG
CONCERNS 

~.!514lllll·63l6. --n&Ololot(ot> COMMUNITY SERVICE 



Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 



Michigan uses fierce effort to honor late coach 
Despite loss to OSU, team plays well for Bo Schembechler 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Bo knows. 
Even in defeat, there was no better way this Michigan squad could have honored Bo Schembechler's memory and proved it learned his lessons 
than the way it fought back time after time against Ohio State. 
The stubbornness the Wolverines displayed by run, run, running themselves back into the game in the second half; the way they didn't quit until the clock made them; the fierceness they showed skeptics who said a rematch in the national title game wouldn't be the best outcome to this mad­cap season -those were all things that the old man would even the kids who were born after both coaches were gone from the sideline knew. Just before kickoff, one of them hoisted a sign that read, "Bo and Woody in Heaven: Play Nice." 

Back on the slippery turf of Ohio Stadium, though, their successors played it any way but that. What was supposed to be a tractor pull between two of the country's toughest defenses played out like the 24 Hours of Daytona instead an endurance race in which the Buckeyes zoomed out ahead with one big play after another, yet •still struggled to get Michigan out of its rearview mirror. 
Not surprisingly, Schembechler anticipated just the opposite when he talked to the team Thursday. 
"He just said if we want to win, we've got to come out and win the line of scrimmage," running back Mike Hart recalled. 
"That's Bo -offensive and defensive lines win games." 
But while he didn't get the specifics right during his talk, Schembechler's example ­even in death -steeled the Wolverines for what was to come. 
"It's sad to see him go," said quarterback Chad Henne, who like Hart posted very respectable numbers in his third consecutive loss to the Buckeyes. 
But the first thing Henne thought about when the news of Schembechler's death just a few minutes before noon Friday was this: "You've got to take advan­tage of every opportunity you've got, because he was there one day, and then he's gone the next. 
"We dearly miss him," he added. "We tried to fight for him today." 
None of the Wolverines, though, missed him more than Carr. 
Schembechler hired him in 1980 to coach his secondary and taught him the Michigan way of doing things. That involved everything from bring­ing in music students to tutor the players on singing "The Victors" to teaching his lineman blocking schemes that were every bit as intricate as a ball­room waltz. 
Trying to honor those lessons, Carr steeled himself from the second the news arrived to the bitter end of Saturday's classic. He asked his kids not to use Bo as motivation-or even worse, an excuse. 
He asked only that each of them "coach and play in a way that would honor him." 
And good as his word, Carr refused to lobby his colleagues, anybody else who votes in the polls, or even the public for a rematch. 
Afterward, he conceded that telling his kids of Schmbechler's death "was hard and it was emotional, yet all of us have challenges and you've got to move on. 
"You've got to deal," he said, "with whatever comes your way." 
Carr did that as capably as he could, wiping a tear when he climbed on the bus Friday after­noon in Ann Arbor and then have loved. 
For all that, Lloyd Carr want­ed to be sure everyone knew that his mentor's death a day earlier had nothing to do with the outcome of The Game. 
"I want to be clear," Carr began his postgame news con­ference, choking back tears after the Buckeyes claimed a 42-39 win over the Wolverines for an automatic berth in the national title game. "It would not be fair to Bo. 
''I'm a little mad at him 
because he didn't stay around for this game. But it wouldn't be fair to use that in any way, and we don't. And all I could say about him," Carr paused, his voice cracking one more time, "is I loved that man." 
Everybody who ever looked in on this most storied of rivalries feels that way. 
Schembechler and his mentor, Ohio State legend Woody Hayes, turned it into the best game on the college football calendar most every year, something 
Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
getusc.cor:n ~-1-888-buy-•J:»CC 
r.p'"-3< • Je,---:-e... --c-:·. 1 gt;; ._ tn-o --'}h 

Alex 
S 
~~ 
Illinois 
Samsung a850 
-j' 
.. i'i!ij 
• 
FREE CALL ME Minutes•M 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes (starting at7 p.m.) 

• 
iDatebook (Life, organized) 


• Fox Sports Mobile Pro 
,_ (Your sports lifeline!) 

Free.CAU ME Minutessu ''\ ,M.,f:=·_:,, ,,~,::, ,,=,_-:;:;,·;-;tr~r,~::-, f~J ~':kl:;;_:·;~l{ti,:=~:-:! Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes -.:f:fJM-: :· (,_ i,:=f; :~.:-1 ri.t:= !f.~~;:~. t• ~-,.,·:;~~~~ rn ;.~,; . H ,_,, ; . .': :=;·: ~:[:!~. r~-~M~. ~-~,--3::0 f;bCt>.';::;. u.~::. ,·:quA :·t·.,··' ::Ol·~:;(3!:)(1!!)'; fi':$'~~ 'Jsi:'.-'·' .. " ~::::,;i:r:.::ss ~ '<L i~Jt~c:;:J :r.:~t ~)::~ '!le::ql!;" kr 1m:: (:'jf~J~ ~~· E~ :f!.:t:! ;\:.;:$%" 
:.:=: nl;.~::'XJ~'l!.:.:.: t.... ~~1:.~~t.: i}! 1:·:::1' p·:=:r {;;f:~p:·!!J :r~;}i\lf J,:::;.~:r.=~.-:t ~;r; r::i.();\t{Jl"v,) fir:J:.~,¥} ~== .~.~,::~k\1 :..1:· 1.':'l'l~t~:fJ P·'l.k~:.¥:,1:: :rrr~:. :·~ ~:).;·.:~:&rJfJ.t ~·,:· !r~~:::ns ~s:.;;::-{~::)i:.'<l, 
i::nr:.:: ;.;r.<J C':t:=~t:.;r;:=, .·:l '1,,-..~«, :-...:$:l::J, ,::::;\:;-.·~ ..;~~..,;~ ~.':1.~e;··: 30·0ay Guarantee: · ::.l:;r::~ };. '"·:~'>::nr;;i~ io :t::) :.\~:·:;-~:; !rr; r::=.(j ;..n.r. tf; ~c~=.lif: ;'<]: =/~.~ 
~~:f.t!:J ~ ~ ~~: :.~ :.~.~.~:~ j : ' ' "Ut fY.f.<'!~ ~~'!u:~~· ~':.?U.J:; ~.'~){!} r;r~HIY Fi}f ft¥.1 ib ~~.i~:k~i e:th::::. ~ ;~~:t::. ff.~.r;;~~~1 ::t,;,:r r:,;-~~t:k~f.f.('; .:lJ.)~~ ~, t::.li;:. ::,;i ti~t::tl::: t:;."!?i)..Z: :.i :: ~·;t~;i_.:::·f...:.x;x:n:;.nn. 
going about his business the last 24 hours with a resolve that would have made Schembechler proud. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2006 
SMC SWIMMING 
Deeper Albion team beats Belles 
MIAA foe deals Saint Mary's its fourth loss in five competitions 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Despite four imlividual vic­tories on Friday, the Belles lost to Albion College 180-102, dropping their record to 1-4. 
Saint Mary's coach Ryan Dombkowski had an idea of how the meet would play out going into the contest. 
"Because swimming is a sport where only one stat matters [time], you can have a pretty good idea about your chances heading into the meet," he said. 
Freshmen Lindsey Nelis, Kayla Ferguson and Sara Niemann and sophomore Melissa Gerbeth each took home individual wins for the Belles. Nelis won the 200-yard freestyle, finishing in 2:05.25. Ferguson finished first in the 100-yard backstroke for the second straight meet, winning in 1:05.61. Niemann touched the wall at 2:21.01 to take the 200-yard backstroke. 
Gerbeth won the 1 ,650-yard freestyle with a time of 
18:27.54 seconds, defeating Albion's talented senior freestyle swimmer Rachel Doherty in the process. She was pleased with the way she swam. 
"It was a close race through the 600-yard mark, but then it came down to who had more endurance to maintain their speed," she said. "Beating Doherty in the 1,650 has given me more confidence that I can beat other tough swimmers." 
These four young swim­
mers, who have won the 
majority of events for Saint 
Mary's this season, have 
shown remarkable versatility 
thus far. Throughout the last 
three meets, they have com­
bined to win eight different 
events. 
Although the score doesn't 
show it, the meet was surpris­
ingly close. Besides the four 
wins, six individuals and two 
relay teams came in second, 
among them freshmen 
Jennifer Lebiedz, junior Kelly 
Tighe, Gerbeth and NPlis. Five 
of those events were lost by a 
combined total of 9.04 sec­
onds, and the 200-yard 
freestyle relay team -made 
up of Niemann, Nelis, Gerbeth 
and Tighe -lost by just 0.29 
seconds. 
"Luckily we are going to 
swim against these girls again 
at the MIAA conference meet 
in February," Gerbeth said. 
"Knowing that, I think we will 
all practice a little harder· so 
we beat them in February." 
Gerbeth finished second in 
the 500-yard freestyle, but 
was able to set an individual 
best time of 5:26.85 seconds 
-1.39 seconds faster than 
her previous best. 
Albion also scored 17 points 
in the three-meter· diving 
competition. Saint Mary's has 
no divers, and so no Belles 
competed. 
The Belles have a week off 
before their next meet, the · DePauw Invitational on Dec. 1 and 2. DePauw has a record of 4-1 and finished third this weekend in the Wabash 
Invitational. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink.@nd.edu 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Harangody leads Irish in blovvout 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was the Luke llarangody show Sunday afternoon at the Joyce Center. 
The freshman forward scored 18 points in 17 minutPs in a 7 4-50 win for Notre Dame {3-1) over The Citadelll-4). 
"l-Ie's a special young man," Irish coach Mike Brey said of llarangody. "lie has a great feel filr the game and great hands." 
llarangody started the game on the bench, but sparked an Irish run when he entered with just under 16 to play in the first hall". The 6-foot-8, 250 pound fmshman -taller and heavier than any player on. the Bulldogs roster ­procneded to score nine of Notrn Dame's next 14 points as the Irish opened up a commanding 23-5 lead. · 
Junior forward Hob Kurz said Harangody's ennrgy contributed to Notre Dame's run. 
"lie's an oll'ensive force oil' the bench," Kurz said. "lie does a great job down low, getting good position and finishing." 
llarangody then headed li.>r the bench and Notre Dame's scoring slowed down. The Bulldogs were able to trade baskets lor next lew minutes. Kurz said he was frus­trated with the inconsistency, whether or not it had to do with 1-larangody's prestmce. 
"Good teams have to be consis­tent all the tin1e," he said. 
Harangody came back into the game with 3:47 left in the half and the Irish up 30-12. Notre Dame scored the last 10 points of the half, including live by the fresh­man. 
At the break, Harangody had personally outscored The Citadel 16-12, though he credited that statistic to team defense rather than his own play. 
"I think it had a lot to do with playing great defense," he said. "We played amazing defense in the first half. 
Not to be outdone by llarangody, fellow fi>rwards Kurz, Luke Zeller. and Zach Hillesland combined for 22 points, 15 rebounds and seven assists for the game with llillesland adding a block. 
Brey said the production inside forced the Bulldogs to abandon the zone defense they had employed heavily in their previous games against Iowa and Michigan State. 
"I thought we did a really good job of getting the ball inside against their zone early," Brey said. "In faet, we may have done a better job getting the ball inside the zone than we did against man !defense! today." 
The Irish became more lack­adaisical in the second half, cruis­ing to a 24-point victory but get­ting outscored 38-34 after the break. 
"We've got to put our foot on the pedal," senior captain Colin Falls said. "The defensive end kind of looked sloppy. It shouldn't be hard to keep the interest up. We're playing college basketball. We're going to have to bring it for 40 minutes for the rest of our games." 
Part of the reason for the turn-


NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
•

Irish hold on to vv1n 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
After letting Western Michigan clinlb back from a 10-point deficit, Notre Dame pulled ahead 53-51 after two free throws from center Mellisa D'Amico with 14 minutes to play in the game -a lead they would not relinquish in its 87-67 win Sunday. 
The Irish would go on to shut down the Broncos offense, allow­ing no field goals in the next seven minutes while scoring 18 of the next 22 points. 
Guard Breonna Gray set the tone for the Irish nm with a three point­er at 13:38 after a kickout from junior point guard Tulyah Gaines set up an open look at the basket. 
The Broncos tried to clinlb back in the game with back-to-back buckets by Sara Vest and Nicole Watkins, but freshman guard Ashley Barlow nailed a three from the left-side of the arch at the baseline. Barlow had found her sweet spot with her first three, as she sank another shot from the same spot beyond the arch to put the lead back to 16 points. 
"I was just wide open, so I fig­ured I'd shoot them," said Barlow, who finished the game 3-of-4 from three-point range. "Nobody was coming at me so I just worked on taking my time and getting the shot. We worked on that before the game." 
One main reason for the big win for Notre Dame was its ability to contain Broncos guard Carrie Moore. Moore was able to put up 18 points on the Irish on 5-of-11 shooting, but this was still a far cry from her average of 32.3 points per game -including a 41-point performance Friday night against Detroit. 
"I was really pleased with our defense on Moore," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "She's a big east caliber player, just an out­standing offensive talent and I think we did a great job on her and kind of wore her down a little bit." 
In charge of guarding Moore was Gray -McGraw's go-to player for guarding top scorers. 
"I take pride in my defense and I'm willing to do anything to get the win for our team," Gray said. "Coming out and shutting down around after halftime was an adjustment by Bulldogs coach Ed Conroy to use more full court press, which the Irish struggled against at tinles. Conroy also told his team to be more physical after the break. "We told our guys that when you are outsized, you have to strike the first blow," he said. 

While the strategy worked for the most part. it resulted in two intentional fouls called against the Bulldogs -one by guard Vytautas Valiulis after a steal by Irish guard Russell Carter and another during a fast break by I larangody when the Irish forward was slammed into the base off the basket by Citadel forward Demetrius Nelson. 
Harangody lay on the ground for a minute after the play, but was not injured. 
Eleven players saw action for the Irish Sunday, with Brey rotat­ing nine for most of the game and inserting freshmen Joe Harden and Jonathan Peoples late in the game. 
Notre Dame will next be in action Nov. 27 against Lehigh at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

after squandering early lead 
their best player -that's my job to do in order to get a win for us." 
The Irish were without frnshman center Erica Williamson as a strong post player olT the bench, forcing starters D'Amico and for­ward Crystal Erwin.to step up and dominate in the post. Erwin and D'Amico answered the call for the Irish, putting up 14 and 16 points each while dominating in the paint against the shorter Broncos play­ers. 
"I thought that [Mellisa D'Amico] played a great game overall ­start to finish," McGraw said. "She was a big presence in the lane olfensivdy and defensively." 
Joining Erwin and D'Amico for the Irish as double-digit scorers were Gray {1 0), guard Charel Allen {12) and Barlow {17). 
The Irish were also able to work the ball against the Western Michigan defense, setting up their offense effectively enough to regis­ter 27 assists on 31 made field goals -their highest assist total since Nov. 12, 2004, against lllinoi'l State in the Preseason WNIT. Leading Notre Dame in assi'll'i was Gaines, who dished out a career­best nine in the win. 

me the indicator after a loss," she 
. said. "We had two good days of practice, we knew what we had to do, we knew what we did wrong and we're working to fix it." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
The 20-point win came on the heels of a 75-49 drubbing at the hands of Penn State Thursday. For McGraw, this win and the practices leading up to it wore important in building the character of her tearn. 
"We had a really good practice the day after and that's really for 
Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
•



Belles lose In first two contests 

KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer Sophomore forward Erin Newsom takes a shot during the Belles' 57-55 victory over Alma Jan. 25. 
By DAN COOPER Sports Wrirer 
It was a rough start for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's kicked off its 2006-07 season with a 68-48 loss to No. 5 Wheaton Friday and then lost in overtime Saturday to Wisconsin­Whitewater in the Lee Pfund Classic. 
Thunder 68, Belles 48 
Saint Mary's fell behind early against Wheaton, and the Thunder were content trading baskets with the Belles after staking a 20-point lead at the half. 
Facing a stout Wheaton defense, Saint Mary's was just 5-of-22 from the floor in the first half, and the troubles began early. 
Sophomore center Nicole Beier made a layup 21 sec­onds into the contest to give the Belles a quick 2-0 lead. That would be their only lead of the game and only field goal in the first 14:20 of the con­test. 
The Thunder had four play­ers score 10 points or more. and Saint Mary's committed too many turnovers to hang with the nationally ranked team. Wheaton lead 32-3 before Saint Mary's sunk its second shot from the floor. 
The Belles started hitting their shots from then on, bu only a 14-5 run to end the first half kept Saint Mary's within 20 points of Wheaton. 
But the Belles dido't quit. After falling behind by 24 halfway through the second period, junior guard Alison Kessler and sophomore for­ward Erin Newsom led Saint Mary's back, cutting the Thunder lead to 59-48 with 
2:48 remaining. But it was too little, too late. Wheaton ended the game on a 9-0 run for its final 68-48 advantage. 
Kessler finished with 17 points, converting 4-of-17 field goal attempts (3-of-5 3-point­ers) and 6-of-8 from the line for the career 85 percent charity stripe shooter. Newsom added 11 points and eight rebounds in 25 minutes off the bench. 
Thunder All-American can­didate center Jill Trenz lead Wheaton with 14 points,10 rebounds and five blocks. She was 6-of-i 1 from the floor and 2-of-2 from the free throw line. 
Warhawks 70, Belles 67 
(OT) 
Kessler led all scorers with 22 points and nailed a jumper as time expired to send the consolation game into over­time, but neither Kessler not Belles senior Bridget Lipke could hit a 3-pointer in the final five seconds as Wisconsin-Whitewater pulled out a back-and-forth game that saw 13 ties. 
Neither the Belles nor the Warhawks could take a com­manding lead in the contest, and both teams caught fire in the second half. Wisconsin­Whitewater made 52 percent of its shots in the second peri­od, and Saint Mary's shot 52.6 percent for the half. 
Warhawks junior center Lindsey Buechner scored 13 points and added 7 rebounds in just 21 minutes off the bench to lead Wisconsin­Whitewater. Before fouling out in the extra session, Buechner hit a jumper to put the Warhawks up 60-58 with five seconds left in regulation. 
Kessler and Lipke were the stars of the game for Saint Mary's, making seven and six shots, respectively, of their 18 attempts each. The Belles got the ball back with 14 seconds remaining in overtime, but couldn't hit the final shot. 
Lipke played 43 of the total 45 minutes and scored 15 for Saint Mary's. 
The Observer could not con­tact Belles coach Jennifer Henly for comment Sunday. 
Saint Mary's will take on Anderson at 7 p.m. Monday at the Angela Athletic Complex. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1@nd.edu 

Irish take Minnesota Invitational 
"B" qualifying times this sea­freshman Stacey Nedrud, sen­By CHRIS HINE son, finished second in the ior Rebecca Grove, and senior 
Sporrs Wrirer 
200-yard individual medley Ann Grove placed fifth. with a time of In their individ­
·The Notre Dame women's 2:01.40. ual events, the swimming and diving team Freshmen swimmers did not successfully defended its title Ashlee Edgell "We're in a great claim any titles, in the Minnesota Invitational and Megan position for the rest but put up strong this weekend, knocking off Farrell placed showings across
of the season. " 
three opponents ranked ahead third and sev­the board to propel of them on their way to victory. enth respectively Notre Dame into 
"This is one of the most pres­in the same Vivian Healey the lead. Johnson tigious events of the fall ·sea­event. Senior Irish freshman and Barton placed 
son, and we're excited to win Rebecca Grove it," said senior Julia Quinn. placed fifth in "We are excited to go to the the 50-yard 
U.S. Open in a couple of freestyle with a 23.84 second weeks." performance. 
The No. 20 Irish scored 889 "We practiced very hard for points, besting No. 5 Tennessee this meet and we've been (805 points), No. 16 Minnesota, training hard," Healey said. and No. 9 Wisconsin. (643 "We would even practice points each) before each day of 
"It was a really this meet." big deal for us to Notre Dame 
win this meet," "It was a really big captured the lead 
freshman Vivian deal for us to win on day two of the Healey said. "Our meet, taking a
this meet.'' 
team did really 598-572 lead over well overall." the Badgers. 
Through one Vivian Healey Carroll contin­day of competi­Irish freshman ued her consistent tion, the Irish swimming on day trailed the two with second Badgers 254-245. place finished in Sophomore Casey Wagner the 200-yard freestyle and scored the lone victory for 400-yard individual medley. Notre Dame on day one with a The Irish also had scoring 
4:49.89 performance in the efforts from their 200-yard 500-yard freestyle, her best medley relay teams. Johnson, time of the season in that Quinn, senior Jessica Stephens, event. Senior Katie Carroll, and sophomore Christa Riggins who has already set two NCAA placed second while Healey, 
third in the 100­
yard backstroke 

and 100-yard but­terfly respectively. Freshman Ashlee Edgell had a third place finish of her own in· the 400­yard IM. 
The Irish clinched the title on day three with the help of sophomore Claire Hutchinson's victory in the one-mile swim. Healey made the U.S. Open cut with her fourth place finish in the 100-yard breaststroke, while the divers turned in solid performance~. Freshman Natalie Stitt finished eighth in the one-meter dive, while fel­low freshman Tiffany Robak placed twelfth. Junior Tara Hyer came in tenth in the three-meter dive. 
"This was my first time in something like this and it was a great experience," Healey said. "We're in a great position for the rest of the season." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish await NCAA Championships 
Team prepares to take on field in Terra Haute, Ind. 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sporrs Wrirer 
After a year of preparation, the moment the Irish have been preparing for all year has finally arrived. 
Notre Dame will compete in its final race of the season today the NCAA Championships at the LaVern Gibson Championship Course in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Notre Dame reached the Championship race Nov. 11 after finishing second in the Great Lakes NCAA Regional race, behind only No. 1 Wisconsin. But making the race was not Notre Dame's only goal -the Irish also want to succeed. 
"If we run a really solid race, we should definitely be in the top ten in the country, which is our goal," Irish fresh­man Brock Hagerman said. "It's been what we've been working for all year. Anything better than top ten is just gravy." 
For Hagerman, this race is especially. important because it is his first at the national level, along with fellow Irish fresh­man Jake Walker. 
"[The NCAA Championship] is definitely the biggest, most competitive race I've ever been in," Hagerman said. "It was definitely a goal coming in here -one, make the varsity team and two, help get the team to nationals." 
But Hagerman said he Regional and National races, knows the focus today belongs the Irish have stayed focused on the team's accomplish­and ready for the final race. ments at Terre Haute, not on "We're just getting our reps his individual achievements. and getting recovered [in prac­
"We have [senior] Kurt tice]," Hagerman said. "All the [Benninger] and [sophomore work's been done before this Patrick] Smyth up there lead­week. We're ready to go-it's ing the team, but then we have just a matter of going out and 
a  pack of five  doing it."  
guys and we're  Although  the  
just going to try to run together and keep that  "If we run a really solid race, we  entire men's team will make the trip to Terre Haute  
pack rolling," Hagerman said. "We want to get our three, four  should definitely be in the top ten in the country."  today, only Sunni Olding will run for the Irish women. The junior  
and  five  up  received  that  
around the top hundred, which  Brock Hagerman Irish freshman  honor because of her fifth place fin­ 

would give us great position to run with the top ten in the country." 
Running with Hagerman in that five-man pack will be Walker, juniors Brett Adams and Jake Watson and senior Todd Ptacek. But Notre Dame's top two runners, Benninger and Smyth, will again lead the Irish. Along with Watson, Benninger and Smyth were named Watson to the all-Big East squad with their top-15 finish in the conference cham­pionship Oct. 27. The duo also came across the line seventh and third in the Great Lakes Regional to help get the Irish into the NCAA Championship. 
"Kurt and Patrick are real special in the fact that they don't only lead us in every race but every practice they're out there working," Hagerman said. "They definitely lead by example. Their consistency is going to pay off tomorrow." 
In the week between the 
ish at the Regional 
championship. 

''I'm always proud to represent Notre Dame and my teammates who work so hard every race. This is just another chance to do that," Olding said. 
Unlike most of the runners in today's race who have teammates to run with in packs, Olding will be on her own because Notre Dame did not receive an at-large invita­tion to the NCAA Championship. Despite being the only Irish representative on the course, Olding's mind­set going into the NCAA Championship is the same as any other runner's. 
"You want to finish with a low score and race as fast as I can," she said, "and now I want to finish as fast as I can, so my strategy isn't really that different." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5 @nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2006 
ND WoMEN's SoccER CoMMENTARY 

Seniors' season con1ing to end 
Brittany Bock was shivering. 
The Notre Dame sophomore forward sat in the tiny press tent on a frigid November evening answering reporters' questions about her two goals in a 3-0 Irish win over 
• Colorado in the third round of the NCAA Tournament. It was flat­tering, but these weren't the people she wanted to talk to. Then the people she was waiting to see ­one of them, anyway-poked his head into the tent. 
"Grandpa!" Bock exclaimed, throwing her arms around the man in the big blue coat and bringing the formalities of the post-game press conference to an abrupt end. 
Katie Grilfm was crying. 
The Buffaloes senior had just played her final game, falling 3-0 to the nation's No.1 team on the road. She too was freezing, but she wasn't worried about that. Her season -the best in Colorado history -and career were over. 
She tried to put a positive spin on it. 
"Ifyou had to lose to somebody you might as well go out to the No. 1 team in the nation," Griffin said. "We worked our butts off. You win some, you lose some, but overall I thought we all played good as a team." 
Her face told a different story, and as she hugged equally emo­tional freshman teammate Nikki Marshall, it was like Griffin was handing over the future of a pro­gram on the rise. 
Women's soccer isn't a revenue sport. It doesn't draw huge crowds or even rate a section of the marching band. But to the players and those who support them, it means everything. 


SHAKE AND BAKE 

Hight now, th<1 Irish program is the best in the nation. It is 23-0-1 this season and will host the national quarterfinals next friday against Penn State in the last home game of the seniors' earner. And while most Notre Dame stu­dents will be home celebrating Thanksgiving, the Irish know they can count on their most die-hard fans -their families -to be in attendance. 
There will be no victory lap li>r the women's soccer seniors like the football seniors got Saturday. They will just high five and hug and say goodbye to Alumni Field next Friday as they (most likely) start to focus on a national semifi­nal game. 
At times, Randy Waldrum's squad resembles a little League team. It's a close-knit group with heavily involved parents and grandparents always waiting out­side the gate for the players after the game -and who sometimes venture inside the press tent. The team even goes out to Chili's together after victories . 
And while Waldrum is constant­ly pushing for bigger crowds and more student fans -and he occa­sionally gets them, like last Friday's contingent that earned complaints from the Colorado coaching staff for its rowdiness ­this Irish squad is playing for iL'inlf and il'i teammates. 

Many are world class athletes who have represented thnir coun­try in eompPtition and many wern on the team that won the national championship just two years ago, but none of that matters now. 
What mattnrs to the Notrn Dame players -espncially to the seniors -is not to be the ones with tears in th<1ir eyes, rnalizing the season (and for some of them, their soccer eareers) is over. 
They want to be the ones who get to keep playing soccer with their best friends, making thnir families proud, until they can hoist that national championship tro­phy. 
And even then, even with the ESPN eameras rolling and their dormmates back home glued to the TV, the most important thing will be finding their parents and grandparents and giving them a hug. 
And then finding out whore the nearest Chili's is. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

NO VOLLEYBALL 



Notre Dame falls in Big East final 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Spons Writer 
In. a rematch of last year's Big East Championship, Notre Dame was unable to upset two-seed Louisvillf1 and securo itself an NCAA Tournament berth in the 30­26, :~0-25, 24-30, 17-30, 12­15 loss in Cincinnati Sunday. 
Earlier in the tournament, the Irish toppled impressive opponents who had dominat­ed Notre Dame earlier in the season. Every team that Notre Dame played in the Big East tournament had won 3-0 in the regular sea­son. 
"When you look at the throe teams we played, dur­ing only one game against them did we have our regu­lar starting line up with Adrianna coming out in the 11rst game against St. Johns," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "That was a pretty major reason why they were able to beat us." 
By the time Notre Dame got to mont these teams again, the team was healed up, finely tuned, and ready to take on the best in the conference. 
Notre Dame 3, Cincinnati 2 
Notre Dame won their first l'ive-game match all season to advance past Cincinnati in the 30-28, 25-30, 28-30, 30­26, 15-9 upset. Ilaving lost in fifth-game heartbreakers early in the season to Missouri and Northern Iowa, the Irish displayed great progress as they were able to win the last two games of the match and send the Bearcats home winless. 
Sophomore Mallorie Croal and Junior Adrianna Stasiuk were offensive forces, with Croal notching 25 kills and Stasiuk registering 23. Stasiuk also had 26 digs, sec­ond only to senior libero Danielle Herndon's 34. 
The Cincinnati offense was led by Jessie Nevitt's 20 kills at a hitting percentage of .306. Jaime Frey had 37 digs. 
Taking a timeout late in the fourth game, Notre Dame found themselves down 17­24 in a must-win situation. Kills from Croal and fresh­man Christina Kaelin helped the Irish to a 13-2 run. Consecutive blocks from freshman Kim Kristoff and a service ace from Croal sealed the game for Notrn Dame. 
In .the f'i rth game, Notre Dam<1 maintained their momentum and came out to a 10-3 lead early. A Stasiuk kill put tho final nail in the coiTin for Cineinnati and put Notre Dame into the semifi­nals to face 24th rankfld St. Johns. 
Notre Dame 3, St. John's 1 
Ilype was not enough for St. Johns to trample over Notre Dame for a second time this season· as they came up short in the Irish's 30-23, 30-28, 28-30, 30-20 win. Led by Croal's 16 kills at a hitting percentage of .361, Notre Dame played well to give St. Johns its sec­ond loss this season. Freshman Serenity Phillips was an important. facet of the Notre Dame victory with 14 kills and 8 blocks. Herndon led in digs with 24. 

After a Stasiuk service error lost Notre Dame game three, the Irish went into their fourth game still up 2­
1. A kill from Croal con­vinced St. Johns to take a time out and try to regroup, but Notre Dame went on a 8­4 run to widen their lead to 20-10. Notre Dame held on to this lead until a kill from sophomore Justine Stremick won the game and match. 
Louisville 3, Notre Dame 2 
Notre Dame could not manage to pull off another five-game victory this week­end in the :~0-26, 30-25, 24­30, 17-30, 12-15 loss to Louisville. Kaelin led the los­ing effort with 18 wins, hit­ting at .222. Herndon fueled the defensive game with 23 digs. 
"We were mainly con­cerned with their outside hit­ters," Coach Brown explained of Louisville, "They get a majority of the sets. We made good adjust­ments, which is the key to have good success." The Irish still had trouble con­taining Louisville freshman Tatyana Kolesniko·va who scored 21 digs and had three service aces in the match. Notre Dame took charge at the start of the championship match, taking both of the first two garnes. 
Then the Irish hit a wall as the Cardinals were able to put together an 8-2 run to lead in the third match 22­
14. Notre Dame battled back with a 5-3 run, but could not prevent the kill from Stephanie Marsh which sealed game three for Louisville. 
Louisville opened up game four with a lot of momentum coming into a 5-1 lead early. A kill from Croal kicked off a Notre Dame 5-1 run to tie the game back up . Kolesnikova led a 9-1 Louisville run that gave the Cardinals the 20-11 lead they needed to win the game. A service ace from Kolesnikova ended the fourth game in dominant fashion to leave both teams tied at 2 games apiece, with only fif­teen points left to dBtermine the Championship. 
Louisville established another 5-1 lead in the fifth game, but this time it took the Irish much more effort to work back to a 10-10 tie. After a Louisville timeout, back to back kills from Jana Matiasovska allowed the Cardinals to ereep ahead and win the Big East title with a final kill from Kristie Wetterer. 
''I'm really, really proud of the team" Brown said. "We battled all the way to the end and were really playing bet­ter volleyball then we were two weeks ago, even last week." 
Contact Devin Preston at dpresto 1 @nd.edu 
Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Quinn -replacing starter Chris Cahill, who was injured in the 

Spartans
Terps 
35th minute -but King's shot continued from page 24 rebounded back off the post. 
continued from page 24 Quinn, who hadn't seen serious both goals (22) and points (49), minutes since Sept. 8 against 
team dominated the Spartans tallied the only goal of the match South Florida, came off the 
physically out of the gates at the off a beautiful feed from central bench to make four saves. After 
Joyce Center Friday. Christian defender Dale Rellas with just the match, Clark praised the 
Hanson and freshman over three minutes to go in the effort of his sophomore goalie. 
Christiaan Minella led the way second overtime. "Quinn has been such a posi­
by abusing the undersized The play started when Rellas tive person all season," Clark 
Michigan State players. Minella, won the ball 30 yards from the said. "What we did early in the 
who made his second career Maryland goal. He proceeded to season -giving both Quinn and 
start Friday night, has added a thread a pass in between two Cahill game action -really 
new component to the team Terrapin defenders to an worked out well beca·use it let 
with his 217 -pound frame. onrushing Lapira. Lapira then the team get used to Quinn and 
"We had to come out and real­hammered a low shot past let him get some experience." 
ly hit them to take them out of Maryland goalie Chris Seitz off Maryland had most of its good 
the game early," Minella said, the far post and into the goal. chances before Cahill was 
"We just wanted to go out and The tally was Lapira's fourth injured when it controlled the 
hit everybody." career goal in the NCAA run of play. Just over two min­
After a scoreless first period, Tournament, including Notre utes into the match, King sent a 
Jason Paige got things going second rebound goal at 9:25 in experienced a lot of that." Dame's only goal against Illinois­blast towards the Notre Dame 
seven minutes into the second the second period. Lerg stopped The teams traded goals in the Chicago in its 1-0 second round goal that Cahill was forced to 
period with his fourth goal of the Wes O'Neill's initial shot but final period with junior Brock victory Wednesday and against deflect over the crossbar. Later 
year. sophomore Justin White Sheahan scoring his first career both Western Illinois and Indiana in the half, Terrapin midfielder 
Minella started the play with a grabbed the rebound and dished goal for the Irish. Bryan Lerg in last year's NCAA Tournament. Maurice Edu sent a shot towards 
perfect pass through a Spartan off to Paige to put the Irish up 2-ruined the shutout by sneaking With his goal Saturday night, the left corner of the goal, but 
defender's legs to defenseman 0. a shot under Brown's arm that Lapira set a new program record Cahill was there again to make 
Noah Babin. Babin fired a shot Notre Dame put the game trickled into the net with 13 for career goals in the NCAA one of his three saves on the 
from the point and Paige rushed away just 14 seconds later when minutes remaining in the game. Tournament, a mark previously night. 
the net to pound in the loose White deflected a shot from Dan Notre Dame will return to the held by Justin Detter at three The Irish responded later in 
puck. VeNard for the third goal of the road next weekend as it travels goals. the first half when an unmarked 
"[Jeff Lerg]'s a small kid and night. to Nebraska-Omaha for a two "[Lapira] has scored enough Nate Norman received a cross 
we knew if we could get traffic "I felt confident with our team game series with the Mavericks. goals that we've come to expect near the left side of the box, but 
there would be rebounds and going into this game, but they this kind of performance out of his shot was stopped by Seitz 
we just had to capitalize when still have to learn to believe that him," Clark said. "He's a goal who had seven saves on the 
we got them," Paige said. they can win games like this," Contact Dan Murphy at scorer, and if he gets half a evening. 
The senior center scored his Jackson said. "They haven't dmurphy6@nd.edu chance, he's usually going to put "It took a little while for us to them away." settle," Clark said. "The first 20 
Just two minutes prior to minutes were the toughest for scores. said. "Even though I haven'tLapira's golden goal, the Irish us, but as the game went on we ''I'm very aggressive up in been practicing, [I wanted to]


Bock
were inches away from another were the better side." 
the air so any chance I can get a few minutes in at a timefrustrating exit from the fmal 16. 
continued from page 24 get to get my head on it I do," and try to get healthy thisTerrapin midfielder Stephen Contact Greg Arbogast at Bock said. "I always feel the next week because I'd like toKing beat Irish keeper Andrew garbogas@nd.edu 
from 25 yards out that sailed ball is going come right to me be on the field as long as I by Buffalos keeper Kirstin and I'm going to find the goal. can." Radlinski. Irish coach Randy That's my mentality." Her backliners probably Waldrum watched in admira­The Irish kept their lead didn't catch her virus, but her tion as he stood on the side­thanks to strong defensive attitude was contagious. lines. play by the backline. Senior Notre Dame limited Colorado 
"I thought Brittany tonight defender Christie Shaner freshman forward phenom had a great game for us," returned to the field after Nikki Marshall who Waldrum said, "and I think missing both of last weekend's entered the game with 17 the first goal she scored was contests, providing an aggres­goals -to just one shot. world class." sive presence in her 26 min­Central defender freshman 
But the Irish didn't stand by utes -an attitude the Irish Haley Ford took the ball off idly after Bock's first goal, defense missed in Notre Buffalo strikers' feet, helping kicking their intensity up a Dame's second round 1-0 vic­to fortify a defensive unit notch for the rest of the tory over Wisconsin­already missing Big East match and outshooting the Milwaukee a week earlier. Defensive Player of the Year Buffalos 26-5. After the game, Shaner said Carrie Dew, who tore her ACL 
In the 34th minute, Bock she had been held out the last three weeks ago. used her head to place a Kerri two weeks after contracting In the second half, Hanks Hanks corner in the right cor­meningitis, which forced her followed her assist with her ner of the net to take a 2-0 to stay away from the team national-best 22nd goal in the lead -marking the 245th and at the hospital for three 89th minute, curving a direct straight game Notre Dame and a half days. She said she kick into the upper corner of has won after reaching that didn't know if she was going the net from 25 yards out for point. Bock's header was the to be able to play until Friday. her fourth goal of the NCAA 11th she's knocked in for a "It felt good to get my legs Tournament after a hat trick goal out of her 23 career back from under me," Shaner in the 7-1 opening win over 
Oakland (Mich.). 
After Notre Dame squeaked by Wisconsin-Milwaukee, Friday's game went a long way to rebuild Irish momen­tum as they prepare this week for their final home game of the y~ar Friday against Penn State at 7:30 at Alumni Field. A win will vault the Irish back to the Final Four. 
"We talked about our out­side backs dealing with the wide players, and I thought we did a good job with that," Waldrum said. "I think [mid­fielders] Jill [Krivacek], [Jen Buczkowski] and Amanda Cinallli were determined they weren't going to have another performance like that. And I thought all three were very good for us settling the ball and calming things down. 

Waldrum also said he was "extremely pleased" with Notre Dame's intensity com­ing into the game. 
"I [said] during the week I'd be shocked if we didn't come out and play well, and I felt the girls came out with a real­ly good focus," he said. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 




page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 20, 2006 
Manor 
continued from page 24 
biggest plays in the second half. Morrissey senior Chris Calderone intercepted a pass from O'Neill quarterback Chris Stroh on the Mob's opening drive to give Morrissey the ball at its own 21-yard line. Led by the rushing of Bencomo and Pieh, the Manorites pounded the ball down to the O'Neill15-yard line. 
As time expired in the third quarter, Morrissey took a 14-7 lead on a McBrayer touchdown pass to sophomore Carl Anderson, who was wide open on the right side of the end zone when cornerback Alex Klupchak fell down in coverage at the 1­yard line. 
Both teams started the game off slowly on offense, and the game was scoreless well into the second quarter. The Mob broke through first with an eight-play, 65-yard scoring drive that ran close to eight minutes off the clock in the second quarter. 
O'Neill's offense was led by fullback Mike Mattmgly and run­ning back Braden Turner, who 
SPRING 2007 COURSE 

the Woulb of the ffi1bb1£ aqes 
ffil20001 01 

MW 1:55-2:45 PM F Vft.RIABLE
FULFILLS: 

HISTORY UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENT OR LITERATURE UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENT OR 4i HISTORY MAJOR REQUIREMENT .q= OR H' MEDIEVAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENT 
~iJ~·~·· 
Illf&.1 MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE
sample of other Spring 2007 courses.~[!;\ 
Unive-rsity of Notre Dame

10\ MI 20193 ToLKU!:N~w LE.WIS, AND M,EDI~YAL Lrr. MI 30672 SAINTS. A}\!J) KINGS IN MEDI~~ALIRELA'N MI 30700 INTRODUCTION TO MEDif:VAL ART For information about MI 40212 AGE OF CHARLEMAGNE MEDIEVAL STUDIES MI 40553 DANTE II MI 40605 THE RoMANS AND THEIR GoDs 

combined to gain all 65 yards on the drive. With two-and-a-half minutes remaining in the first half, Mattingly put the Mob up 7­0 by sprinting into the right cor­ner of the end zone for a 17­yard touchdown run. 
But O'Neill was not able to bask in its glory for long. The Manorites were determined to score before halftime, and McBrayer came out of the gate firing. He completed his first two passes of the drive to receiver Daniel Reimer for a combined 49 yards and moved the Manorites to the Mob 16-yard line. On the drive's third play, McBrayer lobbed a pass to Klein in the left corner of the end zone that was caught for a touchdown to tie the score with 1 :43 left on the clock. 
"We were surprised by their offense coming out and scoring right after we took the lead. Our offense had controlled the ball and our defense had been get­ting stops, so we didn't expect it," O'Neill captain Pat Conley said of the Morrissey touch­down. 
Conley insisted the game-tying touchdown was not a letdown for his team, but the ensuing 


KATE FENLONfThe Observer 
Mob recevier Nate Forte runs upfield after a catch in O'Neill's 14-7 loss to Morrissey in the lnterhall championship game. 

Mob possession turned the game in Morrissey's favor. After O'Neill marched down the lield to the Manorite one-yard line, Mattingly was stopped at the line of scrimmage on a third-down run with four seconds left in the half. Although the Mob tried to get a linal play ofT, they had no timeouts remaining and time expired with the score tied at 7. 
"That stop at the end of the half was a huge momentum builder for us," Klein said. "It really helped our confidence going into halftime because it showed us we could make big plays." 
O'Neill threatened again on its first possession aller Morrissey took the lead. That Mob drive lasted 15 plays, leading O'Neill to the Manorite 7 -yard line. But Manorite Phil Yuhas picked ofT Stroh's pass into the endzone on fourth-down with 2:10 remain­ing. 
While Morrissey gave the Mob the ball back with 20 seconds still left, Andersen batted down Stroh's pass into the end zone as time expired, making the Manorites the champions. 
"It's an amazing feeling to finally win. I didn't rPally realize how close we were until that clock ticked to zero," Klein said. "But now,' it's all sinking in." 
Klein credited his tmtm's sen­ior leadership with leading the squad to vietory. 
"We have a lot of seniors, and we've been so dose the past two years," he said. "Our seniors really pulled us through this game. 
"It's great to go out on top," he said. "There's no better ending than winning the championship game in Notre Dame Stadium. We won with great guys, with guys we've lived with for four years, with our frinnds. I'm happy right now." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel @nd.edu 


Repeat 
continued from page 24 
down drive, giving Pasquerilla West a 6-0 lead. The following possession began with a Phox first down but came to an abrupt end as the Purple Weasels intercepted the next pass. Pasquerilla West immedi­ately threw a 23-yard touch­down bomb to put them up 12-0. 
"The interceptions definitely played a major factor. They got our momentum up and kept us in great field position for the ofl'ense." Spring said. "We came out with some big plays on offense which has kind of been one of our fortes the season. We have receivers who can come up with big catchns." 
The Purple Weasels also used tough defPnse to stop the Pangborn offense, forcing the Phoxes to punt three times and turn the ball over twice. 
"It was unfortunate that (Pasquerilla Westl came out and made some plays right ofT tho bat. I think you really have to give credit to them though for making those plays,''-said Pangborn coach Anthony Bartolaeei. "We weren't settled in the first half, but I'm proud that our girls didn't give up. We got more into our groove in thn sncond half but it turned out to be not quite enough." 
The Phoxes werit into half time down 12-0 but remained calm and tried to comnback. Both teams traded possessions before Pasquerilla West was able to strikn again, making it 19-0 with just 8:31 left in the game. It 
CHECK LIST 


LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer Irish defenseman Brock Sheahan checks Spartan Bryan Lerg into the glass during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over MSU Friday. 

looked as though the game was out of reach until Pangborn strung together a quick three­play, 55-yard drive to make it 19-7. The ensuing possession resulted in a three-and-out for the Purple Weasels, giving the ball back to the Phoxes with just over two minutes to play. Down two scores, with only 2:10 to play, Pangborn quarterback Katie Mooney found Mary Davis in the back of the end-zone for her second touchdown of the day, making it 19-13. 
"We knew that Pangborn was a really good team. After making it dose late in the game, we just focused hard and finished it out," Spring said. 
The Phoxes tried to regain possession but were unable to do so as the Purple Weasnls ran out the clock in three plays, giv­ing them their second champi­onship in two seasons. 
"It felt great after winning last year to be able to make it back to the stadium. That was our goal all year," Spring said. "Our team is pretty heavy on seniors this year and I think this is a great way to end our football experience at Notre Dame." 
Pangborn, another senior­heavy team, also is happy with its success this season. 
''I'm really proud of the team. They could have quit but didn't. The seniors thought it was great playing in thP stadium for the second straight year and would have loved to win but unfortu­nately that didn't happen this year," Bartolacei said. 
Contact Mike Burdell at mburdell@nd.edu 


Monday, November 20, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
""IHIS. WMJ M'f ,e...Litl!:rHT 'Bo'(S T1 ME. To LA~i "TiME. HEI:E SKEE.-t::>A t:>.clu;.. OU.T or S£"£. A C:IAME. HE.'-£-w£!fZ,e. &of'lf'll>t. AS A ~'Tu~T. et\Vt "TI-t\$ PLAU:.. A 
ITS ":.D TDLI<:JH To (:,;00(> H.~t>ow...... IF 
LEA\If_. I CAtir 'fOU.. CANT IVI(>VE., I'L-L &.•Nl% M"\SE.Lf CALL '"J"IM AND 1-t£. 1 \...L To PD IT BF!-tN\.(" HIS PR~IN' B.AR... 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 33 Popular soap 64 _ Park, Colo. 1 The life of Riley 35 Son of, in 65 Late civil rights Arabic names activist Parks
5 Blessings 36 Motto of New 66 "What !"
10 "How about Hampshire ("How cool!")
?!" 41 Western treaty 67 Fashion

14 Voting group grp. 
68 Headliner15 AM/FM device 

42 Rick's love in 16 Rabbit moves 
"Casablanca" DOWN 

17 When one might 43 Bit of hair 1 Flow's partner
wear a hat cream, say 2 Chicken19 Singer 45 Generic 
kingIndia. modeling "clay" 

3 Lawn makeup

20 Binary code digit for tots 
4 Sounds in an 

21 Presidential 49 Bull in a bullfight 
empty hall advisers 50 Airs, in Latin 
5 Cheese from 23 Done 51 _ Beta Kappa 
France 

permanently, as 52 "A right _ old 6 Boater's bladewriting elf" (Santa) 7 Like 1, 3, 5, 7 ...
26 The first 'T' of 
53 Three-letter 8 An essentialTNT combo vitamin 

28 Smart 55 Mooer 
9 Kind of bean

(wiseacres) 56 Ascent 
1 0 It was once

29 Neighbor of 
57 Stamp on an Siam

Vietnam 
envelope 
11 Like bulls' heads30 Gidget player in without enough 

12 Each

"Gidget" stamps 
37 Travelers
13 Sleeping

32 "_Abner" 63 Verb type: Abbr. 
38 Relating to 

grades 1-12 many rappersANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Raggedy-59 No. with an 
sickness carrier 

39 British rocker 48 Highest
-:-:-r-=-r-:-r-:-r:::-1 22 Singer Streisand area code Billy 
49 TV transmission
-:-t-:-:t--:-t::-;t;::-i 23 Running a 
so Period 

temperature, say 40 Countess's sites husband 61 Land north of
-:-:t-:+::+.::+.:::-i 24 Hammer's target 52 Morning run, 44 "Whew!" perhaps Mex.
25 sci (college major, 45 Homeland, to 54 "Planet of the 62 End point for an informally) Horace iPod cord 26 Pre-1917 Russian ruler 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 27 North Carolina·s-credit card, 1-800-814-5554. capital Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 31 "Vaya con_" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ("Go with God") Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 33 More tired past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 34 Assuming that's solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. true 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip_______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each ·square, _ 

Let's listen to our tape to form four ordinary words. 
and improve our tones 
FRUOM 
1 
rJ 

©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANGLO 


I I I

tNAUMUT 
WHAT TH~ BARB~R­SHOP QUART~J I I lu US!:D TO P~RF~T TH~IR HARMONY. 
www.jumble.com 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

1 suggested by the above cartoon. 


J rJ J 
Answer: 

A "r I I I I J"r I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: JOINT AGONY FEUDAL SECEDEYesterday's Answer: 
When the salesman told him what the diamond cost, he turned-"STONE" DEAF 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kerri Strug, 29; Jodie Foster, 44; Meg Ryan, 45; Ted Turner, 68 
Happy Birthday: This can be a money year for you if you are serious about turning your knowledge into a viable commodity. Rely on past experience. There are no comers to cut if you want to excel. Your numbers are 18, 26, 28, 33, 37, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Take a look at some investments that interest you. A residential move or property deal looks quite favorable. Money appears to be heading your way. If a contract is pending, check it over and make final adjustments. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): You'll be up and down emotionally, making it vital for you to stick to basics, keep things simple and refrain from stretching the truth. Someone may not be honest with you about the way he or she feels. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you are unhappy with your current position or direction, check into courses you can take that will help you go down a new path. A change will be as good as a rest and is likely to promote love. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in control so stop being so afraid to make a move. Travel, socializing and dealing with family, friends or even new acquaintances will go very well. Love, romance and having fun are all in the stars. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have to be careful what you say to whom and how you present yourself today. Exaggeration will lead to promises that you can't fulfill. Someone older and wiser will put you in your place quickly. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Getting together with friends, neighbors or family will all lead to valuable information. A partnership is likely to develop that can help you get something you've always wanted to do off the ground. 4 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone from your past should be brought back into your world. If you don't make the effort, you may lose the connection forever. A little forgive-and-forget may be required. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be emotional as well as your own worst enemy today. Your best recourse is to go out, have fun and focus on love, entertainment and impressing someone you care deeply about. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Everything will be top secret, undercover or just plainly not in your view. Before you make a decision, take the day off. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The more you can share with people who are on the ball and eager to try new things, the more you will learn. Experience is the key and today you can gather plenty of that. Put yourself on the line. 4 stars ­
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tread carefully. You are likely to offend someone with comments you make or you may even end up in a tangled web of lies if you haven't been completely honest with the people around you. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A trip down memory lane or an actual jaunt back to old familiar places will prompt you to get in touch with someone who has been on your mind. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have moral fiber, backbone and will stand up and be counted. You are a doer, highly competitive and always ready for a challenge. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugeniala~t.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Monday, November 20, 2006 
page 24 
INTERHALL fiNALS 
Played like champions 
By JOHN TIERNEY Sports Writer 
Although O'Neill gained more yards of total offense than Morrissey did on Sunday, the Manorites defeated the Mob 14-7 to capture their first men's Interhall championship since 1993. 
Morrissey was led by the three­pronged rushing attack of Nick Bencomo, Brian Pieh and team captain Steve Klein, who com­bined to run for 7 4 yards on 13 carries. Also critical to Morrissey's success was quarter­back Joe McBrayer, who com­pleted seven of 10 passes for 120 yards. 
The Manorites made their 
see MANOR/page 22 By MICHAEL BURDELL 


Sports Writer 

Led by its strong defense and potent offense, Pasquerilla West repeated as Women's Interhall champions this Sunday, defeat­ing Pangborn 19-1. 
"We were really pumped for the game. It doesn't take much to get excited when playing in the stadium and we knew our best chance was to come out early and make a statement," Purple Weasels captain Maureen Spring said. 
The Purple Weasels used this strong combination to pull ahead early, forcing Pangborn to punt on their first possession that lead to a 48-yard touch-
see REPEAT/page 22 

HOCKEY 
Notre Dame splits home-and-home with MSU 
Friday's loss with a 2-0 win. Lerg period. Jim McKenzie threaded a [Paul] Pooley for the work he against Michigan State. 
By DAN MURPHY 
stopped all 25 Notre Dame shots pass through the Irish defense does with the penalty kill -a The loss snapped Notre Dame's 
Sports Writer 
-including 10 in the third peri­and Lerg fired it in to the back of year ago it was a weakness of nine-game unbeaten streak that od -to hold Notre Dame score­the net. ours." Jackson said. dated back to an Oct. 20 win over 
No. 5 Notre Dame (9-2-1, 4-2-1 less for the first time this season. That goal was the first power Sophomore Tim Crowder had Boston College. During the CCHA) and No. 4 Michigan State "Michigan State was pretty play goal given up by the Notre the Spartans' other goal when he stretch, the Irish outscored their (6-3-1, 4-3-1 CCHA) traded home upset getting beat the way they Dame defense since a 1-1 tie with got loose around the top of the opponents 36-7, including two victories this weekend to remain did the night before," Irish coach Ohio State Nov. 4. The Irish circles and snapped off a shot shutouts for Brown. in a four-way tie for fourth place Jeff Jackson said. "I think that penalty-killing unit is currently that beat goalie Dave Brown in the CCHA. they were a much better team in the best in the country, having glove side. Notre Dame 4, 
Michigan State goalie Jeff Lerg the first period [on Saturday]." given up only five goals in 66 East Lansing has not been kind Michigan State 1 got his second shutout of the year Junior Bryan Lerg scored attempts. to the Irish in recent history. A bigger, stronger Notre Dame at Munn Ice Arena Saturday Michigan State's first goal on the "I think our defimse has played Since 1992 the team has lost 19­night as the Spartans avenged power play at 3:39 in the second well and I have to credit coach of-22 games played on the road see SPARTANS/page 21 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Irish advance to quarters 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Sophomore forward Brittany Bock struck gold with both her foot and her head Friday
-
to lead No. 1 Notre Dame over No. 16 Colorado See Also 
3-0 in the 
"Seniors' season

N C A A Sweet 16 coming to end" match at 
page 20

Alumni Field. 
Aft e r playing evenly with Colorado for the first 15 minutes, Bock took a pass from senior mid­fielder Jill Krivacek, turned to the goal and fired a rocket ALLISON AMBROSErrhe Observer 
Irish midfielder Ashley Jones heads the ball forward in Notre see BOCK/page 21 Dame's 3-0 win over Colorado Friday in the NCAA Tournament. 

MEN's SoccER 
ND knocks off No.5 Terps in College Park 
terfinals. After three consecutive
I.apira's OT goal sends 
losses in the Sweet 16, including 
team to Elite Eight a 1-0 loss to Clemson last season and a defeat in penalty kicks to Michigan in 2003, Notre Dame 
By GREG ARBOGAST will advance to play No. 4 seed 
• Sports Writer 
Virginia Friday. "It certainly was an excellent win," Irish coach Bobby Clark
With its 1-0 win in double 

said. 'That's two years in a rowovertime against fifth-seeded that we've knocked the defend­
Maryland Saturday night in 
ing champion out at their place.
College Park, No. 12 Notre Dame 
The program is growing with
knocked the defending champion credibility every year." 
out of the NCM Tournament for Junior forward Joseph Lapirathe second consecutive year. 
once again provided the spark
That wasn't even the most 

for the Notre Dame offense.
impressive part. 
Lapira, who leads the nation in
By defeating Maryland, the Irish booked their first ever trip to the NCM Tournament quar-see TERPS/page 21 

ND VOI..lEYBAll 
SMC BASKETBALl ND SWIMMING ND WOMEN'S BBAU

MEN'S BASKETBAll 
SMC SWIMMING 

The Irish defended 
Four Belles swimmers 
Big East Wisconsin-WW 70 Notre Dame 7 4 Notre Dame 87 

their titie at the 
took individual events, The Irish advanced to 
tournament Saint Mary's 67 The Citadel 50 

WMU67 

Minnesota Invitational 
but the team fell180-102 the conference finals 
Allison Kessler scored 

Irish forward Luke The Irish had five 
by beating three higher 
to fall to 1-4 on the before falling to 
22 points in the Belles' 

Harangody scores 18 scorers in double­
ranked teams this 
season. Louisville in five games. 
overtime loss Saturday. 

points in 17 minutes in figures in their third weekend. 
the Notre Dame win. 
game of 80 or more points this season. 
page 18page 20 page 19page 19 page 19 page 19 






