
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students scratnble for advisor appointtnents 
College ofArts and Letters reports difficulty accomodating flood of scheduling questions 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
As students scramble to put together class schedules for the fall semester, some advising offices on campus are so swamped that advisors are forced to turn away students seeking guidance before they rngister for classes next week. 
While the undergraduate advising office in the College of Arts and Letters had openings earlier this month, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher said sched­uling has become increasingly diiTieult since so many students are struggling to squeeze in last­minute meetings with their advi­sors. 
"Our priority is seeing stu­dents, so we try to see everyone who walks through the door," Preacher said. "There are only four of us in the office, though, so if we get a rush of students, we may simply run out oftime to· see them." 
About 45 percent of non-fresh­man undergraduates have majors in the College ofArts and Letters. Advisors try to pack every student into their sched­ules, but the large number of requests sometimes makes this impossible, Preacher said. 
The University's award-win­ning First Year of Studies (FYS) program has been ranked one of the best in the nation -pairing each first year student with an 
see ADVISING/page 4 


College applicants break record 

By MOLLY LAMPING News Writer 
Saint Mary's received a record-breaking number of applications from high school seniors for the Class of 2010 with 1,159 students vying for a spot in the College's freshman class. And applications are still coming in. 
Saint Mary's has a rolling admissions policy, accepting stu­dents continuously as applica­tions are received. So far, 1,159 applications have been submit­ted to the Office of Admissions, Vice President of Enrollment Management Dan Brown said. 
The spike in applications rep­resents a 20 percent increase over last year's number and is the highest application total in 1 7 years, Brown said. 
With an average high school 


Writer criticizes 'DaVinci Code' 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Syndicated columnist and Catholic blogger Amy Welborn criticized bestselling novel "The Davinci Code" for depicting a version of Jesus Christ that is inconsistent with the Gospels during a lecture in DeBartolo Hall Monday. 
"The big theme of The DaVinci Code is that Christianity is the enemy to the truth," Welborn said. "But this is not new." 
In her lecture, titled "De­Coding DaVinci: The Fact Behind the Fiction of The DaVinci Code," Welborn explained that Dan Brown's 
see LECTURE/page 4 


GPA of 3.7 on a 4.0 scale and 
average SAT score of 1185 out 
of a possible 1600, the College's 
incoming freshman class is very 
promising, Brown said. He said 
those numbers are relatively 
comparable to academic statis­
tics from previous years. 
"I hate defining 'best' by aver­

age GPA and SAT scores, but 
this class has exceeded expecta­
tions academically," Brown said. 
So far, 910 students have been 

admitted to the College and 340 
students have already commit­
ted to fall enrollment. 
"We don't have a wait list, per 

se," Brown said. "Our policy is to 
accept all qualified students. It 
usually works itself out." 
Brown is "very confident" that · numbers for the incoming class 
will reach 390 by mid-May, but 
he said he does not want that 
see SMC/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Me111bers give ideas for LaFun 
Resolution proposes more storage, venues 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) unanimously passed a resolution Monday recom­mending renovations for LaFortune Student Center as part of the Campus Master Plan, a 15-year plan developed in 2002 that calls for major improvements to various parts of campus. Zahm Hall senator Pat Knapp presented the pro­posal -drawn up by the Student Senate Committee on Residence Life -which called for improvements to the exist­ing social space, dining options, technological capabili­ties and storage space at LaFortune. 
"We conducted some focus groups to determine what stu­dents' needs were in all these areas," Knapp said. 
These focus groups allowed current students to reflect on what the purpose of a student center should be, while also discussing possible improve­ments or additions. 
"We recommend some 'action venues' in the future," Knapp said. "For example, a bowling alley. Some place that's really gender neutral, some place that involves more than sitting on a couch and watching TV." 
Knapp discussed improving the dining options at LaFortune by bringing in local South Bend restaurants to fill any future vacancies. The resolution men-
see CLC/page 4 

Mooney na111es final candidate for VP post 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney has announced that Robert Lueger will be the third and final candidate in the search for the College's new vice president and dean of faculty. 
Lueger, a professor of psy­chology and former Associate Dean of Academic Affairs for the College of Arts and Sciences at Marquette University, is scheduled to address the College communi­ty during open forums April 
18 and 19. The scheduled times of the forums have not yet been announced by the College. 
Lueger's events at the College will mirror last week's open forums with the College's first two candidates -Saint Mary's religious stud­ies professor Joe Incandela and Dean of Faculty at Colgate College and Saint Mary's alumna, Jill Tiefenthaler. 
One forum will be open to faculty members and a sec­ond forum will invite stu­
see VPIpage 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

There is no legal vvay? 
Thnsn last few weeks I've bonn dis­hnartmwd by the conflict and the rage with which some people view the undoeumented llispanie worker one can find behind every shovel, every mop, and every 
Marcela
drying doth in a 
kitchnn sink. Berrios 
I saw a man on 
television saying Wire Editor 
hn didn't have a 
problem with immigrants as long as 
they entered the country legally. 
If this were the only misunderstand­
ing between him and my 5,000 friends 
yesterday, I wouldn't have worried as 
much, bncause there is a simple cure 
for ignorance. 
I could've just told this man there 
really is no legal action the undocu­
mented immigrants could've taken. 
I was born and raised in El Salvador, 
and I could tell him exactly what hap­
pens bPI1ind the walls of the U.S. 
Embassy down there. 
To do it thn bureaucratic-yet diplomatie way -the campesinos would have to open an account with onn of the banks afliliated with the Embassy, and pay a $100 deposit to set up an appointment four months into the future. 
The deposit does not guarantee a 
visa, though. 
The campesino-someone with a 40 percent chance of living blliow the poverty line -now needs to present his valid credit card, an employer statement, and receipts for promptly paid utilities in the last few months. 
Thn peasants I'm talking about live in rural areas, in houses made out of mud and clay, and the bus fare to the city, to the Embassy, is a luxury they cannot afl'ord. 
One hundred dollars is thus an 
insurmountable amount of money to 
thnm, and if thny were foolish enough 
to usn it to snt up an appointment at 
the Embassy, it would be money lost. 
It would bn a waste because every­body knows a campesino will never get a lngitimate visa, because every­body knows he cannot afl'ord an air­plane ticket or a hotel, and because everybody knows all the Embassy wants are tourists who can go to Disneyworld and spend $10 on a hot dog. 
They then brave the desert sun, and the roaring river, and most important­ly, the unwelcoming eyes, because at the end of the day, these are all things that a person can endure, unlike hunger and oppression. 
Yesterday, the immigrants and their friends walked under the sun again, without being scorched. 
Yesterday, 5,000 people, myself included, stepped outside in quiet har­mony, in sympathy with the millions of undocumented workers that face hos­tility in Congress. 
Across the nation, similar marches and nonviolent demonstrations took place, and as I watched the news at night-witnessing hope and a human rights movement bloom before my eyes-I concluded spring had just begun. 
The children yesterday were enjoy­ing the weather, unaware of the politi­eal unrest surrounding their parents. 
A little boy walking in front of me was nating cookies, and threw the wrapping on the floor. 
I lis Mnxican mother immediately scolded him, made him pick it up, and put it in hnr poeket. 

I felt like <:rying, because I wish that man on telnvision, and everybody in Washington could see things the way I do. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd. edu 

The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING ABOUT A SUNNY AFTERNOON ON THE QUAD? 
Kristle Koch  Amy Wilhelmy  Pat George  Andrew Smith  Catherine Martinez  Alden Fitzgerald  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
McGlinn  McGlinn  Siegfried  Dillon  Cavanaugh  Knott  
"Making Amy chase my  "Playing football is a good excuse  "Showcasing my football  "/ like having playtime with my  "Anything because I love  "Napping."  
throws around South Quad"  to not do my homework."  skills to all the ladies on the  friends."  sunny days on my birthday. "  

quad." 


JENNIFER KANGfThe Observer Sophomore Jordan Lacy, back left, senior Laura Froyen, front left, and sopho­more Courtney Smith perform Mini Drama in Italian class Monday. 
OFFBEAT 
Alaskans get their pizza by air 
NOME, Alaska -Last Christmas, residents of the Yupik Eskimo village of Savoonga added a special dish to their everyday fare of whale, walrus, reindeer and berries -fresh pizza flown in from Nome, 170 miles away. 
A tiny delivery joint, Airport Pizza, opened several months earlier just steps from Nome's busy runways, and many of Savoonga's 700 residents were eager to try something differ­ent. 
Nome's first and only pizza delivery service does a robust busines.<; in the western Alaska town of 3,500. But it really stands out for its free deliver­ies via commuter plane to more than a dozen other remote, spread-out subarctic villages. 

The village council in Savoonga, on St. Lawrence Island in the icy Bering Sea, wanted a special holiday treat for young families in the vil­lage. It order.ed 50 pizzas, half topped with chicken and ranch dressing and the other half with Canadian bacon and pineapple. 
Feds tried to seize gold caps from suspect's teeth 
TACOMA, Wash. -Talk about taking a bite out of crime. 
Government lawyers tried to confiscate the gold tooth caps known as "grills" from the mouths of two men facing drug charges, saying the den­tal work qualified as seizable assets. 
They had them in a vehide headed to a dental clinic by the time defense attorneys persuaded a judge to halt it. . 
"''ve been doing this for over 30 years and I have never heard of anything like this," said Richard J. Troberman, a past president of the Washington Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
UJ ::1: 
!;;: 
::UJ 
(f
..... 
c:( 
(.) 


0 

..... HIGH 70 HIGH 60 HIGH 65 HIGH 70 
LOW 65 LOW 55 LOW 50 LOW 50 
IN BRIEF 
James Lardner will give a lecture on "U.S. Economic Inequality and Why it Matters" today at 7 p.m. in room 127 of Hayes-Healy Hall. 
Myla Leguro will speak about "Women Making Peace: A Philippines Initiative" today at 4:15 p.m. in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Notre Dame softball will take on Ball State at 5 p.m. Tuesday at Ivy Field. 
A campus-wide stations of the Cross procession will begin at 7 p.m. today at the Grotto. 
The Asian American Association will host a Night Grotto visit Wednesday from 11 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. Meet in front of Bond Hall. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Manchester at 5:05 
p.m. Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
AcoustiCafe will take place at 10 p.m. Thursday in the LaFortune basement. 
"Ben Hur", the 1959 film starring Charlton Heston, will be shown at 7 p.m. Thursday in the Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Men's baseball will take on 
St.  John's  at  12:05  p.m.  
Saturday  at  Frank  Eck  
Stadium.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 72 HIGH 74 LOW 52 LOW 57 
Atlanta 67145 Boston 60 I 36 Chicago 67 I 48 Denver 711 43 Houston 81 I 61 Los Angeles 67 I 50 Minneapolis 75 156 New York 62 I 46 Philadelphia 66 I 44 Phoenix 84 I 59 Seattle 55 I 44 St. Louis 72 I 51 Tampa 80 160 Washington 66 148 

Tuesday, April 11, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

THE NINTH ANNUAL 

GOD'S IMAGE 
an inclusive retreat for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning students and their friends. 
FRIDAY, April 21st AND SATURDAY, April 22nd 
Register by Tuesday, April 18: 
• campusministry.nd.edu 
• 114 Coleman-Morse Questions? Contact Tiffany Thompson (tthomps 1 @nd.edu) 
CAMPUS MINISTRY & THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY, LESBlAN AND BlSEXUAL STUDENTS 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group seeks to improve relations 
Shappell, Andrichik to present report to University Board ofTrustees 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell focused Monday's Council of Representatives (COR) meeting on improving student/alumni relations in the upcoming year. 
Shappell and former student body president Dave Baron will travel to Washington D.C. May 4 
to present a report to the University Board of Trustees regarding their administration. Shappell asked COR for input to help prepare for their presentation and to begin the discus­sion on student/alumni relations. 
"This topic car­ries over to [student body vice president] Bill [Andrichik] and my administration," Shappell said. "It deals with the stu­
dent/alumni relationship that we're working to improve. We want to get more students on [the online alumni contact net­work] Golrish to get more in touch with alumni, and have receptions for football games." 
Senior class president Emily 
"Morrissey Manor had a reunion after a football game last fall that attracted 200 alumni, and the Alumni Center made that happen by supplying conact information. " 
Bryan Lowery Hall President Council co-chair 
Chin said while student/alumni connections often develop during junior and senior year -a time when students receive e-mails about working with alumni to get internships or to help with career options -she would suggest try­ing to connect earlier with underclassmen. 
Hall President Council (HPC) co-chair Bryan Lowery said dorms involve their own alumni in a number of ways, and the 
alumni relations," Lowery said. "It is not necessarily a priority for dorms to put someone in charge of alumni correspon­dence. But maybe a yearly newsletter for alumni to hear about what we've been up to could be beneficial." 
level of alumni involvement varies greatly by dorm. 
"Morrissey Manor had a reunion after a football game last fall that attracted 200 alumni, and the Alumni Center made that hap­pen by supplying contact informa­tion," Lowery said. 
"There are variances across the dorms for 

Junior class president Bridget Keating said the Golrish search engine made student/alumni relationships possible for organi­zations like the sailing club and Circle K service organization. She said she'd like the possibility of more clubs being able to take advantage of alumni connections. 
In other COR news: 
+COR confirmed John Bush as the Student Union Board (SUB) chief controller for the upcoming year. 
+Carolyn White was confirmed as co-director of SUB, effective next fall after her return from spring semester in London. 
+Steve Cartwright was con­firmed as a COR laison from VOICE, the student advisory board for the Center for Social Concerns. Cartwright promises to bring the perspective of the local community, since the esc relates closely with local leaders. 
"There are a number of issues, especially involving the commu­nity just beyond Notre Dame, that this group [COR] might be interested in," Cartwright said. "I might be able to bring to COR the issues community leaders bring forth as well as those of the Center." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Leaders anticipate College fundraiser 
Part ofsecond-to-last meeting closed to public 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) went over upcoming events Monday night before closing 
the meeting to discuss the Observer comic strip Jockular. 
Student body presi­dent Susan Mcilduff briefly out­lined the schedule for the final few weeks of the 
s e m e s t e r · r e m i n d i n g
BOG members there is only one formal 
meeting left for the school year. 
Residence hall association (RHA) president Amy Dardinger told commission­ers that the dance marathon is coming up soon and added that RHA has planned some of the more recognizable events for next 
"Dance marathon is on the schedule for the 21 and 22 [of April] ... and the [all school] formal will be at Palais Royale again. " 
Amy Dardinger resident hall association president 
year already. 
"Dance marathon is on the schedule for the 21 and 22 [of April] ... and the [all­school] formal will be at Palais Royale again," Dardinger said. 
Money raised from the 
comic strip] Jockular," Mcllduff said in a statement after the meeting. 
When asked what was talked about in the closed session, she would not release any more details. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOI@saintmarys.edu 
dance marathon will be given to t h e Indianapolis-based Riley Hospital for Children. 
After all the executive offi­cers reported, Mcllduff closed the meeting to strictly commis­sioners and executives. 
"BOG dis­cussed Thursday's issue of [Observer 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
will reach 31JO by mid-May, but he said he does not want that numbnr to exceed 415. 
Usually bntween 45 and 4 7 per­cent of student<; who are accepted to the College choose to attend. Because the applicant pool was so large this year, the danger of having too large a dass is a possi­bility, Brown said, although it is not probable. 
The reason for the increased application numbers could be credited to the new style of admissions at the College, Brown said. 
"We made the decision to visit fewnr high schools this year, but we did more follow-up work with students through phone calls, e­mail and instant messaging, try­ing to make the College more accessible to them," Brown said. 
With the cost of college tuition steadily rising nationally, the Collnge does what it can to ensure 
VP 
continued from page 1 
dents, administration and hourly employees to meet the candidate. Student leaders and search committee mem­bers have both scheduled pri­vate meetings with Lueger, as well as Incandela and Tiefenthaler. 
Faculty, administration and students will have the oppor­tunity to share their opinion of the candidates following the forum through the sub­mission of an evaluation form -a process that Mooney has deemed successful thus far. 
Although Mooney does not attend the forums and has yet that attendance is financially pos­sible for students. According to Brown, the total financial aid awarded to the class of 2010 in scholarships at this time is between $1.6 and $1.8 million. 

Incoming freshmen won't be the only new students at Saint Mary's in the fall. Numbers are also up for transfer applicants. Twenty-six percent more applica­tions have been turned in by potential transfer students than la<>t year, Brown said. 
However, the numbers for the College's Linkage program with Holy Cross College are down at the moment. For the past three years, approximately 50 student<> have participated in the program, whieh allows first-year Holy Cross students to take one elass per semester at Saint Mary's and also live on-campus at the College while enrolled as a Holy Cross student. If students maintain a 
3.0 GPA, they are then accepted into Saint Mary's as sophomores. 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
to see the evaluation forms ­which are submitted directly to Human Resources -she said she has "been told responses have been coming in at a good rate." 
The search to replace the current Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White began as a result of his Jan. 28 announcement that he would be leaving the College at the end of the academic year to head Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind. 
Mooney said she has not set a specific date to name White's replacement, but hopes to do so by the end of the semester. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO l @saintmarys.edu 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 

best-selling novel depicts "Christianity as the bad guy and we and our personal beliefs an.? our personal desires are good. 
Welborn explained that Brown is not the first to publish a work that attacks established Christian belief. 
"Beginning in the late 19th century, there were discoveries of various Gnostic texts. More recent discoveries of The Dead Sea Scrolls, or even the Gospel of Judas have, like earlier Gnostic texts, caused "people to start writing books about the hidden sayings of Jesus." 
"There were even a couple of novels written on the theme that there are other truths to Christianity not expressed by the institutional church," Welborn said. 
She cited the 1999 film "Stigmata" as one example of a contemporary work which, like "The DaVinci Code," presents misleading notions and erro­neous beliefs of Christianity. Yet, for some reason no previ­ous text has received quite so much hype and public attention as has 'The DaVinci Code," she said. 
Welborn said what troubles her is not so much the fiction of Dan Brown's work as it is the way in which our society has received it. 
"Sometimes people say to me you know, it is just a novel. If you go buy it, its on the fiction shelf," Welborn said. "Of course I realize that. Of course 'The Da Vinci Code' is just a novel. In fact, I would say that 'The DaVinci Code' is 99 per­cent fiction. Paris exists. The Louvre exists. Leonardo lived." 
Other than those basic aspects of the story's setting, there seems to be little faet to the tale, according to Welborn. 
She said that she's encoun­tered many who accept at least some assertions of "The DaVinci Code" as truth. Welborn said readers "who lack adequate knowledge of theology and history fail to real­ize the in,ventions of the author." 
Welborn believes that many people who read the book may see Brown's extensive bibliog­raphy and believe the book contains consider­able fact. Readers the Gospel? 

"The Jesus of The Da Vinci Code says that we're fine the way we are," Welborn said. "But what does the Jesus of the Gospel say? Love your enemy. Sell everything you have and give the money to the poor. Blessed arn the poor. Jesus says if you want to serve me, feed the hungry, cloth the naked, visit the imprisoned ... 
"Of course, people don't want that Jesus because that's hard stuff. That's the Gospel. And so yes, it mat­ters. 'The Da 
may understand "What bothers me Vinci Code' Jesus statements of the doesn't save or
is the number of 
book's scholarly redeem. 'The
people who allow 
characters-state­DaVinci Code' ments which, as this book to shape Jesus lies on a Welborn says, their sense ofearly page, but the "are couched in Jesus of the
Christianity, shape 
the veneer of Gospels, he can 
authority"-and their sense ofart. ,, ~han,pe our accept them as hves. truth. Welborn
Amy Welborn 
"What bothers received her B.A.
syndicated columnist 
me is the number in Honors 
of people who allow this book to shape their sense of early Christianity, shape their sense of art." Welborn said. She said she was "distressed that 'The DaVinci Code' functions as so much of a distraction to Christian truth." Its depiction of Jesus is a Gnostic Gospel-type portrayal and one that Welborn said is exceedingly inconsistent with the Jesus of the New Testament. 
Welborn said she fears the release of "The DaVinci Code" film will only propagate false teachings and worsen the situa­tion that the book has pro­duced, she said. 
"For a long time I've been quite puzzled by the popularity of the Gnostic Jesus and the Jesus of 'The Da Vinci Code' and I've tried to figure out what is the appeal. Why do people prefer that Jesus to the Jesus of 

History from the University of Tennessee and her 
M.A. in Church History from Vanderbilt Divinity School and has worked for the Church for most of her life. 
Welborn has written for the Catholic press for the past fif­teen years and is currently a very popular Catholic blogger. Recently she has dedicated much of her time to discussing and lecturing about Christianity as she understands its repre­sentation in "The DaVinci Code," which her book,"De­coding DaVinci," examines in more detail. 
Welborn said with the upcoming release of the film, it seems to her that "The DaVinci Code" is destined again to be a hotly debated topic in popular culture. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
-lions that bringing in local busi­nesses could help students devel­op "meaningful relationships with the South Bend community." The resolution also brings up a fre­quent student request discovered by the task force-longer evening hours for Burger King. 

The Senate Residence Life com­mittee broached the issue of increasing storage space in the building for student groups to director of student activities Brian Coughlin. 
Storage space is filled to eapaci­ty right now, but Student Activities will look into adding closet space in the long-term renovation plan, Knapp said. 
With regards to improving the tcc~hnology offerings in LaFortune, the Senate committee recom­mended making wireless more widely available throughout the building. 
In other CLC news: 
+The CLC task force on social concerns wants to alert incoming freshmen of the dangers posed by third party websites and illegal downloading and file-sharing. They intend to give cautionary information to new students dur­ing Freshman Orientation. 


+Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty discussed his meeting with the Office of Information Technologies to cre­ate a "database of student lead-

STUDY ITALIAN THIS SUMMER 

Complete the first year of Italian in 6 weeks! 
It's like a dottble shot of'espresso in the morning! 
ROlT 10115 is a 6 week, 6 credit course n'leeting frotn June 20 until August 3 -MTWRF 8:30-10:30/11:00-12:00 
ers." 
Under this new site, prospec­tive student leaders could fill out online applications and commit­tees could then sift through the database to find committee members. 
Flaherty said it was highly unlikely the site would be in place by next year. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Returns reveal close election in Italy 
ROME -Exit polls indicated Monday that the Italian parliamentary election pitting center-left economist Romano Prodi against flamboyant bil­lionaire Premier Silvio Berlusconi was too close to call. 
Projections showed Berlusconi's coalition lead­ing in the Senate, but the two sides running neck-and-neck in the lower Chamber of Deputies. 
Based on 95 percent of pollster Nexus' sam­pling, Berlusconi's alliance won 158 Senate seal<;, compared with Prodi's 151. The margin of error was between 1 and 3 percentage points. 
Also, the projections did not account for six seal<; chosen by Italians abroad. Voter turnout was about 84 percent, the Interior Ministry said. 
Africa pledges to improve education 
MAPUTO, Mozambique -African leaders launched a campaign to get every child in school by 2015, and Britain responded Monday by pledging $15 billion in education aid to developing countries over the next decade. 
British Treasury chief Gordon Brown joined Mozambique President Armando Guebuza, former South African President Nelson Mandela and other African leaders in launch­ing the Free Education For All initiative. 
Brown's announcement follows a pledge by Britain and other members of the Group of Eight industrialized nations at their summit last year to double aid for Africa, the world's poorest continent. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush quells rumors of Iran attack 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush dismissed as "wild sper.ulation" reporl'i that the adminis­tration was planning for a military strike against Iran. 
Bush did not rule out the use of force, but he said he would continue to use diplomatic pres­sure to prevent Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon or the know-how and technology to make one. 
"I know here in Washington prevention means force," Bush said at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University. "It doesn't mean force, necessarily. In this case, it means diplo­macy." 
Several weekend news reports said the administration was studying options for military strikes. The New Yorker magazine raised the possibility of using nuclear bombs against Iran's underground nuclear sites. 

Katrina victims return home to vote 
LAKE CHARLES, La. -Hundreds of Hurricane Katrina evacuees in Texas and other states boarded buses and traveled to Louisiana on Monday to cast early ballots in New Orleans' storm-delayed election for mayor. 
The election officially is April 22, but resi­dents scattered around the country by the storm will be able to vote all week at satellite voting centers set up in Lake Charles, Shreveport, New Orleans and seven other cities around the state. 
"We need to be a part of the political process," said Cara Harrison, an evacuee from the flood-devastated Ninth Ward. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Bus accident injures five students 
INDIANAPOLIS -A car collided with a school bus Monday, sending five students to a hospital to check for possible injuries. 
All of the students, ranging in age from 6 to 18, were released after being examined or treated for bumps and bruises at Methodist Hospital, said Karen Cantou, a spokeswoman for the Metropolitan School District of Perry Township, on the south side of Indianapolis. 
The bus was carrying 15 students to the RISE Learning Center, an alternative school that serves students, including some with learning or behavior problems. 
JAPAN 


N. Korea to resume arms talks 
Japan conference rekindles hope of nuclear disarmament amid recent pessimism 
Associated Press  
TOKYO -A Chinese  
diplomat said Monday  
that North Korean nego­ 
tiators were warming  
toward a resumption of  
international talks on  
ending the North's  
nuclear weapons pro­ 
gram, but the top U.S.  
envoy said he had no  
plans to meet directly  
with his counterpart from  
Pyongyang.  
North Korea has shown  
"some" signs of positive  
commitment, China's top  
nuclear envoy, Wu Dawei,  
said after meeting twice  
with the North Korean  
delegation on the side­ 
lines of a two-day se~uri­ 
ty forum in Tokyo.  
"We can expect some  
progress," he said with­ 
out elaborating. "We dis­ 
cussed what should be  
done to achieve-a break­ 
through."  
Wu 's comments were  
some of the first positive  
statements in a flurry of  
diplomatic meetings that  
has otherwise produced  
little progress in resum­ 
ing the stalled, six-nation  
APnuclear talks. Those talks  
Delegates of six nations ­the United States, North Korea, South Korea, China, Japan include the United States,  
and Russia ­sit at the 17th North East Asia Cooperation Dialogue in Tokyo Monday.the two Koreas, China,  
Japan and Russia.  
North Korea has boy­ return to the talks," Hill  program in exchange for  the private conference in  
cotted the dialogue since  said after arriving at  aid and security guaran­ Tokyo has raised hopes  
November, citing what it  Tokyo's Narita airport,  tees, but the talks floun­ they could find a way  
calls a hostile U.S. atti­ adding that both coun­ dered and there has been  through the impasse.  
tude illustrated by finan­ tries held unproductive  little progress on imple­ The forum's agenda will  
cial sanctions  meetings on the matter in  menting the accord.  focus on energy, verifica­ 
Washington imposed on  January and March.  North Korea has  tion processes regarding  
North Korean companies  ''I'm not sure there's  refused to restart talks  the North's nuclear pro­ 
for alleged financial  much more I can talk to  unless the financial  gram and ways to ease  
crimes.  them about," he said.  restrictions -imposed  tensions on the Korean  
U.S. Assistant Secretary  "Everybody else is in, so  on a Macau bank and  Peninsula, according to  
of State Christopher Hill  we're waiting for them."  North Korean companies  its sponsor, the University  
has urged North Korea to  The North's chief dele­ are lifted, but  of California, San Diego.  
return to the talks but  gate, Kim Kye Gwan, said  Washington maintains  For several days, dele­ 
said he has no plans to  Monday he was prepared  the sanctions are unre­ gates from Japan and  
meet one-on-one with the  to meet with the United  lated to the nuclear talks  South Korea have met  
North Korean side while  States.  and will stay in place.  with their N.orth Korean  
in Tokyo.  The North agreed in the  The presence of dele­ counterparts and each  
"The North Koreans  six-nation talks last year  gates from all six nations  other but have made lit­ 
have not yet decided to  to abandon its nuclear  involved in the talks at  tle progress.  


Immigrant rallies swarm U.S. cities 
Associated Press Groups in North Carolina and Dallas Georgia: congress members weighing 
called for an economic boycott by immigration reform and state legisla­
ATLANTA -Tens of thousands of immigrants to show their financial tion now awaiting Gov. Sonny immigrants spilled into the streets in impact. Perdue's signature that would require dozens of cities across the nation The rallies had a noticeable impact adults seeking many state-adminis­Monday in peaceful protests that on production at Excel Corp. plants in tered benefits to prove they are in the some compared to the movements led Dodge City, Kan., and Schuyler, Neb., U.S. legally. by the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. and a spokesman for the nation's second Nineth Castillo, a 26-year-old wait­farm-labor organizer Caesar Chavez. largest beef processor said. He said ress from Guatemala who joined the 
"People of the world, we have come there was a slowdown, but the com­Atlanta march, said she has lived in to say this is our moment," said Rev. pany had no intention of taking action the United States for 11 years "with­James Orange of the Georgia Coalition against workers who were gone for out a scrap of paper." for the People's Agenda in Atlanta, the day. Asked whether she was afraid to where police estimated that at least "We assume they will be back at parade her undocumented status in 50,000 people marched Monday work tomorrow," spokesman Mark front of a massive police presence, she morning. Klein said. laughed and said: "Why? They kick us 
At the Mississippi Capitol, 500 Atlanta police estimated that at out, we're coming back tomorrow." demonstrators sang "We Shall least 50,000 people, many in .white T­Hundreds of Latinos in North Overcome" in Spanish. In Pittsburgh, shirts and waving American f1ags, Carolina were called on to skip work protesters gathered outside Sen. Arlen joined a two-mile march from a large­or boycott all purchases Monday to Specter's office to make their voices ly immigrant neighborhood Monday demonstrate the financial impact of heard as Congress considers immigra­morning. the Latino community on area busi­tion reforms. The protesters had two targets in nesses. 

Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Advising 
continued from page 1 
advisor and requiring regular 
rnnntings throughout the yfmr to 
knep students on track. Notre 
Damn has one of the highest 
rctnntion ratns in the nation, as 97 
percent of lirst ynar student<; come 
back for thnir sophomore ynar. 
But after freshman year, stu­
dnnts must find new advisors in 
thnir respective colleges and 
adjust to a nnw and varied set of 
resour1:ns. 
"I rnmember them not telling us 
wn nneded to dedarc our majors 
in order to get into cla'isns, then it 
was two crazy days trying to get 
that done and make sure I was 
fullilling requirement<;," said soph­
omore English major .lenni Fong. 
But Fong said after she made 
the adjustment from FYS, she has 
not had any serious problems with 
advising. 
Though students often have 
multiple advisors available within 
their respedive colleges, some 
uppnrdassmnn still return to their 
FYS advisor. 
"I do see some (older] student'>, especially if I had a good relation­ship with them," FYS advisor Mel Tardy said. "But we try and trust the other advisors with upper­d~L'>smen -it is better to go to the department (of the student's major( because they know the particular elasses and the new development'>." 
Upperda'ismen advisors prima­rily focus on helping students choosn dasses and finalize their fields of interest, Tardy said. Bn1:ausn thny each have so many students to assist, advisors after freshman year do not call students to mont on a ref.,TUlar bac;is likP. in FYS. 
In the College of Arts and Letters, students can visit the a'isistant deans to obtain informa­tion on University and college requirements as well as "an ovnrvinw of how all the pieces lit together," l'r.eaeher said. They also have major and minor pro­gram advisors, but each depart­mont dntnrminns it'i own structure -some havn one dirnetor, some have multiple faculty advisors. 
The widn degree of latitude in da.'is selection lor Art'i and Letters majors usually means morn stu­dnnts in the advising ollice right bnlim~ registration, Preacher said. 
"Many students come to us bn1:ausn they have mom than one nu~jor or a nu~jor and a minor, or a major and supplementary major, and so fi~rth, and are not sure how all their eours1~s will be counted," Prmtcher said. "But we'd like stu­dents to come to us not just for accounting purposes ... but for developmental purposes -what am their goals in building their curriculum?" In the Mendoza College of Business, advisors are availabln at both the department and eollege level. Student'> ntn 1:hoose to meet with any or the live undergraduate advisors sophomore year, and they nm d10ose to switch to a spedlie departnwnt advisor during their junior year. 
Upperclassmen in all colleges ean meet with an advisor a'> ollen a<; they choose -the extent or the rnlationship is left up to the indi­vidual student, undergraduate business advisor Doug Ilemphill said. 
Ilemphill said some 4.0 student<; never walk into the ortice with qw~stions, while other strong stu­dents eomn in twice per month. 
"One thing that makes this work prntty spedal is the personal rela­tionships," Jlemphill said. "You ean talk about (al student's ideas fi1r a partieular program, or about what they want to do with their lives aftnr graduation." 
Advisors in the College of Business have two main purposes, Hemphill said. They make sure students understand the require­ment<; for graduation, and they try to show student<; the possibilities and opportunities the University oflilrs. 

"Nobody can see all that Notre Dame hac; to oll"er," Hemphill said. "But if we talk about ideac; that we have seen or eome up with, the student hac; more to choose from. We don't want anybody to walk out the door after hrraduation say­ing 'I wish I'd known about that option, I would have done that.' 
"We want everyone to take advantage of the opportunities here." 
Nearly half of business require­ment<; must be fulfilled outc;ide of the College of Business, Hemphill said. So business students often need advice similar to the kind Arts and Letters majors seek ­advice like picking up a second major or selecting Arts and Letters dasses that will complement their area of interest. 
For students in the University's other colleges -Science, Architecture and Enginee~ing ­more extensive major require­ments reduce the amount of chokes student'> have. As a result, individual advising is not always needed. 
The School of Architecture has just one advisor, Father Richard Bullene, to whom students report sophomore year through their fifth year. Bullcne said architecture students, like business students, have a varied response to the advising system. 
"Some students just want the PIN and I need to use it to force them to sit down and go over progress towards degree comple­tion," Bullene said. "Others seek out advice on possibilities for minors and second majors, on career issues, particular study options, etcetera." 
For students in the College of Science like senior biology major Mike Tallarico, the choosing may be relatively ea'iy when looking to schP.dule classes. Tallarieo said he only visits his advisor to add or drop classes or for mandatory meetings. 
"For the most part advic;ors can answer my questions, but I usually do not have much to ask," Tallarico said. "They arc helpful but if a student is self-sufficient he or she should not really have to go to the advisor." 
Engineering studentc; faee a sim­ilar situation. Freshman .Jean Whitney, an aerospace and mechanical engineering major, does not plan to seek much adviee beliJre choosing dassns, since she has few choices. 

"Most of my classes are set as an engineer," Whitney said. "This semester I only got to choose whieh University seminar I took and what I wanted to do in !physi­cal education dassl. I think this does make an engineering advic;or less necessary for. freshmen and sophomore years." 
Preaeher said advi'iors at Notre Dame try to be problem solvers. 
"I  like  to  say that  our  oflice  
specializes  in  the art  of the  
possible,"  Preacher  said.  

Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

We believe everyone's more successful in a flexible environment. 
We want you to succeed. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. So visit us on campus, or on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. Whatever's best for you. We're flexible. 

THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 11141.33 +21.29 

Jones  '  
-· Same:1,386 167  Composite Volume:1,918,702,740  
AMEX  

NASDAQ 

NYSE. ,,,,,,,,,~1~~~~:'1'~~~~:iiill~~········· 
S&PSOO 1,296.60 + 1.10 
NIKKEJ(Tokyo) l7~41tlt~llll~'~!1f~2t.63 .­FTSE IOO(London) 6,067 .00 +40.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) -4.81 -0.19 3.76 NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -0.14 -0.06 42.26 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.62 +0.12 19.36 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) -2.48 -0.13 5.11 CIENA CORP (CIEN) -7.28 -0.35 4.46 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 49.63 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.11 +0.05 45.67 5-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.02 50.36 3-MONTH BILL -0.08 -0.04 48.89 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.35 68.74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +9.10 601.80 PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -1.43 78.60 
Exchan Rates 
YEN I 18.4900 EURO 0.8268 POUND 0.5741 CANADIAN$ 1.1487 
IN BRIEF 
Wage increase ends transit strike 
DENVER -Trains and buses started rolling again Monday to the delight of thousands of Denver-area commuters who had to find another way to get to work during a weeklong transit strike. 
''I'm incredibly happy," said Rebecca Popowitz, 22, who does not own a car and had to walk or used the slower, pared-down bus service that still ran during the strike. "Grocery shopping was a bit of a pain because I had to lug it all back home." 
The Regional Transportation District's 1, 7 50 union mechanics, bus drivers and train opera­tors walked off the job April 3 after rejecting a contract offer that their union leaders had rec­ommended. The strike shut down all train serv­ice and more than half the bus routes in a seven­county area. 
On Friday, the workers overwhelmingly approved a new contract with the same overall wage increase but a larger initial raise. 
Market anticipates Alcoa earnings 
NEW YORK -Stocks closed narrowly mixed Monday as investors looked past rising oil prices and awaited a sample of first-quarter earnings from Alcoa Inc. after the closing bell. 
There were no new economic reports to feed the market's obsession with whether the Federal Reserve will extend its series of interest rate hikes to fight inflation. Recent trading has been skittish amid investors' split opinions on how much growth the economy can manage. 
A fresh rise in crude oil pushed futures above $68 a barrel, as the market grew nervous about mounting political tension over Iran's nuclear arms program. A barrel of light crude jumped $1.35 to settle at $68.74 on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
"I think one of the conundrums the market faces is that we continue to see energy prices go higher," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst for Jefferies & Co. "It's going to be hard to get the market to rally much this week with oil starting at $68." 
Hogan said the weakening bond market may also hinder investors' confidence, but added that Wall Street could see a lift from a solid cor­porate earnings. Alcoa led the way with a sharply better-than-expected quarterly profit. 

Wal-Mart seeks corporate bank 
Retail empire promises FDIC that it will not enter branch banking industry 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. -An 
executive of Wal-Mart 
Stores Inc. on Monday 
defended to federal regu­
lators the company's pro­
posed expansion of its 
empire into banking as a 
parade of objectors pre­
pared to make the case 
against the move. 
The first-ever public 
hearings by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corp. 
on a bank application are 
drawing a wave of oppo­
sition to the move by the 
world's largest retailer. 
The company insists that 
consumers and retail 
banks have nothing to 
fear and is pledging to 
stay out of branch bank­
ing and consumer lend­
ing. 
Some 300 institutions 
operate branches in 
1,150 Wal-Mart stores 
and the company says it 
doesn't want to compete 
with them. 
"Wal-Mart is absolutely 
and unequivocally com­
mitted not to engage in 
branch banking," Jane 

Thompson, president of scale banking with retail record in communities and other consumer 
Wal-Mart Financial branches that would across America reveals a lenders, and the 
Services, testified at the destroy local banks. company that ruthlessly Salvation Army and the 
first day of the hearings. Bentonville, Ark.-based wipes out important com­National Center for 
"In fact and in practice, Wal-Mart already is too munity businesses," Missing and Exploited 
Wal-Mart is clearly com­big, they say, with 3,900 McGarrah said. Children, which receive 
mitted to supporting stores nearly saturating In an unusual align­donations from the 
community banking, not the U.S. market and unri­ment, the banking indus­retailer. 
undermining it." valed dominance try, unions and consumer Supporters say a move 
Thompson said the par­accounting for 10 per­groups have come by Wal-Mart into banking 
ent company would but­cent of the U.S. retail together to make the would benefit consumers 
tress the new bank "and economy, according to case that a Wal-Mart by lowering fees and 
will formally commit to some researchers. bank would unfairly con­prices in an industry 
protecting the bank "Wal-Mart is a compa­centrate power over needing more vigorous 
against loss and main­ny that does not play by retail and small-business competition. 
taining its capital." the rules," Robert E. lending in one company Nearly 70 witnesses are 
Opponents are not con­McGarrah Jr., a corpo­that is already the testifying, both for and 
vinced. They portray rate governance official biggest business in many against Wal-Mart's appli­
Wal-Mart's proposed in­with the AFL-CIO, said in small towns and rural cation for federal deposit 
house bank -which a statement prepared for communities. insurance for a state­
would handle the 140 Monday's hearing. But Wal-Mart's propos­chartered bank in Utah, 
million credit, debit card "That factor alone al has its supporters, too, in FDIC hearings on 
and electronic check pay­makes its proposed bank including the American Monday and Tuesday in 
ments the company han­a threat to the taxpayers Financial Services Arlington, Va., and on 
dles each year-as lead­and the nation's banking Association, which repre­April 25 in Overland 
ing eventually to full-system. Wal-Mart's sents credit card issuers Park, Kan. 


Bush asks China to deflate currency 
Associated Press interesting and important visit," Bush also mentioned the issue of 
Bush told students during a ques­the widespread copyright piracy of 

WASHINGTON -President Bush tion and answer session at Johns American movies, music and com­on Monday urged Chinese President Hopkins' School of Advanced puter software as another trade Hu Jintao to address the issue of International Study. issue he would discuss with Hu. China's currency system during his "He's coming into a country where In advance of Hu's visit, top eco­upcoming visit and said Hu must there's over a $200 billion trade nomic officials from both countries understand the issues raised by deficit and a lot of Americans are will meet in Washington on Tuesday America's $202 billion trade deficit wondering where's the equity in at the 17th annual meeting of the with his nation. trade," Bush said. "I think he could U.S.-China Joint Commission on 
Bush, labeling America's relation­help the Americans understand the Commerce and Trade, which was ship with China "complex," said his importance of a free-trading world created to smooth trade problems agenda for the talks next week if he were to maybe make a state­between the two nations. would include "fairness in trade as ment on his currency, for example." Commerce Secretary Carlos well as human rights and freedom The administration has been pres­Gutierrez and U.S. Trade of religion." suring China for more than two Representative Rob Portman will 
Hu will meet with Bush at the years to allow its currency to rise in head up the U.S. delegation while White House on April 20 during his value against the U.S. dollar to help Vice Premier Wu Yi will lead the first official visit to Washington. The narrow the trade deficit. American Chinese delegation. administration is facing growing manufacturers contend China is U.S. trade officials who briefed unhappiness in an election year unfairly depressing the value of its reporters Monday said they expect­over a record $202 billion trade currency by up to 40 percent ed Tuesday's discussions would deficit with China, the highest ever against the dollar to make Chinese cover the areas of copyright piracy, recorded with a single country. goods cheaper in America and U.S. where American companies claim 
"The visit of Hu Jintao will be an products more expensive in China. they are losing billions of dollars. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Immigration realities 
P.O. Box n9, No<re Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikcGilloon 
MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VmWI'OINT EI>ITOR: Joey King SPORTS EI>ITOR: Ken Fowler SCF.NF. EI>ITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EI>ITOR: Kelly Meehan I1110TO EOITOR: Dustin Menndla GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DI~IGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB AI>MINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@)nd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 6.H-5323 obsncws.J@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the authors and nm necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of :tll opinions through letters is enco11raged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infom1ation. 
Q=tions rrgRrding Observerpolicies should br directed w Ediwr in ChiefMike Gil!oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tlu-(lbcrver (US~ ~99 2-4000) it publi.dtnl Mond.1y rhnutgh Friday ~~pt duriug cum 11111 vac..tinn pt'fllldi A iUl.uapt1on toTht Ohccrvcr ia SIOO fiJtone ;KadtntiC ynr: $~~lor unr aemntn. 
The Obu~r ls publidtcd ;n: 02-i Soud1 Dining Hall Send iKldreu corr«tiom to: Nunc: Dame, IN 46'S~-()779 ThcC>lmrvt:t' 
reriodic.ll ro~attt p.ud IU Nou~ DanK" P.O. 8cn779 .md Jddmonal maihng offices 02-i South Dining HaU Notrt Dame, IN 465~Dn9 
The O~rvcr Ia .a mcmher of the Aaoci.tcd Ptw. All n:production rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Kate Gales 

Peter Ninneman Eric Retter Pat Moore Tim Kaiser Viewpoint Scene 
Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Alexa Antekeier 
Multitudes of people across the nation marched Monday to support immigration reform. Immigration ha<> proven to be a divisive and hard issue, but one that must be addressed. The Senate has stalled on a bill that would have allowed for "guest workers" to enter the eountry temporarily. The bill would also have opened up avenues for illegal immigrants currently living in the nation to pursue citizenship. 

Ian
The House has already 

Ronderos
pa<;sed a harsh bill 
tlmt calls for the con­

Liberated
struction of a seven 

hundred mile wall and changing the status of' illegal in1migration from a civil infraction to a felony. 
The stalled senatorial bill contains some very good practical logic. Illegal immi­!,'Tants exist. They do so in great numbers and have a significant role in our economy -to the tune of eleven million workers. Many illegal immigrant<> have been already integrated into American society, and the only thing separating them from their legal colleagues is a piece of paper. It is often argued that to provide any sort of' amnesty or road to eitizenship for illegals is wrong, because it chooses to allow a law to go unenforced, lets people who violated the law get oft' unpunished and encourages more people to break the immigration laws of this country. This sounds theoreti­cally valid and it is true that we should not encourage laws to be broken, but the point ultimately fails. The prior argument is one that applies theoretical reasoning to a practical problem. 
In the purely abstract, one should not allow the laws of a nation to be ignored, should punish violators and prevent simi­lar future transgressions; practically, we must deal with the fact that we have a very large number of illegal aliens working in this nation, with more coming, and that they are not going anywhere soon. A prae­tical solution to the problem L'l to allow "temporary workers" to enter the country, in order to encourage immigrants to cross legally, and to allow illegal immigrants already in the country and working a chance to make themselves naturalized. As it is impossible to remove the vast num­ber of illegal workers, this permits them to further integrate themselves into American society. If workers are intent on entering America, and arc willing to do so illegally, it makes sense to ofl'er them a way of doing so legally-hence the "guest worker" proposal. This way the govern­mrmt-can exert more control over the nation's borders. 
The I louse bill is entirely unethical. The erection of a security wall seven hundred miles long simply evolves from a siege mentality that is harming this nation. September 11 changed the way Americans viewed the world, and in many ways for the worse. It L'l important that we were made aware and more vigilant, so that such a tragedy can be guarded against. However, a sense of panic has attended the American population ever since and has a caused many Americans to adopt a scarily insular view of the world, one that centers upon feelings of constant threat and dan­ger imminent. Wall<; divide people and fos­ter ill will. The creation of the proposed barrier would only promulgate the view that America cares nothing for poor third­worlders and is desperate to keep them out. 
The proposal to make illegal immigrants felons is as appalling as it is cruel. This would create millions of felons overnight, who if caught would swell our already overcrowded penal system. Many children entered America illegally with their par­ents-are they to be felons too? Are they to suffer for obeying the commands of their parents, as any good child should? The felony proposal, as well as the wall one, is motivated by fear. America is seek­ing to protect herself by adopting overly severe measures. Harsh severity only belies vulnerability. America is only consid­ering these options because she fears ter­

rorists entering the country or immigrants 
taking jobs. 
Immigration is a good thing and should not be feared, but rather encouraged. The nineteenth century saw waves of Italian, German and Irish immi~-,rrani..'l. They at first were despised and feared by seg­ments of the population because they were dill'erent and would work for less. More than a century later, America ha'l largely absorbed these immigrants and joined their culture to the existing one to create something very unique. That is the beauty of America-Wfl are a collection of cul­tures and peoples that have synthesized to form something that belongs to no one eth­nic group or cultum. America is an idea. We should be exeitod to show it to the world and weleome its adherent<; to come join us. Sometimes changes to the estab­lished cultural or economic norm an~ unavoidable, but it would harm us more to close ourselves otl'like hermil'l. Open and friendly intercourse between nations and peoples leads to their mutual growth­just as it does in individuals. The Athenian statesman and orator Perides deliven~d the fi1llowing stunning lines on the open­ness of' democracy during his moving funeral oration: "Our city is thrown open to the world though and we never expd a forei!,'TWr and pnwent him from seeing or learning anything of' which the secret if revealed to an enemy might profit him. We rely not upon management or triekery, but upon our own heart<> and hands." Yet some in America would seek to manage and control our openness to the world using the treachery of fear. 
Jan Ronderos is a senior majoring in the classics with a supplementary major in ancient Greek and Roman dvilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopted independent pol­itics, he has entered the private life of peaceful contemplation. Jan can be con­tacted at irondero@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

What are you doing for Easter Break? 
Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
;.· Snblftlt.......... ' ..-m ,a... ·.·.: Letter,.
· ... ... · .,..,,,,..,.. ....... 


to tbe Editor at 

:www.ndsmcobserver.com: 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He who joyfully marches in rank and(zle has already earned my contempt. lie has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would suffice." 
Albert Einstein physicist 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 
page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
An open letter to Father John Jenkins 
Dear Notre Dame student body 
Hello. My name is Jason F.C. Laws and I am not a current member of MAC. I write to you as a minority Notre Dame student leader and in response to past articles about MAC (Minority Affairs Committee) and the Rob Lindley, Jr. article written last Friday, April10. 
I want to clarify my stance regarding the MAC amendment Senate meeting, at which I was in attendance. My disgust remains with the insensitivity expressed by Senate members during the discussion of the amendment to make MAC perma­nent. Thankfully, concrete examples of slipshod phrases such as "shut it down" or "it can wait" have been appropriately addressed already. Furthermore, Rhea Boyd's opening statement about the imperative nature of making MAC perma­nent, somehow and arbitrarily offended former offended members of Student Senate. At that point, I was perplexed and in complete disarray. Strangely, the significance of making MAC permanent was flooded out by political logistics, con­cerns for further amending the Constitution, unnecessary vouches for individuals' character and integrity, Lindley's playful and clever reference to the Constitution as a "punching bag" and a desire to leave the meeting at a considerate time. 
My challenge for those former Senators, our new Senators and all who read this article is that you begin to view MAC and the amendment to make the committee permanent as more than a simple document to be proposed, voted on and passed. See the faces of your fellow Domers, who are consistently underrepresented in our student body's voice. MAC members worked tirelessly this year to give a voice in Student Government to minority Notre Dame students. As Boyd stated at the Senate meeting, "this is the first year minority members of the student body have had an undiluted and uncompromised voice in Student Senate." Policy implemen­tation such as the Cultural Competency Resolution and a talk by famed rapper Chuck D gave a first real glimpse of hope to minority Domers. We began to feel that Student Government desired to include the interests or affairs of minorities in the Notre Dame Student Government mainstream agenda. However, much of that hope and trust in our student government was shattered as the MAC amend­ment was objectified and the minority members of the Notre Dame community were again marginalized. 
Passing the amendment to make MAC permanent before the end of the Baron/Shappell administration could have sent a concrete message to all minority students and the student body that Student Government is committed to being accountable for and representing the affairs of all students and ensuring each student's voice is heard. In Lindley's testimony to the Viewpoint, he assures that "It may take a week, [or] it may take months," to address giving MAC permanent status. After three years of Student Government experience, I understand the fears of the former administration to be accountable for such an imperative task or to make more changes to the Constitution. I understand, as a former member of the 2003-2004 COR (Council of Representatives}, which revised the Student Body Constitution to its current form, that a single amendment "can" wait. However, speaking as a minority student who faces the issues confronting Notre Dame's minority students everyday, the crucial changes to improve minorities' Notre Dame experience can wait no longer. 
I trust the leadership that Lizzi Shappell and her new administration brings to office. I simply offer the suggestion of increased sensitivity from leaders around the issue of giving all students a voice on this campus. Realize that a deeper look at MAC and the progress it has made symbolizes the cry from minority Notre Dame students to believe and unite wholly in our famed proclamation that "We are ND!" 
Jason Laws junior Fisher Hall AprillO 

I write to o~ject to your decision to permit the continued regular production of "The Vagina Monologues" on our campus. I write in this public manner to alert our faculty, colleagues and our treasured students that not all mem­bers of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to which we belong, endorse your decision. Speaking for myself, I find the deci­sion deeply damaging to Notre Dame and it<> mission as a Catholic university. It is a decision that I beg you to recon­sider and to reverse. 
When you were appointed president of Notre Dame there was hope that you might address and reverse the attenua­tion and drift in our Catholic mission that characterized our recent past. My own hope was that you would address urgently such crucial issues as faculty hiring, the develop­ment of a curriculum that truly conveys the richness of the Catholic intellectual tradition to our students and the insidi­ous effects on teaching and learning of the increasing cor­porate ethos at Notre Dame. For whatever reasons, you chose to place your initial emphasis on the regular produc­tion and sponsorship by elements of the university of "The Vagina Monologues" and "The Queer Film Festival." You 
put forth the position that "an event which has here far more deeply influenced by the reigning the implicit or explicit sponsorship of the culture than by faith convictions. university as a whole, or one of it<> units, Amidst this larger context you are 
or a university-recognized organiza­tion, and which either is or appears to be in name or content dearly and egregiously contrary to or inconsistent with the funda­mental values of a Catholic university, should not be allowed at Notre Dame." This was a position of such obvi­ous good sense that I never considered that you would retreat from it. Sadly, you have done precisely that. 
In asking why you would reverse a sound position, which you obviously had reached after much thought and prayer, one must conclude that you were influenced by those contributors to the debate who favored the continued production of "The Vagina Monologues." Presumably, you were influenced by the young women who produce this play and somehow see it as a contribution to the prevention of violence against women. Undoubtedly, you were influenced by the convictions of certain senior Arts and Letters faculty that any restriction on this play would damage our aca­demic "reputation" -and especially among those "pre­fermd peer schools" whose regard we crave. Whatever the ma'ions, I must tell you that your decision is being por­trayed as involving your "backing down." Indeed, it is hard to understand it in any other terms. 
You must know that in taking this decision you have brought most joy to those who care least about Notre Dame's Catholic mi'lsion. You have won for yourself a cer­tain short-term popularity with some students and certain faculty but have done real damage to our beloved school and it<; distinct place in American higher education. By your decision you move us further along the dangerous path where we ape our secular peers and take all our sig­nals from them. Knowing you and having conversed with you on matters relating to Notre Dame's Catholic mission in the past, I suspect that you recognize this in your own heart. Yet, you seemingly have let the possibility of some protest cause you to back off your own stated position. You were called to be courageous and you settled for being pop­ular. This is not your best self. This is not genuine leader­ship. 
In your recent "Closing Statement" you reveal a level of naivete about the process of a Catholic university engaging the broad culture that is striking and deeply harmful to our purpose as a Catholic university. We live at a time, as Yale Law School professor Stephen Carter pointed out some years ago, when the elite culture is programmed to trivial­ize religion. Furthermore, much of popular culture is deeply antithetical to religious conviction and practice. It offers a worldview completely at odds with any Catholic vision. It is a world view from which none of us can be 
sequestered and, indeed, many of our students arrive 
ready to permit the continued produc­tion and promotion of a play which, as our colleague Paolo Carroza 
rightly put it, "seems to reduce the meaning and value of 
women's lives to their sexual experiences and organs, rein­forcing a perspective on the human person that is itself fundamentally a form of vio­lence." Dialogue with this point of view is ridiculous. It 
should be contested and resis­ted at Notre Dame but never promoted. Notre Dame must 
hold to a higher view of the dignity of women and men. Might I ask that ifthis play does not meet your criteria 
of an "expression that is overt and insis­tent in its contempt for the values and sen­sibilities of this University," then what would? 
My fear is that you have been "spooked" by the fear of negative publicity ifyou were to "suppress speech on this campus." Here, it seems, you have a special opportunity to rethink your position. Know well that there is much hypocrisy abroad in the American academy on the issue of "academic freedom." Note that NYU had no difficulty recently in suppressing the "free speech" rights of the stu­dents who wanted to discuss and display the Danish car­toons. Note that folk at Brown University get by with a "speech code" that bans all "verbal behavior" that may cause "feelings of impotence, anger or disenfranchise­ment." In the American academy it is only certain kinds of speech that gets protected. And, as Professor Gary Anderson pointed out in his constructive contribution to this debate, a rather narrow range of politically correct views tends to prevail in the faculties of many institutions which influences what that "speech" is. Notre Dame presently has a wider range of perspectives represented than most institutions who are forever prattling on about their diversity. (They are all "diverse" in the same pre­dictable way!) 
Please have the confidence to shape Notre Dame into a truly distinct institution. Take up the challenge to clarify for our secular peers that Notre Dame allows-as they do not -"classroom engagement with religious beliefs precisely as religious" (as Brad Gregory put it so well). Reveal to them with the eloquence of which you are capable that the very values and convictions which allow us to consider a whole range of questions that they cannot also necessitate us to restrict the repeated public performance and promo­tion of works which are deeply offensive to our values. 
John, let me commend you for your admirable goal of seeking to find "ways to prevent violence against women." Over my years of teaching and pastoral service at Notre Dame I have sought to encourage my female students to appreciate their innate dignity and to truly respect them­selves. I have been blessed to come to know some amazing women whom I now count as dear friends. Drawing on conversations with such women about the circumstances that they find at Notre Dame leads me to suggest that your rather elaborate committee formed to pursue this goal has the whiff of a public relations exercise about it. The painful reality is that much of the violence against women in our society results from a sick view that separates sex from love and genuine relationship, from the commodification of sex, from the portrayal of women as objects, from the bla­tant refusal of some men to treat women with dignity and respect. Yet how will the committee be able seriously to address such issues when you have approved the contin­ued production of a play that reduces women to body parts? Surely you see the contradiction here? Could I request that this be an early item for consideration by this committee? 
What I ask of you in this letter will require you to dig deep into your heart and soul and to re-open a matter of which I am sure you want to be well rid. I suspect you have had moments when you wished never to hear of "The Vagina Monologues" again, and we both know that there are many other important matters to which you must attend. But careful readers of works like George Marsden's "The Soul of the American University" know that similar decisions to yours which conformed religious schools to their secular peers inexorably led them down a dangerous path to the full surrender of their religious mission and identity. Regrettably, places like Georgetown University are well advanced on this course. Don't let us merely follow them. To do so you would be a betrayal of our forebears in Holy Cross. Instead, Notre Dame must lead the way in American Catholic higher education. Please go back to your best self and to your original instincts and position on this matter. Don't embarrass those of us who want to work with you to build a great Catholic university. Lead us. 
Know of my prayers for you during this holiest of weeks. 
Bill Miscamble, C.S.C. associate professor of history April9 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Isci!'&fnRn I That's so 'Broke back' 
While "Brokeback Mountain" has gen­erated significant media buzz even pre­ceding it'i release, the film recently rneeived a dill"nrnnt kind of national attnntion when Gonzaga basketball fans chanted 
'Brokeback' at the opposing team. 
A'i it turns out. these wern not ral­lying cries in sup­port of gay right'i and inclusion, nor wnrn these students simply voicing their 


enthusiasm for Ang Mary Squillace
Lee's film. This inci­dent cannot even be Scene Writer attributed to a rare, 
collective case of basketball-induced tourettes. 
lnstfmd the 'brokeback' chant in the Gonzaga basketball an~na was a taunt meant to suggest that members of the opposing team were gay. 
llowever, louder than these students' shouts is a message about our society. From this event it is important to aeknowledge that even in a social atmos­phere that allows a progressive film like "Brokebaek Mountain" to enjoy critical and commercial success, Americans still harbor dangerous predispositions and apprehensions regarding homosexuality. 
Even al'ter the critics' acclaim marched across newspapers, film awards were dis­tributed, and media coverage began to die down, "Brokeback Mountain" contin­ues to hold a distinct place among college student'i' vernacular. with a decidedly negative connotation. The term 'broke­baek' has now replaced the slang use of 'gay,' or relers to something of "question­able mas1~ulinity," as it is defined at urbandktionary.eom. 
Although the success of the film allowed many Amerieans to collectively pat themselves on the back for producing and consuming such a progressive piece of art, the extremely hostile way in which a word dosely tied to homosexuality is wielded requires a reevaluation about what the reception of "Brokeback Mountain" really reveals about our socie­ty. Simply because it exists in the main­stream does not mean that our culture has evolved passed biases and close­mindedness. 
One common reaction to the film is dis­assodation. In other words, people are quick to separate themselves from having seen the film or even desiring to see the film as if making this distinction reaffirms their ultimate heterosexuality and mas­culinity. 
The primary fear appears to be is that watching "Brokeback Mountain" is either a glaring indication of one's own sexuality and masculinity, as if somehow the 134 minutes spent in the theatre will, second­by-second, drain one's heterosexuality. 
However, it's not as if American audi­ences have never seen homosexuality portrayed in art or the media. The prob­lem for most people seems to stem from the fact that in this film homosexuality creeps outside of its socially sanctioned world of stereotypes. As soon a'i repre­sentations of gay men stop being limited to the characters with impeccable fashion sense that we typically see in media rep­resentations, they suddenly become threatening. 
Instead of subsequent variations of "Queer Eye for the Straight Guy's" Fab Five picking out a new wardrobe for some clueless bachelor or "Will and Grace's" Jack's affinity for Cher, "Brokeback Mountain" presents its view­ers with a depiction of gay men that not only runs contrary to the images that are most prevalent, but associates homosexu­ality with America's ultimate guy's guy­the cowboy. 
While this appears to be one of the most disconcerting aspects of the film for people who cannot reconcile homosexual­ity with a lifestyle outside of the stereo­types typically portrayed in the mass media, it is also the most important pre­cisely because it challenges this notion society has about homosexuality. 
Even among other films with prominent gay or lesbian storylines, "Brokeback Mountain" appears to be the most pro­gressive in its ability to pull homosexuali­ty out from under stereotypes, as well as put it in the context of an extremely pa.:;­sionate and tender romance. Within the lilm world similar movies have been lim­ited to independent films that don't gain a large following. 
like television representations, the depiction of homosexuality among main­stream films is often limited to stereo­types of both gay men and lesbians. Additionally, typically homosexuality is represented just by one person-rela­tionships outside of one-night-stands and college phases have not yet had a signifi­cant role in Hollywood films. 
All this considered, 'brokeback' is more than just a slang term for homosexuality or a barb. Instead 'brokeback' represents an outlet for constructing representations of homosexuality away from stereotypes and a way to keep our own predisposi­tions about it in check. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd. edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Heath Ledger, left, stars with Jake Gyllenhaal In Ang Lee's critically praised film "Brokeback Mountain." It represents a break from stereotypes In modem culture. 
Tuesday, April II, 2006 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 


'Syphon Filter' sets P 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assisranr Scene Editor 
Until recently, the Sony PSP lacked a defin­ing gaming experience for the system -a sore spot for Sony's first foray into the portable gaming market. Every console requires one key game early on in its lifetime to drive sales and guarantee the system's success. For the XBox -Microsoft's first foray into consoles -it was "Halo," an instant dassic that kept the system alive in its rocky inaugural year. 
But recently, the PSP's first true break­through title has arrived. "Syphon Filter: Dark Mirror" has splashed down in the PSP's dark waters, and provides a shining path towards the system's full potential. 
The game is a third-person shooter and is set in the vein of previous titles in the "Syphon Filter" franchise. Situating the cam­era firmly over protagonist Gabe Logan's shoulders grants the player solid control over his varied actions while keeping the action in the forefront. Logan, a special-ops soldier who is brought in when things get hairy for foreign involvement, specializes in mixing stealth with Rambo-style tactics throughout 


Disney, Square Enix ~ 
the course of the game. Action flies fast and heavy in the game, wasting no time. The first level alone features an immediate firelight, a sniper battle and several tense moments of sneaky, covert action. 
Guiding Logan through the physical maneuvers in the game, such as climbing walls, sliding down zip-lines and crawling through tight corridors, is as simple as hitting a single key. The controls have been stream­lined to fit the PSP's cramped control scheme, although they're still not perfect. 
Switching weapons and performing some of Logan's signature moves in the middle of a heated firelight is simply a little complicated. Character movement is mapped to the left analog nub, while context-sensitive move­ments are done with the directional pad, also on the left side of the PSP. Unless the player has two left thumbs, it's going to be difficult, and potentially fatal, to switch weapons or try to climb out of harm's way when bullets fill the air. 
The single-player experience is not dra­matically different from past "Syphon Filter" efforts, but that's necessarily a bad thing. The makers of "Halo" built a gaming legend by recycling popular elements from first-person o shooters. "Syphon Filter" does the same, bor­
rowing instead from political b 
thrillers like "Splinter Cell" and b 
"Metal Gear Solid." Fans of ~ 
those games will find plenty to ti. 
like in this portable offering. ~ 
Comparing once again to, 
Microsoft's "Halo" powerhouse, 
this game's multiplayer capabili­

ties drive its longevity. People c: 
with a wireless connection will P 
find a Jive, robust gaming com-\\ 
a
1
munity to play against. The matches include up to eight k 
By NICOLE DORNER Scene Critic 
Many laughed at the thought of "Final Fantasy" characters such as Cloud Strife fighting alongside Donald and Goofy from the Disney stable. But after the shocking smash hit "Kingdom Hearts" took the gaming world by storm in 2002, Square Enix and Disney join forces once again for "Kingdom Hearts II." 
The game starts off where "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories" ended. Sora and his companions awaken from their yearlong slumber, and continue their quest to find King Mickey. Experience with the previous games is essential, as the player is thrust into this sequel with little explanation. 
The player is given immediate control not of Sora, the young male protagonist of the original, but Roxas. He shares many characteristics with Sora with the exception that he wields dual-Keyblades. Roxas explores Twilight Town, and even­tually discovers Sora and his slumbering companions in the basement of a man­sion featured in "Chain of Memories." He disappears as they awaken, but con­tinues to play a role through the rest of the story. His segment serves as a mere tutorial to the game ahead and to intro­duce new garners to the "Kingdom Hearts" control scheme. 

At first glance, the controls are nearly identical to "Kingdom Hearts" -garners control Sora's actions through a com­mand menu in real time. However, KHII adds a few new abilities to Sora's lineup, mainly the Drive Gage. With it Sora can merge with one or two members in his 'l party, becoming even more powerful and gaining some amazing abilities. 
The Drive system adds depth of the battles, and is also fairly easy to control. The player is also given more control over how the teammates act during a battle. The exact tactics that the com­puter partners employ are up to the player's discretion. 
The new Reaction Commands are an awesome addition to the "Kingdom Hearts" library of attacks -they force the player to pay attention to what's going on in the battle and adds a new dynamic to the battle. These commands allow the player to pull off visually stun­ning stunts that dramatically impact gameplay. For example, mastering Reaction commands is vital to defeating some bosses. 
One of the biggest complaints with the original was the Gummi ship. Sora used this ship to travel to the different plan­ets, and was a complete chore to control for garners. This time around, it controls 
like a first person shooter b 

and feels more like a natural 
Pluy5tatlon 2 .:: 
extension of the gameplay as s 
opposed to a forced, annoy-II 
ing mini-game. b 
However, some things were B not improved from the origi-o nal. While some of the voice tt acting is well done, some P1 sound as if amateurs per-m formed them and are very g; dull and monotone. The flow A of the game is almost the 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 
page 11 

P gaming standard 
Photo courtesy of ign.com 
operative Gabe Logan ducks behind cover in the PSP title "Syphon Filter: Dark The game features a robust multi-player experience. 
r players in various settings, such as team deathmatch and objective games. Doing well in these games will t the player's online rank and earn that in turn unlock new weapons for player. These new weapons provide a boost to the player's online efficien­and level the playing field against veteran 
most online games, "Syphon Filter" be intimidating at first to newcomers. ayers with the aforementioned unlocked apons tend to use them indiscriminately weaker newcomers, giving a stilted II to death ratio. The locations of more 
powerful weaponry are another key for suc­cess, which new garners are left in the dark about. 
But perserverance is key here, and players who stick with the online will find an enjoy­able, rewarding experience. 
"Syphon Filter" is the PSP's driving game at the moment, featuring a well-developed and satisfying multiplayer and single player cam­paigns. For people with -and even without -a wireless connection, a more enjoyable experience will be hard to find. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


eunites for 'Hearts' 
courtesy of ign.com 
aptaln Jack Sparrow, left, advises "Kingdom Hearts II" protagonist Sora in a world ased on Disney's "Pirates of the Caribbean." 

Tessa Quayle (Rachel Weisz) shares a moment with her husband, Justin (Ralph Fiennes), in the movie "The Constant Gardener." 
me as KH1 -visit world A, defeat the eartless/Nobodies in world A, fight a ss, make everyone happy, go to world wash rinse repeat. And though some the worlds are new (Space Paranoids, e amazing Tron world, Port Royal, ide Land, etc.), they still brought back any of the same worlds from the first 
me (Agrabah, Halloween Town, 100 re Wood). The game is also relatively short com­
pared to other role-playing games on the market, with completion time ranging as low as 20 hours. The standard difficulty is quite easy, and button-mashing works as well as a refined strategy most of the time. However, fans of Disney and Square Enix will find plenty to like here, and even those casual garners will find a cinematic, gripping experience. 
Contact Nicole Domer at ndomer@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 
'Gardener' a gripping experience 
By MARY SQUILLACE Scene Critic 
In a world where popular cinema has become synonymous with the special effects-driven and action-packed formu­laic plots of the Hollywood blockbuster, "The Constant Gardener" comes as an enormous relief. Unlike most contempo­rary dramas, this f:tlm is able to take the audience on a truly gripping journey without the "race against the clock" and "world on the brink of disaster" gimmicks that have become so familiar to moviego­ers. Instead, "The Constant Gardener" replaces these conventions with a story that not only gets the viewers' adrenaline pumping, but is socially and emotionally engaging as well. 
"The Constant Gardener" tells the story of Justin Quayle (Raph Fiennes) and his wife Tessa (Rachel Weisz). When Justin's role as a British diplomat moves the two of them to Africa, Justin settles quietly into his position, occupying himself with his garden in his spare time. Tessa, on the other hand, picks up more perilous hobbies. Passionately invested in a variety of Amnesty International-esque organiza­tions, she takes on a mysterious project 
that appears to culminate in her brutal murder. 
Upon his beloved Tessa's death, Justin embarks on a quest to uncover his wife's secrets. As Justin begins to delve into 
The Constant Gardener 
Director: Fernando Meirelles Writer: Jeffrey Caine Starring: Ralph Fiennes, Rachel Weisz, Danny Huston, Daniele Hartford, Packson Ngugi 
pans and wide shots of the Kenyan land­scape punctu­ate the film, enhancing the narrative's ability to cap­tivate its audi­

details of his late wife's personal past, he finds himself rapidly confronted with the disturbing and dangerous truth behind one corporation's ascent. 
The film, which begins with Tessa's death and then cuts between scenes from the past and present, is immediately engaging and maintains its momentum all the way to the final scene. Laced with tiny mysteries, 'The Constant Gardener" requires the viewer's full attention and rightfully captures it with its narrative. Heightening the effects of the action-ori­ented side of the film-in which a seem­ingly omnipresent villain trails Justin as he races across two continents for answers -is the distinctly emotional aspect of the film. 
Central to this emotional appeal is its focus on Justin and Tessa's relationship. The romance between the characters is more than a convention set-up in order to infuse the story with a sexy subplot. Here the character interactions emit a palpable chemistry and ultimately generate incredible sympathy for Justin, the pro­tagonist. 
The characters are also largely respon­sible for the fresh feel to this drama. Breaking with convention of popular cin­ema, Justin is a somewhat accidental hero, lacking in the self-awareness and bravado of typical protagonists. 
Fiennes approaches this role with sub­tlety in order to convey Justin's mild­mannered but emotionally complex per­sonality. Though ultimately Justin exhibits courage, it is clear from Fienne's performance that his every action is mediated not by the overwhelming sense of righteousness and masculinity that drives so many of Hollywood's heroes, but with the same sensitivity with which he tends to each one of his precious plants. 
Likewise, Weisz, proving herself worthy of the Academy Award acclamation she received in March, brings Tessa to life. Her apparent comfort with this role allows her inhabit both Tessa's uncon­tained passion and down-to-earth atti­tude. 
Nearly upstaging both actors' perform­ances are the visual elements of "The Constant Gardener." Coming from direc­tor Fernando Meirelles and cinematogra­pher Cesar Charlone -two of the minds behind the beautifully shot "City of God" -the stunning visuals of this film come as no sur­prise. Sweeping 
ence. 
However, 

the constant presence of Africa in the film's back­ground is more than just eye candy. While the events in the film are fictional, "The Constant Gardener" fulfills its social responsibility to point out some serious issues plaguing Africa. Not only does the film succeed in garnering the viewers' compassion for its lead characters, but it also effectively draws the audiences into this distant culture. It provokes, at the very least, some consideration to the needs of those living on the continent we so often forget. 
Ultimately, "The Constant Gardner" forces us to remember that it doesn't nec­essarily take a series of explosions and a rugged, muscled protagonist to put us on the edge of our seats and make our hearts pound. The film has an emotional­ly and socially significant story arc that builds to a satisfying and poignant con­clusion, one that allows the film to make a lasting mark on the hearts and minds of its audience. 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
MLB 



Mulder, Cards christen new home with win 
Thome stays hot while White Sox big bats use three home runs to hand Detroit its second loss in their home opener 
Associated Press put the Cardinals ahead 6-2. with a double and advanced on Mulder also started the final Willy Taveras' bunt. Biggio was 
ST. LOUIS -Apparently, the home opener at the old Busch 0-for-5 before lining his 608th new Busch Stadium is both a Stadium last year in addition to double ofT the metal scoreboard hittl~r·s and pitcher's park. At pitching thn final game at the in left field. least for Mark Mulder. 40-year-old park last fall in a "He didn't have a lot of good 
The Cardinals' left-hander Game 6 NLCS loss to the swings," Garner said of Biggio. threw eight strong innings and Houston Astros. "True to the Hall of Fame hit his first career home run to Arter Geoff Jenkins led off moniker he'll be wearing, he help the St. Louis beat the with a bloop single in the ninth, came through." Milwaukee Brewers 6-4 Braden Looper came in and got Monday in the first major Carlos Lee to ground into a dou­Dodgers 8, Pirates 3 league game at the $365 million ble play. Hall then doubled and Everything about the ballpark. scored on a single by Rickie Dodgers-Pirates rivalry was 
Scott Holen's two-run double Wenks. how Jim Tracy remembered it. in thtl fourth otl' Torno Ohka (0-The Dodgers jumping out to an 1I gave the Cardinals the lead Astros 5, Nationals 4 (12) early lead. Olmedo Saenz get­for good and Albert l'ujols hit Eric Bruntlett sat in the ting an important hit. The his fourth homer, a drive to the Houston Astros' dugout for offense being more than good left-omter power alley estimat­hours on Monday wondering, as enough. ed at 445 feet. he usually does, whether he Tracy's only problem is he's 
The day began on a festive would play. now in the opposing dugout. note, with Pujols and Chris When manager Phil Garner Jason Repko homered and Carptmter, the NL MVP and Cy finally called on his valued tripled to drive in four runs in Young Award winners, throwing reserve in the 12th inning, the first two innings, and the out dual ceremonial first pitch­Bruntlett produced a game-win­Dodgers roughed up their for­es to retired Cardinals greats ning sacrifice fly that scored mer manager's new team, beat­Willie MeGee and Bob Gibson. It Craig Biggio in a win over the ing the Pirates Monday in stayed f'f~stive most of the day Washington Nationals. Pittsburgh's home opener. The for a sellout crowd of 41,936. "You've been sitting around Pirates are 1-7 -their worst 
Bill Hall's two-run homer in for three-plus hours. and then start since they had the same the Sf~eond was the only darn­you have to come in and get the record in 1974, when they went age off Mulder ( 1-0). IIall was job done," Bruntlett said. "It on to win a division title. Angeles is 16-3 in Pittsburgh know he can help this ballclub," 3-for-4 with a pair of doubles isn't easy." "One-and-7 obviously isn't the since 2001 and has won nine of Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen for Milwaukee, which has lost Bruntlett is used to it. He won way you want to start," Tracy 10 and 19 of 22 overall against said. "Being a DH will help him two straight after a 5-0 start two games last season in the said. "But the (Dodgers) team I the Pirates. because it keeps him out of the that put the Brewers in first Astros' final at-bat, including a managed last year started 12-2 field." place in the NL Central. three-run homer that ended a and we won 71 games. So it's White Sox 5, Detroit 3 The last time the White Sox 
Mulder allowed seven hits in 14-inning game in Washington not a large enough sample size Jim Thome again provided played at Comerica Park was eight innings, struek out five last July. of games. It doesn't mean this is the Chicago White Sox with Sept. 29, when they clinched and walked one. He also was 2-"He's tremendous," Lance the kind of team we're going to power, and for a change his the AL Central en route to their for-3 with a double on a hop oil' Berkman said. "The thing that be for the next six months." teammates gave him some help. first World Series title since the center-field wall and a walk makes him so good is he can sit Tracy's Dodgers were 427-Thome and Joe Crede hit two­1917. -<~oming in he had a .11 CJ over there for a week with 383 in five seasons, or 44 run homers and Paul Konerko "I think that game set every­career average in 84 at-bats almost no activity, and when games above .500. And nearly added a solo shot, leading thing up for the playoffs," with four HBis. you call upon him, he's always half of that edge came from Chicago to a victory Monday in Guillen said. "People were talk­
I lis home run, a two-drive oil' ready to go." being 20 games above .500 the Detroit Tigers' home open­ing a lot of stull' about us, about Jose Capellan in the seventh, Biggio led off the 12th inning against the Pirates -27-7. Los er. how we choke, but after we 
When Thome made it 2-all in clinched here, it took a lot of the third with his fourth home pressure off the players." run, he remained the only Garcia {1-1) bounced back White Sox player to clear the with a solid outing after allow­fences this season. In the sixth, ing seven runs and nine hits Crede ended the non-Thorne over four innings in his first homer drought and put the start, a loss to Cleveland. White Sox ahead. Konerko Chicago has won two straight restored their two-run lead in after losing four in a row. the eighth. Jeremy Bonderrnan (1-1) 
"I knew we were going to hit," allowed four runs and six hits in said Freddy Garcia, who gave seven innings for the Tigers. up three runs and live hits over Detroit has lost two straight fol­six innings for his 1OOth win. lowing a 5-0 start. under new "We have a great lineup." manag1~r .Jim Leyland. 
Thome, who has been used "It was a good ballgame ­solely as a designated hitter, just a bad outcome," Leyland was acquired from Philadelphia said. in November for outfielder Leyland, who led Florida to Aaron Rowand and two pitch­the 1997 World Series title and ers. Thome hit just seven was a two-time NL manager of homers in 59 games last sea­the Year in Pittsburgh, is back son, limited by elbow and back in the dugout for the first time injuries. since quitting in Colorado fol­
"As long as Jim is healthy, we lowing the 1999 season. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
Do not rent or live in a dorm. Come see 429 Tonti, 1/2 mile from ND CampusI Make your dream of homeownership a reality. 1232 sq It, 3+car garage. Call Donna @993­5060. 


FoR RENT 
AJC,security system, fenced yard,carpeted,laundry,on bus route. No smoking or pets, lease deposit required. 574·289-9365. 
NEWI http://ndrental.tripod.com 
WALK TO SCHOOL2-6 BED· ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993·2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 mi. to ND. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 269·663·2299 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 sll+base,LR w/lp,4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd II. Full appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARRE/$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 

Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey 574-271-4060. 
Beautiful refinished house. 4 bdrms 
1.5 baths. C/A & WID. Gas stove, oven, microwave & refrigerator. Hardwood floors in bdrms & tile in bathrooms. Big driveway & 2-car garage. Close to ND-1023 Talbot off of South Bend Ave. $1,400/mo. Utilities not included. Need security deposit. Call277-1875 Cosimo. 
4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus. $1350. 220-8666. 
1 bdrm apt. $400 + utilities. Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact Grubb & Ellis/Grassy & Everett, Noah Dave~574·271-4060 


WANTED 
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full time weekdays during summer. Part time or full time in the fall. Previous experience required. Fax resume or letter to 574·251-1898. 
need a furnished room or apt. to rent for June & July. Call Tom Clark 412·829-8602. 

Highly motivated, ethical/socially responsible, entrepreneurial, go-getters with desires to make a meaningful impact on transforming the international business world while making a large amount of $$$$. I am an alum based in Jackson Hole and am looking for students for part time, full time, or summer employment to work for commission. Can work from home. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co m 

TICKETS 

O.A.R. tix first 3 rows. Call 272­7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 
277-1659. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. M.l. Gude, CSC at631·7819. For more information, 
see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Money don't make my world go round 







OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, Aprilll, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NHL Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  OT  points  
NY Rangers  44·22  12  100  
Philadelphia  42·24  11  95  
New Jersey  42·27  9  93  
NY Islanders  34·38  i  73  
Pittsburgh  20·44  13  53  

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT points 
Ottawa 50-19 8 108 Buffalo 48-24 6 102 Montreal 40-28 9 89 Toronto 37-32 8 82 Boston 29-35 14 72 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Carolina 51-21 6 108 Tampa Bay 42-31 5 89 Atlanta 38-32 7 83 Florida 35·34 9 79 Washington 25-40 12 62 
Western Conference, Central Division 
tHam record OT points 
Detroil 54-15 8 116 Nashville 45-25 8 98 Columbus 32-41 4 68 Chicago 24-40 13 61 St. Louis 21-42 14 56 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OT points 
Calgary 44·24 10 98 Colorado 42·28 8 92 Edmonton 39·27 13 91 Vancouver 41·30 7 89 Minnesota 37-35 7 81 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Dallas 51·22 i 107 Anaheim 41·24 12 94 San Jose 40·26 11 91 Los Angeles 40·34 5 85 Phoenix 36·36 s n 
Collegiate Baseball Top25 

No. team record points 
1 Cal State Fullerton 26-8 494 2 North Carolina 'll-7 491 3 Florida Slate 31-4 490 4 Nebraska 24·5 487 5 Rice 2-8 485 6 Texas 24-11 483 7 Clemson 24-8 482 8 Alabama 25-10 480 9 South Carolina 27-6 478 10 Mississippi Slate 25-6 4n 11 Georgia Tech 25-8 475 12 North Carolina State 27·9 470 13 Arizona Slate 25-10 468 14 Miami Florida 24-12 465 15 Arkansas 25-8 463 16 VanderbiH 21-11 462 17 Old Dominion 31-4 460 18 Southern California 20-14 459 19 Oregon State 21-9 458 20 Virginia 'l/·9 455 21 NOTRE DAME 22-8 449 22 College of Charleston 27-6 446 23 Fresno State 26-10 444 24 Ohio Slate 19-7 443 25 Kentucky 25-8 441 

around the dial 
MLB 
Reds at Cubs, 2 p.m., Comcast 

NBA Seattle at San Antonio, 8:30 p.m., NBATV New Jersey at Chicago, 8:30 p.m., Comcast 
NCAA MEN'S lACROSSE 

Associated Press 

DURHAM, N.C. -DNA testing failed to connect any members of the Duke University lacrosse team to the alleged rape of a strip­per, attorneys for the ath­letes said Monday. 
Citing DNA test results delivered by the state crime lab to police and prosecutors a few hours earlier, the attorneys said the test results prove their clients did not sexually assault and beat a stripper hired to perform at a March 13 team party. 
No charges have been filed in the case. "There is no DNA evi­
deuce that shows she was touched by any of these boys," said Attorney Joe Cheshire, who represents one of the team's captains. 
The alleged victim, a 27­year-old student at a near­by college, told police she and another woman were hired to dance at the party. The woman told police that three men at the party dragged her into a bath­room, choked her, raped her and sodomized her. 
The Associated Press does not name alleged vic­tims in sexual assault cases. 
The allegations have led to the resignation of coach Mike Pressler, the cancel­lation of the lacrosse sea­son and the suspension of one player from school. 
The case also led to days of protests on and off the Duke campus, and some of the players have moved for safety reasons. 
According to court docu­ments, only lacrosse team members were at the party. Authorities ordered 46 of the 4 7 players on Duke's lacrosse team to submit DNA samples to investigators, who com­pared them with evidence collected from the woman. 
Because the woman said her attackers were white, the team's sole black play­er was not tested. It was not known whether inves­tigators tested for DNA other than the players'. 
Cheshire said the report indicated authorities took DNA samples from all over the alleged victim's body, including under her finger­nails, and from her posses­sions, such as her cell phone and her clothes. 
"They swabbed about every place they could pos­sibly swab from her, in which there could be any DNA," he said. 
District Attorney Mike Nifong has said he would have other evidence to make his case should the DNA analysis prove incon­clusive or fail to match a 
IN BRIEF 

Williams appeals drug sus­pension NEW YORK -Ricky Williams and his lawyer met Monday with NFL counsel Jeff Pash, seeking to have the league overturn a positive drug test that could cost him the entire 2006 season. The league, which doesn't acknowledge drug tests until there is a final determination, had no comment on the appeal. Williams' lawyer, David Cornwell, acknowl­edged that the hearing was taking place, but had no further comment. The results of the hearing won't be made known immediately but if the positive test is upheld, it would be Williams' fourth violation of the NFL's substance abuse policy, mean­ing at least a one-year suspension. Previous positive tests were for marijuana, which Williams acknowledged using. But the latest test apparently involved a drug other than marijuana. 
Crisp out for I 0 days with fractured hand BOSTON -Boston Red Sox center fielder Coco Crisp has a fracture on the base of his index finger on his left hand and will be sidelined for at least 10 days. Crisp's hand will be immobilized in a splint for 10 days and then reeval­uated, team medical director Dr. Thomas Gill said Monday. No sur­gery is needed to treat the injury, sustained when he tied to steal third base Saturday in Boston's 2-1 victory at the Baltimore Orioles. "Once sufficient healing has occurred, Coco can begin batting and return to baseball activities," Gill said in a statement. The 26-year-old Crisp, a switch­hitter who throws right-handed, was acquired in January from Cleveland after Johnny Damon signed with the New York Yankees. Crisp is batting .333 (8-for-24) with a double, triple and six runs scored. 

Lee signs with Cubs for $65 million CHICAGO -NL batting champion Derrek Lee and the Chicago Cubs agreed to a $65 million, five-year con­tract, a deal expected to be announced Tuesday. "It's fairly likely something will be worked out," agent Casey Close said Monday. "We still have to iron out some things." The Cubs called a news conference for Tuesday but did not specifY its subject, and Cubs general manager Jim Hendry declined comment. Lee is making $8 million in the final season of a $22.5 million, three-year deaL His new contract calls for a $13 million annual salary from 2006-10 and contains a no-trade clause, one person familiar with the agreement said, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. Late last week, Lee said he would break off negotiations for the rest of the season if the sides did not reach an agreement by last Saturday. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
NHL 
Kings' Robitaille to hang up skates 
Los Angeles' all-time leading scorer set to retire at season's end 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES Lue Hobitailln, the highest scoring left wing in Nlll. history, will retire at tho end of the season, the Los Angeles Kings said Monday. Hobitailln, the Kings' eanwr l•Htdnr in goals, will hold a news eonf'nrenee Tuesday to discuss his decision. "Tomorrow is the opportunily for the Kings and Lue Hobitaille to a•:knowlndgo his flail of Famn-ealilwr career and give him an opportunity to address his decision to retire from the game of hockey," said Mic:haol Altieri, tho Kings' vi1:n presi­dent of cornrnunieations. Altieri doelirwd further corn­nwnt. Hobitaille. who turned 40 in February, has 15 goals and nine assists in 62 games this season, his 19th in the Nlll.. lie has 66H goals and 726 points for 1,394 points in 1,42H rngu­lar-season games with the Kings, Pittsburgh, the Nnw York Hangers and 
"It came to a point after 19 years he felt it was time," said Pat Brisson, Hobitaille's agent. "Some morn­ings he wakes up and says, 'Should I or should I not,· since he is so passionate for the game." 
Hobitaille has made a eareer of breaking reeords at his posi­tion. He scored the most goals in a season for a left wing, with 63 in 1992-1993. lie is also the only one to record eight straight seasons of at least 40 goals. 
"lie's going out on his own terms," Brisson said. "He is walking out with his head up." 
The native of Montreal played on Canada's gold-medal win­ning tnam at the 1994 World Championship. Hobitaille scored the winning goal in a shootout. giving his country its first world title in 33 years. 
In January, the fan-favorite nicknamed "Lucky" broke the Kings' franchise record for goals with a hat trick in a win over Atlanta. 
"lin's given this organization so rnueh. and an identity," Brisson said. "The L.A. Kings logo is right next to Lue Hobitaille. Ilis face is recog­nized in L.A. as being one of the best athletes in this town." 
Hobitaille broke in with the Kings in 1986 and was the NI II. rookie of the year. Iln spent most of his earner in Los Angeles during three stints with the Kings. lie returned to the team for the 2003-04 sea­son and had 22 goals in 80 games. 
"This is where I started my career and this is where I 
believe I will end 
my career," 
Robitaille said in 

Detroit. In 159 "It came to a point 2004. "This is playoff games, he after 19 years he where J belong. has 5H goals and This is my horne." 
fell it was time. " 

69 assists. lie But he was helped Detroit win benched for four the 2002 Stanley Pat Brisson games in 
Cup. Robitaille's agent December by for­
mer coach Andy 
Murray, who was 
fired last month. And then he was held out again for three games last week by new coach John Torchetti. Hobitaille was back in the line­up Saturday against Anaheim. 
"When he was scratched this year, he was extremely frus­trated and disappointed," Brisson said. "I don't know if he has it in him to go through another year where it could be more and more like that." 

DELUXE FooTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 

•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS (AAI O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 ~ICiHTS HOTEl RESERVATIONS 

•GROU\JO 
TRAVI-1 TO/FROM COUSHJM 


•CATERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE GAME 
Total Package: 
$2,650 per reservation ((hE:>ck or C.1sh) 
GO IRISH! 

MLB 
Big Papi signs ne-w four-year deal 
Ortiz signs $52 million contract extension with Red Sox on Monday 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -David Ortiz agr!lf~d to a four-year contract extension with the Boston Red Sox on Monday, a deal that will guarantee the American League MVP runner-up about $52 million. 
The deal keeps his powerful bat, bright smile and sharp wit in Boston's clubhouse without the possibility of him departing after the 2007 season, when Ortiz could have become a free agent. But he loves Boston and didn't want to be besieged by suitors. 
"You have a lot of people coming right at you," he said during a news conference at Fenway Park. "I feel this is my salaries of $12.5 million from 2007-10. The Hed Sox would get a $12.5 million option for 2011 with no buyout. 
"I want to finish my career as a Hed Sox player," Ortiz said. ''I'm going to be around for a while. I'm pretty sure New England is .?oing to take this as good news. 
Hcd Sox general manager ThHo Epstein certainly did. 
"I can't think of a player who contributfls in so many ways," Epstein said. "He's a guy with a smile on his face. lie sets the right mood for the team in our clubhouse.... It was just an easy decision for us" to give the extension. 
Had Ortiz become a free 
agent, EpstHin 
said the player 
house and I've would have had a
"/feel this is my

got to proteet this lot or options
house and I've got 

house." "that would have Thn dHsignated to protect this made it difl'ieult hitter was in the l'or him to stay in
house." 

last year of a Boston." $12.5 million, Epstein said the two-year exten­David Ortiz new deal was 9H sion he signed in Boston DH percent complete 
May 2004. That deal called for a $6.5 million salary this year and gave Boston an option for 2007 that currently was valuHd at $8.4 million with a $1.4 mil­lion buyout. 
While the final numbers of his new deal were not immediately available, the sides discussed an agreement that would include a $2 million signing bonus, keep this year's salary the same and add annual 

during spring 
training. 

Since Ortiz joined the Bed Sox in 2003 as a free agent from the Minnesota Twins, he and Manny Ramirez have developed into perhaps baseball's top power duo. Ortiz led the AL with 148 RBis last year. 
They combined for 68 homers in 2003, 84 in 2004 and 92 in 2005, when Ortiz's career-best 47 were one fewer than New York's Alex Hodriguez, the AL leader. Ortiz and Hamirez beearne the first teammates in major league history to eaeh have 40 homers and 40 doubles in one season in 2004. Last year, they totaled 292 HBis. 
Ortiz is one of' Boston's dub­house leaders, smiling and jok­ing with teammates. lie also is one of baseball's top eluteh hit­ters, leading the league last year with 21 game-winning HBis, while 19 of his homers gave the Hed Sox a tie or the lead. 
In Boston's first six games this season, live ol' them wins, Ortiz has one horner, four RBis and a .292 batting average. The Hed Sox had Monday oil' before Tuesday's horne opener against the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Since joining the Hed Sox, Ortiz has been the most pro­ductive addition at the plat!~ since John Henry became owner in 2002 and Epstein took over as general manager in 2003. 
Ortiz was lifth in the AL MVP voting in 2003 and fourth in 2004 before finishing second to Hodriguez in a tight vote last year. 
In those three seasons, Ortiz leads the majors with 38H HBls, is second with a .600 slugging percentage and fourth with 119 homers 
In the previous six years in the Twins organization, Ortiz spent just two full seasons in the majors, hitting .282 with 10 homers and 63 HBis in 2000 and .272 with 20 homers and 75 HBis in 2002. 
Tuesday, April 11, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
CLUB SPORTS 
Men's rowing takes three of four from Purdue 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men took three out of four races from Midwestern rowing power Purdue University at the April eighth State of Indiana Regatta. The racing, set on the turbulent waters of Eagle Creek Beservoir, included several school versus school challenges for men's and women's crews. 
In the past five years no Notre Dame men's crew has taken a race from a Purdue boat in the annual ND-PU chal­lenge. This year's racing paid witness to the dedication and preparation of each crew on Notre Dame's team. The racing began with Notre Dame's Novice 4 of coxswain Radhika Deva, (stroke) Craig Wiborg, Tomas Castillo, Johann deSousa and Matt Napierski defeating Purdue's four-man crew with a time of 7:24. Coming in third was (coxswain) Tara Morin's crew of Nick Kluesner, Dan Murphy, Brandon Carroll and Jordan Frankel, who at 7:39 finished just two seconds behind the Purdue 4. Notre Dame's power­ful Novice 8 of coxswain Bryce Chung, (stroke) Karol Grzesiak, Thomas Mazzacavallo, Andrew Matasic, Ray Schleck, Brendan McNutt, Rob Bowen, Taylor Donaldson and Matt Degnan led from start to finish and crossed the line in 5:52 with open water and ten seconds between them and the best fin­isher of Purdue's three tradi­tionally strong novice crews. 
In varsity racing, Notre Dame's second Varsity 8 battled back and forth with Purdue's second Varsity 8 and Lightweight 8 crews on an adjusted course. The race fin­ished with (cox) Julie Lambe's crew of (stroke) Scotty Campbell, P.J. McAward, Evan Donoghue, Michael Lucci, Bill Blosky, Andrew Baker, Michael Lutkus and Michael Giordano finishing in 5:02 to outdistance Purdue's best finisher (5:05) by about a boat-length. Notre Dame's top boat, the first Varsity 8 of (cox) Gigi Gutierrez, (stroke) Dan Pearson, Nick Mathew, Jake Teitgen, Joe Blakely, Tedd Hawks, Steve Maher, Kane Pithey and bowman Nick Catella, suffered the only loss of the day against Purdue's highly regarded Varsity 8 crew. The Purdue V8 (5:51). which a week ago defeated nationally­ranked Temple University in San Diego, held off the sprint of the fast-charging Notre Dame crew (5:56) to win the race by just more than a boat-length. 
Notre Dame's Varsity 8 stroke seat Dan Pearson commented, "We were greatly encouraged but not satisfied with our team results. Taking three of four races from a program like Purdue is a great step for us, but our Varsity 8 is hungry to catch Purdue's top boat. We will see them twice more this year, and we intend to do more than just give them a good race. We want to sweep Purdue by beating them with all four boats that we put out to race." 
Notre Dame Varsity coach Kurt Butler and Novice coach 
J.P. Oleksiuk were similarly encouraged and remain opti­mistic for the second half of the racing season. 

Cycling 
Eleven members of cycling team traveled to Kalamazoo, Mich. to compete in a pair of races at Western Michigan University this weekend. Building on last week's success, the Irish again claimed more wins and top finishes. 
Saturday's race featured a long flat road race that finished with multiple loops. Three team riders competed in the 27 -mile Men's D race, as soph­omore Peter Nistler, in only his second race, unleashed a strong sprint and rode away with the victory. Three Irish riders started in the 40-mile Men's C race. Freshman Andy Steves once again won the race, claiming his fourth indi­vidual victory this season. The final four Irish riders on raced in the 55 mile Men's B race. Sophomore Matt Prygoski appeared as if he would win as he approached the finish line, but crashed hard after the rider in front of him slid out in the final corner. Tim Campbell was not far behind, taking fourth place overall, and Mike Lavery finished right on his wheel in fifth place out of 60 riders. 
Sunday's circuit race, an extremely hilly 2. 75-mile loop featured two hard climbs on every lap. In the 45-minute Men's C race, Andy Steves gar­nered his second win of the weekend as he sprinted clear of all other racers up the finishing climb. Steves has claimed five wins in nine races this season. The Mens B race was an hour in duration. The team plan was to put Matt Prygoski in a situa­tion where he could use his hill climbing power. Three laps into the race, Prygoski was able to breakaway from the main pack with an IU rider. The rest of the ND team worked with IU at the front of the main field, slowing the pace in Prygoski's favor, and chasing down any threat­ening attacks. Prygoski blazed up the final climb, taking his first NCAA win. Lavery, Gisler and Campbell came in one minute later at the front of the main pack, taking seventh, eighth, and lOth in the 45 rider race. 
The team races again in two weeks at the regional competi­tion, held at the University of Illinois. This will be the final race of the season, and the team hopes to take away a few more victories and finish the year ranked in the top 10 in the 35-team conference. 
Men's Water Polo 
The men's water polo team hosted its annual Alumni Tournament in Rolfs Aquatic Center this weekend. The Irish started off the weekend slowly, losing their first game to Michigan State 9-5. The Irish beat the second ranked Spartans earlier this year but were plagued with turnovers and defensive lapses in the tournament opener. There were shining moments in the losing effort, however, with Pat Connors, Matt McNicholas and Jay Nunez contributing to the goal count. 
The Irish bounced back in a night game against the Alumni team. A shaky first quarter led to an early Alumni lead, but the Irish staged a comeback with tough defense and opportunis­tic offense. The Irish took the lead late in the third quarter and kept it for the rest of the game, for a 13-11 victory. Greg Szewczyk, Zhanwei Khaw and Tom Fletcher all contributing to the solid win. The Irish played the "B" squad Sunday morning and used the game as a learn­ing experience for the younger players on the team. 

In the tournament finale, the Irish were matched against Chicago Club Team, who had beaten Michigan State earlier on Sunday. The Irish came out fired up and ready to play as the first half ended in a 2-2 draw. With stifling defense, a well-balanced offense and sev­eral pressure blocks from goalie Scott Tagwerker the Irish went on to win 7-4. Mike Silhasek, Colin Dunn and McNicholas had outstanding performances in the win. 
Equestrian 
Molly Schmiege claimed first place in intermediate fences at Zones this weekend and quali­fied for Nationals. Schmiege will join Ke.lsey Ostberg, who qualified earlier this year. The Nationals will be held May 4-7 in Harrisburg, PA. 
In other Zone results, Heather LaDue and Alisha Wilkinson finished third and sixth respectively in advanced walk-trot-canter, and Alie Minnish took fifth in open flat. In team standings, Kansas State won the event, followed by Indiana and Wisconsin. 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and a tremendous business experienceil 
If so, Get aJob at The Observer! The Observer is now accepting applications for Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu or Jim Kirihara at jkirihar@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
TENNIS 
Haas advances in U.S. tnen's clay court play 
No.5 seed won in two difficult sets against Spaniard Hernandez 
Associated Press IIOUSTON -Fifth-seeded Tom my IIaas started fast and then had to push hard in thn second sot before beating Oscar Hernandez 6-1, 6-4 Monday night in the first round of th(~ U.S. Men's Clay Court Championships. Third-seeded Hobby Ginopri played Albert Monotones in a later lirst-round match. llaas. who won the lith~ here in 2004, broeznd through the l"irst snt in 2S minutes bnf'orn llnrnarHIPz stl•pped up in the second set. lie broke llaas in tlw sixth game to take a 4-2 lead, but tlw CPrman broke hack in the seventh gamn. 
llaas took charge or the mateh when he went up 5-4 al'tnr he had Hernandez down lovo-40. The Spaniard fought off two break points but lost it at the third break point with a double fault. Haas then served for the match and won it at tho seeond match point when Hernandez's return of serve sailed wide. 
Haas, ranked 27th in the world, extended his match record to 21-5 this season. lie played IIernandez for the first time. 
"I didn't know what to expect from him," Haas said. "You could have put 20 players up thnre and I couldn't have picked him out. I asked a few frinnds and they said he was a typical elay-court player. I decided to play a little clay­court tnnnis at times and to gnt aggressive." 
Gala 2006 
Greencroft Senior Center Benefit 
Featuring comedian Stuart Mclean 


Sat., April 29, 2006 7:00p.m. 
Goshen College Music Center Tickets -$35 On sale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. Main, Goshen, 
(57 4) 535-7566. 
A GR_EENCR_OFT, 
• www.greencroft.org 
Major sponsors: Blue Gate Restaurant Boling Vision Center Corson Family Foundation Elkhart General Hospital 
Media sponsors: 
First State Bank '<tlrr (~ushru .Nrurs HomeCrest Cabinetry KeyBank
88./ WVPE 

liberty Homes 
Rollpak Corp. 
Ymtr NPR' Sll1t;on 
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special May 18-21 
Need a place for your family to stay? Try the Sacred Heart Parish Center [Building 1185 on your campus maps.] 
We set a $100.00 per person donation for the weekend. 
"COME EARLY [Thursday]­STAY LATE [Monday]" same low price 
For reservations please call: Paul Eddy at 574-631-7512 or Mary Fonferko at 574-631-9436 


Wfite SpOrts. Call Ken at 1-4543. 
Tuesday, April 11, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
SandiDan 
continued from page 20 
was great." 
In his first tournament of the season, the Administaff Augusta State Invitational, Sandman carded a three over­par 219, tying for 25th place in one of the nation's most competitive fields. 
"I really can't imagine any­one playing better golf [than Josh] right now," Irish head coach Jim Kubinski said. "With everything he's gone through, in addition to making the transition to college, he's just been outstanding." 
This weekend at the Boilermaker Invitational, Sandman got into a rhythm again, shooting a three under­par 69 in Sunday's final round to finish the tournament at four-over-par 220. That was good enough for a second place tie with fellow team member Cole Isban. 
"I always felt pretty confi­dent," Sandman said. "But I didn't think I would make as big a splash as I did." 
In addition to dealing with his back, Sandman has also had to adjust to a new swing during the last year and a half, making his performance over the weekend all the more impressive. 
"He has worked a great deal on swing changes suggested by his coach back home, along with an eye from me on occa­sion," Kubinski said. "I think we really saw what Josh is capable of with that 69 on Sunday." 
In fact, the one thing that Sandman didn't do well-putt -is the thing that Kubinski feels he's best at now. 
"Josh is a tremendous put­ter, he just didn't have it [at times this week]," Kubinski said. "He's very solid through­out the bag, but I think his strongest suit is his putting." 
Despite the obstacles of being a freshman competing against upperclassmen, Sandman has been able to hold his own. In his six rounds this year, Sandman has a 
73.17 scoring average. That places him just behind senior Mark Baldwin, junior Cole Isban and senior Scott Gustafson for the team lead. 
Sandman said his practice with Baldwin, Isban and Gustafson has been the main reason he came out of the gate so strong. 
"We've all pushed each other to get better," he said. "When we get out there [in practice], Cole and I will always play a match against the two seniors. There will always be pride on the line, and you never want to lose that." 
Notre Dame returns to action April 23 in Dade City, Fla. for the Big East Championship. 
For Sandman, it will be only his third collegiate tourna­ment. 
"I don't know what to expect right now," Sandman said. "I feel like I can compete with anybody right now. I just have to go out there and play my best." 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 

Cardinals 
continued from page 20 
Dame won the game 4-1 on April 7 last year thanks to a three-run homer off the bat of then-Irish senior Liz Hartmann. 
The Cardinals arrive with an overall record of 9-16 (3-5 in the Mid-American Conference) after dropping a pair of games at Western Michigan. During the short series, Ball State had trouble getting to Broncos pitcher Krysten Shumaker. Notre Dame also struggled in its one meeting with Shumaker March 26, but the Irish won 2­1 in extra innings. 
"She pitched really well and was able to shut us down for most of the game," Irish coach 
Sweep 
continued from page 20 
went before her aided her con­fidence at the plate. 
"We had a lot of intensity from the bench," she said. "It also helped to have players on base ahead of me." 
Saint Mary's coach Erin Sullivan said Fusaro's double was the turning point of the game and was emblematic of the type of big hits she'd like to see from her team. 
"We had clutch hitting," Sullivan said. "When you have that, you win." 
Amram finished off the game with a hitless top of the sev­enth. 
fourth, Saint Mary's secured three runs to extend the lead to 8-2. 
The Pilots caught a glimmer of hope in the bottom of the seventh when Hitch delivered an RBI base hit, but second baseman Katie Fornoff ground-

A Presentation by Dr. Devon Zimmerman, M.D. Neurologist South Bend Neurology, Inc. 
In the Classroom at RecSports Wed., April12 7p.m. *Refreshments will be served* 
Sponsored by Roerig (a division of Pfizer Pharmaceuticals) and UBWELL2 
• 
Deanna Gumpf said. success all year long, 
Notre Dame senior pitcher Ruthrauff said. That balance Heather Booth will take the has led the Irish to a second­mound today. Booth had 11 place standing in the Big East. strikeouts in her last appear­And it's a balance focused sole­
ance en route to a complete­

"I am seeing the ball 
game shut out 

very well right now, and
of Pittsburgh. The rest of the this is the most staff has per­
confident I have been 
formed nearly 

with my swing all year 
as well as Booth, combin­long." ing with the senior for a 
Meagan Ruthrauff 
team ERA of 

Irish first baseman
1.69. "Our pitching ly on Notre Dame's own squad, Ruthrauff said. 
"It does not matter who we face, it is a matter of what we as a team bring to the ball field day in and day out," she said. 
The Irish 

needs to be as solid as it has return to Big East action been all year, and our hitting Thursday against DePaul at 4 has to continue from last p.m. on Ivy Field. weekend," Ruthrauff. 
The balanced attack has Contact Dan Murphy at been the key to Notre Dame's dmurph6@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's also took the ed out to first to end the game. first game 8-5 as Bethel com­Sullivan said the sweep over mitted six errors in the contest. Bethel was bittersweet. Saint 
Heline tied the score at 2-2 in Mary's faced Belles' former the bottom of the first on a sac­head coach Anna Welsh. rifice fly. The Sullivan played Belles jumped under Welsh in 
ahead 4-2 "We had clutch hitting. 2004 when the when right When you have that, Belles earned 
fielder Calli their first
you win. 
Davison singled MIAA tourna­and Smid ment victory. scored. In the Erin Sullivan Sullivan also bottom of the Belles coach coached under 
Welsh in 2005. 

"I wanted to beat her, but she is my men­tor," Sullivan said. "The reason we won those games is because she taught me so well. She taught me to be better than she is." 
Saint Mary's faces Calvin College today at 3:30 p.m. at home. 
The doubleheader will bring an end to an eight-game run the Belles have battled through in four days. The stretch start­ed with a sweep of defending MIAA champion Alma. Saint Mary's then split a doublehead­er with Rockford Sunday. 
Fusaro said Saint Mary's goal was to go at least .500 in the eight games. With the two wins Monday, the Belles have already assured achieving that goal, as they are 5-1 in the first six contests. 
Sullivan said the set against Calvin is important for the Belles not only because they are the last two games but also because they are conference games. 
Fusaro says that Saint Mary's will look to continue the suc­cess they have had in the past three days and finish off strong. 
"Our goal was to stay intense and stay up," Fusaro said. "To be as intense and as loud in the first game against Alma as in the last game against Calvin." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

4:00PM 
-FIRST 100 FANS 
200 FANS 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April II, 2006 
Korpi 
continued from page 20 
"Against us, [Chicago State starter Jonathan Kohnl pitched pretty well and (Oakland! knocked him around," Mainieri said. "It doesn't matter who we're playing. We respect all our opponents, and we respect Oakland." 
against South Florida. He was 9-for-13 with four runs and an RBI (7-for-7, three walks in his first 10 plate appearances) in Notre Dame's three-game sweep of the Bulls. The per­formance lifted his batting average on the season to .333. In the series, Cooper and Lilley combined for 18 hits; the Bulls had 25 hits total in the three games. Cooper has an 11-game hit streak, and Lilley enters on a 10­

Kohn threw "fWJhen Bret Lilley game hit streak eight innings and of his own.
plays the way he's

allowed six runs "You've got two
capable ofplaying,

on 11 hits in a 6-guys at the top of 4 loss to Notre we've got a much the order who Dame April 4. lie are really setting
better team. " 

surrendered nine the tone for us," runs on 14 hits in Mainieri said. 7.2 innings Paul Malnlerl "Brett Lilley real­Sunday. Irish head coach ly fired up 
Mainieri said he is confident about Notre Dame's chances in the game because of the team's top two hitter:s in the lineup. First baseman Craig Cooper will lead off for the Irish and third baseman Brett Lilley will bat in the No. 2 hole. 
"Cooper has been hot for a long time. Ever since we put him in that leadoff spot, he has sparked our team," Mainieri said. "He's playing like a top player in the confer­ence should play -which is what we always thought he was." 
Cooper is batting .429 on the season with a .612 slugging percentage thanks to three homers, seven doubles and a triple. 
Lilley had his best series of the season this weekend 
[against South 
Florida]. It just 
goes to show when Bret Lilley plays the way he's capable of playing, we've got a much better team. 
Despite Oakland's record, Mainieri said Notre Dame must continue that hot hitting against Oakland today if it wants to earn the win. 
"Every team that plays us, it's like the World Series for them," he said. "Our kids have to realize when you put on that uniform everyone's gun­ning for you. So we have to be ready to play against these guys." 
After Oakland, Notre Dame faces Manchester College Wednesday at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Field. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Belles take third in Spring Fling 
Meagan Mattia leads team with 162 in two-day tournament 
By BECK! DORNER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's captured third place this weekend in the annual Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling. 
Saint Mary's two-round total of 661 was only one stroke shy of second-place William Woods University, and the Belles edged out Wisconsin Eau-Claire for third place by only one stroke. 
DePauw was largely unchal­lenged, beating the other 10 teams handily with a final score of 634. Sarah Gates of DePauw was the individual medalist with a 78 on round one and a 75 on day two that forced a playoff win against Jana Mosseson of Lindenwood. 
Senior Megan Mattia was the top individual placer for the Belles, tying for seventh with a two-round total of 162 (80-82). Many of the return­ing Belles had played the Ironwood Course more than a few times, and Belles coach Mark Hamilton stressed con­sistency and course manage­ment. 
"My advice was to play as 'clean' of a round as possi­and did my best to stay on the ble," Hamilton said. "Just try fairways," she said. to stack up the pars." In addition to Mattia's 82 
Mattia was not the only and Sei's 76 in round 2 play, Belle to stack up the pars. the Belles were also bolstered 
Senior captains Kirsten by solid scores of 82 from Fantom and Nicole Bellino led sophomore Katie O'Brien and the team by example on the an 84 by Fantom Sunday. first day, with Despite the scores of 84 and third-place fin­83, respectively. ish and recent
"/made a few 
The Belles successes,
great putts and did
were able to Hamilton keep their scores my best to stay on stressed that his low despite a 23-the fairways. " team still needs degree wind to work on a few chill Saturday areas before the 
Alex Sel 
and rain the pre­NCAA Champ­vious day that Belles freshman ionships later 
made the course play much longer than its listed 5,842 yards. 
"Playing tough conditions throughout this spring helped us the first day," Hamilton said. 
Saint Mary's cut seventeen stokes from their first round total to record a 322 on day two. Freshman Alex Sei's sec­ond round four-over-par 76 from the five spot led the late charge. It marked the low round for the Belles for the tournament. Her birdie­birdie-birdie finish cemented her in a tie for 13th place overall. 
Sei described her success as a combination of a few good rolls and good course man­agement: 
"I made a few great putts this spring. 
"We still need to tighten things up and be a little more precise around the greens in order to challenge the top three teams in the country," he said. "That will be our focus for the next cou­ple of weeks." 
Captain Kirsten Fantom echoed her coach's concerns. 
"For our coming tourna­ment we still need to work on our short game," Fantom said. "More practice will improve our confidence in our ability to make shots around the green, which is key." 
The Belles return to action next with the SMC/Bethel Invitational on Wednesday, April 19. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Keough Institute for Irish Studie.Y 
Study in 
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Information on courses, internships & job opportunities Thursday, 18 April 7:00-S:OOpm 119 O'Shag 
Language Courses, Fall 2006 
IRLL 10101:01 Beginning Irish I TR 9:30-10:45 Prof. 6 Conchubhair 
IRLL 10 I0 I:02 Beginning Irish I MWF 10:40-11 :30 Prof. MacLeod 
IRLL I0 I0 I:03 Beginning Irish I MWF 8:30-9:20 Prof. Ni Thuairisg 
IRLL 10101:04 Beginning Irish I MWF 8:30-9:20 Prof. 6 Conchubhair 
IRLL 10102:01 Beginning Irish II MWF I:55-2:45 Prof. MacLeod 
IRLL 10102:02 Beginning Irish II MWF 8:30-9:20 Prof. MacLeod 
!RLL 20103:0 I Intermediate Irish TR 9:30-10:45 Prof. Foga11y IRLL 20103:02 lntennediate Irish TR 11:00-12:15 Prof. Fogarty IRLL 20203:01 Advanced Readings in Irish Culture TR 12:30-1:45 Prof. 6 Conchuhhair 
Literature Courses. Fall 2006 
IRLL 20109:0 ICeltic Heroic Literature TR 5:00-6:15 Prof. Fogarty, 
IRST 20538:0 I Irish Prison Liraature TR II :00-12: 15 Prof. O'Brien 
IRLL 40306:0 I The Irish in Their Own Words TR 2:00-3:15 Prof. McQuillan 
IRLL 40310 Ideology, Poetry & Politics in Jacobite Ireland W 6:00-9:00 Prof. 6 
Buachalla 

!RLL 30107:01 The Hidden lre/andTR 2:00-3:15 Prof. 6 Buachalla 
IRLL 40308: I Modern Irish Poetry TR 3:30-4:45 Prof. Nuala Nf Dhomhnaill 
IRST 40311:0 I Visits to Bedlam TR 9:30-10:45 Prof. Fox 
IRST 90535:0 I Irish Literature TR 6:30-9:00 Prof. Deane 
For further information, contact 422 Planner Hall sobrien I <i:!•nd.edu 631-6250 
Dept. ofIrish Language & Literature Keough ln.ditute for Irish Studies 
Tuesday, April 11, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
JOCKULAR 
Ms. Ricel We're close to a deal with Iraq and Iran where they'll to Christianity and relinquish rlinlln..,.,tir control to the U.S. 
Hold onl The latest edition of The Observer just came out. 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ALEC WHITE & ERIC POWERS 
Cancel all my meetings! I'm writing a viewpoint. The alumni voice shall be heard. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
~OU KNOW , 'fOU  How  Do "iOU G.E..T  
MAY THIN\<. \ JUST  lrJ AN!)  OUT OF  
bP-\V £.. P.. CP$, SuT  'fOUR  CAB?  
I'M AGTUP..LL'f AN  
AUTHOP-. I "-"'l~ITE  
f \CTION.  

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROMUN 
± 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
INCCY 

( IJ I I 

...
tYEARTT j 

WHAT THE: BASS
IJ [ I I 
www.jumble.com 

FIOOL.E:r< FOUND TOUGH TO 00.
I DRENER I 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(I J I I 
Answer: [I I I I ]A[ I I I J 
Jumbles: HITCH CHALK EXCISE TUXEDO 
Yesterday's Answer: What the angry witch gave the tax collector­

A"HEX" HIKE 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 36 It may leave its 62 Face-off spot in mark on the hockey (and a
1 En _(all 
road hint to 17-and together) 40-Across and 39 Play a part6 N.Y.C. airport 

11-, 25-and 40 Push-ups

9 Syrian president 31-Down)
exercise them 

14 Fairy tale 66 _ Haute, Ind. 42 Add years to
brother 67"_be my
one's life pleasure!"

15 Small battery 43 Subway 68 Sir's counterpart 16 Olds model entrance 69 Crooked17 Likable sort 45 Artist Neiman 70 Putin's yeses19 Frequency unit 46 Arrester 71 Casino game, 20 Find out about 
47 Place for an informally 22 Pop singer arrestee Sands 
49 Mouth, slangily DOWN 23 Brawls 
50 Prefix with 1 RKO competitor 26 Not as well--gramme 
2 E.T.A. part:rinsed, perhaps 

51 Foreshadow Abbr. 28 Important 3 Envy, e.g.
54 Targets, as with periods 

a gun 4 What a 29 Not voting the photographer
56 Sanyo

party line: Abbr. usually wants
competitor 32 Before: Abbr. 5 Host 
57 Bush attorney 33 Salon job general 6 N.H.L. All-Star Gonzales Jaromir
34 "Understand 27 Pretentious 41 Andy Warhol's 55 Stuff now?" 60 Pigs works
7 ''The Afternoon of a 30 Diamond who 58 Phi _Kappa 
(Nijinsky ballet) 

sang "America" 44 Fancy Buick ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 59 Extremities 
8 Renders 31 Uncertain 48 N.Y. C. airport senseless 61 Work with a
34 Inscribed pillar 50 Unprincipled Singer9 "That's nice!" 
35 Trillion: Prefix 51 Macaroni, e.g. 
10 Rip Van Winkle, 63 Altar promise 37 Greek 52 Gets to
notably 

marketplace 64 Persian, e.g.
11 They're 53 1961 Charlton nonreturnable 38 Train stop Heston title role 65 Dash lengths 
12 Clarinetist Shaw 

13 Napper For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
18 Not so tough Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
21 Dandy 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
1-::.-!B-=-+-=+-=+=-I!!IP!~+=~ ~::+:R,.;+.;;R;.~ 23 Western Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
plateaus 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). E 24 Build 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-=+:~:t-=-1-=-1 

..;;....I,,;.;.L,.;..J..;;;.L.;;..;.J 25 Trellis feature solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Haley Joel Osment, 18; Mandy Moore, 22; Ryan Merriman, 23; Steven Seagal, 55 
Happy Birthday: The emphasis is on money this year and doing everything you can to make, save and invest it. Change is a given and, regardless whether you welcome it or not, it is heading your way. Accepting it can free you from the stalemate you've been experiencing for so long. Your numbers are 12, 19, 22, 27, 31,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Cover your back and ensure you don't fall behind today. Your gift of gab will slow you down, especially if your conversations are trivial. It's time to make your personal environment better. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Do things that will help save a minority group you want to help. You can expect to have some problems with loved ones ifyou stick around the house. Someone you like will pay more attention to you. A love connection can be made. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Everything will be turned upside down today ifyou take on too much. Alterations in your life will surprise you and it will be difficult to control the outcome. Don't expect anyone to understand your actions or reactions. 
** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stop hesitating--the sooner you get on with things, the better. Holding on to the past just won't cut it today. Once you begin to move with the times you will look back wondering what took you so long. You are in a high cycle regarding love and romance so don't waste it. •• •• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may not be upfront with you so use your intuition. A chance to advance is looking good. A money matter can be resolved. Changes at home should be welcome. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be tested emotionally today. Someone you really care about will make you feel insignificant. Hold your own -you can achieve what you want with persistence. ••* LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make a difference if you stand up for your beliefs. You should travel ifnecessary to bring about reforms or to help friends or family solve differences. An idea you have can be turned into a profit. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't divulge any secret information. An idea you have must be carried out. You stand a good chance of making something out of nothing ifyou pursue your creative dreams.**** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Problems with in-laws, friends or neighbors can be expected. Talks will be the only way to resolve issues. You can't get your way all ofthe time so be prepared to be flexible. Take care ofa financial concern. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Fix up around your home. Making a connection with someone you work with will lead to some very good moneymaking ideas. You will make a good decision regarding your professional direction. **** * AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be uncertain about personal issues today. Try to keep things in perspective. Time may be required to sort through past or ongoing troubles. Don't let yourself slip into depression. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Move forward instead ofhanging on to something that is no longer ofbenefit to you. A problem at home will escalate ifyou become emotional. Take care of personal matters swiftly and move on. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You have so many ways of expressing yourself. You are bright, challenging and difficult to read. You are sensitive and compassionate toward others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-----------------------------------------------~-------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
~----------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, April 11, 2006 
BASEBALL 

Rollin' home 
12-game stand at Eck begins 

Weekend Series vs. South Florida 
)>
today with Oakland matchup 
r 

m 
~ 
)> 
z 
-i
By KEN FOWLER 

m 
;<;
Sports Editor m 
ffi 
No. 21 Notre Dame (22-8, 8-1 Big East) bngins a 12-game home stand against Oakland today at 5:05 p.m. and looks to 

f 
Gl
extend its winning streak to 13 in the mid­
{l 
week non-conference matchup at Frank 
if 
Eck Stadium. 

... "We'd like to just keep it going," Irish head coach Paul Maininri said Monday. "We're playing extremely well." Oakland senior right-handnr Kevin llale will throw for the Golden Grizzlies (7-20. 4-0 Mid-Continent Confnrnnce). Hale is 0-4 in 5 starts ( 12 appearances) with a 13.10 EH/\. lie has given up 46 hits and 14 walks in 22.2 innings. Irish sophomore left-bander Wade Korpi will start for Notre Dame. Korpi is 2-1 on the season in flve starts with an EH/\ of 
2.53. lie has 44 strikeouts in 32 innings. 
Oakland enters on a six game winning streak of its own. After starting the season 2-20, Oakland topped Hochester in the second game of a doubleheader April 1 and won the rubber game of the three­eontest set April 2. 

Oakland swept Chicago State in consecu­tive twin bills Saturday and Sunday, beat­ing the Cougars by a total of 33-9. ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore pitcher Wade Korpi delivers a pitch during his win over Ball see KORPI/page 18 State April 5. Korpi will start tonight for the Irish against Oakland. 

ND SOFTBALL 

Cardinal bats Ineet Irish pitchers 
Booth returns to mound after throwing a complete-game shutout 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (23-12, 7-1 Big East) will take a brief break 

.. 
from its Big East sehedule to 
play Ball State at 5 p.m. today 

at Ivy Field. 
Irish senior infielders Meagan Huthrauff and Sara Sehoonaert lead a high-pow­ered Notre Dame offense into the matchup. Schoonaert. who was 4-for-9 Sunday against Pittsburgh, played a key role in the weekend's onslaught, as the team posted 21 runs and 


Notre Dame shortstop Sara Schoonaert makes a play at second base during the team's 4-2 win over Akron April 5 at Ivy Field. 
hit five homers in two games. Notre Dame won the first game 7-0 and the second con­test 14-4. 
Ruthrauff set two school records with three home runs and seven RBJs in Sunday's second game. Her third and final homer was a grand slam in the seventh that capped a perfect day at the plate. The unprecedented production also won her Big East Player of the Week honors Monday. 
"I am seeing the ball very well right now, and this is the most confident I have been with my swing all year long," Ruthrauff said. 
After racking· up 30 runs on 50 hits this weekend, she said everybody on Notre Dame seems to be seeing the ball very well. Ball State's pitching staff will have to step up for the Cardinals to slow down the Irish offense and leave South Bend with a victory. 
The Irish also used the long ball effectively the last time they met Ball State. Notre 
see BOOTH/page 17 
page 20 

MEN'S GOLF Anew ring to 'Enter, Sandinan' 
Freshman makes a splash in his first two appearances for squad 
By JOE QUINN Sports Wri rer 
In a matter of just two weeks, Notre Dame's Josh Sandman has gone from unknown freshman to one of the hottest golfers the Irish have seen in a decade. 
Sandman, from Southeast Gilford High School in Greensboro, N.C., was forced to sit out the fall season due to an injured back, but in his two collegiate tournaments this spring he has shown why he was one of the top prep golfers in the nation last year. 
"I was excited just to get the opportunity because I haven't really felt · 100 percent." Sandman said. "The trainers finally cleared me to go, and it 
see SANDMAN/page 17 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles sl'Veep Bethel l'Vith tw-o 8-5 victories 
Saint Mary's takes both games of teams' annual meeting at ND 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sporrs Writer 

It seemed like Saint Mary's had lost its momentum in the top of the fourth inning of the second game of Monday's dou­bleheader with Bethel at Ivy Field. 
Bethel freshman Staci Hitch homered for the Pilots, tying the game at two with her two-run blast. It got worse for Saint Mary's when Bethel jumped ahead in the top of the fifth with two RBI singles for a 4-2 lead. 
But the Belles answered Bethel's call and came back to complete a sweep of the double­header, winning both contests 8-5. 
In the second game, Saint Mary's fought back in the bot­tom of the fifth when Belles' first baseman Katie Hashid sin­gled in two runs, tying the score at four. The Belles' Sarah Meisle had reached on an error by Pilot shortstop Britny Beneker, and Saint Mary's Ashley Fusaro and Laura Heline followed with singles to load the bases. 
Freshman right-hander Kristin Amram then helped her own cause, reaching base on another Bethel error as Saint Mary's took a 5-4 lead. 
Bethel tied the game in the sixth, but Saint Mary's answered once again. 
Fusaro gave the Belles the lead for good in the bottom of the sixth with a bases-clearing double in the gap that gave Saint Mary's the decisive 8-5 advantage. Saint Mary's Martha Smid started the inning off with a single, and the Belles' Audrey Gajor reached on another Bethel error. Meisle then walked to load the bases for Fusaro. 
Fusaro said the batters who 
see SWEEPIpage 17 


TENNIS 

CLUB SPORTS
SMC GOLF 

MLB
NHL 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Lawyers said 

Notre Dame men's 
Monday DNA testing
Tommy Haas 

David Ortiz agreed to 
Megan Mattia led 
Los Angeles Kings'

rowing won three of 
a four-year contract 
failed to connect any
advanced in the U.S. 
all-time leading scorer
Saint Mary's to a third­

four races this weekend 
Men's Clay Court 

extension with the 
members of the Duke
place finish at this 
Luc Robitaille will 

in the State of Indiana 
University lacrosse
Championships 

Boston Red Sox
announce his retirement 
weekend's Illinois 

Regatta.
Monday. 
Monday. 
team to the alleged
Wesleyan Spring 
tomorrow. 
rape of a stripper.
Fling. 

page 15 
page 14 
page 13
page 16
page 18 
page 14 





