
THE 



Bands attract record crowds to The Show 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
On Friday, 4,695 students flocked to the Joyce Center Fieldhouse to see Third Eye Blind and Common play a Show that was anything but semi-charmed -after all, the crowd topped See Also all attendance 
"Third Eye
records in the concert's six-Blind Review" year history. 
page 13
"The final ticket sale was 4,818, which is the highest number we've had," said senior Patrick Vassel, chair of The Show 2006 Committee. 
The goal for this year's Show, Vassel said, was to bring "two exciting, dynamic performers." 
"We brought bands that everybody wanted to go see, and that is reflected in the numbers, which. exceeded all expectations," he said. "If we had sold about 3,800, I would have been thrilled, so being at 4,800 is unbelievable." 
Students like sophomore Janeva Waked agreed that this year's Show benefited from fea­turing higher-profile perform­ers. 
"I think Third Eye Blind is more popular with Notre Dame students," Waked said. "Last year [when band Cake and Akon performed] my room­mate hadn't heard of either of them so she thought it was a band called 'Cakeakon. "' 
Sophomore Matthew Storey also said the band was more suited for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"The typical Notre Dame stu­dent associates more with a Third Eye Blind-type of band," he said. 
What makes this year's Show even more impressive, Vassel said, is that neither Third Eye 
see THE SHOW/page 8 


Guardsw-oman returns to field 
Tess Murray only second female member inducted in group's history 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
At some point, political correctness and diction­aries mated, and words like policewoman, mail­woman and alumna were born. Now Notre Dame has a new gender­specific term to adopt ­Irish guardswoman. 
Competing against 33 other 6-foot-2 or taller hopefuls, junior Tess Murray marched her way to one of five open spots on this year's Irish Guard. She is the first female to do so since 2000's Molly Kinder and only the second in the Guard's 57-year history. 
As long as they meet the height requirement and "are willing to march," band director Ken Dye said, all candi­dates are welcomed ­meaning gender is not a 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 5 MONDAY, AUGUST 28,2006 


Construction alters campus layout 
Jordan Hall and other Roadways continue projects finalized to be reconstructed 
By KATE ANTONACCI By KATEANTONACCI 
News Editor News Editor 
It has 40 teaching laboratories, With the goal of keeping 
200.000 square feet of research Notre Dame a safe, pedestrian space, a planetarium -and a campus, the University began $70 million price tag. But while the campus roads project more the much-anticipated Jordan Hall than two years ago. of Science was the University's Today, it can boast a new main construction project this roundabout and four-lane con­summer, it was certainly not the nector road. only one. "The intention [of the campus 
From the rerouting of neighbor­roads project] was to close ing campus roads to the nearly Juniper Road," said James complete Student Health Center Lyphout, vice president for renovations, change continues to Business Operations. "That's a take place on the Notre Dame road that cut through the cam­campus. pus and as campus grew, it 
Jordan Hall was the largest became more of a problem. project to be completed this sum­With the opening of Jordan mer, said James Lyphout, vice Hall, we have literally thou­president for Business Operations. sands of pedestrians now." 
"It's a great teaching and learn­The University reconfigured ing space for aU of the sciences," the area surrounding campus he said. largely to help facilitate the 
Though the building does have movement of both cars and a few classrooms, the facility will pedestrians. The cost of the be used primarily for the research project was approximately facilities and labs. '$23.77 million. 
"This building offers learning Phase Two of the campus opportunities that have never road project -which took the before been available to stu­Ivy Road replacement all the dents," Associate Provost Dennis way to Douglas Road west of Jacobs said on the College of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Science Web site. Union -began in August 2005, 
Jordan Hall, which took but has restrictions, Lyphout approximately tWo years to build, said. was funded by private gifts and a "We have a blue line that tells large donation from Notre Dame us how far we can spread out­alum John W. Jordan. An open wards because we don't want a house was held last week for fac­sprawling, non-walkable cam­ulty members, and a dedication is KERRY O'CONNOR/The Observer pus," Lyphout told The Observer 
Light filters through multi-level windows in a corridor of see HALL/page 6 the newly opened Jordan Hall of Science. see ROADS/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Nerves jangled by critninals 
One student evades harm; another injured 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 

Notre Dame Security/Police and South Bend Police are inves­tigating two off-campus inci­dents involving Notre Dame stu­dents that both took place during the first week of classes. 
At Turtle Creek Apartments, a man dressed in a service uni­form allegedly h-eld a junior Notre Dame student at knife­point Wednesday night. The female student allowed the man to enter her apartment around 
7:45 p.m. after he said he need­ed to look at her cable box, according to police. 

But after spending 10 minutes with him, the student, who wished to remain anonymous, grew frustrated and increasingly certain that "this guy wasn't supposed to be in my apart­ment." 
Within minutes, the man was holding a knife to the student's neck. 

"He said, 'If you scream, I'll kill you," she said. "I grabbed the knife, pushed his arm down and looked at him and said, 'What are you doing? What are you doing?"' · 
He told her to get on the floor, 
· see CRIME/page 6 

i Members of the Irish Guard march in front of the University marching band during a half time performance at a home football game. 
tion, junior Connor Martin said he believes Murray will be wel­comed by the other guardsmen. 
see GUARD/page 3 
consideration. Murray herself refused to dis­cuss the gender issue. 
"In my opinion and in the opinion of the Guard, I am no different than any of them," Murray said. "I don't want to be the only one singled out ... it's not fair to anyone on the Guard." 

While most of the guardsmen declined to comment on the situa­page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Anode to 

autulill1 
While the weather outside is still warm and very few trees have started changing color, Labor Day is only a week away, and that means the unoffi­cial start of the best season of them all -fall. 
Here are some 
Chris Khorey 
reasons to love the fall: 
1. It has two Associate names. Sports Editor Fall is the only season that is called by two different names. Some call it fall, after the leaves which FALL from the trees. Others prefer autumn, 
which is poetic-sounding. Fall is the season so nice, they named it twice! 
2. Nice weather. 
This may not be immediately appar­ent to some readers. After all, you say, isn't fall the season when it starts to get cold outside? Yes, it is, but who doesn't want relief from 90 degrees with high humidity and thunderstorms all the time? I'll take the 70-degree days of September and the crisp mornings of October, thank you. 
3. Falling leaves. 
Along with the changing weather come the beautiful changing leaves. Oranges, reds and yellows light up the quads, making our already pretty cam­pus stunning. (Note to students from other parts of the country: changing leaves are not, as you might suspect, a Notre Dame phenomenon. They are actually a yearly occurrence in the Midwest and Northeast. See what you're missing when you don't have four seasons?) 
4. Back to school. 
While during our childhoods, back to school was something to be dreaded, in college it's the best time of year. You finally get to be done with that boring summer job, get out of your parent's basement and come back to see all your friends under the Dome. Plus, school work isn't nearly as bad this time of year because you're motivated and ready to get good grades. Of course, this feeling will disappear by the Michigan game, but you won't find it at all in any season but fall. 
5. Football. · 
Of course, fall means football season, and the return of our beloved Fighting Irish. But Notre Dame home games aren't all there is. There are also great away game Saturdays when you turn the TV on at noon, and there's college football until2 a.m. There's pro football games on Sundays and Mondays, and there's even those Tuesday night Middle Tennessee. State vs. Central Michigan games where you know you should be studying but you can't help trying to figure out which team you should be rooting for to help Notre Dame's BCS chances. 
6. Baseball. 
Baseball may be a summer sport, but it really doesn't heat up until fall. That's when the pennant races really heat up and Bostonians, New Yorkers, Chicagoans and Cardinals fans (who come from all over for some reason) start to argue in the hallways while people from towns with losing clubs wonder what the big deal is. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In me Aug. 25 issue, "University welcomes six new hall rectors" was written by Katie McDonnell, nor Katie Kohler. The Observer regrers mis error. The Observer regards irselfas a professional publica­tion and strives for me highest standards ofjournalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize mar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please con­tact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, August 28, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST PART OF YOUR FIRST WEEKEND BACK? 






Kim Nanovic  Lauren Murray  Louis Podbelski  
sophomore Welsh Family  junior Welsh Family  sophomore Keough  
''The Jimmy John's delivery boy. ,  "Rockin' a side pony at our 8os SYR last night. "  "Viking dinner, forsure."  

Madeleine Ryland junior off-campus  Matt Wharton senior Keough  Sean Mallin sophomore Keough  
"Drinking tea  "Not shaving!"  "Blazin' sea  

with my roommate Clare. , 


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Lewis freshmen Alii Osborn and St. Ed's freshman David Hockridge examine their math assignment Sunday while enjoying LaFortune's newly-remodeled seating areas. The student center underwent significant improvements over the summer. 
OFFBEAT 
Father-son  team  sets  
watermelon records  
CONVERSE,  La.  - A  

father-son team from this Sabine County town broke the state watermelon record three times in one summer, with melons adding up to a total weight of 677 pounds. 
The really big buster, at 
252.4 pounds, was cut from its vine Friday in front of two witnesses from the Louisiana Department of Agriculture and Forestry. 
"We babied this thing for 147 days," Donnie Sistrunk Jr. said. 
He and 15-year-old Rusty Sistrunk brought their first pair of record-breakers to the Louisiana Watermelon Festival in Farmerville July 27-28. 
At 218.8 and 205.8 pounds, their melons took first and second places and beat the record of 202.6 pounds held since 2003 by Trey Patton of Downsville. 
128 students suspended at Indiana high school 
. Hammond, IN Classrooms were a little less crowded at Morton High School on the first day of classes: 128 students were sent home for wearing the wrong clothes. Fed up with inappropriate outfits, the principal sus­
pended the students for one day Wednesday, minutes after doors opened at the school. Those suspended represent more than 10 per­cent of the 1,200 total stu­dents. 
The offending attire ­including baggy pants, low­cut shirts, tank tops and graphic T-shirts -are banned from classrooms. Students were also cited for cell phone use. 
"This was the worst year I've seen in a long time," said Principal Theresa Mayerik. "It's gotten out of control, and we needed to send a message that we're not messing around." 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY D:: 
w 
::c !ci: 

3: w 
....I
cs: 
(.) 


..... 0 HIGH 73 HIGH 70 HIGH 79 HIGH 78 LOW 60 LOW 55 LOW 60 LOW 54 
,
nuggets. 
IN BRIEF 
The sixth annual Higgins Center Labor History Film Series begins today with the presentation of "Meeting Face to Face: The Iraq-U.S. Labor Solidarity Tour" at 4:30 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Tonight at 7, a prayer vigil will be held in front of the Center for Social Concerns in honor of the victims and survivors of tfurricane Katrina, the anniver­sary of which occurs Tuesday. All students are welcome. 
An information and demon­stration session will take place tonight from 7 to 8 in Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs SportsRec Center. 
Student Activities will host its annual Activities Night Wednesday, Aug. 29 from 7 to 9 in the Joyce Center. 
The Snite Museum of Art will showcase Mexican migration to the United States through a mul­timedia exhibit that includes Chicano and Mexican visual arts beginning Sunday, Sept. 3 in the museum's O'Shaughnessy Galleries, Mestrovic Studio Gallery and the entrance atrium. 
The sixth annual Saturday Scholar Series will feature six lectures and a performance by leading faculty members on each home football game week­end this .fall. The first lecture, "More Than a Movie? Assessing 'The Da Vmci Code'" will be held, as always, three and a half hours before kickoff on Sept. 9 in DeBartolo 101. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail deta-iled information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
~ 

HIGH 76 HIGH 79 LOW 54 LOW 55 
Atlanta 91 I 71 Boston 71 I 64 Chicago 73 I 64 Denver 71 I 53 Houston 94 I 76 Los Angeles 88 I 66 Minneapolis 83 I 62 New York 84 I 72 Philadelphia 86 I 70 Phoenix 106 I 82 Seattle 77 I 55 St. Louis 78 I 67 Tampa 93 I 76 Washington 91 I 76 
Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Grad returns as adtninistrator 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame graduate Todd Woodward, the man who helped launch and coordinate the "Got Milk?" ad cam­
paign, returned to his a I m a mater June 19 tO' take over the newly­


created 
Woodward

position of associate vice president for Mar-keting Communications. 
Woodward, an executive vice president for the public relations and communica­tions management firm Weber Shandwick, will be responsible for integrating communication channels in order to present a consistent message about Notre Dame. 
The only reason this role was not created earlier is because no one as qualified as Woodward had come along, said Hilary Crnkovich, vice president for Public Affairs and Communication. 
"The position itself, the need for someone to man­age products at an integrat­ed level, is something that has been under considera­tion for some time," she said. "The channels for communication have grown, and the need to integrate our message across chan­nels has become more important." 
Woodward's job is to use those channels -primarily Web, television and publica­tion -to make sure that the University is not sending out a fragmented message. 
Plenty of public knowledge exists about Notre Dame, Crnkovich said, so the goaJs now are to strengthen the University's messages and to keep them consistent. 
As a graduate, Woodward Hardware, Staples and Harley-Davidson. 
Before joining Weber Shandwick in 1997, Woodward held manage­ment positions with Prince Sports Group and Benetton Racquet Sports. 
"It's important to take a look not just at who he is as a person but where he's been in terms of his work," Crnkovich said. 
Woodward's background, however, does not mean that Notre Dame will be seen as a product like milk or motorcycles. 
brings an appropriate perspective to the job, Crnkovich said. 
"His heart, his passion is here, so he understands what Notre Dame is about," she said. 
Woodward will be working closely with 

"His heart, his passion is here, so he understands what Notre Dame is about., 
Hilary Crnkovich vice president for Public Affairs and Communication 
"His experi­ence in the business sector is a positive, because he has worked with very complex companies," Crnkovich said. 
And Crn­kovich believes the entire Notre Dame commu­nity will benefit from that expe­rience. 

Crnkovich and University officials to help develop and lead public affairs divisions such as the Notre Dame Media Group, the Notre Dame Web Group, Notre Dame Magazine, Strategic Communications Planning, and ND Works. 
Woodward has already ~ampaigned for many Weber Shandwick high-pro­file clients, including Ace 
"Our success, I think, will be measured in terms of how powerfully ari.d how broadly we begin to shape a stronger Notre Dame mes­sage across the board," she said. 
"We should hopefully experience the difference, in a very, very positive way." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu. 

Guard 
continued from page 1 
guardsmen. 

"Outside of [practice and games] we're all just like, really good friends," Martin said. "We have practice or places to be, so we end up getting food together and just hanging out. 
"I think Tess will be a part of that." 
The negative reaction surround­ing the selection of Kinder in 2000 has not occurred with Murray, Dye said. 
''I'm sure it raised some eye­brows," he said, "but it's different this time around." 
Known for their traditional Victory Clog dance, the 10 stone­faced, kilt-sporting Irish Guardsmen are responsible for leading the band from Main Building to the Stadium on football Saturdays. They practice nightly with the band, and the two groups tried out together beginning Aug. 17. 
Elizabeth Cuda, a senior saxo­phone player, observed Murray's audition and said she was "a step above the rest." 
"She put more passion and energy into [her audition]," Cuda said. "I think that put her over the edge. You could tell she really wanted it. 
"I talked to others afterwards, and we had no doubt that she was going to make the Guard." 
So she can talk the talk -but can she walk the walk? 
Easily. Murray was a member of the band herself during her fresh­man and sophomore years, so rhythmic marching isn't new to her. Senior saxophone player Gary Pritts said Murray was "clearly one of the best marchers," and Martin echoed those statements 
"She was one of the better marchers out there," Martin said. "That's why she made it." 
Being a member of the Irish Guard is more than marching, thdugh, Dye said. 
"You have to have a knack for rhythm, a flow, a style. There's a stature that's involved with being a guard," he said. "It's a unique style of marching." 
Some of the others vying for the spots lacked that ability, senior clar­inets leader Justin Hendricks said. 
"To be honest, Tess really stood out," he said. "There were definitely a lot of guys who could just not march to the beat, frankly." 
When selecting the new members of the group, returning Irish guardsmen evaluate the candidates, said senior Kevin Coleman, captain of the Irish Guard. 
"Every year the tryouts are judged on physical appearance, stature and marching ability," said senior Kevin Coleman, captain of the Irish Guard. 'The band directors then have final say as to who makes the Guard." 
Dye then leads a six-member band staff through another evalua­tion process, to "come to some kind of collective decision," he said. 
Murray ranked highly, according to Dye. 
"Their evaluation of Tess was a strong one," he said. "She was extremely well-prepared .... She did a good job." 
Hendricks embraced the decision to select a guardswoman. 
"I thought it was really cool when it happened before -I'm excited that it's my senior year and it's hap­pening again," he said. "I hope that she does a great job and it's some­thing that can continue." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


A sorvlcu provldod by tho St:udunt ActiVItlos Ofncu -sao@nd_udu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 28, 2006 

New-adlllinistrators settle in,lllake plans for Saint Mary's 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
. 
The beginning of the new aca­demic year brought with it sev­eral new administrators to Saint Mary's, filling the empty vice president of Student Affairs and vice president and dean of facul­ty offices. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney and the recruitment search committee at Saint Mary's welcomed Jill Vihtelic, J9seph Incandela, Deborah McCarthy and Karen Johnson to their new roles. 
The first position Mooney filled was that of acting vice president and dean of faculty when faculty members selected Vihtelic late last spring to fill the position for one year. 
"Jill has been a valued, trust­ed, and indispensable member of the campus community for years," Mooney said. "Her deci­sions are thoughtful and based on her deep love for the College and extensive knowledge of it." 
For Vihtelic, her transition goal is simple. 
"I hope to make changes that will smooth the transition for the next vice president and dean of faculty," she said. 
Vih telic will serve as the chief 

academic officer to "This is definitely a "I want the work the president as promotion for me. " of our faculty and well as the chief our students to be executive officer in seen by the
Karen Johnson 

the event of College, the local Mooney's absence. vice president community, and 
After her one­Student Affairs [whenever] possi­
Mooney also named professors Incandela and McCarthy as asso­ciate deans of faculty and aca­demic strategies, respectively. 
Incandela, who received his doctorate from Princeton University, is now responsible for directing the general education programs at the College. Incandela left his position in the Theology department at Saint Mary's for the new role. 
McCarthy now directs the Center for Academic Innovation at Saint Mary's. Her responsibili­ties include developing new cur­riculum and academic programs and facilitating grant proposals for academic endeavors. 
McCarthy said she would be coordinating with the directors of Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality and Center for InterCultural Leadership as well. 
"I will be working closely with the directors of the other Centers for Distinction to foster synergy in our programs," she said. 
Both Incandela and McCarthy have several goals they wish to accomplish during their three­year terms. 
McCarthy hopes to expand current programs on campus as 
well as increase 
funding through 
grant proposals. 
year term, Vihtelic said she plans to return to her pre­vious position as professor of Business Administration and Economics. 
Vihtelic has already been active as vice president and dean of faculty during this new academic year. 
"My job is all about empower­ing others to do the very impor­tant work of the academic divi­sion," "she said. "I am grateful to the faculty of Saint Mary's who have answered my calls with 'yeses."' 
Besides serving as chair of the Business Administration and Economics departments at the College, VIhtelic spent nine years as a faculty representative on the Board of Trustees and was a chair of the Faculty Assembly. 

ble, at the regional 
and national 
level," she said. 
McCarthy said she sees her appointment as a learning opportunity for the future. 
"I want to continue to learn and develop as an administrator and see where else I might con­tribute to the College, even after my three-year term," she said. "I am taking it one semester at a 
.
time. " 

Saint Mary's also welcomed Johnson as the vice president of Student Affairs. She applied last April and assumed her new role Aug. 21. Johnson has more than 30 years experience in Student Affairs and spent the last 20 years at another Saint Mary's (in San Antonio, Tex.) -where she spent 11 years as dean of stu­dents. 
Johnson heard about the came and interviewed, I felt administrative opening through really good about it." her colleagues, who encouraged Former vice president of her to apply. Student Ail'airs Linda Timm and 
"This is definitely a promotion vice president and dean of facul­for me," Johnson said. "When I ty Patrick White accepted head roles at Mount Mary College in Milwaukee and Wabash College, respectively . 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Monday, August 28 -7:00,.;8:00pm Sunday, September 3 -2:30-3:30pm 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 
or 

John&. Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
Campus tv1Jntstry 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a c:atechist? 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

lfyou can answerYES to any or all of these questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher. 


Class of 2010: 
Ifyou ordered a 

Freshman lleglster, 
Please pick up your copy anytin1e at the LaFortune Info Desk, or Tuesday at Activities Night 
Ifyou did not pre-order, you nzay purchase a copy for $15 
For more inf01·mation, contact the Student Activities Office at l-7308 
lmportant Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 30, 2006 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, August 28, 2006 Co1\1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi PM addresses latest violence 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A wave of bomb attacks and shootings swept Iraq Sunday, killing dozens of people despite a massive security operation in the capital and appeals from Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki for an end to sectarian lighting. 
Al-Maliki insisted that his government was making progress in combatting attacks by insurgents and sectarian clashes between Shiites and Sunnis. 
"We're not in a civil war. Iraq will never be in a civil war," he said through an interpreter on CNN's "Late Edition." "The violence is in decrease and our security ability is increas­ing." 
Asked about U.S. allegations that Iran is sup­porting Iraqi groups involved in sectarian vio­lence, al-Maliki said the reports were being investigated. IIe said Iraqi authorities were in contact with Iran in order to determine the veracity of the information "and to prevent this interference." 
Dozens die in water tank collapse 
NEW DELli!-A water tank collapsed Sunday during a village fair in western India, killing 45 people who had climbed on top of it to watch a wrestling match, a news agency reported, citing a local oflieial. 
About 200 people were atop the tank when the decades-old structure gave way in the Bharatpur district, top local official R. Venkateshwaran was quoted as saying by Press 
_ Trust of India. 
At least 30 other people, standing under and near the water-filled concrete tank, were injured as it came crashing down, Venkateshwaran said. 
The independent New Delhi Television chan­nel said the injured had been taken to hospitals in Bharatpur town. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rumsfeld inspects defense system 
FORT GREELY, Alaska -After his first look inside the nerve center of the U.S. missile defense system, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld on Sunday sounded a note of caution about expectations that interceptors poised in underground silos here would work in the event of a missile attack by North Korea. 
Rumsfeld climbed down a steel ladder into one of 10 silos that house single 54-foot-long missile interceptors. If ordered by President Bush, or a successor, one or more of the rockets would blast into the sky and race at more than 18,000 mph to launch a small "kill vehicle" at an enemy warhead a<; it soared through space. 
Storm anniversary set as deadline 
NEW ORLEANS -Bari Landry sees signs of life all around her in Lakeview, a neighborhood that was flooded by Hurricane Katrina a year ago. However, Lakeview still is crowded with signs of the disaster: deserted houses, windows and doors standing wide open, and roof-high weeds. 
City officials have set Tuesday -the storm's 

. lirst anniversary -as the deadline for home­owners to gut or otherwise clean up their prop­erties. Landry is among those hoping the deadline will spur a cleanup that will lead to more rede­velopment and repopulation after the exodus that followed Katrina. 'The city needs to do what it needs to do," coun­cilman Arnie Fielkow said at a meeting Friday. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Suspect sought in stray bullet death 
ANDERSON, Ind. -A stray bullet struck and killed a 43-year-old Anderson woman as she sat on her porch, police said Saturday. 
An 18-year-old Anderson man continued to be sought late Saturday as a suspect in the shooting death. He was identified by police as Desmond Latham Edmonds. 
Police allege that Edmonds and another per­son were involved in an argument at about 8:40 
p.m. Friday outside the home of the victim, Lorene Tammy Love. lpvestigators said witness­es told them they saw Edmonds fire a handgun, causing the woman's death. 
Comair jetliner crashes, killing 49 
One crew member survives Sunday morning's deadly crash in Kf;?ntucky 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. -A commuter jet crashed dur­ing takeoff early Sunday and burst into flames, killing 49 people and leaving the lone survivor -a co-pilot -in critical condition. Investigators were trying to determine if the plane was on the wrong runway and ran out of pavement. 
Atlanta-bound Comair Flight 5191 crashed in the predawn darkness at 6:07 
a.m. in a field less than mile 
. from the shorter of Blue Grass Airport's two run­ways. The main runway is 7,000 feet long, but the shorter one is just 3,500 feet and unlit, designed mostly for small private planes. Aviation experts said the twin-engine CRJ-200 region­al jet would have needed 4,500 feet to fully get oil' the ground. Neither the Federal Aviation Administration nor Comair, a subsidiary of Delta Air Lines Inc., would specu­late on the cause of the crash or say which runway the plane was on. But aerial images of the crash site in the rolling hills of Kentucky's horse country showed trees damaged at the end of the shorter runway and the nose of the crashed plane almost parallel to the smaller strip. 
The plane was largely should help investigators runway at Taiwan's Chiang "One of the most damaging intact but in flames when determine what went Kai-Shek International things that can happen to an rescuers reached it. A police wrong, were sent to Airport that had been closed investigation of this magni­officer burned his arms Washington, D.C., for analy­for repairs because of a tude is for speculation or for dragging the only survivor sis. recent typhoon. The result­us to guess at what may be from the cracked cockpit, The location of the wreck­ing collision with construc­happening." but the fire kept rescuers age makes it almost incon­tion equipment killed 83 Most of the passengers from reaching anyone else. c~ivable that the airplane people on board. had planned to connect to 
"They were taking off, so could have taken off on the The three-member flight other flights in Atlanta and I'm sure they had a lot of longer runway, said Saint crew aboard the Comair did not have family waiting fuel on board," Fayette Louis University aerospace plane that crashed in for them, said the Rev. County Coroner Gary Ginn. professor emeritus Paul Lexington was experienced Harold Boyce, a volunteer said. "Most of the injuries Czysz. and had been flying that air­chaplain at Atlanta's are going to be due to fire­"Sometimes with the inter­plane for some time, said Hartsfield-Jackson airport. related deaths." secting runways, pilots go Comair President Don One woman was there 
The crash was the coun­down the wrong one," Czysz Bornhorst. He said the plane expecting her sister. The two try's worst domestic airplane said. "It doesn't happen very had up-to-date mainte­had planned to fly together accident in nearly five years. often." nance. to catch an Alaskan cruise, 
FAA spokeswoman Laura The worst such crash "We are absolutely, totally he said. Brown said the agency had came on Oct. 31, 2000, committed to doing every­"Naturally, she was very no indication that terrorism when a Los Angeles-bound thing humanly possible to sad," Boyce said. "She was was involved in any way. Singapore Airlines jumbo jet determine the cause of this handling it. She was in Both flight recorders, which mistakenly went down a accident," Bornhorst said. tears." 

LEBANON 
Hezbollah had not foreseen war 
Associated Press 11 ... that the operation would lead visit to Beirut on Monday. 
to such a war, would I do it? I say There had been "some contacts" to 
BEIRUT -Hezbollah leader Sheik no, absolutely not," he said in an arrange a meeting between him and Hassan Nasrallah said in a TV inter­interview with Lebanon's New TV Annan, he said, but that was unlikely view aired Sunday that he would not station. for security reasons. have ordered the capture of two He also said Italy and the United "The Italians seem to be getting Israeli soldiers if he had known it Nations had made contacts to help close and are trying to get into the would lead to such a war. mediate a prisoner swap with Israel, subject. The United Nations is inter­
Guerrillas-from the Islamic mili­but did not specify whether they had ested," Nasrallah said. "The Israelis tant group killed three Israeli sol­contacted Hezbollah directly. He did have acknowledged that this (issue) diers and seized two more in a not say in what capacity Italy had is headed for negotiations and a cross-border raid July 12, which expressed interest -on its own or (prisoners) exchange." sparked 34 days of fighting that on Israel's behalf. A senior Israeli government official ended with a cease-fire on Aug. 14. Nasrallah said Lebanese declined to comment on such con­
"We did not think, even 1 percent, Parliament Speaker Nabih Berri was tacts, saying only that Israel "does that the capture would lead to a war in charge of the negotiations and the not negotiate with terrorists" and at this time and of this magnitude. subject would be discussed during continues to demand the uncondi­You ask me, if I had known on July U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan's tional release of the two soldiers. 
-~-----------------. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS ~onda~August28,2006 
"The old building was rehabili­tated," Lyphout said. "It has all­
Hall 

new windows, and we power­continued from page 1 
washed the brick. It looks like a new building." scheduled for Sept. 14. An indoor golf practice facility 
Renovations are nearly fin­was also built on the Warren Golf ished on the 4 7,591 square foot Course, adjacent to Douglas Student Health Center on Holy Road. 
Cross Drive next to  "That will be  
Stanford Hall, Lyphout said. "They will return  ''This building offers learning  ready for occu­pancy by mid­October," LNJ>hout  
to their permanent  opportunities that  said.  "It's  for  
home during Christmas break," he said. "Student  have never before been available to  men's women's teams."  and golf  
Health Center staff  students."  The  facility  
did  not want to  includes locker  
move mid-semes­ter."  Dennis Jacobs  rooms, large practice greens  
Work included  associate provost  and  a  chipping  
demolition of inte­ Notre Dame  area.  
rior  walls,  new  There are also  
windows and roof  four covered and  

repairs, among other projects, heated tee boxes that will be Lyphout said. The renovations used by the teams in the winter, cost an estimated $9.5 million. Lyphout said. 
} 

"It's hard for me to walk into
#Write News.. Call Mary Kate at 631-5323. 
6ER TO 
OlUNTEER? 
16N UP WITH THE ADMI~~IONS OffiCE 

Situated north of the water tower, the 25,000 square foot 
Cri01e 

Engineering North Nanotechnology building will be 
continued from page 1 
used primarily for graduate research. 
but she refused and moved "It is occupied this fall for the 
toward the front door to escape. first time," Lyphout said. 
The man got there first and ran While many projects were fin­
out of the apartment. ished this summer, Notre Dame's 
She closed the door, locked it construction plans are far from 
and called a friend nearby over, Lyphout said. University 
immediately, she said. officials are currently in the 
"I was caught by surprise," process of hiring an architect for 
the student said. "He was wear­a multidisciplinary engineering 
ing a [uniform! shirt. He looked building that will begin construc­
like he was an employee.... I tion in a "couple of years." 
think that people need to know "It will be 120,000 to 140,000 
that just because ... they're square feet where the University 
maintenance doesn't mean that Club sits now," he said. 
they are." Lyphout also said there have 
Police are searching for the been discussions about building 
suspect, described as a 20 to new dormitories near 
30-year-old white male, 5-foot-Pasquerilla East and West 
10 to 6-feet tall, Associate dorms. 
Director of NDSP Philip Johnson said in an e-mail sent to stu­Contact Kate Antonacci at 
dents Saturday. kantonac@nd.edu 
Johnson was unavailable for comment Sunday. 
While the student was not injured, the memory keeps her on edge, she said. 
the apartment by myself," she 
said. "I still get really freaked
... 
out because I'm not sure [if] he's sitting there waiting for me." 
NDSP also reported that a male Notre Dame student was robbed on Notre Dame Avenue shortly after 2 a.m. on Saturday. The student was treated for an injury at a local hospital, police said. 
"The student was approached by the two subjects who threat­ened him, struck him and took his wallet and cell phone," Johnson said in the e-mail. 
The student was walking back to campus in a group of about 10 students, but became sepa­rated from them by a short dis­tance. 
The two suspects were described in the e-mail as black males, 5-foot-8 to 6-feet tall, slender build and wearing white T-shirts and jeans. 
South Bend Police officers are handling both investigations, although NDSP is assisting in the Turtle Creek incident, Johnson said. South Bend Police public information officers did not return phone calls to The Observer Sunday. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 





THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, August 28, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,284.05 -20.41

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,6 79 166 I ,554 1,701,744,681.00 

AMEX 
=~Q 


S&PSOO 1,295.09 -0.97 NIKKS(To/(fjO)•··•••-··· :;;;!ij•iilllilllii!lii_W;Iill!ll~ll'l:lll:, FTSE. IOO(London) 5,878.60 +9.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.18  +0.07  38.32  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.83  +0.34  18.90  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.42  -0.07  4.85  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.43  +0.11  25.85  
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU)  -0.39  -0.01  2.58  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.25  -0.012  4.791  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.01  4.965  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.14  -0.007  4.932  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.34  -0.0 16  4.754  
Cmnmodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.1 5  72.5 I  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +2.30  630.80  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  -1.38  88.50  
E.xcha  Rates  
YEN  117.1300  
EURO  0.7827  
POUND  0.5294  
CANADIAN$  1.1085  

IN BRIEF 
Ohio, Indiana vie to supply Honda 
GREENSBURG, Ind. -Economic develop­ment officials in Indiana and Ohio who com­peted for a $550 million auto assembly plant that Honda Motor Co. announced in June would be built in southeastern Indiana are now engaged in another battle. 
The two states are vying to attract auto suppliers that would make parts for the Greensburg plant, which will employ 2,000 workers and eventually produce 200,000 vehicles annually. 
Honda plans to spend $1.5 billion each year to provide resources to that plant. 
Indiana Commerce Secretary Mickey Maurer said he and Gov. Mitch Daniels are eager for Indiana to beat out Ohio in this next round of Honda-related growth. 
"We're going to be very aggressive," Maurer told The Indianapolis Star for a Sunday story. 
Ohio has been Honda's U.S. manufacturing home since 1982, and it now operates an 11 ,000-worker car-making hub in west-cen­tral Ohio. 
Embattled charity returns to Indiana 
FORT WAYNE, Ind. -A charitable founda­tion investigated by attorneys general in two states after it relocated to Las Vegas is returning to the city where it was formed. 
Indiana Attorney General Steve Carter announced Friday that incorporation papers had been filed in Indiana for the Olin B. and Desta Schwab Foundation, which was found­ed in Fort Wayne 17 years ago. 
"This brings the dream of Mr. Schwab back to its roots," Carter said. "This is an impor­tant date ... for the Schwab Foundation." 
The foundation was investigated after The Journal Gazette reported last year that the charity had purchased a $1.5 million, three­bedroom home in a gated Las Vegas commu­nity that the foundation president used as a retirement home before his death. 
After the purchase was exposed, Carter and his Nevada counterpart sued the foun­dation, seized its assets and removed its board members. 
California cond-os cause concern 
Environmentalists clash with developers over new national trend in real estate 
Associated Press 
ENCINITAS, Calif. -On a sandy bluff overlooking the Pacific, surfer Mark Massara sees a developing threat to a Calil'ornia amenity: guaranteed beach access for average families. 
Luxury hotel builders are hovering over the coastline, hoping to expand California's shores the nationwide trend of devel­opments split between high-priced hotel rooms and privately owned condo­miniums. 
Where developers see opportunity in "condo hotels," Massara and oth­ers see a legal loophole that lets private buyers snap up parts of the coast which are supposed to remain public. And that, he fears, will make getting to the beach harder. 
In this low-key northern San Diego County surf town, dunes and ice plants are being cleared from land designated for public use to make way for 100 condos that will sell for an estimated $1.5 million each and 30 hotel rooms that will go for up to $600 a night. Because the project includes hotel rooms, it is deemed to be for public use by the commission that oversees a state law pro­tecting beach access. city of Santa Barbara may to rent them out the rest of hotels," environmental 
"It's like a knife at the build affordable housing the time. Developers say attorney and former throat of the Coastal Act," for families earning owners have incentive to Coastal Commissioner said Massara, a lawyer for $160,000 a year, as many make rooms available to Dwight D. Worden told the Sierra Club. as 10 condo hotel projects the public during peak sea­commissioners. 
Condo hotels have gained are pending. sons because they can For many, a California popularity in recent years, Since 1989, the state charge more. beach vacation already is thanks to the real estate Coastal Commission has Just who can afford these out of reach. Barely 10 per­boom. There are currently approved nearly a dozen largely luxury accommoda­cent of coastal accommo­225 such developments in projects, including de.velop­tions -and how to police dations are considered the pipeline nationwide, ments built in Half Moon whether owners are stay­affordable -that is, cost with Chicago, Miami and Bay near San Francisco, ing year-round rather than less than $100 a night. Las Vegas the current Pismo Beach on the central the 90-day maximum -That means of the 1,600 hotspots, according to the coast and the Los Angeles are questions the Coastal RV parks, campsites and newly formed National County town of Hermosa Commission tackled this hotels, only 134 are low­Condo Hotel Association. Beach. In the past five month. The regulatory cost, according to the The trend has also filtered months, the commission panel is entrusted with Coastal Commission. down to smaller cities such has green 'lighted projects upholding the 1976 Coastal To further comply with as Provo, Utah; Pittsburgh in Encinitas and one in Act, which requires afford­law, the 12-member com­and Little Rock, Ark. as a Rancho Palos Verdes. able accommodations be mission regularly attaches way to spread the financial In such quasi-residential protected and encouraged. special conditions on condo risk of new developments. developments, condo own­"The working stiff in hotel projects, such as lim­
Along California's coast, ers can use their rooms for Bakersfield who has a fam­iting how long owners can where demand for real a maximum of 9-0 days ily of four -he is not com­use their units and protect­estate is so intense that the each year and are expected ing to these five-star ing public beach access. 

Scientists: ethanol market growing 
Associated Press He said the research is focused on and mouthwashes and cough syrups 
perfecting technologies that purify will always be there," said Hans 
AMES, Iowa -Now that ethanol fuel ethanol, a grain alcohol most van Leeuwen, a civil, construction has become common in gas tanks, often made from corn and used as a and environmental engineering pro­two Iowa State University profes­gasoline additive. Like beverage fessor who is working with Koziel sors are working to get it into mar­alcohol, fuel ethanol is yeast-fer­on the project tini glasses. mented and then distilled. However, "We're really just looking at a 
The professors are researching it has many more impurities that process improvement here that will how to easily, and cheaply, turn fuel must be removed, Koziel said. save a lot of money," said van ethanol into food-grade alcohol to "We are trying to fine tune, so to Leeuwen, who also serves as vice be used in beverages, pharmaceuti­speak, the process of alcohol purifi-president of Cedar Rapids-based cals and personal care products. cation," he said. . Mell03z, a company that has creat­
"We will be taking relatively Whv find another use for ethanol ed a process for purifying alcoholic abundant and cheap fuel ethanol, at a time when demand for the fuel beverages. and for a very small amount (of has skyrocketed? Monte Shaw, a spokesman for the money) adding a lot of value to it," Because while the demand for Iowa Renewable Fuels Association, said Jacek Koziel, an assistant pro­fuel ethanol could wane if the auto­· said the future of food-grade alco­fessor of agricultural and biosys­motive industry embraces other hol produced from fuel ethanol tems engineering. technology, "the demand for liquor depends on its profitability. 
-----------,

..-----------~­
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS . ~onda~August28,2006 
Roads 
continued from page 1 
in a Sept. 27, 2004 article. 
A new road east of campus, North Twyckenham Drive, now begins off Edison west of Ivy Road and merges into Ivy between Vaness Street and Dunn Road. Moving west, it intersects Bulla Road at a stop­light and runs behind the Fischer Graduate Residences, meeting Douglas Road at a traf­fic roundabout. 
This north-south connection between Edison Road and Douglas Road is helping to "move traffic very well," Lyphout said. 
"Particularly with the roads project, [campus construction] was pretty much wrapped up by the time school started," )1e said. "The target completion date had 'been the end of this calendar year." 
Work was also finished on Douglas Road itself, with the addition of a large roundabout at the Twyckenham-Douglas intersection. 
"The only comment I've heard is that Bulla Road no longer goes through," Lyphout said. "It terminates at Twyckenham. Otherwise, [the campus roads project] has gotten really good reviews." 
Bulla Road was divided after 
The Show 
continued from page 1 
Blind or Common had major touring plans that made it con­venient for them to stop for a performance at Notre Dame. 
"Both of these bands genuinely wanted to come to Notre Dame, loved 
on the ticket. 
"I thought it was the best Show I've been to," jun­ior Katie Smith said. "Compared to other concerts the pricing was very reasonable, especially for seeing a band like Third Eye Blind who's pretty well-known." 
The pricing also impressed freshman Steve Bold, who said he wouldn't have been surprised to pay five times as much for a show like this. 
"I know for other concerts you can pay around 50 dollars or more for a ticket," he said."So at ten dollars a ticket these were consultation with area residents who expressed concern about keeping traflic out of the neigh­borhood, Lyphout said. 

"We had to ofl'er the neighbor­hood something and they want­ed less traflie going through," he said. "It doesn't really incon­venience anyone." 
There are still a few compo­nents of the project left unfin­ished, like the area in front of Library Circle. 
"There are planters that we use as barricades now [in front of Library Circle]," Lyphout said. "Next summer that'll change, and we will scrape up the old Juniper Road. We didn't want to create that kind of inconven­ience during the school year." 
Besides taking up the road .. Lyphout said "some new infra­structure" needs to be put in place as well. 
Phase One of the project was completed last summer when Edison Road and Route 23 were widened and a large portion of Edison was demolished and realigned. A four-lane north­south road could be created where Edison met Ivy Road. 
The campus roads project also included the construction of a newly expanded and reconfig­ured campus entrance on Notre Dame Avenue, which was com­pleted in June 2005. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
really cheap." 

The seating arrangements dif­fered from previous years, Vassel said, allowing for floor seating that eliminated standing-only sections divided by barricades for a "more intimate concert feel." 
Attendees like freshman Kim Kristofl' appreciated the change. 
"I liked the setup," she said. "Wherever you were, you had a good seat and could hear the bands really well." 
From a logistical standpoint, Director of Production Steve Tortorello said he couldn't be happi­er. 
"I've worked a lot of concerts and 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Concession Stand Training 
Part 1: Food Service Training Monday-Wednesday**August 28th-30th -x-*12pm & 4pn1 
Part 2: Manager Traiuiu' Monday-Wednesday ·**August 28th-30th **12:30pm & 4:30pm 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
*At least two nwmbers ofall groups must attend Fond Service Training. (JYianage1' can attend and count as one oftlze two) 
*At least one member ofgroup must attend Manager Training. (Manger does nothave to attend Food Service Trainin{}) 
Questions? A111y Geist StudentActivities Office ageist@nd.edu 
being here, and came because they wanted to," he said. "They made specific plans to make it out." 
Students in atten­dance were gener­ally overflowing with positive feed­back -especially 
about the price tag 
''I've worked a lot ofconcerts and I can honestly say that this is the smoothest show I have ever worked in my life." 
Steve Tortorello director of production 


I can honestly say that this is the smoothest show I have ever worked in my life," he said. "The volunteers all showed up and were hard workers so we were able to set up everything and tear it all down smoothly." 
Despite his duties, even Tortorello was able to enjoy him­self during the concert. 
"I thought it was a great show and a lot of fun," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

lVIatt-Happy 19th Birthday!! 
I~S. Don't forget your nametag and your backpack! 
Love, 1\fom, Dad, Patrick, l\1olly and Gretchen 
Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

CHECK OUT OUR NEW COLLECTIONS OF DORM COLLEGE HAPPENS. BE READY. ROOM FURNITURE AT WALMART.COM/COLLEGE. WAL*MART~· 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, August 28, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

The truth about Irish football 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: ,Rama Gorrumukkala 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Amonacci 
Mary Kare Malone 
VIEWFOINT EDITOR> Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR> Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxrader 
SAINT MARv's EDITOR> Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR> Dusrin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER> Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER> Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR> Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR> Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574)·631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
oBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents of the University ofNocre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither inscirucion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advercisemeil{S based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and n6t necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilhon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (VSPS 599 2-4000} is publi~hcd Mond"a.y rhrough Friday except during.. exam and va.:ari<ltl periods. A subscription to The Ob5trvcr is $100 tOr one actdcmic: y.:at;$55 foroncS«<estcr. 
The O!»crvcr is publia:hcd ar.-POSTMA.~TER 
024 South Dining Hall Send :.~ddm.s corrections to: 
Nurre: Dame, IN 46556-07'79 TheO~rvcr 
Periodical postage paid .u Notte DamC; P.O.Boxm 
and .uididonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Now: Dame, IN 46556--0779 
The-Ol»crver is a mt:mbl:r ofthe Assodared Prt$S, All reproducrion rights arc 
re5trv~. 

A little over two decades ago, much of this student body emerged from the womb itching for the start of a potential national championship run by the Fighting Irish. As our fathers clipped our umbilical cords with Notre Dame Bookstore-issued scissors and our nurses swathed us in "Play Like a Champion Today" towels, the greatest fight song in the land was undoubtedly echoing in the backs of our undeveloped, spongy minds. It is even rumored that the first words of a few particularly pre­scient and potty-mouthed students were, "Notre Dame will kick the s*** out of Georgia Tech on September 2, · 2006." 
Now, in only six days, that magic moment will finally arrive, and the entire universe will discover whether or not this year's squad can live up to the hype purveyed by Sports Illustrated, Sports Illustrated On Campus, ESPN, ESPN the Magazine, ESPN.com, SportingNews, CBS Sportsline, the Chicago Sun-Times, the Chicago Tribune, the South Bend Tribune, USA Today, Yahoo! Sports, Scout.com, Rivals.com, CNN, MSNBC, NPH, ABC News, NBC Sports, Fox Sports, Sports Digest, CSTV, the Los Angeles Times, the San Jose Mercury News, the Atlanta Journal Constitution, the Seattle Post Intelligencer and Live! With Regis and Kelly. 
Because of the intense anticipation and speculation about the upcoming football season, there has been a lot of fictional information swirling through­out the media about Charlie Weis' team. In fact, several loyal readers have been littering my inbox all sum-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
mer with questions about this hype. So today, we will separate the fact from the fiction. 
Kate O'McFitzgerald of Lyons Hall asks, "Is it true that Brady Quinn was born of a vestal virgin?" 
Yes, Kate. A perfectly sculpted body like that doesn't just pop out of a fallop­ian tube. In fact, it is rumored that the Holy Spirit was only in Dublin, Ohio, on that fateful day back in 1984 because He wanted to ask Wendy's world head­quarters why they didn't make square buns to fit their delicious square burg­ers. Apparently, the munificent Mrs. Quinn gave the Divine Inseminator directions along the way, and He rewarded her womb with the second coming of the Lord and Savior. Just watch out when this kid turns thirty. 
Moses McGillicuddy of Stanford Hall wonders, "If the entire Georgia Tech football team falls over in a forest and no one is listening, do they make a noise?" 
Great question, Moses. Believe it or not, they do actually make a noise when they fall: the same pathetic, high­pitched squeal that a pig makes after it waddles into a bacon factory. 
Shy Shillingham from off-campus asks, "I heard that Charlie Weis drinks the blood of a dozen lambs before he enters the locker room on game-day. Is that true? And if so, why did the University ofWashington still go 2-9 last year?" 
Well, Shy, I'm not too sure what the Washington Huskies football team, led by former Irish coach Ty Willingham, has to do with your question, but some­one must have been pulling your leg when they told you that one. According to Weis' personal chef, Wolfgang Puck, Charlie has a very specific routine for eating and drinking prior to every game. He starts the morning off with a 128-ounce porterhouse steak and a Colt 
45. For lunch, he rides his noble steed into the woods behind St. Mary's College, spears a wild boar, skins the ferocious beast with a plastic butter knife, eats the great pig raw and picks his teeth afterward with the animal's tusks. To wash it down, he spikes St. Joseph's Lake with a thousand bottles of Bacardi 151 and drinks the entire body of water with a thimble. Only then does he begin strategizing for the after­noon's game. 
Mas an Asmallah of Keough Hall writes, "My brother who still lives in Baghdad tells me that the United States did actually find weapons of mass destruction when they invaded Iraq. Is it true that those WMDs were in fact the guns of Tom Zbikowski?" 
Another great question, Masan. I actually had to put in a call to General Peter Pace, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to find out this answer, and much to my surprise, you were absolutely correct. Buried deep within a labyrinth of winding tunnels that was discovered under Saddam's most sacred palace, a group of Army Rangers stum­bled upon a sealed hyperbaric chamber which contained the Iraqi leader's most dangerous weapons. Sitting there, in between a large container of anthrax and a tube of enriched plutonium, was the Irish safety and kick returner. 
Sadly, we have run out of space, but hopefully some of the greatest myths about the Fighting Irish have been debunked. For answers to any other questions that were not addressed here about Brady Quinn, Charlie Weis or other Notre Dame football stars, please refer to the Gospel of John, Chapter 3, Verse 16. 
Go Irish. Beat Yellow Jackets. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Ken Fowler Laura Kyle Cassily What's your prediction for this Baumgartner Chris Hine 
football season? 
Steve Kerins Scene 
Viewpoint Brian Doxtader 

Joey King Ca:ssie Belek Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Lianna 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Brauweiler Graphics Jeff Albert 

Submit aLetter to the Editor at ! 
www.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"So act that your principle ofaction might safely be made a law for the whole world." 
Immanuel Kant German philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, August 28, 2006 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Shortly after Georgetown University students arrive back in Washington, D.C., our U.S. Senators will follow suit for their September leg­islative session. In the last month before the long recess allowed for campaigning, there are many pressing items the Senate 
Eric

must address. But a pro­
Rodawig

posed bill that attempts to prohibit certain forms of 
Georgetown

online gaming should not 
University

be among them. 
Hoya

Rep. Jim Leach (R-Iowa) and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) aim to discourage online gaming by amending the Wire Act of 1961 with their bill, H.R.4411. In Rep. Leach's own words, "What the [bill] basically does is make it illegal to use a bank instrument such as a credit card or money transfer or check to settle an Internet wager." What he fails to mention is that the bill only cov­ers certain types of Internet wagers. 
Goodlatte would like people to believe he is the noble leader of some moral crusade to save Americans from the supposed evils of online gaming. H.R.4411 is the latest in a series of mis­guided attempts stretching back almost 10 years; this one has unfortunately passed the U.S. House of Representatives, however, and Sen. Jon Kyl (R­Ariz.) is eager to pass similar legislation in the upper chamber. 
Support for this bill is lukewarm at best, while its opposition is intense. A fringe issue appealing to some groups, the ban faces organized resist­ance from financial institutions and Internet service providers who do not want to be slapped with these new regulations. Goodlatte and Leach point to amateur and professional sports leagues that are pleased with the bill, but these groups are some of its biggest beneficiaries. 
Fantasy sports leagues, state lotteries and horse racing are given generous exceptions and would continue to be legal under the bill. In fact, the bill's proponents defeated an amendment proposed by Shelley Berkley (D-Nev.) that would • remove these hypocritical carve-outs. If online gaming is such a problem for America, why is there cherry-picking that allows certain forms to remain legal? Certainly the people who place bets on football games are the same ones in the fantasy sport leagues; why is Powerball better than a roulette ball? 
One part of the answer can be found among Goodlatte's campaign contributors. 
The National Thoroughbred Racing Association PAC has given Goodlatte $15,000 over the last three years. When this bill was written, Goodlatte appears to have been rather concerned with helping special interests by giving the powerful ones exemptions so they wouldn't oppose his bill. 
The good news is that a vast majority of Americans are opposed to government attempts to regulate too deeply into our personal lives. A Zogby poll conducted in March of over 30,000 likely voters found that 78 percent of Americans "do not think it is appropriate for the federal gov­ernment to restrict what adults do on the Internet in the privacy of their own homes." 
By allowing online gaming sites to legally base their operations in the United States, the govern­ment could make online gaming even safer through regulation and tax a portion of the $6 billion wagered online last year by Americans. The United Kingdom has recently done this with great success; publicly traded companies provide regulated and secure gaming services to people around the planet who seek entertainment in the comfort of their own homes. 
Playing politics with such sweeping public poli­cy is never a good thing for America. Although considering Sen. Ted Stevens' (R-Alaska) "series of tubes" comments about the Internet, it is ques­tionable whether many of our policymakers in Washington, D.C. understand the Internet at all. Until they do, citizens should be outraged by attempts to pass such fallacious legislation, and they should let their representatives hear about it. 
This column originally appeared in the August 25 edition ofThe Hoya, the daily publication at Georgetown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Fight for yourselves and for your people 
Rick Warren said it best: "It's not about you." 
It's about your purpose. 
Life throws itself on you unexpectedly, and when it rains it doesn't necessarily sprinkle-it pours. 
"We declare our right on this earth ... to be a human being, to be respected as a human being, to be Jenisha given the rights of a human being in this Watts society, on this earth, in this day, which we intend to bring into existence by any 
University of 

means necessary." Malcolm's words. 
Kentucky

But this attitude isn't just for the 
Kentucky Kernel 

blacks that were living in the 1950s; it's for everyone who is ·struggling to express his or herself, and fulfill their destiny. 
Along the way, you will be stymied by many, many obsta­cles. Did you hear me? I said, "You will!" The thing is, you just have to learn how to deal with it. Kee·p your eye on the future, and don't compromise your "self' for anyone. 
Hamlet-"Be true to thy self." 
Don't let people stop you. Fight for your cause. 
I used to want to be like Oprah, until I realized that my cir­cumstances and Oprah's might be similar, but never identi­cal. The fact is, we tend to limit ourselves. Why strive to be like someone who is great, when you could be greater? 
And who could be me better than me? 
Exactly. 

It's the same analogy with writing. 
I'm a writer. I love expressing myself through words. I rel­ish giving the voice to the voiceless. It's my calling, my pas­sion, my drive, my hope, my desire to be the best-and no matter what they say about me, I will rise and continue to fight for my cause. That's my people, my race and my her­itage. 
I may not know my native tongue or what country in Africa I descended from. But the fight that Martin, Rosa, W.E.B. Dubois, Booker T., Thurgood Marshall, Fredrick Douglass, Lorraine Hansberry, James Baldwin and Claude McKay fought for me is one that I must not forget. 
It's my duty, obligation and responsibility to be the best that I possibly can be. I will admit I have fallen short. But never long enough to forget my purpose. 
This column originally appeared in the August 25 edition of The Kentucky Kernel, the daily pub"lication at the University ofKentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Israel's a terrorist state? 
"One two three four, Hezbollah will win unaware of what they are. Hezbollah is now the war! Five six seven eight, Israel's a ter­handing out $10,000 dollars to displaced rorist state!" Dismayed Lebanese and Lebanese families who are returning to Palestinian Americans shouted in unison at their homes. Hundreds of families have the protest on Aug. 1 against the Israeli and already received this service and many U.S.-funded occupation and subsequent more will follow. This is not the action of a destruction of much of Lebanon. These defeated organization. Arab Americans living in Dearborn, What did this massive Israeli military Michigan -which has the largest Arab attack -beginning with air strikes and population of any city outside of the Middle concluding with ground troops-accom­East -were not terrorists. They were not plish? Did it succeed in lessening the actual out of control. They were just angry and military capabilities of Hezbollah? It most essentially powerless. I had the chance to likely did. This, however, cannot be falsely be at this event, which rallied together so taken to mean victory for Israel and the many of the U.S. citizens who view Israel's U.S. This month-long horror was not a vic­behavior as unjustified, disproportionate, tory in the "War on Terror." On the con­illegal and cruel. Two weeks later I was in trary, it has built Hezbollah into an unbe­Washington, D.C. and was able to partici­lievably popular and supported pan-Arab pate in another significant protest against power. It has given it not less, but more, fol­Israel and its American accomplices. lowers -gathering support now from 
The anger is understand<rble, as is the Lebanese who otherwise would not have growing support of Sheikh Hassan been so inclined. In explicitly facilitating the Nasrallah, the charismatic leader of destruction of much of Lebanon's infra­Hezbollah. Condoleezza Rice says that these structure and stability, not to mention the violent times are the "birth pangs of a new heavy blow to its tourist-dependent econo­Middle East." These are not birthpangs, but my by way of encouraging actions which death rattles. And the terror is not over -caused massive oil spills and deserted cities, Lebanese civilians will continue to die and this was a devastating loss not only for the be maimed despite the ceasefrre because Lebanese, but for America's supposed cam­heavily targeted areas such as Tyre are lit­paign to end global tyranny. tered with unexploded "bomblets" from cluster bombs dropped by Israel, turning Clare Feeney these areas into virtual minefields. The UN junior reports that at least five children have off-campus already been killed by picking them up, Aug. 25 
U-WIRE 
Online gaming law lets special ~terests win 
. 


Tl-IE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 Monday, August 28, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Documentary delivers convincing message 

MOVIE REVIEW 

Inspiring sports movie not exactly 'Invincible' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
For better and for worse, "Invincible" is the picture-perfect sports movie. It rev­els in its cliches, its honesty, its uplifting message. Yet those very ingredients make "Invincible" an agreeably pleasant film for those willing to overlook its shortcomings. 
Every single sports movie cliche is there, from the determined coach to the doubting friends, to the rival-teammate­turned-friend, to the "Big Game" 

that ends the film. Invincible Kinnear shines in It proudly features 
his considerable the most ubiqui­screentime as tous moments of Vermeil. "Miracle," "Rocky" The film is as pre­and "Rudy" all Director: Ericson Core dictable as they rolled into one. In Writer: Brad Gann come, but that isn't fact, "Invincible" is Starring: Mark Wahlberg, Greg necessarily a bad almost like a Kinnear and Elizabeth Banks thing. The film is 
sports-movie-by­numbers, as thor­oughly quintessential as they come. "Invincible" is filled with cliches in a genre dominated by them. Yet the film gets by on sheer conviction, anchored by winning performances from Mark Wahlberg, Greg Kinnear and Kevin Conway. 
"Invincible" is the true story of Vincent Papale (Wahlberg) a teacher-turned-bar­tender who becomes a professional NFLer after new coach Dick Vermeil (Kinnear) takes over as head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles and allows an open tryout for the team. 
Like a pro football "Rudy," it follows an overage underdog who successfully pur­inspirational in all 
the right ways, and its heart is clearly in the right place. For the most part, this is enough, though there are obvious problems. 
Foremost is that "Invincible" feels oddly underdeveloped, despite a full­length running time. It doesn't help that the ending feels abrupt rather than satis­fying, which is particularly unexpected since the film has such a strong build-up to the rousing conclusion. 
Additionally, most of the characters are only sketchily drawn, though the cast does its best to round them out. Papale himself is held at s strange distance, without the type of psychological charac­ter insight usually imbued in films like sues his dream. Along the way, he falls in love with fellow bartender Janet Cantwell (Elizabeth Banks) and has. a heart-to-heart with his crusty old father Frank Papale (a surprisingly elegant Kevin Conway). 
Like most movies of this type, it's not really necessary to be a fan of the team in order to enjoy the film. The film isn't really about the Eagles, though the Philadelphia backdrop is crucial to the movie's setting Oust as it was in "Rocky"). Whether the Eagles are beloved or hated, "Invincible" is more about Vincent Papal~;J than the team, though 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
AI Gore talking about the environment sounds like the least exciting premise for a documentary ever. Certainly not as appealing as those cuddly little penguins or that crazy Morgan Spurlock, who will eat anything for a multi-million dollar payoff. • 
But in "An Inconvenient Truth," the former "next president of the United States" not only argues that caring about the environment is our moral obliga­

tion, but he does it way that will
An Inconvenient Truth 
with charisma, 
make even the humor and a sense reddest of the red of urgency. In the rethink the issue. film, AI Gore is While the docu­actually kind of hip. mentary focuses
When: Thursday, Aug. 31 and Friday,
After the Supreme on the immediate
Sept. 1 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

Court's infamous threat of global
Where: The Browning Cinema, DPAC
and controversial 2000 decision that awarded the presi­dency to current Commander-in-Chief George W. Bush, Gore retreated from the limelight to reflect on his dashed dreams and decide what his next move would be. 
For the next several months, the public got brief glimpses of the former vice president, and the image wasn't a posi­tive one. Gore seemed to have lost his way and gained a beard. That's when his wife, Tipper, urged him to travel with his slideshow again -a presentation that focused on the immediacy of global warming and the human race's part in the destruction of the earth. Gore had traveled often with the slideshow before he became vice president. 

The environment has been Gore's choice issue since his college days -an issue he took with him to Congress and an issue that was lost among the chaos of Decision 2000. 
With this documentary, Gore resurrects the global warming debate to convert the doubters, those who believe that global warming is a myth and part of the natu­ral cycle of the environment. Gore pres­ents scientific proof to convince the non­believer otherwise, and he does so with­out elitism. Instead, the film offers the facts in a clear and captivating 
warming, it also 
follows the rocky 
journey of one man with one giant passion. We learn about Gore's childhood and public life throughout the film as he expresses his undying love for the environment. 
Gore shows us the land where he grew up and lets us listen to the sounds of insects, animaJs and running waters that were so familiar to him as a boy. He shows us a view of Mother Earth from outer space and allows us to reflect on its beauty. He then explains how this beauty will be lost if we continue our current path of destruction. Polar ice caps will melt and entire cities will be immersed in water. 
These are not hypotheses. These are terrifying truths about the future we are creating for ourselves. 
He takes us through his days as a Congressman and his sometimes fruitless attempts at changing the minds and hearts of Congress. We see moments from his campaign and the disappointing aftermath. 
His need to feature so much of his per­sonal life was a wise choice. In order to understand his devotion to this cause, we must understand how he arrived at the place where he was ready to share his message with the world. 
AI Gore will not run for president in 2008. After seeing this documentary, a persDn will realize that this AI Gore ­the one that can focus on one cause -is a more effective AI Gore. By creating "An Inconvenient Truth" and continuing his talks around the country, he is able to accomplish more by honing in on one, singular issue. 
This free and charismatic Gore, unre­stricted by election polls and a speech writing staff, can make a film that changes global warming from a political issue to a moral obligation. Gore can make the environment exciting again and renew .our commitment to Mother Earth and ou'r future. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
courtesy Bartender Vincent Papale (Mark Wahlberg), right, accepts a position on the Philadelphia Eagles from coach Dick Vermeil (Greg Kinnear) in "Invincible." 
this. 
Part of the problem may be in the film's focus. Shots of picket lines and unem­ployed workers gives the impression that Papale stands as a sort of "everyman" who represents the poorer Philadelphia workers, but not enough is made of this. In fact, the protagonist, as a character, has a bizarre lack of balance. Papale is at once too complex to be a symbol and too underdeveloped to be an intriguing character. 
Additionally, the direction and cine­matography from Ericson Core (ih his directorial debut) has a workman-like feel to it, though the over reliance on slick camerawork and editing during the football sequences is dizzying rather than thrilling. 
Still, "Invincible" is a simple yet increasingly rare thing -a good story well told. It has to be taken on its own terms, but once those terms are accepted are accepted, the film works. This in of itself is an accomplishment, albeit a minor one. 
"Invincible" is certainly a film worth seeing for anyone who wants to be inspired, who believes in a man who overcame the odds to become an Eagle and fly. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, August 28, 2006 
page 13 

THIRD EYE BLIND REVIEW 
By ELIZABETH HESBURGH and 
MARY MIGLIOZZI 
Scene Critics 
Third Eye Blind may not be as popular now as it was 10 years ago, but its former '90s fame was enough to fill the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Friday night when the band performed exclusively for Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students. Based in San Francisco, Third Eye Blind is made up of lead singer Stephan Jenkins, Kevin Cadogan on guitar, bassist Arion Salazar and former Counting Crows drummer Brad Hargreaves. As they came on stage and began the concert with one of their most fun and upbeat hit singles, "Never Let You Go," a black banner unfurled behind them bearing the band's name in large block letters. The students went wild, jumping, dancing and singing along. 
A band that saw the height of its popu­larity in the late '90s, Third Eye Blind wisely chose to play numerous songs from its self-titled 1997 debut album. This deci­sion seemed to be greeted with approval by an audience that remembered the days when Third Eye Blind was essentially the soundtrack to summer. 
The college age group proved to be the ideal audience for songs like "Jumper." When the band played this well-known anti-suicide anthem, the crowd sang along not only to the vocal part, but also to the catchy and memorable guitar solo, which was extended to make the number per­haps the best in the show. 
Newer songs, such as "Palm Reader," from the 2003 album "Out of the Vein" ­"Deep Inside of You," from "Blue." 

True, Third Eye Blind has faded a bit from popular attention and the pop/rock music scene. Jenkins expressed his disap­pointment at one point in the concert that the band's fans had not been showing the same support as they once did. Or the fact that its album in 2003 and its July released greatest hits album entitled, "A Collection" have not sold as well as it had hoped. 
However, in closing, Jenkins told the crowd, "It's great to come here and feel this warmth. It's a really good feeling." 
This warmth was especially apparent as they played the final song, the hit from summer of 1997, "Semi-Charmed Life" 
.·

which clearly received the wildest response of all the performances of the night. 
At the end of the night, Third Eye Blind left a contented audience at The Show. Its performance contained a solid collection of a few new songs and mostly old songs that have not lost their effect on an audi­ence that grew up to them. 
Contact Elizabeth Hesburgh at ehesburg@nd.edu and Mary Migliozzi at mmiglioz@nd.edu 
COMMON REVIEW 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Common delivered a performance with­out awkward pauses Friday night, but not without awkward moments. 
Opening to a packed and energized crowd, the Chicago-based rapper brought his unique hip-hop sounds to the Joyce Center with a touch of dirty dancing. 
Rapping, "Never looking back or too far in front of me, the present is a gift and I just wannabe," Common started off strong and kept his momentum going throughout the performance by offering multiple sur­prises to both established fans and new lis­teners. 
With most of his set consisting of songs from his 2005 album "Be," Common was truly living in the moment, expressing excitement for being at Notre Dame and ­sharing his love and gratitude for God in his life. 
Common, a socially conscious rapper with a penchant for integrating '70s soul and soul-jazz into his music, got the crowd riled up early, opening with songs from his latest album, including "Be," "The Comer," "Go!," "Faithful," "Testify" and "It's Your World," before transitioning into his older songs like "Ghetto Heaven." Few in the crowd were completely familiar with his music, but most were enthused and inter­active anyway. 
Common continually reinforced his advice to have faith in God, crediting God and his Aunt's advice with his success. His other words of wisdom included remaining while certainly enjoyable, were met by a significantly less animated response, even bordering on boredom at times. Still, it proved a valuable and entertaining addi­tion to a show that otherwise would have run the risk of being little more than a walk down memory lane. 
The members of the band showed skill as experienced live performers, especially guitarist Tony Fredianelli, who delighted the crowd with his solos. Jenkins found the right balance in terms of crowd inter­action, introducing and inviting audience reaction to some songs, but didn't overdo it. 
During one performance, Jenkins strode down the center aisle of the audience as students reached out to touch the famous rocker, giving the students in the far risers a closer look. 
Guitarist Kevin Cadogan also once ven­tured down the aisle. Evidently, Cadogan had made a trip to the Notre Dame book­store that day as he wore a t-shirt bear­ing an ND leprechaun throughout the performance, much to the delight and appreciation of the Notre Dame students. 
One of the strengths of Third Eye Blind's music comes from an ironic ability to effectively combine songs of greatly vary­ing moods, and even to combine moods within a single song, as in the somber yet oddly buoyant "Jumper." 
The band certainly did this exceptionally well in its choices for Friday's show, play­ing both the decidedly sorrowful "How's It Going to Be" and the ecstatically upbeat "Semi-Charmed Life," its most well-known song, right before leaving the stage at the end of the set. For an encore, it chose to again alter the mood with the pensive 
faithful in relationships. He called out the infidelities of the men in the audience, but didn't let the women go unscathed either. 
During a particularly touching moment, Common dedicated a song to his good friend and producer Jay Dee (a.k.a. J Dilla), who passed away in February of this year. Jay Dee, who was diagnosed with Lupus and TTP, a rare blood disease, produced for other artists such as The Roots,_ De La Soul, Busta Rhymes and Erykah Badu. 
Halfway through his set, Common took a breather and let OJ Dummy take over, say­ing that the soul and origin of hip-hop is DJing. After a tribute to early hip-hop with Dr. Ore's "Nuthin' But a 'G' Thang," DJ Dummy spun Rob Base and DJ E-Z Rock's "It Takes Two" during a fascinating but long performance. Cameras above him allowed the audience to see his master­work, a service he's provided for Kanye West, Talib Kweli and Mos Def. 
At one point, Common asked for a lady from the audience who was "open." After some innocent flirtation, the dancing between the two g_uickly became sugges­tive and then raunchy. The volunteer and the audience seemed in shock at how far Common took his dancing, especially after preaching to the audience about faith and God. It was a complete about-face, and set Common up for criticism for this blatant contradiction. 
Despite his faults and perhaps too much preaching, Common delivered a solid and exciting performance that had the Joyce Center dancing, screaming and getting familiar with a musician many did not know. 

"I think he's a talented and poetic rapper. I don't know very many of his songs, but I was pleasantly surprised by his perform­ance," sophomore Kristina Merz said. 
Yet there were others who disagreed, particularly those who came primarily to see Third Eye Blind. 
"When I think Common, I think 'Comm on!"' sophomore Dannis Rankin said. 
However, Common was a vast improve­ment on last year's The Show rapper Akon. With five Grammy nominations under his belt and one Grammy win, Common proved that he is worthy of rapping with the likes of Kanye West. To close his set, he urged the audience to support good music -music by Kanye, Nas, Talib Kweli and Jay-Z, among others. Through his music, Common campaigns to move hip-hop away from gangster rap toward social issues. He pleaded his case to an eager crowd on Friday, but came away with mixed reac­tions after a somewhat hypocritical, but quality performance. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
.• 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, August 28, 2006 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Rookie hurler no-hits BoSox into sixth inning 
Ibanez blasts grand slam, Ortiz tallies 47th homer of the year as Mariners sweep Red Sox with a 6-3 victory 
Associated Press Jeter also hit two home runs Sunday as the New York Yankees 
SEATTLE -Rookie Cha Seung ended their longest road trip of Baek took a shaky no-hit bid into the season with an 11-8 win over the sixth inning, Raul Ibanez hit the Los Angeles Angels. a grand slam and the Seattle Jeff Karstens earned his first Mariners swept Boston in a major league win, helping the AL three-game series for the first East leaders salvage the series time since 1989, beating the Red fmale. The Yankees went 7-4 on Sox 6-3 Sunday. their three-city swing, which 
David Ortiz hit his major started with a five-game sweep league-leading 47th homer with at Boston. one out in the Boston sixth. But Williams had four hits in his 
All-Star outfielder Manny first multihomer game since Ramirez again sat out with a Aug. 26, 2005, against Kansas sore right knee and the Red Sox City. He also doubled home two lost for the 11th time in 14 runs in the seventh and singled games. in the fourth. 
The Red Sox dropped 6 1/2 Jeter homered twice in a game games behind New York in the for the eighth time in his career AL East and trail Minnesota by 5 and first time since June 18, 1/2 games for the wild card. 2005, against the Chicago Cubs. 
Boston now continues its Robinson Cano also had four three-city road trip in Oakland. hits for New York. Adam Rookie pitcher Jon Lester, how­Kennedy had three hits for the 
ever, was scratched from Angels, who trailed 8-0 by the 
Monday night's start because of third inning. 

a sore back. Karstens (1-0) won in his sec­
The Mariners, who a week ago ond major league start, allowing wrapped up an 0-11 road trip three runs.and six hits over six that dropped them from the AL innings. The 23-year-old righty West race, have won five of six was born less than three years against the Yankees and Red Sox before Williams signed with the on their current nine-game Yankees as an undrafted free homestand. agent on Sept. 13, 1985. 
Baek (1-0) was not overpower­ing and walked five in 5 2-3 Orioles 5, Devil Rays 4 innings. An error helped the Red Jeff Conine had already been Sox score in the fifth and Ortiz traded when he stepped to the connected in the sixth. plate in the eighth inning. 
Ortiz also hit 4 7 home runs He didn't know about the deal last season, tied for second on that sent him from the Baltimore 
·­
the Red Sox single-season list Orioles to the Philadelphia behind the 50 that Jimmie Foxx Phillies, which was agreed upon tinct possibility. And still he was Blue Jays over the Kansas City -five earned -in 5 1-3 hit in 1938. one inning earlier. All he knew able to go out there with a level Royals 10-6 Sunday. innings. He struck out six and 
Ibanez set a career high with was that the Orioles needed a head and help his team." Last Monday, Lilly refused to walked three. his 25th home run, and his first run to pull even with the Tampa Miguel Tejada singled in the hand Gibbons the ball during a Gibbons told Lilly he did a slam since July 14, 2002, with Bay Devil Rays. winning run with one out in the pitching change against Oakland. great job when he removed in Kansas City. He now has 102 Conine delivered an RBI dou­ninth inning, leaving the Devil They later scuflled in the tunnel the sixth, and gave his pitcher a RBis, one shy of his career high ble in what turned out to be his Rays with their lOth straight loss leading from the dugout to the pat of encouragement. set in 2002 with Kansas City. fmal at-bat with Baltimore, and on the road. The game ended clubhouse, and Gibbons wound "It's all behind us. We get 
Mike Lowell hit his 15th homer the Orioles went on to beat the with Conine in the on-deck cir­up with a bloody nose. along just fine," Gibbons said. with two outs in the Boston sixth, Devil Rays 5-4 Sunday. cle, but he had two RBis to help This time, one fan yelled out "It's just one those things that finishing Baek. Still, the right­The trade that sent Conine and the Orioles win a second straight "Fight! Fight!" when Gibbons happen. It's gone. You know hander allowed just two hits and cash to the Phillies for a player in their final at-bat. went to the mound to replace what, he showed me something two earned runs in picking up to be named, was announced Lilly in the sixth. today. He bounced back today his first win since Sept. 26, 2004. after the game. Blue Jays 10, Royals 6 "What happened last start was with a big win and he deserved 
J.J. Putz pitched the ninth for "I was kind of hoping he'd be This time, Ted Lilly gave up the unlike both of us. I think we it." 
his 27th save in 32 chances. the one to put us ahead," ball without a fight. learned a lot from it," Lilly said. Molina connected against Baltimore manager Sam Lilly won in his first start since "It's good to come back and con­Odalis Perez (1-2) in the third 
•. Yankees 11., Angels 8 Perlozzo said. "It's just a tribute tussling with manager John tribute a little bit, enough to help inning for his first slam of the 
Bernie Williams homered twice to him, because he's known Gibbons, and Bengie Molina hit a us win." season and the third of his and drove in six runs, and Derek probably this (trade was) a dis-grand slam that led the Toronto Lilly (11-11) allowed six runs career. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Lake home available for all 7 Notre Why pay for a hotel when you can AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE Dame home football games; luxuri-have all the comforts of home? Two ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY NOTICES FoR SALE ous Eagle lakefront, sleeps 10, 30 1 brm apts. across the hall from NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR PERSONAL 
minutes from campus. $1500 per each other avail for home games. ALL GAMES. LOCAL FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIC~-Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call weekend or discount for booking all Queen bed +futon. 5 min. to ND. ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-269-445-2765 7. Also available Dec.-April. 574-$800 each or rent both for $1400. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 2378. 274-0089 Qall IQQall! 574-612-1519. CALL 654-0169. not go it alone. If you or someone 
Home within walking distance to you love needs confidential support ND. Fully remodeled, like-new con-Rent a home ND football week-6 Michigan tix avail for trade for 6 or assistance, please call Sr. Sue WANTED dition. Great neighborhood. 2 ends. 574-784-8638. TICKETS Penn St (only). Seats in 3 pr not Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
bdrms, $78,900. 574-292-1175 or together. Tix on campus for easy information, see our bi-weekly ad in ND family needs part-time nanny www.bonzerllc.com 1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor-WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-exchange. The Observer. for toddler. Flexible schedule avail· hood. 1 mi. to ND. $500/mo. 1570 www.ndgamedayroom.com able. Please email neednan-Investment homes for sale near Call 203-273-1463 or ny05@yahoo.com ND. 866-521-8989. Call 574-283-0325. FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. Deep inside of you ... 
david.barnard@ bernstein.com SOCCER REFEREES -needed for House for rent for ND football week-232-0964 GO south side elementary school, local-ends. 3 BR, 2 baths. Sleeps 6-8. ND alum will trade 2 Army tix for 2 IRISH
FoR RENT

ed near Erskine Golf Course on Charming, private location. Oct. 20-Need 4 ND-PSU tix-75 alum seeks UCLA. Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer 22 weekend already booked. 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis I guess the third time's the charm, game. Call574-291-4200. B&B lodging w/alum for ND football Special package rate for booking 813-978-1001. right Fritz? 
games. 574-243·2628 or gary-other six weekends. ND/SMC/HC call714 523 0601 or email: aheren-Now hiring seasonal help. therese @yahoo.com alumnae preferred. Call Kay da@ comcast.net 00 ND alum seeks multiple ND/PSU I need 1 Penn State ticket. Halloween Express, 6502 Grape evenings at tix for my bachelor party trip. Will Seriously though, I need the ticket. Road. 2 rooms in private home w/separate Need ND tix & parking pass all pay top $$! Please help! Contact Call7.13-775-7603 
entrance for football weekends. 269-663-8203. home games. Derek at 502-514-1409. Shared bath. Close to ND. Male fans of Grey's Anatomy and 
NOW LEASING FOR 2007-2008 57 4-276-8507. dengelkemeyer@ hotmail.com The OC: you are not alone. Informal I need after school care for my 1 0 57 4-259-8603. STADIUM CLUB CONDOMINIUMS group therapy, anonymity main-year old girl starting late August. Spacious 2bdrm 2ba. A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. tained. Schedule is M-Th 3pm to 6pm. 2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. Washer/Dryer. Call Susan Miller at FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID-TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY Must have own transportation and 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1. UALGAMES. WILL PAY MORE. MONGOOSE!!! be non-smoker. Please call 631­8456 or email wei.sun.?@nd.edu 255-7000. 243-7530. CALL MARK 574-277-1659. 574-288-2726. I've run out of things to say... 
---~~~~~~~--------­
Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Giants beat stumbling Reds behind young ann 
San Francisco moves to two games in back of Cincinnati in the wild card race, Reds lose four out of last five 
Billingsley struck out one and  when I did throw it.''  see the defending NL champion  
walked one.  Cook still managed to get 11  Houston Astros get on one, too.  
"I think early on when this kid  groundball outs with his sinker,  Taveras ran his hitting streak  
joined the ballclub, he was in a  and his Colorado Rockies beat  to 30 games during another  
little bit -more  of a strikeout  the San Diego Padres Sunday.  excellent all-around game and  
mode than he is now," Dodgers  "Mainly, I did it to keep the  Lance Berkman drove in four  
manager Grady Little said. "He  lefties off balance because I had  runs, helping the Astros rough  
knows that he's got a good ball­ been getting beat a lot down  up  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  
club behind him, that they'll  away from lefties," Cook said.  Sunday for their third consecu­ 
make the plays.''  "[Teammate] Mike DeJean told  tive victory.  
Billingsley said he's just being  me that they had felt too com­ Berkman, in a 5-for-45 slump  
himself.  fortable with me and weren't  before getting six RBls in the  
"How I'm pitching now is how  being stood up at all so I needed  final two games of the four­ 
I've  always  pitched  in  my  to  come  in hard  and in  on  game series, hit a  three-run  
career. I'm getting settled in  them."  homer in the fifth following  a  
real  good  and  believing in  Cook (9-12) improved to 7-3  run-scoring single in the first.  
myself and trusting in myself,"  lifetime against San Diego. He  Taveras singled to start the  
he said. "This is really how I  gave up two runs and five hits in  game and extend the longest  
throw. I wasn't trusting myself  eight innings, striking out five  hitting streak in team history.  
when I first got up. I was learn­-and walking none.  After the Pirates  won  the  
ing and giving the hitter too  "That was a vintage outing  series  opener  Thursday,  
much credit."  from  him,"  manager  Clint  Berkman effectively beat them  
Takashi Saito came on with  Hurdle  said.  "He  went  out  in three consecutive games to  
runners on first and second  determined to get things done  help get the Astros out of a slide  
with one out in the ninth. He  and got the job done."  in which they lost 10 of 1_3.  
gave up a two-out, RBI double  Cory  Sullivan  drove  in  a  Berkman homered to support  
to Eric Byrnes, allowing the  career-high three  runs with  Roger Clemens' 5-1  victory  
tying run to come to the plate;  three hits. Matt Holliday hit his  Friday, then had a two-run dou­ 
before striking out Orlando  24th homer and drove in two  ble to key a victory Saturday.  
Hudson for his 16th save in 18  runs for the Rockies.  Berkman also could have easi­ 
chances  Adrian Gonzalez and Brian  ly had another hit, but shortstop  
Byrnes led off the Arizona first  Giles homered for the Padres, in  Freddy Sanchez was given an  
with  a  single, then Hudson's  contention for the NL West title  error for not handling a sharply  
bunt rolled down the third-base  and the wild card.  hit grounder up the middle that  
line in fair territory for  a base  Jake Peavy (7-13) lasted only  scored Mike Lamb during a  
hit. Chad Tracy's two-out single  4 1-3 innings, allowing six runs  three-run third.  
to right brought Byrnes home.  and eight hits. He was 3-2 and  "Usually when he drives in a  
Livan  Hernandez  (10-11)  had given up three or fewer  bunch of runs, we score a bunch  
blanked the Dodgers through  runs  in each of his last six  of runs," manage'r Phil Garner 
Reds outfielder Ken Griffey Jr. knocks a base hit in the eighth four innings, but Andre Ethier  starts.  said. 
inning of Sunday's 8-0 loss to the Giants. led off the fifth with a double.  "Jake had good stuff early, but  Taveras began each of the  
Russell Martin drew a one-out  I think he just fatigued there,"  final three games of the series  
Associated Press  Ryan Freel led off the eighth  intentional walk. With two outs,  San  Diego  manager  Bruce  with hits during the second  
with a single and reached sec­ Furcal tripled to deep right-cen­ Bochy said. "He had a sinus  longest hitting streak in the NL  
SAN FRANCISCO - Rookie  ond on Ken Griffey Jr.'s one-out  ter to bring home both runners.  infection for  a couple of days  this season to Chase Utley's 35­ 
Matt Cain pitched seven sharp  single,  but  reliever  Kevin  Kenny Lofton followed with an  and it has taken a lot out of  game run for the Phillies.  
innings and the resurgent San  Correia got Edwin Encarnacion  RBI single to left and it was 3-1.  him."  "It kind of bl<;>ws  me away a  
Francisco Giants won again,  · and Adam Dunn on infield pop  The Rockies got a couple of  little bit, but nothing is easy,"  
beating the slumping Cincinnati  ups.  Rockies 6, Padres 3  lucky bounces in taking a 1-0  Taveras said. "The way the  
Reds 8-0 Sunday.  Griffey also doubled in extend­ One minor adjustment was all  lead in the second. Holliday sin­ team is winning  some  ball­ 
Omar Vizquel, Ray Durham  ing his hitting streak to  12  it took Aaron Cook to end a two-.  gled off Peavy's glove and went  games, I'm real happy about  
and Shea Hillenbrand each  games.  game losing streak.  to second base when third base­ that."  
drove in two runs as the Giants  "I threw 75 percent four­ man Russell Branyan's throw  Taveras reached base on hits  
won for the 11th time in 14  Dodgers 6, Diamondbacks 3  seamers today," said Cook, who  got past Gonzalez at first base.  or walks 10 times in the series  
games.  The Los Angeles Dodgers'  is primarily a sinkerball pitcher.  and stole four bases. He is 45­ 
Barry Bonds added three hits  brief funk is over, and they're  "I was able to throw it where I  Astros 13, Pirates 1  of-129 (.349) during his hitting  
for San Francisco, which pulled  headed home with a two-game  wanted to, and that made my  Willy Taveras has quite  a  streak, getting hits in his first  
within two games of Cincinnati  lead in the NL West.  sinker look a little bit sharper  streak going. Now he'd like to  at-bat 14 times.  
in the wild-card  race and kept  Wilson Betemit hit a two-run  
up its chase of Los Angeles in  homer and Rafael Furcal tripled  
the NL West.  in two more to help the Dodgers  
The Reds have lost four of five  beat the Arizona Diamondbacks  
since climbing within percent­ on Sunday.  
age points of NL Central-leading  After being swept in  San  
St. Louis.  Diego, the Dodgers regrouped to  
Cain (10-9) gave up four hits,  take the last two in  a  three  
struck out nine and walked two.  game series in Phoenix. With  
He allowed only two  runners  San Diego's 6-3 loss at Colorado,  
past first base.  Los Angeles pulled two games  
Cain became the ninth rookie  ahead  of  the  second-place  
to win at least 10 games for San  Padres in the division.  
Francisco, and the first since  "We're fine," Furcal said. "We  
Ryan Jensen in 2002. Cain has  forget about what happened in  
given up one run  and 12 hits  San  Diego.  Now  we're  two  
over his last 19 1-3 innings.  ahead and it's  a  pretty good  
Kyle Lohse ( 1-1) allowed five  series for us."  
runs and 10 hits in five innings.  The Diamondbacks, losers of  
The five  runs matched the total  six of seven, fell five games back  
he had given up in his other five  and  stayed  3  1/2  behind  
appearances since being traded  Cincinnati in the wild-card race.  
from Minnesota to the Reds on  "The longer this goes on,"  
July 31.  Arizona manager Bob Melvin  
In his previous outing, Lohse  said, "the less ground we can  
pitched eight shutout innings  afford to lose."  
against Houston.  Rookie Chad Billingsley (5-3)  
The Giants scored in· each of  beat Arizona for the second  
the first three innings. Durham  time in as many tries. The 21­ 
hit an  RBI single in the first,  year-old right-hander allowed  
Vizquel had a two-run single in  two runs on nine hits in seven  
the second and Durham had a  innings to improve to 4-0 in his  
sacrifice fly in the third.  last six starts.  
Pedro Feliz doubled home a  "I tell you what, that little kid  
run in the fifth, matching his  has  a  live  ball,"  Arizona's  
career high with 84 RBis. Bonds  Orlando Hudson said. "He's just  
singled in a run in the sixth.  like Matt Cain, throws hard, got  
The Reds went 0-for-6 with a  a good curvebalL He moves it  
runner in scoring position. They  up and it's kind of hard to layoff,  

were 2-for-28, and hitless in throws it down, keeps it out. AP 
their last 19 tries, during the He's got a bright future ahead of Dodgers shortstop Rafael Furcal robs Arizona's Chad Tracy of a hit with a diving stab Sunday 
h. during Los Angeles' 6-3 victory. Furcal drove in two runs with a triple to aid in the win. 
series. liD. " 


OUND THE NATION 
page 16 
·"<F·· 
AP NCAA Football Top25 
team  points  previous  
1  Ohio Slate  1558  4  
2  NOTRE DAME  147{}  9  
3  Texas  1411  1  
4  Auburn  1395  14  
5  West Virginia  1354  5  
6  usc  1345  2  
1  Aorida  1178  t12  
8  LSU  1144  6  
9  California  975  25  
10  Oklahoma  960  22  
11  Florida State  949  23  
12  Miami {Fla.)  893  17  
13  Louisville  844  19  
14  Michigan  824  NR  
15  Georgia  743  10  
16  Iowa  720  NR  
11  Virginia Tech  614  1  
18  Clemson  479  21  
19  Penn Slate  386  2  
20  Nebraska  332  24  
21  Oregon  324  t12  
22  TCU  257  11  
23  Tennessee  215  NR  
24  Arizona Stale  182  NR  
25  Texas Tech  181  -20  

NSCAA/adidas Women's Soccer Top25 
team record previous 
1 Portland 23-0·2 1 2 UCLA 22·2·2 3 3 Penn Stale 23·0·2 2 4 North Carolina 23·1-1 5 5 NOTRE DAME 22-3·0 6 6 Florida State 20-4·1 4 1 Santa Clara 11-5-2 1 8 Virginia 18-6·1 8 9 TexasA&M 18-4·2 11 10 California · 16·4·2 9 11 Boston College 13-6·2 10 12 Duke 14·6-1 16 13 Illinois 12-7·3 20 14 Tennessee 15·6-2 15 15 Cal Slate Fullerton 19·4·0 12 16 Connecticut 15-5-2 25 17 Arizona 11·8-3 17 18 West Virginia 12-6-3 19 19 Aorida 13·6~1 24 20 Pepperdine 15·4-3 18 21 Purdue 1H-2 NR 22 Vanderbilt 17-3-3 NR 23 Yale 15~4~1 13 24 Wake forest 9-9·4 NR 25 Marquette 19·4-1 14 
2005 Big East Women's Soccer Div. B Final Standings 
ovr.
team cont 
1 NOTREDAME 10-1-0 22·3·0 2 Villanova 6-1-3 10·5·4 3 Louisville 6-5-0 11·8·0 4 Georgetown 4-6-1 12·8·1 5 Rutgers 5-6-0 10·9·2 6 Depaul 3·5-3 5·8·4 7 SetonHall 3-6-2 1·1·4 8 Cincinnati H-2 3·11·4 
around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open Day 1,11 a.m., 7 p.m., USA 
MLB Chicgao Cubs at Pittsburgh, 7:05 p.m., Comcast 

CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES 
PGA TOUR 
Associated Press 

AKRON, Ohio -Tiger Woods celebrated his 10­year anniversary of turn­ing pro Sunday by win­ning for the 52nd time on the PGA Tour, making an 8-foot birdie putt on the fourth playoff hole against Stewart Cink to win the Bridgestone Invitational. 
Woods won for the fourth straight time, a streak that began at the British Open and shows no sign of ending. 
This one looked to be in doubt, however. when Cink made up a three-shot deficit over the final three holes, then had Woods on the ropes the first three holes of the playoff. But with rain pounding Firestone South, Cink hit into a bunker on the 17th hole, and never got a chance to putt for par 

when Woods  made  his  
birdie.  
Both  finished  at  10­ 
under 270.  

Woods won for the fifth time in the seven years this World Golf Champion­ship has been played at Firestone, and he now has won more on this track than any other golf course on the PGA Tour. Woods has won four times each at Augusta National and Torrey Pines. 
It was on Aug. 27, 1996, that Woods announced in 
IN BRIEF 

Ramirez sits out another 
game with sore knee 
SEATTLE -All-Star Manny Ramirez was out of Boston's starting lineup for the third time in four games Sunday as the Red Sox closed out a series against the Seattle Mariners. 
Manager Terry Francona also said that left-bander Jon Lester would not make his scheduled start on Monday night in Oakland and instead would be sent back to Boston for further examination on his sore back. 
Ramirez played in Saturday night's 4-3 loss to the Mariners and was 0­for-3. The outfielder told Francona his right knee was sore Sunday morning. 
"I don't think it's a setback," Francona said before Sunday's game. "I think it was bothering him during the game. "We were hoping a couple of days off would be enough." 
Ramirez started in left field on Saturday after missing the previous two games. 
Milwaukee he was turning pro. Ten years later, his 52 victories match Byron Nelson for fifth place all time, and his 12 majors are second only to the 18 won by Jack Nicklaus over a quarter-century. 
Cink was looking for a peculiar repeat. 
Two years ago, he vali­dated Hal Sutton's deci­sion to make him a cap­tain's pick for the Ryder Cup by winning at Firestone. Tom Lehman picked him on Monday, and Cink nearly delivered his first victory in two years. 
"There were a lot of highs and lows today," Cink said. "Unfortunately, 
Monday, August 28, 2006 
I finished on a low." 
Cink had a shot to win on the first three playoff holes -a 20-foot chip that grazed the lip at No. 18, an 18-foot putt that missed on the high side at No. 17, and an 8-foot par putt on the 18th again that missed to the right. 
Woods was in trouble most of the time. On the first extra hole, he pulled his approach long and left into the rough, but pitched beautifully to 5 feet and escaped with par. The second time playing the 18th in the playoff, Woods found a greenside bunker 40 feet from the flag. blasted out to 8 feet and left it inches short. 

Jets' four-way quarterback
battle still not over 

HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Even though the regular season is two weeks away, Jets'coach Eric Mangini insists he has­n't chosen a starting quarterback. 
Those who thought Mangini would finally choose between Chad Pennington, Patrie~ Ramsey, Brooks Bollinger and rookie Kellen Clemens on Sunday were disappointed. 
"All four of those guys need to be ready to play Friday," Mangini said, referring to the preseason finale against Philadelphia. "That's the way we're going to approach the week with all the players. They need to be ready to play for as long as we decide to keep them in the game." 
Asked if he might not announce a starter even in the days before the Sept. 10 opener at the Tennessee Titans, Mangini said, "It would depend on whether someone has dis­tinguished himself by the time we get to Tennessee." 
Team USA defeats Australia 
by 40 in FlBA play 
AITAMA, Japan -Look out, world. The United States routed Australia 113­73 Sunday, sending an unmistakable message to the FIBA World Championship. This isn't the team that proved an embarrassment in recent international competitions. 
"We wanted to make a statement coming into the round of 16," said for­ward Chris Bosh, who grabbed a game­high nine rebounds. 
On a day that every American scored, Carmelo Anthony led the U.S. with 20 points while Joe Johnson added 18 and Dwyane Wade 15. 
Granted, the Australians weren't much of a test. They went 2-3 in group play and have few weapons beside Milwaukee Bucks center Andrew Bogut, who scored 20 points. 
But the Americans made it look almost too easy, turning a tight game into a Iaugher by outscoring the Australians 32-6 in the second quarter. 

Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
LITTLE TUNA 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis jokes with reporters during one of the more informal moments during his press conference Thursday in the Guglielmino Athletics Complex. 
ROMANCE LANGUAGES AND LITERATURES FRENCH & FRANCOPHONE STUDIES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Fall 2006 Courses 
ROFR 2112(11 INTERMEOIATE FRENCH I VARIOUS TIM t:S, MWF 
A third-semester college language course. l.ncludes review and expansion of basic grammatical Mructures. Extensive prnctk~e in spe-aking and writing. Readings and discussions of a variety of literary and nonliterary texts ofappropriate difllculty. 
ROFR 40220-01 LfFF., LOV£.ANO LJTERATtrR£ IN RENAISSANCE LYON 1:30-2:45 MW J. OcllaN.,va 
The \.'hief gval b to become H.uniH"r V~.'ilh the Cllltur<.tt chmatt" of Re-naiss:ance Lyon. This is essentially a litc:ratur~ C()Ursc with a sig.nificant cultural studiO$ component. SpcciticaHy. this <::f'mrsc \\'ill fbcus (111 atnhor~ \vho lived in Ly\m during hs glory: days~ cOrresponding tn roughly the tirst hulf of lhe sixt~cnth century; accordingly-, much of th~ course wiH be d~votcd w-the three p~o..'ets who ('.ompris~ the hLyonnals schoor•: rvtaurice ScCvc, Pc-rncttc Du GuiHct. and Louis~.:.: L~lbi..~. Ho'"'"ev~r......~,~will l""t":"\1 exc~~rpt:s from nwuy <:~uthor::; .as~;:~iatcd with thi::; city ~tt various time:; Jn the Rcna1s.sanec.. Jncluding Lemaire de fldgefi. Rabclais.. 1\tl:.tn.ll. and Jeanne Flt)rc, muong t1thcl·s. Mon;·t.'V~T~ muny cultuntl topks wlU be addressed.. through thl..!' prcs~ntation of urtidcs o-n suh_jccts su\!h us music. art. printing. the role of '"''omen. econ1Jmics (the thirs and b,mking), mcdk~inc.. ~Uu4·a1ion, religion. and the. like. R~quircrnents indude a brief paper on a litcrruy l<)pk, an oral C\..f!li.c.:uion of a poem1 rhe oral p-rcscntatJon nf an artiele on a cultural topic~ a very brief first-hund \\'Tittcn description (.'rany Rl..!'"nai~sunce bo-ok prinh."i.l in Lyon l~)und in the-rare-b<.Jok room of the libnnJ', and c1 fouger regearch paper on a culturut topk • with a summary 1o be presented orally tn the c-l.ass) in Hcu nfa final c-;.;am. 1~·1PORT.ANT: lfn soffi~ient nmnhcr nfstudcnb are intcrc:St.ed~ we m:~y try to arran~.~ a trip to Ly~1n during, Fait break! Plea~e. contact the rn1t'i.!ss.or hy email ASAP ifthis prospect interests you. (\>sts \HII Jepcnd largdy on the Sl7£ ,,fthe group inlcresteJ. 
FICTIOI'\ ANI> HISTORY. FROM PEIUUtJl.:f TO TOCQI<F.VH,u: 3:30-6:15 T .J. Ooutb...aite 
The coun;;c aim" to prepare students 1'i1r independent... advanced res.carch in literary history. \-vith particular l.'":rnpha-si~ on clo~e reading and tl!xtual analysis. Particular u1tentJon ~..vm be ghcn t() connections ~dwccn literary texts and historiogruphic:ul writing~ Cours:~ involves development of advanced \\fitten~ orul. and rC"udlng skills in French. Although 1h~ ..:..wdcnt \\"ill gain familiarity wilh \,':OUtl.::rnporary tlK~nrl~tka.l dehatcs in lhl'Taturr. ~md historiography. \\.ritkn wt,rk will primarily focus on Hte.mry analysis in historical context. 
ROl\fANCE LANGUAGES &LITERATURES FALL 2006lTALIAN STUDIES 
ROIT 42115 DANTE ILAC DISCUSSION GROUP 
T. Cachey, E. Gandolti 
Students of the Italian language are eligible to sign up for an additional single credit discussion section as part of the Languages across the Curriculum (LxC) initiative in the College of Arts and Letters, Choosing this option means that students will read Dante and meet once a week with E. Gandolfi, a graduate student in Medieval Studies, who will guide discussion ofthe text in Italian and grade some brief assignments. The LxC discussion section in italian associated with this course w·ilJ be graded on apass/fail basis and credited to the student's Lranscript.. 
Day and Time TBA For more information on this course, please call631-6886 
LPGA 

Ochoa shoots seven under for Wendy's title 
Golfer birdies 13th and 14th holes to beat out Lee in the stretch 
Associated Press 

DUBLIN, Ohio-If Lorena Ochoa keeps this up, soccer soon might be ·taking a back seat to women's golf in Mexico. 
Ochoa outdueled Jee Young Lee down the stretch, pulling away with birdies at the 13th and 14th holes, to shoot a 7­under 65 and win the Wendy's Championship for Children by three shots Sunday. 
"In Mexico, soccer is every­thing. Golf is, like, 1 percent," the Guadalajara native said with a laugh. "I feel fortunate to have so much support. It's been great. I'm very proud to be from 

Fo.r rnore illfonnati:on o:n au:y course, call J-6886. 
Mexico. We're learning.... It used to be soccer, soccer, soccer. Now there's also golf." 
Ochoa and Lee, playing in the same group. were tied at 22 under through 12 holes. 
"It was like match piay," Ochoa said. "It was a different feeling, to look at the scoreboard and see everybody else three or four shots behind." 
But Ochoa hit an 8 iron to 6 feet and rolled in the birdie putt at 13 and then spun a wedge near the hole at 14 and made the 15-footer to regain a two­shot lead. She was never threat­ened again as she parred out to finish at 24-under 264. 
Only three players have gone lower in a 72-hole LPGA event in relation to par. Two are Hall of Famers, and the third almost certainly will be: Annika Sorenstam (27 under), Karrie Webb (26) and Se Ri Pak (25). 
Lee, a rookie who began the day two shots back of Ochoa in second p"lace, had five birdies, an eagle and no bogeys in her first 13 holes-and still trailed. 
"I don't think I lost today," she said. "I enjoyed playing against a great player, a top player. I didn't play bad. She played bet­ter. I learned a lot today." 
The victory was the 24-year­old Ochoa's third of the season on the LPGA Tour. She also has five seconds, a third, two fourths and a fifth-place finish in 18 starts. 
The $165,000 first-place check raised Ochoa's earnings this year to $1,840,774, moving her past Karrie Webb and into first place on the money list. 
"That's the highest profession­al goal you can accomplish," Ochoa said. "But right now it doesn't mean anything. I have to go all the way to November. That would be a dream to accomplish." 
Ochoa, who leads the tour in scoring average, has shot 66 or better 12 times this season. 
With earlier rounds of 67, 68 and 64, Ochoa had the lowest 72-hole total on a par-72 course this year by five strokes. She didn't have a bogey in the final two rounds while going 15 under. 
"I played a great round of golf -I didn't really make any mis­takes," Prammanasudh said. "You knew she (Ochoa) was going to go out there and play a great round, just based on her career." 
After rolling in an uphill 5­footer for par on the final hole, Ochoa pumped her fist and then acknowledged the gallery sur­rounding the green at Tartan Fields Golf Club. 
Ai Miyazato shot a 68 and was alone in fourth at 271, with Diana D'Alessio (67) next at 273. Tied for sixth at 13-under 275 were Jeong Jang (67), Webb (69) and Michele Redman (70). 
Defending champion Cristie Kerr closed with a 70 and was at 276 along with Tina Barrett (68) and Morgan Pressel (69). 

Paula Creamer was on the leaderboard all day until she sliced her approach at the final hole underneath the grandstand. Arter a lengthy delay during which she looked over her options and discussed the situa­tion with her caddie and a rules ollicial, she chipped short of the green and ended up with a dou­ble bogey that gave her a 72 and left her at 11-under 277. 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2006 
INDYCAR SERIES 
GoLD RusH 

Youngest Andretti victorious 
Chicago. The odds are it yellow probably cost us the
Marco Andretti wins 

probably will help Sam a lit­win because Marco was hav­tle because he's more famil­ing fuel problems."
major open-wheel race 

iar with the ovals. I can't It was Franchitti's best fin­
at record age of19 years wait. I wish the race could be ish of the season after finish­
next week." ing third in Richmond. 
Associated Press The event at Andretti, who Infineon fought a ches.t SONOMA, Calif. -Marco Raceway's 12-cold this week­Andretti gambled on fuel turn, 2.26-mile end, started the
"Marco drove like
Sunday and became the road course race second, next 
a true champion
youngest winner of a major eliminated Meira to pole sitter open-wheel event, beating and Kanaan today." Dixon. Dixon ran Dario Franchitti by 0.66 sec­from champi­away from the onds to take the Indy Grand onship con­field until prob­
Mario Andretti 
Prix of Sonoma. tention, setting lems with a tire 
lndyCar driver 
While most of the field pit­up a two-team change on lap 51 ted on lap 51 of the 80-lap shootout at the dropped him out IndyCar Series race, Andretti final race Sept. of contention. stayed out to take the lead, 9. The winner, then stretched his fuel for Franchitti, who could not who turned 19 in March, the final 30 laps to take the gain ground on Andreiti after sipped sparkling cider in vic­checkered flag in the next-to­a final yellow with seven laps tory circle. He also won here last race of the season. to go, praised the rookie. a year ago in an Indy Pro 
The 19-year-old Andretti "He was definitely a little Series race. said it was a bigger thrill bit faster than I was today. "Marco drove like a true than finishing second this He drove a great race," champion today," his grand-year in the Indianapolis 500. Franchitti said. "That last father E;aid. 
The previous youngest open­wheel winner was Scott Dixon at 20. 
"This was a win," lie said. "The guys were just brilliant in the pits." 
Andretti won in front of his 

ROMANCE LANGUAGES & LITERATURES
father, Michael, co-owner of Andretti Green Racing, and his famous grandfather, 

QUECHlJA THE LANGUAGE OF THE INCA
Mario, winner of the 1969 



KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 

California native and freshman Konrad Reuland (shown Aug. 
17) hustles for. playing time this fall at the tight end spot behind seniors John Carlson and Marcus Freeman. 
Indy 500. 
F~t\.LL 2006 
Michael Andretti told his son to conserve fuel in the final 10 laps, even when Franchitti got around Tony 

LLRO .1010.1 HEGINNING QliECHVA I Kanaan and began closing in. "I knew he was coming," 
MWF 9:35-10:25, ·r 9:30-10:45 G. MALDONAOO Andretti said. "It was the toughest thing I had to do ­go fast and try to save fuel." 
The principle aims ofthis beginn.in.g-level Quechu~ Langtmge course 11re to encourage the development ofcompetency aml proficiency in listening. speaking, reading. writing. and to generate
Vitor Meira finished third, 

culwral understanding through a communicative approach to second language acquistion. Songs,
10.65 seconds behind the 

role-playing and other related activities will also be incorporated. This course is taught in Spanish.
winner, followed by Dixon and Helio Castroneves. Castroneves' finish edged 

LLRO 27201 JNTEIHIEf>IATE QtJECHVA 
him into the IndyCar points lead by oqe over his 

T 9:30-10:45 G. MALDONADO Marlboro Team Penske team­mate, Sam Harnish. Harnish, 
The principle aim ofthis two-semester language course is to encourage the tkvelopment of who entered the race with a 
competency and protkiency in listening, speaking. reading, writing, and to generate cultural seven-point lead over 
understandiing through a commtmicMive approach to second language acqui>ition. This course is 
designed for highly motivated student~ and is taught in Spanish. Target Chip Ganassi team­mates Dan Wheldon and Dixon are 19 and 21 points, respectively; behind Castroneves. 
Castroneves, finished ninth. 
"It's really close. We came here to take as many points as we could," Castroneves said. "Now, let's go to 

ROMANCE LANGlJAGES & LITERATtJRES 


FALL 2006 SPANISH: 
ROSP 63110 FROM RECONQUEST TO RENAISSANCE: MEDIEVAL SPANrSH LIT. 12:30-3:15 M D. Scicknspinn<lr-N(u1<'Z 
The dclining ft::ature of rned:i:eval Spain is tht.:.' Reconquest~ th<: nuctunring l·epos:scs..:.iou of land:; conquered by l'vtusHrn 
invader~ in 7 J ! that tasud fi-nrn seven iO !HOT<: lhan se\'-cll hundred ye~~r~, This !.::onrse wlll snrvey lhe ma.stenvork.-. of Ihe Spanish Middle Ag<~s \Vithin the i(k~ological, sodal. cuHnml, and poiHka.l context oi'rc<:onquc~t Spain and will includl· th~ khu.rja~. Pot"ma de tniv ~:iJ.. ron·u;..nven), Lo~ 111Ha.gro~ d~.~ nuestru St"'tlura by Gonzuto de B<;n'co~ Cond'-" Lw:ant~f hy 
Don .!u8.n 1\.-l.anuel. Libro dt:. huen rutwr hy Juan Ruiz•.·'\.rdpre;o;tc de Talc.w~Jr.a by Ahi..mso Martinez de Toledo. car~et de mnor 
by Diego de San l~edr<~. Celestina hy F.-::rnand<l de Rojns. nnd miscellaneous s.-::kctions. Primary texis in Spanish will be supplemented \Vlfh Cl'itk.:al, :Scholarly. cultural. ~md theoretical readings in Sparnsh ~md English. rhc COOt:<C Will be !aught in lY.ng.li~h; coursc\vork wi.IJ compr.isiZ om.l pre~tmtati.on~. midterm. ~md final mmm,<:.. and a pap-cr. 
ROSP 63911 PSYCHOA.NALYSlS .AND THE BAROQUE 3:30-6:00 T R. Rlos-Avila 
rhis cuur~e prt)pt>s~s. an analng;.. bet\.'VC~n the aim of psyc.h()tU1alys.is --th..: unma~king. or dv·ilization'g "di~c(mtent"-­and the uud<.'rswn<Jing of th.-:: Baroque n~ n p<l(.'tics of de~;eug,afio. lt depart~ l:wrn Lt(.>.t~n's dis<.·us~i<m of Grw.::h~n's El Crhic6n in his Seminar XV II, The RevGsc <'f Psychoant'tlysb. where lh<: rwtion of a r:ldkal cr-il"kal gesture IS C(lm::cived ~l~ the birthmg 
of truth. Our .reading \'l.'itl 1..mdcrscore the anaty1kai ~tand ofthe Buroqu,.:: vJs..a,vi~ Hu;~ huruquc logic ofpsydJOanaly!Sis. To !.h<! "~xH.~nl. thnl th'-"Y am both rhtJk'lri<:!~ ofth~ si~;mifh."r~ we wHl abo l..~xplor<~ th~..~ir u.ntagonb.Hc rct~ukmshjp h> tnnJ.ern.ily lhtough their simult:.meou~ dcfen::;.'l" and. unde-rmining ()fthe ~uppo::;ed aut<Jn,Hny ()(r~a::;on. J"h~ Baroque-will be c.,~unined thr~)Ut!h t.~!vsc readings of .so.m~ ~:•f its da~.sical ~exts hy (i(1ng,,ra, Grad{ro ~111d Sor Jmma, ~1s \Vc-tl as !'){H1H:.· td" itt-; £rws:1 daring modernist 
or neo·baH•quc rc·\'\'rilings in lc::x.t::; by i .,;;:zama Lima~ Scv~m Snrduy, Rciw1ldo Arctws and NCstor Pcrlonghcr. 
ROSP 63970 SPANISH AMERICAN SHORT STORY 3:30-6:00 w 
Thi~ <.:ours~:: w·ill provid~ an overvit:~w nrthe prim:ipai ~u:Mh~tii.' and sncio-histnrkal t(."nd(.·w.:ies that hnve charactcriz(.~d short fiction (sh<~rt story and nouvelle) :m XXth Century Spunwh Am~rica. Authors dis<.:us:;.~d V<,'ifl lndude Jorg..: Luxs Borges~ Julio C<.lrtazm·~ Juan ('arll>~. ()nl!tti. Juan Ru!lb~ G~1bricl (iar<:i~l MArquez. M.ctrio Vargas Llosa and Jo~~ E1nilio PB<:h~(.,(), (:t>tlr'!-<~ gra.d(~ will b~ de;'t<~m"liJ."il.>:d by one 12~ 15 pnge;~ tt"rm p11l"K':r. \Vt3ekly "~rltique:;, and <".1<1~'!-< parlicipafion. 
For more information on any course, calll-6886. 


For more information on any course, call 1-6886. 

Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NASCAR 
Race for the Chase waters down Bristol's track 
Dale Earnhardt Jr. says drivers were 'more respectful' of short course under lights in this year's edition 
Associated Press The championship field will be drivers attack Bristol, proven after a race devoid of any seri­races to go before the Chase scrambled! in Saturday night's watered­ous bumping and banging. begins, Kahne needs a near 
BRISTOL, Tenn. -The Word of warning: Don't down version of the annual The same 10 drivers who miracle to make the playoffs. buildup to the night race at believe the hype. bumper-car race. What was started the race in champi­"It's just a rough day when Bristol Motor Speedway is NASCAR's new Chase for the supposed to be the wild-card onship contention left with all the guys in front of you in always huge. Anything can championship format has dra­event in the race to the Chase their title points fin­happen! Scores will be settled! matically changed the way was instead a ho-hum affair h o p e s ish ahead of
"We've got to finish in the
that did little to shake up the intact, and you in the 
standings. K a s; e y top two or three in the next race," he "With the Chase and every­K a h n e two races probably ifwe sighed. body being so close, there was emerged as "There are
want to get in there if 
a lot more respect out there on the only one so many 
the track -a lot more than with any nobody else has a bad race. good race you have seen in the past," shot at all of We just need to put it teams right third-place finisher Dale spoiling now. We've
together and have some real
Earnhardt Jr. said "When I someone's got to fig­caught guys, they moved over, party. good races and see what ure out how and I did the same for others. But in fin­everybody else does. " to be better You don't normally see that ishing 12th than them. here. You make people work and gaining "We've
Kasey Kahne
for every spot. almost no got to finish 
NASCAR driver
"It seemed like everyone was ground. on in the top being very respectful." the lOth two or 
Although Jimmie Johnson and final qualifying position, three in the next two races and race winner Matt Kenseth Kahne finally accepted just probably if we want to get in both clinched spots in the how difficult the challenge there if nobody else has a bad Chase field, little else changed ahead of him is. With two race. We just need to put it 


together and have some real 

. good races and see what everybody else does." 
you're going to be able to do about it." 
While Martin accepted his bad fortune, car owner Jack Roush was crestfallen over the ill-timed falter. This"is sup­posed to be Martin's last full­time season of Cup racing (but so was last year) and Roush would do anything to give his longtime driver a shot to final­ly win a championship. 
"My heart is heavy for Mark Martin," Roush said. "He's 1Oth in the points right now. .Certainly we're in jeopardy there." 
But so is Earnhardt, who pushed his team hard all weekend after they unloaded a noncompetitive car. Terrible in practice and qualifying, Earnhardt sulked and stomped until the DEI crew figured things out. 
In rallying to his third-place finish, Earnhardt moved off the bubble and up a spot into ninth place to give himself just a little bit of breathing room. 
"I think we have a really good shot at it now," he said. "Before, it was 50-50 up for grabs between me and Kasey Kahne. But I feel like we are in a better position." 


Join us for the kickoff 
tl 
Monday, August 28th 
FDDD and FREEBIES at Fieldhouse Mall (b_y Stonehenge) 6:00pm 
Followed by Four:7 at 8:00pm in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
www.. nd.. edu/-four7 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 



page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2006 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
DROP IN...

Irish sweep BGSU 
AT THE DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE "MEET &GREET"
•

In season opener· 
-COME AND MEET THE FTT THEATRE FACULTY -MEET THEATRE MAJORS AND OTHER STUDENTS more comfortable than games 
fNTERESTED IN THEATRE
Freshman Christina 

two and three," Brown said. "I 
-GET INFORMATION ON PRODUCTIONS AND AUDITIONS
Kaelin leads team to felt that we had pretty good control in game one. In games FOR UPCOMING PLAYS 
easy vicory at JACC two and three we kind of sput­tered and struggled through, MONDAV, AUGUST 28, 6:00 PM but found a way to get it doneBy KYLE CASSILY PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE
in the end." 
Sports Writer 

Tarutis produced a team-high DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 27 assists, while freshman set­
No. 21 Notre Dame accom­ter Jamel Nicholas tallied 15 in plished the familiar with unfa­front of a lively crowd of 1,534 AUDITIONS...miliar faces Saturday at the in the South Dome. Joyce Center with a 3-0 win "If we had had poor practices FOR BIG LOVE, AMODERN (RE)MAKING OF THE over Bowling Green in the ... I would have been nervous, 
SUPPLIANT WOMEN BY AESCHYLUS, WRITTEN BY CHARLES L.
team's season opener. and they probably would have The match was the 16th con­known that," Brown said. "But MEE AND DIRECTED BY SI!Rl SCOTT, TO FOLLOW THE "MEET secutive season-opening victory we've been practicing really 
AND GREET"

for the Irish, who entered the well." season with sev-en new The Irish will be in action 
recruits. The Falcons were dis­again at home next weekend as ALSO, AUDITIONS ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 29,7:00 P.M. patched in three straight games they host the Shamrock 
-SIGN UP FOR AUDITIONS IN THE FTT OFFICE, 230 DEBAR
by scores of 30-24, 30-28 and Invitational in the Joyce Center. 30-26. The team will square off PERFORMING ARTS CENTER In her first collegiate match, against unranked Valparaiso freshman Christina Kaelin led and Idaho before taking on No. 
CALLBACKS ON WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 30 
the Irish with 22· kills while 6 Santa Clara and No. 13 senior libero -and captain -Missouri in the three-day tour­Danielle Herndon turned out 12 nament. 
PLEASE JOIN US!
digs to anchor the _defense. "I was pretty nervous before Contact Kyle Cassity at the game started, but then once kcassily@nd.edu 

the first ball was served, the jit­ters were gone," Kaelin said. 
The Falcons threatened in the second game after the first went almost entirely in Notre Dame's favor. With the score 25-23 in Bowling Green's favor, the Irish sparked a 7-3 run after a Kaelin kill to take the 2­0 lead in the match. 
The late rally was capped by an enormous kill on the outside by sophomore Mallorie Croal. Croal received the set on the left side and blasted a strike past a diving Falcon defender against the left sideline for the game-point. 
"In both the second and third games we had a couple rota­tions where our passing broke down a little bit," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "We just managed to maintain com­posure and not get frazzled with anything, then slowly chip away and come back." 
Notre Dame also pushed its way back from a small deficit midway through the third game behind a series of Kaelin kills, a number of blocks from fresh­man Tara Enzweiler and a service ace from junior Ashley Tarutis. 
Kaelin was able to secure the match-point with the score 29­26 on an outside blast that deflected off a Falcon hitter and out of bounds in the direc­tion of the media tables. 
"We're not used to playing with each other right now ­for sure not as smooth as it needs to be," Brown said. "But I think it was a good start for us, and it certainly helps us to know what we need to work on this week before we play a level of competition that's a lit­tle bit higher." 
The Irish dominated the first game -at one point leading the Falcons by a score of 26-14 -before taking it 30-24. Enzweiler put an end to the short-lived Falcon comeback with a solid kill through the middle of the Bowling Green defense. 
Freshman Megan Fesl pro­duced five kills in the opening frame, while Kaelin secured six of her own. 

Welcome back to school!!! Come -visit The Lace Cotta e next to 
4~ ~n~ ~ for the area's best selection of 

Bring your ND/SMC/HCC student ID and receive off all Vera Bradley. 
0% 
121 S. Niles@ Jefferson & the Bridge, downtown, South ·send (574) 232-8488 

Next to the EnT oriutn Rest.-en · ov outdoor din in overlookin the river! 
... 
"I think the first game I felt 

Monday, August 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Creighton 
continued from page 24 
yards out. Only a sprawling save by Blazer goalkeeper Jeremy Drake prevented Yoshinaga from giving Notre Dame the lead. It was one of eight saves on the night for Drake. 
Senior forward Justin McGeeney almost secured the victory for the Irish with seconds to go in the first overtime when he settled a cross from forward Joseph Lapira and drove a hard shot towards the corner of the goal. The ball flew past the goal­keeper but a Blazer defender was there to clear the ball off the goal line. 
Notre Dame had numerous other chances but just couldn't fmd the back of the net. 
"It was a combination of things," Clark said. "The shots have to be better, but there we!"e also good saves and clearances. We didn't have Lady Luck on our side tonight." 
One bright spot for the Irish was the play of speedy freshman Justin Morrow. Morrow, who led Notre Dame with five shots on the night, came off the bench in the first half, second half and overtime to provide a dangerous option both crossing the ball and attacking the defense. 
"He's a tremendous athlete as we obviously saw tonight," Clark said. "He did very well tonight. He caused a lot of danger." 
Along with Morrow, Michael Thomas saw significant minutes Friday night, indicating that both freshmen will be among Notre Dame's options off the bench this season. 
Friday night's loss dropped the team's record for the season to 0-1-0. The loss was the first for the Irish in the five-year history of the Mike Berticelli tourna­ment. Before the defeat, Notre Dame held was 5-0-3 in the tournament, with titles in both 2003 and 2005. 
Despite Friday night's loss, Clark remained very upbeat about his team's prospects for this season. 
"I know [UAB] won, and they'll be feeling happy and we'll be feeling sad, but I know which 
The Journey 
.~.. an invitation to follow Jesus 
BACK TO SCHOOL PAR'TY 

When: Wednesday, August 30th, from 7-9 PM 
Where: Coffee House, Center for Social Concerns (CSC) 
What: Food, Fun, Nevv Friends, Opportunities to 
learn about being involved 
The Alpha course (Mondays. 7:30-8:45 in the esc Classroom) What is it? Alpha is an opportunity for anyone to explore the Christian faith in a relaxed, non-threatening setting over ten thought-provoking weekly sessions, with a day or weekend away. Desert and coffee provided. 
The Journey (Wednesdays. 7:30-8:45 in theCSC Upper Room) The Journey is our large group meeting and is a catalyst for 
following Jesus Christ daily. 

Small Groups-The Journey Together 
Freshman groups are being formed 
The Journey is sponsored by BCM. Visit us online at www.nd.edu/~bcm or send us an e-mail at bcm@nd.edu 

team I'd rather be coaching," Clark said. "This team has so much potential, and I'm so excit­ed. This could be a fun season for us." 
Notre Dame 4, Creighton 1 

After Friday night's 1-0 dou­ble-overtime loss to UAB, Notre Dame took their frustration out on No. 8 Creighton, winning by the score of 4-1 Sunday in the final game of the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. 
McGeeney, who was Notre Dame's leading scorer in 2005, led the way for the Irish with his first two goals of the season. Sophomore forward Bright Dike tallied his first official goal of the season, and Lapira also into action." 
The second half was more of the same as McGeeney almost secured a hat trick when his header went off. the crossbar in the 60th minute. The Irish were able to breathe easier in the 77th minute when Dike gave Notre Dame a two-goal advan­tage. 
The play started when a wide­open Nate Norman received a long pass from midfielder Michael Thomas. Norman beat two defenders, drew the goal­keeper out and centered the ball to Dike, who tapped it into the open net. 
Three minutes later, Lapira put the fmishing touches on the 
g a m e . 
Running onto 

notched  his  "We didn't have Lady Luck  another long  
first goal the year  of to  on our side tonight. "  pass from Thomas,  
round out the  Lapira  pro­ 
scoring.  Bobby Clark  ceeded to cut  
"We have a  Irish coach  inside  his  

number of players who are huge threats," McGeeney said. "We have great forwards and midfielders. I don't think we've ever had this many threats at one time." 
The game started on a sour note for Notre Dame as Creighton opened the scoring in the second minute off a corner kick. Blue Jay defender Pietari Holopainen h1t an in-swinging cross that found its way through a crowd of players and into the back of the Irish net. 
Notre Dame responded deci­sively as McGeeney would score the first of his two goals only 12 minutes later. After receiving a pass from midfielder Greg Dalby, outside midfielder Nate Norman used multiple step-over moves to beat his defender and loft a ball into the box where McGeeney was able to flick the ball into the corner of the net. 
Only four minutes later, McGeeney would give Notre Dame the lead. Off a long clear­ance by goalkeeper Andrew Quinn, Bright Dike flicked the ball into a sprinting McGeeney's path. Using a spin move at the top of the box, McGeeney eluded his defender and unleashed a powerful shot into the top'corner of the goal. 
"Getting those two goals really settled the team, and it helped us feel like we were in the driver's seat," Clark said. "The one good thing about [Creighton's] early goal was that it jolted our team 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS \tVANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 
defender and 
drive a low shot past the keeper into the near corner of the net. 
"(This weekend) was two games of total domination," Clark said. "I felt we played much better this weekend than we did in our two preseason games, and if we keep perform­ing well, it's only a matter of time before we start winning." 
While the offense looked impressive Sunday afternoon, sophomore goalkeeper Andrew Quinn, making his first career start for Notre Dame, also drew the praise of his head coach. 
"He made some good saves," Clark said. "He has terrific feet and great range. He settled in well after the goal, and it was good for him to make a couple of saves today." 
Sunday's win evened Notre Dame's record at 1-1-0, but they will still finish in second place for the Berticelli Tournament behind in-state rival Indiana ­who won both their games this weekend. The Irish will have their chance for revenge, howev­er, next weekend when they play the Hoosiers in the Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. 
Notes: 
+ Yoshinaga was taken off the field in the first half against Creighton with an injury to his upper chest. Junior midfielder Kurt Martin was also helped off the field in the second half with a back injury, but he is not expect­ed to miss significant time. 
+With a 2-1 victory over UAB Sunday afternoon, Indiana secured first place in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. with a perfect 2-0 record. The Hoosiers also defeated Creighton 1-0 on Friday night. Notre Dame and UAB both will fmish at 1-l . but the Irish will take second place because of a better goal differential than the Blazers. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
'lomfPocific <:oost Prcncmt" 
SOMMER BfiLLPfiRK TOOR 
BOB 
DYLAtt 
with JIMMIE VfiUGHfltt ond }UttiQ~ B~OWtt 
TUESDfiY SEPTEMBER 5 MEMO~Ifll STfiDIUM FORT WfiYttE. lttDiflttfl 
ttomv of thct Fort Woynv Wl:rqrds (only 90 mlnutcts from tiD) 
TICKETS Ott SfiLE ttOW fiT fiLL TICKETMfiSTE~ 'LO<:fiTIOttS flttD Ill.. www.tlcketmoster.com ~ 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, August 28, 2006 

LAURIE HUNTffhe Observer 
Irish forward Amanda Cinalli battles for the ball during Notre Dame's 9-0 win over Iowa State Saturday on Alumni Field. Cinalli played just 43 minutes against the Cyclones but played nearly the full game Sunday, scoring a game-tying goal in the team's win at Ole Miss. 
in her career that she had found the back of the net.
Wins 

Notre Dame 2, Mississippi 1 
continued from page 24 

Notre Dame was sluggish in Lorenzen. Lorenzen manned her its second game in two days ­usual defense position for the a contest played in 97-degree entire first half. heat in Oxford, Miss. -but 
"Kim didn't play but maybe played well enough to overcome two or three practices all presea­an early deficit and win 2-1. son, so we had to go easy on her "Coming off of the game a little," Waldrum said. "But it [Saturday] and having to travel was nice to get a half out of her." and play, [it] wasn't the easiest 
Waldrum started freshman game we've ever played in," Kelsey Lysander in goal against Waldrum said. "Mentally we the Cyclones. weren't really Lysander and jun­"The thing that sharp." ior Lauren Karas Playing in front
helped us the most 

have been compet­of a near capacity 
was that we got offto

ing all fall for the crowd at Ole Miss starting keeper such a fast start. " Soccer Stadium, position after the the Rebels scored graduation of four­just two minutes
Randy Waldrum 

year starter Erika into the game on Bohn and an a breakaway by
Irish coach 
injury to senior Nikki Westfall. Lysander saw only four shots over the course of the contest, just two of which were on target. 
Waldrum said he was encour­aged by Lysander's performance, but added he couldn't judge enough from the limited action. 
"We just haven't seen [Lysander or Karas] tested much," he said after the win over Iowa State. "I guess that's a good thing because it means we aren't giving up many chances. But at the same time it makes the evaluation of them harder." 
Another freshman, forward Michele Weissenhofer, scored two goals in her first collegiate start. After the game, she said she wasn't expecting to play so well her first time. 
"I was surprised," said Weissenhofer, who also had two assists in the game, said. "I wanted to do well, and it's very exciting." 
Waldrum, o the other hand, was not surprised by Weissenhoffer's success. 
"We recruited her for that reason," he said. "We've seen Michele enough times in her club and her high school sea­sons that we knew she could score goals." 
Five other players -senior Jill Krivacek, senior Lizzie Reed, junior Susan Pinnick, senior Claire Galler-ano and senior Molly Ioracci -scored goals for the Irish. For Gallerano, it was the first time 

freshman forward Hannah Weatherly. 
"They caught us with that early goal," Waldrum said. "We made a mistake in the back and got caught out of position." 
The Irish evened up the score in the 39th minute, when a cor­ner kick bounced around the Ole Miss box and was eventually volleyed in by Irish junior for­ward Amanda Cinalli. 
Notre Dame took the lead for good in the 52nd minute when Weissenhofer, using a flip-throw in technique, tossed the ball into the Rebel penalty area, where Krivacek headed to Hanks for the goal. 
After seeing limited action against Iowa State, both Hanks 
• •• SAVE·A·LOT • •• 
• Great Food at Great Ptices! •
•
•
•

• Coke Products
•

• All Varieties 
•

• 24 pk. -12 oz. cans 
•

• Dasani Water
•

• 24 pk. -1/2 Liter Bottles 
•
•e 

310 S. Chapin St. 
and Lorenzen played most of the game in Oxford. 
Karas started at keeper for the Irish, allowing the one goal and making two saves. Waldrum said 
Karas  - like the rest of the  
team  - looked  mentally  
fatigued.  

"[Karas] handled most of the things well, but she made some mental mistakes, just like the rest of the players," Waldrum said. "She would make agreat save and then throw the ball to the other team." 
Waldrum said he is not ready to name a sure starter for next weekend's home games against Southern California and Santa Clara. 
''I'm going to go this week and see if one of them starts to sepa­rate a little bit," he said. 
Waldrum said he was impressed with the atmosphere in Ole Miss Soccer Stadium and that he wished Alumni Field could be as imposing for visitors. 
''They had a great crowd with a great student section," he said. "They had the roster of our team and were giving us a hard time. It was a pretty hostile environ­ment. 
"I know this is a football school and that takes a lot out of our students, but I don't see why we can't have that kind of envi­ronment at our stadium." 
The USC game kicks off at 
7:30 p.m. Friday and the Santa Clara game starts at 1 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
• 
3601 E. Edison Rd. South Bend South Bend 
•

Expires 9/4/06 e 
•
•

$3·99 • • 
•
•
•

$3·99 • • •
• • 
Weis 

continued from page 24 
• The Irish will "tone it down" physically this week so "we're as fresh as we possibly can be," Weis said. Fresh legs will come in handy when the Irish defense lines up against Georgia Tech All­America receiver Calvin Johnson. 
Irish backup wide outs Richard Jackson and Darrin Bragg played the role of 
assigned

"Everyone's telling me
Johnson in another line­
practice last how bad the defense is -man. who week against I guess we'lljust have to started as a 
the first-team true freshman
wait till next Saturday 
defense. Weis to be Young's said both were mentor
night to find out. " used to simu­senior left late Johnson -tackle Ryan
Charlie Weis 

who averaged Harris.
Irish coach 

16.4 yards per reception in 2005 -to challenge the sec­ondary as much as possible. 
Notre Dame spent the final third of Friday's scrimmage on finding repetitions for younger players. Weis said that the first and second spots on the depth chart are mostly solidified, but "there are still some issues" between the second and third spots. 
Up to 70 players will board the flight to Atlanta for Saturday's 8 p.m. (EST) kick off. Sixty of those spots are filled, and Weis said there is a handful of Irish competing for the final 10 spots to make the trip. 
Notes: 

+ The returning defensive players are ahead of where they were last season -physi­cally and mentally. 
Starting free safety Chinedum Ndukwe is "in the best shape he's been in since I've been here," Weis said. 
The returning defenders also understand the game more than last season, Weis said ­something he hopes will pay off against Georgia Tech. 
"Everyone's telling me how bad the defense is -I guess we'll just have to wait till next Saturday night to find out," Weis said sharply. "We'll see if we have any speed or not." 
+ Irish right tackle Sam Young will start against Georgia Tech -impressive considering he's a true freshman. To help Young adjust to Dh-ision-1 foot­
ball, Weis 
"Ryan's 
been valuable in helping Sam mature through this process," Weis said. 
While Harris, whose first career start came at Pittsburgh in 2003, sat out much of fall camp with an injury, the Irish coaching staff kept him busy by having him help "coach" Young each day. 
"That's how we kept [Harris] mentally involved in the game, because the tendency is to let your mind wander when you're not in there," Weis said. "Now that we've assigned him that coaching responsibility, that's kept him sharper at the same time." 
+ Notre Dame will dress in coats and ties on the jet to Atlanta this week. If the Irish lose, Weis said they will wear the same outfit on the trip home. If they win,-they will wear sweats. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgiUoon@nd.edu 

CHARISMATIC RENEWAL 
Prayer Meetings every Tuesday at 7:30 P.:NL ~fass at 8:30 Alumni Hall Chapel 


-----------------------------------------------------------------~
. 
... 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
THE OBSERVER 

Monday, August 28, 2006 
JOCULAR 
-CROISSANTWORLD 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 The woman of 60 Word said 1 Swine Lennon's before opening "Woman" the eyes
5 "Money_ everything" 38 Dik Browne's 61 Cain's victim 9 Northern "Hi and " 62 & 63 First two Scandinavians names of Guy 
39 Strikingly bright 
de Maupassant 14 Toward shelter, 

40 Habeas corpus, 
nautically 64 Inlet 
e.g.

15 Burn ttie 65 Advances of 
41 Make a boo-boo
surface of money 

16 Devoured 42 2005 Christo 66 Conclusions quickly display in New 
67 Looks at
York City, with

17 Soft light "the"18 Give new decor DOWN43 Social class 19 Desmond of 
1 Dik Browne's "Sunset Blvd." 44 Got quiet, with 

the 20 Lungful "down" Horrible" 21 1976 Hoffman/ 46 Take back, as 2 Stan's partnerOlivier film one's story in old comedy 23 Music from 
48 Draft status 3 Title song of a Jamaica 
1966 hit movie 50 Hold back 25 Dover fish 

4 Darn, as socks 26 Coward's color 
53 Character who 
5 Tel Aviv's land
debuted in All

29 Portugal's Star Comics, 6 Prophet capital December 1941 7 Nothin' 
33 It may be acute or obtuse 
58 August 1 sign 8 Brings (out) 9 Lipstick 35 Master hand 59 April 1 sign. 

ingredient 1oMakes up (for)

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Salon job, informally 12 Cougar 13 Bridge ~:::+::;+.:;-t-;:-i 21 Stag party attender 22 _ up (hid out) 24 Hair goops -=-+-=+-:::+~~::+.::-i-1 27 Fail to mention 28 Be unsteady 30 Brendan Behan book 
8~~~+=1-=+=+::=+:::+=-B*=+=--1 31 Step_ (hurry) 32 Observe 
r.rl~vr.~~~--~~~+or.rlr.rl L.:...L..-L......JL...:...JL...-Jc.::...~...;;..o-.~--r..--r..--r..-~..-~.._. 33 Actor Guinness 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame !lnd Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HOW '!)() WE. 6E.i '11-1 E: s-ru t>EMIS -ro 
C.!\~ A'e-CUT "THE. AV:S.S P\'f NOT~ 'DP..t-\& 

The Observer+ TODAY 
1-\8( -I'vE GO"T tl. \NH'i 'DOt•ir \NE. VJA~I€:. ::-::OMt. MONE.'\ 'To SI-\6\N t>.... 
Mlt--11:>-NUI"\~\N(:) L-'1 
Eoi2..1NI.:l 1'2 ··to\ tN\,.l\ E.. 'JI'DEo ON 'Sol-'IC. \/t0\...11-l GU'\ I"< £:,E.i\N€..£N 
j\c(S AI 

Puzzle by Randy Sowell 

34 Nick Charles's 45 One of the M's 53 Actor Ken of wife in MaMA TV's "Wiseguy" 
36 Workshop 47 Construction 54 Creme cookie gripper site machines 
55 Ship of 39 Darth of 49 Cognizant 
Columbus"Star Wars" 
51 Christopher of 
56 What a prophet40 Kind of ad 
"Superman" 
reads 
42 Book before 52 Bob and 57 Darn, as socksExodus 

Elizabeth of 43 Normandy city politics 61 High card 
For answers, call 1·900-285·5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814·5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
ALEC WHITE 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
AL.RI(:J\-\1, 
WILLSHORTZ 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
We'll need another 10,000 recruitsto form four ordinary words. 
DESOU 
rJ 
1 


©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
COlTS 
J 

rJ r I ItGININN j
I J r I I 
www.jumble.com 
VIRFED 

± 
Answer here: [ 

I I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: QUOTA ELEGY OPENLY ADJUST Saturday's Answer: 
Often needed for a column ­A PEDESTAL 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LeAnn Rimes, 23; Jason Priestley, 36; Billy Boyd, 37; Emma Samms, 45 
Happy Birthday: A host of opportunities will come your way this year, and you must be prepared to take advantage. A chance to prove yourself or do something that you will be remembered for is in the stars. Think about what you can do for others -· your gesture will bring you rewards. Your numbers are 8, 17, 18, 28, 32.45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Do whatever is necessary to settle financial and emotional differences. You will be surprised how much you can resolve if you are open and honest. Today is about compromise.**** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Do your best to get things done around home. The more you do to improve your own attitude, the better you will feel. Prepare to say no to someone who is continually asking for favors. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Today will be your kind of day .... full of activity and socializing. Prepare to make quick decisions so you can pack as much into your busy schedule as possible. *** CANCER (June 21..July 22): Work behind the scenes, avoiding the people who tend to upset you. Just when you think you know how things are going, something will change. Don't count on anything or anyone. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Y oil can make a difference just by lending a helping hand or by listening to others' concerns. Your insight and knowledge will help you find solutions and, in turn, feel good about yourself. *** * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let things get you down. Reflect on the past, but don't be critical of your choices. Look at today as a new beginning and prepare to start again. * * LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your interest in other people and different cultures will open your mind to new and exciting ideas. Take part in community events. Love is looking good, so leave some time for romance. Contact someone from your past.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A home improvement project may benefit you in starting a business. Property deals are looking good, but don't spend more than you can rightfully afford. * * * SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your ideas and your take-charge personality will bring about some favorable results today --ones that could tum out to be quite prosperous. Everything is possible if you have a positive attitude and a good work ethic. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22..Jan. 19): Put the past behind you. Your greatest revenge will be your own success. Your ability to talk circles around your peers will also bring you satisfaction and greater self-esteem. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Think about your future and what you can do to make it positive and bright. You have everything going for you today, so set your goals and you will be successful. ** * * * PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take things one step at a time. Ifyou let someone upset you, it will be difficult to make the right choices. Overindulgence is not the answer. Today should be about curbing your habits, not giving in to them. 
Birthday Baby: You are a peacemaker and a doer. You know your limitations and you continue to push to surpass your wildest dreams .. You are perceptive and can manipulate a situation in order to make things right. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialastcomfor confidential consultations 

IN TH!: MILITARY, ADDITIONS CAN CR!:AT!:­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, August 28, 2006 
page 24 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 


By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame had a few holes in its lineup this weekend, but that didn't matter. 
Playing without sophomores Brittany Bock and Carrie Dew ­both competing in the under-20 World Championships -and with several other players limit­ed by injuries, the No. 5 Irish (2­
0) won their first two games of the season, 9-0 over Iowa State at Alumni Field Saturday and 2-1 over Ole Miss Sunday in Oxford, Miss. 

. Notre Dame 9, Iowa State 0 
The Irish got off to a fast start Saturday, immediately moving the ball into the Cyclones' end and peppering goalkeeper Ann Gleason with shots until second­semester sophomore forward Kerri Hanks scored the first of her two goals just 1:19 into the game. 
The goal was the fastest the Irish have ever scored to open a season. 
"The thing that helped us the most was that we got oft' to such a fast start," Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum said. "They had to come here and play a ranked team, and we got to them early. And [the Cyclones] were a little shellshocked." 
Hanks, who missed several practices earlier in the week with 
MEN'S SOCCER 

After heartbreaker, Irish rebound 
UAB wins do-uble­overtime thriller but ND bombs Bluejays 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
It was a down-and-up week­end for Notre Dame. 
The Irish dominated UAB in every phase of the game except the scoreboard Friday night, as Jerson Monteiro's goal in the 105th minute allowed the Blazers to escape with a 1-0 vic­tory in the season opener for both teams. 
Despite out-shooting UAB 23­5 and holding a 14-4 edge in corner kicks, the Irish could not capitalize on their many chances in Notre Dame's open­ing game of the Mike Berticelli Memorial tournament. The Blazers, who seemed content during most of the over­time periods to sit back and play for a tie, would capitalize on what was their only shot on goal 


Clark
for the night. 

UAB's Dejan Jakovic drew a foul near the end line just out­side the 18-yard box, giving the Blazers a free kick. The Blazers' Two-Boys Gumede then sent a curling ball into the box and found a rising Montiero at the back post for the only goal of the game. 
"[This game] will be a charac­ter test for us," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Our play was positive, but when it's said and done, the result is what's impor­tant." 
Throughout the night, there were many times when Notre Dame seemed poised to take the lead, especially in the second half. After earning ten corner kicks in the first half, the Irish out-shot UAB 15-2 in the sec­ond half. 
Perhaps the best chance came in the 73rd minute when an Ian Etherington cross found an unmarked Alex Yoshinaga for a point-blank header from six 
see CREIGHTON/page 21 
a pulled muscle in her leg, played only 30 minutes against Iowa State but made the most of her time, showering Gleason with five shots, two of which found the back of the net. 
"I just went out and played the best I could," Hanks said. "I told Coach earlier that I wanted to score two goals and then he could take me out." 
Waldrum said he wanted to see Hanks in game action, but had made up his mind to take her out early no matter what the situa­tion. 
"Kerri and I did joke about two goals -and she ended up get­ting those-but I wouldn't have left her in much longer than that even if she hadn't been scoring," Waldrum said. 
Another player who had missed preseason practice time but played against the Cyclones was senior captain Kim 
see WINS/page 22 
fOOTBALL 

Injury-free scrinunage ends pre-season camp 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

The best news was no news for Charlie Weis this weekend. 
Notre Dame's intrasquad scrimmage in the stadium Friday night ended with no injuries -a welcome report for Weis and his staff as the season's first game week kicks off today. 
''I'm a creature of habit," Weis said Saturday. ''I'm looking for­ward to getting into my normal schedule, because until this point, nothing [has been] nor­mal." 
After three weeks of fall camp, Weis stressed a typical routine in the scrimmage. 
The team went through regu­lar pre-game preparations Friday, even saying an opening prayer. 
"We did everything," Weis said. "At the end we got in the locker room and [Irish offensive guard Bob] Morton led us in the fight song." 
Notre Dame spent two-thirds of Friday's scrimmage on Georgia Tech and now turns its full attention to the Yellow Jackets, with just five days before the season's first game. 
see WEIS/page 22 
LPGA
ND VOLLEYBALL 
NASCAR 

MlB-NL 
MLB-Al
PGA 
w 
u Notre Dame 3 

Wendy's 
Bridgestone 

Giants 8 
Yankees 11

Sharpie 500 
z Bowling Green 0 

Championship 
Invitational 

Reds 0 
Angels 8 

The Race for the
::5 
Freshman Christina 

Lorena Ochoa topped 
Derek Jeter and Bernie 

Chase has watered 
San Francisco pounded
Tiger Woods beat
c:s 
Kaelin led the Irish with 

down a formerly wild 
Williams each homered

Jee Young Lee in a 
Stewart Cink on the 

Cincinnati as rookie
cz: 
22 kills in the season-

back-nine duel for the 
twice as New York

competition. 
Matt Cain won his 10th
fourth playoff hole for 
opening win. 

coveted title. 
avoided a sweep. 
his fourth straight win. 

game of the season 
en 
= page 20 
page 19 

page 17 
page 14
page 16 
page 15 


2006 -2007 LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICE GUIDE ASPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 
Service: Another Great Notre 
Dame Tradition 

Fr. Bill Lies, CSC Executive Director, Center for Social Concerns 
The Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the boundaries of your classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend and be~ yond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study and work there. Indeed, consider the ways that you might begin to be a part of the world's transformation. 
Through the years, thousands of students have taken part in the numerous opportunities offered through the Cen~ ter for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an important difference. 
Often this service involve~ ment, and the learning that comes through it, transform you. In turn, this transformation allows each of you to 


Fr. Bill Lies, esc 

be impressive agents of 
transformation in others' 
lives. This is seen during 
and long after your time 
at Notre Dame, Saint 
Mary's, or Holy Cross 
College. 

Jesus called love the 
greatest of all command~ 
ments-to love the Lord 
God with all our hearts 
and to love our neighbor 
as ourselves (Mark 12: 
28-31). It is not easy but 
it remains no less our 
challenge and call. It is 
the foundation on which 
we will build the justice 
we seek and the peace we 
long for. 

Be a part of the trans~ formation to which we are called. Give yourself away. One or more of the opportunities on these pages could quite possibly change you forever. 


South Bend T ranspo, in conjunction with Notre Dame and the Center for Social Concerns, provides students with free trans­portation to South Bend and Mishawaka community service locations (includ­ing most private homes). If your destination is on the bus route, you are unable to rent a vehicle through the CSC. Exceptions to the rule: students who run errands for an organization, students who transport individuals for an organization to an activity, and students who 
A-ZGUIDE 
COMMUNITY 
PARTNERS 

will be traveling outside of South Bend and Mishawa­ka. If you think that you (or your group) qualify for an exception to this rule, please e-mail the vehicle coordina­tor at cscvans@nd.edu to discuss your options. Please also see the Policies and Pro­cedures at http:/ Isocialcon­cerns.nd.edu/ campus_local/ vehicle.shtml. 
For more information regarding bus routes, contact South Bend Transpo at 233­2131 or visit their website at www.sbtranspo.com. Bus 
A-ZGUIDE {CONT'D) 
CENTER 
OVERVIEW 

route maps to community service sites, as well as direc­tion on how to get around using the bus system, are available at the esc and on the CSC's website: http:/I socialconcerns.nd.edu. 
Students who have vehicles on campus can transport others to community service sites as long as those sites are within St. Joseph County. If you have your own vehicle on campus, you may not rent a vehicle through the Center for Social Concerns. 
A-ZSTUDIM ORGANIZATKWS 
COMMmrTY­
=1«>. J 
·C:-·i.
···:c;

.;.,: __ . . ··-­
-~ -~... 

Local Service Directory 
ADDICTIONS 
Life Treatment Centers 
ADULT LITERACY 
Center for Basic Learning Skills Literacy Council of St. joseph County South Bend Community Schools Adult 
Education 
ADULT-OLDER 
Cardinal Nursing and Rehab Center Milton Home OASIS Portage Manor REAL Services 
CHILDREN &YOUTH 
Ark Angels, Inc. Big Brothers & Big Sisters of ND/SMC Boys and Girls Club Campus Girl Scouts-ND/SMC CASIE Center Charles Martin Youth Center Children's Defense Fund Circle K Notre Dame Circle of Mercy Demers Mentoring Kids El Campito Day Care Center Family and Children's Center Home Management Resources Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids LEAD-ND Slice of Life ND 
ND/SMC LUNCH P.A.C.K. 

Madison Center Ms.Wizard Day Program Team Robinson Community Learning Center South Bend juvenile Conrectional Facility Teamwork for Tomorrow West Side Neighborhood 
Partnership Center Youth Services Bureau 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE 
Amnesty International Indiana Legal Services Michiana Dismas House 
United Religious Community 
CULTURAL ISSUES 
Africa Faith justice Network Broadway Christian Parish Community Alliance to Serve 
Hispanics (CASH) 
La Casa de Amistad South Bend Heritage Foundation Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame 
DISABILITY SERVICES 
Best Buddies Chiara Home Corvilla, Inc. Logan Center Logan Recreation Oub Reins of Life 

(Disability Services cont'd) 
Special Friends Club Super Sibs 
ENVIRONMENT 
ND for Animals Students for Environmental Action (SEA) 
HOUSING/HOMELESSNESS 
Center for the Homeless ND/SMC Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity Hope Rescue Mission St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Army South Bend Heritage Foundation 
YWCA of St. joseph County 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
Food Bank of Northern Indiana Foodshare World Hunger Coalition 
MEDICAL 
AIDS Awareness AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Chapin Street Clinic 
(St. joseph Health Center) ND First Aid ServicesTeam Healthwin Specialized Care Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Harbor Light Hospice Hospice of St. joseph County St. joseph Regional Medical Center Southern Care Hospice 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS 
Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities College Football Hall of Fame Experiential Learning Council Northern Indiana Center for History Operation Smile Network Potawatomi Zoo Trident Naval Society Twenty-First Century Scholars 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES 
Amnesty International Peace Fellowship Progressive Student Alliance 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
FeministVoice 5-Q..S (Sex Offence Servces) of 
Madison Center Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center YWCA of St. Joseph County 




THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICE GUIDE I AUGUST 2006 
elementary school truancy prevention College Football Hall of Fame Combine at 232-5501 or e-mail at programs. Volunteers assist staff with Volunteer work is available at a staff­judy@hlhin.com. routine duties and special projects that integrated model at a world-class benefit the children and their families. museum. Many positions are available. Healthwin Specialized Care
A-Z Guide 
Community 
2006
Partners 
2007 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 
Volunteers provide one-on-one com­panionship, support, advocacy, and assistance with navigating systems of care for individuals and families living with HIV; general office support, establish and maintain databases, assist with mailings, newsletter production; assist in educating the community. Contact Debra Stanley at 288-2887 or e-mail at imaniunidad@ aol.com. 
American Red Cross 
Community Volunteer Services plans, programs, recruits, trains, and places volunteers to meet community needs through community education and emergency services. Contact John Pinter at 234-0191, ext. 21, or e-mail at pinter@ stjoe-redcross.org. 
Ark Angels, Inc. 
Volunteers tutor youth in manageable, age-appropriate groups and also are encouraged to bring their own passion or interest area into the enrichment struc­ture. Volunteers can help with special teen leadership groups on the weekends and with advanced learning opportuni­ties. Contact Ron King at 233-5940 or e-mail at kingronnie@sbcglobal.net. 
Big Brothers Big Sisters 
In the one-to-one program, a volunteer is matched with a child and the two build their friendship through doing activities together in the community. Our School Mentor Program requires one hour once a week after school. Our Community Mentor Program is the same as our School Mentor Program but is offsite. Contact Deborah Burrow at 232-9958 or e-mail at burrow4@juno.com. 
Boys & Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County 
The volunteers work directly with the members of the club assisting in the daily activities that take place. Contact Kregg van Meter at 232-2048 or see www.bgcjc. org. 
Broadway Christian Parish 
We invite volunteers to help with the fol­lowing: Sunday community meals, light maintenance and repairs, clothes closet, hospitality room, laundry service supervi­sion, office work, tutoring programs for Liberian refugees, the Jubilee Christmas (various activities), the Summer Arts Program for Children, and weeding and planting flowers in the peace garden. Contact Nancy Nichols at 289-0333 or e-mail at broadwayum@sbcglobal.net. 
Cardinal Nursing and Rehabilitation Center 
Volunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to-one basis and organize evenings of Bingo. Contact Beverly Shamberg at 287-6501. 
CASIE Center 
CASIE Center provides a multidisci­plinary approach to the investigation of child abuse by coordinating efforts of the Department of Child Services (DCS), law enforcement, and the Prosecutor's Office. The CASIE Center also houses 
Family Support Services and 

Organized drives are also needed for snacks, toys, toiletry items, blank video tapes, and miscellaneous items. Contact Caron Marnocha at 282-1414 or e-mail at casie@michiana.com. 
Catholic Charities 

Catholic Charities offers a variety of pro­grams to assist those in need. They need volunteers to help with the food pantry, to coordinate food drives, to assist refugee and immigrant families, to work in Span­
ish translation services, and to assist with office work. Contact 
Hope Rescue Mission 

Rob Ercoline at 234-3111, ext. 
Volunteers needed for cleaning, 

22, or by e-mail at rercoline@ painting, construction, preparing 
ccfwsb.org. 
and serving meals, chapel service, tutoring, mentoring, counseling, 

Center for Basic Learning Skills 
clerical, teaching classes, and assist­

Volunteers tutor adults working ing with addiction programs. Con­
toward their GED for two hours tact Linda Clevenger at 235-4150, 
a week. Hours: 8:00 a.m.-noon, 
ext. 222, or e-mail at lclevenger@ 

M-F. Contact Sr. Marita Stoffel hoperescuemission.org. 
at 259-5427 (between 4:00p.m. 
and 9:00p.m.). Left: Jennifer Jorn '07 looking after infants and toddlers at Hope Rescue Mission's new facility.
Center for the Homeless 

Volunteers are able to assist with children's and adult activities, children's and adult tutoring, serving meals, chapel services, exercise programs, special events, and the front desk. They are also able to assist in the Montessori classroom, with the donation room, and with both the teen and adult leadership programs. Contact Community-Based Learning Coordinator Adam Kronk at 282-8700 or e-mail at akronk@cfh.net. 
Chapin Street Clinic (St Joseph Health Cenlerl 
Volunteers work in one of three medical clinics that provide services to low­income adults and families. Volunteers will perform clerical duties, escort pa­tients, and provide other services that the center is in need of. Spaces are limited. Contact Community-Based Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters at 239-5299 or e-mail at petermic@sjrmc.com. 
Charles Martin Youth Center 
Volunteers needed for after-school programs, computer skills training for kids, tutoring in math and reading, helping with various art classes, conflict resolution programs, and to help clean up grounds and inside of building. Contact Gladys Muhammad at 280-7092. 
Chiara Home 

Chiara Home provides temporary out­of-home respite care for people with spe­cial needs. Volunteers are needed to assist with personal care ofguests (feeding, entertaining, providing companionship, cooking meals). Volunteers also assist staff with both routine duties and special projects and activities. (Chiara Home is on a local bus route from the NO cam­pus.) Contact Sr. Gretchen at 287-5435 or e-mail at chiarahome@att.net. 
Circle of Mercy 

Circle of Mercy works through Catholic Charities to serve families with parents who work or are in school to provide quality child care. Volunteers work with children in the classroom setting to en­hance educational experiences. Any skills or special interests volunteers possess that would benefit children's development are greatly appreciated. Assistance in cleaning or refurbishing the facility is appreciated. Contact Rhonda Cartwright at 287-0500 or e-mail at rcartwright@ccfwsb.org. 
Please view the website or call for more information. ContactJim Baumgartner at 235-5709 or e-mail at jim.baumgarrner@ collegefootball.org. 
Corvilla, Inc. 
Volunteers help with resident (FUN) activities like bowling, dances, arts and crafts, picnics, hay rides, cookouts, and movies. Volunteers also help with the website, developing brochures, and fund-raising events like Snowball 


Softball, Glow in the Dark Volleyball, 
and a Howl-0-Ween Blues Bash. Con­
tact Diana Dolde at 289-9779 or e-mail 
at ddolde@corvilla.org. 
El Campito Day Care Center 
El Campi to's mission is "to promote the educational, social and economic success of culturally diverse children and their families by providing quality programs and their services to those most in need" (for ages three to five). There are many volunteer opportunities with our child care, parent education and preschool pro­grams, classroom assistance, evening child care supervision during parent meetings, office assistance (secretarial and adminis­trative-i.e. filing, bookkeeping), building maintenance projects (painting, cleaning, etc.), bilingual opportunities (Spanish translation) and grant-writing assistance (research and fund development). Please contact Rosa Rickman at 232-0220 or e-mail at elcampito@sbcglobal.net. 
Family and Children's Center Join the Family Partners Program to 
take a child to your place of worship 
or become a sponsor if you can give 
three or four hours per month sharing activities with a child. Contact Doug 
Brown at 259-5666, ext. 256. For intern opportunities in marketing and resource development contact Kregg Van Meter at 
259-5666, ext. 241, or e-mail at kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org. 
Food Bank of Northern Indiana 
Salvage/Reclamation: Sorts, separates, and organizes canned, boxed, or bottled food products. Pantry Reception/Stock­er: Stocks the pantry shelves and assists customers with their shopping. Special Events: Letter Carrier Food Drive, Crop­Walk, National Make a Difference Day, 093 Giving Tree. Contact Lena Maldo­nado at 232-9986 or e-mail at fbnivolun­teer@yahoo.com. 
Harbor Light Hospice 
Volunteers provide companionship, spiri­tual support, music therapy, bereavement services, and administrative support to the patients and their families. They also make crafts and bake favorite foods for 
the patients. Contact Judy 

Volunteers work one-on-one with our residents, reading, socializing, spending time outdoors, pushing residents to and from activities, and assisting the activity staff with group activities or outings in the community. Contact Karen Martin­dale at 272-0100, ext. 207, or e-mail at kmartindale@healthwin.org. 
Home Management Resources, Inc. 
Volunteer positions exist in child care, clerical/ receptionist work, and computer 
technology. Occasional help is needed for mailings. Other positions vary from weekly positions to four to 10 once-a­week commitments twice during the year (on a semester basis). Contact Elena Flynn at 233-3486 or e-mail at info@ hmresources.org. 
Hospice of St. Joseph County 
Volunteers provide respite care for terminally ill patients and their families. ContactJackie Boynton at 243-3127 or e-mail at boyntonj@centerforhospice.org. 
Indiana Legal Services 
Volunteers serve as intake workers to as­sist potential clients with the application process and summarize legal problems for staff attorney review. ILS provides free legal representation to low-income persons in civil matters. Contact Heather Mezosi at 234-8121 or e-mail at heather. mezosi@ilsi.net. 
La Casa De Amistad Inc. 
Help students with school work. Be seen as a big brother or sister. Provide students with self-esteem and a positive look at the future through education and self-respect to improve their way of life. Contact Olga Larimer at 233-2120 or e-mail at olgalarimer@yahoo.com. 
Life Treatment Centers, Inc. 
Volunteers work in many different areas ofour treatment facility, including assisting in staffing the residential and detoxification areas, kitchen help, client follow-up, tutoring, front desk staffing, maintenance assisting, chart breakdown, and assisting group facilitators and administrative staff, all to assist persons with gambling or alcohol addictions or chemical dependencies. Contact Brenda Mast 233-5433, ext. 205, or e-mail at brendam@ lifetreatmentcenters.org. 
Literacy Council of St. Joseph County, Inc. 
Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and English as a second language. Requires a six-month commitment. Contact Brenda O'Connell at 235-6229 or e-mail at vrenda@stjoreads.org. 


NEED MORE INFO? Find it at SOCI 

Logan Center 
Volunteers assist children and adults with special needs. Activities include art, cooking. exercise, and computer classes, as well as one-to-one assistance in children's homes. Contact Crystal Prentice at 289-4831 or e-mail at crystalp@ logancenter.org. For more information you can also visit www.logancenter.org. 
Michiana Dismas House 
Volunteering at Dismas House, a faith­based prisoner reentry program, gives stu­dents the opportunity to serve the broader community. It provides students with the framework to examine the complex issues of social and criminal justice. Volunteer cooks are needed to help prepare evening meals and dine with the residents Monday through Thursday, serve as mentors or tutors, and help with home repairs or with special events. Other opportunities include student residency. internships, and work-study positions. It is an excellent place to engage in service learning. Contact Maria Kaczmarek at 233-8522 or e-mail at michianadismas@sbcglobal.net. 
Milton Home 
Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one­to-one basis, assist with evening activities from 6:30-7:30 p.m., and play table games with the residents on Sunday. Contact Elizabeth Pinnyei at 233-0165. 
Northern Indiana Center for History 
Volunteers serve as docents in the Oliver Mansion and the Worker's House, help at special events, serve as greeters in the front lobby at the cente~ for special events, digitize/ scan photos in ~he archives, help with mailings, help in the museum store, or serve internships in the Education Department/Marketing. Contact Deb Neumann at 235-9664 or e-mail at volunteer@centerforhistory.org. 
OASIS 
The OASIS Older Adult Safe House pro­vides a safe house for senior citizens who have been neglected or abused. Volunteers provide for the security, safety, and com­fort of residents. Contact Mary Czarnecki at 246-0144. 
Portage Manor 
Volunteers are needed to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. There are also opportunities for students who do needlework. Group volunteer op­portunities are also available. Contact Toni Grisham at 272-9100. 
Potawatomi Zoo 
The zoo in South Bend has many op­portunities in all facets of zoo operations for students to volunteer or be interns. 
Located just 10 minutes from campus. Call 288-4639 for more information. 
REAL Services 
Students can be matched on a one-to-one basis with clients who need compan­ionship. A six-month commitment is requested. Volunteers are also needed to assist elderly or disabled clients of REAL Services with one-time assignments for outside yard work projects. Group volunteer opportunities are also available. Contact Deb Leach at 284-2644, ext. 262, or e-mail at dleach@realservicesinc.com. 
Reins of Life 
Volunteers act as horse leaders or side walkers for people with disabilities during therapeutic horseback riding classes 

Robinson Community Learning Center 
Volunteers typically work one-on-one 
":::}th students after school: reading ·''''them, having them read out loud, and 
hi~ing them write and do listening 
activities. These sessions are expected to fii 
last one hour, and volunteers are asked 
to come twice a week, either on M-W. 
or on T-Th. Contact the volunteer 
coordinator at 631-8750. 
Right: Senior John Corker working :~ 
with youth at the Robinson Community 
Learning Center 
(approx. two hours). There are also op­portunities to help with special events and care for horses. Contact Chris Flowers at 232-0853 or e-mail at rmcmf@juno.com. 
S-0-S of Madison Center 
S-0-S is the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County. After training. volunteer 
advocates sign up for one six-hour shift per week during which they agree to be 
reachable by phone in the event crisis in­
tervention services are needed. Emergency Contact 24-hour crisis line at 289-HELP 
(289-4357); Mary Waggoner at 283­
1308; or e-mail at sos1@madison.org. 
Salvation Army 
Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving. Christmas, and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can adopt a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Help is also needed in the office and with clothing intakes throughout the year. Contact Liz Fallon at 233-9471 or e-mail at liz.fallon@ufc. salvationarmy.org. 
SBCSC Adult Education Department 
Volunteers work individually or in small groups with adult students (16 years of age and older) who are studying basic academic, job, and life skills (including literacy), learning English as a second language (ESL), and/or preparing for the GED exam. Contact Gayle Silver at 283­7563 or e-mail at gsilver@sbcsc.k12.in.us. 
South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Volunteers are able to work in all facets of neighborhood revitalization. Also available are internships and course-based work in community development. Contact Gladys Muhammad at 289-1066. 
South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility 
The volunteers tutor students one-on-one in their academic deficiencies. Contact Tom Ferrara at 232-8808, ext. 369, or e-mail at tferrara@sbj.doc.in.us. 
Southern Care Hospice 
Volunteers are needed to do everything from patient sitting while a caregiver gets out for a much-needed break, to bring­ing a rented movie and a bag of popcorn to share with a lonely elderly person in a nursing facility. They can also work in the office. Call Loretta Bingham at 259-0895. 
St. Margaret's House 
Volunteers can act as cook or kitchen help, receptionist, tutor, assist with donations, assist with food pantry. assist with art pro­gram, interact with children, interact with women, or assist with clothes closet and miscellaneous jobs as needed. Contact Kathy Schneider or Pat Marvel at 234­7795 or e-mail at smhinfo@sbcglobal.net. 
St. Joseph Regional Medical Center 
We invite pre-med students to consider being a part of the continuum of care for our patients. Students can choose from emergency room, cardiac care, post­surgical, medical/renal, oncology, ortho­pedics, rehab, and outpatient pediatrics therapy. Choose one four-hour shift, one day per week for a semester. Uniform top will be provided along with a meal ticket. The medical center is less than two miles from the ND campus. Transpo is only available transportation. Contact Denise Kapsa, Director-Volunteer Services, at 237-7242, or e-mail kapsad@sjrmc.com. 
St. Vincent DePaul 
Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale and help with special projects at Christmas. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. Contact Patrick McGowan at 234-6211 or e-mail at mcgowanpatrick@msn.com. 
Twenty-First Century Scholars 
Volunteers assist with enrollment, mentoring. campus visits, service learning projects, clerical assistance, parental sup­port, and chaperoning activities. We can build a volunteer position to meet your schedule and interests. Contact Anthony Byrd 1-888-603-5981, ext. 235, or e-mail at abyrd@niwib.com. 
United Religious Community 
Volunteers are needed to work on special projects with the Victim Offender Recon­ciliation Program and with the advocacy centers where volunteers work one-on-one with community residents unable to meet basic needs. This is a good platform for service-learning in the area of psychology. Computer skills are also needed. A regular commitment is expected one day a week (M-F, 9:00 a.m.-noon). Contact Carol Thon at 282-2397 or e-mail at urc@ urcsjc.org. 
West Side Neighborhood Partnership 
Volunteers work directly with youth tutoring. reading programs, sports and 
recreation, conversational Spanish interactive/play learning programs, and with administrative support. Call 235­5800 or e-mail at wsnpc@michiana.org. 
Women's Care Center 
Volunteers help welcome pregnant and couples by helping them gather the resources they need. Volunteers are also needed for counseling and child-care assistance for clients and help with the crib club and baby items store. Contact Deborah Allen at 234-0363 or e-mail at deborahwcc 1 @hotmail.com. 
Youth Services Bureau 
The Youth Services Bureau has several day and evening service opportunities, including supervision and recreation for teens living at the runaway shelter, ing supervision for small children during monthly educational meetings for their parents, and staffing the newly created help line. Hours of service are geared to student needs. Contact Bonnie Stryker at 235-9231 or e-mail at bstryker@ sbcglobal.net for information or to volunteer. 
YWCA of St. Joseph County 
Volunteers serve as children's activity aides, clerical assistants, mentors, or court monitors, as well as cover crisis lines, sort donations, assist in the kitchen, provide transportation, create welcome bags, plan parties for clients and help with food drives. Contact the volunteer coordinator at 233-9491 or e-mail at ewilderhamilton @ywcasjc.org. 
ABOUT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
HOURS 
M-TH 8:00 a.m.-1 0:00 p.m. 
FRI 8:00 a.m.-7:00 p.m.,jf~ 
SAT 10:00 a.m.-2:00p.m. 
SUN 6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. 
CONTACT US 


NO MAP: Building 1 053 
PHONE: 631-5293 
E-MAIL: ndcntrsc@nd.edu 
WEB: socialconcerns.nd.edu 
HOSPITALITY 
Hospitality Is an Important part of the C ter lor Social Concern's work on campus.!: A"coffee house," kitchen, multipurpose """' room, seminar rooms, and reflection room are available lor approved student groups. Call631-5293 to reserve. 
-·····:::·:·:<.-.:·.-···· 


Founded in 1983, the University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns (CSC) facilitates community-based learning, research, and service rooted in Catholic social tradition. Through the work of the CSC, the University's mission is fulfilled when "learning becomes service to justice.u 
Nearly 85 percent of the undergraduate students at the University of Notre Dame engage the Center for Social Concerns's programs and opportunities during their undergraduate years. Using its proven experiential learning model, over 2,000 undergraduate students 
.. are directly exposed to social justice issues each year when they are placed in communities worldwide for courses ranging from one week to three months. These classes engage the students to think critically about social justice issues, and aim to inspire lifelong, committed action for the common good. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CE 
ERNS LOCAL COMMUNITY SERVICE GUIDE I AUGUST 2006 
OPERATION SMILE STUDENT ORGANIZATION SUPER SIBS 
We do mainly fUnd-raising to support mis­Super Sibs is an organizarion that pairs a sions oversees. We try to sponsor ar least one college srudenr one-on-one with a child in 
surgery a year and are planning on sending the community. Both the college srudent and two of our members on a mission next sum~ community member have siblings with spe­
StudentServiceand Social Action Groups ~~~~ 
Community-Based learning 2006 
2007 

Below are the different sites in South Bend where the CSC has partnered with community-based learning coordinators. They work closely with NO students to provide complete learning and service experiences at their sites. They are a wonderful resource, so please call them with any questions! 
2006-2007 Community-Based Learning Coordinators 

AFRICA FAITH AND JUSTICE NETWORK 
We are a group ofsrudents interested in African issues, dedicated to raising aware­ness of issues on campus, and working for action. We coordinate speakers and concerts and organize ':Africa Week" in rhe spring ofeach year. We are a college branch of the Africa Faith and Justice Network based in Washington, D.C. Contact Michael Ross­mann at mrossman@nd.edu. 
AIDS AWARENESS 
To increase awareness and provide assistance 
to those living with AIDS. Contact Laura Colina at lconfino@nd.edu. 
ALLIANCE TO LEAD AND SERVE (ATLAS) 
ATLAS is a community service organiza­tion composed ofcivilian and military srudenrs and takes a leadership development approach to volunteerism. Students are en­couraged ro envision and cultivate their own community service projects, many of which are focused on the local military community, deployed soldiers, or local youth. ATLAS helps srudents grow as leaders and as socially 
conscious community members. Contact 
Elaine Kamykowski at ekamykow@nd.edu. 
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Volunteers organize on~campus awareness 
raising and fund-raising events. Contact John Alfano at jalfano@nd.edu. 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL NOTRE DAME 
Amnesty International is a human rights or­ganization focused on raising awareness and finding human rights violations internation­ally. Our chapter, in years past, has focused on terrorism, economic justice, and rhe death penalty. Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@ nd.edu or visit hrrp:/ /www.nd.edu/ -peace. 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY 
Arnold Air Society is rhe service society within Air Force ROTC and is focused on serving those in rhe local and national community with an emphasis on profession­alism. The group does many projecrs in the community focused on children, the elderly, and the armed services. Contact Emily Ledet at eledet@nd.edu. 
BEST BUDDIES 
Service club that pairs a student, or ''college buddy;· with a member of the community with a mental handicap. Provides activities and time to hang our with buddies to de­velop friendships that last for years. Contact Patrick Noble at pnoble@nd.edu. 
BIG BROTHERS & BIG SISTERS OF ND/SMC 
Club consisting ofall ND/SMC students 
who are Big Brothers or Big Sisters. We 
work closely with the Big Brothers and 
Big Sisters of St. Joseph County. Our club 
fUnds events for bigs and Iittles to attend a 
couple of times each semester (Halloween 
parry, skating party, bowling parry, picnics). 
Contact Kerry McSorley at kmcsorOl@ 
saintmarys.edu. 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS -ND/SMC 
Campus Girl Scouts is a service club that 
works with younger girl scouts in the area. 
We host badge and try-it workshops on 
campus and also help out when needed at 
council events. Contact Kerry Kilbourn at 
kkilbour@nd.edu. 
CHILDREN'S DEFENSE FUND 
CDF-ND works to improve the lives of children and protect their rights, particularly those rights concerning education, juvenile justice, and health care. Contact Ryan Daily at rdaily@nd.edu. 
CIRCLE K -NOTRE DAME 
Circle K is a Kiwanis-affiliated service club 
that provides free transportation ro weekly 
service projects in and around the South 
Bend Community. Every week, we send 
members to more than 20 different service 
projects. These include everything from tutoring children, spending time with nuns, and playing with kids, to helping care for animals, working with handicapped adults, and knitting garments for soldiers overseas. Every week, we organize and distribute meals at food banks, serve at the Center for the Homeless, and work in Bingo at a local nursing home. In addition, we offer larger­scale weekend projects such as Turning Over 
a New Lea£ in which hundreds of 

students rake leaves for elderly South Bend residents; and the Blanket Bash rhat involves students making 

fleece blankets for chemotherapy patients. 
We have a large club with 120 members and 
over 300 active participants and are always looking for input on new and helpfUl ways to 
serve in South Bend. Finally, we provide ap­proximately 50 different leadership positions 
and offer a forum in which to meet many 
other service-minded individuals. Contact Jake Teitgen at jteitgen@nd.edu. 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) 
Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic com­munity of South Bend through service ac­tivities, educational programs, and awareness projects. Contact Alissa Verney at averney@ nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ -cash/. 
DOMERS MENTORING KIDS 
Darners Mentoring Kids is an umbrella for five mentorship groups: Our Lady's Help­ers, Bandlink. College Mentors for Kids, SAINTS, and Elston. Our Lady's Helpers is a rutoring group for the srudents at Our Lady of Hungary Elementary School. Bandlink provides students at Christ the King and Holy Cross Elementary School with a band program, where there would otherwise be none. College Mentors for Kids brings students from Holy Cross Elementary School to campus once a week for an hour. This is to expose them to rhe importance of a college education. SAINTS is an afrer-school tutoring program at St. Adalberrs Elementary School. Elston is an after-school tutoring group at Clay High School. Contact Clare Kizer at ckizer@ nd.edu. 
EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING COUNCIL 
The Experiential Learning Council provides resources and support for rhe continuation and expansion ofcommunity-based learning in South Bend during the school term as well as on fall. winter, and spring break semi­nars. Contact Felipe Witchger, witchger.2@ nd.edu. E-mail rhe ELC at elc@nd.edu or visit hrrp:/ /www.nd.edu/elc/. 
FEMINIST VOICE 

Feminist Voice is a club dedicated to 
strengthening the community of women 
on the Notre Dame campus. We have 
many exciting activities in mind. We will be 
presenting a poster campaign on the word 
"feminism" in an attempt ro help people to 
understand that it is nor a dirty word. We 
have plans to work with Student Govern­
ment on the eating disorders conference 
and we also have a variety ofgender 
relations workshops including one-on-one 
self-defense that we would like to offer. We 
also hold regular lUnd-raisers for the local 
organizations that work to end violence 
against women. As always, we are open to 
more ideas and we look forward to our new 
members in the fall. 
NO FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM (FAST) 
We provide first aid coverage ar various 
events on campus, including football. 
basketball. concerts, campus runs, etc. We 
also provide CPR and first aid classes to 
students and faculty. Contact Alex Wulz at 
awulz@nd.edu. 
FOODSHARE 

Sunday through Thursday, members of 
Foodshare pick up any unneeded food from 
North Dining Hall and deliver it to the 
Hope Rescue Mission in downtown South 
Bend. Members also have rhe opportunity 
to serve meals at the Center for the Home­
less periodically throughout rhe semester. 
The time commitment required is ideal for 
ND students struggling to balance a full 
schedule but still eager to volunteer in some 
capacity because you only need to commit 
to one hour per week! Contact Mariah 
Quinn at mquinn4@nd.edu. 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
Volunteers are needed to work on construc­
tion crews, donate materials, help with 
lUnd-raising. and interact with our partner 
family. Help us build a home in partner­
ship with a local family in need! Contact 
Ryan Iafigliola at riafigli@nd.edu or visit 
http:/ /www.nd.edu/ -habitat/. 
lliPAJ..IJIJEIGIAOOATESTWENTS (IUJS) 
HUGS volunteers dedicate rwo hours 
biweekly ro spending rime with children 
ar Memorial Hospital in South Bend. A 
physician-shadowing opportunity is offered ro students after 10 hours ofservice. Contact Jenny Sarna at jsarna@nd.edu. 
IRISH FIGHTING FOR ST. JUDE KIDS 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids is a service organization that raises fUnds for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. Different fund-raisers we have done are a dodgeball tournament, concert at Reekers, Krispy Kreme sales, and Halloween letter-writing parties. All money raised goes directly to the hospital, whose daily operat­ing costs are approximately $1,027, 832. We have also made Valentine's Day cards for patients. St. Jude's has about 4,700 patients in active status and treats children without regard to race, religion, creed, or ability to pay. St. Jude is the only pediatric cancer research center where families never pay for treatments that are not covered by insurance, and families without insurance are never asked to pay. Contact Marie Vervaeke at mvervaek@nd.edu. 
LEAD-NO 
Lead-NO works to empower a new genera­
tion of community change agents by engag­
ing at-risk, "nontraditional" youth leaders 
in after-school leadership development and 
service-learning programs. Volunteers are 
needed to facilitate the program lesson plan 
and lead mentor groups. Contact Saderia 
Hooks at shooks@nd.edu or visit www. 
nd.edu/ -leadnd. 
LOGAN RECREATION CLUB 
The Logan Recreation Club participates in a number ofactivities with adults with physi­cal and mental disabilities. Regular activities include bowling trips, dancing. and arts and crafts. Special events include watching ND sporting events, a camping trip, and Logan Prom. Contact Meg Spring at mspring@ nd.edu. 
MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM TEAM 
The Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
brings a group of local middle school girls 
to campus once or twice a year. Members 
do science experiments with them. It is 
meant to get girls interested in science and 
fUture careers in science. Contact Elizabeth 
Hesburgh at ehesburg@nd.edu or visit 
hrrp:/ /www.nd.edu/ -mswizard/. 
NO FOR ANIMALS 
ND for Animals believes in recognizing 
the dignity of all living beings and rhe role 
humans have as stewards of rhe earth. We 
work to expose and end animal abuse by 
promoting compassionate and informed 
individual choices. Contact Daniclle Nunez 
at dnunez@nd.edu. 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 
Debra Stanley 
Consultant 

P.O. Box 11582 South Bend, IN 46634 234-2870, ext. 1151 wuzuwuzu@aol.com http:/ /www.aidsministries.org/ 
Boys &Girls Club of St. Joseph County 
Kregg VanMeter 502 East Sample Street South Bend, IN 46601 232-2048, ext. 2101 kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org http:/ /www.bgcsjc.org 
Center for the Homeless 
Adam Kronk 
LOGAN Center 
Crystal Prentice 
Volunteer Coordinator 
2502 East Jefferson South Bend, IN 46615 289-4831, ext.l043 crystalp@logancenter.org http:/ /www.logancenter.org 

Mendoza College of Business 
Jessica McManus Warnell 
Program Manager and Concurrent Instructor 

254 College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 631-9182 jessica.mcmanus.13@nd.edu http:/ /mcobservice.nd.edu/ 
mer. Contact: Kary Conroy at kconroy@ nd.edu. 
PEACE FELLOWSHIP 

Peace Fellowship is dedicated to weekly prayer and discussion, ROTC dialogue, counter-recruitment in high schools, speak­ers about faith and activism, links to South Bend fellowship, and cosponsoring activities with PSA and Peace Coalition. Contact Teresa Hagan at rhagan@nd.edu. 
PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 

PSA works for social justice by organizing 
around issues of interest to create change, 
working with other people and groups on both a local and global level. Recent focuses have been economic injustices, student power, and rights for all. Contact Angie Vara at avara@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd.edu/-psa/. 
SLICE OF LIFE NO 

Slice of Life is a rutoring and menroring program for South Bend children in grades K-8. The main focus is on reading. but we help kids finish their homework and also work on nonviolence and self-esteem pro­grams. We meet on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays from 3:30 to 5:30p.m. at River Park Methodist Church. Contact Mike Dowdall at mdowdall@nd.edu. 
SPECIAL FRIENDS CLUB OF NOTRE AND ST. MARY'S 
Volunteers work with autistic children in the South Bend community on a structured educational program in a home situation. Time commitment is two to four hours per week. No experience is necessary to be a "Special Friend:' Contact Elaine Kamykows­ki at ekamykow@nd.edu. 
STUDENTS FOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEA) Raising awareness ofcurrent environmental 
issues by educating the student body and South Bend Community. We volunteer locally, promote national campaigns, raise fUnds, and HUG TREES! Contact Morgan Dill at mdill@nd.edu. 
STUDENTS FOR ORGAN DONATION OF NOTRE DAME 

Notre Dame's chapter of the National Students for Organ Donation group. A new group, there are many opporrunities available for leadership and involvement. Primary events include assisting in Howard's Bone Marrow Drive and an organ donation awareness event with Notre Dame's baseball team in the spring. Contact Jessica Farmwald at farmwal@nd.edu. 
Robinson Community Learning Center 
Marguerite Taylor 
Adult Program Coordinator 
921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 631-9425 mtaylor43@juno.com. http:/ /www.nd.edu./ ~rclc 
Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center-Community Outreach 
Michelle Peters 
Director, Outreach Services 
234 S. Chapin Street South Bend, IN 46601 239-5299 petersmic@sjrmc.com 
http:/ /www.sjmed.com 
cial needs. The purpose for rhe dub is ro talk about issues regarding having siblings with special needs. Contact Emree Chapman at echapman@nd.edu. 
SUSTAINED DIALOGUE AT NOTRE DAME 
Sustained Dialogue (SD) is a tool that helps students make time ro understand the different perspectives of individuals they otherwise would nor meet. Participants meet in dialogue groups of the same eight to 12 students twice a month to discuss issues they feel are sources of tension in the campus community. Engaging in such important conversations will not only enable them to interact comfortably with all kinds of people, but also help build relationships across community divides. SD equips sru­dents with communication skills necessary for increasingly diverse academic, social, and work environments. Contact Chris Wagner at cwagner3@nd.edu. 
TEAMWORK FOR TOMORROW 
Teamwork for Tomorrow is an after-school rutoring and menroring program open to all ND and SMC srudents. Working one­on-one with their students two days a week. Teamwork mentors are committed to bright­ening the lives ofchildren in the South Bend area through reading improvement, struc­tured recreation, and purposefUl mentoring. Teamwork operates three programs at two different sites in the South Bend community. Programs run either M-W or T-Th. The commitment is two hours a day, two days a week, and is for an entire year. Spanish­speaking students are strongly encouraged to apply. Visit our website at http://www. nd.edu/ -teamwork. Contact Arthur Ewing at aewing@nd.edu. 
TRIDENT NAVAL SOCIETY 
A community service dub composed primarily of Navy ROTC members, bur open to everyone. Contact Chris Babcock at cbabcock@nd.edu. 
WORLD HUNGER COALiTION 
The World Hunger Coalition raises aware­ness on campus of issues related to hunger in the local community and throughout the world. The WHC organizes a number of educational, spiritual, and service-oriented projects during the academic year. The Wednesday lunch fast and the Thanksgiving and Easter baskets are the WHC's main projects. Contact Grace Shen at gshen@ nd.edu. 

Director, Community Involvement 
813 S. Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 282-8700 ext. 346 akronk@cfb.net 





