~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 20 TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 19,2006 

ND scholars -weigh in on pope's remarks 
Faculty stress quote's context; Muslims denounce violence 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Since Pope Benedict XVI gave a speech one week ago that ignited controversy among vocal and violent segments of the Muslim world, the riots and protests have only accelerated. 
But at Notre Dame, the hope is for everything to slow down. Faculty experts say the pope's remarks -however insensitive -were taken out of context, and on Monday, Muslim mem­bers of the University commu­nity denounced the ongoing vio­lence. 
Benedict XVI spoke at the University of Regensburg in Germany last Tuesday on faith and reason at modern universi­ties, said R. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and an expert on religious violence. The pope quoted 14th century Byzantine emperor Manuel Paleologos II: "Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will fmd things only evil and inhu­man, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached." 
"But he also quoted the Quran, which says there is no compulsion in religion," Appleby said. "This reference is in key with Benedict's previous remarks on Islam, in which he argues Islam is being betrayed by extremists who invoke vio­lence. Although the remarks were taken out of context, the 
see POPE/page 6 



All spinach pulled due to E. coli outbreak 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Across the country, over 1i 0 people have become ill and one person has died from an outbreak of E. coli 0157:H7 linked to fresh spinach -and Notre Dame is taking steps to make sure that the number does not increase on their watch. 
"This is an issue in every food service outlet and gro­cery store in North America," said David Prentkowski, Director of Food Services. 
Indiana is only one of 21 states to report E. coli cases linked to tainted spinach. Though Wisconsin has report­ed the most cases, the out­break is still cause for con­cern. 
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a broad advisory to consumers on Sept. 14 to avoid spinach or any product containing spinach. Natural Selection Goods a San Juan Bautistia, Calif. company ­followed suit on Sept. 15 by issuing a "voluntary recall of every retain and foodservice product containing spinach with a 'Best if Used By Date' of Aug. 17 through Oct. 1. "' 
Following the announce­ments, Notre Dame Food Services took immediate steps to pull spinach from salad bars in the dining halls and from all other food locations on campus. 
"All uncooked spinach is in question," Prentkowski said. 
see E. COLI/page 8 


By AARON STEINER News Writer 
It isn't New Year's Eve yet, but with a countdown and a ball drop, NDtv is celebrating a historic event in its four-year history. 
Starting at 7 p.m. Wednesday NDtv will officially launch its fourth season -one that promises major changes from previous years. 
With the addition of Comcast cable in every dorm room, NDtv now has its own channel where it will broadcast pro­gramming 24 hours per day, an increase from last year's 12-hour daily broadcast. In addition, NDtv has upgraded all of its broadcasting equip­ment. 
The station will mark the official start of the season at 
8:15 p.m. with the countdown and ball drop, followed by a 
. special one-time jumbo screen video presentation featuring new material for this season. 
·The NDtv premier will begin with entertainment including Robbie Hazen, a junior student and musician, as well as DJ Johnny 0. NDtv's founder, Lance Johnson ('04), will also attend the event. 
see NDTV/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Police stay 
busy atnid crowds 
Officers cite 40, arrest 5 during Michigan 
By KATE ANTONACCI AND 
MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editors 
Police issued 40 arrest tickets and made five custo­dial arrests of adults for mis­demeanor violations of liquor laws before and dur­ing Saturday's home football game against University of Michigan. 
During the game, 25 people were removed from Notre Dame Stadium for "liquor related offenses," one was arrested for public intoxica­tion and one was "transport­ed to the hospital due to intoxication," Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson said in an e-mail Monday. 
Outside the stadium ­assisted by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police -NDSP officers issued two arrest tickets to adults for "possession of marijuana." 
He did not specify whether preliminary breath tests (PBTs) were used. 
Three juveniles were also cited, one for possession of marijuana, one for posses­sion of tobacco and one for minor in consumption of alcohol, Johnson said. 
Johnson did not say whether those arrested, cited or removed from the stadium on Saturday were 
see ARRESTS/ page 4 

Speaker tackles corporate ethics 
Nancy Thomas-Moore delivers second speech in Mendoza series 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
A preponderance of corpo­rate scandals have combined with the pressures of global­ization on international com­panies to foster a renewed focus on ethics in the busi­ness community, a business ethics officer said Monday. 
Nancy Thomas-Moore, Director of Ethics and Business Conduct for the Weyerhaeuser Corporation, spoke at the second lecture in this year's Berges Lecture Series, which addresses 
see LECTURE/ page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Scavenger hunt 
Ifthey built it, I should come. Or at least poke around for a few min­utes. 
Last week, the Jordan Hall of Science was officially dedicated and blessed, and is now open as 
Eric Retter
Notre Dame's newest addition. As a liberal arts 

Associate
student, I've done 

Sports Editor 
the natural thlng regarding the newly opened hall of science: avoided .it like the plague. 
Lately though, I've been thlnking that I haven't had the right approach. Why shouldn't I go explore just because every­one inside the building can make potions out of substances that I can't even pro­nounce, especially since Jordan is appar­ently now the nicest building on earth except that hotel in Dubai that goes underwater? Sorry, but that one's still cooler. 
This has led me to the formulation of my new goal: enter every Notre Dame building by the time I graduate. 
I realize that this is not a standard "before I graduate goal for Notre Dame student [such as, say, graduating with honors, winning somethlng, making the men'slwomen's team of your choosing, or dating someone from the men'slwomen's team of your choosing] but I believe it's a good goal for a Notre Dame student to have. For starters, it might help combat the 'looking down at my shoes as I walk slowly towards class in weather condi­tions under which most states would give the ski patrol the day off tunnel vision that everyone on this campus suffers from between mid-November and, say, Easter. Not only would scouting out new buildings make each trip to class less monotonous, but everyone could find a new place to thaw out their fingers. 
Further, Notre Dame is a bigger cam­pus than most people give it credit for, and it is densely packed with interesting places. For instance, did you know that there are numerous restaurants and cafes hidden around campus, such as the Greenfield's in the Hesburgh Center or Cafe di Grasta in Grace Hall? There are others as well, and, as someone who is committed to eating every day, I plan to dine at each of them at least once. 
As a senior, I realize I don't have much time to complete my goal, which is more ambitious than what I first realized. With commencement being held on May 21, I have eight months and two days to get inside a lot of buildings, and truthfully, I have a long way to go. This university has 27 dorms, and in my first three-plus years here, I've only found my way into 19 ofthem. 
However, I have already made progress. Last Friday at 4:30, I attended a lecture in McKenna Hall, enabling myself to cross it off the list. Up until4:18 of that day, I did not know where McKenna Hall was, or even that Notre Dame had a McKenna Hall. Every day I'm learning. 
So, maybe the next time you are walk­ing to class and you hear the soloist play­ing by the open window at the top of the Crowley Hall of Music, walk upstairs and tell him/her that he/she is doing a good job. While you're there, look around, see what it's like inside. 
They did build it for a reason. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer prides itself as a professional publication and suives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE CHANNEL TO WATCH ON CABLE? 



Amber Lattner  Steve Atwood  Jaime Luna  
freshman Pangborn  senior St. Edward's  sophomore Keough  
"ESPN, because SportsCenter is my only connection to  "NDTV, because ofthe Mike Peterson show. "  "Univision, because I hate to miss my telenovelas. "  
the outside world."  



Molly McEvily Rachel McGehee 
sophomore senior 
Morrissey Farley 
"ABC Family, "FOX News, 
because I love because it's the to watc/;l only unbiased Gilmore Girls news program 

OFFBEAT 

Man is happy with life at the top 
VIENNA, Austria -The world's tallest man says he's happy with his height but used to wish he were "normal." 
At 7 feet, 8.95 inches, Xi Shun, of Chifeng in China's Inner Mongolia, has held the world record as the tallest living man since January 15, 2005, according to London­based Guinness World Records Ltd. 
"Before I wanted to be normal, but now I like it," Xi Shun, a herdsman, said in an interview Sunday with The Associated Press on the sidelines of Vienna World Records Day. The event was open to anyone who wanted to set a world record -or trump one that already existed. 
Dressed in a traditional embroidered blue shirt, pants and brown sandals, Xi Shun, speaking through a translator, said he lives in a house built specifically for him. 
Hiker travels Appalacian Trail barefoot 
BOILING SPRINGS, Pa. -More than 500 people hike the entire Appalachian Trail, which runs from Maine to Geor:gia, each year. Ron Zaleski has been trying to accomplish the feat barefoot. 
His goal is to bring attention to the need for combat veterans to receive counseling. 
"In the beginning I thought, 'I gotta do this to show how tough I am. I want to be famous,"' he said at a recent pause to eat some pecan ice cream. "Now I just want to help these kids." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
UJ 
::c 
ti 
UJ 
3: 
..... 


~ 
< 
(,) 


...I 0 HIGH 58 HIGH 53 HIGH 55 HIGH 64 LOW 54 LOW 50 LOW 37 LOW 37 

re-runs. out there." 
IN BRIEF 
Professor Donald Kommers will teach a public academic course called "Federalism with­in American Constitutional Law" today at 9:30a.m. in 131 DeBartolo Hall. All are wel­come at the course, which is being held in observance of Constitution Day. 
Irene Rizzini of the Department of Social Work at the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro and Visiting Chair in the Study of Brazilian Culture will deliver a lecture called "Participa<;ao Cidada: Perceptions and Experiences of Citizenship Among Children and Youth in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil" today at 12:30 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
A panel discussion on "New Approaches to Peace and Conflict in Central Asia," fea­turing Kroc Institute Visiting Fellow John Heathershaw, and Rockefeller Visiting Fellows David Montgomery and Svetlana Peshkova will take place at 3:30 p.m. Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
A panel discussion on "The Recent Supreme Court Decision, Hamdan v. Rumsfeld," will take place in room 121 of the Law School on Thursday· at 5:00 p.m. Panelists will discuss the impli­cations of the June 29 Supreme Court ruling which rejected the Bush administration's argu­ment that Al Qaeda suspects were "unlawful combatants." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 68 HIGH 70 LOW 48 LOW 58 
Atlanta 78 I 56 Boston 79 I 59 Chicago 68 I 47 Denver 721 45 Houston 88 I 64 Los Angeles 77 I 60 Minneapolis 54 I 38 New York 76 I 57 Philadelphia 78 I 57 Phoenix 98 I 71 Seattle 65 I 54 St. Louis 67 I 46 Tampa 87 I 75 Washington 79 I 58 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
SMC to co-host football pep rally 
voted to recognize AFJN. their ideas more fully.
By LIZ HARTER The World Taekwondo After the discussion on club
News Writer 
Federation, a Notre Dame club recognition, student body 
with Saint Mary's members, president Susan Mcllduff 
Saint Mary's Board of also announced their desire to announced that Saint Mary's Governance members award­become a recognized Saint College will return to the tra­ed official club status to the Mary's club. dition of hosting one of the Africa Faith and Justice Board members did not vote Notre Dame pep rallies. Network and discussed the because they needed more "Through many, many pep rally that Saint Mary's will information about the club -emails and phone calls we co-host with and its plans for have a pep rally," Mcllduff three dorms at the involvement said. Notre Dame at "We want to work of Saint Mary's Saint Mary's students will be their meeting with AFJN at Notre students. The co-hosting the last pep rally of Monday night. discussion was the season, before the Army
Dame, but we also
The Africa tabled until the game.
want to be able to do
Faith and Justice club reevalu­"We will be hosting along Network is a our own thing." ates their role with Sorin [College], Breen­national, in relation to Phillips [Hall], and Carroll Catholic organi­Saint Mary's [Hall]," Mclllduff said. 
Meagan Walerko 
zation based in and returns to 
AFJN co-president
Washington, BOG. In Other BOG News: D.C., said club A representa-+ First-year elections are co-president tive for today. Freshman can receive 
Meagan Walerko. Students for a paper ballot at While Notre Dame was the Organ Donation the student cen­
"Through many, 
first college to have a chapter also presented at ter front desk. A of AFJN, Saint Mary's students the meeting. many emails and Saint Mary's stu­have always been members of Students for phone calls we dent I.D. card is Notre Dame's organization. Organ Donation required to
have a pep rally. " 
"We want to work with AFJN is a new organi­receive the bal­at Notre Dame, but we also zation on Saint lot. want to be able to do our own Mary's campus Susan Mcllduff + Residence thing," Walerko said. that wants to student body Hall Association 
Club activities would include raise awareness elections will be
president

working with refugees from of organ dona­held Thursday, the continent of Africa who tions. It would Sept. 21. The come into the South Bend also like to increase involve­ballot may also be paper if a.n area, sending used textbooks ment at campus blood drives. electronic ballot is not avail­to schools in Africa and rais­BOG member decided to able on PRISM. ing awareness of the issues direct the organization to that affect the continent. Health and Wellness commis­
BOG members discussed the sioner Heidi Goeppinger, who Contact Liz Harter at club's planned activities and can help club leaders develop eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
Senior vvins $50,000 on 'Millionaire' shovv 
$50,000 were so large that he 
By RYAN SYDLIK 

did not know the difference. 
News Writer 

After the show aired, many people, including some he did He didn't win a million, but not know very well or know at senior Dan Keough is very all, congratulated him on the pleased with the $50,000 he performance or asked if he was took away on the game show the person they had seen on 
"Who Wants to Be a "Millionaire." Millionaire'?" "It was a really bizarre, kind "I got out of there without ofcool day," he said. 
missing a question and I am While he was on the show pretty happy about Keough said he it," he said. would have been 
Keough's per­happy with even 
formance, which "Fifty-thousand a thousand dol­was taped July 25 lars. However,
dollars was my
in New York, aired $50,000 puts
dream goal. " 
Monday on him in a situa-WNDU-TV. He tion where he used all four of his can his
Dan Keough use 
lifelines during his money to get a
senior 

run, and chose to good start after walk away with graduation, he $50,000 rather said. than going for $100,000 on a "Fifty-thousand dollars was 
difficult question. my dream goal," Keough said. "I feel like the questions defi­"It was absolutely everything I nitely got much harder ... The could ask for." last three questions were pretty Keough plans to will use some hard," Keough said. of the money to pay off his col­Keough's Tennessee roots and lege loans and use some to start 
deep movie knowledge helped a nest egg. him reach the $50,000 mark. "I am going to put it where it One question he answered was makes sense financially," he 
about the Tennessee Valley said. 
authority and another was about Part of his winnings will helpthe rumor that actor finance a trip to the Notre Dame Christopher Walken was run­vs. USC football ga,me in Los ning for President. Angeles Nov. 25, he said. 
Keough said "Millionaire" pro­ducers edited out two jokes he made during the show, including Contact Ryan Sydlik at one where he said $25,000 and rsydlik@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
Center to 
•

exa1111ne 
politics 
Special to the Observer 
The Ufiiversity of Notre Dame's Reilly Center for Science, Technology and Values will spon­sor an international conference titled "The Commerce and Politics of Science" from Sept. 21 to 24 (Thursday to Sunday) at McKenna Hall. 
he conference will examine how commercial and political interests have shaped, and con­tinue to shape, scientific knowl­edge and practice. It also will consider whether one or another economic or political context is favorable or unfavorable to sci­ence and is more, or less, likely to produce "good science." 
Keynote speakers for the con­ference include Sheldon Krimsky, professor of urban and environ­mental policy and planning at Tufts University; Robert Berdahl, president of the Association of American Universities; and Philip Mirowski, Notre Dame's Carl E. Koch Professor of Economics and Policy Studies. 
The conference will feature sessions on "Democracy and the Commercialization of Science," "Commercialization and the Philosophy of Science," "Commerce, Politics, and Science in the United States and the European Union: Comparative Perspectives," "Commercialization and Technology Transfer in the University" and "Scholarly Duties and Private Interest Science." 
The conference has been organized in collaboration with the University of Bielefeld, Germany, to allow for an interna­tional dimension and regional comparisons. 
In addition to the Reilly Center, the conference is sponsored by Notre Dame's Nanovic Institute for European Studies and Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts. 
Established in 1985, the Reilly Center seeks to make a distinc­tive contribution to the humanis­tic understanding of science and technology. 
College recognizes alumnae achievements 
Humanistic studies majors mark anniversary 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Saint Mary's College Humanistic Studies Majors celebrated the concentra­tion's 50th anniversary this week, a milestone marked by lectures, presentations and an open discussion led by Professor Gail Mandell. 
The main purpose for the events -which started Sunday and ran all day Monday -was to celebrate the department, as well as the accomplishments of its alumnae, said Humanistic Studies department chair Philip Hicks. It was also a chance to bring together HUST alumnae and current students so they could learn from one another, Hick said. 
The program included more than 100 alumnae as well as current HUST majors. 
The alumnae ranged from SMC's most recent graduates in 2006 to some of the origi­nal Humanistic Studies majors from 1957. A few current HUST majors partic­ipated in the open discus­sion, as well as other events on campus. 
Mandell's open discussion Monday focused on the strengths and weaknesses of the program. 
Speakers included President Carol Ann Mooney, who spoke at lunchtime on Monday. Professor Miri Ruben also gave a Christian Culture Lecture entitled "Mary: From Jewish Maiden to Global Icon" late Sunday night in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Other speakers included Professor Gail Mandell, Professor Philip Hicks and various Humanistic Studies alumnae. The events were held in Stapleton Lounge, O'Laughlin Auditorium and other campus locations. 
The Humanistic Studies· major is a "study of western 
culture with special appreci­ation of Christian contribu­tions to the west," Hicks said. 
The major boasts small classes where students read and discuss what Hicks called "the great books." The intimate environment created by the selective major creates lifelong friendships, Hicks said. 
Currently there are 13 I-JUST majors graduating in 2007 and 15 graduating in 2008. The program is unique to Saint Mary's because it is the "only program that we know of in the United States that still is based on the educational ideas of Christopher Dawson," Hicks said. 
Dawson was a British his­torian who published a series of articles in Commonwealth magazine, starting in 1953. 
He emphasized Christian culture's influence in many fields of study. 
Originally named the Program for Christian Culture, the major began in fall 1956 with 13 students. In 1957, the program was renamed Humanistic Studies. 
Professor Bruno Schles­inger, who pushed for the creation of the major in 1956, recently retired after 60 years at Saint Mary's and 48 with the HUST program. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astironO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
September 21

A Little Knowledge is a Dangerous Thing: So, Come to Meet Us! 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, introduction of advising team. 
Door prizes-iPod, DVD player and more! 
Must be present to win. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
~ 
w 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students. 
He did not mention any marshmallow-related ejec­tions from the stadium. 
Also, three individuals were arrested on campus by NDSP Saturday related to counterfeiting and theft, Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo said. 
The arrests came one week after undercover police arrested a man sell­ing counterfeit tickets on the southeast edge of cam­pus before the Notre Dame­Penn State game Sept. 9. 
"This is a joint effort between Notre Dame Security/Police, South Bend Police and what we learned at the Penn State game," Berlo said. 
"We were able to utilize that information ... to make three very successful arrests." 
Berlo did not elaborate on how the Sept. 9 arrest was connected to the latest ones, but said he expects charges to be filed by the St. Joseph County Prosecutor early this week. 
About 100 counterfeit tickets are linked to the arrested individuals, Berlo said. 
"We're going to keep our eyes out for counterfeits.... We have the tools in place to make future arrests if necessary," Berlo said. 
Johnson said when tickets are bought on the street, there is a "great risk" of the ticket being counterfeit. "People should be very cau­tious in buying tickets," he said. 
In addition, 14 people were issued trespass notices "banning them from campus property," most issued for urinating in a public place, Johnson said. Another man was issued a trespass notice for urinat­ing in the Stadium Lot. 

NDSP officers also arrest­ed one man for "operating while intoxicated" and one fl?.an for public intoxication near the Mason Support Service Building, Johnson said. 
One man was arrested for 

' public intoxication and pos­session of marijuana near the Stadium, where he returned later in the day after being ejected by ush­ers. An additional arrest was made near Hammes Mowbray Hall of a man who was publicly intoxicated and was observed taking a bike from a residence hall. "The bike, which was recovered by NDSP, was not registered nor reported stolen at this time," Johnson said. "Investigation of this case continues." Officers, most in uniform and "easily recognized as law enforcement officers," were present on campus and in parking lots to help maintain a "family friendly atmosphere" among tailgate gatherings and to enforce Indiana law, Johnson said. "This is not an undercover or covert operation," Johnson said. "NDSP will continue to work with other area police officials for future home football games Law enforcement officers will arrest underage drinkers on campus and at tailgate par­ties." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu and Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJ RF SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nun asked forgivness for killers 
NAIROBI, Kenya -Sister Leonella, a nun who devoted her life to helping the sick in Africa, used to joke there was a bullet with her name engraved on it in Somalia. When the bullet came, she used her last breaths to for­give those responsible. 
"I forgive, I forgive," she whispered in her native Italian just before she died Sunday in the Somali capital, the Rev. Maloba Wesonga told The Associated Press at the nun's memori­al Mass in Nairobi on Monday. 
Sister Leonella's slaying raised concerns that she and other foreigners killed in Somalia recently are victims of growing Islamic radical­ism in the Horn of Africa country, where a hard-line Muslim militia has been expanding its reach. 
Bombings kill four Canadian soldiers 
KAFIR BAND, Afghanistan -Three bomb­ings killed at least 19 people across Afghanistan on Monday, including four Canadian soldiers in an attack that tested NATO's claim of success in driving insurgents from this volatile southern region. 
The deadliest attack, in the usually calm western city of llerat, killed 11 people and wounded 18 including the deputy police chief, officials said. Initially, officials said it was a suicide attack by a militant strapped with explosives and riding a motorbike. 
But Afghan President Hamid Karzai, speak­ing later Monday in New York where he was attending the U.N. General Assembly, said it was not a suicide attack as initial reports indi­cated. Karzai did not elaborate on how the attack did take place in his remarks to the Asia Society. 
"It was not a suicide attack as I know now," he said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush tries to sooth Muslim outrage 
NEW YORK -President Bush on Monday tried to soothe Muslims' outrage over Pope Benedict XVI's remarks about Islam. 
Bush addressed the issue during his meet­ing Monday with the prime minister of Malaysia. 
"The president noted that the pope had made some apologies for his remarks and the president believed that the pope was sincere in those remarks and that's where the discus­sion was left," Dennis Wilder, senior director for East Asian affairs for the National Security Council, told reporters during a briefing on the meeting held on the sidelines of the U.N. General Assembly. 
Worker may have exposed hundreds 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Hundreds of patients and hospital workers may have been exposed to tuberculosis by a health care worker sick with the airborne dis­ease, and at least 10 people have caught it, public health officials said Monday. 
A letter sent to about 1,650 patients and 350 workers at Integris Southwest Medical Center in Oklahoma City warned of their potential exposure and urged them to get skin tests to determine whether they were infected, said Dr. Gene Claflin, medical director of the Oklahoma City-County Health Department. About 250 members of the general public have also been alerted. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Deaths cause procedural change 
INDIANAPOLIS -The hospital where two babies died after receiving an over­dose of blood thinner will double-check drug labels and remove certain doses of the medication under new procedures designed to prevent future mistakes. 
Two premature baby girls died Saturday at Methodist Hospital after receiving adult doses of heparin. The drug is often used in premature children to prevent blood clots that could clog intravenous drug tubes. 
Four other babies were also given over­doses of the drug. 
Bush faces UN disagreement 
President arrives at New York meeting with policy problems at home and abroad 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -President Bush faced disagreement Monday over how to con­front Iran's nuclear ambi­tions and skepticism about his approach to Iraq and the Middle East as world leaders gathered for the 
U.N. General Assembly meeting. 
Still, Bush was upbeat, focusing on his push for democratic change and first lady Laura Bush's call for governments to embrace literacy programs to improve lives. 
"We don't believe free­dom belongs only to the United States of America," Bush said at the White House Conference on Global Literacy hosted by his wife. "We believe that liberty is universal in its applications. We also believe strongly that as the world becomes more free, we'll see peace." 
Bush arrived in New York to attend the 61st session of the world body with poli­cy problems at home and abroad that have narrowed his room to maneuver on the international stage. 
The U.S.-led war in Iraq is in its fourth year with no end to bloudy sectarian vio­lence in sight. International support is dwindling for imposing sanctions against Iran for defying U.N. party controls Congress are and opportunity. He is to Ahmadinejad also planned demands that it halt cer­seven weeks away. note two type of states in to be at the United Nations, tain nuclear work. The The president's so-called the Middle East -those but Bush had no· intention repressive Taliban regime freedom agenda is the with an absence of freedom of talking with him. toppled in Afghanistan is theme of his speech to the and weak ones with fragile On Tuesday, Bush will showing new signs of U.N. General Assembly on democracies, such as Iraq meet with French resilience. The Israeli­Tuesday. He will focus on and Lebanon. President Jacques Chirac, Palestinian conflict contin­democratic reforms in Iraq, "I think the president who is part of the coalition ues and Lebanon's govern­Afghanistan and Lebanon sees this ... as a struggle of nations working with the ment has, so far, proved and elsewhere in the between the forces of U.S. to try to stop Iran from too weak to rein in the Middle East. He'll seek to extremism and the forces doing work that could lead Islamic militant group quell skepticism about U.S. of moderation in the to a nuclear weapon. Hezbollah. motives in the Middle East Middle East," National Chirac, who is balking at 
At home, Bush's approval by working to avoid the Security Adviser Stephen the U.S. drive to sanction rating, while experiencing impression that he wants Hadley said, previewing Iran for defying U.N. sanc­a recent uptick, stands at to see a U.S.-style democ­Bush's speech. "And it's tions, proposed a compro­just 40 percent. Americans racy imposed on any really a crucial time." mise Monday to kickstart are growing weary of the ·nation. The president also is talks between Iran and the war. The White House is in In his speech, Bush is expected to firmly international community. a showdown with Senate expected to say that while denounce Iran and Syria, Chirac suggested that the Republicans over the inter­military and law enforce­two nations that Bush says threat of U.N. sanctions be rogation and trying of ter­ment actions are needed to are working to thwart free­suspended if Tehran puts a ror suspects. And elections curb terrorism, the ulti­dom in the region. Iranian freeze on its uranium that will determine which mate weapons are freedom President Mahmoud enrichment work. 

VATICAN CITY 

Vatican opens pre-WWII archives 
The opening is part of the Vatican's "There was a bit of chaos," said
Associated Press efforts to defend Pius' successor, the Alessandro Visani, a researcher in VATICAN CITY -The Vatican wartime Pope Pius XII, against contemporary history at Rome's La opened part of its secret archives claims he did not do enough to save Sapienza university who, like many Monday to let historians review mil­Jews from the Holocaust during the others, was hoping for an initial idea lions of diplomatic letters, private wars. of what was in the files. correspondence and other church The Vatican insists Pius XII, who "I wanted to look at something but documents to gain insight into how earlier served as a church diplomat someone was already consulting it," the Holy See dealt with the growing in Germany and later Vatican secre­said Visani, whose research includes persecution of Jews before World tary of state under Pius XI, used dis­the attitudes of church hierarchy War II. creet diplomacy that saved thou­toward the 1938 anti-Jewish laws of Researchers said it could take sands of Jews. Benito Mussolini, Italy's Fascist dic­months or years to study the contents Archives officials said at midday tator. of some 30,000 bundles of docu­that some 50 researchers had shown He hopes the files will reveal the ments from the 1922-39 papacy of credentials to gain admittance, frank views that Roman Catholic Pius XI, a span when the rise of although some of the scholars came prelates privately held about Nazism, Fascism and Soviet-bloc to consult material on earlier papa­Mussolini's racial laws affecting communism gripped Europe. cies. Italy's tiny Jewish community. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
Internationally, several promi­nent Muslim associations have
Pope 

backed the pope's statement of continued from page 1 regret, while others have refused to accept what they say is no apol­subtext is unfortunate. ogy. like Omar, Shawn Ahmed ­
"The subtext is a pope speaking a second-year sociology graduate from Germany and invoking a student and member-at-large of period close to the Crusades and the Notre Dame Muslim Student pronouncing upon jihad without Association -said Muslims must making explicit references to the come to terms with the pope's violence done in. the name of statement and move on in a con­Christianity." structive manner. 
That subtext. Appleby said, "It's the responsibility of reason­made it "understandable that able people, Muslim or not, to many Muslims connected the dots accept an apology when one is in a way that the pope may not given and work toward better have intended [them] to." understanding when possible," he 
Connecting the dots, in this case, said. meant violence -violence that Ahmed referred to the Muslim includes the burning of an effigy of Council of Britain -which on the pope in Iraq, Monday termed the attacks on churches pope's statement of in the West Bank regret "exactly the 
"There may have 
and Gaza and the reassurance many
been a lack of
killing of an Italian Muslims were look­nun in Somalia, attention to the ing for," according among other inci­to a BBC report ­
way things might 
dents. On Sunday, and said he shared
be communicated. " 
Benedict XVI told the group's view. pilgrims in Rome he As soon as word was "deeply sorry Vincent Rougeau of the pope's for the reactions in remarks spread,
law professor 
some countries to a Ahmed said there few passages of my was "ambiguity" address," The New York Times within the Muslim community reported. about his choice of quotation, 
A. Rashied Omar, an imam and which he described as "very hate­research scholar of Islamic ful." Studies at the Kroc Institute for "Islam itself means peace," he International Peace Studies, said said, "so that can be painful to he "welcomed" the pope's "state­hear for many Muslims." ment of regret." The offensive nature-of the quo­
"[I] call upon his Holiness to use tation has raised questions about this unfortunate episode as an why Benedict XVI would choose to opportunity for initiating a high­ever include it in a speech ­profile dialogue about the root regardless of the broader topic. causes of violence in the world Notre Dame law professor Vmcent today and the ways in which reli­Rougeau said the decision could gion can contribute towards over­be due to inadequate considera­coming such violence," Omar said tion. in a statement Monday. "There may have been a lack of attention to the way things might be communicated," Rougeau said. "The information was communi­cated immediatoly around the world. If thoy had had someone vetting his remarks more dosely .. . I'm not saying it would have prevented it, but there's some who believe ... they need to think a lit­tle more closely about having his remarks vetted." 
Like Rougeau, Appleby noted how quickly the news hit the Islamic world -and how quickly Muslims responded. 
"I think the pope underestimat­ed the power of his own words, given the growth of a strong Islamic network of response, a network that has becoming increasingly sophisticated in the last number of years," Appleby said. "Like Jews and Christians, Muslims are sensitive to the way they are portrayed publidy, espe­cially in the current political set­ting. 
"And the pope perhaps made the same miscalculation that many professors make -they can be too subtle for their own good." 
That subtlety, said theology pro­fessor Lawrence Cunningham, is what's important to consider when evaluating the pope's speech. 
"Leave it to the pope, who is a very good scholar," to include that particular quotation, Cunningham said. He labeled the remark "a small part of a big talk" and a "sound byte" that has been blown out of context. 
"Here's the ironical thing ­what was the reaction in part of the Muslim world after this talk? Violence," he said. 
Cunningham was quick to point out that just a small percentage of Muslims acted in violence. But his point wasn't lost on Ahmnd, who 
IRAQ 

Witnesses tell of Hussein's atrocities 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A former Kurdish rebel testified Monday he tem­porarily lost his sight in a chemi­cal weapons attack by Saddam Hussein's forces nearly two decades ago. He removed his glasses so the court could see his swollen eyes. 
Karawan Abdellah said he still lives in "pain and suffering" from the March 1988 attack, when Iraqi warplanes raided Kurdish guerrilla positions in the village of Shanakhesiya in northern Iraq. 
After the initial airstrike, Iraq fired chemical weapons on the vil­lage, Abdellah said. 

Saddam and six co-defendants are being tried on charges of committing atrocities against Kurds during the Operation Anfal ny, arguing that Abdellah was a crackdown in northern Iraq. Dutch citizen and not an Iraqi 
The prosecution alleges some because Iraqi law bars dual 180,000 people died in the cam­nationality. paign, many of them killed by poi­"l leave it up to the court to son gas. Saddam and the others decide, but this man isn't Iraqi," could face death by hanging if Saddam said. convicted. Saddam also accused the 
During his testimony, Abdellah United States of using chemical said that after the attack, he saw weapons in the Vietnam War. But "bodies of dead women, children the chief judge told him the U.S. and elderly men" who had been role in Vietnam was not "part of "killed by chemical weapons." our topic of discussion" and 
He said he later received treat­"please stop." ment in Iran and in the The judge cut off Saddam's Netherlands, where he was grant­microphone when he ignored ed Dutch citizenship in 1994. orders to stop talking about how 
"Until now, I have sensitivity to lhe Kurds were allied with Iran in strong light and itches on my the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war. skin," he said, presenting affi­Saddam's cousin and fellow davits from Iranian and Dutch defendant, Ali al-Majid, who led hospitals affirming that he had the Anfal operation and was nick­suffered chemical injuries. named "Chemical Ali," argued 
Saddam challenged the testimo-that Iran, not Iraq, used chemi-cals against the Kurds. 

Before adjourning until Tuesday, the court heard from a second witness, Khunja Kaim Hassan, who testified that her husband went missing and her house was destroyed in the Anlal offensive. 
A defense lawyer challenged her testimony, saying her hus­band, Mahmoud Ilassan, died in 1985 not in 1988 as the widow testified. The chief judge said the court would verify the datn of her husband's death. 
Saddam is still awaiting a ver­dict on Oct. 16 in the first case against him -the 9-month-long trial over the killings of 148 Shiites in Dujail after a 1982 assassination attempt against him there. He and seven co-defen­dants could face the death penalty in that case. 
also described the Islamic commu­nity's violent reaction as contra­dictory to the religion's message. 
"The biggest irony is that a lot of acts of violence are sending the wrong impression about Islam," he said. "The culture of Islam and the culture in Islamic nations ­sometimes they arn very, very dif­feront. I think you have to look at cultural factors instead of reli­gious factors." 

evoke violence." 
And the events of the past week point to that distortion, Rougeau said. 
"We certainly can't interpret acts of violence committed by [cer­tain] Muslims ... as reflections of the general sympathies of the Muslim people," he said. 'There are always some very disturbed people who will do horrible things based on what they 
Despite backlash,  the the  "Here's the ironical  perceive to be an insult."  
pope is not out  thing  -what was the  Emphasizing the  
of touch with Islam, Appleby said. "Because he's  reaction in part ofthe Muslim world after this talk? Violence."  already elevated tensions and tem­pers in the Middle East, Rougeau said  
very careful, his  it was "not surpris­ 
statements up until last week have been very  Lawrence Cunningham theology professor  ing words can inflame people easi­ly."  
precise and well  "We need to be  
considered,"  much  more  pru­ 
Appleby said,  dent,Isuppose,and  

"which is one reason why people careful." he said. " ... I think the believe his statement last week pope and the Vatican need to was intentional." demonstrate that they're interest­
Benedict XVI has been working ed in maintaining a positive rela­to "establish a position toward tionship with Islam." Islam that is consistent with the Omar also called for a "renewed documents of the Second Vatican dialogue" that will "then bear fruit Council," he said. in a positive exchange between 
While Vatican II said the Muslims and Catholics to clarify Catholic Church has "correctly the issues that have been raised in interpreted the full and fmal reve­a more appropriate manner." lation of God and Jesus Christ," it But for the moment, it's hard to also "recognizes that other reli­tell when the passions will subside gions are from God and contain and when that dialogue will be important elements of truth," renewed, Appleby said. Appleby said. "Some of those ele­"The impact of these remarks ments are not fully developed in will be decided in part in how the Catholicism." Vatican responds in the near 
In keeping with that Vatican II future," he said. "Unfortunately, teaching, Appleby said, the pope Muslim-Christian dialogue has "seems to be putting forth the fol­suffered a setback." lowing consideration -[Islam] is a religion of goodness and peace that is being distorted by a minori­Contact Maddie Hanna at ty of its members who teach and mhannal@nd.edu 
TANZANIA 

Singer on trial for genocide lyrics 
Associated Press 
ARUSIIA, Tanzania -A renowned Hwandan singer went on trial Monday before a 
U.N. tribunal, accused of writ­ing lyrics that incited murders during the 1994 genocide in Hwanda. 
Simon Bikindi "chosn to use his fame to incite hatred," prosecutor Hassan Jallow said during opening statements before the International Criminal Tribunal for Hwanda. 
The sight of the singer on trial was unusual, but the key role of propaganda in the Hwandan genocide has been well-documented. In 2003, the 
U.N. tribunal convicted two broadcasters and a newspa­per editor of genocide, incite­ment to genoeide, crimes against humanity, and exter­mination and persecution because of information that was broadcast and printed. 
The organizers of the geno­cide that killed more than 500,000 people in 100 days used radio as a means of urg­ing 1-Iutu civilians to kill their Tutsi neighbors and direct the slaughter. 
"Between 1990 and 1994, Simon Bikindi composed, sang, recorded or distributed musical works extolling Hutu solidarity and accusing Tutsis of enslaving Hutus," the tribu­nal indictment stated. 
Jallow told The Associated Press that three of Bikindi's sqngs are at the heart of the trial, one of which calls on 1-Iutus to remember the sufTer­ing under the Tutsi monarchy. The others urge Hutus to remain united against the "Tutsi enemy" and to be vigi­lant. 
Bikindi, 52, has said he is innocent of the six counts of genocide and related charges. 
The genocide started hours after Rwandan President Juvenal Ilabyarimana's plane was mysteriously shot down over Kigali on April 6, 1994, as he returned home from peace talks with Tutsi-led rebels. 
Militants from the 1-Iutu eth­nic majority, known as intera­hamwe,, quickly set up road­blocks across Kigali and on April 7 began killing Tutsis and moderate Hutus. 
Bikindi is known for his work starting the Irindiro Ballet, famous for its blend of tribal singing and dancing. He also was an official in the Ministry of Youth and Sports in the 1980s. 
The U.N. tribunal, which does not impose the death penalty, has convicted 26 sus­pects and acquitted four. Trials are under way for 28 others. 


Tuesday, September 19 , 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
11,381.15 -1.76
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,058 145 1,211 2,065,272,530.00 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ)  +0.46  +0.18  38.91  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.81  +0.16  19.84  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.00  +0.10  5.09  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.1 s  -0.04  25.80  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -0.38  -0.0 I  2.63  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.42  -0.020  4.763  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.30  -0.0 IS  4.920  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.37  -0.018  4.912  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.46  -0.022  4.735  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.32  70.03  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.00  626.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  90.75  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.3950  
EURO  0.7796  
POUND  0.5251  
CANADIAN$  1.1088  

IN BRIEF 
Home buyers use agressive tactics 
NEW YORK -Not so long ago, home sellers used aggressive tactics to squeeze every last bit of profit from their home sales. Now that home sales are weakening, buyers have taken a page from the sellers' playbook, demanding everything from new appliances to no closing costs to upfront cash to get the deal done. 
In some cases, what they are doing is down and dirty -sellers have been asked to pay off buyer's credit-card debt, cover costs of the buyer's current home or even pay for the buyer's commuting costs from the new home. 
This kind of gamesmanship allows buyers to get the most for their money. It also reveals that the housing market's ugly side may be here to stay. 
The residential real estate market is cooling from its record-setting pace. New home sales are projected to fall about 16 percent in 2006, and existing home sales are forecast to dip 7.6 per­cent, according to the National Association of Realtors. Growth in home prices is expected to be minimal, coming in at less than 3 percent in 2006 and 2007. 
Media ownership study suppressed 
WASHINGTON -Sen. Barbara Boxer on Monday made public a second Federal Communications Commission study on media ownership that she says was shelved by agency officials. 
The FCC Media Bureau report analyzes the impact of deregulation in the radio industry. The report states that from March 1996 through March 2003, the number of commer­cial radio stations on the air rose 5. 9 percent while the number of station owners fell 35 percent. 
The intense concentration of ownership fol­lowed a 1996 rewrite of telecommunications law that eliminated a 40-station national own­ership cap. 
The report, apparently prepared in 2003, was never made public, nor have any similar analyses followed, despite the fact that radio industry reports were released in 1998, 2001 and 2002, said Boxer, D-Calif. 
Last week. Boxer released a draft of another FCC study, this one showing that media con­solidation leads to less local TV news cover­age. 
TlfE 0HSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Corporate leaders miss lessons 
Hewlitt-Packard scandal is the latest example ofcompanies playing the blame game 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Things go right in corporate America, and companies are quick to tout how dif­ferentiation gives them the competitive edge. Things go wrong, and suddenly they say they are just fol­lowing the pack. 
That's how Hewlett­
Packard Co.'s outside 
counsel initially tried to 
frame the board's snoop­
ing of confidential phone 
records through question­
able means. The methods 
used were common prac­
tice among investigators, 
he said. 

The same defense has 
been heard before, in the 
stock-options backdating 
scandal, the soaring pay 
packages for executives 
and more. 

They all seem to miss the point: Even if everyone else is doing it, that does­n't necessarily make it right. 
Parents have long been telling their kids that they can't stay out late just because their friends do. Some corporate leaders apparently missed that life lesson -and now must face the consequences. 
Such behavior caught up with the leaders of l-IP this week after the company was prodded into disclos­ing to federal securities probes into HP's actions. and within legal limits," l-IP has since acknowl­regulators that chair­California's attorney gen­according to an e-mail edged that its investigators woman Patricia Dunn had eral said company insiders exchange between the two should not have used pre­hired private investigators are likely to face criminal obtained by The texting -even if it went to look into leaks of board charges. Associated Press. on elsewhere. The mistake discussions. Much of this has become But that wasn't ali. In cost Dunn her chair­
The inquiry included the known because Silicon brushing off Perkins' wor­woman's spot at the com­use of "pretexting" in Valley venture capitalist ries three months ago, pany, though she will which private investiga­Tom Perkins quit the Sonsini noted in his e-mail remain a director when tors impersonated direc­board last spring in that pretexting was she steps down in January. tors and journalists to protest over such practices "apparently a common The "others do it" acquire their phone and then questioned the investigatory method, excuse has backfired else­records using Social legality of the private which was confirmed with where, too. Just look at Security numbers and investigators' tactics. experts." the more than 125 compa­other personal informa­Perkins raised his con­"It's an argument that's nies that are now facing tion. Although a common cerns to HP's outside really disturbing," said questions from regulators tactic among private counsel in June, but they Charles Elson, director of or prosecutors and those investigators, pretexting were largely dismissed by the Weinberg Center for holding their own reviews tests the bounds of Larry Sonsini, one of the Corporate Governance at about how they granted California law and caused most powerful lawyers in University of Delaware. "It options and whether prop­a brouhaha in corporate corporate America with a undermines investor confi­er disclosures were made circles over its ethics. huge roster of technology dence in the system ... if about what resulted in 
State and federal investi­companies as clients. they think that companies outsized and potentially gators along with Sonsini said that the are immune to standard illegal profits for many Congress have launched process was "well done corporate ethics." executives. 

Trade deficit nearing record levels 
Associated Press must borrow from foreigners to administration clings to the same 
cover the shortfall between exports failed policies." 
WASHINGTON -America's trade and imports. With just seven weeks left until the deficit increased in the spring to the Democrats called the widening of congressional elections, Democrats second highest level in history, the deficit further evidence that are hoping voter unhappiness with reflecting a big jump in payments for President Bush's free-trade policies the rising trade deficit will help them foreign oil and a deterioration in the have left American workers exposed win control of the House and Senate. country's investment position. to unfair trade competition and a For its part, the administration is 
The deficit in the U.S. current steep loss of manufacturing jos. resisting efforts to raise protectionist 
account rose to $218.4 billion in the "Since President Bush took office, barriers such as a bill sponsored by 
April-June quarter, an increase of 2.4 we have lost 3 million jobs and Sens. Charles Schumer, 0-N.Y., and 
percerit over the first three months of America's trade deficit in motor vehi­Lindsey Graham, H-S.C., that would 
the year, the Commerce Department cles has climbed by approximately 20 impose 27.5 pern'nt tariffs on all 
reported Monday. percent," said Rep. Marcy Kaptur, D­Chinese imports in retaliation for 
The current account is the broad­Ohio, a frequent critic of Bush's trade China's currency system. 
est measure of foreign trade. It cov­policies. U.S. manufacturers contend China 
ers not only trade in goods and serv­"The recent announcement by Ford is undervaluing jts currency by as 
ices but also investment flows Motor Co. of production cutbacks and much as 40 percent to make ChinesP 
between countries. The deficit repre­plant closings will only exacerbate goods cheaper than American prod­
sfmts the amount the United States the situation," she said. "Still, the ucts. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
NDtv 
continued from page 1 
The station will begin broad­casting its programming on campus cable channel 53 at 
10:00 p.m. tomorrow, follow­ing the premiere. 
Senior Adam Fairholm, who is NDtv's executive director, said he hopes the event brings a greater understanding of the University's "for students, by students" television sta­tion. 
NDtv began in 2002 as a project of the Film, Television and Theatre department as a bi-weekly, 30-minute variety show. 
Since then, it has grown into a multi-show station airing news, sports, comedy and entertainment review pro­grams. Previously, NDtv was broadcast on campus cable and was only available in dorm social spaces and other campus buildings. 
The station produces four shows -NDtv News, NDtv Sports, The Mike Peterson 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
issues of ethics in business. The lecture was entitled "What's Hot in Corporate Ethics." 
Thomas-Moore outlined the recent factors that have caused executives worldwide to clamor for increased transparency and accounta­bility in their businesses. 
The federal government introduced corporate sen­tencing guidelines in 1991, which were "the first com­prehensive set of self-polic­ing guidelines for compa­nies," Thomas-Moore said. 
The government amended the guidelines in 2004 following the wave of cor­
The New York Stock Exchange's new standards of corporate gover­nance derived from high-pro­file corruption cases, she said. Additionally, "the Securities and Exchange Commission now requires corporations to have a code of ethics which is posted on their webpage," Thomas­Moore said. 
Perhaps the legal corner­stone of the movement for ethics in business was the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which set or enhanced existing standards of corporate gov­ernance and ethics in 2002. 
Thomas-Moore said the issues companies face regarding business ethics are not unique in history but mirror similar questions that have arisen in the past, most notably after the Watergate scandal in the 1970s. 
"Ethics have not changed, and I don't think they ever will," she said, but· noted that specific concerns may differ by circumstance. 
Show (a late night comedy and interview show) and The Final Cut (an entertainment review program) -all of which will air weekly new episodes. 
In addition to the new mate­rial from this season, pro­gramming from the past three seasons will air during the day. 
"With comedy and enter­tainment, there is a backlog of material that hasn't been seen [by the majority of students]," Fairholm said. 
The station also will offer advertisement opportunities for campus-related events and organizations this year. Both the programs and commer­cials will remain Notre Dame­centered, Fairholm said. 
"A lot of college stations aren't university-specific," Fairholm said. "The priority for us is Notre Dame events." 
Fairholm is proud of the sta­tion's focus on and coverage of campus events. 
"For a college [organization] as young as we are, we have wide coverage on everything Notre Dame," Fairholm said. 
In the four years since its 
Thomas-Moore enumerated key issues that face ethics officers and businesses today. One set of issues targets companies working interna­tionally. 
"If a company does busi­ness in certain countries, [different ethical standards are] going to change their ethics program," she said. 
In France, for example, pri­vacy laws prohibit the use of hotlines to report violations of a company's code of ethics. Such hotlines are required by law in the United States. 
"This is not a result of the regulations, really. This is a result of globalization," Thomas-Moore said. 
Many companies have also raised the profile of their ethics departments, increas­ing their emphasis on risk assess­
porate scandals 'This is not a result ments and 
early in the metrics.
of the regulations, 
decade. "The bad 
"Even prior to really. This is a news is that Enron, there was result of the ethics some concern that officer is not
globalization. " 
the guidelines the most pop­weren't working ular person in as well as expect­Nancy Thomas-Moore the company," 
ed," Thomas­Director of Ethics and Thomas­Moore said. Moore said,
Business Conduct 
citing the role 
of the ethics 
department in 

calling uneth­ical business practices into question. 
Additionally, she said, cor­porations are turning to out­side sources to evaluate their practices and codes of ethics, as well for assistance in implementing new technolo­gies such as those involved in online training programs. 
"If you're .interested in a consulting career, this is an area that's growing like crazy," she said. 
Thomas-Moore also empha­sized the importance of a code of ethics focused global­ly, continuously under review and in line with employee training programs. 
In today's workplace, "hav­ing a code of ethics is not enough," she said. "Having the rules just doesn't cut it." 
To illustrate her point, Thomas-Moore provided examples from her own com­pany's ethics training pro­gram. Weyerhaeuser is a start, NDtv has nourished in both coverage and in partici­pation. With only about 14 students in 2002, NDtv now works with about 90 students. 
"Each show has its own crew," Fairholm said, adding that students are involved in every aspect of production. "We do all of our own work." 
"We have a sort of open door policy," NDtv News director Melinda Leonard said. "Students can get involved as much and as often as they want to." 
The station's leaders are hoping Wednesday's event and the wider availability of NDtv dorm rooms will increase awareness of the stu­dent-run station. 
"The optimal reaction, right now, is a reaction," said Fairholm, noting that most students are currently unaware of what NDtv offers. 
"Having the student body know about NDtv and making it a part of campus media" is a primary goal of the station's fourth season.. Fairholm said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
large transnational corpora­tion in the pulp and paper industry that employs more than 50,000 people world­wide. 
The Berges Lecture Series is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and the Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide. The next lecture in the series will be entitled "No Smoke, No Mirrors. Straight Down the Middle," and will take place Sept. 27. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
E. coli 
continued from page 1 
Among the persons reported ill, 53 percent were hospital­ized, 16 percent developed a type of kidney failure and an adult in Wisconsin died. 75 per­cent of the cases were female and 5 percent were children under 5 years old, according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). 
Ninety-two percent of the cases arose between Aug. 19 and Sept. 5, the CDC reported. 
Since E. coli has been found in various locations throughout the country, all "uncooked spinach is in question," Prentkowski said. 
The FDA has traced the con­taminated spinach to pro­

duce grown in "We will not service 
include: the Salinas until the United California,
Valley, Calif. 
Connecticut,

States Department of
area. Nearly 74 Idaho. Illinois, 
percent of the Agriculture states 
Indiana,fresh-market that it is safe to do Kentucky, Maine, 
spinach in the Michigan,
so.
U.S. comes from 
Minnesota,California, 
Nebraska, New 

according to the David Prentkowski Mexico, Nevada,
Associated Press. Director of Food New York, Ohio,"In cases like 0 r e g o n ,
Services
this, national communications make us aware of the issue so that we can react as quickly as possible," Prentkowski said. 
The recent outbreak is the latest in a string of "19 food­poisoning outbreaks since 1995" linked to lettuce and spinach, the AP reported. 
Though federal health offi­cials said Monday that tamper­ing is not suspected, they will continue to probe for the source of the contamination -and continue to warn against eating fresh spinach products. 
"We will not service until the United States Department of 

Agriculture  states  
that  it  is  safe  to  do  so,"  
Prentkowski said.  

Though no cases have been reported on campus, there has been one case reported in the county, Prentkowski said, though it is not affiliated with Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame has strict sanita­tion and food handling proce­dures to try to avoid such situa­tions. To provide program assurance, Prentkowski said the University also has a safety manager on staff. 
Prentkowski said E. coli is no more prevalent in spinach than it is a variety of fruits and veg­etables. 
"It is just important that everyone in the supply process follows the strict sanitation and food safety processes that are in place," Prentkowski said. 
States report­ing cases 
Pennsylvania, 

Utah, Virginia, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming, according to the CDC. 
U.S. 
spinach is also distrib­uted throughout Mexico and Canada. 

E. 
coli in spinach can be killed by cooking at 160 degrees Fahrenheit for 15 seconds, according to the CDC. Persons who "develop diarrhea after consuming fresh spinach or salad blends containing fresh spinach are urged to contact their health care provider." 


Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
AFGHANISTAN 
NATO victory spurs bombing 
4 Canadian soldiers and at least 15 Afghans killed Monday 
HUNGARY 

Violence follow-s anti­govermnent protests 

Associated Press 
KAFIR BAND -Three bomb­ings killed at least 19 people across Afghanistan on Monday, including four Canadian soldiers in an attack that tested NATO's claim of success in driving insur­gents from this volatile southern region. 
The deadliest attack, in the usu­ally calm western city of Herat, killed 11 people and wounded 18 including the deputy police chief, officials said. Initially, officials said it was a suicide attack by a mili­tant strapped with explosives and riding a motorbike. 
But Afghan President Hamid Karzai, speaking later Monday in New York where he was attend­ing the U.N. General Assembly, said it was not a suicide attack as initial reports indicated. Karzai did not elaborate on how the attack did take place in his remarks to the Asia Society. 
"It was not a suicide attack as I know now," he said. 
A suicide car bombing in the capital Kabul killed at least four policemen and wounded one offi­cer and 10 civilians. 
Afghanistan has been suffering the heaviest insurgent attacks since the Taliban was toppled in late 2001, and the bombings came a day after NATO ended a two-week offensive against Taliban fighters in this region that the commander called a "signifi­cant success." 
"It does appear that they are resorting to these despicable tac­tics after the pressure we have them under in their strongholds," a NATO spokesman, Maj. Luke Knittig, said in Kabul. 
In Ottawa, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper praised the lost soldiers. 
"It's a tough mission, but the men and women of the Canadian Forces sign on for tough missions if they know they can do good in the world -that's what they're doing and ... they have the absolutely unwavering support of their government," he said. 
NATO said 25 civilians also were wounded in the blast in Kafu Band, a clutch of mud-brick homes surrounded by grape and pomegranate orchards. 
"Fifty to 60 soldiers were patrolling on the main street when a man on a bicycle stopped and blew himself up near the forces," said Fazel Mohammed, a farmer who lives near the blast site. 
The explosion tore through the Canadian patrol, shredding uni­forms and military equipment. Blood soaked into the dusty road, and the bomber's legs ended up near a gold-colored military patch torn from a soldier's uniform. 
Four helicopters hovered over the village, and at least two land­ed to retrieve the wounded and dead soldiers, Mohammed said. 
"This attack amounts to a seri­ous violation of international humanitarian law," said Tom Koenigs, the top U.N. official in Afghanistan. 
The commander of NATO forces in Afghanistan, Lt. Gen. David Richards, said the attack took place as Canadian troops were arranging aid, reconstruction and development for villagers in the district, which suffered heavy damage during the NATO offen­sive. 
At least 36 Canadian soldiers have been killed in Afghanistan since 2002. Five died during Operation Medusa, in which NATO estimated it killed at least 510 insurgents with airstrikes and ground assaults. 
On Sunday, Richards called Operation Medusa a success and said NATO had reclaimed crucial territory from the Taliban. 
Most of the village's 25 families fled the fighting and only the des­perately poor stayed behind, Mohammed said. 
"Taliban were in this village before, but now there are fewer remaining," said another villager, shopkeeper Jan Mohammed. "But if you kill 100 or 1,000 Taliban, another 1,000 will come to con­tinue the fighting." 
Most of the recent surge in vio­lence has occurred in southern provinces. 
NATO commanders say they need 2,500 more soldiers, plus greater air support, to crush the Taliban threat more quickly. 
Reacting to the recent spree of western attacks, Afghan and for­eign troops launched an opera­tion Monday in Farah, where a dozen Taliban and police were killed by insurgent raids last week. 
Operation Wyconda Pincer involves Afghan soldiers and police along with U.S., Italian and Spanish troops, NATO said. 
"This operation is in response to a growing number of terrorist acts that have occurred in recent weeks," said Cdr. Michael Horan, a NATO official in Farah. 
Associated Press 
BUDAPEST -Protesters clashed with police and stormed the headquarters of state television early Tuesday, responding with violence to a leaked recording that caught Hungary's prime minister admitting the government "lied morning, evening and night" about the economy. 
Rescue services said at least 50 people were injured as police fired tear gas and water cannon at rock-throwing pro­testers, who have been demanding the government resign. 
The violence followed a mainly peaceful demonstration that began a day earlier out­side parliament, after a record­ing made in May was leaked to local media. On it, Socialist Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany admitted officials lied about government finances to win April's elections. 
Despite the surge in violence involving dozens of the protest­ers, Gyurcsany said that he had no plans to resign. 
Socialist members of parlia­ment voted unanimously to support him and the govern­ment called for an emergency session of the cabinet for Tuesday morning. 
As the crowd grew by Monday night to more than 10,000, according to an esti­mate by MTI, several hundred broke away and marched over to the nearby headquarters of state television, demanding to deliver a statement in a live broadcast. 
While most of demonstrators watched, a few dozen broke through police lines and into the TV headquarters. 
Police tried to disperse them with water cannon sprays but the truck was quickly disabled by the rioters, some of whom escorted the police officers operating the vehicle to safety. Several cars near the TV build­ing were set on fire, their flames scorching the building. 
Adding spice to the scandal, Gyurcsany's comments were full of crude remarks and called into doubt the abilities of some of Hungary's most respected economic experts. 
"We screwed up. Not a little, a lot," Gyurcsany was heard saying. "No European country has done something as bone­headed as we have." 

The prime minister also told colleagues the government needed to end its duplicitous ways. 
"I almost died when for a year and a half we had to pre­tend we were governing. Instead, we lied morning, evening and night. I don't want to do this anymore," he told his fellow Socialists. 
Confronted with initial excerpts of the 25-minute recording, which Hungarian state radio posted on its Web site Sunday, Gyurcsany not only acknowledged their authenticity but seemed relieved they had been made public -leading to speculation that the leak came from sources close to him. 
"It deflates pent-up tensions regarding the reforms and ... can be used to support the gov­ernment's position that they are urgent and inevitable," said political analyst Zoltan Kiszelly. 
Gyurcsany appeared on two live television shows Sunday night, trying to turn the focus of the debate away from his government and into a wider discussion about the failings of Hungary's political elite since the 1990 end of communism. 
He also defended his foul language, saying it had been used in the context of a meet­ing of friends and colleagues and that he was proud of his "passionate speech." 
The real issue in Hungarian politics today is not who lied and when, but who is able to put an end to this ... who can face up to the lies and half­truths of the past 16 years," Gyurcsany wrote in a Sunday night entry of his blog, intro­ducing a lengthy transcript of his May speech. 
"The lies are the sins of the whole Hungarian political elite." 
But on Monday the political mood was against Gyurcsany. Opposition parties demanded his resignation, while President Laszlo Solyom chastised the prime minister for "knowingly" jeopardizing people's faith in democracy and asked Gyurcsany to publicly recog­nize his error. 
SWEDEN 
Leader resigns after 12 years 
Associated Press 
STOCKHOLM Prime Minister Goran Persson submit­ted his resignation Monday fol­lowing the defeat of his Social Democrats in weekend elections, an outcome that ended 12 years of leftist rule. 
With 99.7 percent of districts counted, the four-party opposi­tion alliance led by Fredrik Reinfeldt had 48.1 percent of the votes, compared with 46.2 per­cent for the Social Democrats and their two supporting parties. 
The victorious center-right alliance is promising only to tin­ker with the welfare state -but some believe their efforts toward lower taxes and more flexible labor rules could herald a deeper shift toward market liberaliza­tion. 
"This is a historic change for Sweden, it's a real break­through," said Anna Maria Corazza Bildt, a local Moderate politician and wife of former con­servative Prime Minister Carl Bildt. "People were tired of the Social Democrats." 
The vote's big winner was prime minister-designate Reinfeldt, whose Moderate Party rebounded strongly from a weak result in 2002. 
Reinfeldt, 41, will form a coali­tion government backed by a parliamentary majority of 178 
· seats in the 349-member Riksdag. He declined to say how the four parties would divvy up Cabinet posts after their first talks Monday. The center-right alliance pledged moderate tax cuts, espe­cially for low-income families, trimming unemployment benefits and selling off state assets in big companies. But experts expected Sweden's overall tax pressure to remain high and did not expect the big system change that Persson warned of in the elec­tion. 

-----------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
Know your enemy
The hukpen~ Ddily New.pajln' Serving Notre Dame and Saim.Mary-'s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara
, 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 

Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MAltY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

1'he ~(USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday through Fri&y cxe(:pt d!Wng exam and vacarirm periods. A .suklcripcion m The Observer is. $100 for one academic year; $55 fur one semestt:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining HaU Send.addres5 correcrions m: Notre Dame,. IN 4655~779 The Observer P.eriodical pomge paid ar Notre Dame: P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 
The Obscrv~r is a member ofthe Assoclat.c:d Press. All ,reproducrion rights: are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Mary Kate Kyle Cassily Malone Jay Fitzpatrick 
Katie Kohler Deirdre Krasula Viewpoint Scene Joey King Analise Lipari 
Graphics Jeff Albert 

Over the past few weeks, a number of readers have submitted letters to The Observer regarding their opinions on whether or not Muslims are "civilized" and how the West should interact with the Muslim world. Since September 11th, Americans have exhibited a wide range of thoughts on the matter, from Moveon.org's 2001 letter of opposition to the war against the Taliban, to random acts of hatred against patriotic Muslims in the United States. As Notre Dame students and educated citizens, we must demarcate the distinction between the religion of Islam and the political ideology of Islamism, particu­larly radical Islamism. Understanding this difference and the underpinnings of Islamism is critically important to the determination of American strategy in the War on Terror. 
The religion of Islam, as with other major world religions, contains diverse interpretations and schools of thought. Since the 2003 liberation of Iraq, most Americans have heard of the Shi' a and Sunni branches of Islam, but there are also a number of subgroups within Shi'a and Sunni Islam. These include Progressive Islam (also known as Ijtihadism), Wahhabism and Sufism. One of these schools, Wahhabism -com­monly referred to as Islamic fundamen­talism in the West -has provided most of the adherents to radical Islamism, which uses an interpretation of Islam from the first three generations after Muhammad as the foundation for a dis­tinct political ideology. 
According to Professor Bassam Tibi of Gottingen University, "Islamic funda­mentalists challenge and undermine the secular order of the body politic and aim to replace it by a divine order, the so­called hakimiyyat Allah. The order they envisage is not simply a domestic one, 

Jonathan Klingler 
Forward the Revolution 
but the foundation for the new world order they expect to mount in place of the existing one." Radical Islamists, such as Sayyid Qutb and Sayyid Abul A'la Maududi, have the goal of creating a global Islamic state and a universal Islamic social order which would super­sede the personal religious adherence of individuals. In addition, radical Islamism is similar to Communism and Nazism in the sense that all three ide­ologies separate society into "desirable" and "undesirable" groups, based on class, race or religion, respectively. Islamism is a coherent political ideology which is quite distinct from Islam itself, and its followers are committed to a goal which cannot be fulfilled as long as liberalism thrives inthe United States or anywhere else in the world. 
According to Gilles Kepel, author of ''Jihad: The Trail of Political Islam," radical Islamism began its ascent in the early 1970s with the demise of Arab nationalism as the dominant ideology in the Muslim world. At this time, the region experienced a rapid increase in the number of educated and unem­ployed young people alongside growing middle class frustration with the control that the military or royal families had over economic opportunity in many Middle Eastern states. The ideas of Islamist intellectuals such as Qutb and Maududi offered the poor the possibility of social revolution, and the middle classes the promise of seizing economic control from the ruling elite. 
The continuing attraction of Islamism to the marginalized elements of the Middle East is based on the failure of most Arab states to create effective political structures, build broad-based economies and foster technological innovation. Newsweek columnist Fareed Zakaria wrote that "the gulf govern­ments offered their people a bargain: we will bribe you with wealth, but in return let us stay in power. It was the inverse slogan of the American revolu­tion -no taxation, but no representa­tion either." As long as the governments of the Middle East operate by this bar­gain, the soil will be rich for Islamism to take root and terrorism will bloom. 
Without the components of liberalism implemented in Middle Eastern nations, Islamism will continue to be an influen­tial factor in budding democracies if not the dominant ideology. As Zakaria writes, "It turns out that modernization takes more than strongmen and oil money. Importing foreign stuff­Cadillacs, Gulfstreams and McDonald's -is easy. Importing the inner stuffings of modern society -a free market, political parties, accountability and the rule of law-is difficult and danger­ous." Liberal democracies have been forced into fighting an ideological war with Islamist terrorism, as the current administration has currently stated, unfortunately it will not be won by hold­ing elections alone but by fostering the foundations of liberalism abroad. 
According to experts like Tibi, Kepel and Zakaria, the people of the Middle East desire economic opportunity, gov­ernmental accountability and open soci­eties, and their frustrations have led many to Islamism as a last resort. Liberalism has accomplished these things for such diverse societies as Japan, India, Germany and Costa Rica, and can do so in Iraq, Afghanistan and the greater Middle East if the world's liberal democracies have the will to sup­port the creation of liberal institutions throughout the Arab world. American measures which foster open markets, a free press and the development of strong political institutions in currently autocratic states will be far more suc­cessful in combating Islamist terrorism than by establishing elections alone. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior manage­ment consulting major and the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan Hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted via e-mail at jklingle@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Papal apology unnecessary 
I question whether the Muslim world merited an apology from Pope Benedict for quoting from an ancient Byzantine emperor. After all, Muslim leaders around the world dis­torted the larger message he sought to communicate. With his speech in Germany, Benedict set out to condemn reli­giously motivated violence. His unmistakable message was a summons to interreligious dialogue based on reason, respect and reconciliation. 
One may wonder if Benedict will demand an apology from the Muslim cleric who compared him to Hitler, a comparison so ludicrous as to be dismissed with the con­tempt it so richly deserves. Still another Muslim cleric (Sheik Abubakar Hassan Malin), referring to the Pope, was quoted in Sunday's New York Times as saying: "Whoever offends our Prophet Mohammed should be killed on the spot." And sure enough, apparently in response to the Sheik's entreaty, an Italian missionary nun was dutifully killed on the spot in Somalia. Who in the Muslim world will apologize for this atrocity? 
One can only wonder why Muslim leaders capable of mobilizing such anger at Benedict for a mere literary lapse seem to mute their voices when confronted with religiously motivated violence in their own backyards. Where are the Muslim voices of outrage against suicide bombers who indiscriminately murder men, women and children, against calls for the destruction of Israel, against radical clerics who preach a religious duty to kill Americans and other "infidels," against Shiites and Sunnis who butcher each other on the streets of Baghdad and against those Muslims who speak generally in the lan­guage of revenge and retribution, all in the name of Allah? 
Their silence is deafening. 
Donald P. Kommers professor Political Science and Law Sept. 18 
OBSERVER POLL 

How will Notre Dame finish the football season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A short saying oft contains much wisdom. " 
Sophocles Greek dramatist 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Quality of life matters 
No piece of student writing has ever made me sadder than the column "Quality of Work Matters" which appeared in the Sept. 11 edition of The Observer. The author attacks the idea of wages being determined by the govern­ment rather than by employers and employees in a "free market." His clear intention is to discredit the Campus Labor Action Project, a collaborative movement among Notre Dame students, staff and faculty to advocate for a fair wage for University employees. The Project is based on the idea that without collective action to ensure just compen­sation, laborers have little power vis-a­vis their employer. 
The author supports his argument with the fantasy that "there is an inti­mate connection between the value one produces and the wage one is paid." While this may hold true in perfect­world neoclassical economic models, where wages are determined by the marginal product of labor, there are myriad real-world examples to discredit this na"ive assertion. For example, gar­ment workers stitching identical types of clothing in Mexico and the United States are paid very different wages, even though their products are sold for the same prices in the same markets. Critics may argue that this just reflects different levels of productivity between Mexican and American workers, but it is clear that wages paid to workers depend on a lot more than the value of what they produce. Historical conditions of a coun­try, structural conditions of an industry and the kind of alternative forms of employment for workers all contribute to determining wage levels. 
Adam Smith's labor theory of value argues that a link exists between the labor inputs of a commodity and the value of that commodity on the market. Even if the labor theory of value is accepted as valid, it does not automati­cally support the assertion that wages are intimately connected to the value of one's work. Within the capitalist system, those who own the means of production earn a profit through the appropriation of a portion of their workers' labor. It is in every capitalist's best interests to pay as low as wage as possible so as to cap­ture the highest profits. There is not an intimate connection between the value of a laborer's production and the wage paid for that labor. Rather than pay workers for the full value of their labor, employers have every incentive to squeeze profits out of their workers. 
Low wages may reflect an unfortunate abundance of low-skilled labor on the market. However, an excess labor supply does not justify paying wages so low that those wages cannot sustain the workers earning them, no matter what intro eco­nomics textbooks may say. If a flood of labor came onto the market in South Bend, would the inherent worth of any individual's work suddenly decrease? Should we value an individual less because there are others who could do the same work?. 
Consider college graduates who look for jobs in May. The influx of new grads into the market in the spring certainly pushes wages down. However, this does­n't mean that anyone has become less productive or inherently worth less. 
If market-determined wages are so low that workers can't afford to raise a family, this sends a clear signal to those workers. It tells them that their worth is so low that they don't deserve to even live in the community. Krueger and Card found that when workers earning low wages had their wages raised, their pro­ductivity rose and employment actually increased (Foundation for Economic Education, 1999). With this in mind, it is unfortunate that the author of "Quality of Work Matters" scoffs at any non-mar­ket mechanism for increasing wages. In addition, he asserts that raising wages to the minimum level of$12.10 per hour would represent an increase in wages of over 100 percent. His assumption that workers are starting from $5.15 is sim­ply wrong. Many workers earn $8-10 per hour, and the increase to $12.10 would likely not have the elasticity effects he claims. 
The author bashes minimum wage laws as an "insult to human dignity," arguing that most low-level jobs do not produce much of value and should therefore not be paid much. Instead of turning to the "arbitrary" social policy of a minimum wage, he proclaims, workers should seek "honestly negotiated com­pensation" for their work. He celebrates the capitalist system of voluntary con­tracts while conveniently ignoring the problems of inequality and injustice within capitalism. In reality, the unequal power relationships between workers and employers mean that workers rarely have the means to negotiate honest com­pensation without organizations like labor unions or the Campus Labor Action Project to contribute to collective action. 
The University of Notre Dame is one of the best employers around. The University is certainly doing a lot of things right in looking after its workers. This does not mean it is perfect, though. If the University has the resources to set up a special taskforce to investigate something like off-campus crime, it must have the resources to examine the living wage issue seriously. Until then, I hope it will not be swayed by the myth that any "artificial" increase in wages will auto­matically be a net bad for her workers and for the University. 
Colleen Mallahan senior off-campus Sept. 18 

Fan etiquette questioned in loss 
Student section surpasses norm 
I'd like to know what area of the senior section Megan ~aulsen was in this past Saturday, but I sure don't remember seeing a mass exodus of "senior after sen­ior leaving the game before half­time," or a near silent student section that she claims existed for "the majority of the game." Yes, I did observe a handful of seniors leaving around the forth quarter. And yes, I did notice our section, as well as myself, grow quieter as the game wore on. However, the senior section did not paint the picture of apathy that Paulsen would like people to believe. 
I was very fortunate to have my family come in for the game and be able to have my sister, who attends Auburn, in the stu­dent section. I wanted to show my family, especially my sister, what Notre Dame football was all about, and the unique experi­ence that is our senior section. In the fourth quarter, while some of the seniors left, my sister was shocked the majority of us still remained, saying: "At Auburn, nearly all of the students would have left a long time ago." The other members of my family where also impressed that the majority of us still remained to support our team. 
Paulsen seems to forget the majority of seniors that still stayed for the game, or perhaps she confused us all with the thousands upon thousands of Notre Dame fans outside the stu­dent section that left early. She also seems to forget that our stu-
Not fans' best showing 


dropped passes or missed tackles. As a lifelong Notre Dame fan, I love to believe that our team and coaches are god-like creatures, but they are nonetheless mere mortals, capable of human error. 
Brady Quinn is one of the best quarterbacks Notre Dame has ever had, but he is not, as is no one, perfect. Although I'm positive Evan Sharpley is a fme quarterback, to make a com­ment that Brady should be sitting is just asinine. I challenge anyone in the stands who thinks they can do better to put on a helmet and pads and show the 80,000-plus fans that you are. 
Finally, your job as a Notre Dame fan is to cheer for our football team, through good times and bad. When you walk into that stadium, wearing Notre Dame attire, you are represent­ing the entire University fan base. At the Penn State pep rally, Tom Zbikowski got the crowd fired up by exclaiming that the media does not feel that we, the fans, are loud enough and challenged us to prove them wrong. Until last Saturday, I defended the Notre Dame fan base. Now, however, I must change my tune. Although I realize there is still a large number of fans who proudly and greatly support the team, the few "fair-weather" fans in the stadi­um only weakened our argument that we are one of the best fan bases. 
Whether it was fans complaining or students leaving early, Saturday was not the fans' best showing. Thus, as a Notre Dame student and a proud supporter of Irish Football, I challenge the alumni, the students and all those who claim to be Notre Dame fans, to actually be fans when Purdue comes here on Sept. 30. I hope for few complaints and pray that our fans will stay until the end. Please show our team the utmost respect and support. The players deserve it. 
Chris Saracco 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Sept. 17 


----------------------------------------. THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
FASHION SPOTLIGHT 
'Olympus fashion week' features new looks 
Designers unveil spring couture in downtown New York 



Anna Sui's spring collection reflected the movement towards more organic design. 
courtesy I Diane von Furstenberg's new line clued into the recent trend in loose-fitting garments. 

By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Writer 

Twice a year, the city of New York brings together the world's leading fashion designers for seven days of full-on fashion festivities. Think of fashion week as the "Super Bowl" of American fashion. It's an opportuni­ty for designers to unveil their cre­ations before the arrival of each fall and spring season. Olympus Fashion Week, named for its sponsor, is held each time in the heart of Midtown Manhattan. Enormous white tents fill the lawn of Bryant Park, which is conveniently located near Vogue's Times Square headquarters. 
Access to every show is exclusive and comes by invitation only. Invitees generally include journalist and buyers or celebrities and socialites. Fortunately for non-A-list fashionistas, previews of the collec­tions are posted via magazine web­sites such as style.com and elle.com. While some designers have begun to take the non-traditional route of showroom displays, most still prefer the excitement of runway shows. 
Most fashion enthusiasts will find Marc Jacobs to be one of the most impressive and original runways. Not only was his catwalk construct­ed to look something like that of a freshly mowed spring lawn, but his clothes were the embodiment of spring -playful and lively. Although the use of pastel polka dots and stripes is typical, his eye for layering makes it look far from traditionaL Fans of the designer should preview his larger collection over the smaller "Marc by Marc" collection. While Jacobs' feature collection is substan­tially pricier, it is considerably more innovative. 
Vera Wang's show proved to be another exceptional display. Attempting layers in a different way, she constructed eye-catching ensembles with translucent layers and original shapes. The unity of delicate fabrics and richly romantic colors was the epitome of elegance. 
This year's Spring 2007 collections featured a general aura of female independence and youthful ele­gance. Modest yet distinctly femi­nine clothing left much to the imagi­nation as nothing was particularly fQrm fitting. Liberation for the aver­age woman came at last, as design­ers constructed organic, non-restric­tive pieces flattering to most shapes and sizes. Romantic details paired with structured basics and a punk­like edge modernized previous run­away looks. 
Some aspects of spring came with little novelty, as -surprise, surprise -whites pervaded the looks for 2007. Keeping things clean cut, black and white was an obvious combination choice for designers such as Vena Cava and Luella. There also appeared to be a collec­tive use of white with metallic shades of gold and platinum. The most noticeable examples of this look was presented in the Ralph Lauren show. Metallic brocade skirts and slim cropped pants could easily translate from early day to evening. 
Other color palettes included muted tones of creams and grey or soft pastels like the soft canary yel­low used throughout Alice Roi's col­lection. Shorts as well remained an obvious spring staple, but "hot pant" opponents could rejoice over the variety of lengths and sizes. Taken long or short, designers frequently implemented cuffs to create the impression of maturity. 
Other commonly used details included the use of worldly prints and ruffies. Necklines were general­ly s.cooped as opposed to collared, and waistlines were generally tied as opposed to belted. Pants moved from pencil thin to wide-leg linen, while high-waisted trousers were styled with silk blouses. 
Jumpers, rompers and frocks translated from fall, while knee­length pleats created a new look for spring. Tent dresses were paired with lanky .cardigans, and volume remains critical as bubble skirts stuck around for one more season. Finally, feminine ensembles created a dancer-like elegance, and layering remained the mark of fashion know­how. 
The excitement from fashion week is far from over. Beginning next month, magazines will move away from fall fashions to showcase spring collections and trends. Winter has yet to arrive, but with last week's fashion festivities, who can help but look forward to the upcom­ing spring? 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
courtesy 

Kenneth Cole's new collection featured structured suits and classic black accents. 

The latest in the "Marc by Marc Jacobs" line continued to feature layers in its ensembles. 
At left, Hollywood starlet Lindsay Lohan, center, attends a designer's latest show at the recent Olympus Fashion Week in New York City with her mother, right, and a friend. At right, Hilary Duff, left, observes with boyfriend Joel Madden, center, and singer Lee-Ann Rhimes. Celebrities often attend designers' new runway shows. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
-

Ratner weakens trilogy with final chapter 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Hollywood producers usually stick to and exploit the adage of not having enough of a good thing. In the case of "X-Men: The Last Stand" ("X3"), producers may have changed the adage entirely -"You can't have enough of something that used to be good, so long as it makes money." 
A disappointing third act to a promising comic book series, the "X3" DVD fails to deliver in almost every aspect. This begins with the film itself, which is directed by Brett Ratner ("Rush Hour," "Red Dragon"). Ratner took over the series from the direc­tor of the first two X-Men films, Bryan Singer, who left to direct "Superman Returns." Unfortunately, the decision to hire Ratner turned out to be a step in the wrong direction and greatly impacted the film. 
"X3" follows the Marvel Comics mutants Wolverine (Hugh Jackman), Storm (Halle Berry) and Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart) as they grapple with a newly discovered cure for mutation. The implications this stirs up cause their enemy, Magneto (Ian McKellan), to begin a war over the possible eradication of all mutants. 
This war pits mutants and humans against each other in a typical "fight to the seems like it's trying to emulate a poor Broadway musical. 

In other words, everything here is too over the top, lacking any genuine sense or subtlety that should be present in a film. This appears to be part of the reason why "X3," in spite of earning $445 million worldwide, was still viewed as a massive underachievement. 
Perhaps due to the poor quality of the film, but more likely because of the film's tepid reception in theaters, the rest of the materials on the "X3" DVD are under­whelming. 
For dedicated fans, a director's commen­tary provides interesting tidbits of informa­tion, but items like these do not usually impress the masses. Deleted scenes and three alternate endings fill out the meager offering of special features and make for a disappointing DVD release. 
Not surprisingly, the end of "X-Men: The Last Stand" leaves open the possibility for more sequels and prequels. Hollywood pro­ducers seem to want more of what has now, thanks to a poor third film and poorer DVD, become a bad thing. 
Time will tell if the X-Men series can ­regain its balance and stand tall once more. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 


death" epic battle of good against evil. The special effects here and in other large scenes are impressive and shine as one of the few bright spots of the movie. The visu­al scope of Ratner's movie certainly does not lack imagination. 
Unfortunately, the rest of Ratner's film fails to live up to the lofty expectations placed upon it. "X3" has a complicated plot that relies heavily on prior knowledge of the previous "X-Men" movies. Additionally, many new mutant characters from the comic books are introduced and integrated into the "X-Men" universe. However, a 104­minute runtime does not help either of these causes. 
The plot ends up becoming too convolut­ed to follow, and the overabundance of characters means that no single mutant can have enough screen time to display emotion or character growth. This is espe­cially true for main characters Wolverine and Storm. 
In addition to their paltry screen time, Berry and Jackman suffer from poor direc­tion from Ratner and too often seem forced to spew out corny cliches and one-liners. In effect, they take several steps backwards from the character arcs they displayed in the first two movies. 
Other characters like the villain Mystique (Rebecca Romijn), who are arguably more interesting than many of the new mutants, 
are completely 
shoved to the side 
for the sake of 
introducing as 
many characters as 
possible. 
In addition, the 
entire film -from 
the cinematogra­
phy and script to 
costuming straight 
out of "Rent" ­
DVD REVIEW 
'Lake House' leaves audiences unsatisfied 
distance romance that knows no barriers, but it is unsuccessful in this attempt. The glass lake house represents the emptiness and isolation in the protagonists' lives, but it could also represent the emptiness of the movie. Something is amiss, and it very well may be the characters themselves. Alex and Kate are such sad, morose human beings that it's difficult to see why they are attract­ed to each other. Perhaps it's best that they fall in love through letter-writing because if they appeared to each other face to face, they would be thoroughly depressed after a few minutes of conversation. Smiles are rare and laughter is non-existent. The char­acters lack the chemistry that would be imperative for a normal relationship, but fortunately for them, this deficiency is dis­guised in flowery language and moving anecdotes. 
The DVD extras are sparse, with five deleted scenes, outtakes and a the­atrical trailer. Clearly a box office bomb, producers wasted no time making the DVD anything special. However, an expla­nation of what led Bullock and Reeves to make this movie, out of all othPrs, 
would have been worthwhile. 
Truth be told, the movie would not be as disappointing if it had starred other actors. This Bullock-Reeves reunion appeared out of thin air and did not pack the same hype 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Bombs on buses equal movie magic for Sandra Bullock and· Keanu Reeves. Houses on lakes do not. In the duo's follow-up to 1994's thriller "Speed," the two fail to recre­ate the chemistry from their electrifying bus-ride and instead float through a melan­choly romance with mind-numbing plot twists and a shared canine. 
Argentinean director Alejandro Agresti cannot be blamed for Reeve.s' typical wood­en performance, but the movie itself defies all logic of the time-space continuum. Kate (Bullock) is a lonely doctor living in 2006. Alex (Reeves) is a lonely architect living in 2004. They both live in the same glass lake house. Through the intervention of a magi­cal mailbox of love and the aforementioned dog they 
apparently share, the two begin a correspon­dence and form an emo­tional bond as they empathize with the other's mis­

ery. This bond turns to love, but it seems impossible that the two will ever meet. Throw in a plot twist here and there, and all logic collapses. Get past this, and the film can be enjoyable. 
"The Lake House" aims to be a true long-as its predecessor did. Naturally, no one was expecting to recapture the glory of "Speed," especially with a straight-up romance, but the fact that it is Bullock and Reeves in this movie sets it up for an even bigger fall. The pair would have been wiser to choose a vehicle similar to that of "Speed," but the damage is now done and it is doubtful that the two will act together again after this failure. 

Even with the lack of chemistry and absence of logic, "The Lake House" has potential to be saved. However, a pre­dictable ending coupled with an impossible plot dooms the movie from the beginning. But the glass lake house Ls pretty to look at, and so is Bullock. Even in a flop, the actress appeals to audiences, letting us root for Alex and Kate to end up together, if only to see Bullock flash a dazzling smile. However, "The Lake House" has too many inconsis­tencies, and no amount of Sandra Bullock can turn it into a memorable and com­pelling romance. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
-

\ 
MLB -AL WRAPS 
Millwood cruises past Mariners in 8-1 victory 
-
Texas starter allows one run in seven innings to earn 16th win of the year; Young has third straight multi-hit game 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 

Associated Press  Felix Hernandez (11-14).  
Seattle's 20-year-old right-han­ 
ARLINGTON, Texas-Kevin  der in his second season,  
Millwood allowed one run over  matched his season high with  
seven innings for his 16th vic­ nine strikeouts in five innings,  
tory and Michael Young had his  but he gave up four runs and  
third straight multi-hit game in  five hits.  
the Texas Rangers' 8-1 victory  After No. 2 hitter Adrian  
over the Seattle Mariners on  Beltre had a single in the first,  
Monday night.  Millwood didn't allow another  
Millwood (16-10) won his  hit until Raul Ibanez led off the  
fourth straight game at home,  seventh with a double -a  
where he struggled early in the  liner that bounced off the  
season '\fter the Rangers  extended glove of Matthews,  
signed the free agent to a $60  the All-Star center fielder.  
million, five-year deal. It is the  Millwood allowed four hits  
fourth time the right-hander  with four strikeouts and two  
has won 16 games, the most  walks. He is 4-0 with a 2.40  
since he was 18-8 for Atlanta  ERA his last four home appear­ 
in 2002.  ances, and is scheduled to start  
Young went 2-for-4 with his  the Rangers' home finale  
49th double to increase his  Sunday. He lost his first two  
major league-leading total to  starts at home in April, and  
205 hits. That's two more than  was 1-3 through his first five.  
Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki, who  Richie Sexson followed  
went 0-for-4.  Ibanez's double with a single  
Carlos Lee put the Rangers  before Yuniesky Betancourt's  
up with a two-run double in  sacrifice fly made it 5-1.  
the third after Gary Matthews  Hernandez is 1-5 with an  
Jr. singled and Young hit a  8.63 ERA his last eight starts.  
double to right. Hank Blalock  He allowed one run in two of  
followed with another double  his no-decisions and the only  
to make it 3-0. Matthews, who  win in that span was a five-hit  
was 3-for-5, had a leadoff sin­gle in the fifth and scored on an error. Nelson Cruz added a three­ shutout against the Los Angeles Angels on Aug. 18. Yankees 7, Blue Jays 6  AP Rangers shortstop Michael Young is congratulated by outfielder Gary Matthews Jr. after a two­run homer Wednesday against the Tigers. Young had a double Monday against the Mariners.  
run homer in the seventh.  Derek Jeter and Alex  
The Rangers extended their  Rodriguez hit two-run homers  wrap up the division title dur­Reed Johnson's RBI single in loading the bases without  
team record for doubles to 340.  and the New York Yankees held  ing the seven-game road trip to the first gave Toronto a 1-0 allowing a run, to earn his  
- With 11 games left they are 33 short of the major league  on for a victory over the Toronto Blue Jays on Monday  Toronto and Tampa Bay. lead. Run-scoring doubles by 32nd save. The Orioles are 6­Jeter hit a two-run homer, John McDonald and Johnson in 14 over the past 20 games.  
record held by three teams.  night.  his 14th, off A.J. Burnett (8-8) the fourth made it 3-0. Corcoran gave up four runs  
Young matched Rafael  New York reduced its magic  in the seventh inning to give New York got three runs in and six hits over six innings,  
Palmeiro (1991) for second on  number to clinching the AL  New York a 4-3 lead. the ninth on Bernie Williams' and is 0-9 over his last 13  
Texas' season list, one shy of  East for a ninth straight season  The Yankees added three RBI grounder, Bobby Abreu's games, including 12 starts. He  
Juan Gonzalez's 50 in 1998.  to three. The Yankees could  runs in the ninth but Toronto RBI single and Andy Phillips' is the fourth pitcher-accord­ 
matched that in the bottom walk with the bases loaded. ing to Stats Inc. -in the last  
half, forcing New York to use Troy Glaus hit a three-run 50 years to go 0-9 or worse  
four pitchers in the final homer off Octavia Dotel -his after the All-Star break.  
inning. Jose Veras got the last 35th of the season and sixth The others are Baltimore's  
out for the first save of his against the Yankees ­to make Jay Tibbs (0-10 in 1998), the  
career. it 7-6. New York Mets' Craig  
Rodriguez hit a two-run Anderson (0-9 in 1962) and  
homer in the sixth, his 34th Orioles 4, Devil Rays 1 Chicago White Sox left-bander  
this season and the 463rd of Corey Patterson hit a three­Jim Parque (0-9 in 1999).  
his career -moving him into run homer and Erik Bedard Corcoran's last win came as a  
sole possession of 29th place won his third consecutive start, reliever on July 9 against the  
on the all-time list, two behind helping the Baltimore Orioles New York Yankees. His last vic­ 
former Yankee Dave Winfield. beat the Tampa Bay Devil Rays tory as a starter was July 5,  
The home run brought the 4-1 on Monday night. over Boston  
Yankees within 3-2. Bedard {15-9) allowed one Tampa Bay (57 -93) has lost a  
Darrell Rasner (3-0) won on run, four hits and one walk and season-high eight straight, and  
three days' rest, allowing three struck out 10 in seven innings. needs to go 6-6 to avoid its  
runs and six hits over six In his last three starts, the left­third 100-loss season (2001  
innings. Rasner started in bander has given up three runs and 2002) since joining the AL  
place of Cory Lidle, who has and 10 hits over 20 innings. as an expansion team in 1998.  
tendinitis in his right index fin­Patterson hit his 14th homer Ty Wigginton put the Devil  
- ger. of the season off Tim Corcoran Rays ahead 1-0 with an RBI Burnett allowed four runs (4-9) in the second inning to single in the first. Tampa Bay  
and seven hits over seven put Baltimore up 3-1. David has lost a major league-high 55  
AP  innings as the Blue Jays had a Newhan made it 4-1 with a times after taking a lead, two  
Texas starter Kevin Millwood  delivers a pitch against the  four-game winning streak sacrifice fly in the fourth. short of the AL record set by  
Mariners. He allowed four hits a nd one run in seven innings.  snapped. Chris Ray pitched the ninth, the Detroit Tigers in 2002.  

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
11 bdrm house available for 2007­ ND home games rental. 1 mi to ND.  Big house on ND Ave. owned by  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ 
2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens,  Sleeps 2. Full accommodations.  alumni available for every home  ETS.  
FoR SALE  5.5 baths, large common areas and  $900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718.  game. Very reasonable. Email  PERSONAL  
backyard. Contact  Loretta800@aol.com or  BEST PRICES.  
MacSwain@ gmail.com  2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte.  
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call  $275 ND Football Wkends; $200  call954-921-1413.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
269-445-2765  One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30  Non-Game Wkends.  57 4-232-2378.  not go it alone. If you or someone  
miles frSB.  630-238-0400.  you love needs confidential support  
Investment homes for sale near ND. 866-521-8989.  www.Eastofedenatunionpier.com. $350 wkend. 513-697-7766.  Lake Front cottage for rent ND  TICKETS  Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets to the NO/Purdue game for family.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
home games. Monthly or for winter  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
2 rooms in private home w/separate  season. 269-699-5928.  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ Call Blaine & leave message at  The Observer.  
FoR RENT  entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­ 45 minutes from Notre Dame  1570  219-324-3241.  www.ndgamedayroom.com  
259-8603.  Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ GOIRISH  
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­ cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack  0964  BEAT SPARTANS  
pus homes & weekend rentals.  1bdrm apt. 1 mi. to ND. Laundry.  Resort 269-646-2181.  Local pickup  
Bluegoldrentals.com  Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester..  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Fire Mark May  
Quiet area. $550/mo.  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  Do it  
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to  Bedrooms  WILL PAY MORE.  Now  
ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208.  Call574-532-8718.  www.NDstudentrentals.com  574-288-2726.  Wanted: UNC Tix. {574)273-9845  


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 15 
.. 

Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team record perc. L~10 GB 
New York 91-59 .607 7c3 Boston 81-69 .540 6-4 10 Toronto 79-71 .527 7"3 12 Baltimore 65·85 .433 3-7 26 Tampa Bay 57-93 .380 1-9 34 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Detroit 89-60 .597 4-6 Minnesota 88-61 .591 8-2 1 Chicago 84-65 .564 4-6 5 Cleveland 69-79 .466 3-7 19.5 Kansas City 58-92 .387 6-4 31.5 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Oakland 86·62 .581 7·3 los Angeles 80-70 .533 5•5 7 Texas 76·74 .507 4-6 11 Seattle 71-78 .477 5·5 15.5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
New York 91·58 .611 4-6 Philadelphia 77-73 .513 6-4 14.5 Florida 74-76 .493 4-6 17.5 Atlanta 73-77 .487 6-4 18.5 Washington 65-85 .433 4-6 26.5 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
St. louis 79·68 .537 5·5 Cincinnati 73·77 .487 4·6 7.5 Houston 72·77 .483 4·6 8 Milwaukee 67-82 .450 3·7 13 Pittsburgh 63·87 .420 7-3 17.5 Chicago 62-89 .411 6-4 19 
National League West 

team record perc. illstlO GB 
San Diego 78-70 .527 6·4 Los Angeles 78-71 .523 

*"6 

San Francisco 74-74 .500 ··s-5 Arizona 71-78 .477 Colorado 69-80 .463 
Big East Conf~tiri~~ · Volleyball 
team record 
1 St. John's 14-1 2 Cincinnati 8-2 3 Connecticut 9-3 4 Pittsburgh 11-4 5 Seton Hall 8-5 6 Louisville 6·4 7 NOTRE DAME 6·5 8 Georgetown 5,7 9 Marquette 4-7 10 USF 4-7 11 Villanova 4-8 12 Depaul 4-9 13 Rutgers 3-7 14 Syracuse 3·13 15 West Virginia 1-12 
around the dial 
POKER 2006 World Series of Poker 8:00 p.m., ESPN 
TRIPLE-A BASEBALL Tuscan Sidewinder at Toledo Mud Hens 7:05 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Big Ben was back. He wasn't back to form. 
Wearing protective padding around his mid­section, Ben Roethlisberger returned to Pittsburgh's lineup against the Jacksonville Jaguars on Monday night, barely two weeks after having an emergency appendectomy. He was far from effective, though, and Jacksonville's defense had a lot to with that. 
The Jaguars har.assed Roethlisberger, held Willie Parker to 20 yards on 11 carries and ended the defending Super Bowl 
IN BRIEF 

Clarett pleads guilty to rob­
bery charges 

COLUMBUS, Ohio -When the day comes that Maurice Clarett can be released from prison 3 1/2 years from now, the former Ohio State football star's life story will hardly have been told in full. 
If his lockup ends on the earliest possible date, Clarett, who struck an unexpected plea deal Monday for rob­bery and concealed weapons charges, will be all of 26 years old. His 8­week-old daughter, who was present for his sentencing, will not yet have turned 4. 
"It's in a range that will allow him to get his life back together after his release," Prosecutor Ron O'Brien said. 
Judge David Fais announced the agreement on the day Clarett's aggra­vated robbery trial was to begin. He was sentenced to 7 1/2 years with release possible after 3 1/2 years, and five years of probation. 
champions' nine-game winning streak with a 9-0 victory -the lowest-scor­ing game in Monday Night Football history. 
Josh Scobee kicked three field goals for the Jaguars (2-0), who improved to 4-0 against the Steelers in September and 3-0 against them on Monday night. 
The Steelers (1-1) kept it close all game and had the ball with about five min­utes to play, but Rashean Mathis intercepted Roethlisberger's slant pass and returned it into field goal range. Scobee kicked his third field goal, a 42­yarder with 4:26 to play. He had a 31-yarder late in the third and a 32-yarder earlier in the fourth. 
Mathis picked off anoth­er one with 1:44 remain­ing, sending Roethlisberger walking slowly to the bench. Mathis also sealed last year's victory at Pittsburgh, intercepting a pass in overtime and returning it 41 yards for the decisive score. 
The shutout was Jacksonville's first since December 2003 against Houston. It also was the fifth time the defending Super Bowl champions have been shut out. The 1980 Steelers were blanked once, and the 1981 Raiders were shut 

out three times. 
Roethlisberger threw his hands up in frustration after his first interception, then walked off the field with his hands on side fol­lowing his next posses­sion, when he took a jolt­ing shot to his midsection after throwing a pass. 
The Jaguars, mean­while, spent the closing minutes celebrating their first Monday night win since 2001, improving to 7-2 in the league's most 
coveted  time  slot.  It  
marked  a  new  low for  
scoring  on  a  Monday  

night, however, dipping below the San Francisco 49ers' 7-3 win over the New York Giants in 1990. 
T-9· und.ergoes surgery on 
IDJUred finger 
IRVING, Texas -Terrell Owens played in a Super Bowl for Philadelphia seven weeks after getting a plate and several screws put in his ankle. Now he's hoping another plate and three more screws in his right hand will enable him to play against the Eagles. 
Owens had a plate screwed into the bone attatched to his right ring finger during an operation Monday evening. His recovery time is estimated at two to four weeks, but he's likely to do all he can to rejoin the Dallas Cowboys in 20 days for his much-anticipated return to Philadelphia on Oct. 8. 
"Most of those injuries, when they put a plate in there, which I think they might do, that pretty much fixes it," coach Bill Parcells said Monday, before the surgery. "Once they put that in there, it's not going anywhere, you're not going to displace it again. It's a matter of if you can get it functional." 

Saints provide hope for 
recovenng city 
NEW ORLEANS -Clinical psycholo­gist Mindy Kronenberg says she could­n't tell the difference between a run­ning back and a quarterback if she had to. 
She does know one thing, however: The New Orleans Saints' early-season winning streak is a welcome tonic for a region still struggling with the after­math of Hurricane Katrina. 
Indeed, the 2-0 Saints are the talk of the town. And hundreds of fans lined the road leading from the airport when the team returned Sunday night from its 34-27 victory over the Green Bay Packers. 
The timing couldn't be better as the team gets ready to take on the archri­val Atlanta Falcons on Sept. 25 in a Monday night matchup for the lead in the NFC South. It should be an emo­tion-filled evening as the Superdome is reopened more than a year after the hurricane. 

N H l PRESEASON 

Lessard double dips in 5-2 win over Atlanta 
.. 
Dallas right wing tallies power play, empty-net goal in exhibition opene; big-name players sit in favor of rookies 
Associated Press 

DALLAS -Junior Lessard scored a power-play goal in the second period and added an empty-netter with 1:02 remaining to lift the Dallas Stars to a victory over the Atlanta Thrashers in a presea­son game on Monday night. 
Jussi Jokinen and Perttu Lindgren had power-play goals, and Joel Lundqvist also scored for the Stars. 
Former Dallas center Niko Kapanen scored on the power play, and Jim Slater added a goal for Atlanta. 
Both teams sat most of their big-name players in the exhi­bition opener for each club, giving extensive ice time to rookies. The Stars played the first of four games during a five-day span. 
After Lundqvist notched the only goal of the first period, Slater tied it at 1 early in the second. Jokinen put Dallas back in front 15 seconds into a second-period power play, scoring on a breakaway against former Stars backup goalie Johan Hedberg. 
Lessard padded Dallas' lead to 3-1 at 13:41 of the second period, but Kapanen narrowed the Thrashers' deficit to one goal at 17:24 of the second period. 
Lindgren extended the lead to 4-2, capitalizing during a man advantage at 6:17 of the third period. 
Sabres 4, Maple Leafs 0 
Jiri Novotny, Derek Roy and Daniel Paille scored power­play goals in the second period and Mike Ryan added one in the third to lift the Buffalo Sabres to a preseason vietory over the Toronto Maple Leafs on Monday night. 
Martin Biron made 23 saves for the Sabres, who were 4­for-11 on power plays. 
Andrew Raycraft, the Maple Leafs' new No. 1 goalie, played well in making 28 saves but didn't stand much of a chance because Toronto was short­handed so often. 
The Maple Leafs, in the debut of new coach Paul Maurice, went 0-for-7 with the man-advantage. 
Things heated up in the sec­ond period when Ben Ondrus fought Chris Thorburn. Ondrus connected with two hard punches and dropped Thorburn to the ice. 
Novotny opened the scoring at 8:05 of the second. Raycroft stopped Thomas Vanek's shot with his stick, and new Leafs defenseman Hal Gill couldn't keep Novotny from knocking in the rebound. 
Roy made it 2-0 at 14:58 when Adam Mair sent a cross-ice pass to him for a goal into the open side of the net. 
Paille got a puek to roll over Haycroft's right leg pad at 18:08. 
Oilers 2, Panthers 1 
Hyan Smyth's power-play goal at 4:24 of the third proved snapped a tie and carried the Edmonton Oilers to an exhibi­tion win over the Florida Panthers on Monday night. 
In their first home appear­ance since _a Game 6 win over the Carolina Hurricanes in the Stanley Cup finals, the Oilers took advantage of a two-man power play when Shawn Horcoff' dished the puck to Smyth for an easy tap in past Panthers backup goalie Craig Anderson. 
The Western Conference champion Oilers improved to 2-0 in the preseason while the Panthers fell to 0-2 on their Alberta road trip. 
The Oilers scored lirst when a pair of highly touted prospects conneeted on the power play. Rob Schremp found defenseman Tom Gilbert at the point for a shot past new Panthers starter Alex Auld. 
Florida tied late in the first period with a power-play goal. Panthers defenseman Martin Lojek beat goalie Dwayne Roloson, who made his first start since sustaining a sea­He made 15 saves on 16 son-ending knee injury in shots before being replaced by Game 1 of the finals. Jussi Markkanen halfway 

Roloson didn't show any ill through the game. effects from his offseason knee Markkanen also made big operation. Early in the second saves in the third period to period, the 36-year-old goalie preserve the win as Florida was sharp in holding off the had another long two-man Panthers during a full two­advantage, their fifth of the minute, two-man advantage. night. 
Congregatio~ ofHoly Cross 
Corby Night 

Men ofNotre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Tuesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 

Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Mets clinch division with shutout victory 
4-0 defeat ofMarlins gives team first NL East title since 1988 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -They soaked themselves in wine and beer, then ran out of their club­house to go back on the field, jump up and down some more and share the glee with their fans. 
Ending nearly two deeades of disappointment in their division and days of delay, the New York Mets brought the NL East title back to Shea Stadium for the first time sinee 1988 with a 4-0 victory 
over the Florida Marlins on Monday night. 
Then they cel­ebrated as if they had won the World Series. 
"If this is what playoff baseball in New York is like, to me it's the best," David Wright said 
"If this is what playoff baseball in New York is like, to me it's the best." 
David Wright Mets third baseman 
before sticking a cigar in his mouth and high-fiving fans in the first row during the 90­minute postgame eelebration. 
Jose Valentin, one of their unexpected stars, homered twiee. Steve Traehsel, their longest-tenured player, com­bined with Guillermo Mota, Aaron Heilman and Billy Wagner on a four-hitter. 
Fireworks shot off from behind the center-field wall when Cliff Floyd caught Josh Willingham's fly ball to left for the final out. The Mets rushed to the eenter of the diamond for a bouncing group hug near shortstop. 
"I got that ball in my back pocket. For a small fee, I might give it up," Floyd said, laughing. 
They are New York's "other 
closing in on their ninth straight -they resemble corporate execu­tives closing a deal with 
handshakes. For them, only World Series titles satisfy. 
When the Mets win any­thing, it's time to let loose. 
"If we win the World Series this year, it's not going to erase the Yankee mystique," Tom Glavine said. "They've done it year after year, and they deserve all the attention they get. We're just trying to play well and take some of that attention. But sure, we want our piece of the pie." 
The Mets had hoped to clinch last week during a trip to Florida and Pittsburgh. But the 280 or so bottles of Freixenet Cordon Negro Extra Dry sparkling wine that had been flown from city to city were neatly arrayed in four trays outside the club­house before the game, as if to tantalize passing players. 
By the fifth inning, when the Mets were up 3-0, Pedro Martinez was sitting on the edge of the dugout, wearing goggles -perhaps in antici­pation of sprayed sting in the celebration ahead. Possibly remembering the wild cele­brations of 1969 and 1986, police deployed four mounted officers on watch behind the right-field fence. 
."We accomplished the first step," Martinez said. "Now we have a big job to do and a great responsibility." 
Led by the power of Carlos Beltran and Carlos Delgado, the pitching of Martinez and 
Glavine, the spark of Jose Reyes and Wright, and the closing of Wagner, the Mets took over the NL East lead for good with a 2-1 record on April 6 and put together the best record in the major leagues (91-58). 

"It was a little bit frustrat­ing because I wanted the guys to experience it right away," said manager Willie Randolph, a veteran of six World Series titles as a Yankees player and coach. 
"It's that adrenaline that you get. It's that real euphor­ic feeling you get knowing that you accomplished some­thing. Having said that, I've been through this many times. We have a lot to do, man. We've just scratched the surface of how good this team can be." 
Just two years removed from a 71-91 finish that led to the hirings of Randolph and general manager Omar Minaya, the Mets ended the reign. of the Atlanta Braves, who had won 14 straight division 
team,"· often titles, including
"If we win the 
obscured by the 11 in a row
World Series this 
crosstown since their move Yankees, whose year, it's not going to the NL East. 26 World Series 
to erase the Yankee The Mets 
titles' dwarf the became the first
mystique."
Mets' two. When team this season the Yankees cel­to clinch a play­ebrate division off berth and
Tom Glavine 
titles -they're can prepare for
Mets pitcher 
their first post­
season appear­

ance since 2000, when they won the wild eard for the seeond straight season and lost to the Yankees in the World Series. The Mets are likely to meet St. Louis, Los Angeles or San Diego in the first round, starting in the first week of October. 
A giddy erowd of 46,729 ehanted, clapped and sang at festive Shea -about 10,000 tickets were sold after Sunday's loss completed a three-game Pirates' sweep. Many arrived for batting praetiee, and fans already were on their feet cheering during the first inning. 
Traehsel felt the buzz when he drove into the parking lot. 
"Seeurity guards and eon­struction workers were screaming walking in: 'Get this thing done!"' he said. 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Pyros take on Wild Women 
Walsh looks to bounce backfrom opening loss 
By MATT HOPKE and VINCE 
KENEALLY 
Sports Writers 
The Wild Women of Walsh will meet up with the Pyros of Pasquerilla East tonight at 7 p.m. on Riehle West field­both teams hoping to bounce back from an opening week loss. 
"I think we're pretty well rested," Pyros captain Molly Fox said. "We know Walsh has some really good athletes on their team, but we're ready to pull an upset." 
Walsh (0-1) lost 8-6 to the Welsh Family Whirlwinds last Sunday. The loss was a tough one and Walsh hopes to erase all memory of it with a solid vic­
rious Whirlwinds play at 8 
p.m. tonight on Riehle West field against an untested Lions squad. 
Welsh Family (1-0) is com­ing off of a solid victory 
Sunday over Walsh Hall and the team looks to rally of a two-game win streak. 
Lyons Hall heads into the matchup after an opening week bye. 
"It was nice to see other teams," Lyons cornerback Cheron Wilson said of the bye week. "We were able to scope out 
the competition for what we needed to do during a game. 

tory over "We might be It was nice espe­Pasquerilla East. cially for our
moving some girls,
Pasquerilla freshman to see
putting them on

East was shutout what a game was 13-0 by a quick both sides ofthe like, to see how Badin defense. fast everything
ball."

The Pyros hope happens com­to utilize an pared to in prac­improved pass­tice."
Molly Fox ing attack to get Pasquerilla East The Lions look back to .500 to come out of
captain

with a second­the gates after a week vietory. 2005 campaign 
"We're kind of where they switching some missed the play-people around," Fox said. offs. The team fought hard "We might be moving some but lost to the Wild Women of girls, putting them on both Walsh in a contest that would sides of the ball. We'd like to have vaulted the Lions into use the freshmen a lot." the postseason. 
"It should be a good one," Welsh Family vs. Lyons Wilson said. "People aren't The experienced and victo-expecting us to do well ... but 
I think we can." 
Cavanaugh vs. Badin 
The Cavanaugh Chaos will open its football season tonight at 9 p.m. Riehle West 
"It should be a good one. People aren't expecting us to do well ... but I think we can. " 
Cheron Wilson Lyons cornerback 
field against the undefeated Badin Bullfrogs. 
Cavanaugh will be without many key players from last year's team due to gradua­tion, and will rely on young talent to hopeful­ly avenge last season's playoff defeat. 
In practice, the Chaos have worked on becoming a well­rounded team, 

and eliminating any potential weaknesses. 
"We've been practicing every aspect of the game," captain Kerri Bergen said. "We're just getting ourselves pumped up for the season." 
Standing in Cavanaugh's way will be a pass-happy Badin squad, led by quarter­back Katie-Rose Hackney and captain Meaghan Charlebois. 
"We know we have to play a good team, but we're defi­nitely ready," Charlebois said. 
Bergen has equal respect for her opponent. 
"Badin's got a good team," she said. "We've been prac­ticing a lot, and all the girls are really excited to finally start the season." 
Contact Matt Hopke and Vince Keneally at mhopke@nd.edu and vkeneall@nd.edu 
the morning.•• 

www.ndsmcobserver.com/register 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's looks to rebound against Knights 
Belles have one win on year as they ready for defending champ 
By DAN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 

After a controversial over­time loss Sunday, Saint Mary's is fired up for an away match with conference foe Calvin College this afternoon at 4 
p.m. game of the Sal Vacarro play 100 percent for every 
Although the teams are both Tournament 2-1 Sunday in second of the game." in the MIAA conference, the double overtime. The final Calvin comes into the con­game will not count towards goal, scored by North Central test having won the first seven either team's league record. College's Michelle Daly, games of its season. The But the teams are motivated appeared to be ol'l'sides, but Knights have dominated their nonetheless. the goal stood and Saint opponents, outscoring them 
"Calvin has been at the top Mary's fell to 1-3 on the sea­22-3. of the conference for as long son. Freshmen goalkeepers Kayla as I've played at Saint "We'll use Sunday's OT loss Sulzer and Alyssa Bergsma ­Mary's," senior goalkeeper as motivation," senior forward along with the Calvin defense Laura Heline said. "They are a Colleen Courtney said. -have posted four consecu­rival that we aim to upset "Having them score with 16 tive shutouts. every time we meet them." seconds left should be a lesson "We have to break down 
The Belles dropped their last learned that it's important to their defense and get the ball 

' 
I. 
' 
' 
st 1n y unow. 
We want you to succeed, and all the signs say GO. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer award-winning learning tools and arange of experiences. so that you keep moving ahead-from your very first day. So visit us on campus, or at ey.com/usjcareers. 
FORTUNE~ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg5
TO WORK FOR~ 
in the back of the net," Courtney said. 
The Belles' offense is led Lauren and Ashley Hinton ­the sisters have three goals each in the first four games of the season. Senior Caroline Stancukas also contributed a goal for the Belles in Sunday's game against North Central. 
On the defensive side of the ball, Heline and the young Saint Mary's defense will have their hands full with the Knights' offense. Calvin is led by senior forwards Sarah Weesies and Jill Capel -the two have seven and six goals respectively on the season. 
"Hight now our plan is to play our game. We are not planning any special attacks or defenses," Heline said. "We know that they have strong, experienced forwards and midfielders, so we will need to play tight in the back and con­trol the midfield." 
The two teams met twice last year and the Knights took both games 1-0 and 3-0. Capel, who had 21 goals in 2005, had one in each win, and Weesies added two more in the second victory. Calvin went on to win the MIAA championship with a 15-1 record. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
"They did a great job of cov­"It wasn't pretty, but we defi­game, as a strong punt return Refusing to let the Purple ering out receivers, and their nitely got it done today," by Lewis gave them the ball Weasels offense steal the show,
Welsh 
weak-side blitzes really gave continued from page 24 us trouble," Walsh captain and 
starting halfback Laurie the second half when Welsh Wasikowski said. "We just Family opened with an impres­couldn't get open." sive and time-consuming drive. They marched down to the Pangborn 6, Farley 0 Walsh goal line, aided by two Pangborn prevailed in a Wild Women penalties for 20 defensive showdown at West yards. Quad Sunday, defeating Farley 
On fourth-and-goal from the Hall by a single score. one-yard line, Kelly Bushelle The Phoxes' to.uchdown -who gave the Walsh defen­came in the middle of the first sive problems all game -half when wide receiver caught a touchdown to put the Meghan Bescher found herself 
Whirlwinds  open in the  
up 6-0.  back of the  
A  f  t  e  r  end zone for  
W e 1 s h Fa m i I y elected to  "That's definitely something we've been working on. We  the recep­tion. Neither  
go for two, the Wild Women jumped off­ were right there on all the running and the passing plays."  offens·e ever clicked the excep­tion being  
sides, com­ Pangborn's  
mitting  Katie Riemersma  one  touch­ 
another costly  Pangborn captain  down drive. The Farley  
penalty. The  offense was  
conversion  stifled  all  

was completed from the five­day by a relentless Phoxes yard line -instead of the ten pass rush. -Hueth made a diving catch "That's definitely something on the left side of the end we've been working on," zone. Pangborn captain Katie 
Walsh responded with a Riemersma said. "We were time-consuming touchdown right there on all the running drive. With less than two min­and the passing plays." utes remaining, the Wild The Finest quarterback was Women found themselves with under pressure all game and a fourth-and-goal at the Welsh never had enough time for her Family goal line. receivers to get open. 
Marrie Brenner punched itin Farley nearly caught a break with a touchdown run. at the end of the first half. 
After the two-point conver­With seven seconds left in the sion was overthrown, it half, Pangborn opted to try a appeared as if the Whirlwinds Hail Mary pass from midfield. could exhale. The ball was under thrown, 
On the first play of the next however, and intercepted by series, however, the Farley defensive back Anna Whirlwinds were picked off Persley. Persley streaked deep in their own territory by down the sideline, and got by Walsh defensive back Julie two defenders before her flag Campbell. Campbell ran it was pulled just short of the back to within five yards of the end zone. end zone. Farley stepped up late in the 
It appeared as if the Wild second half after getting great Women would be able to take field position from a Chri~sy the lead, but the defense had Andrews interception. The other ideas. Finest drove deep into 
"We had to stop them -we Pangborn territory and had a just knew we couldn't let them first-and-goal with less than score," Whirlwind captain and two minutes remaining. defensive standout Brittany However, the Phoxes pass Scott said. rush forced an errant throw 
With less than a minute to that was picked off on the goal go, the Welsh Family defense line by Bescher. came up with their second Offensively, both captains goal-line stand of the carne stressed that there was room and clinched the victory. . for improvement. 

Fremantle, Australia 
Riemersma said. "We'll be  deep in Howard territory with  
looking to improve for next  just a few minutes remaining.  
week".  The Ducks' defense was still  
Farley captain Kim Crehan  stopped the Chicks' drive after  
said offensive organization  a crucial fourth-down play  
was a problem.  with less than one minute left.  
"We need to get organized on  Howard then took a knee  
offense and make sure every­ and sealed its first victory of  
body knows their options on  the young season.  
the different plays," she said:  The Ducks will face Breen­ 
She thought the experience  Phillips this Thursday, while  
her team gained against a  Lewis looks to right its ship  
tough opponent was very valu­ against McGlinn.  
able.  
"Now that we have a game  PW 20, Breen-Phillips 0  
under out belt, I think you're  Pasquerilla West left no  
going to see a lot of improve- doubt why it is the defending  
ment," she said. ·  champion with a 20-0 victory  
over Breen-Phillips Sunday - 
Howard 6, Lewis 0  highlighted by three touch­ 
Quarterback Sheena  down passes from quarterback  
Ketchum's deep ball to wide  Cara Davies.  
receiver Megan Savage provid­ Davies hooked up with her  
ed the difference between two  receivers early and often  
evenly-matched teams at West  Sunday, throwing a six-yard  
Quad on Sunday afternoon,  touchdown to wide receiver  
propelling Howard to a victory  Maureen Spring on the team's  
over Lewis.  first drive of the game. She  
Despite playing solid defense  also threw a touchdown to  
for almost the whole game - receiver Jane Stoeckert, before  
including a Kate Altschaefl  she threw another to Spring to  
interception early in the first  end the scoring.  
half ­the Chicks (0-1) could  The Babes (0-1) were able to  
not stop the one big play of the  move the ball effectively at  
game, a fly  times, but  
down the left  never found  

sideline that the end
'The team came together
covered z o n e . 
nearly two­today. We had a great Constant 
thirds of the offensive drive. The defense pressure field. from the
stood strong, held them off, 
"She was Purple wide open, and the team played Weasels' it's usually great." defensive pretty easy line made it to get the hard for
Justin Cheers 

ball to her," Breen­Ketchum Howard coach Phillips to said. cross the 
Savage goal line. also attributed her height Davies credited her team­advantage over the Lewis mates for the big victory. defensive backs as a reason "We have a lot of returners she was able to make the play who know what they're doing, midway through the first half. and we are all really comfort­
Howard coach Justin Cheers able with each other," she was impressed with his team's said. cohesiveness in the victory. As to her three touchdown 
"The team came together passes, Davies again pointed to today," he said. "We had a the play of her receivers. great offensive drive. The "Our receivers ran long defense stood strong, held routes and they were my first them off, and the team played options all the time," she said. great." Davies wasn't the only mem­
After heading into the .break ber of the PW squad to dole with a 6-0 lead, Howard con­out praise to the team's 
trolled possession for most of receivers. 
the second half but was unable "We ran good routes, made 
to add another score. The fail­some good passes and had 
ure to score again proved cost­some great catches," PW coach 
ly for the Ducks late in the Matt Whittington added. 
Information Meeting 
VVednesday,Sept20,2006 5:30 pm-7:00pm 102 DeBartolo 
the defense stepped up the challenge as well Sunday. 
A Babes pick in the second half gave them possession of the ball deep inside PW's terri­tory, but the Weasel defense held strong. The PW secondary also stepped up near the con­test's conclusion when the Babes began to move the ball. 
But a series of incomplete passes allowed time to expire and PW to walk away with the shutout still in hand. 
Breen-Phillips takes on Howard this Thursday, while the Purple Weasels look to continue their winning ways against Pangborn. 
Badin 13, PE 0 It all ended with a trick play. What appeared to be a sim­
ple sweep left turned into a reverse that allowed Badin captain Meghan Charlebois to run 30 yards for a touchdown that sealed the deal against the Pasquerilla East Pyros. 
With 10:12 left in the second half, the Bullfrog offense, which had relied mainly on the arm of sophomore quarterback Katie Rose Hackney, gave the ball to their senior captain to finish off the Pyros. 
After the game, Charlebois was humble about her run. 
"It was really just great blocking by my teammates, especially junior Ginna Dybicz," Charlebois said. 
For most of the first half, neither offense could get any­thing going. Both defenses played well and refused to give up big yardage. The great defensive efforts included two interceptions by PE freshman Anne Horst. 
"Anne really played great, making two good intercep­tions," Pasquerilla East cap­tain Molly Fox said. 
The stalemate ended with about seven minutes left in the first half when Hackney took over. Through a combination of screen passes and scram­bles, Hackney marched the Bullfrog offense down the field 
· and capped the drive with a 19-yard touchdown pass to sophomore wide receiver Courtney Rains. Hackney finished 10-of-21 for 100 yards with one touch­down and two interceptions. Badin head coach Charlie Doar was pleased with his team's performance and said the 
strategy was simple. 
"We wanted to make sure we got time for our talented fresh­men while still making sure our veterans got touches," Doar said. 
On the opposite side of the ball, the Pasquerilla East offense just couldn't get going. The passing game, led by Caroline Nally and Laura Adams, struggled. completing just two passes on the day. 
The Pyros then turned to their running game. But the Badin defense was quick off the line and repeatedly snuffed out PE's play of choice -the quarterback option. Despite the limited offense, PE head coach Nathan Dyer was not discouraged. 
"Our team played great today with the exception of two big plays, which were !Badin's] only scores. We exe­cuted pretty well on offense, but we can still improve our passing game," Dyer said. 
Next week Badin takes on Cavanaugh while PE will face Walsh. 
!students in the College ofAL & BA oniYI 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2006 for Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Contact Vince Keneally, Andrew Kovach and Matt Hopke at vke­neall@nd.edu, akovach@nd.edu and mhopke@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
showed up Sunday to support the early, but was unable to establish Keenan 13, Keough 8 Keenan has a bye next week, defending champs went home any consistency -gaining just It came down to the very last while Keough will face O'Neill
Ra01blers 
continued from page 24 
off the left side with less than two minutes to go in the game con­verted a key third down and ended any hopes of a St. Ed's comeback. Manning, in addition to his touchdown, had 10 carries for 40 yards. 
The Stedsmen looked a bit rusty early, fumbling on their sole play of the first quarter. Things only got worse when their start­ing quarterback suffered an apparent hand injury in the sec­ond quarter -forcing the Stedsmen to resort to direct hand-otis and options. 
"The injury definitely affected our play calling," St. Ed's captain Ge Wang said. "But Nick Strom played a good game for us." 
Strom rushed for 20 yards in the second half. The Stedsmen, however, could not muster any semblance of a passing threat. 
St. Ed's found production on the ground from running back Zach Labrecque (1 0 carries for 47 yards), but its lack of a pass­ing offense led to minimal gains and drives. 
There also seemed to be some communication issues when Strom first entered the game, as the Stedsmen were called for several false start penalties. 
Wopperer didn't see the injury as a big factor for the Ramblers' defensive scheme. 
"We came out playing our game," he said. "It didn't matter who their quarterback was. They weren't moving the ball on us." 
The Stedsmen threatened in the fourth quarter, but the Siegfried defense came up with huge fourth-down stops. 
St. Ed's defense stiffened in the second half as well, holding the Ramblers offense to 30 total yards. 
"At the beginning, we weren't really ready for their no-huddle, and sometimes we over pur­sued," Wang said. 
disappointed after ending up on the wrong end of a 12-0 battle. 
The Juggerknotts came ready to play as they marched 65 yards down field on their opening pos­session to take a quick lead. Running back Trey Patrick pun­ished Zahm with 70 yards on 20 carries, including a 10-yard touchdown run in the opening minutes. 
"We played really well out there today," Patrick said. 'Tve got to give props to the coaches and the rest of the team that really stepped up. We had some key plays when we needed them, and that's expected. We have some prime time players." 
Knott converted on two fourth­down opportunities in the fourth quarter to ice the game -the second of which was a 15-yard touchdown pass to the corner of the end zone. 
"It was a great game all around," Knott coach Abdel Banda said. "Our backups really stepped up. We just beat the defending champions, so this proves that we are capable of beating anyone." 
Zahm captain and quarterback Sean Wieland threw for three interceptions. He had a 38 per­cent completion rating and 38 yards passing. 
"We really couldn't get much going on the offensive side of the ball," Wieland said. "You have to give credit to their defense though, they played a good game. 
"We still have three games left, and we hope to get to the playoffs by winning all of those. I think this loss will be motivation to work harder in practice." 
Zahm looks to improve next week against Fisher -after a four-turnover performance ­while Knott will try to keep the ball rolling when they face Siegfried. 
Carroll15, Sorin 6 
Carroll's offense controlled the air and exploited the Sorin sec­10 yards on 2-of-8 passing. 
Sorin threw for minus three yards and an interception in the second half, but ran for 138 yards and a touchdown on the game. 
Carroll receiver Mike Versagli said that despite the win, the Vermin have to improve. 
"Mentally, I think [SorinJ did have the edge. We didn't play as well or execute as well as we should have," he said. 
O'Neill 7, Dillon 0 
O'Neill senior Alex Fortunato recovered a fumble in the game's closing minute and The Angry Mob hung on to a victory over Dillon Sunday. 
O'Neill scored the only points of the game in the second quarter following a dominating 21-play drive that began in the first quar­ter. 
Running back Braden Turner scored on a four-yard run on third down. 
He finished the game with 14 carries and 30 yards. Running back Mike Mattingly rushed for 31 yards on eight carries for the Mob as welL 
Dillon changed its offensive strategy at halftime to focus on the running game and, more specifically, the quarterback option. 
The option was effective in rat­tling the Mob defense, which allowed eight first downs in the second half after giving up one in the first half. 
Dillon went on a 13-play, 64­yard drive in the third quarter. 
O'Neill called a timeout to stall Dillon's momentum, but the Big Red gained another 21 yards after the break. 
Dillon converted on a fourth down at the O'Neill 24-yard line, but Fortunato recovered the fum­ble by the Dillon quarterback six plays later. 
Next week, Dillon will face off against Stanford, while O'Neill will b~ttle Keough. 
play, but Keenan's defense was able to stop a late-game charge from Keough and earn the win. 
With less than two minutes left in the game, Keough marched toward the end zone trailing 13­
8. The Kangaroos had the ball on the two-yard line but the Keenan defense made the stop and took home the victory. 
"We played three strong quar­ters, but we learned that we are going to have play tough the entire game," Keenan captain Alex Staffieri said. 
Late in the first quarter, Keough fumbled a punt return and Keenan recovered. After a steady march down the field, senior quarterback J .J. Vega found sophomore Jimmy Zenker in the end zone to give Keenan the 6-0 lead. The extra point was blocked. 
Keenan's defense stopped Keough's attempts to move the ball doWn the field forcing a punt on the next drive. 
The Knights continued to capi­talize on offense on the following possession. Zenker connected with Andre Villable, who made an impressive catch down field and ran it into the end zone. Keenan led 13-0 after the made extra point. 
Keough made a charge in the fourth quarter. The Kangaroos forced their way down the field and freshman quarterback Matt Bruggeman found an open receiver for touchdown. It then made the two-point conversion on a quarterback keeper to cut the lead to 13-8. 
The Keough defense delivered some big hits and forced a Keenan fumble, but was ulti­mately unable to gain momen­tum. 
Keough sophomore Dorian Inzunza was not discouraged by the loss. 
"We play hard," he said. "We have a very good team, and we are ready to step it up next game and come away with a win." 

next Sunday at 2 p.m. 
Alumni 14, Stanford 6 
An interception and touchdown rush by Alumni junior Eddie Villa provided the deciding score for the Dawgs Sunday. 
Villa picked off the pass in the third quarter and scored on a short rush to put the Dawgs up 14-6. 
"Our practice really paid off today," Villa said. "All 11 guys did what they needed to do, and the team was able to come together and come out with the win." 
Shapot hit Villa with a long pass in the second quarter and ran untouched into the end zone for the 7-0 lead. 
The Alumni defense was led by Brett Shapot, who was in on many of the Dawgs' big defensive stops and played quarterback on offense.. 
Neither team allowed any points in the first quarter. · 
"We started out a little disor­ganized, but eventually the offense was able to come togeth­er and get things done," Villa said. 
Stanford junior Tregg Duerson got away from his defender and caught a pass in the end zone near the end of the second half to cut the Alumni lead to 7-6. The point after was blocked. 
After halftime, the defenses continued to play strong, culmi­nating in Villa's interception. 
The Stanford defense did not allow any more points in the fourth quarter. But the offense was unable to find any holes in the Dawg defense, and the Griffins fell short. 
Alumni battles Morrissey this Sunday, while Stanford will play Dillon. 
Contact Colin Reimer, Mike 
Burdell, John Tierney and Kate 
Donlin at creimer 1 @nd.edu, 
burdell.2@nd.edu, 
tierney.16@nd.edu, and kdon­
lin@nd.edu 
Both captains agreed that the oppressive heat on Sunday also played a role in the game. 
"It's different going from the cool night practices to this type of afternoon," Wang said. "It was really muggy out there today." 
Next week, Siegfried faces off with Knott, and St. Ed's battles Sorin. 
Knott 12, Zahm 0 
The Zahm residents that 

ondary in a victory over the Otters Sunday. 
Carroll sealed the game on a 29-yard touchdown pass after a Sorin turnover in the fourth quarter to go ahead by nine. The Vermin threw for 112 yards in the first half and held a 63 per­cent completion rating for the game. 
The Otters averaged near'ly seven yards per carry on the ground. Sorin attempted to pass 
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender· chicken. savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with pepper·s and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;,-}efie (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday fat· lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini~' Bellini Tuesdeys! 
AUAN KITCHEN 
& 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5II 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 



UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall2007, SPRING 2008, AY 2007-8, SUMMER2007 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, September 19,2006 5:30pm 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 MARCH 1, 2007 FOR SUMMER 2007 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
\ 


Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
tinues its weekend Sunday at Villanova. 
"I do think that not just in our 
LIVE AND STUDY 
ROME Information 
5-6 PM Wednesday, September 20 129 Hayes-Healy 
earned 10 votes last week, but were not on the radar this time 
or 

around. St. John's has been hot early5-6 PM Tuesday, October 3 129 Hayes-Healy 
in the season, earning the best non-conference record in the Big East at 14-1 -the team lost 3-0 to No. 7 Southern California Sept. 9. Cincinnati and Connecticut have also done

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
well in the year's first month, -------------------------putting up 8-2 and 9-3 records, respectively. Brown, however, feels that each team's record is not an
Information Meeting 
indicator of the success or fail-

Perth, Australia 

Tuesday,Sept.21,2006 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 5:30pm-7:00pm 
*For: ALPP, College of Science & College of Engineering Students. 
HY PHAMfThe Observer 

Application deadline: November 15, 2006 
Notre Dame junior Adrianna Stasiuk, left, and sophomore
Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Justine Stremick block a shot against Bowling Green Aug. 26 
conference, but across the country that there is an even playing field," Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown said. "Our goal has always been to win the regular season and then the conference championship. I don't think it's going to be easy, 
accomplish what we want to do." 
Notre Dame compiled a 13-1 record in conference play last season -the lone loss came Nov. 5, 2005 at Pittsburgh 3-2 -to share the season title. The No. 8 Irish then went into the league championships at Louisville's home court and defeated the No. 7 Cardinals in an electric 3-2 win for the title. 
It was the Cardinals' first sea­son in the Big East -they pre­viously played in Conference USA -but a quick rivalry developed between the two teams. Louisville, along with Pitt, will be key games in Notre Dame's 14-game conference schedule, but the Irish will not treat the two any different than the rest. 
"We'll probably look at those two matches in terms of the history between the programs and how we've competed against each other," Brown said of Pitt and Louisville. "Past that, we do respect the teams in the Big East and it's a challenge for us to win the regular season and conference championship." 
No Big East teams were ranked in the American Volleyball Coaches. Association poll released Monday, but Louisville was on the bubble, receiving 33 votes. The Irish ure each will have in confer­ence play. 

"It's still too early to know exactly how [the season is] going to play out because there been such a variety in the con­ference teams in who they played against," she said. "It's going to take a couple of weeks of conference play to get a bet­ter feel of how things are going to shake out." 
Notre Dame will travel to New Jersey for its second straight weekend Sept. 30 to face Seton Hall and will host Marquette and Syracuse a week later in its conference home openers. 
"It's always good to play at home, not having the travel on the weekend is a big thing," Brown said of playing at the Joyce. "In just being in comfort­able and familiar surroundings and not having the extra bur­den of hours of travel." 
An Oct. 13 match against DePaul at home is the final game for the Irish before a fall break trek to Hawaii. 
• 

Notre Dame will play a two­game set against the No. 15 Warriors starting Oct. 16 in Honolulu. 
"It's not .a question in my mind that playing the matches over there will be beneficial for us," Brown said. "We're going over there with every expecta­tion that we're going to win. It's a chance to play a top-25 team and take away a couple wins. It's a chance for us to prove ourselves again." 
The remaining eight games on the Irish schedule after the break include Pitt and Louisville, but Notre Dame and Brown refuse to look farther than Saturday. 
"I think that the staff and the team -we're trying not to look at the season as a whole thing," Brown said. 
"To be quite honest that's a few weeks down the road, and right now we're just thinking about Villanova and Rutgers and opening up the Big East this weekend and taking it one match at a time." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassi­ly@nd.edu 
but it's going to be attainable." 
With the graduation of sec­ond-team All-America Lauren Brewster and All-America hon­orable mention Lauren Kelbley, and the influx of seven fresh­men, the Irish have suffered more losses -five -in eleven games than they did all of last year. 
"We're not where we wanted to be in terms of our win and loss record but we still have high expectations for the team," Brown said. "If we learn and continue to grow every match, there's no reason we can't 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 19, 2006 

Recruit 
continued from page 24 
up quick on Notre Dame's aca­demic support system for ath­letes. 
"Everyone who goes there graduates," Gray said succinct­ly. . 
But Notre Dame won't expect Gray simply to graduate. Notre Dame will expect him to com­pete immediately for roles in a secondary that has been beat­en by opponents repeatedly over the past three years. 
"He thinks there's a very good opportunity [for playing time with fifth-year senior] Mike Richardson being gone next year," Frank said. 
Frank said Notre Dame's coaches were successful in recruiting Gray by not forcing him to make a hasty decision. 
"I think he started talking with Bill Lewis and Charlie 

.. 
Weis and felt really comfort­able with both coaches," Frank said. "They just did a real nice job of not pressuring him." 
Gray had praise for both Lewis and Weis Monday. He called Lewis "soft-spoken" and "well-rounded" and referred to Weis as "straight­forward." 
"Coach Weis ... he's not going to tell you what you want to hear," Gray said. "He's going to tell you the truth." 
Gray said watching the Irish lose to Michigan served no harm to Notre Dame's chances in his decision-making process. 
"The atmosphere was great," he said. "Even though they went down 21, 28 points, everyone stays [and~ supports the team." 
Kate Gales contributed to this article. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 

segment of the season." 
Waldrum said confer­"It'll be nice to have a ence games 
home game. It seems
have special 
like we've been on the
importance because not road forever." only do they affect the 
Randy Waldrum
team's stand­
Irish coach 
ing nationally, but also with­in the Big East. 
then ran the table the rest of the way to win the NCAA Championship. 
Notre Dame will face Cincinnati and Louisville Friday and Sunday in their first full weekend of conference play. 
past," Waldrum said. 
Louisvi!Ie will come to Alumni Field for Notre Dame's first home game in three weeks. 
"It'll be nice to have a home game," Waldrum said. "It seems like we've been on the road rorever." 
The Cardinals are 6-0 this year -ineluding Friday's win over the Bearcats -and are 
in a four-way tie along with the Irish for the lead in the Big East's National Division. 
The other two teams tied for first are Rutgers a n d Villanova. The Wildcats are 8-0, as is 
Notre Dame, and are consid­ered the strongest challenger to the Irish for the division title. 
The Scarlet Knights are 5-1 and beat Seton Hall 3-2 Friday for their first conference win. 
Georgetown joins the Pirates, Bearcats and Blue 

"We've had a pretty tough stretch ofearly season games, so I think we're going to give them a couple days off." 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
Demons at 0-1 after the first conference games of the year. 
In the American Division, West Virginia, St. John's, South Florida and Connecticut all won their first game, while Pittsburgh, Providence, Marquette and Syracuse stum­bled in their openers. 
Notes: 
+ After a "lethargic" per­
to get their legs under them," he said. "We've had a pretty tough stretch of early season games, so I think we're going to give them a couple days off." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
formance S u n d a y against Michigan, Waldrum said the team will have a light week oi prac­tice before Cincinnati and Louisville. 
"We're going to give them a couple days off next week 

Soccer 
continued from page 24 
"We always kind of break the season down into seg­ments and try to take care of winning different segments of the season," Waldrum said. "The conference is the second 
their long-term goal of a national title. 
"Our goal every year is to win the Big East champi­onship," Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame accomplished that goal last year, beating Connecticut in the Big East final in Milwaukee, Wise. 
In 2004, the Irish fell to the Huskies in the title game but 
"We need to get wins in-con­ference to keep our seeding for the NCAAs high enough, but also to keep our seeding high enough in the conference to make the conference tour­nament," he said. 
The conference season also gives the Irish a chance to set short-term goals on the way to 
fll.o 

The Irish will travel to play the Bearcats, who are 4-3-1 overall this year and lost their only conference game last Friday to Louisville 4-1. 
Despite the loss, Cincinnati has already equaled its overall win total from last year. 
"[Cincinatti is] playing much better this year than in the 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 3, 2008. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 
Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
SIN<.£ \ ~
WE. AA£ \..1.\c.~y
1-\EU..O, A~t> 
(.ON\JINc.e.t> "ft.\\S
ENO\.\.C:t\-\ -ro

EUOI-\€.. "''o 
\-\P..,\IE. \N\1\-\ us 

1'5 ll\WE'5ot'\E, \ At\ OfEN\NI::t O"f 
C::IAANJ> 

A ""Tf4.le:. NOTR"t 
C:tOlN<:I -ro -rRE-AI A NE.'IIJ ~ -rKIS \..\~E. A 'f::..\05~ \N WA-n::t:.S\-\E. t> MOMENi 
MAN 1 \ HA~ t>uC..I\oNS. \'VE­
I 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~c:..:..L:::J 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
IN \-\E.~SU "C..-1\-\5 
C.A"-~ ANt> uo trSTo A L..o~ , -rl:.t>\OU.S \ N'"'ff(..O'\:>UL-r \ON, 
OU"f\..IN \NU  1-\\S.  
70 Did a cobbling  
job  
71 "Forget it!"  
DOWN  
1 Make fun of  
2 Yoke wearers  
3 Test model  
4 Grab_ (eat  
on the run)  
5 "Maze!  !"  
6 Last of a dozen  
7 More gray  
8 A daredevil  
takes them  
9 Walloped in the  
ring, for short  
10 Play for time  
11 Sitcom about a  
Texas soccer  
mom  
12 Taproom  
offerings  
13 Tiny jumper  
21 "Strangers and  
Brothers" writer 24 Sunday music  45 "lch bin Berliner''  50 Religious artworks  
book 26 Queue before U  46 Title for Louis XIV  52 Medium for a picture of Uncle  
27 Toll hwy. 28 Assented to 29"_ Rosenkavalier" 30 Brian who composed the Windows 95  47 Kicks, so to speak 48 Costner role in "Dances With Wolves" 49 Perfectly pitched  Sam 53 Suitcase 54 Feared fly 56 alcohol 57 Reactions to shocks  
start-up sound  

33 Chapel Hill sch. For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 34 Bottom line 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
35 Infamous Amin 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888· 7 -ACROSS. 37 Tokyo, once Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 ·39 Hosp. area past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 43 Maritime org. 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.44 Actress Ruby 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip_______ 
""'"0-\ES.'"' IN""T'RO.. 
HEA~l> 
WILLSHORTZ 
60 D-Day campaign town 62 Cross inscription 64 Expert finish? 65 Benchmark: Abbr. 66 Came in first 67 G.l.'s mail drop 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
DESOU 

[J 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
COlTS 
j
rJ r I I
tGININN j 

± 
IN THE: MIL-ITARY,
IJ r I I 

ADDITIONS C.AN C.RE:ATE:­VIRFED 
www.jumble.com 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: rIIIIIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: QUOTA ELEGY OPENLY ADJUST Saturday's Answer: 
Often needed for a column ­A PEDESTAL 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James Marsden, 33; Jada Pinkett Smith, 35; James Gandolfini, 45; Robert Blake, 73 
Happy Birthday: You may not see things clearly regarding your personal life this year. Don't make a decision you may live to regret. Examine your motives and ask a trusted friend for advice. Secret matters will be brought out into the open so be upfront and honest. Your numbers are ll, 15, 20, 33, 36, 47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You'll be in a rush today and anyone who gets in your way will have to keep up or move over. You will be able to speak your mind and rid yourself of some annoyances. An investment may not be quite as good as you are told. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): If you have to work above and beyond the call of duty to win someone over to. your side, chances are this person isn't worth your time and effort. Don't put aside a job that needs to be completed. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Everything is going your way, so why make changes? Check out what you can do that is creative. An activity in which you take part will lead to a prosperous alterative to what you are currently doing. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jvly 22): Compromise and you won't have any problems, but force your will on others and you will face opposition. Don't be tempted by a deal that someone pushes your way .. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your sudden decisions and actions may cause concerns but follow through with what you are doing so you can get past the uncertainties you have been experiencing. Someone you have trusted in the past will probably let you down. Exaggerating it will lead to trouble. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you aren't happy with your personal life, make changes. There are all sorts of things happening where partnerships and getting what you want are concerned. Talk from the heart. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A serious organization will recognize your talent and solicit you to get involved. Go right to the source and you will save yourself a lot of time. You'll find an alternative means of getting what you want. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let your imagination or jealous nature run wild. Stay balanced if you don't want to face problems with colleagues. A change is in order at home but don't expect it to run smoothly. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You could blow it in the romance department today. Be careful how you treat the people closest to you. Someone you have known for many years or who is older than you will propose something that interests you. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Be careful with whom you share information. Things could easily backfire. An opportunity to make an investment is looking good but don't get involved in a joint venture. Keep a close eye on your money. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): How well you do today will depend totally on how you treat others. You can tum anything around by taking a positive approach and being willing to compromise and share.3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can get a lot done and make your way toward a better position. Before you sign anything, have someone look over what you are being asked to do. Personal changes will bring you greater freedom. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are diverse, engaging and entrepreneurial. You are quick to respond, confident and extremely intuitive. You are intellectually driven. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-·

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Employment 4 Goes on the offense 11 Churchill's "so few": Abbr. 14 Tool that's swung 15 Distance an 
arrow flies 16 Plumbing joint 17 Collar wearer 18 Start of a 
Groucho quip 19 Honey maker 20 Put on the 
books 22 Chinese writer _Yutang 23 Tibet's 
Forbidden City 25 Quip, part 2 28 Lofty lines 31 Throat bug 32 Local bond, 
familiarly 
36 Actor/director Branagh 38 In need of a Band·Aid, say 40 Dickens's Edwin 41 Desert bloomers 42 Quip, part 3 48 Ballroom dance move 
51 Bit of kindergarten learning 
52 Enlistee: Abbr. 55 Commercial prefix with vision 56 Quip, part 4 
58 Western treaty grp. 59 SALT concern 61 Congressional divide 63 Quip, part 5 
66 End of the quip 
68 Investment firm worker 
69 Tyrannize 


-~ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Gray, top high school corner, verbally conunits to Weis, ND 
sive backs coach Bill Lewis this Observer Monday. "I talked to Frank said. "He's also a very "The first time I came, my 
By KEN FOWLER weekend on 
Coach Lewis numerous times. I physical player for his size." mom wasn't able to come, but Sports Editor his official fit in with this defense [and] Gray, a quarterback and the second time I came, I was 
recruiting know the schemes they run." defensive back in high school, already committed to [South 
Despite Notre Dame's 4 7-21 visit to cam-Mike Frank, who covers initially committed to South Carolina]," Gray said. "We blowout loss to Michigan pus. Gray Notre Dame recruiting for Carolina and head coach Steve went up there secretly but Saturday, the Irish came out of said he IrishEyes.com, said Gray -Spurrier after his first round of word came out, she enjoyed the the weekend with a victory on would enroll who stands at 5-foot-11 and unofficial visits to schools, trip, really liked it, so I de-com­at least one front -the at Notre 165 pounds, and runs the 40-including Notre Dame. But mitted [from South Carolina] recruiting war. Dame for the Courtesy of Rivals.com yard dash in 4.49 seconds -Gray rescinded his verbal com­and waited a little while so I 
Cornerback Gary Gray of s p r i n g Gray brings power and explosive­mitment to the Gamecocks in could take my official visit." Columbia, S.C. (Richland semester. ness not often associated with July. Gray and his mother trav­With his mother steering him Northeast High School) verbally "I will fit into the defensive athletes his size. eled to Notre Dame on an unof­towards the Irish, Gray picked committed to Notre Dame head system," Gray said in a tele­"l-Ie's a guy that can run with ficial visit at the end of that coach Charlie Weis and defen-phone interview with The the best players out there," month. see RECRUIT/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Notre Dame rests to prepare for Big East 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Every August, Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum men­tally divides the season into four parts -non-conference play, Big East games, the Big East tournament and the NCAA tournament. 

Eight games into the season, the No. 1 Irish are undefeated and have successfully com­pleted phase one Notre Dame played its first Big East game Friday -a 5-0 win over DePaul -before finishing its non-conference slate with a 2­0 win over Michigan in Ann Arbor Sunday. 
see SOCCER/page 22 

The division bell 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Welsh gets past Walsh 
•

In opener 
By VINCE KENEALLY, ANDREW KOVACH and MATT HOPKE Sports Writers 
Welsh Family Hall opened its 

season with a win on Sunday, dealing Walsh Hall a 
See Also heartbreak­"Pyrostakeon ing 8-6 defeat on a 
Wild Women" t w 0 _ P 0 i n t page 17 c o n v e r s i o n caught by a diving Demetria Hueth. The excitement picked up in 
see WELSH/page 19 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Siegfried dominates St. Ed's in first game 
It was the highlight of a domi­By COLIN REIMER, MIKE 
nant first half that saw the
BURDELL, JOHN TIERNEY Ramblers out-gain St. Ed's 90-to­and KATE DONLIN 

25, and run 24 plays to the 
Sports Writers 

Stedsmen's six. "We felt that if we could estab­
Senior running back Pat lish the run early, we would have Manning's six-yard touchdown a good chance to win," Siegfried run on game's opening drive pro­co-captain and halfback Matt vided the day's only points in Wopperer said. Siegfried's 7-0 win over St. Ed's. Siegfried did just that, tallying 
Employing a running style that 69 rushing yards in the first half, featured sweeps and occasional and 99 yards for the game. reverses, the Hamblers pieced Wopperer led the way for the together a meticulous 14-play, Ramblers, carrying 12 times for 65-yard drive that kept the 59 yards. His 17 -yard scamper Stedsmen off balance for the majority of the first quarter. see RAMBLERS/page 20 
SMC SOCCER WOMEN'S INTERHAI..l 
&U 

..._ 
c.:» The Belles take on Pasquerilla East plays z Calvin today in the first Walsh tonight at 7 p.m. meeting between the on Riehle West Field. 
~ 

two teams this year 
~ 
cc !i 

page 18 page 17 ND VoLLEYBALL 
Irish begin conference play 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The Big East opens its 2006 schedule with a flurry of 14 matches this weekend between its 15 conference foes, and Notre Dame will be in the thick of it. 
The Irish (6-5) have won nine out of the last 11 Big East championships and won their tenth regular season champi­onship when they split the 2005 title with Louisville ­but this year it's anybody's league. The team opens Saturday at Rutgers and con-
see BIG EAST/page 21 

MLB NHl MLB MLR 
Mets4 Stars 5 Rangers 8 Yankees 7 Marlins 0 Thrashers 2 Manners 1 Blue Jays 6 
New York takes first Dallas center Junior Texas pitcher Kevin New York infielders division title since 1988 Lessard scores two Millwood gets his 16th Derek Jeter and Alex with victory. goals in exhibition win. win of the year, allow-Rodriguez hit two-run 
ing four hits in seven homers in the win over 
innings. Toronto. 
page 17 page 16 page 14 page 14 


