
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Temporary cell phone towers stand behind South Dining Hall and at other locations around campus to give students better reception. 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
The University's initiative to improve cellular tele­phone service on campus hit a roadblock this summer, delaying the project's com­pletion date and forcing cell phone users to rely on tem­porary mobile transmitters for service. 
The cellular antenna sys­tem project was supposed to be completed by the start of the school year, but that was before officials learned they had to get state approval to add antennas to older buildings on campus, said Dewitt Latimer, chief technology officer in the Office of Information Technologies. 


Delays plague cell service improvements 
"Any modification to a building [more than 45 years old] done by a cell phone carrier ... must go through an approval process with the state historical preservation office," Latimer said, recalling the information his office learned after they finalized the locations for the anten­nas. "It caught us all off­guard." 
Latimer said all antenna sites but one have now been approved and work on them has resumed. But the approval process set the antenna project back about six weeks, Latimer said. 
The University announced last spring that it had entered into agreements 
see SERVICE/page 4 

ND evacuees return from Lebanon 
Professor helps family escape conflict, student makes own way home 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 

When Israel bombed Lebanon on July 12, Ramzi Bualuan's week of hell began. 
His wife and children were near Beirut when the conflict broke thousands of miles from where he was, in South Bend. 
"Unbelievable," the computer science and engineering profes­sor said last Wednesday, shak­ing his head slightly. "Oh, my God. Awful." 
Bualuan, paralyzed by help­lessness, watched the crisis unfold on his TV screen. 
But junior Joe Janke was in the thick of the chaos, cool and unconcerned. 
"I didn't think it was serious at all," Janke said Sunday. He had spent three and a half 
see LEBANON/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


University cuts dorm telephones 
Students have option to purchase room line 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame students return­ing to the dorms this semester will be greeted by technology improvements, including cable jacks and solid cell phone recep­tion. There is one Old Faithful, however, that is absent -the blinking red light of the room phone. 
Beginning after spring resi­dents moved out in May, the telephones located in every dorm room were systematically removed from the halls and many sold in the end-of-the­year charity "yard sale" in the stadium, "From Old to Gold." 
This move came after the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) found that only a very small percentage of on-campus students regularly used their room phones, accord­ing to Steven Ellis, the director of Integrated Communications Services at OIT. 
"We'd found that roughly 80 to 90 per cent of the telephones were not used in the dorms," Ellis said. "With a large number like that, it's an obvious [deci­sion]: If they're not using the phones, then why are we put­ting them out there?" 
Students will now rely on their personal cell phones, most of which are expected to have improved reception after the addition of 16 service antennae across campus is completed. 
For those without cell phones, or who have use for a room 
see PHONES/page 6 

Opening mass begins new year 
ByJENNIFER METZ 
News Writer 
Faculty members, staff and students filled the Joyce Center yesterday for the cele­bration of Notre Dame's tradi­tional Opening Mass, led by University President Father John Jenkins. 
Though groups from each residence hall sat in separate sections of the JACC, they lis­tened together to the words of homilist Jenkins and University Provost Thomas Burish. 
The three readings, from Acts 1, 1 Corinthians and the Gospel of Luke, spoke of the Holy Spirit as a bringer of 
see MASS/page 6 



Football ticket lottery proceeds smoothly 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Over the course of two hours yesterday morning, an estimat­ed 2,200 Notre Dame seniors waited outside the Notre Dame Stadium box office to purchase their season student football ticket booklet -with members of the junior class eagerly wait­ing to follow. 
Tuesday was the first day of this year's student ticket distri­bution. The process ran "very smoothly" according to Joshua Berlo, Director of Ticket Operations for the University. 
Berlo said Notre Dame's pres­ent ticket distribution proce­dure resulted from collabora­tion between the Student Activities Office and the Athletic Department. 
Though the current process has been in place for the past several years, Berlo said this is the first year two classes of stu­dents will receive tickets on a single day. Between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. yesterday, the senior class received their tickets, and juniors had their chance start­ing at 1 p.m. 
The ticket distribution process is organized by a lottery system in which most students are familiar. On Monday between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m., stu­
see TICKETS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Warning, Freshmen 
Watch out freshmen, the Man is trying to exploit you. And no, I'm not talking about a creepy old man hiding in the bushes near Saint Mary's Road. I'm talking about Notre Dame's own employees Ryan Sydlik trying to shake you down for 
Wire News 
your hard 
Editor
earned cash. 
You've proba­bly been given advice about get­ting to bed at a decent hour, going to class, getting to know your roommate and when and where to study. But one thing that no one ever told me when I was a fresh­man was how to save a few bucks. 
Well, you won't have to suffer through that. I am feeling very generous today. 
There is a large building called the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore. You will probably hear your friends describe how that place is wiping them out. Don't be a fellow victim. 
The one useful thing student government has ever done throughout its history is to require the Bookstore to post its books online. Take advantage of this. 
There are plenty of Web sites on which you can buy books. Ebay, Half.com, Froogle and MySimon are a few of the great places to go. 
The bookstore will post signs to scare you away from doing this, claiming that you will buy the wrong books or that you be the victim of outright fraud. 
But being that you probably have an SAT score above 1350, I'm sure you are competent enough to spend just a little time to check that you are buying the right book from a reputable source. 
And of course, there is NDSP. In September, NDSP has a bike auc­tion in which they auction off bikes that people had a good reason for abandoning on campus. 
Expect decrepit bikes to go for a value equal to their original sale price, and expect bikes that are actually in good shape to be quick­ly snatched by local bike sellers who do this for a living. 
If you do find a cheap bike, keep in mind that you could likely pay for it in the end with your medical bills due to its poor condition. 
It could even be a big conspiracy. You buy the bike and severely injure yourself. Then NDSP offi­cers keep their jobs by giving you a MEDEVAC. 
Nevertheless, a bike can be a very useful thing on campus, and you will never accumulate parking tickets when using one. Some stu­dents buy $40 dollar kids bikes at Wal-Mart and look silly. 
But if you are looking for some­thing better, you could also go to a local cycle shop to get a good one or even buy one online along with your books. 
Just stay away from Stepan Dome on that day. You are paying over $40,000 to go to ND. You need not pay more. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO MOST THIS YEAR? 




Robert Wilson sophomore Dillon  Pat Jackson freshman Dillon  Diego Sliva freshman Dillon  Lindsey Hough freshman Howard  Alexandria Miller freshman Howard  Melissa Dondalski freshman Howard  
"Demolishing  "The Michigan  "Five-on-five  "Getting to  "Football!"  "Meeting lots of  

Michigan State game. Bookstore know the girls 
and USC!" 

NY priest protests $115 parking ticket 
NEW YORK -A mission of mercy at a hospital turned costly for a priest who violated the 11th Commandment: Thou shalt not park illegally. The Rev. Cletus Forson, of St. Andrew the Apostle Church in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn, was ticketed last month when he responded to an emer­gency call from a parish­ioner afraid her mother would die without receiv­ing the sacrament of the sick. 
Forson is now protesting the $115 parking ticket, 
TODAY a: 
IJ.I 
::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 
cc 
(,) 


0 

basketball. " in the hall better." 
although city officials seem unlikely to absolve him. 
"On humanitarian gro­unds, the law should not be interpreted and applied so stringently that it will prohibit a religious leader from doing his work," the priest said. 
Kitten gets wedged In car dashboard 
ROCKAWAY TOWNSHIP, 
N.J. -Curiosity didn't kill the cat. But a kitten got stuck behind the dash­board of a woman's SUV after climbing through a hole in the glove compart­ment. 
The woman went to the 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Even University President Father John Jenkins came out to join the festivities at Tuesday's Opening Mass Picnic, held on the DeBartolo quad. Jenkins laughed and spoke with a group of freshmen from Keenan Hall, while around him members of the Notre Dame community enjoyed the food and entertainment. 
OFFBEAT 
Rockaway Township Municipal Building for help after food wouldn't lure the tabby out. 
Rockaway Township ani­mal control officer Dan McDonald and veterinarian Steven Hodes tried to grab the cat. But the frightened animal just crawled deeper into the dash. 
The vet managed to inject the kitten with an anesthesia and they pulled the drowsy feline out unharmed without having to dismantle the dash­board. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 


(f 
HIGH 81 HIGH 71 HIGH 82 HIGH 88
..... 

LOW 65 LOW 65 LOW 67 LOW 70 
cute Notre Dame guys. '' 
IN BRIEF 

The Summer Shakespeare cast, directed by William Brown, present Shakespeare's "The Comedy of Errors" on the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show continues its run tonight at 7:30 p.m. and goes until Sunday. Tickets are $20 to $35 for faculty, staff and seniors, and $12 to $15 for all students. 
"Late Night Grill'' takes place tonight at 9 p.m. on the Fieldhouse Mall, featuring stu­dent performances and provid­ing audience members with free food. 
The Student Activities Office is sponsoring a "Movie and Milkshakes" night in the LaFortune Ballroom tonight at 9 p.m. The movie "Memento" will be screened, while free milkshakes are handed out. 
As part of the Summer Classic Film Series, "The Leopard" will be screened Thursday night at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for all students. The film is in the Italian language with English subtitles. 
On Friday night at 8 p.m., The Show 2006 presents artists Third Eye Blind and Common in concert in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The performance is limited to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with valid student IDs. Tickets are $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 86 HIGH 83 LOW 64 LOW 63 
Atlanta 88 I 72 Boston 78 I 65 Chicago 83 I 61 Denver 94 I 59 Houston 95 I 76 Los Angeles 87 I 65 Minneapolis 82 I 58 New York 85 I 71 Philadelphia 87 I 66 Phoenix 104 I 85 Seattle 71 I 54 St. Louis 90 I 67 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 88 I 68 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Repairs tnade to SMC w-ater-dalllaged dorlll 

By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Repairs were made over the sum­mer to the damaged floors and ceil­ings in Holy Cross Hall that came after scorching summertime tem­peratures caused the sprinkler sys­tem to malfunction at approximately 9 p.m. on Sunday, July 16. 
College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said the sprinklers went off in the attic of the residence hall when temperatures reached 150 degrees -the point at which the system was set to disengage. 
The intense rush of water burst through the attic and leaked all the way to the basement on the build­ing's south end, causing major struc­tural damage in the hallways of the third and forth floors. McDonald said the water did not structurally damage any dorm rooms. 
The Notre Dame Fire Department quickly arrived on the scene and no one was injured during the incident, McDonald said. 
Approximately 130 Fine Arts Camp and Summer Academy campers and counselors and student summer residents were living in the building at the time, and were forced to relocate to LeMans Hall for the duration of their time at the College. 
McDonald said repairs were made to the building and it is now deemed structurally sound. The only visual impact of the incident is the tile used to replace the usually carpeted hall­ways. The carpet was removed to avoid the growth of mold and will hopefully be replaced during fall break, McDonald said. 
The College has added additional ventilation to the attic and set the new triggering temperature to 200 degrees to avoid a reoccurrence of this incident, McDonald said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 

South Bend tour dra-ws freshmen 
By KAITLYNN RIELY News Writer 
While most Notre Dame students spent Monday after­noon settling into their rooms and preparing for the start of the academic year, over 100 freshmen boarded Transpo buses for the first­ever "Explore South Bend Tour." 
Freshman Jarrod Castro­Mendoza said the tour, which focused mainly on the down­town area, gave him a better impression of South Bend than he had coming into col­lege. 
"When I came here in the spring... all I saw was the really bad parts of town when I was leaving the city," Castro-Mendoza said. "[The tour] made it much more positive." 
Now that he is aware of entertainment options avail­able in the city, he said he may return with friends to some of the restaurants and museums he spotted. 
The Senate Community Relations committee (CRC), Mayor Steven Luecke's office and the city of South Bend sponsored the tour with the common objective to wel­come the new freshmen class to the community and to give them information about things to do beyond campus limits. 
Mikki Dobski, director of communications and special projects for the mayor's office, said she has received 
positive feedback regarding the tour's inaugural run. 
"Everybody seemed to have a good time and good questions," Dobski said. 
It was an excellent oppor­tunity for the mayor's office to reach out to Notre Dame students, she said. 
"I think we were showing students the kind of places that they were looking for, in terms of restaurants, food, and entertainment," Dobski said. 
Freshman Amy Kruger signed up for the tour to see the city she would be living in for the next four years. Kruger said she was impressed by South Bend, but was hesitant to recom­mend the tour to freshmen next year due to the lengthy amounts of time spent on the buses. Kruger recommend­ed event organizers make the tour more interactive in the future. 
CRC chairman Josh Pasquesi estimated 160 peo­ple showed up for the approximately two-hour tour. 
"I think that overall it went great," Pasquesi said. "We are happy with the numbers and we are definitely going to keep doing it next year." 
At the conclusion of the tour, the freshmen enjoyed local pizza and were treated to free fondue from the South Bend Chocolate Cafe. Luecke and student body president Lizzi Shappell wel­comed the freshmen and encouraged them to take 
advantage of what South Bend has to offer. 
"My message [to the fresh­men] was just to engage themselves in the South Bend community, because it is easy to become comfort­able living in the Notre Dame bubble," Shappell said. 
Luecke gave a brief history of the city and discussed how South Bend and Notre Dame can be partners. He invited students to contact his office to get more information about how they can get involved in the community. 
Both the mayor's office and the CRC are enthusiastic about making the "Explore South Bend Tour" an annual event. Dobski hopes to meet with the student government at some point in the coming school year to assess the success of the event and dis­cuss ways to improve the tour for next year. 
Dobski said she wants to keep the tour length to a reasonable time, but also thinks future tours should include a stop at local attrac­tions like the Farmer's Market, and should take stu­dents through more neigh­borhoods. Dobski also sug­gested expanding the initia­tive to give separate tours to new graduate students and parents. 
"What we want to do is sort of open the gates to what's available beyond campus," she said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

-----------------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 




Fair provides off­campus advising 
By LAURA BODIEN News Writer 
Notre Dame's second annual off-campus fair, Monday, drew off-campus students searching for foot­ball tickets, free food and advice on living outside the University bubble. 
Former student body pres­ident Dave Barron and cur­rent student body president Lizzi Shappell jump-started the program last year in response to concerns voiced by the Board of Trustees report of an off-campus Security. 
"We were looking at a way to get information out from NDSP (Notre Dame Security/Police) and the South Bend Police," off-cam­pus senior Josh Paquesi said. 
Pasquesi has organized the fair for two years run­ning and estimates this year's turn out to be near 100 percent of eligible stu­dents. 
"We had more vendors this year and therefore more free stuff which is always good," he also noted. 
"It was great," off-campus senior Kristin Schwarz said. 
"The information on meal plans was extremely help­ful." 
In addition to a presenta­tion on meal plans, tables by NDSP, the South Bend Police, Sex Offence Services and the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education were set up to raise student aware­ness of security in the com­munity. Among other things, students were informed on how to be responsible neigh­bors. 
Students were drawn to the popular booths run by Jimmy Johns and Papa Johns, but everyone flocked to the tables handing out football ticket applications. 
"Everyone loves a mini­Jimmy John, but I think peo­ple were most zoned in on the football," Schwartz said. 
While the students waited, businesses promoted their wares to new potential cus­tomers. 
"We wanted to inform stu­dents about convenient loca­tions for nearby necessi­ties," Pasquesi said. 
Meijer, Target, Fun Tan, Salon Rouge and Dominoes were among those present. 
Contact Laura Bodine at 
lbodien@nd.edu 
OIT officials walked through more than 40 build­

Service 

ings on eampus to seleet the continued from page 1 optimal locations for the 
stealth antennas, which will with Cingular and Verizon to boost coverage without boost eell phone service on affecting "the aesthetic campus. Sixteen "stealth" value of the University," antennas are being placed Latimer said. around campus to achieve Verizon already has a "five bar" coverage any­tower on Warren Golf where outdoors, Latimer Course, so the company will said. The antennas are two­only be using six of the 16 and-a-half feet tall and stealth antennas. about 18 inches wide, and Cingular and Verizon are are on light bearing the poles, building entire expense 
facades and "We think more and of the project,
rooftops on Latimer said,
more universities
eampus. even though Only Verizon will embrace wire­the University and Cingular has been work­
less as part oftheir 
customers will ing closely with 
infrastructure. ,,
benefit from the companies the new anten-all summer. nas. Cingular Dewitt Latimer Latimer ealled customers ean the agreement
OIT chief technology 
count on bet­between the

officer
ter coverage University and by the begin-the cell phone ning of October, but Latimer companies "cutting-edge." couldn't say when Verizon's "We think more and more work will be completed. universities will embrace Ideally, it will be finished wireless as part of their sometime this fall. infrastructure," Latimer 
In the interim, Cingular said. and Verizon have construct­But the project won't ed temporary mobile trans­improve eell phone service mitters to make up for the for students who don't use delayed activation of the Cingular or Verizon. stealth antennas. Cingular Latimer said he has been has three transmitters on fielding complaints from campus (at South Dining these students. Hall, McKenna Hall and "We are willing to work Stepan Center) and Verizon with any of the carriers, but has one (at Hammes Notre each of them have to go Dame Bookstore). through their own internal 
The closer you are to these approval process to make mobile transmitters, the bet­sure the investment is worth ter reception you'll get, their while," Latimer said, Latimer said. adding that students should 
"I know students have a direct their complaints to very vested interest in this," their cell phone companies. Latimer said. ''I'll be sending "It's the carrier's responsi­out an update as soon as we bility," he said progress through the project to let the student body know Contact Mary Kate Malone at how we're doing." mmalone3@nd.edu 
maybe it will only take two, four-year-old knew something three days kind or thing, wasn't right.



Lebanon 
we're not sure how long this "At first my wife tried to tell continued from page 1 wi II last, so let's wait it out.' him, 'Those are fireworks,"' 
But soon we found out it he said. "But he told her right 
looked like it was going to way, 'They don't sound like weeks studying Arabie at the take longer." lireworks. "' Lebanese Ammican U nivnrsity Onee Franen and Italy start­Sinr.e being home, his son when the bombings began. ed to evacuate their citizens, has begun to draw 
"I don't know that it was Bualuan dneided they had to "machines" instead of houses nvor so dangerous to be at the act. and trees, Bualuan said. university." "Or eoursn, thnre was no "Then he'd draw something 
Still, Janke knew when it way for mn to get there," hn next to it and say, 'This is the was time to leave. And said. "Everything was closed." noise the mar.hine is mak­Bualuan knew that he had to lie threw himsfllf into inves­ing,"' Bualuan said. "The get his family out. tigating thn various options planes he saw flying ... It's 
So Janke and the Bualuans ror his wire. lie r.allod the us crazy, erazy." -wife Ghada, four-year-old Statn Department multiple Janke also made it out of Roy and two-year-old Mare, timns, but only got "generie" Lebanon smoothly, despite all visiting Ghada's rnotlwr in inrormation dealing with a Aley -all joined the f"lood of that he had mess of exits foreigners trying to !nave already found and entries at Lebanon. online. "I don ,t think it was a the different 
For Janke, the decision was Tho sea borders. Once in
bad decision at all. I 
easy -get back to Cairo, option, led by Cairo -whieh
never felt my safety
where he had spent spring US Marines, he reached by semester through Notre would have was compromised in ferry -Janke Dame's program in Egypt. If taken his wife an Arab-speaking got a hotel for he had waited for the Marines and children two nights,
country. I would do it
to eome and evacuate on a nine-hour worked with Americans to Cyprus, he trip from again. I didn ,t have a Anthony Travel would have been forced to Beirut to bad experience to move up his leave his belongings in Cairo Cyprus. But flights and flew
during the 
and eaneel his flight home. G h a d a to Frankfurt,
entire trip.,, 
So he found a way to get to Bualuan was Germany. Syria, where friends of an told she need­Then it was acquaintance would pick him ed to have back to
Joe Janke 
up. But when those plans fell three days Humbird,
junior
through at the last minute, worth of food Wisconsin via Janke chose to go it alone. and water flights to 
"I was just kind of stuck," before board-Newark and he said, "It was 8:30 at night, ing, Hamzi Bualuan said, and Minneapolis. and I'm like, 'I'm either going there was no guarantee of Communication with his to get evacuated, or I'm going what would happen once the parents -who Janke to go.' And I just left." family got to Cyprus. described as "calm people" -
Ilis 52-hour journey started Instead, he began to consisted of sporadic e-mails with a series of eabs -Beirut arrange for a series of taxis to sent from various Internet to the Lebanon-Syria border carry his family to Amman, eafes, he said. to the Syria-Jordan border to Jordan, where they could take Most people would likely Amman, Jordan -followed a plane to Abu Dhabi, where have been overwhelmed by by a bus to southern Jordan, a Ghada Bualuan's brother the experience, but a noncha­ferry to Egypt and another lives. lant Janke said he wouldn't bus to Cairo. "By ear is actually less safe, ehange a thing. 
All the way bargaining -but at least you have control "I don't think it was a bad even bribing-in Arabic. over every minute of your decision at all," he said. "I 
"I was actually pretty proud trip," Ramzi Bualuan said. never felt that my safety was of that," Janke said of the "Nine hours on the boat, noth­ever compromised in an Arab­deal he struek with a man to ing you ean do. By car, you speaking country. I would do get him through the Lebanon­can decide, 'I don't want to it again. I didn't have a bad Syria border. "That was pretty continue, I want to go back."' experience during the entire useful. ... At the Syrian bor­The family made it to the trip." der, there's like six different Lebanon-Syria border and Bualuan, who is originally places you have to go." took another taxi to from Lebanon, said he will go 
Taxis, he said, were easy to Damascus, then to Amman. back to visit his parents onee find -for those willing to "Lebanon is seven hours the country is stable. pay. ahead. So the day they left, I "It all depends," he said. "If 
"I mean, it depends on how mean, I spent a whole night at the United Nations can put in well you speak Arabie, if you my laptop, my main phone, a strong enough force to sta­try to speak Arabic, if they my cell phone next to me," bilize the region, if other par­think they ean rip you off," he Bualuan said. "If you look at ties involved can follow what said, "It's completely vari­my phone bill, July 22 is the resolution asked them to able." maybe easily 40 phone calls, do, but you know, both sides 
Bualuan's family also made one after another. have been violating all those their way out of the country Unbelievable." resolutions for so many by taxi after several days had He met the family in Abu years... passed and the situation had Dhabi, where they stayed for "But I'm still hopeful, I'm yet to improve. several days to unwind. still hopeful." 
"The first few days, we While the younger son was weren't sure," Bualuan said. " seemingly unaffected by the Contact Maddie Hanna at ... It was one of those, 'OK, experience, Bualuan said his mhannal@nd.edu 


(Inside St. Andrew's Plaza) 
Students receive 15% off all services Mon -Wed 

Our new phone number: 574-258-5080 www.salonrougeinc.com 





ORLD &NATION 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 COMPILED fROM 'IHE ()HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Airline plotters appear in court 
LONDON -Eleven suspects charged in an alleged plot to blow up U.S.-bound airliners appeared in court for the first time Tuesday, and the eight men who faced the most seri­ous charges were ordered held until next month as detectives press on with their investigation. 
The accused were brought into a court­room in groups, and peered out at the packed room from behind thick glass that stretched almost to the top of the high ceil­ing. 
Each wore gray sweat pants and white jail­issued T-shirts or sweat shirts, with the exception of Cassar Ali, the only woman charged, who wore a vibrant, royal blue hijab and glasses. They spoke only to confirm their names, addresses and dates of birth. 
Olmert remains firm on blockade 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said Tuesday that Israel has no plans to lift its air and sea blockade of Lebanon until an inter­national peacekeeping force takes up positions along the Syrian border and at Beirut's airport. 
Israeli officials said Olmert wasn't issuing an ultimatum. But the tough stance appeared to be an attempt to put pressure on the interna­tional community to send a powerful force will­ing to disarm Hezbollah, which fired thousands of rockets into northern Israel during 34 days of fighting. 
Olmert laid down his position in a meeting with U.N. envoy Terje Roed-Larsen, who is in the region to discuss implementation of a U.N.­brokered cease-fire that ended the war between Israel and Hezbollah. Diplomats are still trying to hammer out final details, includ­ing the peacekeeping force's precise responsi­bilities. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
19 TSA employees inhale fumes 
MINNEAPOLIS -A security checkpoint and two nearby ticket counters were closed for several hours and 19 people were taken to hospitals Tuesday after screeners at Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport complained of irritating fumes. 
One traveler was treated at the scene, but 19 others -all employees of the Transportation Security Administration, American Airlines or US Airways -were taken to local hospitals after they com­plained of nose, ear or throat irritation. The injuries were considered minor. 
Air travel was unaffected. American and US Airways set up a makeshift ticket count­er, and five other security checkpoints were available. 


Reports mark Katrina anniversary 
NEW ORLEANS -No less than a half­dozen reports on the Hurricane Katrina recovery effort are being released to coin­cide with the one-year anniversary of the storm -and nearly all criticize the slug­gish pace of the response. 
The reports document a host of prob­lems, from the still-unfinished levees to the plight of small businesses and the city's continuing racial divide. 
"It's a pretty bleak picture," said Minor Sinclair, who heads the U.S. region­al office of Oxfam America, a charitable organization. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police officers killed on bicycles 
OVINGTON, Ind. -A van struck bicyclists riding to raise money for families of officers who died while on duty, killing a state troop­er and a retired police chief and injuring another cyclist, police said. 
The van, which was providing support to the bicyclists and was marked with a large banner that read "Caution Cyclists Ahead," spun into the group after being hit by a box truck on Indiana 63 near the Indiana-Illinois state line, police said. 
Those killed were state police Lt. Gary Dudley and Gary Martin. 


Iran ready to talk about nukes 
State run media says the nation is unwilling to budge on uranium enrichment 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iran said Tuesday it was ready for "serious negotiations" on its nuclear program, offering a new formula to resolve a crisis with the West. A semi­official news agency said the government was unwilling to abandon uranium enrich­ment -the key U.S. demand. 
Iran delivered its written response to a package of incentives offered by the United States and five other world powers to persuade Iran to roll back on its nuclear program -and punishments if it does not. The world powers, the five permanent U.N. Security Council members plus Germany, have given Iran until Aug. 31 to accept the package. 
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, John Bolton, said Washington will "study the Iranian response carefully" but was prepared to move forward with sanc­tions against Tehran if it was not positive. The White House held off commenting until it had studied the text. The European Union's for­eign policy chief, Javier Solana, said the document was "extensive" and required "a detailed and careful analysis." 
Iranian officials alTered no details of the response, but it appeared geared at entic­ing those countries into fur­ther negotiations by offering a broad set of proposals vague enough to hold out hope of progress in resolv­ing the standoff. 
If the Iranians leave the door open to halting enrich­ment as talks progress, that would drive a wedge in the Security Council between the Americans, British and French on one side and the Hussians and Chinese on the other. Last month, Hussia said the Council was in no rush to pressure Iran, strik­ing a more conciliatory tone than the United States. 
Tuesday's announcement was the latest development in the yearlong standoff over Tehran's nuclear program. Iran says it wants to master the technology to generate nuclear power. But critics say Iran is interested in ura­nium enrichment because it can also be used to make the fissile core of nuclear weapons. 

The current drama is playing out in the wake of fpars that thfl ability of tho pro-Iranian I-lezbollah guer­rillas in Lebanon to with­stand 34 days of Israeli bombardment has embold­ened hard-liners in Tehran to risk a showdown with tho Americans, who are bogged down in neighboring Iraq. There has also been specu­lation in the West that Iran encouraged Hezbollah to provoke the Israelis to dis­tract attention from its nudear ambitions. 
Iran has pursued a con­frontational stance on the nuclear issue since the elec­tion of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad last year. The hard-line president has used the nuclear issue to encour­age a sense of national pride among Iranians by standing up to the United States and other Western countries. 
On Tuesday, Iran's top nuclear negotiator, Ali Larijani, hand-delivered his government's response to ambassadors of Britain, China. Russia, France, Germany and Switzerland -which represents U.S. interests -nine days before a Security Council deadline for Iran to halt uranium enrichment or face econom­ic and political sanctions. 
Larijani refused to dis­close whether the response included an offer to suspend uranium enrichment. But the semiofficial Fars news agency reported that Iran rejected calls to suspend "nuclear activities" -or uranium enrichment -and "instead has offered a new formula to resolve the issues through dialogue." 
The state-run television quoted LarUani as telling the diplomats Iran "is prepared as of Aug. 23rd (Wednesday) to enter serious negotia­tions" with the countries that proposed the incentives package. 
The Irna official news agency reported that "Larijani said Iran's answer has logically, fairly and con­structively addressed demands of the proposed package, recommending the P5+1 group to return to the negotiation table immedi­ately despite the false atmosphere created against Iran that it was buying time." 

VIRGINIA 

Virginia Tech suspect arraigned 
Associated Press 
CHRISTIANSBURG, Va. -A jail inmate who was the object of a man­hunt that enveloped the Virginia Tech campus following the slayings of a deputy sheriff and a hospital security guard was arraigned Tuesday on capital murder and other charges. 
William Morva, 24, was held with­out bond and was arraigned from jail via video conference for security rea­sons, Montgomery County Sheriff's Lt. Gary Chandler said. 
Morva was recaptured without incident Monday afternoon in a thick briar patch near campus and not far from where a county sheriff's deputy was shot and killed earlier in the day. 
The deputy, Cpl. Eric E. Sutphin, was among officers searching for Morva, who had escaped from a hos­pital Sunday morning. Hospital secu­rity guard Derrick McFarland was slain and a sheriff's deputy was injured during the escape. 
Morva was arraigned on charges of capital murder, assault on a police officer, escape and use of a firearm in a felony. Charges in Sutphin's slaying will be filed later, Blacksburg Police Lt. Joe Davis said. 

Marva's brother, Michael Morva, 26, was charged with aiding in his brother's escape, according to Cpl. Kris Weaver. He also was charged with marijuana possession. 
Sutphin's colleagues and members of the community paid their respects to the fallen officer Tuesday by lay­ing bouquets of flowers, cards and notes on his cruiser, which was parked outside the jail. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
Tickets 
continued from page 1 
dents visited gate B of the stadi­um and received their lottery number. 
Berlo said an estimated total of 10,000 students -including graduate students and students from Saint Mary's College ­picked up lottery numbers. Later that evening, during halftime of the men's soccer game, two magic lottery numbers were drawn -one for undergradu­ates, and another for graduate students. The undergraduate number was 26 and the graduate number was 337. 
Tickets were sold Tuesday first to those who held lottery num­bers closest to the magic number that had been drawn the evening before. Berlo said the system was created to efficiently serve stu­dents without the chaos of a "first come first serve" format. 
Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel, said Tuesday morning went so well because of student and staff familiarity with the process. 
"Because we've been doing this the same way for some time now, students are in the groove," Gagnon said. "Students partici­pate in the process more intelli­gently each year." 
Gagnon said while he was overseeing the ticket distribution during the morning, he spoke with several seniors who asked 


Phones 
continued from page 1 


why the university did not move towards a computerized distribu­tion system. 
"The answer to that is that the ticket office has created a process that works with student input," he explained. "For a change like that we would not go forward with out student input, and most students like the process as it is." 
Most students from the junior class in line Tuesday afternoon seemed to agree with Gagnon. 
Knott Hall resident Jacques Nguyen reached the front of the line at around 1:45pm with lot­tery number 1162, after waiting only 10 minutes. 
"Things seem to be going pretty smoothly," Nguyen said. "Ushers 
calls, according to Ellis. 
To keep up a standard form of connection in lieu of the dorm phone disappearance, every stu­dent, regardless if they are living on or off campus, has been given a five-digit voice mail box num­ber that can be accessed from any phone: The number previ­ously used to call up voice mail -familiar to many students as 4-7474-will still be employed to either check voice mail or leave a message in another voice mail box. A student will keep the same number throughout their tenure at the University. 
"The [voice mail] service is free of charge, so if students decide they want to use it, it's there," Ellis said. "However, the University will be using [the voice mail boxes] as a method of communicating with students, so they really need to set up their mail boxes." 
With the transition out of the traditional dorm phone system, Ellis said Notre Dame is on "the leading edge" for changes in university communication ­changes he said have, so far, met with silent approval. 
"We've not really had any have been helpful." 
Stanford Hall resident Chris Howson experienced a longer wait than Nguyen, as he arrivod at the stadium with a group of friends when sales reopened at approximately 1 p.m. 
As he and his friends neared the front of the line, Howson explained, "We've been waiting about 40 minutes, but we expect­ed this to take time." 
Today sophomore undergradu­ates and graduate, MBA and law students will have the opportuni­ty to purchase tickets, with fresh­men to follow on Thursday. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullen1 @nd.edu 
feedback [about the phone removal] at all, and if there were problems, we would definitely hear about them. It's been sur­prisingly quiet, so I take that as a vote of 'fine with us'," Ellis said. "The transition has gone remarkably well so far -just let me find some wood to knock on." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Mass 
continued from page 1 

truth and unity. This idea was the theme of both Jenkins' homily and the wnl­come speech Burish deliv­ered after communion. Both stressed the idea of Notre Dame as a place that brings many dilTenmt people togeth­er as one whole, with the mission of giving love to oth­ers with the help of tho Spirit. 
Jenkins began by advising the students to "reflect on different kinds of spirits," those that draw students, faculty and members of the human race as a whole to dif'f'erent 
-he
things 

"It was a very moving 
emphasized themselves particularly first experience to see and their time the diversity of the student body here, splitting 
t h e these goals
swaying and singing
University's into four dis­community. all together. " tinct cate­These differ­gories -fami­ences appear ly, friends,
Laura Burdick 
manifold and school and 
freshman 
faith. Burishdisconnected from each other, he said, but are in fact connected by a spirit that is "part of our nature as human beings." 

However, Jenkins differen­tiated between two different spirits, one with a lower case "s" and one with a capital "S," the latter being the Holy Spirit that guides us but is "not from us." This Spirit can be distinguished from others because it only leads to the truth and guides to a "pro­found and generous love," Jenkins said. 
This love, Jenkins said, should be expressed to neigh­bors, and in the spirit of this love for humanity, students should reflect upon those in developing nations whose daily lives are a struggle. 
He continued, citing vari­ous examples of such that globalization has brought to the spotlight, such as geno­cide in Sudan and the condi­tions in Haiti, Peru and Bangladesh. Jenkins men­tioned the upcoming academ­ic forum entitled "The Global Health Crisis: Forging Solutions, Effecting Change," on Sept. 14 as a place where students can get involved in a discussion about these issues. 
Burish's address cited the University as a place of con­versation, where different people join as one to engage each other. He advised first year students that they "only have one beginning ... and this is it." 
He urged all students to 
formulate 
goals for 
asked the crowd of thousands to con­sider how they would like members of each of those categories to remember them four years from now. 
The Mass closed with the singing of the Alma Mater, a tradition that inspired mem­bers of the incoming class. 
"It was a very moving first experience to see the student body swaying and singing all together," freshman Laura Burdick said. 
A picnic on DeBartolo quad followed the celebration, fea­turing live music from Emerson Hart, lead singer of the band Tonic, as well as other forms of entertainment. 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
phone, an opt-in telephone serv­ice is available. Students who request a dorm phone through the Office of Residence Life and Housing will pay a $161 per semester fee for the service. Though Ellis could not provide the exact cost the service used to run the students, he said the sys­tem is "revenue neutral" for the University. 
Ellis said as of last week, only 60 students chose to opt-in to the plan. This number does not, however, include dorm Resident Assistants, who are required to have the service by ResLife and therefore receive it for free. 
Also new are the public phones in hallways of every dorm -at least one per floor, depending on the dorm configu­ration, Ellis said. Students can use these to call any campus number for free, and can also use them for long-distance call­ing if they have a pre-paid phone card. The hallway phones, however, cannot receive 

DAYS/NIGHTS DELIVERY DRIVERS SANDWICH MAKERS 

GOOD CALL or BAD CALL? 

At the Development Department Phone Center, 
YOU MAKE THE CALL! 
40 STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni, parents and friends on behalf of Notre Dame's Annual Fund. 
• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

• 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 


. 
EVENING HOURS 
• 
PAID TRAINING 

• 
MERIT PAY INCREASES 



OPEN HOUSE  
When: Where:  Today, Wed., Aug 23rd 1 :00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Third Floor, Grace Hall  
Why:  Ask questions, fill out applications, and meet us!  

Questions? Call the Phone Center-Moira Madden or Mark Seller at 631 -3152. 
Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! 

Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 

-------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS

Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,339.84 -5.21

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,914 146 1,351 1,978,095,775.00 

-111111lll.lllllllllll.lllllllll11RIItll 

iiilli!llllllllliiltlllllilllll1!111111141riiWII~~~~~~~~tllt:1 
S&P 500 1,298.82 +1.30 
Nl~lllfllllli:llti~'IJIIIIII~IIllllilllllillllill,!!fM''iiiiii! 
fTSf IOO(London) 5,902.60 -12.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.03 +0.01 38.43 
INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.49 -0.09 18.34 

SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-0.86 -0.04 4.63 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-1.91 -0.50 25.62 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) 
+ 1.62 +0.04 2.5 I 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.17 +0.0 I 4.811 13-WEEK BILL +0.20 +0.01 4.965 30-YEAR BOND -0.28 -0.0 I 4.95 5-YEARNOTE -0.08 -0.00 4.763 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.20  73.10  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.20  634.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.20  90.70  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.3900  
EURO  0.7812  
POUND  0.5297  

IN BRIEF 
Manufacturing jobs brought to NC 
RALEIGH, N.C. -A Fort Wayne, Ind., com­pany that makes parts for heavy equipment will bring 96 jobs to Surry County and invest $4.7 million in a new plant there over the next three years, officials said Tuesday. 
Ottenweller Co. Inc., a supplier of fabricated welded and precision machined parts, will receive a $75,000 state grant if it meets its job creation goals. 
The expected average weekly wage at Ottenweller will be $600 a week. The average weekly wage in the county in northwestern North Carolina is $480. 
"The ability to be close to our customers in the southeast, and North Carolina's business friendly atmosphere, made the decision to locate our plant in Surry County an easy one," said Michael Ottenweller, president of Ottenweller Co. Inc. 
Stocks advance despite Iran worries 
NEW YORK -Bullish comments from Advanced Micro Devices Inc. led Wall Street higher on Tuesday, helping offset fresh polit­ical worries over Iran's nuclear ambitions. 
An executive at the world's No. 2 chip maker behind Intel Corp. told news services the company hopes to capture 40 percent of the global market for computer processors by 2009. Along with an upgrade from Bear Stearns, AMD shares surged 6.5 percent ­bringing technology stocks along with it. 
However, with light volume, Wall Street wasn't able to make a more robust advance as geopolitical concerns kept investors at bay. 
European Union leaders were expected to get an official response from Iran this after­noon over their offer of incentives to per­suade the nation to halt uranium enrich­ment. Iran's top nuclear negotiator did not say if his government was willing to abandon nuclear aspirations, but did commit to "seri­ous negotiations" over the dispute. 
"There a lot of geopolitical risk out there, and investors are trying to figure out where things are going with Iran," said Scott Merritt, a U.S. equity strategist for JPMorgan Asset Management. "The market is pretty schizophrenic, it doesn't know what to pay attention to right now." 

Firms take competitors to court 
Businesses accuse other companies of relying on illegal immigrant labor 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Frustrated by lax enforce­
ment of immigration law, 
businesses are taking their 
fight against illegal immi­
gration to court, accusing 
competitors of hiring ille­
gal workers to achieve an 
unfair advantage. 
Businesses and anti-ille­
gal immigration groups 
said the legal action was 
an attempt to create an 
economic deterrent 
against hiring illegal 
employees. 
"We see the legal profes­sion bringing to this issue the kind of effect it's had on consumer product safe­ty," said Mike Hethmon of the Immigration Reform Law Institute, a Washington D.C.-based group backing the efforts. 
In the first of a series of 
lawsuits, a temporary 
employment agency that 
supplies farm workers 
sued a grower and a two 
competing companies on 
Monday. 
Similar cases claiming violations of federal anti­racketeering laws have yielded mixed results. The California lawsuit is believed to be the first 
AP
based on a state's unfair­

Atchariya Fouenglung, a legal migrant, whose job was arranged by Global Horizons
competition laws, legal experts said. through the U.S. guest worker program, picks oranges on a farm in Orange Grove, Calif. Santa Monica-based it." seeking comment. that show people working Global Horizons claimed in Ayala Agricultural With an estimated 11 under fake names and the lawsuit that Munger Services manager Javier million illegal immigrants Social Security numbers, Brothers, a grower, hired Rodriguez had not seen in the United States, said David Klehm, the lead illegal immigrant workers the suit but said the com-undocumented workers lawyer for cases in from Ayala Agricultural pany does not hire undoc-are a large part of the Southern California. Services and J&A umented immigrants. nation's work force. Companies planning to Contractors. All the defen­"If somebody doesn't But immigration law file additional lawsuits dants are based in have a green card or work enforcement at work sites include farms and facto­California's farm-rich documents, we don't hire is limited. In fiscal year ries that depend heavily on Central Valley. them," he said. 1999, authorities arrested immigrant labor, Klehm The suit alleges that Munger Brothers lawyer 2,849 people at work sites said. Munger Brothers had a Theodore Hoppe said the compared with 1,145 Legal experts said the contract with Global contract with Global arrests last year, according cases could be difficult to Horizons to provide more Horizons fell apart to the federal Immigration win. Under the California than 600 blueberry pick­because the laborers they and Customs Enforcement statutes, plaintiffs must ers this spring, but nixed provided couldn't pick agency. prove a competitor directly the agreement so it could blueberries at the rate the To prove competitors harmed their business. hire illegal immigrants. company had promised. hire illegal immigrants, "Unless you've got smok­"Competitors hiring ille­He said Munger Brothers businesses could use pub-ing gun evidence, it's hard gal immigrants is hurting hired workers through lie records involving prior to tie economic loss of one our business badly," temporary agencies, which violations, testimony from business to another's prac­Global Horizons President had the responsibility to former employees who tices," said Niels Frenzen, Mordechai Orian said. "It's hire legal workers. have worked alongside a law professor at the to the point that doing J&A Contractors did not illegal immigrants, and University of Southern business legally isn't worth immediately return calls recovered W-2 tax forms California. 


Federal Reserve warns of rate hikes 
The Fed left interest rates unchanged dipped 5.21, or 0.05 percent, to Associated Press 
earlier this month after raising them 17 11,339.84 after been up more than 38 
straight times. Wall Street has rallied points early in the session. Advancers 
NEW YORK -A Federal Reserve since then on hopes this would be the beat decliners in relatively light sum­
official's warning about a possible end, but one analyst said Moskow's mer trading on the New York Stock 
resumption of interest rate hikes rat­comments could be "putting out a trial Exchange and the Nasdaq Stock 
tled Wall Street Tuesday, wiping out an balloon" to gauge the market's reaction Market. 

early advance and leaving stocks nar­to a continuation of rate hikes. Broader stock indicators edged high­
rowly higher by the close. "The market has discounted the like­er. The Standard & Poor's 500 index 
The comments by Chicago Fed lihood of another rate increase by rose 1.30, or 0.10 percent, to 1,298.82, 
President Michael Moskow unnerved about a 20 percent chance for the next and the Nasdaq composite index 
investors looking to revive last week's meeting" in September, said Scott gained 2.27, or 0.11 percent, to 
rally after having collected profits on Merritt, a U.S. equity strategist for 2,150.02. 
Monday. Retailers and other sectors JPMorgan Asset Management. "He Bonds held their ground, with the 
dependent on consumer spending might want to get that up to 50 percent yield on the benchmark 10-year 
stumbled after Moskow said, "some to get more flexibility. If expectations Treasury note falling to 4.81 percent 
additional firming of policy may yet be get too high or low, Fed Chairman Ben from 4.82 percent. The dollar main­
necessary to bring inflation back into Bernanke can't really go against it or tained its gains against other major 
the comfort zone within a reasonable he'll lose credibility." currencies, while gold prices edged 
period of time." The Dow Jones industrial average lower. 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
UKRAINE 
IRAQ 


Hussein accused of genocide 
Emotional testimonies about Anfal campaign mark second day of trial 

Associated Press 
SUKHA BALKA -A Russian passenger jet crashed during a thunderstorm just minutes after sending a distress signal on Tuesday, killing all 170 people on board, including dozens of children. 
Emergency officials said pre­liminary information led them to believe that weather -not ter­rorism -caused the Pulkovo Airlines' Tu-154 to plummet to the ground in what was the third passenger plane crash involving Russia's aviation industry this year. 
"Nobody survived," Mykhaylo Korsakov, spokesman for the Donetsk department of the Emergency Situations Ministry, told The Associated Press. 
Ukrainian officials said a storm with high winds, driving rain and lightning was raging through the region at the time. Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry spokeswoman Irina Andrianova, citing information from her Ukrainian counter­parts, said the plane was likely hit by lightning. 
Korsakov said the pilot asked to make an emergency landing before disappearing from the radar screens at around 2:30 p.m. 
The Tu-154 was en route from the Russian Black Sea resort of Anapa -a holiday destination popular with families -to St. Petersburg when it ran into trouble. Two minutes after the crew sent a distress signal, it dropped off the radar, said Russian emergency official Yulia Stadnikova. 
Residents of Sukha Balka, a village north of Donetsk and some 400 miles east of Kiev, found part of the plane's tail sec­tion and still-burning pieces of debris in a swampy field. Television footage showed scorched, smoldering land cov­ered in small pieces of wreck­age. Thick white smoke hung over the debris. 
Of the 170 people on board, 45 were children, Pulkovo Airlines deputy director Anatoly Samoshin told reporters at the St. Petersburg airport. The list of passengers, most of whom were from St. Petersburg, appeared to include many families. 
Investigators were searching for the flight data recorders commonly called black boxes. 
Samoshin said the pilot decid­ed to climb about 3,300 feet to try to get above the storm. But as the plane ascended from 29,500 to 36,000 feet, the pilot sent the first distress signal. Later, the pilot sent two more distress signals, the last from 9,800 feet, he said. 
Ukraine Emergency Situations Ministry spokesman Igor Krol told AP that a fire broke out on the plane at 32,800 feet and the crew decided to try to make an emergency landing. 
"The only known fact is that the weather was bad, there was a strong thunderstorm and poor visibility," Ukrainian emergency official Leonid Kastorsky told Russia's NTV at the site of the crash. 
IRISH BED & BREAKFAST Four Miles North of NO Two bedrooms, Private Bath, Two Night Minimum $1 ;o.oo per night For reservation call: l-;74-272-7179 




18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE 
CASH PAID TODAY 

Preferred Tickets 234-5650 

Russian jet crashes, killing all aboard 
Associated Press 
BAG I I DAD Survivors described a chmnieal weapons attack on their villages in tnsti­mony Tunsday at the trial of Saddam I lussnin, telling of poi­sonous douds of' gas that killed children and blinded residents during a military oiTensivn against Kurds in 1987. 
Saddam's eo-def'endants insisted that the Anfal eam­paign, in which tons of thou­sands of Kurds were killed, was directed only at Kurdish hruerril­las and Iranian troops in north­ern Iraq during the bloody Iran­Iraq war. 
Saddam f'aces eharges of genocide in the trial, which eompleted its seeond day Tuesday. Six eo-defendants arn in the dock with him over thn 1987-88 Anfal eampaign, in whieh troops swept across parts of northern Iraq, destroying vil­lages. 
Two survivors told the eourt about an April 16, 1987 attaek on the Kurdish villages of Basilan and Sheik Wasan ­believed to be the first time Sad dam's rngime used chemical weapons on Iraqi eitizens. 
"The villagers were blinded and they wnre vomiting -only God knows what it was like that night," said Najiba Khider Ahmed, a 41-ynar-old woman from Sheik Wasan. She deseribed boing held in a deten­tion camp for nine days, where her brother and nieee disap­peared. 
"During thosn nine days, it was like the apocalypse. Even Hitler didn't do this," she said, breaking down into tears repeatedly. "Saddam II ussein used to shout about 'the Iraqi People.' If we were his people, why did he bomb us with all sorts of weapons?" 
She said she had two preg­nancies after the attack -the baby in the lirst was born with skin penling oil', and tho sncond misearried, born with mal­formed limbs, whieh she blamed on the gas attacks. 
Another survivor, Ali Mostafa llama, said the ehemical bombs let olf "grmmish smoke. It was if 

The crash occurred just two days before the second anniver­sary of near-simultaneous explo­sions on two planes over Russia. Those explosions, which killed 90 people, were blamed on Chechen terrorists. 
Both Hussian and Ukrainian officials said nothing indicated Tuesday's incident should be blamed on terrorism. 
The crash "was not a terrorist attack," said Leonid Belyayev, acting director of Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry in St. Petersburg. 
The 16-year-old plane had flown 5,600 miles since its last maintenance checkup, and was not immediately due for another check, Samoshin said. Pulkovo is among Russia's largest airlines. 
The plane "was falling down like a petal," one unidentified woman told Hussia's Channel One, waving her hand from side to side. "It was floating, it circled around, then it went down and then there immediately was an explosion ... and smoke started rising." 
Zhenya Donets, a 16-year-old villager, said he saw the plane hang in the air for a moment, before corkscrewing to the ground. 
"There were fragments of the plane and bodies were lying among them. There were chil­dren there too. Many bodies were burning, we tried to put the fire out, but all people were already dead. It was a terrible sight," he said. 
The crash was the third major incident involving Russia's avia­tion industry this year. It came less than two months after an Airbus A-310 of the Hussian air­line S7 skidded off a runway and burst into flames on July 9 in the Siberian city of Irkutsk, killing 124 people. 
On May 3, an A-320 of the Armenian airline Armavia crashed into the Black Sea while trying to land in the Hussian resort city of Sochi in rough weather, killing all 113 people aboard. 
Russian-made Tu-154s are widely used by Russian airlines for many regional flights. 
there was a rotten apple or gar­lic smell minutes later. People were vomiting ... we were blind and screaming. There was no one to rescue us . .I ust God." 
Barna, wearing a traditional Kurdish headdrnss, said he saw a newborn die during the bom­bardment. 
"The infant was trying to smell life, but he breathed in the chemicals and died," he said, speaking in Kurdish with an Arabic translator. 
Throughout the testimony, Saddam and the defense lawyers insisted the two had bnen coached in their testimony -with one lawyer asking how Ahmed, who said shn was illiter­ate, eould spneify that Russian­made Sukhoi warplanes carried out the bombardment. 
"Who told you to say these things?" Saddam asked llama at one point. 
Two of the defendants addressed the court and insisted Anfal was targeted at Iranian troops and allied Kurdish guer­rillas in northern Iraq. 
"The goal was to fight an organized, armed army ... the goal was not civilians," said Sultan I lashim al-Tai, who was the eommander of Task Force Anl'al and head of the Iraqi army 1st Corps. 
lin said civilians in the areas where Anfal took place were "safely transported" to other areas, ineluding tlw northern city of Kirkuk. 
The orders in the campaign were "to prevent the Iranian army from occupying Iraq at whatever price," al-Tai said. "I implemented them precisely and sincerely without adding anything or exeneding my pow­ers." 
"I never turned a blind eye to any violation," said al-Tai, who later served as Saddam's last defense minister, up until the 2003 U.S.-Ied invasion of Iraq that toppled the regime. 
Sabir al-Douri, thn direetor of military intelligence at the time of Anfal, said "the Iranian army and Kurdish rebels were fight­ing together" against the Iraqi army and that Anfal aimed to clear northern Iraq of Iranian troops. 
He insisted the Iraqi govern­ment faced a "tough situation" and had to aet beeause the area where the lranian-allind guerril­las were located had dams that, if destroyed, would flood Baghdad. He said eivilians in the Anfal region had already been removed. 
"You will see that we are not guilty and that we defended our eountry honorably and sincere­ly," al-Douri said. 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS "W"ANTED 
BUYING & TRADING 
ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS 


Wednesday, August 23, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Charter schools fall behind 
Report shows public school students performing better in math, reading 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Charter school opponents got a boost Tuesday from an unlikely source: the Bush administra­tion. 
President Bush has been a big supporter of charter schools ­public schools that are usually free of many of the regulations that govern traditional schools. 
Nevertheless, a study by the Department of Education found that fourth graders in tradition­al public schools were doing better in both reading and math than students in charter schools. 
"We welcome the release of this data," said Nancy Van Meter, deputy director of the American Federation of Teachers, which has been criti­cal of charter schools. "We've been calling for it for two years." 
Charter school foes said the findings show that the schools are a failing experiment that drains resources from tradi­tional public schools. Charter school supporters called the report flawed and outdated and said charter schools improve public education by creating competition. 
Fourth graders in regular public schools scored an aver­age of 5.2 points better in read­ing than students in charter schools on the 2003 National Assessment of Educational Progress test. Students in tradi­tional schools scored an aver­age of 5.8 points better in math, said the report by the National Center for Education Statistics, an agency of the Department of Education. 
Mark Schneider, commission­er of the NCES, said a small staff and other priorities had delayed release of the report. 
"The fact that this is 2003 data being reported in 2006 is something that I'm not proud of, frankly," Schneider told reporters. 
He cautioned against reading too much into the report's find­ings. 
"This was a pilot study and not meant to be definitive," Schneider said. "What docs this report say to a parent? Not much, frankly." 
"It takes charters a
The NCES test scores over studied year or two to get their time. fourth-grade sea legs, and then their lie also noted math and that many char­
performance goes up. " 
reading ter schools in the scores at study had been 150 charter Nelson Smith operating only a schools and National Alliance for Public short time. 
6,764 tradi­"It takes char-
Charter Schools president 
tional public schools nationwide. At the time, there were nearly 2,700 charter schools in 36 states. There are now more than 3,600. 
The test scores were from the 2003 National Assessment, a test given to students across the country. 
The report offered some good news about charter schools: Reading scores at charter schools in central cities serving mostly minority students were comparable to scores at tradi­tional public schools. However, math scores at such charter schools still lagged behind those at traditional schools. 
"On average, they're not doing harm," Schneider said. 
Van Meter said the report confirms research by the teach­ers union showing that charter schools are not improving edu­cation in America. 
"It says that they were not able to deliver on their promis­es on a consistent basis," Van Meter said. 
Nelson Smith, president of the National Alliance for Public Chartm Schools, said the report was flawed because it did not measure academic progress over time. He said many stu­dents enter charter schools after struggling in traditional schools, only to improve their 
ters a year or 
two to get their 
sea legs, and 
then their per­formance goes up," Smith said. 
The Center for Education Reform, which supports charter schools, issued a list of studies showing that charter school students in several states out­perform students in traditional public schools. 
Education Secretary Margaret Spellings said, "Many charter schools are still rela­tively new, and we need to examine how they improve stu­dent performance over time for a better picture of how they compare to traditional public schools. 
"These schools are pioneering new classroom strategies that will help us raise achievement in all our public schools," she said. 

IS LA TIN REALLY DEAD? Why the Academy and the Church Should Preserve the Latin Language 

an informal conversation with 
Reginald Foster, O.C.D. Department of Latin Letters Secretariat of State, The Vatican 
Thursday, August 24, 2006 4:30p.m. Room 120 Law School 
Sponsored by The Department of Classics The Medieval Institute The Department of Theology The Law School 
For more information, contact Professor Cathleen Kaveny at Kaveny.l(ti{.nd.edu 
• -1 ' I ' 

Karr appears in court, declines extradition 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -John Mark Karr, wearing an orange jail jumpsuit and handcuffs chained around his waist, waived extradi­tion to Colorado on Tuesday to face murder charges in the slay­ing of 6-year-old JonBenet Ramsey. 
Karr spoke only briefly during a two-minute court hearing to confirm his decision. His blank expression changed only once when he slowly closed his eyes as the judge recited the charge of first-degree murder. 
Although his public defender and a former defense attorney described Karr as eager to go, it was unclear when the 41-year­old teacher would be transferred. The Boulder County sheriff's deputies would not discuss travel plans and Los Angeles jail offi­cials said they had not yet been contacted about a transfer. 
Deputy Public Defender Haydeh Takasugi, who repre­sented Karr in the hearing, said he was concerned about having to appear in court wearing jail attire rather than civilian clothes. 
"It's going to taint any potential jury pool out there," Takasugi said. "He was upset at that." 
Karr's face has flooded news­casts since he was named a sus­pect in Bangkok last week in the long-unsolved slaying of the 6­year-old beauty pageant queen, who was found strangled in the basement of her Boulder home on Dec. 26, 1996. 
Prosecutors have not disclosed their evidence against Karr, and his family has said he was at home in Georgia at the time of the slaying. 
Karr told reporters in Thailand before he voluntarily flew to Los Angeles on Sunday that he was not innocent in JonBenet's slay­ing, explaining only that he was present when she died and that her death was an accident. 
In addition to first-degree mur­der, the charges against Karr in a sealed probable-cause arrest warrant include felony murder, first-degree kidnapping, second­degree kidnapping and sexual assault on a child. 
The felony murder charge means prosecutors are either 

accusing Karr of killing JonBenet during the course of a sexual assault or kidnapping, or that he was present while someone else killed the girl. 
Felony murder carries the same penalties as first-degree murder: either life in prison with­out the possibility of parole or the death penalty. 
"It's a perfect insurance policy for the prosecution in Colorado," said former Denver prosecutor Craig Silverman. "Even if a jury were to somehow buy that this was an accident, any death dur­ing the commission of a kidnap­ping or sexual assault is first­degree murder regardless." 
Jamie Harmon, an attorney who represented Karr when he was charged in 2001 with pos­sessing child pornography in Northern California, downplayed Karr's comments about the slay­ing. 
"A confession is a legal term ... and the statements taken from Mr. Karr are primarily sound bites," Harmon said outside court. "We have no idea what the context of the comments may be. " 
Harmon also said Karr was injured by aggressive camera crews in Thailand and has three bruised ribs and bruises on his body. 
Harmon said she and another attorney, Patience Van Zandt, would be advising Karr "in some capacity" but that she would not be accompanying him to Colorado. 
"He wants to go now," Harmon said. "Mr. Karr has been por­trayed by the media as of late as being mentally unstable, atten­tion-seeking, unwell, mentally unwell. And he is none of those things. He is anxious to have an opportunity to address the allega­tions against him, to be portrayed in a more accurate and complete way." 
The attorney said Karr was "not subject to ready categoriza­tion or easy answers." 
"You've heard the expression, 'He marches to the beat of a dif­ferent drummer?' John Karr marches to the beat of a different drummer," Harmon said. 
She described him as intelli­gent and unusual. 

SERVE AS A STUDENT REPRESENTATIVE ON THE LOCAL ALUMNI BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Learn what takes place at alumni board meetings by serving on the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley's Board of Directors as a Student Representative. We are looking for two very energetic, committed students who will join our current SR's, and who will be willing to attend monthly Board meetings during the academic year. The Student Representative will participate in discussions, offering input, suggestions, and recommendations as a non-voting member. The SR will also provide assistance at 
Club-sponsored programs... 
Annual Football Banquet Christmas Mass Annual "Person of the Year" Awards Dinner Annual Men's Basketball Banquet Blue-Gold Game Student Send-off 
To apply, please email a letter ofinterest to Joellen Conrardy at the following email address: nds jv@nds jv. org 
THE OBSERVER 










IEWPOINT

page 10 Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Dig out the fanny packs 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Darne, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDIToR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1 @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

oBSERVER ONUNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Poucres 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prior and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and.Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding adverci.sements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observet reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on ~:ontent. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
nte Observe-r (USPS 599 l-4000} is publi.~hed Monday thmugh Friday ex<;:epr during exam and vac;uion periuds. A subscription fO Thr-Observer is $100 for .one academic year; $55 for one sernesn:r. 
The Observer is published ar: POSTMI\STBR 024 Sm.Hh Dining Hall ~nd address co:ree~:ions. to: Nom: Dame, IN 465%-0779 The Observer Periodical pom.g_e paid at Notre D3.tUe P.O.Ilm<779 and additional miiHng-offices, 024 St~uth Dining Hal! 
Notr< D•mo.IN 46556'l779 
The Observer is a inembcr ofthe: ~octlt:ed Press. All rcptoduction rights an: reoerved. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Amanda Michaels Eric Retter Kaitlynn Riely Kyle Cassily 
Ryan Sydlik Chris Hine Viewpoint Scene Joey King Sean Sweany 
Graphics Brian Doxtader Jeff Albert Ram a Gottumukkala 

Last spring, while shopping in Chicago over Easter Break, I made the purchase of a lifetime: a fanny pack. For about a month I had been complaining to my friends and family that I was in dire need of a "hands free," stylish accesso­Katie ry that could be used Palmitier to transport necessi­
A Word to the 

ties (keys, ID, lipstick, 
Wzse

etc.) across campus, or even across Michigan Avenue. A purse was too big, and a backpack too bulky. The only logical choice was the infamous fanny pack, completely out of style since the early '90s (that is to say if it was ever once considered "in vogue"). Needless to say, my life since the revival of the "hip bag" has never been the same. 
Although many of you may have no desire whatsoever of digging out your neon. nylon fannies from the basement or treasured memory box, or <wen pur­chasing a new one, we all have some­thing about us just wanting to break free. Whether it is material or ideologi­cal aspects being hoarded within our self-conscious psyches, the world is being sheltered from whom some of us really are. These ideas and creativity are no longer to be carried inside of us, but rather on the outside, hands free, for the world to see. 
Instead of a fanny pack, maybe you are more of a pocket protector wearer, and long to keep your oxford shirts from receiving ink stains. But, ashamed and embarrassed to put the protector in your pocket, you suffer from the oblong navy blue ink blot on the upper left corner of your new, starched shirt. 
Or perhaps you would rather discuss a new mathematical formula than watch Monday Night Football. Well, the time is now to bust out the fanny packs, pocket protectors and calculators, all of which may have caused you years of ridicule in high schooL The bad news is your shirts are still stained, and your fanny pack may no longer lit around those Freshman Fifteen hips -but the good news is we arc no longer in high school. 
In college, and especially at a place like Notre Dame, we are allowed to start ofT with a clean slate. The nicknames, the embarrassing moments and the fashion don'ts are all erased dean. So what if you dropped your retainer in the trash can after lunch, missed sixth peri­od digging through the trash cans and had to explain to your teacher in front of your peers why you had to miss class? The sull'ering is over. The humiliation? Eliminated. It is time to finally embrace who we truly are. 
In high school, I felt restricted from exprnssing myself completely out of fear of being rejected by friends, boys, even the Catholic community. Jlownver, in the past year I have decided that I have bonn given the opportunity of' a lifetime here at Notre Dame to be me. We are at an institution where academic and spiri­tual growths are promoted. Through dis­cussion in the classroom, as well as con­versations with our peers over dinner, we aro allowed, and encouraged, to express ourselves freely. And the best part is, in doing so, we make new friends, learn about each other and gain a new appreciation and insight of our world. Faith, style, beliefs and opinions will not always be similar to those of our friends, the government, or religious teaching, yet those are the traits that define each and every one of us. By expressing these differences, we will not only learn about others' personalities and beliefs, but also will strengthen and define our own personalities and beliefs. 

Notre Dame and its students have been criticized as being overwhelmingly Catholic, white, wealthy and conserva­tive. While it may seem that many stu­dents do fall into one or more of those categories, as a whole those accusations are not necessarily true. Being that many of the students do share the same politics, religion and economic back­ground, we are challenged even more to embrace the differences we do have. No one wants to be just another stereotype. 
While we all share much in common, not one of us is exactly the same. Therefore, express your differences and embrace those of others. Our school, country and personal well-being will benefit immensely. There is no greater liberating experience than shedding our masks and growing into our own unique mold. 
We would never learn, or grow, if we all just conformed to government, reli­gion and popular fashion. Currently our world, and, even more so, our country, are in desperate need of new ideas. Therefore it is our duty, for the sake of mankind, to be ourselves. Stand up for your beliefs, express your ideas and strap on the fanny pack for the "hands free" mission of being true to yourself. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore Political Science major. She can be con­tacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"God is a comedian playing to an audience too afraid to laugh." 
Voltaire French writer 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

Wednesday, August 23, 2006 page 11 
/What's switchgrass? 
As a college student whose primary means of transportation are his old monogrammed Notre Dame sandals, last year's astronomical increase in the price of gasoline hasn't affected me much. When I moved out to D.C. for the spring semester, I walked and used the Metro to get around. So it was quite a sur­prise to me when I came home for Easter and it cost me almost forty dollars to fill my gas tank. Even though I was inclined to blame my local gas station for the cost, the truth behind higher gas prices is found in the fact that crude oil is a globally traded commodity which has to react to the demands and instabilities of markets around the world. 
For the last few years, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has held back the growth of crude production to increase profits. This means that the growth of crude supply is unable to keep up with the growth of crude demand in developing nations. As workers in China and India are able to purchase cars for the first time, they enter the gas market, bid­ding against Americans for the next available gallon of fuel. This imbalance of supply and demand leads to higher prices for all crude oil traded on the world market. 


Despite the undeniable fact that recent price increases are caused by the explosive economic growth of China and India and the desire of Iran, Venezuela and Russia to make as much money as possible from their limited crude supplies, some policy makers have decided that a windfall profits tax on American oil companies would help rectify the problem. 
According to supporters of the wind­fall profits tax, or WPT, such a meas­ure would add billions to federal rev-. enue and prevent big business from extorting working families. Critics claim that taxing oil companies for being successful leads to decreased oil production and refining capacity due to the perceived lack of returns on invest­ment. 
Luckily for us, we are able to look back at the 1980s to examine the effects of the WPT. According to the Library of Congress, the WPT actually decreased domestic oil production by as much as 1.27 billion barrels and increased our dependence on foreign oil as increased marginal costs led to decreased extraction of oil from American wells. The increase in oil imports due to the WPT as well as the many exemptions in the WPT led to actual revenues being about $80 bil­lion instead of the projected $393 bil­lion return. The utter failure of this provision to collect revenues and iso­late American oil prices from the world market led to its repeal in 1988. 
Considering the fact that recent increases in oil prices exist because of foreign problems in supply and demand, I believe it would be a horri­ble idea to reinstate a policy which increases our dependence on imported oil. Increases in oil costs are a threat to the stability of the consumer gaso­line market, and energy companies are investing significantly in biological renewable fuel technology. 
As gas prices soar, the energy com­pany that can first provide a cheaper fuel to consumers will be able to make great profits, and corporations are rac­ing to get products ready for market. Shell Oil recently invested $45 million in Iogen, a Canadian technology com­pany, to build the first cellulosic ethanol plant in North America. Oil companies know that their days are numbered, and are investing their "windfall profits" into new forms of energy so that they will be able to thrive once gasoline becomes too expensive for most consumers. 
Corn-based ethanol has long been championed as gasoline's successor for consumer energy needs. Politicians and energy companies have occasion­ally claimed that the U.S. will be able to grow all of its energy through corn­based ethanol. Unfortunately, using a food product like corn to produce ethanol would mean that a massive increase in corn consumption for ethanol production would lead to like increases in corn prices because of greater demand for corn to make ethanol. 
A far better alternative to corn-based ethanol is cellulosic ethanol. Stalky eel­!uloid plants like switchgrass can grow in currently unused pasture lands, and many have no significant commercial use today, so there would be no con­current inflation in prices. Additionally, the cheaper costs of switchgrass com­pared to corn would make cellulosic ethanol almost twenty cents cheaper per gallon than corn-based ethanol. The National Resource Defense Council argues that an investment of $2.1 bil­lion in cellulosic ethanol research and product development could make the US energy independent by 2050. As an added bonus, switchgrass makes an excellent shelter for field animals. David Hamilton of the Sierra Club says that cellulosic ethanol is environmen­tally friendly, and could reduce green­house gas emissions by 1. 7 billion tons per year. 

It is very rare that the Sierra Club and Shell Oil agree on anything. Sure, oil companies are making record prof­its, but they are investing those profits in new technologies that will lower fuel costs, help the environment and aid farmers. I say don't look a gift horse in the mouth-feed it switchgrass. 
Jonathan Klingler is a senior man­agement consulting major and the President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He currently resides in Keenan hall and enjoys Tolstoy and Matlock. He can be contacted at at jkl­ngle@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Trans fat danger at dining halls 
After a phone call to ND Food Services, I fat. Rats on the trans-fat diet learned tasks learned that the fry oil at Notre Dame din­more slowly and made more errors. ing halls is unnecessarily dangerous to Granholm said that the trans fat rats were your health, thanks to trans fat. The trans five times worse at the learning tasks than fat remains in our food despite the over­those eating the normal vegetable oil. whelming evidence that trans fats con­While Notre Dame drags its feet, some tribute significantly to a wide variety of dis­fast food companies have responded to this eases, and the fact that replacing it with overwhelming evidence. Wendy's has normal vegetable oil has relatively little replaced the trans fat oil with normal veg­impact on the taste and cost of the food. etable oil in their fryers. Years ago 
Monkeys fed trans fat vegetable oil grew McDonald's promised to remove half of the 30 percent bigger bellies than monkeys fed unhealthy trans fats from their fry oil (but an equivalent diet of normal vegetable oil has yet to do so). Many bagged potato that contained the same overall number of chips, cookies and other baked goods are calories and grams of fat (http://wwwl.wfu now trans fat free, as corporations bmc.edu/News/NewsARticle.htm? ArticleiD responded to the research and public con­=1869). According to the Wake Forest cern. Kraft removed trans fats from their University study, the trans fat monkeys Oreos in 2003. Why use trans fats, Kraft also developed signs of insulin resistance reasoned, when the food tastes pretty and diabetes. The researchers concluded much the same with normal vegetable oil? that the "apple" body shape associated The financial costs of using normal veg­with increased risk of diabetes and heart etable oil are not much higher, but the disease may be amplified by eating trans health costs of the trans fats are very high. fat such as partially hydrogenated veg­Notre Dame spends a huge amount of etable oil. financial resources on the well-being of its 
A recent Harvard study entitled "Trans students. I find it baffiing that they do not fatty acids and cardiovascular disease," spend a relatively small amount of money published in the April 2006 New England to replace the trans fats in its fryers and Journal of Medicine, estimated that baked goods, given the great benefits to between 30,000 and 100,000 premature the future health of its students. The Notre coronary heart disease deaths occur annu­Dame Dining Halls and Notre Dame Food ally in the U.S. as a result of unnecessary Services (Reekers, ND Catering, etc.) trans fat consumption. Other studies have should replace the trans fats in its fryers shown that trans fats increase the bad LDL and baked goods. The change would cholesterol while decreasing the good HDL extend the lives and health of many Notre cholesterol, and that the combined effect Dame students (not to mention faculty, on the ratio of LDL to HDL cholesterol is staff and visitors), enabling them to con­double that of saturated fats. tribute more of their rare gifts to the 
In 2004 the journal Nature reported pre­world, and thus better fulfill the Notre liminary evidence of trans fat's harm to the Dame mission. brain. Dr. Ann-Charlotte Granholm did a study comparing rats on a diet of 12 per­Sean Walsh cent normal vegetable oil with rats on a grad studem diet with an equivalent amount of trans-Aug. 20 

U-WIRE 

Independent student media in question 
Gannett Media is a heavyweight in come with a few benefits. For exam­the newspaper industry, with papers ple, it is likely that Gannett's owner­under its ownership as far-flung as ship will mean additional legal assis­Guam's Pacific Daily News and the tance for FSView -perhaps allowing Old Pueblo's Tucson Citizen. It should­the paper to provide its readers with n't have come as a greater access to controversial infor­
Staff Editorial 

surprise that, in mation. looking to expand But in order to preserve the inde­
University of

its territory and pendence that student publications
Arizona

offerings, the corpo­hold so dear, it is important that
Daily Wildcat 

ration recently Gannett honor its promise to maintain acquired a student significant distance from FSView's newspaper: Florida State University's editorial functions. More importantly, FSView. however, students who read the news­
Though this acquisition passed paper should be aware of the forces largely unnoticed by most media out­that bring them their news. In time, it lets -the purchase of a small paper is likely that a new, independent by a big one ceased to be newsworthy newspaper at Florida State will arise long ago -it has sent shockwaves to compete with FSView; students throughout the student media com­ought to choose their campus news munity. Some editorialists wondered if source accordingly. the purchase would limit the student We live in a free-market system: for paper's ability to publish "edgier" better or worse, corporations can pieces that a corporately held paper legitimately purchase newspapers. would balk at. Whether or not the What remains to be determined is our new owners will actually keep their response. Yes, it's easy to feel frus­commitment to hands-off manage­trated at the pervasiveness of corpo­ment remains to be seen. Others rate control. But the jury's still out on bemoaned the gobbling-up of yet the overall impact that Gannett's own­another small operator by a big ership of FSView will have on the power. But is all the concern anything independence of student journalism. more than a knee-jerk reaction No matter who owns a newspaper against corporate America? -from Gannett to Arizona Student 
The owners of the Tallahassee Media-it is the readers' role, right Democrat, the Gannett-owned Florida and duty to be conscious of the news paper that bought FSView, insist that source when they read the paper. even the students who work at the paper will notice no change in daily This column originally appeared in operations. Whether or not the new the August 22 edition of the Arizona owners will actually keep their com­Daily Wildcat, the daily publication at mitment to hands-off management the University ofArizona. remains to be seen. The views expressed in this column 
However, the ownership of student are those ofthe author and not neces­media by a corporate power does sarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE


page 12 Wednesday, August 23, 2006 

i..l..... . 

THE GOOD, THE 
STORIES By T H E 
The old adage that more money doesn't mean a Searehlight purcha..'>ed it for a record $10.5 million Reno, but much of the better movie proved true this summer. at Sundance. As a refreshing indie to cap off the has difliculty translating Blockbusters, sequels and indies arrived in eino­blockbuster summer, the Jilm proved that it may cal faux-intelleetual plexes, many of them coupled with high box ollice have been worth the buzz. best to cover it up with expectations. The success of these summer lilms Abigail Breslin is America's new child sweetheart. "The Da Vmci Code" was mixed, as usual, producing pleasant surprises, She stars a.<; Olive, a litile girl with big dreams and major disappointments and everything in between. big glasses whose family embarks on a road trip so 
she can eompete in the titular beauty pageant. Greg THE GOOD Kinnear and Toni Collette star as Olive's parents 
Four of the very best films of the swnmer. At lea..<;t and Steve Carell acl<; against type as the suicidal two of the movies were major surprises, while one gay uncle. Breslin stole the show with her chubby was from a can't-miss studio in Pixar and the other cheeks and girlish smile. Olive is no beauty queen, featured the cinematie directorial debut of heralded but her mother wisely states that you've got to let 1V pioneer J.J. Abrams ("Lost," "Alias"). Olive be Olive. The ensemble cast believably por­Lady in the Water 
trayed a family at a erossroads, right down to the The tagline for "Lady in Cars confused teenager, ambitious father and over­ning out for a happy Although it holds the appearance of a typieal whelmed mother. "Little Miss Sunshine" wrapped for the prospeets of child's cartoon, Pixar's latest endeavor is more than 
sweetness and sadness into a yellow VW van, and Shyamalan. But the LLL"""'"~ just an animated movie -it is a tribute to tl1e laded captured the psyehological hardships of the disaster following his mystique of Route 66. American family. Village" and "Lady in the Not quite up to par with Pixar's past films, "Cars" "Lady" remains an makes up for the lack of wit and tight dialogue witll Mission: Impossible Ill shot film with many incredible aninmtion and attention to detail, espe­Another entry in the summer of sequels, made his first three cially through tlle recreation of tlle mum-and-pup "Mission: Impossible III" returned Tom Cruise to the meek, quirky stores along America's most legendary highway. screen as Special Agent Ethan Hunt. In the film, Paul Giamatti. But the Owen Wilson lends his vocal abilities and infectious Hunt is forced out of semi-retirement to save the Shyamalan's past efforts is 
energy as star racer lightning McQueen, who dis­world from yet another diabolieal madman, played root for Heep's re<ienaptiontl covers there's more to life than winning races. by Philip Seymour Hoffman ("Capote"). After John believe in a fairy tale When Lightning finds himself waylaid in the dusty Woo's "M:l II" flopped, producers turned to young ters magieally accept a 
town of Radiator Springs on the famous Route 66, phenom director J.J. Abrams of "Lost" fame to struggling to he gets a lesson in ethics and personal accountabili­helm the third installment. safe bet that .:>uva..~unta..~• 
ty from the town's locals, who include the voice tal­Abrams and his team of writers revitalized the commercially viable ent of Paul Newman, Bonnie Hunt, George Carlin franehise and brought back a slick, cool, spy-like the pet project that and Michael Keaton among others. "Cars" is an feel to the "Mission: Impossible" series. Alongside that can only be a good enjoyable and visually stunning movie. headliners Cruise and Hoffman, "M:l Ill" featured a ing young director, who 
solid cast that inducted Billy Crudup and Laurence renowned for his ability
The Devil Wears Prada 

Fishburne. The strong acting coupled with extrava­for audiences bored of Concocted not unlike the cappuccinos Andy Sachs 
gant special effects to create a non-stop, edge-of­Until then, the clock (Anne Hathaway) grabs each morning, "The Devil 
the-seat thrill ride for moviegoers. "M:I III" took Shyamalan 's own success Wears Prada" L<> a short but potent blend of froth, 
advantage of a May release date when there were 
spice and substance. The Lake House
few other major films and quickly reached block­
Recent Nortllwestern grad Andy, seeking a career 

buster status while earning its distinction as the The (not very) in journalism, finds herself working in New York 
best of the three "M:I" films. Keanu Reeves and San City at the mercy or Miranda Priestly (a fantastically impress. An alternative to 
wicked Meryl Streep), editrix in chief of Hunway THE BAD sUTilffier months, "The magazine and unquestioned empress of her publi­These films range from films that were huge dis­a lack of chemistry and cation. Streep is eerily convincing a<> a woman who appointments to films that were just, well, bad. involving the time-space 
has sacrificed her personal life on the altar or a "Nacho Libre" wa<>n't exactly "Napoleon Dynamite In the film, Alex Kenneth Cole spread, and Hathaway ha.'> oflidally II" while "The Lakehouse" brought together the take in an old-fashioned perfected her role of the doe-eyed brainy chick. stars of "Speed" in a plodding romantic drama. The twist is that the two 
Kudos are also due for casting rising star Adrien house two years apart with Grenier as Andy's neglected boyfriend. The film's The Da VInci Code as lovely as ever and could appeal lies with llathaway's everygirl sensibilities. The biggest problem with "The Da Vmci Code" is tree with ease and grace. The makeover montage in particular is both funny that it's only as good a'l il'> source material, which is anee is a lot like a tree ­and sweet, a credit to Hathaway's talent in making to say not very. The major problems with tlle film -dazzled in "Speed," but Andy more of a sympathetic character than a lack of eharacter development, inconsistent pacing as much in this latest cliche. Finding its niehe with an audienee li>rgotten and undercooked plotting -are all problems with House" needed a "IJ'""ulll)< by Superman and the X-Men, 'The Devil Wears Dan Brown's original novel. Thankfully, and to its tract from this lackluster Prada" is a eute little film with more than one sur­credit, the film replaces Brown's horrendous prose prise up its sleeve. witll director Hon Howard's far more graceful mov­Nacho Ubre 
ingeamera. Writer/director Jar Uttle Miss Sunshine lloward is surrounded by talent which includes Dynamite") teamed up All eyes were on "Uttle Miss Sunshine" alter Fox Tom llanks, Audrey Tatou, Ian MeKellan and Jean Blaek to make this comedy 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
page 13 
AD 8c THE UGLY 
E RVER S C EN E S T A F F 
goes to waste. The film novel's pseudo-histori­Howard tries his 
Man" was 

university professor inspire comparisons icon, but "Indiana 
was fun. 
Water" ("Time is run­seems oddly apropos creator, M. Night may be flirting with two pictures, "The 
" 
in style, a beautifully humane touches that so lauded. The film's t'"expertly realized by agic so prevalent in rissing here. It's easy to but it's much harder to the principal charac­the audience is still through the film. It's a film will be his most since "Signs," far from turned out to be. And for fans of the promis­a few years ago was fantastical tales ...,.n.,..,.,r1 summer fare. ticking steadily on 
reunion between ra Bullock failed to the blockbuster-heavy House" instead offered 
mind-numbing plot 
at a romance. 
Hess ("Napoleon actor/musician Jack a friar who moon­
lights as a Mexican wrestler to win money and fame for his monastery. While the pairing of the comedic duo seemed certain to produce laughs and box office success, the end product failed to live up to expectations. 
"Nacho Libre" had its best moments mostly thanks to Black's comedic talent, but the rest of the film failed to impress. Nickelodeon Films signed on to produce and promote the film, perhaps leading to childish humor that can often turn away adult viewers. Even though "Nacho Ubre" ended up as a disappointment, positives included Jack Black's ever funny acting abilities along with a strong per­formance from the young, gifted actress Ana de la Reguera. For Hess, only time will tell whether he is a one-hit-wonder director or can establish himself as a prominent Hollywood filmmaker. 
X-Men: The Last Stand 

There are moments in "X-Men: The Last Stand" that boggle the senses and the mind. Sadly, these moments more often than not boggle in a negative and uninspiring manner. 
As the third ·movie in an already successftll comic book trilogy, there were both high hopes and expec­tations that "X3" would rake in box office gold. The movie was billed as an "event movie," but the only events were needless story points and characters that were never developed or resolved. Bryan Singer, director of the first two "X-Men" movies, left "X3" to film "Superman Returns" and Brett Ratner ("Rush Hour 2") stepped in to finalize the series. 
While Singer's talent did not help "Superman Returns," it was sorely missed in "X3." The first two films artfully combined character-driven story­telling with excellent special effects, but "X3" relied solely on mind-blowing effects, leaving a story that was just mind-numbing. Significant characters like Rogue were pushed aside in order to feature as many mutants as possible without expounding on backstories or character development. "X3" served as a functional film instead of the masterful climax to a trilogy befitting mention among the likes of "Star Wars" and "Lord of the Rings." 
THE UGLY 

A mixed bag and often exactly what is expected from summer blockbusters -light, cheap entertain­ment that is almost immediately forgotten. While some feel like wasted potential, these films were effective diversions on hot summer days. 
Clerks II 

After the abysmal "Jersey Girl," Kevin Smith returns with "Clerks II," a film that is not up to his past accomplishments, but still worthy of the name "a Jay and Silent Bob movie." 
Brian O'Halloran and Jeff Anderson return as Dante Hicks and Randal Graves. Their quirky rela­tionship has its moments, but the originality and carefree nature of the first mm did not translate well in the sequel-mostly because of its narrative. "Oerks II" has a story while the original consisted of two guys hanging out and talking about every­thing from girls to constructio~ workers in "Return of the Jedi." Where "Clerks" had witty dialogue and biting sarcasm, "Clerks II" focuses more on the story involving the surrounding characters. However, Jay and Silent Bob are as lazy as ever and make funny jokes at the expensive of other charac­ters -just about everything one would expect from them. "Clerks II" is a funny film but not one that deserves a high spot in Smith's filmography. He has made a funny and acceptable return. However, "Clerks II" is just too little too late. 
Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest 
The second movie in the popular trilogy smashed box office records over the summer. Director Gore Verbinski sent Captain Jack Sparrow, Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann on a quest to retrieve the Dead Man's Chest from Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). 
Highlighted by the crazy antics of Johnny Depp, top-notch special effects and action scenes, "Dead Man's Chest" sailed to become the highest grossing Disney film ever and one of the top films of all time. Despite hauling in a. treasure. chest of money, some reviews of the film were tepid due to its long run­ning time, slow plot development and clifThanger ending. These criticisms were tempered with hopes that the third film would resolve plot holes and bring a stronger conclusion. When the final film of the "Pirates" trilogy arrives in theaters next sum­mer, studio execs hope to couple the assured finan­cial windfall with the critical success earned by the first "Pirates" film. 
Superman Returns 
Brandon Routh looks a great deal like the late Christopher Reeve, but he doesn't display as much of Reeve's charm and charisma in this update of the Superman saga. Bryan Singer at once paid tribute to the older films, while creating new ground for the franchise. 
Although Kate Bosworth (Lois Lane) and Routh are both unexciting in their portrayals, Kevin Spacey gives an enjoyable performance as Lex Luthor. The CGI effects are stunning, and the whole movie is beautiful to watch. Even with an unimagi­native storyline and a few lackluster portrayals, "Superman Returns" is still an exciting event. 
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby 
It is impossible to watch "Talladega Nights" with­out evoking 2004's "Anchorman." Both were creat­ed by writer/director Adam McKay and Will Ferrell. "Nights" may feature cars instead of news report­ing, but it uses the same approach to comedy -a random collection of sketches tied together by a loose plot. The only real difference is that the "Talladega" plot is thinner -much thinner. The cast's comedic improvisation carries the film, but the initial script could have used a great deal more work. The supporting cast is impressively funny, especially Sacha Baron Cohen as Ferrell's arch rival, a gay, French Formula 1 racer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Summer Shakespeare returns to the Dome 
Annual summer program features "The Comedy of Errors" 


By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor  Errors"), the Young Company (Plautus' "The Brothers Menaechmus") and ShakeScenes (collected scenes from  Errors." "The Brothers Menaechmus" features Conor Woods, Kevin McCarthy, Luke Cieslewicz, Margaret Hobenalt,  in those three roles are the most high­profile in the show," Skelton said. "Students haven't been as integrated  
Shakespeare's canon). The program has  Andrew Hoth, Tashi Thomas and Patrick  into the show as much in the past as  
Summer Shakespeare 2006 is wrap­ grown into a major production that  Vassel, all of whom are current Notre  they have this year."  
ping up another successful season,  involves more time, resources and peo­ Dame or St. Mary's students.  The cast is filled out by a mix of com­ 
capped off this weekend with the last  ple than ever before.  The Mainstage Production this year is  munity members and Young Company  
performances of Shakespeare's "The  "This year, the program has nine equi­ Shakespeare's "The Comedy of Errors,"  members.  
Comedy of Errors." Billed: as "The  ty_.con.tracts, 20 Young Company mem­ directed by William Brown. As one of the  As another mark of increased commu­ 
Professional Theatre In Residence at the  bers, a Young Company production, spe­ earliest ­ if not the earliest -plays in  nity involvement, this is the first year in  
University of Notre Dame," the program  cific training classes for the Young  the Bard's oeuvre, it is also the shortest  which all costumes were constructed at  
is now in its sixth year.  Company members and outdoor per­ (in actual number of lines) and one of his  Notre Dame. As in the past, they were  
Summer Shakespeare grew out of a  formances in different communities,"  funniest.  designed by Theatre professor Richard  
course  called  "Shakespeare  as  Skelton said.  The Bard's version of "The Brothers  E. Donnelly, but this year they were con­ 
Performance"  taught  by  Dr.  Paul  ShakesScenes is an outreach program  Menaechmus" and follows  a series of  structed entirely in the costume shop,  
Rathburn, which had a performance - intended to increase involvement the  mistaken identities as two sets of twins  managed by Jane Zusman.  
rather than academic -emphasis. The  community. According  try to find each other. Both  Though Summer Shakespeare is split  
first production of Summer Shakespeare  to Skelton, it consists of  "Students haven't been  sets of twins  are in the  into these three shows, the goal this year  
in its current incarnation was "The Taming of the Shrew," which was per­formed at Washington Hall in 2000.  about 100 members of the South Bend and out­lying areas, ranging  integrated as much in the past as they have  same town on the same day -unbeknow~st to their counterpart~ -as the  is to incorporate all three aspects into a singular experience, as opposed to a focus primarily on the Mainstage  
"The original [plan] was to hire a cou­ple of professional actors to work with a  from ages seven to 70. Unlike the Mainstage  been this year."  townspeople mistake one set for the other.  Production. "What I've tried to do is help the pro­ 
largely student company," Jay Paul Skelton, Ryan Producing Artistic Director, said. "Students could get the  Production and The Young Company pro­duction, ShakesScenes  Jay Paul Skelton Producing Artistic Director  Although "The Comedy of Errors" does employ no less than eight professional  gram arrange itself in such a way that each piece of it is more involved with each other rather than be distinct and  
opportunity to work side by side with  is not a unified play, but  actors, it also utilizes mem­ separate entity," Skelton said.  
professionals to learn how an actor or a  is rather a series of ten to 15 minute  bers of the Notre Dame community.  Though two of those pieces have con­ 
director in the professional world would  scenes from Shakespeare's oeuvre.  "This year is special in that we have  cluded, "The Comedy of Errors" will be  
look at Shakespeare as a performance  The Young Company production this  three Young Company members in major  performed through  this  weekend.  
text, rather than simply as a text."  year,  Plautus'  "The  Brothers  roles," Skelton said.  Student tickets can be purchased at the  
This philosophy has informed Summer  Menaechmus," features several Notre  Those three are Conor Woods (Dromio  DPAC box office for prices between $12  
Shakespeare throughout the decade, as  Dame students in addition to regular  of Ephesus), Joe Garlock (Antipholus of  and $15. More information can be found  
it has grown and evolved over the years  Young Company members. The play,  Ephesus)  and  Angela  Aiea  Sauer  at http://shakespeare.nd.edu.  
into a program that consists of three dis­ written sometime in the third century  (Luciana), all students or former stu­ 
tinct, but interconnected, shows - the  B.C., served as the primary inspiration  dents at Notre Dame.  Contact Brian Doxtader at  
Mainstage Production ("The Comedy of  for Shakespeare's "The Comedy of  "I believe that those three individuals  bdoxtade@nd.edu  



Photo courtesy of Jay Paul Ske~on 

Conor Woods (Dromlo of Ephesus), left, and Joe Garlock (Antlpholus of Ephesus) rehearse a scene from "The Comedy of Errors," a process which began In July. 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 

CHECK OUT OUR NEW COLLECTIONS OF DORM COLLEGE HAPPENS. BE READY. ROOM FURNITURE AT WALMART.COM/COLLEGE. WAL*MART. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
MLB-AL WRAPS 
Rogers, Tigers whitewash ChiSox in 4-0 win 
Victory guarantees Detroit its first .500 season in over a decade, opens 7.5 game lead in AL Central over White Sox 
Associated Press the first, Rogers retired the side 
in order the next three innings. 
DETROIT -Kenny Rogers shut down the slumping Chicago Orioles 6, Twins 3 White Sox, giving the Detroit Bookie Nick Markakis home­Tigers their biggest lead in the red in his first three at-bats, AL Central in almost two weeks and the Baltimore Orioles beat and guaranteeing their first the Minnesota Twins Tuesday .500 season in more than a night. decade. Markakis homered in the first, 
Rogers dominated for seven third and lif'th innings oiT Carlos innings and was backed by Silva {8-11). Seeking to become Marcus Thames' solo homer the 16th player in major league and RBI triple in Detroit's 4-0 history to hit four in a game, he win over the White Sox on hit a short fly ball to left in the Tuesday night, its second sixth against Willie Eyre. straight victory in a possibly Markakis was left standing in pivotal four-game series. the on-deck circle at the conclu­
The World Series champions, sion of the Baltimore eighth. who got just five hits, have lost It was the first multihomer six of eight, falling behind game for Markakis, who Detroit in the division by 7 1/2 became the 18th Oriole to hit games, the biggest the gap since three in a game -the first 
after play on Aug. 11. since Albert Belle in July 1999. 
After losing nine of 12, the Since moving to the No. 2 spot Tigers (81-45) ensured their in the lineup, Markakis has hit first non-losing season since six homers in six games. 1993 and improved their He now has 11 home runs this chances of reaching the playoffs year, and his 3-for-4 perform­for the first time since 1987. ance raised his batting average 
Detroit won the series opener to .306. 7-1 with another sensational Brian Roberts and Corey start by hard-throwing rookie Patterson also connected off Justin Verlander, then the 41-Silva, who allowed six runs and year-old Rogers followed up 10 hits in 5 1-3 innings. He has with a crafty night on the yielded 30 homers this season. mound. Adam Loewen (4-4) gave up straight start and Vernon Wells should have just went to the bases in the ninth. McClung 
Rogers (13-6) gave up four singles to four of the first six homered to lead the Blue Jays corner of the bench. I think he allowed back-to-hack singles to hits, walked only one and struck batters, then retired 21 straight to a victory Tuesday night. knows that too," Ricciardi said. Ian Kinsler and Gerald Laird out two over seven innings, his before being removed after Before the game, Gibbons said Burnett {6-5) allowed three and walked pinch-hitter Matt third straight strong outing qui­eight innings and 108 pitches. he overreacted when he tanglfld runs and nine hits in 6 2-3 Stairs before retiring Michael eting talk of his history of strug­The rookie left-bander struck with Lilly near the dugout dur­innings. B.J. Ryan pitched 1 2-3 Young on a game-ending flyout. gling after the All-Star break. out seven and walked none. ing Monday's game. innings for his 28th save in 32 Young hit a two-run single for 
Fernando Rodney pitched the After going winless in his first The A's tied an Oakland chances. the Rangers, who have lost the eighth, putting the first two on nine appearances, Loewen has record for the biggest comeback Wells' two-run homer off Brad first two games of a four-game before getting an out, and the won four of his last six starts. victory by rallying from a 8-0 Halsey (3-4) in the fifth gave series against the Devil Rays. ninth. The eight innings was the deficit on Monday, but their win Toronto a 4-1 lead. Texas started play 6 1/2 games 
White Sox manager Ozzie longest of his brief career. was overshadowed by the scuf­behind the AL West-leading Guillen was relegated to watch­Minnesota got a pair of runs fle between Lilly and Gibbons. Devil Rays 5, Rangers 3 Oakland Athletics. ing much of the game on TV. in the ninth off La Troy Hawkins, In July, Gibbons challenged Rocco Baldelli and Ben Scott Kazmir struck out eight 
He was ejected after arguing and Chris Ray got the final out Shea Hillenbrand to a fight after Zobrist hit consecutive sacrifice in six innings, allowing three from the dugout in the second for his 29th save in 31 chances. the infielder wrote on the club­flies in the seventh inning, help­runs, four hits and one walk. It inning for shouting at plate The loss ruined Minnesota's house bulletin board that the ing the Tampa Bay Devil Rays was his third start since missing umpire Dan Iassogna when he bid to gain ground in the wild­"ship is sinking." Hillenbrand beat the Texas Rangers almost three weeks with left called a second strike against card race. The Twins started declined to light, and was later Tuesday night. shoulder inflammation, and he Juan Uribe with two outs. the day a half-game behind the traded to San Francisco. Baldelli's flyball off Vicente is winless in six starts since a 2­Iassogna signaled that Guillen Chicago White Sox and four Toronto general manager J.P. Padilla (12-8) tied it at 3, and 0 two-hitter over Boston on July was ejected, and the manager games ahead of Boston. Ricciardi said Gibbons' job was Zobrist drove in the go-ahead 3. came out of the dugout to have more secure than ever after the run on a drive to center. Travis The 22-year-old left-bander, a face-to-face argument that Blue Jays 4, Athletics 3 Hillenbrand confrontation. Lee extended lead to 5-3 with became the Devil Rays' career was so intense that the veins on A day after manager John Asked if that is still the case, an eighth-inning homer of Ron strikeout leader with 378, the umpire's neck were bulging Gibbons tussled with pitcher Ricciardi said it is. Mahay. breaking the mark set by Victor and the manager's head was Ted Lilly, the Toronto Blue Jays But Ricciardi thought Gibbons Shawn Camp (5-1) struck out Zambrano (372). Kazmir was bobbing. played peacefully and beat the made a mistake in confronting two in a perfect seventh. acquired from the New York 
After a double play got him Oakland Athletics. Lilly near Toronto's dugout. Seth McClung earned his sec­Mets for Zambrano in a four­out of a two-on, one-out jam in A.J. Burnett won his fourth "In hindsight he probably ond save despite loading the player deal on July 30, 2004. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Earn $800-$3200 a month to drive brand new cars with ads placed on them. www.DriveCarAds.com 
Get Paid To Take Surveys! Earn $15-$125 and more per survey! www.cashpaysurveys.com 
ND family needs part-time nanny for toddler. Flexible schedule avail­able. Please email neednan­ny05@ yahoo.com 
SOCCER REFEREES • needed for south side elementary school, locat­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $35.00 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200. 
FoR SALE 
2004 Mazda 3. 30+ MPG. 5-speed. Many safety & power options. 4 new tires. 47k mi. $12,500. 273­2792. 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765 
FoR RENT 

4 bedroom,2 bath, trHevel. Lots of living space,safe neighborhood, 3 miles to ND. 2 car garage, all kitchen appliances, lawn care included. $1200 per month plus first & last months rent. 574-272-5453. 
B&B lodging w/alum for ND football games. 574-243-2628 or gary­theresa@ yahoo.com 
2 rooms in private home w/sepa­rate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. 
Close to ND. 574-259-8603. 

1-bdrm apt. $400 + util. Avail. Aug.30. 2 mi to ND, AC, security systems, free laundry, on bus route. No smoking, no pets, 10 month lease, deposit required. 
57 4-289-9365. 
2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. 50% off dep. if rented by 1 0/1. 255· 7000. 
B&B for football weekends. 1.5 mi to ND. Shuttle to/from games. Matt or Jess 574-287-0927. 
Lake home available for all 7 Notre Dame home football games; luxuri­ous Eagle lakefront, sleeps 10, 30 minutes from campus. $1500 per weekend or discount for booking all 
7. Also available Dec.-April. 
57 4-27 4-0089 
FOOTBALL WEEKENDS -2br, 1 bath home 1200 sq. ft. approx. 3 miles to ND in great neighborhood. XL family room! Fri-Sun only. 50% non-refundable deposit required. $400/night. Contact smarshy865@yahoo.com or 
57 4-289-5230. 
Rent a home ND football week­ends. 57 4-784-8638. 
Immaculate furnished apartment sleeps 3-4, walk to stadium and/or shuttle. Also, parking for one motorhome hookup. $600/weekend. 574-272-6377. 
1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $500/mo. Call 574-283-0325. 
House in the Woods, furnished, 7 mi. to ND, 2 bdrm,2bath, garage, quiet, safe, only distractions: deer, firepit, creek for flyfishing, $675/mo utilities incl. Grad students only. szbarton@aol.com or 269·684-1199 or 574-210-7186. 
TICKETS 
ND vs Mich need 4 GAs together email davidrschulz@yahoo.com 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232· 0964 Need 4 ND-PSU tix-75 alum seeks 4 for PSU game 9/9/06. Pis call714 523 0601 or email: aherenda@ comcast.net Need ND tix & parking pass all home games. 574-276-8507. 

A BUSINESSMAN PAYING TOP$$ FOR SEASON TIX OR INDIVID­UAL GAMES. 
CALL MARK 574-277-1659. 

AN ACTUAL ABOVE-AVERAGE ABIDING FAN DESPERATELY NEEDS FOOTBALL TIX. ANY OR ALL GAMES. LOCAL 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in The Observer. 
Mongoose pulls in a junior .... and yet we still feel nothing but shame. Mark, 
I'm glad you enjoyed "Step Up". Now you should be prepared for the role playing .... .*CRACK* 
Carolyn Mike Timlin is a bute. Notre Dame football ... coming to fin­
ish what Sherman started Sept. 2. 
The Boston Massacre, 8/18-8/21, 2006. Sully skates like Michelle Kwan. Garrett, next time you really should 
wear shoulder pads when you're around the Crown. America don't wanna see us work, 
America wanna see us liveee. GO IRISH 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 17 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  points  prev.  
1  Ohio State (35)  1558  4  
2  NOTRE DAME (10)  1470  9  
3  Texas(8)  1411  1  
4  Auburn (3)  1395  14  
5  West Virginia {6)  1354  5  
6  usc (3)  1345  2  
7  Florida  1178  12  
8  lSU  1144  6  
9  California  975  25  
10  Oklahoma  960  22  
11  Florida State  949  23  
12  Miami (FL)  893  17  
13  Louisville  844  19  
14  Michigan  824  NR  
15  Georgia  743  10  
16  Iowa  720  NR  
17  Virginia Tech  614  7  
18  Clemson  479  21  
19  Penn State  386  3  
20  Nebraska  332  24  
21  Oregon  324  12  
22  TCU  257  11  
23  Tennessee  215  NR  
24  Arizona State  182  NR  
25  Texas Tech  181  20  

USA Today Coaches poll 
team points prev. 
1 Ohio State (28) 1,487 4 2 Texas(11) ·· 1;378 1 3 NOTRE DAM£ (9) 1,348 11 3 usc (1) 1,348 2 5 Oklahoma 1,320 22 6 Auburn 1,206 14 7 West Virginia 1,202 6 8 Florida 1,054 16 9 lSU 1,037 5 10 Florida State 874 23 11 Miami{Fl} 839 18 12 California 798 25 13 louisville 785 20 14 Georgia 784 10 15 Mh:bigan 778 NR 16 Virginia Tech 591 7 17 Iowa 519 NR 18 ClemS{)n 493 21 19 Penn State 406 3 20 Oregon 373 12 g
21 TCU 270 22 Nebra$ka 261 24 23 TennesSfle 216 NR 24 Alabama 210 8 25 Texas Tech 198 19 
Women's Soccer Top 15 
team prev. 
1 Portland 1 2 UCLA 3 3 Penn State 2 4 North Carolina 5 5 NOTRE DAME 6 6 Florida State 4 7 Santa Clara 7 8 Virginia 8 9 TexasA&M 11 10 California 
g 10 Boston College 10 12 Duke 16 13 Illinois 20 14 Tenessee 15 15 Ca IState Fulierton 12 

around the dial 
MLB 

Philadelphia at Chicago Cubs 8:05p.m., WGN Chicago White Sox at Detroit 7:05p.m., Comcast 
TRACK & FIELD 


NEW YORK -Sprinter Justin Gatlin agreed to an eight-year ban from track and field Tuesday, avoiding a lifetime penalty in exchange for his coopera­tion with doping authorities and because his first posi­tive drug test was deemed an honest mistake. 
He will forfeit the world record he tied in May, when he ran the 100 meters in 
9.77 seconds. At age 24, the lengthy ban would all but knock Gatlin out of competi­tion for the rest of his life. 
Gatlin tested positive in April for testosterone or other steroids, five years after his first positive test, which was for medicine to control attention-deficit dis­order. Under the World Anti-Doping Agency code, a second doping offense calls for a lifetime ban. 
But Gatlin reached a com­promise with the U.S. Anti­Doping Agency, which levies doping penalties in America. Under terms of the compro­mise, he can still appeal to an arbitration panel in the next six months to have the term reduced. 
He cannot, however, argue that the test was faulty. 
"To his credit, it's recogni­tion that the science is reli­able," USADA general coun­sel Travis Tygart told The Associated Press. "Instead 
IN BRIEF 
Glavine learJ]Ji he will not 
need shoulder surgery 
NEW YORK -Tom Glavine does not need surgery on his troublesome left shoulder and will be able to rejoin the New York Mets' rotation in seven to 10 days. 
Glavine felt coldness in his left ring finger after a start last week, trigger­ing fears that a blood clot might have developed that could end his season -or possibly, his career. 
An angiogram Monday showed that no invasive procedure is needed. 
"The test showed that the symp­toms are caused by an old injury to an artery probably caused by pitch­ing," the Mets said in a statement Tuesday. "The scar tissue from that old injury occasionally causes blood clots to form in Tom's finger. The condition is not serious and will be treated with baby aspirin and other medication to help his circulation." 
A news conference was expected at Shea Stadium before Tuesday night's game against the St. Louis Cardinals. 
of wasting a bunch of resources attempting to cre­ate smoke where there's not any, he's acknowledging the accuracy of the positive test, and in exchange for his agreement to cooperate, we've recognized the nature of his first offense." 
The first offense occurred while Gatlin was in college. He stopped taking the ADD medicine a few days before competition, but it did not clear his system. He received a two-year ban for that test, which was reduced by a year because of the "exceptional circum­stances" of the offense. 
"The nature of Gatlin's first offense for use of his medication puts this viola­tion in a unique category," said USADA chief executive officer Terry Madden. 
Gatlin has said he didn't know how steroids got into his system this time. 
One of his attorneys, John Collins, said Gatlin would spell out his case at the arbitration hearing. He would not discuss strategy. 
"The last time this hap­pened, he went to the panel and explained he neither cheated nor intended to cheat," Collins said. "This time, we'll explain the full stack of circumstances and everything around it and, hopefully, we'll get a simi­lar result." 
"I was relieved to hear the news," Glavine said in a statement, "First and foremost to hear that the condi­tion is not serious, but also to hear that I can get back to doing what I love to do relatively quicklj!." Pacers reacquire forward Harrington from Hawks 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Pacers finally completed a sign-and­trade deal with the Atlanta Hawks for forward AI Harrington on Tuesday. 
The Pacers acquired Harrington and center John Edwards in exchange for a 2007 first-round pick. Harrington spent the first six years of his career with the Pacers before spending the last two in Atlanta. 
"We've had Al before," Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh said. "He was a good player for us when we had him the first time. He comes back with more seasoning. Most importantly, he fits in with what we're trying to do at this point." 
Walsh and team president Larry 

Bird considered Harrington one of the summer's top three free agents, along with Ben Wallace and Peja Stojakovic. The 6-foot-9 forward averaged 18.6 points and 6.9 rebounds for the Hawks last season and was the central figure to the Pacers plans to recover from a 41-41 season that ended with a first-round e.Jayoff exit. Uiamondbacks trade Shawn 
Green to Mets 
NEW YORK -Outfielder Shawn Green was traded from the Arizona Diamondbacks to the New York Mets on Tuesday night, giving the NL East leaders one more big bat as they gear up for the postseason. 
Two team officials familiar with the trade confirmed the deal to The Associated Press. They spoke on con­dition of anonymity because the trade had not been officially announced. 
It was not immediately known what the Mets traded to get the 33­year-old Green. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
AC Milan, Liverpool advance to first round 
Two-time champion Benfica moves on with 3-0 win over Vienna 
Associated Press 
MILAN -AC Milan and Liverpool advanced to the first round of the European Champions League on Tuesday along with Benfica and Hamburg SV. 
AC Milan, a six-time cham­pion whose berth was in doubt because of Italy's match-fixing scandal, won 2­1 at Red Star Belgrade on goals by Filippo Inzaghi and Clarence Seedorf to win the home-and-home, total-goals qualifier on 3-1 aggregate. 
Originally, AC Milan quali­fied for the Champions League by finishing second in Italy's Serie A last season. 
But it was penalized 30 points in last season's stand­ings, moving it down to fourth and forcing it into the third round of qualifying. It will be penalized eight points in this season's Serie A standings. 
Juventus was stripped of its last two Serie A titles and demoted to Serie B, and its Champions League berth was taken away. 
After AC Milan built a 2-0 lead, Dusan Djokic scored for Red Star in the 80th. 
Liverpool, which won its fifth title in 2005, tied Maccabi Haifa 1-1 at Kiev to advance on 3-2 aggregate. The game was moved by the Union of European Football Associations to the Ukraine capital because of the current conflict in Israel. 
Peter Crouch headed in Liverpool's goal in the 54th minute, but Roberto Colautti tied it nine minutes later after Brazilian midfielder Anderson dribbled past four players and his shot was blocked by goalkeeper Pepe Reina. 
Benfica, a two-time champi­on, won 3-0 at visiting Austria Vienna to advance on 4-1 aggregate, getting goals from Rui Costa, Nuno Gomes and Armando Petit. 
Hamburg SV tied 1-1 at Spain's Osasuna following a 0-0 draw at home and advanced on away goals. 
The German club, which won the title in 1983, fell behind on Carlos Cuellar's goal in the sixth minute, then tied the score in the 74th on Nigel De Jong's goal off Rafael van der Vaart's cross. 
Eleven more qualifiers are set for Wednesday, and eight four-team groups for the first round will be drawn Thursday. 
TENNIS 

Davenport opens title run 
Veteran begins defense ofPilot Pen title with victory in straight sets 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. ­Lindsay Davenport started slow­ly but tinished strong Tuesday in a straight-set win over Katarina Srebotnik as she began her title defense at the Pilot Pen. 
The seventh-seeded Davenport managed just two points in the first two games before recovering for a (>-3, 6-3 win. 
"I just got oil" to a little bit of a slow start, but from love-2, I lost just one more game that set," she said. "Overall, it was a good performance considering the amount of time l'vn playnd the last six or seven months." 
It was the only the ninth match of the year for the former No. 1 player, whose battled injuries throughout the season. Bulging disks in her back side­lined her in March and a con­cussion sustained from a fall at her Los Angeles home kept her out of Wimbledon. She's bank­ing on a solid outing at New Haven, the final hard-court tuneup before next week's U.S. Open. 
"This was really my target tournament, so I'm happy with the goal of coming hnre and winning a match and playing better," she said. "I feel like I've improved a lot over the last cou­ple of weeks and I feel like I'll learn a lot from this and hope­fully carry it with me." 
D!ivenport charged out to a 3­0 lead in the second set with pinpoint passing and a solid service game. She appeared on the verge of cruising into the second round until Srebotnik, ranked 23rd in the world, dug in. Down 4-1, Srebotnik sur­vived three break points, hold­ing serve on a cross-court win­ner. But she was unable to break Davenport and has now lost all three head-to-head meetings. 
In other women's action, Mara Santangelo went from lucky loser to upset winner, beating eighth-seeded Anastasia Myskina of Hussia in three sets. 
Hanked No. 40 in the world, the 25-year-old Italian won a spot in the women's draw despite losing in the qualitiers when Dinara Salina pulled out of the tournament with an elbow injury. 
Santangelo lost the first set 4­6 before taking the next two, 6­3, 6-4. Down 15-40 in the final game, she was able to serve out the set. 
"I tried to push harder (on) my serve," she said. "It was not easy from 15-40. I'm very happy." 
In the men's draw, American Mardy Fish's run ended in a three-set, seeond-round loss to fifth-seeded David Ferrer, who beat the American 6-2, 2-6, 7-6 
(7-5). 
It was the third meeting between the two and the first time the 13th-ranked Ferrer has beaten Fish. 
Neither yielded serve in the linal set, with Ferrer having the best chance of breaking Fish in the ninth game. But Fish hung on, saving a break point in the three-deuce game. Ferrer screamed and slammed his racket in frustration. 

He gathered himself and jumped out to a 4-1 lead in the tiebreaker. Down 6-3, Fish saved two match points before sending a backhand wide. 
"It was important today to stay in the match and not to lose focus," Ferrer said through a translator. 
Fish is ranked No. 60 in the world and rejoined the ATP Tour this year after spending most of the 2005 season side­lined with injuries to his left wrist. 
"I take that as a positive and know I ean play with a guy right there who is in the top 10 or top 15 in the world. The guy is obvi­ously in form and we both played some good tennis in the third set." 
Svetlana Kuznetsova, the women's fifth seed, also avoided an upset, showing some stami­na in the process. In her second consecutive three-set match, she outlasted Tatiana Golovin of Franee, 6-0, 2-6, 6-4. 

FALL KICK-OFF 
COME LEARN HOvV THE CAREER CENTER CAN HELP YOU GET YOUR JOB OR INTERNSHIP SEARCH OFF TO THE RIGHT START AND GET IMPORTANT INFORMATION 

College of Arts and Letters 
August 24 Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
6:00p.m. -Seniors 7:00p.m.-Juniors 8:00p.m.-Sophomores 
Students are strongly encouraged to attend!!! 
FROM YOLIR ACADEMIC COLLEGE! ~. 

Mendoza College ofBusiness 
Accounting Kick-OfT August 23 
Finance Kick-Off August 24 
Marketing/ Management/MIS Kick-Off August 28 

All held in Jordan Auditorium at 5:00p.m. 
SPONSORED BY: 
~ 
~ 
College of Engineering 
Seniors August 24 101 DeBartolo Hall 5:30p.m. 
Juniors & Sophomores August 28 141 DeBartolo Hall 5:30p.m. 
College of Science 

Seniors August 24 1 0 1 DeBartolo Hall 6:30p.m. 
Juniors & Sophomores August 28 141 DeBartolo Hall 6:30p.m. 



Wednesday, August 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Fl BA WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS 
King James refuses to guarantee American title 
USA improves to 3-0 in group play with 114-95 romp over Slovenia, as LeBron scores 19 points and Elton Brand adds 16 
Associated Press 
SAPPORO, Japan-After the United States whipped Slovenia 114-95 Tuesday night, LeBron James was asked if he would guarantee a FIBA world cham­pionship. 
"No way," James said with a chuckle. "It's too far away." 
But after three double-digit victories, the idea of the U.S. winning its first world champi­good shape for this champi­onship." 
The victory over Slovenia clinched a trip to the second round, which was seen as a foregone conclusion. 
Captain Dwyane Wade had 20 points to lead the U.S. in scoring for the second game in a row. Wade is the team's top scorer, averaging 19.7 points per game. 
LeBron James 
added 19 points, 

onships since 1994 isn't far­ "Ifwe can continue  Elton Brand 16 and Carmelo  
fetched. The U.S.  has  to play the defense we've shown in  Anthony 14 for the Americans,  
won its first three Group D games -against Puerto  stretches for longer stretches, we're  who shot 56 per­cent from the floor.  
Rico, China and Slovenia ­by an average of 20.3 points. It hasn't  going to be in very good shape for this championship. "  Point guard Chris Paul had nine assists and two turnovers.  
trailed after half­ Kirk Hinrich led  
time. The Americans face their  Shane Battier USA forward  the U.S. with seven rebounds. Sani Becirovic  
sternest test in  scored 18 points  
group  play  to lead Slovenia,  

Wednesday night against Italy, which had five players in dou­which improved to 3-0 with a ble figures. comeback victory over Senegal The U.S. used a potent com­on Tuesday. bination of defense and 3-point 
"We're improving every shooting to blow the game game," forward Shane Battier open. said. "If we can continue to Three-point shooting had play the defense we've shown been one of Team USA's few in stretches for longer stretch­flaws in the first two games. es, we're going to be in very The Americans shot 33 percent from beyond the arc against Puerto Rico and 30 percent against China. 
On Tuesday night, their long­range shots finally started to fall. The U.S. went 7-for-11 on 3-point shots [64 percent! in the first half and finished 10­for-20 [50 percent]. 
Battier went 3-for-3 from beyond the arc and James and Antawn Jamison each hit two of four. 
"It's a totally different thing when they're hitting 3-point shots," Slovenian swingman Bostjan Nachbar said. "When they make 3s, you can't pull the defenders in and hope for rebounds. That opens the lane, and then they're really tough to stop." 
At the defensive end, the U.S. struggled to stop the Slovenians in the early going but quickly adjusted. Slovenia had its biggest lead-21-16­with 2:45 to play in the first quarter when the Americans went on an 11-0 run. During the spurt, the U.S. forced three turnovers in less than two min­utes. 
With four NBA players, the Slovenians weren't awed by Team USA. But they needed to take better care of the ball to have any hopes for a massive upset. They also needed to hit 3-point shots to stretch the American defense. 


Slovenia made only two of six 3-point shots in the first half and finished 6-for-15 [ 40 per­cent]. 
"Tonight in the first half, our defense was the best it's been," 
U.S. assistant coach Jim Boeheim said. "We held them to two 3-point shots in the first half. That's a big statistic, I think, for us. That and forcing turnovers. Those two things are why we were ahead at half­time. And when you force turnovers you get easier shots at the other end." 

The U.S. harried Slovenia into 16 first-half turnovers, which led to 22 points, many of them on dunks. Slovenia fin­ished with 25 turnovers. 
In the first three games here, the Americans have forced 64 turnovers. 

 The Campus Ministry House All you need 5:00-7: e Lounge by for Food,...., rs ,...., Sign-ups Four:? Catholic Fellowship~ Iron Sharpens Iron~ Emmaus~ RCIA ~ Freshman Peer Leaders~ Cross-Cultural Ministry~ Confirmation~ Protestant Student Resources ~ GLB Ministry ~ Catechist Formation ~ NDE ~ Freshman Retreat ~ Sophomore Road Trip ~ Folk Choir ~ Handbell Choir ~ Liturgical Choir ~ Celebration Choir ~ Women's Liturgical Choir~ Basilica Ministries~ And More!!  
 

~------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
NFL 
Simon undergoes surgery 
Indianapolis defensive tackle has arthroscopic work on left knee 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. ­Indianapolis defensive tackle Corey Simon is likely to miss a couple of more weeks after having arthroscopic surgery on his injured left knee, but was hopeful he could return for the regular-season opener. 
"It was just that, after the second opinion, we thought it was best to go that way," he said. "So we took care of it." 
Simon hasn't practiced since banging his knee Aug. 4. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy had only said that the Colts were considering surgery for the former Pro Bowl defensive tackle who signed a five-year deal last September. 
Dungy expects Simon to return the week before the Colts play their final presea­son game against Cincinnati on Sept. 1 but hasn't decided whether Simon would play. 

"He's really targeting open­ing day," Dungy said Tuesday. 
At 300 pounds, Simon is the biggest player on a defensive line that is undersized by most NFL standards. Known as a run-stuffer, Simon is expected to play a major role in the Colts' defensive tackle rotation that also includes Montae Reagor and Raheem Brock, a converted defensive end who is moving full-time to tackle this s1mson. 
Simon plans to sit out Saturday against New Orleans and if he misses the Cincinnati game, it would mark the second straight year he's missed the entire presea­son. The Colts first regular season game is Sept. 10 against the New York Giants. 
In 2005, Simon held out 
"It was just that,

in a contract Simon's dispute with after the second absencn, the Philadelphia Colts got some
opinion. we thought

before the good news
it was best to go

Eagles finally Tuesday on the released him that way." injury front Aug. 28. Four when Heagor 
days later, the Corey Simon returned to 
Colts signed the Colts defensive tackle practice for the
former Pro Bowl selection hoping he would be the final piece to their Super Bowl puz­zle. 
But skipping meaningless games does not concern Simon. 
"The preseason is great," he said, smiling. "It's the presea­son, you know." 
The question now is how long it will take him to get to 100 percent. 
He reported to camp signifi­cantly lighter and admittedly in better shape than last year, and he acknowledged that it would take some time for him to get back in football shape. 
''I'm definitely ahead of the curve from when~ I was last year," he said. "I think I was playing prntty well, practicing pretty well and knnping thn weight off. The only bad thing is that nothing gets you in 
shape for foot­
ball but foot­
ball." 
Despite 
first time since Aug. 3. Second­round draf't pick Tim Jennings, a cornerback, also practiced for the first time since being placed on the physically­unable-to-perform list .July 
31. Jennings had been kept out after having surgery on his right ankle this spring. 
And quarterback .Jim Sorgi's injured right shoulder is not as serious as initially fnarnd. 
Although Sorgi wore a sling around his throwing shoulder, Dungy said the Colts did not expect Pnyton Manning's backup to miss much timn. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Painter feels pressure as Purdue quarterback 
Sophomore starter to follow in footsteps of Griese, Dawson, Brees 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Strong-armed sophomore Purdue quarterback Curtis Painter knows he's under pressure to guide the Boilermakers back to respectability al'tnr a 5-6 sea­son. 
Painter said he looks for­ward to thn challenge at a pro­gram that has produced an impressive list of quarterbacks that went on to NFL success, ineluding Bob Griese, Len Dawson, Gary Danielson, and more recently, Drew Brees and Kyle Orton. 
"It's an honor to be a part of this tradition," he said. "There's been a lot of' great quarterbacks around here, and to be in the same sentence as some of them is really great. I hope I ean perform half as good as they did. If I can do that, I think I ean be successful." 
He wears the same No. 12 as Griese, who 40 years ago led the Boilermakers to a Rose Bowl win over USC. Purdue will wear throwback uniforms in the season opener Sept. 2 against Indiana State to honor Griese's 1966 team. 

Coach Joe Tiller benched Brandon Kirsch in favor of Painter midway through last season. After a slow start, Painter elosed the year by leading Purdue to three straight wins. Kirseh left the program after last season, making Painter's transition easier. 
"I sense that Curtis is more comfortable today in his role than at any time last year," Purdue coach Joe Tiller said. "I think his confidence has improved, and I think that's through reps and experience. I think the fact that the guy who he has replaced is not here is hopefully good for him." 
Painter finished with 932 yards passing and 251 rushing last season. lie isn't expected to carry the team, but the 6­foot-4, 230-pounder has the potential to do it. 
"He's not going to lose a game for us," Tiller said. "Now as he matures and gets older, he can win a lot of games for us. But for right now, he per­forms at a level we expect, he's pretty level-headed and a good decision maker." 
An offense of spread passing with an occasional option play won't change much for Painter, who likes what the option does. 
Visit our eally rea11y big new store, save a ton f money and get good stuff that elps us help the poor.. 

3408 Alrdmore Trail, South Bend • 234-6000 Open ~on-Sat, 9-6.. 
Wednesday, August 23, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Pinkett 
continued from page24 
better decisions had a program like this been around when I graduated from college," Pinkett said. "When I got my first NFL paycheck, I would go to the ATM machine and take out the maximum amount just because I could. I went into a store to buy one suit and ended up buying seven." 
Poutre, who started his own business while he was a sopho­more at Hartford and made $250,000 profit before the start of his junior year, remind­ed students about fiscal responsibility. 
"I spent the $250,000 really fast," he said. "I bought two cars and even a racehorse. If I have saved that money, it would be worth close to a mil­lion dollars today." 
Despite his youthful indiscre­tion, Poutre's business acumen allowed him to become finan­cially independent by age 40 and semi-retire as a coach and adjunct professor at Hartford. 
"Playbook for Life" originat­ed in March 2005 after The Hartford surveyed student-ath­letes and found that 75 percent wanted more information about financial planning. The company came to Pinkett, who was selling insurance for them at the time, and asked if he would be "team captain" for their financial planning educa­tion effort. 
To help get "Playbook for Life" off the ground, Pinkett put together a group of former college athletes who had become successful in other endeavors to give presenta­tions around the country. The group, called "Team Hartford," is made up mostly of former student-athletes who did not play professionally. 
'Tm sort of the aberration," said Pinkett, who played seven years in the NFL for the Houston Oilers and New Orleans Saints. 
Since its inception, "Team Hartford" has written a booklet -an actual "playbook" for personal finance -which its members hand out for free at all its presentations. The book­let is also available online at playbook.the hartford.com. 
"The language in the booklet is practical and there are things you can get out of it, whether you are an incoming freshman or an outgoing sen­ior," Pinkett said. 
The program was initially aimed only at student-athletes but has been expanded in recent months to include regu­lar college students. 
"What we discovered over the past year or so is we real­ized the information is relevant to all students," Pinkett said. "A lot of college students think, 'Well, when it happens I'll take care of it, but, in reality, if they would start doing the things we talk about in the book while they're still in college, it would make their lives a lot easier."' 
Pinkett was a two-time All­American at Notre Dame and holds 13 Irish records. In addi­tion to his work on "Playbook for Life" at The Hartford, he works as a football analyst for Westwood One, contributing color commentary for Notre Dame radio broadcasts. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Pride 
continued from page 24 
him to miss the season. 
Senior defensive tackle Derek Landri said he was happy to have Leitko as a possible backup during the game. 
"He's right back where he left off," Landri said after the team's practice Tuesday. 
Defensive coordinator Rick Minter said Leitko and Cullen could bring an important vocal leadership role to the team, even if they do not start on a defensive line that fea­tures returning veterans Landri, Victor Abiamiri, Chris Frome and Trevor Laws. 
"That kind of leadership is something we look for from all the seniors," Minter said. 
Unlike Leitko or Cullen, Chervanick is listed as an offensive lineman, but has seen most of his action on the defensive side of the ball. 
The fifth-year senior played in four games during the 2005 season, made two tack­les and caused one quarter­back hurry. Chervanick made one special teams appear­ance, while earning the rest of his playing time at defen­sive tackle. 
The only player out of the 

four who is not a predomi­nantly defensive lineman is Jansen, who took over long snapping duties last year starting with Notre Dame's 34-31 defeat to USC. 
Now a junior, Jansen has been a reliable fixture on long snaps, successfully converting all 62 attempts he made dur­ing the regular season. 
All four will return to the practice field Wednesday as Notre Dame continues its third and final week of fall camp with another late-after­noon session on Cartier Field. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
SENIORPORL ITS! Sign up on the internet NOW @ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2007 DOME Yearbook (This year, for the first time, the 2007 DOME Yearbook will be printed entirely in color, INCLUDING your Senior Portrait!) Who: Class of 2007 Students When: Pictures taken Aug 28 -Sept. 15 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2007 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com  

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
utive conference titles as the team maintains its rigorous academic standards. He said he has seen Saint Mary's progress during his tenure "to the point that the combination of athlet­ics and academics available is virtually one of the finest offer­ings in the country." 
Kachmarik notes that all of the Belles' teams had collective GPAs of between 3.1 and 3.48 with goals for this year of 3.2 to 
3.6. Incredibly, many of the Belles have become even more than student-athletes, uniting to become powerful forces in the community. Kachmarik said the Saint Mary's Student­Athlete Advisory Council, whieh is made up of two student-ath­letes from every team, is one of the strongest in the country. 
Every team has either two or three service projects and the women combine to host such events as Halloween party for children from the Logan Center and Valentine's party for chil­dren from Memorial Hospital. 
Senior golfer Katie O'Brien said playing golf for the Belles has taught her more than sim­ply skill in the sport. 
"It has shown me how to manage time, deal with differ­ent types of people and be a leader not only on the course, but also in the elassroom," O'Brien said. "Since I enjoy golf so much, it is easy for me to find time to fit it in to my school schedule." 
Saint Mary's has gone from eighth to fourth in the MIAA overall standings in the last seven years, but Kachmarik hopes the athletic program as a whole can follow the lead of the golf team and continue to improve. 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdomerl@nd.edu 
Victory 
continued from page 24 
Janicek for the first goal of the game. 
Norman secured the game for the Irish with a powerful shot past Janicek with just two minutes left to play. 
"lllel scored tho goal of the game," Clark said. "Fantastic. fantastic goal." 
In the second half, St. Francis had numerous chances to score an equalizer. The Red Flash came their closest al"ter midfielder Brnnt Brockman had an open shot on net. The play developed after goalkeeper Andrew Quinn stepped out to defend a previous attack, but had the ball deflected and cleared by senior defenseman Ryan Miller, whose slide tackle saved an equalizing goal. 
"They got in behind us more than I would have liked," Clark said. "They have a good side and they made it very difficult for us; full credit to them." 
Despite a few scares, Clark was impressed with the per­formance he got from both his goalies, as senior Chris Cahill kept the Red Flash scoreless in the first half while Quinn kept them out of the goal in the final 45 min­utes. 
"Quinn maybe had a little more to do than Cahill, [but] both did well," Clark said. "I don't know if we've decided who's going to be the starter, because they've both done very well through the early season." 
Clark was also pleased with the team's progression from their first exhibition -a 1-0 victory at Drake -to Monday night's game. 
"This time we played it a little more the way we are going to play [during the sea-son]," he said. "Last time we Morrow," Clark said. "He's played one team for a half been superb actually. It was and another team for a half; tough that he couldn't get this time we tried out, [because] the to put it together a crowd would little bit more." "We've still got have loved to 

Clark was also some rust to knock have seen him pleased with the because he~ very
off"
performance of exciting." the freshmen that While his team have gotten the Bobby Clark was undefeated opportunity to Irish head coach in the preseason, play, esper:ially Clark emphasized Tamba Samba, that Notre Dame Dave Donohue and Michael needed to continue improving Thomas, and he regretted in order to have similar sue­that injurios kept a fourth cess once tho season begins. rookie from playing Monday "Wo'vc still got sonw rust to night. knock off," he said. "We're 
"One boy who was excellent not quite whero we want to the last time but couldn't play be." tonight bncause he got a wee Notes: tweak in his knee was Justin +Monday's game was the third annual preseason home game where the Irish have raised money for Grassroot Soccer, an organization founded by Clark's son, Tommy, with the goal of using soccer as a medium for com­bating AIDS in Africa. 

At the gate, each of the 2,534 people in attendance were asked to donate one dol­lar, and the amount raised will be matched by both the Notre Dame soccer Camps as well as by an anonymous soc­cer alumnus. 
"Last year we gave $7500 so hopefully we can come up close around there this time," Clark said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

This word isWa¥ overpriced. 
r 'T'he mort: serknm trhttt#fr mtlt¢ l\fi%·,, wnal conrrol of Chin$, try mw1w111 N( .tl¥> I difficulties, partly owm;g to the anatdw ·~ by Japan, partly owing to th~ wtthlrutkl 
eBritish Inspecto:r-.General ofCuttttm% 
~ays: 
:his country [China] could be ren~ the Government provided with a stroke ofthe foreigner's pen, while the bankruptcy pure and simple. p<)litical chaos, the Customs Rev­last year exceeded all records by 
le:s sanctioned by the Washington ht tevenue to liquidate the whole bt in l\ very few years, leaving the ?ered fvr the Gt)Vernment. The :1.0
lY, but tt• find a Government to 
~· t$<0 CJ't~ ~4'1 they Wt>Uld like to .·?w. a '~~ce •>fft~ ~·mttol ·. ·~.-~>!# '*$1£icp,QOO .. «;~... $1-h:t'h itt hit 


Wednesday, August 23, 2006 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
LL IN 
0\JE.R \-\E.R~ Nst> ST/>.RE. 1>-T ALL OF '{OU. JUST S\'\ l'I-IFKE 
ANt> ~""~·.£ g~q::..' 
Bt.rr "EMNN Stt.El'-.lT 
Jl+.lD APPEAR. 'it>TA\...L'f 
DIS!NTERE..'SIED . 
/ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Figure-skating 58 "The Joy of division Cooking" author 

1 Observe Yom 
Rombauer

Kippur 34 Judo setting 59 Like the Vikings
5 Small snack 36 401(k) 60 Boxer Max 
9 Foxhole, alternatives basically 61 Without ice 
37 Moves a muscle 14 Darth's son 62 Hopping mad 
38 Word processor 15 Immunity item command 
63 Part of a on "Survivor'' 
venetian blind 
39 Giants 
64 Othello, e.g.

16_Gay outfielder Mel 
(W.W. II plane) 
40 What a 

17 God who rode DOWN
bloodhound 

an eight-legged 
tracks 1 Move like lava 

horse 
41 Wing, perhaps 2 Carmaker from 

18 Latch (onto) 
Bavaria
42 It's one's word

19 Disastrous 
3 Tattoo artist's 20 "Everything other "canvas" can't work out 
against the 
4 Causes of stress 
45 Pound sound 

perfectly'' 
5 Whopper rival 
46 Pear-shaped

23 Actress Lupino 
fruit 6 Just chilling 24 Binary digit 
7 Hammer or hoe
47 Not continuous 

25 Tactic during 
8 "Tickle me" guy 

police 56 Place with a questioning "vacancy" sign 9 Keeps safe 1 o "Very soon" 
32 The Amish raise 57 Folk singer them Guthrie 11 The Wizard of Oz's exposer ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Littleneck, e.g. 
13 Robust 21 Part of a ~.:+,=+::::+=:,-i sweepstakes's fine print 
-:=:+~.;.r.;-fl!l~ ~~m~llll 22 Flies high 25 "Wayne's..r=+::-:+.:~ World" sidekick 
-:+-::::+.;:+;:-! 26 Speak at length -:+-:-:+:-..•• 27 Was decisive -:-1~~-:-fll!llll!ll 28 Minor nuisances 
29 Blessed event 1111!111-:+.::+:~ 30 Citizen of Muscat 
...;;;.L..:....t.;;;:..L.:;~ 31 Put asphalt on 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have· found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


32 Story of one's 43 Most like a 50 Catches in the life swami act 
35 Country singer 44 Attempt 51 Spoken Ritter 
52 Small circus 
47 Magazine that 
37 Heinlein's genre performer
had a "UFO 
Update"
38 Laying hold of 53 Square footage 
40 Frozen dessert 48 Jordan's Queen 54 Islamic holy mar brand 
55 "Six Feet Under' 41 Where Tibet is 49 Gillette brand character 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
J 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
KWONN j 
1 
rx I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAUHM 
j
rJ r I I 
SOYSIF 
rJ 1 


www.jumble.com 
SEIBED j 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: NOISE FACET INHALE FIGURE Answer: When the boss gave her a pat on the shoulder, she found it-"TOUCHING" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nicole Bobek, 28; Shelley Long, 56; Barbara Eden, 71; Jay Mohr, 35 
Happy Birthday: This year, realize that you can't change the world around you, but you can change your world. Consider what you really want and make the adjustments required to follow that path. You will have more energy, so channel it toward your goals. Your numbers are 15, 16, 21, 24, 38, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't let anger get the better of you. Patience and 
virtue will count today. If you are cool and observant, you will gain ground and 
win in the end. Be wise. *** 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't disagree with anyone today. Do things with 
the people you know best, not with colleagues or competitors. Don't get into 2 
debate with someone intent on making you look bad. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Act on a hunch today and you will prove your -­
value. Love and romance are looking good. Your ability to know how to please 
and what to do will be uncanny. ***** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect to have problems today if you 
decide to address emotional issues. It may be hard to keep these worries tc 
yourself, but you will have a much better understanding later in the week of ho\1. 
to handle things. ** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Believe and you can achieve. You are moving fast and 
furiously in a direction that should take you to the next level with regard tc 
whatever or whoever you are dealing with. Look forward today, not back. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may want to check your bank account before 
you spend money. There is a chance you underestimated how much you actually 
have. Don't consider lending cash to anyone. *** 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You must follow your own instincts, even if someone 
tells you differently. Today is your day, so muster up all the confidence you have 
and show everyone what you are capable of doing. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is plenty going on, but you're being left 
out. Let down your guard and make a move into the fast lane. There is a big 
difference between being a spectator and being a participant. *** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Although you may suffer some minor 
setbacks, you can make things happen today. Your basic instincts will lead you 
in the right direction, as long as you are prepared to deal with the unexpected. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are tom between what you want to de 
and what you should do. Try to incorporate both into your busy schedule. Don'1 
let your temper slow you down or lead you astray. ** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make changes at home and to your personal 
life that will contribute to your emotional well-being. Get back in the swing ol 
things, meet new people and get on with your life. Don't dwell on past mistakes 
**** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everyone will agree with you, but as long as 
you are adaptable, everything will eventually fall into place. Finish something 
you have left undone for some time. Once you begin tidying up, you will feel 
better.*** 

Birthday Baby: You love to help others and engage in social activity, but you 
know your limitations. You are sophisticated, bright and a wonderful storyteller. 
You will always stand up for what's right. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialasr.com for confidential consultatiom 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, August 23,2006 
page 24 
SMC GOLF 
Saint Mary's ranked third by Golf Digest 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
Princeton. Yale. Harvard. These are just a few of the world-renowned universities with whom Saint Mary's finds itself ranked in a new Golf Digest article. 
The national publication recently released its annual ranking of top schools for female student-athlete golfers. Saint Mary's was ranked third, behind Princeton and Yale, in the list that noted schools where the student-athletes are "excellent students first, golfers second, [providing] the absolute best education and an opportu­nity to play." 
Harvard and Trinity (Texas) rounded out the top-five. Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) rival Trinity College joins the Belles as the only other Division-III Team to earn top­five honors. 
Factors considered in the rankings were adjusted scoring average, player growth, aca­

... demics, climate, coaches and 
Well above par 
facilities. Saint Mary's earned the highest possible marks for academics, followed closely by player improvement. Saint Mary's had higher marks than Yale, Dartmouth, Brown and Penn for its academics. 
Saint Mary's athletic director Lynn Kachmarik was pleased with the new rankings. 
"Everyone associated with our golf program and entire athletic program has been working hard for years to bring this kind of credibility and national recognition to SMC," she said. "I have never been more excited or proud to be at Saint Mary's then I am right now." 
Saint Mary's has enjoyed unprecedented success from its student-athlete golfers in the past both on the course and in the classroom. In 2003, Saint Mary's golfer Stefanie Simmerman became the col­lege's first national champion when she captured individual medalist honors. More recently, Megan Mattia finished No. 18 last year at the NCAA Championships after winning MVP honors for the MIAA con­ference. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton has led the team to four consec­
see BELLES/page 22 

MEN's SoccER 

Irish win with second half surge 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Spores Editor 
Second-half goals by for­ward Bright Dike and Nate Norman lifted No. 15 Notre Dame to a 2-0 victory over St. Francis Monday night as the Irish concluded their perfect preseason. 
Notre Dame head coach Bobby Clark was pleased with his team's effort in the second and final exhi­bition. 
"We had the best share of things, it was a good game," he said. 
The game remained deadlocked throughout the first half despite a 7-3 Irish advantage in shots on goal. 
Notre Dame finally broke through in the second half after midfielder Andrew Benton deflected a Kurt Martin corner kick to Dike in the 63rd minute, and Dike was able to beat St. Francis goalkeeper Justin 
see VICTORY/page21 


FOOTBALL 
Past great returns as speaker 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
When he got his first NFL contract, former Notre Dame running back Allen Pinkett was not careful with his money. 
Now he's making sure other recent college graduates don't make the same mistake. 
Pinkett is touring colleges around the country preaching a message of responsible spending, retirement savings and debt management with The Hartford Financial Group's "Playbook for Life" project. 
On Monday, Pinkett stopped at Notre Dame. Along with Hartford University golf coach William Poutre, the former Irish great gave a presentation for almost 150 senior student athletes in the morning and another for a smaller group of regular students in the after­noon at the Career Center in Planner Hall. 
"I would have made a lot 
see PINKETT/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Four players earn full scholarships 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame had the scholar­ships available, and Irish head coach Charlie Weis had three linemen and a long snapper in mind. 
On Monday, Notre Dame's athletic department announced that defensive line­men Casey Cullen, Travis Leitko and Dan Chervanick, and long snapper J.J. Jansen would receive football scholar­ships for the 2006 season. 
"The four players were sur­prised with their scholarships at a private team meeting con­ducted at the conclusion of Monday's practice," the athlet­ics press release said. 
Cullen is a 6-foot-1 senior who forced two fumbles last season on special teams. lie began his career as a reserve linebacker, but switched before the 2005 season and played in all 12 of Notre Dame's games last season. 
Cullen also earned a one­year scholarship last season for his "commitment, dedica­tion, work ethic and perform­ance during spring and fall camp," according to a Notre Dame press release from Aug. 22, 2005 -nearly one year to the day before earning his sec­ond such scholarship. 
The other three have taken different routes to obtaining their scholarships. 
Leitko was a scholarship player from 2002 through 2004, but was not on the Irish roster in 2005. He returns to Notre Dame this year after leaving for the 2005-06 school year for academic reasons. The aerospace engineer strug­gled with a form of attention deficit disorder that forced 
see PRIDE/page 21 
FIBA
NFL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
CHAMPIONS LEAGUE 
MlB 
MLB 
IU 
u Indianapolis Colts 

Purdue quarterback 
AC Milan and
USA 114 
White Sox 4 
Blue Jays 4 
z defensive tackle Corey 

Curtis Painter feels 
Liverpool move on to
Slovenia 95 
Tigers 3 
Athletics 3 
Simon underwent 
first round of European 

pressure to follow in 
Guard LeBron James 

Detroit lefty Kenny 
Toronto Righty A.J
::5 
arthroscopic surgery on 

footsteps of famous 
Champions League. 
scores 19 points as the 

Rogers throws seven 
Burnett wins fourth
c:s 
his left knee Tuesday. 

predecessors. 
US moves to 3-0 in 

shutout innings in win. 
start in a row.
c:c 
group play. 
page 20 
page 20 
page 18
page 19 

page 16 
page 16
en 
~ 








