

Historical tnural rediscovered 
Saint Edward's Hall celebrates recovery, restoration of priceless relic 
By JENNIFER METZ NewsWrirer 
The Gentlemen of St. Edward's Hall are proud, and with good reason. 
Not only is St. Edward's the survivor of a 1980 fire and the site of Knute Rockne's reception into the Church, but it also houses a newly restored, eye--::atching Luigi GrPgori mural. 
The mural, which dates back to 1882, has always resided in St. Edward's, but has not been visible to resi­dents' eyes-until now. 
see MURAL/page 6 


Runners fight rain to help battle cancer 
alumna and the wife of Notre Dame Law School Dean Emeritus Dave Link. 
Participants had the option of running a three or six-mile course, or completing a two­mile fun walk. 
"We were pretty much right on target [in terms of number of participants] from where we were last year," said Greg Weber, an intern at RecSports and member of the Domer Run Committee. "From our final tally, we had a total of 483 participants ... pretty good considering the race day weather conditions." 
According to Weber, the 
see RUN/page 6 
-------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
MCAT exam reveals new online-only version 
GPA 
3.75 or above 
3.25-3 . .5 ;3.0-3.25 

~ 
National acceptance rate: ~7o/o Notte Dame •cce)?!ance rate: .;;.;.gocyo 
?~f~~:;:E::.,,·

Source: F~Jam~:$ PoGter, amlltilllt ~:~the center for 
heolth advising 
Campus erupts in wake of victory 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Wrirer 
"Emotional rollercoaster" is not a phrase anyone would have used to describe Notre Dame's despairingly disap­pointing home loss to Michigan last week -unless the rollercoaster was going nowhere but down. 
The same can't be said about Saturday's 40-37 win over Michigan State. 
For a while, the freefall continued in East Lansing. That is. until the Fighting Irish did their nickname jus­lien, finding thnmselves strapped in tight on a roller­coaster ride that ended at its peak. 
Frnshman Brandon Drenan said he had never "experi­nnecd so many fnnlings in a four-hour period." 
Doing their best Michigan impression, the Spartans jumped out to a 17-0 first quarter lead. Freshman Anthony Parrish, a trombon­ist in the marching band, said he knew that "an epic comeback was necessary." 
"We just needed the team to step up," he said. 
The Irish took more than a few big steps in tough weath­er, which senior Annie Hollenbeck said was "border­line snow." 
"Although it was almost freezing rain, the students were still in high spirits," she said. 
Terrail Lambert's intercep­tion in the closing minute sent the Notre Dame faithful into a frenzy. 
"I was swept up in the urge to hug random people," 
see GAME/page 6 
Computerized test administration could create problems for students lacking access 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
For the frrst time in nearly 80 years, students sitting for the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) need not panic if they forget a number two pencil. 
Beginning in January 2007, the MCAT exam will be paper­less, offered only on computers at "climate and sound-con­trolled" Thomson Prometric testing centers off-campus. 
This is a big change for the roughly 1,200 pre-medical stu­dents at Notre Dame who have only known the exam being delivered in familiar lecture halls or large classroom facili­ties. 

"The thing about the test when it was being done on the campus of Notre Dame is that it became a sort of community event," said Father James Foster, assistant dean in the center for health advising. "The group that is responsible for this transition from the written test to the computerized test has been very reassuring ... but that culture is going to be lost." 
see MCAT/page 4 


By MEGHAN WONS NewsWrirer 

Members of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and the local community laced up their running shoes and hit the rainy road for the 24th annual Domer Run Saturday -logging miles and con­tributing to a good cause. 
The run benefited ovarian cancer awareness and educa­tion and was in memory of Barbara Link, who battled ovarian cancer before pass­ing away in 2003, and Ruth Bautel, a former member of the Domer Run committee. 
Link was a Notre Dame 
Students congregate in Stonehenge Saturday after Notre Dame's 40-37 comeback win over Michigan State. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Weddings -will return to LeMans 
Hall chapel marriages reinstated for summer 
By MAGGIE DUNN NewsWrirer 
Summer wedding bells will soon ring again at Saint Mary's LeMans Hall Holy Spirit Chapel -an on-cam­pus Catholic church that has not been utilized for wed­dings in several years ­when the College re-opens its doors for couples in sum­mer 2007. 
The chapel is located on the third floor of the resi­dence hall, and College alumnae can only schedule weddings during the summer months, Campus Ministry Director Judy Fean said. , 
It was available for wed­dings a few years ago, Fean said, but even though they were set to take place in the summer, scheduling became difficult because of unpre­dictable renovations such as plumbing and wiring. 
Not knowing what to expect for the next few sum­mers, the chapel was madfl temporarily unavailable for weddings. 
Although the on-campus Church of Our Lady of Loretto has successfully remained open for weddings, many requests still came in for Holy Spirit Chapel after it became unavailable, Fean said. 
Now that the chapel will open again next summer, many faculty and alumnae 
see CHAPEL/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 25, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Fro111 scarlet and gray to blue & gold 
When I first came to Notre Dame in August, there was little that con­nected me with the school. I am a first-generation student. I am not Catholic. And, perhaps most impor­tantly, I was raised in a family 
Sonia Rao 
that avidly sup­ports Ohio State 
News Writer 
football. 
Eighteen years of brainwashing has made it so I cannot think of a Saturday football game without hearing the echoes of fight songs being played by "The Best Damn Band in the Land" throughout my house. When Ohio State played Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl last year, my dad found pictures of the Pope dressed in scarlet and gray and taped them up all over the house. I traveled with my family to Arizona to see the "pass interference" call that led to a national championship in 2002, and a huge picture of it is displayed in my basement. 
Maybe this makes it easy to see how, even when I had decided to attend Notre Dame in the spring, the Irish just didn't really feel like my team. I didn't know the fight song or any of the rich tradition or history associated with Notre Dame football. In a lot of ways, I think I just didn't really get it. 
I just went home over the week­end, back into Buckeye territory, and I realized that all of a sudden my house dido 't quite feel like "my house." My room was empty, dust was collecting on the nightstand, and my car was bereft of the various newspapers, homework assignments and loose change that used to be there. I had this epiphany that life was going on there without me; my parents were still going to my sis­ter's tennis matches, sitting in the rain during my brother's football games, listening to the latest high school drama at the dinner table. I was still a part of things in a way, but I had more of a cameo role. 
Watching the football game on Saturday night I realized that just as my family continued on in their directions, I had found my own. I was the only one in my house to watch what many are calling the best comeback in recent Irish histo­ry; and for the first time, I can hon­estly say I felt the agony when the half ended at 31-14, and elated when we racked up four touchdowns in the second half to come out with a win. Sitting on my old couch watch­ing the football players sing the Alma Mater, I realized that yes, things at home may always feel dif­ferent from now on, because for me "home" also meant "Notre Dame." 
So no, my family isn't steeped in Irish tradition. I still haven't con­verted to Catholicism. The Ohio State fight song is still going to play in my house on Saturday mornings, with or without me there. I'm not as fanatic as the number one Notre Dame fan. 
But I'm working on it. 
Contact Sonia Rao at 
sraol@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THING TO DO WHEN THE FOOTBALL GAME IS AWAY? 






Jim Groff 
junior Fisher 

Will Mcleod Mike Lee Sarah Walter 
junior freshman sophomore Fisher Keough McGlinn 
"Watching the "Sleep." "Be in the "Run through "Watching a game with my photo poll. " Stonehenge. '' glorious Irish 
friends because I 
work first aid at home games. 


Burglars get severed head shock 
VIENNA -Burglars in Vienna opted for a speedy getaway after they found eight severed human heads when breaking into the basement of an apartment building, Austrian police said Friday. 
A dentist had stored the mummified heads, which he used for research, in a chest in the basement. Burglars stumbled upon the collection when they broke in, police said. 
"The burglars were look­ing for loot when they dis­covered the heads," said a spokeswoman for Austrian police. "From what it looks like, they just left them lying and bolted away." 
Court says $32,000 is too much to fondle bosom 
HELSINKI -A fee of 25,500 euros ($32,000) is way too much for a woman to charge a man for fondling her bosom, a Finnish district court ruled. The court jailed a couple in their twenties for more than a year for charg­ing a 7 4-year-old who suf­fers from dementia a total of 25,500 euros to enjoy the woman's breasts on 10 occa­sions. 
"Based on general life experience alone, it is indis­putably clear that a 25,500 euro charge is dispropor­tionate to the compensation in question," Judge Hasse Hakki, who heard the case, told Reuters Friday. 
But he said the court in Kokkola, about 300 miles north of Helsinki, would not decide "the proper fmancial value of the compensation." 
The retiree filed charges against the couple, who were convicted of extortion­ate overcharging, even though he told the court he paid the price willingly at the time. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 


:::t: 
!;i 
1.&.1 

3: 
..1 

~ 
c( 
(.) 

0 

HIGH 70 HIGH 66 HIGH 72 HIGH 75
..... 
LOW 45 LOW 48 LOW 43 LOW 53 
comeback. " 
IN BRIEF 

Patrick Francis Sullivan, 
S.J. will deliver a lecture enti­tled "Catholic Tradition and Traditions" today at 4 p.m. in room 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
RecSports will offer a fitness room orientation workshop entitled "Exercise Basics: 1 01" tonight from 5:30 to 6:30 in the Rolfs SportsRec Center Fitness Room. 
Pasquerilla East Musical Company will hold auditions for "Ragtime," the musical tonight at 6:45. Auditions will be held in Pasquerilla East Hall, and are open to all ND, SMC and HCC students. 
Swing Club will host an open dance night tonight from 8 to 10 in the LaFortune Ballroom. This event is open to all NO, SMC and HCC stu­dents, staff and faculty free of charge. 
Kellogg Institute Visiting Fellow Juliet Hooker will deliver her rescheduled lec­ture entitled "The Institutional Design of Multicultural Citizenship in Nicaragua: Effects on Afro-descendant & Indigenous Collective Identities and Political Attitudes" Tuesday from 12:30 
p.m. to 2 p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 

University President Father John Jenkins' Annual Address to the Faculty will take place tomorrow at 4:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

HIGH 55 HIGH 57 LOW 45 LOW 35 

Atlanta 77 153 Boston 68 1 54 Chicago 72 I 50 Denver 70 I 45 Houston 85 I 60 Los Angeles 82 I 60 Minneapolis 67 I 48 New York 73 I 57 Philadelphia 72 I 53 Phoenix 99 I 76 Seattle 77 I 53 St. Louis 74 I 50 Tampa 91 I 74 Washington 72 I 55 

Monday, September 25, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




OPUS P~IZL 

The Opus Prize is a$1miJlion award given annually by the Opus Prize Foundation to an UJistmg hero working on the front lines ofthe most dire social problems ofour day. The recipient is an individual whose titith-based. rntreprcncurialleadership helps people transform their lives.ln conjunction with this award, the university ofNotre Dame will select astudent to receive a$5,000 award to be donated to tm org-Jnization that he or she has founded. 
77Le qjJice (!/the Prewdent C!fthe Univer.w{.y q/lVotrelJame ir,reekingnominalionAjorthe concuJTentJtuderll awarrL TFe ,Jeek nominations (!far~y (1/flr:ru studentcomrniuedto the valueJ qjJocial entrepreneur.rhip, tran~formationalleader.fhip, ,re!lsfffficienry.faith, and,rervice to other.s; andwho has derelopedan organization basedon these valuer. 
Nomination forms can be picked up at. the Office ofthe President (400 Main Building) or at the Center for Social Concerns. Please return completed nominations by Octobel' 2, 2006~ to: 
The Oflice ofthe President Ann: Opus Prize Review Comminer ~wo Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The University of'Notre Dame, on behalfof'the Opus Prize Foundation, will awm·d the 2006 Opus Prize on November H. The student prize will also be awarded at that time. 


Ancient bones given a nevv resting place 
Cutting-edge research storage facilities crafted 
Special to The Observer 
They say with food, presentation i.o;; everything. But can the same be said of bones? Really old bones? 
It can if they're the rare and valuable skeletal collections used for biocultural research at Notre Dame. 
l loused in the Reyneirs building on the northwest edge of campus, the bone collections used for anthropological research and analysis (including the 3,000-year­old remains of inhabitants of the world's oldest walled city, and the remains of 5th-century Byzantine monks) have a new home and a new look: recently-installed, state­of-the-art drawers built into the wallo;; of the lab. 
"The new storage drawers allow us to lay out the bones in an organized fashion, so it's easy to find what you're looking for," said Sue Sheridan, associate professor of anthropology who specializes in biological anthropology. "It will reduce the damage accumulated over years of stacking the bones in boxes and having to unpack them each time to find a specific speci­men." 
Previously stored in labeled, plastic bins stacked on shelves, the bone collections were subject to repeated handling, unpacking and repacking -a pattern that could eventually take its toll on such fragile material. 
"Now that we have so much more room, we can organize the bones by particular features," Sheridan notes. 
"Therefore, if a student is doing a project on, say, arthritis of the knee, they can pull out the draw­ers that contain distal femora and/or knee caps in them, and not disturb the bones that don't fit their study." 
Though the bones are research specimens, they also are the remains of human beings and need to be studied and handled with the appropriate level of digni­ty, said Mark Schurr, chair of the anthropology department. The new storage facilities are a com­mitment to that as well. 
Funded by the College of Arts and Letters, the storage space sur­passes that found at major research institutions such as the Smithsonian, a clear demonstra­tion of commitment to undergrad­uate education and research. 
For the past six summers, undergraduates from across the country have come to Notre Dame to conduct original research on the bones, a course funded by a National Science Foundation grant. Integrating information from natural, historical and arche­ological records, students piece together biological clues from the bones to identify what certain pop­ulations ate, from what diseases they suffered, the kind of work they performed, and, in some cases, what violence befell them. 
Butler speaks on race relations 
Whites' denial of prejudice in the United States scrutinized 
By SARA GARDNER News Writer 
Dr. Shakti Butler, director of "Making Whiteness Visible," strove to create a space of conversation in a presentation and discussion of her documentary film on Wednesday, Sept. 20, in Vander Vennet Theater. 
Saint Mary's Office of Multicultural Affairs pre­sented the event, which cap­tured the voices of white activists as they toil with a pervasive prejudice that still plagues our country today. 
"To be white in this coun­try is to be encapsulated in this social [milieu], this realm that not only allows denial of the issue of racism but really mandates denial," said Tim Wise, one of the many faces trying to grip the "mirror of prejudice" in Butler's film. 
In the documentary, each activist's story provides a live thread of mirrors, reflecting the state of denial within the white community. A white woman who saw her high school classmate forced to act out racial stereotypes in a play and a white man wanting to help a child of "abject poverty" around his college campus were two such stories, 
Then there was the white female teacher "who knew 
I Observer 
Dr. Shakti Butler leads a discussion after a presentation of her documentary film about prejudice on Wednesday, Sept. 20. 
only one black author" when her students asked to read black poets. 
"Here I am with a Theater/English degree," she said. "I could not [give them anything]." 
Butler, the executive director World Trust Educational Services, Inc, opened the door to "trans­formative learning" or being able to "notice embedded assumptions and work with them." 
A multiracial woman of African-American, Arawak Indian and Russian-Jewish American mix, Butler spoke to students about her film through interactive partner 
and group discussions. 
With "seeds of conversa­tion," we can delve deeper in the full meaning of our environment, Butler said. 
"If white people don't stand up, you are definitely going to have a hard time ever retaining anything ever remotely resembling a just community," Wise said in his final statement in the documentary. 
Overall, Butler's message was a positive one. .. 
"May you go forth and be curious of what you don't know," she said. 
Contact Sara Gardner at sgardnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 25, 2006 

MCAT 
continued from page 1 
Administered about 75,000 times per year, the MCAT is one of the crucial components medical schools look at when evaluating an applicant. 
The test is a concern at Notre Dame, which generally has roughly 280-300 medical school applicants per year, placing it about "18th or 19th in the coun­try" in terms of highest number of applicants, Foster said. 
Schools with the largest num­bers nationally include University of California, Los Angeles, University of California, Berkeley and the University of Michigan with roughly 600 to 700 appli­cants per year, said Amjed Mustafa, program manager for MCAT for Kaplan, the leading company in standardized test preparation. 
"!Notre Dame is] probably around the halfway point with about 300 students applying," he said. 
With so many students applying to medical school -nearly 44,000 applied last year and only 17,001 enrolled -the AAMC decided to also change the num­ber of times the exam is adminis­tered. Whereas in years past the MCAT was offered only two times throughout the year, that number has jumped to a record-high 22 times per year, due largely to the new computerized format. 
"I do think that given the nature of the fact that you have test dates later in May, in June, July, earlier August, more students will be taking the test not at Notre Dame, but in their home area or after they've left here," Foster said. "That's part of the school that would accept a stu­dent with a certain C.P.A., but finding the place where the stu­dent best fits. 
"We want them to be applying to their state schools," Foster said. "But you will see them applying to schools all over. There are some schools that are known to like Notre Dame students and schools that Notre Dame students will like." 
Foster mentioned Indiana University, Loyola University in Chicago, G11orgetown University, Tulane University, St. Louis University, Vanderbilt University and Emory University as schools where "people from Notre Dame feel at home because of the cul­ture of those institutions." 
"One thing that is an advantage to Notre Dame is that we are large enough to have a reputation for turning out great medical stu­dents and still small enough that we can aiTord to provide a high level of support, like individual advising and an advisor's letter attached to faculty letters," said Kathleen Kolberg, assistant dean for undergraduate studies in the College of Science. 
Foster said that many medical schools like students from Notre Dame because of the strong com­munity spirit, service orientation and good grounding in ethics. He said the undergraduate students have a good understanding of the holistic nature of medical care. 
"They learn to treat the per­son's psyche and spirit as well, to attend to the person," he said. 
Foster said that he hopes to enhance not just the numbers or percentages of students accepted to medical school, but the num­bers of places that they are accepted. 
"We'd like to see them accepted to more than a couple of places so that they have some choices ... so they can choose the school where they think they best fit," he said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Chapel 
continued from page 1 
think it is thrilling that weddings can once again be held in such a beautiful place, Fean said. 
"It's exciting for them to be able to come back to a place that's so important to them to celebrate a sacrament in their lives," she said. 
As future Saint Mary's alumnae, College stu­dents are also intrigued by the idea of returning to their alma mater to wed. 
"I would definitely consider getting mar­ried there," junior Erica Hath said. "It's gorgeous. 
"I think it's an ideal place to get married except for the fact that it's in a dorm." 
The reopening of the chapel has not been highly publicized yet, Fe an sa i d , but there are already a few requests for next sum­mer. 
An undetermined fee will be charged for cou­ples to reserve the space, obtain rehearsal time, work with a wed­ding coordinator and hold the actual ceremo­ny, Fean said. 
The Office of Special Events will work with couples to do most of the coordinating for the events, but the depart­ment of Campus Ministry will take part in preparing couples for the sacrament. 
Contact Maggie Dunn at mdunnO1 @saintmarys.edu 
Mustafa said one cause for con­cern is that students are not 
familiar  with  computerized  
exams.  
"When  we  surveyed  about  

3,000 potential test takers ... eighty percent had not taken a college exam on the computer before," he said. 
The AAMC offering students also cause for concern. The AAMC hopes to make up for that problem not only by offering more exam dates, but also by allowing students to sit for the MCAT up to three times per year. 
Still, the AAMC is looking to solve the issue of limited seating in a computer exam room by using mobile testing units in local-
realistic prac­tice on the com­puters before their test date is key, both Foster and Mustafa said. 
"This first year ... is going­to have its bumps along the way but I think that rather than feeding fears they try to give people the opportunity to experience what it's like," 

''This first year is going to have its bumps along the way, but I think that rather than feeding fears they try to give people the opportunity to see what it's like." 
Father James Foster assistant dean center for health advising 
ized areas where 
thnre  is  an  
extremnly  low  
number  of  

Prometric testing centers. 
"That's one of the reasons they have a contingency plan set that allows them to roll out mobile testing units ... with expandable sides, very high tech trailers," Mustafa said. "They are looking 
at South Bend as one of those partic­ular test cases [to 

"They are
cultural shift that's mentioning that finger 
going to be made ... looking at printing and facial students will have to South Bend as recognition tactics are plan to take the test being discussed. 
one ofthose
in advance." Security was one of Additionally, tests particular test the reasons the AAMC are now available cases [to use] pushed to change into Monday through a computer format, as
mobile testing 
Saturday, both there were lingering morning and after­units." administrative con­noon. cerns about the paper Along with the exam, including proc­
Amjed Mustafa 
change to being tors giving students too 
program manager much or too little time
computerized, the Association of 

Kaplan MCAT and the actual logistics 
Foster said. "In some ways it's going to be less of a burden for the students because there really was this kind of marathon day before whereas now I think it's a little more reasonable." 
A Kaplan team has been work­ing to move over 10,000 ques­tions into computer format so stu­dents can go onto their Web site and try a free practice test that simulates the real exam, Mustafa said. 
Making students feel secure taking the exam is as much of a concern for AAMC as is the actual securing of computers. 
"Part of the challenge for the AAMC is to figure out exactly how to lock those computers to make sure the only thing the student sees is the MCAT," Mustafa said, 
American Medical Colleges (AAMC), the group that creates and administers the MCAT, made sub­sequent changes to the length of the exam and number of ques­tions. 
Though the subjects tested ­physical sciences, verbal reason­ing, writing sample and biological sciences -remain the same, the amount of questions has been decreased by nearly one-third and allowed testing time is reduced by 30 percent. While the paper exam took 8.5 hours, the new computerized exam takes 
5.5 hours. 
"In the past we've seen trends shifting from more emphasis on organic chemistry to less empha­sis on organic chemistry," Mustafa said. "This time, as for change in content, there is none." 
Though students are looking forward to the shorter exam, 
of shipping exams, 
Mustafa said. 
All of these concerns over the paper-and-pencil style exam cul­minated into one collective deci­sion to go computerized -not that the new model comes with­out concern. 
Though there are Thompson Prometric locations all around the country, South Bend is a trou­bled area in terms of finding test­ing centers. 
"South Bend is one of those cases that is mentioned as an especially problematic area for computerized test administration because the campus is really large but also in an isolated area," Mustafa said. "Students in such areas have less access than most others will to computer testing centers." 
Limited number of seating in a computer exam room -general­ly 14-18 seats, Foster said -is 

~n_THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OFF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM
IJ presents 
CUslnvtl C"'e11ter T....ecture 
"j,Catholic Tradition and traditions~' Francis J. Sullivan, S.J. Boston College 
Monday, September 25. 2006 4:00p.m. 
102 DeBartolo Hall 
use! mobile testing units." 
Though the MCAT is often the "last opportunity for students to show Imedical] schools what they're really about," Mustafa said, a student's grade point aver­age (G.P.A.) is equally important to medical schools. 
"You really do see a difference between what your C.P.A. is," Foster said. "3.5 or above have a 94 to 95 percent chance of acceptance." 
Notre Dame's numbers, howev­er, are a bit higher. 
"Everyone with above a 3.75 last year was accepted," Foster said. 
For C.P.A.s ranging from 3.25­3.5, Notre Dame had a 76 percent acceptance rate. For a 3.0 to a 3.25, Notre Dame had a 52 per­cent acceptance rate. 
The application process ­which Foster's office begins help­ing students with about a "year and a half prior to matriculation" -is not just about finding a 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 25, 2006 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hungarian protest crowds diminish 
BUDAPEST, Hungary -Thousands of pro­testers gathered in a downtown square Sunday to demand the prime minister quit for lying about the dire state of the economy. But in a sign that passions might be ebbing after a week of demonstrations, the crowd was signif­icantly smaller than before. 
Despite the additional attraction of a pop concert by local stars, no more than 2,500 people remained by late evening at Kossuth Square in front of the parliament building, which has been the main protest site. With the weather balmy, 20,000 people flocked to the square on Saturday -the biggest demonstra­tion to date against Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany. 
Gyurcsany remained defiant. In an interview published Sunday, he said he still planned to seek his party's chairmanship next year and that the results of next Sunday's municipal elections would not affect his plans. 
Hussein defense team boycotts trial 
AMMAN, .Jordan -Saddam Hussein's defense team will boycott his genocide trial indefinitely, his chief lawyer said Sunday, accusing the judges of violating Iraqi law. 
The move was unlikely to halt Saddam's sec­ond trial, just as a similar walkout had no effect on his first, since the chief judge said he would appoint replacements after the lawyers stormed out of court last week. Proceedings resume Monday. 
Still, the boycott could raise further ques­tions about the court, which already was under fire over the replacement of the first chief judge. 
Saddam's head lawyer, Khalil al-Dulaimi, called the decision to replace Judge Abdullah al-Amiri a "llagrant violation of the law." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Falwell: Clinton comment misjudged 
RICHMOND, Va. -The Rev. Jerry Falwell acknowledged on Sunday saying that if Hillary Rodham Clinton were the Democrats' presidential nominee in 2008, it would moti­vate conservative evangelical Christians to oppose her more than if the devil himself were running. 
Falwell said in a telephone interview that his comments to several hundred pastors and religious activists at the "Value Voter Summit" conference were "totally tongue-in­cheek." 
"I certainly hope that Hillary is the candi­date," Falwell said at a breakfast session Friday in Washington. "I hope she's the can­didate, because nothing will energize my (constituency) like Hillary Clinton," he said. "If Lucifer ran, he wouldn't." 

Slain children's remains recovered 
EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill. -Preliminary autopsies show that three children of the woman slain in a fetus theft case were drowned, the coroner told The Associated Press on Sunday. 
The bodies of the children, ages 7, 2, and 1, were found Saturday decomposing inside the washer and dryer of their apartment, hours after a woman was charged with killing their pregnant mother and her fetus. 
Autopsies on Sunday showed no signs of physical abuse or trauma on the children, and toxicology tests were pending. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Court will hear cop killer's appeal 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Supreme Court has agreed to hear the appeal of a man sentenced to life in prison for the 1998 killing of a Goshen police officer. 
If Frankie Salyers, 27, wins the appeal, he could face a sentence of 45 to 65 years in prison, rather than the current life term he's serving at the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. 
Elkhart Circuit Judge Gene Duffin sentenced Salyers in 2005 to life in prison. The sentenc­ing came 6 1/2 years after Salyers shot and killed Goshen Patrolman Thomas Goodwin. 

Severe storms, flooding killll 
Power and phone outages, evacuations follow heavy rain in Midwest and South 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. Stormy weather blamed for 11 deaths in the Midwest and South subsided on Sunday, though residents in some states remained shut out of their homes due to high waters. 
Flood warnings remained in effect for parts of Arkansas, Kentucky and Missouri. Many Kentucky roads were still submerged on Sunday, but waters in many areas began to recede. 
"It looks like everything's kind of quieting down, and things are being handled on the local level right now," said Buddy Rogers, a spokesman for the Kentucky Division of Emergency Management in Frankfort. 
The storms that hit parts of Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Missouri and Tennessee Friday and Saturday stranded people in cars, forced others from their homes and left thou­sands without power. 
The death toll in Kentucky reached eight, including a father and his 1-year-old daughter in a truck that skidded in flood­waters. In Arkansas, a woman whose boat was struck by lightning died and authorities were searching who were cut off by the up to 8 feet above flood lev­"I was scared to death," by boat and on foot for two storm. Phone service was els, officials said. he said. "It was spooky missing people they believe restored to many in Campers at River Bend down there. The river were swept away by flood Kentucky's Hardin County Park in l;lardy, Ark., were turned into a mile-wide waters. who had been affected. asked to evacuate Friday river there." 
In the southern Illinois' The American Red Cross night, when the Spring Elsewhere, a tornado Williamson County, authori­and six county emergency River began rising. Rescue touched down Saturday ties say lightening was the agencies used boats and crews were first called night in Kent County in apparent cause of a week­school buses to transport early Saturday morning, western Michigan, peeling end house fire that killed about 200 people attending when campers and resi­off the roof of a barn, over­two women, ages 89 and at the Terrapin Hill Harvest dents were stranded turning vehicles and dam­73, before dawn Saturday. Festival at a farmstead in because of the rising water. aging businesses, according 
The National Weather Mercer County to a nearby "I didn't think we were to the weather service. No Service reported that areas shelter after rising waters going to make it out of injuries were reported. of Kentucky received at forced an evacuation, said there," said Cl\arles In central and eastern least 5 inches of rain, with Ruthann Phillips of the Red Lenderman, who was stay­Missouri, hundreds were isolated regions getting Cross. ing in a camper his family without homes or power a close to 10 inches. Over 24 "It was almost Katrina­uses on weekends and the day after a storm churned hours, parts of northeast like pretty much," said summer. Lenderman said up about 10 tornadoes and Arkansas and southeast Chester Craig, a lieutenant he awoke Saturday morn­drenched parts of the state Missouri received more with the Mercer Central ing to find knee-high water with as much as a foot of than 10 inches of rain, the Volunteer Fire Department. in his kitchen. Lenderman rain. Nearly 400 structures weather service reported. "There were vehicles and family members -were damaged or destroyed 
LG&E, Kentucky's largest underwater and people wearing life jackets -and at least 10 people were electricity provider, said were walking around in a swam from the camper to injured, said Susie Stormer, power was restored to its daze." higher ground about 100 a state emergency manage­nearly 1,300 customers Arkansas rivers swelled yards away. ment spokeswoman. 

Basque militants seek sovereignty 
region village of Aritxulegi near San peace process was evolving.

Associated Press 
Sebastian, said the nationalist news­When it declared the truce in 

MADRID, Spain -Gun-toting paper Gara, which often serves as a March, ETA said it wanted a negotiat­Basque militants claiming to speak for mouthpiece for ETA. ed end to a nearly 40-year conflict in ETA said the Basque separatist group "Until we achieve independence and which it has killed more than 800 peo­will "keep taking up arms" until the socialism in the Basque country, we ple and become Europe's last active, region achieves independence, a reaffirm our commitment to keep tak­armed political militancy. Cautious newspaper reported Sunday -the ing up arms firmly," the statement optimism spread throughout Spain. starkest sign yet that a fledgling peace said, according to Gara. "The fight is Socialist Prime Minister Jose Luis process is struggling. not a thing of the past. It is the present Rodriguez Zapatero concluded in June 
The warning came in a statement and the future." that the cease-fire was sincere and Saturday night -exactly six months The statement made no mention of told Parliament he would negotiate after ETA declared what it called a the cease-fire ETA declared on March with ETA, but only to achieve its disso­permanent cease-ftre. It was read by 22, Gara said. Previous ETA commu­lution and decide the fate of hundreds one of three masked pro-ETA mili­niques since the truce began have said of ETA prisoners in Spanish jails ­tants who appeared on a stage at a it remains in force even though the not make concessions toward Basque pro-independence rally in the Basque separatists complained about how the independence. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 25, 2006 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
freshman Jim Murphy said. 
For Murphy, who was in attendance, the most satisfy­ing moment of the day was "seeing the pride on the play­ers faces as they came· over to sing the Alma Mater." 
Back on cam­pus, the fight song rang out over the quads while jubilant confusion struck the stu­dent body. Many bewil­dered students found them­selves ankle deep in the waters of North Quad's Clarke Memorial Fountain (Stonehenge). Cheers, jigs 
and push-ups filled the night, creating a rare and unforget­
table  moment  for  those  in  
attendance.  
Freshman  Josh  Garrett  

joined the festivities soon after the game clock hit 0:00. 
"I wandered to LaFortune and heard the raucous crowd that surrounded the fountain and could not resist the impulse to join in the celebra­tion," he said. 
Run 
continued from page 1 
three-mile run drew the high­est number of participants, and female undergraduate students had the highest overall representation at the event. 
Freshman Michael Rose was the overall and men's under­graduate winner in the three­mile run with a time of 17:31. Olenka Bilyk won the women's undergraduate divi­sion with a time of 21:41. 
Dan McGrath, a graduate student, was the overall win­ner in the six-mile run with a time of 31:23. Senior Jen Richard was the first woman to cross the finish line in the six-mile run with a time of 39:48. 
Weber said the Domer Run Committee, including mem­bers of RecSports, the Alumni Association and the Women's Task Force -as well as other volunteers -helped to staff the event. 
According to Weber, there were a number of cancer sur­vivors "all wearing dark green tee shirts," who volun­teered at water stations and different points throughout the course. 
Domer Run began at 11 
a.m. at Moose Krause Drive near Notre Dame Stadium and took participants through various parts of Notre Dame's campus. 
All finishers received T­shirts donated by the ND Alumni Association and co­sponsored by RecSports and Work Life and were treated to a pancake buffet at the finish line. 
"Winners in 23 categories received plaques and gift cer­tificates for Adidas sandals," Weber said. 
Domer Run began as an event for students to partici­pate in during one away foot-

Notre Dame Security Police officers were "monitoring the celebration at Stonehenge but made no arrests," Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police Phil Johnson said. "NDSP was present dur­ing the celebratory gathering and we were concerned that no one gets hurt," he said. "Our officers helped people get out of [Stonehenge] -it's a 
very slippery 
pool." 

"I wandered to Around 3 a.m.,the band, students LaFortune and heard and the football 
the raucous crowd players began to return to campus.
that surrounded the 
The team was

fountain and could 
greeted like a not resist the group of conquer­ing heroes when
impulse to join in the 
nearly 75 students

celebration." 
welcomed them as they arrived at the 

Josh Garrett Guglielmino Athletics Complex
freshman 
in the early hours 
of Sunday  morn­ 
ing.  
Freshman  Rob  Jones  

described the scene as "elec­tric and a great way to finish off a great night." 
"We all lined up to cheer for them, and even though they looked exhausted, many rev­eled in the moment and showed their appreciation," he said. 
Contact Patrick Cassidy at 
pcassidy@nd.edu 
ball game in the fall. When RecSports partnered with the Alumni Association to co­sponsor the event in 1997, the Run became a fundraiser for cancer awareness and aid programs. Since 1997, the Run has benefited various types of cancer research, education, support groups and foundations. 
Members of the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross communities could reg­ister for the Run for $10 in advance or $15 the day of the race. 
Participation was also open to alumni, members of Little Flower Parish, Center for the Homeless and the Women's Task Force. Registration was $15.00 for these off campus groups. 
On Sunday, Weber said RecSports was still in the prooess of calculating total proceeds from the Hun. 
Contact Meghan Wons at 
mwons@nd.edu 


Ed's." amazing. Luigi Gregori, an Italian Deborah Murray, manag­


Mural 
painter who lived from er of maintenance and continued from page 1 1819 to 1896, also painted projects, said the restora­
the murals 

After being rediscovered in the Main by hall staff last year in a Building. storage closet, the Gregori The mural mural was renovated and in St. Ed's moved into a second floor depicts study lounge. Father 
St. Edward's Hector Sorin per­Father Halph Haag, said forming a the administration felt it wedding had to preserve the mural, ceremony which once stood as the for the local backdrop of a stage on the Potawatomi second floor, because it was Indians. so historically rich. The top of 
The room housing the the mural 
"It's too bad there isn't a before-and­after picture [of the mural]. People would be amazed. '' 
Jeffrey Shoup director of residence life 

mural is being turned into reads, "Very Hev. Edward 
an air-condi­tioned study room, which 
"How can you

"isn't quite fin­ished," Haag put a price tag said. 
on Notre Dame 
The hall will 
history?"

formally open the room as part of the eel-Father Ralph Haag ebration of 
rector

Founder's 
St. Edward's Hall 

Week during the week of October 22. 
Haag said he is unsure of the mural's worth. 
"How can you put a price tag on Notre Dame histo­ry?" he said. "[The mural] is a great source of pride for the gentlemen of St. 
said. 
Sorin, C.S.C.," and the bottom reads, "Founding Notre Dame Nov. 1842." 
Its colors are primarily deep red, green and gold -colors characteristic of the other Gregori murals on cam­pus, Haag said. 
"It's a pretty big thing," Haag "The same great 
artist that did the Dome did our hall as well." · 
Haag said the fact that the mural survived the 1980 fire, which greatly damaged the hall, was 
Housing propose projects for their halls to be com­pleted during the summer, Director of Residence Life and Housing Jeffrey Shoup said. 

The request for the mural · project was put in last spring and "was a mutual request from the rector of St. Ed's and myself," Shoup said. 
Haag said he is thankful that the University did something to preserve the mural. 
"It's too bad there isn't a before-and-after picture [of the mural]," Shoup said. "People would be amazed." 
Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
1979 Milky Way, Verona, W153593 www.epicsystems.com 
tion project started during the end of June and lasted about five weeks. She was unable to give an estimate of the project's cost. 
Every spring, rectors of the residence halls and the Office of Residence Life and 

What: Team Presentations ofSummer 2006 projects 
Mark your calendar and come to find out about this exciting opportunity! 

(with reception to follow) 
Why: Opportunity for ND students to work with "'The Mexico internship program is a great opportunity to put your MBA skills in action Wor~ing as a consultant to a small ~gribusiness in Mexico requires skills ranging from Marketing to 
Mexican students in agribusiness projects 
Financial Management to Business Strat.egy. The Mexico program is also an excellent opportunity to experience a new culture and busines!) environment." 

When: Tuesday, September 26th, 3:30pm-5:00pm 
Larry Mullen -ND MBA '05, Summer 2005 Intern

Where: C-103 Hesburgh Center 
Questions?-Prof Juan Riverajriy~q@nd e(lu or Prof David Hayes UJ1Jii!Ye~)7@mte~u 
USAID-TIES Presentation 2007 Summer Internships in Mexico for MBA students 
Notre Dame-Universidad de Guadalajara USAID Program for Small Agricultural Producers http://kellogg.nd.edu/projects/TIES/index.shtml 
***Free J>izza and refreshments at the rnd of the prrsentation. 

Monday, September 25, 2006 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
}ones  11,508.10  -25.13  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
I ,239 142  2,009  2,212,826,530  
AM£i·  

~DAQ '·w~•••••ttr~•·j~'!il;~~~"\~~~~·
S&P 500 1,314.78 -3.25 NIKKE.I('(oi<YO)· ······;u:ts:u~4:6~iiltl!.i~JI!II. 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,822.30 -74.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.77 -0.31 39.87 INTEL CP (INTC) 
-0.63 -0.12 19.07 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-3.65 -0.19 5.02 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-0.89 -0.24 26.66 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) 
+0.93 +0.02 2.17 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -1.10 -0.051 4.597 13-WEEK BILL +0.10 +0.005 4.790 30-YEAR BOND -0.96 -0.046 4.738 5-YEARNOTE -1.11 -0.051 4.547 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.04 60.55 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +7.10 595.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.50 86.50 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
116.6400 EURO 
0.7821 POUND 
0.5263 CANADIAN$ 
1.1178 
IN BRIEF 
Boston Scientific suffers after report 
NEW YORK -Shares of Boston Scientific Corp. tumbled 9 percent Friday, a day after it said it expects to report earnings and sales for the third quarter that were below analysts' expectations. 
The heart care device company said Thursday it expects to report earnings exclud­ing acquisition-related charges for the third quarter of 6 cents to 10 cents a share. That excludes charges of 5 cents per share associ­ated with its acquisition of Indianapolis-based Guidant Corp. 
Analysts polled by Thomson Financial fore­cast earnings of 16 cents per share, excluding charges. 
Preliminary net sales in the third quarter range from $1.97 billion to $2.04 billion. Analysts had expected sales of $2.17 billion for the quarter. 
Shares fell $1.51, or 9.2 percent, to close at $14.85 on the New York Stock Exchange. Shares have traded between $15.46 to $27.82 over the past 52 weeks and are down about 40 percent from the beginning of the year. 

Sun Capital to acquire local chain 
FISHERS, Ind. -Marsh Supermarkets Inc. shareholders on Friday approved the nearly $88 million acquisition by a private, Florida-based investment fund, Sun Capital Partners Inc. 
Marsh was one of the more venerable of Indiana's family-run businesses. But it was set to sever the last of those ties before the end of the month. 
"I think I know what you're going to get," Chairman and CEO Don E. Marsh told employ­ees of how the business would be under Sun Capital. "You're going to get something a whole lot different. There are going to be modifica­tions." 
The 75-year-old grocery chain, in announcing the mailing of proxy materials related to vote last month, said it expected to complete the sale by the end of September. 
Marsh's board of directors in May unanimous­ly approved the sale in which Sun would pay $11.125 per share in cash for Marsh. Marsh's directors and executive officers at the time of the proxy mailing on Aug. 18 owned 20 percent of outstanding shares of the company's Class A stock and more than 10 percent of Class B stock. 
---------------------~-----·-------­


THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

L.A. Times, Tribune at standoff 
Unrest remains at Tribune's largest newspaper after management's refusal to cut costs 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES Tribune Co. took a big step toward easing shareholder anger this week when it opened the door to a broad restructuring of the com­pany, but it still.faces unrest at its biggest and most important property -the Los Angeles Times. 
The publisher and editor at the newspaper, the fourth largest in the coun­try, have so far pulled off what few would dare attempt: A public refusal to implement corporate­mandated cost cuts. So far, they haven't been fired. 
The situation has indus­try observers wondering just how executives at Chicago-based Tribune will handle publisher Jeffrey Johnson and editor Dean Baquet, whose resistance to further cuts to the Pulitzer-winning newspa­per's staff is one of several critical issues facing the parent company. 
"I cannot recall a single incident of a publisher and editor of a major newspa­per such as the Los Angeles Times telling their corporate headquarters to go get stuffed, which is what has been sqid in Los Angeles," said Conrad C. Fink, who teaches newspa­per management at the 
with 940 editorial posi­restructuring options. The The Times editorial staffUniversity of Georgia. 
tions, is expected to gener­board is expected to decide has rallied behind Johnson 

Like many old media 
ate pretax profit of about on a course by year's end. and Baquet and sent a let­

companies, Tribune is $250 million based on a Chief Executive Dennis ter supporting them to
struggling with declining 
profit margin of 20 per­FitzSimons said the plans Tribune executives. 

advertising and circulation 
cent. would not include selling The response from

as readers age and 
The Tribune wants the the Times. He declined to Tribune has been meas­younger consumers turn to 

Times to keep expenses say whether the board dis­ured, with FitzSimons
Web sites for news. 
flat for 2007, a goal that cussed the management defending the company'sMeanwhile, shareholders would involve cutting revolt at the paper. stewardship of the Times. 

have been clamoring for 
the results that were about $3 million from the The Times has already That FitzSimons didn't editorial budget, according cut 200 editorial positions immediately fire Johnson
promised when the compa­
to a Times executive who during the past five years. and Baquet has some per­ny bought Times-Mirror in 

requested anonymity "I just have a difference plexed.
2000 for about $8 billion. 
because he was not in a of opinion with the owners "You either choose to do

While the Chicago 
position to disclose the of Tribune about what the what you've been ordered

Tribune is the namesake 
information publicly. size of the staff should be," to do or you don't belong

paper of the Tribune 
Tribune has called for Baquet said in a Sept. 14 in the position," said Jay T.

media empire, the Times is 
cuts at all its newspapers, Times story. "To make sub­Harris, a former publisher

its single largest asset, 
which include The stantial reductions would of the San Jose Mercuryaccounting for nearly 20 Baltimore Sun, Orlando significantly damage the News who quit the paper

percent of its 2005 rev­
Sentinel and Newsday. quality of the paper." in 2001 before publicly

enue of $5.6 billion, 
On Thursday, Tribune's Johnson agreed, saying challenging parent compa­according to sources cited 

by the Times. board voted unanimously "newspapers can't cut ny Knight Ridder Inc. over to consider corporate their way into the future." budget issues.
This year, the Times, 


Stocks down amid Fed aftershocks 
lowing the Fed's widely expected The Dow closed down 25.13, or Associated Press 
decision on short-term interest rates. 0.22 percent, at 11,508.10, having 
"I think the markets are all of a dropped nearly 80 points Thursday. 

NEW YORK-Wall Street's growing sudden worried about slower Broader stock indicators also fell. 
pessimism about the economy sent growth," said Dean Junkans, chief The Standard & Poor's 500 index was 
stocks down for a second straight day investment officer for Wells Fargo down 3.25, or 0.25 percent, at 
Friday, as investors lost the enthusi­Private Client Services. "I wouldn't 1,314.78 and the Nasdaq composite 
asm that followed Wednesday's put as much .emphasis on one num­index fell 18.82, or 0.84 percent, to 
Federal Reserve decision to leave ber as the market seems to have done 2,218.93. 
interest rates unchanged. in the last couple days," he said, Bonds jumped sharply, with the 
The market was caught off guard referring to the Philadelphia Fed fig­yield on the benchmark 10-year 
Thursday by a report from the ure. Treasury note falling to 4.59 percent 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia Junkans contends the markets have from 4.64 percent late Thursday. The 
that showed regional manufacturing overreacted to the Philadelphia data dollar was mixed against other major 
activity fell to a negative reading for and were perhaps looking for a rea­currencies, while gold prices rose. 
the first time in more than three son to pause after posting strong Oil settled down $1.29 at $60.30 a 
years. Prior to the manufacturing gains in September. barrel on the New York Mercantile 
data, the Dow Jones industrial aver­"If you're looking to take some prof­Exchange after falling earlier in the 
age had been within 100 points of its its that number probably gave you a week following a report showing a 
January 2000 high of 11,722.98 fol-reason to do that," he said. jump in U.S. distillate supplies. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, ~eptember 25, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumultkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4 54! obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Univer.;iry ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the rnajoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor.; and department editor.;. Commentaries, letter.; and columns present the views of the author.; and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all reader.;. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
T~ (>bscrver (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlis.h~d Munday tht~mgh Friday except durin~ ex:tm and v:acation periods. A sullicription co The O~rver is S I 00 for one ac:ademic: yc-•.u;: $';5 fur ont semc:su·r. 
The Observer is publi.JJed at: POSTMAsTER 024 South Dining. Hall Send add.rc:ss corrections to: Notre D;Une.IN 46556-0n9 Th'Obser= Pcriodial postage paid ;1.! Notre D.une P.O. Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Not«: Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Ohscrvtt is o~ member ()f the: Associated ?Jess. All11:produaion righu are tescrvd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Joe Piarulli Sports 
Laura Tim Dougherty Baumgartner Deirdre Krasula Steve Kerins Chris Wilson 
Viewpoint Scene Lianna Cassie Belek Brauweiler Graphics Jeff Albert 

U-WIRE 
Re-evaluate historical heroes 
American mythology is littered with far more than its fair sharo of bad herons. Woodrow Wilson was a total jerk, Thomas Jom1rson was a hypocritieal slave-owner, Ben Franklin went to bod early and so on. Goorge Washington, 
Max 

an abysmal military 
Heiber

strategist, by the way, is lauded for having 
University of

the guts to f~lSS Up to 
Connecticut

chopping down a tree. 
Daily Campus

What could possibly make a worse case fiw hProism'? I'll tell you. Somemi.o who is sin­gle-handodly responsible lilr some of tlw worst environmental crimes in America's history. An ecological sorial killer, a deranged, misguidnd vigilante. Somoonn who not only killed loads of cherry trnns, but didn't even have the guts to li:lss up to it. 
That's right, I'm talking about one of the greatest villains of all timn, Johnny Appleseed. Johnny Appleseed was an nco­terrorist. Apple trnes are an invasive species. When you go around spmading apple seeds all O\'er thn place, willy-nilly, with no regard for nature's balanen, the apples take over, wiping out weakor spndes and making <mtiro forosts dull and same-looking. llowever mueh you may Like apples and apple troes, they wmak havoc on our biodiversity. For shame! In Mother Nature's eyes, apple trees are weeds. Poison weeds! 
I'm making no idle point here. This is not for fun. Thi.<; is serious. When I was enjoying grades kindergarten through third, I learned about Johnny Applesep,d over and over. Let's ignore for a moment the thousands of better things I could have been learning about and focus instead on the direct damage caused by that particu­lar story. 
Are our children supposed to grow up to think nature is theirs to mess with and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think that Notre Dame should continue early action admission? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
shape as they plnasP, with no regard filr naturo's careful balances'? Arn our ehil­drnn supposnd to look up to this Johnny 
"Osama bin-Applesned" oeo-torrorist'? Is that what we want'? 
I see two possible paths for tho children of our great country. As a sodnty, wn can raise childrnn who want to grow up to be doetors, lawyers, sanitation workers, rncnptionisL<;, psychologists, psychopaths and Chef Boyardees (all noble proli1ssions). Or we can raise an nntirn generation of poople who want to graduate eollege, then start oil" on a long hiking trip with nothing but tim shirt<; on thoir backs and a burlap sack full of tho snods of invasive spncios. 
Should wo rnally lill them up with insane pipe drnams, lotting them think the path to famn, lilrtunn suecnss and the like is pavod with apple seeds? Or do we want them working hard and flossing propnrly? 
l guess wo nnnd some sort of historical panthnon, a largP. group of important lig­urns lilf us to mythologizn and look up to. So il' Johnny Applnsnnd goes, we should 
• probably rnplaee him. Lucky lilr us, the idoal replacement. his­torieallii,'Ure is within our grasp, assum­ing our lingms are big enough. Dave Thomas, the limnder of Wendy's Hestaurants, is dearly the.man f(Jr the job. First of all. he's dead, as all good heroes should bn. But his heroic eorpsn is still warm, so to speak, making him "hip" and "frnsh" like fast food, but not edible like fast food. I lis hipness stands in direct con­trast to Johnny Boringseed's lack of hip­ness. Osama bin-Boringseed, though he still stood a dangerous chance of making kids think terrorism was cool, was defi­nitely old hat. Everyone knows you can't "hike" America anymore, you'd get beaten up, arrested or both. 
Sp,condly, it's fair to replace Johnny "I suek" Appleseed with Thomas, because they both did somewhat similar things. 
Both spread edible product throughout America with beaming smiles on their faces. That makes it an apples-to-apples comparison. Appleseed with a diabolical oco-tPrrorist grin and Thomas with the kindly grin of an old f~tmily man who just plain likPs people. You can just tell by that smile, Dave Thomas was true blue, a real niep, guy. While Jolumy Appleseed mod­eled the world in his vision, imposing his 
favorite food on everyone, Thomas made burgers in the name of his lovely red­hairnd niPce. What a cute story! 
To thosp, who say Thomas wiped out Mom and Pop stores, I say yes, we would have to consider that, if it werp,n't for one important detail. Thomas would be unfit lilr a place in the historical pantheon if the burgPrs were not square. But the incon­venient (for the naysayers!) truth is that the burgers AHE square, thereby serving as big meaty beacons of acceptance for squares everywhere. 
BPI(Jre we get carried away, we must think about whether we are being racist or not. We might be! For those worried about replacing a thin dead white guy with a portly dead white guy, we might consider instead replacing Mr. Appleseed in thP his­torical pantheon with a live Mexican dog. How many other ArnPrican heroes are Mexiean? Sadly, none. That dog could serve as a role model for Latinos and those of other races alike, spreading the joys of cultural interchange. Would you know what a cholupa was before the dog'? I think not! Say it with me, "Yo quiero racial equality tambiPn." 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 22 edition ofthe Daily Campus, the daily publication at the University of Connecticut. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Age does not diminish the extreme disappointment of having a scoop of ice cream fall from the cone." 
Jim Fiebig writer 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 25, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Notre Dame football comes back 
Team shows class 
Unless you have been living under a rock, you have heard of the affront that took place on the fifty yard line of Notre Dame Stadium after the MSU loss last year. You couldn't miss it; it was all over the media. What happened after this weekend's game, however, appears to have missed the media's radar altogether. Immediately after the amazing Irish comeback, even before even shaking the Notre Dame players' hands, three of the larger Spartan players took guard at their 50-yard line. They remained in position while their teammates shuffled into the locker room, through the Irish Alma Mater, and did not retreat until every Irish player had left the field. Sparty, State's plush, pseudo-muscular mascot, even took a knee behind the guard's protection and kissed the 50 as if to say, "win or lose, at least we can pro­tect our field." My question is this: how little class can a football team have? They obviously demonstrated their lack thereof at the end of last year's match, but to assume that we would show a sim­ilar lack of respect for their program and players is just insulting. Every sane Irish fan knew that no Irish player would even contemplate planting a flag on their field, not only because Coach Charlie Weis would have no part in such an act, but because our players know how to win with humility. The only thing on their minds after that stormy comeback was to get over to our student section and cele­brate with the fans. The simple fact that the hostile Spartans remained to protect the field shows that the State players have no idea how to lose with dignity. It was almost as if they were trying to imply that even though we beat them during the game, they succeeded where we failed last year: in defending the field. The Irish know that college football is not about planting flags. The antics before and after a game only detract from the sportsmanship displayed during play. The simple truth is our team doesn't want to disrespect our opponents' university, fans, or team; we know the game is over at the end of the fourth quarter. Gloating has no place in a well-disciplined football team. Notre Dame football is a class act and I am proud to call them my team ­thanks Charlie. Oh, and thanks, Cory, for the tickets. 
Joshua Mengers South Bend Sept. 24 

Character counts 
I was a guest on your campus for an extended weekend and attend­ed the Michigan game. At age 57, it was my first opportunity to expe­rience the Notre Dame campus and interact with the students. At first, I was impressed at how warmly I was greeted by the students walking on campus. Everyone I passed greeted me with a 'Hi' or 'Glad you're here.' I stopped at Sorin to get an idea of what your dorms looked like, and not only was invited in to take a look, but was also invited to view other rooms with all kinds of unique configura­tions to enhance the small amount of space available. I was amazed to see all the families that roamed campus, with small children, dressed in their Notre Dame blue and gold, soaking it all up. Nothing prepared me for what I saw at the game. No, not the disappointing loss, but rather the fact that the student body stood throughout the game and was still there, at the end of the game, to support the team. I've never seen anything like it. I've never seen a more impres­sive sight at a football game, and I've been to a lot of football games. Never have I seen more character displayed by a group of students. I know that I wasn't the only fan to notice this as I understand that there was a recruit that committed to the University for that very same reason. I read, with disappointment, that a number of seniors decided to skip out before the game's end and are now trying to justi­fy their actions. Sorry, seniors, there is no justification for your deci­sion to leave. Surprising to me is how you made it through all that time at ND and and don't understand the concepts of loyalty, charac­ter, and tradition. I was on the campus for four days and figured it out immediately. I was standing there at the end. Where were you? 
Mark Schwartz Scottsdale, Ariz. Sept. 23 

What makes Notre Dame special 
As a nearly 30 year alumna of the University, I always enjoy returning to campus for a visit. I was some­what saddened, however, during my most recent visit for the ND-Penn State game. I was saddened because I only obtained tickets to the game (although I sent for nine different sets of tickets through my applica­tion and those of my sister and my so, I received none) through the kindness of a fellow alum who is able to be much more generous to the University than I can. I was sad­dened because I had to walk over a mile and a half to get to the stadium, because I don't donate enough to qualify for the parking bestowed upon those who give the big bucks. I was saddened because the humble little University I remember from 30 years ago seems to be suddenly caught up in a big dollar glitz of self-importance. Thus my sadness brings some advice for you future alums. If you enjoy the Notre Dame football experience you've had for the last few years and hope to continue it upon graduation, go for the big money jobs. Apparently, it's only through large donations that one is considered worthy of receiving foot­ball tickets and Joyce Center or Blue Field parking. I didn't know by choosing to be an inner-city elemen­tary teacher that I would be forfeit­ing my Notre Dame football "privi­leges". I thought I was choosing a career befitting a University that prides itself on service. Perhaps I was wrong. 
Sue Grant alumna class of 1977 Sept. 24 


Give credit to marching band 
Give due credit of last Saturday's win to the Notre Dame marching band. We sat across from them on the press box side of the field. They had to stand on the sideline the entire game, and they played their hearts out in the last eight minutes of that game when Michigan State imploded. They made the noise of 30,000 screaming Irish fans every time the Spartans tried to run plays from deep in their own territory late in the game. I don't think that Notre Dame would have won the game without them. I am told that the Michigan State game was their only scheduled road game. If this is true, it's a shame.The University should cough up the money to send them on the road every time we play a quality opponent. 
Thomas D. Drake alumnus class of 197 4 Sept. 24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

.-----------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 25, 2006 
--~ason dares to 
B. Y A N A L I .. s E 
PROJECT RUNWAY" FEATURE 
at OlymP"tt~ 
gown designer and design leon Vera Wang and Nancy O'Dell oftalevised tabloid "Access HoUywood1;~,yAll the while, Klum moderates w~t~:,typicaJ German efficiency, personal composure and an "'Auf Weidersehn" at each episode's conclusion. 
The true star of "Runway," however, is Tim Gunn. chairman of the fashion design department of the Parsons School of Design ht New York City and surro­gate den rnb,tper: t(lthtfshow's contest­ants. Gunn''§-deliciously dry sense of humor and deadpanned manner accen­tuate his blunt but heartfelt ~JJ,sjghts into the errors and shortcoming§''hf these "students." _· -· 
It is Gunn who coined the show~~ sig~ -11ature phr~se, "Make it work, pedp~~~··His no-nonsense sense of style and func­
-tion carries throughout the show, and he has be~ome both the show's centering personality and the target of much fan affection. The appeal of "Runway''Jo women and m~n seems to lie in both'the sense 

-__-__ ({ i!y'-of high sty-·-hat pt}rva.des J_he show's 
I6stett'·bv Heidi Kl\i~;i-· known .f{)r 
··· .. . . . .. line Victoria's ~etret. Klum is the show's anchor, relay­irig. challenges to contestants and deliv­· ·· the fatal blow to the unfortunate er who loses each project. Despite ,n~~~<iYomJ(l ..h,~ oyerly blunt, as well · myste'rii1Usly•perpetual state of ancy, Klumis avital ingredient in 
_ e "PtojeetR-unway•r formula for sue­:~ss. . ; . 
;.J'he contestan~>must face evaluation from a trio of jUdges. The first is well­kn-own designer Michael Kors, whose sen~e ofstyl¢;~.and sharp umor,Jeuds thei'i~hq\\' ~ $~l:l,'se of hum1 . J1fl. Garcia, fasHion e.ditdr of Elle M , zine',<is the second judge~ and her personal aesthet­ic sense often comes in conflict with 
, those of the show's contestants. A rotating celebrity judge rounds out / ;the trio. Past judges include wedding 
aesthetic an _ the ba))ind-the~scenes, "fly on the waH~ mentality o( the view­ers that watch. Itis a rare look behind the clothing racks and high-end bou­tiques, taking viewers into the depths of fashion's most basi.c and mysterious ori­gins. ..... 
"'Project Runway' succeed~''b se it brings the public into the secret ·b of fashion," said Robin Givh&-P of the Washington Post in a recent attic.!e. "It is pure entertainment, of cO:U:rse: no Seventh Avenue designers are making evening gowns out of materials found at the !neal recycling plant -altl:J,pugh a few are cornj,pg,close. The au4i,~:rlee ..;;or­rectly sensefi that it is learp:_ihg a little something about the way ~be fashion industry works." · · 
The first season of "Project Hunway," airing originally in 2004, introduced America to the format and concept of blending high fashion with reality televi· sion. That season gave the world such memorable character-s as Austin Scad~ttY·. a fantasticil,lly:oyer the top desigj~ who now works ;,f)n wedding gown~; and season one winner Jay McConnell, whose left-of-center sense of.. design~ and fun, funky style won him accolades in both the show and the New York world at Olympus Fashion Week thatyear· .. .. · 

S~l;l$Qt_}t\Vo t.ook the lty of per­sonal~'~ of the pre · ason and douhl¢d them. introd . diences to Santl#Q. a designer wh<J~Ifiutconven­tional tttlent was matched only by his ego, and fan-favorite Daniel Vosovic, a cont~a.trt whose appearance that sea­son w-as. his second on the-Fshow, having · ­lost -"(;)r in the tlrs ·· -n. Seasort -~ two itt ·. ded such :cll:al 'as design-" •> 1 ing a party dress for ;s-(tsJ-alite Nikki ~! Hilton, as well as an ~wiJiWg gown foi' ·;:: awards show comtrl~'ffi'ittor-Nancy O'Dell. 
Whet~··"Project Runway" succeeds mo is'~the relation&hip&; :ween and de · riient of its ers. Ea:th de . \fen in the• ·-~episodes has a~tQeyto,tell and a..styj,e to emulate and: ;~spouse.· Relat~onshfps between desigxiers can range from friendly cama­raderie to fierce clashes, as seen in the adverse nature of Jaj.;,McConnell's and 
Wendy Pepper's professional rivalry. It is the nature of the show:to be nothing if not a diffiCUlt, .challen~g competition;­and as the stakes rise, S.o do the contest­ants' tempers. 
At the end of each epis(}(ie, however, audiences are left with ri)J)re than just character studies and pt#:tty clothes. "Project Runway" is a fascinating look at an industry whose seamy underbelly often remaln.s hidden fr(}m the public eye. By using' the forln:at of competition to highlight the secrets of the fashion iWOrld, Bravo has found a long-lasting hit. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of mollyiJood.com Heidi Klum, left, hosts the reality. hit, "Project Runway." Tim Gunn serves as the The season three cast celebrates its contestants• · to their problems and dishing out advice. The contestants will be eliminated one 






NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 25, 2006 BSERYER Notre Dame 40, Michigan State 37 
Back from the dead 
Irish overcome 16-point fourth-quarter deficit to win at Spartan Stadium 

Lambert said upon "how of thP. play. "I "/had watched film and I much it 
had watched knew that the receiver, nine meant to 
film and I you."
times out often, would have 

knew that "You could­the receiver. been going inside, and n't find me nine times that's what he did." any calmer," out of ten, Weis said of would have his demeanor
Terrail Lambert

been going with the team inside, and Irish cornerback down. "For us that's what to have any he did. I was happy to be in chance, it wasn't just going to the right spot." be the defense playing good. It The comeback began with had to be everybody making 
8:18 left in the fourth period enough plays for us." with a five-play, 80-yard drive The Irish momentum contin­that included a tipped pass ued on Michigan State's next that Irish tight end John possession as Spartan quarter­Carlson caught for a 32-yard back Drew Stanton fumbled on gain and a short pass from his own 26-yard line. Notre quarterback Brady Quinn that Dame safety Chinedum Ndukwe fell on the loose ball and the Irish, aided by a pass interference penalty, scored in three plays -the last of which was a 14-yard pass from Quinn to wide receiver Rhema McKnight. Irish kicker Carl Gioia missed the extra point, but Notre Dame was suddenly within a single score at 37-33. 
"I fumbled the ball on that option play and that really put us in a bad position," Stanton said. 
The Spartans had one last chance after Lambert's inter­ception to get into field goal range and moved the ball to the Notre Dame 45. 
But with 24 seconds left, Stanton's pass was tipped by Irish cornerback Mike Richardson and landed on the back of a fallen Michigan State receiver. 
Lambert grabbed the ball before it hit the ground, and the clock ran out on the Spartans. 
''I'm so proud of our kids," Michigan State coach John L. Smith said. "I thought they quarter on a touchdown pass from Stanton to Kerry Reed, a wide .rec~iver pass from Matt Trannon to halfback Javon Ringer and a. 32-yard field .goal.by B.rett Swenson. 
· Notre Dame got on the scoreboard on its first posses­sion of the second quarter. Irish coach Charlie Weis switched to a no-huddle offense that worked to the tune of a five-play, 60-yard drive capped off by a 32-yard touchdown pass from Quinn to McKnight. 
The Spartans didn't allow the Irish to keep the momen­tum, however. After pinning Notre Dame at its own 15, linebacker Ervin Baldwin intercepted a pass from Quinn and dashed into the end zone for a 24-7 lead. 
Notre Dame bounced right back on the next drive, going 72 yards in seven plays and scor­ing on a quick pass that Samardzija took down the side­line for the score. The key play on the drive was a 27 -yard pass from Quinn to tight end John Carlson on a fourth and one from the Notre Dame 37. 
On the ensuing kickoff, Irish sophomore defensive back Ray Herring was offsides and Notre Dame had to kick from its own 
30. Spartan return man Demond Williams returned the kick to the 40 and Michigan State marched down the field for a score on another pass from Stanton to Reed for a 31­14 lead at halftime. 
played with heart and played The Irish got a spark to start with emotion. We have to the third quarter. After forcing make better calls and better the Spartans into a 3-and-out plays." on the first possession of the 
Quinn completed 20-of-36 second half, Quinn hit Carlson passes for 319 yards, his high­for a 62-yard touchdown to cut est yardage output of the sea­the lead to 10. son, with five touchdowns -Notre Dame got the ball back two each to Samardzija and after a short punt by senior McKnight and Brandon Fields, 
one to Carlson. Stanton was 10-of-2 2 pass­ "Right now it's a pretty high high. This  but only gained two yards and failed on a  
ing for 114 yards with two touchdowns and an inter­ one's a tough one to beat because this game meant a lot to us."  fourth down pass. The Spartans took the ball  
ception. He also  and  went  61  
contributed 53 yards to a Spartan rush­ Charlie Weis Irish coach  yards the other way solely on running plays  
ing attack that  to go up 37-21  

tore up the Irish front seven with 5:50 left in the third for 243 yards. quarter. The snap flew out of 
Notre Dame's rushing attack Fields' hands on the extra struggled for the third consec­point to keep the lead at 16. utive game, netting only 4 7 Four possessions later, Quinn yards, all of them coming from led the Irish on the 80-yard tailback Darius Walker's 11 drive to begin the comeback. carries. 
Michigan State opened a 17-Contact Chris Khorey at 0 lead by the end of the first ckhorey@nd.edu 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -It looked hopeless for No. 12 
Notre  Dame  on  a  stormy  
Saturday  night  in  East  
Lansing.  

Trailing Michigan State 3 7­21 halfway through the fourth quarter, the Irish (3-1) mount­ed a furious comeback to beat the Spartans 40-37, culminat­ing in a 26-yard interception return for a touchdown by jun­ior cornerback Terrail Lambert with just under three minutes to play. 
"Right now it's a pretty high high," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "This one's a tough one to beat because this game meant a lot to us, and I'm proud of the players and the coaches." 
It was the largest fourth­quarter comeback for Notre Dame since Joe Montana brought the Irish back from a 34-12 deficit with seven min­utes left in the 1979 Cotton Bowl against Houston. 
Michigan State tailbacks Jehuu Caulcrick and Javon Ringer combined for 187 yards on the ground, 114 of them in the second half as the Spartans wore down a tired Irish defense. But it was a pass on third-and-three deep in Spartan territory that lost the game for Michigan State (3-1 ). 
After Demond Williams took a knee at the 12-yard line on a kickoff, Spartan quarterback Drew Stanton found his team facing third-and-short from its own 19. He dropped back to pass, but Lambert leaped and intercepted the throw and brought it back into the end zone to give the Irish their first lead of the game. 
"I was playing outside man," wide receiver Jeff Samardzija turned into a 43-yard touch­down. Notre Dame went for a two-point conversion and failed, but the Spartans' lead was down to just 10 points at 37-27. 
Weis had told the team at halftime that any possible turnaround was dependent 
player of the game 


Terrail Lambert 

The Irish cornerback made two fourth-quarter interceptions, returning one for a touchdown to give Notre Dame the lead for good. 
stat of the game 
16 

Points Notre Dame trailed by at the end ofthe third quarter. The fourth-quarter comeback was the biggest for the Irish since 1979. 
play of the game 

Terrail Lambert's interception return 
The defensive back's interception return for a touchdown with less than three minutes to play gave Notre Dame the win. 
quote of the game 
"I think the players started to realize at halftime that the season was falling out oftheir hands. " 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 · The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 25, 2006 

report card 
quarterbacks: Quinn struggled early, 
but he led the offense on long drives 
when it needed them and made key 
throws down the stretch. He threw five touchdown passes. 

D  running backs: The running game was ineffective again, espeeially on first down. Walker got most of his yardage on a couple of second­ 
half draw plays.  
8  receivers: The route running was sloppy in the first quarter, but as the game wore on this unit got better. McKnight, Samardzija and Carlson all caught  
touchdown passes.  
offensive line: Walker had few holes to  
c  run through and costly penalties stalled drives, but the line gave Quinn time to throw when he needed  
it late in the game.  
defensive line: While Laws, Landri, and  
c  Abiarniri all recorded sacks, the Spartans were able to run up the mid­dle at will, pushing this unit off the ball  
and giving Caulcrick and Ringer huge  
holes to run through.  
c  linebackers: Thomas and Crum struggled to stop the run for most of the game, but both made huge plays in the fourth  
quarter on Stanton scrambles to halt  
Michigan State drives.  
defensive backs: The secondary was  
B+  torched early, allowing two touchdown passes in the first quarter, but settled down and shut down the Spartan passing  
game in the seeond half. Lambert's inter­ 
ceptions won the game for the Irish.  
B  special teams: Price's punts and Henkes' kickoffs were solid despite the weather, but Zbikowski muffed two punts and Gioia missed a key  
extra point.  
B+  coaching: Yet again the Irish came out flat and looked unprepared. It took until the second half for the team to show any fire, but halftime adjustments, espeeially  
on defense, made a big difference.  

2.62 
overall: The first half looked like last week's loss to Michigan, but a second-half run saved the day. 

adding up the numbers 

Fourth quarter deficit overcome by the Irish, the largest since Notre Dame came back 
16

from down 34-12 in the 1979 Cotton Bowl. 
17-0 
Score after the first quarter Saturday. The Irish gave up 20 points to Michigan in the first quarter a week before. 
Amount Notre Dame has been outscored by in first quarters this 
44-10

season. 
80,193 
Attendance Saturday night, the third largest crowd in Spartan Stadium history. 
Interceptions by Terrail Lambert in the fourth 
2 

quarter, the first two of his career. 
Ill 
Yards rushing for Michigan State's Jehuu Caulcrick on just eight carries. 
Touchdown passes thrown by Brady Quinn 
5 

Saturday, his highest total of the season. 
Passes completed by Drew Stanton in the second half Saturday, both to Matt Trannon. 


EAST LANSING, Mich. -Charlie Weis had a choice to make -go with the wind or go with the stu­dents and the band. 
He chose the Irish faithful, and he chose right. 
In a driving rainstorm with winds of 15 miles per hour gusting to 30, Weis elected to kickoff into the face of the storm to start the sec­ond half, just so he could have the Notre Dame student section on top of Michigan State if the Spartans got pinned deep in their own territory. 
They did, and Weis' strategy worked. 
"I figured if we were going to win the game, it was going to be in the fourth quarter, and I wanted to be in front of our fans," he said. 
Weis got his wish. 
Brady Quinn's touchdown pass to JeffSamardzija with 8:18left started it all -in Weis' chosen end zone, beneath the screams and shrills of the Irish mob. 
Then, with 7:10 left and Notre Dame noise. permeating the air, Ndukwe's strip of Stanton and fum­ble recovery deep in Michigan State territory kept alive a comeback unri­valed in recent Irish lore. The fourth quarter turnaround Weis dreamed of when he chose to play into the wind was coming true. 
"You actually have to think about those things," Weis said of the deei­sion to go toward the band. 
Weis and the Irish once again used that noise with less than five min­utes left in the game after Michigan State return man Demond Williams took a knee on the kickoff that fol­lowed Brady Quinn's touchdown pass to Rhema McKnight. 
The Spartans ran onto the field to 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 

start from their own 12-yard line. They were met with an "Imperial March" and an Irish awakening. 
In the press box, all the way across the stadium and eight levels high behind a sheet of glass, the Notre Dame band drowned out the Michigan State woodwinds that played 1 00 yards closer. In fact, they did that throughout the fourth quar­ter. 
"That's not a loud stadium," Weis said. "And we didn't have that many fans there, but the ones we did were making some noise." 
Before Drew Stanton could get into the huddle, Tom Zbikowski was jumping up and down, pointing at the band and students in the north­east corner of the stadium. 
"We had a lot of fans down here ... and we didn't want them to leave wjth a loss," Zbikowski said. 
So to help the cause, the senior safety started begging for away-field advantage in East Lansing. 
He got it. 
Arms in unison, the band began with its trademark Star Wars song, and Chinedum Ndukwe laid a crucial hit seven yards downtield on Javon Hinger that brought second-and­three. 
Then it was Travis Thomas screaming at the Notre Dame defen­sive linemen and then raising his hands towards that northeast corner and the Irish band in the middle of the Celtic Chant. 
"We were just trying to get every­body into it and keep the intensity up, and it paid ofT," Thomas said. "That emotion kind of makes you catch your second wind. Football is a game of emotions, and when you play flat, I don't think you play well. ... With the crowd getting into it, what people we had here, it really helped out a lot." 
Weis testified to Thomas' comment that Notre Dame needed the second wind late in the fourth. After the · defense spent nearly nine of the first 12 minutes of the final quarter on the field, Weis said, they were dose to wearing down. 
"On the way home, I can tell you there was a lot of sleeping going on," Weis said. "It wasn't like there was a raucous bus.... I think everyone left it on the field yesterday." 
Thomas said whatever he had left was at least buoyed by the positives of the offense clicking and the stu­dents roaring in the stands. 
He took that extra energy and stufl"ed Stanton at the line to force third-and-three. 
Then Notre Dame's defense went back to the well that refreshed them twice before. As Michigan State ran to the line, Zbikowski, Thomas and cornerback Mike Richardson screamed at each other with arms raised to pump up the Irish crowd already engulfed in another "Imperial March." 
By the time the play was over, the Irish defense had given the crowd a whole lot more to cheer about as cornerback Terrail Lambert inter­cepted an errant Stanton pass and brought it back 26 yards to give his team the lead. 
Without the Notre Dame band and students, the Irish likely wouldn't have come back from a 16-point deficit in the fourth quarter, pro­pelled by three forced turnovers. 
As ABC cut to Weis before his post­game television interview, he yelled to someone, "Get them over by the band." 
IIe had good reason. 
And now, Athletic Director Kevin White has good reason to visit with Notre Dame Director of Bands Kenneth Dye so the two can figure out how to get the band to some more away games. 
They'd certainly have Weis' sup­port. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 
Monday, September 25, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Lambert pick gives Irish victory 
Cornerback completes comeback with late TD 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -Notre Dame cornerback Terrail Lambert anticipated Spartan quarterback Drew Stanton's drag-route pass to Kerry Heed, intercept­ed it and took it for the game-winning touchdown -and a little vindication. 
A week after the junior arlowed Michigan wide receiver Mario Manningham to burn him on 20 and 22­yard second-quarter touchdown passes from quarterback Chad Henne, Lambert made two interceptions in Notre Dame's 40-37 comeback win over Michigan State. 
''I'm just so happy for Terrail because I know he got a lot of stuff from a lot of people last week," Irish free safety Chinedum Ndukwe said. "This kid's a lighter, and he never let it get to him, and that's what you have to have as a defen­sive back -you have to have a short memory." 
Lambert intercepted Stanton's pass with 2:53 left in the fourth quarter at the Spartan 27 -yard line and sprinted to the right pylon, then made an inside cut into the end zone ofT a Travis Thomas block at the live-yard line for the 40-37 Irish lead. 
"Right now I'm kind of liking Lambert a little bit," Irish coach Charlie Weis said with a chuckle when asked if it was hard Notre Dame 44-yard line with 32 seconds and 10-yard consecutive completions to to single out one Notre Dame hero for the remaining. wide receiver Matt Trannon in front of game. On the ensuing play, Irish defensive end him. 
The interception was the first of Victor Abiamiri forced Stanton to scram­"All you can do is just bounce back and Lambert's career and came on a ble out of the pocket to the right and keep your head up," Lambert said. Michigan State third-and-three from its throw across his body to Reed in double "Always worry about the next play, own 19-yard line. coverage on the Notre Dame 27-yard because the next play is always the most 
"Time sort of stood still," Lambert said line. important play on defense." 
of the play. "I remember just having the Irish cornerback Mike Richardson Lambert has seen significant time this 
ball in my possession, and I'm running tipped the ball with his arm, before it season when the Irish have employed the 
with the ball, and it was just complete bounced off of Lambert and on to nickel formation after appearing in 12 
silence. I could have heard a pin drop, Richardson's back. From there the ball games his sophomore year, mostly seeing 
knowing even though it was probably careened back toward Lambert and off playing time on special teams. He made 
loud around me cause the fans were his leg onto a spinning Reed's back. five tackles against the Spartans 
going crazy. Lambert dove toward Reed, grabbed Saturday. 
"I couldn't hear anything. I was just the ball before it fell to the ground and And for Purdue, Lambert is nothing but like, 'Oh my God, the ball's in my hands."' planted his knee in-bounds to secure the an optimist after the harshest and most 
The junior was aided on the pick by a interception and end the game. celebrated games of his career. timely blitz from junior linebacker "That's what we see all the time," Irish "I can definitely build on this," he said. Maurice Crum, who harassed Stanton in strong safety Tom Zbikowski said. "We "It's just great to know that I have team­the pocket and forced a rushed throw. knew [Lambert] had it in him and it was mates to support me. Because after the 
After Lambert's touchdown return, only a matter of time before he made Michigan game, I was kind of hanging my Michigan State drove 33 yards in seven those type of plays. Hopefully he'll contin­head down and they uplifted me. plays, trying to get into field goal range. ue to just keep getting better." "We lose as a team, we win as a team." Stanton ran a seven-yard option left for a The Spartans challenged Lambert on first down, getting out-of-bounds at the their final drive, as Stanton completed 13 Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Weis takes hit in sideline altercation 
Coach not sure who struck blow in melee following Ndukwe's hard tackle near ND bench 
dent. "You don't see that 1966 team on the field before change numbers next week. By CHRIS KHOREY whole pile in there, all the Saturday's contest as part of Associate Sports Editor stuff that's going on." the ceremonies commemorat­Moment of silence for Waters 
Weis said his biggest con­ing the historic 10-10 tie Former Michigan State 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -cern when the fight broke out between the No. 1 Irish and player and coach Frank Generally, it's the players that was for his son, Charlie, Jr., No. 2 Spartans. Former "Muddy" Waters, who led the take the hits. who stands on the Notre Michigan State basketball Spartans from 1980-82 and 
But on one play Saturday, Dame sideline for every player Magic Johnson also played from 1946-49, died Irish coach Charlie Weis game. attended the game. Wednesday. He was honored found out what it's like to get "When the fight takes off, I The Spartans wore throw­with a moment of silence "hit in the mouth." don't know where he is," Weis back helmets similar to those before Saturday's game. 
In the second quarter, said of his son. "Thankfully they wore in the mid-1960s Spartan quarterback Drew he's got more common sense and both teams wore special Holding penalties Stanton scrambled out of the than his old man. He was out "Game of the Century" patch­With 1:52 left in the third pocket and headed for the of the way." es on their jerseys. quarter, a Michigan State Notre Dame sideline, where Before the game, the lineman was called for hold­he was hit hard by Irish safe­Samardzija moves into Spartan Stadium scoreboard ing. It was the first time this ty Chinedum Ndukwe. second place in TD catches read 10-10 and the year that an Irish opponent 
Ndukwe was flagged for a Notre Dame senior wide Jumbotron showed highlights had been called for offensive late hit out of bounds and, receiver Jeff Samardzija of the 1966 contest. holding. All of Notre Dame's when Michigan State wide caught two touchdown passes games this year have been receiver Matt Trannon ran Saturday, giving him 19 for Former MSU great honored officiated by Big Ten referees. over to help his quarterback his career and tying him for Former Michigan State up, a melee ensued near the second all-time in Irish histo­defensive tackle Charles Coin toss Notre Dame bench. ry with Tom Gatewood, who "Bubba" Smith had his num­Notre Dame won the coin 
Weis. who had been stand­played from 1969-71. ber 95 jersey retired in a pre­toss and elected to receive. ing near the play, took a blow Derrick Mayes is the all­game ceremony. Smith was Michigan State chose to go to the face. Although Trannon time touchdown catch leader taken with the first pick in with the wind in the first and was called for a personal foul, in Notre Dame history with 22 the 1967 NFL draft by the third quarters, but ended up the Irish coach said he wasn't from 1992-95. Baltimore Colts. with it in the fourth quarter as sure who hit him. Spartan defensive end well when the wind shifted. 
"Might have been one of my 1966 "Game of the Justin Kershaw currently guys that slapped me for all I Century" remembered wears number 95. He wore ContactChris Khorey at know," Weis said of the inci-Michigan State honored its the jersey Saturday, but will ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 3 
•

scoring SUIDITiary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

.....
Notre Dame 0 14 7 19 40 Mich. State 17 14 6 0 37 
First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Michigan State 7 
Kerry Reed 34-yard reception from Drew Stanton with 12:15 remaining. (Swenson kick) Drive: 3 plays, 73 yards, 0:58 elapsed 
Notre Dame 0, Michigan State 14 
Javon Ringer 26-yard reception from Matt Trannon with 6:49 remaining. (Swenson kick) Drive: 4 plays, 50 yards,1 :09 elapsed 
Notre Dame 0, Michigan State 17 
Brett Swenson 32-yard field goal with 1:38 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 43 yards, 3:02 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 17 
Rhema McKnight32-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 11:07 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 5 plays, 60 yards,1 :45 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 24 
Ervin Baldwin 19-yard interception return with 
9:04 remaining. 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 24 
Jell Samardzija 17-yard reception from Quinn with 6:45 Remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 72 yards, 2:09 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 31 
Reed 15-yard reception from Stanton with 2:11 remaining. (Swenson kick) Drive: 8 plays,59 yards, 4:12 elapsed 
Third quarter Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 31 
John Carlson 62-yard reception from Quinn with 11:13 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 5 plays, 80 yards, 1:57 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 37 Jehuu Caulcrick 30-yard run with 5:50 remain­ing. (Swenson run failed) Drive: 4 plays, 62 yards, 1:DO elapsed 
Fourth quarter Notre Dame 27, Michigan State 37 
Samardzija 43-yard reception from Quinn with 
8:18 remaining. (Walker run failed) Drive: 5 plays, 80 yards, 1:56 elapsed 
Notre Dame 33, Michigan State 37 
McKnight 14-yard reception from Quinn with -­
4:56 remaining. (Gioia kick failed) Drive: 2 plays, 24 yards, 1:13 elapsed 
Notre Dame 40, Michigan State 37 
Terrail Lambert 27-yard interception return with 
2:53 remaining. (Gioia kick) 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 
~....,____ ---~--~~""---..~ 
. \1S\ I I -h) 
return yards 
~
-·
time of possession 
s 

17-47 rushes-yards 43-248 20-36-1 comp-att-int 11-23-2 7-303 punts-yards 7-328 3-1 fumbles-lost 2-1 8-58 penalties-yards 9-75 13 first downs 18 
passing 

Quinn 20-36-1 Stanton 10-22-2 
rushing 

Walker 11-47 Caulcrick 8-111 
receiving 

Samardzija  7-113  Ringer  3-32  
Carlson  4-121  Reed  2-49  
McKnight  4-70  Trannon  2-23  

tackles 

T. Thomas 8 Thornhill 5 
I~ 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 25, 2006 
..... 
Season saved 
With nothing less to lose than a season that 
began with national title hopes, Notre Dame 
found itself down 16 midway through the fourth 
quarter. Brady Quinn and his receivers came up 

--huge for the Irish offense, but Chinedum Ndukwe and Terrail Lambert came up even bigger for the defense. When the game clock ran out on Michigan State's upset bid, the Irish sprinted to the Notre Dame band and celebrated one of the most emotional victories in team history. 
PAMELA LOCK!The Observer PAMELA LOCK!The Observer Top left, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn throws to his right. Top right, Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis embraces his son, Charlie Jr., after Saturday's game. Center, Irish defensive end Ronald Talley tackles Spartan running back Javon Ringer. Bottom right, Irish linebacker Mitchell Thomas stops Spartan kick returner Demond Williams. Bottom left, Notre Dame running back Darius Walker eludes Michigan State safety SirDarean Adams on one of his 11 carries. 
THE OBSERVER .. 
CENE
Monday, September 25, 2006 
page 11 

Michael's is far frorr{\~ver and the ' competition has remains "ttnclear. All ' Jeffrey, who has UV'U~...<O,<· differing sttengths and ~' ed him twice alt~e~:dJi'khJJ~,l\tfi and it is up;;~o them to:®'li' maintain his their abilities. Michael¥ into boring or currently st~.pd out as beat Jeffrey once · if Laura and Uli continu,e 
. the m{.>,':{i will cer-,~ 
ahead. Fashion W&'ek is over,.f 
e plenty of time'yet for ?f 
· to a fascinating f,hird sea-
Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
one remains. 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 25, 2006 
... 
NFL 

Patterson's recovery leads Philadelphia to victory 
rallying for a win over the Cleveland Browns, who were one
Favre throws 400th 
play away from their first win. touchdown pass in Stover's 12th career game-win­ning kick came after Ravens cor­Green Bay triumph nerback Chris McAlister inter­
cepted a pass by Charlie Frye in 
the end zone with 3:21 left as the
Associated Press 
Browns (0-3) were threatening. 
SAN FRANCISCO -Mike Baltimore's Steve McNair then Patterson simply followed one of went 6-of-9 for 52 yards to set up football's oldest rules: Keep play­the 38-year-old Stover, who spent ing until you hear the whistle. five years in Cleveland but len in 
About 98 yards after he started 1995 when owner Art Modell running with a loose ball nobody moved his franchise to Maryland. seemed to want, the 292-pound As the kick by Stover, the only defensive lineman was begging former Browns player still on for that whistle. Baltimore's roster, sailed 
Wheezing, wincing and finally through, the Havens' bench walking, Patterson still crossed erupted in celebration while the opposite goal line with the Cleveland fans bemoaned anoth­stunning fumble return that er tough loss. helped the Philadelphia Eagles "Sure it means a lot," said head home with a 38-24 victory Stover, who also made kicks of 32 over the San Francisco 49ers on and 43 yards. "The Browns are a Sunday. long, lost family. When I hit it, it 
Brian Westbrook rushed for was money -right down the 117 yards and two touchdowns, middle." also catching a scoring pass from Cleveland led 14-3 going into Donovan McNabb, who passed the fourth, and was on the verge for 296 yards but Patterson's of an upset when Baltimore's kooky fumble return was the defense came up big. most memorable moment of an otherwise methodical win. St. Louis 16, Arizona 14 

Philadelphia's genial run-stop­In a game filled with turnovers, ping defensive tackle seized an the last one went to St. Louis. So unlikely moment when Frank did the victory. up 8:24 of the fourth quarter to Favre, who turns 37 next month. New York had in mind. Gore fumbled while trying to Kurt Warner, who threw three cut the lead to 16-14 on James' "1 have to be smarter. Mike Seahawks quarterback Matt stretch over a goal-line pile of interceptions, fumbled a snap at 6-yard touchdown run with 4:13 (McCarthy) said, 'Great job, but Hasselbeck threw five touchdown players in the third quarter. the Rams 18 with 1:46 to play to play. The drive included a 7-you have to quit running around passes -four in the first half. Patterson thought he was the and Will Witherspoon recovered yard pass from Warner to like that,' because I couldn't talk Meanwhile, Eli Manning had only person who saw the ball. to allow St. Louis to hold on to Fitzgerald on fourth-and-5 from to him, I couldn't breathe. three interceptions, the Giants 
"I didn't hear a whistle, so I just beat the Arizona Cardinals the Rams 38. "I was able to recover a lot eas­were way behind early and never picked it up and ran with it," said Sunday. James had his best game since ier back in the old days, but caught up in a loss Sunday. Patterson, a California native The Cardinals' Antonio Smith coming to Arizona, gaining 94 there's nothing like throwing The rout was so quick, so deci­playing in front of at least 60 recovered Rams quarterback yards in 24 carries. touchdown passes." sive, it rendered the incessant friends and family. "I felt it on the Marc Bulger's fumble at the St. It wasn't enough. Favre would know. roaring of a Qwest Field-record 40, started breathing real hard. I Louis 30 with 1:58 to play and Coincidence or not, all three of With his first TD pass of the crowd of 68,161 moot-but not just tried to remember my form." Edgerrin James carried three Warner's interceptions came game -a 75-yarder to Greg mute. The fans were mostly 
Patterson got to midfield before times to the 18. But Warner after he took a helmet-to-helmet Jennings -Favre joined Hall of mocking the stunned visitors by most of the Niners realized the dropped Alex Stepanovich's snap hit from Witherspoon. Farner Dan Marino as the only the end of the third quarter, after ball was still live. He eventually and Witherspoon jumped on the quarterbacks to reach 400 touch­the Seahawks completed a 17­walked over the goal line for the ball for St. Louis (2-1). Green Bay 31, Detroit 24 down passes. Marino has 420. play drive that ended with longest fumble return in Eagles It was a fitting end for a game Brett Favre sprinted toward the "We needed a win a lot more Darrell Jackson's second touch­history, surpassing a 32-year-old that featured six turnovers, four end zone, signaled touchdown than I needed 400 touchdown down catch for a 42-3 lead. record and putting Philadelphia by the Cardinals. and then pumped his right fist. passes," the three-time MVP said. The Seahawks won their 12th ahead 31-3. One of Warner's interceptions The 36-year-old quarterback had While the Lions (0-3) remained consecutive regular-season home 
came with Arizona at the Rams just become the second player in winless under new coach Rod game to become 3-0 for the third Baltimore 15, Cleveland 14 13, another at the St. Louis 1. NFL history to throw 400 career Marinelli, they had their chances time in four seasons. They finally 
As Matt Stover jogged onto the Bulger was 21-of-31 for 309 touchdown passes. in the fourth quarter -just as felt good about their previously field, the Baltimore Ravens' wor­yards and one touchdown with He added two more scores to they did in the season-opening sputtering offense, thanks to a ries were over. A few seconds no interceptions, and Warner lead the Green Bay Packers to a loss to Seattle. boost by Deion Branch's debut. and 52 yards later, Stover had was 19-of-28 for 256 yards and win over Detroit on Sunday for "We were close," Marinelli said. The former Patriot and Super given them three points and their one score. their first victory of the season. "We have to fmish." Bowl MVP caught two passes for first 3-0 start. Torry Holt caught eight passes Favre said he felt like a kid 23 yards and ran a reverse 8 
''I've always called him for 120 yards, including a 9-while celebrating after each TD, Seattle 42, NY Giants 30 yards. He was part of the Automatic Stover," linebacker yarder for St. Louis' lone touch­bouncing on his toes and leaping The Giants wanted to take Seahawks' new, four-wide receiv­Ray Lewis said. down. Anquan Boldin had 10 into teammates' arms, but his Seattle's roaring, allegedly er scheme, an offensive 
True to his nickname, Stover receptions for 129 yards for body quickly reminded him that enhanced crowd out of the game makeover during the game's rel­kicked a 52-yard field goal with Arizona. he's not. early. Plunging into the deepest atively few important parts. 20 seconds left Sunday as the Down 16-7, the Cardinals (1-2) "''ve got to stop doing that first-half hole in their 82-year ·The Giants (1-2) just got plain Ravens remained unbeaten by went 87 yards in 16 plays, using because I get so tired," said history probably wasn't what worked over. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk  2-6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS  FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­ Wanted: UNC Tix. (574)273-9845  
to stadium. Terrace Ln. 269-930­ NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR FOOT­ 0964  
WANTED  FoR SALE  8038. swmient@qtm.net  BALL WEEKENDS & SCHOOL YEAR. 574-329-0308. www.geoci- WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  PERSONAL  
Students to do minor work in house  Investment homes for sale near  2 rooms in private home w/separate  ties.com/gillisrealty@sbcglobal.net  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  
on NDAve.  ND. 866-521-8989.  entrance for football weekends.  WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726.  
Owned by alumni.  Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­ BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam- 
Good pay!  259-8603.  pus homes & weekend rentals.  NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK­ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Email Loretta800@aol.com.  FoR RENT  Bluegoldrentals.com  ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY  not go it alone.  
Call954-921-1413.  Home game lodging 20 min. to ND  games.Call517-351-1992 or order  If you or someone you love needs  
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms.  in a B&B log home in the woods.  2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte.  online 24/7 at WWWJAMESTHET- confidential support or assistance.  
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt.  Close to ND.  $200 for the weekend. 269-362­ $275 ND Football Wkends; $200  ICKETMAN.COM we have tickets  Please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP.  
Flexible schedules.  Call Gary 574-993-2208.  0300.  Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400.  local or nationwide.  1-7819.  
No exp. needed.  For more information, see our bi- 
Customer sales/service,  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008  45 minutes from Notre Dame  Home game lodging 20 min. to ND  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK- weekly ad in The Observer.  
Conditions apply.  2-6 Bedrooms  Stadium. $125.00/night.  in a B&B log home in the woods.  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­ 
All ages 17+,  www.NDstudentrentals.com  Year round cabins sleep six.  $200 for the weekend. 269-362­ 2378.  www.ndgamedayroom .com  
Call Today 574-273-3835.  Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646­ 0300.  
ND Games 1-3M.  2181.  Travel with STS to this years top 1 0  Happy Birthday and a day KR!  
Looking for kind, responsible &  3 Bdrms priv. homes 574-273-2241.  Spring Break destinations! Best  You rock.  
playful female.  Upscale Football Weekend House ­ TICKETS  deals guaranteed! Highest rep com- Go crazy.  
Occasionally watch my 2 kids  White Pigeon, Ml lake house near  Escort Optional.  
 missions. Visit www.ststravel.com  
(9&5yrs).  toll road. 3 da wkend.  574-993-8333  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ or call 1-800-648-4849. Great group  3456 is pretty sweet  
Call Jill288-7118.  Home games $1 k. 260-768-4422.  keszeicpa@ sbcglobal.net  1570  discounts.  I'm just saying.  

-----------~------~--------------------------------------------------­

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 25, 2006 
NCAA Football USA Today Coaches' Top 25 
team  2006 record  previous  
1  Ohio State (59)  4-0  1  
2  usc (2)  3-0  2  
3  Auburn (2)  4-0  3  
4  West Virginia  4-0  4  
5  Florida  4-0  5  
6  Michigan  4-0  6  
7  Texas  3-1  8  
8  louisville  4-0  9  
9  Georgia  4-0  7  
10  lSU  3·1­ 11  
11  Virginia Tech  4-0  10  
12  Oregon  3-0  12  
13'  Iowa  4-0  14  
14  NOTRE DAME  3-1  13  
15  TCU  3-0  15  
16  Oklahoma  3-1  16  
17  Florida State  3-1  17  
18  Tennessee  3-1  19  
19  Clemson  3-1  23  
20  California  3·1  20  
21  Nebraska  3·1  24  
22  Boise State  4·0  25  
23  Rutgers  4-0  NR  
24  Texas Tech  3-1  NR  
25  Boston College  3-1  21  

NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team record points 

1 Ohio State (59) 4-0 1617 2 Auburn (2) 4-0 1513 3 usc (2) 3-0 1491 4 West Virginia (2) 4-0 1404 5 Florida 4-0 1363 6 Michigan 4·0 1318 7 Texas 3-1 1196 8 louisville 4-0 1166 9 lSU 3-1 1114 10 Georgia 4·0 972 11 Virginia Tech 4-0 945 12 NOTRE DAME 3·1 879 13 Iowa 4·0 864 14 Oregon 3·0 805 15 Tennessee 3-1 658 16 Oklahoma 3·1 613 17 TCU 3,o 563 18 Clemson 3·1 529 19 Florida State 3·1 510 20 California 3·1 508 21 Nebraska 3·1 327 22 Boise State 4·0 226 23 Rutgers 4·0 117 24 Georgia Tech 3·1 77 25 Missouri 4-0 70 
Harris Poll Rankings 
Team Points 

1 Ohio State {1 07) 2816 2 usc (4} 2654 3 Auburn {2) 2632 4 West Virginia 2390 5 Michigan 2364 6 Florida 2320 7 louisville 2065 a Texas 2001 9 Georgia 1827 10 lSU 1793 
{NOTRE DAME is 12th) 

around the dial 
NFL 
Atlanta at New Orleans 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
White Sox at Indians 
7:05 p.m., Comcast 

CoMPILED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
GOLF 


AP The European Ryder Cup team celebrates its victory over the United States at the closing ceremonies in Straffan, Ireland Sunday. Europe defeated the United States by nine points. 
Europe takes third straight Ryder Cup 
Associated Press STRAFFAN, Ireland ­Even after the skies cleared over Ireland, it kept right on pouring. First came the tears of Darren Clarke, the inspi­ration of this Ryder Cup, and then a shower of champagne as the Europeans celebrated another romp. Ian Woosnam popped the cork off the first bot­tle, dousing his team on the 18th green and later drinking it so quickly that it shot up his nose. Clarke toasted the delirious Irish crowd by guzzling a pint of Guinness from a bal­cony and raising the empty glass like a trophy. 
Even with Tiger Woods getting to pick his partner and finishing with a win­ning record for the first time in the Ryder Cup, it still didn't change the out­come from two years ago. 
Europe 18 1/2, United States 9 1/2. 
There's no doubt who owns the Ryder Cup ­and not just the shiny gold trophy. 
"I don't know in the his­tory of the Ryder Cup any European team that has played better than you guys," U.S. captain Tom Lehman told them at the closing ceremony Sunday after his American team endured its worst beating ever in the 12 singles 
IN BRIEF 

Colts sign kicker Gramatica to replace Vinatieri 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts signed kicker Martin Gramatica on Sunday as a replacement for the injured Adam Vinatieri. 
Vinatieri, the Colts biggest offseason acquisition, was deactivated for the game against Jacksonville because of a groin injury. It's the first time in Vinatieri's 11-year career he has missed a game. 
The Colts also deactivated Pro Bowl safety Bob Sanders (knee), former Pro Bowl defensive tackle Corey Simon (knee) and receiver Brandon Stokley (ankle). Simon missed his third straight game since having arthro­scopic surgery on the knee in August. 
To make room for Gramatica, Indianapolis placed tight end Ben Hartsock on injured reserve with a hamstring injury that has kept him out of action almost since training camp started. That ends Hartsock's season. 
matches. 
The Europeans wanted to win this one for Clarke and the memory of his wife, Heather, who died of breast cancer six weeks ago to the day. They want­ed to win for Woosnam, their pint-sized captain who made all the right moves once the tourna­ment started. 
Mostly -as always ­they wanted to win for each other. 
"That's what we do on this team," said Colin Montgomerie, who tied a Ryder Cup record with his sixth singles victory. "We play for each other. We're all just thrilled. And yes, we're going to have a big 

Burton wins at Dover, leads Chase for Nextel Cup 
DOVER, Del. -Jeff Burton nipped at leader Matt Kenseth's bumper in the waning laps, ducked beneath him, pulled side-by-side and still kept falling behind. 
It wasn't until six laps were left that Burton finally scooted by with the criti­cal pass. Not that he even needed it: Kenseth ran out of gas. 
Burton finally found his way back to Victory Lane at Dover International Speedway after the thrilling late battle, ending his 175-race winless streak and parking himself in the lead of NASCAR's Chase for the champi­onship. "We've got eight to go, this still isn't over," said Burton, who took a slim, six-point lead over Jeff Gordon, the polesitter, who fmished third. 
It may be over, though, for the likes of Kasey Kahne, Kyle Busch and Dale Earnhardt Jr. -each of whom had his own problems to fall all but out of the Chase. 
party." 
Luke Donald holed a 10­foot par putt on the 16th hole for Europe's 14th point, all it needed to keep the trophy. Moments later, Henrik Stenson won his match for an outright vic­tory, the first European team to win three in a row. 
"This is the pinnacle of my life," said Woosnam, a former Masters champion and once No. 1 in the world. 
The celebration was well under way when Clarke won his match against Zach Johnson, and soon the tears flowed as Clarke cried on the shoul­der of caddie Billy Foster. 
Axley wins first PGA Tour title at Texas Open 
SAN ANTONIO -Tennessee left­bander Eric Axley won the Texas Open for his first PGA Tour title Sunday, closing with a l-over 71 for a three-stroke victory. 
The 32-year-old Axley had a stretch of 53 consecutive holes with­out a bogey or worse on the par-70 Resort Course at LaCantera Golf Club. The string ended with a double bogey on the 14th and he went on to finish at 15-under 265. 
Three players finished at 12 under, including 21-year-old Anthony Kim. Playing in his first PGA Tour event with a sponsor's exemption, Kim shot a 65 to tie for second with Dean Wilson (69) and first-round leader Justin Rose (68). 
From La Quinta, Calif., Kim skipped his senior year at Oklahoma and played in two events on the Nationwide Tour with a best finish of 57th. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2006 
MLB 

Tigers clinch first postseason slot since 1987 
Konerko drives in two homers for a White Sox victory 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Detroit Tigers had a 220-bottle champagne celebration Sunday and they hope to have even a big­ger one later this week. 
The Tigers fought off their late­season slump and clinched their first playoff berth since 1987, scor­ing nine runs in the second inning Sunday and coasting to an 11-4 win over the Kansas City Royals. 
''I've been waiting for this," said Brandon Inge, who was given a champagne shampoo by team­mates. "You don't think about this in spring training, and then some­thing like this happens." 
Enjoying a turnaround season under new manager Jim Leyland, Detroit assured itself of no-worse than the AL wild-card berth and headed into the final week of the season with a 1 1/2-game lead in the AL Central. The Tigers, who regained the best record in the major leagues at 94-62, went ahead early for the second straight day, following up on Saturday's 10-run first. 
"We want to send a message that we're not happy just going to the playoffs," Tigers closer Todd Jones said. "We are trying to win our division." 
Craig Monroe hit a three-run homer that gave Justin Verlander (17 -9) an 8-0 lead and chased starter Runelvys Hernandez (6­10). Inge then homered on Todd Wellemeyer's first pitch. 
Detroit's last trip to the postsea­son was 19 years ago, when the Tigers won the AL East and lost to Minnesota 4-1 in the AL champi­onship series. 
"It is really overwhelming," said Tigers owner Michael Ilitch, who bought the team in 1992. "It is probably one of the highlights of my life. In the final outs, we were all holding our breath. After the final out, I did a lot of hugging. We had a bump in the road in late August, but that can be expected over a 162-game season. I never felt like it is not going to happen, but was concerned." 
The Tigers set an American League record for losses in 2003, going 43-119, then improved to 72-90 in 2004. But Detroit went 71-91 last season, losing 29 of its last 39 games en route to its 12th straight sub-.500 fmish. General manager Dave Dombrowski replaced manager Alan Trammell with Leyland, who teamed with him to lead the 1997 Florida Marlins to a World Series title. 
"Those guys out there in the clubhouse made me pretty smart," Leyland said. "I don't take the credit. I think I've been a benefici­ary of catching them at the right time. They've done it. They are good players. A lot of guys could have managed this team. I'm so happy for these guys. They are winners now, and forever will be winners. 
Dombrowski gave a great deal of the credit to Leyland. 
"He steered the ship," Dombrowski said. "He's just a great manager. He's just what we needed." 
Leyland had not managed since 1999 with the Colorado Rockies. In addition during the offseason, the Tigers added free-agent pitch­er Kenny Rogers, who anchored a staff that included rookies Verlander, Joel Zumaya and Zach Miner. Detroit's offense already had been rebuilt somewhat with the signing of catcher Ivan Rodriguez after the 2003 season and Magglio Ordonez after the 2004 season. The Tigers also acquired shortstop Carlos Guillen from Seattle in January 2004. 
White Sox 12, Mariners 7 
The Chicago White Sox realize their postseason hopes are just about gone. All they can do now is hope and keep swinging the way they did on Sunday. 
Paul Konerko hit two home runs and the White Sox tied a season high with fivp, total on their way to a victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
"We're just trying to win our games here, maybe force some­thing crazy," Konerko said. 
With their playoff hopes flicker­ing, the deft1nding World Series champions won lor the third time in 10 games. 
Detroit beat Kansas City 11-4 Sunday to clinch a playoff spot and eliminate the White Sox from the AL Central race. Chicago remained 5 1/2 games behind Minnesota, a 6-3 winner over Baltimore, in the wild-card race. 
Chicago finishes with three games at Cleveland followed by three at Minnesota. Any combina­tion of Twins victories and White Sox losses totaling two will send Minnesota to the postseason. 
"Hopefully, when we get there, we still have a chance," manager Ozzie Guillen said. 
Brian Anderson homered lead­ing off the third for the game's first run. Konerko hit a two-run homer with two out in the fifth to make it 4-1, and the next batter, Joe Crede, went deep off Seattle starter Ryan Feierabend (0-1). 
With a run in and one out in the seventh, Juan Uribe connected off Joel Pineiro for his second career grand slam to make it 10-4. 
Konerko's two-run shot off Francisco Cruceta in the eighth, his 35th homer ofthe season, gave Chicago a 12-6 lead. Chicago hit five at Seattle on April25. 
"It's been a long road trip at the end of a grueling season," said Seattle manager Mike Hargrove, whose team went 6-5 on the trip. 
The White Sox were 57-31 at the All-Star break but are on the brink of elimination because they have not been able to sustain any momentum the last 2 1/2 months. They won five straight in mid­August, sweeping Detroit in the process, but have done little other­wise. 


"We have to win the rest of our games," said Crede, who hit his 30th homer. "We know it's possi­ble." 
Angels 7, Athletics 1 
Milton Bradley thinks all the talk about clinching might have affect­ed the Oakland Athletics, who missed their final chance to wrap up the AL West at home. 
Ervin Santana pitched eight strong innings, Vladimir Guerrero hit a two-run homer and the Los Angeles Angels kept Oakland from winning the division for the sec­ond straight day with a victory Sunday. 
"I think a lot of the questions being asked about where do you want to clinch and the celebration is getting in some people's heads," Bradley said. "Guys take it for granted we're just going to get it done." 
Maicer lzturis hit a two-run triple, Adam Kennedy added a sacrifice fly and Orlando Cabrera and Howie Kendrick also drove in runs as the ft:s saw their lead in the AL West trimmed to six games. 
"We still have it right in front of us," ft:s manager Ken Macha said. 
Oakland's magic number remained at two to wrap up the club's first division title since 2003. The ft:s watched the Angels clinch the division on their home field the past two seasons. 
Now, Oakland will try to win it against the Mariners starting Monday at Safeco Field. The ft:s have won 15 straight against Seattle. 
"That makes it tougher," said Frank Thomas, who is 0-for-16 over his last four games and was hitless in 13 at-bats this series. "We've got a whole week to win a couple of ballgames. I like our chances." 
Most of the ft:s wanted to clinch at home, though third baseman Eric Chavez joked that it would be fitting to do it on the Angels' home field in the final days _ not that he truly wants it to be that close at the end. 
And to think the ft:s were going to lift the clubhouse alcohol ban for a day to celebrate with cham­pagne. The club has had a dry clubhouse for about three months since starting pitcher Esteban Loaiza's arrest on suspicion of drunk driving in June. 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 
Spanish and Portuguese Language u roa r rams 

Brazil Mexico Chile Spain 

Tuesday,Sept.26,2oo6 
spm 
101 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
Monday, September 25, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC GoLF 
Golfers swing into fourth place at Olivet Jamboree 
Sophomore duo helps  with its play in the first three tournaments, a word the Belles  only 10 strokes behind Olivet on day two, tallying a final score of  Freshman Kate Doornbos fired a 173 (29-over par) to fin­ Fantom (191) and Joanna Dick (198).  
Belles in fourth-place MIAA tourney finish  have been using frequently to describe their season this year. But Sei hopes  726 (150-over par). "Even though we didn't shoot as well as we  ish 10th out of a field of 65. Despite illness, squad captain Katie O'Brien also finished  Sophomore Perri Hamma and freshman Theresa Tonyan entered the tournament as indi­ 
those  days  are  wanted, we all set  strong, improving her day one  viduals, but did not contribute  
By BECKY SLINGER Sports Writer  behind the Belles. "We really wanted to play to  "We really wanted to play to the best  personal goals to lower our scores from the first day  95 to an 87 on day two for a total score of 182-placing her 19th.  to the Belles' team total. This weekend marked Tonyan's first collegiate tournament.  
During a  rainy and windy  the  best of  our  ofour abilities. "  which translated  "Katie was extremely ill dur­ The Jamboree's individual  
two-day tournament this week­ abilities,"  Sei  into the team post­ ing the tournament but she  medalist was Lindsay Pipkin  
end, the Belles were able to find their momentum on Saturday to finish in fourth  said, "and this weekend we defi­nitely got closer  Alex Sei Belles captain  ing a much lower score," Sei said. Tournament  stayed dedicated to the team and played through it," sopho­more Katie Mcinerny said. "She  from Olivet who shot a 78 and 84 for a total score of 162 (18­over par).  
place in their first conference  to that goal. We  winner and host  even lowered her score the sec­ The Belles look to continue  
tournament of the season.  were happy that  Olivet  shot  an  ond day.  She really set the  their improvement for their  
The  MlAA  Jamboree  in  our  improvement is finally  overall 96-over par to post a  standard for the team."  next conference tournament, at  
Marshall, Mich. was the test the  starting to show."  score of 672. Albion earned  Also  contributing  to  the  home Sept. 30.  
Belles were looking to over­ Trailing 44 strokes behind  second place with a  691 and  strong finish for the Belles were  
come.  Co-captain Alex Sei said  first-place Olivet on day one,  Tri-State shot a  699 to take  sophomores Katie Mcinerney  Contact Becky Slinger at  
the team was "disappointed"  the Belles rallied to post a score  third.  (184),  Sei  (187).  Meredith  rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu  

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners take fifth on the road 
Team falls eighteen points short of third 
By BECKI DORNER 
Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's turned in a fifth-place performance Saturday at the MIAA Jamboree in Holland, Mich., hosted by Hope College. Though the Belles beat three of the eight teams, they were only 18 points short of third place -promising news to coach Jackie Bauters. 
"[It is] a good place for us to be at this point of the sea­son, looking forward to where we could be at [the conference championships] in just over a month." 
Powerhouse Calvin took first, placing its top five run­ners in the first six spots. The Knights were led by Camille Medema, who ran a 
19:15 on the 5K course. Following Calvin were Hope, Albion and Kalamazoo. 
Leading the pack for the 
Belles was Megan Gray with meet the Belles also focused a time of 20:14. Other top on mental toughness. and finishers were Sara Otto Bauters saw a marked differ­(20:45), Megan McClowry ence in her runners. (21 :43), Kelly Biedron (21 :53) "Mentally they were much and rounding out the top five more prepared, and hopeful­was Katie White (22:04). ly that will progress through 
The Belles had to fend with the duration of the season," a fairly muddy course, she said. although the wind and rain The next contest for the were not large Belles is the factors com-Sean Earl pared to last Lakefront
"We were passing
weekend's con­Invitational at
people, not being
tests. Saturday's Loyola course posed passed on the hills. " University on another chal­Saturday, lenge -hills. which will
Jackie Bauters 
Bauters said that again present
Belles coach 
the last week of new chal­hill-specific lenges for the training really Belles. helped prepare for a course "Practices this week will that includes a long gradual change focus a little and hill that the runners had to hopefully help the team with mount twice during the race. the last half mile of the race. 
"We were passing people, which seemed to be the most not being passed on the hills difficult part of the race for and it was great to see that the team this week," Bauters confidence from the girls said. during the race," Bauters said. Contact Becki Dorner at 
In preparing for Saturday's rdorner1@nd.edu 
Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the 
TENNIS 
Roddick fails to help 
U.S. in Russian Inatch 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -After nearly five hours of punishing, draining tennis, the United States was left with an unmistakable fact: It is out of the Davis Cup again, and the days of relying on Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi are long gone. 
The latest loss came in the semifinals Sunday when Andy Roddick lost 17-15 to Russia's Dmitry Tursunov in a fifth-set marathon. 
"You feel like you let your teammates down and your country down," Roddick said. "It's not an easy thing, especial­ly to fight back all that way and to lose. It's tough." 
The Americans trailed 2-1 entering the last day of the best-of-five competition and needed singles victories from Roddick and James Blake on the clay court at Olympic Stadium to advance. 
But Tursunov put Russia into the title match against 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTR.E DAME 
'VI' A '·· H''IN~ T "N'' 'R' -· .
' GRAM"..
w A. ' ,,", N ' i ,, ; . .: > » " ' '"' ' m-. / ~ . :' />~ ' • ~ . 


INFORMATION SESSION 
Wednesday, September 27, 2006 215 Hayes-Healy 6:00p.m. 
Deadline to apply for Fa112007 or Spring 2008 is November 15,2006. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. www.nd.edu/-·wp Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu 163 Hurley, 631-7251 
Argentina by winning 6-3, 6-4, 5-7, 3-6, 17-15 in the clincher. Blake defeated Marat Safin 7-5, 7-6 ( 4) in an inconsequential finale, leaving Russia with a 3-2 victory. 
The Russians will host Argentina in December in their first Davis Cup final since they beat France in 2002 for their only title. Argentina ousted Australia in the other semifinal, completing a 5-0 rout in which Sunday's last match was declared a walkover. Russia coach Shamil Tarpishchev said he would not play on clay against Argentina. 
The 72 games by Roddick and · Tursunov tied a record for the most in a World Group match since the tiebreaker was intro­duced in 1989 -France's Arnaud Clement defeated Switzerland's Marc Rosset in the 2001 quarterfinals in 72 games. Sunday's match lasted 4 hours, 48 minutes. 
"When you're coming up on the five-hour mark, I promise you, neither one of us is feeling fresh. Especially when you add in the tension and nervousness of the Davis Cup," Roddick said. "I think I could just as easily have won as lost." 
U.S. captain Patrick McEnroe praised Roddick's effort, but acknowledged the Americans were a deeper team in the days of Sampras and Agassi. 
"Clearly we don't have that kind of group," he said. 
Roddick, who also lost his opening match to Safin, had been hoping to rally the U.S. from a 2-0 deficit for the first time since 1934. But the U.S. Open finalist lost his first serv­ice game and then the first two sets before hitting his stride late in the third -after winning only three points in Tursunov's first five service games in the set. 
"It never appeared that (Roddick) was ready to give up," Tursunov said. "He fought to the finish." 
In the 32-game final set, both players survived scares and held serve until Tursunov net­ted an easy forehand to go down 30-40 in the 11th game. He saved one break point, but then hit two shots wide to lose the game. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Irish can't protect blue 
Calvin sweeps by Belles 
grass turf, finish second 
Undefeated Knights 

Maunu shoots three­over 75 to lead ND 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Notre Dame failed to defend its title this weekend, squan­dering a 36-hole lead to finish second to Cincinnati in the Notre Dame Invitational at Warren Golf Course. 
The Irish led by one stroke over Illinois State after two rounds of play 
Calvin's fast start to MIM play,
"We did not

on Saturday -who tied for 38th, 
lifting the team's c·tmference
shooting consec­deserve to win. We competed in their 
record to 6-0, 13-1 overall.
utive rounds of need to make final tournament at 
The Knight's streak has pro­
306 at the par-the Warren Golf 
pelled them into the No. 24
72 course -but stronger finishes." Course. 
spot in the Division Ill rank­
the team fal­"I had a great 
ings. Saint Mary's, meanwhile,
tered on Sunday, experience here.
Lisa Maunu 

fell to 10-3 and :~-2 in MIAA
firing a 313 to The golf course
Irish golfer 
play.

end with a looks different each
up 925 (+61) for the tournament. Cincinnati (310­306-303, +56) steadily improved over the three rounds of play, besting the Irish and the other 12 teams on the course. 
"We did not deserve to win," sophomore Lisa Maunu said. "We need to make stronger finishes. A couple of us were playing well into the last five holes but did not finish strong. We need. to hit more greens in regulation as well." 
Maunu had the low round for the Irish Sunday with a three-over 75 and finished tied for 11th in the tourna­ment. 
This weekend also marked the debut of new head coach Susan Holt, who joined the Irish this week after leaving South Florida. 
"I was disappointed. We should have played a lot bet­ter," she said. "It's tough when you don't play well and you know you can do better. We need a lot of work inside of 100 yards. It is the fastest way to get our scores down." 
The teams were able to get all 54 holes completed despite inelement weather. 
"You try not to let the weather affect you, but deep down inside it gets to you. It's more annoying than any­thing," Maunu said. 
Holt agreed, though she added that every team had to overcome the same challenge with the weather. 
Leading the way for the Irish was senior Noriko Nakazaki, who finished tied for eighth overall (7 4-76-80, +14). -She and fellow senior Stacy Brown (79-79-85, +27), 

streak into rankings 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's has grown accustomed to handling the broom -sweeping six of its past seven matches in straight sets. But Sunday it found itself on the underside of the stick, 
falling  3-0  to  undefeated  
Calvin.  
The  Belles  were  over­ 

whelmed by a powerful and deep Knights team (30-21, 30­23, 30-20). The win extended 
KRISTY KING/The Observer Belles middle blocker Kaela Hellmann spikes the ball in Saint Mary's 3-0 win over Kalamazoo Sept. 20 at Angela Athletic Complex. 
time I play it," Nakazaki said. "I was sad I could not fin{sh stronger, but I learned a lot about my game and my weaknesses from this course." 
Freshman Kristin, Wetzel tied Maunu's score and fin­ished in a tie for 11th. Iler second round score of even par 72 was the low round for Notre Dame. 
"She's a solid player," Holt said. "She didn't have that great of a first round. She triple bogeyed her last hole that round and then had to come out again in round two and play that as her first hole. She made a great recovery." 
Freshman Annie Brophy (77 -79-79) tied for 19th. Hillery Wilson of Cincinnati 

Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Sick was not disheartened by the results. 
"We played a very good team and our players responded well to the competition," Schroeder-Biek said. "The team learns from these match­es and approaches the next competition with an even stronger will to win." 
The Knights received a huge contribution from their sen­iors, with outstanding perform­ances from Katy Luimes, Kristen Kalb, and Lorilyn Vogel. The three combined for 38 kills, and setter Katie Zondervan contributed a match-high 44 assists. 
The Belles' offensive effort was led by freshman Lorna Slupezysnki who recorded 9 kills to go along with 10 digs. Seniors Anne Cusack and Kristen Playko led the way defensively with 19 and 13 digs respectively. 
Saint Mary's will have to rebound quickly, as the Belles have four matches this week beginning with Tri-State on Tuesday. Sehroeder-Biek emphasized the importance of this week to the team. 
"With three conference matches this week, it will real­ly set the tone for how our sea­son will play out," she said. "We really will need to prepare and tighten up our own game if we want to accomplish the high goals we have set for our­selves this season." 
After the match with Tri­State the Belles will once again hit the road with three away matches. The Belles travel to Bethel Thursday and will eon­elude the busy week with a doubleheader against Albion and Adrian on Sunday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
took the individual title with a 

two-over 218, including a sec­
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business ond round 69, the low round 
and
of the tournament. Up next on the starter's 

The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
sheet for Notre Dame is the Marilynn Smith Sunflower Invitational October 2-3 in Lawrence, Kan. 
Contact Chris Hine at 
Proudly Present 
chine@nd.edu 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"No Smoke, No Mirrors. Straight Down the Middle" 
Robert Lane Chairman and CEO John Deere 
Wednesday, September 27,2006 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College ofBusiness 
_ . . . _ _ Sponso~ b~J' Campus MtnJStr:Y, FOG Graduate Re.,.idence_,., Graduate Student Union, lntemational Student Service.s & Activitiet~, Univen<i~<J Villa,ge, and NP Muslim Student ,Association 
CM 
J 

Monday, September 25, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

September 28 
You Don't Really Have to be-a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study 
Introduction of the Fellowship Office 
119 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
' 

some of the goals for Wednesday [against Marquette]," he said. "I hope that was the idea." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
the second game in dominant fashion with a service ace.
Vball 
continued from page 20 
well for the weekend -our offense was much, much, much improved." 
Junior captain Adriann a Stasiuk had 26 kills and 25 digs in the two matches, including a match-high 14 kills against Rutgers. Stasiuk recorded a double-double (kills and digs) in each match. 
"[Stasiuk] had a very good weekend -she was really effective offensively," Brown said. "She hit a lot of different shots and played good defen­sively as well. She had a good solid, all-around performance for us. She was a vocal leader this weekend." 
Notre Dame 3, Rutgers 0 
Stasiuk recorded a .733 kill percentage in Notre Dame's 30-23, 30-13, 30-16 sweep of the Scarlet Knights. 
The Irish opened up a 16-7 lead in the third game and never let Rutgers cut the score closer than nine points to take the game and match. 
Freshman Megan Fesl and sophomore Mallorie Croals contributed kills in the third game, before Stasiuk ended it with a kill. 
"We started very aggressive­ly," Brown said. "They had trouble running their offense because we put a lot of pres­sure on them with our serve. We received their serve very well." 
The first game began with a dominant Irish performance as well, as Notre Dame went on a 9-1 run to start. Rutgers, however, cut the lead to 22-21 after an 11-2 streak. 
The Irish answered with an 8-2 run to cut off any chance of a Scarlet Knight comeback and Notre Dame took the 1-0 lead on back-to-hack Stasiuk kills. 
Junior Ashley Tarutis won The Irish led 15-6 halfway through and never looked back. 
Freshman Jamel Nicholas led both teams in assists with 21 and blasted four service aces. 
Notre Dame 3, Villanova 1 
Croall and freshman Christina Kaelin propelled the Irish 35-37, 30-24, 33-31, 30­18 with 15 kills apiece against the Wildcats. 
Croall recorded 14 digs and had a .462 kill percentage in the four-game match. Freshman Serinity Phillips had a strong day on the attack, putting 13 kills past the Villanova defense. This was a career-high for the out­side hitter. 
"Croall didn't start in Hither match. she played the third game against Rutgers and the last three against Villanova and was a very steady and a very smart player," Brown said. "The lift that she gave us off the bench was tremen­dous." 
Notre Dame dropped a marathon first game, before rallying for three straight to take the match. In the first game, the Irish and Wildcats tied the Notre Dame single game record for total points scored -matching the 72 recorded in a 37-35 win over Eastern Washington Aug. 30, 2003. 
"It was a hard fought match," Brown said. "They played us very tough, but the main thing was we maintained composure. And we had a really good attitude about what was going on in the court even though we weren't executing perfectly." 
The Irish take on Seton Hall in Big East play Saturday afternoon in New Jersey. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
happen, especially in a very wet windy night [as was the case Saturday!. It seemed very cruel fate after having dominated the game to the extent we did, to lose a goal [like I nothing. It was tough, and obviously it gave them a life line and made it quite exciting for a little while." 
Irish forward Joseph Lapira soon quieted the possibility of any Panther momentum, redi­recting a Nate Norman cross into the back of the net in the 56th minute to put the Irish back on top for good. 
"It wasn't like we needed to respond," Clark said. "We were always very much in control of the game, but you never know, they might just sneak another goal, so we were very happy with Joe [Lapira's goal]." 
Fifteen minutes later, Lapira put the game out of reach, send­ing a bullet from the top of the box past Pittsburgh goalkeeper Andy Jorgensen. The goal marked Lapira's ninth of the season -a team high -and his third multiscore game of the year. 
"It's been very solid, solid play out of him," Clark said. 
Other than Young's goal early in the second period, Cahill was largely untroubled in the net. 
"In all honesty Chris [Cahill] was a spectator for most of the game tonight," Clark said. "He had one very good save right after the goal which was key ... he wasn't overworked this evening." 
Immediately after the game, Clark was already looking ahead to Notre Dame's next matchup. 
"Hopefully we were saving 

Students 
FIVCheauer 
Sample fares From South Bend to:  Sample fares From Chicago to:  
Minneapolis  $151  Frankfurt  $350  
Boston  $202  Paris  $432  
San Francisco  $272  Sao Paolo  $597  


Want to write Sports? Call Ken at 631~4543. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 25, 2006 
Cards 
continued from page 20 
took advantage of the loose ball and open space to drill a low shot by Haig. 
Two days after Friday's 1-0 second half lead at Cincinnati got washed out by game-end­ing storms, Irish first half scoring chances couldn't pre­cipitate goals. 
Haig made several challeng­ing saves withiD a few minutes of each other to preserve a 0-0 tie at halftime despite a seven to three shot advantage for the Irish. The onslaught continued in the second half, though many of Notre Dame's 16 shots -compared to four from Louisville -came out­side of the 18, thanks to the packed in Louisville defense that brought all 11 of its defenders in the box on corner kicks and short throw ins. 
Though only two balls found the net, Waldrum was encour­aged by the opportunities the Irish created in both halves. Similarly, he was not discour­aged by the late starts the Irish have gotten off to, own­ing the second half 22-0 in nine games so far. 
"I would love to jump on them and get games finish early," Waldrum said. ''I'm not so worried about it that it's going catch up with us because I think we're still con­tinuing to create great oppor­tunities in the first half. I think the thing I'm more concerned with is I would like to score earlier on a more regular basis just, if nothing else, to be able to rotate our players more." 
Waldrum was forced to make a move with his second­half defense after captain cen­terback Kim Lorenzen hit legs hard with a Cardinal attacker, causing bad bruises and a noticeable cut to her chin. Senior defender Christia Shaner moved inside, where she has seen time this year, and freshman Haley Ford took Shaner's spot on the outside. The defense did not skip a beat, limiting the Cardinals to one second half shot as junior keeper Lauren Karas did not have to make a save the entire game. 
"We all like [Lorenzen] back there but we have plenty of 
Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• 
Close to campus 

• 
Student neighborhoods 

• 
Security systems 

• 
24-hour maintenance staff 




other defenders that can step right in," said senior midfield­er Jen Buczkowski of a defense that has pitched shutouts in seven of its nine games and compiled a 528 minute scoreless streak that dates back to a 3-1 win over Santa Clara Sept. 3. 
Following a 2-0" win at Michigan last Sunday that Waldrum described as "lethar­gic," the coach was encour­aged by his team's effort this weekend. 
"To come in today and play a good team like we did," he said, "and have the confidence and ability to play like we did, I was pretty pleased with the weekend in general." 
Friday's 1-0 lead against Cincinnati was nullified after long thunderstorms caused the game to be cancelled. Though freshman forward Michele Weisenhofer scored midway through the first half, the game was called after 50 minutes of play -20 short of the 70 required for a full game. The Irish will not reschedule the game -which would be restarted in its entirety -unless it affects the top five standings of the Big East tournament at the end of the regular season. 
The Irish outshot the Bearcats 11-2 Friday, but Waldrum was more impressed 
• 
Washers & dryers 

• 
Dishwashers 

• 
Internet ready 

• 
Lawn service 



Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032tcellj (574) 234-2436tofficeJ 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

with his team's attitude during the several hours they were waiting for the storm to blow over. 
"It was so interesting because our kids were just like 'Let's go play,' he said. '"It doesn't matter whether its one o'clock. Doesn't matter if its in the parking lot. Let's play.' 
"I was really proud of the mindset because that's what you want out a team that you think can be a championship team." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
through with her fourth goal of the season when she won a ball from 10 yards out and placed it in the top corner. 
The flurry came to a close in the 29th minute when a Titan shot ricocheted off the post and sophomore Carly Calkins beat Belles goalkeep­
er Laura Heline, who was still recovering from the previous shot. 
"!Sunday was] the first time we used a new offen­sive formation," senior forward Colleen Courtney said. "I think we had a breakdown in comm unica­tion on who was marking who." 
Heline (11 

saves) and the defense were able to keep the Titan offense at bay for the remainder of the game but the tear was all Illinois Wesleyan needed. 
The young Saint Mary's defense continued to feel the pressure throughout the game as it was dominated in the box score. 
The team was out shot 26-3 and Illinois Wesleyan won 11 corner kicks to the Belles' two. 
Senior goalie and team cap­tain Emily Castner only had to make two saves in the game to earn her fourth shutout in eight games for the Titans. Castner has allowed six goals this season for a .750 goals against aver­age. 
Castner was aided by a struggling Saint Mary's offense. The Belles have been held to two goals in their last three games. They had a tough time finding an offen­sive flow Sunday -unable to get past the stingy Titan defense. Senior Ashley Hinton and fresh­man Katie Wehrli were the only
"With so many freshmen on the field we still need some time to know how each ofus plays." 
Lauren Hinton Belles forward 

players to put shots on net for the Belles. 
"We need to move the ball around a little better and get it up to our for­wards so they can get off more shots,'' Courtney 
said. 
Sophomore 

Lauren Hinton talked earlier last week about a team still trying to form its chemistry. After Sunday's loss, those issues appear as urgent as ever. 
"With so many freshmen on the field we still need some time to know how each of us plays," she said. "I feel the second half of the season you will see a much more improved team." 
Saint Mary's begins confer­ence play at home against Alma Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
T/je

Princeton Revievv 
Better Scores. Better Schools. 
invites you to a: 
Free MCATCBT ln"fo Session & Mock Class 
Find out more about prepping "for 
the nevv computer-based "test 
September 27 at 6:30pm
-

• '102 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Reserve your seat today! vvvvvv.princetonrevievv.com 800/2-REVIEVV 

,--------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Monday, September 25, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

ti-\IN'f(..\N~ 
MO'-.E. A\..ONu -rl-\f. I..INt:..O:, Of' uOINI..r '&oW'-INL"r 0'-. 
SoM£.1\-\ !Nu-;­
WILLSHORTZ 

37 Opera solo  49 Declare  59 Wool coat  
39 Fats Waller's  51 On the beach  wearers  
Misbehavin"'  52 Tear open, as  60 Call's partner  
40 Pepsi, e.g. 41 Summer woe  seams 53 Loop with a  61 Word with liberal or martial  
42 Evaluated  slipknot  63 Call between  
47 Give up  54 Hero types  ready and go  
48 Have  of a  55 Like most  64 Six-pointers, for  
time  bathroom floors  short  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROISSANTWORLD 
WE CAN E<£c.A't 
FfU>M. CAMPI..lS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Dog in "The High-1.0. group Thin Man" 6 Pennsylvania 38 Declaration of university, for 
August 14, short 
1941, regarding peace aims after 10 Change, as the 

W.W.II

decor 43 Island east of
14 Island with a Java
reef 44 "Little piggies"
15 Sound in a cave 45 "Exodus" hero 
16 Allege 46 Scholastic17 Got fit, with "up" sports grp. 
18 23-Across's 50 Common entreerepresentative at a potluckin the 38-Across dinner 
!0 Battery terminal 52 One of two 
!1 The New World: parties to Abbr. 
38-Across !2 Howe'er 
56 Silent assent !3 One of two 
57 Arnaz of 1950's 

parties to TV 
38-Across 
58 Biblical land !7 He can go to 
with a queenblazes 

62 52-Across's 10 Cries 
representativeconvulsively in the 38-Across 11 W.C. in London 65 Spreader of 12 "Como ?" seeds 
!\NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
66 _of Wight 67 Plenty mad 68 Build 69 Mole, to a 
gardener 70 Bygone Fords 71 Library stations 
DOWN 1 _ Hari (W.W. I spy) 2 School for 
Prince William 3 Taboo 4 Heavy hitter 5 Municipal 
lawmakers 6 Chest muscle, for short 7 Popular Apple communication software 8 Hitchhikers' digits 
9 Caped fighter 10 Word of cheer 11 The second 
Mrs. Peron 12 Indian city of 
12+ million 13 Acrylic fiber 19 Place for a 
mobile 24 goo from north 25 One who hasn't 
turned pro? 26 Old Russian monarch 
27 Spare tire 28 Not one 


33 Do something 35 Antlered animal 36 Seabird with a 
forked tail 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BITUC 
I I I (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SBAAH 
luI I I 
www.jumble.com 

LARPIL 
I I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHY THE: SPIE:S WE:NT TO THE UNIYE:RSITY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
I'm studying
subversive 

Print~ here: "(I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  UNCLE OFTEN GOITER Why the spies went to the university ­ LICHEN  
FOR "INTELLIGENCE"  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kyle Sullivan, 18; Spencer Treat Clark, 19; Erin Chambers, 27; Nia Vardalos, 44 
Happy Birthday: This is your year to flourish. Make some of the changes or adjustments that will lead to a better home life. Consider renovations, moves, services or products thai will add to your comfort. Your numbers are 12, 22, 24, 37, 38,40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't let talks turn into an argument. A serious matter concerning younger or older family members will have to be dealt with swiftly. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Pay close attention to minor health issues. You may have to deal with a matter that pertains to a family pet. Plan to do something with someone whose talent you respect and admire. Don't give in to peer pressure. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make plans to take part in activities or parties. Don't slight someone you are close to by flirting with someone else. Travel or getting involved in a unique cultural experience will change your attitude. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trouble at home will probably drive you out of the house where you can find some peace of mind. Get involved in something that looks like fun or that will help relax you. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Talk about your concerns, desires and intentions and you'll be surprised how many people support you. Travel, communication and talking about partnership deals and contracts will he to your advantage. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have lots of ideas about getting involved in your own business or changing your professional direction. Let your creative side have the freedom to venture into unfamiliar territory. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't abuse your ability to manipulate. Instead, make decisions that will benefit everyone involved. You will be able to turn a friendship into some sort of partnership. Take a closer look at an old creative idea. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be careful of someone who is being overly nice. Someone is keeping a secret and you have to find out what's going on before you can move forward. Taking on too much will lead to greater uncertainty. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Everything will appear to be going along easily but don't be fooled into thinking that everyone is on your side. Be cautious with whom you share your thoughts. Helping others will bring you the highest returns. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not everyone will tell you the truth. Instead they may say whal they think you want to hear, giving you a false impression of what's actually doable. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can make things happen if you put in a little effort. Clear up financial matters. Offer your services and you will get paid in return. Love is looking positive, so put time aside for romance. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be surprised by the reaction you receive from others today. Show your enthusiasm and you will make some new contacts. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are well-liked, have a unique charm and bring joy to others. You are giving, caring and interested in helping others. You are a freethinker and a solutions person. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ -, 
..----­

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 25, 2006 ,· 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Defensive dandies 
Dew, Jones give ND scoring lift in victory
.... 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Assistant Sports Editor 
No. 1 Notre Dame handed Louisville its first loss of the year 2-0 Sunday thanks to help from a pair of unexpected scor­
....... 
ers. 
In the 74th minute, sopho­more defender Carrie Dew received a cross 15 yards from the goal and sent a rocket past U-20 Team USA teammate and sophomore Cardinal goalkeep­er Joanna Haig for her first goal of the year to break a scoreless tie. 
Minutes later, junior defender Ashley Jones seized a rare opportunity to record her first score of the season that iced the victory over previously unbeaten Louisville (6-1-1, 1-1 Big East). Sophomore midfield­er Jill Krivacek was taken down just inside the 18-yard box, and as Louisville defend­ers anticipated a whistle, Jones 
see CARDS/page 18 page 20 


SMC SOCCER 
Belles fall after four­goal flurry 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Four quick goals were more than enough offense for Illinois Wesleyan to take down Saint Mary's Sunday. The Belles -who have now lost three straight -were shut out in the 4-0 beating, their second home game this season. 
Illinois Wesleyan buried all four of its goals within a 10­minute span of the first half. Elizabeth Sinclair found Eileen Ouska with a crisp pass to start the scoring at the 20-minute mark and the pair quickly followed with another goal three minutes later. Sunday marked Ouska's second two-goal per­formance of the year. The first came in a 5-0 rout of Lake Forest Sept. 13. 
Less than two minutes later senior Lyndsay O'Brien came 
see BELLES/page 18 

MEN's SoccER 
Besler ends scoreless 
streak, sparks victory 
Sophomore nets first collegiate goal in win 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Sophomore defender Matt Besler picked a great time to score the first goal of his college career. 
Besler's 21st minute chip-shot gave No. 21 Notre Dame (5-32, 3­2-0 Big East) an early lead Saturday, breaking a 218-minute scoreless stretch over the tnam's previous two games. It also helped the Irish break their two­game winless streak with a 3-1 vietory over Pittsburgh. 
Irish coach Bobby Clark was pleased with his sophomore's efforts. 
"It's not very often you see a central defender work up into the attack like that," Clark. "It was an excellent goal." 
Besler's goal would prove to be Notre Dame's only score of the first half, despite 11 shots on goal. Senior midfielder Ian Etherington twice sent crosses into the box that were headed just wide of the goal. For the game, the Irish outshot the Panthers 24-9. 
"We should have scored a lot more goals, to be quite honest," Clark said. "The first 50 minutes, the team played superbly well ... we should have been three goals up at that point. We created enough chances to be three goals up [but! we kind of squandered them, though we did get the one goal." 
In the 48th minute, Pittsburgh forward Keeyan Young scored the equalizer in a very unortho­dox turn of events. Irish goal­keeper Chris Cahill appeared to have gathered a loose ball. but when the wet ball squirted out of his hands, Young won a footrace to it and put it in from 14 yards out. 
Clark was not too critical of his team in describing the play. "It was comical, the goal we gave up," he said. "These things 
see SOCCER/page 17 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Brown closes in on No. 500 
Irish begin Big East with pair ofvictories 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Notre Dame advanced two wins eloser to its 11th Big East regular soason title with a pair of confer­ence season-opening victo­ries this weekend -leav­ing Irish coach Debbi(~ Brown onn win shy of a major milestone. 
The Irish (8-5. 2-0 Big East) defeated the Scarlet Knights :3-0 Saturday before coming from behind to beat the Wildcats 3-1 Sunday on the road. 
Brown earned her 499th career win over Villanova and will lead her squad Saturday against Seton Hall in search of No. 500. 
"It was pretty close, pret­ty tough competition," Brown said. "We had a couple very close games overall. We played pretty 
see VBALL/ page 17 


SMC X-COUNTRY The Clat1set1 Watcl1 
~D WOMEN'S GOLF SMC VOllEYBAll SMC GOLF 
I.LI 

Megan Gray leads
Co) Notre Dame senior Calvin 3 Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame recruit Jimmy Clausen completed
Belles to fifth-place to lead Irish to second-Calvin setter Katie Doornbos posts tenth 
z Lisa Maunu shoots +14 Saint Mary's 0 freshman Kate 
finish at MIAA 16-of-26 passes for 227 yards and 2 touchdowns
::5 

Jamboree.
place finish in Notre Zondervan records 44 place individual 
for Oaks Christian in its 59-13 blowout of
= cc Dame Invite. assists to sweep Belles. showing to lead the Belles to fourth overall 
regional No.1 St. Bonaventure Thursday. 
= 
at the MlAA Jamboree. 
Clausen's next game is Thursday at 10 p.m. EDT 
page 15page 16 page 16 page 15 

against Venice on ESPN2. 



