
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 69 THURSDAY, JANUARY 19,2006 
Energy costs rise for off-catnpus residents 
Local students pay more money to warm their homes as national natural gas prices jump 
By KATIE PERRY 
A<Sistant N~ws Editor 
The nationwidn deernasn in natural gas production has rausPd lwnw lu~ating prkns to skyrol'kt~t this winter -a frigid n~ality for off-campus studtmts who arn forcml to dig dnnp into l.lwir poeknt hooks just to knep warm in tlw cold South Bend dimalP. 
ThP Offin• of Hnsidnnce I.il'n and llousing nstimatns morn than SO JWI'CIHlt of Notrn Damn undorgraduattiS livl' on campus, whore heating eosts are fac­tored into room and board eharges. But for tho remaining fifth, paying monthly heating bills has beeonw an unexpected and frustrating struggle. 
Senior Karnn Daniels and her four roommates paid approxi­mately $300 for the heating sys­tmn in l.hnir East Angela Blvd. home last month -nnarly dou­bln tho monthly estimates given to thnm by their landlord last year. 
Daninls said the house has 
see ENERGY/page 6 



ND students aid Katrina clean up 
Eight volunteers took a break from their winter breaks to assist hurricane relief efforts 
"Being from the area, I wanted to do something to help out," Jones said. "I thought it would be great to get Notre Dame students involved and actually seo the stal.~l of the city for tlwm­selves." 
Sophomore Mike McKenna, a friend of Jones and a par­ticipant in the project, explained their group of stu­dents was gathered mainly by word of mouth. 
"Initially, we thought to make it a Zahm llall service projoet," McKenna said. 
In tlw end, word spread and several Notre Dame mon and women from different dorms were involved, McKenna said. 
Those students stayed with Jones and his family while in 
see SERVICE/page 6 By MAUREEN MULLEN 


News Writer 
While many Notre Dame students spnnt the last wnok of winter break enjoying their final days of relaxation before taekling semester number two and January in South Bond, Zahm hall soph­omore Baker Jones, with a group a group of eight other students. traveled to New Orleans and spent Jan. I 0 to 13 helping those affected by llurrieane Katrina. 
Jones, a New Orleans native, organized the servicP. projeet. The trip was made possible with grants from the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry as well as much support from the Notre Dame Alumni Club of New Orleans, he said. 

Campus gyms see new year influx 
Motivated exercisers flock to the Rock, Rolfs at spring semester's outset 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
Nt•wsWrircr 
New Yoar's resolution-mak­NS and thn fitness faithful havo llooded l'.ampus gyms ­including Holt's Sports Hoernation Cnntnr and the Hol'ktHl Memorial Building ­since llwir arrival on eampus. 
"ThP first six to <'ighl wenks or tlw spring snrnnstnr is tlw husinst time of tlw year," said Sally l>nrPngoski. direetor or HPrS•n·vil'ns and fitrwss. 
SophomorP and Holt's rngu­lar Stew Man•ndk said whiln his workout sdwdull~ was not 
see GYM/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDtv to go back on the air 
12-hour broadcasts will include many student programs 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
NewsWrircr 
Studonts who eannot find anything to watdr during tlw days that soparato naeh O.C. episode may discover a new altnrnative starting Jan. 31 on Channel 70 for eabln usPrs. 
Nl>tv, tlw studPnt-run tl'levi­sion nntwork that prnm in rod two ynars ago, will bo bark on the air, and this timP it will have full aeeess to tlw ehannPI and will broadeast 12 hours every day -a vast improve­ment from the single hour it enjoyed in its beginnings. 
Viewers who tuno in fortu­itously are likely to enjoy reJJP­titions of "Tho Mikn Pntorson Show," Notrn Damn's own latn night eomody show. 
llost and FTT student Mikn l'etorson is already an nasily recognizabln eelobrity on thP Saint Mary's eampus, whnrn cablP is inst.allod in ovory rnsi­dnnen hall. 
N IHv HxtH: u tivo I> irne lor Adam Fairholm said lw is eonli­dent that once eablo tnlovision boeonws avai labltl in all 27 Notrn I> am o resid11ncn hails next fall SI111Wster, morn stu­dents will also makn Mikn l'nlnrson and Jon Laltal housn­h old n am ns and ht~ 1:o mP acquainted with tho rost or tlw NDtv linnup. 
Lattal, a juflior, will lwadline 
see NDTV/page 6 

1,300 admitted early display high standards 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
Assistant News Editor 

Fewer than 1,300 high sehool seniors reeeived early aceept­anc~n letters f'rom Notrn Damn this December, sdedod from a highly eompetitive pool of morn than 2,600 applicants -a pool slightly smaller than last year's but just as decoratnd. 
Twenty-two of tho applicants had perl'eet SAT seorns. Each accPpted student, on avt~ragn, was in thn top 3.7 pnrcnnt of his or hnr dass. Their averagn SAT scorn was 1420, and tlwir ACT avnrage was :~2. admission olli­dals said. 
Assistant Provost in 
Admissions Daniel Saraeino said it is morn dil'lkult. to bn accnptnd through early action, and this year the admissions oflict~ was particularly selnl'.tivn. Seven hundred and eighty applicants worn denied and 590 applications were dnl'nrrnd to the rngular admission pool. 
"If thorn was any doubt in my mind, WP dnfnrrf'd tlwm," Saracino said. "We dPf'Prred studPnts who, hast~d on our lwst evaluation. wn felt wn couldn't dnl'.idP right away ... It's not an art. It's not a science. It's making <~ducatnd guessPs." 
Early action is typically usml by rncruitnd athleto,s and stu­
see EARLY/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 19, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 

My fortune telling career 
Working the dish line at South Dining Hall is usually a monoto­nous, airty job. On Wednesday nights, I eat my dinner and then reluctantly make my way to the kitchen, where I suit up in an Kaitlynn Riely 
apron and gloves and take 
Wire Editor
my place to pull plates, bowls or cups from the trays. For two hours, all I usually see is an endless pro­cession of the remains of the din­ing hall's offerings. 
But last night, my fellow dish line workers and I read dozens of for­tunes discarded by those who ate the fortune cookies available at dinner. To pass the time, we start­ed to assign fortunes to ourselves, other dining hall workers, and ­as the fortunes kept coming -any­one else we could think of. 
I think it was sometime after I pulled the 400th cup off a tray that I was inspired .to stop wasting my time on dish line when I could be writing fortunes to be used in cookies at SOI-l. After reading prac­tically every fortune placed in the cookies, I decided that South Dining Hall could do better than the ordinary predictions about future love interests or financial success. 
My fortunes will not be the generic type you can pull out of any cookie in America. Rather, each prediction will be Notre Dame-related. 
Now, instead of just reading The Observer at lunch, students can crack open their fortune cookie and discover that they will get an A on their next paper, or that they will win the lottery for away game tickets. Congratulations to the per­son who discovers that, just this one time, the nice person at the· dining hall exit will let him take not one, but two bananas. It does not matter if the prediction comes true or not; for a brief moment I gave some student aglimmer of hope that luck was on his side. 
But remember, not every fortune can presage good news. Some din­ing hall patrons will read their for­tune and be warned that they will feel the wrath of their rectors or slip on the ice on the way to class. I apologize ahead of time for dis­rupting your plans if you read your fortune and disc,over I have pre­dicted that your fake 10 will not pass muster this weekend. 
On the reverse side of the paper, there will still be numbers. Rather than potential lottery number picks, these will be course regis­tration numbers. When you go to change your schedule around, I predict with almost complete cer­tainty that you will get quite a bewildered reaction when you explain why you suddenly feel the need to add my suggested class. 
Writing fortunes would be my ideal dining hall job, but I have a feeling my fortune reads: "Fortune writing is not in your future. See you next week on the dish line." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In an article in the Jan. 18 edition ofThe Observer, the Notre Dame hockey team's "scour, night" was incorrectly interpreted as a venue for pro scours to observe ralent. Instead, the event was intended for local Boy Scout troops. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION? 


Thien-An Diana Harintho Elias Moo Terrail Tony Schweiss Zach Einterz Nguyen-Vu Lambert 
sophomore freshman junior sophomore junior sophomore 
Morrissey McGlinn Knott Sorin Morrissey Morrissey 
.. 

"Not to "To get a 4.0." "Stop using "/ don't have ""Watch the"To actually 





h lifi ?" procrastinate profanity. " 
ave a z e .... 
as much." 


FRANCESA SETA/The Observer Vurianna Kim, left, Jean Nguyen, middle, and Huyen Nguyen, right, sing karokee at an Asian American Association meeting Wednesday in Coleman-Morse. 
OFFBEAT 

Snake and hamster are best friends 
TOKYO -Goban and Aochan make strange bed­fellows: one's a 3.5-inch dwarf hamster; the other is a four-foot rat snake. Zookeepers at Tokyo's Mutsugoro Okoku zoo pre­sented the hamster ­whose name means "meal" in Japanese -to Aochan as a tasty morsel in October, after the snake refused to eat frozen mice. 
But instead of indulging, Aochan decided to make friends with the furry rodent, according to keeper Kazuya Yamamoto. The pair have shared a cage 
TODAY 
a:: 
since. 

"''ve never seen anything like it. Goban sometimes even climbs onto Aochan to take a nap on his back," Yamamoto said. 
Man arrested for faking death to avoid paying up 
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Police arrested a man accused of faking his death more than 25 years ago to avoid pay­ing child support. 
Johnny Sterling Martin, 58, had a relative call Family Court in 1979 and report that he died during a bar fight in Alabama, authorities said. That call came a few months after he escaped from a work detail while serving a one-year jail term for failing to pay $4,120 in support for two children. 
He was captured Tuesday and jailed, and now owes more than $30,000 in child support and faces an escape charge, authorities said. 
"Johnny Martin is the ulti­mate deadbeat dad, faking his own death to avoid pay­ing money to support his young children who were living in Lexington County," Sheriff James Metts said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
~ 
(.) 


0 

..... HIGH 43 HIGH 46 HIGH 43 HIGH 35 
LOW 25 LOW 39 LOW 40 LOW 33 

one. Colts win the Super Bowl! But... 
" 
IN BRIEF 

The film "The Breakfast Club" will be shown tonight at 11:55 
p.m. as part of the Brew and View ·at Legends. Free breakfast will be served. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival begins Friday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The Festival will feature 12 short mms made as class projects during the past year and will include dark come­dies and documentaries. 
Bill O'Connell's Chicago Skyliners, a swing band, will per­form Friday at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
The Saint Mary's swim team will compete against Kalamazoo College in it<> final home meet of the season Friday at 6:30 p.m. in Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The Saint Mary's first year board is sponsoring Battle of the Bands 2006 Satqrday at 6:30 
p.m. in the Saint Mary's Student Center. The event will feature Notre Dame bands "Somers­aults," "Slap Bracelet Suicide," "Robbie Hazen," "Ryan Connaughton" and "Patrick the Unlikely Genius." Proceeds bene­fit Riley Hospital for Children. 
Tim Reynolds, a collaborator with the Dave Matthews Band, will perform at Legends Saturday at 10 p.m. NO/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross ID required. 
Mission IMPROVable, a Chicago-based improv comedy group, will perform Saturday at 9 
p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 


HIGH 35 HIGH 

40 
LOW 25 LOW 

25 
Atlanta 63 I 36 Boston 43 I 28 Chicago 45 I 27 Denver 40 I 26 Houston 7 4 I 54 Los Angeles 64 I 48 Minneapolis 30 1 19 New York 48 I 43 Philadelphia 4 7 I 30 Phoenix 63 I 44 Seattle 44 I 37 St. Louis 58 I 40 Tampa 70 I 38 Washington 51 I 29 
Thursday, January 19, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Me111bers address, consider current and future objectives 

By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
It may be hard to imagine April 1 during the depths of a South Bend winter, but for the senators with long lists of plans at Wednesday night's Student Senato meeting, the turnover date is dearly no longer a dis­tant hypothetical. 
Thn current designs sketched by Snnate leaders are a mix of projects continued from last semester and nnw proposals. 
Student body president Dave Baron said onn of the loftier goals he and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell will pursun to round out their terms is to establish an endow­ment for student programming, specifically concerts and speakers. 
Baron said recent discussions regarding Student Union fiscal policy and the carry-forward account made the possibility of. an endowment -a much-pub­licized aspect of his and Shappell's platform last spring -more timely. He will meet with Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman on Friday, 
Shappell, who urged senators to remain "very active until April 1," said she and Baron met before winter break with marketing professor Timothy Gilbride and senior Brett Hummel to establish plans to research what students would like to see in future commer­cial development south of cam­pus, a project announced by the University last spring. 
There will be an attempt to reach closure on the messy issue of pep rallies, said Shappell, who has set up meet­ings with Hall Presidents Council members, Joyce Center officials and Athletic Department representatives. 
"We'll assess what happened with the past season, ensure we don't have issues like last year," she said. 
Tickets will be another focus during Senate's final months. Shappell said revisions to the bowl game ticket lottery sys­tem will be discussed, and University Affairs committee chair Matt Walsh said his com­mittee will continue to develop a better basketball ticketing system, working with the Office of Information Technology to get the TicketShare program online. 
Walsh's committee will also investigate the possibility of adding stops to the free THANSPO service and obtain­ing additional services from FedEx Kinko's, as Walsh said the company previously prom­ised. 
"We've gotten to the point where they should be [offering those services)," Walsh said. 
Minority Affairs committee chair Hhea Boyd said her com­mittee will present its resolu­tion to establish a committee to examine cultural compet<mey at Notre Dame once morn to the Faculty Sonatn in February, this time with statisties from the Ofl'iee of lnstitu tion al Researeh. 
Her committee is busily plan­ning events for Black History Month, adopting the theme 
"Let  it  Shine:  Great  
Aehievements  by  Great  
Amerieans."  

The Academic Affairs com­mittee will direet its efforts toward finalizing the College Readership Program in time for next fall, committee chair Chris Harris said. Other Academic Affairs projects include a forum to promote dialogue between students and faculty, the extension of library hours and "Majors Night," a campus-wide event featuring representatives from each major, to be held from 7 p.m. to 9 on Feb. 2 in the Joyce Center Concourse. 
Ali Wishon, Gender Affairs committee chair, said her com­mittee would soon be present­ing a report on gay, lesbian, bisexual, transsexual, queer and questioning {GLBTQ) stu­dent needs co-authored by the University Affairs committee. 
In addition to planning Sexual Assault Awareness Week, Wishon's committee will help Mark Seiler's Hesidence Life committee facilitate Alcohol Abuse Awareness Week in March. 
The Oversight committee, 
ehaired by Sujal Pandya, will finish rnvising the Studf'nt Union constitution as wPII as rnsoareh ways to makt' tho April studPnt gowrnnwnt tran­sition smoother. 
Baron said Community Helations comrnitton chair Nick Guzman is working with tho Notre Damn Law School to put together an informational event for students moving ofT­campus. 
In other Senate news: 
+William Pryor, fedora! appeals court judge on the U.S. Court of the Appeals for tho Eleventh Circuit, will speak at 
7:30 p.m. on Jan. 24 as the first installment of the "Catholic Think Tank" sPries, chief executive assistant Liz Kozlow said. 
The location of the talk will be announced in the near future, Kozlow said, along with the location of a 7:30 p.m. talk on Feb. 23 by Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, who mcently made headlines as the first U.S. Catholic bishop to announce he was sexually abused by a priest in his childhood. 
+Chuck D, lead rapper of Public Enemy, will speak on "Hace, Hap and Reality" at H:30 
p.m. on Feb. 2 in DeBartolo 101, Boyd said, as the keynote speaker for Black II is tory Month events. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 





The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 

2006-07 Editor-in-Chief 
Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least a 1 0-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. 
Applications are due Sunday, January 22 by 5 p.m. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
Contact Editor-in-Chief Claire Heininger at 1-4542 for more information 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 19, 2006 

Gynt 
continued from page 1 
impacted by a personal resolu­tion, he has noticed an influx of students to the gym, which often changes his daily work­out. 
"Newcomers indirectly affect my time here because long waits for equipment lengthen workout time," Marencik said. 
Assistant Director of Fitness and Fitness Facilities Jennie Phillips said wait times can reach 45 minutes or more dur­ing the busiest time of the day, 3 to 6 p.m. 
"Go to the RecSports website and click. on Fitness to find daily usage graphs for the RSRC fitness room. The graphs show the average number of users for each hour of the day," Phillips said. "By studying them, users may find a better time to utilize the facility and maximize their workout time." 
Marencik said he has a posi­tive outlook on the current flood of gym-goers, despite the necessary changes to his per­sonal workout. 
"It's great to see this many people out and the numbers will likely decrease as class work picks up," he said. 
Students are not the only ones who have to make adjust­ments due to the busy winter season. University employees also face challenges. 
Rockne Memorial Building maintenance crew leader Steve Roberts said facility upkeep is crucial during this period. 
"It's all about multitasking because of the high usage of the building," Roberts said. 

"Current happenings in addi­screen, CDs and other travel tion to increased gym atten­necessities," Phillips said. dees tracking inclement weath­"Anthony Travel has also er in on their shoes include donated one free roundtrip air­men's faculty locker room line ticket as the grand prize." improvements, physical educa­Derengoski said Challenge U tion classes and hosting all St. Spring Break is beneficial to Joe High School swim meets both regular gymgoers and for both the boys and girls those who want to get fit in the teams." newyear.. 
Rolfs front desk staff member "The program is always very Ashley Paluf, who accommo­enthusiastically received," she dates guests by distributing said. "People use it as motiva­
towels  and  tion  to  follow  
other request­ed equipment,  "Our mission is to  through with resolutions and  
said she fields more questions on aspects of Rolfs services.  serve the Notre Dame community and to make it an  keep them going." Numerous other services  
"Most people ask about intramural  active and enjoyable place to be. "  are available to interested indi­viduals seeking  
sports  and  direction  or  
Challenge  U  Sally Derengoski  more  informa- 
Spring Break,  director of RecServices  tion  about  all  
an  exercise  and fitness  health and fit- 

incentive pro­gram for Notre Dame students, faculty and staff," Phillips said. "The pro­gram is a fun way to encourage people to stay active in what is typically a cold, dreary time of year." 
The free program is especial­ly geared toward those resolu­tion makers who might want to look good in a swimsuit by spring break. After registering, participants gain a "mile" towards their chosen "destina­tion" for each minute of exer­cise. Logbooks are kept in the Rolfs fitness room and at the Rockne front desk for partici­pants. 
"[Individuals who] reach their destination will be eligible for drawings that include gifts such as beach towels, sun­ness issues. For 
example, some­one who is new to training or has not worked out in the recent past can take advantage of facility orientations or pro­grams like Exercise Basics: 101, which features 45 to 60 minute workshops on a variety of topics. 
Derengoski said whether or not the influx of exercisers is due to New Year's resolutions, RecSports is always happy to have more people in the facili­ties. 
"We like being busy," she said. "Our mission is to serve the Notre Dame community and to make it an active and enjoyable place to be." 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edn 

number of applicants will be at least 12,600. That's 4 percent
Early 
higher than 2002 -the previous continued from page 1 record-holding year -and 8 
percent higher than last year. dents with outstanding creden­"The story of Notre Dame is tials, Saracino said. Students getting out more than ever," receiving early acceptances have Saracino said. "In spite of the until May 1 to confirm. Notre weather and location, Notre Dame's non-binding early action Dame is a special place." process is somewhat unique Saracino added that the among its peer institutions, University attracts students who many of which rely on binding want to go to school with people early decisions like themselves, and or early action­many believe that
"We would not 
single choice. Notre Dame is "It's not fair to consider it a where that can hap­students [accept­success this year if pen. 
ed early] to put "Notre Dame is
we did not enroll a
them in a posi­the only major tion were they're more impressive University with a forced to make a class than ever faith tradition," he decision [on said. "We're the only 
before.''
what college they religiously connect­want to go to]," ed school in the top Saracino said. Daniel Saracino 20. This is a place "Early action is assistant provost in filled with faith-filled all we have, and students."
admissions
it all we will ever have as long as I'm here. High school counselors tell us early action is the kindest option." 
Saracino said the admissions office was particularly cautious in its selection of early applicants this year in anticipation of an unprecedented number of appli­cants for the class of 2010. 
"Based upon increases in the numbers in the past year of visi­tor interviews, inquiries and information sessions, we had every indicator [for an] increase in overall applications [for the class of 2010]," he said. 
Saracino's prediction was dead-on. Though regular appli­cations are still being processed -the deadline was Dec. 31 -Saracino estimates that the total 
Of the 1,241 

accepted early action applicants, Saracino said 19 percent are ethnic minorities (compared to 16 percent last year), 22 percent are children of alumni and 83 percent are Catholic. He is confident the demographics and credentials of the early accepted students will be mirrored in the regular admission pool. 
"We would not consider it a success this year if we did not enroll a more impressive class than ever before," Saracino said. "The class is going to be the most talented and ethnically diverse in [the University's] histo­ry." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Download and RUN the updated TakeCharge for Windows from http://oit.nd.edu/security/. (Did we mention "and run it?") 
TakeCharge is the software utility developed by the Notre Dame OIT to help you protect your computer from viruses, worms, spyware and who knows what. These nasty critters, once on your computer, ,can cause you BIG problems. And often at the most inopportune times--when you're in the home stretch of a 30-page term paper, for example! 
So, how's TakeCharge changed? Do you really need to run it again? 
Yes! TakeCharge does the same handy dandy delightful things it did before, plus some added tricks that make life on the ND network better and surfing the Internet safer . 
.V TakeCharge fixes a new and dangerous Microsoft Windows vulnerability that 
arrived with the New Year . .J TakeCharge sets your PC to automatically receive future Windows critical updates . 
.J TakeCharge optimizes your Windows firewall settings for enhanced network performance among all campus users. 
v TakeCharge determines if your Windows computer is running the correct version of OpenAFS, and if it isn't, shows you how to upgrade to the latest verst on. 


~~ti~i~~oAkfi 
Office ofInformation Technologies 
http://oit.nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 19, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bombers attack convoy, two dead 
BA(;J11>A1>, Iraq -A roadside bomb hit a convoy 1~arrying a U.S. se1~urity team nnar the soutlwrn city ol' Basra, killing two Amnrkan eivilians and seriously wounding a third, the 
U.S. Embassy said. . 
Iraqi authoriti11s, meanwhiln, hold out hopn that kidnapped Anwriean journalist Jill Carroll would lw rnlnasnd, and tho sister of Iraq's intPrior minister was frPnd by her abductors about two wnnks after being seized in Baghdad, an oflidal said. 
Tlw lJ.S. Embassy said that eoalition filreos eordonPd of'f' tlw snmn of tho Basra attack, whirh occurred at 2 p.m., and took the wourull•d lo a hospital. 
Cuba prepares new energy system 
IIAVANA -President Fidel Castro annotrrH~nd a long-awaited renovation of Cuba's nrwrgy system to combat blackouts that haw ufllirtnd tlw island nation. 
Castro said Cuba would decentralize its power system, gradually rnplacing five mas­sive thPrmoelnetril: plants with smallnr, regional plants supplemented by solar and wind pownr. lin outlirwd the plan in a speech d(divPrPd Tuesday night and publishnd WPlhwsday in statn rwwspapnrs. 
BPeausP the tiH1rllHJe]ndrieaf plants in Cuba an~ so larw~. nwchanieal dillicultins in any one can afl't1ct arnas populatnd by millions. Many of last sumnwr's blackouts wore causod by prohiPms at Antonio (;uiteras, a kny thormo­Pieetrieal plant snrving 2 million inhabitants. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FDA unveils new medication labels 
WASI IINCTON -A major makeover is com­ing for thn littln written insorl-; that accompa­ny pn1seription drugs. Thn now versions are supposml to play up information that's useful lo pharmaeists and patients while paring down tho small-print legal disdainwrs. 
Confusing mndieal information is behind many of the nstimatml 300,000 preventable eases of dnath or injury that oceur each year in tho nation's hospitals, Surgeon General Bichard Carmona said W11dnnsday in introdue­ing llw now drug labeling rules. 
Tlw rules should make it easier to quiekly IParn tlw most rritieal things about a drug. Tlw nnw drug labels will include: the datn tlw drug recnivNI U.S. approval, any roeent dmng(lS made to tlw drug, a toll-l'ren phone IIUmber to report suspPdnd side nll'ects, and a li11al S(H'Lion that prompts doctors 011 what kPys l'arL-; tlwy should relay to patients. 
Thousands still missinS! after Katrina 
Nf<:W OBI.I~ANS -More 1Tum 3,200 people ar·p ol'lidally still unaccounted. nnarly live mo11ths after llurrkann Katrina hit thn (;ull' Coast. and tlw statP nwdkal examiner wants Lire sParrh to n1sunH' lill' those missing l'rom Llw mosl devastated rwighborhoods. 
1\ total ol' I 1,500 people were rnportml miss­ing to thn Find Family National Call Center, a l'('n1Pr ru11 by lildPral and statn workers. The rPports i11clude people l'rom throughout the ( ;ull' Coast an•a. but most are l'rom Louisiana. 
As ol' Wedrwsday, all hut about ;{,200 had IH'PII ]orated, Llw agn11cy said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Eight Ind. counties switch time zones 
INDIANAPOLIS -Thn federal govnrnmnnl ruh~d WPdrwsday that night Indiana counties will switrh l'rom tlw l~astnrn to Central time wrw hut dnniPd n•qtwsts by nino others who wantPd tlw ~~hangP. 
The U.S. l>epartnwnt ol' Transportation said Stark(l a11d Pulaski counties in northwestern Indiana and Daviess, Dubois, Knox, Martin, Perry and Pike countins in southwnstnrn Indiana would switeh to tlw Central zone on April 2, wlwn Indiana and 47 other states b(1).,rin observ­ing daylight-saving time. 
It also announced Carroll, Cass, Fulton, Lawrnnee, Marshall. St. Joseph, Sullivan, Wrmillion and White counties would rnrnain in llw EIL<;tern zone. 
RussiA 

Mosco-w endures third day of cold snap 
Temperatures could drop to minus-35 degrees; at least two dozen reported dead 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -For a third day Wednesday, tompera­turns so frigid that oven winter-hardnnnd Hussians complained gripped Moscow and much ol' the rest of the country. At least two dozen pnople reported­ly died of exposure nation­wide and Hussians used a record amount of electrici­ty to keep warm. 
Tompnraturos dropped to 22 degrees below zero overnight, Moscow's First Deputy Mayor Pyolr Aksyonov said in televised comments. By early Thursday, the cold was nxpeeted to reaeh minus­31 or even lower. 
Twelvn people died of nxposure in thn Novgorod rngion. northwest of Moscow, and two in thn capital, the lnterfax news agency said. In the Volgograd region, about 550 miles southeast ol' Moscow and loss accus­tomed to such cold, 10 peo­ple died, ITAH-Tass report­mi. 

Over tho previous day, electricity consumption nationwido hit 146,000 megawatts -a reeord high since the Soviet col­lapse 15 ynars ago, thn consumption reached a hnad ol' national electricity record of more than 15,300 monopoly HAO Unified megawatts, HAO UES said. Ennrgy Systems, Anatoly Chubais said eloctrieity Chubais, said in televised supplies to some industrial comments. consumers would be limit­
In Moseow, when\ a con­ed but neither residential struction boom is in full buildings nor essential swing and tho gray streets facilities such as hospitals of the Soviet ora have would be affected. The turned into glitzy thor­state-run TV station oughfares fnstooned with Hossiya reported that bright lights, electricity power shut off for some 

city billboards and con­struction sites. 
Trafl'ic was light in tho capital's normally jammed streets because many motorists could not start their ears. 
The cold snap coincided with the Hussian Orthodox holiday of the Epiphany, which falls on Thursday and which tradition says ushers in a cold period 

known as thP Epiphany Frosts. 
Some particularly hardy Hussians celebrate Epiphany hy plunging into rivers and ponds to doansn tlw rnse Ives with water deenwd holy for tho day. Authorities in one northern region. Khanty-Mansiisk. advisnd against tho ritual this year, Chamwl Onn lPin­vision rPportnd. 
Couple sentenced to prison in Wendy's finger case 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE -Thn Wendy's linger-in­. tlw-ehili story was a running jokn on 
latn-night television last year, but it was 
no laughing mattnr to the company, iL-; 
mnployees-or thejudgo who handed 
out still' prison sontenees to tho coupln 
who pul11\d the seam. · 
Anna Ayala, 40, who said sho bit into 
thn digit, was sontnnend Wndnnsday to 
nino years. ller husband, .Jaime 
Plascenda, 44. who obtainnd the lingnr 
from a co-worker who lost it in a work­
plaeo aeddent, was sentm1ced to morn 
than 12 years. 
"Greed and avarieo overtook this cou­
ple," said SupPrior Court .JudgP Edward 
Davila, adding that the pair had lost 
their moral eompass." 
Thn two pleaded guilty in Snptmnbnr 
to conspiracy to file a !'also insurance 
daim and attmnplnd grand thel't with 
damages exceeding $2.5 million. 
Although authorities suspected a 
hoax -in part because the linger was 
not cooked. Word of the stomaeh-turn­
ing lind q uiekly spread around the 
world. The Dublin, Ohio-based fast food 
chain daimed it lost $2.5 million in 
sales because of tho bad publicity, and dozens of workers at the company's Northorn California franchises were laid oil'. 

Donny Lynch, Wendy's senior vice presidnnt, asked the judge to snnd a mnssage that "consumer l'raud is a snri­ous crime that demands a severn pPnalty." 
In a tearful plna for loninncy, Ayala apologized to thn courtroom gallery and said the seheme was "a moment of poor judgment." 
Earlier, she wat1~hml news l'ootagn of herself dnseribing how she sat down Mareh 22 with her family at the Wendy's in San Jose, put eracknrs in her ehili and started eating until shn ehewnd on something "kind of hard, crunchy." She said she spit it out and rnalizPd it was a human linger. 
"There's no words to deseribn what I lblt. It's siek, it's disgusting," she said in a dip played before sentencing. "Just knowing there was a human remain in my mouth is tearing me apart inside." 
Other interviews shownd an increas­ingly agitated Ayala denying to reporters she put the linger in tho chili. "Where would I got a damn linger?" she asked on camera. 
Forensie tests later showed Ayala 
never dwmpnd down on l.hn lingnr. 
Tho stmtnncing followed a 90-minul.e hearing in which SIWPral Wendy's employnos tnstiliml, including the man who made the chili and tlw mshinr who lwlpnd Ayala on tlw day slw made the daim. 
"I li1lt so bad liu· tlw limr of what pPo­pln would think of me," said llector Pinnda, who made tho chili and initially eanw under suspicion. "We arn tlw ones that haw sulliwPd." 
Cashier .Jose Padwco said hn bow tlw brunt of Ayala's t.iradn after com­plained about. tlw chili. "Shn askPd me who I killnd to gnt t.hn lingPr," Padweo said. 
No Wnndy's nmploynn was missing a digit at tho San Jose !'11staurant, and no chili suppliers reportPd lingnr· injurins at their plants. 
Tho eoupln must pay about $170,000 in restitution for workers' lost wagos. A judge also orderod thom to pay noarly $21.R million to Wnndy's lntemational and JEM Managomont, whid1 owns tho restaurant. Both corporations agreed not to collect from the couple, provided they never bonolit from the ruso. 
In April, Ayala was arrostod at her suburban Las Vngas home. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 19, 2006 


Energy 
continued from page 1 
four bedrooms -two on each floor -with a living room and kitchen. Even though the house is "kind of small," the heating bill last month was not. 
"[When we bought the house], we had a conversation with the landlord and he esti­mated rough utilities would cost between $100 and $150 ­maybe not even that !much]." Daniels said. "With a $300 bill for gas, it's ridiculous even split between five people." 
The U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) warned Americans who use natural gas for heat about climbing rates for home heating costs, and said they should expect to pay on average more than 40 per­cent more than last winter. 
Depending on the region, the EIA said the rise may be as great as 70 percent, however. For areas of the country that experience colder weather in the winter months -South Bend's average low tempera­ture in January is 16 degrees -hundreds of extra dollars will be required from home­owners. 
"It's just crazy," Daniels said. "I think about low income fam­ilies and wonder [how they afford heating]. We're splitting it five ways." 
Daniels said the house she shares with her roommates ­built sometime in the mid-20th century -has a very "old school heating system." 
"Usually you have heaters throughout the home with a central electric heater," she said. "Our [heating system] is electric in that it turns on with a switch, but then it warms water which is passed through pipes. It's a very inefficient way of heating the house." 
The system barely heats the entire house and keeping a comfortable temperature has been difficult, Daniels said. 
"It drafts a lot," she said. "!By] just maintaining 64 degrees, our heating bills have been around $300. It has to work double overtime just to get through the night." 
In December the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) said rising demand, lowered pro­duction and two natural disas­ters were to blame for the 
"With a $Joo bill for 

spike in energy times -priced at costs this sea­gas, it's ridiculous about $100 ­son. More than might also help
even split between 

half of all lower heating
five people." 

American costs. homeowners Daniels said she rely on natural Karen Daniels and her room­gas for temper­mates are going to 
senior 
For off-campus students struggling to pay heating bills, the UCS offered more immedi­ate advice for assuaging the harsh prices -reduce bills by curtailing energy waste. By implementing "a few simple steps," costs can be reduced by 10 to more than 20 percent. 
Using insulation around win­dows and doors to prevent heat loss and making sure radiators are clean and unblocked can help maximize warmth in the home, the UCS said. In addi­tion, programmable thermo­stats that automatically decrease the tem­perature at set 

ature control -a demand production has been unable to meet since 2000. 
When hurricanes Katrina and Rita made landfall on American coasts in 2005, the problematic discrepancy between supply and demand was heightened. The UCS said the hurricanes damaged or destroyed nearly 200 oil and natural gas drilling rigs needed for production. As a result, the level of natural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico is half what it was prior to the hurri­canes and not expected to recover for several months. 
In the long term, the UCS said Americans can make themselves less vulnerable to future shortages by "diversify­ing energy sources with clean, home grown, and more decen­tralized renewable energy sup­plies." 
take it in stride 
and "suck it up." 
"We can't leave it any colder than 60 degrees or else the pipes will freeze," she said. "The $300 bill was for the month we were gone [during winter break] and it was set at 50 or 55 degrees. If we [turn it higher] I'm sure the bill would be between $400 and $500." 
Daniels said her landlord is also helping assuage the rising heating costs for the off-cam­pus house. 
"We talked to our landlord [about the bill] and he said gas prices have gone up tremen­dously. I didn't realize that because I lived in a dorm last year," she said. "I talked [the landlord] into buying space heaters for our home. That was nice of him." 
Contact Katie Perry at Kperry5@nd.edu 

NDtv 
continued from page 1 
a new show this spring follow­ing the departure of NDtv's flagship face, Peterson, who will be studying abroad until May. 
In his absence, "The Mike Peterson Show" will be renamed "Late Night NO," and will be hosted by Lattal. 
The producers of "Late Night NO" have announced there will be four special tapings of the show in Legends through­out the semester. 
The network also expects to reach more viewers with the introduction of video podcasts of the NDtv programming, available from iTunes. Available programming will include episodes of "The Mike Peterson Show," "NDtv News" and "NDtv Sports." 
For three seasons, "NDtv News" has covered issues of concern to the Notre Dame student body, ranging from investigative reports on the development of the 2006 "The Shirt Project," to the Copy Shop controversy to the Supreme Court nominations. 
"NDtv Sports" offers cover­age and commentary regard­ing Notre Dame's varsity sports. 
The station hopes to further diversify its lineup this semes­ter with the premiere of "Office Hours," an in-depth interview show with sopho­more Bob Costa. Some of the guests scheduled to appear in the first season include Father Jenkins, Olympic Gold medal­ist Marie! Zagunis and Father Richard McBrien, a consultant and advisor for the upcoming film "The DaVinci Code." 
Starting this semester, NDtv also intends to air tapings of "The Best of Acousticafe." 
In its third year, NDtv has seen its membership increase from 14 one year ago to almost 70 today. Reasons for NDtv's dramatic membership increase over the last two semesters may include its growing popularity among stu­dents and the creative oppor­tunities it offers to those involved. 
Though there are no paid positions, students spend con­siderable amounts of time pro­ducing and editing the shows in the station's studio in Washington Hall. 
Sophomore and NDtv mar­keting director Jacqui Acuna said students put in a lot of work at the station and are experienced workers. 
"Many of the students involved in NDtv have interned at local stations during the summer after they provided samples of their work at NDtv," Acuna said. 
Acuna said the opportunities the station provides are exten­sive. 
"There are political science, marketing, journalism, sociol­ogy and even electrical engi­neering students working at NDtv, because the network deals with so many research, creative and technical processes," she said. 
Acuna also said the fact that the station is run by students has appeal to student viewers. 
"'Student-run' has a popular draw," she said. "NDtv's shows are written, filmed and pro­duced entirely by students, and that attracts more than just FTT majors." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Charities' Helping Hands pro­Kathleen Coverick also was a asked a Catholic Charities ects and fundraisers in the gram, and we were assigned to part of the group. She, like worker how many more future.


Service 
actually deconstruct Mrs. Schneeman, was shocked to months New Orleans would Jones, McKenna, Schneeman continued from page 1 Heigel's house. The walls of the see such exten-need aid, she and Coverick all agreed the 
house and the foundation were sive ruin five was informed it service experience was incredi­New Orleans, and several other so damaged by the floodwater months after "There is no way of was not a ques­bly rewarding. Notre Dame students living in that the house needed to be the hurricane. tion of months, "It was emotional for Mrs.
really understanding 
the surrounding area joined substantially gutted. We "We went to but rather a Heigel and for us," Jones said. them in their efforts, McKenna removed the damaged and the 9th Ward of the extent of the question of Schneeman said Heigel called said. The students spent their molded pieces of the struc­the city -a damage and the years. them "her angels" and gave three and half days of work ture." place even This response them all angel pins to express
effects of the hurricane 
helping Gerry Heigel, a resi­Cavanaugh sophomore Caity more devastat­caused her thanks. dent of Lakeview, which, Schneeman expressed her ed than by just watching the Schneeman and "Mrs. Heigel is planning on according to Jones, was the shock upon seeing the reality of Lakeview," pictures on Tv." the other mem­rebuilding the rest of her house area of the city most decimated a destroyed New Orleans. Coverick said. bers of the on her own with help from her by the 17th Street canal "There is no way of really "The images group to think son, but I told her that we
Caity Schneeman
breech. understanding the extent of the there made me of more ways wouldn't forget her," Jones 
sophomore
"Our job was a bit different damage and the effects of the realize that Notre Dame said. "We would like to go back than you might think," Baker hurricane by just watching the there is so can continue to again in the spring if we can." said. "We were connected pictures on TV," Schneeman much more bring aid to through the NO New Orleans said. work still to be done." New Orleans. They are hoping Contact Maureen Mullen at Alumni Club with Catholic Sophomore McGlinn resident Schneeman said when she to organize other service proj-mmullenl@nd.edu 



Dow 
10,854.86 -41.46
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2.290 144 .1,061 1,606,8509,184
'v 
AMEX 1.797.04 ~ 16.28 NASDAQ 2,279.64 -23.05 NYSE 7,953.0 I -39.59 S&PSOO 1.277.93 -5.00 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) I5,61 7. I 3 +275.95 FTSE IOO(London) 5,663.70 -35.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) -11.45 -2.92 22.59 NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -1.15 -0.49 42.21 YAHOO INC (YHOO) -12.29 -4.93 35.18 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.27 +0.05 18.73 IVANHOE ENERGY (IVAN) +21.00 +0.50 2.88 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND +0.18 +0.08 45.19 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.18 +0.08 43.40 5-YEAR NOTE +0.12 +0.05 42.74 3-MONTH BILL +0.35 +0.15 42.47 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.69 66.25 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -9.80 544.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.93 81.73 
Excha e Rates 
YEN I 15.4000 EURO 0.8256 POUND 0.5670 CANADIAN$ 1.1728 
IN BRIEF 
Workers' 2005 earnings decreased 
WASHINGTON -The average American worker got squeezed in 2005 between the biggest jump in energy prices in 15 years and wagns that failed to keep up with inflation. 
Ao.; a result. hourly earnings aftnr adjusting for inflation fell by 0.5 pereent in December com­pared to what workers were earning in DnenmbHr 2004, the Labor Department report­ed Wednesday. 
Workers did see thoir wages rise last year. It was just that prices rose at a faster pace -3.4 pnn:ent for the 12 months ending in December, the department said. 
The 0.5 percent drop in inflation-adjusted hourly earnings last year followed a 0. 7 pnr­cnnt fall in 2004 for the 80 percent of the U.S. workf'orcn that is employed by the private sec­tor in non-supnrvisory jobs. 
Tlw main eulprit in last year's jump in infla­tion was a 17.1 percent surge in energy prices, the biggHst advanee since 1990, as gasoline priees topped $3 per gallon for a time. The rise in eneq..,ry accounted for 40 percent of the over­all ris1~ in prieHs last year. 
Schurz to acquire 12th newspaper 
PETOSKEY, Mich. -Schurz Communications Inc. of South Bend, has agreed to buy the Petoskny Nnws~Heview and its parent company, Northnrn Miehigan Heview Inc. 
Schurz Communications is a family owned company with a presence in nine statHs. The Nows-Hevinw would be its 12th daily newspa­pN. It now publishes I 1 dailiHs, including five in Indiana. Its largest nnwspapnr is the South Bond Tribune with a dn:ulation of 73,000 daily and I 00.000 Sunday. 
Elsa Sehallnr-DeWitt, prnsident of Northern Michigan Hnvinw, announced the sale at a staff rnnnting Wmhwsday. Tho sale is expeetnd to be complntnd by narly Mard1. Tnrms worn not dis­dosnd. 
Nortlwrn Miehigan Hnvinw also owns sovnral otlwr publications, including the Charlevoix Courier, thn (;aylord llnrald Times and l'lwnnCuidn, a n~gional telnphone dirnr.tory. Tlw l'ntoskny N1~ws-Hnviow publishes Monday through [o'riday and has a dreulation of a littln morn than I I ,000 daily. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Google Video Store still developing 
Online store falls short of expectations with limited selection, poor resolution 
Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -WhHn a high-tceh company slaps tho word "bnta" on a prod­uct, it's usually a sign thn prod uet isn't quitn ready for prime time ynt is far enough to gnt a good snnso of what it will bncorne. 
Googlo Inc. regularly releases fairly advanced sPrvieos that it dubs lwta. So whnn it opnnnd its high­ly antieipatnd Google Vidoo Storn last wonk, expneta­tions worn high. 
But this time, Coogle really means bnta. 
In the l'irst days of its rnloase, tho online storn is unusually rough around the edges. So far, it doesn't have much premium con­tent, the quality is hit or miss and the interface could be better. 
That said, there are some promising elements, includ­ing an architecture that has the potential to allow any­one with a video camera to post a creation and choose whether to make it avail­able for free, a one-time charge or a onn-day rental fee. Hates are determined by the content owner, not Google. 
Though only a select few can do this right now, the implications could be huge once more people have access to the feature, which Coogle expects to be avail­latest sport of signing up locked down by the CBS' prime time oll'erings able in a few weeks. networks, studios and provider can be viewed on Google currently include 
Think of a vast online other content providers for only on an Internet-con­one episodH of "CSI," one bazaar for video where an paid, Internet-based enter­nected Windows PC using episode of "NCIS" and 15 aspiring videographer or tainment services. Coogle software, not a episodes of "Survivor: filmmaker could easily get Apple also suffers from a portable player or a Mae. Guatemala." Each show is a feel for what the market dearth of content, though (If the provider opts not $1.99. thinks of his or her talent. it's added a smattering of to protect the video or hrives Classic Hpisodes of seven Google charges nothing for NBC shows to its previous it away for free, it can be CBS-controlled series also storage or bandwidth, handful of ABC program­moved -easily, as a mat­are available. "I Love Lucy" though it takes 30 percent ming that can be viewed on ter of fact -to a portable has 16 shows, "Star Trek: of any sales. a video-capable iPod, a and played on a Mac.) Voyager" has fivo and "Star 
That, however, is for the Macintosh or PC. It's also Another drawback at this Trek: Deep Spaen Nine"has future. got thousands of music early stage is the content twice that many. "The 
As it stands, the service videos and an endless sup­itself. Brady Bunch" has 16 -all at video.google.eom has a ply of free video pod casts. During the unveiling of from before Greg Brady's way to go before it will Coogle lets users browse the store earlier this hair got eurly. . come dose to its potential. through videos within their month, Coogle co-founder Unlike Googie's other 
The problem is particu­Web browsers, displaying Larry Page highlighted sitos, the search box isn't larly striking when com­brief previews that are deals the company struck tHrribly useful. That's likely pared to Apple Computer often, annoyingly, no more for premium content with because whoever uploaded Inc.'s well designed iTunes than a show's opening CBS, the National the video didn't provide the store, which last year tune. Basketball Association and right text for the search kicked off Silicon Valley's Purchased video that's others. engine to index. 

New toothpaste plant to employ 220 workers 
United Food and Commercial communities by one of the world's
Associated Press Workers local at the Clarksville most respected companies." MORHISTOWN, Tenn. -Colgate­plant. Officials with New Ynrk-basnd Palmolive Co. plans to build a new The remainder of the Clarksville Colgate-Palmolive, the world's toothpaste manufacturing plant in plant's production will be moved to biggest seller of' toothpaste, did not Morristown that will employ more China, Edwards said. immediately return calls seeking than 220 people, state and city offi­lliring for jobs is expected to begin more details about the planned facil­cials announced. in early 2007 while construction of ity. The 150,000-square-foot plant is the new facility will start in May Morristown Mayor (iary H. Johnson set to be built in the Morristown 2006, said Dawn HutledgH Jones, and other city ollicials wekonwd thn Airport Industrial District, according spokeswoman for the Tennessee news of the company's decision. to Gov. Phil Bredeson and Department of Economic & "Colgate is truly known around the Morristown of'licials, who made tho Community Development. world as the loader in oral <~are and announcement Wednesday. "The jobs created by Colgate­this announenmnnt is a vote ol' conli­The new plant will take ovnr about Palmolivn in this community will be a dnnee in Morristown and in tlw abili­40 percent of the production work major contribution to an already ty or our workl'oren," he said. from a Clarksville, Ind., plant which diverse local eeonomy," Bredesen Edwards said lw expn<~tnd the lirst Colgate announced in October it said. "This announcement is a strong layoffs at the 475-!~tnployen would lose by January 200H, said endorsement of one of Tennessee's Clarksville plant. which Colgat1~ Larry Edwards, president of the most progressive and productive bought in 192:1, to happen in April. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 19, 2006 

Brow-n accepts blallle for Katrina aftermath 
Associated Press 
MAMMOTH LAKES, Calif. ­Former FEMA Director Michael Brown on Wednesday accepted a greater share of the blame for the government's failures after Hurricane Katrina, saying he fell short in conveying the mag­nitude of the disaster and call­ing for help. 
"I should have asked for the military sooner. I should have demanded the military sooner," Brown told a gathering of mete­orologists at a ski resort in the Sierra Nevada. 
"It was beyond the capacity of the state and local governments, and it was beyond the capacity of FEMA," said Brown, former head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
Brown's remarks Wednesday stood in contrast to his testimo­ny at a congressional hearing in September, when he blamed most of the government's fail­ures on Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco and New Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin-both Democrats. 
He specifically targeted them for failing to evacuate New Orleans, restore order and improve communication. 
"These are not FEMA roles," Brown told the congressional committee. "FEMA doesn't evacuate communities. FEMA does not do law enforcement. FEMA does not do communica­tions." 
In an interview after his speech Wednesday, Brown told The Associated Press: "I think it's important to realize that all of us made mistakes.... After a while you get a different per­spective." 
IN LOVING 
He added: "I still do believe that things weren't working too well down there." 
lie also told the gathering of broadcast and National Weather Service meteorologists that he failed to delegate responsibility, saying he tried to attend to the details himself. 
"It was the largest natural dis­aster ever to strike the United States -92,000 square miles. Logistics were falling apart," he said. 
Before joining FEMA in 2001, Brown was an attorney, held local government posts and headed the International Arabian Horse Association. President Bush appointed him to head the agency in April 2003. 
FEMA came under fire imme­diately after Katrina struck the Louisiana and Mississippi coast­lines Aug. 29, killing more than 1,300 in five states and leaving some 3,200 unaccounted for. 
He was relieved of his com­mand in the stricken region and recalled Sept. 9 to Washington. Brown resigned three days later, saying he feared he had become a distraction. 
Asked on Wednesday if he felt he had been railroaded out of his post, Brown replied: ''I'm moving on." 
He said his biggest concern was the current emphasis on reorganizing FEMA, particularly in light of past budget cuts that had left hundreds of vacancies in an agency with 2,500 employees. 
"It's time to stop organizing and get FEMA back to what it was before -get its budget back up to where it was." 
MEMORY OF 
LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINGTON 
A.B. M.A. PH.D 
PAKISTAN 
Reported bombmaker killed 
Agents hunt for bodies ofal-Qaida figures who were killed in U.S. strike 
Associated Press 
PESHAWAR -Pakistani intelligence agents hunted Wednesday for the graves of four al-Qaida militants believed killed in an airstrike near the Afghan border ­including at least one sus­pected high-ranking al-Qaida figure. 
ABC News and The New York Times reported that Pakistani officials believe a master bomb maker and chemical weapons expert for al-Qaida was killed in the attack on the village of Damadola last week. He was identified as Midhat Mursi, also known as Abu Khabab al-Masri, who ran an al-Qaida training camp and has a $5 million reward on his head. 
Also killed, Pakistani offi­cials believe, was Khalid Habib, the al-Qaida opera­tions chief for Pakistan and Afghanistan, ABC said. The Times, however, said officials were uncertain about whether he was killed. 
The Times also reported that Pakistani officials believe Moroccan Abd al-Rahman al­Maghrebi, the son-in-law of al-Qaida No. 2 Ayman al­Zawahiri, and the man who ran the group's propaganda in the region, was killed in the strike. ABC described al­Maghrebi as a senior opera­tions commander. 
The newspaper said an Egyptian chief of insurgent 
*-I­
\(~;;~~!C~ 
operations in a region near the airstrikes also was believed killed and an Egyptian associate of al­Zawahiri's was possibly slain. 
Pentagon officials said they had no information on the reported identities of the dead and CIA spokesman Tom Crispell said the agency could not comment. A Pakistani intelligence official, speaking on condition of anonymity because he's not authorized to speak to jour­nalists, said authorities still did not know the names of the dead foreign militants but 
"We have no
suspect one was of four or five a ranking al­names. We know foreign militants Qaida figure. to bury them in
one of them had
"We ha.ve no the mountains,
value in al-Qaida. " 
names. We thereby pre­know one of venting their them had value Pakistani intelligence identification. in al-Qaida. He "Efforts are
official
had intelligence value in the net­work, but we are still check­ing his name," said the offi­cial. 
Pakistani Interior Minister Aftab Sherpao told The Associated Press the govern­ment does not know the iden­tities of the foreigners believed killed in the missile strike Friday, which officials have said targeted Osama bin Laden's top aide, Ayman al­Zawahri. 
"We are still investigating. There's a possibility that some foreigners were there, but we still do not know," said Sherpao, who was in New York with visiting Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz. 
Sherpao said the govern-

REMINDER 
"'9'"' 
2006-2007 

RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
must be submitted by January 20, 2006 to the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 

Applications are available for downloading at: http://osa.nd.edu/ or http://osa.nd.edu/join_hall_staff/ra.shtml 
ment had not retrieved the bodies of any of the four for­eign militants reported killed in the raid. He said the bodies may have been taken by a local pro-Taliban cleric, Maulana Faqir Mohammed, who also is being hunted by authorities. 
The U.S. government refus­es to discuss the airstrike, which has been condemned by Pakistan. 
Provincial authorities say the attack killed 18 residents of the Pashtun village, and they also say they believe sympathizers took the bodies 
under way to 
investigate fur­ther," said Shah Zaman Khan, director-general of media relations for Pakistan's tribal areas bordering Afghanistan. 
He said authorities were also looking for two promi­nent pro-Taliban clerics accused of harboring mili­tants, Maulana Faqir Mohammed and Liaqat Ali, who were allegedly in Damadola and survived the assault. 
Intelligence officials say the dead foreigners could be aides of al-Zawahri, who is thought to have sent them in his place to an Islamic holi­day dinner to which he'd been invited in Damadola on the night of the attack. 
Thursday, January 19, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

NASA delays launch of Pluto probe again 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVEHAL -For tlw second day in a row Wndnnsday, NASA scrubbed the launch of an unmannnd spaeeeral't on a nine­yPar voyage to Pluto -this limn, bneause a storm in Maryland knocked out the pownr at a laboratory that will operatn the probn. 
NASA ol'fieials planned to make a third attnmpt to launch thn Now Horizons probe Thursday af'ter electricity was n~stornd to the lab. 
lligh winds at the launch pad knpt the spaeeeral't from lil'ting off Tuesday, thn f'irst day the launeh window opennd. 
Scientists have been working 17 ynars on the mission, and thny wnre unfazod by the baek­to-back postponements. 
"Two or three days doesn't mean a hill of bnans," said Alan Stnrn, prineipal invnstigator for tho mission. 
A storm in Laurel. M(f., 
knocked out power early Wednesday at the John Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. 
"The air conditioning was ofT. The night controllers were sit­ting there wiping sweat," Stern said. "If' they were dealing with any spaeeeraft issues, whieh first day out of' the box a lot or spaeoeraf't have, you can't eon­eentratn likn that." 
The space agency has until mid-February to send the spaee­cral't on its way, but a launch in January would allow the spaen­craft to use .Jupitnr's gravity to shave live years oil' the 3-billion­mile trip, allowing it to arrive as early as .I uly 2015. 
The spacecraft is about the size and shape of a concert piano. It will study Pluto as well as the frozen, sunless reaches of the solar system known as the Kuiper Belt. Scientists believe that studying the region's iey, roeky objects can shed light on how the planets formed. 



Mine survivor awakening 
Associated Press 
MORGANTOWN -Sago Mine survivor Handa) McCloy Jr. appears to be awakening from his coma, and his improving condition may allow him to be transferred to a rehabilitation eent11r within a few weeks, doc­tors said Wednesday. 
McCloy, 26, has been breath­ing on his own for days and is opening his eyes, said Dr. Julian Bailes of' West Virginia University's Huby Memorial Hospital, adding that he "has purposeful movement" and "is responding to his family in slight ways." 
Bailes said doctors now con­sider McCloy to be in a "light eoma." 
McCloy is believed to have suiTerP.d brain damage from lack of oxygen, but the extent of the damagp, is not yet known. 
Beeause of the amount of time he sp11nt in the mine 
before being rescued, "we are in many ways in unchartnd ter­ritory with predicting his reeov­ery," said Bailes, a neurosur­geon. "Many pnople with severe carbon monoxide poisoning end up with severe cognitive, per­sonality, memory, visual and motor responses. We just don't know." 
McCloy has been unconscious since he was pulled from the mine more than 41 hours aftnr tho Jan. 2 explosion that lnd to the deaths of 12 other miners. Ofl'ieials have said one miner was apparently killed by the 
'blast itself, and the others were asphyxiated. 
McCloy was moved out of intensive care Tuesday but remains on dialysis because of kidney damage. 
The cause of' the mine explo­sion has still not been deter­mined. One theory is that light­ning hit an old well pipe, con­veying electricity into the tun­nels. 
However, "it's very premature to speculate on any contribution that that may have had," Hiehard Gates, lead investigator liw the f'nderal Mine Sali1ty and Health Administration, said Wednesday. 
Water and poisonous gases are still being purged from tlw mine, about 1 00 miles north of' Charleston, and Gates said fed­eral investigators expect to gain aee11ss in a few days. 
Federal and stat11 regulators investigating tho accident bngan interviewing witnnsses Tuesday. Mino company officials also attended tho intervinws, along with representatives of' a coal minors union. 
Also Wednesday, the mine's owner, International Coal Group Inc., issued a statement objoel­ing to the union's involvnmont. The Sago Mine is nonunion, but several miners asknd the Unitnd Mine Workers of' America to represent them during the investigation. 
Dozens of nevv species discovered 
Associated Press 
SEQUOIA NATIONAL PARK, Calif. -Twenty-s11ven previ­ously unknown species of spi­ders, centipedes, scorpion-like creatures and other animals have been discovered in the dark, damp caves beneath two national parks in the Sierra Nevada, biologists say. 
"Not only are these animals new to science, but they're adapted to very specific envi­ronments -some of' them, to a single room in one eave," said Joel DP.spain, a cave specialist who helped explore 30 of the 238 known caves in Sequoia and Kings Canyon National Parks. 
The discoveries included a relative of the pill bug so translucent that its internal organs ar11 visible, particularly its long, bright yellow liver. There was also a daddy long legs with jaws bigger than its body, and a tiny fluoresennt orange spider. 
"Many people will be looking at these trying to lind where they lit in the tree of life," said Darrell Ubick, a cave biologist with the San Francisco-based California Academy. of Sciences. 
While it is extromely rare to find new mammal or bird species on the surfaee, eaves still hold an abundance of secrets. Like the deep sea, they ar11 often difficult to reach and seldom explored. 
Diseovering so many species was thrilling, said Jean Krejca, a eonsulting biologist with Austin, Texas-based Zara Environmental who helped lead the three-year explo­ration. The findings wnre r11leased Tunsday. 
"You get the feeling you'ro Lewis and Clark, charting undiscovered territory," she said. "Caves aro one of the last frontiers." 
Park officials plan to adopt measures to protect the caves, Despain said. Most of thorn arn not aceessibln to the publie, and can bn visited only by rp,searehnrs or exporieneed explorers with permits. 
The species have yet to be nam11d, deseribnd seientilieally and plaend in the continuum of' known living organisms. 
"We don't know how long they live, what kind of' habitat they prefer, how many orr­spring they have, or how sensi­tive thP;,Y are. to hu.ma~, ,distur:­bance, KreJea sard. I heres still so rn ueh to learn." 
Who savs BREAKFAST is tor the mornings;. 
Free Breakfast TonightMidnight 
@.EC~EN[)5 
·, r N .., ·r r~ r: !"> \ \l r
. c ' .. •.· . ... 
...and we're not talking stale donuts and iuice... We're talkin' Bacon, Eggs, Pancakes, Sausage and morel 
Breakfast & a Flick 1 Thursdav 1/19 1 legonds.nd.odu 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 19, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dome, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 . 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
. EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.!@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.!@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, da.i1y n~per published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and S:Dnt Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accumrely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily rhose ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qumions regarding Observer potides should be directed to Editar in ChiefCI.ttirt Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th. Ob<c~" (USPS 599 2-4000) ~ pub!i>h<d Mond'l' thro..gh Friday"""'!'' during aam .md v:a:.;-atioJ"J ptriod.s. A~ubsnipti~lO Itt The ObsctVtr i.l $10(} for QOt ~adcmic ye~~.n $55 for unc: ~emesrcr. 
The ObJOtrvtr ~ published 1lt: POSTMAS:rER "024 Soutl1 Dining Hall St'nd acid.re!u; co-i'recdons ~o: Nouc Datnt. IN 46516~17?9 ThcOh=<:t Puiodio.J po-'tat;t paid at Not~~ PO. 8o•779 ~nd additiomll mlllling offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 465-56-0779 
Tht Observer l\ ;a member Qfthe AltsocbU!d P.r~. AU reproduction ii$ht~ art ti:S~cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Bobby Griffin Heather Van Eric Retter 
Hoegarden Jay Fitzpatrick Maddie Hanna Scene Joe Piarulli Liz Byrum 
Marcela Berrios Ram a Viewpoint Gottumukkala Joey King Graphics 
Matt Hudson 

The first written laws of ancient Athens were produced by Draco, a man of exacting standards who assigned the death penalty to almost every crime, including such minor infractions as "idleness" and steal­ing a cabbage. When the justice of this arrangement was questioned, Draco replied that small crimes deserve death and he knew of no punishment worse than death which could be given for greater ones. The thought that the problem with his laws might not be an excessive lenience towards murderers but rather an undue severity in the treatment of cabbage­stealers seems never to have occurred to him. 
These days the story of Draco is not widely known and "draconian" has con­sequently become a dead metaphor, but, like other dead metaphors, the word has not disappeared from use but continues to lead a shadowy post­mortem existence as a vague and pre­tentious adjective. Frequently it is used as if it were an exotic synonym of "tyrannical," but Draco was no tyrant -the laws he made may have been absurdly harsh, but they applied to all Athenians, himself included. 
The crucial difference is this: in Athens in the 7th Century B.C. you could be executed for even the most minor infraction, but you still had to break the law; whereas in Mesopotamia during the same period you could be put to death simply because the man in charge decided that he would prefer for you to no longer be alive. 
(Actually that was true in Mesopotamia as recently as 2003, although the region is now known by 


Peter Wicks 
Englishman 
Abroad 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. I can assure you mine are still greater. " 
Albert Einstein physicist 

Lex talionis 
the name it was given in the 20th Hebrew to see this, you just have to Century: Iraq.) keep reading-Exodus and 
It is impossible to imagine a just soci­Deuteronomy, the books in which the ety not based upon the rule of law, but Ten Commandments are given. both the rule of law by itself does not guar­contain divine laws that explicitly pre­antee justice. Draco's one-size-fits-all scribe the death penalty for a variety of approach to criminals meant that his offenses. punishments did not fit their crimes. Those who support the death penalty Solon, his successor, recognized this but oppose abortion are often accused and quickly changed the laws so that of contradicting themselves. Strangely, only murder was punishable by death. the argument is rarely made in the 
I have difficulty deciding what to think other direction, with opponents of the about the use of the death penalty in death penalty being charged with the modern world, but I am convinced inconsistency if they do not also oppose that any compelling case against its use abortion. must reckon with the fact that there are Since I am not persuaded that the some criminals who deserve to be death penalty is in principle an illegiti­killed. We do not need to turn to such mate form of punishment for the crime extreme and monstrous examples as of murder, I was surprised to find that Eichmann (executed by the Israeli gov­the executions of Stanley Williams and ernment in 1962) or notorious serial Clarence Ray Allen (who was put to killers like Ted Bundy to make the death by lethal injection on Tuesday at point. Stanley Williams, who was exe­San Quentin State Prison) have left me cuted last month by the State of deeply uneasy. This is not because the California, killed four people. If there is punishment seems to me excessive, but a reason why he should not have because in both cases the men were received the death penalty it surely can­executed more than two decades after not be that his crimes did not deserve it. they were sentenced for their crimes. It 
Some argue that when the state exe­seems to me that if a person is found cutes murderers, it is coming down to beyond reasonable doubt to be guilty by their level, but the state no more mur­a jury of their peers, then the sentence ders those it executes than it steals should be carried out within months or from those it taxes. Nor does the use of at most years of sentencing. Death the death penalty show a disregard for should mean death, not life imprison­the value of human life -you might as ment followed by execution. A legal sys­well argue that the imprisonment of tem that allows decades for appeals and criminals shows that society does not retrials is tacitly admitting that "beyond value liberty. reasonable doubt" does not mean 
Especially in the United States, a large beyond reasonable doubt. If it really is proportion of those who advocate the necessary to wait decades before exe­abolition of the death penalty do so on cuting those sentenced to death, then religious grounds. At anti-capital pun­the death sentence should not be used. ishment protests you will often see the 
·Fifth (in the Catholic scheme of count­Peter Wicks is a graduate student in ing) Commandment written on plac­the Philosophy department. He can be ards. But for all its apparent clarity, the contacted at pwicks@nd.edu command "Thou Shall Not Kill" cannot The views expressed in this column mean that the death penalty is not per­are those ofthe author and not missible. You don't need to know necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"In all affairs it's a healthy thing now and then to hang a question mark on the things you have long taken for granted." 
Bertrand Russel British philosopher 

~-------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 19, 2006 page I I 
U-WIRE 
Facebook: omnipresent and exclusive 
II' you'n~ likn rnn, you SJWnd most of your Friday and Saturday nights instant­nwssaging your frinnds from bark home to t.-11 thnm you're about to go out and gPt wastPd alHI tlwn spending tho rest of tlw night looking at 
Jake

pirlllrns on farP­
Grodzinsky

hook.l·om, totally burning kids in 
lnlnrnnl aninw chat 
The Chronicle

I'IHIIIIS and 1:rying. 
Duke
On one surh night 
l lniuersily 

nH:nntly. I ramn upon a p!Ji•nornenon that has apparPntly IH'I'Ome a popular lopir of ronvnrsalion among many Duko studnnts. 
I am ol' coursP rnfnrring to tlw "Duke's Top 25 llottnst Cirls" group on l'acebook. Thn group, which was formed hy one ".John Don" (no. not that John Don, ladi.-sl. dnscrib1~s itsdf as "Duke's most .-xl'lusiw l'an~book group." and daims to rank tlw 25 most attractive girls at Dukn in dnsc.-nding order basl'd solely on thn young lady's l'acllhook picturn. 
Tlw rankings arn updated weekly by tlw anonymous crnator(s) of this group; mystPriously, lwwnvnr, it snnms as though you nnvnr actually son any nnw names on tlw list. 
After discovnring this list and dis­cussing it with somn of my lady friends (lt~a. eavesdropping in Alpine), I docid1~d this would lw a groat topic for my lirsl column. I mnan, not only is tho whole list morally rnpr11Iwnsible and chauvin­istic. but it's also a known fact that nobody rnally likes pretty girls. 
So I ligurnd tho column would pracli­ntlly writo ilsnlf (not to mention that it would be a grnat opportunity to got back at all the protty girls for tho years of rojoetion and rnstraining ordnrs). 
llownvnr, writing about this group proved to bn rnueh morn diffkult than I nxpnctnd. I nwan, I'm rmdly not in any position to critique thn actual rankings sincn !\: I obviously don't actually know any of tho girls on tho list personally, and B: f'vn soon some of tho girls in rnaI lifo, and thny havn bonn stumbling around with smnarnd lipstick and onn shoe (God only knows what tlwy'rn like outsido of class). In other words, thny wnn~n't looking their best. 
I ean't rnally criticize the creator of tho group beeause, like just about ovnry male college student in the world, I too havo bonn guilty of lusting over drunkon 
No case for NSA -wiretap 
In this eountry. wiretapping requires a The administration might as well eourt order and the way I know that is argue that President Bush is authorized lweausn the prnsidcnt told me so a cou­to personally knock off a liquor store. pln ynars ago. Everybody wants the government to do 
"A wiretap rnquirns a court order," everything within its power to protect l'rnsidnnt Bush us, and if somebody in this country is dodarnd in a statn­Brian receiving phone calls from mombers of nwnt in April of 2004. Pierce Al-Qaeda, it is eminently reasonable to lie addml, "Wiwn eavesdrop on that person's calls. But wn'rn talking about that is hardly the issue at hand.
The Daily Illini

chasing down tnrror­The issue is, why not just get a war­
l lniversity of

ists, wn'rn talking rant?
Illinois

about getting a court Speed is not the issue. FISA allows for 
ordnr when wn do so. wiretapping without a court order in an 
fl.'s important for our l'nllow citiznns lo emergency so long as the FISA court is 
undNstand ll.hatl constitutional guaran­nolilied within 72 hours, a provision the 
tiWS arn in pla1:n ... bneausn we value tho government has used repeatedly in the 
( :onsti tution." past. 
Wn now know that nvnn as President At least two of the court's judges are Bush was spnaking those words, he was required by law to live in the allowing the National Security Agency to Washington, D.C. area to spoeilkally snerdly wiretap Anwrican citizens with­allow for rapid action when necessary. out a warrant or judicial rnview of any In any easn, if the president did not kind. fool that those provisions w~we adequate, 
This NSA data-lishing program is not he had an opportunity and a responsibil­only another program in a series ol' deci­ity to change them through the custom­sions madn by thn presidnnt that puts his ary democratic process, not in secret ITIHiibility seriously in question, it is a and not in violation of existing law. llagrant violation of the law. Ask yourself if thoro is any question 
Apparnntly wn value the Constitution whether Congress, after the Sept. 11 only to an nxtnnl. attacks, would have enactP.d changllS to 
Ttw administration daims that the FISA in ordor for the president to bo authorization grantnd by Congress al'ter sure he could protect the American peo­tlu~ Snpt. 11 attacks to usn military force ple. that allowml the prnsident to invade President Bush, instead, chose to put Alghanistan, legitimizes this program. himself above the law. Instead of an 
I am not a lawyer, nor do I claim to be investigation into who leaked this pro­orw, hut it is my undnrstanding that gram to thn press, a better course of Conwnss dons not ropnalnntire pioens ol' action would bo an independent investi­lngislation with a wink and a nudge, gation into his executive misconduct. whieh is the only way onn can argue that military force authorization allows for This editorial originally appeared in unehncknd wiretapping by the executive. the Jan. 18 issue ofthe Dailylllini, the 
Thn Fornign lntellignnce Surveillancn daily publication at the University of Aet spedlically n~quires a special court Illinois. to authorize wirntapping, and the The views expressed in this editorial authorization ol' !'oren did not repnal or are those ofthe author and not neces­amend this act. sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Want to be a columnist, copy ~d.hor 

bimbos in my lime, and the last thing I wantnd to come olT as in my lirst column was a bimbo-hating hypoeritn. 
So I doeidnd t.o just put my eommon­lary on tho baekburner for a while and do sonw rnseareh on the group in order to possibly hnlp somo of tho aspiring hot girls out thorn reach this true pinnacle of hotnnss. 
Aftnr all, you know what they always say: Opinions are like facnbook prolilos -everybody has one. 
I decided to take a week off of dassos to do some serious resoareh, chocking out the girls' proliles and tho endless webshots accompanying them (appar­ently most of them have hired photogra­phers to follow them around). 
And I think I've figured out just what it takes to break into that top 25, bneausn, as we all know hete at Duke, it's not how good you look-it's how much recognition you got for it that really counts. 
Tho first thing you need to do if you want to be in Duke's most nlitn faeebook group is to join a sorority if you're not in one alroady. The vast majority of tho top 25 girls are in sororities. 
To bn the hottest, it seems that your political views should b1~ conservativo ­but whatover you do, don'tlnt your clothing choice n~llnetthat. In fact, it may holp if you took nvnry artide of dothing you own and cut about four indws of material oil' tlw bottom. I sus­pect that whnn you'rp as hot as thnsn girls, wearing too nn1ch clothing 1~an snriously inhibit tlw woling pron~ss and could end up bning fatal. 
Thn last pincn of advie1~ I'll give you is simple, but can't bn undnrnst.imatod­drink. Drink and drink and drink until your voicn turns raspy.. your nyns bneonw glaznd ovnr and you aetually bnlinvn that bning drunk is s1~xy. 
In dosing, I must give llllP gnrwral warning. Although racial proliling may have bnnn abolished at airports, it's still alive and wolf on tho l'aenhook. Minorities rarely SIHHll to bn w1~leonw among the hottnst ol' thn hot. 
lsn't l'ar.nbook gnmt'! 
'11tis editorial originally appeared in the Jan. 1 R issue ofthe Chronide. the daily publication at /Juke ( lniversily. 
The l'iews expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Ohsertwr. 


Blogging shouldn't yield punishment 
A child's private thoughts of ing a photo on faeebook of them­hatred towards one of his teachers selves naked, smoking pol and arc found scrawled messily in the simultaneously doing a kegstand, notobook he keeps in his nightstand etc.), the public schools can do drawer. llis parents find out, the nothing about. school finds out, And this is exactly how it should and the kid is Staff be. Public schools, in a way, are an expelled. Editorial extension of thn government-and 
Sound familiar'! as such, they should not be allowed Perhaps, except in to take diseiplinary aetion against
The r,fJllegiate
the high-speed students who arn merely nx1wdsing
ltmes

high-tech world of their right to frnn spench (assuming
Virginia Tech
the information thn kids arnn't disrupting class, age where private verbally abusing others, or otlwr­journals and wise explicitly violating school poli­secret diaries have evolw~d into cy). facebook accounts and Xanga blogs. But, fellow studnnts, don't gloat 
Hegardless of tho medium in yet-whill~ you may havn thn right which students document their to say whatever you want on or off thoughts and feelings, the same public sehool property (and this age-old question still creates tumult includes anything you may want to botwmm kids, their parents and post about yoursnlf online), your their teachers: Whore do schools' right to l'ren spencl1 doesn't make diseiplinary jurisdictions end? you immune to tlw other eonsn­
For private institutions, the issue qwmces your actions might havn ­unfortunately doesn't loavo much consnqunneos that are perfectly room for negotiation -sinee tho legal. schools arc privately owned, they Like ridicule, for instanee. Or crit­can expel their students for doing icism. Or being frowned upon anything that they doom violates because people rncognize you from school policy -and that's a pretty your online pictures and disagree broad definition. with your choice to display yourself 
For example, a Catholic school in in your Looney Tu nns g-string. Now Jersey completely banned stu­Or, worst of all, lwing denied dents' use of websites sueh as employnwnt because thn company Myspace, Xanga, and facobook even you're trying so hard to get a job at home. They may as well have with checked your faeebook prolil1~ told the kids that thhy don't have and domned that you didn't lit their the right to their own voices, or idea of a good employo1~. Yes, it that they aren't allowed to pick up happnns. Keep in mind that any­a pen if they int11nd to write any­thing you post online beeonws pub­thing with it. lie as soon as you click the 
But, like it or not, that's United "Submit" button. And, while it may States. The people in charge of pri­be your right to post whatever you vate institutions have the right to want to say, consider that your set up whatever kind of school poli­words may have unintnnded consl~­eies they want whether they're q unnces. freedom-squelching bigots or not. 
llownver, public schools arc This editorial originally appeared another matter entirely. What in the Jan. 1 R issue r~f the Collegiate would got a student expelled in a Times, the daily pulJlicalion at private institution (posting exces­Virginia Tech University. sive complaints about a tnaeher in a The views expressed in this editorial blog, voicing displeasure about are those ofthe author and not Tll!ces­some of their fellow students, post-sarily those ofTiw Obsertwr. 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
CD REVIEWS 
' 
I Blige raises credibility with powerful release
' 
I 
I I 
I By BRODERICK HENRY 
I ~ > Scene Critic I 
I 
~ Mary J. Blige is music royalty. After 15 years and 10 albums, the multi-Grammy award-winning artist has established herself as the undisputed Queen of hip­hop soul and the preeminent soul singer of her generation. Blige's trademark honesty and often pained vocal delivery has not only won her critical acclaim but also credibility. Throughout her career, Mary J.'s soul­ful voice has transcended both lyric and genre to produce music that is an expression of her personal struggles. 2001's "No More Drama," the singer's most successful album to date, was a manifestation of Blige's decision to quit drinking and rid her life of a costly entourage. 
Similarly, "The Breakthrough," the R&B diva's latest release, is a testimony to her newly discovered self-confidence. With Blige serving as both narrator and central figure, the 16 songs that com­prise the album tell a triumphant love story. Each song is crafted to reveal a tiny fragment of the singer's journey from an insecure girl, who used drugs to ease the pain of sexual molestation and parental abandonment, to a self-assured woman, who learns to love and accept herself despite a troubled past. 
Sonically, although rooted in rough and rugged hip-hop beats, "The Breakthrough" is slick and sophisticat­ed. Tracks produced by music legends Jam and Lewis, '90s hit maker Rodney Jerkins, and newcomer Dave Young place instrumentation in the back­ground so that Blige's stirring voice can shine. Such a tactic would be a disas­trous misstep for many of Blige's pop­tart contemporaries, but for the diva it is a sound choice, for she possesses the ability to bring memories and old feel­ings to life by wrapping her voice around beats so that together they scream of love's lost, coo of newfound romance and exhale the joy of finally learning to love one's self. 
The album opens with a fiery tribute to 
Blige's husband, 


Accompanied by a sample of the 0'Jay's hit "I 

"No One Will Do."
The Breakthrough 
Mary J. Blige 
Swear I Love No One But You," Blige sings "Seen
Geffen Records 
many men in my time/but none of 
.~· 
them compares to mine/I ain't gotta knock on woodffo tell ya I 
.,;'... 

..... 
Recommended tracks: 'No One Will Do,''I Swear I 
got it so 

Love No One But You' and 'What Can I Do?' good/He's every­thing that I need/And everything a man should be.'' As she rifl's, "nobody, nobody, nobody" it is clear Blige has found the man she wants to spend the rest of her life with. 
Other standout tracks include the Will.I.Am produced "About You" on which Mary J. duets with the deceased Nina Simone. While pushing the acoustic beat along, Blige manages to not only remain on key but also complements Simone's voice in a way that makes her seem as alive today as twenty years ago when her vocals were recorded. "I Found My Everything" puts to rest any questions surrounding Blige's vocal range. With power reminiscent of early Aretha Franklin, the soul queen shakes the rafters proclaiming her personal dis­covery. "Father in You" finds Blige describing how the lack of a father fig­ure in her life forced her to expect those qualities in her husband. It is a vulnera-


'Homegrown' a successful mix of musical genres 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Critic 
"Homegrown! The Beginner's Guide to Understanding the Roots, Vol. 1," is the first half of a two-disc best-of anthology of the Roots music. "Homegrown!" illus­trates how the Roots fulfill their titular promise twice over -not only are they underground hip-hop, but the Roots' roots also extend deep down into the subterranean layers of various musical styles. 
Hailing from their native Philadelphia (or "IIIadelph," as they refer to it in Philly slang vernacular) the group is comprised of MC Black Thought, key­boardist Kamal Gray, bassist Leonard "Hub" Hubbard and Amir "?uestlove" (pronounced "Questlove") Thompson, who, despite his use of interrogative punctuation in his nickname, is certainly no question mark on the drums. 

With strong organic influences from different genres, most noticeably jazz, rock anct soul, the Roots are the consum­mate amalgamation of past and present in hip-hop, joining together musical scents from past and present to create a potent audio potpourri. This old­schooVnew-school dynamic is what lies at the essence of the appeal of the Roots -they are a group that is innovative but respects its elders, producing a sound that is at the same time both brand-new and time-honed, familiar yet fresh. 
Typical commercial hip-hop glorifies the drug culture that permeates urban America and glamorizes violence and the objectification of women. The Roots dare to eschew the drugs, guns and hos motifs of their contemporary rap con­temporaries in lieu of soulful tracks that carry a deeper meaning. Almost in spite of this, the Roots somehow manage to remain "street" without having to resort to misogynistic references and violent 

Recommended tracks: 'You Got Me,"Star,"Do You Want More?!!!??!,"Double Trouble' and 'What You Want' 
lyrics. In fact, on the track "Star," the Hoots lament the close entwinement of the youth hip­hop movement with drug culture and gang vio­lence. 
Other tracks to look out for include the song "Do You Want More?!!!??!" It is a prime example of the eclectic nature of the 

· 
-
ble and touching moment that under­scores the singer's ability to transform her painful story into beautiful therapy for listeners. 
Still, "The Breakthrough" does contain some missteps including "MJB da MVP," a syrupy retracing of Blige's career that seems out of place with is tame lyrics and awkward production. On "Can't Hide From Love," Blige pushes her voice to its limits so that it sounds less inspir­ing and more weary. 
Ultimately, "The Breakthrough" is a sincere work that allows listener's to examine their lives through beautiful and meaningful music that contains the right amount of pain, joy and even drama. It is clear with this album that the Queen sits proudly upon her throne. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenry1 @nd.edu 

Hoots' music. The Roots represent with a chest-beating shout-out to their home city of Philadelphia on a track which pairs a fairly standard hip-hop beat with Scottish bagpipes blaring triumphantly in the background. This song is sure to be a hit amongst the Irish faithful on campus. 
"You Got Me," a duet originally featur­ing R&B queen Erykah Badu, won a Grammy in 2000. However, tuber afi­cionados will be quick to notice that the version on this album features a difl'er­ent female vocalist, Jill Scott. The track deals with issues of fidelity and loyalty, and has a deep melancholy vibe despite repeated insistences by Scott that, "baby, you got me.'' 
Mos Def puts in an appearance on 
"Double Trouble," a who's-the-man song (or is it who's the men?) featuring great back-and-forth chemistry between Del' and Black Thought, who may he perhaps the best rapper out there you've never heard of'. 
Unlike textbooks that may have been recently purchased at the bookstore (which enumerates the cost of a college education at an arm, a leg and a first­born child), a copy of "Homegrown! A Beginner's Guide to the Roots, Vol. 1" will only set a listener back $9.99 on iTunes Music Store. School's in session, and "Homegrown!" is on the required listening list for Hip-Hop 101. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1 @nd.edu 





#9 

• " ~ 
:!t~ 
I 

) :il 
' 
r • .If • ( ' 
I 
i )

t:; ·' 
' 
t 

\.·~11 F Pil~j.j()t 

#7 
' 1 r l 
' 
~~~ •t
l.
I IJ' 
"t
I '' 
} "1 
.. i
..,. 


' ;f
i~ i 
til 
A. 
} l
' ' ~ 
:' I 
#() 

By JOE LATTAL and KEVIN O'SULLIVAN 
Scene Critics 
2005 brought nnw artists and old favorites to the airwavns. With an oar for innovative and unique sounds, Notre Damn's WVFI created a list of their top picks for tho year. 
10. Beck -Guero 
"(;anwboy Variations" and multiple romix EPs for snvnral traeks on "(;uero" indicated that Bock was an artist's artist. A mastnr of everything from blues to daneo musk, he combined elements of his mel­lower lnndeneies from his earlier masterpiece "Seaehango," while echoing the fun and catchiness of his most successful release to date "Ode lay." The opening track, "E-Pro" was one of the best singles of tho year with its instrumental, guitar-driven <:horus. 
9. Broken Social Scene -Broken Social Scene 
Every indio rocker's favorite Toronto dectet rnloased tho long-awaited full-length follow up to 2002's "You Forgot It In People." Tho lirsl single "7 /4 (Shornline)" tore up college radio eharts and GAP store sound systems beginning last fall. Just like "You Forgot It In People," the album featured con­vnntional as well as out-of-bounds songwriting, emphasizing messages through heavy ropotition and a wide range of tempos. 
8. The Go! Team -Thunder, Lightning, Strike 
Although other parts of the world diseovered this album in 20()4, "Thunder, Lightning, Strike!" didn't find a U.S. release until 2005. A whirlwind of energy; horns, handelaps and self-conteredncss earned the British group attention worldwide. The album fea­tured a combination of instrumental tracks and more poppy dance tunes that would be just as appropriato on a mainstream pop album as a college rock release. 
7. Wolf Parade -Apologies to the Queen Mary 
Part of the eontemporary Indio explosion to eome out of Montreal, Quebec, Wolf Parade bumps elbows with the likes of The Arcade Fire, with whom they have toured throughout the United States. !laving been "discovernd" stateside by Modest Mouse's Issac Broc:k llw quartet recorded their f'irsl full length Apologies to Queen Mary, full of quirky pop melodies that have the power to make you stamp your feel, pump your fists, squint your eyes and delightfully shrink along. 
6. Bright Eyes -I'm Wide Awake It's Morning 
Conor Oberst and the men from Omaha returned early in 2005 with the release of two albums -''I'm Widn Awake It's Morning" and "Digital Ash in a Digital Urn." Oberst's delicate voice drifted above gnntle and moody acoustic tunes. Often mc-1lancholy with southern inf1uences, ''I'm Wide Awake" was the better slruetured album with more interesting sto­ries, notably "Old Soul Song" and "We Are Nowhere and It's Now." Bright Eyes is an aequired taste, but in comparison to previous releases, "I'm Wide Awake" might be their strongest to date. 
5. Kanye West -Late Registration 
"Late Hogistralion" was the clear standout last ynar in major label hip-hop. Just like on Kanye's debut, "College Dropout," he wore his political beliefs on his sleeve (as he did in his notable TV appearances) on tracks such as "Biaek Music" and "Diamonds From Sierra Leone." lie showed off his pcip appeal on tracks such as "Gold Digga" and "Toueh tho Sky." We also saw Kanye's sentimental side for the first limn on "Hoses," but he still wants a "prenup." 
4. Decemberlsts -Picaresque 
The term "Picaresque" can be loosely defirwd as pertaining to rogues and scoundrels, particularly in a literary context. As of late a lot of ink has boon spill about this term in reference to the third Ll' by The Decembc;risls. Frontman and primary songwriter Colin Meloy, who holds an MFA in creative writing, spins fantastical tales of the underworlds of society in an oddly timeless and unforgettable manner. Those tales are then complemented by an often mellow, often poppy soundtrack of accordions, guitars, mandolins, keys and the like. 
3. Clap Your Hands Say Yeah -Clap Your Hands Say Yeah 
Clap Your I lands Say Yeah went from no-name to big time in 2005 with the release of their self-titled debut. With the help of hype from Pitchfork Media as well as exposure in the Nnw York Times, the band nwntually landed a record deal at the end of the ynar and played New York's Irving Plaza for a New Years Eve show (after making a stop at Notre Dame). Aloe Dunsworth's warm voice and breathtaking songwriling lnd tho band to surprising success. 
)... Death Cab For Cutie -Plans 
::.JGreat expectations were met by the Paeifie Northwest out(it's major label debut this fall. After a handful of albums and EPs, Death Cab linally earned long deserved attention when the hit single "Soul Meets Body" hit radio. The band gained exposure to wider audiences, even attracting older demographies for the first time. They appeared on soundtracks for "The O.C." and "Six Feet Under" and performed their single live on Saturday Night Live. Any concerns that the band would compromise its sound for eommerdal success were silenced with the emotional "I Will Follow You Into the Dark" and the lengthy "What Sarah Said." 
1. Sufjan Stevens -llllnoise 
"IIIinoise" was the clear champ of 2005. Copyrighted art troubles aside, Suljan Stevens' soeond state album was a spectacular arrangement that spanned folk, rock, and even all-country genres. From the accessible "Chicago" to the more rustie-sounding "Casimir Pulaski Day" to all the bizarre instrumental tracks in between with titles that were longer than the tunes themselves, to say "IIlinoise" was impressive from top to bottom is an understatement. A dclinitive musieal opus ought to be at the top of tho chart, and no album stands out more than "IIlinoisc." 
Contact Joe Lattal and Kevin O'Sullivan at jlattal@nd.edu and kosullil@nd.edu 
Graphics by MATT HUDSON 

courtesy courtesy~diii~Z,~~ Broken Social Scene has grown from Canada to become popular on college radio Colin Meloy and the Decemberlsts tell tales of the underworlds of society In stations all over the United States. They released their album Oct. 4, 2005. "Picaresque." This Is the third full release by the band which formed In Portland. 


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 19, 2006 
NBA 

Carter's 31lead New Jersey over Philadelphia 
Richard Jefferson adds 20, Iverson scores 36 in the Sixers' seventh loss in 10 games 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA -Vince Carter scored 31 points and had 10 assists to lead the New .Jersey Nets to a 101-90 win over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
The Atlantic Division stand­ings show the Nets with a four­game lead over the second­place Sixers. The gap, though, seems considerably wider con­sidering New Jersey has won 12 of 15 while Philadelphia has lost seven of 10. 
Allen Iverson led the Sixers with 36 p'oints and Chris Webber had 15. 
Iverson came up limping late in the fourth quarter when he appeared to knock knees with Jason Collins on a driving layup. Iverson hobbled around the court, rubbed his right leg, but remained in the game. lie did take off for the locker room as soon as the game ended. 
Much like how the Sixers col­lapsed in their embarrassing 104-76 loss to Washington on Monday, they again put up lit­tle tight in the fourth quarter. 
The Nets got a pair of jumpers from Clifford Robinson and a 3 from Hichard Jefferson during a 10-0 spurt that opened the fourth and gave them an 86-69 lead. 
The home crowd started boo­ing and heading for the exits. After making only two baskets in the first three quarters, Webber hit a 3-pointer and a 16-footer on consecutive pos­sessions that helped pull the Sixers within eight. 
Carter pushed back the Sixers with a couple of jumpers and the Nets cruised from there. Jefferson had 20 points and 16 rebounds, Robinson added 15 points and Nenad Krstic had 16. 
Celtlcs 103, Timberwolves 96 
BOSTON -Paul Pierce scored 14 of his 2 5 points in the fourth quarter to lead the Boston Celtics to a win over the Minnesota Timberwolves on Wednesday night. 
Pierce scored 11 consecutive points for the Celtics to spark a 13-2 run spanning the third and fourth quarters and help the Celtics turn a seven-point deficit into a four-point lead. Boston outscored Minnesota 34-23 in the fourth quarter. 
The Celtics trailed by as many as 14 early in the second quarter and 55-46 at halftime but chipped away at the lead. 
Delonte West scored Boston's first eight points of the second half to keep the game close. Then Pierce took over. 

Pierce gave the Celtics their first lead since early in the first quarter when he completed a 3-point play 51 seconds into the fourth quarter. Pierce drove to the right side of the hoop, made a tough layup in traffic while being fouled by Trenton Hassell. The ensuing free throw made it 74-73. 
The next time down the floor, Pierce nailed a 3-pointer to extend the Celtics' lead to 77­73. 
Magic 106, Wizards 98 
ORLANDO -Steve Francis was back and well-behaved. 
Francis had 12 points, seven rebounds and seven assists in his first game back from a two­game suspension to lead the Orlando Magic over the Washington ·Wizards on Wednesday night. 
The guard was suspended by the team for refusing to re­enter a blowout game late in the fourth quarter. He came off the bench against the Wizards for the third time in his six­year NBA career. 
"That's something that's way out of my control," Francis said of his reserve role. "So I just have to do what I can do when I come in." 
He entered with 4:01 left in the first quarter to a mixed reaction from the crowd. Two minutes later, his no-look, behind-the-back pass on a fast break for a Hedo Turkoglu dunk put the 

rebounds on Wednesday night. 
"Give me 24 hours at least to savor this one," Magic coach Brian Hill said. "We just had a bad road trip. I want to relax a little bit and have a cocktail 
~d then we'll 
crowd back on his talk about the
"Give me 24 hours

side. starting lineup 
"After a week of at least to savor some other day." not playing, just this one. We justshooting by myself, Pacers 98,
had a bad road 

it was good to get Bobcats 92 out on the court trip. I want to relax INDIANAPOLIS with my team­Anthony
and have a cocktail 

mates and play Johnson did it all 
and then we'll talk 

well," Francis against the said. about the starting Charlotte 
Francis was lineup some other Bobcats. 
scoring a team­l-Ie scored 16 of
day."

high 18 points a his career-high game at the end of 27 points in the 2005, but hit a Brian Hill second half to wall in January. In Orlando head coach help the Indiana his last six games, Pacers win on he was averaging Wednesday 
11.5 points on 37.5 percent night. He grabbed 10 shooting, with 25 assists and rebounds, shot 9-for-14 from 30 turnovers. the field and had four assists. 
In the meantime, point guard He even had a transition Jameer Nelson has emerged as dunk in the fourth quarter, a a budding star. He has led rare occurrence for the 31­Orlando in scoring four of the year-old point guard. The two­last five games, including 22 handed jam gave the Pacers a points, five assists and five 90-83 lead with three 111inutes left. 
"It's nice," he said. "Now that I'm a little older in age -I'm one of the older guys -they (younger teammates) always give me a hard time about dunking. They say if I can't show them something, then I need to just lay it in." 
The 6-foot-3, 200-pound Johnson was too strong for the 5-10, 170-pound Brevin Knight. 
"I had a good matchup as far as size advantage against their point guard," Johnson said. "I was just trying to take advan­tage of that. I was able to get some shots to go down and got to the foul line, and my team­mates were looking for me. It was nice to have a big night." 
Pistons 117, Hawks 89 
ATLANTA -The NBA's best and worst teams followed the script perfectly. 
Chauncey Billups scored 23 points, Richard Hamilton added 21 and the Detroit Pistons extended their winning streak to live in a row, routing the hapless Atlanta Hawks Wednesday night. 
Ben Wallace handled the 
dirty work with 18 rebounds and six blocks. Led by Maurice Evans, Detroit got a boost from its bench in the decisive second quarter. 
"The good teams in this league are the ones that can bring it every night," Wallace said. "We've done a good job of doing that this season." 
No kidding. The Pistons boosted the NBA's best record to 31-5, and all five victories in their latest winning streak have been by double figures. 
At the opposite end of the spectrum: Atlanta fell to 10-27, already 21 1/2 games behind the Pistons in the Eastern Conference. 
Detroit got ofT to a rocky start, missing 11 of its first 16 shots. The Ilawks were even worse, starting out 1-of-11, but still managed to claim a 19-18 lead at the end of the ugly quarter. 
"I know we tightened up the screws a little bit, and got more serious about the game, after the first quarter," Billups said. 
"When we did that, we kind of imposed our will on the game." 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full  515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms, $200/per- ND grad renting bsmnt studio apt.  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  When a crime breaks out, all the  
FoR RENT  Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings, 10x20 Deck,  son, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653. 1706 Logan, 6 bdrms, $200/person,  TV+internet+utilities incl. 574-339· 0582  Days from $299!  cute girls shout, "it's the good look­ing guy." When there's crime out  
Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  B&G Homes. 574-250-7653.  Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity  there, he's gonna comb his hair  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED- Available Aug. 06/07,  123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath.  Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  because he's the good looking guy.  
ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  Call574-232-4527, 269-683-5038.  Caii574-229-0149.  PERSONAL  Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31  I picked a bad day to drink milk.  
1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm  www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800­ 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  to campus. $575/mo. Laundry. Call  home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, wid,  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  678-6386.  Dumb move, man. Dumb move. But  
BlueGoldrentals.com  283-0325  broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07  Days from $299!  it's like them old reflexes coming  
& 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St:  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  back.  
ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME. NICE  Blue & Gold Homes is offering a  NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A  Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity  Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
LOCATION & 8 MINS. TO ND.  free pool table to all new tenants. 1­ SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3  Parties! Cancun, Acapulco,  MTV Celebrity Parties!  Kelly Meehan loves Rum Runners  
$475/MO. CALL 574-386-7272.  7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open  bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys.  Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps  Cancun,Acapulco, Jamaica From  
leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or  Broadband internet option. W/D &  Needed!  $499! Campus Reps Needed!  High.stakes, I got more at stake  
ROOM IN PRIVATE HOME. NICE  call  alarm system avail. Move in today.  PromoCode:31  than Philly.  
LOCATION & 8 MINS. TO ND.  Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or  PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­ 
$475/MO. CALL 574-386-7272.  email  travel.com  www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800­ I got no dime but I got some time to  
57 4-250· 7653.  JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com  1-800-678-6386.  678-6386.  hear his s.tory...  



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 19, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page IS 



NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
t.narn rm:ord OT points . Philadelphia 28·10 8 64 NY Rangers 25·14 7 57 New Jersey 23·18 5 51 NY Islanders 20·23 2 42 Plltsburgh 11-26 9 31 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT points 3 65
Ottawa 31-10 3 61
Buffalo 29-13 3 51
Toronto 24-18 6 48
Montreal 21-16 7 41
Boston 17-21 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
li'<LIIl record OT points 
Carolina 31-10 4 31 Atlanta 22·18 6 29 Tampa Bay 23-20 3 22 Florida 18·22 7 18 Washington 15·24 5 18 
Western Conference, Central Division 
LIHLIII rtH:ord OT points 
Detroit 30·12 3 63 Nashville 28-12 5 61 Chicago 15-25 6 36 Columbus 16-28 2 34 St. Louis 10·29 5 25 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tt·am record OT points 
Colorado 27·17 3 57 Calgary 26·14 5 57 Vancouver 26·15 5 57 Edmonton 24·17 5 53 Minnesota 20·21 4 44 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team reeord OT points Dallas 30·13 2 62 Los Angeles 28-18 2 58 San Jose 21-17 5 47 Anaheim 19·16 9 47 Phoenix 22·22 2 46 
Mens College Basketball Big East Conference 
toam eonf. overall streak HPI 
West VIrginia  5-0  1a.3  Won 11  46  
Pittsburgh  3·0  14·0  Won 14  7  
Connecticut  3·1  15·1  Won4  13  
Villanova  3·1  12·2  Won 1  6  
Syracuse  3·1  15·3  Lost 1  22  
Rutgers  2·1  12·4  Won 1  55  
Georgetown  3·2  11·4  Won 1  64  
Marquette  3·2  13·5  Won 1  34  
Cincinnati  2·2  13·4  Lost2  19  
St. John's  2·2  9·6  Won2  112  
Louisville  1·3  13·4  Lost2  80  
NOTRE DAME  1·3  10·5  Won 1  90  
Seton Hall  1·3  9·6  Lost3  88  
DePaul  1-4  8·8  Lost3  44  
Providence  0·4  7-8  Lost4  85  
South Florida  0·4  6·11  Lost6  230  

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

North Carolina at Virginia 7 p.m., ESPN Cincinnati at Xavier 8 p.m., ESPN Utah at Air Force 9 p.m., ESPN2 Stanford at Arizona 10: 30 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
NBA 

Pistons at Knicks 8 p.m., TNT Lakers at Kings 10: 30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 
KIHKLAND, Wash. -Seahawks coach Mike Holmgren removed all doubt Wednesday: NFL MVP Shaun Alexander will play in Sunday's con­ference championship game against Carolina. 
The league rushing champion sustained a concussion last Saturday in the first quarter of Seattle's win over Washington. Alexander later said he was uncon­scious initially and then "out" of it for about 20 minutes. 
But Holmgren said 

Wednesday the All-Pro back will be ready for the Panthers. 
"Shaun's full go," the coach said. "He passed some tests we gave him yesterday. He partieipated in our walkthrough this morning. He's going to be fine." 
Alexander, who rushed for a team-record 1,880 yards in the regular sea­son, joked he learned something about himself over a four-day battery of doetors' tests. 
"Oh yeah. I took all the tests and realized the guy knocked some sense into me," Alexander said of 
Hedskins linebacker LaVar Arrington, who appeared to hit the back of Alexander's helmet during a 1-yard loss 
Saturday. "I  am  actually  
smarter  than  I  was  
before."  

He also apparently has his sense of perspective baek. 
The potential free agent said on a conferenee call to Carolina media Wednesday he has an appreciation for the situa­tion former Seahawks teammate Ken Lueas went through this past year. 
When ashd if he was sad to see Lucas leave 
IN BRIEF 

Federer advances to third round of Australian Open 
MELBOUHNE, Australia-Top­ranked Hoger Federer advanced to the third round of the Australian Open with an emphatic 6-1, 6-4, 6-0 win over Florian Mayer on Thursday. 
The 24-year-old Swiss star finished with 38 winners and closed out the 1-hour, 12-minute match with an ace. 
"It's so niee to get quick matches in the heat," said Federer, whose next opponent is 30th-seeded Max Mirnyi. 
"I thought I handled it well in the heat -I'm very happy with my per­formance, so it's good." 
Federer was so dominating that Mayer never had a game point after holding serve to pull within 4-5 in the second set. 
Always a perfectionist, the normal­ly stoic Federer did seem a little annoyed at his 18 unforced errors that accounted for one-third of Florian's points. 
And after smacking a lovely fore­hand rrosseourt winner for his third break of the final set, he allowed himself a little fist pump. He linishnd off the match with a pair of service winners and his eighth and ninth aces, then hit a ball high into the stands. Sheffield extorter jailed 
CHICAGO -A Chicago man who tried to blackmail New York Yanknes slugger Gary Shef'lield and his wife by elaiming to have a video showing her having sex with H&B singer H. Kelly was sentenced Wednesday to more than two years in prison. 
Derrick Mosley. 39, a self-styled minister and community activist, was sentenced to 27 months, but will get more prison time later because he was on probation for bank fraud at the time of the alleged extortion. 
Mosley maintained throughout the case that he had not meant to black· mail anyone and that he had been misunderstood when he offered to provide Sheffield's wife, DeLeon Hichards-Sheff'ield, with personal Seattle, Alexander said: "I definitely was. But then, at the samo time, who knows if I am going to be here or not'?" 
"I told him you never know, I might be out there with you. Whennvnr you lose a teammate it's rough. When you lose a friend it's worse, Alexander added. 
Alexander has rnpeatnd­ly exprt~ssed his desirn this season to "win thrn1~ or four Supnr Bowls for Seattle." But tw said last month talks wit.h tlw Snahawks on a r.ontraet nxtension wnrn put ofT until af'tnr tlw postseason. 
eounseling. 
''I'm sorry it got to this point, giwn my track rPeord with tlw communi­ty," he told fpdnral .JudgP SamuPI Dnr-Yegh iaY.an. Steelers' Porter not fined 
after criticism of officials 
PITTSBUHGII -Pittsburgh lirw­baekN Joey PortPr won't lw firwd by tho NFL for critidzing of'lirials aftpr the Stnelnrs boat Indianapolis. 
NFI. eoaches arP subjnct to l'inPs for criticizing of'l1eials. but players usually arnn't fined. 
Porter, a Pro Bowl seleetion and one of the Steelers' eo-captains. criti­cized refnree Pete Mornlli's erew repnatedly during a series of postgame interviews following a 21­18 win in the AFC divisional round. Among other comments, Porter said, "The whole world wanted Indy to win so bad, they were going to do whatever they had to do." 
NFL spokesman Steve Alie said there would be no fine for the remarks. Alic didn't elaboratn. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Redick and Williams lead Duke over N.C. State 
Blue Devils trailed by one at half but outscored Wolfpack 48-34 in the second half 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Sean Dockery saved Duke again. This time, he didn't wait until the final buzzer. 
With the top-ranked Blue Devils' unbeaten record on the line, Dockery made a go-ahead 3-pointer and set up another an instant later ijy Lee Melchionni to help them beat No. 14 North Carolina State 81-68 Wednesday night. 
J.J. Redick had 28 points and Shelden Williams added 21, but it was Dockery's plays down the stretch that helped Duke reach 17-0 (5-0 Atlantic Coast Confere'nce) for only the second time. The other was during a run to the NCAA title in 1992. 
The Wolfpack (14-3, 3-2) was never too far away in a game that featured 16 lead changes and nine ties, the last at 65 fol­lowing a free throw from N.C. State's Gavin Grant. On the other end, Dockery swished a 3 as Tony Bethel slammed into him. 
When his free throw clanged off the rim, Dockery chased down the rebound and found Melchionni alone at the top of the key. His jumper also found the mark, and suddenly, the Blue Devils had a six-point lead. They never were challenged again. 
They trailed at halftime for only the second time this season -the other came against Virginia Tech on Dec. 4. That's when Dockery made a 40-foot heave at the buzzer to give Duke the improbable victory. He made sure this one had little drama in the fmal seconds. 
Duke closed this game with a 16-3 run. Earlier this month, the Wolfpack saw North Carolina score the final 13 points to win. 
Cedric Simmons had an incredible game for N.C. State, finishing with a career-high 28 points, nine rebounds, seven blocks and three steals. 
Grant had 13 points for N.C. State, his first game in double figures in more than a month. But he and Simmons couldn't overcome uncharacteristically poor games from Engin Atsur and Ilian Evtimov. They each scored only two points, about nine below their averages. 
Florida 113, Savannah State 62 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Joakim Noah had 21 points on 10-for-10 shooting, reserve Walter Hodge added 18 points and No. 2 Florida remained unbeaten with a victory over lowly Savannah State on Wednesday night. 
The Gators extended the best start and longest winning streak in school history, and finished undefeated in non-conference play for the first time in coach Billy Donovan's 10 seasons. 
Florida (17 -0) returns to the Southeastern Conference on Saturday at Tennessee, which should provide a much tougher test that Savannah State (1-18). 
Javon Handolph had 22 points and eight rebounds for the Tigers, who last season became the second winless NCAA Division I team in the last half­century. They have lost 18 straight since a season-opening victory over Wilberforce University. 
They were overmatched from the start Wednesday. 

The Gators went up 13-0, extended the lead to 45-10 with a 21-0 run and led by as many as 39 in the first half. 
Up 57-23 at the break, Florida opened the second half with a 14-3 spurt, and Donovan pulled his starters with 13:48 remain­ing. 
Memphis 88, Tennessee 79 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Shawne Williams had 21 points and 14 rebounds, while Rodney Carney added 22 points Wednesday night as No. 4 Memphis held off Tennessee. 
Carney was 8-of 17 from the field, while Williams was 8-of-16 as Memphis did not take a dou­ble-digit lead until the final 4:04. 
Darius Washington added 17 points and five assists, while Chris Douglas-Roberts finished with 11 points for Tigers (16-2), who won their fifth straight. Wiliams had four blocks. 
Dane Bradshaw led the Volunteers (11-3) with 21 points, 10 rebounds and five steals and was 9-of-13 from the field. Chris Lofton finished with 16 points for the Vols, while C.J. Watson scored 14 on 2-of-10 shooting. Major Wingate and Stanley Asumnu each scored 11. 
The cross-state rivalry was filled with intensity from the opening tap. There was trash­talking, stiff defense, flying elbows and a frenzied back-and­forth pace. Both coaches ­John Calipari of Memphis and Bruce Pearl of Tennessee ­were pleading their case to offi­cials throughout, adding to the atmosphere. The crowd, mostly in Memphis blue with a sprinkle of UT orange, was on its feet most of the game. 
Through it all, Tennessee stayed within striking distance, somewhat because Memphis failed to finish inside several times. 
With 6:45 left, it was tied at 69, but Memphis went on a 10-0 run over the next 2:30. 
Williams had seven points in the stretch that gave the Tigers their biggest lead of the game, 79-69, when he scored inside and converted the ensuing foul shot. 

The Vols cut it to 80-74 on four straight points by Bradshaw, but could get no clos­er, losing their second straight. 
Tennessee scored the final six points of the half to take a 45-41 lead. 
There were five ties and 12 lead changes in the game. 
Ohio State 77, Wisconsin 67 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Jamar Butler and Je'Kel Foster took turns making critical shots down the stretch to lead No. 19 Ohio State to a victory over No. 15 Wisconsin on Wednesday night. 
The loss· ended Wisconsin's seven-game Big Ten winning streak and dealt a defeat to the last unbeaten Big Ten team. 
The Buckeyes (13-2, 3-2) had a balanced attack, with Terence Dials scoring 15 points and Ron Lewis, Butler and Matt Sylvester each added 14. 
Kammron Taylor and Alando Tucker each scored 21 points for the Badgers (14-3, 4-1), with Tucker shooting 9-of-22 from the field. 
With the Buckeyes on top 44­43 and 14 minutes remaining, the Buckeyes ran off eight straight points. Butler hit two free throws, seldom-used sub Ivan Harris hit a 3 from the left corner and Butler made a 3 early in the possession to push the lead to 52-43. 
Ohio State, which beat a ranked team for the first time in three tries this season, never trailed again. 
The Badgers pulled to 65-61 with just under 6 minutes left on Brian Butch's 15-foot jumper, but then Foster came out of his slump. He hit the second of two free throws. After a miss by Tucker, he came out of an inbounds play to hit a 3-pointer from the right side. After two more Wisconsin misses, Ohio State went inside to Dials and he hit a baseline turnaround over Jason Chappell for a 71-61 lead with 3:33 left. 
Neither team shot the ball well the rest of the way, trading missed free throws and errant 3-pointers. 
Four free throws by Taylor cut the lead to 72-65 heading into the final minute with Lewis hit­ting three foul shots and Foster and Butler each adding one to keep the Buckeyes in control. 
Butch added 11 points for Wisconsin, which had beaten Ohio State in its last three trips to Value City Arena. 


SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application totms, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: MARCH 3, 2006 


Sponsored by the Office of lntemational Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies 
.-------------------------------­
Thursday, January 19, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Marinelli reportedly will take Lions' reigns 
Coach spent 10 years  The Oakland Haiders inter­viewnd Marinelli on Monday,  linebacker and TV analyst became an NFL exccutivo for  
working with Tampa Bay's defensive backs  then he travelod to suburban Detroit for a second interview with Lions president Matt  the first time. Dick .Jauron, who took over when Mariucci was fired in  
Millnn.  November, was one of many  
Fomwr Nnw Orleans Saints  candidates Millen intervinwed  
ALLEN I'AHK, Mich. -Hod  eoaeh .Jim Haslett said he was  during a two-weok process.  
Marirwlli was rwaring an agrnn­ selwdulnd to travel from his  Among the couches Millen also  
nwnt with thn J>ntroit Lions on  homo in Louisiana to Michigan  interviewed wnre: Pittsburgh  
WPd nnsd ay night to lwcomn  on Wednnsday night for a see­ offensive line coach Huss  
l.lwir nnw lwad 1~oaeh, a team  ond interview. But on  Grimm; Denver offensive coor­ 
so un:n to Id Th n Associ a tnd  Wednesday nwning, hn told tho  dinator Gary Kubiak; Clevrdand  
l'n~ss.  AP ho had not heard !"rom the  offensive coordinator Maurice  
Tlw soureP, who spokn on the  Lions about his travel arrange­ Carthon, New York Giants  
condition of anonymity bneausn  ments or his prospects for the  defensive coordinator Tim  
tho tnam had not made an  job.  Lewis and San Praneisco assis­ 
annourH~nnwnt. said Marinelli  Unlike Millen's first two  tant head coach Mike  
was to lmtvn tlw tnam's practicn  eoaehing seardws, he took his  Singletary.  
fadlity on Wndnnsday night, but  time and intnrvinwed several  Marinolli's coaching eareer  
staynd to rwgotiatn his eontract.  eandidates. Millen hired Marty  began in 1973 as an assistant at  
Marinelli spnnt thn past I 0  Mornhinweg quiekly in 2001,  Hoscmead (Calif.) lligh Sehool.  
snasons in Tampa Bay as defml­ hoping Cleveland wouldn't hire  lie was an assistant at Utah  
siw lirw eoach. I lis unit hnlpnd  him. Two years later, Millen  State from 1973-82, before  
establish an NI,.L record with 69  hirnd Stevn Mariucei wil.h such  moving on to California for nine  
straight ganws with at least one  hastn that he was fined  seasons, Arizona State for three  
sack from I 'JIJIJ-03. lin had the  $200,000 by tho NFL bncause  soasons and Southern  
title of assistant head eoaeh  he didn't follow the. league's  California for one season.  
added in 2002.  minority intnrview policy.  lie went to Tampa Bay in  
lin has not hnnn a lwad eoach  With Millen's players and  1996 and was the defensive line  
at any levnl, but attraetnd intnr­ coaches, the Lions are an NFL­ eoach for six seasons. The past AP  
nst from at least one othor tnam  worst 21-59 over the past live  four seasons, he also had the Detroit fans protest during a Dec. 18 game against Cincinnati.  
with an opnning this oll'snason.  seasons -since the former  title of assistant head coach. Rod Marinelli inherits the task of turning around the franchise.  
AUSTRALIAN OPEN  

Williams easily defeats Pin in second round match 
Associated Press 
MELBOUHNE, Australia­Sernna Williams had seen enough: She nearly was bounced out of the lirst round of tho Australian Opon, and hnr sistor headed home after all of" one match. 
So the defending champion didn't exaetly overlook Camille Pin, a Frenchwoman ranked 130th. Williams pounded the ball, grunting with plenty of oomph in a 6-3, 6-1 victory Wednesday to reach the third round. 
"Everyone's a threat," 
Williams said. "But I'm real serious. I'm here to be a threat as well." 
Williams dropped serve to trail 2-1 in the opening set but quickly regained control by breaking serve six times. She seemed annoyed with Pin's lack of pace and floating shots, replying with unusual ferocity and finishing with 30 winners. 
Williams gave up only three points in the last three games in running her winning streak in Melbourne to 16 matches. She won the title in 2003 and 2005, skipping the 2004 major because of injuries. 
"The last two times I played here, I did really well," she said. ''I'm just hoping to keep it up." 
Next up is 17th-seeded Daniela llantuchova of Slovakia, who has never taken a set off Williams. 
Williams played only 21 matches after winning this title last year and finishing 21-7 in a season marked by injurios. 
Williams needed to recover during thn third set of hor opening match against 52nd­ranked Li Na. Sho loft little margin for error in her match against Pin, with the mornory still fresh of Venus' lirst-round loss on the same court Monday to Bulgaria's Tszvetana Pironkova. 
"It's never as easy as it looks," Williams said. "I defi­nitely had some things I want­ed to work on. I like the fact that I was playing a little elos­er to the lines." 
Pironkova's brief run ended Wednesday with a loss to American Laura Granville. 
Top-ranked Lindsay Davenport had to scramble in defeating Croatia's Karolina Sprem 7-6 (4), 6-3. The 2000 Australian champion didn't take command until Sprem double-faulted at 3-1 in tho tiebreaker. She won six of tho next seven points. 
"To come back and construct a few really good points, it was very key to get out of that," said Davenport, who next plays 25th-seoded Maria Kirilenko. 
Maria Sharapova overcame 31 unforced errors and fended off three set points against American qualifier Ashley Harkleroad in the second set to advance 6-1, 7-5. 
Sharapova was treated for foot blisters but did not appear bothered by the shouldor injury that kept her off the cir­cuit for two months. The 2004 Wimbledon champion knows little of her next opponont, Zuzana Ondraskova. 
"I can't worry about my opponent," Sharapova said. "I've got to focus on my game -that's what makes mn a great player." 
French Open ehampion .Justine llenin-llardenne, sond­ed eighth, took the last l'ivn games after IIana Sromova turned hor anklo badly and won 7-6 (2), 6-1. 
With two of tho top I 0 women out and others strug­gling against low-ranked play­ers, llenin-llardnnrw senses a ehangn. 
"Wn eannot say that the first week is easy for tlw top soeds," said llenin-llardonno, the 2004 Australian Open champion. "Wo could see V!~ry diiTicult results in tho l"irst rounds, and a lot of diflkultins for tho top-seed players." 
Also advandng were No. 6 Nadia Potrova and No. 14 Svetlana Kuznetsova, thn 2004 
U.S. Open winnor. Among tho mnn, No. 2 Andy Hoddick and No. 4 David Nalbandian, tho Masters Cup champion, took differing paths to the third round. 
Hoddick, backed by a bois­terous cheering seetion ­some draped and uthors paint­ed in American flags ­shrugged ofT an ankle strain in a 7-5, 6-3, 6-2 win over Wesley Moodie, the Wimbledon dou­bles champion. 
lie had 11 aces and eonced­od only 17 points in 15 serviee games, but was most pleased by his strong return of serve. Hoddiek, a first-round loser at the last U.S. Open, plays Julien Bennetcau of France in tlw third round. 

----~ 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2006 
NFL 

Carolina defensive back Lucas returns to Seattle 

Corner left Seahawks after six-pick season 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -All the things cornerback Ken Lucas wanted for his career -respect, recognition, the chance to play on a championship defense ­couldn't be found with the Seattle Seahawks. 
So he took the first flight out when his contract expired, eagerly accepting a six-year, $36.5 million deal with the 
Carolina Panthers. Now "Super Luc" gets the chance to show the Seahawks what they let slip away this Sunday when the Panthers play Seattle for the NFC championship. 
"It's not Ken Lucas vs. the Seattle Seahawks, it's the Panthers vs. the Seahawks," Lucas insisted Wednesday. " I don't want the emphasis to be placed on me. It's about this team, because I can't go out there and win this game by myself." 
Oh, but Lucas will most defi­nitely try to make his mark in a game he claims is the biggest moment of his life since he cor­rectly spelled "scissors" to win the fifth-grade spelling bee. 
He's always been a little bitter about the way his four years with the Seahawks concluded just a few short months after he was the NFC's co-leader with six interceptions. 
When the Seahawks turned their attention to re-signing play­ers, they never really got around to Lucas. By the time they made their offer -two days before the free agency period began ­Lucas felt disrespected and had already made up his mind to leave. 
"That just let me know that I wasn't really a priority for them," Lucas said. "I just wanted to go somewhere where I felt like I was truly wanted and I think I made it to that place." 
Seattle coach Mike Holmgren insisted Wednesday he didn't want to lose Lucas. 
"I wanted him to stay, but he was given a fabulous contract by Carolina," Holmgren said. "I thought Kenny was our best defensive back last year. If you remember at the end of' last sea­son, we had 16 free agents and the front office was in a little bit of turmoil here. 

"In the time that we got things kind of fixed a little bit, Kenny got out of here." 
There was more to it than that. 
Lucas is the kind of player who wants -maybe even needs ­attention. He wants to go to Pro Bowls and to be recognized as one of the best cornerbacks in the league. He believed that was never going to happen for him in Seattle. 
"Because of the market being way out there, people never 
noticed me," said Lucas, who has the Superman logo tattooed on his arm and personalized "Super Luc" plates on his Bentley. 
"I like to think I can do some extraordinary things on the field and I want people to recognize the things that I do. I didn't want to play in this league and be just another guy who had an oppor­tunity to play. I want to be one of the Hall of Famers when my career is over. I want to be great." 
The Panthers believed he had that potential, uncharacteristi­cally splurging on a $13 million signing bonus to lock him up almost as soon as free agency opened. Carolina has traditional­ly been conservative when it comes to spending under coach John Fox, pursuing only players he believes will make an imme­diate and powerful impact. 
Lucas has more than delivered. 
"He came in and gave us sta­bility on one side of the field, where we can say we've got a shutdown corner," defensive tackle Brentson Buckner said. "We've got a physical guy that can play the pass and play the run." 
Lucas had six interceptions during the regular season, then added another two in playoff wins over the New York Giants and Chicago. But his best work is done defending the opponents' top receiver, a situation he showed he thrives in during an early season win over Arizona. 
After Cardinals receiver Larry Fitzgerald torched the Panthers on six catches for 106 yards and a touchdown in the first half of their Oct. 9 game, Lucas asked Carolina's coaching staff to switch assignments so he could cover Fitzgerald. 
Payton natned Saints head coach 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -The latest Bill Parcells protege to get an NFL head coaching job is Sean Payton. The New Orleans Saints are hoping he can be as good a turnaround specialist as his mentor. 
Payton, a Dallas Cowboys assistant the past three sea­sons. was introduced Wednesday as the Saints' new head coach, inheriting a team that won three times last sea­son and played all its games on the road becausP of Hurricane Katrina. 
Payton, 42, is taking on his first head coaching job. In Dallas, he worked with quar­terbacks and also held the title of assistant head coach. Before that, he was a New York Giants assistant, a stint that included that team's NFC championship in 2000. 
Payton succeeds Jim Haslett, whose tenure lasted six years. The Saints went 3-13 in 2005, but were a .500 team during Haslett's first five seasons combined. The victories include the team's only playoff win. 
Payton, the Saints' 14th head coach, acknowledged the prob­lems caused by Katrina -for the team and the New Orleans area. 
"Obviously 2005 was a trau­matic year for this area, it was a tough time for this team. I hope that in some small way the effort of this team in 2006 and beyond will represent this city and this region well," Payton said. 
"Some people would say: 'Stay in Dallas. The situation there is good.' We're three­quarters of the way through building a brand new house in Dallas," Payton said. "Hopefully I'm not viewed as a young, naive coach coming into a situation here. I'm excit­Payton said. "I think this area, this community, this region is tough, and our team better reflect that, too." 

In addition to coaching quar­
ed about this opportunity. I know it's a chal­lenge and we're going to roll our sleeves up." 
Payton said being a part of the region's recovery from Katrina was more of a draw than a draw­back, making the opportunity with the Saints "unique." 

''I'm excited about this opportunity. I know it's a challenge and we're going to roll our sleeves up. " 
Sean Payton Saints head coach 
terbacks, Payton had a very brief pro playing career at that position in the CFL and as a Chicago Bears replacement play­er during the 1987 strike. 
Aaron Brooks, the Saints' starter for most of the past six seasons, had his worst sea­son in 2005 and was benched for 
the final three games. If the 

"We can impact people's Saints keep Brooks they would lives in a positive way as they owe him about $6.5 million in go through this transition," salary next season. 



Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


Thursday, January 19, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Panthers and Steelers should not be a surprise 
Both No. 6 seeds will play third consecutive playoff road contest 
Associated Press 
Only tho IIJH5 New England Patriots havo won thrno games on tho road to get to tho Supor Bowl. 
Don't put Pittsburgh and Carolina -both trying to accom­plish the samo !'oat -in a dass with that bunch, which lost 46-10 to <:hieago and became a f(mtnote to history. They are logitimate mnt«>ndnrs who ended up at the bottom of tlw sPndings bncauso of injuries and fluky plays, not h«>muse they laek ability. 
Hemmnbm that the Steolers, the No. 6 seed in the AFC, are in their sixth eonf(mmee title game in 12 years. The Panthers, No. 5 in tho NFC, were in the Super Bowl two years ago and finished 1 1-5 this season, as good a remrd as anyone in the NFC but the Seahawks. 
In faet, a Supnr Bowl bntween two wild-eard teams wouldn't be a huge surprise -it would hard­ly be a sh01:k if the Steelers win Sunday in Denver and the Panth<~rs win in Seattlo. 
A lot of it has to do with the coaches. 
John Fox of the Panthers was the Giant<;' defensive coordinator when they got to the Super Bowl in 2001 and is 4-1 in the postsea­son with Carolina. !lis otTensive coordinator is Dan !Ienning, a head eoaeh with Atlanta (11JH3­H6l and San Diego (19H9-91 ), but also a li1rmer assistant under Joe Gibbs with Super Bowl winners in Washington. 
What they've done in two games might even be ealled astounding: shutting out a top offense and moving at ease through a top defense. 
Even New York's Tiki Barber, who normally is careful with his eomments, noted (correctly) how badly Carolina outeoached the Giants in the Meadowlands, blanking an offense that had scored 421 poinl<; in the regular season, third most in the league. 
Then the Panthers went to Chicago, scored 29 points and put up 434 yards on what all season had been the NFL's best defense. That was against Coach of the Year Lovie Smith, as Henning and Jake Delhomme exploited defen­sive weaknesses that no one else seemed able to find. 
Pitl'iburgh'? 
Cowher takes a lot of heat for four title-game losses at home. But maybe his critics should note that it takes a good coach to get that far six times in 12 seasons. 
The defensive schemes cooked up by Cowher and coordinator Diek LeBeau, another former head coach, had Peyton Manning rattled and out of' sync for three quarters of last week's game. lie couldn't decipher the blitzes and was throwing off his back foot much of the lime -just like his brother Eli did with the Giants against Carolina. 
Also give the Steelers credit for ollensive innovation. A team com­mitted to the run more than any team in the league, they came out throwing early against a defense stacked to stop the !,<round game. They jumped to a 21-3 lead and won a game that wouldn't have been close at the end if' not for an egregious oiTidating error. 
Beyond that, these are teams that at the beginning of the sea­son were expected to be there ­but seeded higher. 
Pittsburgh probably would have won the AFC North had Ben Uoethlisbergcr not been banged­up during a three-game losing streak that put their playoff chances in peril. The Panthers would have won the NFC South if not for a fluky running-into-the­kicker penalty that cost them a game against Dallas. 

Also remember that both ar11 better on the road than at home (8-2 to 5-3). 
"We didn't want to go through this by choice," Pittsburgh's Hines Ward said Wednesday. "That is how it went. Last year, we were a No. 1 seed. This year, we had to win our final four games just to get here. So we've been on a playoff mentality the last four weeks of the regular season. It's win or go home, so we've gotten used to playing with pressure." 

HORSE RACING 
Legendary horse rider Bailey retires after 31-year career 
Associa1ed Press it was time for his illustrious time Kentucky Derby winning Wednesday he'll retire after rid­"lie was the most genuine, Hall of Fame career to come to rider said. "But to get to those ing at Gulfstream Park on Jan. charismatic horse I think I've 
NEW YOHK -Jerry Bailey an end. days, there are a lot of routine 28. The 48-year-old Bailey will ever been on in my life," he was thinking retirement for sev­"I still enjoy competing in the days and I just didn't feel the then begin his next career as a said. eral years and finally, a few biggest races on the best horses passion I should have felt." racing analyst for ESPN and Bailey will become the latest weeks into this season, he knew on the biggest days," the two-With that, Bailey said ABC Sports, where he will be Hall of Fame joekey to hang up 
part of about 20 telecasts, his tack. Pat Day retired in including the Belmont Stakes August and Gary Stevens
···············································~ 
and the Breeders' Cup. retired a second time in
~ University Resources : 
Bailey cited other reasons for November. his decision, "but the one that Known as a fierce eompetitor
• 

matters the most is I just really and for being well prepared for
•

for Gay, Lesbian, & • feel it's time -time to spend every race, Bailey will depart as
• 
more time with my wife, Suzee, a seven-time Eclipse Award

• 
and my son, Justin." winner and the nation's second­


And after a 31-year career, "I leading money earner behind

Bisexual Students •• 
• 
also want to walk away in one Day. Bailey, with 5,890 wins

• 
piece." through Tuesday, has earned


TH ANOtl'le 

CO~li41TTI:I: ON • Bailey was scheduled to ride close to $296 million; Day OA'W AND I,..UiiiAN • three or four horses on the retired with nearly $29H mil­&TUDE:NT ftee:D!I 
• 

Sunshine Millions card at lion . 
•

• 
Gulfstream in Hallandale "What's great about Bailey is

• 
Beach, Fla. A large group of he rode like he was still 25,"

• 
family or friends will be in trainer Bobby Frankel said. "lie


The Standing Committee on Gay and 
• attendance for Bailey's farewell wasn't scared. I was impressed ride, which is expected to be the way he'd go through holes
Lesbian Student Needs ••• aboard Silver Tree, trained by with no fear. And he eame into • • Bill Mott, who put Bailey aboard the paddock before the raee
(Confidential information, education, and resources)
• • Cigar for the final 15 wins in a well prepared. lie knew exactly
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • glorious record-tying, 16-raee what was going on -he'd winning streak in 1995-96. handicap the horsns and the
• 
memhers (see web site for student contact il~fo.) • Bailey has been racing's top joekeys."• • rider for nearly 15 years, usual­Some of Frankel's biggest• • ly ending up on many of the wins came with Bailey in tlw

• 
Office of Campus Ministry •• best horses in training. Among saddle -the 2003 Belmont


• 
his greatest accomplishment Stakes with Empire Maker, the 
• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • was the campaign aboard Cigar . 2002 Travers with Medaglia
• • a two-time Horse of the Year d 'Oro, and the 200 I Breeders'
• and their friends; pertinent library resources in • who gave him perhaps his Cup Sprint with Squirtle Squirt.. • • greatest win -tho 1996 Dubai Bailey, who rode primarily in
304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support)
• • World Cup. Nnw York, won tlw Derby withConttzct: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at I -9704 • Winning tho Kentucky Dnrby Sea llero in I1193 and
• 
"is probably the pinnacle of any (;rindslonn in I')1)(,. lin also

• 
jockey's aspirations, but if I had won the l'reakness twice and to pinpoint a race for me it tlw Belmont Stakns twi1:e -his


University Counseling Center •• • would be tho Dubai World Cup win aboard Empire Maker (Individual counseling) • with Cigar," he said. "Not only spoil1~d Funny Cidn's hid for tlw
• was it a victory for me, but I Triple Crown. 
Contact: Dr. Maureen Lajf'ert_v at L..afferty.3@nd.edu • was representing the Unilnd lie won his rnc.ord I !ith 
• 

Stalos. It was as dosn to being Brnnders' Cup rac.1~ on Oct. 29
• 

an Olympian as I could probably at Bnlmont Park, laking llw
•

• ovnr be." Bn~c-ders' Cup Uassk aboard 
• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • Bailey often said lw didn't Saint Liam. who is nxpndnd to• • really love horses until ho hn nanwd llorsn of thn Y1~ar at• • climbed aboard Cigar, and his Monday's I•:clipsc-Awards din­voiee seemed to quiver when lw rwr. BaiiPy has won tlw Classic 
................................................: spoke of it. a rnt~ord livn limns. 
r 
~ 
I 
I I page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2006 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
"If you're going to have suc­cess on the road it boils down to goaltending, special teams and being better defensively," the coach said. 
According to Jackson, the Irish also play well on the road because they are naturally a conservative team, which helps in hostile environments. 
"We're more of a defensive team," he said. "We pretty much play road hockey at home." 
But there's more to a road game than on-ice strategy. The bus trip to Marquette, Mich. for the contest against the Wildcats will take nine hours. The Irish let early this morn­ing, will play Friday and Saturday nights, and then drive through the early morning hours Sunday to arrive back in South Bend about 9 a.m. Notre Dame then has to turn around and do it again on the trip to Columbus next week. 
Still. Jackson said things could be worse. 
"It'll definitely impact us, but Ohio State's playing in Fairbanks (Alaska) this week­end," he said. 
Alaska-Fairbanks has been a member of the CCIIA. which includes mostly Midwestern schools, since 1995-96. Notre Dame will face the Nanooks in South Bend Feb. 24-25. but the features a long and thin 200 by Irish do not have to travel to 85 ice sheet. Fairbanks this "[Olympic ice] year. makes a pro­
"We're more ofa
Aside from long found impact on trips and hostile defensive team. We the game," fans, an oppo­pretty much play Jackson said. "If nent's ice can you're not accus­
road hockey at
even be a differ­tomed to playing ent size. The home." on it, it makes it NCAA does not difficult. That regulate ice size. was kind of what
Jeff Jackson 
so it varies we went through
Notre Dame coach 

between the NHL standard of 180 by 90 feet and the Olympic standard of 200 by 100 feet. The Joyce Center's ice is NHL sized, as are most CCI-IA rinks, but the Nanooks and Wildcats both play on Olympic ice and the OSU Ice Rink in Columbus 
at Colorado 

College [in October! and Mankato was an Olympic sheet too." 
Jackson said larger ice can efl'ect both ofl'ensive and defen­sive hockey. 
"It spreads out the ice ofl'en­sively so sometimes you don't get as good of scoring chances because you're too wide," he said. "So it has an impact on things like protecting the puck ofl'ensively, but it also stretches you out defensively." 
The coach said he's told his team the best way to deal with the different ice is to play like nothing has changed. 
"You have to play the game like you're on a normal rink," Jackson said. "You can't get decoyed by the wider ice." 
The Wildcats are 13-8-1 and 9-8-1 in the CCHA, good enough for second place. The Buckeyes are 11-9-4 and 7-7-2, sixth in the CCHA. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
able to stay focused and dis­ciplined throughout the 
game, allowing the Britons only four trips to the foul line and forcing turnovers including mul­tiple traveling penalties on Albion. 
"The most important part 

point range. Britons guard Megan Seely led the second half, hitting five 3-pointers. But senior guard Bridget Boyce answered almost every time adding 14 points, includ­ing four 3-pointers, and helped the Belles stay in 
front.

"The most important 
With the upset

part ofour win today 
of now Albion 

was our intensity." (12-5, 4-4), the Belles are now 7-10 overall
Steve Bender 
and 5-3 in the

Saint Mary's coach 
MIAA. More importantly, this was the 

of our win today was our first home win for Saint intensity, our man-to-man Mary's since Dec. 7 and was 
intensity," Bender said. "We really stepped in our man-to-man defense today." 
The Saint Mary's offense also showed great discipline, working the shot clock down 
the sort of vic­
tory that Coach 
Bender will be

"We really stepped in 
able to use to our man-to-man motivate his team for the
defense today. " 
rest of the sea­

son. Steve Bender "This was a Belles coach really big win, 
to under 10 seconds in many of their possessions, while never receiving a shot clock violation. 
Saint Mary's led throughout the entire game despite going on any significant runs. Instead, they were consistent on offense and were able to buckle down and make key defensive stops when needed. The Belles' ability to control the game on both sides of the ball helped them lead throughout the game. 
Another key factor in the game was the ability of both teams to shoot from three-
and the biggest 

win we've had at home in a very long time," said Bender. 
Wvdnvsday January Z5. Z006 Unltvd Cvntvr • Chicago SeconD Bus ADDED! 
~-. Sun~ l'larth Z6, Z006 •7:30 p.m. ~0 '1M Eko Thvatrv •Elkhart, Indiana 
GOO<l Tkkots Avallol>lo at Cowmkl Stodlom lnloothlkn~ ThtEico-B"OIIk1,olllkioti1Gsm-•n4 ticlotmo&m..... c~byphooo!l4/lJS.9911~!14/l91-4469. 
Tuesday Ftbroory 7th, 2006 •7:30 p.m. Morris Pvrforming Arb CvnNr South Bvnd, Indiana 
Ticktts avaiiablv at l'loni! Box OffiCII ChGrgt by phonf 574/2]5-9190 "" . or 800f5l7-6415 ~tfkn:tr 
www.morrisctnltr.org ···~·· .•.•; . .,,~. 


r--------------------------~------------------~---­
Thursday, January 19, 2006 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
James blows chance to be hero 
Associated Press 
I>ENVEH -LeBron James grabbed the rebound but not the moment. 
.lames pulled down his own rnissnd frnn throw-which he purposely misfired with .6 sec­onds lnll -and drew another foul with Cleveland trailing Denver by two points Wndrwsday night. 
t\ftnr swishing his lirst foul shot, he missed his second and /\Jan llnndPrson 's tip-in hounc1Hl out at the buzzer, leaving the Nuggets to cele­hratn a 90-H<J vietory over the Cavaliers on Wednesday night. 
"It just didn't go down," a crnstfallnn .lames said. "I shot it just liko I shoot any other free throw, I just. missed it. We have to move on. Everything that. happnnnd hern tonight, I blanw rnysnlf. When we win, I get the credit, when we lose I take the blame for it, it's just 1~nother loss. 
''I'm the leader of this team and I failed to make plays down the stretch. I'm the leader and I'm supposed to make plays down the stretch, and we lost. So put it on me." 
James finished with 24 points but the Cavs lost their fifth straight, including the first four on their Western trip. 
Carmelo Anthony and Earl Boykins led the Nuggets with 17 points eaeh and Kenyon Martin and Eduardo Najera each scored 16. Martin also 

AP 

Cavaliers guard Lebron James reacts to missing a free throw that would have sent Wednesday's game to overtime. 
grabbed a season-best 17 rebounds. Mnthony did have one very huge basket, as usual. 
lie zipped past Ira Newbie for a dunk that gave Denver an 89-87 lead with 21 seconds left. Eduardo Najera stole the ball at the other end and had a chance to seal it when he was fouled by Eric Snow with 
4.6 seconds left, but he missed his second shot, leaving Cleveland down 90-87 with a chanee to send the game into overtime with a 3-pointer. 
t\ndre Miller fouled James before he could set up for a three, and James made his first shot, then purposefully misfired his second and grabbed his own rebound while Martin got whistled for the foul. 
"It was a perfeet miss," James said. "That sounds crazy, but I missed it perfectly, and I followed it and got fouled, and we were in a posi­tion to go to OT, but I lost the game for us. I've never prac­ticed that but I know how to hit the back of the rim and make it pop out." 
ting .179. Brewster, the Irish team


Season 
leader on the court, said she continued from page 24 ended her career on a high 
note, despite the loss. through a series of mid-set "We did well against some 
lead changes in the fourth to force a deciding 
"Every team is set. competing like they 
In the fifth set, played to 15, have to win every 
Wisconsin took a set, so they have to 
14-8 lead with 
play their best. " 
kill No. 22 by jun­ior Badger Maria Carlini. Brewster Lauren Brewster cut the lead to Irish captain five with kill No. 17 on the night for her, but the Irish come­which saw 
really good teams," she said. "Overall, I was very fortu­nate .... I had phenomenal teammates." 
The loss snapped a six­game team win­ning streak against ranked opponents and ended a season 
a talented group 

back was short-lived. of seniors lead the Irish to 
Senior Meg Ilenican hit the some of their best rankings right side of the ever. net on the ensu-Brewster, ing serve, and Notre Dame's
"We were excited to 
Wisconsin first ever vol­
advanced the make it past the leyball t\11 
round of eight, second round. We American, where it fell to knows that her
would have liked to
eventual cham­graduation 
pion Washington go farther, but just from the pro­in straight sets. being in the NCAA gram marks a Brewster said leadership
tournament is
the sixth-seeded transition for Irish though exciting. " the team. She they could win said she has but made no the utmost
Lauren Brewster 
expectations of confidence in
Irish captain 
doing so. 
"Every team is competing like they have to win every set, so they have to play their best," she said. "In volleyball, any given team can beat anyone on a given night." 
The Badgers main advan­tage all night was the play of their defense. Wisconsin out­blocked Notre Dame 18.5 to 12 and held the Irish to hit-
the under­

classmen on the team, and she sees a bright future for Irish volley­ball. 
"They're getting a great recruiting class," she said. "Our freshmen will be really good." 
Contact Ken Fowler and Chris Khorey at kfowler@nd.edu and ckhorey@nd.edu 
Academic Freedom and Catholic Character Address and Discussion By Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c. Please plan to join Fr. Jenkins for his address to the Notre Dame community on the issue of academic freedom and our Catholic character. A period of questions and comments will follow. Faculty: Monday, January 23, 2006, at 4:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Students: Tuesday, January 24, 2006, at 12:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. ~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME  

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 19, 2006 


Dalby 
continued from page 24 
receive three first-team hon­ors in the same season and only the second in the team's history to earn the first-team distinction by the NSCAA and College Soccer News. 
The All-American honors come on the heels of an out­standing season for Dalby in the Irish midfield, where he tallied two goals and an assist. As a tri-captain, he helped lead Notre Dame to its third appearance in the NCAA tour­nament round of 16 after a 2­0 upset win over two-time defending champion Indiana before falling 1-0 to Clemson. 
"He doesn't say 'do as I say' but 'do what I do'," Clark said of Dalby's leadership style. "Everyone listens to him. He's got a quiet, commanding style. He's not a shouter. He's not scared to make his points. He's not scared to stand up to anyone or anything if he thinks its right." 
Dalby's also was chosen to captain the U.S. Under-20 team this summer in the FIFA World Youth Championships in Holland. 
Clark said Dalby's appoint­ment of leadership on the select team complete with future professionals was a sign of the great respect his midfielder receives from the nation's soccer elite. 
"You don't get these kind of honors if you're not a good player," Clark said. "That's a clear indication of the type of player he is." 
And don't expect Dalby to disappoint when the 2006 sea­son comes around. The senior­to-be is on the top of his game, but Clark believes that there is always room for improvement. 
"When you stop getting bet­ter, it's time to hang it up," Clark said. "The type of per­son Greg is, he's always going to be looking for ways to improve. He has the potential to play in the pro game." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Trophy 
continued from page 24 
that will make anyone around her better," Thorlakson said. "She's a world-class type of player. She can create some­thing out of nothing every time." 
Sinclair finished the season with 39 goals, two more than SMU's Lisa Cole in 1987. She added 10 assists to lead the nation with 88 points. 
Both Thorlakson and Sinclair are already members of the Canadian national team and have indicated their intention to play on a more regular basis with the team after their college careers. Sinclair has already amassed 53 goals for Canada's World Cup team, the second highest total in the country's history. 
"It's exciting playing against her too because I got ists. to play with my ND team, but This year, Irish coach playing with her for Canada Randy Waldrum accompanied is really fun," the senior to 
Thorlakson said. Notre Dame's  "Jt,s just a really  St. Louis and spoke about  
senior forward was one of three finalists, joining Sinclair and Penn  great honor for me, especially to be [a finalist] with a  her career to the crowd. Thorlakson said the most  
State's  Tiffany  Canadian  poignant part  
Weimer for a press conference  teammate. ,,  of Waldrum's speech was  
and  banquet  at  when he  men­ 
the  Missouri  Katie Thorlakson  tioned  her  
Athletic Club in  Irish forward  ankle sprain at  
downtown  St.  the beginning  
Louis.  of  a  national  

Last season, Thorlakson soccer camp her senior year won player-of-the-year in high school. Waldrum had awards from several national only seen her play for a few publications but was not minutes but nonetheless among the Club's three final-offered Thorlakson a spot on the Irish roster. 

Four years later, both were happy with the decision. Thorlakson said her invita­tion to the awards ceremony is a testament to Notre Dame's success given the quality of other finalists. 
"It's just a really great honor for me," Thorlakson said, "especially to be [a finalist! with a Canadian teammate." 
Thorlakson said there would be no hard feelings between herself and Sinclair. 
"At the end of the day, Christine's a great player, and everyone looks up to her," she said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 


The Nanovic Institute for European Stuaies offers the following unaergraauateTravel Grants ana Internships for Summer 2006 1. Research ana Travel Grants to Europe (or Undergraduate Students up to $4JOOO. Application aeaalineJ March 3J 2006. 2. The Nanovic Institute (or European Studies with the Office of International Studies awaras stipends up to $3J500 (or internships in Europe. Application deadline~ February 15~ 2006. For more information~ cal/1·5253~ or go to www.nd.edu(-nanovic  


.r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, January 19, 2005 The Observe,-+ TODAY ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
MAN, IT uOINCtTO :BE Sv.~E.E.T Ll\1 INL1 OtF 
CAMNS NE.~T '/E..f!>..Jl.... NO M0!2.E ND OPfF-E~SINu...--L·---¥ 
ME..-\ '1...1... BE.. A~l-E. 'TD 
Do \NHAT£.'1£-ft-. \ 

WANT. r\A\IE (:,1\f.tl-S 0\/H.. Al-l.. NIC:J.HT, 1>~\NK I" AN'\ Tr\ INC..:( 
\.­

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
:)UST WAll Ul'l1lL-\ C..10 To 
COLLE-GE. \"\OK AND DAD. 'jou 
WDNT BE ABu;: 10 OPPI<E.'SS rv\E \ 'L.L 'BE. f:>..&LE To bO WHAlE.\IE.~ \ WANT r\,0...'-1£. 
0\l'!..l..S 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Hate or fear follower 
5 Accra's land 10 Held up 14 Actress Skye 15 Like some 
beans 16 Golf club 17 Pen denizens 18 Jumped 
between electrodes 19 Retin-A treats it 20 Jungle crusher 22 Hostile incursion 
24 Line C, maybe, in a voting booth: Abbr. 
25 Bullet point 26 Quaint 
contraction 29 All there is 33 Fish in a John 
Cleese film 
34 Inner: Prefix 35 It may follow a 
cut 36 Justice Fortas 37 Athrob 40 Badge issuer, 
for short 41 Kind of crime 43 Court statement 44 Phantom's 
haunt 46 Ready to freak 
out. maybe 48 Stable parents 49 Pencil-and­
paper game 50 Brain scan: Abbr. 51 Response to "Gracias" 54 Brezhnev's 
successor 59 Scads 60 Busey and 
Coleman 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
62 Actress Conn 63 Bring under 
control 64 Excite 65 Maple genus 66 Caught some 
rays 
67 Philosopher Georges 68 Miss Liberty, 
e.g. 
DOWN 1 Santa 2 "Tell me more" 3 Sicilian city 4 Cancel 5 Thou 6 Source of a 
thundering sound 7 Chad's place 8 Family tree word 9 Ell, maybe 1 o Moved like army ants 11 Bonkers 12 Mrs. Chaplin 13 Joined at the altar 21 Draft status? 23 Calif. neighbor 
0\/E.~ ,O...L,.L.. Nl<:.tKT. AN';\1-1 1 r--14. 
WILLSHOHTZ 


31 Buffalo skater 45 Asian shrines 54 1981 hit film with a 5'3" lead
32 Walt Disney's 47 Grounds-actormiddle name keeper's supply 55 Wall St. letters34 Those girls, in 

50 Bygone auto

38 Forces out of 57 Old music halls the spotlight 
52 Pizazz 58 Patience, e.g. 39 Stupid oaf 
53 lditarod 61 "I'll take that as 42 Gave a goofball terminus " 
For answers, call 1-900-285 -5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinal)' words. 
SESMY 
j


[II I I 
0'2.005 TribLme Mf.lcll!! Sorvlcns, Inc. All Rlghts Reserved 
PRAAK 
I rJ []
tQUILOR 

J [] []
'IIWW.jumble.com 
ANSAUE ± 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MlKI: ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 


A ROUND BEL.L.Y C.AN BE THE RE?ULT OF TOO MANY--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


Aru<:[IIIIIJCIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: TRUTH EXILE HEIFER PROFIT 
Yesterday's Answer·. 

What inning did they pass the bottle around? ­THE "FIFTH" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS llAV: Mar~ Messi.:r, 45: Kt•vin Costner, 51: 
Bobhy Goldsboro, 65; Jesse L. Martin, .'7 
-

Happy Birthday: Yc>u may hr tempted to help someone out li1r the wrong reasons this year. Don'tlcnd someone money <lr even your time before you take care of your own business. The opp<lrtunity to do something that you've always wanted lo pursue is now--stop thinking ahout it and go for it. Your numbers are 12. 19, 22. 36,42,48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Consider the promise you made yoursl'lf at tlw 
beginning of Ihe y<~ar. If you haven't sluck toil. tak<' the time lo get had on track. 
Don't lei other people's agendas take preccdcnw. Slick lo your game plan. "*" 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 201: D<lll't wait for other' lo do things I(Jr you. Take tiK' 
initiative and you will gel results. Today is not ahuut standing in Mllllconc else's 
shaduw. A connection can he made with someone professionally and pcrsunally 
impurwnt. ***** 

GEMINI IMay 21-.Junc 20): You may be lccl astray by someone who has his or 
her own motives. This is not a g<lod time to spend money or to try to make personal 
or physi<:al changes. A fast decision will he based on false information. •• 
CANCER (June 21-.lul}' 22): Home will he where the heart is today. You should 
make a few adjuslmt·nls to your surroundings that will make you more t'omfortahk. 
Take the time to deal with snmeom' you love inu poNiliVt' way. You willuvoid 
UIUlt'CCS>llry upset lat<~r. **** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't even think uhnut taking a break. You have: lo put 
your heart and soul into ajnh thai requires your undivided altcntion. By following 
through with a business plan. you will get things moving in a pn>ilivc direction. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You really should he on vacation or at least doing 
something you enjoy today. Time spent with children. family, friends or your lover 
will he worth its weight in gold. This is a perfect Jay to make adjustments to your 
life. *** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): You an• likely to he ridi<:uled for whatever you try to 
do uround the house lnday. Money matters can ht• resolved and making a dumge 
to one of your investments will ht~ wise. Rennvalions may cause some worry. *** 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Get on top of things. espcci<!lly partnership>. You 
can win in the end if you arc <trticulatc in the way you dest·rihe your plans. Ynur 
position must not change. regardless of the circurn>tances. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It may he difficuli for you to keep whal you 
arc u·ying to do a secret but you will stand a heltcr chance of accomplishing your 
goals if yc>u do. Someone will cause trnuhk if you arc too trusting nr npen. ** 
CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 191: You sec it. you want it. y<JU take it. That sh<lUIJ 
he the navor of the day. Rethink why you have heen wakhing out for everyone 
else. Don't forget to makt• special plans late in the day. ***** 
AQUA RillS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Don't hdicVl' everything you hear. Someone may 
he trying to convince you of something hy being complimentary. Slecr deur nf 
overindulgent people and distUJK'C yourself from a partnl'r who has l'aLJst'U you gril'f 
in the past. *** 

I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Listen to somcnnt' who is fighting for a good cause. 
You may want to join in. Getting involved will take your mind off your own 
problems and the changes taking place in your life. Develop one of ynur many 
talents. *** 

Birthday Haby: You arc sensitive, caring and a do-gooder. You arc a prohll'm­solvcr. You arc a thinker and a reactionary who i~ rcsponsihle and rcliahlc. 
Eugenia's Web sif(~S: astroadvice.cnm for jun. e/l~:eninlast.com for cm!fidPIIIilll nmsultations 

___________ rubber 26 Mop wielders 27 Something to 
kick 28 Lend 
(listen) 29 Still not happy 30 Direct elsewhere 
Make cheeks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday. The Observer is a vital souree of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two r.ampuses. Please eomplete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN  46556  
0  Enc.Josed is $100 for one aeademie year  
D  Enc.Josed is $55 for one semester  

Name-------------------------­
Address ___________________ City ___ ____ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, January 19, 2006 
page 24 
SOCCER 
Critically acclaimed 
Dalbyfirst Irish mens player named to three All-American teams 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The accolades continue to pile up for Irish junior Greg Dalby, and no one is more proud -or less surprised ­than Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark. 
Less than a month after being named a first-tfJam All­American by the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, Dalby was selected to both the College Soccer News and SoccerTimes.com first-team All-American teams on Jan: 10. 
"I'd be disappointed if he wasn't !selected!," Clark said. "That would have been my
-reaction. I hope I don't take him for granted, because I kind of expected him to." Dalby was not available for comment Wednesday. lie is the first Notre Dame men's soccer player to ever 
see DALBY/page 22 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Left, junior midfielder Greg Dalby dribbles the ball on Nov. 18 against Western Illinois. Right, senior forward Katie Thorlakson winds in a Nov. 18 game against Yale. 
Thorlakson finishes second in Hermann Trophy standings 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Christine Sinclair topped Katie Thorlakson yet again, but Notre Dame's most prolific postseason scorer won't hold a grudge. 
Sinelair, the Portland senior who set the NCAA record for goals in a season while lead­ing her team to the national championship in December, took home the nation's· most prestigious player-of-the-year award for the second consecu­tive season -a month and a half after the Pilots topped the Irish 3-1 in the NCAA quarter­finals. 
Thorlakson congratulated Sinclair on capturing another Hermann Trophy and said she was Aager to play alongside her fellow native of British Columbia in international competition. 
"She's the type of player 
see TROPHY/page 22 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Notre Dame falls to Wisconsin in 3rd round 
of No. 12 in the CSTV/AVCA Brewster said. "We would sets in the second, the Irish early lead, besting the Irish By KEN FOWLER and Coaches' Poll and No. 11 in have liked to go farther, but lost a back-and-forth, 3-2 30-25 in set one, but Notre CHRIS KHOREY 
the Molten/Volleyball just being in the NCAA tour­third-round match to the Dame returned the favor with Sports Writers 
Magazine Top 25, matching nament is exciting." Badgers in College Station, a two-point victory in the sec­the team's best ranking in the After struggling mightily Tex. on Dec. 9. Only one of ond set. Wisconsin scored 
Despite a loss to Wisconsin history of each poll. against unranked Dayton in the five sets saw a lead another relatively easy win in in the third round of the "We were excited to make it the first round of the tourna­change, but the teams alter­set three, but the Irish fought NCAA Tournament, Notre past the second round," sen­ment and taking out nated set wins. Dame captured 11nal rankings ior co-captain Lauren Northwestern in three dose The Badgers staked the see SEASON/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Irish preparing for four-gan1e road trip 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler leads Belles to upset win 
but Kessler's free throws put 2 points and 2 rebounds in
Strong defensive play 
the game out of reach. the first half, leads the team Kessler stepped up for at the point and direets the
brings SMC victory 
Saint Mary's, replacing offense. 
starting 
"Allison has the heart of a By JAY FITZPATRICK p o i n t champion," Belles head Sports Writer g u a r d coach Steve Bender said. 
Bridget "We lost Bridget [Lipke] and 
Allison Kessler went from Lipke, who were still able to win some-being Saint Mary's backup left the how." point guard to its hero in the game with Saint Mary's defensive span of one half. 17:30 left intensity was visible for the 
With 22 seconds left in the in the see­entire game. Playing pre­game, Kessler made two foul ond half dominantly man-to-man, the shots to cement the 55-51 with a leg Kessler Belles forced bad shots and upset of the Albion Britons. injury. out-rebound the Britons 18­Albion guard Kellyn Glynn Kessler led all scorers with 10 in the first half. made a 3-pointer nine sec­19 points, and grabbed three Moreover, the Belles were onds earlier to bring the rebounds. Britons to within two points, Lipke, despite having only see UPSET/page 20 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After playing in front of their first home sellout of the season Saturday, the Irish will spend their next two weekends away from home, with trips to Northern Michigan and Ohio State. 
Notre Dame (7-12-3,' 5-8-3 in the CCIIA) is just 2-5-2 away from the Joyce Center this year, but the Irish are unbeaten in their last three road contests, posting a 2-0-1 mark against Nebraska-Omaha and Minnesota State-Mankato. 
"Just as the rest of our game has improved over the year our road games have improved too," Notre Dame coach Jefl' Jackson said about the team's turn­around on the road. 
Jackson said the improvement has to do with better play from Irish goaltender Dave Brown and Notre Dame's special teams. 
see ROAD/page 20 



NFL
NFL 
Nfl 

NCAA BASKETBAlL
NFL 
NBA 
LLI 

(.) The Pittsburgh 
Sean Payton, who 

Carolina defensive 
Sources told the 
Duke 81 
Nets 101 

z Steelers and Carolina 
coached in Dallas tmder 
back Ken Lucas will 
Associated Press that 
N.C. State 68 
76ers 90

c::c Panthers are both better 
Bill Parcells, was named 
return to Seattle for the 
Rod Marinelli will be 
Duke guard J .J. 
New Jersey guard
..... 

= than their No. 6 seeds 
coach of the New 
NFC championship 
named head coach of 
Redick scored 28 points, 
Vince Carter led the 
indicate. 

Orleans Saints on 
game, the team he 
the Detroit Lions. 
and Sheldon Williams 
team with 31 points.
c::c 

Wednesday. 
played with for four 
added 21 in the win. 
ti years. 
page 18 

page 16 
page 14

page 19 
page 18 
page 17 





