
--------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Decline in Catholic faculty challenges ND 

Police issue 24 tickets, make 3 arrests 


By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
Police issued 24 arrest tickets to adults and made three custodial arrests for public intoxication, minor consuming alcohol and false informing before and during Saturday's Notre Dame home football game against Stanford University. 
Four additional arrest tick­ets were issued to juveniles for alcohol-related offenses, for minor consuming or minor in possession of alco­hol, Associate Director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) Phil Johnson said in an e-mail Monday. 
Offenders were transport­ed to St. Joseph County jail, Johnson said. 
During the game, police 

Maduro emphasizes continuity in Honduras 
Former Honduran president discusses problems and economy, encourages participation 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
For Ricardo Madura Joest, implementing institutional reform, addressing social problems and fighting crime were at the top of his priority list during his four years as president of Honduras, he said in a lecture Monday. 
From 2002 to January 2006, Madura tried to estab­lish democratic institutions in a poor country without going to extremes and caus­ing more problems, he said in his talk entitled "New Democracies, Poverty, and Governance." 
While addressing the broader political and eco­nomic issues in Latin America, Maduro's adminis­tration also focused on the problems of tax evasion, the virtual immunity of politi­cians and the troubles with "maras," or youth street gangs which attacked poor people living in their own neighborhoods, he said. 
"Narcotic traffic remains the biggest problem," he said. "Honduras is located in between the producing coun­tries and the consuming country the United States." 
see MADURO/page 4 

Former president of Honduras Ricardo Maduro Joest speaks Monday. Participation and political continuity were discussed. 
made one arrest for public intoxication and 16 adults were ejected from the stadi­um for "alcohol-related offenses." One juvenile was sent to a local hospital due to intoxication, Johnson said. One adult man was also found intoxicated and unconscious outside the sta­dium and was taken by ambulance to a local hospi­tal. 
In addition, one person was issued a "no-trespass notice for violating other University rules," Johnson said. 
Several people were also issued notices to "stop sell­ing merchandise or tickets on campus property," he said. 
Notices were issued to sev­
see ARRESTS/page 4 

ThreeND students assaulted 
Separate incidents occurred over weekend, on and off campus 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
Police are investigating two separate incidents of alleged assault -one on campus, one off campus -reported by Notre Dame students this 
weekend,  officials  said  
Monday.  
South  Bend  police  are  

searching for three or four black high-school age males who allegedly assaulted and robbed two Notre Dame male students early Sunday morn­ing, officials said. 
The students told police they were walking on the 1100 block of South Bend Avenue "from the area of Notre Dame Avenue to a tav­ern on Edison Road" when they were approached by the suspects "who struck the men in the face, kicked them and demanded money, according to a Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) crime alert obtained by The Observer Monday. 
Though the students were not seriously injured, the suspects made off with money and a cell phone. 
"The off-campus case is being investigated by [South Bend Police] and any ques­tions about that case should be directed to SBPD," said Associate Director of NDSP Phil Johnson. 
The men were safely transported back to their off-
see ASSAULT/page 4 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Editor's Note: This is the first story in a three-part series examining the role of Catholic faculty at Notre Dame. 
To University President Father John Jenkins, Notre Dame's distinctive Catholic mission has three crucial dimensions -grounding edu­cation in strong moral char­acter, promoting areas of research like ethics and reli­gious history and fueling a desire to serve the Catholic Church. 
None of these commitments, he said in his Sept. 26 address to the faculty, can be realized without a sufficiently Catholic faculty. 
"We can succeed in advanc­ing these aspects of the University's mission only if we have, among our faculty, a critical number of devoted fol­lowers of the Catholic faith," he said. 
Forty years ago, schools like Notre Dame and Saint Mary's were "bursting at the seam 
see FACULTY/page 6 
Jenkins emphasizes role ofreligion in mission; new office to tackle recruitment problem 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A111erica's ti111e bo111b 
At a time when the United States should be working at a fever-pitch rate to help Lebanon rebuild in the wake of Israel's war against Hezbollah, Washington is losing its best chance to 
convince thousands  
of young Arabs that  Ken Fowler  
America does not  
blindlyIsrael  supportat the  Sports Editor  
expense of all other  

nations. The United States gives more foreign aid to Israel than any other coun­try. That much is not lost on terrorists as they try to recruit young men and women to join their movement. But the United States now has the opportunity to put another foot forward and visibly demonstrate its commitment to decent living conditions in the entire Middle East, not just Israel. 
Three months after the start of Israel's incursion into Lebanon, 295 Lebanese cities have "substantial damage," some with as many as 500 homes destroyed. The United States has pledged $20 mil­lion for one bridge reconstruction project and $230 million overall. Neither figure is nearly enough. Only a firm commit­ment from Washington to avert oncom­ing desperate poverty will keep young Lebanese boys off' the track to terrorism. But the only social services in southern Lebanon come from Hezbollah. So an organization the United States calls "ter­rorist" is offering the most significant assistant to poor and war-torn villages. 
America's problem may be an argu­ment that is finding supporters inside the White House. In the recently updated "National Strategy for Combating Terrorism," the White House says that "terrorism is not the inevitable byprod­uct of poverty" because "many terrorist leaders ... are from privileged back­grounds." But that salvo misses the enemy boat. Whether or not all terrorists are poor is a much separate question from whether poverty increases the rates of terrorism. A closer, more ration­al examination shows a much different scenario -and the White House need not look any further than the Oval Office for a better understanding. 
In 2002, President Bush addressed an international development summit in Mexico focusing on the correlation between poverty and terrorism. "Poverty ... is a time bomb lodged against the heart of liberty," former World Trade Organization President Michael Moore told the delegation. Now the wick on that bomb has run short. 
Allowing Hezbollah the political for­tune of existing as the only organization willing to rebuild the southern cities dec­imated by Israel's warplanes will only stymie Washington's chances at a suc­cessful, Lebanese-led protection of the border. When the people there are hun­gry, they will see who feeds them. When their young go to schools, they will see who funds the teachers and the build­ings. And when they need shelter, they will see whose money supports the beams that support the walls that sup­port the roof that support the family. They will see all that. And right now, they see Hezbollah. Unless the United States acts soon in Lebanon, it may be allowing a new breeding ground of extremists to come to fruition just as it claims to be on the offensive against the terrorists. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will malre mistalres. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU EDIT YOUR FACEBOOK PROFILE TO APPEAL TO EMPLOYERS? 





Christina Harmon  David Shikada  Jennifer Malherek  Tim Falvey  
freshman Walsh  junior Knott  freshman Walsh  senior Dillon  
"Yes, because it's sensible. You want to look professional."  "No, I'm not looking for a job and I'm not too worried."  "Yes, because employers simply don't want to see  "! don't have Facebook, but if I did, I would. "  

evidence of your personal life." 

OFFBEAT 
Skier wins wife-carrying contest 
NEWRY, Maine -John Farra, a former Winter Olympian from Caribou who trained by running up a ski slope with 80 pounds of mor­tar mix, won the seventh annual North American Wife Carrying Championship on Saturday at Sunday River. 
Farra's first-place finish earned him and his 110­pound wife Tess her weight in beer and five times her weight in cash, or $550. They also are eligible for a $1,000 reimbursement toward a trip to the world championships in Finland next July. 
The Farras completed the 278-yard course, which includes a water trough and log hurdles, in 1 minute, 6 seconds in the critical heat and 1 minute, 4 seconds in the final. Daniel Brown and Janel Worcester of Brewer were second, about 10 sec­onds behind, in the field of 27 couples. 

Man eats 247 jalapenos to win contest 
DALLAS -A 62-year-old retired accountant from Nevada swallowed 247 pep­pers in eight minutes to win the Jalapeno Eating World Championship at the State Fair of Texas. 
Richard LeFevre won $2,000 for prevailing in Sunday's contest, which was sponsored by the International Federation of Competitive Eating. 
"I love to eat, and I love to compete, so the two go pretty well together," said LeFevre, the world's eighth-ranked eater according to the feder­ation. 
LeFevre, who has also won the fair's World Corny Dog Eating Contest three times, said his winning strategy was to mix three or four peppers in his mouth with a swig of milk before swallowing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::::a: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
....I <( 
(,) 


49 42 


62 
37 

42 
32 
0 
HIGH 62
...I 
LOW 55 

Atlanta 82 I 58 Boston 61 I 48 Chicago 58 I 44 Denver 49 I 26 Houston 83 I 72 Los Angeles 70 I 55 Minneapolis 58 I 30 New York 68 I 53 Philadelphia 76 I 55 Phoenix 85 I 64 Seattle 67 I 45 St. Louis 69 I 41 Tampa 84 I 64 Washington 78 I 55 


Lauren Corona 
freshman Walsh 
"No, because my employer is freaking sweet." 
IN BRIEF 
Director of the National Center for Photovaltaics Dr. Lawrence Kazmerski will pres­ent a lecture entitled "Energy: Can Technology Help Save Our World?" today at noon in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Author, professor and recipi­ent of the Freedom and Human Hights Prize Naomi Chazan will present a lecture entitled "Can the World Affon:l to Abandon Africa?" today at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be followed by a reception. 
The Bayanihan Philippine National Dance Company will perform diverse music and dance traditions of the Philippines tonight at 7:30 in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents, $30 for faculty, staff and seniors and $36 for the general public. 
Joe Donnelly, the democratic candidate for Congress in Indiana's Second Congressional District, will be speaking at 8 tonight in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
Musicians Patrick Noble and Juan Pablo will perform Wednesday at 8 p.m. in Dalloway's Coffee House at Saint Mary's. 
Israel Consul General to the Midwest Barukh Binah will give the lecture "In the Wake of a Summer of Conflict: An Israeli Perspective" at 7 p.m. Wednesday in 102 DeBartolo. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, October 10, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Task force presents new objectives 
Board members discuss new wireless Internet and cable in dorms 
Input task force chair, said 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
members of her committee News Writer 
are looking into planning global health awareness Members of the Campus events to continue the work Life Council (CLC) listened to of the academic forum held progress reports from task in September. Brown said force chairs Monday instead she is also exploring ways to of meeting with Robert develop a database for stu­Guthrie, the Office of dent representation in Informational University com­Technologies mittees. Student (OIT) represen­"We are going to body president 
tative who over­Lizzi Shappell
look at program
saw the dorm­began this ini­
wide installation issues, like ifyou tiative last year 
of wireless want to get a when she led Internet and the task force.
speaker, who do
cable television Alumni Hall 
you go to?"
and the cam­senator Danny pus-wide Smith said the improvement to Danny Smith Student cellular recep­Concerns task
Alumni Hall senator
tion. 
Due to sched­uling conflicts, Guthrie was unable to speak to the coun­cil at Monday's meeting, thus postponing the group's vot­ing on a resolution that would point out problems with and recommend improvements to new tech­nology in residence halls. 
The meeting's agenda instead focused on reports from task force chairs about what their committees had discussed in individual groups. 
Chief executive assistant Liz Brown, Student Voice and 
force wanted to 

examine how to make information about pro­gramming more readily available to dorms. 
"We are going to look at program issues, like if you want to get a speaker, who do you go to?" Smith said. 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik, Conduct Awareness task force chair, reminded the counsel of his committee's previously stat­
. ed goal to focus on dorm dis­orientations. His group decided to approach the issue by looking at which dorms hold disorientations, 
where they are held, and whether dorm residents, Frosh-0 staff members, or Resident Assistants are aware of it or encourage it. 
Hall Presidents Council co­chair Katie Cordelli said the Student Safety ad hoc task force discussed taking a pre­ventative stance on crime against Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"Last week we decided to refocus on prevention educa­tion since things have been going fairly well after the first few instances [of crime against students]," Cordelli said. 
Cordelli said she has been in contact with The Observer about possibly submitting a series of letters to the editor advising students how to stay safe both on and off campus. 
In other CLC news: 
Shappell announced fresh­man Matt Barloh would serve as the new parliamen­tarian for the student gov­ernment. 
Former student body presi­dent Dave Baron made an appearance in the LaFortune Notre Dame room to greet members of the council, delaying the start of the meeting by five minutes. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Executives address fire alarm precautions 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance members discussed concerns raised by the fire alarm in LeMans Hall early Friday morning at their meeting Monday evening. 
A fan in the fourth infirmary bathroom started to smoke in the early hours of Friday morning, and the decision was made to pull the fire alarm in order to evacuate the 
building,  Residence  Hall  
Association  President  Amy  
Dardinger said.  

"Our main concern is that people did not hear the fire alarm," Dardinger said. 
Student Body President Susan Mcllduff agreed many people had reported sleeping through the alarm -a problem for resident safety. 
"It is very important that every­one is leaving [the building]," Mcllduff said. "It is campus policy that there will never be a drill at night." 
She also said residents should evacuate a building immediately at the sound of a fire alarm. 
"Don't be waiting, or stalling, or hiding things [that may or may not be allowed in dorm rooms], just get out," she said. 
Dardinger said students should be aware there are some people that will never hear a fire alarm because they are heavy sleepers. 
She said these students should tell their friends they need to be woken up during an alarm. 
A major concern about the alarm is that many students didn't hear the alarm who believe they should have, Dardinger said. 
"If you didn't hear [the alarm] and you think that you should have [LeMans Hall Director Patricia Hodge] is asking that you email her," Dardinger said. "[Alarms] may need to be louder or we may need to put more in to be up to safety codes." 
In Other BOG News: 
+The Holy Cross Hall Haunted Tunnels will take place the week after fall break on Oct. 26. Tickets will be on sale for $3 in the student center in the week leading up to the event, and $5 at the door. 
+Trick-or-Treating will take place in all residence hall<; on Oct. 
29. Students who wish to partici­pate can pick up an orange pump­kin slip from the front desk of their hall after break and place it on their door to let Trick-or-Treaters know to know on the door. 
+The sophomore board sold out of their first shipment of "SMC loves Football" T-shirts and will be selling a second shipment during the week of Oct. 22 for $5 at dinner, sophomore class president Francesca Johnson said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Announcing anew deadline date lor studv abroad applications: 
All programs for both semesters for the 2007-2008 Academic Year will have a deadline of November 15, 2006. Students must submit applications for Fall 2007, Spring 2008, and Academic Year 2007-08 by midnight of Nov.15th for the following programs: 
Angers, France  Fremantle, Australia  Rio de Janeiro, Brazil  
Athens, Greece  Innsbruck, Austria  Rome, Italy  
Bahia/Sao Paulo Brazil  Kampala, Uganda (semester/summer)  Rome (ICCS), Italy  
Beijing, China  London, England  Russia Programs  
Berlin, Germany  Monterrey, Mexico  Santiago, Chile  
Bologna, Italy  Nagoya, Japan  Shanghai, China  
Cairo, Egypt  Paris, France  Tokyo, Japan  
Dublin, Ireland  Pueb Ia, Mexi co  Toledo, Spain  
Washington, D.C.  

Summer Programs will have a deadline date of Mar. 1, 2007 for all except the London Summer Program and Kampala, Uganda 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
campus residence by SBPD. 
Notre Dame police are also searching for a white male who allegedly assaulted a female Notre Dame student on the west side of the Morris Inn Saturday, officials said. 
The woman was sitting at a table outside of the Inn at about 8:15 p.m. when "the suspect approached her and without speaking, touched her breast," the crime alert said. 
Though NDSP responded and searched nearby areas, they were unable to locate the suspect, who allegedly fled south toward the Hammes Bookstore. 
The man is described by the crime alert as "white, possibly 30 to 35 years old, with blond curly shoulder length hair" wearing a white T-shirt, blue jeans and a white bandanna on his head. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

Arrests 
continued from page 1 

eral people for selling mer­chandise on campus proper­ty, Johnson said. 
NDSP was assisted outside the stadium by Indiana State Excise Police, South Bend Police and St. Joseph County Police. 
Johnson did not specify whether preliminary breath tests (PBTs) were used or if police officers were in uni­form or plain-clothed. 
"NDSP will continue to work with other area police officials for the next home football game," Johnson said. 
Johnson said that if football weekend festivities include the use of alcoholic bever­ages, Indiana laws should be followed. 
"Don't let alcohol get in the way of your safety or fun or keep you from enjoying a great football game," Johnson said. "Keep in mind that laws regarding the use of alcohol will be enforced and you are responsible for your conduct." 
Johnson also said that stu­dents arriving back on cam­pus after fall break for the football game against University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) will have to follow the "one-way traffic restrictions put in place by area police" on roads sur­rounding campus. 
"Normal routes and park­ing lots may not be available if students arrive on campus later than hours prior to kickoff," Johnson said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

whatever party won the pres­The future of Honduras, families still in Latin educations. Unlike many idency would automatically Maduro said, relies greatly America. Hondurans, Maduro was able

Maduro 
get a majority in Congress on the continued creation of For a country with a Gross to attend Lawrenceville continued from page 1 because a vote for a presi­continuity and freedom from Domestic Product (GDP) of School, an exclusive prepara­dent was corruption. $7.5 billion, the remittances tory school in New Jersey, 
The key to fixing such automati-Currently have an "enormous impact," and Stanford University. problems -and to create cally a Honduras is he said. To promote education
"Unless you have 

lasting change while forming vote for growing at Raised in a privileged fami­among Honduran youth,
principled

a credible government -is the other a rate of 5 ly, Maduro -a member of Maduro said he started a continuity, Maduro said. candi­leadership, such as that at percent a the advisory board for Notre community pre-schooling "Unless you have principled dates [for y e a r , Dame's Kellogg Institute for program to improve primary
Notre Dame, unless you 

leadership, such as that at o t h e r according International Studies and education and added a pro­
participate, there is no

Notre Dame, unless you par­positions] to Maduro. former president of gram to provide lunch for ticipate, there is no possibili­of his possibility for Honduras' Honduras' Central Bank -students during the school ty for continuity," he said. party." continuity.,, economy said people who have the day. 
Maduro said continuity is Though also plays a privileges of education and Maduro said that participa­often difficult in Latin Maduro large role, wealth have a responsibility tion from educated people is American countries because n e v e r Ricardo Maduro Joest Maduro to help the poor and improve what is needed to enact of the conflicts in policy from expected former Honduran president said, specif­the country. change. one government to the next. to become ically dis-This is especially impor­"The most lasting and pro­
"Whenever a new govern­involved cussing the tant, he said, in impover­found source of happiness is ment comes to power, [the in politics, he decided to run industry of remittances and ished countries like service," he said. ruling party] will put its own for president shortly after his the approximately $2.5 bil­Honduras where less than people into government son was kidnapped and lion that Hondurans in the three percent of the popula­Contact Eva Binda at jobs," he said. "In the past, killed. United States send to their tion pursue University-level jbinda@nd.edu 
Experts urge talks with N. Koreans 
Sanction researchers investigate North Korea's nuclear power 
Special to The Observer 
North Korea's nuclear arse­nal has grown tenfold in the last five years, according to David Cortright, a research fellow at the University of Notre Dame. He calls that growth a colossal fail­ure of U.S. foreign poli­cy. 
The Bush administra­tion started a war against Iraq which did not have the bomb, Cortright said, while allowing North Korea, which had a known nuclear program, to continue developing its capa­bilities. In 2000, he said, North Korea had enough weapons-grade plutonium for perhaps one or two bombs. Now, it could build as many as 10 bombs 
"North Korea had agreed during most of the '90s to an inspected shutdown of its plu­tonium reactors and repro­cessing facilities," he said, recalling the efforts of the Clinton administration. "The Bush administration refused to carry on the negotiations that Clinton had almost con­cluded. It ignored the prob­lem." 


As part of their work at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Cortright and George 
A. Lopez have spent more than a decade studying the use of economic sanctions to change the behavior of coun­tries. The United States' imposition of sanctions against North Korea has 
failed, they contend, as has its poli­cy of refus­ing direct talks-with Pyongyang. 
America m u s t restore nor­


mal diplo-Lopez matic rela­tions with North Korea, Lopez said. 
"We must say 'no' to the old approach, which sets pre­conditions for direct talks," Lopez said. He dismissed the idea that direct talks only reward North Korea's dan­gerous behavior. 
The U.S. also should be willing to sign a pact, agree­ing not to attack North Korea, Cortright said. 
"They want to survive," he said of North Korea's commu­nist regime. "They're strug­gling to hang on." 
Cortright and Lopez agree there should be some kind of sanctions imposed, this time, by the United Nations, to keep pressure on North Korea to change its ways. Those sanctions could include a ban on the travel of Kim Jong-il and other senior lead­ers, and an embargo on exports to North Korea of arms-and nuclear-relafed equipment. 
When North Korea announced that it had con­ducted an underground nuclear test, the researchers said, it provided the latest evidence of a new reality ­one that poses a direct threat to America's security, and one that could spread to even more countries. 
"We have a nuclear North Korea," Lopez said. "We have to deal with it." 


Lawmakers summon ex-pages for panel 
Representative Foley ethics debate intensifies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Lawmakers, following a request from the House ethics committee, are surveying aides and former House pages to find out if any of them had knowledge of ex-Rep. Mark Foley's inappropriate con­duct toward male pages. 
Charlie Keller, spokesman for Rep. Ginny Brown-Waite, R­Fla., said she contacted two pages before receiving the com­mittee request and asked if they were aware of inappropriate behavior from Foley, any other lawmaker or staff members. Both said they were not. 
Aides for other House mem­bers reported similar results Monday. 
The ethics committee leaders, in a letter to all House mem­bers, asked them to contact cur­rent and former pages they sponsored to learn whether any of them had "inappropriate communications or interac­tions" with Foley or any other House member. 
The ethics panel, formally known as the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, also directed lawmakers to cast a wide net and ask aides what they might have heard about improper approaches by Foley or others to pages before reve­lations about his sexually explic­it Internet messages surfaced last month. Foley resigned Sept. 29. 
Timothy Heaphy, Fordham's lawyer, said he contacted the ethics committee Friday and was told Fordham could appear this week to provide sworn tes­timony. 
The ethics committee's four­person investigative subcommit­tee said it approved nearly four dozen subpoenas for testimony and documents, although many witnesses are expected to testify voluntarily without the need for a subpoena. 
J. Randolph Evans, Hastert's lawyer, said, "We are working to cooperate fully," but did not know when Hastert may appear. 
There are other instances in which Foley was said to have been confronted years ago with complaints about his behavior regarding pages. 
In 2000 or 2001, Foley was approached by Rep. Jim Kolbe, R-Ariz., or someone in Kolbe's office about what were described as "creepy" e-mails to a page, Korenna Cline, Kolbe's press secretary, said Monday. 
In a CBS News-New York Times poll released Monday, four in five said GOP leaders were more concerned with poli­tics than with the well-being of the congressional pages. Nearly half of those polled, 46 percent, said Hastert should step down, while 26 percent said he should­n't. 
But voters have their doubts about how the Democrats would have handled the page scandal, with 7 5 percent in an ABC News-Washington Post poll say­ing Democrats would not have done any better. 
The letter from the two lead­ers to all members said they expected that lawmakers with information would contact the subcommittee and asked law­makers to question their staff members about whether they have any relevant information. 

ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Protestant, Catholic meet in Belfast 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland -Northern Ireland's dominant Protestant leader, who has long denounced the Roman Catholic Church as corrupt and heretical, held talks Monday for the first time with the leader of the church in Ireland. 
Ian Paisley's meeting with Archbishop Sean Brady, leader of Ireland's 4 million Catholics, was timed to signal Paisley's willingness to work with Catholics on the eve of negotiations to revive power-sharing in Northern Ireland, the central goal of the Good Friday peace accord of 1998. 
Britain and Ireland, which are leading three days of multiparty negotiations starting Wednesday in Scotland, ha·ve given the Northern Ireland Assembly a Nov. 24 deadline to elect a Catholic-Protestant administration or be shut down. 
Tree caused May crash killing 10 
KABUL. Afghanistan -A helicopter crash that killed 10 U.S. troops last May was caused by a series of mishaps, a new report concluded. Problems included a nighttime landing on a small mountaintop zone, trees that were too close to the runway and soldiers who lacked axes to cut them down. 
Maj. Matt Hackathorn, a military spokesman at the U.S. base at Bagram, north of Kabul, said on Monday that the May crash came "as.a very hard lesson" in the difficulties of flying in Afghanistan. 
The CH-47 Chinook-a large transport heli­copter with two overhead rotors -had such a small landing zone that only its two rear wheels could touch down, while its front two wheels hovered off the mountain's side, the report from the Accident Investigation Division of the U.S. Army Combat Readiness Center found. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alaskan villages reject Chavez' oil aid 
ANCHORAGE-In Alaska's native villages, the punishing winter cold is already coming through the walls of the lightly insulated ply­wood homes, many of the villagers are desper­ately poor, and heating-oil prices are among the highest in the nation. 
And yet a few villages are refusing free heat­ing oil from Venezuela, on the patriotic princi­ple that no foreigner has the right to call their president "the devil." 
The heating oil is being offered by the petro­leum company controlled by Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, President Bush's nemesis. While scores of Alaska's Eskimo and Indian villages say they have no choice but to accept, others would rather suffer. 
Missouri middle schooler in custody 
JOPLIN, Mo. -Fascinated by the Columbine bloodbath, a 13-year-old boy in a dark green trenchcoat and mask carried an assault rifle into his school Monday, pointed it at students and fired a shot into a ceiling before the weapon jammed, authorities said. No one was hurt. 
"Please don't make me do this," he was quoted as t\)lling administrators before police arrested him and thwarted what they called a "well thought-out plan" to terrorize his school. 
Police said a note in the student's backpack indicated he had planted an explosive in the school, but no bombs were found. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Deputy injured during reenactment 
KOKOMO, Ind. -A sheriff's deputy said he's walking again six weeks after breaking his pelvis during a reenactment of a War of 1812 battle that wa.<; bPing filmed for the History Channel. 
Howard County Sheriff's Deputy Richard ferguson. 47, said he lost control of his horse and was injured after bouncing hard several times on his saddle. 
"All of this for 10 seconds on the History Channel." he joked. 
Ferguson was part of the reenactment in late August in Friendship, a small community in southeast Indiana. 
North Korea tests nuclear bomb 
Country hears world's condemnation for successful underground atomic explosion 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea ­North Korea faced global condemnation and calls for harsh sanctions Monday after it announced that it had set off an atom­ic explosio·n underground, a test that thrusts the secretive communist state into the elite club of nuclear-armed nations. 
The United States, Japan, China and Britain led a united chorus of crit­icism, with President Bush saying the reported test poses a threat to global peace and security, and "deserves an immediate response" by the U.N. Security Council, which met to discuss the crisis. 
Bush said he had called the leaders of South Korea, China, Russia and Japan, and all had reaf­firmed a commitment to a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. 
The reported test came one day after the ninth anniversary of reclusive North Korean leader Kim Jong Il's accession to power. 

Members of the 15­nation Security Council were unanimous in denouncing the claim amid worldwide concern that it could seriously destabilize the region, with even financial activities. U.N. sanctions on Monday, formed a nuclear weapons North Korean ally China Bolton and key U.S. including a trade ban on test. saying it strongly opposed allies, including Britain military and luxury items, People also laid flowers to the move. and France, said they the power to inspect all by a statue of Kim Il Sung, 
"No one defended it, no would seek a resolution cargo entering or leaving the current leader's father one even came close to unaer Chapter 7 of the the country, and freezing who died in 1994, ahead defending it," U.S. U.N. Charter that would assets connected with of Tuesday's 61st anniver­Ambassador John Bolton seek punishing measures, Pyongyang's weapons pro­sary of the North Korean said."I was very impressed going beyond the limited grams, according to a copy Workers' Party that he by the unanimity of the sanctions in a measure of the draft obtained by founded. Red flags of the council ... on the need for adopted by the council in The Associated Press. party draped buildings a strong and swift answer July after North Korea North Korea's U.N. and lampposts. to what everyone agreed conducted seven missile ambassador Pak Gil Yon Iranian state radio, amounted to a threat to tests. said the Security Council meanwhile, blamed North international peace and Chapter 7 grants the should congratulate his Korea's reported nucl-ear security." council the authority to country instead of passing test on U.S. pressure,. say­
The Security Council had impose a range of meas­"useless" resolutions or ing the test "was a reac­warned the impoverished ures including breaking statements. tion to America's threats and isolated nation just diplomatic t,ies, imposing AP Televis·ion News and humiliation." two days earlier not to go economic and military footage showed North Iran has said it will not through with a test, and action. Koreans going about their abandon uranium enrich­Bolton said Washington The Bush administration daily business and there ment despite the threat of will seek U.N. sanctions to repeatedly has said it has were no signs of height­international sanctions curb North Korea's import no plans to invade North ened alert by security over its disputed nuclear and export of material for Korea and military action forces in Pyongyang on program, which Tehran weapons of mass destruc­appeared unlikely. But the Monday, hours after their insists is purely for peace­tion, as well as its illicit U.S. proposed stringent government said it per-ful purposes. 

Lower standards raise recruits 
those, about 70,000 were first-time Test-taking ability, the Army said,
Associated Press 

recruits who had never served before. does not measure loyalty, duty, honor, 
WASHINGTON-The U.S. Army According to statistics obtained by integrity or courage. recruited more than 2,600 soldiers The Associated Press, 3.8 percent of Daniel Goure, vice president of the under new lower aptitude standards the first-time recruits scored below Lexington Institute, a private this year, helping the service beat its certain aptitude levels. In previous research group, said there is a "fine goal of 80,000 recruits in the throes years, the Army had allowed only 2 balance between the need for a cer­of an unpopular war and mounting percent of its recruits to have low tain number of recruits and the stan­casualties. aptitude scores. That limit was dards you set." 
The recruiting mark comes a year increased last year to 4 percent, the "Tests don't tell you the answer to after the Army missed its recruitment maximum allowed by the Defense the most critical question for the target by the widest margin since Department. Army, how will you do in combat?" 1979, which had triggered a boost in The Army said all the recruits with Goure said. the number of recruiters, increased low scores had received high school But, he added, accepting too many bonuses, and changes in standards. diplomas. In a written statement, the recruits with low test scores could 
The Army recruited 80,635 soldiers, Army said good test scores do not increase training costs and lea.ve roughly 7,000 more than last year. Of necessarily equate to quality soldiers. technical jobs unfilled. · 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesqay, October 10, 2005 
Faculty 
continued from page 1 
with religious and priests," said Father Robert Sullivan, direc­tor of the Erasmus Institute. 
But this is no longer the case, he said, and the University now faces the challenge of both recruiting Catholic professors and identifying lay people who can continue Notre Dame's Catholic mission. 
Though the number of under­graduate Catholics has remained relatively consis~ent at approximately 85 percent, the percentage of Catholic fac­ulty has gradually decreased during the past 20 
In

years. 
"We can succeed in
the 1985-86 school year, advancing these Catholics 
aspects of the 
composed 
University's mission 
65 percent of the facul­only ifwe have, among ty. our faculty, a critical 
T h a t 

number of devoted
number now hovers followers of the around 54 
Catholic faith. " 
percent, according 
Father John Jenkins 
to statistics from the University President 
Office of Institutional Research. 
To actively combat this decline, Jenkins announced in his faculty address the creation of an initiative to recruit­Catholic scholars to teaching and research positions at the University. Along with these Keough-Hesburgh Professorships -which will be funded by a donation from the Keough family -a new office will be established with the sole focus of identifying schol­ars who would be eligible aca­demically to teach at the University and will contribute to the Catholic mission. 
and Letters fell below its mini­mum goal of 50 percent for the second time in nine years, he said. With the creation of the database of Catholic scholars, Roche hopes to increase that figure. 
"There is, I believe, an increasing challenge, and if we don't meet it, it will diminish the distinctive identity of Notre Dame," Roche said. "That's w.hy I wanted to be more proactive in trying to meet it." 
How could a university widely regarded as the most promi­nent Catholic institution in the 
U.S. have such a challenge in attracting Catholic professors? 
In large part, it's due to sig­nificant percentages of Catholic 
faculty leaving or retiring over the years, Hoche said. 
Older Catholic 
faculty m em be.rs hired when most new hires were Catholic are retir­ing, he said, and not being replaced by an equal num­ber of new Catholic hires. On average, well over 50 per­cent of faculty members who are retiring are Catholic. 
And attracting professors who are both talented and 

Catholic is a challenge. In many cases the University is asking these professors to leave departments or schools that are more highly ranked than Notre Dame, Roche said. 
"In some cases our biggest hurdle is the quality of Notre Dame," he said. "There was one Catholic we tried to hire last year who was very tempted to come, but he was at a top­five department and in the end couldn't get his arms around the idea of leaving that top-five department and coming to Notre Dame." . 
Comair to impose wage cut 
Bankrupcy causes the change, flight attendants threaten to strike 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI :...._ Comair, a sub­sidiary of Delta Air Lines lne., said Monday it will impose wage cuts and changes in work rules for the regional airline's 970 flight attendants bnginning Nov. 15. 
The action comes morn than two months after a federal bankruptcy judge gave Comair permission to throw out its con­tract with the flight attendants. Comair was senking concessions of $7.9 million a year as part of a package of euts from its flight attendants, pilots and mnchan­ics. 
The flight attendants have threatened to go on strike if Comair irnposnd concessions, and Ow company said Monday that it will seek an order to pm­vent the union from engaging in any type of work aetion. such as a strike or a work slowdown. 
"We believe tt1at any such action would bn illegal and that a judge's decision in recent weeks tp block a strike by Northwest Airlines flight atten­dants further strengthens our position," Comair President Don Bornhorst said in a memo to employees Monday. 
Bornhorst said the company was prepared to take appropri­ate steps to ensure that cus­tomers can continue to have confidence in Comair. 
Comair said it has tried since last November to reach a deal with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters that represents its flight attendant<;. 
Even with the adjustments to the contract that include an average pay cut of 7.5 percent, the company says its flight attendants will remain the high­est paid in the regional airline industry. The average flight attendant salary is $29,950 and the averag9 pay cut is $2,250. 
The /light attendants were not surprised by Comair's decision to impose the concessions, said Connie Slayback, president of Local 513 of the f1ight atten­dants union. 
"We knew it was coming," Slayback said. "We are pre­pared to continue to negotiate, and we gave them a proposal today." 
The airline received the pro­posal, but the terms were unac­ceptable, according to Comair. 
"Our time has simply run out," Comair spokeswoman Kate Marx said. "After recent discus­sions with the IBT, it became apparent that we had exhausted every opportunity to n}ach a consensual agreement." 
Comair said, however, that it remains willing to negotiate and still wants a deal with the union. The company would not specu­late on the possibility of a strike or its potential impact. 
"We have lots of options at our disposal, including court actions and other things, and we will continue using every one of them," Slaybaek said. 
The airline, based in nearby Erlanger, Ky., also has been negotiating with its pilots and mechanics union. 
Comair had earlier reached an agreement with its pilots for $17.3 million in cuts and for $1 million from its mechanics, but those deals were contingent on Comair getting $8.9 million in givebacks from flight atten­dants. Talks resumed with the pilots and mechanics after Comair said it had reduced the flight attendant concessions to $7.9 million. · 
Bornhorst has said the carrier 
needs to cut labor costs to be 
able to avoid shrinking its serv­
ice. 

Delta announced Aug. 22 that it had requested bids for some of its regional jet service. much of which is handled by Comair. Comair Flight 5191 crashed live days later in Lexington, Ky., killing 49 people, and Delta extended a Sept. 18 bid deadline to Oct. 2. 
Comair submitted its bid by last week's deadline, saying that it reflected the restructuring it has completed in nonunion areas and the savings forecast for the flight attendants and mechanics. 
But the company said it was so far apart on a new deal with the pilots union that it would not include those concessions and the lack of pilot concessions would likely cost the airline any chance of winning the oid. 
Bornhorst and Joe Tiberi, spokesman for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers represent­ing the mechanics, said Monday that progress has been made in those talks. Tiberi said the lAM had no comment on the compa­ny's decision to impose conces­sions on the flight attendants. 
No significant progress has been made with the pilots, rep­resented by the Air Line Pilots Association, and no new talks have been scheduled with that group, Bornhorst said. ALPA told the company that it would not be able to negotiate until the end of October, he said. 
"What the company is saying is extremely confusing," ALPA spokesman Paul Denke said. "We have always been willing to meet anytime and anywhere. We want a fair and consensual agreement." 
Sullivan, who will direct this office, said the University "has a commitment in its mission statement to a preponderance, a preponderant number, of Catholic intellectuals on the faculty." 
This is Notre Dame's .first etfort, however, "to seek these people rather than sift through applications or maybe hear things by word of mouth," he said. 
Sullivan said his immediate goal -is to maintain the University's current percentage of Catholic faculty. A figure below that, he said, would call into question the maintenance of Notre Dame's Catholic identi­ty. 
Dean Mark Roche of the College of Arts and Letters worked with Sullivan over the past year to create a database of names of Catholic scholars who could potentially teach at Notre Dame. Since Roche became dean nine years ago, he has set a goal for new facul­ty hires to be at least 50 per­cent Catholic. 
But that's just the minimum. The expected goal of new hires each year is 55 percent Catholic with a desired goal of 60 percent, Roche said. 
Last year, the College of Arts 
While the University h<~;s been successful in bringing a num­ber of Catholic scholars from highly ranked schools like Harvard and Stanford, Hoche said these professors would not have left their former schools if Notre Dame had not sought them out. 
Sullivan said -Notre Dame faces a long-term problem in the hiring of Catholic scholars partly because Notre Dame stu­dents, as well as students from other Catholic universities, are not entering into academic pro­fessions. 
"Something around six per­cent of Notre Dame undergrad­uates go on to become profes­sors," Sullivan said. "That's a pipeline problem. In most com­parable institutions the ligures would be more like 11 or 12 percent." 
The importance of maintain­ing a Catholic faculty has been a hallmark of both the Hesburgh and Malloy presiden­cies. The second part of this series will explore the histori­cal context of attracting Catholic faculty and their role in Notre Dame's mission. 


UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 
h£n0::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXVII 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

I • I 

9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 11. 2006 RASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

DEPARTMENT OF MliSIC ADMISSION FREE: OPEN TO THE PUI\LIC 

Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
11,857.81 +7.60
}ones 
UfJ: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,951 141 1,264 1,986,690,420 
AM£X 
,si;l.SSi~4Jl81::;;!i,l!lll 
NASDAQ 2 311.77 +11.78 
NYSE _..t .... !llls;s38r4tl!~I-IR~IS 
S&PSOO I ,350.66 + 1.08 
NIKKEI(Toltyolj!, :111:411lillllill1!illlii!ll!'~l~· FTSE IOO(London) 6,030.90 +29.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.34  +0.14  41.55  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.05  -0.0 I  20.62  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  0.00  0.00  4.97  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.54  -0.15  27.72  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -1.86  -0.04  2.11  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.04  +0.002  4.698  
13-WEEK BILL  -16.84  -0.810  4.000  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.02  -0.00 I  4.836  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.06  +0.003  4.647  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.20  59.96  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  +6.00  582.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.43  89.00  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  119.0800  
EURO  0.7937  
POUND  0.5355  
CANADIAN$  1.1232  

IN BRIEF 
Stocks rise despite geopolitical tennoil 
NEW YORK -Stocks rose slightly Monday, with the Dow Jones industrial average briefly touching a new intraday trading high, after the 
U.N. Security Council condemned North Korea over its claim of an underground nuclear test. 
Wall Street had opened the session lower 
after North Korea announced it had set off an 
atomic weapon underground. Heports that 
OPEC was near announcing its first output cut 
in two years sent oil prices higher. But stock 
pric.es turned mixed by midday and were high­
er by early afternoon. 
"We are heartened by the fact the market 
seems to be shrugging off a major geopolitical 
event," said Jim Russell, director of core equity 
strategy for Fifth-Third Asset Managemept in 
Cincinnati, which manages $22 billion. 
But Russell added that because of the Columbus Day holiday, volume was too light to say the day's trading represented a trend or theme. 
Bond investors knock down rates 
NEW YORK -The bond market's rally in 
recent months looks to be the work of a new 
generation of "vigilantes" who have turned the 
notion of holding the Federal Reserve's feet to 
the fire on its head. 
Back in the 1980s and early 1990s, these 
investors took matters into their own hands 
when they felt the Fed wasn't doing enough to 
fight inflation. By selling bonds, they pushed 
rates on things like 30-year Treasury bonds 
high enough to slow the economy in the hopes 
of warding off the stinging effect of higher 
prices. The Fed eventually followed suit by 
increasing overnight rates. 
This go-around, a nnw class of bond investors 
scorn to be working the opposite way. They are 
knocking down rates of Treasury securities in 
what amounts to an audacious gamble that 
Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke and his col­
leagues soon will have to reverse course and 
cut short-term borrowing rates to avoid a 
recession. 
As some on Wall Street have pointed out, this 
change in tactics may have something to do with who manages money these days: !ledge . funds and other spnculators play an ever-larg­nr roln in the bond market and the pressures thny face to show outsized returns are intense. 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Google in deal to buy You Tube 
Internet leader dismissing copyright concerns to obtain video-sharing company 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO 
Internet search leader 
Googie is snapping up 
YouTube for $1.65 billion, 
brushing aside copyright 
concerns to seize a star­
ring role in the online 
video revolution. 
The all-stock deal 
announced Monday unites 
one of the Internet's mar­
quee companies with one 
of its rapidly rising stars. It 
came just a few hours after 
YouTube unveiled three 
separate agreements with 
media companies to count­
er the threat of copyright­
infringement lawsuits. 
The price makes 
YouTube Inc., a still­
unprofitable startup, by far 
the most expensive pur­
chase made by Google dur­
ing its eight-year history. 
Last year, Google spent 
$130.5 million buying a 
total of 15 small compa­
nies. 
Although some cynics 
have questioned YouTube's 
staying power, Google is 
betting that the popular 
video-sharing site will pro­
vide it an increasingly 
lucrative marketing hub as 
more viewers and advertis­
ers migrate from television 
to the Internet. 
"This is the next step in 
the evolution of the 

Internet," Google Chief CEO. have helped the deal come could help them make 
Executive Officer Eric Schmidt thinks so highly together after just a week more money by helping 
Schmidt said during a con­of Hurley and Chen, 27, of negotiation. them connect with the 
ference call Monday. that he compared them to YouTube has drawn less growing number of people 
YouTube will continue to Google's now 33-year-old flattering comparisons to who spend most of their 
retain its brand, its new co-founders, Sergey Brin the original Napster, the free time on the Internet. 
headquarters in San Bruno and Larry Page. once-popular music shar­As its negotiations with ·and all 67 employees, Brin sees the similarities ing service that was buried Google appeared to be including co-founders Chad too. "It's hard to imagine a in an avalanche of copy­near fruition, YouTube on Hurley and Steve Chen. better fit with another right infringement lawsuits Monday announced new Meanwhile, Google will company," Brin said during filed by incensed music partnerships with continue to run a less pop­Monday's conference call. companies and artists. UniveFsal Music Group, ular video service on its "This really reminds me of While most videos posted CBS Corp. and Sony BMG own site. Google just a few short on YouTube are home­Music Entertainment. 
The deal is expected to years ago," made, the site also fea­Those alliances followed a 
close before the end of the The two companies even tures volumes of copyright­similar arrangement 
year. share a common financial ed material -a problem announced last month with 
''I'm confident that with bond: Sequoia Capital, an that has caused some crit­Warner Music Group Inc. 
this partnership we'll have early Google investor that ics to predict the startup The truce with Universal 
the flexibility and owns a roughly 30 percent eventually would be sued represented a particularly 
resources needed to pur­stake in YouTube. Menlo into oblivion. significant breakthrough 
sue our goal of building the Park-based Sequoia But Hurley and Chen because the world's largest 
next-generation platform remains a major Google have spent months cozying record company had 
for serving media world­shareholder and retains a up with major media exec­threatened to sue YouTube 
wide," said Hurley, seat on the company's utives in an effort to con­for copyright infringement 
YouTube's 29-year-old board -factors that might vince them that YouTube less than a month ago. 

Airbus chief resigns after short stint 
tion delay to one year, doubled it tion" the combination of the Airbus 
Associated Press again this month to two years and and EADS roles. 
said the holdups would wipe $6.1 Streiff, a 52-year-old former Saint­
PARIS -Airbus chief executive billion off EADS profits over four Gobain executive, drew up a cost­
Christian Streiff resigned Monday years. cutting turnaround plan for Airbus 
after a little more than three months Streiff took over as Airbus CEO just that enjoyed strong support from 
as head of the troubled European over three months ago, replacing EADS directors, but he clashed 
plane maker and parent company Gustav Humbert -who was ousted repeatedly with the board over how 
EADS named one of its own co-CEOs along with EADS co-CEO Noel the plan should be implemented and 
to replace him. Forgeard as a result of the A380 how much control he would person­
European Aeronautic Defence and production crisis. ally exorcise, according to three offi­Space Co. said in a statement Louis EADS didn't say in the release cials familiar with the discussions. Gallais will succeed Streiff in the top announcing Streiff's resignation why Streiff wanted to report to the par­job at Airbus while continuing in his he was leaving. ent company every quarter and have current role as joint head of the In an interview for Tuesday's edi­final say on Airbus appoii1tments. Franco-German defense group. tion of the French daily Le Figaro, while senior EADS executives 
Streif''s departure deals a fresh Streiff said he had not been allowed demanded closer oversight, accord­
blow to crisis-hit Airbus. The plane­the "necessary operational powers" ing to the officials, who asked not to 
maknr. which stunned investors in to do the job effectively and wel­be named bncause the discussions 
June by doubling the A380's produc-comed as "a step in the right direc-were confidential. 
..------~----------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDI1DR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 

Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDiroR: Ken Fowler 

SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EmroR: Kelly Meehan PHoro EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMINISTRA1DR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(57 4) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SceNE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

It's not just for gays anymore 
Wednesday, Oct. 11 marks the 19th annual celebration of National Coming Out Day. For a few years now, it has been my custom to mark this occasion with an Observer column targeted to gay and lesbian issues at Notre Dame. But this year, I have decided to expand my scope just a little bit, and to explore what I believe is a valuable and overlooked point about this event: the values espoused by National Coming Out Day can offer just as much-if not more­to straight people as they can to gays and lesbians. 
For those gays who have chosen to embrace it, National Coming Out Day frequently embodies a catharsis, that is a cleansing spiritual purge. There is a great deal of warped negativity that stems from being closeted, and today almost all accept that this psychologi­cal condition can be, and is, profound­ly destructive to those caught within it. The reasons for this destructive­ness may vary from person to person, but the continual fear and stress of discovery and the emotional (and moral) doublethink of.self-delusion are equally good contenders for the cause. 
But neither this type of condition nor its cure are uniquely gay. It is my belief that each is far more Ulliversal than is commonly recognized. 
The complex mental gymnastics that we colloquially refer to as coming out of the closet represents gays and les­bians at their best. I am convinced that the act of coming out is one of the more beneficial and progressive men­tal health steps that an individual can take, and that the pattern of coming 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

out that has been developed by gays and lesbians is something that all peo­ple can and should learn from. Western culture is seeped with levels of confusion, and many people wear layers of carefully constructed masks to hid<~ scars that they may not even be aware of. The process of coming out, in general, is an emotional bap­tism that is an effective answer to this hostile choreography. 
The first step is always self-knowl­edge. Most of the masks that we wear are not directed toward others, but are designed to conceal us from our­selves. Even if we believe that we understand ourselves, the true motives for our actions may still be opaque as long as the masks linger. For gays in particular, this step is challenging since the impetus for com­ing out about one's sexual orientation, by definition, comes from within. For others, self-awareness may come at the prompting of a friend or a reveal­ing experience. Either way, this step is always the most difficult. We can, however, make it easier by promoting a culture of introspection and accept­ance, where self-discovery is the norm and where others refrain from casti­gating others because of what they have discovered. 
The second step is self-love. If self­knowledge orten takes a great depth of character, then self-love often takes a great span of time. Again this is a particular challenge for some gays and lesbians because of the culture of our day, but it is equally challenging for a youth in an ethnic minority who must come embrace his culture within another that sees him as alien, or a young man or women coping with self-image in the face of anorexia, or any of the hundreds of types of people who are implicitly discouraged from loving themselves. In the gay commu­nity, the symbol of self-love is pride, because pride is the polar opposite of the emotional sludge that closeted gays and lesbians often live in. It is, intentionally, as far from that origin as possible, and stands as a reminder that the birthright of self-love cannot be had in compromise. It is always an aU-or-nothing proposition. 
The third step is revelation. This is the part of the process that is classi­cally understood as "coming out," but actually it is only the last part of a delicate dance. Many people misun­derstand the desire of some to reveal things that are often intensely person­al about themselves (although I think the "MySpace Generation" under­stands better than most). There is nothing of flaunting about it, and everything of finality and openness. Secrets fester. Only truths can live in the open. And by revealing something about themselves, whatever that may be, a person who is coming out passes a point of no return, at the same time protecting themselves returning and standing out where others who may have to travel the same process can see them. 
These are the three steps on a road to actualization that gays and lesbians have discovered: self-knowledge, self­love, and revelation. This is what National Coming Out Day is about, and this is why it is for absolutely everyone. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of the University ofNotre Dame. He came out on Nov. 6, 2003. Contact him at comments@tidewaterblues. com. His column appears every other Tuesday. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution­NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 License. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is publhhc:d Monday through Friday except during cx.am and vac.arion perinds. A subscription w The Ohscrver is $I 00 for one acadcmil yr3r; $55 fOr one-semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall s~nd address correction., w: Notre Dame. IN 4655:6-0779 The Obsetv~ Periodical postage p;aid .at Not~ O:un.: P.O. Boxn9 and addi£iona1 mailing offices. Ql4 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The O~r is J mcmher of the A:;rociated Press. AJJ reproduCtion rights are rc:sc:rvcd. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rethink hockey arena plans 
As the University looks to invest money in the aging Joyce Center, a few questions need to be asked. First of all, an arena that admittedly was built too small is now going to be losing seats. Second of all, the hockey arena has been deemed inadequate and needs to be moved away from the other inhabi­tants of the North Dome. They want to build a new hockey arena. lias the idea ever been considered to lix both problems with one construction? 
Rather than build a new hockey arena, take the South Dome, which currently houses the basketball arena, and turn that into a nice and perma­nent hockey arena. The seating would be adequate for a good-sized arena that would rival the quality of confer­ence foes such as Ohio State, Michigan State, Michigan etc. As for the money that would be spent on the renovations of the Joyce Center and on a new hock­ey arena, use that plus additional funding to build a new state-of-the-art basketball arena. Under this plan you would be utilizing the limited space that we already have in the Joyce Center and would have nice and ade­quately sized arenas for both basket­ball and hockey. I would think that the University should step back and look at a plan that's best for both programs, instead of one that still creates prob­lems in limited seating and adequate arenas for both. 

Tom Staudt 
freshman 
O'Neill Hall 
Oct.6 

Pep rallies lack true spirit 
I read Hohan Anand's article about the decline in student pep rally atten­dance with some amusement. The eause for decline is not in academic workloads, extracurricular activities, or anything similar. The decline is because, to be blunt, the pep rallies have departed from their original pur­pose. 
In the darkened Stepan Center days, if you went to the pep rally, you got hot and sweaty, you yelled your lungs out, and got fired up for the game. That was the rally's purpose. The well-lit, Disney-fled experiences currently hap­pening in the Joyce Center do not qual­ify on those counts. Now everyone brings their families and sits in the seats cheering politely. making sure not to offend anyone with noise or (God forbid) enthusiasm. 
Spirit cannot be forced, it must be inspired (hence the common root of the words). The current pep rallies, with dorm sponsors and matching shirts and go-yay-Irish shrillness, seem man­ufactured and, as a result, are ill­equipped to get the job done. Want better pep rallies? Go back to the rally's roots. Get people together in one place so they can get crazy and fired up. Don't package or sanitize it, but rather embrace and enjoy it. 
Mike Coffey 
alumnus 
Class of 1991 
Oct.9 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Kate Antonacci  Jay Fitzpatrick  
Katie Kohler  Fran Tolan  
Katie McDonnell  Chris Wilson  Are you following the  
Viewpoint  Scene  No. 1-rank.ed Notre Dame  
Molly Kring  Analise Lipari  women's soccer team?  
Graphics  
Jeff Albert  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
at www.ndsmcobserver.com  

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submita.Letter 1 
"A man is but the product ofhis thoughts. 
1 

What he thinks, he becomes." 
i to the Editor at 1 
Mohandas Ghandi activist

IWWN.ndsmCobserver.cOm , ~ .:-: -~~Y:'~~:::w~~1:'f<:?:'f~~-&%:'~~;1M::%Wn::tf.f.:!Mt'1:t1%ft:W:~T..... 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
Are you trying to decide how to vote this November? Benedict XVI can help, what­ever your religion or lack thereof. 
In a little-noticed March 30 address to European parliamentarians, Benedict spelled out three "non­negotiable" principles for the public arena. They are not "truths of faith," but rather "are inscribed in human nature" and are there­fore "common to all humanity," including candidates and voters in the United States. Achieving a "just socie­ty," said Benedict, is the job of "politics, not of the Church." As he said in his first encyclical, Deus Caritas Est (God is Love), the job of the Church is "to help form consciences in political life." She does not seek to impose "ways of thinking and ... conduct proper to faith" but argues "on the basis of reason and natural law" so as to reawaken "spiritual energy." 
The first principle stated by Benedict requires "protection of life in all its stages, from the first moment of conception until natural death." That recommendation was dead-on-arrival in the United States. 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

Vote with Benedict 
Abortion and euthanasia are moving beyond the practical reach of the law. Early abortion technology is making abortion-by­pill a private event. At the other end of life, the legitimate technique of palliative care can be misused with the intent to kill a patient. The law also permits in some cases the intentional killing of a patient by star­vation and dehydration where family and caregivers agree. 
In abortion the law authorizes, but does not require, a mother to kill her unborn child who is defined by the Supreme Court as a nonperson. In the Terri Schiavo case, Judge George Greer took legalized murder to a new level. He did not merely authorize Terri's killing. He ordered that Michael Schiavo "shall cause the removal of nutri­tion and hydration from Theresa Schiavo, at 1:00 p.m. on Friday, March 18, 2005." That was as much a scheduled execution as the ones they do at the Florida state prison in Raiford. This is the first time ever that an American court ordered the execu­tion of a concededly innocent person accused of no crime. On this the Pope, to say the least, is out of sync with American law and culture. But, regardless of what the law says, "all Catholics," as the American bishops said last March, "are obliged to shape their consciences in accord with the moral teaching of the Church." And vote accordingly. 
Benedict's second principle requires "recognition and promotion of the natural structure of the family -as a union between a man and a woman based on marriage -and its defense from attempts to make it juridically equivalent to radically different forms of union." In the United States as well as the European Union, a homosexualization of culture results from the acceptance of contraception which sep­arates sex from any connection to procre­ation. The main political issue is whether to confer the name or legal incidents of mar­riage on same-sex unions. In 2003, then­Cardinal Ratzinger, now Benedict XVI, described the family as "the primary unit in society" and said "married couples ensure the succession of generations and ... there­fore ... civil law grants them institutional recognition." Putting homosexual unions on the same level as marriage would approve "deviant behavior ... making it a model [and would] obscure basic values which belong to the common inheritance of humanity." You won't hear anything like that on the Sunday morning talk shows. 
Benedict's third principle requires "the protection of the rights of parents to edu­cate their children." Parents, and not bureaucrats, are the primary educators of their children. "[M]ore than in any other 
page 9 

historical period," said John Paul II, "there is a breakdown in the process of handing on moral and religious values between generations." The Supreme Court promotes that breakdown by imposing a religion of secularism on public schools. Justice requires that the law must protect the reli­gious freedom, including freedom of expression, of students in public schools as well as the freedom of parents to choose home schools or authentic religious schools for their children. 
Benedict works at his job, taking stands on many issues, including war, migration, globalization and others. But, as John Paul II said, "a family policy must be the basis and the driving force of all social policies." The three principles noted here relate to the family. Since they are "common to humanity," Benedict's teaching is addressed to "all people." That includes politicians and voters in the United States. Benedict is counter-cultural. And he is seri­ous about it. But so was his Boss. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Tuesday. He can be reached at 574­633-4415 or at rice.l@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Justice for all. Yes, even the poor 
This is part two in a three-part series examining capital punishment. Part three will appear tomorrow. 
According to Amnesty International, 95 percent of convicts on death row could not afford legal rep­resentation. Ninety five percent. If that statistic doesn't set off alarms in your conscience, I don't know what will. As far as we've come and as much as our country claims to provide a fair trial to all its citizens, we are far from it. Despite the bla­tant disparity between penalties for the haves and have nots, our country still feels justified in its use of the death penalty. 
Twenty years ago the United States Catholic Bishops issued a Pastoral entitled "Economic Justice for All". Various organi­zations such as the Center for Social Concerns here on campus are using the anniversary to bring the issues it presents to the forefront of today's social discussions. The let­ter attempts "to look at economic life through the eyes of faith" and challenge Americans to reflect on what our moral duties are in relation to unjust economics and poverty. It is through this moral lens that the death penalty stands out as an abhor­rent archaic injustice, particularly in its dispropor­tionate killing of the poor. 
"Economic Justice for All" states that "All mem­bers of society have a special obligation to the poor and vulnerable." This includes those accused of, and I would argue even those convicted of, heinous crimes. I think that one would be hard pressed to find someone more vulnerable to the mercy of the government than a poor person in a capital case. At the time that the accused stands trial, actual guilt or innocence is a moot point. They are enti­tled to competent representation; representation whose quality should not be so grossly based upon economic means. This is not to say that all, let alone most, public defenders are incapable of pro­viding quality representation to their clients in capital cases. Excellent lawyers such as Thomas Durkin, a 1968 graduate of Notre Dame who will speak on campus later this semester, have dedicat­ed themselves to the service of the poor through public defense. However, I think you're much more likely to find a lackluster free lawyer than an incompetent, yet expensive, defense team. 
While conviction of a capital crime absolutely justifies the loss of a variety of certain rights, it should not mean a revocation of basic human rights, the most basic of which is the right to life. This is clear in a variety of documents, from the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights to Economic Justice for All; from doctrines both secular and sacred. The philosophies of Camus (ironically George W. Bush's new favorite philosopher) addressed the death penalty over 50 years ago in these terms: "Capital punishment is the most premeditated of murders, to which no criminal's deed, however calculated can be com­pared." Deacon George Brooks, also a speaker 

. scheduled for later this fall, writes: "Not all mur­derers will experience religious conversion. Not all will repent and seek forgiveness. But whether they do or don't, all are children of God." 
Economic Justice for All calls us "to speak for the voiceless, to defend the defenseless, to assess life styles, policies, and social institutions in terms of their impact on the poor." It is as if the Bishops had the death penalty in mind when they wrote these words 20 years ago. After all, what graver injustice can be perpetrated on the poor of this country than the systematic state-sponsored taking of life? 
I am well aware that those facing execution have been convicted by a jury of their alleged peers. But those who oppose the death penalty are not allowed to serve in the juries of capital cases. This means that those whose perspectives should be heard the most in a capital case are systematically excluded from such cases. While I realize that a sentence of death would likely not be reached were they allowed to serve as a juror in such cases, I wonder; is that so wrong? Is it at all just that someone who has examined the policy of capital punishment and opposes it not be allowed to rep­resent the rest of the population who oppose the death penalty? A poll available on deathpenaltyin­fo.org shows that 48 percent of Americans support life without parole over the death penalty while only 47 percent still would choose the death penal­ty. Is it just or democratic then that the majm:ity 48 percent be excluded from this decision while the 47 percent minority sentences the poor to death? 
Just as "Economic Justice for All" states that "The challenge of this pastoral letter is not merely to think differently, but also to act differently," I say that the challenge of this Viewpoint article, though on a slightly different tier of import than a pastoral letter, is to think differently about the death penalty, challenge your present opinions whatever they may be, and to act on them. 
Wzll McAuliffe is a senior political science major. He is co-president ofNDASK, a new campaign against the death penalty. Questions about the campaign or comments on this column may be sent to mcauliffe.4@nd.edu. This is the second in a three-part series ofcolumns examining capital punishment. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Walk for Uganda 
Ninety percent of people in northern Uganda have been forced into internally displaced people's camps where poverty, hunger, and disease claim over 1,000 lives daily. Tens of thousands of children have been abducted into the rebel Lord's Resistance Army, which aims at the destruction of the government. Thirty­five percent of abducted girls are raped, 39 percent of all the children have been forced to abduct another child, and six per­cent have seen their own mother, father, brother or sister killed. Thousands more of "night commuters" walk miles nightly to sleep in towns where there is a decreased risk of abduction. 
The Global Health Forum brought some awareness to campus regarding these issues in hopes of increasing dialogue and activism from Notre Dame. It brought the message that we are called as Catholics, as Jews, as Muslims or most fundamentally as members of the human community to take action when con­fronted with injustice. In a world of increased globalization, ignorance is no longer an excuse for inaction in the face of inter­national or domestic atrocities. 
Statistics such as the ones above are staggering and over­whelming to hear. Too often they can leave us with feelings of shock and helplessness. What are we, as individuals, or as mem­bers of a larger community-be it a university, religious group or other affiliation do to help solve problems of war and poverty? 
In a way, powerlessness could actually be the easy way out. If we cannot make a difference, the concept of knowledge entailing responsibility is null. We are not morally responsible for inaction ifour actions are worthless. 
Recent events in northern Uganda, however, have proven oth­erwise. Increased mobilization in the international community, including the United States, has helped to bring both the Lord's Resistance Army and the Ugandan government under Yoweri Musevini to the negotiating table. A fragile peace deal has been reached, leading to what is by far the best prospect for peace in over a decade. 
While a peace deal at first glance seems to imply that the need for mobilization is over, international support is actually now more critical than ever. Final negotiations need to be agreed upon, the peace deal needs to be implemented and an entire society must be rebuilt. 
In light of these circumstances, area students and residents will walk on Oct. 22 in solidarity with the children of northern Uganda in a GuluWalk, an event designed to increase awareness of these atrocities. Walks will be held in 75 cities and 14 coun­tries worldwide. 
lfyou would like to take action, join us on the Sunday after fall break. Registration is free and will begin at the Potawatomi Zoo at 12:30 p.m. Also starting at 12:30, rides will be available from main circle. For pre-registration or more information, you can contact lhero@nd.edu 
Edmund Burke once said, "the only tiling necessary for the tri­umph of evil is for good people to do nothing." These students will refuse to stand idly by in the face of injustice. Will you? 
Katie Mounts 
semor 
political science and peace srudies major Oa.9 



THE OBSERVER 

CENE 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006
page 10 

I sell!& ftiRn I 
DVD re-releases pron1pt vicious cycle 
Looking through a list of recently released DVDs, I noticed a disturbing trend. Along with the regular new releases and special editions of old films, I noticed a few odd titles that stood out 
"Scarface: Platinum Edition," "Lock, Stock And Two Smoking Barrels: Locked 'N Loaded Unrated Director's Cut" and "Monty Python and the Holy Grail: Extraordinarily Deluxe Edition." 
Releasing a special edition is all well and good, but in most of these cases, there already was a special edition. "Scarface: Anniversary Edition," released in 2003, was an elaborate two-disc set and even had an accompany­ing box set that included the original 1931 Howard Hawks classic. 
In the case of "Monty Python and the Holy Grail," the film was originally released as a bare bones DVD, then upgrad­ed to a single-disc Special Edition, then a two-disc Collector's Edition and now a three-disc "Extraordinarily Deluxe Edition." 
Aside from trying to milk every last penny from die-hard fans, who will upgrade to the new editions regardless, what do these DVDs accomplish? Some of the special features have been changed and shuf­t1ed around, but many of them are the same. 
Unless there's a really important or enlightening new feature that can be added, changing these things around is mostly just bothersome. Big fans will feel the need to buy every edition in order to have every special feature, but a definitive DVD should contain everything viewers need to know about the film. 
In the case of "Scarface" and "Monty Python," both films received new transfers, which means the picture quality has been upgraded. This is 

Brian Doxtader 
Scene Editor 

undoubtedly frustrating for fans, because they expected that the original special edi­tions contained the best possi­ble picture quality-the stu­dios should have gotten it right in the first place. 
Audio is another issue. A few years ago, when "Saving Private Ryan" was re-released in an "Anniversary D-Day Edition," the picture quality was upgraded from the origi­nal DVD, with a noticeable dif­ference -in its original sin­gle-disc edition, "Saving Private Ryan" was available with either a Dolby Digital 5.1 mix or a DTS mix. 
The DTS mix was superior, but the 2-disc re-release dropped it in favor of the Digital 5 .1. In fact, the only way to get the DTS version was to buy the four-disc box set, which included a pair of documentaries and cost about twice as much. 
Studios need to do the right thing. Miramax can talk about "multiple bites at the apple" in terms of "Kill Bill," but it only hurts fans. Even films like "Lord of the Rings" have got­ten new releases despite the seemingly definitive "Extended Editions," and the theatrical version of "Star Wars" finally got a re-release -yet not in an anamorphic transfer. 
There needs to be a single, definitive version of a film unless there is a significant reason for changing. For instance, the classic Fritz Lang film "M" received a re-release from Criterion after the com­pany obtained a new print and was able to drastically improve the picture quality. 
In most cases, however, there is no reason for DVDs not to have the two most important elements -the film in an anamorphic transfer with the original aspect ratio intact and the original sound mix. 
Everything else is a bonus, which is why they're called "special features." If studios get those two things right, then that special edition will be really special. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at 
bdoxtade@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Photo courtesy of bangkokpost.net George Lucas, right, directs C-3PO during the filming of "Star Wars." Lucas is among several directors who re-release their films. 
DVD REVIEW 

Film artistry defines 'Times' 
By ERIN McGINN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Love -an emotion that con­nects people across time and place. But in Ilou Hsiao-hsien's latest film "Three Times," he argues that love actually is fully dependent on the elements of time and place. 
In "Three Times," Hsiao­hsien uses the same two actors, Qi Shu ("The Transporter") and Chen Chang ("2046"), as the central relationship in three separate stories taking place in three different time periods. 
Hsiao-hsien says that he came up with the first section of "Three Times" after dreaming of being in a pool hall and hear­ing the Platters' classic song "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes." Like legendary director Martin Scorsese, Hsiao-hsien's use of music and imagery punctuates his stories with vividness and beauty. Seeing the movie is like watching a dream, where every shot is nearly perfect with com­position and color. 
The first section, called "A Time for Love," takes place in 1966. It follows Chen (Chang), a soldier who frequents pool halls while on leave and subsequent­ly writes love letters to the pool­hall girls while on duty. When he returns from leave, he finds that his most recent love inter­est has been replaced in the hall by the quiet and breathtak­ing May (Shu). Although their interaction is limited, he prom­ises to write her while he is away. When he returns once more from leave, he finds that she has been replaced, and he tmvels through several towns in order to find her for just one night. Shot in rich colors and with a musical score composed of classic songs by the Platters and Aphrodite's Child ("Rain and Tears"), "A Time for Love" is a sweetly romantic master­
ing message that p'eople areThree Times formed by the period in which they live. It is a meditation and reflection on not only love, but on time. It emphasizes that love IFC Films is not the same from one age to the next -it is always chang­ing, and not always for the best. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of cinemas-online.co.uk Qui Shu, left, and Chen Chang star In Hou Hsiao-hslen's latest movie "Zui hao de shi guang," or "Three Times." The film tells the story of a pair of lovers across three different time periods. 

piece. 
The second part, "A Time for Freedom" -while spectacular­ly filmed like the rest of the movie -makes its cinematic mark as a reereation of a silent film. Set in 1911, Hsiao-hsien returns to the concubine era of his earlier work, "Flowers of Shanghai," to tell the story of a diplomat, Mr. Chang, whose political leanings are generally liberal. He offers to help the married son of a prominent family buy the contract of a eoneubine whom he got preg­nant in order for her to marry him. 
Chang, however, does not apply these liberal traits to his own life, as he tries to restrain his feelings for the eoncubine he frequents. Up until the last three minutes of this portion, the only sounds heard are that of a piano and an old Taiwanese love song, as all of the dialogue is conveyed with title cards. 
Lastly stands "A Time for Youth." Taking place in 2005 Taipei, it is a present-day cacophony of emotional and sexual tribulations. Jing (Shu), a bisexual pop singer, is cheating on her girlfriend with her pho­tographer, Zhen (Chang). They write poems to each other and sneak away for late-night trysts while their significant others grapple with being unloved. 
In great contrast to the first two sections, where there is lit­tle outright communication, here there are voicemails and text messages incessantly thrown about between the pieces of this love triangle. Despite the communication, these characters are the least connected and easily the most miserable. 
Although very different in tone, style and content from each other, what ties the three sections together is the use of the same two actors as the leads in each period. Seeing their transformation and how they relate in each time frame conveys Hsiao-hsien's overarch­


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
page 11 
CD REVIEW 
DiFranco's latest stays the musical course 
courtesy "Reprieve," Ani DiFranco's latest album, continues in the folksy, punk rock vein of her previous releases. The singer-songwriter's poiH:ics influence her music and audience. 
,---------------,r=============jj she's done, the lib­eral men and woman will still be liberal, and the conservatives will 
Ani DiFranco 
Reprieve 



still be conserva­tive.
Righteous Babe Records 

However, she doesn't apologize for any of her lyrics, tearing gen­L----------'1 tly through her songs and singing
Recommended tracks: '78% H20,"In the Margins' 
about what is '----------------------------' important to her. 
Povverful cast, story keep 'Eternity' from shovving age 
Photo courtesy of donnareed.org Montgomery Clift, left, and Donna Reed star in the latest PAC Classic 100 film, "From Here to Eternity." 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
"From Here to Eternity" is one of the classic American films, a rich and dark portrayal of military me,n in pre-Pearl Harbor World War II. It remains a trag­ic, well-told story, aided by its memo­rable cast and high production values, though its impact has dimmed slightly in the 50 years after 
its release. Sinatra as the
From Here to Eternity
The film's story tragic Maggio ­chronicles Sergeant 
are definitely cast Milt Warden (Burt against type.Both Lancaster), an officer Reed and Sinatra stationed in Hawaii, were honored who begins an affair When: Saturday, Oct. 22, 4 p.m. with Academy with Karen {Deborah Where: The Browning Cinema, DPAC Award nomina­
Kerr), the wife of his commanding officer, in the days before Pearl Harbor. Among the other people he encounters are Private Robert E. Lee "Prew" Prewitt {Montgomery Cliff), Maggio (Frank Sinatra) and stockade sergeant Fatso Judson {Ernest Borgnine). 
"From Here to Eternity" is a charac­ter study more than anything, as each of the characters struggles against his inner demons and the upper echelons of the military. None of the men seem to anticipate the approaching storm (how could they?) and they continue their day-to-day lives as if they'll never end. 
Yet the main actors -Cliff, Sinatra and Lancaster -imbue their charac­ters with a self-awareness that empha­sizes their frustration, even as the war creeps closer. 
In its time, "From Here to Eternity" was a hotly anticipated film, and every­thing about its production is superior, from Daniel Taradash's script to Frank Zinneman's direction. Zinneman is smart enough to let his story tell itself, especially since the film featured a dazzling all-star cast, which dominates the picture. 
Many of them -most notably Donna Reed as a lonely prostitute and popular singer Frank 
tions that year, 
and Sinatra won for his performance. 
Cliff gives one of the finest perform­ances of his career, and Borgnine's wicked portrayal of Judson is a domi­nating performance. 
The gritty black-and-white cine­matography has a "cinema verite" feel to it at times, which is appropriate for the film's tone. 
Though it might seem staged and unrealistic by today's standards ("Saving Private Ryan" it is not), in its time the film was hailed for its realism and unflinching portrayal of the dark side of human nature. 
"From Here to Eternity" helped increase realism in film and also helped bend the production codes of the time. There are some frank discus­sions about life, love and war, and 

By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Ani DiFranco has an agenda in her lat­est "Reprieve," and she wants everyone to know about it. Not that this is a bad thing -her music weaves and waves with lyrics more intelligent than any sort of pop music on the scene. Femme-punk or rainy day folk rock would be the gen­res in which DiFranco might find herself if she had to define her sound. Instead of looking for a genre, though, she looks for change, using her acoustic guitar as an axe to hack society into metamorphosis. 
Growing up in Buffalo, DiFranco sur­rounded herself with art. She later moved to New York City at age 19 with little but a list of songs and a guitar. She is one of the most successful do-it-your­self musicians in the business, and has successfully fought off music conglomer­ates with her own brand of folk-punk that she weaves into this latest album. 
However, this is not punk in the sense of edgy electric guitars and fast drums. The attitude is a middle-finger-in-the-air brand of punk that apologizes for noth­ing. 
And it shows. 
Her lyrics are sometimes sung, some­times almost spoken and sometimes occupy that space in between. The third track on the album, "In the Margins," is a sad, woeful journey through some DiFranco-style catharsis, while the sixth, "78% H20," bounces along with the hint of synthesizers and staccato vocals punching the politicisms of her lyrics. 
This politicism is in stark contrast with the juvenile and mindless lyrics of most pop music. The problem, however, is that her music is caught preaching to the choir. If a progressive, liberal femi­nist picks up the liner notes to this album, they are going to stand up next to Ani in righteous support for what she says. 
If, on the other hand, an older conser­vative housewife who looks back to the better days finds this album, she'd be appalled at the subjects broached and never look into Ani DiFranco music again. It's not hard to imagine which group DiFranco sees herself as repre­senting. She can sing to all the liberal men and women out there, but when This album deserves to be lauded for the mere fact it does not ask for permission to be what it is. Most pop seems to exist only in relation to the listeners who con­sume it, while "Reprieve" could exist on a deserted island and still make liberals smile and conservatives grimace. DiFranco's DIY ethos goes so far to the point she started her own label, Righteous Babe Records. 

In this way, she can sing about any­thing she wants and release whatever she wants. Luckily for her, she has enough of a fan base that she doesn't have to go to a major label for support. 
DiFranco's latest is an ode to modern feminism and folk-punk. Those who agree with her and like her style of music will adore this album, as it is intelligent and musically very good, but those who don't like acoustic punk or feminist lyrics shouldn't bother. It'd be the same as a liberal listening Ted Nugent -people do not usually listen to political music that disagrees with their views. 
This contradictory album finds its greatest strength and most hindering weakness in the same areas -the inde­pendence and individuality of this album results in a limited fan base. 
But Ani DiFranco wouldn't have it any other way. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

Zinneman and his cast handle them admirably. 
The most famous scene, of course, is the beach scene, in which entwined lovers Kerr and Lancaster kiss while waves crash over them. 
A cliche now, its depiction of blissful romance in the face of surmounting odds (even as the violence of World War II steadily approaches) remains a cinematic icon. 
"From Here to Eternity" was a huge winner at the Oscars, taking home eight statuettes, including Best Picture and Best Adapted Screenplay. It was also named as one of the American Film Institute's 100 Greatest Films of All Time, coming in at No. 52, which is a testament to its enduring nature. Though very much of its time, the pic­ture is still an enjoyable and at times wrenching glimpse inside the men who fought and died in the Greatest Generation. 
"From Here to Eternity" will be screened on Saturday, Oct. 22 in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center as part of the PAC Classic 100. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
NFL 
Jacksonville's Peterson out for the season 

Jaguars' top tackler tore pectoral muscle in win against Jets 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Already missing their best pass rusher, the Jacksonville Jaguars will be without their best tackler for the rest of the season. 
Linebacker Mike Peterson, the team's top tackler the last three years. tore a pectoral muscle in the 41-0 victory against the New York Jets on Sunday and is out for the season. It's the latest set­back for a defense that lost Reggie Hayward in the opener and linebacker Pat Thomas the following week. 
Tests Monday determined the severity of Peterson's injury. Coach Jack Del Rio said Peterson likely will get a second opinion, but he was confident the eight-year veteran will be place on injured reserve. 
"It's unfortunate," Del Hio said. "Mike is obviously a very good football player and a very spirited leader. He brings a lot of energy, a lot of temperament. He worked really hard to have a big year for us. He's played well in the middle for us since we got here in '03. That's a blow. It's another blow for us to over­come. 

"The way we approach it is we prepare our guys to be able to step up and fill the gap. We expect guys to play well around them and we continue on our quest." 
Peterson started every game the last three seasons for the Jaguars. recording 535 tackles, 12 sacks, six interceptions and four forced fumbles. He started all five games this year and had a team-high 42 tackles, two quarterback pressures and an interception. 
The Jags (3-2) will use their bye week to figure out how to replace their defensive star. Del Rio said Daryl Smith, Tony Gilbert or Nick Greisen probably will move into the starting spot. Either way, the loss will be tough to overcome for a defense that relies heavily on a speedy middle linebacker to make plays. 
Then again. the Jaguars are getting accustomed to filling voids. They lost safety Donovin Darius early last year, finished 12-4 and made the playoffs. They've also had to replace two other starters this season. 
Hayward, who led the team with 8( sacks last year, ruptured his Achilles' tendon in the open­er against Dallas and had sea­son-ending surgery. Thomas, who entered training camp as a starter. suffered a season-ending hamstring injury. 
Jacksonville also lost running back Greg Jones to a season­ending knee injury during the preseason. 
"They're all tough to replace," Del Rio said. "You're talking about front-line players. guys that you expect to go in the game and not come out and play a lot of football for you. It's not easy to replace them. We'll work at it. We've got good guys. It will require some work, but we're going to carry on as a football team. 
"We're not going to ask for anybody to feel sorry for us. We're not going to look for any alibis. It doesn't make anything easier, that's for sure. But we will rally around the guys that 
Kansas City stars continue to be plagued by injuries 
Hall's status for Sunday uncertain; Green out once again 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Dante Hall, one of the NFL's most dan­gerous kick returners, has a hip injury and his status is uncer­tain for this week's game at Pittsburgh. 
Hall had an MRI on his hip Monday and the Chiefs were awaiting the results. The two­time Pro Bowler, who earlier this year got his 11th career touchdown return, was hurt while running back a kickoff in Sunday's bruising come-from­behind 23-20 victory at Arizona. 
"It might just be a hip point­er," coach Herm Edwards said Monday. 
Also out for the fourth straight game will be quarter­back Trent Green, still recover­ing from a severe concussion sustained in the season opener Sept. 10. 
Edwards said running back Larry Johnson was OK despite a frightening few moments when he lay motionless on the turf Sunday. · Johnson was grabbed by the facemask at the end of a 78­yard catch-and-run that set up Lawrence Tynes' winning 19­yard field goal with 1:36 to play. 
"Larry was in today. He's going to be fine, but his neck is obviously sore," Edwards said. 
Hall, who also has become a favorite wide receiver target of backup quarterback Damon Huard, was replaced on punt returns by Eddie Kennison. Rookie wide receiver Jeff Webb returned kickoffs. Edwards said those two would continue to fill in if Hall is out. 
"Eddie does a good job of making decisions," Edwards said. "That was a big-time play he made [in the fourth quarter] when he fielded that punt and got those extra 4 or 5 yards. Most guys don't catch that ball and have the awareness to get what you can. Webb doesn't know any better. He hits it like you're supposed to hit it. He's just following the wedge." 
Green went with the team to Arizona, his first road trip since he was knocked unconscious and taken away on a gurney. For the second week in a row, he offered suggestions and encouragement on the sideline for Huard. 
But Edwards said he did not know when the two-time Pro Bowler would start working out. 
Doctors have said Green would be eased back into action, beginning with light workouts and progressing to full practice before he could think about getting back into a game. 
"I would think shortly he's going to start working out. I don't know if that's this week or next week or exactly when," Edwards said. 
It will be the fourth straight start for Huard, who has both delighted and surprised the Chiefs with his performance. lie threw for 288 yards against Arizona, rallying the Chiefs from a 10-point deficit with less than 10 minutes left. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. need­ed, customer sales/service. condi­tions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today 574-273-3835. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam· pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Fbaii,Sr Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER­Spring/Summer. Mike:312-618­4722 
Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call574­243-0658. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 
57 4-259-8603. 
Rooms for rent for football week­ends. Close to campus. Call574-243-0658. 
House Available for 07-08 Year. Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to groups of 9-11 Students. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232­0964 

WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232-2378. 
Need UCLA tix. Call816-560-2856. 
FoR SALE 

Rental Homes for Sale 1n good con­dition. Make $100 to $400+ per month per home. Own up to 19 homes with little money down with good credit. Call Kathy w/Preferred Properties at (574) 292-8177 or email PreferredSB@aol.com 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Happy Tuesday to the two coolest dorks in the world. I mean THE coolest. These girls even make Bill Nye the Science Guy look a little geeky! 
Do it to it Lars. 
We are in the Rockies. 
A sailor­GOODMAN! 
A certain someone is looking very mature in the face today. 
Spring Break 2007 Celebration 2oth Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1. Free Meals & Parties, Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6+. Hottest Spring Break Destinations. 1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplashtours.com 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 CoMPILED fROM THE 0BSERvnts WIRE SERVICES page 13 

NFL 
NFL Standings 
AFC East 

team record perc. PF PA New England 4-1 .800 108 74 NY Jets 2-3 .400 96 132 Buffalo 2-3 .400 77 105 Miami 1-4 .200 61 91 
AFC North 

team record perc. PF PA Baltimore 4-1 .800 89 46 Cincinnali 3-1 .750 98 85 Pitlsburgh 1-3 .250 61 17 Cleveland 1-4 .200 81 109 
AFC South 

team record perc. PF PA Indianapolis 5-0 1.000 135 100 Jacksonville 3-l .600 118 74 Houston 1-3 .250 66 113 Tennessee 0-5 .000 60 135 
AFC West 

team record perc. PF PA San Diego 3-1 .750 103 36 Denver 3-1 .750 49 34 Kansas City 2-2 .500 80 52 Oakland 0-4 .OGO 47 113 
NFC East 

team record perc. PF PA Philadelphia 4-1 .800 155 97 Dallas 2-2 .500 113 86 NY Giants 2-2 .500 100 95 Washington 2-3 .400 96 110 
NFC North 

team record perc. PF PA Chicago 5-0 1.000 156 36 Minnesota 3-2 .600 89 82 Green Bay 1-4 .200 87 138 Detroit 0-5 .000 88 141 
NFC South 

Associated Press took a chance at the end With safety John Lynch which the Ravens avoided team record perc. PF PA zone, icing the game on on the sideline after a big momentum-shifter New Orleans 4-1 .800 118 86 DENVER -A cold rain Jake Plummer's 4-yard pinching a nerve in his when center Mike Flynn Atlanta 3-1 .750 69 42 and two stingy defenses touchdown pass to Rod neck, cornerback Darrent smothered McNair's fum­Carolina 3-2 .600 86 90 turned the Baltimore­Smith. It was Smith's first Williams intercepted ble at the Baltimore 12. Tampa Bay 0-4 .000 48 91 Denver showdown into a touchdown this season McNair's pass at midfield The Ravens and the rain 
kicking competition, and and also the first TD the with 6:47 remaining, and combined to limit Denver NFC West Jason Elam bested Matt Ravens have surrendered Javon Walker had a 27-to 9 yards of offense in team record perc. PF PA Stover in the Broncos' 13-in a second half this year. yard catch that set up the first quarter, tying a 3 win over the Baltimore "We stuck together Smith's score. franchise low since Mike
St.louis 4-1 .800 111 98 
Ravens on Monday night. tonight," Plummer said. Ravens defensive end Shanahan became the
Seattle 3-1 .750 78 83 
San Francisco 2-3 .400 105 146 The Broncos (3-1) inter­"It was ugly, ugly for Trevor Pryce, who was Broncos coach in 1995. Arizona 1-4 .200 cepted three Steve McNair awhile, but in the end we quiet all week about his The Broncos turned the
88 119 
passes including came and put together return to Denver, which ball over on their first two Champ Bailey's leaping some drives when it dumped him and his $10 possessions -one was a end-zone pick just before counted." million salary in the off­fumble by tailback Tatum halftime -to hand the Elam connected from 43 season, was even quieter Bell on a swing pass and Ravens their first loss and 44 yards, the second Monday night. assisting the other on an over­MIAA Soccer Standings after Baltimore started a one breaking a 3-3 tie on just one tackle. thrown pass from franchise-best 4-0. with eight minutes The teams were tied 3-3 Plummer to Walker -but Deep in Ravens territory remaining and capping a at halftime, and the rain the Ravens turned one league overall with a 6-3 lead and 1:55 drive that was set up by only got heavier during a over themselves in the end 
team record record left in the game, Denver Sam Koch's 10-yard punt. scoreless third quarter in zone just before halftime. 
1 Calvin 4-0-0 12-0-0 2 St. Mary's 3-1-0 4-6-0 3 Albion 2-1-2 9-3-2 4 Adrian 2-1-0 3-8-0 IN BRIEF 5 Alma 1-2-2 3-7-2 6 Olivet 1-1-2 3-6-2 
O'Neal could miss presea­McClaren mulls bringing s~eedway adds security for
7 Kalamazoo 1-2-1 5-4-1 
son opener due to brawl back Beckham tfiis weekend's race 
8 Hope 0-2-1 3-6-2 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers LONDON -Bring back Beckham! CONCORD, N.C. -Lowe's Motor
9 Tri-State 0-4-0 0-10-0 
forward Jermaine O'Neal expects to England's 0-0 draw at home against Speedway is beefing up security for miss Wednesday's preseason opener modest Macedonia showed that coach driver Brian Vickers aftor angry race against New Jersey because of a law­Steve McClaren was too hasty in fans called the track to complain that suit stemming from the brawl with dumping the former captain whose Vickers wrecked Dale Earnhardt Jr. Detroit Pistons fans two years ago. expert free kicks took England to the and Jimmie Johnson on the last lap 
O'Neal could testify on Tuesday or World Cup quarterfinals. at Talladega. Wednesday, leaving him doubtful for Beckham's World Cup goal against The Nextel Cup Series is scheduled the game. Jury selection is scheduled Ecuador turned out to be his last in 94 to race Saturday night at Lowe's, and
around the dial to start Tuesday morning in U.S. games for his country. He sat in tears track owner Bruton Smith felt the District Court in Detroit. after limping out of the quarterfinals need to offer Vickers assistance O'Neal punched the plaintiff, against Portugal and watched his because of the flood of phone calls 
Charles Haddad, on the court during teammates lose in a penalty-kick the track received Monday. MLB PLAYOFFS the Nov. 19, 2004 incident in Auburn shootout. Taking over from Sven­"We want to make sure Brian has Hills, Mich. Haddad wants the Pacers' Goran Eriksson after the World Cup, an uninterrupted weekend here and
Detroit at Oakland, 

claims that Haddad trespassed, was McClaren phoned Beckham and told that he is able focus on his driving
8:00 p.m., FOX 

intoxicated and violated the waiver him he had been dropped. duties," Smith said. "We will offer on the back of the ticket to be strick­While England was struggling security escorts in and out of the NHL en as defenses. Saturday against Macedonia, a Euro speedway and anywhere he feels he 
Philadelphia at New York Rangers, Larry Charfoos, a lawyer for 2008 qualifying opponent it should needs our assistance." Haddad, said O'Neal wouldn't likely have beaten easily, Beckham was A spokesman for Vickers and
7:00 p.m., VS 

testify until Wednesday at the earli­nowhere near Old Trafford, the stadi­Hendrick Motorsports was unaware est. If so, O'Neal would make his um where he learned his trade with of Smith's gesture until reached by debut Saturday at home against Utah. Manchester United. The Associated Press for comment. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
NBA 
Bogut may miss start of season 
Milwaukee Bucks center will be out for six to eight weeks 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Milwaukee Bucks center Andrew Bogut will likely miss the beginning of the season with a lower left leg sprain that is expected to sideline him for six to eight weeks. 
Bogut was helped off the court during a team scrim­mage on Saturday after bang­ing his leg into Steve Blake's knee. He did not return to able with the team's depth at center, and Bogut's injury will allow players such as Dan Gadzuric and Brian Skinner to get more playing time in the preseason and the first few weeks of the regular season. 
But the injury will make it harder for Bogut to quickly establish chemistry with for­ward Charlie Villanueva, the Bucks' major offseason acqui­sition, Harris said. 
Bogut, who grew up in Australia and was the national collegiate player of the year at Utah, averaged 9.4 points and 
7.0 rebounds as a rookie last season. 
T h e team did­n't ask 

the scrim­"Obviously, he's disappointed Bogut to mage. add mus­
he's not going to be playing." 
Bucks cle or c o a c h make any T e r r y Larry Harris other Stotts ini­Bucks general manager major 
tially said the injury was not serious. But the No. 1 pick in last year's NBA draft was eval­uated by team doctor John Heinrich on Sunday and will undergo rehabilitation for the injury. 
Bucks general manager Larry Harris said Monday that injuries such as Bogut's hap­pen in practice all the time but usually don't turn out to be serious. 
"Obviously, he's disappoint­ed he's not going to be play­ing," Harris said. "It's just an unfortunate situation." 
Harris said he is comfort-

SHARK TIME 
changes 
in the ofi'­

season beyond staying healthy and in shape, Harris said. 
Bogut spent the offseason playing for the Australian national team, working on his skills and his conditioning. 
"He was in great shape," Harris said. "The thing is, his spirits were very high. He was looking forward to the sea­son." 
Harris said Bogut appeared to lose confidence as a rookie last season but regained it during the offseason. 
· "That was coming along," Harris said. 
Miller speaks out against Jackson 
Former Pacer talks after current player's run-in with the law 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Former Indiana Pacers star Reggie Miller said Tuesday he doesn't understand why Stephen Jackson's teammates are stand­ing by him following a violent incident outside an Indianapolis strip dub. 
Police said Jackson fired a gun in the air in apparent self­defense early Friday after he was slugged in the mouth and struck by a car that sent him tumbling onto the hood. 
Miller, who played 18 years for the Pacers and is the NBA's career leader in 3-pointers, spoke out about the incident Tuesday on Dan Patrick's ESPN Radio show. 
"That's ridiculous," Miller said. :'That is a black cloud. That is a punch in the gut for Iteam CEO! Donnie Walsh and I team president] Larry Bird." 
The Pacers have an aggres­sive preseason publicity cam­paign, with television ads and billboards featuring players and the "It's up to us" slogan. 
Even Jackson, who was sus­pended 30 games for his role in the brawl with Detroit Pistons fans two seasons ago and often was at odds with coach Rick Carlisle last season, talked about spending a summer "soul-searching" and returning with a positive attitude. 
The Pacers didn't even make it to their preseason opener before their latest public rela­tions mess. The Pacers have rallied around Jackson, and Miller disagreed with that on Patrick's show. 


"You shouldn't stand behind a player that is someone slapping you guys in the face during the middle of training camp being out at a strip club at 3 o'clock in the morning shooting it up like it's the Wild, Wild West," he said. 



University ofNotre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, October 10,2006 7:30PM 229 Hayes-Healy 
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2006 SAME TIME AND PLACE 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2006 For Academic Year 2007-2008 Fall 2007 and Spring 2008 
Applications available: www_nd_edu/~intlstud
Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija looks downfield after catching a pass against Stanford in Notre Dame's 31-10 victory Satur~ay. 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
UCLA QB Olson sidelined 
23-year-old sophomore to miss several games with sprained knee 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Ben Olson waitPd nearly five years to become a starting college quartPrback. Now, the 23-year­ola UCLA sophomore will miss the toughest portion of the Bruins' schedule because of a knee injury. 
Olson sprained his knee in the first quarter of Saturday's 27-7 victory over Arizona at the Hose Bowl when his left leg was rolled on after a pass. 
lin had an MHI on Monday, which showed a torn medial collateral ligament. Olson will be sidelined four to six weeks, UCLA spokesman Marc Dellins said. ' 
Earlier Monday, coach Karl Dorr·ell had said Olson would­n't play this week. 
Patrick Cowan, effective after Olson went out, will get his first start Saturday when the Bruins visit No. 18 Oregon. 
"It's unfortunate it had to happen like this," Cowan said following the Arizona game. 
The Bruins (4-1, 2-1 Pac-1 0) and Ducks (4-1, 2-1) are tied for third in the Pac-10, along with Washington and Washington State. 
"We need another week of improvement going up to EugAne," Dorrell said. "We still aren't quite at our potential season. He could possibly for the starting job in training yet." return in time for the final camp, with Olson emerging as 
After Oregon, the Bruins play three games -Oregon State the starter after spending a at No. 9 Notre Dame, and visit on Nov. 11, Arizona State on redshirt season at BYU, two No. 10 California on Nov. 4. Nov. 18 and rival Southern years on a Mormon mission in 
Olson's injury will force him California on Dec. 2. Canada and one season as a to miss a key stretch of the Olson and Cowan competed reserve in Westwood. 

October 10 What Really Happens in Graduate School and How do I Get There? 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. • 
131 Decio 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098 .. 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
' 

MLB 
Torre's future -with ·Yankees is uncertain 

• 

Wright, Villone, Cairo defend skipper in midst of critics 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -While George Steinbrenner decides whether to keep Joe Torre, Yankees players are supporting their manager. 
Steinbrenner left New York and returned to Tampa, Fla., on Monday, spokesman Howard Rubenstein said. Rubenstein said he was not able to speak with Steinbrenner to relay 
questions  on  the  future  of  
Torre.  
It  was  unclear  whether  

Steinbrenner and Torre have spoken since the Yankees were eliminated, but the pair appar­ently did not meet before the Boss left town. 
Since talking over as manager after the 1995 season, Torre has managed the Yankees to nine consecutive AL East titles and 11 straight playoff appear­ances. 
"He gave us every opportuni­ty." reliever Ron Viiione said Monday, when a few more play­ers came to Yankee Stadium to clean out the.ir lockers. "He put us on the field at the right times. I mean we came through in a lot of different ways. We had some injuries. 
"He put the right lineups out there for us to jell and do the right things to win enough games to make it to the play­offs. You can't point the finger at him. You can only point it at us." he said. 
Torre may have to take the blame after the Yankees bowed out of the playoffs in the AL division series Saturday night for the second straight year. The Daily News reported Sunday that Steinbrenner was ready to fire him and insert old favorite Lou Piniella as skipper. 
"We've always been friendly," Piniella said in Oakland. Calif., at a workout before the AL championship series, which he will broadcast for Fox. "No, we haven't talked at all about that. In fact I haven't seen Mr. Steinbrenner in 10 months. Talk to my agent about these things. 
"Look, I don't want to get into that subject. It's not right. I respect the situation too much for me to comment on anything else," Piniella added. 
There was no sign of Torre at Yankee Stadium. and the team's media-relations staff was unsure when he would give his annual summation -which last year was delayed until after Torre and Steinbrenner met in Tampa. Captain Derek Jeter and Alex Rodriguez also have not come to the ballpark to clean out their lockers. 
Jaret Wright. who lasted only 2 2-3 innings in the final game of the Yankees' first-round loss to the Tigers, ·said the defeat wasn't Torre's fault. 
"\ mean he didn't get any at­bats," Wright said. "He didn't throw any pitches. We did that and we wish it could've turned out better for him, for us and for the fans but it didn't and you go from there." 
Wright packed up his locker while avoiding the mess of cardboard boxes filled with baseballs, bats and athletic apparel strewn across the 11oor. Miguel Cairo threw a pair of shoes from his locker into a nearby garbage can, then thought better and fished thBm out. 
Cairo could hardly imagine a new skipper sitting in the oflice at Yankee Stadium. 
"He's still the manager." he said. "I don't know what you guys are talking about. lie's going to be the manager until somAthing happens different but he's still the manager." 
The 66-year-old Torre led the Yankees to an AL-best 97-65 record this season. His 11-year managerial stint is the longest uninterrupted period for the club since Casey Stengel was in the dugout for 12 straight sea­sons from 1949-1960. 
The Brooklyn-born Torre has won four World Series champi­onships with New York, but the last title came in 2000 -a vir­tual eternity for the demanding Steinbrenner. 
"lie's a class act," Villone said of Torre. "He knows what he's doing. He's a great manager." 
Villone pitched for Piniella during his first year in the big leagues. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
Waldrum. On the docket this Friday for the Irish is perennial power Connecticut (4-3 Big East -second-place American divi­sion) in addition to Villanova next Friday. 
"We told the girls Sunday [before Rutgers], we have a real crucial stretch," Waldrum said. "If you don't beat the teams right there with you, you have no wiggle room to win out. We've got two more real diffi­cult games. Clearly we're with the ACC. For a conference whose league RPI ranks between second and fourth every year, Crooks believes the Big East is headed toward con­sistently being on the top end of that range: 

"By bits and pieces I see the league improving a little bit each year," he said. "I don't think we compare with the ACC yet, but I think we're compara­ble to any other league in the country." 
Leading the charge is Notre Dame, which has remained flawless despite playing in the National Division. The division claims four of the five teams with five 
or more league vic­

not home free "I don't think we 
by any stretch tories and has col­
compare with the 
of the imagi­lectively earned 16 nation." ACC yet, but I think more points than 
Though we're comparable to the American Connecticut is Division.
any other league in 
floating at Notre Dame has .500 with a 7-the country.,, faced the toughest 7-1 record this competition the con­season, three ference has to offer,
Randy Waldrum 
of those losses according to
Irish coach 
came to No. 2 N o r t h Carolina, No. 3 Santa Clara and No.4 UCLA. 
"They played an incredibly

• difficult schedule early," Waldrum said. "They stumbled in a couple of games they should have won. They haven't gotten a fast start out of the gate. Losing big games early in the year and having a glitch in games they should have won set them back a little bit." 
The Huskies' Big East strug­gles also may be evidence of what Waldrum believes to be a conference much stronger from top to bottom compared to last year's group. In the league's first year of expansion, four of 16 teams made the 2005 NCAA 

Tournament, as "On Friday the see our nine Big East demeanor
National [teams} 
teams finished change one way
played the American 
outside the Top or another." 100 RPI. [teams} and it was a So far, the "Certainly the Irish haven't
clean sweep for the 
Big East is had to worry 
.[National} division.,, 
much improved about that. this year," he -TheY've just s a i d Ann Clifton 
kept mowing "Cincinnati is a down all com­
Villanova coach 
much better team. Louisville has stepped up this year. South Florida is over .500 this year. Those teams may have needed a year to adjust to the confer­ence, and they've made so.me strides." 
Waldrum and Rutgers coach Glenn Crooks agree that Notre Dame, No. 7 West Virginia, No. 22 Rutgers and No. 13 Villanova have put themselves in good position to make the NCAA Tournament. Additionally, No. 17 Louisville continues to stick around in the top 30, even though, like Rutgers, the Cardinals have yet to beat a ranked opponent. 
"Rutgers and Louisville are interesting to me," Waldrum said. "Both are getting good recognition in national polls, but they don't have a great strength of schedule. After playing them I think they deserve to be in." 

If Connecticut or Marquette can make a late run, Crooks and Waldrum see six NCAA tournament teams coming out of the conference, which is like­ly to place the Big East on par Villanova coach Ann 
Clifton. 

"On Friday the National [teams] played the American [teams] and it was a clean sweep for the [National] divi­sion," Clifton said. ''I'm not sure the parity is there." 
The Irish are used to grueling stretch runs, according to Waldrum, who doesn't believe a late season slip up would break his team's focus. 
"No one wants to lose, but if we did we would still have a great opportunity to host [the NCAA Tournament run] at home if we did happen to stumble along the way," he said. "I think [the tournament committee] knows we've done a great body of work and I think you won't 
petition, 

outscoring their Big East opponents 22-1 and scoring on more shots than their opponents have taken (18). 
"That's the best team we've played against since I've been at Rutgers," said Crooks, who has faced the likes of North Carolina, Santa Clara and UCLA in his seven years with the Scarlet Knights. "The best Notre Dame team and the best team period ... It's a great group of players." 
But the Irish don't care about what their opponents think. Or do, for that matter. As long as they win, they won't have to look beyond the top of the rank­ings to find their name -an attitude sophomore Irish for­ward Kerri Hanks exhibited after Notre Dame's win Sunday. 
"I don't know anything," Hanks said. "I don't know who's winning or anything. I just know we have a game on Friday and then on Sunday." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary's faces Hope 
with some tough matches ahead at Saint Mary's senior night. 
The Belles will honor 
of us," she said. "We just need Playko is the team leader in seniors before game to take things one game at a kills with a 3.64 average per a time and fmish strong." game. She also has an average The Belles must watch out for of 4.06 digs and a season total
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Hope's senior mid­
Sports Writer 
dle hitter Amber Jloezee. She aver­

Saint Mary's faces Hope ages 4.4 kills a
College tonight at 6:30 at the 
game with a .518
Angela Athletic Center. 
hitting percentage

The Dutchmen are seeond in 
in two conference

the MIAA with a 7-1 reeord and wins. She also con­
a 14-6 record overall. Saint 
tributed at the net,Mary's stands at fourth in the averaging one block 

conference at 7-4 against per game to beMichigan Intereollegiate 
named MIAA player

Athletic Association (MIAA) 
of the week. 
opponents and 14-6 overall. 

Tonight should be special for will start at 6:30 pm at Saint
Belles coaeh Julie Schroeder­
the three senior Belles -Ann Mary's.
Biek believes the team just 
Carpenter, Anne Cusack and 

needs to take the game one step 
Kristen Playko. All three have 
at a time. 

been huge assets to the team Contact Samantha Leonard at 
"We are in the home stretch 
this season and will be honored sleonaOl@saintmarys.edu 
NHL 

Lightning fall to Panthers at home 
LW Kozlov scores lone goal in first period 
Associated Press TAMPA, Fla. Kari Lehtonen plans to enjoy his fast start as long as he ean. Lehtonen had 34 saves in his second consecutive shutout, and Vyacheslav Kozlov seored a first-period goal as the Thrashers beat the Tampa Bay Lightning 1-0 on Monday night. "It was just one of those days when everything seems to go your way," Lehtonen said. "I try to do everything the same way, and sometimes the post helps me and some­times I'm just able to get the great save. That's the most fun you can get out there. It's not going to last forever." Lehtonen, coming off a 6-0 AP 
Lightning goalie Marc Dennis makes a save against the
win over Florida on Saturday, 
Panthers in Tampa Bay's 1-0 loss to Floriday Monday. 
has five career shutouts. He 
has allowed two goals in three 
games this season. times, too." know what we have to do. You Kozlov put Atlanta ahead 1-The Lightning outshot don't get into the playoffs after 
0 from the right circle at 12:26 Atlanta 17-4 in the second and a couple of games." 
of the first. The goal came 28-10 overall through two after Tampa Bay defenseman periods. Paul Ranger mis-"It's obviously a handled the puck great feeling to in the Lightning "On this ice, I felt get a shutout," 
zone. like we were playing Atlanta's Andy 
"On this ice, I Sutton said.
a tennis match, not
felt like we were "Especially as a
hockey.,,
playing a tennis defenseman, you match, not hoek­really feel like ey," Kozlov said. you've done
Vyacheslav Kozlov 
"You never know something, even
Thrashers left wing
who's going to get the puck." 

Marc Denis made 19 saves for Tampa Bay, which has lost two straight at home. 
Lehtonen stopped three shots -including an in-close ehance by Martin St. Louis ­during a 5-Im-3 power play that lasted two minutes in the second. lie also made a strong glove save on Vinny Prospal's shot right arter the man advantage endHd. 
"He played great, I'm not going to take anything away from him," Tampa Bay eenter Brad Hichards said. "But I'm not going to sit here and say the goalie stole the game' from us. We've got to find a way to score 5-on-3. lie made some big saves in key times. We're making him look good at 
"We just need to take things one game at a time and finish strong.,, 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles coach 
of 28 bloeks. Cusack averages 
6.08 digs per a game and was the 2005 MIAA confer­ence Leader in digs. 
Carpenter has 39 digs and 19 blocks on the sea­son. 
The conference 
action and senior ceremonies 



though we got badly outshot." 
Tampa Bay went 0-for-6 with the man advantage and has converted one opportunity in 19 tries this season. 
"We've got some guys strug­gling, putting pressure on themselves," Lightning coach 
· John Tortorella said. "We're struggling offensively. You have to believe the scoring will eome." The Lightning have four goals -including three by Hyan Craig-in three games. The Thrashers failed on three power-play chances. Their first opportunity in the second period lasted 4 sec­onds. ''It's a long season," Atlanta coaeh Bob Hartley said. "We don't go crazy on this. We 


Tuesday, October 10, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
ty, picked off Knott quarterback Justin Betz with a minute left in 
ZahiD 
the half. Betz finished 4-for-1 0 continued from page 20 for 35 yards and an intercep­
t i o n passes in the drive, including a The second half began with an 25-yard touchdown completion offensive lull with four consecu­to Gutierrez. Wieland finished tive offensive series and four 7-for-12 with 93 yards and a straight punts. touchdown. But the fourth punt proved 
Zahm drew first blood on a disastrous for the Juggerknotts. Gutierrez fumble recovery Due to poor field position and a returned 35 yards for a touch­low snap, Knott's punter was down. But the Rabid Bats didn't forced to catch the ball with a have a place kicker and failed to knee down in his own end zone, convert their two-point attempt. resulting in a safety. 
However, on their third drive That safety put the Vermin up of the game, the nine and put the Ramblers estab­game out of reach
"/ threw a bad pick 
lished themselves as the
in the fourth quarter
offensively with a Juggerknotts sim­60-yard touchdown but the team didn't ply could not get 
the offense work­

pass from sopho­let that get them 
more quarterback ing.
down.''
Max Young to "We played well receiver Gary Burke today," Carroll -Young's first Sean Wieland captain Mike completion of the Versagli said.
Zahm quarterback 
game. Siegfried con­"Our offensive verted the extra line and our point attempt and took the one defense played especially well. point lead into halftime. Our team is successful because 
A defensive struggle ensued we have a very good coach and until late in the fourth quarter a lot of experience." when Young connected with Carroll coach Mark Bennett Burke for Siegfried's second was also pleased with his team's touchdown of the game, putting play but cited the constant need the Ramblers up 13-6 with a to improve. couple minutes to play. The "We took care of business · Rabid Bats' special teams came today," he said. "We played up big and blocked the extra alright but we need to keep point attempt. improving if we're going to do 
From there, Wieland and well in the playoffs." Gutierrez finished them off. 
"We played a lot better today," Dillon 21, Alumni 14 Wieland said. "I threw a bad The Big Red ground game pick in the fourth quarter but controlled Sunday's contest as the team didn't let that get them Dillon running back Alex Duffy down." rushed for 196 yards and three 
Petty agreed with his senior touchdowns as the Big Red won captain. the South Quad clash 
''I'm real proud," Petty said. Dillon's rushing offense was "They didn't quit. Today was a so dominant that they did not proving day and it reinforced attempt a pass in the second that we're a good team." half. Duffy, who rushed for 
touchdowns of 54, 50 and 35 Carroll 9, Knott 0 yards, credited his offensive 
On Carroll's first drive of the line. game, quarterback Cory "The line was making holes, Wilmont and running back Mike so we had no reason to pass," Johnson marched the offense Duffy said. "We were getting down the field on a 12-play, 70-five yards a pop and we felt we yard drive that was capped by a could convert third and longs 9-yard touchdown pass from running. I haven't seen holes Wilmont to sophomore receiver like that all year." Ryan Frost. The Dawgs offense showed 
The touchdown put the some promise early. A multi­Vermin up for good against faceted rushing game, in which Knott as Carroll won. quick running back Brett 
Carroll took the momentum Shapot complemented the big­from that drive and let it build ger Alex Lowe, kept Dillon's defensively. Two plays after defense guessing. By the second Frost's touchdown grab, half, however, Dillon had the Johnson, who doubles as a safe-Alumni rush offense scoped. 

Fisher 3, Sorin 0 
Neither Fisher nor Sorin could get anything going offensively until Fisher's fourth-and-10 conversion set up a 23-yard field goal by Thomas Sullivan ­the only score of the game. 
For the first six possessions, both teams lacked a first down conversion. The first time Fisher moved the chains didn't come until the fourth quarter when the Green Wave converted a fourth-and-10 on a pass from quarterback Kevin Rabil to Pat Donnelly. 
"We had a play we thought would work," Fisher coach Ryan Bradel said. "We were in four­down territory, because we were outside of field goal range. We have confi­have the athletes and the game plan. We need it to work like a well-oiled machine." 
Morrissey 20, Keough 0 
In its final game before the postseason, Morrissey soundly defeated Keough Sunday after­noon, leaving Keough winless this season. 
Coming out quickly and scor­ing on a deep pass on the first drive of the game, it was appar­ent that the Manorites were not overlooking their opponents. Morrissey controlled the tempo and the line of scrimmage for the rest of the first half, taking a 13-0 lead into the break. 
Morrissey captain Joey Gemino knew the team's solid running game and size up front 
was a key in 
"They always ran to the tack­les, so we started slanting to the strong side," said Big Red co­captain and cornerback Justin Figueredo. "We noticed what they were doing and adapted." 
Alumni struck first in the sec­ond quarter after a Dillon fake punt attempt failed and gave the Dawgs the ball on the Dillon 15 yard line. A pass interfer­ence call in the end zone gave Alumni a first and goal on the six, which set up a Shapot touchdown run. The point after attempt was no good. 
On the third play of Dillon's next drive, Duffy broke loose up the middle of the field for a 54­yard touchdown, and the suc­cessful PAT conversion made the score 7-6. 
After Dillon forced a three­and-out on Alumni's first pos­session in the second half, Duffy took the handoff on Big Red's next play from scrimmage an took it 50 yards for the touch­down. 
Alumni's next possession was an eight-play drive resulting in a 64-yard touchdown pass from quarterback John Lauinger to tie the game at 14-14. 
But Dillon immediately responded with their own eight­pla.y drive that ended in a 35­yard Duffy touchdown run to seal the victory. 
Not only did the Big Red rush­ing game dominated against Ah,1mni, but Dillon's defense also came up strong in key moments in the second half, including stuffing a fourth-and­one attempt by the Dawgs. 
"We felt our defense was stop­ping them," Figueredo said. "We have confidence in our team." 
Keenan 19, Stanford 8 
Stanford never had a chance. 
On their first play from scrim­mage, Griffins quarterback Brian Salvi's pass was intercept­ed and returned for a touch­down by Knights safety Adam Fischer. Although the point­after attempt was missed, that play set the tone for the game as the Knights went on to win. 
"That was a big play to get us started," Keenan captain Matt Gibson said. 
From there, Keenan contin­ued to dominate the game. After missing a field goal and then forcing Stanford to punt, Keenan put together a 10-play, 90-yard drive that ended in a 25-yard touchdown run by tail­back Alex Gonzalez -who accounted for 80 yards of the drive. Another missed PAT kept the score 12-0. 
"Our line works very hard, and we focus on the run," Gibson said. "We condition by ourselves every 


practice. But and let them go
'The line was making
Gonzalez was out and make
holes, so we had no
amazing." plays." 
Stanford was too reason to pass." Sorin had two mistake-prone to possessions in the produce results. fourth quarter to
Alex Duffy
Salvi threw three try and put some­
Dillon running back 
interceptions and thing together, 
fuJUbled on a sack, giving the Knights possession on the Griffin six-yard line. 
A blocked punt gave Keenan the ball on Stanford's 36-yard line. 
Stanford was able to find the end zone once on a 30-yard pass down the right sideline. The two-point conversion run was successful, but Stanford's next three drives ended in a punt and two interceptions. 
Gonzalez rushed 15 times for 101 yards and two touchdowns. The offensive line and fullbacks got great extension to the out­side on every run, clearing lanes for him to run through. 
"We had guys making plays. We focus on the run and 

dence in our 
"[ know now that this establishing the 
offense, and we big lead. had to go for the team will never shake "Steve Klein, win." me, this team will Brian Pieh, and 
Fisher's Nick Bencomo
always be my baby.''
defense allowed really lead the only 57 total way for our yards, forced Joe Gemino rushing game," two intercep­Morrissey coach he said. "Our 
tions and recov­ered a fumble. This didn't surprise Bradel. 
"We were running the same stuff," he said. "We mixed in some more looks on defense at the end when we knew they were passing. We swarmed to the ball, hit hard, and forced turnovers. We put our best ath­
letes on defense, 

but both resulted in interceptions by Pat Gotobeski. 
Although the Green Wave won, Fisher's offense was stag­nant. The offensive line could not get any push and wasn't able to clear any room for the running game. 
"Our offensive line missed some blocks," Bradel said. "They played really well in pass coverage, they didn't allow a sack all day, which I'm proud of. But going in we knew Sorin's run defense would be tough." 
Other offensive miscues ­including dropped passes and a fumble -made it difficult for Fisher to put up any more points. 
offensive line 

really made things easy for them. The big guys deserve some love, Mike Kizer, Cole Davis, Tony Cunnigham, Spencer White and Joe Walker." 
The Manorites came out focused again in the second half, but Keough kept it tight throughout the third quarter. 
A late score was enough to deflate any comeback hopes the Kangaroos may have possessed. 
While Morrissey has the post­season to look forward to, Keough is left with just the memories of their season, the last for senior tri-captains Steve Humphrey, Tom Chesnick, and Chaz Arnold. 
Joey Gemino couldn't be more proud of the way his players performed this regular season. 
"I will always be apart of this team. This team will always be a part of me, indefinitely," he said. "I know now that this team will never shake me, this team will always be my baby." 
Morrissey looks forward to postseason play while also hop­ing for the recovery of one of its team leaders -John Bush ­who sustained an injury during the regular season. 
Contact Matt Hopke at mhop­ke@nd.edu, Bill Brink at wbrink
PAMELA LOCK!The ObseiVer 

Green Wave quarterback Kevin Rabil drops back to pass defense," Gibson said. "We out "We need to work on offensive @nd.edu and Andrew Kovach at against the Otters in Fisher's 3-0 win over Sorin on Sunday. worked them." execution," Bradel said. "We akovach@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
In a game marked by severely we have a lot to work on but it 
contrasting offensive strategies, also shows that we have a lot of 
Farley's short passing game was heart." continued from page 20 easily more consistent. Pangborn's defense hindered Baron completed 12-of-15 the Babes, who were unable to so we didn't expect this today." passes for 115 yards, four get anything going on offense 
But PE let the Whirlwinds touchdowns and an intercep­early. On the other hand, the know right away that they were tion. Crehan came up with sev­Phoxes were able to move the in for a dogfight. On the first eral key third down catches to ball at will, converting on three drive of the game, the Pyros extend drives and run down the consecutive third downs. accumulated two first downs clock. The momentum shifted late in before turning the ball over on Lewis, which entered the the first half. Pangborn looked downs. The PE defense then game winless, exhibited a more for its third touchdown, but a forced the Whirlwinds to go drastic approach to its offense, tipped pass was intercepted by three and out. using reverses, draws. an the Babes' secondary, giving 
"We went out there with the option-reverse pass and a Statue them two minutes to try to mentality that we had nothing to of Liberty play. The results were score. The Babes traveled 60 lose," Pyro captain Molly Fox mixed, as Lewis often found the yards downfield on a series of said. "We always seem to play to plays disrupted by Farley's star passes, capping off the drive the level of our opponent, good linemen Laurie Blase and with a 19-yard touchdown pass or bad." Megan Spokes. right before the half. 
Earlier this season, the Pyros "We have 27 different blitz The second half began like the earned their first and only win packages," Healy said of his first as the Phoxes moved the against then-undefeated team's strong defensive play. ball downfield on their initial Cavanaugh. "We tell our players to play as possession. Unable to score on 
The second half featured more dirty as possible. If you can get fourth and goal, the Phoxes back-and-forth action. The away with it, go for it." turned the ball over on downs Whirlwinds intercepted a pass Lewis struggled offensively but were able to regain posses­inside the Pyro red zone, but PE throughout the first half. Its first sion with a defensive stop. refused to let down and took possession showed promise The Babes were in trouble as momentum back with an inter­when a tipped ball was caught the Phoxes were up 12-6 and ception of its own on the next for a 37 -yard gain on the second had possession with just six play. play of the game. However, minutes to play. With the season 
On their next drive, the things took a bad turn after that on the line, the Babes came up "We've gotten better every tightened. This defensive effort Whirlwinds finally broke into for the Chicks, as they were only with a huge defensive stop, game. Knowing that we can play gave the Wild Women great field the end zone, scoring the game's able to muster 48 total first half causing Pangborn to go three­against the best team in our position throughout the first only touchdown. But again PE yards. and-out for the first time of the conference and be in the game half. refused to let up, marching Following a missed fourth game. The Babes offense took gives us a lot of confidence." In the second half, Badin had down the field in impressive down attempt, Farley drove advantage of its possession, an easier time moving the ball, fashion into the red zone. downfield, only to be intercepted scoring in just three minutes Walsh 7, Badin 0 converting often on third and 
The Whirlwind defense made in the end zone. The Finest held and converting the extra pqint Walsh wide receiver Molly fourth downs. But the Walsh's its final stand, knocking down a Lewis at bay, forcing a punt, and to go ahead 13-12. McCarthy caught a five-yard defense again proved to be too pass in the end zone on fourth getting a solid return to inside Pangborn was left with three touchdown pass to give the Wild much, batting down passes and and goal with 25 seconds the Chicks 20. Four plays later, minutes on the clock, and its Women a win over Badin making crucial stops. remaining. Baron hit Crehan from a yard undefeated status looked endan­Sunday. "We are happy to be going 
out to give Farley a 6-0 lead. gered. After moving the ball for McCarthy's touchdown would into the playoffs with a winning Cavanaugh 7, Lyons 0 The touchdown was set up by a first down, the Phoxes hopes prove to be the only score in a streak," Fallon said. "We have a 
Cavanaugh defeated Lyons an impressive catch and run by shriveled when they were defensive struggle in Walsh's lot of momentum and we know Sunday, scoring its only touch­Annie Parrett. picked ofl' by the Babes' second­second consecutive win over the what we're doing." down of the game on an open­Farley extended its lead to 13-ary for the second time of the Bullfrogs. ing-drive, Katie Dunn touch­0 just before halftime on a 30-game. The Babes excitement "We sort of knew what to Notes: down pass. yard bomb from Baron to Diane grew as an upset looked possi­expect, having played them ear­+ Pasquerilla West won 
The Chaos was extremely Duran. ble. But the late heroics of' the lier in the week," Walsh coach Sunday due to a McGlinn forfeit. impressive on that first drive, Lewis answered on the open­Phoxes were too much for the Brian Fallon said. "We played mixing in a variety of passes and ing possession of the second Babes. with a lot of intensity. Our runs that kept Lyons off-bal­half, first by converting a third "We played great and we momentum helped out a lot." Contact Vince Keneally at vke­ance. Dunn was able to buy time and long with a 40-yard scram­played our hearts out. It just The Bullfrogs failed in their neall@nd.edu, Colin Reimer at with her feet when under pres­ble, and then cutting the lead in didn't turn out our way in the attempts to get their offense creimerl@nd.edu and Michael sure and swiftly led her team half with a one-yard quarter­end," BP's Sarah Ball said. started, as the Walsh defense Burdell at mburdel1@nd.edu 
Pyros 


down the field to a 7-0 lead. 
After forcing the Lions to punt on their first possession, it appeared as if Cavanaugh would run away with the game. However, a number of adjust­ments by the Lyons defense seemed to hold the Chaos in check for the remainder of the game. 
"They changed up their defense after the first drive," Dunn said. "It took us to the very end of the game to adjust." 
Although the Lyons defense surrendered no points the rest of the way, it did drop several interceptions throughout the game that hindered comeback efforts. 
The second half was dominat­ed by defense even more than the first. Lyons had good field position for most of the half, but could not seem to generate any­thing against the Chaos. 
Cavanaugh, which snapped a two-game losing steak with the win, now looks to the postsea­son. 
"This win gives us some momentum heading into the playoffs," Dunn said. "I think we are hitting our peak right about now." 
Farley 26, Lewis 6 
Trailing 13-6 midway through the second half. upstart Lewis had Farley in a fourth and short situation just shy of midfield. Finest coach Mike Healy went to his bread and butter play -a screen pass to wide receiver Kim Crehan to convert the first down for Farley. 
The play would propel Farley to its third touchdown of the day -a 14-yard strike from Brittany Baron to Jenny Rolfs ­as it thumped Lewis Sunday. 

back draw. 
Farley then meticulously moved the ball down field against an energized Lewis defense. Meghan Hurt picked off the Chicks quarterback deep in Lewis territory, allowing for a four-yard toss to Crehan to cap the scoring. 
Healy was very pleased with the win, but also focused on what lies ahead for his team. 
"Having really good players makes it easy to take a team to the playoffs," he said. "All I care about now is Farley making a run in the playoffs." 
Pangborn 18, Breen-Phillips 13 
With just two minutes remain­ing, Breen-Phillips tried to run out the clock to secure its 13-12 lead over unheated Pangborn. Unable to acquire a first down, the Babes gave the ball back to the Phoxes with just 37 seconds remaining. The Phoxes had to move 58 yards with no timeouts to pull out a victory. 
That wasn't a problem for Pangborn as the Phoxes beat Breen-Phillips Sunday. 
Two quick 20-yard passes put the Phoxes in the red zone with less than 20 seconds to play. A pass interference penalty moved them even closer to the goal line. With seven seconds remaining, the Phoxes had one final play -a 13-yard pass to a wide-open receiver in the corner of the end zone to pull out the win for the Phoxes. 
"I think that we came out real­ly strong. We got a little lax in the middle and we were a little worried there for a while," Pangborn senior Katie Mooney said. "But the last drive, we drove down the entire field and scored. [This game] shows that 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
The Graduate School 

Session 1: Mon., Oct. 23 Overview and the Verbal test 
Session 2: Tues., Oct. 24 Analytical Writing 
Session 3: Wed., Oct. 25 The Quantitative test 
All sessions are from 7 to 9 pm in 140 DeBartolo Hall 
E-maillchism@nd.edu to register. Include your name and the sessions you would like to attend. 
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANT WORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WHYSO 
J 
1 
ri (] 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LESOO 
I I ItSNORPI J

J I [ (]

www.jumble.com
tINGARD 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

IIJ I I 
A: 

A "[ I I I I J'[ I I I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: GRAIN PAUSE NOODLE CHERUB Saturday's Answer·. 
Sounded like this to his girlfriend ­THE RUNAROUND 

WILLSHORTZ
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Casino 67 One with a dish supervisor towel
1 The "C" of 
U.S.M.C. 38 Cambridge sch. 

6 Opinion tester 41 Stocking's end DOWN 
42" hooks" 1 Dot follower 10 ''That's enough!" 
(box warning) 2 Son _gun14 France's Joan 44 CPR giver 

3 Bit of sunshine 47 Antes
15 Samoa's capital 4 Request a 50 "Me, too" hand? 
16 Spy Mala_ 52 Pixies 5 Barely gather 17 City chief together, as 53 Hoodwink 
funds18 Lady's escort 57 On the way 6 Chinese temple 20 Bit of 58 Wrinkled citrus 
encouragement 7 Dentist's 
fruits request22 Bent over 62 Barbara of "I 

8 remover 25 Frankie of the Dream of 
9 Plaster backing 
Four Seasons Jeannie" 10 Queen of _,
26 Stephen King 63 Cries of surprise biblical V.I.P.
novel 64 Poor 11 Mexican dish30 Wide shoe width 65 Georgia and 12 SoothsayerLithuania, once:

31 "Farewell" Abbr. 13 Little finger 32 The WB rival 
66 Corduroy 19 Impose, as a tax 38 Competition 46 Rag 55 Fed. workplace 33 Old draft letters feature 
21 President pro with shot putters watchdog
47 coladaand hurdlers 56 Six-stringed

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 48 Infectious fly 
39 As to, in legal instrument

r==-r-:::-r-:-T':::-r.=-r:::-r::-r::::T:"7r=r.-t~-:::T;;"I 22 R estfu I resorts 
memos 49 Kind of HB-:-+=+=+:+-=+=*+=-HB..,;;,.+-:+:-1 23 Kennedy and 59 Hula hoop? 
financing, for40 Use a FrisbeeTurner short 60 Suffix with 43 Bee or wasp 51 Daybreaks chlor-or sulf­

~tsj~:2l~••f.~mmn~m 24 "Miss
I-; Regrets" 44 Catches sight of 54 Plenty, to a 61 Damascus' 27 Centers of 45 Piles poet land: Abbr. 
Christmas wrapping paper For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
-=++.~ 28 G.l.'s address 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. '-:-+-=+::-! 29 M.D.'s Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday associates crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. ~~~~~m~··~@l~U~ 35 Skater Midori 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

36 Wee one Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
~~7+.~~~~~7+~~~~ L;.;JL...:...&...:....L.=..L..:....L:....L.::...J...:.:~.~....=.~L...;..J...:....L.=..L.~ 37 Envelop solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zachery Ty Bryan, 25; Scott Bakula. 52; Sharon Osbourne, 54; Jackson Browne, 58 
Happy Birthday: Check out what's going on in your chosen industry. There may b< an opportunity to make a move. Personal goals can be met as long as you are realisti< and well organized. Yo\[r numbers are 11, 16, 17, 22, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Rethink your personal life and make sure you are paying attention to who and what are most important in your life. Don't be afraid to ask someone for a favor--you will get the help you need and much more. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Get to the bottom of whatever is going on in your personal life. If something doesn't appear to be right, it probably isn't. Talks will brin1 things to a head, resolving matters one way or another. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have so much going on that can develop into something spectacular. Keep things in your personal and professional life simple, to the point and user friendly. Your love life is looking good 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your heart is in the right place and everyone will tak< note of what you are trying to say. However, getting everyone to follow suit won't b< as easy. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may think everyone is on the same page as you but don't count on it. Someone will have a bad reaction to your game plan or will not agree with the changes you want to make. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need to get away. It will help you change your perspective. Friends and family will be on your side, but concerned. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A financial opportunity is apparent but you mustn't go overboard. Only invest what you can afford to part with and do ample research befon you close the deal. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be pulled in several different directions today Emotional matters will escalate and confusion at home will leave you feeling like ym need a change. Don't make a rash decision --take your time and be sure. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Visit someone who has experience in a field tha interests you. The knowledge you pick up will enable you to make a move in a new direction. Work-related matters will tum out better than you anticipated. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Do whatever it takes to bring family closer together Emotions will run high but, as long as you stay calm, you will resolve any existing problems. Travel will not bring you the results you hoped for. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money or a gift is heading in your direction but th< circumstances involved will be highly unusual. Someone is likely to try to use emotiona blackmail on you. Be smart and call this person's bluff. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A change in the dynamics of some of the relationship: you have with friends, relatives or even neighbors can be expected. Keep your wits about you so you aren't blamed for something you didn't do. 4 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have charm and grace and the determination. drive and desire to stay with something until it's complete. You are practical, solid and stable. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, October 10, 2006 
page 20 
INTERHALL 
Smash mouth football 
Zahm beats Siegfried, Carroll blanks Knott 
By MATT HOPKE, BILL 
BRINK AND ANDREW 
KOVACH 
Sports Writers 
With less than a minute to play, a reverse to Eddie Gutierrez allowed Zahm to con­vert a two-point conversion and seal a 14-13 victory over Siegfried Sunday in men's Interhall action. 
"We actually put in that play last week," Zahm coach Rich Petty said. "We saw that teams were overplaying the run and we needed a play to take advantage of that. The boys really executed it to perfec­tion." 
The two-point conversion capped a two-play, 45-yard drive that all occurred in the final two minutes. Much credit goes to Zahm quarterback Sean 
see ZAHM/page 17 


PHIL HUDELSON AND TOM FOLEYffhe Observer Left, Carroll running back Mike Johnson is tackled by a Knott defender Sunday. Right, a Breen­Phillips running back carries the ball past a Pangborn defender Sunday. 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
NO's Big East lead not a given 
MEN's GoLF 
Irish second after first 
day, 19 behind Lamar 

ALLISON AMBROSEffhe Observer Irish midfielder Jill Krivacek tackles Scarlet Knights midfielder Jenifer Anzivino in Notre Dame's 2-0 win over Rutgers Sunday. 

SMC vm.LEYBAU. NBA 
w 

Co) Hope at Saint Reggie Miller speaks z Mary's out against Stephen Jackson's strip club inci­
::5 

The Belles take on dent.
c:s 

Hope in an MIAA
cc 
matchup today. 

!:C page 15 page 14 
Notre Dame has tough road games remaining 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Despite holding the top spot in every major poll for most of the season, No. 1 Notre Dame still finds itself in a dogfight for the Big East lead. 
Until Sunday's 2-0 win over Rutgers, the Irish (6-0 Big East, 13-0 overall) trailed the Scarlet Knights (5-1-1, 11-2-1) by two points after Notre Dame's 1-0 lead over Cincinnati two weeks ago was washed away by game-ending storms. 
Currently, the Irish have earned 18 points in their six conference wins, placing them one point ahead of Villanova (5-0-2, 13-0-2) and two points ahead of Rutgers in a log jammed National Division. One slip-up in their final four games could cost Notre Dame the No. 1 seed in the Big East tournament; a small margin of error considering the Irish hit the road for the remainder of the season -a place where "anything can happen," according to coa~h Randy 
see BIG EAST/page 16 
NBA 

By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Before the start of the Gridiron Golf Classic at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said he hoped his team would enter the final day of the event as one the top three squads. And although the Irish sit 19 strokes behind the leader -Lamar University -they enter today's final round in the last pairing of the tournament. 
"The leader is a long way off," senior captain Cole Isban said. "We probably won't win but sec­ond place isn't bad." 
Lamar entered the event as the No. 24 team in the GCANBridgestone Top 25 poll. They may, however, be better than that ranking would indi­cate. 
"They're a Top 10 team in the country and they played like it," Isban said. "That's just a really good team." 
Notre Dame finished the first two rounds at 26-over par with lsban leading the charge. After carding a 2-under par first round, the senior finished the day with a l-over 141. 
fo!Fl 
Nfl 

Milwaukee center Denver 13 
Jaguars linebacker Andrew Bogut out 6-8 Baltimore 3 
Mike Peterson to m.iss weeks with leg injury. The Broncos hand the 
rest of season with pee-Ravens their first loss of 
toral injury. the season Monday night. 
page 14 page 13 page 14 
Whirlwinds, Phoxes finish unbeaten years 
By VINCE KENEALLY, COLIN 
REIMER AND MICHAEL 
BURDELL 
Sports Writers 
Welsh Family squeaked by Pasquerilla East 7-0 on a late­game Jenni Gargula touchdown pass Sunday. With the win, the Whirlwinds finished the season undefeated and earned the No. 1 seed in the upcoming playoffs. 
Coming in, the game did not seem like it would be as close as the score indicated. The Pyros had only one victory this season and were going up against a Welsh Family team that coasted to a 5-0 record. 
Welsh Family captain Brittany Scott admitted to underestimat­ing the Pyros. 
"We weren't focused today," she said. "We shut them out pretty badly last time we played 
see PYROS/page 18 
"I played really well in the morning but made some errant shots in the afternoon," said Isban, who is currently in fourth place among individual players. 
He trails sophomores Oliver Bekker and Justin Harding of Lamar, as well as Vanderbilt sen­ior Luke List. Bekker and Harding went into the clubhouse with matching 2-under par scores after the first day while List shot minus-1 on the day. 

Notre Dame sophomore Josh Sandman recorded a 6-over par total and currently sits in a tie for sixth place overall. Freshman Carl Santos-Ocampo (+8), senior Adam Gifford (+9), freshman Doug Fortner (+10), and junior Mike King (+16) rounded out Notre Dame's top five. 
Florida Sa~e trails Notre Dame 
by five strokes heading into the 
final round, while Baylor and 
Augusta State are tied for fourth 
place with 40-over-par total 
scores. The Irish must play well 
again ifthey hope to finish in the 
top two on their home course. 
"We've definitely got some work to do," Isban said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
NFL 
Kansas City quarter­back Trent Green out for Sunday's game, receiver Dante Hall remains questionable. 
page 14 







