
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame ties to Vatican strengthened 
University begins new chapter in relationship 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
HOME -Like millions of people around the world every year, University President Father John .Jenkins and the Board of Trustees climbed the marble steps to St. Peter's Basiliea this week. 
Steps into a gorgeous and almost myslieal rnligious expnrienee -and toward a more denply eemented relationship with the Vatican. 
St. l'etnr's, with its whitn and lwige grandeur, delicate yet strong eupola and immense bronze and gold sculptures, dwarfs Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart a thousand-fold. 
see LINK/page 8 

Above, St. Peter's Basilica looms above Rome. At left, Michelangelo's Pieta is displayed inside the church. At right, Bernini's altar crowns the 
Basilica's main aisle.
•
PHOTOS BY 
CLAIRE KELLEY 
Pope's first encyclical expounds on love, charity 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
Pope Benedict XVI last wnek issued the first encyclical of his papacy, a highly anticipated two­part meditation underscoring the fundamental Catholic values of love and charity that has since prompted a range of interpretations from Notre Dame (~xperts. 
Titled "Deus Caritas Est" -or "God is Love" -the encyclical of the supreme pontiff was releasnd Jan. 25 and addressed bishops, priests, deacons, men and womnn religious and "all the lay faithful." 
"In a world where the namn of God is sometimes associated with vengeance or even a duty of hatred 
see POPE/page 4 

Student presidential candidates announced 
Five tickets marked by young candidates 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
The .Judieial Couneil official­ly announeed the tickets approved to run in the upcoming student body presi­dential nleetion in a campus­wide n-mail Friday morning. 
Fivn tickets will appear on the Feb. 13 general ballot, with what .ludieial Couneil prnsidnnt James Lnito called an "extraordinary" number of frnshrnnn running for top gov­nrnment positions. 
"Normally the people who are running for these posi­tions are sophomores and jun­iors, and 151 freshmen on the tickets is very unusual," Lei to said. lin addnd he could not think of anything that would have contributed to the rise in younger candidates. 
The prnsidential and viee 
presidnntial candidates inelude freshmen Ryan Black from Knott and Catherine Martinez from Cavanaugh; junior Jason Laws from Fisher and sophomore Bob Costa from Zahm; freshmen Ryan McCune and Tim Szewczyk, both from Zahm; juniors Lizzi Shappnll from Badin and Bill Andrichik from Stanford; and sophomore Erica Wells from Pangborn and freshman George Chamberlain from Sorin. 
Traditionally, the candidates are announeed during a meet­ing of the Student Senate ­held Wednesdays at 6 p.m. ­but Lnito said there was a delay in collecting the tickets' Web site information, and Judieial Council made the deeision not to make a formal announcement until Thursday. 
The first debate will be held in the Huddle area of LaFortune at 8 p.m. on Feb. 9. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Ebersols break silence to Oprah 
Family speaks about losing youngest child, living with grief 
he remembnrs every moment of the erash. 
"It is one of those momnnts; they say it lasts 15 seeonds, but it seems like it lasts for hours," he said. 
Charlie told Winfrny at time of the crash he was the only pnr­son on board without a seatbelt, but was also the only person who remained eonscious aftnr the erash. 
Dick Ebersol said in the moments following the erash when Charlie found himsnlf in a burning plane, he identified his father after sening his white head of hair in the wreckage. 
"I was laying in the aislcway and the ceiling had collapsnd on me, and I thought to mysnlf, 'Oh my God, I cannot get through this without my dad."' Charlin Ebersol said to Winfrny. 
Charlie Ebersol, who broke his back in two placns and hand in six places, ruptun~d his eye and received a third degren burn to his left arm in the cra.-;h, described the event as "vnry vio­lent." I le then told Winfrey of 
see EBERSOL/page 6 
By KELLY MEEHAN Assistant News Editor 
The family of Notre Dame graduate Charlie Ebersol appeared on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" Thursday to dis­cuss the tragic: 2004 plane crash that took the 
memory of the youngest family member, Teddy Ebersol. 
Winfrey introduced the famous family through a review of their many successes, which concluded when she said, "in one moment their life would change forever." 
This moment occurred on 
Nov. 28, 

life of its 
2004 when youngest son. their private Teddy. p I a n e 
It marked crashed on the first time takeoff at the Ebersols Montrose have spoken Regional to the media Airport in together Colorado, 
about the Ebersol crash and their mourning process. 
Charlie Ebersol said this is "the first and only time" that the family will publicly speak about its tragedy. 
Along with him, Charlie Ebersol's father. NBC Sports Chairman Dick Ebersol, his mother, aetress Susan Saint James, and his younger brother Willie Ebersol emotionally recalled the life, death and 
Winfrey killing Teddy. 
Dick  and  
Charlie  Ebersol  were  also  
aboard.  

Dick Ebersol recalled the rocky takeoff that day, as Teddy turned to him and said, 'Tm scared." 
He said it was only moments later that the plane crashed and skidded off the runway, eventu­ally stopping on the edge of a 60-foot cliff. 
Charlie Ebersol told Winfrey 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, February 3, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sports Doldrun1s 
I realized the other day that we're in the first week in February, and that made me feel a little uneasy. That's because after this Sunday's conclusion of three hours of quality commercials, also commonly referred to as the 
Greg Arbogast 
Super Bowl, begins the worst four week stretch 
Sports Writer 
of sports for the entire year. 
I hate this time of year, and I'll tell you why. Check your calendar. You're not going to find a lot to get excited about. Looking at this in a narrow context, you'll see that February means the middle of the NBA, NHL and college basketball sea­sons. This means that the postseason for any of these sports is somewhere from one to two months away. That's okay, though, because even though they're in their off-seasons, we can look for the mainstream American sports (baseball and football) to keep us entertained, right? Well, not quite. 
Baseball's Spring Training is still a month away from becoming interest­ing, and with most of the off-season moves centered around the Winter Meetings in December, baseball's hot stove has currently been reduced to ashes. 
The NFL is finishing this Sunday, leaving nothing to look forward to until the draft, which isn't until April 29 -well, that is unless you enjoy the 100 obligatory Mel Kiper Jr. appear­ances between now and then. 
Even college football doesn't offer us much of a release. In fact, the last noteworthy college football date until next season happened yesterday. 
Okay, so the more well-known sports don't have much going on in February. Maybe this is the perfect opportunity to catch up on some of the lesser-known sports. How about golf? Well, the first major, the Masters, isn't until April, and honestly, who can watch any golf tournament that isn't a major? 
It's indicative of the gravity of the situation that I'm even suggesting this, but what about tennis? Bad timing yet again. The Australian Open, which takes place in January, just fmished, and the next major, the French Open, isn't until May. 
It's worth mentioning that the Winter Olympics takes place in February this year, but with the Olympics taking place only once every four years, this February is more of an aberration than the norm. Besides, do you consider two leotard-clad Frenchmen prancing around on ice­skates a sport? Me neither. 
Basically, the sports scene of post­Super Bowl February is about as enjoyable as the current ... on second thought, the typical February South Bend weather. That leaves us with a couple of options. We can either get used to hearing, "In our top story, the Chicago Bulls were defeated by oppo­nent X last night," or we can use this reprieve to accomplish alternative objectives, perhaps the homework we avoided during the NFL playoffs. Whatever you do, try to stay sane dur­ing February because the madness of March is only a few weeks away. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbo­gas@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD CREATE AN OLYMPIC SPORT, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 







Kevin Carrier  David Tighe  Laura Fox  Reese Moore  Liz Fox  Christian Galvan  
sophomore Fisher  sophomore Dillon  sophomore PE  sophomore Howard  sophomore Welsh Family  freshman Keenan  
"Jousting, maybe javelin duels perhaps. "  "Ultimate. "  "Hopscotch. I'm really good at it."  "Freeze-tag."  "Broom ball. Trigon Blue Cross Blue Shield, baby!"  "Olympic karaoke. And I'd take the gold."  


vehicle, hit the right fender and jumped on the hood, smashing the windshield and breaking off the passen­ger side mirror, authorities said. 
He slid off and was laying on the road but got up into a football-type stance and charged a second vehicle as it approached, damaging a fender. 
The 42-year-old man was taken in for medical treat­ment and psychological assessment, Cook said. 
The motorists were not injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Burglar gets stuck in vent 
ORLANDO, Fla. -An alleged burglar was rescued Thursday after he got stuck overnight in the oven vent of the convenience store he was trying to rob, the fire department said. 
Investigators said Lonnie Shields, 37, climbed into a small vent on the roof of the New City Mart at about 2 
a.m. and wasn't found until store employees arrived at about 8 a.m. 
·Shields, who faces charges of burglary of a structure, was treated at a nearby hospital and booked into Orange County Jail on $1,000 bond. 
TODAY a: 
"He was banged up and crunched up and uncom­fortable from being in that pipe for about six hours," Orlando fire chief Greg Hoggatt said. 
Naked man attacks cars 
WITTENBERG, Wis. ­Authorities had no trouble locating the suspect after getting a call about a pedes­trian attacking two moving cars. He was the one with no clothes. 
Police said the first com­plaint came in at 9:36 a.m. Thursday after a woman encountered a naked man on a road. As she drove around him, he charged the 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI :I: 
!c 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
c( 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 45
.... 
LOW 25 


33 
25 

33 23 

32 22 
IN BRIEF 
The band Nice Save! will play tonight at 10:30 p.m. at Corby's. 
As part of the ND Asian Film Festival, there will be a showing of "Peacock" today at 1 p.m. and "Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War" today at 4 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents. 
As part of the ND Arab Film Series, the film "Destiny" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m., and the film "Ali Zoaua: Prince of the Streets" will be shown tonight at 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
The Department of Romance Languages and Literatures is presenting Moliere's "L'Ecole des Femmes" tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $5 for students. 
RecSports' Late Night Olympics will take place in the Joyce Center from 6 p.m. Saturday to 4 a.m. Sunday. Donations of $1 are taken at the door and benefit St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
Robert Campbell, a Pulitzer Prizer winner and veteran architecture critic for the Boston Globe, will present a lecture title "Why Don't the Rest of Us Like the Buildings the Architects Like?" at 4:30 p.m. Monday at Bond Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, February 3, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Marriage topic of theology talk 
male. mon today and should not be 1\y KATIE KOHLER 
"Age is a strong predictor of seen as a 'problem,"' Sylvia News Writer 
marriagn success and stabili­Dillon said. "It is better to 
ty," shn said. "The older a cou­have two people of different 
On Wednesday night, Saint ple is, the more rnaturn, expe­faiths passionate about their Mary's lit up with the spark of rienced and settlnd in a job or beliefs rather than two people discussion when students earenr they are." of the same faith sharing luke­engaged in a "Theology on .John Dillon din~cted the warm beliefs." Fire" session on "Marriage conversation toward the John Dillon mentioned and the Church: Truth and familiar issue of college rela­cohabitation before marriage, Fiction." tionships approaching gradu­saying most couples only live 
The "Thnology on Fin~" pro­ation. together before they get mar­gram was started by Saint "Many eouples feel artificial ried out of convenience. Some, Mary's senior .Jmmy Hobbins pressure and graduation anxi­however, use their living situa­as a student initiative to ndu­ety li1r the future of their rela­tion as a "trial marriage," eate studnnts on important tionships," he said. which he said often produces issues in thn Church today. lie expressed the impor­poor results. 
"I wantnd to increase tance of enjoying independ­The topic of marriage could mature faith devnloprmmt on ence in eollege and "finding not be complete without dis­campus," Hobbins said. yourself." cussing divorce. Although 
Sylvia and John Dillon, "In eollege, you make your divorce rates are near 50 per-directors of Marriagn own decisions for cent today, Sylvia Preparation and Heligious the first time in Dillon said during 1\dueation at Notrn Dame, led your life," he "/ came because the past decade, Wndn•~sday's discussion, said. "Enjoy that 1 wanted to be the rate has slowly explaining Catholic marriage time. Celebrate and steadily
educated about 
using what Sylvia Dillon railed it. J-iollow your declined to a sta­"interactive dialogue." drHams. Get to marriage. ble number. When She d11seribnd marriage as a know yourself to talking about railing similar to that of a rnli­bn a better part­divorce, both
Megan Ryan
gious vocation. ner in marriage." Sylvia and John
freshman
"Marriagn is equally as The goal for Dillon stressed the important as a religious voca­collngt~. as John importance of tion b1~cause it is a conscious Dillon put it, is to have as marriage preparation in order dwiee recognized by the many healthy relationships as to secure a successful part­church," she said. you can based on friendship nership. 
.John and Sylvia Dillon said and self-discovery. The forum attracted more many eouplns they encounter Another issue the Dillon than 40 students of all ages. have similar family back­couple commented on was "I came because I wanted to grounds, vahws and funda­interfaith marriagHs. be educated about marriage lliPntal ideas that lwlp tlwir They stres.'ied that they are so when I get to that place in marriages bc>rorne stronger. not at all uncommon in my life, I can approach it with 
Sylvia Dillon tlwn discussed today's society. On tho retreat maturity," freshman Megan tlw importance of age on mar­they arn loading this coming Hyan said. riage, as r11e11nt statistics show wonk, five out of the 25 cou­that tlw nwdian marriage age ples nnrolled is interfaith. Contact Katie Kohler at for a fprnalP is 25 and 27 fi1r a "This is not at all uncom-kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

RecSports prepares for Late Night Olympics 
"champion."

By MOLLY LAMPING 
For the last six years, thn 

News Writer 
team of Keough and W11lsh 
Family llalls has taken home 

The Joyce Center will open its the crown. doors to athletes at all levels of "They seem to have quite a competition as it plays host to dynasty going," Beagan said. the 20th annual Late Night While the fien:e compntition Olympics between thn dorm Saturday night. teams is the main
''They seem to have

Sponsored by attraction of the RecSports, this quite a dynasty evnnt, the real event raises going." business of the money for St. evening is raising Joseph County's monny for Special
Bill Reagan 

Special Olym pies. Last Olympics. Assistant director ynar, morn than 
Assistant RecSports $8,600 was raised. Director of "The unique HecSports and thing about lthe Late Night Olympics organizer money] is that there is no cor­Bill Reagan estimated that any­porate sponsorship," Hogan where between 1,000 and said. "It is all eoming from the 1,500 students will turn out for students." one or more of the 17 competi­Fundraising will tako the tive events -they form of open skate include everything fees, penny wars,
"It should be a

from three-on­entry fees, ratTle three basketball really good time and simple dona­and volleyball to for a really good tions. lesser-known .. Sporting nvonts 
cause.

sports such as bogin at (J p.m. inner-tube water Saturday and con­polo, Nerf football Katie Mcinerney tinue until about 4 and broomball. a.m. Sunday,
freshman 

"Last year, we Heagan said. had over 1,200 "It should be a Istudent partieipantsI." Heagan really good timo for a rnally said. good cause," Saint Mary's 
Thirteen brother/sister dorm freshman Katie Melnnrney teams from both Notre Dame said. and Saint Mary's, in addition to Notre Dame's MBA Association, Contact Molly Lamping at will compete for the title of mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

is currently accepting applications for the 2006-2007 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding of newspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for any of the above positions should be at least five pages and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor applications are due by Friday, February 3 at 5 p.m. Submit all applications to Mike Gilloon in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Mike Gilloon and Claire Heininger at 631-4542. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 3, 2006 
Church's ability to assuage suf­Cunningham illustrated the world," the pope said no mem­Appleby said this part pro­fering through love and chari­Holy Father's message by ber of the family should go vides little comfort for people

Pope 

ty, but warned acts of charity employing the example of a without the basic necessities of who believe bishops should 
continued from page 1 should not be used as a means 
for proselytization. and violence, this message is The pope divided the encycli­both timely and significant," cal into two distinct parts. In the pope said. "I wish in my the first, "more speculative" first [e]ncyclical to speak of the section, he analyzed the mean­love which God lavishes upon ing of love and how it is us and which we in turn must expressed by humankind. share with others." History professor R. Scott 
Encyclicals were first issued Appleby, who also serves as by the ancient Church as let­director of the Kroc Institute ters to be sent to all churches for International Peace Studies, in a given area. Today, encycli­called the first part of the cals represent one of the high­encyclical an "elegant and est forms of papal teaching and refined ... wonderful and pro­usually address a significant found exposition of the issue or topic concerning Christian theology of love." Catholic faith. "Today, the term 'love' has 
Theology professor Lawrence become one of the most fre­Cunningham praised the "brief quently used and misused of and straightforward" docu­words, a word to which we ment, one he said contrasted attach quite different mean-greatly from ings," the pope the "long, tor­said. tured and Cunningham
"!The encyclical is} very 
complicated" said Benedict encyclicals of well-crafted by a pope XVI described the late Pope who is probably one of both the dual John Paul II. nature and
the best theologians in 
"This is an universal 
excellent the past I ,ooo years." importance of encyclical," love. Cunningham "The pope
Lawrence Cunningham 
said. "It's very said that in
theology professor 
well-crafted by English, we a pope who is don't have dif­probably one ferent ways of of the best theologians in the expressing love, but in Greek past 1,000 years of popes ... It there are the terms 'eros' and is a very affirmative, pastoral 'agape' -both of these are 

· and deeply spiritual docu­good forms of love," Inent." Cunningham said. "Eros holds The 71-page document up the idea of love between a stressed love and charity as husband and wife, but love crucial aspects of the Catholic also has to spill over to ... faith and outlined the Church's Christian charity. If you allow role concerning social justice. only eros, it's easy for love to Benedict XVI emphasized th<J become [a commodity]." 
young couple who wed and are affectionate towards each 
· other -that is, they "hold hands, kiss and have sexual relations." "If one of the spouses becomes ill or incapacitated, the true mark of love is if lthey stay together[," Cunningham said. "That's the point the pope is trying to get at." The second, "more concrete" section addresses the ecclesi­astical exercise of the com­mandment of love of neighbor. "[Jesus'] death on the Cross is the culmination of that turn­ing of God against himself in which he gives himself in order to raise man up and save him," the pope said. "By contemplat­ing the pierced side of Christ, we can understand the start­ing-point of this [encyclical let­ter] ... In this contemplation the ·Christian discovers the path along which his life and love must move." Appleby said everything the Christian does unfolds in the context of what God has done and is doing, "in Jesus Christ and in us." "The pope is reminding us of priorities and foundations ­what 'comes first' is God's self­gift in love and our response in love," he said. "That loving relationship, and nothing else, is the foundation for our just relationships to others in the world, to politics, to society, to economy and the like." Benedict XVI said love is the service the Church carries out in order to alleviate suffering in the world. Likening the Church to "God's family in the 
life. intervene directly in politics by The encyclical said the denouncing -or praising ­Church must cooperate with Catholic politicians. In addi­government in order to amelio­tion, he said the language of rate social discrepancies the encyclical "seems to place instead of acting alone in such the laity in the world establish­endeavors. ing justice, with the Church 
"The Church cannot and somewhat apart from the must not take world, forming upon herself consciences." the political "The Church­battle to bring world dualism is
"[The Church} cannot 
about the most troubling to just society and must not remain Catholics who possible," the understood
on the sideliines in 
pope said. Vatican II to be
the fight for justice. " 
"She cannot calling for an end and must not to that kind of replace the Pope Benedict XVI dualistic think­State. Yet at ing, Appleby the same time said. she cannot and Cunningham must not said he disagreed remain on the sidelines in the with press reports calling the fight for justice." encyclical "uncontroversial" 
Cunningham said in this because of its failure to statement, the pope asks if the address abortion, divorce and state should "take over all the other hot-button issues on the works of justice." minds of today's Catholic popu­
"The pope says the Church lace. ought to cooperate with the "It is true that the press state;" Cunningham said. "He reports are saying that argues that there ought to be [Benedict XVI] isn't being con­some unity between charitable troversial," he said. "I think works of the state and charita­the press comments came from ble works of the Church." people who didn't read the 
Appleby said the "more con­encyclical." troversial" second part outlines The pope also described the the Church's mission of charity Church's "deepest nature" as a in the world. three-part obligation to pro­
"[The second part] declares claim the word of God, cel!~­that the Church must be con­brate the sacraments and exer­cerned with social justice, eise the ministry of charity ­through forming consciences, duties which "presuppose each but is not directly responsible other and are inseparablP-." for building just social struc­tures -that is the task of the Contact Katie Perry at laity," Appleby said. kperry5@edu 

THE is now accepting applications for 


R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 

Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is 
responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 

Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff·of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, 

Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to 
deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and 
columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 

Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene 
Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and 
is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR 

Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages . a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the 
News, Sports and Scene department editors in assjgning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 

Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,-coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 

Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible 
for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark 
Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­
sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­
ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WERADMINISTRATOR 

Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The 
Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The 
Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge 
of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of 
designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­
qualily graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Mike Gilloon in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Monday, February 6, 2006 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Mike at 1-4543. 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 3, 200(J COMPILED F.ROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chavez accuses U.S. officer of spying 
CAHACAS. Vnrwztwla -l'n~sidnnt llugo Chavnz said Thursday that V1~nnzunla is nxpnlling a U.S. Navy oiTicnr for allngedly passing SPI:rPl information from the Vnrwzunlan military to thn l'nnt.agon and warrwd lw will throw out all U.S. military attadws if' f'urtlwr nspionagn occurs. 
liP also i!ri'USPd Navy Cmdr. John Corrmt of' PIH'ouraging VPrwzunlan oflknrs to consiciPr owrthrowing his govnrnmPnt, which wnath­Nnd a hriPf roup in April 2002. 
Thn U.S. l·:mhassy dnnind any of' its military attarlws had dorw anything wrong. 
VPI!f'Zllf'la 's accusations of nspionagP, whirh lwgan last wnPk. havn lwightnrwd tPn­sions in an alrPady rocky r1dationship lwlwiH'n Washington and Chavnz's govnrn­lliPnt.. Chavnz. wlwsn nation is a major sup­pliPr of' oil to Llw UnitNI Statns. is an outspo­kPn crilir of U.S. ~~conomir polidns. 
Greek officials had phones tapped 
ATIII·:NS, Cr·1w1'P -Mobiln phonns hnlong­ing to top (;rPPk military and govnrnnwnt ol"lil'ials-inl"luding tlw primn minister­and thP li.S. Plllbassy Wl'l'n tappPd for rwarly a ynar lwginning in tlw wnnks b!d'orP tlw 2004 Olympil" ganws, tlw govnrnnwnt said Thursday. 
It was not known who was rPsponsibiP for tl11• laps, which nr11nlwrPd about I00 and i n r lu d I'd (; r n P k I' r i nw M i 11 is t!' r Cos las Caramanlis and his wil'n. and Llw ministnrs of J"on•ign all"airs. dnfPnSP, public oniPr and jus­tiel'. Most of (;I'PP!'P's top mililar·y and polieP oflirPrs WPrP also targl'tnd, as wnn~ l'ornign ministry ol'lkials and a U.S. Pmhassy num­lwr. Also tappPd wl'rn sonw journalists and human rights artivisls. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Congress will extend Patriot Act 
WAS Ill N (; T< >N -Con g r n s s w iII s ~~ n d l'rnsidPnl Bush a s1wond livn-wnPk nxtnnsion c.11' tho Patriot Ad as Snnatn rwgotiators say t lwy'rp rlosnr to a dPal with tho Whit.P llousn on rPrwwing Llw antitPrrorism bill with sonw rww dvil lilwrti•~s protP!'tions. 
Sixt1~nn provisions of thn 200 I law wnrn to haw nxpirPd l>nc. :~I, hut Congn~ss ~~xtnndnd thPnt until Friday al"t1~r I>emoerats and a handful ol' SPnate Hnpublieans dnmandnd an avnnuf' of appeals wlwn thn FBI makes d1•mands l'or pPopl!'s linandal and other pri­vati' nwords. 
Thf' Snnatn sdwduled a vote Thursday night on nxtnrHiing thn eurrnnt law unrhangnd through March 10 to givn nego­tiators mon~ limn to rnar.h a dnal. Tho Ilouse passed thn extnnsion Wn<hwsday. 
Police kill kidnapper after car chase 
I IOUSTON -A man suspnetml ol' kidnap­ping his nx-girll'rif'rHI and hm· 4-ynar-old daughtl'r opPnnd lin• 011 a crowded l'weway Thursday, shooting I"PfHHLtndly at motorists as lw llnd from pol ic!~. 
Aulhoritins said llw suspnt:l kidnappnd tlw mothPr a11d rhild Wednosday near Dallas and J"on~nd tlw motlwr at gunpoint to drive toward Ilouston. On Thursday, lw punchnd out tlw back window of tho ear and dnarnd a path through traflk by tiring at ears in his way. 
"Bullnts WPrP llyi11g evnrywlwr·n," said wit­nnss Kymlwrly Hooks, whose ear was side­swipPd hy tlw whidn earrying thn gunman. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bill on hunting, fireworks passes INDIAN/\I'OLIS-It would bn legal to hunt dnnr and nlk inside fnnend arncts l'or 
snvnn  morn  ynars  u11dnr  lngislation  
appr·ovPd  by  the  Indiana  llousn  on  
Thursday.  

Tho llouso also JHlSSP£1 a bill that would makn it a criminal oiTnnse bring knivos to school, and another orw that would make it legal l'or pnopln to snt oiT fireworks on their own propnrty or somoone elsn's il' they have approval to usn it l'or that purposn. 
Attack at gay bar injures three 
Teen dressed in black, armed with hatchet and gun sought rampage in Massachusetts 
Associated Press 
NEW BEI>FOHI>, Mass. -
Thn attacker hid his 
weapons in a hoodnd swnat 
shirt as he strode into a pop­
ular gay tawrn known l'or its 
quint atmosphere and trou­
ble-frPn customers. 
Thn young man llashod an appar!'lltly litkn ID. t.lw bar­Lf~nder· said, and ealmly ordnrnd a drink, asking il' he was at a gay bar. Told that he was, he attacknd the patrons with a hatdwt and handgun, sending thrnn mnn to the hospital early Thursday, one with eriti1:al injuries. 
Authorities in this historic 
seaport snardwd for Jacob 
I>. Hobida, 1 S, who was 
charged in an arrnst war­
rant with assault, allnmptnd 
murder and civil-rights vio­
lations. 
Aecording to court papnrs attaehnd to the warrant, Hobida's mothnr told police he came honw around I a.m., blending from thn lwad. tlwn lnft again. Ol'lienrs who searelwd his b11droom found what thny dnscribod as "Nazi regalia" and anti-Smnitic writings on the wall, tho police aflidavit said. It said Hobida was rnc­ogniznd by a woman in the bar. 

"Obviously, wn havn a man who's dangnrous, who's not rational. and hn has weapons," said Bristol swinging it at tlw man's tho hatchet J"lying, Phillip l'olkn arrived monwnts Dislriet Attomny Paul Walsh !wad, said tho bartender, said. later, finding t.lw hatchnt on Jr. who asked to bn idontilind The attarknr thnn pullod thn barroom J"loor and a 
The bartnnder at Puzzles only by his first name, out the handgun and shot knife lying on tlw ground Loungn told The A<>soeiatnd Phillip, beeausn of concerns one man, according to thn outsidP, though it was PrPss thn assailant walknd in about his own safety while bartendnr. lin lirnd anothnr appanmtly novnr usPd in tlw around midnight and drank tho gunman is at large. bullet into tlw ehost of' a attack. a rum on tlw roeks. lie Tho second pool player patron who was leaving the Court doeunwnts said a ordPwd another and walknd intnrvnned, swinging at the bathroom. woman in tlw bar rncog­to the back of' the bar, wlwrn assailant with his pool cue, "lie was shooting at overy­niznd Hohida as a rwTnnt or two mnn wore playing pool. hut the attaeknr limdnd hitn onn," Phillip said. fornwr studPnt at NPw 
Tho attacker shovnd one of oil', the bartnnd1w said. The attacker shovnd tlw Bndlilrd lligh School. School thn mnn to the !-,'Totmd, then Snvoral othnr patrons tried bartnnder bPiilrn leaving thn ollieials dndirwd to ronlirm pulled a hatehot from his to stop him, and he was building and running up tho whntlwr Hobida was swnat shirt and hngan knoeknd ofl' his font, sending street, hn said. nnrollnd tlwrn. 
IRAQ 

Trial continues without Saddam 
ing throe defendanL<> barn~d Thursday, en in front of' him. 
Associated Press 

saying they had caused a disturbaneo "Pnopln rPlurning (to th1~ir ePIIsl from 
outside thn court. tortun~ snssions muld not walk for days. 
BAGIIDAD -Two prosm:ution wit­Thn two witnesses Thursday, who tns­Wn had to carry thmn to thn toilnt," lw nesses tnstifind bnfon~ an nmpty del(m­tilind from bnhind a curtain to eonenal said. IIn told thn court his dPad broth­dants' box Thursday as Saddam thnir idHntities, said they were detairwd, er's body was linnd up in a group ol' I lussein boyeottnd his own trial. dlOos­thon boaten and tortured at thn night bodins in Dujail tiH' day al'tPr tJw ing to watch thn proenndings by video Baghdad headquarters of the attnmpt on Saddam's lifo. linkup. Mukhabarat, or intnllignnen agoll!:y. lin also watehnd his J"atlwr b11ing 
Thn chid'judge -who has app<~arnd Both men named Saddam's half b11al!m by a man ho was latPI' told was determinnd to push ahead whetlwr brother and co-dnf11ndant Barzan Ibrahim. Saddam and seven eo-defendants Ibrahim, who lnd thn Mukhabamt at the i\f'tpr SIWPral months at tlw attend or not -ordnrnd the ease halted timn, a.'i a participant in their torture. Mukhabarat, and thnn in Abu Chraib until Feb. 13, appanmtly to givn limo to Saddam, Ibrahim and six othor dnlim­prison, tho witness and his liunily wnm rosolw~ a standoff that could damagn dants havn benn on trial sin eo <kt. 1<J takm1 to a dntnntion 1:amp in tho south­the trial's erndibility. for the killing of more than 140 Shiites ern dns11rt. 
Saddam's original defense !.Pam al'tnr a 1<JS2 attempt on the former "Thn liunilins thnrn couldn't mmgnizn rnl'usns to take part unlnss chid judge presidnnt's life in tho town of Dujail me because of tlw nll'nct ol' torturP on Raouf Abdei-Hahman, who they allege north of Baghdad. If convietml, thny mn," he said. is biasnd against tho. formnr Iraqi faen dnath by hanging. Thn sneond witnnss said Ibrahim tor­leader, is r11movnd. Saddam and four The first of' Thursday's witnnssns said turnd him aftnr his arrest in tlw Dujail other defendants have n;jneted court­· he was 12 when hn was arrnstnd in crackdown. lin said intnrrogators appointed lawyers and refused to Dujail, then torturnd by interrogators (())"(:nd him to strip and hung him from atlfmd eourt sossions Wednesday and who strung him by the hands and gave his li~ol. They boat him with hosns and Thursday. him elnetric shoeks. I le told tho court applied oleetrie shocks to his body, 
Abdnl-Hahman ordernd the remain-his sistnr was strippnd naked and bnat-including "sensitiv1~ parL'i." 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 3, 2006 


Ebersol 
continued from page 1 
his efforts to reenter the wreck­age to rescue Teddy, and being unable to find him. 
Teddy's body was not recov­ered until the next day, when n~scucrs lifted the plane to find that he had been ejected and stuck underneath the wreckage. 
Saint James said she was relieved her youngest son's body was intact. 
"That was a cool thing because Charlie knew he would have never ever found him Iunder the wrPckagel," she said to Winfrey. 
During the show, which was taped Jan. 11 at Ilarpo Studios in Chicago, the family was most notably moved when reflecting on its emotionally diflkult griev­ing proeess. 
"Susan gave everyone in our family this great 
release," Dick "Life is so powerful "It is so common Ebersol said. youjust keep on in America, espe­"She let us know cially for men, to
living.''

it is OK to cry, not experience their and that we grief and I think one weren't going to Susan Saint James of the things we be angry ... or Teddy Ebersol's mother wanted to show 
mad [about Teddy's death]." 
Saint James said while she was raised a Catholic and has faith, she was forced to redefine her beliefs after her son's death in order to come to terms with the accident. 
"Having resentment is like tak­ing poison and hoping the other person dies," Saint James said to Winfrey. "That is the motto I live by." 
"It's been one year and two months !since the acddentl. and we are all here and smiling," Willie Ebcrsol said to Winfrey. 
The Ebersols agreed the first part of recovering from the tragedy is aceeptance of the fact that Teddy is gone, and eontinu­ing to live life to the fullest. They said they were partieularly touehed after they diseovered Teddy's autobiography, in which he wrote, "The finish line is just the beginning of a whole new raee"-a motto the family lives by each day. 
"Every parent has that flash ... !that] this is so horrible. How do you get through it?" Saint James said. "You get up the next day, you brush your teeth, comb your hair ... Life is so pownrful you just keep on living." 
"One thing that is so amazing about your family is that you all love deeply," Winfrey said to the Ebersols. "You have thick love and aren't afraid to show it." 
Charlie Ebersol will also be featured in an upcoming episode of "The Oprah Winfrey Show" ­set to air sometime later this month -about an award-win­ning movie he co-produced dur­ing his junior year at Notre Dame. 
The documentary film, entitled "Ithuteng [never stop learning!," is about the lives of three stu­dents who attend an at-risk school in Soweto, South Africa. Winfrey donated $1.14 to the school after viewing the film ear­lier this year. 
Ebersol said he was inspired to make this lilm to share the life lessons he learned from the chil­dren at the school who said that pain and grief should not be hid­den, and people should share their feelings with others. 
was, 'Look, horrible 
things happen in 

your life, but you have to experience [them]."' he said. 
Ebersol said he was amazed at how comfortable Winfrey made him and his family feel while on the set. 
The Ebersols told Winfn~y they will never completely get over the death of Teddy, but his death has allowed them to look at life in a new way. 
Charlie Ebersol said since the family taped the show they received many letters from audi­ence members who had experi­enced a similar tragedy, and were able to view their grief in a new way after hearing the Ebersols' philosophies on unex­pected death. 
"I don't think we have any secret," Charlie Ebersol said. "Because of whatever circum­stances that we are in, we aren't any more qualified [than anyone else] to offer advice to other peo­ple ... it's like paying it forward." 
Mary Kate Malone contributed to this report. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
Held the NBA record for games r"t. When he 
..-tract 

SPORTS TRIVIA XL 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
8:00 PM TONIGHT ND STUDENTS ONLY 
SIGN UP AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK ORAT THE EVENT 
WINNER WILL RECEIVE A PAIR OF NCAA 1sf/2nd ROUND MEN•s HOOPS TOURNAMENT TICKETS 
PLUS TRAVEL MONEY 
THAI RESTAURANT 
We are looking forward to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's day. 
(Please make a reservation in advance if you plan to spend your romantic evening with us) 
Lunch: Mon-Fri 11 am-2pm Dinner. Mon-Sat 5pm-9pm 
211 N. Main Downtown South Bend 
l232-4445l 


THE OBSERVER 
hiday, lchn'"'Y 3, 2006 page 7





u sIN Es s 
---·~~--~=================================================================== 

Dow 

10,851.98 -101.97 
jones ('; 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volurr 988 2,613,703,610
140 ·~ 

AMEX I ,851.26 -4.23 NASDAQ 3,111.79 -30.29 NYSE ~UBH.OO -74.22 S&PSOO I ,270.X4 -11.62 
NIKK£1(Tokyo) 16,5R 1.71 -128J~4 FTSE IOO(London) 5, 7 4 7.30 -54.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -1.71 -0.72 41.43 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.62 -0.35 21.20 JDS UN/PHASE CP QDSU) -3.16 +0.10 3.06 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.28 -0.36 27.68 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) +0.22 +0.0 I 4.53 


I0-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 45.61 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 43.62 30-YEAR BOND -0.32 -0.15 46.95 5-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.04 45.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.88 64.68 GOLD ($rfroy oz.) +2.80 576.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.73 73.10 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.4250 EURO 
0.8265 POUND 
0.5619 CANADIAN$ 
1.1449 
IN BRIEF 
Bush to request bigger defense budget 
WASIIINCTON -President Bush next week will rPqunst a $4:{9.3 billion DPI'ensn l>t>partnwnt budgnt for 2007, a nmtrly 5 per­ct>nt irHTPase owr this year. aecording to sen­ior l'nntagon oflicials and documents obtainnd Thursday by The Associalnd l'rnss. 
Tlw spmHiing plan would indudn $1-14.2 bil­lion for weapons programs, a rwarly S pnrcnnt increasP. including billions of dollars for light­or jPls, Navy ships, lwlicoplnrs and unmannnd airrraf't. Tlw total ineludns a substantial incn~asn in weapons spending for the Army, whirh will gel $1 h.H billion in the 2007 budg­et, l'.ompan~d with $11 billion this ynar. 
Snnior dnf'nnse orticials provided the totals on rondition of anonymity beeausn the defensn hudgnt will not bn publicly rnl!lased until Monday. Thn ligures did not indude about $50 billion that Bush administration officials said Thursday tlwy would request as a down pay­mnnt for tlw wars in Iraq and Afghanistan in 2007. Thn administration said war costs for 200(J would total $120 billion. 

Senate works to maintain tax cuts 
WASIIIN<;T<lN -The Senatn pushed for­ward Thursday with $70 billion in tax cuts, orw stnp in an ell'ort that Hepubliean leaders hopn will presnrve Prnsident Bush's tax reduc­tions for capital gains and dividends. 
A day of wrangling betwenn Hepublicans and D«>moerats over wlwthf~r to debate a long list of politically hot topics showod senators rnady to jump into tho boxing ring this nlee­Lion year. Lawmakers grumbled as they worknd through formalities usually skipped by agreenwnt bntwnnn thn party leaders. 
"This is not a good sign of llw times," said S«>n. TrPnt Loll, H-Miss. 
Tlw 1~nntral feature of the tax bill. left over from last ynar's agenda, holds haek the alter­nativn minimum Lax, which thrnatnns millions of f'amiliPs with highnr taxes this ynar unless lawmaknrs stop its growth. 
Originally intPnded to prevent tho wealthy from erasing tlwir tax liabilities through dPdtwtions and en~dits, tlw altnrnative mini­mum tax nnrroac.lws furtlwr on t.hn middlo dass nach ynar. Inflation and reenntly pass1~d tax ntts havn f'unlnd its growth. 



Fiat looks to boost image, sales 
Major exposure expected to follow car-maker's sponsorship of Winter Olympics 
Associated Press 
HOME -No sooner had 
the 200(J Wintnr Games been 
awarded to Turin sevnn 
ynars ago than tlwy wnre 
nil'knamed the "Agnelli 
Olympics" -a sign of tlw 
inlluenco in and around the 
host eity of the family that 
wntrols Fiat. 
Now that tho Canws are just around the corner, Fiat SpA is coming oil' encourag­ing figures after years of declining fortunns. It will gain massive ~~xposurn dw·­ing thn Olympics thanks to a $41-1 million worth sponsor­ship dnal that analysts say may boost the eornpany's lackluster imagn. 
"What better occasion to brush up the Fiat brand than an intnrnational event taking plaen in the company's own hometown'?" said Franm Di Dio Magri, marknting prolils­sor at Home's La Sapionza University. "Fiat wants to projnet an image of a healthy company, capablo of knnping up with the limns." 

Just like Ddroit autornak­IWS Gnnnral Motors Corp., Ford Moto.r Co. and llaimlnrChrysler AG's ChrysiPr Group play a big roln in this wnekend's Super Bowl in the Motor City, Fiat has spared no oiTort in tho Feb I0-26 Gamos. It supplies vnhides for the gamos, spon­sors athlotes. hosts cultural who died in 2003. Lapo Elkann, grandson of $46.3 million ami a nnt profit evenl'i. But recPnt years tell a dif­Gianni Agnelli, was dis­f(Jr tlw full 2005 liJr thn first 
HaiTaello Porro, hoad of ferent story: a deep crisis missed from the hospital limn since 2000. Tlw quar­corporate communications that saw Fiat's auto unit lose after a little over a week, tnrly profit comparml with a of Fiat Auto, said "Fiat's more than $1 billion in 2002 and has been out of the spot­loss of $550 million in thn prosence is undnrlined by as its brand lost appeal light since. sanw quartnr a ynar narlinr. tho appoaling, positive val­across Europe, dnvnloping a This wonk, lwwnvnr, Fiat's The pnrlin-mancn, largnly ues that the brand wishes to reputation for poor quality turnaround strategy -dun to gains from assPt salns convoy." and f.rnquent n~pair. focused on the auto busi­and progress in thn auto 
Italy's biggest privat!J-sec­In October, the company ness, the sale of noncorn division, earrwd the mrnpa­tor employer, Fiat has bonn a suffered an embarrassing intnresl'i and developmm1t of ny cautious praise from symbol of post-World War II blow when the head of the research and innovation in industry analysl'>. Tlw dosP­reconstruction for decades: auto division's brand promo­an elli>rt to snag consumers Iy watched Fiat Auto unit gemwations of Italians have tion was rushed to the hospi­with m~w models -started postnd a I(JUrth-quartiW prof­ownnd its compact city ears tal from the apartment of a to pay oil'. it of $25JJ million, eomparPd and bmm fascinated by the transvestite, for what doc­In results released with a loss of' $1 HIJ.<J million jet-setting life of longtime tors said was a drug over­Monday, Fiat posted a in thn same quarter a year chairman Gianni Agnelli, dose. fourth-quarter profit of ago. 

Enron leaders lied for stock's sake 
Associated Press return to the witness stand Thursday · carnful rnaders of' analyst rnports on 
for more questions from prosecutors. the company. 
HOUSTON -Thn leadoff witness He eventually will face cross-exam­lin walked jurors through sfwnral for the government against two for­ination from lawyers for Lay and drafts of a .July 2000 press rnlease in mer Enron Corp. chiefs says the com­Skilling -who will almost certainly which quarterly earnings were rais1~d pany altered its narnings figures to go after Koenig for striking a plea from 32 cents per share to 34 cnnts plnase Wall Street and keep Enron deal with the government. becausn Enron executives wanted to stock -meticulously tracked by the A critical part of the defnnsn is sug­bnat Wall Strnet nstimatlls by 2 eents. two leaders-high. gesting that most of the 16 former Whill~ Koenig did not say Skilling or 
Mark Koenig, who was Enron's for­Enron executives who have pleaded Lay ordered a fraudulent change, hn mer top contact for investors, guilty were pressured to do so by said he discussnd tho .July 2000 stopped short of saying CEOs proseeutors -and therefore will say change with Skilling, tlwn thn eompa­Kenneth Lay and Jel'l'rey Skilling anything the government wants to ny's prnsidnnt, who had to approv1~ ordered the books to be cooked -hear. any changes to the linandal ligun~s. but he said both W!WH aware changes Koenig's testimony on Tuesday In anotlwr ease, in .January 2000, wern bning madn. appnarnd to contradict another pillar Enron ehangml its quartnrly narnings 
And Koenig said Skilling misled of thn defense -the claim that no from 30 eents pPr sharn to 31 el'nts analysts on confnrence calls about fraud occurred at Enron and that the aftnr analysts unnxpnctndly raisnd how Enron was recording revenue, company collapsed beeausn of a mar­their nstimatns to tlw higlwr l1wnl. all in a bid to makn the company's ket panic worsened by somn relative­Koenig said. critical broadband division appear to ly minor misdeeds by mnployBns, likn On Lhn morning of Jan. 19, 2000. be a monnymaknr when it made vir­ombezzlemnnt. Konnig said, Lay told him "lw wont to tually no money at all. lin portrayed both former CEOs as bnd and we wnrn :w cnnts. and wlwn 
"Wp thought it would maintain or intimately involved in the company's lw awokn. lw was watching orw of' increase the stock price," Koenig tns­operations, well aware of Enron's thn business stations, and lw saw til'ied Wednesday. Koenig was to stock priee on any given day, and that it was ;{ 1 rnnts." 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 3, 2006 
Battista Montini joined President Dwight D.
Link 
Eisenhower at Notre Dame's continued from page 1 commencement ceremonies to receive an honorary 
But the relationship degree from the University ­between Notre Dame and the and also happened to meet a Vatiean is less lopsided. lifelong confidante. 
The event marks Jenkins' "We spent three or four first big trip as University days just touring the campus Prnsident and a new era in and we became very good Notre Dame-Vatican rela­friends," Hesburgh said tions. Tuesday about the man who 
But the relationship in June 1963 would be elect­between the University and ed Pope Paul VI. "In future the Vatican doesn't only go years, every time I went to one way. It's also essential Home he asked me to lunch for Notre Dame to show the or dinner with him, and he Church what it has to offer, asked me about Catholic Campus Ministry Director higher education, which he Father Hichard Warner said was very interested in." Wed n nsd ay. A few years later, Paul VI's 
"It's important for us to be interest in universities and familiar with his trust for the Church Ilesburgh led the and for them "It's important for pope to ask the to know us ... Notre Dame presi­
us to be familiar 

it's mutual dent for an impor­
with the Church and

respeet," tant favor. The Warner said. for them to know pope decided it 
Trips like us. was time to revi­this, he said, talize the help the International Vatican "to Father Richard Warner Federation of see Notre director Catholic Dame as the Universities -an
Campus Ministry 

treasure it is organization for the Hesburgh called Church." "the only official representa­
While the connection tion of all of the Catholic uni­between Notre Dame and the versities in the world [to) the Vatican has been strong and Church" -and knew just the stabln for a long time, man to do it. Warner said there are two "Universities were not very periods in modern time that visible at that time, because define the relationship they were really not heard between Notre Dame and the very much in the Vatican," Vatican University Hesburgh said. President Emeritus Father But Paul VI believed they Theodore Hesburgh's person­should have a voice, and al relationship, and instructed 1-lesburgh and the University President Emeritus Federation to rewrite the Father Edward Malloy's insti­organization's constitution to tutional relationship. make universities more inde­
pendent. The Hesburgh years "[Rewriting the constitu­
It was a personal relation­tion) gave us much more ship that largely set the tone freedom of action," Hesburgh for the University's interac­said. "It was Notre Dame that tion with the Vatican during helped get [the Federation) the last few decades. brought back to life when it 
ln 1960, Cardinal Giovanni was rather dead ... [and) from that time on we've had a very helpful and fruitful relationship with the Vatican through that organization." 
The Malloy years 

Warner visited the Vatican with Malloy once a year for 15 years. They met with the late Pope John Paul II every other year. 
While Paul VI often invited Hesburgh to spend wenkends with him, "there was a need seen to also )have] an institu­tional relationship," Warner said. 
Establishing one involved four specific tasks, Warner said -paying regular visits to the Vatican, familiarizing Vatican offices with Notre Dame, awarding one hon­orary degree a year to a member of the Vatican and introducing the degree recipi­ent to Notre Dame students and faculty during Commencement Weekend. 
It's very important for Vatican officials "to get exposed to who we are in a day-to-day 
Malloy also visited the church where John Paul II was baptized and the late pope's home. 
During one of their visits to the Vatican, Malloy and Warner met the then­Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger, who they invited to speak at Notre Dame and receive an honorary degree. 
While Ratzinger declined the invitation, it mPant noth­ing negative about the cur­rent pope's regard of Notre Dame. 

"lfe was knowledgeable about the University of Notre Dame and committed to the Catholic Church's mission of higher education," Warner told The Observer in April 2005, calling the pope a "truly holy man" and a "man of depp faith." 
The Jenkins years 

It's a little early to say if the relationship between the world's most prominent Catholic university and the center of the Church will take 
a different turn 

w o r I d , " under Jenkins.
"Notre Dame is 
Warner said. But judging by this 
Malloy also creating the next week's trip and dealt with generation of administrative John Paul II statements
leaders in the
on matters of including Jenkins' higher educa­Church." own -it appears tion. He was the ties can only one of three grow stronger.
Francis Rooney Ill
U.S. educators "We're part of a
U.S. ambassador to
to serve on a 15-member  Holy See  common Jenkins  mission," told The  
commission to  Observer Tuesday.  
help  revise  the  papal  He referred to  "a sense of  

Apostolic Constitution, a draft mutual understanding" and document released by the "a common purpose," World Congress on Catholic explaining that the Church higher education in must be aware of Notre November 1989. Dame's importance in con­
He described several of his fronting the complex issues of experiences with John Paul II the time. to The Observer in March "I believe as we face the 2005. challenges of the 21st centu­
"I've been with him in his ry, a Catholic university like chapel in the Vatican a cou­Notre Dame is absolutely crit­ple of times, and that's a very ical," Jenkins said. "I think moving experience," Malloy those in the curia kind of see said. "He's clearly a man of that, and we need to work deep prayer." together so the Chureh can be enriched by Notre Dame's work and Notre Dame can be enriched by its connection to tlw universal Church." 
Francis Rooney Ill, tho U.S. ambassador to the lloly Sec who received an honorary degree from Notre Dame Wednesday, said that as the premiere Catholic institution in the United States, Notre Dame has an important lead­ership role to play. 
"Notre Dame is creating tlw next generation of leaders in the Church," Hooney told The Observer Wednesday. 
To give an example of Notre Dame's role, lw referred to director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies H. Scott Appleby's presence at a recent one-day seminar held by the U.S. Mission to the Holy SPe on the recent papal eneyelical on religious freedom, "Dign itatis Ilumanae." 
"Scott was fantastic," Hooney said. "Iln represented Notre Dame well and the Church well ... We love to engage Notre Dame in every possible opportunity." 
I-lesburgh als(J mentioned Notre Dame's prominence and said that uniqun role makes the relationship between Notre Dame and the Vatican so important. 
"If you look at the Naval Academy, or West Point, or the Air Force Academy, it's important that they have a relationship with the U.S. government because they're training officers for all three services," Hesburgh said. "And we are training and educating some of the most intelligent Catholics in America, and I'm assuming our graduates will have an impact on the future of the most powerful nation on earth. 
"So it's a good relationship and I'm sure this meeting in Home will benefit it." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Malloy reappointed to board of Notre Datne Australia 
Trustees of university praise ND president emeritus' contributions to Catholic education around the globe 
Special to The Observer 
University President Emnritus Father Edward Malloy has been reappointed to the board of governors of the University of Notre Dame Australia. 
In reappointing Malloy to the board through 2009, the trustees of Notre Dame Australia cited his numerous eontributions to the university and his support in carrying out its mission of Catholic educa­tion. 
Malloy and Catholic universi­ty leaders from Notre Dame and around the world were integral in initial research and studies before Notre Dame Australia was established in 1990. The University's enroll­ment has grown from 60 in 1992 to over 3,000 today. 
Malloy served from 1987 to 2005 as the 16th president of Notre Dame and led the University during a period of significant growth in resources, faculty and aeademie reputa­tion. He continues to teach a first-year undergraduate semi-· nar and lives on campus in a student residence hall as he did during his presidency. 
Malloy has been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1974. His sixth book, "Monk's Notre Dame," was published last fall. 
The University of Notre Dame Australia is the nation's first Catholic university and has campuses in three Australian cities. Although there are no legal or financial ties between the institutions, Notre Dame Australia was patterned after its U.S. namesake. 

Friday, February 3, 2006 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAME Saturday, February 4, 2006 TIMES FOR LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 6:00 I'M -4:00AM 
ADDITONAL TIMES WILL BE PROVIDED AT .Joyce Center 
Late 


THE END OF EACH ROUND. 631-61 ()() 
Night 

Be a Real Chanzpion-Support Special Olynzpics!!! All LNO Medals Donated by 
the Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Olympics 
$1.00 Donation Requested at the Door 



Keough/Welsh Family Sorin/Pangborn 
Volleyl>all ream A 1\:00 M~.~n·s Ra('(}U\~tba.ll CALL 1·6100 Volkyball ll:•amA 6:25 Men's Rcll'tJUt:thnll CAI.I..I·!tiCXl Team B 6:25 Wl·>me-n's R:.~cquethall CALL 1-61110 Team H 6:50 Wom\!'n·~ Rat.·qul.!tball NA Men•, l!uskcthull ·h·umA 6:00 Co·RCl' Bronmhall 9:00 Men's 13asl<elhall Team A 6:20 C'o-Rcc Broomhall 7:011 r~~am B 11:411 ·n~am H 7:00 Wnm~n\ Hu!-ikl'ttmll Team A 1>:15 Kkkbull I 1:10 \\'ome-n's Ha)o!kc-thall NA Kickball 12::10 ll:am B 6:30 Nerf Fnothnll 9:00 Wifll,·l"'ll X:t~ N<·rf FootiUill '1:011 WifJ!cball Team A 8:15 Temn B 8:30 THrgel Golf NA Monster DtJdgcb<:tll 12:\~) M<Htsler Dod~ehall 12:00 lnnc.!'rtuhc-\Vuler polo \):40 
lur~c:t (joJf Team A K:Jn lnncrtube Wnter Pnlo 8:00 Co-Re<.: Soc<·er TcnmA 6:55 LNO Ob,taclc Course 10:45 Tl·mn B 8:15 Team B 10:10 Tnbk Tennis. C.... l.l. 1..6((KI T!!antA 10:35 LNO Obstacle Course ·Team A 9:00 Kayaking 9:15 l)unce M:.~rathlm IO:(Xl Team B '1:211 Teamll 9:15 
Knynking Tl•umA 12:15 Tahle T~.~unis. CALL1·6100 11!'1111\ .B R:45 Dance Marnthon 'Team A· B I0:00 

O'Neill/Lyons Keenan/Farley /LeMans 
Volkybull 7:15 Ml·n·s Rac:qu~.~tball CALL 1..6100 Volleyball 6:50 Men's Ra<·qm•thall CALL 1·~100 Women's Rac4uetball CALL 1-6100 \Vomcn's Rr1cqud~all CALLI 6HXl Men·,. Bu>kctbnll ·li:nm A 7:00 Co·Rcc Br<Klmball 7:30 Men's Basketball Tl.!-arn A 6:40 Co-Ret• Broomhnll 12:15 
Team B 11:211 Team B 1'>:~0 Womrn'• Huskclball NA Kickball II :30 6:45 Kkkhall NA Ncr!· l·,.>thall R:40 Wirtleball Team A 9:30 Wifflehall M:45 
Team ll R:JO N<rf Football Team t\ 8:110 Mnn.ret· Dodgeball 12:00 Target Uolf 11.~m11A 8:45 Mon~ter Dodgebull }}.:(XI Team B 1():2(1 Jnm.•rtutn.· \Vall~r Pnlo NA Team .B 8:.10 lnnertuhe Watl!r Pol'' TeamA 9:15 'lhrget Golf NA LNO Ob,tacle Course ·~eam A 9:30 
l \ l· Ret.: S<x.·ccr TenmA 12:15 Team B R:50 Co-Rc-c Soccer ream A 10:10 Team B 11:00 Tt~um B 6:55 LNO Obstadt• Course TemnA 10:15 Team B 6:.10 ·ntbk Tennis CALL Hll(HI kamA 11:15 Team B 9:45 Kayaking NA Di.l.lh.'e Maralh~m NA Team B 9:45 'lithle Tennis CALL1-61()(l 
DauL'C Marathon lfi:OO 

Dillon/Walsh Morrissey/B.P. 
-"rcmnA 6:00 Men\ Racqucrball CALL 1·61 00 Volleyball Team A 6:00 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6HX.I 1\.~am B 6:25 'women's Racquetball CALL 1:6100 ·~earn H 6:25 Women's Racquet hall Nt\ lt>amA 7:.m Cn-Rec lln>omball '1:(10 Men's Bnskethnll "Ib.tm A 7:(10 Co· Rec Hnxmthall M:ml 
TenmB 8:15 Team B 6:00 'Team A 7:00 Kickball 10:50 Women·, Basketball NA Kick bull 11:10 l'eam B 1\:15 Wifflehall Jt:am A 7:45 Tl"umA 8:20 Wiftkhall Tl"nmA 9:15 Nerf Ft.>otbnll 7:00 Teum R Y:OO Team B 7:·l0 Team B 8:45 Mvnslcr Dodgeball 12:00 
Monster l><xlgeball 12:00 lnnertuhe \\'atc:r Poh.l 11:15 Tar!!et Gnll l<nmA 8:00 lnne11ube Water Polo NA Tnrge1 Golf NA I.NO Ohstucle Cou"e 11:15 Team R 9:30 Co· Re<: St1Ccer ·n':nm ,\ 7:20 Co--Rec Soccer TeumA 9:20 !.NO Obstacle Course Team A 10:00 Team R 11:25 'Table Tennis CAI.l.l-6100 Ji.~um B 7:20 'Team ll 9:15 Kayaking lfi:J(l Knyuk.ing R:JO Tubll' Tennis CAIJ.1 ..6100 Dance Mamthon NA 

Alumni/Lewis Carroll/Zahm/McG linn 
Volleyball NA Men's Racquetball CALL 1-61(10 Volley bull 6:50 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 NA Wt>men':i RacqtK~thall CALL1·6100 \\-"omen's Rat.:qm·lhall CALL 1·1\HXI ~f<n'• Rn.>kelhull l'eam A 7:.10 (\>-Rec Broombull 7:\KJ Men's Basloetball Team A 8:00 Co-Re<.' Broom hall 9:30 Teamll 6:20 Team B 7:15 Wt>men '.• Ba~tkelball NA Ki<:kball NA l<mnA 6:30 Kkkball II :50 Wifflehall 7:30 T'~~tnl B 6:30 Wifneball 7:15 Ncrf hK>Ihnll Team A M:40 Monster Dodg~ball 12:00 Nerf football Team A 7:20 ·Tenm B '1:20 Tnumube Water Polo NA Team B 9:20 Monster Dodgeball t2:(Kl Targ,•f Oulf NA Target Golf NA lnJH~rlube Water Polo R:50 LNO Obstacle Course NA LNO Obstacle C.lUrse IO:JO Co--Ree Stx:cer 8:05 Tc-~tmA 9:45 ·ntble Tennis CALL 1-6100 Team B 11:50 Knynking Team A 10:15 Dnncc-Marathon NA Kayaking TcumA 9:00 T<lble-Tcnnb CALL 1·6t0\l T\!nm B II:(~'! TcamB 12:00 Dunce Marath~lfl tO:!Xl 

Knott/Pasquerilla East Stanford/Badin 
Volkyball NA M~... n·s Ra<:quetball CALL 1..(>100 Volleyball ~:50 Mt•n\; Ra<·qut·thall CALL I <iiiXl NA Women's RaCt.l'lctball CALL l·(tiOO Wom~n 's Rac4u~thall CALl.l-6100 NA Co-Ree Br<xlmhall 7:30 Men's Basketball Team A 7:\M) Co-Ree Br<x>mhall 8:3() NA 'lt>arn B 6:(K) 
Wnmen'!i Bu.skrthall 6:15 Ki<:khall 12:50 NA Kkkbull 12:10 Nerf f·oothull 8:20 Wifflebnll NA Wiffteball 7: I~ Monster !),xlgeball 12:00 Nerf Football 'lt>arn A H:CXl M""""' D<xlgehall 12:!XI Tar~et Golf 8:45 lnth.'I1UI>c.· Wuter Plll<> 10:.10 ll:mn B 9:40 lnnettlll>t' Wutcr Polo NA LNO Obsiacle (\lllrs< 10:30 Target G<>lf 9:\MJ LNO Obstuclf! Cours~ 10:45 Co-Ree Son:(r 9:45 Tnhle Tennis CALL 1·6100 Co-R« Soccer NA TabkTennis CALL 1-6100 Dane~ Marattuln 10:011 Dun...·e Maralht,n NA Kuyukin~ Kayaking NA 

Fisher/Howard St.Edward's/Cavanaugh 
Volley hull 6:!X.l Mon's Ra<:quethall CALL 1..(>100 Volkyball To"mA 6:25 Ml'n 's R;u:quctball CALL 1-lllCXl Women's Racquerbull CALL 1-610() Team B 6:fXl Women's Ruc<tuetball CALL 1-6)()0 Men'• fluskctball l<nm A 6:40 Co-Ree Broomhall 9:30 Men's Basketball 6:00 Co-Re<.' Br<x>ml>ull 8:30 Team R 7:45 Kickhltll 11:30 Women'·" Buskerbull NA Vlomen's Ba~kethall 6:15 Kkkbull NA Wifftebnll 8:00 Witll<ball 8:00 Ncrf F.-J!hllll NA Monster D<xlgehall 12:00 Netf hx>tball NA Monster Dtxlgehall NA 
lnne11ul"~ Water Polo 8:25 lnoertul><· Wnter Polo 10:05 Target Golf <1:15 Target G<>lf NA LNO Obstuek Course 9:30 (:n-Re"c So('<.:t.•r NA LNO Obstacle Course 9:45 Co-R« Soccer NA 
lithle Tennis CAIII ..(JIIIO Kuyukin~ NA Table Tenni~ CALL 1-6100 Kuyaking NA Dance Marnthnn 10:(~) Dance Mamthon 10:00 

Siegfried/Pasquerilla W. MBA Association 
Vullcyhnll TcmnA 1>:50 Men'~ RacquetbniJ CALL 1·6100 Volleyball Team A 7:15 Men's Rac4uetball CALL l-6ltXl knmH 6:00 Wt.lmcn's Ra..:quctball CALLI-6100 Tcamll 6:25 \\-'omen's Racquetball CALl. J.(ti(Xl TcumA h:20 Co·Rcc llroomball 8:00 Men's Baskelball Team A 7:15 Co· Rec Broom ball 12:45 Tl't~mB 7:15 Team B 8:00 
Women·, Hn,kellmll lOam A 6:45 Kickball 11:50 Women's Basketball 7:00 Kickball )():51) TcamB 1>:.10 Wiflkball 7:.\0 Willlehull Team A 7:45 'I':nmA 10:00 Mnn~tcr Dodgcbult 12:011 Ncr!' Fnotbnll Team A 7:00 lcum B 'I:(HI Team B 7:20 Team ll 7:~0 Mnnsler Do.l~ehall 12:00 
Inrgct Ool f K:OO lnnl!rtubl! Wmer Pulo 8:25 Target Oolf 8:15 lnnertuhc Water Polo X:!Xl Co-Ree.: S(\Cf..'cr Tl'umA 6:30 l.NO Ohstudc Cuuf><c Team A lt:OO Team B 10:35 LNO Obstacle Cou"'c 10:00 Co-Re~: Suc~:er Team A &:05 T,•nrn B 10:15 Kuyn~in}:: Team A '1:30 'lithk Tennis CALL1-61()(l 'Team H II :00 li1hlc 'lenni\ CAI.L 1·61!Xl lonm B II :Jll I>m1ce Maratho11 'TomnA-C' 10:00 Knynking 10:lXl Dune!."' Murlhtm ToamA-13 IO:t~l 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Friday, February 3, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Rome trip brings clarity
Tb~ bJtkpetJdnrt, Do.ily NttWspapn-Serving Notre Dame tmd Saint Mttry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

It was a lasting image, one that will endure throughout Arguments can be made that Notre Dame's Catholic char­
EDITOR IN <3HIEF 

University President rather John Jenkins' tenure at the helm acter is evolving, for better or for worse. But it is not erod­Claire Heininger of Notre Dame. !lands clasped with Pope Benedict XVI in ing, and those who claim it is should instead take the pope at MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER front of the Vatican auditorium Wednesday, surrounded by his word. Pat Leonard Paula Garcia the historic backdrop of Home, Jenkins accepted a welcome Notre Dame's institutional link with the Vatican--nurtured compliment from the lloly Father on behalf of the University over the decades by personal and professional relationships 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
community. between presidents, popes and those close to both --dates to 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
"A great Catholic university," the pope called Notre Dame. the University's founding in 1842. That link informs the 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
Coming at what many inside and outside the University's present goals, as Jenkins reaf­University have called a critical juncture for OTh firmed when he said Notre Dame and the 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon oserver
Notre Dame's identity--Jenkins' impending Church share "a eommon purpose" and "a 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 

decision on the balance between academic free­common mission" as both advance in the 21st 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 

dom and Catholic character --the 30-second century. And while trustees flooding St. Peter's
Editorial 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

encounter between the first-year pope and Square and Jenkins kissing Benedict's ring GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch first-year president was not merely symbolic. It aren't necessary steps to maintain that rela­ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri was a reminder, amidst exaggerated rhetoric to the contrary, tionship, such gestures certainly enrich and renew it. AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning that the University's core Catholicism is nowhere near at Staying on the Vatican's radar as the premiere Catholic CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara risk. university in the world is important to Notre Dame, and the 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian AirharT Since 2001, Notre Dame entertained the idea of arranging trustees' and offieers' pilgrimage this week helped accom­for its Board of Trustees to hold one of its triannual meetings plish that goal. in Home. With both the Vatican and University administra­Now, Jenkins and his circle return to campus, spiritually
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 

(574) 
631-7471 tions changing hands within the past year, this winter was enriched and likely with a renewed sense of purpose. Their fAX Notre Dame's choice-and, intentional or not, the trip's tim­pilgrimage wasn't cheap. But the moments of clarity it 

(574) 
631-6927 ing on the heels of Jenkins' addresses revealed plenty about brought will be invaluable to the ongoing debate about the 


ADVERTISING 

where the University stands. destiny of Notre Dame. 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4'54 J obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 

Cheering Bettis onward to victory 
BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-53 I 3 NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu Notre Dame enthusiasts can attest the Supnr Bowl players to savor their bad Karma brought you?" VIEWPOINT DESK to the almost spiritual draw that foot­seldom attained moment. John Elway Notre Dame strives to teaeh the 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 

ball generally has on its fans. describes both football and life as a virtues of service and instill traits for 
SPORTS DESK 

Partisans range from the ridiculous ehallenge, having lost many times its students to master life's lessons. 
(574) 631-4543 sports. J@nd.edu 

who reeite every statistic from every until he eventually won baek-to-back For the Steelers team to wear Bettis'
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu game ever played 
Super Bowls before retiring. Dan green Notre Dame number 6 jersey to 
SAINT MARY'S DESK by their favorite Marino, the Miami quarterback who Detroit speaks volumes of their smc.1 @nd.edu teams to those who played his only Super Bowl game in a respect, love and admiration of him. 
PHOTO DESK 

merely climb losing cause during his second sea­His selfless giving, his cheery outlook 
(57 4) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 

aboard the team son, mistakenly expected to return and his positive support of others are
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

bandwagon during and warns players to leave no regrets the attributes that have solidified the
(574) 631-8839 

championship during their play and to relish team in preparation for Super Bowl games. Oftentimes Sunday's game. Even Steelers head XL. Those qualities in a uniquely a team will con­coach Bill Cowher reflects on how dif­humble national celebrity like Bettis
OBSERVER ONLINE quer a champi­Gary fieult it has been to return from a can powerfully influence others. 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 

onship only when Caruso decade ago. The Steelers' sense of purpose, POLICIES fortune smiles Bettis shows us how to freeze time sense of mission and dedication to 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper through a twist of Capitol to savor a preeious moment. His char­award Bettis a championship ring in published in print and online by the students of rhe luck. Seldom, Comments acter teaches youth how to success­his hometown exemplifies their desire University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's though, do the fully play sports on the field and how to respond to his humility. Hard work 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
stars align in such to be sportsmanlike in life. His out­mixed with a touch of fate can reward 
nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
storybook fashion on a specific player look is trademarked with a daily anyone. We should not need celebri­
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
like they have this year on Jerome smile while he offers himself to oth­ties for inspiration to absorb the
advertisements based on comem. 
Bettis. I will experience the rare ers. Watching him after an almost essence of life although those role
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of opportunity to share the pinnacle of a disastrous fumble at the Indianapolis models are never a bad reminder for rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 12-month trek the Pittsburgh Steelers Colts' one yard line perfectly exempli­us to learn how to better treasure· our Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. are traveling which, in various ways, fies the fiber of his being. Rather than existence. The secret for us is to learn 
Commentaries, letters aod columns present the views holds several lessons of life. sulk, mope or kick a water cooler in how to make each phase of our lives a of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe This column infrequently ventures disgust, Bettis sensed the irony of the Super Bowl moment. Observer. 
into the realm of athletics, but with moment by shaking his head and Jerome Bettis is embraeing this 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

my suburban Pittsburgh upbringing smiling an "I don't believe I did it" championship week with all the gusto
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
and a Notre Dame undergraduate expression. he can muster, and I am latching on
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
degree in hand, Detroit beckons me to Having grasped a share of Bettis' for a ride. Graduating from Notre
contact information. 
personally cheer Bettis to Super Bowl final Notre Dame game at the Sugar Dame ends a premier experience Qrmtions regarding Observerpolicies should be victory. I am lured to witness his final Bowl, I now clutch onto this moment reserved only for youth. Grab your directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. game, the ultimate stage of football with my first Super Bowl visit. I moment and squeeze out all of the which has eluded Bettis for 13 years. expect him to dismantle Seattle in the marrow it contains, for the Super After following the Steelers all sea­way I witnessed him dismember the Bowl you next experience will be your
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

son, I conclude that Seattle cannot Florida defense. In the second half, own. 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during cXllm illld vacation periods. A suh!iCriprinn w The Ob~ervcr ~~ $1 Oil for one academic 
evenly match with Pittsburgh. The Bettis burst for a touchdown run 
yw; $'55 for one semcsrer. 

Steelers size, style of "smash mouth" where in the end zone a Florida fan Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a physical play and level of competition threw a cup of beer at him. That act political strategist who served as a 
The Observer .is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send addrCS!i corrections ro: by defeating the top three AFC teams defined the shortcomings and small legislative and public affairs director 
N(ltrc O;~.me. IN 46556..()779 The Observer 

on the road will net 27 to 34 points essence of the fan. in President Bill Clinton's administra­
PcriodiCJ.l posu.ge paid at Nurre Dame r.o. Bu, 779 

.and o~ddiriun.tl mailing oflkcs. 024 Sourh Llh1ing Hall versus Seattle's 17 to 24 points. Bettis In the final moments of the game, tion. His column appears every other 
Nmrc: Dame, IN 46556-on9 

will win his coveted ehampionship Bettis blasted for another touchdown Friday. He can be contacted at ring. run of about thirty yards. Upon hottline@aol. com Just as Bettis can teach us to cher­arrival in the end zone, he held up The views expressed in this column
The Oh~ver i.!t A mcliJbcr uf the Nsodated PrOli. All rcprodul'tion rights arc 
rcscrvctl. ish our opportunities in life, many of the ball to the beer-throwing Florida are those of the author and not the game's legendary greats advise fan as though to say, "See what your necessarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Karen Langley Dan Murphy 
What do vou think of the Board of
Joe Piarulli Fran Tolan 

Trustees meeting in Rome'/ 
:SubmitaLetter
Viewpoint Scene 

"Laughter gives us distance. It
a.li's had timing alter Father Jenkins' 
allows us to step back from an event,
Joey King Chris McGrady academic freedom address 
deal with it and then move on."

h. It's awaste of money
Graphics Tae Andrews 

'· It's good for Notre Dame to strengthen 
'tothe Editorat
Matt Hudson Bob Newhart 
connection to the Vatican 
comedian and actor

d. Ididn't know they were going 
www.ndsmcobserver.com
c. Other .. 
*Pnll appeal\ courtesy of www.ndsmcnhservcr.cum and is hased on 610 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, February 3, 2006 page II 
\) . ACADEMIC FREEDOM (',(CATHOLIC CHARACTER 
/ . 

Interrogating the Jenkins litmus test 
l.ast wnnk, University President Father .John .lnnkins did something we rarely see in thnse days of' inernasing secularization: hn took a stand for Catholie identity. Yet, whiln many of us applaud this move and his opmmnss, I have to 
Peter

wondnr why hn ehose 
Quaranto

the "Vahrina 
Monologuns" and Queer 
Guest

Film Festival on which 
Columnist

to fiH~us his hold evalua­tive lens. Why kiek oil' this Catholie campaign by serutinizing two contentious student pnrformanees that pro­vide spam fi>r groups too olton rnarhrinal­iznd at our university: women and homo­sexuals'? Hather than fiwusing strietly on tlw "pdvk" issues, Jenkins could have cho­sen any number of less contentious campus issues that provide unambiguous test eases li>r his framework. 
One such issue of immediacy would have bntm thn Winb1r Carner and Internship htir, whkh included a number of(im)moral gianL'>, including Lockheed Martin and Hayth11on, two companies well known li.>r 
their weapons systems around the world. Is the presence of these companies annually at camer fitirs on campus an affront to our Catholic identity'? The U.S. Catholic Bishops wrote in "The Challenge of Peace" in 1983, "The whole world must summon the moral courage and technical means to say 'no' to nuchmr conflict; 'no' to weapons of mass destruction; 'no' to an arms raee which robs the poor and the vulnerable; and 'no' to the moral danger of a nuclear age which places before humankind indefensible ehoices of eonstant terror or surrender." Yet, even with this clear teaehing, Notre Dame has laeked the eourage to say no. 
Another issue that Jenkins eould have applied is the laek of a living wage for workers on campus, forcing many to work two or three jobs to support their families. To date, Jenkins has refused to commit to the principle of a living wage or meet with workers. Yet, th11 Catholic Church's teach­ing is quitf1 clear as put by Pope John XXIII in "Pacem in Terris." The pope writes, "Furthermore, the worker has a right to a wage determined aecording to eriterions of justiee, and suffieient, therefore, in propor­tion to the available resources, to give workers and their families a standard of living in keeping with the dignity of the human person.'; Why does Jenkins remain silent on this issue where Notre Dame's current position is so obviously at odds with certain fundamental Catholic values? 
A third and final example of an issue that Jenkins could have tackled in his speech is that of diversity. When he took otlice in 1987, Father Edward Malloy said the pro­motion of diversity was a priority. This commitment is aflirmed through Catholic teaehing on the common good. The pas­toral document, "Gaudium et Spes," pro­claims, "Every social group must take aecount of the needs and legitimate aspira­tions of other groups, and even of the gem­era! welfare of the entire human family." Jenkins has not only avoided this topic, but some of his actions seem to have undercut diversity on campus. His initiative and vote in the firing of then-coach Tyrone Willingham, Notre Dame's frrst ever black football coach, brought the suspicious ter­mination of a coach before his first eontract expired. Further, sponsorship of the infa­mous "Higher Education" eornrnerdal broadeast during televised fi.>otball gamns last year did little to promotn a spirit of welcome and diversity. 
llowever, instnad of speaking to thnsn moral issues that get more to the heart of our weaknesses, Father Jenkins ehose last week to investigate two student pnrform­ances that claim to provide space lilf mar­ginalized htroups on campus. This is l:er­tainly his prerogative, but I question his lit­mus test for Catholic charaeter and whether it will be applied to all relevant issues. I certainly hope he will be morn eonsistent, for if not, Notre Damn will stand not as a prophet in our times, but <L'> a por­trait of modern hypocrisy. 
Peter Quaranta is a senior international peace studies and politics major. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
'Monologues' or Dialogue: another perspective 
I would likn to pond11r a numbnr of issues rele­vant to tlw recent prnsidential address, "Academic Frnndom and Catholie Charaetnr." These arn the topies c>I' (1) doctrinal pluralism at a Catholic University. (2) the spncial status of' various per­fi>rrning and visual arL'i (stagnd 
Ed

plays, film. art shows and the 
Manier

likn), topics which I discussnd 
WPdnnsday. The presidfmt of 
Guest

tlw Uniwrsity also discussed (3) 
ColumnL.;;t

tlw ar.admnk frond om of stu­dnnt'i, but I fimnulatn a rmL'ion­abiP alternative to curmnt and prospective policy in that arPa. <L'> I discussed Thursday. A'i a llnivt1rsity community w11 must also hrive more attnntion to {4) critnria li1r fitir proendurns of dis­putp rnsolution and adjudication, as well <L'> the acmuntability rnquirml if exPcutivn power is not to bP absolutn, whkh I go into today. 
4) l'rocndural guarantees or fairness and acmuntability. It is hard to describe Notre Dame's history in this crucial sector <L'> better than "poor" in il'i h'tmrantPes of f'airn11ss in the resolution of' dis­putml disdplinary dndsions whiln procndurns ensuring the accountability of' it'> lnading ex11eutives and iL'i Board of'Trustens have bmm "abysmal." Thn Board is dearly "aceountable only to <;od." 
.llmkins' prnsidential address laid the issue of 11xncutivn privilnge squarely on thn table by it'> insistnnce on the prerogatives of prnsidnntiallnad­ership to proceed unilaterally in the faen of an opposnd majority and even when lhdng an opposnd fitculty eonsensu·s. An academy governed hy principles of' politieallibPralism need not ham­string it'> executive by rnquiring that a president ad only at thn dimction of a faculty consfmsus or a majority, although it is genPrally undorstood that frPndom of executive action will be exerdsed less !L'> fitculty grow in professional comp11tonce and responsibility. llownver courageous Jenkins' dnda­ration of prnsidential privilngP may have bnen, it is a little strangn to hear it praised fhr iL<> vigor in 2006, whnn so many rnsolutions so strongly sup­portnd by the Faculty Senate-inclusion ol' sexual orim1tation in the University's non-discrimination dausns, nntranee into thn Big Ten-have been llatly rejeetnd, without discussion or explanation, by Notre Dmne's executive, iL'> Board ol' fellows, and iL'i Board ofTrustPes. 
.lust what can and should be done to insure prnsidtmtial accountability to the faculty and the studmJL'i of a major Catholic research University mntaining, as it were, a relatively small Catholic libPral art<; college? What must be done in the nxtrnme ea'ins where a president sees himself or herself as an embattled defender of the reli!,rious 
identity of the institution'? 
The widest possible consultation, ex{lctly of the sort welcomed by Jenkins' presidential address, although not fully realized in the processes leading up to his addrnss, is surely one essential step toward presidential aeeountability. But what of those, hopefully rare, dreumstances, e.g., in mat­ters having to do with protection of the civil liber­ties of homosexuals and alliliation with a strong academic consortium, in which the president finds that his duty lies in acting in opposition to a majori­ty of, or a wide consensus among the faeulty'? In a word, in such circumstances the president owes the rest of the eommunity an explanation of his actions. We all meognize the humor in the punch Linn "'Shut up!', he explained." And corresponding­ly wn know that the cogency of executive explana­tions must be su~jeetod to continuing scrutiny and criticism, and that some sPrious efforts must bn made on both sides to rnduce the gap between leader and led through mutually respeetful and intellignnt dialogue. 
In other words, tim sort of' collegial process in which the presidnnt, far.ulty and student'> of this University are currently engaged, must beeome a continuing part of ordinary Life at Notre Dame. Hopefully, such dialogue will not, in the future, be as sterile and impotent in the transformation of the status quo as it has been in the past. 
In conclusion, I am suggesting that the unques­tioned doctrinal pluralism -in research, teaching and publication-evidently and steadily growing at Notre Dame for the past four decades has not been matched by any comparable development of proendures Pnsuring truly collegial participation ­by an ever more highly qualified faculty and excel­lent study body-in the governanee of th11 University. The absenee of procedural guarantees of fairness in disciplinary hearings concerning stu­dent<> and faculty has caused unnecessary suffer­ing, a<> ha'i this same defidt in procedures granting reeognition to student organizations. Finally, the members of this University must fmd ways to hold it<> top executives and its Board of Trustees accountable for measures which enhance Notre Dame's religious identity by restricting the range of responsible activity rather than by exercising the many positive, constructive strategies available for that purpose . 
Ed Manier is a professor in thf! department of philosophy. He can be contacted at amanier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Protecting freedoms 
The Foundation for Individual Rights in Edueation i'i an ind11pnndnnt organization dedicated to preserving free speech on the campuses of America's institutions of highor learning. FIRE analyzes the speech codes of many American universities and rates them on a scale of "hrrenn," "yel­low" or "red," indicating the extent to which student exprnssion i'i enn­sored or controlled on campus. Aeeording tho FIRE's Web site, Notrn Dame i<> rated "red"-indicating that Notre I>mne h!L'i "at lmL'>t one policy that both dearly and substantially restricts freedom ofspem:h" ofiL'i stu­dents. 
I lowever, Notre Dame is a private institution. It is not bound by any legal responsibility to respect the right to lrec speeeh of iL'i students. For all intents and purposes, we, the students of Notre Dmne, have no "right" to free expression. The situation the administration faces is porilous; tlw decisions to be made will not be oa<;y, and we can at least respect tlw <lifli­culty inherent in these drcumstanees. 
The students are, however, the trun re<L'ion this University exist'>. We are not merely consumers: indeed, wn pay tuition in exchange filr a product, but there i<> a deeper conneetion implied in being a Notre Dame studnnt. We are a family. 
Father John Jenkins has shown himself to bn a man of principh1, and the students of Notre Dame should bn thank!'ul that he IHL'i brought tlw ()uoor Film Festival and the "Vagina Monologuos" out of tho Viowpoint soetion of The Observer. Consideration of the issues these evenl'> addmss is now in the forefront. He has stated that he will listen, and we belinve him. 
Jenkins and the University administration must rneognize tlmt a rating of"red" from FIRE is unacceputble. A'l studfmt<>. wn all havn a significant stake in the produet this University oilers. To limit tim possibility of what a Notre Dame student may lem·n does diserndit to the mission of nducation, and the perception that Notre Dame "dearly and subsumtially rnstri1:L'i freedom of speech" cheapens the nducation fi>r whieh we all havelabornd -and paid-so extensivnly. Our hard work and commitmnnt to our own education should be rewarded witl1 respect lor thn educational rigor and integrity that the Notre Dame namn rnprnsenL'l. Whethnr we aro Catholic or atheist, conservative or libnrtarian, gay or straight, Wl1 have all eome here to learn, and htrow, but also hnlp the University htrow. 
Therefore, we respeetfully m;k Jenkins, tho faculty, the sutfl' and all stu­dent'> of Our Lady to strive li.>r sometl1ing more. Hnstrieting or ennsoring student expression is not a step towards !,trowth, and will only lnad towards further loss of student freedom. Preserving the University's Catholie tradition is not incompatible with allowing free expression; indeed, to quote the University's rni'ision stab1m1mt: 'TI'Ihe University insist<> upon aeademie freedom which makes open di'icussion and inquiry possible. Notre Dame's charaeter as a Catholic acadmnir. community pre­supposes that no genuine search for the truth in the human or tlw eosmk order is alien to the life of faith. The Univnrsity wekomes all arn<L'> of' seholarly activity as consonant with iL'> mission. subject to appropriatn crit­ica.l refinement." 
Protecting the freedoms that are integral to thl1 mission or all lldLH:ation, Catholie or secular, should bn parmnount fbr thn administration and lhr all members of this University. A<> Thomas Paine wrote: "lie that would makn his own liberty secure must guard even hi'i enemy from opprnssion; fi>r if' he violates this duty, he establishes a prm:ndent that will reach to himsdf'." We must guard the frendoms of our fellow student<>. Wn Cltnnot lot voiees be silenced, and we must sumd together. 
College Libertarians ofNotre Dame feb. I 

THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Friday, February 3, 2006 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'L'Ecole' takes vielVers to school 

By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Writer 
Can the work of a man nearly 400 years sen­ior to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students prove entertaining in this modern age? The Notre Dame Romance Languages department firmly argues "oui!" with the latest of their annual French performances, Moliere's 'TEcole des Femmes." 
The funny, satirical play describes the mishaps of Arnolphe, a shrewd and wealthy Frenchman who, in contrast to Moliere's other works, is far more intelligent than his servants Georgette and Helene. Arnolphe has spent the last decade rais­ing a young girl, Agnes, to someday love him with blind faithfulness as his future bride. 
L'Ecole des Femmes
Unfortunately for point. He fought like hell Arnolphe, when Agnes to defend his theatre and
Where: DPAC Browning Cinema 
comes of age she does fall himself against attacks of
When: Friday at 7:30 p.m.
in love -with Horace, the immorality and obscenity
Saturday at 7:30 p.m.
dashing young son of for 'L'Ecole des femmes.'" 
Sunday at 2:30 p.m.
Oronte, Arnolph's dearest Senior Mary Twetten,
Tickets: $8,$7 faculty/staff,
friend. What results is a who plays young Agnes,
$6 seniors, and $5 all students witty look at love and life, with a dash of zany come­dy thrown in. 
"Chaos ensues, but, like all Moliere plays, all's well that ends well," says Notre Dame senior Anne Macrander, who plays Georgette. 
Professor Paul McDowell, who plays Oronte, has orchestrated the performance of French plays at Notre Dame in conjunction with his "French Theater Production" class since 1991. Since that time the works performed change annually, as last year's production was Moliere's llnal work, "Les Fourberies de Scapin." 
What's interesting about the performance is that in a university, community and nation whose most prominent language is English, the work is to be firmly and deftly acted out in its original French. To McDowell and his students, this is one of the show's best features. 
"Maybe the biggest "effect" [of keeping the original language] that our production has is that spectators have a unique opportunity to appreciate the genius of Moliere in French," he says. 
To the cast, it is Moliere's universal meaning behind the words that can attract both speakers of French and their counterparts. 
"Our whole task here in acting, as I see it, is to become the kind of people who would use lan­guage in this way, such that it is no longer so much the words themselves but the effects they work on us before our audience that allows us to work the effect on them. It's a beautiful thing," said senior Danny Kettinger, who plays Arnolphe, or "Monsieur de Ia Souche." 
In the climate of debate over topics such as academic freedom and free speech that has been so pervasive of late, it is ironic that a cen­turies-old work such as "L'Ecole des Femmes" would prove to be topical. In fact, McDowell sees the context of the work as somewhat famil­iar. 
"This play touched a raw nerve among Moliere's enemies in France at the time," McDowell says. "Moliere was not lacking for enemies: in the Church, among his rivals, doc­tors, lawyers, and in certain elite circles, all of whom were objects of Moliere's satire at some 
agrees that the play is 
continually relevant, espe­
cially in today's environ­ment. To Twetten, the themes of Agnes' story­line, of her independence and freedom from an abusive relationship through love, prove both modern and, interestingly, Catholic. 
"I think this play is extremely relevant to today's society and to our situation at Notre Dame, as a positive and Catholic way to coun­teract the terrible abuse and stereotyping of women that still exists today," Twetten says. 
"I think it's really great that we're able to per­form this play at this point in time, with all this discussion about the role of art and its power to address the problems of abuse (particularly of women) that has arisen from Father Jenkins' addresses." 
Ultimately, it is a strong testament to the power of Moliere's works that the play has sur­vived to be performed by McDowell's students today. 
"Even after 350 years, love stories never get old," Macrander says. "Plus, Arnolphe gets beat­en with baguettes. Everyone loves baguettes." 
There are performances at DPAC Friday and Saturday at 7:30p.m. and Sunday at 2:30p.m. 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
ali pari @nd.edu 


Pi[mje~ 
}Isian tlirougli a 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistant Scene Editor 

The University of Notre Dame will be hosting the annual Asian Film Festival this weekend, the biggest cul­tural phenomenon to hit the United States since Yao Ming. Organized by Susan Bloom, the Director of the Center for Asian Studies, and Aaron Magnan-Park, a professor in the Film, Television and Theater department, the festival will highlight Asian cul­tures revolving around the silver screen. 
"The Asian Film Festival was started several years ago independent of the FTT Department, as the courses that taught Asian cinema were not FTT," says Professor Aaron Magnan-Park. "Since then, the Festival has become interdisciplinary and includes FTT as well as East Asian Languages and Literature (EALL)." 
The Festival is intended to highlight the diversity and importance of Asian cinema in a global context, as the rise in prestige and awareness of the con­tinent's films rose dramatically in the second half of the twentieth century. 
"The United States as a country, and Notre Dame in particular, has far stronger ties to Europe and the Americas than to Asia," said Magnan­Park. ''I'm not sure why that is, but I think something like the Asian Film Festival would bring a heightened awareness to Asia and would help remove some of the mystery." 
The festival will feature four films, all presented in 35 mm prints: 
+ 
"The Terrorist" (1999, directed by Santash Sivan), an Indian film about a political assassination 

+ 
"Song of the Stork" (2004, direct­ed by Jonathan Foo and Phan Quang binh Ngyuen), a film about the Vietnam war, collaborated on by a 


Vietnamese and a Singap tor. 

+ 
"Peacock" (2005, directed timer Gu Changwei), a about the Cultural 

+ 
"Tae Guk Gi: The War" (2004, directed by Je-Gyu a Korean film about a family the Korean War 


The opening of the Deb Performing Arts Center (DP provided a proper and convenii campus venue for the screening year, the films highlight the di of the festival, which has incre~ size and stature over the years 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, February 3, 2006 
iva{ focuses -ft cufture 


'cinematic fens 

dirne­
1y lirst­)n film 
IOOd of Kang), during 
Lrt.olo :) has 
nmphasiw thn range of stylns and thmnns of difTnrnnt dnnma from dif­fnrnnt countries within Asia. 
"In thn bnginning, thorn was one film from one eountry," noted Magnan-l'ark. "Tiwn, by last year, we had nxpandnd to three films from thnw r.ountrins. This ynar we have four films from four countries ­China, Korna, India and Vietnam." 
Tho Asian Film Festival is nspecially notnworthy bncause of the talent it draws. In thn past, sueh luminaries as M i dw II n Yno h ("Croue hi ng Tiger lliddnn Dragon," "Memoirs of a Gnisha," "Tomorrow Nevnr Dies") and Lu Chuan (director of "The Missing Gun" and "Kekexili: Mountain Patrol") were the guests of honor, speaking to audiencns after screenings of their lilms. 
"Professor Jonathan Noble has many conneetions in China and is able to attraet talent to the University," said Magnan-Park. 
This year, direetor Je-Gyu Kang will be prnsent at the screenings of his pieture "Tan Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War." Considered one of Korea's loading filmmakers, Je-Gyu Kang's latest picture followt~d the internation­al success of 1999's "Shiri'' -a criti­cally acclaimed landmark in the progress of the rapidly rising Korean l'ilm industry. lie will be speaking about "Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War," which tells the Korean War from the perspective of two brothers forced to fight in the South Korean army. 
"We are still in the .university-man­dated decade of the arts," said Magnan-Park. "It is important for stu­dents and faculty to understand the prominence of art performance. The Asian Film Festival is an excellent way for them to be exposed to a type of cinem.a they.. might not otherwise necnssanly sne. 
Conveniently located at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Cnnter, the Asian Film Festival provides a conven­ient way for students to acquaint themselves with foreign cinema while rnmaining on campus. 
With a personal appearance by Je­Gyu Kang, the world-renowned direc­tor of "Tae Guk Gi," the Asian Film Festival is an excellent opportunity for all members of the Notre Dame com­munity to discover Asian cinema. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 13 

NOTRE DAME'S 
I!1J!~~!·.£...1i ~4~ ·~~
BEST
••• fti~~ 
BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 
Too many hours in the library can leave one running for cover, but watch out -the wrong hiding place could leave you between a rock and a hard place. 

They tell ghost storie5 of men sealed into ships' hulls as they were being built; will the next generation speak in whiapea of students buried between movable shelving aad condemned to roam the stlt.tks of Hesburgh f01ever? 
For next week: What at~ the best romantic rendezvous on 
campus'! Send your suggestions to obsphoto®nd.cdu. 

.. 
•· 
courtesy real1polilticalfe•cetallk:c<>rr 

~.n...nto. a mission to rescue brother In the midst of the Korean War. The movie Is one of "l: ~~... ~.J'o'o ,.,,,.._,-~1"'-'':\'>"•~~~\~~·"'rl"Wlr.'>W.ti.I\~ .... ~JIIf_I.I.....,... J" ~~"1"'1~1 h~ "'' , ~<J-.J.'_,I~'T-\-~J·••"-''•1""~ • ' , ! 
3-5 and Includes the movies "Song of the Stork," "Peacock" and "The Terrorist." 
Friday, February 3, 2006

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 

Miller leads Buffalo to win over Philadelphia 
Nashville keeps home winning streak alive as Sullivan scores late in overtime to lift his Predators over the Avalanche 
sliding, right toe save. In the said. "We mounted a comeback
Associated Press third, the sellout crowd was at it in the second, but couldn't BUFFALO -With the crowd again after Miller made a crucial score." chanting USA! USA!, Hyan Miller save on Sami Kapanen, who was got a little emotional. bearing down on the goalie on a Predators 4, Avalance 3 Miller, left otl" the United States partial breakaway. Steve Sullivan scored on a Olympic, made 21 saves to lead "I was on the bench and I said, breakaway 2:09 into overtime, the Buffalo Sabres to a 4-2 victo­'This is unbelievable,"' said and the Nashville Predators beat ry Thursday night over Sabres rookie Jason Pominville. the Colorado Avalanche Philadelphia and goalie Robert "I couldn't imagine how he felt Thursday night to snap a three­Esche, who will be playing for out there." game skid. team USA at the Turin Games. Taylor Pyatt, Brian Campbell, Scott Walker scored two goals, Miller's omission from the U.S. Jochen Hecht, and Pominville the second tying the game with team hasn't gone over well with scored for the Sabres, who have 2:39 left in regulation. Mike Sabres fans, and they've been won four in a row. Sillinger also scored his first voicing their displeasure with Making their first appearance goal since being traded to the snub. in Buffalo since finishing a sea­Nashville from St. Louis on The goalie himself has been son-long, six-game road trip Sunday, and the Predators took letting his play speak for itself, with a win in Atlanta on the season series 3-1 from winning four straight and going Tuesday, the Sabres broke out Colorado. 6-1 in his last seven starts. quickly Joe Sakic, Cody McCormick "It was flattering to hear Buffalo peppered Esche with and Brett Clark scored for them. Our fans are great," Miller 16 shots in the first period. Colorado, which went 0-for-8 on said. "It just feels really good. I The Flyers, though, came out the power play. The Avalanche just want to beat the Flyers no of the frame with a 1-1 tie, and have lost three of four, including matter what. I'm not going to rebounded with a strong second two in shootouts. pick out the other goaltender period. Unfortunately, they were The Predators are at their best and key on him." unable to solve Miller, who made when they're at home, coming Esche made 33 saves in the another scintillating right leg into the game tied for the NHL's loss, the Flyers' third in the last save on Flyers forward Jeff third-best record at 19-5-1. four games. Esche was making Carter when the Sabres were They're tied for the league's best his fourth start since returning two-men short late in the sec­in one-goal games, and they The Predators came out very Blackhawks on Thursday night. from a groin injury. ond. improved that mark to 20-10 sluggish after a 2-1 loss at Petr Cajanek had a goal and "With a talented team like "He played well, what else can after tying the game twice in the Dallas on Wednesday night, and two assists for the Blues, who they are, they make you move so I say," Philadelphia captain third period to force overtime. they gave up a season-high 46 are 8-15-3 at home and won much," he said. "Those forwards Derian Hatcher said about Sullivan, Nashville's leading shots. after squandering a 3-0 second­on that team are very underrat­Miller. "Both goalies played goal scorer, tied the Predators' But Tomas Vokoun didn't period lead. The Blues, tied for ed. I think they are some of the well." mark for goals in a season with allow another goal after Sakic last overall with the Penguins, best in the game right now." Simon Gagne and Mike Knuble his 26th, and he did it in' style. poked the puck across the line have won consecutive games at The crowd chanted for the scored for the Flyers, who were He picked up a loose puck near from behind the goalie's back in home for the first time all sea­first time after Miller made a playing without injured center the Nashville blue line and skat­the crease for a 3-2 lead at son, and have won consecutive spectacular save in the second Peter Forsberg (groin). ed up on a breakaway, beating 11:11 of the third. games only twice all season. period on Flyers forward R.J. "The first period hurt us a lot," David Aebischer by going top Colorado had its best opportu­The other modest streak for Umberger, robbing him with a Flyers coach Ken Hitchcock shelf over his glove. nities in the first with six power­the Blues, who have been play chances, including a brief stripped of most of their front­5-on-3. The Avalanche outshot line talent to facilitate a sale, Nashville 17-6 but led only 1-0 was Nov. 16 and 19 at Columbus after Clark scored his sixth this and Detroit.. season at 4:38 from the left cir­Stempniak, whose goal beat cle on a one-timer off a rebound the Flames on Monday, beat of a shot by Hejduk that Blackhawks goalie Corey bounced oiTVokoun's right pad. Crawford on the third round to The crowd of 12,057 wasn't snap a 1-1 tie. Fellow rookie Jay happy with the early rash of McClement also scored in the penalties and let the officials shootout for the Blues, while know it by booing them when Radim Vrbata converted a back­they skated onto the ice for both bander for the Blackhawks. the second and third periods. Duncan Keith had two goals, Nashville got the final three including a wrist shot from the power plays, the last coming right point that forced overtime with 4:32 left in the third and with 4:18 to go, for Chicago. Colorado leading 3-2. Tyler Arnason had a goal and an With 7 seconds left in the assist and Kyle Calder had three power play, Walker tied the assists for the Blackhawks, who game when he scored his fifth have lost four of five. this season from in front of the The teams had four shots net off assists from Yanic apiece in overtime. Keith Perreault and Paul Kariya. Tkachuk fanned on a breakaway in the opening minute, the best Blues 6, Blackhawks 5 chance of the period by far. Rookie Lee Stempniak scored Stempniak has four of his two goals and got the winner in seven goals in the last three a shootout for the second time games for the Blues, who got a this week, giving the Blues a goal and an assist from Vladimir victory over the Chicago Orszagh. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a  For rent: Two story house com­ 908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI- 
FoR RENT  free pool table to all new tenants. 1-7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance &  pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next  home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07  UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,  PERSONAL  
open leases.Visit  school year. Off street parking  & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St:  TWO BATHS. HURRY.  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED- BlueGoldrentals.com or call574­ includes motion sensor light for  NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A  235-7234  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  
ROOM HOMES  250-7653.  security. Four individually locked  SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3  FOR MORE DETAIL.  Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  bedrooms, central station monitored  bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys.  MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun,  
7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open  security system, six blocks from  Broadband internet option. W/D &  Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  Acapulco, Jamaica from $499!  
Area houses and  leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or  Notre Dame, bus stop in front of  alarm system avail.  BlueGoldrentals.com  Campus Reps Needed!  
apartments for rent.  call574-250-7653.  house, surrounded by other student  Move in today.  PromoCode:31 www.springbreak- 
Log onto MichianaRentals.com.  housing, Laundromat next door,  Call Joe Crimmins  travel.com 1·800-678-6386.  
Call 574-993-RENT (7368)  site:mmmrentals.com Contact: Gary  basement available for storage of bicycles,luggage,trunks, etc., new  574-229-3659 or email JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com  WANTED  Spring Break 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica,  
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  574-993-2208 or  furnace and central air, new kitchen  Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do  
BlueGoldrentals.com  grooms @ourwebspot.net  including new stove and refrigera­ 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes.  Unix Server specialist needed to  not get left behind! Book now, limit- 
tor, large living room for TV or  Web  attach webcam to a server and then  ed space available. Call for group  
123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND. FURN.  entertaining, free trash removal.  123 ND Ave. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath.  link to a website for a local daycare.  discounts. Info/Reservations 800­ 
574-229-0149.  329-0308  Call 289-4071.  Call574-229-0149.  233-1605.  648-4849 www.ststravel.com  



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, February 3, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 ·, 
NBA
Men's Basketball RPI 
team record prev. 

1 Duke 19-1 1 2 Memphis 19-2 2 3 Villanova 16-2 4 4 Tennessee 14-3 6 5 Pittsburgh 17-1 8 6 Michigan State 16-5 3 7 Illinois 19-2 5 8 Wisconsin 15-5 10 9 Connecticut 18-1 9 10 Iowa 16-5 15 11 Gonzaga 17-3 7 12 UCLA 17-4 17 13 Texas 17-3 13 14 UNI 19-3 12 15 Ohio State 15-3 11 16 Arizona 13-7 16 17 Michigan 15-3 31 18 Wis.-Milwaukee 16-4 20 19 Florida 18-2 19 20 Indiana 12-5 14 21 LSU 14-5 25 22 Southern Illinois 16-5 26 23 Boston College 16-4 27 24 Creighton 14-5 28 25 Wichita State 17-5 24 26 Cincinnati 714-7 18 27 Oklahoma 13-4 29 28 Maryland 14-5 21 29 Georgetown 14-4 38 30 N.C. Stale 16-4 22 31 Marquette 15-6 32 32 West Virginia 15-4 30 33 Syracuse 15-6 23 34 Bucknell 16-3 40 35 George Mason 15-5 39 
Women's Basketball RPI 
team record pre11. 

1 Tennessee 19-2 1 2 Connecticut 19-2 4 3 North Carolina 20-0 3 
Associated Press All-Star startor. rounded out the East's 71,107 votes for the top4 Duke 20-1 2 
Cleveland's LeBron starting live. "llopefully, I overall spot in tlw ballot­
5 LSU 18-1 5 
Yao Ming edged Kobe Jamos was the top Eastern can become a staple, like ing, despite missing 21 
6 Oklahoma 17-4 6 
Bryant as the top voteget­Conference votegetter, my teammate Shaq," Wade games following surgory to 
7 N.C. Stale 13-7 7 
tor in fan balloting for the edging O'N(~al by 15,155 said. ''I'm grateful that dean out an infnction in
8 Ohio Slate 17-2 8 
55th NBA All-Star game, votes. It's the second NBA fans think so highly of his left big toe. •
9 Maryland 19-2 16 
and Shaquille O'Neal straight All-Star trip for my game." It's the fourth All-Star
10 Baylor 15-4 14 
became the fifth player in James, who says he's still Jermaine O'Neal will trip for the 7 -foot-6 enntm·
11 Texas 11-7 9 
lnague history to earn 13 drawing motivation from miss the gamo with an from China and tlw eighth
12 DePaul 18-3 11 
consecutive selections for being snubbed during his injury; Detroit's Hasheed for Bryant, who leads the
13 Purdue 17-2 12 
the midseason showcase. rookie season. Wallace finished third in NBA in smring and had an
14 Rutgers 15-3 10 
Yao and Tracy McGrady "What happened two the voting among East for­81-point eiTort -the soc­
15 Kentucky 15-4 34 
givn the host Houston years ago, that really moti­wards. meaning he'll likely ond-biggost night in NBA
16 New Mexico 16-4 18 Hockets two starters in the vated me to come out and be a strong candidate for history-last month in tiH~
17 Arizona Slate 16-5 17 18 Sranford 14-5 19 Feb. 20 game. They wen~ play even harder," James that starting spot. But no Los Angnles !.akers' win 19 BYU 17-1 26 joined on the Western said. Pistons were voted into the over Toronto. 20 Old Dominion 10-7 22 Conference squad by Philadelphia's Allen starting lineup, despite the Nash, meanwhiln, is a 21 St. John's (N.Y.) 17-3 13 Bryant. San Antonio's Tim Ivorson, Indiana's team's 38-6 record -the l'irst-time starter af'ti~r 22 Georgia 15-5 32 Duncan and reigning MVP Jermaine O'Neal and first­NBA's best by a widn mar­improving tho numhnrs 23 Virginia Tech 14-5 23 Steve Nash of Phoenix -time All-Star starter gin. that earned him MVP hon­24 Boston College 15-6 54 who will be a first-time l>wyann Wade of Miami Yao edged Bryant by ors a year ago. 25 Minnesota 15-4 20 26 Michigan State 15-7 31 27 TCU 11-7 40 28 NOTRE DAME 12-7 15 IN BRIEF 29 Louisiana Tech 14-4 30 30 Indiana State 17-2 33 Brown fined after ejection aftnr the !.akers game. Kim loses arbitration case 
31 George Washington 14-5 39 
NEW YOHK -Knicks coach Larry Cowher's daughter stars at NEW YOHK -Pitclror Sunny Kim 32 Hartford 15-2 35 Brown was lined $20.000 Thursday Princeton lost to the Colorado Bo"kios on 33 Stony Brook 11-7 21 by tho NBA for failing to leave the PHINCETON, N . .l.-Bill Cowher isn't Thursday in tlw first salary arbitra­
34 Temple 15-5 25 
court in a timely manner af'ter he the only one in his family having a tion ease of tho year and will earn
35 Chattanooga 17-3 38 
was njeetnd from New York's 130-97 supnr snason. $600,000 ratlwr than tlH' $1{00,000 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers. While Cowher has his Stnelers in lw asked for. 
Brown was thrown out for arguing the Super Bowl, his oldest daughter Tho dndsion was made by arbitra­with referee Steve .Iavin in the third is ernorging as the star of' tlw tors Stoplwn Coldberg, <;il Vernon quarter Tuesday night al'tnr New Princeton women's basketball team. and John Sands. who !ward till' rase 
York was called for a 11agrant foul Meagan Cowher, a 6-f'oot-1 sopho­a day earlier in St. Petersburg. Fla. and a technical within a 2-rninute more f'orward, has been Ivy League A 2H-yoar-old right-hander who span. Player of the Weok twieo this year oarnod the $ ;{ I (,. ()() 0 mini mum 
Brown was ejected during a time­and has the Tigers riding a six-gamo salary last soason, Kim wPnt h-:{ with 
around the dial 
NBA 

out. picking up two quick tnehnicals. winning streak and tied with a 4.90 EHA in 10 starts and 14 relief
Detroit Pistons at Philadelphia 76ers 

lin then walked onto tho lloor right Dartmouth f'or lirst plaeo. appearances for llw Washington 8:00p.m., ESPN up to .lavic to eontinue tiH~ argunwnt She'll play against Yale on Friday Nationals and Borkies. Colorado bofore being pulled away. and Brown on Saturday night hnl'oro dainwd him oil' waiwrs on Aug. !i. "I didn't cursn him," Brown said jotting to Detroit to join her f'amily Five players agnwd to orw-yPar
Minnesota Timberwolves at Portland Trail 
WPdrwsday, bnfore tlw l'inn was and root on her rather's team. contrarts, leaving I1) playl'f's len in
Blazers 10:00 p.m., ESPN 

handnd down. "I hadn't talknd to him "''ve got two games that I've got to arbitration. Hearings arc• S('hoduiPd the whole game. Obviously lw take care of. and that's what I'm through Fob. 20.
PGA TouR thought I went over the linn and thinking about. That's where my Now rontPr l'iPiciPr .Juan l'iPrrP FBR Open, second round that's his prerogative. Those things mind is," slw said. "Then I'll start to agrPPd at $5.75 million with thP happen. It's the l'irst ganw I got think about the Super Bowl." Chicago Cubs. who also settled on a
4:00p.m., USA 

kir.ked out." Tho 19-year-old eomos from a fam­$610,000 dPal with loft-handed Brown did not speak to rnportors ily with athletic talent. reliever Will Ohman. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 3, 2006 
NFL 

Seattle coach puts game in back seat 

Associated Press 

DETROIT -For once, Ray Rhodes is being forced to think about things other than foot­ball. 
Little things, the kind of things people take for granted. 
Like being able to see, being able to walk. Like being around for his wife and four daughters. 
Football coaches usually don't think of those kind of things. They're usually too immersed in 16-hour days looking at film and trying to come up with schemes to think about their own mortality. 
Rhodes wasn't any different. His only thought when the sea­son began was trying to keep opponents from scoring against the Seattle Seahawks. 
He ends it Sunday at the Super Bowl with a different perspective on both the game and his life. 
Suffering two strokes will do that to you. 
"At one time, you think you're invincible," Rhodes said. 
wrong." 

Something was terribly wrong. At the age of 55, Rhodes had suffered a stroke, some­thing he still tried to deny as his wife got him to the hospital and he tried to "John Wayne it" by refusing a wheelchair. 
When he couldn't get out of the SUV, though, he finally relented. 
"That was hard because you lose your manhood," he said. "You're helpless." 
Rhodes spent two days in the hospital, where doctors tested him and then counseled him about changing his ways. The stroke was stress-related, they said, and warned the former head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles and Green Bay Packers that he had to back off his obsession with his job and the game. 
It worked for a few weeks, but old habits die hard. Rhodes went back to work as defensive coordinator until one day at work in early November he began feeling tired. The symp­
"This just can't toms returned and
"That was hard

happen to you he went to the hos­
but, when it hap­because you lose pital again. pens, the reality your manhood. " This time, he sets in that you realized another either change or stroke might be
Ray Rhodes

you die. You real­even worse. ize you've got Seahawks' Coach "Without 
only one life." 
That realization began dawning on Rhodes one morning last September when he woke to a world that had suddenly gone blurry. He could­n't focus his eyes, couldn't get his balance. 
"I tried to get out of bed and I fell down," Rhodes said. 
Not to worry. Rhodes was a tough-as-nails football player once himself, and the kind of coach who brooked no non­sense and expected players to overcome any obstacles before them. 
He wasn't going to wake his wife and bother her. He would solve this himself. 
On his knees, Rhodes crawled out of the bedroom and down the stairs. He sat in the family room, fumbled for the remote control and turned the televi­sion on. 
Bad move. Staring back at him from the TV were six or seven heads. 
His wife, Carmen, eventually came down and wondered why he was sitting in the dark. Resting, Rhodes replied, trying to buy time until things got bet­ter. 
Things didn't get better, though. He finally broke down and told his wife: "Something is 
your 
health you have 

nothing," Rhodes said. "It made me do some soul searching." 
It wasn't easy. His life had revolved around football for 40 years, and Rhodes found it tough to back away. · 
He had no choice, though, and went home to rest. 
He came back again at the end of the season, but on a lim­ited basis. John Marshall had taken over his duties, and Rhodes stood at practice in the corner of an end zone simply observing. 
He was back in the game. But things were different. 
"I had a stroke and that affects your brain -you're going to change," he said. "You start thinking about everything that you should be doing right and make sure you put that foremost first. You say to your­self, 'This is what I have to change about my life." 
Sitting in a seat at Ford Field a few days ago watching the Seahawks on media day, Rhodes seemed resigned to the fact his life had changed. He wasn't happy about it and he wasn't all that happy about talking about it, but the realiza­tion was someone else was run­ning the Seahawks defense. 
'12th Man' trade111ark in courts 
Texas A&M files lawsuit over Seahawks' use of their team slogan 
Associated Press 

BRYAN, Texas -The Seattle Seahawks ran an end-around on Texas A&M, filing notice Thursday to remove from an Aggie hometown court the dis­pute over the "12th Man" slo­gan. 
In a three-page "Notice of Removal" filed about two hours before a scheduled hearing in a Brazos County court just a few miles from the A&M campus, the Super Bowl-bound Seahawks transferred the case to federal court in Houston, about 100 miles away. 
Because Texas A&M is alleg­ing a violation of its federally registered trademark by the Seahawks, a federal court has jurisdiction in the case, accord­ing to documents filed by J. Michael Bell, a Houston-based lawyer for the team. 
"It brings everything here to a screeching halt unless the fed­eral court decides to remand it," state District Judge J.D. Langley said. 
Langley said the maneuver was fairly common for a case involving entities from different regions. 
U.S. District Judge Ewing Werlein set a pretrial and scheduling conference for June 16. 
Steve Moore, A&M's chief marketing officer and vice pres­ident for communications, said the legal tactic was not unex­pected. 
"The surprise to me is that they've been just so silent and have not reached out with any solution," Moore said. 
The move to federal court means the case will not be resolved before Sunday's Super Bowl in Detroit, where the Seahawks face the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
"We never intended to try to coincide with the Super Bowl," Moore said. "The situation we were in is if we didn't do some­thing with the Super Bowl com­ing, we would be in very, very dangerous territory because with something as large as the Super Bowl, it's very hard to say you didn't know infringement was taking place, or I'm being a nice guy and I'm going to let them do it during that time. 
"What you're saying from a trademark standpoint, you're saying you don't care about your trade­mark. And if you didn't pro­ate, to keep the Seahawks from using "12th Man" in their mar­keting. 
The Seahawks have recog­nized their followers as a "12th Man" since the mid-1980s and even retired the No. 12 jersey in 1984. Now with Seattle in the Super Bowl, their "12th Man" promotion, which previously has aggravated the Aggies, has gained an even higher profile. 
Texas A&M has been arguing the NFL team is infringing on the school's legal claim to the slogan, which it says it has used for more than 80 years. The school twice has registered trademarks for the "12th Man" label -in 1990 and 1996 ­that include entertainment serv­ices and products such as caps, 
T-shirts, novelty 
buttons and jewelry. 
Seattle's version 

tect it, then in of a "12th Man"
"The surprise to
fact there is no banner, a flag with 
dilution and me is that they've the No. 12 on it, 
everyone can been just so silent." was flying this week use it, and we from the team's c e r t a i n I y hotel in suburban
Steve Moore
weren't pre­Detroit. So was a pared to do chief marketing officer flag atop Seattle's that." Texas A&M signature Space 
Bell, listed on court docu­ments as "attor­ney-in-charge" for the Seahawks, did not return telephone calls from The Associated Press. 
The university owns the trademark to its generations-old "12th Man" reference for Aggie supporters in the stands. The school won a temporary court order in Bryan earlier this week from Langley, an A&M gradu-
Needle and the 
state Capitol in 
Olympia. Then 
there's all the team merchandise and apparel with the "12th Man" logo. 
At A&M, the slogan dates to 1922 when a student, E. King Gill, was pulled from the stands to suit up for the injury-depleted Aggies as they faced top-ranked Centre College. Gill didn't play, but he was the last player standing on the sidelines.in 


The College ofArts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty 
w have taught at least five years are eligible. 
ake advantage ofthis opportunity to have a voice in the selection of recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Stuart Greene, Associate Dean 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 



Februa 

FriJay, February.~. 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 ~~============~~~~==========================================~ 
NFL 
The Bus finally gets his chance at a Super Bo-wl ring 
After 13 seasons, Pittsburgh's Jerome Bettis will play for his first career NFL Championship in hometown Detroit 
lli·:TIIOIT-.IPI'onw Bdtis rPtumnd for mw more chanrP to makP a run at a championship. Against long odds, lw got il. 
Many stars in all sports go Pntir•• rarPI'rs without playing for a ring. ;\ fpw -BPltis. Mark Craf'P, Osrar Holwrtson, Bay llourqw• romP to mind -finally gPt a shot at onP as tlwy're lwading fi1r till' I'Xit. 
It doPsn 't happen of't.Pn or eas­ily. 
"In sports. you'rp going to haw players who an• gn~at hut havpn't won championships," said l!olwrlson, a llall of Fanwr who got his NII;\ titiP with MilwaukPI' nPar t.lw Pnd of his 
•·arPPI'. "That's true. You only gPl otlf' winrwr a yPar. and the rest of'llu• guys don't \Vin." 
Thoy surf' try. 
l.ikl' IIPtlis, who deridPd to play anotlwr soason for tho StPPinrs in hopes of roaching t.ho SupN Bowl. athlntos will push tl11•ir bodies as far as they'll go -and somnliml's hang on longor than tlwy should -to got tlw thing that snts a winner apart. 
Tlu• ring. 
"You look at mn -I playml 17 ytHtrs and didn't get one," quar­L•~rhack Warn~n Moon said. "That. had a lot to do with how long I played. I was still chasing that dusive, orw last goal that I had loft t.o accomplish in my rarePr. llnfortunatoly, it nnvnr happPtlPd. But I'll tPil you what: I did try." 
Pro l.'ootball llall of Fame spok•~sman .Jon llorrigan notes that it's rommonplace for stars to miss out on a shot at a cham­pionship. Bnl'orn l'rne agency rhangnd tlu~ dynamics of sports and gavn players freedom to pick tlwir l.nams, a player could lw stuck on a struggling l'ran­rhise for a long tinw. 

An·hin Manning is Hxhibit A. lin spnnl. his first I I years with Nnw Orleans. lwr.oming t.lw l'ar.l' of' misnry for 'i\ints fans who hid thnir own fares with papnr bags. Now. it's up to sons Peyton and l~li -quarterbacks fiw Uw Colts and Giants, rnspnrtivnly -to do what tlwir fathnr tHwnr could. 
"I rwvnr got t:losn," Archie Manning said this wnnk at a Super Bowl l'unrt.ion. "Hvnryhody just wants to get IH•rn, and I hope both of my boys get to do it." 
Folks around thnsn parts know that grnatnnss do1~sn't translatn into glory. Hunning back Barry Sanders spnnt I0 ynars with tlw Lions, but had only 1111n playofl' vietory to show for it. 
"It's a rnality of' tlw game," Sandnrs said. "Coming into tlw NFL, my assumption was that this is thn NFL and, naturally, I'll got to the Supnr Bowl bncause all you have to do is win throe gamns in tho playofl's. That was a mistake I madn, bneausn I latnr found out how tough it was." 
It's universal. 

Hobnrtson was already a superstar -tlw only player to average a triplo-doubln for a season -during his 10 seasons with tho Cincinnati Hoyals when tlw struggling franchise traded him. With Karonm i\bdui-.Jabbar -then Lnw Akindor -as his teammatn, hn got an NBi\ cham­pionship in his first season with Milwauken. 
"ll meant that tho critics who nnednd sonwthing negative to say about my carnnr couldn't say something negativn about it," Hobnrtson said. 
Gra1~e spnnt tlw first 13 years of' his carrwr with thn Chicago Cubs -enough said -before heading to Arizona and getting his long-awaited chanee. lin was 37 years old wlwn it finally 
CaillO. 
Grace's single started a ninth­inning rally lhat swept the l>iamondba1~ks a 3-2 victory in Ganw 7 of' the 200 I World Serins against llw Yankees. 
That same ynar, Bourque got his last-chance Stanley Cup title with Colorado. The llall of' Fanw del'nnsnman spent the first 21 years of' his earner with thn Boston Bruins, never gnt­ting to hoist tho Cup over his head. 
For eaeh of these late-in-life success stories, then~·s dozens who f'ail. 
Again, the Cubs provide a benchmark. Ernie Banks put together a llall-of-Famn earenr during 19 ynars in Chicago, but never oven eame close to the ultimatn prize. 
"Some guys are more f'ortu­natr~ to be in the right place at the right time, part of that right chemistry on that right team," Moon said. "And other guys aren't. You look at Ernie Banks in baseball -he never even played in a playoff' game his whole career." 
Even in the era of' l'rne agency, going to a winner doesn't guar­antee getting a shot at becoming the ultimate winner. 
"Look at A-Hod with the 

tHt!IT/{1/fll/MIfl1/PE#TI!OCIIM1JA#Pf!!Y/{ffA#!JI!C!N!Jfl!ff!HL 
~JPJ(0~/PYJHOW 

'~;: 

C:OST: FREE ­WHERE: LEGENDS OF NOTRE D~l, 1t*' WHEN: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY JRP@1o':bOPM 

SPONSORFD BY. MUI TICUITURAI PROGRAMS AND SFRVICFS AND LI:Gt:NDS 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.----------------­

Yanknns," Hobnrtson said, rnf'nr­ring to Alex Hodriguez. "It does­n't mean that you're going to win. I'm sure hn thought when he wont to the Yankees that thoy were going to walk through tho World Series." 
Now, it's Bettis' tum to make that onn, limtl stab at a title. lie considernd retiring after the Stnolers lost in the AFC title game last season, but eamn baek in part bncause this year's Super Bowl is in his hometown of Detroit. 

It looked like lw'd frittered thn chancn away whnn lw fumbled nnar tlw Colts' goal linn with 
1:20 loft in a socond-round play­ofT gamo, and Nick llarpnr scooped up the ball and hnadod downfiold. 
If quarterback Bon Hoothlisberger doesn't doublf' baek and make a lunging ankh~ tackle on Harper, Bottis doesn't get his r.hanee. 
And if Mike Vandm:jagt doesn't miss badly. on a 46-yard atll~mpt, thn gamn might go to overtinw and a difTnn~nt. out­como. It took all of thosn quirky things to got tlw Stnelors a 21­1 X win and get Bettis to his Bowl. 
That's how l'i rw tho Iinn is between getting a shot and being shut. out. 
".Jnronw Bnttis had I:~ ynars to lll'OVI' how gn•at lw is." said tlw llall of Fanw's Horrigan. "II' lw wouldn't hayn marin tlw dr>f'i­sion to play this yl'ar. wn would lw talking about. 'poor .II'romP."' 


Irish Blue And Gold Needs aWebmaster 
We are the llnew kidsll on the block. We are looking for areliable per­son to be webmaster for our growing website. The uri is http://www.irishblueandgold.com. Initially, the position is volunteer (Maybe we can work out an internship with your professor). However, in the not too distant future, it will pay. Please contact Mark at ndirish3@comcast.net or at 317-299-5720. This is your chance to be part of aspecial, growing site. 


.· 
page 18 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 3, 2006 

SUPERBO L SUNDAY DEALS 
OPEN AT 4P.M. 
(Please preorder to allovv timely delivery!) 
631-2924 
#1 
3 NY CHEESE OR PEPPERONI 18'' PIZZAS (NOT LIKE THE OTHER GUYS' 12'' OR 14'') 
$19.99 
# 2 
ORDER ONE PIZZA AND ANY 2 LITER .,.. , PRODUCT IS ON f.!S! 
· Excludes other speczals. 
# 3 1 18" CHEESE OR PEPPERONI_ PIZZA 10 WINGS 4 BREADSTICKS WI SAUCE 2 LITER .,.. ; PRODUCT 
$16.99 .. 
#4 
2 18" CHEESE OR PEPPERONI PIZZAS 20 WINGS 
8 BREADSTICKS 2 2 LITER • PRODUCTS 
$32.99 
FREE DELIVERY!!! 
~-1 
Friday, February 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
PGA 
Tiger at the top of his game 
Woods turns in another great round at the Dubai Desert Classic 
I>UBAI, Unitnd Arab t·:miratns-.IPt lag donsn't SPI'm to bot.lwr Tignr Woods. 
lin won thn Buick lnvilational in San Dingo on Sunday. Tlwn lw llnw across 12 timn zonPs -halfway around Ihn world -to play at llw lip of thn Arabian pnninsu­la in till' llubai llPsPrl Classic. 
No problnm for golf's most intPrnalional playPr. 
I lis !'i-undnr (,7 in Thursday's l'irst round in lluhai put him I h r n n sl. r o kn s o IT t hn In ad . sharl'd by I!Plinf Goosnn, f!ichard (;ri'Pn and .Jamin Donaldson. 
"That's why I work out as hard as I do," said Woods, who was t.lm•p lwhind with livn oth­l'l'S, inrluding playing partnnr IIPnrik StPnson. 
"You gt•t owr it quicknr and t.IH~ morn in shapn you arn tlw nasinr it is to gnl ovnr jnt lag." 
This is Woods' third attnmpt 
l.o win at tlw Emiratns Golf 
Club, a palm-linnd oasis sur­roundnd by onn of thn world's fastnst growing citins. l>ubai is thn Middln l•:ast's IH~onomie boomtown. and thn most wnst­nrniznd eity in thn rngion. 
Woods starliHI with a rush. lin was 4-undnr aftnr only four holns, which indudnd an nagln at thn !'ihS-yard No. 3. llis drivn was foliownd by a 4-iron ovnr lhn back of thn grnnn, tlwn a chip into tho hole from 40 fnnt. 
"I got ofT to a prntty swnnt start," said Woods, who rmnainnd at 4-under al'lnr ninn holes, thnn took 11 clumsy bogny on !'i4'J-yard lOth. lin puslwd his drivn right, pitehod out from undnr a lrnn, hit an S-iron approach into the rough, ehipJwd on and thnn two-pul.tnd from 15 f'not. 
"I thought I might bn abln to knnp it going, but I lost a lot of momnntum on 10," Woods said. "It's a simple birdio holn and I make h. I rnally eould havn put thn hammnr down on 

the bar.k ninn. But I didn't do 
that." 
Scoring was nasy Thursday, and Woods suggested it will stay that way on thn 7,264­yard Majlis Courso with light winds and tnmperaturns in low SO's oxpnetnd ovnr thn four-day ovent. 
"It (scorns) will lw pretty low," Woods said. "Thn groons am pnrfiw.tly smooth out thnrn, and on top of that the pin loea­tions arnn't tight to tho sides." 
Dnl'onding champion Ernie Els was four lwhind af'tnr a 6S. 
Goosen is coming oiT a six­wonk broak; Woods cmnn off' a six-w1wk brnak and won last week's Buiek Invitational in a playoff'. Woods didn't touch a club for 24 days during his brnak, and Coosnn wont l'ivn weeks. 
"I put thnm in tho cup­board," Goosen said. "It's tho first limn J'vn donn that -not played for five wenks." 
Thn South Al'riean playnd two praetiee rounds last wonk, wnnl. twicn to tho driving rangn, and surprisod himsolf' Thursday with his quick start. 
"If I takn a six-wnnk brnak and koep shooting 64, maybe I'll take time ofT until Augusta," hn said. 
Af'liH' missing tho first thrnn fairways and scrambling for pars, Goosnn pic.knd up an oagln on the par-5 1:~th, hitting a !'i-iron to 20 font and holing tho putt. lin follownd that with livo birdies on thn noxt sovon holes and a birdie on his final hole-the ninth. 
"It was nice to got ofT to that start, and tlwn I had a good run in thn midd!n of l.hn course," Goosen said. "I missod a lot of fairways. but I madn a lot of' putts." 
Grnnn, an Australian who won this ovont in 1997, said playing at tho Emirates Golf 
NFL 

Martz deal fails, he will take next year off 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Miko Martz backnd out of the I>ntroit Lions' ol'f'ensivn coordinator position on Thursday, and thn nx-St. Louis Bams coach appears con­toni. to sit out next sna­son. 
"Obviously, I took the job," Martz said in a telephone interviow with The Associatnd Prnss. "It just didn't work out with thn money. 
"Thorn's a bottom-linn figure my agent has and I didn't want to have tlw dotails. so wn just movn on." 
Martz thought he and nnw Lions coach Hod Marinnlli would have bnen a vnry good fit. and that would havn been his main reason for taking tho job. Martz also thinks Marinelli is a coaching finishnd a(,-]() snason. lin sat out thn last I I ganros rncovnr­ing from endocarditis, a badP­rial infndion of a [wart vaiVI', but was dnarod to n~turn to duty tho day bnf'orn his six seasons as Hams hnad coach nndnd. 

Thn 54-ynar-old Martz also intnrvinw1Hl for lwad coaching openings in Nnw Orlnans and Oakland, but nmphasiznd lw'd lw porf'nctly happy taking a year ofT. Tiro 1~oach has sold his honw in St. Louis County, saying it was "timn l.o down­size anyway," and will rl'local.l' to a sneond honw in San l>iPgo in thn rwxt wnek or two. 
During his y1Htr away from football, hn plans to trav1d with his wifn, Julin. 
"Thnrn's a wrong imprnssion that I'm dnspnratn for a job," Martz said. ''I'm not pursuing anything. 
"This l>ntroil thing got roal intnrnsting bncausn I likn Bod so much. but at this point in my lif'n I'm ·going to ho vnry 
choosy, vnry 
snlnctivn." 
But ho nmpha­

star in the mak­ing. "My visit with Bod was nxcnp­ "There's a bottom line with my agent ... we just had to  siwd his dnsirn to rl'turn to tlw NFL. Martz lnd thn Hams to tlw play­ 
tional," said. "I  Martz think  move on.  niTs in four of his f'ivn full snasons,  
hn's going to bn a supnrstar.  Mike Martz  induding a Su1wr Bowl aftnr· thl'  
Everybody's got  Former Rams coach  2001  snason.  and  
l.alnnt, nien far.il­ lwlpnd tlw fran­ 
itins  and  all  chisn win its only  
thosn  kinds  of'  sUJHH'  B0 wI ti t II'  

things, but who you work with as tlw ofTnnsivn coordinator in is critical and that was a big l'J'J'). plus." · "I havn no dnsirn to rntirl'," 
Martz's agent, Bob J.aMontn, Martz said. "But to havP a did not immediately rnturn a ynar whnn you havn your tnlnphonn nwssagn. health, it's a blessing." 
Martz has be1m tmnmploy1~d Martz wasn't nxpncting to lw since the Hams f'irod him ori called about thn OJWning, say­Jan. 2, the day af'tnr St. Louis ing it "came out of lnf'l. finld." 

Songs from the Heart 
Celebt-ate Valentine's Day with the uncomparable Julie BudJ 
\Vith a voice and talent like this, romance will definitely be in the air·. 

Saturday, February 11, 8:00p.m. 
Tickets star·t at $18.00 adults. $16.00 seniors, $8.00 students South BendSymphony.com m· call 235-9190 

1-..1>1)'1'"'11'"! 

~fJ•Wrm 
A R,,I..~ 
llJ 

fifth Third Bank 
-------------------------~-----------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 3, 2006 

FENCING 
Irish set for regional teatns at OSU Duals 
Team looks to repeat success from Notre Dame Duals in Ohio 
By DAN TAPETILLO Associate Sports Editor 
This weekend, the Irish will travnl to Ohio State and eompete in the Ohio State Duals with a lield of 13 teams. 
The Irish are hoping to capital­ize on the success that both the No. 1-ranked women's and No. 4-ranked men's teams found at last weekend's Notre Dame Duals. Both finished with 8-0 records against some of t]Hl nation's top mmpetition, includ­ing Duke and Northwestern. 
Last week's tournament also proved both the stn~ngth and depth of the nwn's rostllr, as the Irish heat the competition even though several of the team's top-­competitors did not compete. Additionally, eight different fpncnrs gave double-digit win performances. including junior epeeist Patrick Gettings and freshman epoeist Karol Kostka. 
"I think ]tlw Notre Dame Duals] made people feel good about their ]skills] and it will show when we go to Ohio State," fn~shman sabrn Ashley Sen·ettc said. "We are pretty confident that we ean usc our [expnrienee] to do well against the rest of the eompntition this weekend." 
Among the tPams in the Duals the Irish will faee this weekend are foes Michigan, Michigan State and Purdue. 
However, the Irish will be com­peting without top fencers such as juniors Amy Orlando and Valerie Providenza, who are cur­rently eompeting in Paris at the Junior World Comp1~tition. 
At the Notre Dame Duals, Providenza began the eompeti­tion 11-0 after sufl'ering a eouple of defeats against Duke. Orlando found success as she defeated two-time NCAA epee champion Anna Gar ina of Wayne State. 
Despite the disadvantage, the Irish remain confident they will pull out wins against the compe­tition. 
'They are dub teams like those we competed at the Notm Damp Duals and a lot of them were beginners boeause they don't fence varsity athletes and have trouble getting mcruits," Sorrette said. "So we shouldn't have too many problfm1s and we are just looking to give everyone on our team a chance to eompcte." 
Following the conclusion of this weekend's bouts, the Irish will head to the UC San Diego Duals in San Dingo, Calif. on Feb. 11. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
On Campus Junior Parent Weekend Special February 16-20, 2006 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call 574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish go dovvn to Tobacco Road 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

There was some rest for the weary this week -but not much. 
Af'tnr playing two matches last weekend to improve to 2-1, the No. 26 Irish are back on the road to face North Carolina tomorrow and Duke Sunday. 
"We're excited to be here," coach Bobby Bayliss said in a telephone interview from North Carolina Thursday night. "In any sport, when you play UNC and Duke back-to-back, you've got your hands full, but we think we're up to the task." 
Last weekend, Notre Damn came within one match of defeating then-No. 1 Virginia before falling 4-3 in Riehmond. The team rebounded with a dominant shutout of William and Mary in its homn opnner on Sunday. 
Tomorrow, the Irish take on the Tar Heels at noon EST. North Carolina stands at No. 30 in the national rankings and boasts a 5-0 record going into the mateh with Notre Dame. Four of UNC's wins this season are 7-0 shutouts -against Campbell, Elon, Gardner-Webb and North Carolina A&T. 
Their other match eame against a mutual opponent of the Irish. The Tar Heels upend­ed Northwestern 5-2, losing in the top two singles positions. Notre Dame began the season with a win over thfl Wildeats, winning 6-1 with a loss at No. 6 singles. 
"Carolina's a team that's been ranked, traditionally, in the 15­30 range most years," Bayliss said. "I think at the Pnd of the year, they're going to be there and be a good NCAA Tournament team." 
On Sunday, the Irish will make the eight-mile trek to Durham. After a win over Old Dominion to start tlw season, Duke will face its most dillieull ehal11-mgo yet. 
"Th1~y're good," Bayliss said of the Blue Devils. "They're a team 
we·ll give you 
Plus, we offer the same low rate on new and used auto loans. 
with potential to do some really serious damage nationally." 
However. the Irish arc looking to make some noise thems<~lves. The team has focused on their doubles matches after revamp­ing the lineup between the Northwestern and UVA match­es. 
"We've put a lot of time into our doubles," Bayliss said. "We still need to eontinue to do that because it's a big key .... [but] I'm pretty confident that we can become very good." 
In three matehes, the Irish have played nine individual doubles matehes, winning six. One more win may have given the team a victory over Virginia. but Bayliss is focusing on the future -and the challenge in Chapel I I ill tomorrow. 
"North Carolina's No. 1 dou­bles team is ranked No. 1 in the country," he said. "If you're ranked 1 in the muntry you're doing something right." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Apply today! 

We will give you one percent (1%) Cash Back of 1he total amount financed. Offer not valid with any other specials, or in conjunction with any other offers, and may be withdrawn at any time. Refinances of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union loans do not apply. Certain other restrictions may apply. Independent of the University. 
FriJay, February 3, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Meyo 
continued from page 24 
Sl·:<: and Big East -arn slatnd to eompetn. Tlw centnrpieee of tho mont is the Mnyo Mile, which annually produces somn of llw top timns in the country for that distanen. 
Thn Irish arn coming ofT a strong pnrformancn at thn Notre Damn Invitational. 
. Junior Kurt Benninger rewrote thn record books with his lirst­plaen showing in the mnn's milo, cloeking in with a limn of :l :5 S . 7 7 . Wi t h t hat ti me he became tlHl first Irish runrwr in Notre Damn history to n~1:ord two milns under four minutes in his career. 
Even morn stunning is that he belilwos it wasn't even his host performance. 
Whiln Benninger stole the show at the Invitational, he wasn't the only Irish athlete to 
Happy 21st Birthday! Gina Tesi 
Sling Queen of Cavanaugh Hall 



February 5, 2006 
have an exceptional outing. Alyissa Hasan setting a nnw Freshman Mary Saxer snt a Notre Dame record in tho pen­
nnw  Notre  Dame  tathlon with 3,655  
rncord in the pole vault, clearing a height of 4.05 meters. While this  "The defending national champion will be running ... I  points -just short of the NCAA quali­fying mark. The compnlition  
mark is indeed  a  think I am fit  figures to  be stilT  
school reeord, it is below her personal  enough to win. "  over the weekend, as some of the best  
goals. Saxer. like  squads  in  the  
Benninger, is look­ Kurt Benninger  nation will be com­ 
ing forward to the  Irish miler  peting  in  South  
opportunity to bet­ Bend. Benninger,  

ter her marks as the season who finished fourth in last progresses. year's mile run at the NCAA One more record fell at the championship. is especially meet .Jan. 27 with freshman looking forward to the pres-
past, thanks in large part to their 3-1 record this year in
Calvin 

sceond games against eonfer­continued from page 24 enee foes. "I don't think it makes a dif­streak. We're feeling great ference anymore," Newsom about the team." said of the Belles' loss to There's no question that. the Calvin. "llow we did against a win over Olivet was a state­team in the past is over." ment game for the Belles, who Some of the Belles, though, are creeping into seem to take the upper echelon eaeh loss per­of MIAA teams. sonally.
"We can stay with
"I think the "It was kind of 
any team in the
intensity !from the a tough loss," Olivet game I is conference." Beier said. going to stay "We're really through (the looking forward
Erin Newsom
Calvin game!." to bning abln to 
Belles forward 
freshman forward play them again, Erin Newsom said. and this time, "Wn can stay with get a win." any team in the conference." Documented by the 3-1 
The new-look Belles have no mark, a strength of the Bellns lack of' eonl'idenee when play­and first-year head coach ing teams they've lost to in the Steve Bender is being ahln to 
Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 

Sponsored by the Career Center, the Center for Social Concerns, the Center for Asian Studies, the Department of Africana Studies, the Department of East Asian Languages and ~iteratures, International Study Programs, the Kellogg Institute, the Kroc Institute, and the Latin American Studies Program. 
kellogg.nd.edu/intlapp.html 
enee of tho ddending NCAA champion in that nvont., Nkk Willis of Mkhigan. 
"Tho defonding national champion will bn running, so I am anxious to nnnpntn against him," Benninger said. "I think I am fit enough to win thn 
eVfmt." 
Looking ahead. llw Irish will 
·travnl north of tho border nnxt wenknnd as tlwy compete in the Windsor Invitational, the final tuneup before the Big East Championship. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 
adjust their game when fadng an opponent the seeond time, and correcting deficiencies that have plagued the team in its losses. 
One of those defkieneies in the Belles' losses was the team's post play. 
"We need to box out bntll~r rebound bettnr," Bninr said. "We struggled at. the end of t.hn game last time. llopefully this time we ean improve on that.." 
Newsom said if Saint Mary's continues to do what it has bnen doing in the past six games, the Bnllns will havn no problem coming away with a win against Calvin. 
"I think if' we knep playing like a team, and knnp playing good solid defnnsn, wP'II come up on top," slw said. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.cdu 

Sessions will include: 
• 
Jobs in NGOs 

• 
Translation and lnterpretion Services 

• 
International Business 

• 
Government and Foreign Service 

• 
Using Area Studies to Teach K-12 

• 
Grants, Fellowships and Awards for International Research and Travel 

• 
Foundation Jobs 

• 
Public Health 

• 
Jobs in the Media 

• 
University Careers 

• 
Jobs in Africa 

• 
International Human Rights 


For a full listing, see 
kellogg.nd.edu/intlcareer.html 
Registration closes at noon on Monday, February 6. 
Friday, February 3, 2006

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Friars 
continued from page 24 
7, and they have lost five of their last seven games by 10 points or more. 
"I think there's going to be an air of desperation in the arena," Irish coach Mufiet McGraw said Thursday. "They've got to win to get into the Big East tourna­ment, I guess. 
"And we've just got to win." 
Despite the poor record, Providence does have three players averaging double digits in scoring and two approaching 10 rebounds per game. 
Junior forward Shauna Snyder missed seven games earlier this season but has aver­aged 13.2 points per game for the Friars since returning. 
Freshman guard Chelsea Ma:randola has contributed early and often, starting all 20 contests and scoring 12.8 points per game. 
But senior Gayle Nwafili is Providence's most versatile and dangerous weapon. The 6-foot­1 center enters Saturday's con­test averaging 12.7 points and 
9.2 rebounds a night. 
"She's a tough matchup for us because she plays a lot on the perimeter," McGraw said. "She's very mobile, and she will even shoot from the three-point line -she's made some threes this year. She's a tough matchup for all of our posts." 
Notre Dame's inside presence will be a key to the game. The team has not established a dominant post game, and clean­ing up the glass has been one of Providence's few strengths. 
"We've struggled all year rebounding, and our post play­ers are the ones that are strug­gling," McGraw said. "[Junior forward] Crystal Erwin is lead­ing our team in rebounding. She's doing a really good job inside. And [freshman guard] Lindsay [Schrader] doing a good job rebounding. But everybody else needs to do better." 
McGraw said she hopes Schrader plays as well Saturday as she did against Syracuse. 
With standout guard Megan Duffy held to just seven field goal attempts within the three­point line, Schrader led the Irish Tuesday with 24 points on 9-of-19 shooting from the floor. 
"I think that because they guarded Megan so well -she didn't get enough shots ­Lindsay was there to pick up the slack," McGraw said. "I think in a normal game Megan will get a few more and Lindsay may get a few less. But I see [Schrader] getting 15 shots a game." 
After the Irish posted 42 points in the second half of their Tuesday victory at Syracuse, McGraw said she hopes the offense can produce just as well at home this weekend. 
''I'm feeling a lot better about the offense right now [than after Notre Dame's 69-43 loss to Rutgers]," she said. "I think we're stepping up and taking more shots." 
Notes: 

+ The NCAA released its offi­cial Ratings Percentage Index (RPI) standings for the first time Wednesday. The official formu­la, long kept secret and used by the NCAA Tournament selection committee in determining the tournament bracket, was not released, but team rankings were assigned. 
Notre Dame ranked No. 28 out of 332 Division I teams through games play,ed on Monday. That leaves Notre Dame near the traditional "bub­ble." 
Each year, the tournament selection committee chooses 33 teams for at-large bids, along with the winners of each con­ference championship. 
CollegeRPI.com, a private Web site that tries to duplicate the official RPI rankings, lists Notre Dame's at No. 31 with a strength of schedule -likely an important factor in the official ratings-ranked No. 13. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Spartans 
continued from page 24 
Spartans. 
"We've had trouble scoring goals in the past, but Caruso's one of the best goaltenders in our league," he said. "I don't think we got enough chances; I don't think we had enough traf­fic by the net; I think he saw too many shots. 
"We've worked on those things in practice. We do every week." 
Notre Dame won't need many goals if junior goalie Dave Brown plays like he did against the Buckeyes. After being pulled one week earlier against Northern Michigan in favor of freshman Jordan Pearce, Brown allowed just one goal last weekend, including the sixth shutout of his career on Saturday. 
"The puck was big to him last weekend," said Jackson, who said he pulled Brown in order to refocus his team. "If he can play the way he did last week­end, he gives us a chance to win every night." 
Notre Dame will travel to East Lansing, Mich. for the second half of the home-and-home, marking the third straight weekend that the Irish will be on the road for at least one of their games. 
"It's a long spell when we don't get a pure weekend at home," Jackson said. "To me, when you have to travel on a weekend, it's a travel weekend. We have to get on a bus Friday right after the game." 
Irish practices have been shortened this week from their usual two hours to an hour and a half. Jackson said he wants to keep the team fresh for and focused on the weekend games. 
"It's a long season, and school is back in session," Jackson said. "They need more time to recover. It's that time of the year when things need to be crisp and short. As long as they're intense, practices are shorter." 
Saturday's game in East Lansing, like tonight's at the Joyce Center, will face off at 7:35p.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Pitino 
continued from page 24 
takeover a game against Georgetown or Villanova. It's a punch here, hang in there, make a run, see if you can win it at the end." 
Louisville is one of several new members of the Big East this year. and this will be the nrst league meeting between the Irish 
and  the  former  "They have a lot of  losing  by  one  
Conference USA powerhouse. Quinn expects the matehup to be challenging  history when it comes to Kentucky basketball. "  point to West Virginia. "We know we can play with  
given their raucous  anybody after the  
home court. "They have a lot of history when it  Chris Quinn Irish guard  past week," Quinn said. "We played the No. 6­ 
comes to Kentucky  ranked team and  

basketball, Rick Pitino and even the No. 11-ranked team and we Louisville basketball," Quinn were right there and could have said. "They love their team down beat any one of them. We're con­there and I'm sure the erowd will fident; I know I'm very confident be great." 

Louisville is averaging 18,980 in home attendance this season, seeond in the Big East to Syracuse. 
The Cardinals (14-7, 2-6 in the Big East) have struggled during league play for much of the sea­son. Their two wins came against Providence and Cincinnati. 
Louisville's struggles do not concern the Irish, who are look­ing for any win they can get. Notre Dame dropped to 1-7 in the Big East Wednesday after 

Irish guard Colin Falls, left, defends a Villanova player during the Wildcats' 72-70 win on Jan. 28. Notre Dame faces Louisville Saturday in a game crucial to its Big East Tournament hopes. 
in my team." 

Louisville's primary weapon is guard Taquan Dean. Dean is averaging 15.4 points and 3.8 assists per game this season. 
Dean was injured earlier this season against Pittsburgh and sat out the next two games with a high ankle sprain. Louisville struggled without its leading scorer. 
"[Dean] is a great player and can really shoot the ball," Quinn said. "You saw how much he meant to that team when he was out. They didn't have the same flow that they had when he was in there." 
The Irish want to continue to do the same thing on offense that has worked all season. Quinn said he has been pleased with Notre Dame's play on that end of the court. 
"Offensively, pretty much all year in the Big East season we move pretty well," Quinn said. "We've been able to put some points on the board and get some pretty good looks." 
Notre Dame came out with a difl'erent look in the second half against West Virginia Wednesday. 
To go along with Quinn, guards Colin Falls, Russell Carter and Kyle McAlarney and forward Rick Cornett joined the mix for much of the half. The Irish had success moving the ball, outscoring the Mountaineers by three in the sec­ond half. Quinn said there is a chance the Irish will use more of that lineup as the season pro­gresses. 
"That lineup was pretty good to us in the second half," Quinn said. "We were able to get some stops, and 'Big Rick' [Cornett] was very good for us inside. Russell Carter did a great job of getting on the backboard and getting some rebounds. That lineup has some promise." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgiffi3@nd.edu 

Friday, 2/3 @ 5:00pm rday, 2/4@ 10:00am 
@Loftus Sports Complex 
100 FANS AT 2:00PM 
ON SATURDAY Will RECEIVE A GOLD GAMES T-SHIRT 

------~ 
l 
Friday, February j, 2006 The Obserr1er+ TODAY page 23 
l l 
! 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 33 Treat with 55 Stays too long 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Micha..:l T. Weiss, 44; Christie Graham at the gym, say 
Brinkley, 52; Farrah Fawcett, 59; Tom Smoth~rs, 6Q
1 Mideast leader? 
crackers 
57 Acclaim 

Happy Birthday: The less time spent explaining yourself or your plans, the
5 Dropped by 
34 Verse site 58 Attended to a better. Watch your sp.:nding habits and refi·ain from being tno generous. Take 15 Take the bait the attitude that charity begins at home this year or you could be len with too
36 Rhin detail 

little to cover your own cxpcnsl!s. Your numbers arc 10, 17. 2:!, 29. 36,41
(French

16 Be mature 59 Model born 
department) 

Melissa Miller ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't mix business and pleasure. You will be
17 Iowa kin 
37 Outstanding emotional about work. A problem with a deal you arc trying to complete must
60 Group f/64 

issues not be pushed aside. Be very careful that you do. in fact, get a fair deal. •••
18 Something co-founder 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Jealousy could prove to be a problem tor you.
politicians are 38 Modern 
61 Battle of the Not everyone will be out to get you. You need to be more tolerant and less
loath to do 
pentathlon __, opened on accommodating. A quiet and secretive nppma.:h will bring the best results. •u 19 Part of A.S.T.: event 10/16/1914 GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Someone you meet through work will have something worthwhile to share with you but don't take what this person says a~
Abbr. 39 "Easy as pie!" 
gospel. Add your own touch and intelligence to use the information ctl'ectively. 
20 TiVo 41 Dress shirt ....
DOWN 

forerunners feature CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Take the time to visit someone if' this person ha~ 
1 Cruising, say 
something to oft'er you. A face-to-face conversation will allow ynu to foresee 
21 "Kate & Allie" 42 Some wedding 
2 One puppy to possible future problems. Overspending will have to b<' avoided or you will 
arrangements

actress appear to be ti'ivolous. ••
another 

43 Accept LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You can set th.: stage and do your own thing today. 
22 Neckwear for 
3 "See?" follower Not everyone will agree with you but as long as you see the benefits go full speed
Sponge Bob 45 Convertible 
ahead. Take a leadership position. • ••••
4 Cost of doing 
Square Pants alternative 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have plenty of data to filter through.
business 

Someone you least expect may try to hold you back or control whut you are
24" one ... " 47 Obviously enjoy. 
5 Lot for sale doing. Personal investments will puy oil'. You arc in a good position to make
(opmer's as a joke 
financial gains. •**

opening) 6 Rent­
48 Impersonated at LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22) It's up to you to set the stage and control what is 26 Not permanently 
a party 7 Reply to "Who's happening. So many opportunities arc pr..:scnt but you have to choose one. A there?" creative idea will cause some controversy. A partnership will prove to be your
wet 52 Tennis score 
30 Fantastic 40 The Acropolis, 50 Team since 1962 saving grace. •• •
8 Pageboys, e.g.
28 Stymied 54 H notions once SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't fight the changes going on around you.
51 One-named
9 Pasqueflowers, Acceptance will be the key to getting out of a situation that hasn't been good fiJr
31 How to shoot 41 Hacienda hand, artist

e.g. you for a long time. Rid yourself of partners who have not played fair. •n
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ducks at a maybe 53 Per .. SA(;IlTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Pull in the reins a little and coniine yourself 
1 o Practiced 

shooting gallery 44 Red eye cause to things you know you can hand!.: and you will make financial gains. Trying 
56 SFO posting 
11 Watson's" to do things on too big a scale will backfire. Not everyone will be honest with
32 One destined to 46 Ottoman 
you.*** ..

Holmes ...~ 57 With 29-Down,
pass the bar honorific 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Just when you think you have everything.
greeting for 
12 _-Altenburg 
35 Fox competitor 48 It ends with two you will come up against something or someone who wants to stand in your way.
Mrs. Kowalski in
(old German 
bars Dtm't pay the price or someone clst·'s mistakes. ••
37 Weight­"A Streetcar 
duchy) AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You arc right on target on moneymaking ideas.
watcher's drink 49 Literary stream Named Desire" 
Stick to your original plans and you convince someone to get involved in what
13 Entertainment 
you want to do. • • • • 

exec Robert 
J>fSCF.S (Feb. 19-M arch 20): You will be extremely versatile today and this
For answers. call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
14 Hardy soul will help you adapt to whatever changes are required. Someonl.' may become
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

upset if you don't abide by the rules....
~~:;+:+.c+.:-l 20 Part of an aura 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday ~-=+=+::-.-;:-l 23 Parade pattern crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Birthday Haby: You are very unique in ~~II aspects of lil'e. You are ''reative, Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 loving and extremely intuitive. You arc an ideas person with spunk as well as
...;..+::;+:=+;:+:;:..j..;.fl!!l....,;,..;~4.:::-l 25 Foul-mouthed past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). discipline. 27 Still 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
"*':-t-i:+.::-~ 

Eugenh1:v U'eb silc!s: astro,tdvice.comfm·.fwJ. eu}{t'lliultt'it.comfor c:mttid('lllial con:mltutiml.\
.:....&..;::..&..::....L..;....L..;;..J 29 See 57-Down solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
---------------------·----------------------------------------------------­
ALEC WHITE & ERIC POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
01-\  MAN, 'iOU  'jE..AI-\.  I  ME-AN,  
WOULb t.,o\JE: DU@,LI N , MA.N.  t..\1'-E., 1'\/E C::roTIEN S.*** FAc..E.D IN  
• \ RISI-\  -pu.e:, RePLICA-S  
&EFOf.E:,\"' 1"\IC..\.\\GAN,  
&.ll  NOW \'M  
(:z ETtl Nl:t  S*"*'"'fi!¥..CD  
IN  AN  AU\~E.fi.l\ C..  
\f'i:.\S\4  FUB,  Mt:\N.  
(  

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
IF I St::.E AN'1 1 ''\..'-~''(­
BUT \ N\ E'i SOME 0\R.LS F~oM AI2-\'C.ONP\ STATE . THE'{' g_E. 
REALI...'j C..oOL. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ord1nary words. 
RINPT 

CIJ I I 
02005 Tribune Media SetVlcee, Inc. All Aighlll Aeamvvd. 
FEBOG 
j

I [X I I 

z
BAGLEM 
4 
WHY THE: WINDOW

[ J I 
WA?HE:R· TOOK 
www.jumbln.com 
A BRE:AK.
tENMIRE ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

J I r J I 
A: FOR ·-­
"[ I I I )"[ I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: SINGE CABIN UPSHOT RADIUS
Yesterday's Answer: What the deep-voiced guy turned into when he joined 
the prison quartet-A STRIPED "BASS" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Obsnrver is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 1:3,000 readers who have found Tho Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make cheeks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _____________________ Address-----------·-------­
City State ____ Zip______ 
-

~-------­

THE OBSERVER
J 

PORTS
Friday, February 3, 2006 
N D BASKETBALL 
Irish 'desperate' for league win at home against Friars 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hopes to continue its win­ning ways and climb back to .500 in Big East play Saturday at home against Providence. 
The Irish (13-7 overall, 4-5 Big East) topped Syracuse 6 7-55 Tuesday night in the Carrier Dome and will face the struggling but well-balanced Friars at 1
-p.m. Providence (6-14, 1-8) suffered a blowout loss at the hands of Marquette Tuesday to remain tied with Georgetown at the bottom of the conference stand­ings. The Friars lone conference victory was a 58-57 victory over Cincinnati Jan. 
see FRIARS/page 22 

Conference calls 

Photos by GEOFF MATIESON and TIM HUDELSON!The Observer At left, freshman Irish guard Lindsay Schrader dribbles past a Michigan defender during Notre Dame's 55-45 win over the Wolverines on Nov. 18. Right, Chris Quinn dribbles in the post on Jan. 28 in Notre Dame's 72-70 loss to Villanova. 
page 24 

Ahead of Louisville game, Quinn remains confident 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

Irish guard Chris Quinn was calm and relaxed after practice Thursday, an interesting mood given the fact Notre Dame is on the verge of missing the Big East tournament -unless something changes very soon. 
The Irish are running out of chances to reverse the course of their challeng­ing season. Saturday at noon, Notre Dame has another opportunity to earn a much-needed league win when it travels to Louisville. 
"I hope we give ourselves a chance to Win again," Irish COach Mike Brey said. "We're not going to go in there and 
see PITINO/page 22 

HOCKEY 
Irish set to take on No. 14 Spartans in a ho111e-and-ho111e 
Jackson says the team is confident facing a defensive powerhouse 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will play its first home game in three weeks tonight at 7:35 p.m. when the Irish take on No. 14 Michigan State in the first contest of a weekend home-and-home with the Spartans. 
The Irish (9-14-3 overall, 7-10­3 CCI-lA) enter the game tied for ninth in the CCI-lA with Bowling Green. They will face a Michigan State team that sits in fourth place in the conference but is riding a four-game winless streak dating back to Jan. 20. 
Still, Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said the Spartans, who tied No. 6 Michigan twice in a home-and-home last weekend, will be a tough matchup. 
"I think they're playing as well as any team in our league right now, maybe with the exception of Miami," he said. "They went through some tough times with injuries, but they're healthy now and they've showed what kind of team they can be." 
ND TRACK & FIELD 
Team to host Meyo Invitational 
Benninger hopes to top reigning NCAA one-mile champion 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 

One of the most presti­gious events in NCAA track and field will convene on campus this weekend when Notre Dame hosts the Meyo Invitational. 
The action kicks off today at 5 p.m. at Loftus and picks up again Saturday morning at 10 a.m. 
Squads from all of the 
major conferences 

including the ACC, Big 10, 
see MEYO/page 21 
GOLF 
Dubai Classic 


The Spartans are led by for­ward Bryan Lerg. The sopho­more tops the Spartans in points with 29, including 10 goals. 
In net for Michigan State, jun­ior Dominic Vicari and fresh­man Jeff Lerg have split time. Jeff Lerg, who is Bryan Lerg's cousin, has a goals against average of 2.06. Vicari is giving up 2.67 scores per contest. 
They will face a Notre Dame unit that had been putting up at least two goals per game until it ran into the wall known as Ohio State goalie Dave Caruso last week. The Irish scored only one goal on Caruso in two games, although they did earn a split with the Buckeyes in a pair of 1-0 games. 
Jackson said he hopes the offense will return against the 
see SPARTANS/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles look to avenge 
earlier loss to Calvin 
Saint Mary's has a 3-1 record in second meeting with teams 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's is out to prove that it's a different team in this second half of the season ­and so far, so good. 
After avenging a previous loss to Olivet with a 7 4-66 win on Wednesday night, the Belles will look to even their season series with the Calvin College Knights Saturday at 3 p.m. 
NFL 

FOOTBAll 
Jerome Bettis is set to 
The Seahawks replied 
Tiger Woods showed 

play in the Super Bowl 
to a Texas A&M lawsuit 
no signs of jet lag 

he always dreamed of, 
over the term "12th 
Thursday and is only 

and it's in his native 
Man" with a request to 
three shots off the lead. 

Detroit. 
move the trial. 
page 19 
page 17 

page 16 
The Belles dropped a heart­breaker to Calvin on Jan. 7, falling short 6 7-62. And while the Knights are currently in second in the MIAA with a 10­1 conference record, that doesn't intimidate the streak­ing Belles. 
The Belles have won five of their last six and have a three game winning streak after beating third-place Olivet. With an 8-4 conference record, they are just a win or a Calvin loss away from being in third place themselves. 
"We've won a few games in a row," freshman center Nicole Beier said. "We're on a good 
see CALVIN/page 21 
NBA 
Rockets center Yao Ming beat out Kobe Bryant for the most votes for the NBA All-Star Game. 
page 15 






