
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Rape prevention is common goal 
with student government and the Orestes Brownson Council -a campus group dedicated to the study of traditional Catholic teachings -to collab­oratively host a fundraiser for groups that benefited finan­cially from previous years' pre­sentations of "The Vagina Monologues." 
Student body president Dave Baron said representatives from Feminist Voice, Hight to Life, the Orestes Brownson Council and student govern­ment met Feb. 8 to discuss a way -a benefit formal -to raise funds for sexual assault prevention in an attempt to replace those not earned from this year's "Monologues," held in DeBartolo Hall Monday through Wednesday. Last year's performances raised approximately $15,000. 
see GOAL/page 4 
Bissinger buzzes on famous football novel 
By BRIDGET KEATING 
News Writer 
Vnnnratnd author Buzz Bissingnr delivnred a spirited rnnssage on the power of sports and tho inspiration thny lent to his best-snlling novel "Friday Night Lights" to an enthusiastic erowd at Washington Hall 7 
p.m. Thursday evening in the final 1wnnt of the Notre Dame Literary Festival (NDLF). 
NDLF Chairperson Laura Fox dnscribed the event-sponsoring Student Union Board's attrac­tion to the author of "Friday Night Lights" as a fitting end to tho festival. llis performance ~as ti~lnd "Through the Looking (,lass. 
"Bissinger's talent and work appnal to students' sports fanaticism and varied interests, as he has written about football, baseball and urban politics," Fox said. 
Bissinger. winner of presti­gious awards such as the Pulitizer Prize, Livingston Award, American Bar Assoeiation Silver Gavel Award and the National Headliners Award, delivered a pointed speech on his book, which cen­tered on the impact of high school football on small-town life. lie began by verbally paint­ing a picture of his journey to Odessa, Texas, through "dry, dusty Texas," where high school stadiums were "shrines, tem­ples, glistening, perfect. It was obvious that something powerful was going on in these places." 
Ile animatedly emphasized the "sacred, special American 
see BISSINGER!page 9 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

SMChosts Ensler-like production 
'SMC Monologues' is in its second year 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Assistant News Editor 

The Saint Mary's community will unite to promote campus awareness of sensitive issues like rape and violonee against women this weekend during two per­formances of the SMC Monolo~,rues -iL'i personal adap­tation of Eve Enslor's "Thn Va1,>ina Monologues," which has not been held on campus sinco 2004. 
The SMC Monologues mirrors the format of "Tho Vagina Monologues," but each mono­logue is a personally written reflection of the nxperiences of Saint Mary's students. faculty, staff and Sisters of tho Holy Cross. 
Campus Alliance for Hape Elimination (CAHE) prnsident and SMC Monologues producer Ginger Francis said 'The Vagina Monologues" was held on the Saint Mary's campus bntwenn 2000 and 2004, but students deeided the SMC Monologues was a more appropriate production given iL'i closnr connnetion to the Saint Mary's eornmunity. 
This is the sncond consecutive year CAllE, Feminists United and Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA) have producnd this event, which is designed to increase campus activism and awarenoss in tho 
· prevention of sexual assault against women. Francis said the overwhelming­ly positive response she received last year from the College admin­istration and members of the campus community prompted 
see SMC/page 6 


Amid 'Monologues' controversy, groups fight campus violence 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 

While the production of "The Vagina Monologues" has long been a polarizing issue on campus, one of the play's stat­ed goals -stopping sexual violence against women -is a constant objective at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. And various organizations on both campuses are making efforts to emphasize it, whether or not they support the play. 
Notre Dame's Feminist Voice and Hight to Life organizations have found the issue's severity outweighs its partisan volatili­ty, and leaders are in talks 
Junior parents pour onto campus for weekend event 
By JACLYNN MADDEN 
News Wrirer 
The parents of Notre Dame juniors have migrated annual­ly to South Bend for Junior Paronts Weekond since 1952, when University President Emoritus Father Theodore llnsburgh wanted juniors' par­ents to have the opportunity to take part in their child's Notre Dame life prior to graduation. 
More than 1 ,200 families an1 scheduled to arrive in the South Bend area today to cele­bratn the 54th annual Junior Parents W11eknnd (.JPWI. This year's .JI'W theme, "Traditional Notre Dame," 1nnbraces the true nature of' tho three-day gathering -for parents to experience the spir­itual, soeial and academic aspects of Notre Dame. 
JPW 2006 chairperson Marri Kajfez, a junior herself, expressed enthusiasm for the weekend and all its family-ori­ented events. 
"We hope that the juniors and their parents enjoy the traditional Notre Dame that we have sewn through our events," she said. ''I'm really excited to see all the parents that are going to be here expe­riencing Notre Dame in such a unique way." JPW kicks off at 9 p.m. today with the Opening Gala, a for­mal event at the Joyce Center to include dancing, a cash bar, hors d'oeuvres and portrait photography. On Saturday morning, the College of Science, College of Engineering, College of Arts and Letters and Mendoza College of Business will hold Collegiate Workshops for their students in which juniors and parents will hear faculty addresses and attend depart­mental presentations. Juniors and parents then will head to each student's residence hall for hall luncheons, where par­ents can mingle with rectors and roommates. 

University President Father John Jenkins will celebrate the JPW Mass at 5:30 in the Joyce Center Arena. Immediately following the Mass, the President's Dinner 
see JPW/page 4 


Friday, February 17, 2006
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Running on en1pty 
Between a costly, poorly-led war and Social Security complications, the Bush Administration faces numerous problems as George W. Bush begins his second term. Unfortunately, the one issue that remains largely overlooked -the 
Ann Kelley
environment -will unquestionably prove the most dis­
Photgrapher
astrous. 
At first Bush's concern for the environment looked promising -while speaking to several environmental advi­sors in May of 1999, he pledged that after his term as president, "the air will be cleaner, the water will be cleaner, and the land will be better cared for." 
Today, this statement is less true than the threat of WMDs in Iraq. In his first three months after being sworn into office as the 43rd president of the United States, Bush announced that the United . States would not take part in the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement between coun­tries to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. Without the United States which, with only five per­cent of the world's population, emits almost a quarter of the world's carbon dioxide, the goals of the Kyoto Protocol cannot be reached. 
Alarmingly, Bush refuses to take part in the agreement in part because he believes the rise in global temperatures is a natural phenomenon, despite countless research indicating that global warming is human-induced. 
Since rejecting the Kyoto Protocol and undermining the threat of global warm­ing, Bush has also supported drilling in the Arctic Wildlife, weakened clean air and water standards, broken his promise to protect and repair our National Parks and slowed the cleanup of toxic waste dumps. It is not surprising that environ­mental protection groups see the Bush White House as the most hostile in our country's history. Last month, six former heads of the Environmental Protection Agency, five of them Republican, accused the Bush Administration of neglecting global warming and other environmental problems. 
President Bush has made many irre­versible, serious mistakes during his presidency. None will prove as cata­strophic as his decision to ignore the pressing environmental issues that face our world. The Bush Administration's regressive environmental policies are destroying the health of the American people, our standing in the world, the companies who are struggling to imple­ment. environmentally safe technology, and the irreplaceable biodiversity of our earth. 
In his recent State of the Union Address, Bush spoke of further clean­energy research, ethanol as an alterna­tive energy source, and increased American energy independence. I sin­cerely hope Bush carries out these promises, but his past environmental record suggests otherwise. I can only pray that the successive leaders of our country take these environmental issues seriously -considering that ifour coun­try continues to approach environmental issues as the Bush Administration has, the irreversible damage inflicted on our world will be devastating beyond imagi­nation. 
Contact Ann Kelley at akelley@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU GOING TO SMC MONOLOGUES? 

Caroline Dunne 
junior Regina 
"No, 'cause I'm not into all that feminism stuff" 

Cindy Wahlman 
senior Opus 
"Yes, I am going to support the women ofSaint Mary's and academic freedom." 

Saint Mary's student Susan Mitchell performs a piece about being proud to be a feminist at an SMC Monologues rehearsal Thursday. The SMC Monologues will be performed Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. . 
OFFBEAT 
Ruined Iraqi city promotes peace with olive trees 
FALLUJA, Iraq Residents of Falluja, the Iraqi city devastated by a 
U.S. offensive in 2004, have begun planting thousands of olive trees in a bid to pro­mote peace. 
The first trees were plant­ed Wednesday near a foot­ball pitch that became a graveyard for the victims of the U.S. military assault against insurgents holed up in the city. The aim is to plant 250,000 trees by April, organizers said. 
"It is a peace message to all Iraqi cities to cast away all the sectarian and ethnic 

TODAY a:: 

issues and hold together," said Hassan Muhammed, a member of Falluja's Cultural House group. 
Falluja, 50 km (32 miles) west of Baghdad, was a stronghold of Sunni Muslim militants until the U.S. offensive, which left much of the city -known as the "city of mosques" -in ruins. 
Mourners photograph deceased wtih cell phones 
TOKYO -Japan's obsession with camera-equipped mobile phones has taken a bizarre twist, with mourners at funerals now using the devices to capture a final picture of the deceased. 
"I get the sense that peo­ple no longer respect the dead. It's disturbing," a funeral director told the Mainichi Shimbun newspa­per. 
At one ceremony several people gathered round the coffin and took out their phones to photograph the corpse as preparations were made to begin a cremation, she was quoted as saying. 
''I'm sure the deceased would never want their faces photographed," she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
LLI 
::r:: 
~ 

LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 

(.) 

0 

..... HIGH 30 HIGH 21 HIGH 18 HIGH 22 LOW 21 LOW 13 LOW 7 LOW 9 

Erin Fitzpatrick 
junior LeMans 

"No, because our school forced them to change the name from 'Vagina' to 'SMC. "' 
IN BRIEF 
The Saint Mary's College Dance Ensemble Workshop will host its annual perform­ances today at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2:30p.m. and 7:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The programs will include ballet, jazz and modern dance. 
Notre Dame Concert Bands will perform a Rosa Parks Memorial Concert today at Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Cener. It is a free but ticketed event. Call 574-631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
Black Koffeehouse, a show­case of African American art, literature and music expressed in the Notre Dame community, will take place today at 7 p.m. iri LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Chicago-based improv comedy troupe Second City will perform today at 9:30 ·in Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $10 for non-students and are available at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The Irish women's tennis team will face Tennessee at 12 
p.m. Saturday and Harvard at 10 a.m. Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Israeli philosopher Avishai Margalit will speak at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies' annual John Howard Yoder Dialogues on Religion, Nonviolence and Peace at 11 a.m. Monday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 29 HIGH LOW 15 LOW 
25 12 


Atlanta 64 I 48 Boston 52 I 44 Chicago 21 I 19 Denver 15 I 5 Houston 66 I 61 Los Angeles 59 1 44 Minneapolis 8 1-2 New York 55 I 42 Philadelphia 55 I 43 Phoenix 70 I 47 Seattle 33 I 19 St. Louis 32 I 24 Tampa 79 I 61 Washington 64149 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, February 17, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Weis gets personal at Saint Mary's disability lecture 
By NICOLE ZOOK and AMANDA SHROPSHIRE  Fortun atoly, W1~ is said. hn and his wife had tlw financial resourcns to help tlwir daugh­ 2,000 requests to speak oaeh year--donating all of the speaking foes to llannah &  
Nrw~ Writers  ter. Thny soon realiznd devel­ Friends.  
opmental delays aiTeetod fami­ "To be honest with you,  I  
Notn~  l>amn lwad football  lies around thn world, and  don't really likn talking about  
coach Charlie Wnis discussed  they wanted to help. Tho pair  football," Wnis said. "On the  
his experience as tho f'atlwr of  founded  Hannah and Friends.  llip side, I don't have much of  
a  child with developmental  a  nonprofit organization dedi­ a  proble!n talking to students  
disorders in  a  talk to students  catml to providing bnttnr quali­ or  anyone about people who  
at Saint Mary's Thursday.  ty  of lil'n  for  children  and  arc globally and developmen­ 
Wnis asknd  thn standing­ young  adults  afl'neted  by  tally dolaynd, because it is per­ 
room-only crowd in Vandnr  autism and global delays.  sonal.  
V e n rw t T h n a t e r  to  i m a g i n n  "This  is  not  a  promo  on  "Winning  football  games  
t.lwir lirst ehild  -"apparnntly  charity work," Weis said. "This  doesn't do  me any good. I'm a  
thriving, appanmtly normal"  is telling you  how you  can  miserable person as a  football  
- f'adn  into  hnr  own  little  make  a  difference with any  coach, because if I don't win  
world.  "almost  disorder. We did  every game, I'm not happy," he  
likn a fog." That was  the  "The good part of  not go money  raise for  said. "The good part of me doesn't come from football. lit  
case  with Wnis'  me doesn't come  researeh.  We  comes from I bringing compas­ 
daughtnr llannah I I ynars ago wlwn shn was  from football. /It comes from/  were trying to go right to the kids to make their  sion to poople who just don't get )autism)." Weis said he attempts to give  
first diagnosed with Persuasive IJPVPiopmPnt Disorder (1'1>1>1.  bringing compassion to people who just  lives better." Weis said the original goal of thn foundation  his audience "a grasp of what you really deal with" when someone you love has autism. "Thern is no day that it does­ 
Wnis said hn and his wifn. Maura.  don 't get autism. "  was to $100,000  raise pnr  n't aJTeet you," Weis said. CHELSEA GULLINGrThe ObserverWeis said he and his wife  
wont through a d i l'l'i cult t i m n .  Charlie Weis  year. But every grant requested  Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis speaks to Sainthave a long-term goal of build­Mary's students Thursday in Vander Vennet Theater. ing a farm with multiple  
asking  them- Notre Dame head  in the f'irst year  dwellings for people with spe­ 
snlvns what they  football coach  was salislied, and  dal needs to live and work on.  would allow them to live fulfill­ "My wife and I talk about her  
did  wrong af'lnr  the  foundation  Weis said  this projeet  was  ing lives almost on  their own.  as  an  angel,"  Wnis  said.  
realizing  the  now  raises  more  inspired by Hannah, who is "a  lie also said he and Maura  "Hannah  carne  to  us  so  we  
problem eould not be lixml.  than $500,000 every year.  very soeial girl  --she likes to  "greatly look forward to  the  could do  some good. She  was  
"I'IJI> is kind of a  eateh-all,"  Weis said the organization  have friends."  day" Hannah lives on the farm.  given to  us to be a  messenger.  
Wnis said. "Thny have autistie  fullills needs sueh as fences for  "We've tried to involve her  "I will not consider my suc­ Our lives  are  mueh  morn  ful­ 
qualities, but it doesn't matter  backyards  - so  children do  more  in social programs with  cess based on football," We is  lilled bneause of what shn has  
if' )tho ehild is) autistie or not."  not wander off-and eomput­ other kids with special needs,"  said.  "The  day  Hannah  is  given to us."  
Whiln  people  who  suffer  ers for kids to speak through.  Weis said. "She has a heck of a  taken care of, my son and wife  
from 1'1>1> can have a variety of  Weis, who calls himself a  lot more fun because she real­ are  taken care o!', I will have  
symptoms, Hannah's inelude  "very private person" and said  izes she's not alone."  done my job."  Contact Nicole Zook at  
autistic qualitins,  severe  food  he had "zero  awareness  of  Weis said the farm would be  Weis  also  said  Hannah  zook8928@saintmarys.edu and  
allnrgies  and  multiple  autism" prior to IIanna's diag­ geared toward people with  serves as inspiration to  the  Amanda Shropshire at  
snizurns.  nosis,  now receives  more than  various  speeial  needs  and  Weis family every day.  ashropO I @saintmarys.edu  


In the offices of the Alliance for Catholic Education, 112 Badin Hall 


From2-4PM Friday, Feb. 17th 
If you're interested in ACE, and want to let your parents find out more information, please stop in! 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 17, 2006 
Goal 
continued from page 1 
"It was one of the most impressive meetings that I've been to at Notre Dame," Baron said. "To see individuals who are diametrically opposed on the issue of 'The Vagina Monologues' come together in a shared spirit of creativity and shared opposition to sexual vio­lence was great." 
Baron and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell met Feb. 

violence, sexual harassment and rape are problems occurring within the campus community that "deserve much more atten­tion." 
"We are not immune to these ills," she said. 
Notre Dame Security/Police associate director Phil Johnson said three instances of forcible fondling and one rape were reported during 2005. 
The department is looking into a second alleged rape, which Johnson said was not reported to the department, involving a Saint Mary's student who said she was assaulted in a Notre Dame 
10 with Executive residence hall. 
'To see individuals
Assistant to the NDSP is also
who are
President Frances soliciting informa­Shavers and Vice diametrically tion on sexual President for offenses from res­
opposed on the
Public Affairs and ident assistants,
issue of The Vagina
Comm-unication rectors, advisors, Hilary Crnkovich. Monologues' come deans and depart­He said the pur­together in a shared ment heads for its 
pose of the meet­2005 report,
spirit of
ing was to update Johnson said. the administra­creativity and "There are sex­tors on campus shared opposition ual assaults 
sentiment and reported to other
to sexual violence is 
discussion regard­agencies because ing academic great." they happen off­freedom. campus, at houses "We told them or apartment
Dave Baron
of the joint meet­complexes," he
student body 
ing of Right to said. "Those 
president
Life, Feminist aren't in our juris-
Voice and student government as an example of a collaborative effort," he said. "We presented the basic idea of a benefit formal to fight sexual assault, whiCh they supported in principle, but await us to present further details as they are determined." 
The date, location and intend­

. ed attendees of the event have not yet been confirmed, but Baron said he hopes the benefit formal will be held in conjunc­tion with student government's Sexual Assault Awareness week, to be held March 27 through 31. 
Baron said event organizers will likely seek funds from the Council of Representatives Collaboration Fund -a fund "by which student groups and organizations who collaborate to put on an event can receive additional funds." 
Right to Life president Arina Grossu and Feminist Voice presi­dent Kaitlyn Redfield declined to comment Thursday. 
Anthropology professor Carolyn Nordstrom, who studies sexual violence against women, lauded the coop­eration between the various stu­

"Because there is no
dent groups and Resources (SOS), said problems like institutional academic depart­rape and sexual ments and the
framework, people 
assault require student body. 
feel anguished. It's 
some of "the most Saint Mary's creative solutions hard to come up Counseling Center in the world." director Kris
with a positive
"For Feminist Pendley said staff
solution without the 
Voice and Right to members are 
Life to come [necessary] tools." available to help together to create victims of sexual a solution is ... a violence alleviate
Carol Nordstrom
beautiful thing," emotional trau­
anthropology
she said. ma. A support Nordstrom said professor group also was diction." 
Preacher said rapes often go "largely unre­ported" and statistics represent only a small percentage of rapes that occur. 
"We want to encourage stu­dents to come forward and know we have trained staff to assist them," Johnson said. "It opens options because [crimes] are harder to pursue if survivors wait to report them." 
Nordstrom said the University can better combat such crimes "on a number oflevels." 
"We need rape crisis centers, people trained -police, rectors and rectresses, health care administrators," she said. "We need a culture of social friend­ship, a network of people who understand and request justice." Notre Dame has a Sexual Assault Advisory Committee that meets several times a semester to implement measures to address crimes of sexual vio­lence on campus. Preacher said the group is comprised of repre­sentatives from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's residence life, the Gender Relations Center, NDSP, Sexual Offense 
she has had an "awful lot" of stu­dents come through her office over the years as victims of rape or sexual assault and even more as friends of people who have been sexually violated. 
"It's a lot more pervasive [at the University] than administra­tors recognize, [butl students are more aware," she said. "Because there is no institution­al framework, people feel anguished. It's hard to come up with a positive solution without the !necessary] tools." 
Arts and Letters associate director Ava Preacher, who serves as the University's sexual assault resource person, said 
introduced this 
semester for sex­ual assault victims at the College. 
Through her studies, Nordstrom said she has seen firsthand the detrimental effects -on health, fertility and even lifespan -crimes of sexual vio­lence can bring to a society. 
"We need to be a little more civilized," Nordstrom said "My question is, 100 years from now, how will we be judged? We will be judged very harshly if we don't do something. We have to deal with this." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


Sophotnore parents visit College 
Weekend activities include dinner at South Bend's Palais Royale 
By MEGAN OSBERGER 
News Writer 
With the football season over and a bristling winter setting in, most students go months without seeing their family. 
But all that will change for Saint Mary's sophomores the weekend of Feb. 17-19 for Sophomore Parent's Weekend at the College. 
Students are preparing to see 

their parents ''I'm really looking and celebrate forward to mythis year's 
parents having a
theme "Ladies of the 

direct involvement 80s." in myLocal hotels 
environment. 
are filling up quickly, and sophomores are Beth McKevitt getting excited Saint Mary's for the highly sophomoreanticipated weekend. 
''I'm really looking forward to my parents having a direct involvement in my environment," sophomore Beth McKevitt said. "Seeing my parents with my friends and their parents will be a nice change from normal." 
For some students like sophomore Siobhan Lezynski, the most anticipat-
JPW 
continued from page 1 
will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Junior class president and student body vice-president elect Bill Andrichik will give the junior class address, and Jenkins will deliver the President's address. 
The weekend concludes Sunday with the Closing Brunch, also in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. The brunch will feature a speech by Father Mark Poorman, the vice president for student affairs. 
Local hotels and travel services have prepared for the annual influx of junior parents. 
Anthony Travel began organizing trips for JPW par­ents as early as last March. Pat Walsh, vice president for business service at Anthony Travel, said the agency "has helped a few hundred par­ents book trips this year ­we book air flights for many parents, but the biggest part comes from booking hotel r o o m s " The Inn at Saint Mary's, Walsh said, is the most popu­lar hotel for those parents booking through Anthony Travel. Aware of their high popularity and demand, The Inn at Saint Mary's has raised its rates for JPW. Other hotels in the area, however, do not raise prices for this weekend. The South Bend Marriott, Holiday Inn and The Morris Inn keep their prices at normal week­end rates. 
"We do not need to raise our rates because there is not a huge demand of rooms for us," said Dawn Boulac, Holiday Inn general manag­er. "JPW is not a like a foot-
events include an academic open house, a tour of the South Bend Chocolate Factory and an 
all-class  mass  
held  in  the  
Church  of  
Loretto.  The  

night will con­clude with the Palais Royale dinner. 
During the 

been planning the event since last semester, and stu­dents had to fill out invita­tions before Thanksgiving. 
Most students will not attend every event. 
"I'm sure we'll go to most of the events, but my parents have not met any of my friends yet, so that will be what most of the weekend is for," sophomore Natalie Manese said. 
McKevitt said her parents wanted to have a tailgate before the disco party on Friday, but "we'll see if that actually happens," she said. "We're definitely going to the tour of the chocolate facto­ry." 
Whether or not the stu­dents attend all of the events, the weekend is about creating interactions between family and friends, McKevitt said. 
"It is going to be a totally different situation than the last time all of our parents were here with us," McKevitt said. "That was back moving in our first year, and every­one was wondering how their daughters would do away from home. This time is to show them that we're all just fine." 
Contact Megan Osberger at mosberO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

With Special Guest 
BLUE OYSfiR CULf 
Sunday March 19 • 7:30pm Morris Performing Arts Center 
TICKETS GO ON SALE SATURDAY FEB 11 
at 1O:OOam at Morris Box Office, charge by phone 574/235-9190 or ~:"'/),/ . 


&tlt'Jt't'l.r 
ed event is the presidential reception and formal dinner 
at  the  Palais  Hoyale  
Saturday night.  
"I'm  definitely  excited  

about the dinner," Lezynski said. "I live far away and really look forward to seeing my parents. This will be the only time I see them until summer." 
The weekend activities will begin with a disco party Friday night. Saturday 
dinner there will be a slide show containing pictures submitted by members of the sophomore class. There will be a silent auction for gift baskets to benefit the class of 2008, followed by danc­ing. 
The Sophomore Parent's Weekend Committee, headed by Kelly MacDonald, has 
ball weekend where thou­sands and thousands of peo­ple pile into South Bend. We are not even booked for this weekend, and half of the res­idents that will be here are not even here for JPW." 
Only two out of the six South Bend hotels inter­viewed are booked this weekend -the conveniently located Inn at St. Mary's and Morris Inn. The Morris Inn, located on campus, has a unique way of booking hotel rooms for JPW parents. In the fall of each semester, most of the rooms in The Morris Inn go to a junior class lottery. Those parents who enter the lottery are then chosen at random to stay in one of the designated hotel rooms for JPW. 
A committee of 13 juniors began coordinating JPW in April 2005. 
Kajfez is confident this weekend will be a fun yet meaningful time for the Class of 2007 and the families. 
''I'm really excited for JPW this year," she said. "It's hard to believe that 10 months of planning is finally here." 
The JPW committee also includes one advisor, Brian Fremeau, the coordinator of student welfare and develop­ment at the Students Activities Office, and two sophomore committee chairs. The sophomore committee chairs, chosen a month before JPW, are in charge of organizing sophomore volun­teers to manage the behind­the-scenes work so the jun­iors on the committee can actively enjoy their JPW. All undergraduate residence halls will have parietals at midnight Friday and Saturday of JPW. 
Contact Jadynn Madden at jmadden1 @nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, February 17, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
============~==~============================================~·==~~============= 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Death squads to be investigated 
BACIII>AI>-Thn Shiitn-dorninatnd Interior Min is try an no urH:nd an investigation Thursday into daims of dnath squads in its ranks as polien found a dozen morn bodies, bringing tho numlwr of appar1H1t vil:tims of s1~ctarian rnprisal killings lwre to at least :~0 this WOI~k. 
Tlw probe was announend aftnr U.S. mili­tary ol"lirials indicawd thnre was nvidnncn to support tlw all1~gation of dnath squads. The 12 nwn found on Thursday had henn bound and shot in tho lwad nxenrtion-style. 
At least 25 ot.lwr pnopln wero killnd in vio­lnnel' across Iraq, inr.luding thren tribal slwiks slain in a drive-by shooting north of tlw capital. Throe supportnrs of anti-U.S. rlnrir Muqtada al-Sadr dind in a Baghdad mortar barragn. 
Preval is winner of Haiti election 
I'OHT-AU-I'HINCI·:-Hnnn l'rnval was dPdan~d thl' winrwr of llaiti's prnsidontial 1d1~elion Thursday undnr an agreement bntwenn tlw intPrim govnrnmnnt and elne­tond r.oundl, staving off a crisis ovnr last WIH~k's disputnd votn. 
With nnarly all thn ballots countl~d. l'rnval had lwen just shy of tho 50.1 pnrennt margin rwndnd to avoid a runofT. 
Under the agn~nnwnt, oflkials dneided narly Thursday to divide the H5,000 blank ballots r.ast in the Fnb. 7 election among the eandidatl~s in proportion to the percentage thny had alrnady won. That gave Proval a 
51.15 pnrennt majority, said Michel Brunacho, r.hinl" of Cabinet for interim l'residiHJt Bonifac1~ Alexandre. 
Tlw blank votes represented about 4 pnr­cnnt of tlw eslimalnd 2.2 million ballots east. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man trained to commit jihad in U.S. 
SACHAMENTO -A man aecusnd of attend­ing an al-()aida training camp is a trained tnrrorist intent on attacking Americans, prosecutors allngml Thursday, but his attor­rwy called him just a direelionless young man prone to wild slorytnlling. 
In opening statements of Hamid llayat's fnderal trial, prosncutors said the 23-ycar­old Lodi man visitnd thn Pakistan camp in 2003 and 2004, thm1 returnnd to his family's home in California farm eountry and awaited information about potnntial terrorist targP.ts. 
"Hamid llayat talked about jihad bnfore he nvnn loft tho United StatP.s," prosecutor Laura F1~rris said in opnning statnments. "lin admittnd lw w1~nt to a jihadist training camp, not oncn but twiee." 

White House defends its port sales 
WASIIINC;T<>N -Tlw Bush administration on Thursday rnbull"nd critidsm about poten­tial sneurity risks of a $6.H billion saln that givns a company in thn Unitod Arab Emirates 1:ontrol over significant operations at six major American ports. 
Lawmaknrs asknd tlw Whitn House to rl'eonsider its narlinr approval of the deal. 
Tho sale to statn-owrwd I >ubai Ports World was "rigorously reviewed" by a U.S. commit­loll that considnrs sncurity throats when for­ldgn eompanies seek to buy or invnst in Anwrkan industry. National Seeurity Coundl spoknsman Frmlnriek .Jones said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Arrest made in hospital fondling 
ANI>I·:HSON-A tnnnagnr nntnrnd a woman's hospital room and fondlnd hnr before tlwn hrnaking into loekl'd ollkns, authorities said. 
Polin~ oflienrs arrnstnd Dnrnk D. Hutchison, IS, of Andnrson, insid1~ tlw voluntenr serviens ofliens of St. .John's MPdical Cnntnr about I::~o 
a.m. Wl'dn1~sday on prdiminary fi~lony dmrgns of burglary. tlwl"l and snxual battnry. 
llutdrison was a visitor of an nmnrgnn1~y room patinnt wlwn lw wnnt into the main part of the htltipital. said Marlnrw Carny, St. John's vicn pr·psidnnt of eorporatn communications. 

Cheney's explanation 'just fine' 
Bush approves the vice president's handling of his traumatic hunting accident 
Associated Press 

WAS II IN G T 0 N­
President Bush said 
Thursday he was satisfied 
with Vice President Dick 
Cheney's explanation 
about his shooting aeei­
dent, and Texas authori­
ties said they had closed 
their investigation without 
filing any charges. 

"I thought the vice pres­
ident handled the issue 
just fine," the president 
said in his f"irst public 
comments on Saturday's 
accident. "I thought his 
explanation yesterday was 
a powerful explanation." 
Bush said it was "a 
dnnply traumatic 
momnnt" for Clwney "and 
obviously it was a tragic 
moment for llarry 
Whittington." lie said that 
the shooting "profoundly 
affected the vice presi­
dent." 

In Texas, meanwhile, 
the Kenedy County 
Sheriff's Department 
released its report from 
Chinf Deputy Gilberto San 
Miguel Jr., which said he 
interviewed Cheney the 
morning after the shoot­
ing. Cheney explained that 
he did not see hunting 
companion Whittington 
eome up behind him and 
aeeidentally sprayed him 
with birdshot in the face 
and upper body while 
aiming at a quail, the in our state's politics for a eern about the fact that explanation and I'm satis­
report said. long period of time. My Cheney did not speak to fied with the explanation 
As for the timing of the concern is for Harry and I him about the accident he gave," tlw president 
public disclosure of the know the vice president until they saw each other said. 
shooting, Bush said feels the same way," Bush on Monday. On Wednesday, in an 
Democrats arc drawing said. Bush recounted intervinw on Fox News 
"thn wrong conclusion Whittington remained in Cheney's explanation of Channel, Cheney said 
about a tragic accident" stable condition Thursday the accident. "lie heard a Saturday had been "one of 
when they say it depicts at a Texas hospital, two bird flush and he turned the worst days of my life." 
the White House as overly days after doctors said and pulled the trigger and lie rejected any notion 
secretive. one of tho shotgun pellets saw his friend get wound­that Whittington bore any 
"Yesterday when he was traveled to his heart and ed," the president said. responsibility, saying, ''I'm here in the Oval Off'ice I he had what they called Bush, during an Oval the guy who pulled tho saw the deep concern he "a mild heart attack." Office photo opportunity, trigger and shot my (Cheney) had about a per­While some White seemed upset when friend." son who he wounded," House officials were pressed about whether he Cheney also d1d"ended Bush said. "I thought yes­unhappy about the vice was satisfied that Cheney his decision to keep tho terday's explanation was president's handling of the had disclosed the shooting shooting from the publie a very strong and impor­accident, Bush did not in a timely way. until a day after it hap­tant explanation to make publicly object to Cheney's ''I'm satisfied with the pened, allowing the rand1 to the American people." decision not to make the explanation he gave," ownnr to tl~ll a loeal news­
The president said he shooting public until Bush said tersely. paper about it instead of knew Whittington from Sunday, the day after it "I thought his explana­making an official Bush's days as governor of happened. The president tion yesterday was a very announcemont from l.ho Texas. "lie's been involved also did not express con-strong and powerful White House. 
SWITZERLAND 

Guantanamo should be shut down 
said. Some intnrrogation techniques ­
Associated Press 

McClellan dismissed the report as a partieularly tho use of dogs, expo­
GENEVA -The United States "rehash" of allegations previously sure to extrnmo tornperatures, sleep should shut down tho prison for ter­made by lawyers for some detainees deprivation for sevoral consoeutive ror suspects at Guantanamo Bay and and said the military treats all pris­days and prolonged isolation ­either release the detainees or put oners humanely. caused extreme sum~ring, tlw n~port thorn on trial, the United Nations "We know that al-()aida terrorists said. said in a rnport released Thursday. are trained in trying to disseminate "Sueh treatnwnt amounts to tor­
Tho world body also callod on the false allegations," McClellan said. turn," it said, urging the Unit1HI United Statos to refrain from prae­Tho report. summarizing an inves­Statos "to rnfrain from any praetil:e tkos that "amount to torturo." tigation by five U.N. expnrts who did amounting to torturP or ITUI'I, inhu­
Tho Whito House rnjoetnd the ree­not visit Guantanamo, said photo­man or dograding troatnwnt." omnwndation to shut the prison. graphic evidonce and testimony of It also said Guantanamo's military 
"Those arc dangerous tnrrorists former prisonnrs showed that commissions are under tlw ultimato that wo're talking about that are detainees were shackled, chained. authority of tlw Whito llousP and tlwro," spokesman Scott MeClollan hooded and be a ton if thoy resistml. that dntainens should havn trials. 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 17, 2006 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

her to make the SMC Monologues an annual College event. 
"The performance is very pow­erful and we received a great response," she said. "These are stories for us, created for us, per­formed by us, performed by real women who tell real stories." 
Vice President of Student Affairs Jjnda Timm, who attend­ed last year's performance and plans to go again this year, said the SMC Monologues have proven to be a "powerful experience" of stories from the Saint Mary's community. 
'These individuals are willing to share their experiences, their issues and, in some instances, their pain with us," she said. "That takes courage and a great deal of faith that in sharing their stories, it may help someone else." 
A 1 0-person board comprised of students, faculty, staff and sis­ters selects approximately 25 monologues for the performance and then reviews the submis­sions, which include a variety of genres from poetry to essays. 
CARE faculty advisor and College psychology professor Catherine Pittman said not only do the SMC Monologues allow for a more intimate look at campus issues, but they also showcase the students' superior writing skills. 
"(Saint Mary's] is a place that has a strong focus on writing," she said. "Writing expertise is a strong characteristic of our stu­dents . . . and I think we some­times take for granted that we get so many people to respond [to our request for monologues]." 
Francis said the idea for the SMC Monologues stemmed from the worldwide V-Day campaign, which dedicates February to activism targeting violence against women. 
"We really wanted to do activism work focused on the experiences of Saint Mary's women," she said. "The Monologues reflect the deep, per­sonal issues within the Saint Mary's community." 
The 27 actresses in this year's production will each read one of the selected monologues, and Francis said no one will recite her own submission. 
Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership [C.W.I.L.] research analyst and Monologues actress Joy Evans said her partic­ipation in the SMC Monologues allows her to get involved with students who are proactive in changing the College community. 
"It's really been a phenomenal process both years to watch stu­dents develop their own voice and become empowered to speak out on challenging issues," she said. "It's also a real honor to be able to give voice to a fellow SMC woman's experiences." 
Senior SMC Monologues actress Stephanie Snyder said she per­forms to help break the "violence of silence" and acknowledge that no one is alone in his or her per­sonal struggles. 
"The power of presence is what makes the monologues different than any other publication [at] Saint Mary's," she said. "The presence of the women on stage combines with the presence of the women they are reading for to create a space in which all feel sorrow, joy, embarrassment, pain and, most importantly, healing." 
Francis said she believes that the College is one of the first in the nation to create a version of Ensler's "Monologues" written solely by the members of the immediate community -a fact that is gradually confirmed through SMC Monologues' .cover­age in "Women in Higher Education" and discussion at national educational conferences. 
Francis is creating a documen­tary about the SMC Monologues' production process and said she hopes it will serve as an instruc­tional tool fQr other communities who wish to create their own ver­sion. 
"I hope to premier my docu­mentary in April," she said. "I also will hopefully present it at my next [educational] conference in Wisconsin." 
But for now Francis is focused on this weekend's performances at 7 p.m. Saturday and 2 p.m. Sunday in Carroll Auditorium. She said she hopes to surpass last year's $600 donation -raised from the $3 admission fee ­made to S.O.S., the local rape cri­sis center. 
"When you walk out of the SMC Monologues, you'll be changed forever," she said. "The axis in which you live [will bel shifted ... it will open your eyes and shift your thinking." 
Snyder said she too wants the audience to experience a change in their thoughts and attitudes after viewing the performance. 
"I hope the audience feels uncomfortable at times, sad at times and happy at times,"she said. "The overall effect is that there is one monologue that each person in the audience resonates with. [But] mostly I hope they take from it that we are strong, effective, powerful women and we will not be silenced." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 
Skilling blatned for dispensing false info 
Rice claims he was told to mislead Enron board 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Kenneth Rice, chief of Enron Corp.'s strug­gling broadband unit, testified Thursday that his boss, Jeffrey Skilling, directed him to paint a rosy, misleading picture for the Enron board of directors that was in line with false state­ments Rice said he already made Wall Street analysts who influ­enced the company's stock price that the business was well-positioned for strong, long-term financial perform­ance. In reality, however, EBS was spending $100 million per quarter and generating little revenue and business, he said. 
He told the board, after mak­
ing what he said 
were some 13 
to financial  ana­ "What I presented  drafts of his pres­ 
lysts in 2001.  to board was  entation, that his  
But Rice, the former CEO of  inconsistent with  unit was success­ful, helped Enron  
E  n  r  o  n  what was going on  overall  keep  a  
Broadband  at EBS. ,,  strong position in  
Services, said in  the market, that  
his third day on  its  broadband  
the stand at the  Kenneth Rice  network  was  
fraud and  con­ broadband unit chief  substantially  
spiracy trial of'  Enron Corporation  complete  and  

Skilling and founder Kenneth Lay that he had no documents and "only my recollection" to back up a conversation he had with Skilling, Enron's chief' executive, as he prepared for a May 2001 meeting of the com­pany's board. 
"What I took from meeting with Mr. Skilling was he wanted me to put a presentation together that was more consis­tent with the analyst confer­ence and less direct on some of the challenges we were facing at EBS," Rice said. 
In January 2001, Rice told 
they had an "excellent deal flow" in trading activities. 
"What I presented to board was inconsistent with what was going on at EBS," said Hice, who is among 16 ex-Enron executives who have pleaded guilty to crimes stemming from the government's investigation of the energy company's swift tumble into bankruptcy pro­ceedings in December 2001. 
But as he has done through­out his three days of testimony, Rice stopped short of saying Skilling lied to investors about the health of Enron. 
MC C.A.R.E. (Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination) presents: 
2nd Annual SMC MONOLOGUES 2006 
Saturday, February 18th @ 7pm Sunday, February 19th @ 2pm Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall 
The SMC Monlogues are an original production of the stories based on the experiences of women in the Saint MaryIs Community! 
Suggested Donation of $3. All proceeds will go to SOS (the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County) and the YWCA 
Do nit miss your chance to hear the voices of Saint Mary's speak!! It is an AMAZING and EMPOWERING production. Join us as we celebrate the lives of Saint Mary's women 
Sensitive, adult topics intended for mature audiences 
For more information please contact Ginger Francis@ fran3260@saintmarys.edu or Jen Hanlon@ hanl6805@saintmary.edu 
Sponsored by C.A.R.E., Feminists United, and SAGA (Straight And Gay Alliance) 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Friday, Pebruary 17 , 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,883.35 +24. 73

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,691 151 1,586 2,442,958,200 

AMEX I ,831.05 +14.64 NASDAQ 3,102.99 -5.72 NYSE 7,980.17 +5.26 S&PSOO I ,263.7S -1.87 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 16.430.94 -8.73 FTSE IOO(London) 5,808.70 +83.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 
+0.77 +0.15 19.55 ORAC:LE CORP (ORCL) 
+0.95 +0.12 12.69 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+ 1.60 +0.33 21.00 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.95 -0.39 40.71 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) 
-3.0 I -0.18 5.80 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -1.18 -0.54 45.41 13-WEEK BILL +0. I I +0.05 43.97 30-YEAR BOND -0.81 -0.38 46.43 5-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.10 45.41 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.07 62.62 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +14.30 568.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.13 77.55 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.6800 EURO 
0.8348 POUND 
0.5739 

IN BRIEF 
XM Radio posts wider quarterly loss 
NEW YOHK -XM Satellite Radio Holdings Inc.'s losses soared in the fourth quarter on higher eosts for marketing and acquiring sub­scribers, and a key director quit over disagree­ments about the company's direction, warning of a looming "crisis." 
Investors punished the shares of the Washington, D.C.-based company, sending them down $1.27, or 5 percent, to close at $23.9/ol in very heavy volume Thursday after­noon on the Nasdaq Stock Market. They reached a 52-week low of $22.94 earlier in the day. 
Of particular concern to investors was the unexpectml departure of Pierce J. Hoberts Jr. from XM's board of directors, who said in his rnsignation letter that he was "troubled" by the company's current path. 
"(iiven current course and speed there is, in my view, a significant chance of a crisis on the horizon," Hoberts wrotn in the letter, which the eompany disdosed in a regulatory liling. "Even absent a crisis, I believe that XM will inevitably serve its sha.~eholders poorly without major changns now. 

Swift plant cannot ship meat to Japan 
WJ\SIIINGTON The Agriculture Department has prohibited a Swift & Co. meat­parking plant in Nebraska from shipping bed to Japan. 
Tlw department said tho plant's bod met all thn rul1~s for exporting to Japan, but its proce­dures did not. 
"It was not a situation of unsafn liwd or any­thing likn that," Agriculture Secretary Mike .Johanns said. 
Tlw c;rand Island. Noh., plant dwse cattle suppliPrs without gelling tho approval of its rorporatn lwadquarters. a violation of export ruiPs that t.urrwd up in a routine audit this wnPk, thP dPparlmPnl. said. 
I>PJHtl'l.llll'llt spoknsman Ed Loyd said tlw audit was unrPiatnd t.o a prohihitnd vnal ship­mnnt that arrivnd in .Iapan last month. That shipnwnl originatPd in Nnw York. 
.Iapan suspnndPd imports hncausn the veal ruts rontairwd harkhorw, which !\sian r.oun­lriPs ronsidnr at risk for mad 1~ow disease. Tho rut of wal, hotnl rark, is naten in tho Unitnd Statl•s. 


Dow hits high on late surge 
Investors are at ease after Wall Street shows excellent gains in cautious trading 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Stoeks postnd moderate gains Thursday, buoyed by Hewlett-Packard Co.'s earnings, a surprising jump in home construction and morn positivn com­ments from the Fednral Hoser·vn. The Dow Jones industrial average posted a new 4 1/2-year high on a late surgo in trading. 
llnwlett-Paekard's ongo­ing turnaround encour­aged buying in the tedmol­ogy sector and helped the Dow r·eaeh its highest level since .June 5, 2001, demonstrating Wall Strnet's confidence in large-rap storks. 
Investors' er.onomie wor­ries were eased as the news on home construc­tion, which jumped 14.5 percent last month, fol­lowed a bullish economic outlook from new Fnderal Heserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. 

"Clearly, the m'!trknt has turned for the better hero," said Joseph Battipaglia. chief invest­ment officer at Ryan Beck & Co. "You're seeing today some of the ebb and flow that's to be expected in a market like this, but with Bernanke saying the econ­omy is still powering ahead, this is not a bad environment to be in." changed, with the yield on in oil prices, could keep ny's stock rating to "out­
However, with the major the 10-year Treasury note stocks from building on perform" from "market indexes posting substantial falling to 4.59 percent their gains. perform." gains for the week, from 4.60 percent late "Nobody wants to get 11-P's impact on the tech Thursday's trading was Wednesday. The dollar ahead of things," said Jeff sector may have been lim­lackluster until the last rose against most major Kleintop, chief investment ited as investors waited to half-hour of the session, currencies, while gold strategist for PNC see quarterly earnings when St. Louis Fed prices fell. Financial Services Group from rival Dell Inc., due President William Poole A jump in oil prices lim­in Philadelphia. "The stuff after the session. Dell said the Fed was close to ited the stock market's that could happen later in added 19 cents to $:31.96 stopping interest rate gains. A barrel of light the year could be creeping before the report. hikes. crude settled at $58.46, up into things now, which is Target Corp. said its 
The Dow rose 61.71, or 81 cents, on the New York keeping us flatter than I fourth-quarter earnings 
0.56 percent, to 11,120.68. Mercantile Exchange. would've liked." rose 14 percent, helpnd by 
Broader stock indicators The recent drop in oil Hewlett-Packard rose a number of new stores as also posted modest gains. below $60 per barrel, $2.35, or 7.4 percent, to well as better sales at The Standard & Poor's 500 combined with strong $34.02 after beating Wall existing locations. The index rose 9.38, or 0.73 earnings and Bernanke's Street's earnings estimates retailer beat Wall Street's percent, to 1,289.38, and testimony, spurred this by 4 cents per share on earnings forecasts by a the tech-focused Nasdaq week's rally. However, strong notebook computer penny per share. Target composite index added some analysts question sales and success in cost nonetheless lost $1.21 to 18.20, or 0.8 percent, to whether future uncertain­cutting initiatives. Credit $54.59 as investors wor­2,294.63. ties, such as slower eco­Suisse analysts subse­ried about the company's 
Bonds were little nomic growth or a reverse quently raised the compa-expenses. 

Boston Scientific stock up sharply 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Sharns of Boston Seientil"ic Corp. rose nnarly 9 per­cent Thursday af'tnr the medical device maker's top chief l"inancial off'icnr bought nearly $4.5 million worth of his company's stock, prompting invnstors to follow his lead and drive up thn stock's pricn. 

The shares' risn to thnir highnst closing priee in morn than a month helped thn stock rnbound from a recent slump amid invnstor wor­rins about thn company's pending $27 billion acquisition of Guidant Corp. Shares of Boston Scientific also havn languished following a .Jan. 25 warning by thn U.S. Food 
and Drug Administration about quality-control problems at the Natick-based company. 
Analysts said investors Thursday responded to stock purchases by Larry Best that amounted to a per­sonal vote of conf'idencn in his company's futun1. 
"I think investors do take insidnr buying as a good sign, and I think thny nspeeially wanUHI Boston Scientil"ic to do it," said .Jan W;dd, an analyst with !\.(;. Edwards & Sons. 
Bnst, chief l"inancial oiTiem· and a snnior vice president, bought 200,000 shares on the open mar­kd W11drwsday at an averagn prien of $22.43, according to a filing with the Sncuritins and l~xchange Comm iss ion. 
In rncnnt days, anothnr company insider, board mnmb1~r Nicholas Nicholas .Jr., bought 25.000 sharns. 
Shares of Boston Seinntil"i1~ rosn $1.97 to elosn at $24.5/ol, and trad­Pd at morn than th nw tim ns t lw normal volunw on tlw NPw York Stoc.k Exr.hangP. It was tlw higlwst dosing pricn sincn .Jan. 13, when shares elosNl at $25.20. 
Tao Levy. a I>Put.sdw Bank ana­lyst, said In a rnsnareh rnport that the moves by BPst and Nicholas incrnased his conl'id1~nr.l' in tlw outlook !'or Boston Seil'nt.ifie and its C uid ant. <u~q u is ition. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, February 17, 2006 
Bissinger 
continued from page 1 
phrase-'Friday Night."' He went on to speak about the power of sports and the experi­ence of seeing 20,000 fans cheering on high school boys when he moved to Odessa in 1988. 
The author then turned to the negative influence of athletics and "the other side, the way in which kids were literally being sacrificed in the hope of winning a state championship." 
He further described the town's obsession and adoration of 

''I'm not a sports writer," he said. "I gravitate toward sub­jects that light me up." 
Throughout his speech, Bissinger alluded to Notre Dame's tradition and reputation, contrasting the University to other schools at which academ­ics are a second priority to ath­letics and where athletes "are not there to study." 
In a post-lecture interview, he expressed his respect for Notre Dame's "unique tradition of excellence on and off the play­ing field.'' 
"The concept of student-ath­lete has not been compromised here," he said. "It is one of the 
few schools that 
can attract top
"Preparation for life 
high school foot­students and con­ball. after this tinue to have· a "Preparation for intoxicating winning tradi­life after this tion.''
experience [high 

intoxicating expe­Audience mem­rience is consid­school football] is bers were able to erect little more considered little socialize with the than an after­acclaimed author
more than an

thought," he said. at a reception fol­
He spoke at afterthought." lowing the length about speech. Booby Miles, the SUB Manager
Buzz Bissinger 

Permian High Jimmy Flaherty
author
School football player whose life and high school football career are chronicled in "Friday Night Lights." Bissinger said the book started positively and "began as a love story, like 'Hoosiers,' but turned out a cautionary tale.'' 
The author fielded questions from the attentive audience about the movie, its effects and more. He described his experi­ences with the film -which his cousin directed -as positive. 
Bissinger denied that his next project would necessarily involve sports. 

commented on 
the lecture's role as the culminating event of the Literary Festival. 
"Bissinger is a premier author," he said. "This event was an amazing opportunity for students to interact with him in an informal setting, which is what NDLF is all about.'' Begun in 1967, NDLF encourages close interaction between students and the visiting wide spectrum of writers. 
Contact Bridget Keating at bkeating@nd.edu 
Senate nears Patriot Act passage 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate pushed the Patriot Act a step closer to renewal Thursday, overwhelmingly rejecting an effort to block it. 
Passage is expected next month for extending the law that was passed weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks as a weapon to help the government track terror suspects. 
The 96-3 vote Thursday was no surprise to Sen. Russell Feingold, the Wisconsin Democrat who was the lone sen­ator to oppose the law four and a half years ago and is the chief obstacle to extending 16 provi­sions now due to expire March 10. 
Feingold, who is considering seeking his party's presidential nomination, plans to make the Senate spend several more days on the bill. He complained that Majority Leader Bill Frist, R­Tenn., had used procedural maneuvers to prevent him from trying to add more protections for people investigated by the government. 
"We still have not addressed some of the most significant problems with the Patriot Act," Feingold said. 
At the White House, spokesman Scott McClellan urged the Senate to keep up the momentum on the legislation, which he called "a good faith effort" to improve the law. 
"Yet there are still some Senate Democrats that want to continue to engage in obstruc­tionist tactics and prevent this vital legislation from being reau­thorized,'' McClellan said. "We hope the Senate will move ahead quickly and reject the continued obstructionist efforts." 
Only Sens. Jim Jeffords, 1-Vt., and Robert C. Byrd, D-W.Va., supported Feingold on Thursday's vote to stop what Frist had characterized as a fili­buster preventing the Senate from acting on the legislation. Sen. David Vitter, R-La., did not vote. 
The changes Feingold was seeking included an amendment that would set a four-year expi­ration date on Patriot Act provi­
sions  regarding  National  
Security Letters  - demands  
made  to  banks,  libraries,  

Internet providers and others without warrants -for records of their customers or clients. 
Another amendment would require the government to notify the subject of a secret search within seven days or obtain court permission to maintain the secrecy for a longer period. The bill would give authorities 30 days after a search before they had to notifY the subject of it. 
Feingold said the new deal some Senate Republicans bro­kered with the White House on civil liberties protections would "still allow government fishing expeditions." 
Other senators also had advo­cated more curbs on the govern­ment's power to investigate peo­ple. But with the law already extended temporarily twice since December and a midterm election approaching, most of those who share Feingold's con­cerns are willing to accept the compromise struck last week with the White House. 
Virtually all of the 45 senators who had stood with Feingold last year to kill a House-Senate agreement abandoned the effort this month after two of them, Republican Sens. John Sununu of New Hampshire and Larry Craig of Idaho, struck a deal with the White House to add more privacy protections. 
"Compromise and consensus require concessions and flexibil­ity,'' said Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., who sided with Feingold in December but who will now vote for the bill. "It is the responsibility of the Congress to 'provide for the common defense,' and I believe we live up to that duty in this bill." 
Sixty votes were required to overcome Feingold's filibuster. 
Supporters expected the Senate to pass the bill March 1 and the House to quickly add its approval. 
Under the deal, recipients of court-approved subpoenas for information in terrorist investi­gations would have the right to challenge a requirement that they refrain from telling anyone. The bill would also remove a requirement that an individual provide the FBI with the name of an attorney consulted about a National Security Letter. A third change, supporters say, makes clear that most libraries are not subject to National Security Letter demands for information about suspected terrorists. 

looking for something to do during JP\N? 

February 17th \Nashington Hail 
6:30 and 9:30pm 
(tvvo shovvings) 
$5 student: S 1 0 non-students 
<2J!Io. 

Tickets on sale beginning February 8th @ LaFortune Box Of'f"ice. 
brouqht: t:o you by t:h-'1!:!'!Ext:ra ticket:s vvill be sold at t:he door. S1't.ldl€!'nt: ur\i£>n l::l<:larc:i 
Friday, february 17, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



January boasts record-breaking housing construction 
Associated Press 1973, but it was expected to tioned against reading too more than a century. Some 
be a one-time blip caused by much into the one-week rise. economists, however, said that 
WASIIIN<;TON -Construe­unusually warm weather in They said the level still a 6.8 percent rise last month lion of rww honws and apart­January that prompted remained in a zone that indi­in building permits, which are ITI(~nts, dPI'ying foro(:asts of a buildnrs to start work on more cates a strong job market. not affected by the weather. housing slowdown, shot up in homes. Analysts aro forecast­Ian Shepherdson, chief U.S. could be a signal that housing .January at tlw fastl)st pace in ing that housing construction economist for lligh Frequency activity will not slow as much more than throo decados. wi II slow this year as the Economics, said that jobless this year as previously thought 
Tlw Commorco l>npartnwnt nation's f'ive-year housing claims are likely to bounce as long as mortgage rates do rPport(~d Thursday that build­boom quiets down. arimnd quite a bit for a few not rise too quickly. ing activity was up 14.5 per­In otlwr economic news, the weeks, reflecting the disrup­"Low long-term rates and a r.Pnt last month when com­number of Americans filing tions in 11ling claims caused by strong jobs market will contin­parod to l)(~r.nmbor, pushing elaims for unemployment ben­the weekend's huge snow­ue to provide substantial sup­construction to a seasonally ef'its rose to 297,000 last storm in the Northeast. port to the housing market," adjusted annual rate of 2.27(, wnek, up 19,000 from the pre­The weather played a major said Bob Waltnrs. chief econo­miII ion units. vious wonk. Tho increase was factor in the big rise in con­mist for Quicken Loans, an 
That was tho fastest con­largor than (~conomists had struction last month, which online lender. struction rate since March been expecting but they cau-was the mildest January in On Wall Street, the Dow 
Now, all your incoming calls can be free. 
L-----( Even the 5 calls from your girlfriend in the last 20 minu 
Free CALL MESM Minutes 
(in your local calling area) 


~US. Cellular 
We connec.~t with you: 
Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All servicll agreements subject to an early te1111ination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee applies. Tills Is not atax or government-required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our te1111s and cond~ions. Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday through Friday 7:00p.m. to 6:59a.m. and all (1ay Satur(1ay and Sunday. Night and weekend minutes are available in local calling area only. Fl'lle CALL ME"" Minutes are not deducted from package minutes and are only available when receiving calls in your local calling area. Local calling area dilfe!S from national calling area. Use of the AOI.' Instant Messenger'" service mObile application requires easyedge"' data services. 30-Day Guarantee: CUstomer Is responsi­ble for any dlarges incurred prior to return. @2005 Det Jam Mobile and AG lnblractive are trademarks and service marks of their respective owners. All righ1B reserved. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. LJmned time offer. @2006 u.s. Cellular Corporation. 
Jones industrial average rose 
61.71 points to elosn at 11,120.6R on Thursday. 
The 14.5 pnrennt rise in eon­struction activity in January followed a 6.9 percent drop in Deeembnr. Analysts had bem1 expecting a rebound but the actual rise was far above tlwir forecasts. Still, they aro fore­casting that construetion of new homes and apartments will decline by about 6 percent in 2006 from last ynar's 2.07 million units. 
For .January. construction of single-family homes rose by 
12.8 percent to an annual rate of 1.819 million units, an all­time high. Construction of multifamily units was up 21.9 percent to an annual rate of 457,000 units. 
Permits, considered a good 
indication of futuro activity, 
rose as well in .I an uary, rose 
to an annual rate of 2.217 mil­
lion units. Applications for 
building permits had been 
down 4.1 percent in 
December. 
Sales of both new and exist­
ing homes havB set reeords for 
five consecutive years as 
unusually low mortgage rates 
have spurred demand. 
However, mortgage ratl~s hav(~ 
started rising, reflecting a con­
tinued campaign by tho 
Federal Hnsnrve to boost inter­
est rates in an efl'ort to knnp 
inflation pressures from 
inernasing. 
Forneastnrs bnlinvo that 
sales of both nnw and existing 
homos will deelinn slightly this 
year and prices, which havn 
boon surging, will risn but at a 
slower paeo than tlw doubiP­
digit gains seen in much of' tho 
country in recent years. 
Thn National Assoria tion of 
Healtors reported Thursday 
that thn slowing in sales that 
started at tho nnd of 2005 has 
yet to dampnn pri(:n gains. 
Thn Hnaltors found that 72 nwtropolitan an~as around tlw eountry rnportnd double-digit gains in nwdian home pricns for existing honws sold in tlw last three months of 2'005, compan~d to thn sanw JWriod in 2004. That was a record lnvol for areas rnpor·ting dou­hl<~-digit pricn increases, lwst­ing th n old mark oI' (,I). Tho biggest gain camn in tho met­ropolitan area that includes Phoenix. Ariz., wlwrn honw prices shot up by 4R.IJ JWn:Pnt. 
Some n<:onomists have nxprossnd conenrns that onen homo sales start to slide, tlw big price gains wuld turn into sharp deelinns in prirns in some arnas, bursting the sp(~C­ul ati vn bubble in much tlw same way that tlw stock mar­knt bubble burst in early 2000, triggoring shod wav(~S that holpnd to push tho country into a recession. 
II owev(~ r, nnw Fedora I Heservn Chairman Bnn Bornanke, testifying to Congress on Wedrwsday, said hn did not nxpnet sud1 a severn impaet from thn hous­ing slowdown. 
"A leveling out or a modest sof'tening of housing activity seems more likely than a sharp contraction," he told mem hers of the House Financial Services Committee. 
Building activity rose in all parts of the country in January. The biggest gain was a 29.2 percent rise in the Northeast followed by increas­es of 23.7 pereent in the Midwest. 16.9 percent in tho West and R. 7 pnrcent in thn South. 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 17, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
~ lndlf/'I!Rdnzt, D11ily Newspaper Sn-vitrg Notre Dmnr atrd Saint Mary's 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsS'!~ MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR! Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemems based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A"istant Managing Editors and department editors. C'..ommentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh!ierver (USPS ';9924000} is published MQndil}' through Ftlday ti~~qn during exam and va<:ation p<:riods. Asu~Y-iaiptio-n to The'Ob~t i..5' $100 tbr -one at:<ldemic year; SSS for one semester. 
The Observer is published ;u: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H~ll Send :addres~ eorrecrlons m: Notte Dame, IN 46S5:6..0779 The Obscrvet PeriodicJ.I po~age paid at No(re Dame ro.Jlo,n9 and additional mailing offices -Q2-4 Souch Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obset\'Ct is .a member of the Associated Pt~. All teproduaion rights at-e te!.ervcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Karen Langley Ken Fowler Mary Kate Dan Murphy Malone Fran Tolan 
Jenny Hames Scene Viewpoint Chris McGrady Joey King Tae Andrews 
Graphics Alexa Antekeier 

Academic 'Monologues' belong at ND 
Let's hope he saw what we saw. 
A blunt, vulgar, shocking production that without hesitation por­trays masturbation, extramarital sex and lesbian seduction onstage. And a production that absolutely belongs at the nation's top Catholic university. 
University President Father John Jenkins said he attended "The Vagina Monolo!-,rues" Wednesday -Notre Dame students' third and final performance of the Eve Ensler play this year -to "listen and learn." That is exactly what he needed to do bnfore deciding whether aeadmnie departmnnts ean continue to sponsor the play at the University. and he should be commended lor his attendance. Now-with the V-Day campaign's demonstrative peak finished for another year -comes the waiting game, as the Notre Dame community anticipates the president's verdict. 
And now that .Jenkins ha..<; seen the play in the academic setting he required, he should choose to allow the "Monologues" to remain -a dwice he should make not only in favor of academic frePdom. but in favor of the University's Catholic character, as welL 
Not that he wasn't right to bn concernnd. "The Vagina Monologues" contains plenty of' crude, disturbing and arguably immature cont1mt that even the most liberal view­ers often find ollfmsive, as well as some seemingly O Lfhe 
userver

pointless skil<; -induding lisL<; of what a vagina for Notrn Danw -all of which audiences did suc­would wear or say -that are not particularly cessfully this week. enlightening. Questioning the appropriateness of Hetaining these academic compmwnts lilr future
Editorial 

continue to be held in a large elassroom, an environment that plays an important part in setting the audi!mm's expm:tations and the event's academic tone. Other campus aeademie evenl<; don't charge money for attendance, so the "Monologues" shouldn't either -the funds the play raises (()r charities fighting violence against women can be raised through other means, just as earn­pus clubs are attempting to do this spring. Stopping sexual vio­lence, as Jenkins said in his academic lrnedom and Catholic char­actBr addresses last month, is an undoubtedly worthy cause, and the Notre Dame community should show it<; support by pledging its dollars to the l'undraising alternative the groups eonceive. 
Also crucial to preserving the academic character of the "Monologues" is the continuation of tlw panPI discussions that fol­lowed this year's perfi)fmances. The diseussions provided valuable insight into the themes of the play, as well as a wider context f(w itscontent that enhanced the audinnce's understanding of the play's purpose. Futurn pands should maintain those goals, while also ensuring a range of viewpoint<; arn represented by seeking out both supporters and detractors of "The Vagina Monologues" to speak on behalf of it<; meril'> and laulL'i. And studenL<; and faculty must make speakers' educational elli.Jrt worthwhih~ by listening to the panelists respectfully. questioning them intensely and seeking in the discussion implications 
Ensler's approach wa..<; dearly within the president's bounds. Though .Jenkins should allow the play's performance to continue, criticism oft.he "Monologues" is certainly valid. 
However, Notre Dame, to quote its 15th president, Father Theodore I Iesburgh, strives to graduate "some of the most intelli­gent. Catholics in America." It's a lofty and unique goal, one the University recognizes can't bB accomplished by simply reinforcing Church teaching. In and out of the classroom, students already are encouraged to critically examine their faith in light of contempo­rary challenges. Confronting and engaging Church teachlng while at Notre Dame -MassBs-in-residence-halls Notre Dame, crucifix­es-in-lecture-halls Notre Dame, "God, Country, Notre Dame" Notre Dame -allows studenl<; to strengthen and deepen their under­standing of Catholicism in a pervasively Catholic context. 
Intelligent young Catholics who will lead the Church for decades to come must understand how their beliefs apply to American society in 2006, a society that includes masturbation, extramarital sBx and lesbian seduction -not to mention rape, sexual abuse, female genital mutilation 'hnd other atrocities the "Monologues" brings to light. Exposing Notre Dame students to aspects of con­temporary culture through a production like "The Vagina Monologues"-performed by their talented peers, in a classroom, followed by an open discussion of Catholic teaching versus the play's content -is a positive educational force to open their eyes and put their professed Catholic beliefs into practice. 
This academic context is essential, however. If academic free­dom is cited to justify "The Vagina Monologues"' presence at Notre Dame in future years, then the play must retain the academic character it showed in the past week. The "Monologues" should 

Notre Dame productions of the "Monologues" should leave no question about whether the production bBiongs underneath the University's academic freedom umbrella. Academic departments should be able to decide to sponsor the play on the grounds of sponsoring learning, not on the grounds of endorsing the content of the "Monologues." If the University administration is squeamish about the play attracting publieity and prompting qw~stions about Notre Dame's Catholicism, it can simply make a public statement that while Notre Dame does not endorse the play's content and values due to the University's Catholic character, some of its departments have chosen to spon­sor the play as an academic exercise. 
"The Vagina Monologues" has been performed at Notre Dame for five years now, and the play has yet to cause the drastic shift in Catholic character that some continue to predict. There has been no upsurge in pro-choice, or pro-war, or anti-charity, or otherwise Catholicism-conflicting events on campus. Notre Dame is still widely recognized as the best Catholic university in the country. Its president is still gre!~ted fondly by the popn. And to retain that character and that status, as associatn professor of theology Father Paulinus Ozodor said at Tuesday's panel, events like the "Monologues" that conflict with Catholic teaching "cannot go unchallenged in a Catholic university." 
Indeed, Father Jenkins, they cannot. So challenge them -not by banning the "Monologues." not by silencing student<;' voices, but by fighting spench with spneeh: holding panels, sparking dis­cussions and pushing intelligent Catholics to graduate from Notre Dame having challenged, utilized and strengthened their faith, not having hidden behind it. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Administration defines academic freedom 
I have followed with some interest the discussion in the Viewpoint section on academic freedom at Notre Dame and other, secular, universities. However, I believe certain participant<; in this discussion have made a subtle but important category mistake. 
For example, Professor Gary Anderson discusses the case of a prominent Oberlin professor who was "subject to terrible harass­ment" for espousing views critical of "the normalization of homo­sexual behaviour" ("Lessons from other universities," Feb. 15). While I hope readers across the political spectrwn can agree this was, prima facie, an incident of terrible injustice, it seems to me to be completely irrelevant to the issue of academic freedom ­unless Oberlin has an official or unofficial policy of discriminating against people with these particular views (which strikes me as highly unlikely), the harassment was no doubt carried out by indi­viduals, not the administration as such. 
By eontra..<;t, the issue at Notre Dame is whether it is consistent with justice for our administration to systematically restrict the expression, oul<;ide of a narrowly-construed "academic" context, of views that are thought to differ from official Church doctrine (whether this diflerence actually rises to the level of contradiction or not). Thus, whether it is consistent with justice for the adminis­tration to bar "The Vagina Monologues" from using theatre spaces on campus and raising funds for local rape crisis centers; or whether it is consistent with justice for the administration to forbid the formation of student organizations ba..<;ed on support fi)r access to abortion or the "normalization of homosexual behaviour;" or whether it is consistent with justice lor the administration to adopt policies that would recognize the reality of sex, both consensual and otherwise, among the student body (pun intended). 

Certainly the incidence of discrimination by individuals at other, secular, universities is a mark against those schools. But this does not imply the administration of these universities restricts social conservatives the way the Notre Dame administration is thought by many to restrict social liberals; nor does it imply that it's some­how just for Notre Dame to tilt the scales in favor of social conser­vatives because they are discriminated against elsewhere. 
OBSERVER POLL 



Submit aLetter
a. 
Yes, I'm curious about Ihe conlroversy. 

b. 
No, Icouldn't get alicket. 

c. 
No. I'm not interested. 

d. 
Yes. 1support the v-day movement. 




to the Editor at 
e. No, 1don'! support them. 

www.ndsmcobserver.com · 

*Poll appears courtesy of 
www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based 
on 391 

Dan Hicks graduate student department ofphilosophy Feb. 16 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Whatever you are, be a good one." 
Abraham Lincoln former president 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, February 17, 2006 page 11 
An unholy approach to television's lure for tithing 
The new year accentuates a need for revnnue by so-called tnlevangelists. Whiln their methods sometimes differ, they laser on specilie rhetoric for pledges, vows or tithes. Hecently bill­boards, direet mail­ing pinces and tdevi­sion broadeasts have permeatnd our lives. This writer surfnd the channnls well past midnight to record some requests and has concluded that P. T. Barnum was correct when deelaring that a stu:knr was born nvnry minute. 
Spirituality is the most private and pnrsonal aspeet of' our lives. Factions in any religion should not "preaeh" on how to corroctly worship. Yet time aftor time tolevangelists instruct us on thn propnr way to worship, mostly with a "born again" conversion. Hernarkably Jimmy Swaggert contra­diets fellow ministers saying that they may lead to the death of souls in a black pit. Swaggort reveals that a docade ago the Lord told him to write a new Biblical interpretation which he snlls for a m(lre $125 with three musi­cal CDs -usually a $17 5 offer. 
Pat Hobertson's "700 Club" recently hosted a telethon to raise $450,000. Interestingly, Hobertson's approach was twofold, targeting the wealthy 

Gary Caruso 
CapitalComments 

while asking the poor to contribute just 65 cents a day. Drawing on our human greed, viewers were told that if we want a $100,000 job, we must begin to think at that level and give to the Lord (i.e., Robertson) at ten per­cent of that amount. Once we have committed to God, He will, in turn, reward us by opening a door to such a position. Robertson's son noted that many viewers were able to give $10,000, and "you nend to call." Pledges totaled $582,000. 
It seems to this writer that Hobertson "needed" those people a bit more than the wayward flock watch­ing the telethon. A staff person hand­ed the younger Robertson a yellow paper with a pledge for $10,000 fol­lowed by another pledge of an unusual $5,004 amount. Moreover, the elder Hobertson 's quick math left this watcher bewildered. lie asked for a mere 65 cents a day, "about $20 a month" or about $200 a year. Actually, 65 cents a day equals more at $237.25 a year, but less than $20 a month. The crawl below the screen listed names and "$20 per month." 
One televangelist offered "free mira­cle water" with a call to his 800 toll­free number. Never mentioning contri­butions, he promised "miracle money." After airing sessions where he healed others by touching their foreheads before they fell to the floor, the program cut to testimonials from those receiving "miracle money." One woman told of $7,000 miraculously transferred into her checking account. Another claimed that $10,000 appeared in her account. 
Testimonials are the lifeblood of fundraising, and each program aired several. Many begin describing how desperate the people were for hous­ing, money, a job or their own lives. A February flyer from Hon Hembree of Cornerstone TeleVision Network, which airs the 700 Club twice a day, features an upbeat cover story about a woman who planned to kill her boyfriend and end her own life. She has transformed her life since she began watching Cornerstone. When Cornerstone last contacted her, "she had a thriving ministry as an author, songwriter and speaker." 
Cornerstone also offers live ways to contribute-monthly plndge, telethon pledge, special gift, memorial gift and caring hearts -but nowhere does it list how to obtain an accounting of income and expenses. To take the message of Jesus Christ to the ends of the earth, Hembree offers a $5,000 special gift feature which raises a for­eign flag on his Avenue of Promise leading to "Signal Hill." After a year, the foreign flag will be sent in a pres­entation box to the contributor. Hembree writes, "Prayer not only helps us align our will with that of our Lord but also spurs us on to fulfill His command to reach a world He loves an died for." 
Kenneth Hagin Ministries touts that "your believing brings about your receiving." lie quotes Mark 9:23 with editing, "Jesus said ... If thou canst believe, all things arn possible to him that believeth." lie writes that "some people quote the same scriptures they've heard a preacher quote and wonder why they don't get results." The answer might come from fellow preacher Hobert Tilton whose January 2006 plea targeted desperate people facing bankruptcy which he could see through the television. Asking for a vow of $1,000 seed money to God (envelopes included). hn may havn recycled his tnlevision "visions" onen too often for the credits ending the program revealed it had been filmnd in 199H. 
Give this Catholic writer the origi­nal, traditional Christian outlook which was never designed to be com­fortable and whose "born again" notion meant leaving this life for the next. Even thnn we are not releasnd from tithing as demonstrated by a bill­board on the road to Detroit's Super Bowl soliciting us beyond our graves, "Is God's will in your will?" 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who seriJed as a legislatiiJe and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. /lis column appears eiJery other Friday. 1/e can be contacted at hot­tline@aol.com 
The IJiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The ObseriJer. 

Sooner or later, more than a few of us do a mountain stint. 
For me, movie scenes from "Brokeback Mountain" flash bigger­than-life reminders of time I spent on 
that lonely hilltop.  
My Brokeback occurred 20 years ago in San Francisco. Snrving as a naval officer, I was engaged  Chuck Colbert Guest Columnist  
to be married to a  
woman.  

But a severe case of cold feet pushed me to a critical turning point. Unlike Ennis Del Mar (lleath Ledger) and Jack Twist (Jake Gyllenhaal), the movie's protagonists, I broke off' that engagement six weeks short of my wedding day. 
Bnlieve me, it was not easy telling my fiancee a hurtful truth. I was gay. 
Sure enough, it was during an Engagnd Encounter weekend, that I, then a Homan Catholic, prayerfully faced up to my own truth. 
I was an only son; and pressures of family, church and state weighed hnavily on me. So much expectation restnd on my shoulders to marry well and carry on the family name. For Ennis and Jack different societal pres­sures nnsnared them. 
I look back and lind it nothing less than a miracle the courage that I, a then very conflicted 2H-year-old naval office, managnd to muster. It was dou­bly risky for me. My fiancee's father was a retired naval officer. In this good Catholic family, rage and hurt could nasily have given way to pay­back-reporting mn to military ofli· eials as I brokll the silence and came out of the doset. 
Instead, my fiancee's mother phoned a few days after breaking off the engagement; and said to me, "Chuck, I know that what you did for my daugh­ter, telling her, you did out of love for her. 1\nd I will never forget that." The parish priest, who had mentored 

A 'Mountain' of discovery 
and confirmed me into the Catholic faith in my hometown of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, encouraged me to break off the engagement and come clean. He assured me that he would provide sensitive pastoral care for my parents as they dealt with a bitter disappoint­ment. 
Fortunately, I lived in California. Gay life and same-sex love had traveled a long way from 1963 to 1983, from the loneliness and heartbreak that E. Annie Proulx's short story tells in wrenchingly stark prose. 
The story's plot line and mood are only enhanced on film. The motion picture captures all of the pathos and more, with full moons and crystalline blue skies, the alpine beauty of big-sky country Wyoming-style, the wide-open stretches of landscape that Ennis and Jack share with coyotes, bears and herds of sheep. 
For me, Gustavo Santaolalla's haunt­ing music captures perfectly the pre­vailing melancholy. That music and the dark Wyoming skies pierced only by moonlight enabled me to go back in time, connecting with my own private Brokeback. In the film, it is the.moun­tain's biting cold that brings Ennis and Jack together, if only for the warmth of human connection in a bedroll. Suddenly, the spark of same-sex male desire ignites and never really dies out. 
Many of us have been there. It's a breaking point-where only the raw male physicality of sexual desire cuts through. Words can't quite bridge the disconneetion and loneliness many of us feel-imprisoned behind walls of stultifying silence and denial. 
But you don't have to be a cowboy to feel the pain of the ill-fated love story of Ennis and Jack. My husband and I saw "Brokeback Mountain" before vis­iting my family for the holidays. If thtlre is ever a gay-themed story with hometown resonance, this story quali­fies. 
There I recalled another powerful scene from the movie. It's the one in which a highly constricted, emotional­ly disconnected Ennis holds two shirts. One shirt is Jack's; the other belongs to Ennis. That clothing and the memo­ry are all that remain. 
Undoubtedly, during the last 40 years, society's knowledge and under­standing of gay people and same-sex relationships have grown. Yet I fear that that for far too many Brokeback's chains still shackle and bind. From small towns in rural America and even within close-knit urban communities -I wonder about men too constricted to trust their true feelings, too afraid to come out fully, too burdened to be more honest with themselves, family and friends. I wonder also about the silently painful Brokebacks -past, present and future -within the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's extended fami­ly. 
I guess I'm lucky. More than 20 years later and well off my Brokeback hilltop, I celebrate nearly two years of being happily and legally married to another man here in Massachusetts. Still, married or single, there is some­thing about "Brokeback Mountain" in all of us. Personal narratives on the lilm's Web site, 
www.BrokebackMountain.com, testify 
to the lilm's universal appeal. 
Despite the movie's box office suc­
cess, four Golden Globes, and eight 
Oscar nominations, a "Brokeback" 
backlash of misunderstanding has sur­
faced. 
A few weeks ago, the movie was 
pulled from a theatre in Utah. For 
some, its showing at Notre Dame 
seems to threaten the University's 
Catholic character and very identity. 
But I am not worried. The truth­telling power of this film derives from its -ability to break the back of preju­dice, intolerance and misunderstand­ing. For those who leave Brokeback's pain behind, there's no turning back -no return to the self-destructiveness of self-denial, to the prison of silence. 

A 1978 graduate ofNotre Dame, Chuck Colbert is a freelance journalist who li!Jes in Cambridge, Mass. 1/e is a founder ofthe Gay and Lesbian Alumni ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's. 1/e can be contacted at Crcli/UND@aol. com 
The IJiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obser11er. 

Want to be acolumnist, copy editor @;~Of lllustfator for Viewpoint? 
E ..·~arab at Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE

page 12 
Friday, February 17, 2006 
Upcom.ing Events...... 

Rosa Parks Memorial Concert 
Friday at 5 p.ttt. 
The University o( No~l:"e Dame ccmcert band honors ao,a Parks during Black History 1\'lonth with a •eeci~ performance in Leighton Concert Hall. 

w._u~ce and Gx:'omit . .:___ Tf\e Cqrse o( tbe Wet7e«-~bbit 
Friday and Satqrdajr at 7p.tn. 
~ much-lovedd-.o &opt the ~ar..win.ni~g day..animation ~..--~~~·=~L~t:t.!!~~' ~~~~-q ..11<Yeees ··.. the Browni11~; Ci.~ma. 

Goq~ With, d\.,. Wiq.clf Saturdtly at :IJ>~tn. A rJWf;eping, tr"!;_ic love ·•~~ this 1939 elusic t~• its J!lt\Ce within th• PAC Ol~!i!C:: IO.Q C:aJmJl~~i~•­~re~'!'cl h\. "~.ll,lo'!-.!9& Ci~~~~· 

SfQw,t:;t,o GA~Q~t Cqq,i~ Sf#~~crda..v at8p~m-.­1.'\t.25-~.!11l~!--ch9~.~ ~,fq(tq...,aA. i~~~iof!-J, ~{~} Af'~ir:as 8,.9•1Jel e.tos.~..iu, X.,il,~~-C<»~~·-:all~.· 

'Triplettes' transcends atypical fare 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Assisranr Scene Ediror 
"The Triplets of Belleville" is a difficult movie to categorize. It's animated, but it lacks the "feel good" quality of Disney and Pixar films. It's tech­nically in French, but lacks any real dialogue. It's also about things -cycling and an ancient trio of jazz singers -that a viewer would be hard­pressed to find in any movie, let along an ani­mated one. 
Somehow, the mix of European visual flair and antiquated references to people like Josephine Baker and Django Reinhardt manages to cohere into a stunning film. In spite of its failure to fit into the usual film categories, "The Triplets of Belleville" is a highly entertaining movie that will leave the viewer with a song in his or her head and a burning desire to see the movie again to discover what was missed the first time. 
The film didn't receive a wide release in the United States, as Sony Pictures was naturally nerv­

ous about a PG-13 rated, The Triplets of Belleville is present throughout the French animated film, but it entire film. For example, will be playing this Friday Where: DPAC Browning Cinema Madame Souza's every and Saturday at 10 p.m. in When: Friday and Saturday at 10 p.m. step is marked by her the Browning Cinema at the Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, clunky orthopedic shoe, DPAC. $4 seniors and $3 for all students Champion perpetually 
The film visually pokes fun at a variety of cul­tural stereotypes. Paris is portrayed as an expanding metropolis so big that it has expanded to the point that it has swallowed up its rural suburbs, while Belleville is painted as an over­whelming, gaudy city. The citizens of Belleville are obese and the French in the film actually eat frogs. 
Once viewers become accustomed to this dif­ferent animation style, it becomes addictive, par­ticularly because it allows the story to be effec­tively told without words. While speaking is nearly absent from "The Triplets of Belleville," the emotive animation and music allows the characters to express genuine emotion without dialogue. 
The music in "The Triplets of Belleville," which is an eclectic jazz sound that uses found objects like bike wheels and vacuum cleaners, emerges as one of the best aspects of the film. The music is distinctly French, but the film manages to add enough to the songs to make its own distinct 
sound. 
Sound, musical or not, 

The film follows Madame Souza, the grandmother of a young orphan boy named Champion. He becomes fascinated by bicycles and Madame Souza becomes his dictatorial trainer. Champion eventually makes it to the Tour de France. During the race, Champion is kidnapped and Madame Souza, along with her dog Bruno, must go to Belleville, a distinctly Manhattan-esque city across the ocean, in order to find him. 
While in Belleville, she meets the Triplets of Belleville, an aging trio of frog-eating, found­object-playing singers who were famous decades ago. They help Madame Souza find her son, who has been abducted by the French mafia for sur­prising reasons, and the movie is truly a testa­ment to her dedication as a parent. 
With very little dialogue, the animation becomes the central focus of the film. The images have a distinctly European flair and the style of the entire movie is really unlike any other. 
The movement of the characters and the exag­gerated shapes of their bodies, such as the cyclists with enormous calves and the bad guys literally shaped like blocks, gives the movie an entirely different feel. The animation is also darker, grittier and in some cases more grotesque than the Disney or Pixar gloss that American viewers are used to. 

pedals his bike and each one of the triplets is con­stantly tapping out a rhythm on something. 
It is rare to find a foreign film sans subtitles, but "The Triplets of Belleville" makes effective use of alternate means of communication. 
With its blend of jazzy rhythms and an unusual percussion section, the extremely catchy fea­tured song "Belleville Rendez-Vous" is undeni­ably one of the highlights of the movie. It deservedly received an Oscar nomination for "Best Song" in 2004 and is nearly impossible to get out of your head for days after the film is over. 
Writer and director Sylvain Chomet, who also write "Belleville Rendez-Vous," clearly had a dis­tinct vision for "The Triplets of Belleville," and the movie refuses to cave into the common ideals that viewers would normally expect from an ani­mated film. 
It is a celebration of European style, whether through the use of innovative music or the love and tenacity of a woman for her child. "The Triplets of Belleville" is truly unique and quite unlike any other movie -particularly among modern day animated features -out today and is a must-see for any fan of European cinema, animated or not. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, February 17, 2006 
page 13 
SHOW REVIEW 
'Van Gogh' paints powerful portrait 
Gogh-obsessed Miller. The cast is
By MARTY SCHROEDER rounded out with London Vale playing
Scene Criric 
both Miller's daughter and Stone's love 
interest, Hallie Miller and Van Gogh's 
"Inventing Van Gogh," by Stephen love interest and Gachet's daughter, Dietz, is a powerful play that brings Marguerite. Finally, Brandon McGirr is eharaeters from different times togeth­excellent as Van Gogh's arrogant yet er for a dynamic inquiry into the insncure mentor, Paul Gauguin. human experience. It involves love, The play ends quite dramatically, but obsession, what is meant by the word its real power lies in the middle. In this "art" and, ultimatnly, what it means to section, there is much interaction, lw a human bning with something to ranging from Miller and Stone dis­live for. Nonr. of the characters cussing their past, to Dr. Miller's fruit­involved are perfect, but they all dis­less quest for Van Gogh's last self-por­play their humanity in distinct ways. trait, to Gauguin and Stone arguing 
This play is about Patrick Stone, a over what art is and what previous struggling painter in the present day. artists are of merit. One particular Viewnrs learn that he has painted for scene involves Stone, Van Gogh and some time and that his work is good, if Gauguin arguing over which artists not great. Unfortunately, Patrick is now that came before Van Gogh are note­going through the painter's equivalent worthy. The subtext of this scene is of writer's block. lie is commissioned how one should live life. The interac­by thn painting authenticator Hene­tion between McElligott, McGirr, and Bouchard to paint -or forge -the Vassel is one of the strongest aspects of long-lost and only remaining self-por­the play. trait of Vincent Van Gogh, from whieh McElligott, at his most energetic Bouchard hopes here, walks all to make a for­over the stage tune. The play InventingVan Gogh and gives Van then begins to 
Gogh an erratic delvn into a presence that series of nash­seems to mirror hacks that bring his painting Van Gogh and Directors: Patrick Vassel and Drew style. McGirr is important fig­McElligott also at his ures from his Writer: Stephen Dietz strongest. lie life into Patrick's Starring: Patrick Vassel, Drew McElligott, portrays a very world. Matthew Goodrich and Nathaniel Grams self-assured 
This produc­Gauguin but the tion, directed by script betrays Pa~~ir;~ ViJ.sS\\1 .~rgl. ..l)r,r,)N M,~f;Jiigott, thissqghtly with some self-doubt. 
brings thn si:ript to lire very adeptly. McGirr:s delivery combines these two Tho play involves some scenes that to give his character many levels. take plac1~ during Van Gogh's life, some Finally, Vassel brings to the stage a that occur during Stone's life and a few confused Stone who is absorbing what that involve both characters interacting these two great artists have to say. in tlw same time period. Due to the While the end provides the resolution nature of the play, the action can be to all the conflict throughout the play, it hard to follow at some isolated points, is this very conflict that arouses the but ovnrall this production does a very most emotion and gives the most satis­good job of minimizing any confusion. faetion to the audience. As the play progresses. the viewer is The Washington Hall Lab Theater is eaught ofT guard by the fact that Stone adroitly used as StoneNan Gogh's stu­1:an bn in Van Gogh's time period and dio, which ultimately fuses into one vicn versa. But suspension of disbelief studio they both use. The lighting, is something that comes naturally with designed by Hyan Hetartha, has the this play dun to the excellent acting. stage awash in blues, reds and yellows, 
This acting is the heart of the pro­giving an essence of the colors that duction. Vassel is very adept at playing become an important part of Van thn eonfused Stone, and Nathania! Gogh's character. Grams is the appropriately arrogant While this play is not perfect, it is an and effete Bouchard. But the play is excellent, exciting and very thought­earried by Dr()W McElligott as Van provoking piece of contemporary the­c;ogh and Matthew Goodrich as Stone's ater. late professor. Dr. Jonas Miller. (;oodrieh also plays Van Gogh's doctor, Contact Marty Schroeder at Paul Gadwt, but is better as the Van mschroel@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME'S 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 

-
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 17, 2006 
OLYMPIC HOCKEY 

Switzerland evens record with upset victory 
United States, Canada take care of undermatched opponents Thursday with flashy offense and strong goaltending 
Hasek, who has an injured left
Associated Press hamstring, has a 30-40 percent TORINO. Italy -David chance of playing again in the Aebischer got stronger with each Olympics. He will test his sore, Czech shot that smacked against stiff leg on Friday. his pads. Thomas Ziegler gave He turned aside 40 shots -Switzerland a 1-0 lead in the including 20 in the second peri­first period and Thierry Paterlini od -and carried Switzerland to answered Jagr's goal in the sec­one of its greatest hockey victo­ond by getting to his feet after ries, a 3-2 win Thursday over being knocked down to net a the world champion Czechs. short-handed tally midway "It's great for Swiss hockey through the period. that we won," said Aebischer, Switzerland earned only one who stopped Jaromir Jagr six Olympic win in 2002 and hasn't times in the second period. "We finished higher than fifth since have to be careful because it's 1952. one game." Montreal Canadiens defense­USA 4, Kazakhstan 1 man Mark Streit, who has only It didn't take long for the pres­one NHL goal this season, gave sure to ease on the U.S. goalie the Swiss a 3-2 lead during a and his teammates in a victory power play 6:42 into the third. Thursday night over "I think it's by far the biggest Kazakhstan. win in Swiss hockey -since I've DiPietro, dressed in stars-and­been playing. Even in history," stripes pads and a mask that Streit said. "It's kind of a mira­bears the image of the helicopter cle." his father piloted in the Vietnam Aebischer, best known for War, needed to make only 11 replacing Patrick Roy as the saves in his successful Olympic Colorado Avalanche's top goalie, debut. was brilliant while his team was "Obviously, you're going to short-handed for most of the have jitters the first time you final 7 minutes of the middle play in this event, but at the end period. Switzerland was ahead of the day, it's still the same 2-1 when the parade to the game," the New York Islanders a seven-game stint with scramble back into position. medal. penalty box began. goaltender said. Colorado in December. He faced Kazakhstan didn't register a This time, the distraction The Swiss (1-1 in Group A), The difference was in the 17 shots in the first period and shot in the middle period until caused by Gretzky was totally who had just two NHL players in result. gave up power-play goals to 13:09 elapsed. By then, the shot unintentional -his link to an their lineup, were whistled for The U.S. {1-0-1) used three Rolston and Brian Gionta along tally was 26-6. alleged gambling ring supposed­six of the final eight penalties in first-period goals to move into with an even-strength score by ly run by his Phoenix Coyotes the period and were down two second place in Group B with Bill Guerin that made it 1-0 just Canada 5, Germany 1 assistant coach, Rick Tocchet. men for about 2 minutes. three points, behind Slovakia -1:34 in. The only distraction Canada's But Gretzky's attorney said Aebischer got tougher as flag­the Americans' next opponent Mike Modano made it 4-1 at hockey team has had in the Thursday he has been assured waving fans chanted his name. and the only 2-0 team in the six­11:53 of the third, 51 seconds Olympics is boredom. Gretzky's only involvement in the Marek Zidlicky tied it at 2 for squad bunch. after Yevgeniy Koreshkov scored Wade Redden, Joe Sakic and case will be as a possible "fact the Czech Republic (1-1) a It didn't take long for the U.S. for Kazakhstan on its first third­Simon Gagne gave the defending witness" who might be inter­minute into the third, but that to shake off any remaining jet period shot. gold medalists a 3-0 lead viewed informally. was the last goal they'd get. lag and the disappointment of its DiPietro turned aside five halfway through the first period "There's nothing there," Sakic "They wanted it more, I 3-3 tie with Latvia in shots in the first period -only and, wearing distinctive black said. "He's fine." guess," New York Rangers for­Wednesday's opener. The one of which came from in close uniforms, t.b.e Canadians Asked if any Canadian players ward Martin Rucinsky said. Americans quickly established as the Americans dominated. roughed up Germany Thursday. were joking with Gretzky about "Maybe it's a good thing that dominance over a team that Rolston was the fourth for­Canada and Finland are the the matter, Sakic replied, "No." happened to us. Maybe it will fielded only two NHL players. ward on the Americans' power­only teams with 2-0 records in Gretzky has mostly stayed out wake us up and give us a warn­"I loved how we skated and play unit, serving a role he fills Group A, with three games of sight since a Tuesday news ing." were in position," forward Doug with the Minnesota Wild. That remaining in round-robin play. conference in Turin, watching Jagr, who scored the first goal Weight said. "We played better also helped take the load off the The top four teams in each of games from a private box before for the Czechs to tie it 2:55 into as a team. We should've had a U.S. defense, down to six players the two groups reach the quar­leaving without talking to the second, had several other lot more goals." for the second straight game as terfmals. reporters. chances. After going without a Anything but a victory would New Jersey's Brian Rafalski sat "It always helps to get off to a Germany gambled by starting shot in the first period, Jagr have made the chances of out with an injury believed to be good start," Sakic said. San Jose Sharks goalie prospect fired from all over. He was advancing to the quarterfinals to his midsection. In easily beating Italy and Thomas Greiss rather than No. 1 stopped by the very bottom of near impossible as the Kazakhstan' couldn't muster Germany, the Canadians have goalie Olaf Kolzig, who played Aebischer's left pad on a drive Americans still have their three any kind of counterattack. looked more comfortable than well in a 4-1 loss Wednesday to from the right circle. Set up toughest matchups ahead of Unlike Wednesday against Latvia they did at this stage four years the Czech Republic. there again during a power play, them in a four-day span begin­with John Grahame ih goal, the ago in Salt Lake City, when the With Greiss in net, Canada was Jagr fired high out of play. ning Saturday. Americans didn't have to fear ev,entual gold medalists lost to in charge from the start. The "I think a couple of times he "Against Slovakia, we're going every mistake turning into an Sweden 5-2 and barely squeezed Canadians outshot Germany 40­missed his shot," Aebischer said. to have to be on top of our odd-man rush the other way. by Germany 3-2. 12 and scored on three of nine Tomas Vokoun made 16 saves game," Brian Rolston said. Even when there was a break­That prompted executive shots in the first period -even in place of injured Czech goalie Kazakhstan, outshot 36-12, down, the threat was minimal. director Wayne Gretzky's "us as Germany persisted in trying Dominik Hasek and said he did­has been outscored 11-3 in its Aryom Argokov had a second­against the world" speech in to play its international version n't feel any added pressure. two losses. period breakaway but then shot which he said everyone but of the neutral zone trap. "No, I just played bad," he The Americans peppered goal­high over the net. Later, DiPietro Canadians rooted against the "I think we are starting to jell said. tender Vitaly Kolesnik, who has fell down while the puck was in Maple Leaf, and his players and coming together," Todd A team physical therapist said been in the minor leagues since his zone and still didn't have to responded by winning the gold Bertuzzi said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Area houses and apartments for rent. Log onto · MichianaRentals.com. Call 574­993-RENT (7368) 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. All appliances included. Pets wei­come. $1350. Call 220-8666. 

3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot. net 
COLLEG~ PARK CONDOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
06-07/3BR2BA/2AttGar/AIIAppl 1 mileN/built2000/.5acre $1200mo/Grad0nly/ 
RENTND@aol.com 

For Graduation and Sports Events. 2BR Guest House. Fully furnished. 25 minutes from Campus, overlook­ing Diamond Lake. Owner lives next door. Low rates for longer rentals. 269-445-8468 or geok21751 @yahoo.com 
Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3 students $300, 4-$275 + utilities. ADT. 574-309-3105. 
·123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 
2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & 2006-07. Security,phone included. 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com 


PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do not get left behind! Book now, limited space available. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don not go it alone.lf you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
FoR SALE 

A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled house near campus. $90,000. Call 220-8666. 
WANTED 
Civil Engineer-
We are seeking 
May 2006 grads w/a BS in Civil 
Engineering. 
Job functions consist of 
land development engineering for 
Site/Civil firm in 
Indiana and Florida. 
Please send all resumes 
and questions to 
mhoward@ rw-engineering.com 

AROUND THE NATION 
hiday, rcbruary I 7, 2006 COMPl LED FROM THE ()p,sf:RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Men's College Basketball RPI 
ll'am record prcw. 
1 Duke 23-1 1 2 Villanova 20-2 2 3 Tennesse 18-3 3 4 Connecticut 22·2 5 5 Memphis 22·2 4 6 Pittsburgh 19-3 9 7 Texas 21·3 8 8 Ohio State 18-3 12 9 Iowa 19-6 7 10 Michigan State 18·6 6 11 UCLA 20·5 11 12 Gonzaga 21·3 10 13 Illinois 20·4 13 14 Oklahoma 16-5 19 15 lSU 16·7 21 16 Wisconsin 17-7 25 17 UN! 21·5 15 18 Florida 21·3 14 19 West Virginia 18·5 30 20 Arizona 15·9 18 21 Wichita Slate 20-6 23 22 North Carolina State 19-5 22 23 North Carolina 15·6 26 24 Southern Illinois 18-7 39 25 Missouri State 16-7 36 
Women's College Basketball RPI 
team record prev. 
1 Tennessee 22·3 1 2 Connecticut 22·3 2 3 LSU 22·1 5 4 Duke 23·1 4 5 North Carolina 23-1 3 6 Oklahoma 21·4 6 7 Maryland 22-3 8 8 Rutgers 19·3 9 9 Ohio State 21·2 7 

; ..:1 0 " I NIN'IIl aartlino.stallll ...1<01 :1:5-<9 10 11 Arizona State 20·5 11 12 Baylor 17·5 12 13 BYU 20·2 13 14 Stanford 18·5 14 15 DePaul 20-5 19 16 Virginia Tech 17-6 16 17 Kentucky 17-6 24 18 Georgia 17·6 15 19 Boston College 19-6 25 20 Michigan State 19-7 22 21 Purdue 20·3 17 22 New Mexico 18·6 18 23 St. John's (N.Y.) 18·5 21 24 Old Dominion 14·7 20 25 Western Kentucky 18-5 30 
MIAA Women's Basketball 
ltl<l!ll  overall  coni'.  
1  Hope  23·1  15·0  
2  Calvin  20·3  13·2  
3  SAINT MARY'S  11-13  9·6  
4  Albion  16·8  8-7  
5  Olivet  12·12  8-7  
6  Alma  12·10  7-8  
7  Adrian  9·14  4-11  
8  Kalamazoo  6-16  3·12  
9  Tri-State  2·23  1-15  



around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgetown at Marquette, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Tennessee at Georgia, 8 p.m., ESPN2 
PGA TouR 
Nissan Open, 3 p.m., USA 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Miko Davis' departurn from Indiana was as sud­den as his ascent to the lop of' Iloosinrs baskntball. 
Just a couple dozen yards from where he bncamo Bob Knight's suc­cessor in 2000, Davis walknd into in a crowded room and announced he would resign at tho end of' tlw season. 
lin was still wearing a crimson Hoosiers' sweator as he urged fans to unile bnhind thn program. 
"Don't be sad for me. Please don'l bn sad for mn," Davis said as his wife watched l'rom lhe side. 
"This is like the MasterCard commercial. You know, it's priceless what God has given me to be the head basketball coach here." 
Thn embattled heir to one or college basketball's signature programs made his decision public with live games lel't bel'ore lhe Big Ton tournament. In six snasons, he was 109­76. 
Bul Indiana (13-9, 5-6) has been slumping lalely. The Hoosiers have lost four straight games and are jusl :3-7 since a prom­ising 10-2 start thal put the toam in the top 10. 
Indiana prosidnnl Adam llorberl said he had planned to wait until after the season ended to evalu­ate whether lhe 45-year­old Davis would roturn as coach nnxt year, but. Davis wouldn't wail. 
Herbert said Davis initi­ated discussions bel'ort~ lhe Connnetieut ganw on 
Feb. 4. 

They met again af'lnr­ward and nvnntually agreed on an $HOO,OOO buyout -a hnl'ty p1·iee l'or an ·athletics departnwnl that has run a multimil· lion dollar dolieil in recent years. 
Davis was sdwdulnd to earn about $HOO,OOO wilh outside ineonw over thn limtl two ynars ol' his con­tract 
Al tlw rwws conl'nrenr.e, llnrbert and athlntir dirnctor Hirk c;reenspan extolled Davis' successes -bnr.oming t.lw l'irst roac:h in srhool history t.o win 20 ganws and rearh the NCAA lounHLIIII~nt in each of' his firsl lhren sea­sons, leading tlw lloosiers 
t.o tho national champi­onship ganw in 2002 and prod ur. in g o rw oI' t lw nation's f'irwst •·nr.ruiting classos two ynars ago. 
But f'an unresl, unf'in­ished business and inr.ns· sanl prnssurn led lo Davis' decision. 
IN BRIEF 

Gordon is Daytona favorite 
DAYTONA BEACII, Fla. -JeiT Gordon thinks it's far too early lo label him the Daytona 500 favorite. 
But based on his early Spncdweeks showings and an outstanding string of success in tho Greal American Race, he's Uw only one who doesn't lhink he's once again the drivnr lo beat. 
Gordon slaked his daim Thursday by winning one of the lwin qualifying races al Daytona International Spendway thal is used to sol lhe field l'or Sunday's season opnnor. Elliotl Sadler won thn first raeo, which also had slrong runs l'rom Dale liarnhardl .Jr .. Jimmie .Johnson and Tony Stewart. 
"I don'l know how you can just pick orw guy. thorn's slrong ears out 
. hnre," Gordon said. "I felt like (Sadlnr) was rnally slrong in lhal first raen. I know lhal Tony and .Junior and Jimmie and lhose guys who weren't in our race arn going lo bn slrong." 
Steinbrenner sneaks out 
against Baseball C"lassic 
TAMPA, Fla. -George Steinbrenner began spring training in classic Boss style, saying he was disappointed some of his New York Yankens stars will be leaving camp for the firsl World Baseball Classic. 
Steinbrenner was surroundod by rnporters when he linished his lunch al Lngends Field on Thursday. the team's reporting datn for pitchers and catchers. lie gave brief responsns to questions, lalking about the Yanknns and tho WBC, which runs from March 3-20. DerPk .leler, Alnx Hodriguoz and Johnny Damon aro on lhn U.S. roslnr, and Bernie Williams is on l'uerlo Hico's prc~liminary roster. 
When baseball owners approved lhe World Cup in August 2004, tho Yanknns abstained. 
"Wn don't like it lhal wt~ll." Sleinbrunnor said. "If' a player gets hurl, he's risking a lot. Bul it was Selig's idea and he wants to do it, so I suppose we're going to do it." 
Wilson and Rose lead Nissan 
Open ahead of Woods 
LOS ANGiiLES -Dean Wilson has soon enough of' thn big hilters on the PGA Tour to rnalizn tlwrn will bn tournaments lhal put him at a dis­advantagn. Thn Nissan Opnn is not one ol' lhmn. 
Wilson navigalnd his way around Hiviora Country Club wilhoul a bogey f'or a 7-undnr 64, pult.ing him alop lhn lnadnrboard with Justin Hose among llw early starters on a coursl' that requires morn than slwnr IPngth. 
-

Tlwy worn two shots clear of' a group lhat included Frt>d Couples. who was so sir.k upon rnlurning l'rom Australia lhal lw stayt>d in ht>d Monday and Ttwsday, skipped t.lw pro­am Wndrwsday and l't>ll his hands shaking over his first putt. lin wound up with a M1, tlwn went hack to lwei. 
Also f'nnling ill was Tiger Woods, although il had nothing to do with bning allnrgir lo Hivitn·a. Woods lin­ishml wilh a hiJ. 
Friday, February 17, 2006

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Undefeated Irish face two ranked opponents 

By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spores Writer 
After coming off a dominating 6-1 win over rival Michigan Tuesday, the No. 15 Irish (5-0) are confident as they head into this weekend's matches against two top-30 opponents. On Saturday, the Irish face No. 22 Tennessee, and the competition will only get tougher Sunday with No. 9 Harvard coming to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"This weekend is definitely going to be tough," junior Christian Thompson said. "But ever since we beat [then-No. 
10] North Carolina, we know we can compete with the best teams in the country." 

This season, Tennessee has proven themselves with wins over Purdue and Illinois. However, the Lady Vols are coming off of a recent loss to No. 23 Wake Forest, a team the Irish defeated 4-3 last weekend. 
"Wake Forest was not an easy team to beat," junior Catrina 
Thompson  said.  "So  
[Tennessee's  loss  to  Wake  
Forest]  does  not  mean  

Tennessee is going to be an easy win for us on Saturday." · 
Heading into this weekend's matchup, Tennessee holds a pair of nationally ranked dou­bles teams. Playing at No. 1 for 
NBA players have cleaned up the league's reputation 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -David Stern is happy to be talking basketball as the NBA gathers for its All-Star weekend. 
After what he had to deal with last year at this time, the com­missioner knows the alternative can be a real drag. 
"It beats getting poked in the eye with a sharp stick," Stern said in an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday. 
Stern referred to All-Star weekend as a "celebration," but there wasn't nearly as much joy around the game a year ago. That was a particularly tough time for Stern and the league, just three months after the brawl between Indiana Pacers players and fans in Detroit, and months before the collective bargaining agreement was set to expire. 
"Last year we were going in post-Detroit. [It] wasn't a lot of fun to contemplate," Stern said. 

"The year before we went in sort of post-Olympics and potentially pre-lockout, so there have been issues and there are always issues. The reality is if there's nothing to write about, you guys have to find something to write about anyway." 
Following the brawl, Stern made it a point to improve -the image of the NBA players. A dress code was introduced this season, mandating that players dress in "business casual" attire when conducting league busi­ness. Players sitting on the bench who aren't in uniform are required to wear a sports jacket. 
After a few early objections, there has been little criticism of the rule. 
Even the one big potential headache that brought a reminder of the brawl passed fairly quickly. Antonio Davis was suspended five games for going into the sta-nds in a game at Chicago, but there was little out­rage toward him because he was calm and seemed to be going to support his wife. 
"We haven't had excessive fisticuffs. These are things that commissioners worry about," 
An Evening of Prayer from Around the World 

Please join us tor an eveningof 
Z..e~ Meditation 
as P.art ofa series exploring the beliefs and prncbces of the world's greatfaith traditions. 
Guided b_y Dr. Thomas F~temen and F-r. Gene Gorski, CSC 
Thursda.Y> Februa~y Z?} 2006 ;;o Coleman-Morse 7-7~+5 pm 
Sponsored b.tJ: 

Cc1mpus M1nistr:y, f'CIG Gr-aduate Res•denc.es. Graduate Student Union, lnt:ematk>n<1l Student Servic<'-" & Activitie,;, Univel"5•ty Village, and ND Mw;lim Student 1''-S-•;ociation 
C-M 
t:l<MI)\1~ M•t"<:t•y 

the Lady Vols this season is the national No. 28 duo of Blakeley Griffith and Bryce Marable. The second nationally ranked pair­ing for the Lady Vols is Melisssa Schaub and Samantha Orlin, who stand at No. 38 in the country. 
But the Irish are the only pro­gram in the nation that post three ranked doubles pairings. The No. 1-ranked duo of Christian and Catrina Thompson have led the Irish this season with only one loss to their record. The Thompsons are followed by the No. 35­ranked pairing of sophomore Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft, who are currently on an 
NBA 

Stern pleased with new attitude 
Stern said. "And truth be told, our player reputation in the test­ing that we do is rebounding quite well from a year ago." 
Stern reiterated that he has lit­tle concern about bringing next season's All-Star weekend to Las Vegas, despite the recent gam­bling ring that the wife of former NHL star Wayne Gretzky was linked to. 
"You have to parse the connec­tions," he said. "And to us the parsing requires you to say that our players shouldn't be engaged in illegal activities and they shouldn't bet on basketball games. If they behave there, that's all there is in terms of reg­ulations." 
eight-match winning streak. They are followed by the No. 45-ranked seniors Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly. 
"[Stastny and Connelly] have been such a big part of our suc­cess this season," Christian Thompson said. "They have a great record in doubles and· we wouldn't be as strong as we are without them." 
Leading the team in singles this weekend are Christian and Catrina Thompson, who both have earned national rankings at Nos. 24 and 44, respectively. Christian Thompson is coming off of a tough win over Michigan's No. 48-ranked Nina Yaftali (6-4, 7-5) last Tuesday. 
"The win at Michigan [over Yaftali] was really big," Christian Thompson said. "It was because it took a lot of mental strength for me to pull it out. 
In Sunday's match against Harvard, the top-ranked Thompsons will face the chal­lenging No. 6-ranked doubles pairing of Melissa Anderson and Elsa O'Riain. 
"This weekend is definitely going to prove where our team stands against the best in the country," Catrina Thompson said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


-Great Job Opportunities !I 
ELe.xlbL~ ~ & GRffi PAY!! 
We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities ln Other C{tles, Call Us! ac~l:og~m>ol< 1--ooo-:}lo-015a NlllthWol>$\ot l.OOC-6:!2~500 FiWrrtn~ 1-8CO~-Gii6G Morton 1-®o-642~91<4 B•nt'MI-!Br~of t...WC-457·-14:23 Soufl &l0t1tl H!~~57-«Zl C;own i>M11.Jl()C-457-44Zl Springf!Bid 1-SCC-64"~$4 
No fxperiam;;; Necessary Tr.Jill 111 eM !:;tritt awing ...~1 ~nd ww!tin MP.t!W: duting wrr.mor """'1-. Yl!l oller §'!!!'-<1.!.\~. S!a;t inlinlr.;; N.QY!. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bnng a Friend I 
www.homecityice.com 
Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 21 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentialitY ts assured. 
Caffee and refreshments will be served 
THE STANDING 
COMMITTEE ON 
GAY &lESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 

Friday, rebruary 17, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
FENCING 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Junior Olytnpics provide tune-up 
Irish prepare for 
Notre Dame sends seven young athletes to compete in Hartford 
By JACK THORNTON 
.~pom Wrirt·r 
While tlw Irish arn enjoying success as a team, seven nwmlH'rs of tlw squad arn competing at· the Junior Olympics in llartford, Conn. this wne k e rHI. T lw 1~0 rn pe ti­tion lwgins today and eontin­uns through Monday. 
Thn women arn sonding 1'1iilists Adrienn1~ Nott and Hache! Cola, as wnll as epee Kim Montoya and sabre Ashley Snrrnttn. 0 f tlw m•~ n , f'oilists Mark 
Kubik and "You have top with Ia high] 
Alexander competition from ranking." Crigorenko arn Many of Notre
each region. " 

going along with Dame's best sahro Tom fencers are ineli­II o rto n. Ashley Serrette gible to compete "I'm really freshman sabre because of the 
com pettion from eaeh region and others who are just here to experience it." 
The Irish eontingont will join noarly 2,000 other ath­letes at the ovent, split between junior (under-21) and cadet (under-17) divi­sions. Players eould either qualify by winning regional tournaments or by amassing mwugh points on the national 
cin~uit. 

"I had to go through quali­fiers, and when I qualified through that I got to go," Serrette said, "But there are other people 
excited to go," Sern~ tte said . "l;or me it just seems rmdly important and special. It.'s prntty tough eom­pntition because you have top 
age restrietions in the tourna­ment. 
Kubik is competing in his fifth Junior Olympics -he took third place overall as a 
Championships
foilist two years ago. 
''I'm eoming here to do a lit­
tle better -hopefully win­ning," Kubik said. 
Competing in the Junior Olympies earns eompetitors points on tho national eircuit, a points-basod ehampionship series. 
Freshman sabre Bill Thanhouser would be eom­peting in the Junior Olympics, but instead is competing at the World Cup in Paris, France this weekend. 
"lie choose to go to ]the World Cup] because it's more points ]towards the circuit]," Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The team returns to compe­tition as a full squad Feb. 25 with the Midwest Regional Championships at the Joyce Center. Both teams finished the regular season 29-1. The women are currently ranked No. 1 in the nation, while the men are ranked No. 2. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
NO looks to cap off a successful winter in Akron this weekend 
By JASON GALVAN 
Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame will put its strong record to tho test this weekend at the 2006 Big East Indoor Championships in Akron, Ohio. 
The top athletes from the con­ference will perform at their most competitive meet before the NCAA Championships in March. The Irish men's and women's teams are looking to shine this Saturday and Sunday. 
"I think we can do well and hopefully improve on what we've done," junior sprinter Maryann Erigha said. "Our conference gets more and more competitive each year, and the high level of the athletes who compete there makes this event something to really look forward to." 
Erigha is oil' to a strong start with several wins during this season's campaign -two alone coming at last weekend's Windsor Challenge at Ontario, Canada. She will look to improve upon her best times in the 60­meter (7.42), and 200-meter (23. 7 4) sprints. 
"We have a lot of good com­petitors and our freshmen ... have been really impressive this year ~s well." Erigha said. "We're looking to perform well in all our events and do our best to win it this weekend." 
Freshmen jumper Mary Saxer and multi-event speeialist Alyissa Hasan have put together solid starts to their careers at Notre Dame. Hasan set a sehool rocord for tlw JWntathlon ­3,6(,5 points at the Notre Danw Invitational on Jan. 27 -and Saxer dmtred a !wight of 4.05 meters, setting a new school rncord in the pole vault. Thn two are looking to make strong showings and build upon already solid perfornutn1~es this year. 
"I just have to koep going up in my heights, qualify for Ithe NCAA Championships] and koop gotting bettor," Saxor said. "We're protty hopoful about doing well and everyone just wants to do their best and win 
it... Other athletes, such as senior All-American distance runner Stephanie Madia, are set to take their performances to the next level. Madia 11nished fourth at tho Meyo Invitational in the 3,000­meter run and qualified for the Big East meet with a time of 9:27.47, but she wants to build upon this finish. Madia will com­pete in the 5,000 and 3,000 meter runs. And though she also qualified for the mile, she has decided to eut this event from her list. ''I'm not really thrilled with how I did at Meyo. and I have sort of a ways to go from my expectations," Madia said. "Hight now, though, it's just a matter of getting into the raee and getting it done, and I'm defi­nitely n~ady fi1r it." Irish junior All-American Kurt Bmminger, who earlier this year at the Notre Dame Invitational boeame tho first Irish runner to clock a sub-four-minute mile 
(3:57.40) twice in his career, also will compote for the Irish this weekm1d. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 

·~~ 
0!~. 
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
Just aWalk from Campus 
Open Every Day! 

Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 CREDIT & DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! 
Carry Out Avuilable 
'$ $ 
i1ucK 
$ ~nePerVisil $ 
Exp1res Moy 2006 
-------------------------,
$ $ 
i1ucK 
$ 
One Per Visit $ ExpiresMuv2oo6 

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
~--·~.~~~----------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~~---------­
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, 
Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North
Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 
(574) 277-7239 ~j'outh Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, February 17, 2006 

NOTRI DAHl WOllEN'S BASKITBAIL 
"· 

ALEXARAE ANTEKEIER/Observer Graphic 
OptiDliSDl 
continued from page 24 
Five years ago, the Irish beat Connecticut -twice -the second win coming in the 
Final Four just two days before the Irish won the 2001 national championship. 
Beginning with that victory, the Irish won four out of their next 10 games against the Huskies, becoming a yearly threat on UConn's schedule. A young rivalry began to bud. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame again squares off with the Huskies in a must-win game. But this time, the Irish are fighting to salvage their sea­son, struggling to turn around a disappointing stretch in the Big East that has them at 5-7 in-conference with losses to mediocre opponents like Seton Hall and Villanova. 
"This year I think of it a lit­tle bit different-it's a big game for us," McGraw said. 
Connecticut, like it has so often these past years, enters the game with an imposing 22­3 record and a No. ·3 national ranking. 
The Huskies, however, have a lot to lose. "They're fighting for a No. 1 seed in the NCAA Tournament 
right now," McGraw said. 

Most coaches of back­against-the-wall teams are pretty worried when a hungry, top-5 team comes to town. McGraw, however, seemed excited when discussing Sunday's match up and appears to view the game in more optimistic terms -an opportunity for major progress. 
"It's really a great time for us to play them," she said. "We need to play a really good team to help our HPI." 
The Irish, a classic bubble team, need an impressive fin­ish to qualify for the NCAA tournament. A win Sunday would go a long way to help Notre Dame on that front. 
Perhaps McGraw is so confi­dent because she knows her team can beat the Iluskies. After all, they did it last year. 
In the Irish's 65-59 win in 2005, All-American senior Jacqueline Batteast shot 3-of­17 from the floor, and senior center Teresa Borton had five points. That day, Notre Dame was led by Courtney LaVere, Megan Duffy and Charcl Allen, who had 14, 12, and 11 points, respectively. 
All of them were hot that day. And all of them arc peak­ing now. 
Duffy has been the team's anchor all season, averaging 
15.5 points per game, and at times she has been responsi­ble for keeping the Irish in games. 
LaVere has recently redis­covered her form in the post, scoring in double figures in each of her last four games. 
Against Villanova on Feb. 7, Allen had 14 points in the sec­ond half and almost single­handedly led the team back from a 20-point deficit to send the game to overtime. 
Maybe McGraw is so confi­dent because she knows her team is dangerous. She fully expects Connecticut to play that way. 
"They won't look past us," she said. "They'll be ready to play." 
Connecticut is one the best teams in the country, and its national ranking accurately reflects that. But the way McGraw sounds, maybe it won't be so shocking if the Huskies weren't ranked No. 3 Monday morning. 
Rivals have a way of making those things happen. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
prospects for making the NCAA Tournament. With a less-than­stellar conference record, McGraw said she knows Notre Dame must improve its current RPI of 40 to be in good position when the selection committee makes its decisions. 
Connecticut enters at the other end of the spectrum. The Huskies have won 11 of their last 12, dat­ing back to Jan. 7. Their only loss in that stretch was a hard-fought 60-56 loss to Rutgers, which is unbeaten in the conference, on Feb. 7. It was Connecticut's only Big East loss. 
"They're really peaking; they're right where they want to be for the Big East Tournament," McGraw said. "It's really a great time for us to play them because we need to play a really good team to help our RPI. And if we play well, it will give us confi­dence for a strong finish." 
Connecticut has four players with scoring averages in double digits. Guard Ann Strother leads the team with 14.3 points per game on 43 percent shooting from the floor, and her backcourt teammate Mel Thomas is scoring at a clip of 12.7 points a contest while shooting 50 percent from the floor. Forward Barbara Turner is shooting even better ­54 percent -and averaging 11.3 points a night. Huskies guard Chardc Houston has started just four games all year but averages 

10.7 points in just 16.5 minutes. 
"It's a big challenge for us, and I think defensively, one of our biggest challenges of the year," McGraw said. "Because generally everybody we play, there's some­body on the team that we don't have to worry about. But this is a team that not only in their [whole] starting group, but also coming off of the bench, players who are capable of having a big game." 
Connecticut's strengths are not limited to the offensive end. The Huskies have 262 steals on the season (10 a game), compared to 173 for their opponents. What's more, Connecticut grabs an aver­age of five more rebounds than its opponents, and the team is plus-30 on blocks for the season. 
"They're a really good defen­sive team, and I think it's some­thing they don't get enough credit for," McGraw said. "People over­look that because they score so many points." 
That combination of offense and defense has led to sheer domination of Connecticut's opponents. The Huskies average scoring 74.9 points per game and giving up just 55.5. The 19.4 average margin of victory is sixth in the nation. 
But McGraw said Notre Dame's win in Storrs, Conn. last year, which snapped Connecticut's 112-game conference home win­ning streak, gives the Irish hope heading into the matchup. 
-~~-­
•• Join Us For Our Texas Hold'em 
First 

POKER TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm ATM, Food & Beverages
(South Bend Time) $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
9Vt4& 'Pta.e-e 

PRIZE POOL IS 10% OF THE FIELD TOTALLING 
$22,500
I 0 , 000 

Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 
"We have the confidence to know that this group, right here, has the ability to beat them," she said. "If you look at the stats of that game, it wasn't because [for­mer Irish star forward] Jackie [Batteast] had a great game, so we have confidence." 
The stars of that game included Courtney LaVere (14 points) and Charel Allen (11) -both of whom should see a considerable amount of playing time Sunday. And like she did a year ago, when she scored 12 points while adding five assists and four rebounds, Megan Duffy will run the point for the Irish. 
McGraw said she will not start Allen Sunday for strategic rea­sons. 
"I think we need a spark off the bench; I think that she gives that energy coming in off the bench," McGraw said. "We thought about starting her, but if we changed the lineup, I'm not sure who would give us that energy off the bench." 
The Irish enter the game in a tie for spots 9-11 in the Big East, with West Virginia a game back at No. 12. The Mountaineers face Pittsburgh Sunday in Morganstown, W. Va. and then host Notre Dame Wednesday at 7 p.m. 

Despite the loss to DePaul, the Irish are nearly assured a spot in the Big East Tournament, held in the Hartford Civic Center March 4-7. For Notre Dame to miss the tournament, Seton Hall likely must win its last four games and the Irish would have to lose out. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

The College ofArts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible . 
Take advantage ofthis opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Stuart Greene, Associate Dean 1 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, Fe~ary 24, 2006 

Friday, February 17, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
HOCKEY 
Heat turns up in last road trip of the season 
those four, the top two will earn Bowling Green or the teams that dynamic offensive players in Alex coaeh complimented our defen­
Irish travel to Ohio to 
home ice in the first round of the are right in front of us. Foster, who leads the country sive play -that we weren't lot­play Bowling Green eonference tournament March 3-"We have to put ourselves in a with 36 assists this season, and ting them get many rebounds. 
5. position to win every night." Jonathon Even when Davidin two crucial games Bowling Green sits mired at Notre Dame and Bowling Masumoto, would allow a
"We have to put
No. 11 in thn conference with just Green faced each other earlier whoso 17 goals rebound our 
17 points. The Faleons face con­this season in a two-game set in lead Bowling ourselves in a backeheekers were By CHRIS KHOREY ference leader Miami (Ohio) Feb. South Bend Nov. 1 0-11 with the Green and position to win dearing the puck." Spom Writer 24 and 25 and will be hard Irish winning both games, 9-4 whose nine While scoring ­
every night. " 
prossed to get points against the and 4-2. But Jackson said the power play goals especially in even­
1\f'tnr a erudal sweep of Ferris No. 2 Hedhawks. Falcons are a much better team rank eleventh strength situations ­State last weekend. the Irish will Irish coach Jeff' Jackson said than they were three months nationally. Jeff Jackson has been dillicult fill' travel to Bowling Grnen for tlwir while his team is aware of the ago. "They have Irish coach· the Irish this year, last road ganws of' complicated home "I thought they played us tough two of' the best .Jackson said he has the n~gular season ice situation, they here, the only [thing] was that players in the seen steady improve­
"We can't worry

Friday and are not focusing they didn't have groat goaltend­entire conf'ernnce," Jaekson said. ment that he expects to eontinue. Saturday at 7:05 about Bowling on how well other ing that weekend," Jackson said. "We can't let them get rolling." "If' we get a power play goal a 
p.m. against the Green or the teams teams around the "But that kid has improved a lot Notre Dame is coming of!' its game and a couple of' even Faleons. conference are since then and he's playing well first sweep sinee its two wins strength goals a game, the way
that are right in

Notre Dame (11-playing. now." over the Faleons in November, we've bnen playing dnl'ensivdy 16-:{, <J-12-:{ CCII!\l front of us." "It seems like all Despite allowing the Irish 13 beating the Bulldogs 4-1 and 3-2 and with our goaltending, it is tied with 1\laska­the teams that are goals in those two games, in the two home contests Friday should give us a good chancn to hLirhanks for ninth competing against Bowling Green goalie Jon llorrell and Saturday. Jackson said a win every ganw," hn said.
Jeff Jackson 

place in the conli~r­each other for the has a 3.24 goals-against average large part of the team's success Thn all-time series bntwnnn the 
Irish coach

•mce with 21 points. eighth place spot this season. was due to goaltender David Fakons and Irish is tied at 34-34­The Irish and play each other The Falcons are also the Brown and the defense in front of' 1. 
h.
Nanooks currently trail Northern thn next two weeks," Jackson nation's ninth best offensive 1m. " Miehigan and Ohio State by one said. "We have to worry about team, averaging 3.44 goals per "[Brown] played extremely Contact Chris Khorey at point in the standings. Out of ourselves. We can't worry about game. They are led by two well," Jaekson said. "Ferris' ckhorey@nd.edu 
* HOLY CROSS 

SMC BASKETBALL 
COLLEGE 

Belles focused for difficult finale 
You can advance the 
Catholic Mission ofHoly Cross! 
Team tries to avenge early season defeat to
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 
conference foe Hope
2006-2007 

By TIM KAISER
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will take on Hope
GRAD STUDENTS 

College in Holland, Mich. Saturday in the team's last regu­
LAW STUDENTS 

lar-season game. The Belles are coming off a tough loss to Albion on
ndergraduates are also encouraged t 
Wednesday night but were able to hold their spot at third in the
inquire about RA vacancies 
MIA!\ standings. And the team is more motivated than ever. "We're definitely fired up,"
CONTACT 

Belles sophomore forward Bernadette Broderiek said. "We want to fmish the season the best
RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU 
we ean and start the postseason feated)." even better. We're really motivat-Senior forward Shelly Bender 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
The University of Notre Dame Concert Bands 5:00pm, Friday, February 17, 2006 Leighton Concert Hall DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Freelickets, Call631-2800 

FEATURIN6 A TRIBUTE TO ROSA PARKS 
ed." was less imprnssed. 
The Belles will still have quite "I didn't think they wore going a challenge on their hands, as to be undefeated," she said. the Flying Dutch enter "Thny're good, but not unbeat­Saturday's season finale at 23-1 able ... I don't think that lllopn's with a perfect 15-0 record in the perfect Mit\!\ n~cord I will all'ect 
MIAA. The Belles  us at all."  
last played Hope on  The Belles have  
Nov. 30 and lost in a rout, 77-38. Saint  "We're going in  snen what Hope can do, but after  
Mary's  has  with a lot more  a  whole season,  
improved since then, but Hope is  confidence."  they dent  are confi­they can  
the same dominant  force  a different  
squad.  Bernadette Broderick  result this time.  
"It's hard to say  Belles forward  "We  need  to  

(where Saint Mary's is compared to Hope] because the beginning of the season is so dif­ferent, but they're an all-around solid team from the one-to five-positions," Broderick said. ''I'm not surprised (they are still unde­
play an all 
around solid 

game, from a post perspective, point guard, shooting guard," Broderick said. "We're looking to dktate." 
Bender also thought her team should stick to the game plan that's been driving the winning ways. 
"Wn don't nend to change, just play like we know how to play," she said. "We can win if we do that. IllopeI was our first horne game. Now we've played for two months, improved, and we know we're going to do well." 
Despite their struggles last time, the Belles think that a sea­son's experience will make this contest much more competitiw~. 
"We are going in with a lot more conlidmH:e, more expori­ence, and we've improved so much from Novnmbnr," Brod1~riek said. "Our eoaeh has devised a really, roally good game plan. We're playing with more conlidenen, and, knowing that it is the last game this lrogu­larl season, the seniors will give it all they have; lay it on the line, like they do every game." 
Bender also thought her team would play just as hard in their tinal rogular s•mson game. 
"We're just going to go out there and play," she said. "We've been improving every day, and we're planning to play a lot 
longer. Everyone is just more and 
-

more excited, and we're building up to the tournament." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

.------------­
page 20 Friday, February 17, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Hiben 
continued from page 24 
architecture program. But as the year progressed, he realized he would have to either find a new major or quit the football team. 
"It had been going on for quite a while," 1-Iiben said. "During the fall I realized that there would be a point in time when I would have to pick architecture or football because at this University, it's impossible to do both at the same time. I had known that this would have to happen." 
Hibnn, who saw little aetion as a rookie tight end -playing sparingly in seven games ­would have been in the mix for playing time at the position next season. 
Senior Anthony Fasano decid­ed to forgo his final year of eligi­bility to enter the NFL Draft, leaving junior John Carlson as the probable starter and senior Marcus Freeman as the only other returning scholarship tight end. 
Freeman's status is unclear because he would be a fifth­year senior, and those players coming back for a fifth-year have not been announced. 1-Iiben's departure opens the door for highly touted signee Konrad Reuland, who was a first-team USA Today All­American out of San Capistrano, Calif. 

Hiben said he spoke with director of personnel develop­ment Ron Powlus throughout the process, and Powlus told him that if architecture was the best choice for him, he should pursue it. lliben also said that although Weis was surprised when he informed him of his final decision, he is leaving the team on amiable terms. 
"I think [Weis] was surprised -he wanted me to stay," Hiben said. "[He was] telling me he wanted me to think about it, that hopefully we can work something out. However, the reality is that you do have to choose either architecture or football ... It was very pleasant when I left the team, which was a relief. It was my decision, and I think people will respect that." 
Since he is leaving the team, lliben will no longer attend Notre Dame on a football schol­arship. But he said he has been working with the Office of Financial Aid to ensure he can stay at Notre Dame. 
"The scholarship will be cut off in a few days," said Hiben, who said that after talking to Powlus he almost immediately went to Financial Aid to get things squared away. "That's one of the big things that my family's been aware of. We were prepared for that to happen." 
Hiben, who was also a track and field standout in high school by setting school records in the hurdles and shot put, said he has not ruled out competing for the Irish track and field team at some point. But he emphasized that if it happened, it would occur in the future. For now, he's focused on the major that took him away from football. 
"The reason for leaving the team is so that I can excel at architecture," Hiben said. "So I have to make sure I adapt to life without football, that school is going great for me and after that I will definitely talk to the track coach. I'm not sure if that will be this spring or next year or when I return from Rome, but that's definitely in my future. 
''I'm in the best shape of my life -how can I stop competing all together? So that's some­thing to look forward to." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

GEOFF MATTESONfThe Observer Former Irish tight end Joey Hiben cradles the football during a Notre Dame practice Aug. 17. 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
The Irish prepared for a tough match, knowing that any team playing a regional rival like Michigan would have to battle for every point. 
"While we had had the upper hand of late, I remembered that they were very capable of playing a great match at home and they certainly did," Bayliss said. 
The Irish fell 4-3 in a match that had a severe negative impact on their NCAA Tournament seeding, dropping the team to the lower part of the top-10. 
Although the Irish would beat Michigan in the first round of that year's NCAA Tournament at the No. 14 rank, Bayliss still remembers that crushing loss. 
"I've got a lot of memories of going to Ann Arbor," he said. 
The Irish return to the scene of those memories tomorrow, tak­ing on the Wolverines in an evening match in Michigan to continue the streak of Big 10 teams in the schedule. After a loss to Illinois on Feb. 7, the Irish have posted dominant wins over Northwestern, Purdue, Wisconsin and Michigan State. They play Ohio State at home on Feb. 24 and travel to Indiana on March 7. 
"I want to play the better teams in the Big 10 every year," Bayliss said. "I want to play the very best teams in the country." 
Bayliss said the team's almost­uninterrupted stretch of Big 10 teams from January through the beginning of March is the result of scheduling around mid-semes­ter breaks. 
"The Big 10, of course, has mandatory round robin schedul­ing that begins in late March and goes through late April," Bayliss said. "Because of our spring break and most other schools' spring breaks taking up two weeks in March ... those dates are usually not available." 
The Irish are riding a four­match winning streak going into Ann Arbor, improving to 6-4 with Wednesday's win over Michigan

-
State. Notre Dame's doubles teams have been playing particu­larly well, as they have won the point in each of the past four wins. In singles, Stephen Bass and 
Sheeva Parbhu have alternated in the top two spots of the lineup. Ryan Keckley, Barry King and Brett Helgeson have been consis­tent in the third-through-fifth positions, and Eric Langenkamp, Irackli Akhvlediani, Patrick Buchanan and Andrew Roth have also seen time in singles. 
Is it you? 
One person makes a difference when the mission of Christ meets the world. 
Share their lives. Change your life forever. 
Br. Loren Beaudry, M.M. Maryknoll Fathers & Brothefs 
5128 S. Hyde Park BlVd. #4S, Chicago, tl vV<n• .., .......... , 
e-mail: Chlcago@maryknoll.org 
phone: (773) 493-3367 x221 
ss on www.soolety.maryknoll.org 
Great Rent Specials 

We~ht Room & Business Center Huge Swimming Pool Sauna, Whirlpool. & Free Tanning Indoor/Outdoor Basketball & Tennis Gated Community 
679.00 month 

;, . ·· ····· ·· i!f,,....m HWIM 
~ Appli~ation 
~. 

The team will be forced to focus in Ann Arbor to beat 5-2 Michigan. 
"They fill their place up and have a pretty raucous crowd," Bayliss said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 
Friday, February 17, 2006 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
Welcomes 

JON M. HUNTSMAN 


A self-made billionaire whose success carried him to Forbes' list ofAmerica's wealthiest people. His career has been built on the foundations learned in childhood ... share success, take responsibility, and give back. Instead of retiring with his wealth, he uses it to support charity. 
A mix of A Purpose Driven Life and All I Really Need to Know I Learned in Kindergarten, this is the first book to capture the essence of"the right way to succeed in business." 
Wharton 5 c h o o I Pub II shIn g 
A SElF .. MAlHi BtLLlONAlHE SPEAKS OUT ON HONESTY AND lNTE(]HITY 

NERS 
nev.er·.at·.· 
f Everyday Values .. \Ve Learned as Children . (But May Have Forgotten)
l 

JON M. HUNTSMAN 
Foreword by larry King I Afterword by Neil Cavuto 
' 
I 
' 
I 
j -l 
.-------------~-----~­
page 22 Friday, February 17, 2006
The Observer + SPORTS 
Hall 
continued from page 24 
7:30 p.m. Saturday coming off a momentous win at Continental Airlines Arena. 
Seton Hall downed No. 11 West Virginia Tuesday, 71-64, 
just three days after what can only be described as an embarrassing 99-57 home loss to Connecticut. 
The Irish begin the two­game road trip and catch the Pirates at the end of a three-game home stand own. 
"[Seton Hall is) resilient as heck, obviously," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said follow­

"''m going to compare them Hutgers had Quincy Douby. to the old Pittsburgh teams," South Florida had Holmes and Brey said. "lit's like former Buckley." Panthers forwards Chevon[ Whitney is the player to stop Troutman and [Chris] Taft -Saturday, though the Pirates Billm.eier and Whitney, bang­have several scoring options. ing on you, beating on you ... The 6-foot-8, 240-pound for­they're tough kids." ward/center scored 21 points 
Irish co-captain and point and grabbed 12 rebounds in guard Chris Quinn said after the West Virginia win. Wednesday's Brey will use Irish forwards 
win that the Torin Francis, Hick Cornett
"It seems like our offense 

team has dis­and Hob Kurz to combat the
is a little stagnant at 

cussed defen­physical Pirates frontcourt, 
times, and we've got to sive intensity though Notre Dame knows it is as a key area just as important to improve
do a better job ofgetting 

of improve­on offense from the 12­
guys the ball in the 

ment to earn turnover, 11-assist perform­
right spots. " the necessary ance against South Florida. possible victo­"It comes out of moving the ries. ball better," Quinn said of tak­
Chris Quinn 

"On the ing care of the ball. "It seems 
Irish guard 

defensive end, like our offense is a little stag­
of their 


we want to nant at times, and we've got to build on [what we did against do a better job of getting guys Hutgers]," Quinn said, refer­the ball in the right spots." ring to a 90-63 win over the And the coach said focus Scarlet Knights Feb. 8. "[We must remain on the dangerous need) awareness of different Seton Hall squad, though an players the other team has. even more imposing opponent 
COMCAST HIGH-SPEED INTERNET 
Nothing else comes close! 
• 
#1 High-Speed Internet provider in America 

• 
Cable-powered Internet, so it's always on** 

• 
Download speeds up to 6Mbps. That's up to 7.5 times faster than 768K DSL and 100 times faster than dial-up*** 

• 
Experience the Internet like never before with exclusive Comcast.net features like The Fan™, Video MaW and Photo Show 


S32.00tmonth* (current Comcast Cable customers) 
S42.00tmonth* (non-Comcast cable customers) 
@omcast. 

looms. 
"We know what's coming Tuesday," Brey said, "but we've got to deal with Saturday night. We've played well on the road, though. We've gone for it [and) given ourselves chances. I have every reason to believe it'll be game situations in Continental Airlines arena on Saturday." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

have teamed up to provide 
Exclusive Monthly Pricing for High-Speed lntemet Service to Students, Faculty &Staff who live off-campus! 
Comcast has Michiana's fastest high-speed intemet service with a DIRECT CONNEtnON TO THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. 
Comcast is an Official Team Notre Dame Partner. 
GET FASTER SERVICE & GREATER REUABILITY! 
Call1·866-594-1234 to take advantage of this special offer or visit the Comcast office at 6502 N. Grape Road in Mishawaka. 
*This offer is available to residential customers located in Corneas! Cable wired and serviceable areas only (and is not available to current or former Comcast customers with unpaid balances). Offer includes modem lease. **"Always on" is not aclaim of reliability, but refers to the persistent Internet connections provided by the service. ***Speed comparisons are for downloads only and are compared to 768Kbps DSL and 56Kbps dial-up. Maximum upload speed: 768Kbps. Maximum download speed: 6Mbps. Actual speeds may vary and are not guaranteed. Many factors affect download speed. tvldeo Mail not compatible with Macintosh. Webcam required for use of Video Mait Offer available in selected areas only and may not be combined with other discount offers. One promotional offer per customer per calendar year. After promotional period ends, regular retail prices for service and equipment apply. Additional installation, equipment and other charges may apply. Prices shown do not include applicable taxes. franchiSe fees and FCC fees. Pricing and content may change. Other restrictions may apply. Please call your local CorneaS! office for restrictions and complete details about service, prices and equipment Service is subject to terms and condrtions of Comcast Cable subscriber agreement. Offer expires October 25, 2006. ©2005 Comcast Cable Communications, Inc. All rights reserved. Corneas! is aregistered trademark of Comcast Corporation or Its subsidiaries. 1105 
Friday, February 17, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 
HELLO Afl=UJ PARE.NI OF A '"J'UH \OR. \NOI.l\..'t> 'fOU BE. 
INTE.RE'SIE.t> IN BlA'\INL::J IHE. OFf I c. IN.... :SPW 
200CD 51-\ 1~\? 
\1 LOO'I::S 

'{ 0 U. JUST A Fl E:SIA BOW\.. 
VICrOR'f S141R\ ANI:> WR-OTE. " :J PW 2.()()(.D " 
ON \1. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
HER MY 

I [ J tJ 
<02006 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TUQES 

I [ J 
FATOLA 
j

I (I (] 
www.jumble.com 
GELPED 
J 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

-
WHAT THE: DINE:RS DID FOR THE:IR L.OBSTE:R DINNE:R. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
liDs: 

"(I I I I I I J" [I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: PRIME METAL EQUATE KIMONO Yesterday's Answer·. 
When he broke the sound barrier. he ended up talk-ing-AMILE AMINUTE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 40 Musicians whom DOWN 1 Writing that 
orchestras tune 1 Member of the lacks objectivity up to Allies in W.W. II: 16 Purveyors of 42 Work unit Abbr. spicy cuisine 43 Daughter of 2 Expressed surprise
11 "Hurry, you'll be Hyperion late" 45 Beat in 
3 R.F.K. Stadium 18 Tpks. November, 
team, briefly perhaps 4 Proactiv target, 19 Full house sign 

informally
46 It's on the

20 Patriot, e.g.: 
Rhone delta 5 Aeschylus 
Abbr. 
trilogy
48 Some tracks 

21 Old map abbr. 
6 Legendary 
50 Kind of cart 

22 "Look !" 
49ers receiver 
52 Sticking point? 

24 One going back 7 Charles of CBS and forth to 53 Elicitors of little News work dances, briefly 
8 Uintah and 26 Replacement 56 Wing Ouray raiser 58 Alternative to Reservation 30 Loses Rep. or Dem. inhabitant 
34 When Nora 59 67-Across 9 Madrid maze-leaves Torvald citers: Abbr. runner in "A Doll's 10 Ices, maybe 
62 AugustHouse" comment 11 Bakery output 35 Man wearing 66 Like Scorsese, 12 John une couronne 
but not Fellini 13 "Last one 37 Follow 67 It begins "A well " 38 It's often hit at re@ulated Militia 14 Boarding night places: Abbr. 15 Religious title: ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Abbr. 22 Start of an Ella Fitzgerald 
standard 23 Old map abbr. 25 Reply to "The 
phone's for you" 26 Mullah's decree 27 Fall shade 28 Composition of 
some nerves? 29 Ski­31 "The Other Side 
of Oz" autobiographer 32 Coup follower 33 Ways: Abbr. 
THE OBSERVER 


WILL SHOKT'Z 


36 Osteoarthritis 51 Tons so Sheepskin treatment leather
53 "I'm pointing at 39 Silent lawman? it" 61 Volunteer 
41 Public 54 Act babysitter, maybe
feeblemindedly
44 It might be filled with ink 55 Disconnected, 63 lnits. in 70's­in mus. 
SO's rock

47 Like guests at home 57 Large moth 64 Leg that gets whistled at
49 Message on a 59 lnits. on many dirty car A.T.M.'s 65 Net holder 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make cheeks payable to: and mail to: 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS UAY: Stef'Hmi Brass, 14: John McEnroe. 47; Ice-T, 48: Lisa Loring, 48 
Happy Birthday: Nothing is out of reach if you put your mind tu il Ihis year. Chang~ can b~ good. If you can bring yourself to set new rules and impress upon the people in your life that you mean business, you will f~el bcttcr about yourself and sec a much clearer picture of your future. Your numbers arc 12, 16, 29, 33, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 2l-April19): Do what you can to help an older relative or friend. Make the ef'fon to travel to resolve a problem. Taking action will be the way to victory. Think big but don't go overboard. Baby steps. will bring the hcst result~.••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't take everything you hear at face value. Sill through the intonnation received and decide for yourself what is fact and whal is fiction. A romantic encounter may leave you tee ling confused. Don'l expect tOll much.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some changes around home that will suit your needs better. A change of scenery will do you good. Finding out more about something that interests you will !cad to a decision regarding a future business prospect. ••••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Don't expect anyone you have to deal with to sec things your way. Make a few changes to your home or look for a safe investment for your money. Much can be learned at a seminar on maitaging your money. u LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Do your bcsl to keep things honest, especially with joinI finances. Money can be made hut you have to he upfront about your plans. Someone may try to take advantage of your generosity.•••• VIR(;() (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Slart looking at your options and prepare to keep up with what's going on around you. Living in the past or holding on to something that no longer has any value will be a waste of time. •.. LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take time out ofyour busy schedule to have some tun. Be creative with fashion, style or a hobby that interests you. You will he able to convince others to assist you in achieving something thai requires a little help.*"" SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): By keeping a secret you can surprise someone about whom you care deeply. Although you may cause some suspicion and upset by doing so. it will be wmth it. A chance to follow through with one of your creative dreams is a must. ... SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>cc. 21): Deal with matters that aren't so close lo home. Take a breather from personal problems and give yourself some space and time to think matters through. Visit with someone you trust to give you good advice. u • • CAPRICORN (l>cc. 22-Jan. 19): Don't worry too much ahout the people who don't sec or do things the same way you do. Focus on those who back and suppon your ideas and plans. Change may be required to move forward. •• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do whatever you can to complete a deal or formulate a contract. Money can be made if you arc willing to go the extra mile. Aggressive action will not be the route to take. Rather, knowing what you want and how to go about getting it will lead to success.•• ..• PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Finish up any little details that haw bcenlell undone. Put an end to the past so you can stan fresh. A new deal can be made if you are willing to abide by the rules and set the record straight. •u 
Birthday Bahy: You are a wanderer. You love to cxpcrien~e new places and things. You are creative, sensitive and always looking for new interests. You never settle lor less than what you want. 
Eugenia's JVeh sites: a.\·troadvice.comforfun, eugenia/as/. com for ccn!fidelllial tvn.mltutiOIL\" 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, February 17, 2006 
page 24 
-fOOTBALL 
Irish tight end Hiben leaves tea111 in favor of architecture 
three hours of studio. architecture at the University. the five-year program. Hiben had always caught his interest. 
Freshman prioritizes 

He chose "It came down to architecture said the foreign study require­"It basically boils down to the 
academic goals ahead studio. [beingJ more important than ment was not the deciding fac­time constraints of architec­After much football to me," Hiben told The tor in his decision to eliminate ture," Hiben said. "Ever since I
offootball ambitions deliberation, Observer from his dorm room football in favor of a major in was 12 years old, I [have been] the freshman Thursday. architecture, because he could very interested in architecture." tight end A University spokesman said have made that a redshirt year Hiben, a Chaska, Minn.,
By HEATHER 

informed Irish head coach Charlie Weis anyway. native, said one of the reasonsVAN HOEGARDEN coaches on would have no comment on the He said instead that the con­he chose Notre Dame after orig­
Sports Writer 

Tuesday that matter. flict of mandatory studio and inally committing to Purdue 
Joey I-Iiben knew he had to he was leav­Architecture majors at Notre football practice iri the fall during recruitment was its make a choice -three hours of ing the foot­Dame are required to study in forced him to make a decision. football practice every day or ball team to pursue a degree in Rome during their third year of And he chose the major that see HIBEN/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hustlin' the Huskies 
Irish look to upend No. 6 Connecticut this weekend 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
It's the kind of game that can define a season. 
Coming off a 79-50 drubbing at the hands of DePaul, the Irish (14-9, 5-7 Big East) host No. 6 Connecticut (23-3, 11-1) Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center in a matchup of conference rivals heading in opposite directions. 
Notre Dame has struggled all season, playing inconsistent offense and defense and rarely winning the battle on the boards. But the team is looking forward to the game with Connecticut. 
"We had one of the best practices of the year yesterday. At this point of the year, some teams have quit," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "But we have battled ... and I think that shows a lot about the character of this team." 
The Irish want to rebound after their 29-point loss Feb. 12 and improve their 
see HUSKIES/page 18 


ND faces familiar foe in unfamiliar circumstances 
Five years ago, it wasn't a rivalry. 

Five years ago, Notre Dame had never beaten Connecticut, one of the standard bearers of women's basketball over the last decade. 
Back then, Irish head coach Muffet McGraw announced that sentiment, mak­ing it clear that one-sided rival­ries aren't rival­ries. Rivalries involve back-and­forth action. They involve winning on both sides. As Notre Dame began to establish itself as a national power, the UConn matchup was a must-win game ­the cover charge to get into the elite door of NCAA women's hoops. 

Eric Retter 
Sports Writer 
see OPTIMISM/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

It's no easy walk down the Hall 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
No. 1 Connecticut waits on the horizon. The Huskies (22-2, 9-2 Big East) are virtually unbeatable at home, and Notre Dame (12­10, 3-8) needs every win it can get to qualify for post­season eligibility. 
If only the Irish had the luxury of preparing for the Huskies this early. A date with Seton Hall (16-7, 7 -4) stands in the way. And the Pirates host the Irish at 
see HALL/ page 22 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Maize and blue set to show ND's true colors 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame travels to Michigan tomorrow at 6 p.m., nearly four years after the Wolverines pulled a stunning upset of the Irish in a match at the William Clay Ford tennis facility. 
Not a single player from that match remains on either team, but tennis coaches have long memories. 
It was March 2002, and the Irish were No. 4 in the national team rankings. The team was traveling to Ann Arbor to play the Wolverines, barely in the national top-50. 
"We had just moved up to No. 4 in the rankings, which is the highest we'd been in a while," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Michigan had beaten us there two years prior [in 2000] with pretty much the same team ... These guys knew each other pretty well." 
see MICHIGAN/page 20 


SMC BASKETBALl  HOCKEY  NO WOMEN'S TENNIS  NCAA BASKETBAll  OLYMPICS  
Saint Mary's at Hope  Notre Dame at Bowling Green  The squad faces No.  In an interview with  After  weeks  of  United States 4 Kazakhstan 1  
22 Tennessee Saturday  the Associated Press,  rumors, Indiana coach  
The Belles take on a  The Irish have two  and  No.  9  Harvard  Commissioner David  Mike Davis announced  The Americans got  
league powerhouse in the  crucial games against a  Sunday  at  the  Eck  Stern said he is happy  he will resign at the end  back on track a day after  
regular-season finale.  conference foe.  Tennis Pavilion.  with the league's image.  of the season.  tying Latvia in hockey.  
page 19  page 19  page 16  page 16  page 15  page 14  





