
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 106 TUESDAY. MARCH 21.2006 ' 
ND junior injured in Naples fall 
Eric Morin hospitalized after serious accident during Architecture program spring trip 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
A junior Notre Dame archi­tecture student studying in Rome is in a Naples hospital after being seriously injured in a fall during a program­sponsored trip to Naples, University officials said Monday. 
In an e-mail sent to archi­tecture students Monday, assistant dean of the School of Architecture Father Richard Bullene said Eric Morin was hospitalized with a fractured skull and bleeding in the brain, although University spokesman Dennis Brown would not confirm the extent of Morin's injuries. 
"I can confirm that he was injured in a fall in Naples as part of a program-sponsored trip," Brown said. "It was a serious accident, and at this point we have not been able to determine the family's wishes in terms of any addi­tional information relative to his condition." 
Brown declined further comment on the specifics of the accident. 
Morin is a former resident of Siegfried Hall, where a Mass was held for his recov­ery Monday night. After the Mass, Siegfried rector Father John Conley told Morin's close friends Morin was in stable condition and will be in a drug-induced coma until Saturday to reduce swelling in the brain, said Morin's former 
roommate,  junior  Andy  
Crutchfield.  
Conley  did  not  return  

Observer phone calls Monday night. 

Brown said Morin's parents were notified Sunday and flew to Italy from his hometown of Edina, Minn. They were expected to arrive in Naples Monday. 
"The University was able to assist his parents in making travel arrangements, and they are expected to be in Naples at 12:30 [p.m. Monday] our 

time," Brown said. The accident occurred at 
8:30 p.m. Naples time Sunday evening, Brown said. Morin was in Naples studying vari­ous architecture sites in the city as part of a multiple-city class trip. Brown said all architecture students in the Rome program were on the trip to Naples. 
"It's the primary spring trip for the program . . . [since the accident] they have moved on to Sicily," Brown said. 
Brown said Morin was the only student injured. Several of Morin's team­mates on Notre Dame's 
see MORIN/page 4 

Senior lVins the 'Showcase SholVdolVn' 
Glee Club member profits off L.A. trip 
valued at almost $20,000. 
Fifty-four members of the Glee Club went to California over spring break to perform, and Keller managed to get 25 tickets to "The Price is Right." He took a group of seniors, juniors and several sophomores to the taping of the show, while the other members of the Glee Club explored Los Angeles. The show will air April 3 on CBS. 
"I decided that I want­ed to take the guys to do something cool and dif­
see PRICE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Professor accused of plagiarism_ 
University declines comment on situation 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate News Editor 
Only weeks after the theology department dismissed the Cardinal Newman Society's (CNS) complaint of plagiarism against Notre Dame theology professor Father Richard 
McBrien, the national conser­vative Catholic organization again presented the University with an allega­tion of plagia­rism leveled against 


McBrien's work. McBrien 
In a March 13 letter sent by fax to University President Father John Jenkins, CNS president Patrick J. Reilly asked Jenkins to pursue an investigation into McBrien's 1997 book, "Lives of the Popes"-a work that Reilly said contains passages that paraphrase or directly copy portions of J.N.D. Kelly's 1986 work, "The Oxford Dictionary of Popes." 
According to Reilly's letter, former University professor Father Marvin O'Connell raised concerns regard­ing similarities between McBrien and Kelly's books in 1998 in a review of "Lives of the Popes" pub­lished in Books and Culture maga­zine. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown confirmed Monday that Jenkins had received the CNS letter. 
"We take such allegations seri­
see MCBRIEN/page 4 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Members zero in on event progratntning 
Academic freedom discussion continues 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin spoke to the Campus Life Council (CLC) Monday to address confusion over event programming proce­dures in light of University President Father John Jenkins' recent addresses regarding aca­demic freedom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. 
Coughlin's talk and the discus­sion that followed focused less on the issue of groups adhering to the University's Catholic mis­sion and more on prohibiting repetitive performances. 
Coughlin said Jenkins first raised the issue of disallowing annual performances of "The Vagina Monologues." Coughlin said he is concerned that the repetition may lessen the impact of the performance. 
"It loses its effect on campus if you keep doing it -its message 
see CLC/page 8 
Program_s attract prospectives 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Campus vacancies left by the mass exodus of students at the end of the spring semester are quickly filled during the summer months by a variety of pre-college programs that bring over 300 young students to Notre · Dame. 
Director of Pre-College Programs Joan Ball said Monday that the Office of Pre-College Affairs organiz­es four primary academic programs over the summer. 
Summer Experience -its largest program -is an academic program that sub­merges academically out-
see SUMMER/page 4 

Prospective student Julianne Corotto from Columbus, Ohio looks at brochures outside of the NO Vision office on Monday. 

ByJOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 

What do Los Angeles, a camper, Bob Barker and 
the  Notre  Dame  Glee  
Club all  have in  com­ 
mon?  

They were all part of "The Price is Right" on March 16. 
Senior Kevin Keller. tour manager for the Notre Dame Glee Club, was called from the crowd of the· popular game show and went on to win the Showcase Showdown and the show's grand prize ­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The V\rorld's gone tnad 

I got to the Fort Meyers airport serving Southwest Florida almost two hours before my flight to return to South B1md af'tpr spring brnak. I laving a littln time to kill in an air­port gonorally isn't a bad thing Kate Gales -hotwnon the latest Cosmo and my cell 
Associate

phone, I can 
Sports Editor 
usually koop 
myself' entnr­
tainnd for lhours. 
This wasn't any ordinary Saturday, 
though. This was NCAA Tournament 
time. I wandnred my terminal, look­
ing for a tl• lovision that would be 
showing (;norge Washington's _ 
attempt to stun the infamous Duke 
Blue Devils. 
Arter I sPttlnd in to watch the 

garnn, I amused myself' during com­
rnorcials by obsnrving my follow 
basketball afkionados. A few 
tonnage boys -your usual suspects 
for !wing glum! to a TV sporting 
ovont-were in tho audience. 
But apparently. March Madness had captured nveryonn's imagina­tion. Four teenage girls docked out in Lac:ostn and VPra Bradley were sitting near me, discussing the game. 
"J.J. Hedick is like, so hot right 

now," the girl in the pink shirt said. "I know!" rc~plied her companion. "lin made like, four shots in a row." 
I blinked. Tlwy wore talking about the game. They had bonn paying attention to what happennd. 
They soriiously carc~d. 

"I have Duke in my Final Four," the first girl continued. "I really think I could win my pool this year." 
"I had Syracusn in my Final Four!" the second girl moaned. ''I'm like, totally scrnwed." 
That's when I realized that no one is immune from March Madness. It donsn 't matter how old or young you are. It doesn't mattnr what school you wont tn or where you live or what you do. It doesn't even matter if' you're a sports fan. March Madness captures the attention of our nation to the point where the Olympics, the presidential elections and the Oscars can only hope to como in second. 
Challong•1~r. Gray & Christmas, a Chicago rn'lnareh firm, put the cost of' lost productivity during March Madness at almost $4 billion. As a business major. I can tell you ­that's a lot of' money. But at the same time, it seems like a small pric:n to pay to bring our country together. Every TV in Midway Airport was tuned to CBS on the way horne. Granted, Illinois was playing (their loss was a major hit to my braeket, by the way -although I did piek Bradlny to advance, which makes me little short of a visionary) and that might have affected the passion of the travelers. But people elustered around TV's and watched, f'ascinated. Everywhere l went, I heard people talking about their braekflts. When I called my brother -a Penn State freshman -on St. Patrick's Day, the first thing he did was toll mn that our dad's bracket was shot dun to Iowa's loss. 
So no one's immune to March Madness. But if the world's going to go mad about something, there are worsn thing to pick than college bas­ketball. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 21, 2006 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE HIGHLIGHT OF YOUR SPRING BREAK? 


Bridget Gulvas Kathleen Orr Kylie Krouse Annie Tilton Kristen Buddie Danny Dressman 






junior  junior  
offcampus  Knott  
'"Poppin  "Loungin' XTC. "  
bubbly."  

IN BRIEF 

The Freshman Class Council will host a campus­wide rock-paper-scissors tournament at 7 p.m. and 8 tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom. Participants must may $2 and all proceeds will go toward Holy Cross Missions. 
A Town Hall Meeting will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. to discuss a pro­posed site f'or the~ Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County. 
Professor of' Slavic Studies and Lecturer in Architecture, Tulane University William Brumfield will give a lecture titled "Church and Identity in Russia: The Tikhvin­Dormition Monastery and the Return of the Tikhvin Icon of the Theotokos" at 4 
p.m. today in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. 
A conference titled "The Liturgy of the Hours: Public Prayer of the Church as Foundation for Christian Spirituality" will take place from 2 p.m. to 4:30 Wednesday in rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
The Notre Dame Accountancy Department will host a Hecruiting Workshop for faculty from 3 
p.m. to 4:30 Thursday in room 339 of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
sophomore sophomore freshman junior Holy Cross Holy Cross McCandless off-campus 
"/ hung out with "/ worked at a "When my niece "Hot tub?" my boyfriend." doctor's office ran downstairs and took care of naked and my sickfamily. " called me 
poo-poo-head." 
British government cat Humphrey dies 
LONDON -Humphrey, the black and white eat who saw at close quarters the comings and goings of three British leaders, has died, a spokesman for Prime Minister Tony Blair's London residence revealed. 
The eat, age unknown, was adopted by staff at Number 10 Downing Street after wandering into the building as a stray in 1989 while former Conserv-ative prime min­ister Margaret Thatcher was in power. 
He stayed throughout 
TODAY 
0::: LLI 
:::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...I 
c:t 
(.) 

0 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 
Students gather up their suitcases after arriving back to campus after spring break Monday. Buses from Chicago's Midway and O'Hare airports delivered students back to Notre Dame throughout the weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
avenue Sunday to pose for American photogra­pher Spencer Tunick, forming a human mosaic in front of a national symbol: a statue of inde­pendence hero Simon Bolivar. 
As Tunick shouted com­mands through a mega­phone, nude people of every shape, size and skin tone gathered on the avenue and stairs in front of the statue just before dawn. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 



HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH
...J 40 LOW 34 LOW LOW LOW 
the leadership of Thatcher's successor, John Major, but disappeared shortly after Labour Party leader Blair took over in May 1997, amid persistent speculation that Blair's wife, Cherie, did not like the animal. 
The disappearance prompted official ques­tions in the lower House of Commons and proof that he was still alive. 
Cuban on hunger strike for Internet access 
CARACAS, Venezuela­More than 1,500 Venezuelans shed their clothes on a main city 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

Atlanta 71 I 45 Boston 43 I 29 Chicago 54/ 41 Denver 48 I 22 Houston 80 I 64 Los Angeles 63 I 48 Minneapolis 39 I 32 New York 52 I 35 Philadelphia 57/ 37 Phoenix 69 I 48 Seattle 45 I 36 St. Louis 63 I 58 Tampa 79 I 56 Washington 62 I 37 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Israeli discusses religion and state 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
The positive association of eco­nomic development with a reli­gious population is one of the trends Jonathan Fox, senior lec­turer in political science at Israel's Bar-Illan University, explained to students and faculty Monday night. 
Fox shared his recent research on the separation of religion and state around the world in a lec­ture sponsored by the Kellogg Institute and Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies held in DeBartolo Hall. 
In his project "Religion and State in the Post Cold War Era," Fox created a data set that measures the degree to which a government is involved in the religious life of its citizens. By creating scales on such topics as the ollicial role of the state down through aspeets of religious dis­crimination and regulations, researchers can apply Fox's data to a variety of diseiplines. 
Unlike previous projects that included only developed nations, Fox made an effort to collect data from 175 countries. Every nation with a population of 250,000 or more is included, along with a smattering of a few tinier ones. Data collected was from 1990-2002. 
Fox said he was shocked at the breadth of state involvement. 
"Almost 80 percent of coun­tries do not have separation of religion and state," Fox said. "I really did not think that existed to this extent and with this kind of eonsistency." 
States may endorse or restrict a religion, and the methods of doing so result in complications for the project. Fox said state involvement in religious life is certainly not clear-cut. 
"Does a country support a reli­gion or not? It's not black and white," Fox said. "Look at the United Kingdom and Saudi Arabia, for example. Both have official state religions, but should they really be classified in the same category?" 
Fox researched a variety of aspects of state life to account for similar disparities. 
Overall, his results were rela­tively consistent for all denomi­nations, with a dramatic increase in religious discrimina­tion, regulation, and legislation over the last 15 years despite a consistent amount of official state support. 
This shows that countries do not always follow their constitu­tions in this area, Fox said. He noted some Muslim countries contain stipulations in their full freedom of religion clauses sub­jecting religious autonomy to the laws and traditions of the state. Strietly following this exception opens the door for religious oppression, Fox said. 
Fox also pointed out the con­flict of his data with social scien­tists' modernization theory, which says religion will fade away with secularization. While he noted the importance of con­sidering factors other than state involvement, his research shows the exact opposite trend post­Cold War. 
Fox's data aligns with what some scholars find is a reaction against modernity -that people are becoming more religious as a revolt against secularization. 
Another key finding of Fox's study is the trend that a wealthi­er nation hosts a more religious population. 
According to the study, state monopolies on religion seem to influence behavior -whether people attend services or deem themselves members of a partic­ular sect -but not necessarily belief. 

Fox noted time and economic development as two variables that must also be considered in this particular situation. Nevertheless, people are more likely to be religious, this data shows, in states that are wealthi-· er -a controversial conclusion, Fox said. 
Since the January release of the research, there are already 20 scholars in five nations apply­ing Fox's data to their partieular fields. In response to a question of the implications of his research, Fox emphasized the importance of collecting data from which to work. 
"Much of this data is defining [the] 'what' -what exactly, are the trends? The 'what' is as important as the 'why,"' Fox said. "From a clear set of data, the possibilities for knowledge are endless." 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Group aw-ards funds to Dance Marathon 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Student government officers awarded an additional $1,500 co-sponsorship to the Saint Mary's Dance Marathon commit­tee at the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Monday night, adding to the $2,500 BOG awarded the committee earlier this year. 
Freshman class president Francesca Johnson, freshman vice president Pauline Kistka and Dance Marathon president Amy Dardinger presented the current amount of money allotted to the Dance Marathon and answered questions related to the event. They also showed a video from the Riley Hospital for Children ­the Indianapolis-based hospital that will receive the money raised from the Dance Marathon. The video focused on other dance marathons that have hap­pened at colleges and universi­ties across Indiana. 
"[Preparations have] been rolling along very successfully," Kistka said. 
$5,011 has already been raised through January's Battle of the Bands, dorm Chapstick and car­nations sales as well as other fundraising events, Kistka said. 
"We want this money to go directly to the children," Kistka said. 
Additional BOG funding was necessary, she said, to make sure the full amount would go to Riley Hospital for Children. 
"We did not want to ask for more money than we have raised," Johnson said. 
While the group is trying to solicit several companies for food donations, Johnson said due to the large number of people expected to attend it would be "impossible" to rely on dona­tions. 
"Money for food is our biggest [expense]," Kistka said. 
Senior class president Lauren Condon moved to approve the co­sponsorship for the total $1,500 as well as a $500 donation from BOG that would go straight to the hospital-both of which passed. 
The group then discussed what it could provide for the Dance Marathon beyond the co-spon­sorship and donation. 
'Tm not saying that we give all $3,800 [that is left in our budg­et]," student body president Kellye Mitros said when ques­tioned about an amount. 
Condon motioned to provide a $500 donation for next year's Dance Marathon committee as a nest egg so that the group did not have to start from scratch. 
see BOG/page 8 

SAINT MARY'S, HOLY CROSS and NOTRE DAME STUDENTS! 
LOOKING FOR OR 
?­
FRIDAY, MARCH 24th INCC CAREER & INTERNSHIP FAIR held at IUSB's Student Activities Center Over 140 Companies will be in attendance! 
Check out the jobs@ www.iusb.edu/-iusbjf 
SPONSORED IN PART BY: SAINT MARY'S, HOLY CROSS AND NOTRE DAME CAREER CENTERS 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 21,2006 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~ 

McBrien 
continued from page 1 
ously but we won't confirm wlwtlwr an inwstigation is tak­ing plaee," hi' said. noting that any sw:h investigations are con­lidential. 
Tlw CNS raised its previous complaint of possibiP plagiarism by McBrien in a .Jan. 11) letter to Jenkins. Tlw letter focused on similarities bl'tweml a column by McBrien that app!Htred in the Jan. h issue of The Tidings of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles and an op-t~d piece by Eileen McNamara that ran in thn Dec. 11 issue of the Boston Globe. 
According to an artiele in the Feb. 24 edition of the National Catholic Heporter, theology dnpartnwnt chair John Cavadini dismissed the accusation bncausn the similarities were both unintentional and unprece­dnntml. 
In an e-mail sent to The Obsnrvcr Monday, McBrien said the CNS "has a history of making unsu]p;tantiated allegations against me, including the serious chargn of heresy," and said only the hinrarchical Magisteriurn of the Church is authorized to make such a jud!-,'lllent. 
"To date !the University! has found this type of critidsm of my work to be unsubstantiated," MeBri1m said. "I continue to have confidence in these University procedures." 
Cavadini declined to comment Monday. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle I @nd.edu 


Morin 
continued from page 1 
Ultimate Frisbee team attended the Mass for Morin in the Siegfried chapel. Crutchfield said. 
"Some of the freshmen [on tlw team! eame to Mass who met him for maybe a week at the b1•ginning of the year because they knew that he'd do the same for them," Crutchfield said. 
lie dnseribed Morin as "one of the most dedieated players on the tnam." 
.Junior Cole !Iundt, who was Morin's freshman and sopho­morn year roommate in Siegfried, called Morin one of his best frinnds at Notre Dame. 
"You have to be optimistic, otlwrwise you'll beat yourself up," !Iundt said, "''m worried, but you have to be optimistic in any situation like this." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

SuD101er 
continued from page 1 
standing students into Notrn Dame's collegiate atmosphere through academic, social and spiritual experiences, Ball said. 
"Those programs offor an outreach experience to students from around the country and tlw world, and Iare also used as al recruiting tool," she said. "We work hard to give them the community feeling and a sense of what it is like to be a student lwre." 
Pre-college program partici­pants live in residence halls and have access to all campus radii­ties during their stay to repli­cate the feeling of being a Upiversity undergraduate stu­dent, she said. 
Unlike the Summer Experience, the University invites a select number of tal­ented students to participate in The Office of Pre-College Programs' three individual week-long seminars. 
Forty Latino students will be invited to campus July 16-23 to partake in the Latino Community Leadership Seminar. The academic forum allows students to examine per­sonal experiences to develop new methods of Latino leader­ship. 
"These are important University initiatives to really reach out to targeted groups of students and give them an opportunity to experience Notre Dame," Ball said. 
Similar to the Latino Community Leadership 
Seminar, thn African-American Scholars at Notre Dame allows Catholic African-American high school students one week to re11ect upon African-American leadership while enriching their own leadership skills. 
According to Ball, approxi­mately 90 percent of The Oflice of Pre-College Programs' sum­mer programs participants apply to the University. 
Former African American Scholars and Global Issues Seminar participant and coun­selor senior Tona Boyd it is an honor to work with them in the hopes that they may somnday be a part of the ND family." 
The Global Issues Seminar gives 40 pre-college students the opportunity to embark on a week of discussion regarding the challenges faced by young Catholic leaders in today's soci­ety. 
In an effort to allow pre-eol­lege students to experience potential career options, the School of Architecture and College of Engineering both 
said her work "For me, ND Vision offer summertimn with the sem-immersions into
was a life-changing
inar inrtu-their respective
experience where I 
enced her fields. decision to learned to love my The week-long attend Notre School of
faith as I never had 
Dame rather Architecture Career
before."

than Yale Discovery program U~iversity. . allows high school My deer­Nick Matich juniors, seniors and sian ... was recent graduates the
Vision counselor 
largely due to the time I was able to spend on campus really getting to experience the way in which Notre Dame embraces educating the whole person ­mind, body and spirit," she said. 
Boyd now works as a research assistant in the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and said the summer pre-college programs continue to hold a special place in her heart. 
"I enjoy sharing my ND per­spective with the wonderfully talented, enthusiastic and delightful students that are cho­sen to attend these seminars," she said. 'They have so much to add to the ND community ­opportunity to learn 
more about the major prior to beginning col­lege, while the three-week lntro to Engineering program allows high school students to discover the opportunities available within the field. 
The University's Institute for Church Life's Notre Dame Vision program creates an increased sense of vocation and realization of faith in the every­day lives of high school students during four week-long sessions in June and July. 
Vision counselor and senior Jill Gadzinski said she was lured to spend the majority of her summer on Notre Dame's campus because of her belief in the mission of the program. 
"Becausp, of the time consum­ing nature of Vision, my PXpl'ri­ence of bBing on campus was entirely encompassed by the people and events of tlw pro­gram," she said. "That was orw of the app1~als of ND Vision in gBneral -being surrounded by an incredibly strong, vibrantly prayp,rful eommunity." 
Vision munselor sPnior Niek Matieh said the program not only fosters spiritual growth among pre-college studm1ts but with tlw college counselors as well. 
"Getting away from home and living at Notre Dame apart from all of its sehoul pressures, ean dear your mind, and open it up to new possibilities, and ways to grow eloser to God," he said. "For me, ND Vision was a life­changing experience where 1 learned to love my faith as 1 never had before." 
The Office of Pre-College Programs -which began its pre-college tradition with its first Global Issues Seminar in 1998 -hosts approximately 350 students in all four pro­grams throughout the summer. 
"Some of the students who attend the seminars would never have considered Notre Dame in their college applica­tion process," Boyd said. "1 have found that afterwards a significant number of the stu­dents really hold a special place in their heart for ND. It is my hope that the programs will continue to grow so that more and more young people are exposed to all that ND has to offer." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 

REGISTRATION OPENS APRIL 10 
www. northwestern.edu/summer 










ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 Cotv\P!LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinian turnover incites violence 
GAZA CITY -Palestinian gunmen from the ousted Fatah Party stormed government buildings, briel1y took over a power plant and blocked a vital road in the Gaza Strip on Monday, creating more chaos as Hamas mili­tants readied to take power. 
Nine people were wounded in five separate firelights with Palestinian police. The violence was a foretaste of what might happen if llamas tries to impose its will on Fatah gun­men. 
Bad blood runs deep between llamas and Fatah. and many Fatah activists -including nearly 60,000 members of the security forces -fear for their government jobs once Hamas takes power. The handover drew nearer Sunday, when Hamas presented its new Cabinet to Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas for approval. 
Uthuanian denies Nazi collaboration 
VILNIUS -An 85-year-old man deported from Florida went on trial Monday in his native Lithuania on charges of helping Nazis round up Jews during World War II. 
Algimantas Dailide is accused of being a member of the Nazi-sponsored Lithuanian Security Police, known as the Saugumas, which took part in the arrests of Jews during the war, contributing the Nazis' European-wide Holocaust. 
Dailide, who moved to the U.S. in 1955 and lived there until he was deported in 2003 for lying about his wartime past, denied the charges in the Vtlnius District Court. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Judge delays Yates murder trial 
HOUSTON -A judge Monday postponed Andrea Yates' murder retrial until June because of a scheduling conflict, setting a new trial date that comes just days after the fifth anniversary of her children's drowning deaths. 
Jury selection had been set to begin Monday, but Yates' attorneys told the judge that two defense experts wouldn't be able to testify in time. Attorneys George Parnham and Wendell Odom said the psychiatrists were extremely important to their defense and that trying Yates without them would "deny her a fair trial." 
On Monday, state District Judge Belinda Hill set jury selection for June 22, with testimony to begin June 26. Prosecutor Alan Curry said the state could also use the time to better prepare its case. 


Private aircraft crashes in Missouri 
BRANSON -A twin-engine plane crashed in the heart of this resort town Monday, killing all four people aboard and setting fire to a building near the main drag of tourist nightclubs, theaters and music halls. 
The plane crashed into a self-storage complex, about 200 feet from the busy street, near a Ripley's Believe it or Not Museum, a pair of motels and a string of musical theaters bearing the names of such entertainers as Andy Williams and Bobby Vinton. 
"The plane shook my house when it hit," said Mike Willett, who lives alongside the AAA Self Storage Inns he manages. The plane struck the corner of a building of 32 storage units and quickly caught fire, destroying the building. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Boxer dies following injury in fight 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -The weekend death of a boxer after an eight-round fight has prompted Indiana authorities to order a review of his bout and autopsy results. 
Kevin Payne, 34, was pronounced dead Sunday afternoon following surgery at Deaconess Hospital in Evansville, his home­town, Vanderburgh County Coroner Don Erk said. Payne won an welterweight bout by split decision the night before over 26-year-old Ryan Maraldo. 
• Payne was helped from the ring and taken by ambulance to the hospital after suffering a brain injury, officials said. 
AUSTRALIA 

Cyclone hits Land Down Under 
Storm deals massive structural damage, sound evacuation plans prevent deaths 
Associated Press 
CAIRNS -The most powerful storm to hit Australia in three decades laid waste to its northeast­ern coast Monday, mowing down sugar and banana plantations with 180 mph winds but causing no deaths or serious injuries. 
Innisfail, a farming town of 8,500 located about 60 miles south of the tourist city of Cairns, was hardest hit, and Mayor Neil Clarke estimated that thousands of residents were left homeless. 
More than 100,000 peo­ple were without power, and the damage was esti­mated to be in the hun­dreds of millions of dollars. Prime Minister John Howard pledged immedi­ate cash handouts to the homeless and said more help would be forthcoming. 
"The damage to dwellings is very exten­sive," Howard told the Nine Network from Melbourne. "Thank heav­ens it does not appear as though there have been any very serious injuries." 
Clarke told the Australian Broadcasting Corp. the local airport was being cleared to house people in tents. 
The town's main street each year. evacuation centers in town immediate payments to was littered with mangled David Wachenfeld, direc­while the storm raged out­families of $720 for each tin and iron roofs and tor of science at the gov­side, Creagh said. adult and $290 for each shredded froods from sea­ernment body that cares "Good planning, a bit of child left homeless. side palm trees. for the reef, said the worst­luck -we've dodged a Howard indicated that 
"It looks like an atomic hit area of the reef was not bullet," Creagh said. more aid would come after bomb hit the place," Clarke one that was popular with The storm was the most the government assessed said. "We won't even have tourists. He said it would powerful to hit Australia the damage. any water to drink by recover -though that since Christmas Eve in State Disaster tomorrow." could take 20 years. 197 4, when Cyclone Tracy Coordination Center 
Cyclone Larry crashed About 30 people were destroyed the northern city spokesman Peter Rekers ashore south of Cairns as a treated at hospitals for of Darwin, killing 65 peo­warned residents to stay Category 5 storm. Cairns is minor cuts and abrasions, ple. on their guard for deadly a popular jumping-off said Ben Creagh, a By early Tuesday, the animals stirred up by the point for tourists to the spokesman for Queensland storm was moving inland storm. Great Barrier Reef, the state Department of to the west over a remote "Most of the casualties world's largest coral sys­Emergency Services. The area of northeastern and deaths resulting from tem that runs parallel to human toll was low Australia. It was losing cyclones happen after the the coast for more than because people were force and had been down­storm has passed," he 1,400 miles. warned about the cyclone's graded to a Category 2 warned. "Keep your kids 
Authorities said it was approach over the week­storm. away from flooded drains, too early to assess possible end and either boarded up State authorities be aware of snakes and damage to the reef, visited their homes and fled or declared a natural disaster, crocodiles. Those guys will by nearly 2 million tourists hunkered down or went to and Howard promised have had a bad night, too." 

Bush defends war policies at forum 
The president was asked why he nents for increasingly lethal roadside
Associated Press 
deemed Iraq -which turned out not to bombs. Iran and the United States have 
CLEVELAND -Beginning the fourth have weapons of mass destruction -as agreed to talk about Iraq, but Bush said, year of an unpopular war, President enough of a threat three years ago to "It's very important, however, for the Bush defended his Iraq record on launch an invasion, in contrast to Iranians to understand that the discus­Monday against skeptical questioning. nuclear-ambitious Iran today. sion is limited to Iraq. We feel like they He said he could "understand people "One difference was that, in Iraq, need to know our position." being disheartened" but appealed to there was a series of unanimous (U.N. As the president delivered the latest Americans to look beyond the bloodshed Security Council) resolutions that basi­installment in an upbeat defense of his and see signs of progress. cally held the Iraqi government to Iraq policy, opponents used the day 
Bush fielded questions for nearly an account, which Saddam Hussein after the third anniversary of the inva­hour at the City Club, a forum known ignored," Bush said. Still, he said Iran sion to step up their criticism. for its tough interrogations of world was a concern, on the question of Three potential 2008 presidential can­leaders. Not only was he grilled on Iraq, nuclear weapons and on its role in Iraq. didates-Democratic Sen. Joe Biden of but he was also asked to justify his war­The White House has accused Iran of Delaware, New Mexico Gov. Bill rantless wiretapping program, U.S. rela­meddling in Iraqi politics and of sup­Richardson and Republican Sen. Chuck tions with Pakistan and his domestic porting armed militias in Iraq by send­Hagel of Nebraska -offered critical priorities. ing men and weapons, including compo-assessments in separate speeches. 
page 6 • The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
Coughlin said regardless of movies. whether an 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Director of Student Activities 
Brian Coughlin spoke to tho 
Campus Lifo Council (CLC} 
Monday to address confusion 
over event programming pro­
cedures in light of University 
Prosidnnt Father John Jenkins' 
recent addresses regarding 
academic froedom and 
Catholic character at Notre 
Damn. 
Coughlin's talk and the dis­cussion that follownd focused loss on tho issue of groups adhering to tho Univ<~rsity's Catholic mission and more on prohibiting n~petitive perform­ances. 
Coughlin said Jenkins first raisnd tho issue of disallowing annual performanees of "The Vagina Monologuos." Coughlin said he is concerned that the ropetition may lessen the impa<~t of the performance. 
"It loses its effect on campus if you keep doing it -its mes­sage begins to ring hollow," Coughlin said. "There is a lim­ited pool of financial resources to bring in speakers and per­!'ormanees, and we want to spread that out to make sure Ithe stu dentsI are exposed to as much as possible over four years here." 
Coughlin cited yearly repeti­tion as one of the reasons "The Vagina Monologues" has come under fire in recent months. lie said the "Monologues" is not the only activity the repeti­tion standard applies to. All campus groups, he said, are encouraged to change the con­tent of their programs annual­ly. 
"If l.het Keenan Hevuo did the same skit year aftnr year, then we would probably have a con­versation with the redor of Keenan and the folks over there," Coughlin said. 
Zahm senator Pat Knapp questioned Coughlin's state­ment that the mpetition of an event diminishes its impact, eiting the yearly turnover in the student body, with a quar­ter of the population leaving and a now class arriving each year. 
But Coughlin responded that, even so, 75 percent of the stu­dent body remains the same. 
"If a group wanted to do the exact same thing every year, I would say they need to expand and do different things every year and expose everyone to 
V'~ant to W'rite for 

~Jews? 
Call Mary ·K:ate at 1-5323 

different things," he said. encourage SUB to bring in new 
"There are hundreds of pro­grams on sexual assault available out there," Coughlin said. "They [depart­ments and groups sponsor­ing or supporting "The Vagina Monologues"] should explore different things." 
History profes­sor Gail Bederman chal­lenged 
event is pop­ular during its initial per­formance, it should not be performed repeatfldly. lie said even though tho Student 
u n i 0 n 
Board's (SUB} recent show­ing or "RENT" was extremely popular, 
"If the Keenan Revue did the same skit year after year, then we would probably have a conversation with the rector ofKeenan and the folks over there. " 
Brian Coughlin director of Student Activities 

Student Activities would not Coughlin's position by bringing support subsequent repeated up an observation she said showings -but would instead was made at a recent faeulty 
meeting. weeks regarding a firm "People have a sense that University policy on controver­football is an activity that is sial eampus events like "Tho 
repeated year after year often with the s a m e teams, and often the same players," Bederman said. "If football can be repeated year after year, why groups?" 
"It loses its effect on campus ifyou keep doing it-its message begins to ring hollow. " 
Brian Coughlin director of Student Activities 
Vagina Monologues." 
In other CLC news: 
+Ali Wishon, chair of the Senate Committee on Gender Issues, introduced a resolution to the Council in support or Notre Dame 
can't student Health Service's hiring of a physician. The physician will 

Coughlin suggested the CLC listen to any statements Contact Kaidynn Riely at Jenkins makes in the coming kriely@nd.edu 
At Ernst & Young you'll get the on-the-job training you need to succeed on your own. 
We know you're new to the work force. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst & Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. If you're looking for agreat start, look for us on campus. Or visit us on the Web at ey.comjusjcareers. We won't steer you wrong. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

11,274.53 -5.12

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,441 142 1,840 1,977,205,620 

AMEX 


NASDAQ 2, 3 14. 11 +7. 6 3 NYSE 8,255~64 "-15:9']:\ili S&P 500 l,JQ2":9~ -2.17 NIKKEI(Tokyo) lu~aU~S() '' :f~85il~!, FTSE IOO(London) 5,991.70 -7.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.88 +0.12 13.72 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) 
+4.50 +0.22 5.11 

MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.42 +0.39 27.89 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.24 +0.10 41.55 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.41 +0.08 19.62 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.18 46.56 13-WEEK BILL +0.29 +0.13 45.30 30-YEAR BOND -0.36 -0.17 47.00 5-YEARNOTE -0.30 -0.14 46.07 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.24 61.96 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.00 556.1 0 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.48 84.53 
Excha Rates 

YEN 116.3500 
EURO 0.8233 
POUND 0.5700 
CANADIAN$ 1.1617 
IN BRIEF 
Accountant testifies in Enron trial 
HOUSTON -Enron Corp. tried to dodge accounting ru1es by dropping a plan to sell assets in a failed water business, a former Arthur Andersen LLP accountant said on Monday. 
John R. Suit, who oversaw the books on Enron's Azurix water venture for Andersen, told jurors the energy trading company could avoid a writedown of hundreds of millions of dollars by promoting, instead, a $1 billion growth strategy for the unit. 
"By merely standing up and making the asser­tion that the strategy exists somehow makes the problem go away," he testified, explaining his view of Enron's plan. 
Enron founder Kenneth Lay is accused of improperly avoiding writedowns and former Chief Executive Ollicer Jeffrey Skilling is accused of misusing reserves. The two men are beginning the eighth week of their fuderal fraud and con­spiracy trial. 

Interest rates slow market growth 
NEW YORK -Wall Street's four-day rally paused Monday, with the major indexes fmishing mixed as optimism over a potential end to the Federal Reserve's string of interest rates clashed with investors' desire to take profits after the run higher. 
With slowing economic growth and little evi­dence of inflation, the market is getting more optimistic that the Fed, which meets next Tuesday, would stop raising rates by May. Investors looked ahead to Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke's Monday night speech to the Economic Club of New York f(Jr further evidence of a halt to ratn hikes. 
llowever, with stocks up for four straight ses­sions last week and the Dow Jones industrials and Standard & Poor's 500 index at highs not seen since May 2001, confidence in the market's ability to keep advancing cou1d be faltering. And the impetus to lock in profits ahead of the Fed meeting could prove tempting for cautious investors. , 
"There's really not a lot of information here to work with. and I think the market's taking a rest," said Jack Ahlin, chid' investment officer at llarris Private Bank. "We're still a few weeks away from first-quarter earnings. so all you have to focus on is a slowing economy and interest rates." 
FRANCE 




Unions plan nationwide strike 
Labor organizations and students call for stoppages in response to youth labor laws 
Associated Press 

PARIS -French unions and student groups called Monday for a national day of strikes March 28 to protest a youth jobs plan that has already provoked huge street demonstrations and para­lyzed many universities. 
Labor u.nions had set a Monday evening deadline for Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin to withdraw the jobs plan or face a possible gener­al strike -but he showed lit­tle sign of backing down. Meeting student groups, Villepin calmly urged dia­logue. 
"There are problems and worries being expressed," Villepin said after the talks, which were boycotted by the largest student group, UNEF. "Let's get together around a table to move forward and find solutions and respons­
es." 

The law, passed by parlia­ment this month, is designed to reduce youth unemploy­ment by making it easier for companies to hire and fire. But critics fear it will hurt job security. 
Another day of student the run-up to French presi­half-million people. pockets Monday. At least 300 protests is planned Thursday dential and legislative elec­Organizers said 1.5 million students hurled stones and ahead of the national strike, tions next year. Polls show took part. set garbage bins on fire at expected to affect sectors the popularity rating of the The largest march, in Louis Armand High School in from travel to industry to conservative Villepin taking a Paris, ended in violence and southern Paris, principal schools. Individual unions beating, and the opposition skirmishes between youths Jean-Armel Le Gall said. No were to offer more details in Socialists have vowed to and police at the famed injuries were reported, and the coming days. revoke the measure if they Sorbonne university. Cars, the violence ebbed by mid­
President Jacques Chirac return to power. bus shelters and 10 shops day. acknowledged Monday that Students are angry the law were damaged -including a Thirteen universities were concerns about the law were was pushed through quickly. McDonald's restaurant. on strike -with students legitimate, but said high "They (the government) A total of 167 people were blockading entrances with youth unemployment in imposed the jobs plan with­arrested. Police said Sunday classroom chairs and tables France required action. He out consulting anyone," that 52 people were injured -and classes at dozens of made a new appeal for talks UNEF leader Bruno Julliard -18 ofthem demonstrators. others and at many high between opponents and the told The Associated Press. One man injured at the schools have been disrupted. government. "They only agree to talks Paris protest was uncon­The government's new 
"The stakes in the next few when a million people go into scious and in serious condi­youth jobs contract, passed days are to open a construc­the streets to demonstrate, tion Monday, police and hos­March 9 by parliament, is tive and conscientious dia­so we refuse to talk to them pital officials said: The PTT­designed to lower the 23 per­logue that could improve" until they withdraw it." SUD union claimed the 39-cent unemployment rate the law, he told reporters. Opponents were riding a year-old man had been "vio­among the nation's young Chirac must sign the law for swell of protest culminating lently trampled by a police people. Critics say it would it to take effect next month. in marches across France on charge." chip away at workers' rights 
The debate looms large in Saturday that drew at least a The unrest continued in and endanger job security. 

Wal-Mart pursues growth in China 
Associated Press "We could hire as many as 150,000 Wal-Mart does not provide a coun­
(new employees) in the next five try-by-country breakdown of intrna­
BENTONVILLE, Ark. -Wal-Mart years," Wyatt said. tional financial results. The total Stores Inc. plans to hire up to The news comes less than a week international division accounted for 150,000 employees in China over the after Wal-Mart moved to expand in about 20 percent of last year's overall next five years, five times its current another fast-growing region, Central net sales of $312.4 billion. work force there, as it expands its America, by taking a majority stake But Wal-Mart's international divi­number of stores, the company said in a regional retail chain that it first sion is growing faster than its larger Monday. bought into last September. Wal-Mart U.S. operations. In 2005, the interna­
Wal-Mart has targeted China, which took over Central American Retail tional business saw net sales and has long been a major supplier of its Holding Co., also known as CARHCO, operating income -rise 11.4 percent, products, as a key region for its inter­for an undisclosed price. compared to 9.4 percent for sales and national store growth. It now has 56 Wal-Mart bought about $18 billion 8.2 percent for operating income at stores in China with about 30,000 in goods from China in 2004, the last the U.S. division minus Sam's Clubs. employees and plans to open 20 more year for which it has released num­Late last year Wal-Mart extended stores this year. bers, Wyatt said. its global business by buying 140 
Wal-Mart spokeswoman Amy Wyatt The region is a key part of Wal­Sonae stores in Brazil and increasing declined to say how many stores the Mart's strategy of growing interna­its stake to a majority in Japan's Bentonville, Ark.-based retailer will tionally, where it is active in 15 coun­Seiyu Ltd., which has 405 stores. add longer term. Wal-Mart generally tries including China, Japan and Wal-Mart's international side had only makes public projections one Korea in Asia, Britain and Germany more than 450,000 e'mployees last year at a time for its new store plans in Europe, Canada, Mexico and eight year, compared to more 1.3 million at in the U.S. and internationally. countries in Latin America. 3,400 stores in the Ui1ited-States. 
page 8 Tuesday, March 21,2006
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
··---=============================::;::=========== 
BO~G 
continued from page 3 
"!The committee hasl been so prnpared every time they come in here," Mitros said before the group approved the extra donation. 
Following the vote, technolo­gy commissioner Ashley Enright said the Writing Center computer duster in LeMans Hall had been moved to the SUHV center in 20 LeMans Hall. She said this duster does not have a printnr. 
A discussion about printers on campus ensund, with ques­tions arising about the potential f'or a futurn print quota-such as putting a cap on the number of' pages each student can print. 
l•:nright said the Department oJ Information Technology would like to avoid a quota and is trying to keep cosl'i of print­ing down. 

In other BOG news: 
+Midnight Madness is Friday. Festivities begin at 10 p.m. and prizes will be given out all night. 
+Admissions commissioner Annie Davis said Saturday is Aceepted Student'> Day on earn­pus. Tour guides are still need­nd and should contact Davis if interested. 
+Hesidence Hall Association president Jackie Wright said next week is Hesidence Hall Pride Week. Events are planned throughout the week, including a pool party in Hegina, a Spa Day in LeMans, lip-syn1:hing in McCandless and a decorating contest in Holy Cross. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

GMAT Review 
6 Wednesdays April :26 to May 31 6-10 p.m. $395 



LSAT Review 
4 Saturdays April 29 to May 20 8 a.m. -noon $324 

GRE Review 
7 VVednesday May 'I 0 -June 21 6-10 p.m. $449 

Mention this ad and get a 5% discount. Division of Extended Learning Services 
IU South Bend Call 574-520-4261 to enroll or visit www.iusb.edu/-cted 


Price 
continued from page 1 
ferent that we don't normally get to do," Keller said. 
The taping started in the afternoon as producers talked to audience members in 
,groups of 12, a process Keller 
described as a "personality­
type screening." 
During one of the breaks, show host Bob Barker asked the Glee Club to sing. 
"We got to go up there on contestants row and sang the 
end  of the  '!Notre  Dame]  
Fight Song'  on  TV,"  Keller  
said.  

However, it was not until the words "Kevin Keller, come on down!" boomed over the audience that the 25 mem­bers of the Glee Club became thoroughly gleeful. 
"When they yelled it, it was the greatest party," Keller said. "We just went erazy ­everyone was running around and jumping all over each otlwr." 
Keller said the celebration was especially unique. 
"When they normally call people down they're in their rows so they get to celebrate, but not nearly as much," he said. "We were in the aisle so we were just jumping around and running -it was a free­for-all." 
Keller won $880 worth of camping equipment through his accurate guessing in the initial bidding round. But he said he did use some' form of strategy. 
"The lady next to me guessed $800 on the bidding and I said $801 ," he said. "I was 'that guy' for a round." 
After failing to win a golf cart in a game called "Coming or Going," Keller moved on to the "Big Wheel." As the wheel spun, Keller and the 24 other 
Glee Club members circled their fingers in the air for the "Go Irish" chant. 
The object of the "Big Wheel" is to get as close as possible to one dollar. Keller ended up with 95 cents, land­ing him a spot in the Showcase Showdown. 
· In the Showdown, Keller found himself guessing at the price of a camping set. "When you actually see the stuff and the cameras are on you and everybody's yelling out prices and stuff I couldn't think of anything," he said. "I was just sitting there like 'Whatever, I can't believe I'm up here right now."' Keller bid $18,500 on the package that included a camper, a dirt 
And while the Glee Club had every afternoon off during the· week -most of which Keller said were spent relaxing at beaches -only one of the spring break days included meeting iconic "The Price is Right" hostBob Barker. 
"He's a witty guy," Keller said. "lie's talking about a five-year contract extension that he's thinking about, which would put him at 87 years old when he's done." 
Despite his age, Barker knows how to have fun, Keller said. Durfng one of the breaks in filming, someone from the audience asked Barker to recite a line from his role in "Happy Gilmore." 
"lie was just 
like, 'Well let 
me ask my per­

bike, an oven, sonal assistant
"When they normally 
a refrigerator if it's okay, I
call people down 
and a dish­don't want to washer. they're in their rows so do anything "I just tried bad' ... so he
they get to celebrate, 
to think about walked over to
but not nearly as much.
when I his assistant watched the We were in the aisle so with his micro­show -usual­we were just jumping phone still on ly the big and he's like
around and running­
showcases 'They want me 
were like It was a free-for-all." to say, 'The $23,000 and price is right, the smaller b****!" and the
Kevin Keller 
ones were like whole place
senior
$17,000 so I just started 
"Price is Right" winner
tried to pick cracking up 
in the middle  
of  that,"  he  
said. "My mind  was  every­ 
where."  
When  he  made  it  to  the  

Showdown and was asked if he wanted anyone on stage to celebrate with him if he won, Keller's answer was simple. 
"Yeah, the Glee Club," Keller said. "When I won, all 25 guys got to run up and we were just jumping around and had the greatest party." 
The celebration will likely continue on April 3 when the show airs, Keller said. 
laughing," 
Keller said. 

Keller said his time on "The Price is Hight" was a wild experience he'll never forget. 
"It was so quick. We were in and out -they were like 'Sign this, sign this and you're done,"' he said. "At the end I had my arms around two of Barker's Beauties and I was just like, 'This is unreal.' I'm never gonna have this oppor­tunity again." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

The former "Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs" is expanding and seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. The newly structured council, the Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students is now accepting applications. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 28, 2006, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 

Tuesday, March 21 , 2006 The Observer + NATI 0 NAL NEWS page 9 
Ethanol industry braces for summer spike in demand 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -After a spurt of good fortune, the fledgling 
U.S. ethanol industry is antici­pating some growing pains that could bring it unwanted atten­tion this summer. 
Ethanol's public pronte rose significantly for the better last .July when Congress passed an energy bill that mandates the doubling of biofuels output by 2012. In January, President Bush gave the industry a further boost with a strong endorse­ment in his State of the Union speech. And with the imminent phaseout of a petrochemical added to gasoline to reduce tailpipe emissions, more U.S. motorists will depend on the corn-derived fuel than ever before. 
But there's trouble looming: The ethanol industry might not be ready to satisfy the expected summertime jump in demand. And by crimping the overall supply of motor fuel, this could contribute to a spike in gasoline pump prices at the start of the country's peak driving season. 
That, at least, is the view of the Energy Department, which issued a report last month detailing the ehallenges mid­western ethanol producers will have in getting their fuel _to key markets along the East Coast because of railroad, trucking and other distribution bottle­necks. The report also highlight­ed concerns about the limited output capacity of an industry still in its infancy. 
The Renewable Fuels Association, a trade group rep­resenting ethanol producers such as Archer Daniels Midland Co. and Pacific Ethanol Inc., says the industry's challenges and their influence on gasoline prices are being overblown. The association sent an angry letter to the Energy Department last week, questioning the overall thoroughness of its research and accusing it of creating "unnecessary fears in the mar­ketplace." 
Still, ethanol-related worries hang over the U.S. market, con­tributing to a 42-cent-per-gallon increase in unleaded gasoline futures since mid-February. There are other factors behind the recent wholesale gasoline price spike, including soaring oil prices, strong demand and per­sistent strains on the U.S. refin­ing system. 
The average retail price of gasoline in the United States is $2.51 a gallon -the highest level since October -and some analysts say $3 is a possibility by summer. 
Wholesale prices for ethanol, meanwhile, have surged to roughly $2.75 a gallon, or about 50 cents per gallon higher than usual, according to the Oil Price Information Service of Wall, N.J. Because ethanol makes up one­tenth of every gallon of unlead­ed gasoline with which it is blended, this windfall for ethanol producers ends up cost­ing motorists an extra 5 cents per gallon at the pump. 
High prices will spur more ethanol production -there are 33 new plants under construc­tion -but some minor near­term complications can be expected due to the rapid increase in demand, said Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association and the author of the letter sent to the Energy Department. 
Dinneen said the industry is taking steps to mitigate the problems, such as filling ethanol storage tanks on the East Coast before summer arrives and con­tracting barges that can ship ethanol down the Mississippi River and then up the Atlantic 


-2-3 STORY FLOORPLANS -2 CAR ATTACHED GARAGES -2.5+ BATHROOMS -2-4 BEDROOMS 
-•• •• 

NOW SELLING 
FROM THE 1705 
UNITS AVAILABLE FOR FALL 

-WALK TO CAMPUS 
Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith@brothersofholycross.com 
MODEL OPEN WED-FRI 12-6PM SAT-SUN 12-SPM 
wwt.a,._

... 
~ 
~ 
a 
; 
.!@
t
.. 
~·-... 

seaboard. 
Energy analysts said it is unclear whether ethanol pro­ducers can manufacture and distribute enough supply once 
U.S. refiners phase out the use of a petrochemical called methyl tertiary butyl ether, or MTBE, which enables gasoline to burn more completely, and thus more cleanly, but carries some public health risks. 
The refining industry says it warned Congress for years about the difficulty ethanol pro­ducers would have in offsetting the loss of MTBE, which accounts for about 10 percent of the volume of every gallon of gasoline with which it is blend­ed. 
"When it comes to ethanol, Congress is guilty of more irra­tional exuberance than on any other issue," said Bob Slaughter, president of the National 
VISIT OUR FURNISHED MODEL OR 
DUBUNVILLAGE~COM 
435 ABBEY ST. SOUTH BEND, lN 46637 SSM lTH@COOREMAN.COM 
Petrochemical and Refiners Association. 
California, New York and Connecticut have banned MTBE in recent years, but consumers from Virginia to New Hampshire, as well as in Texas, still depend on it. 
MTBE, a natural gas deriva­tive, has been -the oxygenate of choice since the mandate was established roughly 10 years ago as a byproduct of the Clean Air Act. 
But MTBE also has been found to contaminate drinking water supplies and it may cause can­cer, exposing the petroleum industry to lawsuits filed by water districts and municipali­ties on behalf of their citizens. After Congress refused to grant the industry protection from such lawsuits, refiners made clear their intention to stop using MTBE. 
Valero Energy Corp., Exxon Mobil Corp. and Shell Oil Co., the U.S. subsidiary of Royal Dutch Shell Pic, all plan to cease using MTBE in gasoline by May 5, spokespersons for the compa­nies said. 
Valero, the country's largest independent refiner, estimates the country's total gasoline sup­ply will shrink by 145,000 bar­rels per day, or about 1.5 per­cent, once MTBE is removed ­a transition expected to be com­plete by May 5. That is when an obscure provision of the energy bill goes into effect, eliminating the need for a so-called oxy­genate in gasoline. 
Now it is up to ethanol pro­ducers to bridge the gap. While 
U.S. ethanol producers have the capacity to produce roughly 4.3 billion gallons -or 280,000 barrels per day -in 2006, the near-term crunch means more imports will be needed from Brazil, Dinneen said. The United States imported more than 150 million gallons of ethanol in 2005. 
Dinneen said part of the prob­lem for the U.S. ethanol industry right now is that it was caught off guard by the oil industry's faster-than-expected phaseout of MTBE. "Refiners made the decision to accelerate the removal of MTBE, not ethanol producers," Dinneen said. 
Perhaps the biggest issue is distribution. 
Gasoline with or without MTBE can be shipped in large quantities through an extensive network of pipelines. But ethanol, which tends to corrode pipelines, must be transported on trucks, trains and barges in relatively small batches to stor­age terminals where it is then blended with gasoline. 

Tuesday, March 21, 2006 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 10 
BELA,RUS 

Pr,otesters defy government authorities during elections 
Associated Press 
MINSK-Pavel Gorbunov 
broke through the crowd, 
unshoathed a tent and started 
sntting it up on the cold stones 
of Oktyabrskaya Square. 
Six other small tnnts already stood in a rough circle, and by midnight Monday there were a dozen. Most were draped with historic~ national nags favored by critics of authoritarian President Alexander Lukashcmko. who has scrapped them for a Soviet-style version. 
"This is our last chancc~." said Vladimir Fivsky. a 20-year-old student who had wrapped one of the red-stripPd white f1ags around his shoulders and wore a pin in the same colors saying: "For Frnedom!" liP said came to tho squar<~ to protest bcH~ausn lw "had cmough" after 12 years of Lukashnnko's rnprnssivn ruiP. 
Fivsky and Corbunov were among thousands of opposition supporwrs who gatlwrc~d in tlw eentnr of tlw Bcdarus' capital for a snnmd night. hoping tlwir protnst would lwlp overturn a presidential c>lnl"tion that tlw 
U.S. said was llawml by a "di­matn of fnar." 
Thnir numbPrs wnrn smaiiPr than on nlnction night Sunday, and prospnc:ts for a Ukrainn­styln "Orangc-Hovolution" snnmnd romoto. But with overnight tnmpc~ratures at 28 dogrons Fahrc•nheit, protnsters vowed to turn thn dmnonstra­tion into a round-the-dock presonen. 
Still. Gorbunov wondered how long tlw authorities would lnt tlw tents remain. Ofl"icials put on a show of force. with busloads of riot police fanning out int.o nearby streets and <~ourtyards and preventing peo­ple from approaching the main squarn. 
Police had only a small and unobtrusive prnsence at the protest tho previous night, wlwn an estimated 10,000 peo­pln braved the freezing cold and snow to rc~gister their out­rage after Lukashnnko was d ncl arc-d tlw ovorwh cdm in g winrwr of tho oleetions. 
Lukaslwnko assorted Monday that his fons had failed to top­piP him in a foreign-backod "rcwolution." 
lntnrnational obsnrvnrs said tlw vote• fdl short of dnmorratic standards. l~uropn's main human rights organization said it was a "farce," and tho Unitnd States callnd for a nc-w nlnction. l.ukashnnko's main opponnnt rc~fusnd to ac:rc-pt tlw outl~onw, calling tlw longtinw loader an "illngal. illegitimate> prnsidnnt." 
llowcwnr. tlw lcweragn of the intnrn.:ttional community scH~rnnd lirnitPd, and nvnn many of thc-protnstnrs appnarnd to . have liltln appPlitn for a pro­longnd vigil and a possibly vio­lnnt confrontation. 
T lw n I n c tio n r n s u I t. i f i t stands. would c~ntrnnch the sta­tus of Bcdarus as onc~ of the 


least independent of the former demanding an election rerun. Soviet republics. "Our protest will be long and 
Some 5,000 gathered in strong," he vowed. "We will Oktyabrskaya Square in the never recognize this election. capital, about half the number It's not an election but an anti­that carne out Sunday night for constitutional seizure of a protest whose size was power." extraordinary in a tightly con­The crowd thinned as hours trolled country passed, but many where police have shared a determi­cracked down nation to go to swiftly on unsanc­the bitter end.
"This is our last
tioned opposition "We plan to gatherings. chance." stay here The diminished overnight and to crowd suggested stay until the
Vladimir Fivsky 
to many that the moment when the 
20-year-old student 
opposition was vote is pro­losing momentum. protestor nounced falsified, 
"There aren't when the authori­enough people" a ties admit this young man and a new elec­hollered into a cell tion is phone amid the din of the rally. announced," said a 21-year-old 
But Alexander Milinkevich, student who gave his name thn main opposition presiden­only as Alexander, one of a tial candidate and symbolic dozen people sitting among the heart of the protests. called on tents. tho demonstrators to gird for a A few tents "may not change lengthy campaign. ·lie is much, but if people lose their fear they will join us," he said. 
Milinkevich visited the grow­ing makeshift tent camp, taking sips of tea from a cup he was offered and saying: "We're together." 
As the rally was about to begin, busloads of riot police streamed into Karl Marx Street near the square. Security forces in helmets and camou­flage uniforms disembarked from the buses, jogged into neighborhood courtyards and prevented pedestrians from walking toward the square. 
On the square, a 45-year-old woman who gave her name only as Irina said she was scared about the prospect of bloody police action, but "if Lukashenko stays in power, it will be even worse." · 
White House press secretary Scott McClellan said the elec­tion was flawed by a "climate of fear," and hinted that penal­ties such as travel restrictions "are things we will look at." 
"We support the call for a 
new election," McClellan said. "The United States will contin­ue to stand with the people of Belarus." 
A cheer went up from the crowd in the square when a 
speaker reported  the  U.S.  
statement.  
By  contrast,  Hussian  

President Vladimir Putin on Monday congratulated Lukashenko in a telegram and said the results would help strengthen the alliance of the two former Soviet nations. 
The chief electoral official said Monday that Lukashenko, who has ruled with an iron list since 1994, won a "convincing victory" with 82.6 percent of the votes a number Milinkovich called "monstrous­ly inflated." 
Lukashenko scorned thn opposition, saying voters had shown "who's tlw boss" in Belarus. "The revolution that was talked about so much ... has failed," he told a nationally televised news conference. 


Tuesday, March 21, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Ne-w Orleans mayor endorses criticized rebuilding plan 
Associated Press new light-rail systems, new 
riverfront development and 
better flood protection. 
NEW ORLEANS-Mayor Ray "We have worked tirelessly," Nagin finished work Monday on Nagin told hundreds of resi­a plan to rebuild New Orleans, dents who attended a meeting endorsing a proposal that to hear about the plan. "It has would allow all residents to been controversial in some reconstruct their homes in respects, but I am pleased by neighborhoods shattered by the results." Hurricane Katrina. Residents lined up to speak 
The mayor's advisory com­against the proposal during a mission, formed after Katrina public-comment period. One of struck Aug. 29, recommended them, an activist named Chui in January that some flooded Clark, called the commission "a neighborhoods be replaced rotten, racist committee," echo­with parks and that the city ing criticism by many black take a go-slow attitude in residents who say they are rebuilding low-lying areas. But being discouraged from return­that suggestion was greeted ing. with jeers and outrage at pub­Babatunji Ahmed, a crafts­lic meetings. man, charged that construction 
Nagin, who is running for re­contracts were going to major election April 22, distanced corporations like the himself from Halliburton Co. that plan, which instead of to included a pro­local workers. 
posed moratori­"... I don't see an "Somebody is 
um on building implementation plan, trying to keep us 
permits in some away from this 
an action plan, based 

areas. economic pie!" On Monday, on dates on when we said Ahmed, he offered to let can expect to be who also spoke residents out against sug­
done."

rebuild any-gestions that the where, but city reduce its warned that Ron Forman size, or "foot­homeowners in New Orleans print." flood-prone "The smaller
mayoral candidate

neighborhoods footprint means would do so at you don't want their own risk. my mamma 
-"I'm confident that the citi­back! You don't want my zens can decide intelligently for grandchildren back!" he said. themselves," the mayor said. But the plan has been warm­
The report also recommend­ly received in many circles. Ron ed a host of other ideas, from Forman, a strong mayoral can­revamping schools to consoli­didate and prominent business­dating some city offices. The man, applauded the commis­wish-list of projects included sion's work and the breadth of the report. But he said it is still short on specifics. 

"The only problem I see with the plan is that I don't see an implementation plan, an action plan, based on dates on when we can expect to be done," Forman said. 
Nagin turned the plan imme­diately into fodder for his re­election campaign, poking fun at a prominent opponent and using the spotlight to make light of missteps he's made. 
''I'm going to do something I hate to do: I'm going to read from the script ... so that I don't get caught up in the moment," said Nagin, whose off-the-cuff remarks have drawn criticism, such as his infamous "chocolate city" speech in which he said God intended New Orleans to be a black-majority city. 
More abuse allegations surface 
Former detainees and their attorneys criticize much-maligned Guantanamo Bay prison, allege U.S. tactics ofhumiliation, torture 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -America risks convicting the innocent and letting the guilty evade jus­tice in how it handles detainees at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, the military attorney defending an Australian terror suspect held at the U.S. prison camp said Monday. 
Maj. Miehael Mori, a Marine Corps lawyer, told an audience at George Washington University that no civilized justice system would accept "information being acquired potentially under tor­ture or questionable methods." 
Mori spoke after several for­mer detainees recounted their experiences at the camp, which holds roughly 500 prisoners. Most were taken in the after­math of the U.S.-led invasion of Afghanistan following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. 
Mori's client, David Hicks, was caught in December 2001, allegedly while fighting along­side Afghanistan's ousted Taliban regime. He has pleaded innocent to charges that include attempted murder and aiding the enemy. 
"When you use an imbalanced system," Mori said, "all you do is risk convicting the innocent and providing someone who may be truly guilty with a valid com­plaint to challenge their convic­tion." 
He added: "There are no rules. They change every day." 
Only a handful of Guantanamo prisoners have been charged. Others have been released, usu­ally to their home countries. 
Tarek Dergoul, who spent two years imprisoned at Guantanamo, said he was forced to watch as Americans stepped on a Quran, wrote slurs on its pages and then threw the holy book into a toilet. He said by appearing on a video with al­Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. Rasul said he had been working in England when the video was made. 
Interrogators, he said, isolated him for the better part of three months, his legs shackled while they blasted loud music into his cell until he confessed. 
"I was going crazy," Rasul said. "My mind-set was, 'I have to get out of isolation because I 
video link from London that his beard was shaved and his eyes sprayed with pepper spray. 
"Guantanamo was a sham­bles," Dergoul said. "It is cre­ating, as they say, terrorists. .. . It's doing no justice for America; 

"Guantanamo was a shambles ... It's doing no justice for America; there's no information being extracted. " 
Tarek Dergoul former detainee 
can't hack it no more."' 
Attorney Joshua Colangelo-Bryan spoke of attempting to win more free­doms for a client held in isolation who had tried sever­al times to kill himself. 
The U.S. mili­tary, he said, 

there's no information being extracted." 
The U.S. government has denied some previous reports of abuse of the Quran, specifically a Newsweek magazine report that a copy was flushed down a toilet. Newsweek later retracted the report, which sparked riots that left dozens of people dead. 
Shafiq Rasul, who spent more than two years at Guantanamo, said he was forced to admit to argued in part' that the prisoner was not isolated because he had been interrogated 29 times over two years. 
"Is there another case any­where in the history of Anglo­American jurisprudence where it was argued that a person is not isolated, and in fact has meaningful interaction with other human beings, because he is interrogated?" Colangelo­Bryan asked. 
The release of the report came hours after civil rights groups took aim at the state's plan for rebuilding, which includes spending billions of federal dollars to buy flood­damaged homes. 
Groups including the NAACP, the Advancement Project and the New Orleans-based People's Hurricane Relief Fund complained that the plan gives short shrift to poor and low­income victims by focusing too much on bailing out homeown­ers and encouraging high-end development at the expense of low-income renters. 
In a letter to Gov. Kathleen Blanco's administration, the groups cited government esti­mates showing that about 126,570 rental units without insurance were flooded last year. By contrast, they said, 
only about 25,180 uninsured homes were damaged, which is about 20 percent of all the ruined homes. 
"This is really like the open­ing salvo, if you will, of attempts to get a fair share of that money for low-and mod­erate-income people," said Bill Quigley, a lawyer and civil rights activist. 
The state plan still needs approval by the Legislature, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the Louisiana Recovery Authority. 
State officials said they wel­comed the groups' opinions. 
"We want to make sure that we get as much input from citi­zens as we can," said Suzie Elkins, director of the Office of Community Development, which will also review the rebuilding plan. 
Chertoff to toughen up on 'free riders' 
Says some chemical plants not properly secured 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Chemical plants with lax protections from attacks and accidental leaks are being targeted by the Homeland Security Department -before they can be targeted by terrorists. 
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff said Monday his department will crack down on chemical manufacturers and stor­age facilities that he described as "free riders" -those that haven't beefed up their security meas­ures. 
"They're counting on the fact that the industry in general has a good level of investment, and they figure they'll hide among the leaves and essentially freeload on this security work done by oth­ers," ChertofT said. 
"That's not acceptable," he said. "Progress on this has stalled for too long." 
Counterterror experts put the chemical industry at the top of the list of likely terror targets. Congressional investigators have revealed spotty results in how well the chemical industry is pre­pared to respond in the event of an attack. 
At issue is federal regulation of security plans at the nation's 15,000 privately operated chemi­cal plants -one-fifth of which are close to cities and other heav­ily populated areas. 
The chemical industry generally has resisted federal regulation, and large manufacturers have voluntarily taken steps to improve security that they deem adequate. Small chemical firms and plants have largely ignored beefing up safeguards to avoid having to pay for them. 
Homeland Security "wants and deserves authority to set federal standards for chemical security, and then enforce those stan­dards," said Chris VandenHeuvel, a spokesman for the American Chemistry Council, which repre­sents large chemical manufactur­ers. "Four and a half years after 9/11, they still don't have that." 
Legislation is pending in the Senate to authorize Homeland Security to shut down facilities that do not comply with minimum safety standards. But the bill by Sens. Susan Collins, R-Maine, and Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., would largely let the chemical industry draw up its own security plans for the federal government to approve or reject. 
ChertofT has not endorsed the plan, but he is expected on Tuesday to outline elements that he said would need to be in acceptable legislation. Congressional staffers said it like­ly would not encourage facilities to substitute safe substances for hazardous chemicals, as environ­mentalists have demanded. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, March 2 I, 2006 
lrHE OBSERVER 

Libertarian theology? 
der. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Problems greater than they seem 
If Catholicism were strong at Notre Dame, the spon­ic debate whether it is the theory underlying the event sorship of events even perceived to be at odds with the or whether it is the theory challenging the theory under­Catholic character of the University would be of little lying the event. concern.-It is insecurity that breeds fear, fear that If the Catholic mission of Notre Dame is truly chal­breeds intolerance and intolerance that breeds censor­lenged by the former "Queer Film Festival" and "The ship. Vagina Monologues" sueh that the University's only 
Citing the Catholie nature of the University as a rea­response is to stop them, then I am afraid you have son to impose "appropriate limits" on academic freedom greater problems at Notre Dame, and Catholicism has is a tacit concession that Notre Dame is insecure. It is an greater problems, than, perhaps, you know. admission that you lack confidence in the effectiveness of the Catholic message of the University and its ability Justin Kay to refute attacks on the basis of its belief's and provide law school alumnus an alternate and acceptable viewpoint. If Catholicism is class of 2005 strong at Notre Dame, it can hold its own in the academ-March 20 
TODAY'S STAFF 
N(~WS Sports Mary Kate Ken fowler Malone Matt Puglisi 
Peter Ninneman Kate Gales Pat Moore Eric Hetter Viewpoint Jack Thornton 
Alyssa Fran Tolan Brauweiler Scene Graphics Tae Andrews Graham Ebetseh 
1~0. flux 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre DJrnc, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGEil Maddie Harm.t Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING Enrron: Rama GonumukkaLr A~ST. MANAGINt; EI>ITOil: Robert Griffin 
SPOilTS Eurron: Ken Fowk·r ScENF. Eurron: Brian Doxtada SAINT MAllY's f:mTOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EDITOil: Graham Ebersch AllVUUISING MANA!;EII: Sharon Brown An DESIGN MANAGEil: Nina Pressly CONTROI.I.ER: Jim Kirihara WEll ADMINISTRATOR: Damian AlthotT 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAl INFO ('i74) 631-7471 
fAX 
('i74) 6.)1-6927 AOVEATISING (574) 631-6900 observad@lnd.edu EonoA IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EOITOR (574) 631-4'i41 obsmc@lnd.cdu ASSISTANT MANAGING EOITOA (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.I@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB AOMINISTRATOAS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Tlw Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the llriiwrsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collt-ge. Editorial content, including advenisenwnts, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to rditse advenisements lMsed on content. 
The new~ is reponed ;~s accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, 
Assistant .V1anaging Editors and department editors. (:ommentarics, letters and columns prc.•ent the views of the authors and nor neces.-arily those ofThe (lbserver. 
Viewpoint .•pace i.• av;~ilable to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to 1he Editor must be 'igned and tmL•t indude contact inli1fmation. 
Qt.~tirm.r regarding Observer policies should he 4irrcted to F.ditor ir( ChirjMikr Gil!oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob\CrvtT (US/'.~ ,,}!) Z-4<~001 1.1 publi,;h<-d Mond;ry rl•rougl1 f'ri<Uy ~-c!pf during cum .uut v.:u.acinn ~'Ct1u<h A tUha:r!ptinn 10 The Ob~rver ;, $100 fm nne .Ka~lcmic year: $~S lurtmcscmi!M~Cr 
H1.c Oh..cmr 1.1; pubh\hcd ,u. PO'TMASTER Ol<'l Soud1 tlimng H.aU Send ..d.dtOio corrrcrion.<1 to: 
None Dame, IN <lb'\~-H~ ThcOhllcrver 
PrruJ<iiCJI pt~l.tgc p.ud .u Nuu~ 01Ul1c P.O. Bvxn9 .mJ JdJ,uuno&l m41111l~ otfKa OH Suu1h Dimnj!; ! tall 
Notre Ll.unc, IN 1()556-0779 
The Oh..ctvet 11 J mcll\~IC't uf rhr N~H:~Icd Pre.~. All reproduction rightJ .uc fe<!CfVCd. 

Hecently, I had the pleasure of giv­ing a brief talk on the connections between libertarianism and Catholicism. I had five minutes to talk about it, and made it up entirely as I went along. It was probably pretty entertaining, so maybe this eolumn will be entertaining as well -though slightly more informative. 
First, let me wholly discredit myself: I am not Catholic. But I do believe the Libertarian Party offers a viable alternative for Catholies who are disturbed by the direction of' this nation. · 
So let's be clear. II' eleeted, the goals of' the Libertarian Party are simple: stop massive government expansion and waste and start the onerous process of shrinking the l'ed­P-ral govflrnment back to Constitutional size. If you believe that the government takes too much of your money, wastes it and then triP-s to eontrol too much of what you are free to do, you are already 89 pereent libertarian. The devil, of course, lies in the details. 
Many Christians are attracted to the Demoeratic Party because it is supposedly the party of the "little guy." The Catholie dedication to the fantastic buzzword "social justice" keeps many good Catholics ensnared by the tentacles of' the left. If "social justice" rests on positive rights (which much of it does), then it is not justice at all -justice is about equality. Jailing a murderer is jus­tice. Jailing someone who refuses to be charitable is not. 
Then, of eourse, there is the other side of the coin. Many Catholics fall under the conservative Hepublican label because of their firm stances on the so-called "non-negotiable" moral positions: euthanasia, gay rights, cloning, embryonic stem cell researeh and -of' course -abor­tion. These are dil'f'icult issues that I 

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 

am not even going to attempt to address directly, but the question I would like to now pose is as follows: 
Where does libertarianism -that is, the moral/political philosophy of' "if you harm none, do as you will"­f'it under the rubric of' Christian political thought? In other words, is it reasonable for a Catholic voter to support a party that, for all intents and purposes, just wants to leave everyone alone? 
To make a law, or to retain its legitimacy, any government must rest on the implicit (or oftentimes explic­it) threat of violence. Paying the income tax is only required because if you do not, the IHS will soon be knocking on your door with some serious-looking paperwork and some shiny handcuffs. Without violence, a government has no authority. 
My question now becomes: as a Catholic, when are you willing to allow violence'? Would you hire a gang to rob your neighbor to pay Planned Parenthood? What about a eharity'? Would you take a gun 
into a stranger's house to make him stop smoking ,~. marijuana'? Would you do anything in your power -1 mean any­thing-to stop the marriage of two women'? 
llow much vio­lence are you will­ing to ignore'? It boils down thus: you either like the state of the country, or you do not. II' you do not, you either desire more violence to shape it as you see fit, or you desire less. II' it is the latter, libertarianism is a real political option that fits this paradigm. 
If it is the former, however, try to avoid a land war in Asia. 
According to the group Catholic Answers, in promoting its "Voter's Guide for Serious Catholics," "You should avoid to the greatest extent possible voting for candidates who endorse or promote intrinsically evil policies." That makes sense to me. 
Indeed, Catholic catechism has tho following to say about violence: "Tho short-term pursuit of' private or col­leetive interests cannot legitimate undertakings that promote violence and eonl'lict." These words arn specifically for inter-state conflict, but I beliovo it is not so mur.h of a logic jump to apply to state-individ­ual eonl'lict as well. 
If we arc to avoid war, we must also avoid oppression. 
As Anwrieans, we are all called to resist violenee against those who do us no harm. A philosophy founded on harming none and reducing state­propagated violence is in full accor­dance with Catholic principles, and libortarianism is that philosophy. 
I'm going to dose with a quotation from St. Augustine's "City of Cod" because it is shockingly appropriate. lie wrote: "...What are kingdoms but great robber band!i'? What are rob­ber bands but small kingdoms? The band is itself made up of' men, is ruled by the command of' a lnader, 
and is held together by a social 
pact. Plunder is divided in accordance with an agreed-upon law. If' this evil increases by the inclusion of' dissolute 
men to the 1~xtent that it takes ov1~r territory, establish­es headquarters, oecupins eities and subdues peoples, it publiely assumes 
the title of king­dom!" Hemembor that the next time you exercise your right to vote. Do your part to stop the plun-

Marijuana is only illegal in America because, ({you grow it in your basement, the ATF is legally allowed lo come in and slop you. .">'coll Wagner is the proud president of the College Libertarians. 1/e can be contacted at swagner1@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Obserrer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
How do you feel about the absence of Greek life on campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A good head and a good heart are
JSubmita.Letter, 
always a formidable combination. But when you add to lhal a literate longue or pen. then you hare something very special. "
,to the Edttor a-t. ':
I . . ....... ·.. ....·· . .. ..·. ~­
Nelson Mandela 

former South African president
:www.ndsmcobserver.com? 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The real academic freedom debate 
In the debate about academic freedom, the point has been made many.times that sponsorship need not imply endorsement. I suppose that is true, but less relevant than the point which has scarcely been made at all: that academic freedom does not imply a right to University sponsorship. The obverse follows logically: A decision of the University not to sponsor is not a violation of aca­demic freedom. 
If the act at some administrative level of the University of declining to sponsor some event is an act of censorship, then censorship is rampant at this University, and at every university. 
I have taught at Notre Dame for 39 years and have never felt that my academic freedom was infringed upon. But it never occurred to me that I had a right derived from academic freedom to demand that University funds be allocated to spon­sor any or every event dear to my heart. 
Suppose that I and two other members of my department have an idea for an event, say, to be very concrete, a rally in support of the right-to-
U-WIRE 
That grinds my gears 
Last week, I saw dozens of little kids, no more than five or six years old, walking around Grounds. Surely, the University is no place for small chil­dren. so why would so many of them be at the University? What could they Brendan possibly be doing Collins here? 
Maybe one of University of them designed the Virginia new 0-Hill, or Cavalier Daily maybe the Rotunda had been turned into a Discovery Zone. I later found out that (much to my chagrin) both of these were absolutely not true. From a van­tage point in my unmarked white van, I watched the kids for a while, remem­bering my kindergarten days. What I wouldn't give now to play with puzzles, learn to count and weep openly when a teacher called on me and I didn't know the answer. I mean, it's been three weeks since I've done any of that stuff. I want that kind of freedom once more. 
Watching a group ofkindergarteners is like watching a group of howler mon­keys-they're loud, obnoxious and always slinging poop at each other. But seriously, kindergarteners form their own little social hierarchies just as the simian world does, and kids fall into some distinct functions in that society. There are at least five clearly defined roles in the kindergarten universe: 
1) The Shy Kid: You know, the kid that wouldn't tell the teacher ifhe peed himself because he's too embarrassed. This guy would later grow up to be Video Games Kid. 
2) The Horse Girl: This girl was com­pletely enamored with everything equine-related. Her steady diet of oats and carrots quickly annoyed the rest of the class, not to mention her keeping everyone up during naptime by whin­nying repeatedly. 
3) The Sound Effects Kid: This kid, somehow, would describe everything with noises and would constantly be making incredibly annoying sounds. Imagine that kid today: "Hey, Roger, how's the Peterson deal coming along?" 
"Well Sue, I just got off the phone with the Vermont office, when WHOOOOSH and I was like RATATATATIATIT and then she POW­POWBOOMPOW. I gotta run-meeting with the new regional managers in 10 minutes. Good talk, Sue." 
4) The Smart Kid: Most University students probably fell into this category. These were the kids who could read, count to 100 and were forced into spelling bees by their abusive parents by the time they were six. Okay, maybe that was just me. Unfortunately, Smart Kid would later grow up into Virgin Kid. 
5) The Boy Who Pulls His Spider-Man Tightie-Whities All The Way Down To His Ankles When He Pees Standing Up: The most hallowed and respected of all kindergarten niches, this boy refuses to do anything halfway and goes for the gold every time he goes into the bath­room. He also owns literally a dozen pairs of identical Spider-Man undies. Truly an American hero. 
Ah, how I long for the days when 
everything was so simple. I mean, hon­
estly -how sweet would it be if there 
was a University-sanctioned Nap Time? 
Or, instead of that 400-level Medieval 
French class you need for your major, 
the boys could just chase the girls 
around the Lawn for an hour? How 
have we let our lives grow so complicat­
ed? 

Some might say, "Well, Brendan, as 
we get older our cognitive capacity 
increases by leaps and bounds and we ·become more adaptive to social change and complexity in our lives." Baloney. 
That's Smart Kid talking right there. 
What we need in this world are more 
Sound-Effects Kids, more kickball, 
more peanut butter and jelly sandwich­
es. This world would be a lot more fun, 
and a hell of a lot simpler, ifeveryone 
would just shut up and watch "The 
Magic School Bus" for a little while. 
Imagine such a world. No wars­
just hide and seek. No jobs-just play­
ing on the playground. Why do we hold 
our childhood memories so dear? 
Perhaps we fear taking responsibility, 
or don't want to admit that we don't 
have any plans for our lives. 
Yet, the more I think about it, the more I realize that college is a lot like kindergarten: we can nap whenever we want, we don't really cook for ourselves and we spend our weekends getting drunk. Sadly, our lives cannot be as easy as a kindergartener's. Ms. Frizzle, Master Splinter, R.L. Stine and the Power Rangers, those sages of the kid universe, must forever exist only in the past. However, that won't stop me from wearing my own Spider-Man Tightie­Whities -ever. 
This article originally appeared in 
the March 20 edition ofthe Cavalier 
Daily, the daily publication at the 
University ofVirginia. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer: 
work law recently proposed in Indianapolis. The department chairperson says: No, that is not a good idea, not the best use of department time and money, and denies department funds. Is the chair­person's decision a violation of our academic free­dom? Or suppose that the department votes by a vote seven to five not to sponsor the rally. Has a tyrannical majority censored us? Or suppose the department approves by a vote of seven to five, but the president of the University vetos that decision. Has the decision by the president now risen to the level of an assault on academic freedom? 
There is room for debate about the appropriate locus of decision making in the University; but that does not seem to be a debate about academic free­dom. It may be reasonable to argue that most deci­sions about how to spend University funds allocated to a department should generally be made at the department level. On the other hand, if the issue is compatibility with Catholic values, it seems plausi­ble that a department composed mostly of non­Catholics with no particular attachment to Catholic values and, in some cases, quite sincerely and openly antagonistic to certain official Catholic teachings, would be in a poor position to judge. 
It is inevitable that there will be vigorous debate about which events deserve University sponsorship, since not all events can be sponsored or are worthy of being sponsored. It is misleading and unsporting for certain participants to try to advance the case for their favored events under the banner of aca­demic freedom. Most of the debates I have heard about "The Vagina Monologues" have been solely about whether the "Monologues" are a good idea and have had virtually nothing to do the principles of academic freedom. If someone with the authority to do so decides that the "Monologues" are not a good idea, that is not censorship, that is decision­making. 
James Rakowski associare professor economics and policy srudies March 17 

Watch out on the Web 
Going to the bank and explaining fraudulent charges is not fun. I can say this from person­al experience. 
In early December, I received a phone call from a company claiming to be Capital One and saying they needed 
John
some information from 
Wade IV
me because I'd been approved for a credit 

University of
eard. Having signed up 
Mississippi
for a card earlier in the 
Daily
week, I willingly provid­

Mississippian
ed the information they needed. Most of it was eut and dry, such as my current address and plaee of employment, but when they stated they needed my bank's routing number and my eheeking account number for a draft, things started getting fishy. They said that due to some marks on my eredit history they would need $200 up front as collateral, whieh I would then get baek in the form of payment vouehers. Sinee my credit report did indeed have some blemishes on it, I gave them every­thing they needed. 
A month later, I reeeived a charge card in the mail from a eompany called Capitalfinaneialeard along with a catalog of produets that the eard as well as the $200 in payment vouchers could be used towards, and ONLY towards their catalog. I'd been ripped off, and I fell for it hook, line and sinker. 
What didn't come as a surprise to me 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
\ ftLLtD 49 I Ef'TS ... t>o£s lf4~T ~E.A~ 
l <3t::T ... LET:S SEt... 49 i( 72.... .· 
~r;2.~ ~!i"<Gl~S? 
,f"'"""'tw...._.,
' !..,~ 
__.....-.-.,.,.
.-··')
/-<' t~..:t 
j 
. 
~ ' ~-) 

. ).,v .. ,~:::~\:~ 
~~:1ln4 

though, was the faet that Capitalfinancialcard 
had gotten my information via something I'd .signed up for on the Internet. Because of · events similar to these, proteeting oneself 
while on the Internet has become a major 
souree of discussion these days. Large 
Internet corporations sueh as AOL and 
Earthlink are spending millions in advertising 
dollars to keep people safe from phishing and 
other types of Internet seams. So why is it 
such an issue today, and more importantly, 
why do you need to know about it? For 
starters, if you're reading this you most likely 
use either MySpaee or Faeebook. Both of 
these serviees, especially Facebook, have 
become a popular topie amongst collegiate 
journalists these days, and for good reason: 
it's often amusing, shocking and/or baffling to 
see what kinds of information people willingly 
put on their profiles. However, and unfortu­
nately, Facebook is just one ofthe more obvi­
ous examples of how easy it is to get informa­
tion about someone on the Internet, and it's 
going to become all too apparent to many stu­
dents just what ean happen when certain peo­
ple get that information. 
This article originally appeared in the 
March 20 edition ofThe Daily Mississippian, 
the daily publication at the University of 
Mississippi. 

The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
ofThe Observer: 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
lsci!'&~nl 
iAddict: Ho-oked on iTunes 
My addietion. like many, started out the addiction to my iPod, my affection small. Mini might actually be a better for iTunes grew slowly. It started out word, sincn my infatuation started with a few purchases of individual with none other than th1~ iPod mini songs I'd been lusting after for a while, that I received over the summer. The but, naturally, it grew from there. fateful day I 
I avoided purchasing whole albums receivml tho over iTunes for a while, but once I did, small, silvPr MP3 I knew that this was a problem that playnr startnd me could quickly grow out of control. down the path to a When you buy COs at the store, the nnw kind of addic­distaste for having to hand over cash tion -an i Pod or deal with my debit card will usually addietion. keep my spending in check. 
Prior to rncniv­On iTunes, though, the click of a but­ing my iPod Mini, ton can buy you whole albums without my MP3 player the pain of actually forking over the had been little Molly Griffin money. I currently have an iTunes morn than a mem­budget because the sheer ease of ory stick with an Assistant iTunes makes it both wonderful and earphone jack, Scene Editor potentially disastrous at the same and it servnd me time. nieely for several While I do have the capacity for years. I slowly succumbed to the siren video on my iPod, I have yet to take song of the iPod, and I was quite advantage of the shows available for happy with the Mini after I got it. purchase on iTunes. Seeing my past While it wasn't as fancy as the full patterns, I know that buying videos iPod and only held 2,000 songs, it would be the cause for both my finan­seemed like enough. cial and social decline. While the 
The hard drive on my Mini crashed temptation to buy last week's and I faced a di!licult choice. I was "Desperate Housewives" or the whole suffering from "iPod withdrawal," second season of "Lost" exists, my fear Apple had stopped making minis and of becoming permanently detached Best Buy was out of its successor, the from humanity and permanently iPod Nano. I had nowhere to go but attached to my iPod is pretty strong. up, and that's when I became the Another possible benefit, or detri­proud owner of a video iPod. ment depending on how you look at it, 
The video iPod changed everything. is the endless possibilities the iPod and It was sleeker, it had a color screen iTunes offer for wasting time. Between and it had :10 GB of memory. The 4 GB the ability to make playlists, to share of memory on my Mini kept me cau­music with other users and to listen to tious-I only put songs I enjoyed on snatches of music on iTunes, there are it. The larger capacity of the video endless ways with which to waste il'od liberated me. I put every CD I time. The video iPod offers the added owned on it, but I soon craved more. option of finding album artwork for 
With the new iPod, I vowed to con­each song, which can take hours and tinue to only use it at the gym and for gives the illusion of some form of pro­studying, as I had before. This pledge ductivity. Move over, Facebook, didn't last long. It soon became my because the iPod offers a myriad of constant companion while I walked to new ways to spend time accomplishing class or ran to meet friends some­insignificant things. where, but that soon devolved into While I am not proud of my deep carrying my iPod with me anytime that attachment to my iPod and the intense I might have to walk more than 20 allure that iTunes holds for me, the feet. one solace that I can find is the knowl­
Constantly listening to music breeds edge I am not alone. Each day when I its own problems. The more you use walk down the quad to class, I only your iPod, the more you feel to need to have to look at the crowds and see constantly lind new music to fill it. In another person with the distinctive the post-Napster, music-downloading white earbuds coming out from under crackdown era, there arc fewer their hoods to know that I am in the options for finding music easily. My company of a fellow iPod addict. iPod became a gateway to another one of my musi<: addictions -iTunes. Contact Molly Griffin at 
I resisted buying musie on iTunes mgrifjin@ nd.edu because I wasn't keen on paying 99 The views expressed in this column cents per song, but the ability to buy are those of the author and not neces­individual songs soon lured me in. Like sarily those of The Observer. 
~~ ,_ 
........ 0 II II iii Ill '? ' ' ....... 
........... .__,.. .......... 
f~E.-.­llf•oea',pn)•~--· ~... wdttltdw·
·-... ..... --,........,. "'"'""" Rl ­
~CflftlcMitw~
--...._. 
-·~­
..¢¢ 
!!Mc:th~1~ 
$-.Gtlkal:nrnilltttom-~ 
-

Wl'v.dHMitn 
l!llftMJrlJp
,__,..,_ ~ II m
---•­
ca.bo....._Y_ vw.."'"'*"-'-'J91a.. 
·~MttU 

'1Ufl ...llp
·~­


t -f ...GoodWI(1Iillcllflfclll:, 
-

Photo courtesy of swissdisc.ch 
Combining great tunes with a customer-friendly approach, the !Tunes Music Store has turned more than a few casual listeners Into serious Podheads. 

MOVIE REVIEWS 
Close your 'Eyes': Re: 
leave. When they refused to leave, the 
By ERIN MCGINN 
weapons were detonated and thus the Scene Critic 
mutants were created. Because of the , actions of the government, the mutants 
Horror movies typically have one purpose hate everyone and actively seek revenge on -to absolutely terrify the audience. The anyone who crosses their path. really good ones also punch with a bit of' Subsequently, they also became cannibals. social commentary, which are all the more Enter the Bukowski-Cartnr family, taking frightening because of their real-life impli­a family road trip through the New Mexieo cations. "The llills Have Eyes" tells the desert. After stopping to get gas at a creepy story of a typical dirty station, a American family creepy dirty taking a trip 
man tells them through the desert 
he knows a when they are 
The Hills Have Eyes 
short-cut. "Big attacked by a fami­
Bob" the retired ly of mutants living 

cop and head of in the mountains 
the family rred after its life was 
Levine, televi­destroyed by 
sion's "Monk"), atmospheric 
decides to take
Director: Alexandre Aja nuclear testing. For 

the short-cut
Writers: Alexandre Aja avid horror movie where they con­

Starring: Ted Levine. Aaron Stanli1rd 
fans, "The llills 
sequently have Have Eyes" is a 
their tires blown must-see. For all out, leaving others, "The llills them stranded 
Have Eyes" is a should-see, but be pre­in the middle of the dnsert, and out of eell­pared to duck and cover. phone/CB radio range. Big Bob decides to 
"The Hills Have Eyes" is a remake of the go back to the gas station, while his nerdy, 1977 Wes Craven drive-in shocker. Democratic son-in-law Doug Bukowski Alexandre Aja, who made his international (Aaron Stanford, of Pyro fame from "X2") debut a few months back with "High decides to look for help in the other direc­Tension," directed and wrote the script for tion. the new version. Not one to be kept out of The rest of the family, including "Lost's" the horror scene, Craven also served as the Emilie de Ravin, tries to make the best of a film's producer. poor situation and camp out. One of the two 
The ftlm opens with a montage of nuclear dogs, named Beauty and Beast, runs off testing clips, interspersed with newspaper and is gutted -paving the way for the rest articles and pictures of mutant babies, of the family. In a very graphic 20-minute which form the basis of the movie. During span, members of the family are burned the 1940s and 50s there was atmospheric alive, raped, tortured, shot and hacked, nuclear testing in the New Mexico desert which all ends with the kidnapping of the and the government asked all the miners to baby. The three remaining family members 
'Failure to Launch' doe; 
assistance of his parents. 
By CASSIE BELEK Warning bells of prostitution sound with a 
Scene Critic 

close look at Paula's profession, but she is a respectable businesswoman and never 
"Failure to Launch," starring Sarah 
sleeps with a client. But when Tripp is about Jessica Parker and Matthew McConaughey, to break up with her because he feels that is an over-publicized attempt at a fun and it's becoming too serious, she breaks her flirty romantic comedy that hopes to win rule in an act of desperation, leaving one to audience approval with Parker's fashion ask, "Did his parents just pay for that?" 
sense and McConaughey's charm. That's 
Naturally, Paula falls for this client 
about all the film can offer, however, as it because he's just so different from the oth­fails to evoke any romantic sympathy and ers. Apparently Tripp isn't a loser like he even less laughter. 
should be, and she just can't understand 
The premise has potential with Tripp 
why he still lives at home. That answer (McConaughey), a 30-something son who almost comes, but not quite, leaving us with­refuses to move out of his parents' (Kathy out a full understanding of the character. 
Bates and Terry Bradshaw) house, but that However, when we realize the deceptionpotential soon vanishes. Tripp's parents des­Paula is putting him through, we at least perately wish to have their son move out, sympathize with him. 
and they get the name of Paula (Parker) at a Essentially, Parker is playing a version of party. They hire Paula to become Tripp's Carrie Bradshaw from IIBO's "Sex in the 
girlfriend to give him the self-esteem and City". The difference is that people love motivation to leave home once and for all. 
Carrie, and there's little to love about Paula. 
This is confusing, though, because Tripp All that we know about her is that she's 
seems to have all the self-esteem in the being paid by a man's parents to deceive world and he certainly doesn't seem like a him and do whatever it takes to get him out son completely dependent on the continued 
of the house so that the parents don't have to do it themselves. It's hard to root for her when Tripp initially rejects her. Their relationship is a lie and if the world was just, it
Failure to Launch 
would take a miracle to reunite them, but in this case it simply takes the intervention of friends. 

The movie attempts to save itself. Paula and Tripp go on trendy dates that range from sail­boating to paintballing. There's
Director: Tom Dey 
even a reference to "A
Writers: Tom J. Astle and Matt Ember 
Philadelphia Story" in there,
Starring: Matthew McConaughey, Sarah Jessica although a romantic comedy likeParker, Kathy Bates and Terry Bradshaw this doesn't even deserve to utter the film's name. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
page 15 
ake scarily original 
Doug Bukowski (Aaron Stanford) takes a break from whacking mutants in the film "The Hills Have Eyes." The film is a remake of a 1977 Wes Craven horror movie. 
left to survive and attempt to find a way 
get the baby back. Although Craven did a better job in the 7 version, there is a level of sympathy felt r the mutants. These mutants are the 
of the miners who did not leave, so a certain extent they did not choose to be lthis way and are also validated in their 
There is also Ruby, the little mutant who helps the stranded people on occasions. At the same time, the ,.......L""''"''"' also feels for the family, which is nocent in the matter. It's hard not to 
cheer on the techno-geek as he fights, hacks, and impales a mutant with an American flag in order to get his baby back. 
Even though the movie is thought-provok­ing at times, it is certainly not easy to stom­ach. Even though the most gruesome parts were cut out to receive the R-rating, Aja is a master at creating new and horrifying scenes. It is highly recommended not to eat popcorn or have a beverage when viewing this flick. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
sn't get off the ground 

Kathy Bates is in an unspectacular role as Tripp's mother. The actress never gets to show her comedic chops or why she won an Academy Award. Meanwhile, Terry Bradshaw depicts a father that seems to care little for his son, and seeing his butt that much isn't particularly pleasant. 
It's another strike-out for Parker after "The Family Stone." The actress is trying to find her niche in Hollywood after "Sex and the City." If she keeps this up, her success at HBO will mark the peak of her career, and then there's no place to go but down. 
"Failure to Launch" lives up to its title. It never quite makes us care and it never quite makes us laugh. Parker and McConaughey fans will see it anyway, but it isn't any better than another McConaughey romance, "How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days." Romantic comedy fans will only be disappointed and should rent a classic instead of wasting money on a bad movie with an even worse title. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Paradise Now' a prayer for peace 

By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 
One of the most complex issues of modern society is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. "Paradise Now," directed by Hany Abu-Assad, attempts to explore this controversial topic through the eyes of two Palestinian men who decide to become what some people would call terrorists, but others would term mar­tyrs. 
The film is first and foremost about Palestine, but approaches the issue from many directions. While "Paradise Now" ultimately produces few answers and assigns little solid blame, it does raise many very important questions. 
The film involves life-long friends Said and Khaled who have grown up in Nablus, a town on the West Bank. They a r e Palestinians who both situation as a whole. 
The slums of Nablus are shown in the beginning of the film, followed later by the skyscrapers and beautiful beaches of Tel Aviv. This contrast, however, does not criminalize everyday citizens of Israel. In one scene, Said is waiting at a bus stop to go into to Tel Aviv on his mission when he comes across Jews also waiting for the bus. They look at him as another person waiting for the bus to go to work -not as a man who has a bomb strapped to him. As a result, he begins to see them as human beings and not the enemies his recruiters say they are. 
This contrast of the wealth of Israel against the poverty of Palestine, cou­pled with the contrast of the character's internal realization of where he came from, who he is, and where he is going creates many complex intersecting avenues of emotion on both a per­
-
Paradise Now
have stories about the involvement of Israeli forces in their 
I i v e s . 
Recruited to become sui­cide bombers, they are sent sonal and national level. The humiliation the charac­ters experi­ence cannot be ignored, but neither ­can the inno­


Director: Hany Abu-Assad Writers: Hany Abu-Assa, Bero Beyer and Pierre Hodgson Starring: Kais Nashef and Ali Suliman 
on a mission to Tel Aviv. 

But the plans go awry when they cannot meet their contact on the Israeli side and the emotional force of the story then moves into full swing. The daughter of a fallen Palestinian hero returns from the West and tries to sway the two men from their mission, stating that there are other ways to accomplish their goals. At the same time, the men who recruited them are calling them martyrs for the cause and great heroes who will soon be in heaven. 
The strength of this film is that nei­ther side seems completely right or completely wrong. There are reasons given for why the men are doing what they are doing. The humiliation they experience at the hands of the Israeli military is poignantly described but does not justify what the friends are doing -although the film does give a reason that should not be ignored. It pays close attention not only to the characters but also to the Palestinian 
cence of the everyday Israelis who are in mortaldanger from terrorist 
attacks. This film refuses to give the audience any answers. It does not say one side is better than the other. However, what it does do isunderline the need for change. There is violence on both sides of the fence and there are issues that must be addressed. The tagline of the film, "From the most unexpected place, comes a bold new call for peace," not only pertains to the story of the film but also to the film itself. The movie calls for reconciliation, but fully acknowl­edges that the avenue is fraught with hardship and that each side must address aspects of the conflict it would rather not. The path to peace is never easy, but "Paradise Now" invites us to at least make an attempt to walk down ~ it. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
NBA 

Bryant carries Lakers to crucial road win over Celtics 
Pistons clinch fourth consecutive Central Division title with win over reeling Hawks, move to 40 games over .500 
Associated Press Eastern Conference playoff half. we carne back and we spot. competed. But against a good 
BOSTON --Af'tPr missing 3-The Lakers' first two games of team and a great player, we just pointnrs at thn buzzer in their road trip ended 'with didn't play well enough to win." consecutiVtl gam1~s. Kobe missed contested 3-pointers by The Lakers double-teamed Bryant settled matters early Bryant. The Lakers lost to New Pierce for much of the fourth against tlw Hoston Cnlties. Jersey 92-89 Friday and to quarter and held him to two 
Bryant had 43 points, fivn Cleveland 96-95 Sunday despite points. rnbounds and l'ivP stPals and leading by as many as 18 "We just threw everybody at the Los Angeles Lakers sal­against the Cavaliers. [Pierce)." Odom said. "If you put vaged tlw finale of a This time, Bryant scored 16 two guys on him, you have a thrne-gamn road trip with a fourth-quarter points -includ­high percentage of stopping I 05-97 win OVIH Boston on ing the Lakers' last 12 -to him." Monday night. make sun1 the gamn didn't Smush Parker scored 14 
Bryant shot 18-for-:~9 and come down to the elosing sec­points and Kwame Brown had Lamar Odorn added 17 points onds. 11 points and nine rebounds for and nirw rebounds for the "When the game is on the the Lakers. l.akllrs, who rwvnr trailed and line, they put the ball in my After missing his first four pulled a half-gan111 ahead of hands," Bryant said. "''ve gotta shots, Bryant made six of his Sacranwnto for SIWPnth placn in do what I've gotta do, I don't next eight attempts and scored the Western Conferllnce. The care if it's 50 shots, 60 shots, 12 first-quarter points to help !.akers avoided falling below live shots." the Lakers jump out to a 32-26 .500 for the first time since a The Collies trailed 56-40 at lead . loss to Utah on .Jan. 3 dropped halftime, but chipped away at t.hmn to 15-1 h. the lead in the third quarter Detroit 91, Atlanta 84 
"This was a must win lior us," and pulled within 82-7 4 to start There was no champagne in Bryant said. "Wn played well the fourth. the Detroit Pistons' locker room thn nntirn trip, but it's just that Pierce cut the deficit to 99-94, Monday night. we wnren't able to dosn things but Bryant responded with a In fact, the Pistons didn't even oul. TonighL was a win that we driving layup with 1:20 remain­realize they elinched their despnratoly rweded." ing to extend the Lakers' lead to fourth Central Division title in 
Paul Pinree seornd 26 and l 01-94. lie then made two free five years by beating Atlanta. Tony Allen added a season-high throws with 49.6 seconds left to "I didn't know until someone 18 points for thn Celties, who extend the lead. just told me," Tayshaun Prince tempo up," he said. "You want over the break-even mark since have lost four of five to drop "Kobe was the difference," said. "I guess that shows you to make teams play out of char­they were the Buffalo Braves. four gamns behind Philadelphia Celtics forward Wally where our minds are right acter." Appropriately, the Clippers in Lhn rac~e for the eighth Szcznrbiak said. "In the second now." Al Harrington led the Hawks were wearing orange and black 
The win put Detroit two steps with 23 points and Joe Johnson Braves uniforms from the fran­up Coach Flip Saunders' pyra­had 17. chise's inaugural 1970-71 sea­mid. "Obviously, they are the son for retro night. 
"First you have to make the champions again," Harrington Yao Ming scored 25 and had playoffs, which we did a couple said. ''I'm a big fan of Detroit, 17 rebounds for his 27th dou­weeks ago, and then you have so hopefully they win it again." ble-double as Houston lost its to win the division," he said. Detroit led 53-34 at the half, fifth straight game. "Now we have to get homecourt thanks to 17 points from The Clippers outscored in the East, homecourt in the Rasheed Wallace, but Atlanta Houston 12-2 in a span of 4:15 league, and then we have to rallied in the third. in the fourth quartnr to take an win the championship." The Hawks scored 26 points 89-80 lead with 5:16 to play. 
Detroit (53-13), whose magic in the quarter, but couldn't get Cassell's 3-pointer made it 94­number to clinch the Eastern enough stops for a sustained 85 with 1 :28 to play. Conference dropped to nine rally. They got as close as 57-Cassell scored seven points in over Miami, also moved to 40 47, but never cut the lead to the first five minutes of the games over .500 for the first single digits. third quarter to help the time since the 1988-89 season. "We've had some trouble Clippers to their biggest lead at 
"That's crazy," Chauncey coming out of halftime in the 60-51. Billups said. 'This has been one last few games," Prince said. Houston answered with an of those special years for us. "But we played great basketball 11-0 run. But Maggette hit two Hopefully, we can keep it up." in the first half." straight 3s in an 8-0 Clippers 
-
Atlanta coach Mike Woodson, The Pistons held a 72-60 run to give them a 68-62 lead an assistant on Detroit's 2003-advantage after three quarters, with 2:59 left in the period_ 04 championship team, thinks then put the game away by Maggette had eight in the they can. holding Atlanta to just two quarter as Los Angeles took a 
"It's going to be interesting to points in the first 4:30 of the 73-70 lead into the fourth 
see how it carries over in the fourth. quarter. playoffs, but I predict they'll Maggette had eight points in win the title," he said. Los Angeles Clippers 99 the first 7:30 of the second 
The Hawks have lost five of Houston 91 period as the Clippers took a six. Sam Cassell scored 24 points 39-33 lead. Luther Head's six 
"I was pretty pleased with our to lead the Clippers past the points the final four minutes effort," Woodson said. "We Houston Rockets on Monday helped pull Houston to within came in and competed." night, pushing the Los Angeles 46-45 at the half. 
Prince scored 18, as Detroit franchise to 13 games over. 500 The Rockets led by as many 
-
put five players in double fig­for the first time since the 1975-as eight in the first quarter ure. Ben Wallace scored only 76 season. when Yao had eight points and five, but added 13 rebounds, Corey Maggette added 20 five rebounds. Cassell had 12 four steals and three blocks. points for the Clippers, who that period and the Clippers 
"I was just trying to get the haven't been this many games closed it to 28-24 at the end. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. lO 3 F.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3,4.5,6 bedroom homes. Web 1-7 bdrm. homes starting @ site:mmmrentals.com $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool NOTICES Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or tables, 1st mo. free. grooms@ ourwebspot.net Calf 574-250-7653 or FOUND: Bracelet between the visit bluegoldrentals.com 
library and Malloy Half on COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINJ-Wednesday, 3/B/06_ Call 631-7085 UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 to identi!Y and c:Jaim. SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­
ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
FoR RENT 

Villa. on water. ND-SMC, All Rooms WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-· available for NO Home Games. 
ROOM HOMES Graduation Weekend. MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 2 Bedrooms, Family Room, Bistro 
Bar 1 Bath Room. $250/night per 515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student room. rentals, $1200/mo. 574-250-7653 Call574-257-0158. 
• 
3-6 BDRMS_ $195/PERSON MO_,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07 329-0308 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK_ 2800 slf+base,LR w/l.p. 4 bdrrns,study + finished 3rd fL Full appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARREI$1250+uliL 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html 
Two story house completely remod-Just 1 block from campus! For UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do eled 2003. Ready for immediate lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con-not go it alone. If you or someone occupancy or next school year_ Off dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per you Jove needs confidential support street parking includes motion sen-month_ 574-243-4554 ext.203. No or assistance, please calf Sr. M.l. sor light for security. Four individu-utilities included. Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more ally locked bedrooms, central sta-information, see our bi-weekly ad in lion monitored security system, six THE OBSERVER. blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop PERSONAL in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat Ding, dong the witch is 
TICKETS 

next door, basement available for dead .... lalala. Orpheus storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James etc., new furnace and central air, The Carriage House Dining Room Taylor. new kitchen including new stove is now accepting reservations for Call 272-7233. and refrigerator, large living room our annual Gala Graduation Event for TV or entertaining, free trash with dinners served Friday, May 19; TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR removaL Saturday, May 20 & Sunday, May FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE Call 289-4071. 21, 2006. Call (574)272-9220. CALL 277-1659. 
.-------------­
OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsrRVER'S \AfiRE SERVICES page 17 

NHL 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record OTL points NY Rangers 38-11 10 86 Philadelphia 37-21 10 84 New Jersey 34-25 8 76 NY Islanders 31-32 4 66 Pittsburgh 11-39 12 46 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team reeord OTL points 
Ottawa 46-15 6 98 
5 93
Buffalo 44-17 
9 71
Montreal 31-26 
6 68
Toronto 31-30 Boston 27·30 
11 65 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OTL points 
Carolina 45-16 6 96 
Tampa Bay 36·28 4 76 
Atlanta 32·29 6 70 
Florida 28-30 9 65 
Washington 22·36 8 52 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team reeord OTL points 
Detroit 47-15 5 99 
Nashville 40·19 8 88 
Columbus 26·39 3 55 
Chicago 21·37 9 51 
St. Louis 20·34 11 51 
Westem Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OTL points Calgary 38-21 8 84 Colorado 37-25 6 80 Edmonton 34-23 11 79 Vancouver 36-27 6 78 Minnesota 31-30 7 69 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OTL points 
Dallas 45-19 3 93 
Los Angeles 37-27 5 79 
Anaheim 33·21 12 78 
San Jose 33-23 10 76 
Phoenix 31-33 4 66 
NCAA Baseball Rankings 
team Record 
1 Georgia Tech 16·1 2 Clemson 10·3 3 Rice 15-5 4 North Carolina 13-2 5 Tennessee 13-2 6 Mississippi Slate 11-0 7 Cal Stale-Fullerton 14-6 8 Florida State 18-1 9 South Carolina 13-2 10 Arkansas 16-1 11 Louisiana State 16-3 12 Nebraska 11-2 13 Oregon State 11-5 14 Tulane 12-6 15 Florida 14-6 16 Arizona State 17-5 17 Stanford 11-7 18 Texas 13-9 19 Washington 15-5 20 Georgia 11-2 21 Pepperdine 12·10 22 Baylor 12-4 23 Wichita State 17-2 24 Oklahoma 16-4 25 Kansas 15-6 
around the dial 
WOMEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Boston College at Purdue, 11:11 a.m. ESPN 
NBA 
Houston at Dallas, 8 p.m. TNT Phoenix at Utah, 10:30 p.m. TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Paul Tagliabue is leaving the NFL, and he's leaving it both peaceful and prosper­ous. 
The 65-year-old commis­sioner will step down in July after 16 years, his tenure marked by labor harmony and unprece­dented riches through tele­vision deals. 
Tagliabue has been in eharge since 1989, when he succeeded Pete Rozelle, and agreed last March to stay to complete the TV deal and a long-term con­tract with players. 
He finally got that done 12 days ago, finishing the most arduous labor negoti­ations since the league and union agreed on a free agency-salary cap deal in 1992. 
"I really want to empha­size how much of a privi­lege it is to spend most of your adult life with the NFL. This is not an easy decision for me," Tagliabue said on a confer­ence call Monday. 
"As difficult as this deci­sion is, I also know it's the right decision. Right for me. Right for the league," he said. 
Hoger Goodell, the NFL's chief operating officer, and Atlanta general manager Hich McKay are the two leading candidates to suc­ceed Tagliabue. Baltimore Ravens president Dick Cass also is considered to have an outside chanee and Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice has said she would like the job. 
"Ask her," Tagliabue said when quizzed about Hice's candidacy. 
Tagliabue said the search is wide open and that he will stay on beyond July to avoid the kind of seven-month deadlock that occurred between him and the late Jim Finks after Hozelle stepped down in March 1989. 
IN BRIEF 

Lions release Harrington 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. -The Detroit Lions parted ways with Joey Harrington on Monday after four tur­bulent seasons during which the quarterback went from franchise savior to franchise goat. 
Coach Rod Marinelli declined to say whether Harrington was released. 
''I've decided to move in a different direction with the quarterback," he said. 
Harrington, drafted No. 3 overall in 2002, was 18-37 as a starter with the Lions under three coaches: Marty Mornhinweg, Steve Mariucci and Dick Jauron, who took over when he Mariucci was fired during the 2005 season. Harrington started 55 games, throwing for 10,242 yards with 60 touchdowns and 62 interceptions and a mediocre 68.1 passer rating. 
Last month, Marinelli and team president Matt Millen indicated the · Lions considered Harrington their top quarterback for 2006. 
Red Sox trade Arroyo to 
Reds for OF Pena 
FORT MYERS, Fla. -Wily Mo Pena has amazing power, when he makes contact. Bronson Arroyo has shown he can be a reliable starting piteher, when given the chance. 
Both are just looking for consisten­cy. The Boston Red Sox traded Arroyo to the Cincinnati Reds for Peoa on Monday in a swap of talent­ed young players that could fill a major need for each team. 
Arroyo was headed to the bullpen because of Boston's deep rotation, but the right-hander now figures to help Cincinnati's medioere starting staff. The 24-year-old Pena had more strikeouts at the plate last season 
(116) than Arroyo did on the mound (100). But Pena also hit 19 homers in 311 at-bats. 
"This guy has some crazy power, man," said Boston DH David Ortiz, who rated Pena's strength above his own. 
-
Owners will begin to look for a new commissioner at their meetings next week in Orlando, Fla. 
As for his own tenure, Tagliabue said. "Building a strong relationship with the NFL Players Association is the thing I'm most proud of." 
"Everyone involved in the NFL in the '80s saw that as a negative," he said. 
More than anything else, Tagliabue took over a league that already had already become America's game under Hozelle and took it to the next level, enriching it and restoring labor peace. 

Seattle likely to lose All-Pro 
Hutchinson 
SEATTLE -The Seahawks must match the guarantee provision in the $49 million, seven-year deal offered to All-Pro guard Steve Hutchinson by the Minnesota Vikings if the NFC champions want to keep their transi­tion player. 
A league spokesman and an attor­ney for the NFL's players' union con­firmed Monday that a special master ruled against Seattle, saying an unprecedented provision guarantee­ing all of the $49 million in an offer sheet Hutehinson signed with Minnesota should he not be the team's highest-paid offensive line­man is valid. 
· League spokesman Miehael Signora said Monday evening that the Seahawks had until midnight (EST) Monday to mateh the Vikings offer or lose Hutchinson to Minnesota. The Seahawks and Vikings each said they had no comment. 
.. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
MLB 
Soriano refuses to take the field in protest 
Washington Nationals player shirks left field, wants to play second 
Associated Press 
VII\HA, Fla. The Washington Nationals wore on tlw field and ready to play, night of thnm at least. 
-
There was only one prob­lem: Left l'ield was empty bneause Alfonso Soriano was 
missing. 
Soriano refused to play the outfield for Washington in what was supposed to be his spring training debut Monday night, and general manager Jim Bowden said his biggest offseason acquisition could go on the disqualified list if he doesn't agree to switch posi­tions this week. 
"The player refused to take the field. which we believe is a violation of his contract," Bowden said. 
Soriano, a four-time All-Star second baseman, was listed as batting leadoff and playing left f'ield on a lineup sheet posted in the Nationals"club­house before Monday night's 11-5 loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
But when the Nationals took the field in the top or the first inning, Soriano wasn't out there. With play just about to begin, nobody on the Nationals seemed to know where he was. 
Confused players and fans looked toward Washington's dugout. The only person to 


LOUIS DUPRE 
Proft'ssor Emeritus in the Philosophy of Religion Yale University 
Religion and the Rise of Modern Culture 
Monday* March 20 \Vednrsday March 22 Monday March 27 Wednesday March 29 

All lectures begin at 4:30 pm and are held in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, except the •Monday, March 20 lecture, which takes place in Hesburgh Center Rm. C103. 
.­

Romanticism: Revolutions and Counter-Revolutions The Revival ~f Religious Philosophy: Schelling and Baader The Birth ~ a New Theology: Scbleiermacber and Kierkegaard The State ~Religion at tbe End ~ the Modern Age 
Spacious Apartments Fantastic location Great Rent Spedals 
Weight Room & Business Center Huge Swimming Pool Sauna. Whirlpool, & Free Tanning Indoor/Outdoor Basketball & Tennis Gated Community 
»..... 

2 Bedroom ONLY.··· 
679.00 month 
dwdiMi +w,·:!l 

No Applk;ation 
f~.§ 

Castle Point Apartments $74272 8110 18011 Cleveland Road 

emerge, however, was manag­er Frank Hobinson. 
lie approached plate umpire Mike Estabrook and made a defensive switch, moving Hyan Church from center field to left and putting Brandon Watson in center to replace Soriano in the lineup. 
"I was sitting out there ready to warm up, but nobody was out there. And the next thing I see Watty running out there, so I kind of figured what happened," Church said. 
The Nationals already have an All-Star second baseman in Jose Vidro, so they told Soriano they want him to move to the outfield. lie indi­cated he doesn't want to do 
that and Monday provid­ed his most vis­ible objection. 
When Soriano first reported to camp last month, the question of whether he would accept the switch was left open until his return from the World Baseball Classic. 
Soriano played for the Dominican Hepublic, which 
"If he's going to play that the com­here, he's going to missioner's 
office plaee

have to be out in left 
him on the dis­

field... He said he's qualif'ied list, at ready to play. he that timn -no 
pay, no service

needs to play, he's 
time," Bowden

ready for the season, said. 
and I penciled him in "If hn refuses to play and
the lineup in left 
goes homo, and
field." 
the comm is­sioner's offien accepts our

Frank Robinson 
request to 


Washington Nationals 
place him on 

was eliminated in the tourna­
ment semifinals Saturday. lie 
joined the Nationals on 
Monday and worked out with 
teammates at second base in 
the afternoon, but wouldn't 
speak to reporters. 
lie wasn't in the clubhouse 
after Monday night's game. 
"It's a difficult situation for 
the organization and for him 
personally," said pitcher Mike 
Stanton, Soriano's teammate 
on the New York Yankees 
from 1999-02. "I don't really 
think anything good can come 
out of this." 
The Nationals acquired 
Soriano from Texas in a 
December trade that sent out­
fielders Brad Wilkerson and 
Terrmel Sledge and pitcher 
Armando Galarraga to the 
Hangers. After the deal, 
Washington made it clear that 
499.00 month 
Vidro would keep his spot at second; Soriano made it elnar that he wasn't happy. 
Soriano lost his arbitration case this winter and is due to be paid $10 million this sea­son, still a record for thn highest salary awarded in arbitration. 
The Nationals are off Tuesday, then travel to play the St. Louis Cardinals in Jupiter on Wndnesday. If Soriano refuses to play in that game and again at home against the Baltimore Orioles on Thursday, the Nationals will take action. 
"We told him if we get to Thursday. and he rduses to play left field, wn told him at that point we will rnqunst 
the disqualified 

list, then at that point, if ho Wflrn to sit out this year, hn would not be a free agent, he would stay our property because his service time would stay the same." 
Many players on the team hope it doesn't come to that. 
"I just hope they ean fix tho situation," outfielder Jose Guillen said. "That's up to the people upstairs and Soriano. I think everybody's a grown-up man here. I just hope for the best for the tnam and those guys, and that they ean f'ix the situation. But that's pretty m ueh not my business." 
If Soriano dons show up for the game Wednesday, Hobinson said he would be willing to forgivn him . 
"It will be water under the bridge as far as I'm con­cerned," the managnr said. 
Robinson sat down privately with Soriano for 20 minutes before the gamo Monday to explain the team's position. 
"If hP's going to play here, he's going to have to be out in left field," Hobinson said. "lin said he's ready to play, he needs to play, he's ready for the season, and I pnnciled him in the lineup in left field." 
Hobinson said the meeting with Soriano was civil, but the player's position was clear. 
"He's very sensitive, and he has a mind-set," Hobinson said. "lie lets you know how he feels." 
Trading Soriano, already a possibility, becomes more likely now -with less than two weeks rnmaining before opening day. 
"He's going to play left f'ipld. lie needs to be out there now the next couple of weeks to play, and if he's not going to play for us, we need to know so we ean go forward," Bowden said. "W11 obviously will field offnrs, but we're not going to give the player away. If we can make a deal that makes sense, we will." 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Brophy is one of fevv bright spots for team 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Before last week's 'Mo' Moria! Tournament in Bryan, Texas, Notre Dame women's golf coach Debby King said that she was hoping for a top­six finish for her team among the field of 18. 
Instead, the Irish finished last in the event as host Texas A&M tied Arkansas for a share of the tournament victo­ry. 
The Irish finished with a three-round score of 1,012, posting disappointing team scores of 334, 329 and 349. 
Senior co-captain Katie Brophy was one of the few bright spots for Notre Dame as she finished 16th among the 96 golfers. 
Ashley Knoll from Texas A&M won the individual title at the 'Mo' with a two-over­par three-round total of 218 (74-70-74), seven shots ahead of her closest challenger, TCU's Elin Emanuelsson. 
King was disappointed with the performance of her play­ers and the effects it may have on their chances of reaching post-season play. 
"I think our performance last week hurt our chances for an NCAA bid," she said after the tournament. 
However, Notre Dame must regroup quickly as it travels to Hawaii for the Dr. Donnis Thompson Invitational this Tuesday and Wednesday. 
And, despite her team's sub­par finish in the first two tour­naments of the spring, King remains optimistic about the potential of the Irish to place well in this event, which will be held at the par-72 Kaneohe Klipper Golf Course. 
"A top-four finish [out of 12 competing teams] would be pretty good and it would be great if we could finish higher than that," King said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan6@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles end week with three straight victories 
Saint Mary's wins four of seven contests on spring trip in Orlando 
By BECKI DORNER 
Sports Writer 
On their annual spring train­ing trip to Orlando, Fla., the Belles began and ended with strong victories sandwiching three close defeats. 
"We only played one of the seven matches with our [regu­lar) starting line-
so that

up, "We only played one
showed us we have a lot of of the seven matches depth to work 
with our [regular] 

with the rest of 
starting lineup, so

the season," team No. 1 Kirsten that showed us we 
Palombo said. have a lot of depth
Saint Mary's 
to work with the rest

began the week with a 9-0 rout of of the season. " Ursinus March 12, as Palombo 
Kirsten Palombo

needed three sets 
Belles tennis player

to take down her 
opponent, Courtney Root. Melissa Dingler turned in the team's fastest vic­tory, losing just three games to Lindsey Kunkel. 
The Belles had a much tougher time March 12, falling to Minnesota State-Mankato 5­
4. The Belles took two of three doubles points but lost four of six singles matches in the con­test. 
Later that day, Saint Mary's suffered a 6-3 defeat at the hands of St. Scholastica. The Belles top-two singles players­Palombo and Kelly McDavitt ­won their matches, but the team won just one other set in the singles competition. Much of the same followed March 15 in a 6­3 loss to Southern Nazarene. 
The Belles bounced back over the next two days with dominat­
.ing wins. Saint Mary's first topped Moorehead State 8-1 March 16. McDavitt's 6-0, 6-1 victory over Alyssa Schafer highlighted the match. 
The next day, Bentley College won just four sets against the Belles as Saint Mary's rolled to a 
7-2 victory, tak­ing all three dou­bles points. The team's afternoon match against Milsaps was more of the same, as the Belles captured every singles set and two of the three doubles points. 
The 4-3 record was enough to e n c o u r a g e Palombo that the 
Belles can compete with the best teams in the MIAA. 
"We are much stronger physi­cally and mentally after last season and we are ready to go out there and beat teams like Albion and Hope this year to fin­ish higher in the conference," she said. 
Saint Mary's faces Olivet at Michigan State tonight at 7 p.m. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Small squad makes big mark 
ByJASON GALVAN Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame track and field team began its season at the Cal Poly Invitational in San Luis Obispo, Calif. this week­end. A small group comprised entirely of jumpers, throwers, and sprinters was sent to kick off the outdoor season with the distance runners slated to begin their outdoor season in two weeks at Stanford. 
"We didn't send the full team . . . and we were able to get a lot of qualifying marks out of the way," Irish head coach Joe Piane said. "It was a good start." 
The Irish earned eight indi­vidual victories, posted 18 Big East qualifying marks for the conference championship and added two Mideast Regional qualifying marks. 
Laura Huarte began her javelin career with a school record of 146 feet, 9 inches, smashing Kate Duman's mark of 142 feet, 11 inches. 
"I was excited, knowing I was having some good prac­tices, to see how far I could throw," Huarte said. "My goals were to earn the Mideast Regional qualifying bid and break the school record, and I'm happy I was able to do it. 
"I knew what the record was going out there," she said. "It took until my last throw to hit the mark, and when I got it, I was really excited and just turned to my family and gave them the fist pump." 
Huarte will switch events to the pole vault -her featured event -this weekend at Arizona. The javelin and pole vault were scheduled at the same time during last week's meet and the upcoming week, so she will alternate events. 
"We had a pretty decent indoor season in the pole vault, and I'm excited to go outside and jump underneath the sun," Huarte said. "I know I can get to [the] NCAA [cham­pionship meet], and the other pole vaulters and I are setting higher expectations for our­selves." 
Junior Maryann Erigha earned first-place finishes in the 100-and 200-meter dash­es, posting qualifying bids for the Big East Conference meet and the NCAA Mideast Regional. 
"I thought the hundred was pretty good," Erigha said. "I got the qualifying out of the way for that, and the 200 was good enough to open the sea­son with." 
"I think everyone did really good," Erigha said. "We all just went out there and did the best that we could and got a lot of qualifying marks." 
Other individual winners for the Irish at the Cal Poly Invitational were senior Ryan Postel in the 400-meter dash (47.51), junior Christopher Jacques in the long jump (22­11/6.99m -tied). junior Okechi Ogbuokiri (Willingboro, N .J ./Willingboro) in the 400-meter dash (56.60), sophomore Austin Wechter in the 400-meter hurdles (a per­sonal-best 54.12) and fresh­man Kate Mattoon in the pole · vault (12-0/3.66m -tie-ninth in school history). The men's 1,600-meter relay team also claimed victory with a time of 
-
3:15.23. 
Several members of. the team earned runner-up finish­es, including freshman Blair Majcina in the high jump, Ryan Postel in the 200-meter dash, senior Meghan Horn in the shot put, junior Garet Koxklein in the discus and sophomore Kyle Annen in the hammer throw. 
With the beginning of the new season, the team must now make a transition from the indoor season to outdoor preparation. 
"I think both teams will do well outdoors," Piane said. "They should have a good sea­son." 
The team now turns its attention to the upcoming meet in Tucson, Ariz. The Wildcat Combined Events meet begins Thursday at the Arizona campus and runs through Saturday. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 
WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC 
Japan captures inaugural tourney 
Ichiro Suzuki was the only MLB starter to play in WBC final 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Forget beis­bol. This was yakyu at its best, and the inaugural World Baseball Classic belongs to Japan. 
Ichiro Suzuki and his less­famous countrymen beat Cuba 10-6 in the champi­onship game Monday night, ripping a page out of Cuba's scorebook by winning a major international tourna­ment. 
On a festive night when Cuban and Japanese fans danced to "Surf City" and Sadaharu Oh escorted Hank Aaron-there's 1,623 homer runs between them --onto the field for the ceremonial first pitch, Japan won the 16­nation tournament that showed baseball in March can matter. 
The Classic's slogan is "Baseball Spoken Here." In this case, it's yakyu, which in Japanese means "field ball." 
Suzuki doubled, singled and drove in a run. He also scored three times, including in a four-run first inning that proved Cuba's pitchers are vulnerable, after all. 
Cuba's fans perked up when their team, wearing its 

Padres reliever now with Texas, came on and retired the side. 
Suzuki singled in the ninth to score Munenori Kawasaki on a close play at the plate and make it 7-5. Kawasaki slid, turned and stuck his right hand just inside of catcher Ariel Pestana's left foot to -perhaps -touch the plate. Japan broke it open on a two-run single by pinch­hitter Kosuke Fukudome and a sacrifice fly by Michihiro Ogasawara. 
Otsuka allowed a run in the ninth before closing it out for a save. 
With the United States fail­ing to make it out of the sec­ond round and the Dominican Republic losing to Cuba in the semifinals, Suzuki, the Seattle Mariners star, was the only major leaguer in the starting lineups. Otsuka is the only other big leaguer on Japan's roster. 
The Cubans consider them­selves amateurs, although Miguel Tejada and Albert Pujols, who played for the Dominican Republic, said leading up to the semis that most of the Cubans could be in the majors. 
But for as good as the Cubans are -they had won 22 of 24 games in interna­tional competition and have dominated the globe for decades -they cracked at the worst possible time. 
Homero was on a short leash to begin with, but was yanked after throwing 23 pitches. He retired leadoff hitter Kawasaki, then loaded the bases on infield singles by Tsuyoshi Nishioka and Nobuhiko Matsunaka, and a walk to Suzuki. 
Vicyhoandry Odelin came on and hit Hitoshi Tamura on the left elbow with a pitch to force in the second run, walked Ogasawara with two outs to bring in another, before Toshiaki Imae hit a sharp, two-run single up the middle to make it 4-0. 
Eduardo Paret hit a leadoff homer for the Cubans in the first, but they didn't score again until the sixth, when they made it 6-3. 0Be of Cuba's two runs that inning was unearned due to an error by shortstop Kawasaki, who earlier in the game made two brilliant plays. Japan took a 6-1 lead by scoring twice in the fifth on three straight hits -Suzuki's leadoff double and singles by Matsunaka and Tamura. 
At first, communist Cuba was denied a permit to par­ticipate in the tournament due to.decades of political animosity with the U.S. gov­ernment. And Japan kept a stiff upper lip after it appeared to be deprived of the go-ahead run in a 4-3 loss to the United Sates on March 
...
12 in the opener of Round 2. 
I I 
~ 

' 
' 
' 
I 'I 
1
lucky red uniforms, pulled to Japan took a 4-0 lead in the The tournament was con­
1
6-5 on a two-run homer by top of the first while hitting sidered a success, coming not I Frederich Cepeda with one the ball out of the infield just long after baseball was boot­I I out in the eighth. Akinori once. ed from the Olympics effec­
I 
Otsuka, the former San Diego Cuba starter Ormari tive in 2012. I 
Tuesday, March 21,2006

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Bulfin qualifies for NCAAs with record dive 
cy," Wnlsh said. "In the finals,By CHRIS HINE he did the sanw dives, hn just
Sports Writl'r 
did them lwttor." 
Freshman divPr Mit·haol The All-Big East divor also Bulfin hncanw tlw third com­placPd ninth in the onP-meter pntitor in Notrn lhtmn history board, whiln fplJow Irish diver to qualify for thn NCAA sophomor11 Sam Stoner placed National Championships I Oth. Bullin is one of only live March l 0-1 2 at tlw Zone C divnrs from the ZonP C region Diving Championships at Ohio to qualify and OnP of 35 divers Statn. in the eountry to qualify for 
llis scorn of 6:{4.40 in tho nationals. thrnn-nwtnr board landnd him "This is a great accomplish­fourth plaw in the nHwt. That ment, bncause the selection 
-
scorn hold up throughout tho proeess has changed dramati­wenknnd, giving Bulfin a spot cally from the old days," at tho national m1wt to bn lwld Wnlsh said. "In previous years, in Atlanta March 2:{-25. you just had to achieve a cer­
"This was a joyous sur­tain time, now it's tougher prise," Irish swim coach Tim boeause there are so few Wnlsh said. "lin works so spots." hard. This yoar hn's bonn Previous Irish national qual­doing divns hn has nnvnr donn ifiers include diver Bob Ebel in bnfore and lw's improvnd so 1975 and eurrent junior swim­rn ueh." mer Tim Kegelman in 2005. 
Bull'in's fourth-place pnr­"This is also good beeause fornHtiH'P also tins tlw bnst we've made our schedule showing of any Irish divnr tougher, and thPsn other Pver in any •wont at tlw mnnt. teams also have national qual­sdting a school rPrord in the il'i1~ rs in diving," Welsh said. thrnn-nwtnr div1~. "!My nxpoetations for Bulf'inl 
Arter plaring ninth in tho just went up, and that's a good preliminary round with a thing." scorn of :{ 11.20, Bulfin Bulfin could not be reachnd notrlwd a scon• of :{2:L20 in by The ObsnrvPr for eomment the f'inal round, vaulting him Monday. into f()urth place and punching his tieknt to Atlanta. Contact Chris Hine at 
"Diving n~wards consisten-chine@nd.edu 



Road tripping: Irish cruise to three wins over spring break 
Twelfth-ranked squad defeats ]\lo. 20 North Carolina, Villanova  Notre Dame broke open a 3­3 game in the second quarter with live straight goals. Walsh had four assists in the quarter and senior attackman Brian llubschmann added two goals  Carolina goals to make it a one-point game before senior midfielder Matt Ryan capped ofT the day's scoring with Notre Dame's ninth goal. Though the loss was  
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writt·r  to give the Irish an 8-3 lead in the third quarter. Ilubsehmann. the team's lead­ Carolina's fourth of the year, thn Irish were pleased to rPeover from their 9-6 loss to  
Spring hroak was a good  ing point seorer for the week  Cornell the previous week to  
time for tlw Irish.  (10 goals, 7 assists), also  defeat a talented Tar Heel  
No. 12 Notre Dame began its  recorded two assists in the  team.  
thren-gamn set March 11,  game.  "We felt it was a make-or­ 
downing thnn-No. 20 North  "Through the fall and pre­ brnak game," Driseoll said. "It  
Carolina IJ-7 at Moose Krausn  season he's been tearing it  was a huge turning point.  
Stadium.  up," senior co-eaptain D.J.  North Carolina has all the tal­ 
After compiling three points  Driseoll said. "Ilis presence  ent in the world. We knew  
in tlw first two contests, senior  out there on the field as a  what they were eapable of' and  
atlaek Pat Walsh sparked a  shooter, as a gunner gives our  we knew we had to play our  
struggling Irish offense, n~cording six points against  offense more room to breathe, and they have to respect him."  best game and we took eare of it. ..  
the Tar llnels with OIW goal  The Irish defense survived a  Despite attempting five fewer  
and live assists.  run of four straight North  shots than North Carolina and  
winning nine fewer ground­ 
balls than the Heels, Driseoll  
said Notre Dame controlled the  
tempo of the game.  
"We can't argue with the  
slats, but we just executed  
PHIL HUDELSONffhe Observer when it counted," he said.  
Defenseman James Severin advances the ball during NotreNotre Dame earried its  
Dame's Feb. 26 win over Penn State. Over spring break, themomentum through a 10-7 win  
Irish downed North Carolina, VIllanova and Bellarmine.at Villanova Mareh 14.  
After falling behind 3-2  away," he said. "We let them  offensive production. Most  
against the Wildeats, the Irish  hang arourid. We have to start  importantly, Driseoll said, they  
again ripped off five straight  putting teams out of the game.  came out of the week with  
goals to take a lead they never  Once we can aeeomplish that,  three more wins and even  
relinquished. Ilubschmann led  we'll be on cruise control."  more eonlidenee.  
the Irish charge with four  The Irish road trip eoneluded  The Irish will carry their  
goals and one assist to main­ with a stop in Louisville, Ky.  winning streak into tlwir third  
tain his team's lead in those  Saturday, where they handled  straight road contest Saturday  
categories.  Bellarmine 8-2 in the teams'  in Hempstead, N.Y., against  
Notre Dame's offense stum­ first lacrosse meeting. This  the No. 6 Hofstra Pridn.  
bled in the seeond half, wait­ year is Bellarmine's first as a  "People look at our schedule  
ing until Villanova had come  full NCAA Division I member.  and say we really didn't beat  
within 8-7 before seoring the  The two goals allowed were a  anyone," Driscoll said, "but  
,,.  final two goals with under live minutes left in the game -a  eareer record for sophomore goalie Joey Kemp, who reeord­ every win is important to gain momentum going into our  
trend Driscoll believes the  ed 10 of his 24 saves during  game Saturday against  
PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer  Irish need to fix in order to be  the week against the Knights.  Hofstra."  

Attacker Duncan Swezey beats his opponent during Notre an NCAA Tournament eon­The Irish (4-1) outscored Dame's 8-4 victory over Penn State Feb. 26. The Irish play tender. their three opponents 27-16, Contact Tim Dougherty at Hofstra this Saturday In Hempstead, NY. "We eouldn't put them reversing a trend of poor tdoughe@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
SOFTBALL 
West Coast is only so nice to visiting Notre Dame squad 

Coast trip by sweeping a double­right fielder Stephanie Brown base, ending the game and giving back-to-hack doubles to start off
Irish continue rocky 
header against Cal Poly SLO (9-knocked in two runs on a single the Irish their third extra inning the frame, she managed to get season with 4-3 mark 16). The games showcased Notre up the middle to give the Irish loss of the season. the first two outs, but gave up an Dame's starting pitchers, the lead. Shortstop Sara The Irish rebounded by win­RBI single to Amber Hall to cutduring spring break Heather Booth and Brittany Schoonaert provided some insur­ning their next two games, a 3-2 the lead to 5-4. Booth replaced Bargar, who each threw com­ance with a single to right to victory over No. 12 Arizona State the starter Bargar and surren­plete games for wins over the drive in Brown. Brown took the (28-2) and a 1-0 win against dered an RBI double down the
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Mustangs. · circle and pitched a perfect sev­Florida State (20-13). right field line to Megan Willis 
Sports Writer 
In the first game, a 3-1 victory enth to seal the win. The upset over the Sun Devils before ending the inning. With for the Irish, Booth surrendered The second game was a 1-0 ended in dramatic fashion, with the score tied going into the bot­The Irish showed they could just one run on five hits, while pitcher's duel between Bargar a two-run, walk-off home run by tom of the sixth, Booth gave up a play with some of the best teams striking out eight in the win. Cal and the Mustangs' Jenna right fielder Stephanie Brown, solo shot to Rachael Cook to give in the country over spring break, Poly's lone run came in the bot­Maiden, both of whom pitched her second dinger of the season. Texas its first lead of the day at 
as the squad earned a win over tom of the third, when a Lisa complete games and gave up no The win against the Seminoles 6-5. 
No. 12 Arizona State and Modglin double scored left fielder earned runs. The only run came was just as dramatic, but this Notre Dame finished ofT its 
dropped a pair of one-run games Kelly Comstock to give the in the top of the fourth, when time because of its pitching per­spring break schedule with a 4-3 
to No. 3 Texas and No. 6 Mustangs a one run lead. The pinch runner Sarah Smith seored formances. Booth gave up only Joss to Alabama Sunday. The 
Alabama. game continued on scoreless off a throwing error by Cal Poly three hits and struck out 11 in Irish took the lead in the fourth Notre Dame began its West until the top of the seventh, when shortstop Jackie Gehrke-Jones. the complete game win, while with a two-run homerun by This proved to be all the run sup­her counterpart, Tiffany Lenn. but lost it in the bottom of port Bargar would need, as her McDonald, struck out three and the inning to the Tide, who ral­eight-strikeout shutout helped scattered three hits. But Notre lied for three unearned runs the Irish win the second game or Dame managed key hits and the against Booth. A home run by the doubleheader. right time, as consecutive two Jordan Praytor gave Alabama a Notre Dame then traveled to out singles by Brown and crucial insurance run in the bot­Fullerton, Calif. to play five Alexandra Kotcheff-combined tom of the sixth to make the games in the Judi Garman with Brown's ninth steal of the score 4-2. A home run by Linda Classic. season -gave the Irish the only Kohan in the top of the seventh The first game or the tourna­run they would need in the win. brought the Irish to within one, ment for the Irish was a rematch The game was played over the but that was all the offense Notre against Cal-State Fullerton (15-course of two days, beginning Dame could muster, as it fell to 13), which beat Notre Dame 9-3 Friday, but rain forced the last the sixth-ranked Crimson Tide 4­in their first matchup on Feb. 19. three fnnings to be played 3. This time the Irish were able to Saturday morning. Lenn said she is impressed hang tough against the Titans, Catcher Mallorie Lenn was with the play of the pitching staff but lost 3-2 in extra innings after especially proud of her team­so far this season. a.sacrifice fly to center field mates. "All the pitchers, Heather scored first baseman Katie "It was great that we could [Booth], Brittany [Bargar], and Gollhardt. remain focused for playing the even Kenya [Fuemmeler, the Notre Dame took an early lead next day," Lenn said. "We third pitcher on the Irish stafO_ after two innings, with an RBI showed huge intensity especially have fought hard this year," she single by Meagan Ruthrauff in in this game." said. "Heather is doing a great the first and a home run by Katie The win against Florida State job leading this staff and Brittany Laing in the second. Fullerton pushed Notre Dame into the is showing what she can do." responded in the second with an championship bracket against The Irish continue the season unearned run caused by an error No. 3 Texas (17 -1), who defeated with a doubleheader against by Schoonaert. In extra innings, the Iri~ 6-5. Western Michigan in Kalamazoo the Irish were shut out in the top Notre Dame took a 5-1 lead on Saturday at 1 and 3 p.m. or the eighth, but a bunt and into the fourth irming against the deep fly ball by Kiki Munoz Longhorns, then it fell apart. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at scored Gollhardt from second After Bargar gave up back-to-jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish keep unbeaten streak alive with four wins 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer  No.3. "I was really proud of our team earning the doubles point  6-7 (6-8), 7-5, 6-2 win from Potts over Druss at No. 6 to give the Irish their 14th victory of the  bles matches and three singles matches. In doubles, Buck and Tefft  Thompson ­who was suffering from a wrist injury ­the Irish handled Western Michigan with  
ragainst the runner-up at last  season.  upset No. 11 Daniela Bercek and  ease.  
The Irish proved their strength  year's NCAAs]," Potts said. "With  The other two Irish wins came  Jessi Robinson 8-5.  The team recorded wins in  
and depth this past week with  each meet, we're building confi­ from Tefft at No. 4 and Stastny  No. 4 7 Connelly and Stastny  each of the doubles positions,  
wins over four top-50 teams - dence."  at No. 5. Tefft had little trouble  topped Kristin Cargill and Jackie  starting with the win at from No.  
including their latest victim, No.  In singles, No.  32 Catrina  in  defeating  Carleton  7-6  39 Buck and Tefft. The duo  
11 Texas on Monday. The No. 2 Irish (15-0) took a giant leap forward this weekend  Thompson needed a third-set tiebreaker to earn the 7-5, 4-6, 1-0 (11-9) virin over No. 71  Mechem 6-3, 6­2, as Stastny secured a 6-2,  "We went into this past week thinking that we will  (7-5). Catrina Thompson and  edged out Carrie Jeanmaire and Malena Remynse 8-4. Connelly and Stastny proved the team of  
with a shutout over the Longhorns (8-8) as they matched their best start in the 30-year history of the program.  Marovic. No. 2 Notre Dame 4 No. 48 Texas A&M 3  6-2 win over Clifford. The three losses came from the  be competing against some ofthe top teams in the nation. But we managed to  Potts complet­ed the sweep with an upset over No. 53  Linda Yang and Lena Sherbakov were less than a challenge by claiming an 8-3 victory. In only their second match as  
"We went into this past week thinking that we will be compet­ing against some of the top teams in the nation," freshman  The Irish earned their second. consecutive 4-3 victory with the help of Potts March 18. "I was behind in the first set  upper-half of the lineup. At No. 1 was No. 32 Catrina  stay focused and played some ofour best tennis this season.,,  Melissa Mang and Jennifer Zika 9-7. In singles,  partners, the twosome of Christian Thompson and Potts showed their strength by defeat­ing Rattiya 1-Iiranrat and Noriko  
Katie Potts said. "But we man­ and knew that our team needed  Thompson who  No. 32 Catrina  Saruta 8-3 at No. 3.  
agod to stay focused and played some of our best tennis this sea­son, which has helped us to  every win we could get [in sin­gles] to pull out the match," Potts said. ''I'm just glad I've  was upset by No. 66 Lubinsky 3-6,  Katie Potts Irish freshman  Thompson col­lected the win over No. 1  The Broncos also fell in every singles match, with No. 48 Christian Thompson defeating  
remain undefeated."  been able to contribute to the  4-6. Her dou- Bercek  after  Jeanmaire 6-0, 6-3.  
The Irish swept the doubles  team this season."  bles partner, No. 48 Christian  Bercek retired from a 4-4 tie in  Buck collected an easy 6-1, 6-0  
matches against Texas to earn a  In doubles, the team regis­ Thompson fell to lower-ranked  the first set.  win over Reedhina Parekh, fol­ 
one-point advantage as they  tered two wins to earn the dou­ Foster 6-2, 5-7, 6-2 at No. 2.  "Before the match I was defi­ lowed by Tefft's victory over  
headed into the singles matches.  bles point, garnering an 8-2 win  Buck followed Thompson at No.  nitely nervous because I knew it  Hiranrat.  
The  No.  4  duo  of juniors  for the Thompson duo. Connelly  3 as she was overwhelmed by  would be close," Thompson said.  Notre Dame showed how deep  
Catrina and Christian Thompson  and Stastny recorded the second  Blagodarova in a 4-6, 5-7 loss.  "I just caught a break."  its team is with victories in the  
defeated the Longhorns Mia  win for the Irish over Tiffany  Tefft earned the upset over No.  bottom half of the lineup as well..  
Marovic and Courtney Zauft 8-3.  Clifford and Marisa Druss with a  No. 2 Notre Dame 4  62 Tara Iyer for the Irish with a  Stastny  defeated  Priyanka  
Sophomore Brook Buck and  score of 8-5. The one loss for  No.5 Duke 3  7-5, 5-7,  6-3  performance.  Parekh  7-5,  7-5,  and  Potts  
freshman Kelcy Tefft topped  Notre Dame came at No. 2 from  On March 15 the team felt the  CoiJnelly was the fmal victory for  surged past Pahl with a 6-2, 6-2  
Kelly Baritot and Kendra Strohm  the duo Buck and Tefft who fell  void of Christian Thompson - the Irish as she defeated Clelia  win. The last win came from  
8-4 at No. 2. The twosome of seniors Lauren Connelly and  to Anna Lubinsky and Nicki Mechem 5-8.  who didn't play in doubles or singles matches due to the flu - Deltour 6-2, 7-5. ..  Connelly who Saruta 6-3, 6-0.  overwhelmed  
Kiki  Stastny completed  the  Despite the loss of the doubles  in the tight win for the Irish over  No. 2 Notre Dame 7  
sweep as they downed Petra  point, the Aggies put up a fight  the Blue Devils. Notre Dame  No. 49 Western Michigan 0  Contact Dan Tapetillo at  
Dizdar and Marija Milic 8-2 at  in singles as it came down to a  captured two of the three dou- This time without Catrina  jtapetil@nd.edu  

Tuesday, March 21, 2006 page 22 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irisl1 finish strong vveek, post 4-llllark over spring break 
Notre [)arne loses in Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic finals 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Dnspitn a loss in the finals ot' lhn Blun-{;ray National Tennis <:lassie, llw Irish had a sue­ensst'ul spring brPak. ending wi lh a reeord of' 4-1 to improvn lo 13-!i ovnrall. 
No. 20 Notrn 


"It was afun

I>anw lopped No. the score again :-w Florida Statn atmosphere in which with wins at No. 4-:{ March 14 nn 3 and No~ l, as
to play."

routn lo a crucial ll1~lgeson lost 7­road win. Thny (>, 6-4 and Bass tlwn knod.nd ofT Bobby Bayliss fell 3-6. 6·4, 6­William and Irish coach 1. 
of the guys, the mateh -it was a big mateh for [Florida State]. they had their band out playing during the match and a lot of promotional assistance and they had a big erowd. It was a fun atmosphere in which to play." 
Keckley -one of the most consistent athletes for the Irish this season -tied the seore at ono with a 6-2, 6-2 win over No. 1OCJ Sykt1t. Parbhu, playing at No. 2 and ranked No. 33 nationally -won 7-6, 6-4 over 
Sucupira. 
But the 
Seminoles tied 
Mary, Fresno Stale and Boisn Stall~ IJI't'orn los­ing to No. 26 Virginia Comrn on wealth. 
"When you step back from tlw monwnt of the loss and the pain and agony that goes with that and look back at what wn achieved over the break, I think wn have a lot to be proud ot'," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
No. 20 Notre Dame 4, No. 30 
Florida State 3 
Bnf'orn a raucous Seminole erowd, Hric Langenkamp elinched a win for the Irish as they toppnd No. 30 Florida Statn. 
The Seminoles recently topped Clemson, then ranked No. !i. 
"ll shows you lhn quality or that win," Hayliss said of his tnam's victory. 
Thn Irish lost a hard-fought doubles point as all three pairs fell in close matehes. 

Brott llnlgeson and Andrew Both, playing at No. 3, lost 8-4 to Sam Chang and Jonathas Sueupira in the lirst match to linish. Thn Snminoles clinched the mateh as Andrew Bailey and Maeiek Sykut topped Barry King and Langenkamp 8-6 for thn point. 
Hyan Keekley and Shenva l'arbhu lost 8-5 at No. 1 to Ytai Abougzir and Chris Westerhol', ranked No. 26 nationally. 
But thn Irish took four of the six singlos matches to pull out tho win. 
"That was a pretty solid win in fairly hostile territory," Bayliss said. ''I'm very proud "The mateh 
eame down to 
No. 6 and Erie 

Langnnkamp played a terril'ic liebreaknr lo win the mateh for us," Bayliss said. 
Langenkamp won 6-:~. 5-7, 7-(> (7-1 l fill' the Irish vietory. 
"I think tlin match took a lot out of him physically but he was able to get the job donn," Bayliss said. "Several of our guys played extremely well -Sheeva J>arhbu had a great win at No. 2, Hyan Keekley kept his terrific streak alive, Barry King had a big win at four over Chris Westerhol'." 
Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic: Runner-Up 
The second-seed • Irish cruised to a 4-0 victory over William and Mary in the first round with wins at the four, five and six positions, as Keckley, King and Roth all won. Helgeson clinched the mateh at No. 3, and Bass and Parbhu were leading at the top two positions when the match was abandoned. 
Next, the Irish topped Freno State 4-2 to advance in the tournament. 
"Then we played Fresno State and had a dose 4-2 with them," Bayliss said. "Stephen Bass deserves a great deal of eredit for that mateh." 
Wins in doubles by Keckley and Parbhu at No. 1 and Langenkamp and Hoth at No. 2 put the Irish up 1-0 going into the singles. King won 6-1, 6-2 for a 2-0 lead,· but Helgeson fell 6-2, 6-3 as Fresno State battled back. Parbhu won 6-4, 6-4 at No. 2, but Keckley fell 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 


The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its unmml l:ompetition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Critkism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and gruduate students. are invited . to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competit ion. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but ne~::d not have been. 
Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Offwe, 306 Riley HaiL 
.... 
Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art 
•

Department Office by 3:00 PM, Monday, Man~n 271n to be cli~ible. 
A student may only submit ONE entry_. 
7-5, 7-6 (7·31 in an extremely close straight-set loss. 
Bass elinehed the mateh at No. 1 with a win over Jaeob Cech. 
"That set up a semil'inal showdown with Boise State," Bayliss said. "They won a hotly contested dou~les point and look a 1-0 lead." 
Helgeson won 6-4, 6-1 at No. 3 to tie the match, but Parbhu lost at No. 2 to put Boise State on top again. Keckley and King took back-to-back victories to put the Irish up 3-2, but Boise State won at No. 6 to put all the pressure on the No. 1 match. 
"We played exceptionally well at No. 2, 3 and 4 to give 
us three points and then the entire mateh fell on Stephen's shoulders at No. 1 singles," Bayliss said. ..-Stephen fought off that game, broke serve, and then played a great tiebreaker." 
This gave the Irish a berth in the finals against Virginia Commonwealth (VCU). 
"VCU [was! a much older, more experienced team," Bayliss said. ''I'd say the aver­age age is 23, 24 years old. They're all international play­ers, they didn't have an American on their team, and they're all very good." 
Officials decided singles would be played first, as weather forecasts were ques­
tionable and ealling for rain. 
"It was very hard fought ­we did have opportunities we didn't capitalizn on," Bayliss said. 
The Irish went up 2-1 with wins by Keeklny and Parbhu, but four losses by Buchanan, King. Bass and llelgeson gave the tournament title to VCU. 
"That's a pretty big national event and we felt fortunate to get to the finals," Bayliss said. "We'd hoped to win it but I think we gave a pretty good accounting for ourselves and we're ready to go to Texas next weekend." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS PRESENTS 
POMERIUM 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 

MASTERS OF THE RENAISSANCE 
0CKEGHEM: MISSA L'HOMME ARME WoRKS BY JosQUIN, MoNTEVERDI, GESUALDO 
7:30P.M. TUESDAY, MARCH 21. 2006 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 

MAim I' DrMRTOLO CENTER FOR TIH PERFORMING ARTS Tickets ~18, ~15, ~1o. Phone 574-631·2.800 or visit http://performingarts.nd.edu for ticket information 
~DE BARTOLO 
~PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 

page 23 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 

could not complete the four­unusual in baseball to play a game sweep, falling 10-8 in the team that many times. I didn't
Turn 
second game of a doublehead­mind playing them because er March 17. they were a good team and
continued from page 28 
While playing a non-confer­well-coached." so it really felt like a home ence team like Iowa four times The Irish had struggled at game." in one week was a strange the plate before their trip to 
Notre Dame went 3-1 in the scheduling quirk, Mainieri said San Antonio, scoring just one Irish Classic, taking a pair of facing the same opponent in run in three games at the games from Southern Illinois multiple games during a short Dairy Queen Classic in March 17 and March 19 by period of time is not uncom­Minneapolis March 3-5. But scores of 12-2 and 4-0, respec­mon in college baseball. the bats came alive during 
tively. The Irish won their third "Typically on a conference spring break, as the Irish aver­straight game March 16 weekend we play a team three aged 7. 7 5 runs over the eight against the llawkeyes, 7-5, but times," he said. "It's not that games in Texas. 
"Baseball is a game where you get better the more you play," Mainieri said. "Sometimes it takes 30 to 40 at bats to get into the rhythm. Now that we're in the swing of things, you can see the players' confidence grow." 
Notre Dame's pitching staff also played well in San Antonio. Senior Tom Thornton Wade Korpi will start on the reason to want to beat the earned two wins, including an mound for Notre Dame. The Raiders. 84-pitch, 5-hit complete game sophomore is 1-0 this season, "My only experience with shutout of the Salukis. Junior earning a win in the team's 6-2 Wright State was my very first Jeff Manship earned his first victory over Iowa in San year at Notre Dame where we win of the season in the 16-2 Antonio. lost the Midwest Collegiate win over Iowa, and junior Jeff "My favorite day of the year Conference tournament cham­Samarzdija allowed just four every year is the day we play pionship to them [at home]," earned runs in 13 innings over our first home game," Mainieri Mainieri said. the course of the week. said. "It doesn't matter what The weather forecast for 
"All three of them have really the weather is or how many game time is 34 degrees and been phenomenal," Mainieri people are in the stands or cloudy. No rain is forecast. said of his top three pitchers. what the field condition is. It's "It's the same weather "I think they're trying to outdo just so nice to be back at Frank they're going to have at each other." Eck Stadium and sleeping in Wrigley Field and [U.S. Cellular 
After opening the season our own beds." Field) and Fenway Park when with 15 road games, the Irish the major leagues start up in a begin their home schedule Notes: week or so," Mainieri said. today at 5:05 p.m. against Mainieri said while the Irish Wright State (7-8) at Frank Eck have not played Wright State in Contact Chris Khorey at Stadium. 1'2 years, he has a personal ckhorey@nd.edu 
onds of regulation. Horton hit a 3-pointer on the
Loss 
previous possession in regula­continued from page 28 tion when he curled off a 
screen and received a Harris Norton pass well beyond the pass at the top of the key 3-point line after Notre Dame beyond the 3-point line. The smothered Harris on his drive shot put the Wolverines up 70­to the basket with time run­68, leading to Quinn's baseline ning out during layup. the second over-Notre Dame time. He faded controlled. early
"We laid it all on

away over the on, including a Irish perimeter the line, which has 16-4 run after 
defense and been our style." trading baskets 
nailed the game with Michigan to winner before start the game.
Mike Brey

8,554 fans at Irish forward Crisler Arena. Irish coach Torin Francis 
"We laid it all led Notre Dame on the line, which in the opening has been our style," Irish period, scoring six points in coach Mike Brey said in a the first eight minutes of play. press conference following the But Francis calmed down after game. "But they made some his quick start and finished key plays. They made more with 14 points on 3-of-5 shoot­key plays than we did." ing from the floor and 8-of-1 0 
llarris finished with 15 from the line. points on 6-of-15 shooting. Notre Dame guard Colin Horton led all scorers with 29 Falls also got off to a strong points on 10-of-19 shooting start, scoring 11 points in the and added eight assists and first half. Falls finished with three steals. 13 points on 5-of-9 shooting. 
Michigan coach Tommy Turnovers and foul trouble Amaker -now 5-0 in games hurt Notre Dame in the second against Notre Dame coach half as Michigan slowly crept Mike Brey -greeted Brey at back into the game. The Irish center court with a hug. The led 41-33 at the break, but two were assistant coaches opened the second half with together at Duke in the late four turnovers that led to a Russell Carter all had four grind it the whole time, and I Michigan is now 12-0 in NIT 1980s and early 90s. quick 6-0 Wolverines run. fouls each. am very proud of how they home games. Michigan will 
"Well, we know their staff, Quinn (seven) and Irish The loss marked the final have always battled." play the winner of No. 2 we have empathy for what guard Colin Falls college game But Quinn saw it differently. Creighton and No. 3 Miami they're going through, what (six) combined for for Quinn, The Irish point guard, who (Florida) Tuesday. they've gone through all sea­13 of Notre Dame's "I love this team, Francis and was named to the All Big East son," Amaker said in a press 1 9 turnovers in the and I am really Cornett, who first team, had to handle much Note: conference following the game. Quinn made will all graduate of the pressure this season as Brey experimented with a
going to miss not 
game. a costly turnover in in May. Brey Notre Dame struggled in close variety of lineups during the Irish guard Chris Quinn had the first overtime going to practice said after the games. game, heavily rotating Falls, a chance to put Notre Dame period -one that tomorrow." game he is "It kind of signifies our Carter, Cornett and forward ahead with 16 seconds led to a Harris proud of his whole season, really," Quinn Ryan Ayers. Brey also inserted remaining and Notre Dame layup that gave team given the said following the game. forwards Zach llillensland and 
Mike Brey
trailing 84-83. But the 88-per­Michigan a 75-73 season the Irish "Coach Brey was trying to talk Luke Zeller into the game for I cent free-throw shooter lead. Irish coach had. to us and put things in per­brief stints. missed the second of two shots -Five Notre Dame "I love this spective, but it is kind of hard Ayers played extensively in 
~l
from the foul line. players had four or team and I am to do that right now. It is per­the second half and in both 
~ 
Quinn led Notre Dame with more fouls in the game. Irish really going to miss not going sonal. For me, it is my last overtime periods. ~ 18 points on 7 -of-17 shooting, forward Rob Kurz fouled out to practice tomorrow," Brey game. including a layup that tied the and Francis, Falls, forward said. "They did not win a "It truly is a tough loss -it's Contact Bobby Griffin at l game at 70 in the final sec-Hick Cornett and guard champion~hip, they had to disheartening." rgriffi3@nd.edu 
1 
' 



page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Wildcats snap streak at seve11, Irish move on 
By CHRIS WILLIAMS 
Sports Writer 
All good things must come lo an end. 
Notre Dame's seven-game winning streak lo slarl the season reaehed this conclu­sion Sunday. as the Irish fell the pain of dnfnat for the first coming women's lacrosse pro­gram. 
She said her performance 
this year is motivated in part 
because she wants to make 
her senior season a memo­
rable one for the team. 
"I know this is my !1nal year to play," she said. "I have been more conf'ident and being a captain, I know that my team­mates are always looking to me to make plays and get the team going, so I have a lot more responsibility !this year]. Basically, I have been taking more risks and ju~t letting the game come to me. 
Before the loss to the Wildcats Sunday, Notre Dame fared well in its previous two eontests against .James Madison University and Loyola (Maryland), both ranked oppo­nents. 
The Irish showed physical and mental vitality with their win over No. 16 .James Madison as they rallied in the f'inal minutes of the game to seeure a 12-11 win. It was again Foote's stick that united the team. as the senior scored three erueial second-half goals against the Dukes. 
The 13-9 victory over No. 19 Loyola proved to be less har­rowing, as the Irish swept the Greyhounds before a crowd of 1,492 at the College Sports Television's annual "Spring Fling" tournament. 
Caitlin McKinney led the Irish assault with three goals and two assists. Jillian Byers continued her strong play as a freshman with three goals in the contest. 
"It was awesome, I mean, to play the way we did, with such heart in front of two thousand people and on TV," Byers said. "It was just a great way to end our week in Florida. 
Notre Dame will try to regain its winning ways Saturday at 1 p.m. in a home game against Canisius. 
Personalized Notre Da1ne Graduation 

U11il•ersity of
Announce1nents 
Notre Dame 
SMC SOFTBALL 

No-hit wonders for Belles 
Amram and Davison rule the Ides ofMarch with strong pitching 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Two no-hitters in one day? 
No problem. 
Freshmen Kristin Amram and Calli Davison tossed conseeutive no-hittors for the Belles March 15, highlighting the team's 7-3 spring break record in Fort Meyers, Fla. where Saint Mary's matched its last season's win total in just live days. 
After a 4-2 start to their spring trip, Saint Mary's domi­nated an overmatched Deliance squad with an 8-0 victory. Defia_nce saw no signs of hope the entire game as Amram grabbed her third win of the season. The Belles saw strong offensive performanees aeross the board, including homers from both Martha Smid and Sarah Miesle. 
It was more of the same in the afternoon as the Belles settled baek into their winning ways as they trampled Mount Ida with a 10-0 victory. Davison garnered a homerun and threw the sec­ond no-hitter of the day. 
"We just have to believe that we are a great team and that last year has nothing to do with this year," first-year Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
Senior captain Audrey Gajor started ofl' the week with a solo homer against Montclair State in the top of the first inning March 12, but the Belles could not pull away in the opener. Montclair State came back to 


time this season in a 21-12 loss to Northwestern. 
The Irish came out of the gate fired up. quiekly gaining 6-2 and 8-4 leads early on in the game. But the defending NCAA champions fought back lo lake a I0-9 lead 1:30 into thn second half and outscored Notre Damn 13-3 in the final :{0 minutes lo hold onto their national No. I ranking. 
Northwestern unleashed an offensive fury in the second half, executing its offense with llaws few and far between. 
Senior attack Crysti Foote continued her torrid pace for Notre Dame, seoring six goals -including four in the first half-to bring her season lola! to 35 goals in eight games. 
"I definitely thought we played really well in the first half but fell apart in the sec­ond half." Foote said. "We just weren't winning the draw or getting ground balls. Those are two of the most important parts of the game." 
With their win over the Irish, the Wildcats extended their winning streak to 27 consecutive games. 
Wildcat standouts included Lindsey Munday. who had two goals and five assists, Aly .Josephs. who scored six goals, and Kristen Kjellman, who added four goals and two assists. 
The goalies on both sides of the ball -Irish keeper Carol Dixon and Wildcat Morgan 
Lathrop-had 12 and six saves. respectively. While the Irish came away with a loss, Foote said it was a good test and an excellent experienee for an up-and­
.J. 
Contact Chris Wtlliams at cwilliII@nd.edu 
win. 5-4. 
Saint Mary's bounced back later that afternoon, defeating Ileidelburg 2-1, as Amram earned her first eareor victory. 
The Belles fed ofl' the momen­tum of the Heidelberg victory, crushing both Edgewood and Massachusetts-Boston. Their 7­1 victory over Edgewood was led by third baseman Laura Ileline, who went 3-for-3 with 2 homers and 5 RBis. Senior pitcher Bridget Grall captured her first win of the season in the victory over Edgewood. The second game or the day against Massaehusetts-Boston proved to be just as rewarding. Miesle, Gajor and Amram all drove in two runs, leading the Belles to their 8-0 victory. Amram also struck out 10 from the mound, adding another win to her young career. 
The Belles carried their win­ning streak into thn third day of the tournament with a 12-4 win over Cazenovia Mareh 14. Cazenovia threatened with an early lead, but the Belles answered in the bottom of the first. The Saint Mary's winning streak came to an end as the team finished on· the day with a 2-1 loss to North Park. 
The Belles went 1-1 during their final day of eompntition, March 16. They defeated Dickinson 12-3, once again see­ing strong offensive perform­ances, including a homerun from Grall. 
But the Belles sul'l'ered a tough loss to Henssnlaer in their second game of the day, falling 
2-1. 
Contact Deidre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Joste11s Attn: PGA Order Processing 148 E. Broadway Owtllonna, iHN 5511611 1-800-854-7464 
Fax 1-800-655-5725 

Place orders in person on: 
www.Jostens.com 

Tuesday and Wednesday, March 21 and 22 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room 9:00 a.m. -4:30 p.m. 
page 25 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
Fourth 
continued from page 28 
strong performances from junior sabm Valerie Providenza and the freshmen duo of foil Addi Nott and epee Madeleine Stephan, Notre Dame climbed into second on the second day of competition. 
Still, St. Patrick's Day belonged to Zagunis. 
After finishing fourth in the round-robin, the Olympic gold medalist rallied from a12-6 deficit to defeat Columbia's Emma Baratta 15-14 before dispatching Olympic teammate and friend Emily Jacobson of Columbia. 
"I knew exactly what I needed to do to beat [Jacobson] so I didn't give her any room to breathe and just went out, got ahead form the start and kept the lead," Zagunis said. 
The Championship bout was a rematch of last year's final, which Jacobson won 15-11. 
"Last year wasn't such a good bout versus her so this year I was ready to make up for that," Zagunis said. 
For the men, Ghattas gave the Irish a standout kickoff Saturday. 
Ghattas went a remarkable 14-0 in five-touch bouts, earning a standing ovation. 
"One of the keys to my success this weekend is that I have been working hard in my conditioning and I think that helped me throughout the competition," said Ghattas,' who was voted men's sabre of the year by the U.S. Fencing Coaches Association. 
"[Ghattas's) performance was excellent," Bednarski said. "He is supposed to be first because of his actions and level of performance throughout the tournament ... Matt Stearns fenced very well also, even though he is less expe­rienced." 
Notre Dame ended March 18 with 127 points, just four off the pace of first-place Harvard. 
Ghattas continued his success March 19 with a dramatic 15-13 see-saw victory over 2004 U.S. Olympian Jason Rogers in the semi-final before losing to his Ohio State teammate Adam Crompton 15-9 in the final. 
"Matt [Stearns] told me to slow down and not rush so much, I needed to take slower steps and stay focused," Ghattas said of his bout against Rogers. 
Despite Ghattas and Stearns's efforts, Notre Dame fell out of con­tention for the title and finished fourth. 
"I had talked to the team about this earlier -about how hard it is to win a national championship and also to repeat," Ghattas said. "You saw that this weekend. There are so many good teams now and they all felt the pressure to try and win." 
With his second-place finish, Ghattas earned his third NCAA All-American honors while team­mates Stearns and sophomore foil Jakub Jedrkowiak finished 11th and eighth, respectively, to earn their second All-American honors. 
In addition to Zagunis' first­place finish, three other Notre Dame women took home All­American awards. Nott and Stephan both finished sixth in their respective weapons, while Providenza took seventl1 in sabre. 
"Addi and Madeleine were very composed and focused through­out the tournament," Bednarski said. "It's such a challenge to do that as freshmen and they gave us a chance to be in competition for the National Championship." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Notre Dan1e gets three All-An1erican honors 
Stephanie Madia leads Irish at Indoor Championship meet 
By JASON GALVAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame earned three All­America honors at the NCAA Indoor Championships March 9-11 at the Randall Tyson Track Center in Fayetteville, 
Ark. 
Senior Stephanie Madia earned her fourth All­American honor with a fourth place finish in the 5,000-meter run. The distance medley relay team of senior Ryan Postel, junior Kurt Benninger, sopho­more John Cavanaugh and sophomore Adam Currie 
''I'm really pleased," assis­tant coach Tim Connelly said of Madia's performance. "She went in with a really good frame of mind, really thought she could make the top five, focused on what she had to do, and executed. I've never seen a kid more relaxed." 
The men's distance medley relay team saw John Cavanaugh take the place of Thomas Chamney, who com­peted in the 800-meter dash. The squad finished sixth in the event with a time of 9:40.61. Despite failing to meet the goal they had set for themselves, the men walked away with All­American honors for the event. 
"I really feel like we needed to prepare ourselves for some of the situations that we encoutered," Benninger said. "It was a really weird race, not at all what we were expecting, and I feel like we didn't show how good we really are this year." 
The distance medley relay team finished in sixth place at last year's indoor champi­onships and each of the mem­bers was looking for a stronger performance at 
2005-2006 Law&.•. an interdisciplinary colloquiun1 series presents 
Intellectual Property and the University-Related Startup Con1pany 
Presenter: PeterKogge Department of Con1puter Science & Engineering 
Commentator: Joseph P. Bauer The Law School 
\Vednesday, 1\!larch 22 
4:00 p•.m. La\"\1' School Courtroom 
earned All-American honors with a sixth place perform­ance. Junior Thomas Chamney earned his first All-American citation _with a sixth place in the finals of the 800-meter dash. 
Chamney, who earned the 
All-America cita­tion with a time of 1:49.94. 
''I'm very happy with Thomas Chamney's per­formance," Irish head coach Joe Piane said. "I thought he ran really well." 
Freshman Ramsey Kavan, the only freshman in the mile compe­tition, finished No. 14. 
"I really feel like this year's event. After earning the
we needed to 
fourth fastest

prepare ourselves 
time in the for some ofthe nation at the Alex Wilson
situations that we 
Invitational, the

encountered.,, 
team entered the weekend with Kurt Benninger hopes of winning. In the end, the
Irish runner 
Though Kavan did not finish among the top five in her event, she was able to walk away from the meet with expe­rience that will prove invalu­able for the future. 
"She's one of the best ath­letes in the country. All she needs is a little more experi­ence to show that to everyone," Madia said. "She did a great job getting there and has been consistent all season. Being the only freshman in the mile speaks highly of her talent." 
Madia, who a year ago com­peted in the indoor champi­onships with only two days notice, was able to earn the automatic bid to the meet a week before at the Alex Wilson and take the week to focus for the event. She finished with a personal-best time of 15:59.01 in the 5,000 and a fourth place finish to earn her first indoor All-American citation. 
team was still 
able to earn All­

America honors and gain experience for its next opportunity to compete. 
All members of the relay squad will be returning for another year. 
''I'm really hungry about the outdoor season and am looking forward to accomplishing the goals I set for myself," Benninger said. ''I'll be training hard for the next few weeks to get my strength up and get myself ready to perform. 
Madia said she is excited to run outdoors as spring track season begins. 
''I'm real excited because I'm running faster this year than last, and I'm especially excited because last year I had trouble qualifying, and now I'm being more consistent in my races and feeling better about my performances," she said. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 21, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 26 
little over a minute remaining Notre Dame committed 18 in the first half. fouls in the second half alone
Tourney 
Eagles forward Aja Parham and 26 in the game. continued from page 28 led the Boston Crystal 
College attack Erwin fouled head coach Muffet McGraw to start the out with 4:59 said. "I knew she would be second frame remaining and
"It shows what kind of
ready, because she had some and finished received a
team we are when alot 
great practices the past few with 16 points technical as weeks ... It's unfortunate the and four ofpeople finish with she was leav­rest of the tBam didn't help assists. ing the court
double figures in 
out so much today." The senior to lead the
scoring.,,

Boston College took a 37-26 scored six Irish with six lead into tho half thanks to 52 points in the fouls. percent shooting and strong period before Cathy Inglese "The more rebounding for the first 20 Notre Dame we fouled, the
Boston College coach 
minutns. In the opening frame, the Eagles had 26 rebounds -· including Bight on the offensive glass -to Notre Damn's seven. Queenan alone equaled the Irish rebounding in the pt~riod, fin­ishing the first half with seven boards. 
"We definitely came into the game with controlling the rebounds as a goal of ours," 
Queenan said. "I think we did a really good job of sticking to that game plan, [espe­c:iallyl gf~tting some oiTen­
s i v (l 
rebounds." 
Thn Irish were handi­capped in the seeond half as senior for-w a r d Courtney LaVerP sat out tho final 21 
Duffy 
continued from page 28 
the half. 
"I thought we were really going to make a serious run," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. "I know Megan had to be tired after all the pressing she was doing." 
But that's how it went with Notre Dame. Saturday night's loss was the exaggerated embodiment of an entire season of outcomes. 
Like in so many other games, the Irish struggled badly on the boards, getting outrebounded by 17 in the first half. Boston College forward Brooke Queenan led the Eagles with seven first-half rebounds -a number that matched Notre Dame's team total for the half. 
Like in so many other games, Notre Dame went on prolonged scoring droughts, getting outscored 14-6 in the final six minutes of the first half before allowing the Eagles to open up the second half on a 9-0 run. 
"In the first half we just really, really weren't playing well on either end," McGraw said. 
And like in so many other games, Duffy was called to put the team on her shoulders, to make big plays, to pull the team baek into the game. 
But there was one notable dif­ference -Duffy was not alone as the team fought back. 
In a symbolic performance, freshman Lindsay Schrader had of her young career in the failed comeback effort. Schrader seored a career-high 29 points, combin­ing with Duffy to seore all but 17 of Notre Dame's point'>. 
"It's great for the future of our program to see a freshman eome in and break some records," 
McGraw said. "She knew she was 
ready. She'd had a great practice 
the last couple weeks." 
In contra'it, no other Irish play­er had more than one field goal. 
This season, DuffY, the Big East Scholar Athlete of the Year, ha'i been the face, voice, and heart of the Notre Dame team. As she pre­pares to walk away from Notre Dame, she, along with senior for­ward Courtney LaVere, will leave an even bigger hole in the locker room than on the court. 
"Courtney and Megan have done great things lilr our program over the years," McGraw said. "They help out in any way they can. They're smart, they know whore they're supposed to be, they're great studenL'i. They're just great kids, and it's truly been a plea'iure coaching them." 
As the Irish begin to prepare for next season -a season without the star point guard -Schrader seems poised to step into the light and ca'lt a shadow of her own. 
"What's interesting is that a week ago we talked about next year and I told her that next year she was going to be the go-to player," McGraw said. "[II wanted to get her feedback on how she felt about that and she wa<; excit­ed about that ... It's great for us to know we can count on her next year." 
Duffy, however, will leave the Notre Dame program as her coach and filrmer teammates search for superlatives to describe her tenure at Notre Dame. 
"She's just an amazing player, person, leader," McGraw said. "I don't know what you can say about Megan Dully that ha'in't almady been said." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
finally got on the board. The Eagles held the Irish scoreless for the first 4:56 of the second half. 
Queenan capped the 9-0 run by hitting a jumper with 
15:24 left in the game to give the Eagles a commanding 46­26 lead. 
Notre Dame chipped away 
"/ thought we were going to make a serious run, but we didn't have the ability to substitute at that point !because offoul trouble]." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
at the lead over the next six minutes, using a 9-1 run capped by a Duffy fall­away layup with 9:46 remaining to cut the deficit to 55-44. But foul trouble prevented the Irish from get­ting any clos­er. 
"I thought we were going to make a serious run, 

minutes of the game with a but we didn't have the ability eoncussion. Queenan hit to substitute at that point l.aVore in the face while Ibecause of foul trouble I," going for a rebound with a McGraw said. 
more we sent 
them to the 
free-throw 

line," Duffy said. "And that's just giving them easy points." 
Notre Dame sent the Eagles to the foul line 29 times in the second half, and Boston College converted on 22 of those attempts. 
Five Eagles finished the game in double figures. Center Kathrin Ress scored 15, guard Kindyll Dorsey net­ted 10 and center Lisa Macchia added 10 points of her own off the bench. 
"It shows what kind of team we are when a lot of people finish with double figures in scoring," Eagles coach Cathy Inglese said. "I think [we] dis­tributed the ball well. I'm extremely pleased with the effort coming off the bench." 
Boston College faces No. 1­seed Ohio State tonight at Mackey arena. The winner moves on to the Albuquerque regional semifinal to face Utah/Arizona St. (winner tonight at 11 :45). 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

A Norre Dame Tradition Since 1975 

page 27 The Observer+ TODAY Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
ALEC WHITE & ERIC POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
SOME"TIME..S

AI-\, MA~(H-A 
li1"\£ \N 1-\(.t-.1 I"\-\E.. 
THE..~ A'5¥-us, 
IHE STI..IDE. NISC 1!>.1"\?u S \S PAG\(,tl) 

'WI-lt'\"\ ITS

W\"l\-1 1-\\U\-\ 
L\~ 1-\EP..E..,

$GI-IOO\.. SE.NIO~S 
AND ITS ou.R

\ouP.\t-16 NOIRE 
D~>.t'\t. WITH 
DUI'1 IO £>E.. \N~O~M i:>."TI'-' E:.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Stiller's comedy partner

1 Electronic journals 33 Stat for Ali 
34 Science class feature6 Stretchy candy 

11 The elder Geo. 
37 Pair of Bush once sneakers?

headed it 42 Lome Michaels
14 Lover boy 
show, for short 15 Trixie's best 
43 Neckline shape 

friend, on TV 44 Took to the 
16 Some rush-hour station houseperiods: Abbr. 
45 Confessed, with 17 Pair of socks? 
"up" 19 Sch. in Troy, 48 Caught, as with 
N.Y. a tree limb 
20 Comes out on 50 "March!" opener top 
52 Time's partner, 21 Funny Conway in brief 
53 Means to and balls 22 Called strikes 
solving a sudoku puzzle

24 It turns the tide 
54 I love, in Mexico 26 Frog-to-be 
55 "Tasca" number 28 Spears 
59 Britney Spears's 31 Architect Jones " Slave 4 U" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
E K 

E D U S E S T 0 X I N 
JIBEISHARI 
D E 

L E S W E P T A S I D E 
A p S E 

T E T.A G.E S T E R 
E..')(C.US£. ME, SON I 'iOU \...001<. \...\¥£ '\OU C:tO 1-\E{I.£. 1>o 'iOU \...\¥--£.. lr\1'5 $C.HOOL "1 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJlJlli~':i!Wllil.! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TYTIK 
± 
©2005 Tribune Media SeiVices, Inc. 
f~i;ftxJ 
ISHENOC ± 

WHAT HE: DISC.OV'­
E:I<E:D WHE:N HE:
rJ r J 
www.jumble.com 

Tl<lt:D TO OPE:N THE l-ATCH. 
I RANCLE ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I I r I J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
~rxxiiJDArxxxxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: COUGH YACHT KIDNAP NEWEST Answer: When she got the bill for the diamond pin, he got-"STUCK" WITH IT 



60 Pair of pants? 
64 Engine speed, for short 65 Lustful looker 
66 Dutch pottery 67 It's definite 68 Ostentatious 
69 Low cards 
DOWN 1 Knitted body part 2 Actress Anderson 3 Divine sign 
4 Wise up 5 Piglet's mother 
6 Gimme putts 
7 Homecoming guest a Swimming aid 9 Obscenity watcher: Abbr. 
10 Violinist 
Menuhin 11 Fuel-saving strategy 
12 Motivate 13 Stage mutter 
18 Plains tribe 23 Driver's stat. 
25 Pearl Buck heroine 
26 Polynesian pendant 
27 See 38-Down 
28 Bratty types 29 Nasty 30 Charades, e.g. 33 Philosopher 
Lao-_ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and ma!l it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WlLLSHORTZ 


62 Andy Capp's 

49 Dodge model 
wife40 Burn the 50 Coquette

midnight oil, 63 Banned student -style 51 Get-up-and-go insecticide 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888·7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christy Carlson Romano, 22; Chester Bennington, 30; Holly Hunter, 48; Spike Lee, 49 
Happy Birthday: You may be tempted to take a risk this year: It will spin into a series of difficulties. Play it safe and stick to what you know. Trust in your own abilities. It really doesn't matter what anyone else thinks or does. It is more important what you, yourself, do and say. Your numbers are 4, 16, 18, 29, 38, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be in the mood to stir things up but, if that's what it takes to get things done, then it's OK. A chance to make a drastic change to your way ofthinking will lead to an excellent turn of events. Someone will offer you good creative suggestions. ***** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): You will be called upon to do something that you may question. Offer what you can but don't jeopardize your position or your integrity. You will get better results if you are secretive about what you are doing. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Every1hing will rise to the surface so prepare to deal with emotional and professional matters. Your eloquent way of putting things will help smooth things over. New information will be offered, leading to a better solution. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may want to ponder things a while but today you should be taking action, not thinking about it. A setback or change in your career will probably occur ifyou don't take immediate steps to prevent it. Pu"sh to get the position you want. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Work on something about which you truly feel passionate and you will discover your inner strength and additional talent. You will be entertaining, so be sure to network with interesting and informative people. A love connection can be made. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Difficulties at home may surface. Avoid making a decision or a commitment that interferes with your original plans. Arguments will leave you shaken and unable to proceed. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll be considered very knowledgeable by your peers and shouldn't hesitate to share your insight. You can be proud ofyour accomplishments and should let others know your capabilities**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Jumping from one thing to another will be your best bet today. Stay busy and don't give anyone a chance to confuse you or lead you astray. Check out a tax haven that you have heard about and make your financial moves swiftly. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't get all worked up over nothing. Do whatever is required to protect yourself. [f someone isn't treating you properly, put a stop to it. Take control now and you will spare yourself future grief. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let anyone in on your secrets or your intentions just yet. You will have a much greater impact ifyou can take others by surprise. Hard work will pay off but keep things simple.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Focus on home and family. A chance to make a move or changes to your current living space should be part of your agenda. Relationships look positive and an understanding ofyour future together is apparent. 
**** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't get upset by someone's unkind comments. Look past the surface of any situation to understand why you are being treated unfairly. Consider your own mistakes and have a heart-to-heart talk with whoever 
-
is causing you trouble. ** 

Birthday Baby: You are intuitive emotionally but not financially. You have a strong sense ofjustice and fair play. You are an adventurer and a seeker ofwisdom and knowledge. You hope to make a difference in the world. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor jim, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _______________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip_________ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, March 21, 2006 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Grounded by Eagles 

Irish outmatched by Boston College, lose in NCAA first round 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Edi 1or 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Senior forward Brooke ()ueenan seon~d 18 points and added 1 I rebounds as No. 8­seed Boston College ended No. 9-seed Notre Dame's season Sunday with a 78-61 victory over the Irish in the first round of the NCAA Tournament at Mackey Arena. 
Irish freshman Lindsay Schrader scored a career-high 29 points on 12-of-23 shoot­ing, and senior point guard Megan Duffy netted 15 points and five assists in her final collegiate game, but Notre Dame never found an oiTen­sive rhythm to counter the Eagles and dropped its first opening round NCAA Tournament game since 1995. 
"Obviously, this isn't the way I wanted to go out, and this isn't ac<~eptable for the Notre Dame program," Duffy said. 
Schrader and Duffy were the only Irish players in double l'igurns, as no one else for Notre Dame scored more than three points. 
"I thought Lindsay Schrader was outstanding today," Irish 
see TOURNEY/page 26 


FENCING 

Young team finishes in fourth at NCAAs 
Zagunis wins Sabre, GhaUas takes second to lead Irish efforts 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
Strong individual pnrfbrmances put Notrn Dame in title eontnntion at this weekend's National Championship in Houston, but the Irish could not overc:ome the tal­tented, crowded tinld. 
Led by sophomore sabre Marini Zagunis and junior sabre Patrick Ghattas, Notre Dame finished lburth overall with 152 poinl<;, 13 behind champion Harvard. The Crimson were followed by Penn State (159 poinl'>), Ohio State (155), Notre Dame, Columbia (152) and 
Notre Dame loses final game in 20T 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame lost 87-84 to Michigan in the second round of the National Invitational Tournament (NIT) Monday in Ann Arbor, Mich., on a Dion Harris' 3-pointer as time expired in double overtime. 
It was a fitting end to a season in which Notre Dame competed in every game but had trouble find­ing a way to win in the final minutes, as the Irish lost 11 Big East games by a combined 39 points. 
Harris received a Daniel 
see LOSS/page 23 

St. John's (148). 
"This competition showP.d the place we hold in the nation in reali­ty," head coach Janusz Bednarski said. "During the season we com­peted well in the format of thrm~ limcers pnr weapon but when you have to compete with two fencers, wn had some weak poinl<;." 
The format of the tournament called for a maximum of two fencers per weapon per team com­peting in 23 five-touch round-robin boul'>. The top four seeds then par­ticipated in a direct elimination round which had no effect on the team scoring. 
The Notre Dame women opened the tournament March 17 with 50 points, enough to put the team in third place behind Penn State (59) and Columbia (52). Bolstered by 
see FOURTH/page 25 
Photos byAP 
Above, Irish forward Lindsay Schrader, left, battles for a ball with Boston College forward Brittany Johnson. At left, Megan Duffy drives by Eagles forward Brooke Queenan. 
Duffy, Schrader are lone bright spots in Notre Dame defeat 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.­Megan DuffY did it all for the Irish this season. 
In most games, she did it alone. 

The All­American finalist led the team in scoring with 15.6 points per game this season and was the team's Eric Retter high scor­er in 16 of 

Notre Associate 

Dame's 30 Sports Editor games and often provided the only threat to what was an otherwise dor­mant offense. 
And Saturday night's loss to Boston College -Duffy's final game in an Irish unifi.1rm ­was hardly different. 
When the Irish began to fight back from a double-digit deficit-like they did so many times this season -it wa..'> Duffy, a unanimous first-team All-Big East selection, who made the shot with 9:45 Jell to play that cut it to 11, the nar­rowest Boston College lead of 
see DUFFY/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Buzzer-beater sinks squad 

en LLI SMC SOFTBALL 

NO WOMEN'S LAX Northwestern 21
z 

Notre Dame 12
Two freshmen lead the 

' . 
li: u s 
Belles to consecutive no­

t 
~ 

Irish fail to hold on to 
I C) hitters to cap 7-3 spring
I f c:c: trip to Florida early lead against No. 1 
~ 
Northwestern.
' a. =
I I en page 24 page 24 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

No. 12 Notre Dame goes 3-0 on its road trip, defeating UNC, Villanova and Bellarmine. 
page 20 

MEN'S DIVING 
Freshman Michael Bulfin qualifies for NCAA championships with school-record 634.40 3-meter performance. 
page 20 
BASEBALL 
Irish bats con1e alive over break 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame spent spring break turning around its sea­son. 
After a rocky 2-5 start. the Irish (9-6) made the best of nine days in San Antonio, cap­turing two tournament titles at 

.Wolff Stadium. Notre Dame won four games at the Texas­San Antonio Express Baseball Classic, including a 5-4 upset of Texas A&M March 10, then earning two victories over Iowa by scores of 16-2 and 6-2 March 11 and 13 and defeat­ing Illinois 4-2 March 12. 
Later in the week, Notre Dame hosted its own tourna­ment at Wolff Stadium. The Irish Classic has been a Notre Dame schedule staple for ten years now. While the games were played in San Antonio, Irish players were able to use the stadium's home locker room, creating what Mainieri called "a home away from home." 
"For being on the road it's as good a situation as we can ask for," Mainieri said. "For the second half of tho week we got to move into the locker room, 
see OPENER/page 23 
WBC 
Japan 10, Cuba 6 

Japan wins first-ever World Baseball Classic Monday in San Diego. 
page 18 
NBA 
Lakers 105, Celtics 97 
Kobe Bryant nets 43 in Lakers win. 
page 16 








