

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

Group rejects minority resolution 
Members deny request to make committee permanent and constitutionally recognized 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
At the Student Senate's final meeting be(ore a new admin­istration takes over April 1, Minority· Affairs Ad-hoc Committee (MAC) chair Rhea Boyd made an urgent plea to senators to approve a resolu­tion that would make her committee permanent and constitutionally recognized. 
But despite a passionate introduction of her resolution and 45 minutes of debate, the proposal -which called for a permanent Minority Affairs committee and defined the scope and goals of it -was defeated. 
The resolution was crafted 
by Boyd, student body presi­
dent Dave  Baron,  student  
body  vice  president  Lizzi  
Shappell  and  Diversity  

Committee chair Sarah Liu. Boyd presented the resolution to Senate despite Baron and Shappell's last-minute deci­sion Tuesday to take it off the Senate's agenda. 
"Because I felt uneasy about that decision, I asked Lizzi to place this amendment back on the agenda and I thank her for doing so," Boyd said. 
But she failed to win their support. 
Though senators agreed minorities must have a per­manent voice on policy issues, many felt the resolution was 
see SENATE/page 9 


ND to be part of four-year liberal arts study 
Analysis includes tracking 400 students until 201 0; 50 will participate in personal interviews 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 

Incoming members of the Class of 2010 may find that while they study for their first exams, someone else may be studying them. Beginning next fall, Notre Dame will become one of 18 colleges to take part in a national liberal arts study conducted by the 
Center  of  Inquiry  in  the  
Liberal  Arts  at  Wabash  
College.  

The study will follow approximately 5,500 students nationwide -400 at Notre Dame -throughout their four years at college. 
According to Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost for undergraduate and international studies, the study will bring a new per­
spective  on  education  at  
Notre Dame.  
"We're continually, as  an  

institution, trying to assess how we are progressing in al1 of our academic goals," 
Jacobs said. "What makes this particular collaboration unique and attractive is that it involves a very nationally renowned team of investiga­tors who are ... independent of Notre Dame, and that gives a fresh eye to things." 
According to the Center's Web site, the Wabash National Study of Liberal Arts Education has two fundamen­tal goals. First,· it aims "to learn what teaching practices, programs, and institutional structures support liberal arts 


Professors fight disease in Haiti 
Notre Dame faculty members confront elephantiasis in the tropics 
By MAUREEN MULLEN News Writer 
Notre Dame chemistry pro­fessor Emil T. Hofman returned Tuesday from a four..:day visit in Haiti, where he connected with biology professor Father Thomas Streit to treat native Haitians afllicted with lymphat~ ic filariasis -a disease that progresses into the more com­monly known affliction ele­phantiasis. 
Elephantiasis, a horrific and debilitating condition, is a mos­quito-borne infection that affects more than 120 million people throughout the tropics. Hofman said the disease causes infectious swelling in the limbs and genitalia of the afTiicted if 
see HAITI/page 8 

... 


education" and second, it seeks "to develop faculty­friendly and institutionally­useful methods of assessing liberal arts education." 
The focus of the study will be on the development of seven areas -effective rea­soning and problem solving, inclination to inquire and life­long learning, integration of learning, intercultural effec­tiveness, moral reasoning and character, leadership and 
see STUDY/page 6 

I I I I

Law clinic counSels 
I' off-campus students ' I ' ' I 
. 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Professor ventures to College 
Chinese scholar looks into religion at SMC 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Making. the drastic transi­tion from Shanghai, a city of 
17.7 million people, to Saint Mary's Col1ege, an institution comprised of approximately 
1,500 wo­men, never fazed Rachel ZHU and her family. 
S i n c e arriving on campus in early March, ZHU, her 


husband ZHU Daniel, a 
' 

published playwright and 3­
!

year-o]d son, Ivan, have come I to love the quietness of their I new home in Hayes Lodge ­
I 

an on campus apartment 
I

reserved for College guests ­
I

and the unique opportunities I the single-sex Catholic school I has to offer, she said. 
I

ZHU-was chosen by the United Board for Christian 
I

Higher Education of Asia to spend a year in the United 
I

States studying the methodol­
I ogy of teaching religion on I 
t 

college campuses. She origi­I nally intended to spend the I ' entire duration of her time at 
!

Yale University, however her 
' 

plans quickly changed when I Kathleen Dolphin, director of I I 
' • 
see SCHOLAR/page 6 ~ 
I 
t 
) 
I 
I 
' 
I• 
By KAREN LANGLEY Assistant News Editor 
In hopes of clarifying the legal issues involved with off­campus housing, three third­year law students from the Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic advised nearly 50 student audience members about signing leases and avoiding eviction Wednesday night in 126 DeBartolo Hall. 
Off-campus housing became a highly publicized school issue with the passing of an ordinance to South Bend's Disorderly Housing Ordinance during the summer and sub­sequent eviction proceedings against Notre Dame students in the fall. 
I 
' 

The event, organized by ' student government's I ' ' Community Relations commit­I 
.I 

tee, accomplished one goal of the campaign platform embraced by student body president-elect Lizzi Shappell and vice president-elect Bill Andrichik, who said they would provide legal aid for students. 
"I think it's a fantastic first step and a way for [Baron and I] to end this administra­tion and to begin Bill and my administration," Shappell said Monday. 
Nick Guzman, chair of the Community Relations commit­tee, said the idea for the pro­gram originated over the 
see CLINIC/page 8 
Thurssday, March 30, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Shoot a bear in the face 
No, it's not ba...,eball or barbequing. It's not being obese or yelling at poor drivers -America's favorite pastime is shooting bears in the face. Too bad America does­n't know that yet. Fear not loyal bear shooters -I bring the word. 
Joe Piarulli
Some people go to church or look inside themselves to fmd 
News 
the rewards of life. 
Production
You need travel no 
Editor
farther than an arcade equipped with Big Game Hunter. 
This glorious digital escapade, complete with two giant orange guns; gives you both a choice of prey and weapon. As all enlightened people know, the greatest combination is bear and slingshot respec­tively. Yet it's not really about what weapon you choose, it's about shooting the bear as many times as possible while aiming directly between its computer-gen­erated eyes. 
This game, if I may stoop as low as to call it such, requires the ability to wait at least three seconds for a bear's face to appear on screen, as well a..'i the critical skill ofdiscerning a cub from an accept­able bear. Be forewarned -if you miss a bear or shoot a cub, you will lose one of your three precious orange hats. Lose all your hal<> and the unspeakable will hap­pen -you will need to put more quarters in the machine. 
No other activity in American history can hope to match the long seconds of hunting adventure-which can occasion­ally seem like almost an entire minute ­or the constant video stimulation ofshoot­ing a pompous woodland creature up to 16 times with a slingshot ... in the face. 
According to Mike Ippolito, one of the foremost experl'i in the field of shooting boars in the face, "killing bears makes you feel at one with nature. Yet it's more than shooting a bear in the face, it's shooting that smug 'I own the forest' attitude in the face. You'll notice bears abandon their swagger when you completely obliterate their faces with a slingshot or crossbow." 
It's not all trophy bears and perfect shots. Big Game Hunter gives all oflife's emotions within seconds of each other. It's like a rollercoaster, but with bears. 
Imagine the crippling frustration of fir­ing a well-aimed, semi-panicked shot only to fmd that you-have murdered a helpless cub -a.k.a. objecl'i getting in the way of shooting a monster bear-and lost one of your beloved orange hats, even though that cub probably deserved it for hanging out with all those crazy bears. 
Anyone can see that Big Game Hunter is just like real life -you get rewarded for killing furry things that are bigger than you and every time you fail to achieve this goal you lose an orange hat. That's life, my friend, and if you don't know that then you aren't living. Those who are oflEmded -I have encountered others like you. 
Once while out bagging some big game (that's technical phrasing} with Mike, a woman walked by and exclaimed, "They're shooting animals!" 
Allow me to put this into context. We were in a giant arcade shooting digital bears while the young arcade-goers to our right were shooting people with sniper rifles, and those to our left were using semi-automatic weapons to kill zombies and hostages. Come on, lady. 
A'i you can see, I am quite dangerous with giant orange plastic guns, so I sug­gest you listen carefully to my demands. I want a Big Game Hunter console installed in my dorm room, or at the very least, in that useless arcade in the basement of LaFortune. I urge you to bring this crucial issue to the attention of University admin­istrators. Together, we can make a differ­ence; we can make America a better place, one bear at a time. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at 
jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD PICK ANY LECTURER TO SPEAK ON CAMPUS, WHO WOULD IT BE? 








Jaime Amrhein Elisa Suarez Caroline Green 
freshman sophomore freshman Lewis Cavanaugh Lewis 
"Millard Fuller, ..My mom ..Will Ferrell the founder of because she's lecturing on 
Habitat for one ofthe nutrition, Humanity, who pillars ofthe particularly the 
is actually coming to speak on April 2 9· ,, 


(WA), a 12-step recovery program for compu~sive workers based upon the structure of Alcoholics Anonymous. Each one opted to keep their identity secret. 
"It's been called the addic­tion that society applauds," said Mike, a physician and member of WA. 
"People brag about it and say, Tm a workaholic,"' he said. "But workaholics burn out and then you've lost them or they become very dysfunctional and bitter and cynical in the organization and corrosive." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
OFFBEAT 
Four beautiful words: All you can eat 
LAS VEGAS -Even in this over-the-top town famed for all-you-can-eat spreads, nobody had ever seen one quite like this: Forty soups, 100 salads and 150 desserts perched upon a 500-foot (152-meter) maze of tables. 
It was enough -510 dif­ferent dishes in all -to qualify on Tuesday for a Guinness record for the World's Largest Buflet. 
'Tm interested in trying some of the desserts now," said tired and hungry Guinness official Nadine Causey, who flew in from London to certify that Las Vegas Hilton Executive Chef George Bargisen had assem­bled at least 500 unique offerings to create the new record buflet. 

Workaholics struggle to say 'No' to work 
NEW YORK -Sam used to sneak into his office before dawn so no one would know how many extra hours he worked. Charles goes on all­night work binges to meet deadlines, and Susan can't say no to volunteer projects, social clubs, bridge games, choral singing, lectures and classes. 
Each one is a member of Workaholics Anonymous 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

• 
..... 
c( (,.') 


.... 0 HIGH 65 HIGH HIGH 
55 LOW 53 LOW LOW 38 


Catholic four main food Church.,, groups: candy, candy canes, candy corn and 
,
syrup. 
IN BRIEF 

O'Neill Hall will host the "O'Neill Spotlight" -a faceoff with McGlinn -today at 8 p.m. The event will feature singers, comedians and dancers from O'Neill as well as karaoke and free food. 
Saint Mary's seniors Emily Fannon, Sinnamon Wolfe, Amanda Caddy and Amber Painter will host a senior com­prehensive art gallery opening Friday from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Moreau Art Galleries in the Moreau Center for the Arts. The event is free and the public is welcome to attend. 
Famed Notre Dame head foot­ball coach Lou Holtz will give a lecture on "Catholicism and Competition" Friday from 7 to 
8:30 p.m. in the Stepan Center. The event is sponsored by Student Government as part of the Catholic Think Tank of America Lecture Series. Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students must present stu­dent ID at the door. 
The 2006 Notre Dame student peace conference, "Voices of Today, Changes for Tomorrow," will be held Friday and Saturday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The Irish softball team will play Connecticut at 12 p.m. Saturday at Ivy Field. 

The No. 11 Irish men's lacrosse team will face-off with Dartmouth at 12 p.m. Sunday at Notre Dame's Moose Krause Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH LOVV 
Atlanta 72 I 49 Boston 64 I 40 Chicago 62 I 41 Denver 57 I 31 Houston 80 I 64 Los Angeles 66 I 50 Minneapolis 54 I 42 New York 65 I 43 Philadelphia 66 I 42 Phoenix 75 I 53 Seattle 54 I 41 St. Louis 69 / 49 Tampa 82 I 59 Washington 66 I 43 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 The Obser{)er + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Famous montage artist speaks about unique career 
I 
I 
I.

Self-proclaimed 'art criminal' Winston Smith shares selections from his collection, lectures to SMC audience Wednesday . ,, , 
i' 
I 
~I 

and the community. lSmithJ is "When I saw it, I went 'Oh at vacant lots expecting to hear Smith said. "There's all these I I, By LAURA BAUMGARTNER really incredible -he's a per­man, they ripped me off,' and a band play, he said. tiny little things that are added 
I 

News Writer son the current generation can then I was like, 'What am I say­"Part of my career change just to see if anyone is paying ,,I identify with." ing?' But when you get to the was [that] I was being an attention, and some are totally , I I
I 

Winston Smith presented A self-proclaimed "art crimi­point where someone will rip opportunist," Smith said. "It meaningless picture·s that can I I 
II selections from years of work nal," Smith creates works by you off, it's kind of a backhand­.was my way of trying to get be anything you want. I I 1 I I
as a montage artist to Saint cutting pictures out of vintage ed compliment," he said. people to cough up money to "Some of the meaning is quite Mary's College students, profes­magazines and publications Smith is connected to the pay me to make posters for obvious. Some of the meaning is I 1 I
I sors and community members with razors and glues them punk rock movement through record· companies. I would up to the beholder. I don't even I I 
I I Wednesday together to form his creations. the numerous album covers he make up stories about bands, mind if people don't like [my II 'I as part of the 
He is also widely known for the has created for bands over the and it worked. People would go workl -it's only a drag when I 'II College's vis­political and social commentary years. He is also recognized for along with the stories." they look at them and say, 'I iting artist he infuses into his art. illustrations he has created for Now, Smith said he works 'What's the meaning of that?' lecture "When I was a kid, I realized magazines ranging from "The mainly out of a studio in his San I'd rather be annoying them." ;~ series. I could just pass up the draw­New Yorker" to "Playboy." Francisco apartment and from Smith told numerous anec­
More than ings. I realized I didn't have to "I got started in this field his rustic ranch in northern dotes throughout the presenta­30 years ago, learn to draw to be an artist," because I have no other mar­California -where he creates tion about the meaning behind Saint Mary's Smith said. "I could just rip off ketable skills," Smith said. "I art by the light of kerosene his pieces. ranging from cri­art depart-other people's work, cut it up worked as a roadie for bands lanterns because the ranch has tiques of the United States' ment chair Smith and make it my own. We didn't like Santana and Crosby, Stills no electricity or running water. involvement in wars, to envi­Bill Sandusky have photocopiers back then and Young in San Francisco for Smith's work environment ronmental issues such as the lived with Smith in Florence -like I use now, but it was a big $2 an hour, and I started to cre­reflects his views about current harvesting of the redwood trees but the College professor never relief." ate concert posters for local society. One of the reasons he in California. believed he would be inviting While Smith has spent years bands when punk rock started said he uses vintage pictures to Another reason Smith uses I 
I his former schoolmate to host a using other people's work to to rear its ugly head." create his work is to comment vintage clippings is to avoid I 
I presentation at his future place create his own, he said he was Smith said his career pro­on politics, consumerism and copyright problems, but he said ·I I of employment. still shocked when he came gressed after he was inspired to other social issues. this limits the variety of images I 
''I'm really excited," Sandusky across a poster that someone invent fake bands and create "A lot of my work is political included in his art. j I said. "I think this is a great had designed using pieces from posters for concerts that were or social commentary -it's just "I tell people creating my I I opportunity for the students one of his illustrations. not real. People would show up my twisted lefty point of view," work is like going through a I I 

New York City phone book look­I I ing for a friend where there is 
I' 

no alphabetical order," Smith t said. "But it's what I have to do I I because I can't work if things ~ 
I

are categorized and ordered. I I ' have to sit there and go through I all the silly pictures to create I i my things." I I 
Many of Smith's pieces I I include stereotypical represen­I tations of women from 1940s l magazines like "Life." 
I

During the question and I answer session following his I 
I

presentation, associate art pro­I fessor Krista Hoefle asked I Iabout the reception his pieces 
I

would receive being displayed 
I

at an all women's college, as 
I

they depicted stereotypical I imagery of women. I "It's part of the reason I made 
I

the pictures," Smith scdd. "Using women only from the certain time period -[the I images are] pretty crass to begin with -they were all 
I

about Americana and how I everything is bright and won­
' I 

derful and the future was going I I to be full of things like flying I 
~ 

cars, and to contrast that with the world as we really know it I r is kind of the comment." I I 
I

Smith said he used the 
' I i 

images because they were not perceived as demeaning at the I time. ) t 
"It was, 'Oh here's the happy I I housewife -and that was the I 
I social reinforcement for women I not to go out and do things," he I ' 
Isaid. I Displays of Smith's work will I I be exhibited at Saint Mary's I I until Friday, including replicas I I of pieces like "Strange I I•
Bedfellows," which depicts a donkey and an elephant next to each other in a bed filled with money. 
"It's a comment on the debate of campaign finance reform between democrats and repub­
orr1orro~ 
licans," Smith said. "They're all the same because they have the same thing in common ­greenbacks." 
Smith will present his work today in room 232 Moreau at 
12:30 p.m. for Saint Mary's art



Applications Due April 2nd 
students. The presentation will be open to all members of the public. While at the College, Smith said he welcomes visitors who wish to discuss his work ­or anything else. His temporary
Email teamwork@nd.edu 
office is 240 Moreau. 
to receive an applica-tion. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO1@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 30, 2006 

Author clarifies her misinterpreted slogan in SMC speech 
Harvard professor Laurel Thatcher Ulrich explains and discusses phrase, 'Well-behaved women seldom make history' 
said this interpretation is
By LAURA GLEASON 
inaccurate. 
News Writer 

Ulrich -who famously penned the book, "A Harvard professor Laurel Midwife's Tale" -said the Thatcher Ulrich, the Pulitzer ambiguous slogan can only be Prize-winning author who understood in context. . coined the phrase, "Well­Originally printed in her first behaved women seldom make scholarly article in 1976, the history," clarified the com­statement referred to a group monly misinterpreted slogan of Puritan women in colonial in a lecture at Saint Mary's America who submitted to an Wednesday. alarmingly strict moral code 
Most people understand the of behavior. quote to mean, "Bad girls This "accidental slogan" have more fun," but Ulrich was intended to be a reflec­

tion on the way in which "vir­
tuous" women in colonial 
America were inhibited ­
and not as an endorsement of 
"bad" behavior among 
women, she said. 
To the amusement of Ulrich, her misunderstood reflection on the lives of early American women has caught fire in popular culture. The famous words, "Well-behaved women seldom make history," are now plastered on T-shirts, bumper stickers and mugs. They have even been incorpo­rated into the lyrics of a song. 
Ulrich jokingly drew atten­tion to her slogan's associa­tion with wild, even criminal women. One woman from Denver who had been arrest­ed "at least a dozen times" and was known for indulgent drug use was spotted driving a car with her famous saying on it. 
Though she addressed the misinterpretation of her slo­gan with humor, Ulrich nonetheless made sure to cor:. rect the public's misconcep­tion of her words. Ulrich focused on the life of Rosa Parks -who she called "the icon of the civil rights move-· ment -to illustrate her point. She asked if Parks was a well-behaved woman. 
"The Montgomery, Ala. Bus Company didn't think so," she said. 
U l rich s aid in t e r m s of morality, Parks was remark­ably well-behaved. Though she broke the law, she was morally clean, reliable, coura­geous and wiling to say, 'No.' 
"[Parks'] refusal to obey the law sparked a 361 day-long boycott, put Martin Luther 

WE'VE GOT THE 




TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
Xtremely Close to Campus
FACTOR 
Xciting Renovations Inside &Out 
Xtraordinary Rents Start At $560* 

GET GEARED UP! 
Stop In and Register to Win! We're giving away anew Jtox 360 
1710 E. TurtJecreek Drive 
Go Home...Go Wireless...Go Live!
South Bend, Indiana 

Office Hotrs: 
M-F : 9:00 AM-6:00 PM Saturday: 10:00AM-5:00 PM Sunday: 1:00 PM-5:00 PM 
', 


King Jr. in the public eye and her cause." led to the historic Supreme Ulrich said it was Parks' Court decision outlawing seg­good behavior -not bad ­regation in public places, " that won her a spot in history. she said. "Her good behavior helped to justify her rebellion Contact Laura Gleason at and win public support for lgleasO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




Thursday, March 30, 2006 Cotv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE sERVICEs page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Thousands witness global eclipse 
SIDE, Turkey-Thousands of skygazers gath­ered in an ancient temple of Apollo and let out cheers Wednesday as a total solar eclipse turned day into twilight, casting an eerie blue glow across the sky and the Mediterranean Sea. 
NASA astronomers handed out protective glasses to.hundreds of Turkish children before the eclipse cut a dark swath across the sky -a band that stretched from Brazil, across West Africa, Turkey and Central Asia, then disap­peared at sunset in Mongolia. 
The last total solar eclipse was in November 2003, but that was best viewed from sparsely populated Antarctica. Wednesday's eclipse blocked the sun in-highly populated areas. 
In Ghana, automatic street lamps switched on as the light faded, and authorities sounded emergency whistles in c~lebration. Schoolchildren and others across the capital, Accra, burst into applause. 
Italy grants Afghan convert asylum 
ROME -Italy granted asylum Wednesday to an Mghan who faced the death penalty for con­verting from Islam to Christianity, and Premier Silvio Berlusconi said the man was in the care of the Interior Ministry after arriving in Italy earli­er in the day. 
Abdul Rahman "is already in Italy. I think he arrived overnight," Berlusconi said, declining to release more details. 
Rahman's jai1ing in Afghanistan inspired an appeal by Pope Benedict XVI to Afghanistan President Hamid Karzai and efforts by the United Nations to find a country to take him. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush blames Iraq crisis on Hussein 
WASHINGTON -President Bush said Wednesday that Saddam Hussein, not contin­ued U.S. involvement in Iraq,is responsible for ongoing sectarian violence that is threatening the formation of a democratic government. 
In his third speech this month to bolster pub­lic support for the war, Bush worked to counter critics who say the U.S. presence in the wartorn nation is fueling the insurgency. Bush said that Saddam was a tyrant and used vio­lence to exacerbate sectarian divisions to keep himself in power, and that as a result, deep tensions persist to this day. 
"The enemies of a free Iraq are employing the same tactics Saddam used, killing and ter­rorizing the Iraqi people in an effort to foment sectarian division," Bush said. 

Officers indicted in taped beating 
NEW ORLEANS -Two fired New Orleans police officers and one current officer were indicted Wednesday in the videotaped beating of a retired teacher in the French Quarter last fall. 
The .Oct. 8 beating of Robert Davis, 64, was caught on video by an Associated Press Television News crew covering the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
The three officers were charged with battery, and other offenses. 
Davis spent more than an hour testifying about the beating, which left him lying on the street, hands cuffed and blood flowing from his head and face. Afterward, he told reporters that he still has headaches and back problems and even had to interrupt his testimony to take medicine. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gary mayor vows to save hospital 
GARY, Ind.-Acting Mayor Do7jer T. Allen Jr. said he 'II fight to keep Gary's only hospital from shutting it<> doors because of financial losses of nearly $2 million a month. 
During a news conference on Tuesday, Allen said he plans to work with state leaders, law­makers and administrators at Methodist Hospitals' Northlake Campus to address the budget woes hospital executives predict could force the hospital to close within two years. 
Methodist Hospitals administrators announced this month they would cut the number of patient beds in half and eliminate all elective surgeries in an effort to stem the hospital's losses. 
! .


GAZA STRIP I. 
I 
II II 1 I I 1



Abbas swears in Hamas cabinet II I I 
1 I 
I 1 
I 1 
I I
Over half of the newly appointed ministers served time in Israeli prisons I 'I I 
Associated Press 
Gaza Strip -Hamas for­mally took power Wednesday, with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas swearing in 24 Cabinet min­isters, including 14 who served time in Israeli pris­ons. 
Soon after the ceremony Canada announced it was suspending aid to the cash­strapped Palestinian Authority, and other nations were expected to follow suit. 
Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay said Canada had no choice but to sus­pend assistance and decline any contact with the new Hamas Cabinet. 
"The stated platform of this government has not addressed the concerns raised by Canada and others concerning nonviolence, the recognition of Israel and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the roadrilap for peace," MacKay said. 
"As a result, Canada will have no contact with the mem hers of the Hamas Cabinet i:md is suspending assistance to the Palestinian Authority." 
However, Ottawa empha­sized it would continue giv­ing humanitarian aid to tht~ Palestinian people through 
U.N. and nongovernment organizations. 
U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said the United States is looking for ways to get humanitarian aid to the Palestinian people, but "we are not going to provide funds to a terrorist organi­zation. And we are not going to provide U.S. funds to a llamas-led government." 
With Barnas now at the helm, the Palestinian gov­ernment faces a crippling international economic boy­cott, and may run into immediate difficulties next week when March salaries are to be paid for some 140,000 government employees. 
The Palestinian Authority gets a large part of its approximately $1.9 billion annual budget from over­seas sources. Without money from the Arab world, Europe and the United States, a Hamas-led govern­


ment  would  be  nearly  
broke.  
The  newly  installed  

Palestinian Information Minister, Youssef Hizka, called the Canadian action "hasty" and said it "shows obvious bias." 
"What we need from the Canadian government is that it ask the Israeli authorities to admit that they · are occupying Palestinian land," he told The Associated Press. 
Wednesday's swearing-in ceremony came just a day after Israel's election and drew clear lines of con­frontation. llamas says it will not soften its violent platform and Israel's victori­ous Kadima Party says if that is the case, Israel will set the borders of a Palestinian state itself, with­out negotiations, and keep large areas of the West Bank. 
Arab leaders, wrapping up an annual summit in the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, rejected any Israeli move to unilaterally draw its borders with a West Bank withdrawal. In a final statement, they renewed a peace offer for Israel -a 2002 initiative that Israel has rejected, promising a peace with 
ings that originally appeared in a
Associated Press 

Danish newspaper in September, 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Borders and including one depicting Muhammad Waldenbooks stores will not stock the wearing a bomb-shaped turban with a April-May issue of Free Inquiry maga­lit fuse. zine because it contains cartoons of the Islamic tradition bars depiction of Prophet Muhammad that provoked Muhammad to prevent idol worship, deadly protests among Muslims in sev­which is strictly prohibited. eral countries. "What is at stake is the preeious right 
"For us, the safety and security of our of freedom of expression," said Paul customers and employees is a top prior­Kurtz, editor-in-chief of Free Inquiry. ity, and we believe that carrying this "Cartoons often provide an important issue could challenge that priority," form of political satire ... To refuse to Borders Group Inc. spokeswoman Beth distribute a publication because of fear Bingham said Wednesday. of vigilante violence is to undermine 
The magazine, published by the freedom of press -so vital for our Council for Secular Humanism in subur­democracy." ban Amherst, includes four of the draw-Bingham said the decision wa<> made 
It 
I I II II 
'I 
I I 
'I 
I I I I 
. I 
'I 
I 
, I . I 'I 
'I 
' I 
I 
I
. 
t 
t I I 
I 'I I 
I 
I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
Arab states in return for a withdrawal from all occu­pif~d Arab lands. 
Israeli officials said it is very unlikely acting Prime Minister Ehud Olmert will create a "Harnas bypass" and negotiate directly with the moderate Abbas as long as Hamas refuses to change. Abbas, leader of the defeat­ed Fatah Party, was elected separately and wields con­siderable power. 
Israel suspended tens of millions of dollars in month­ly tax transfers to the Palestinian Authority after the Hamas victory, and Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev said the Israeli Cabinet would decide on additional sanc­tions next week. 
Stores refuse to stock magazine 
before the magazine arrived at the com­pany's stores. Borders Group, based in Ann Arbor, Mich., operates more than 475 Borders and 650 Waldenbooks stores in the United States, though not all regularly carry the magazine. 
"We absolutely respect our customers' right to choose what they wish to read and buy and we support the First Amendment," Bingham said. "And we absolutely support the rights of Free Inquiry to publish the cartoons. We've just chosen not to carry this particular issue in our stores." 
The cartoons, which were reprinted in European and American papers in January and February, sparked a wave of protests around the Islamic world. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------... 
page 6 Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Scholar
I 
l t continued from page 1 
i· 
the Center for Spirituality and Religious Studies, learned ZHU was making the trip to America. 
"When I found out she was offered this opportunity, it indicated to me that lthe United Board for Christian Higher Education of Asia] rec­ognized her leadership skills and academic ability," Dolphin said, who was informed of ZIIU's abroad plans from two friends who regularly teach at Fudan University in Shanghai, where she is a professor. 
As one of only four female faculty members in Fudan's religious studies and philoso­phy programs, spending time in an all female environment proved especially significant for ZHU. 
"There is one very imp·or­tant impression I get here," she said. "All China is like one big machine, but here every­one is very gentile, humanistic and very thoughtful." 
ZHU began her year abroad at Yale in September 2005, where the University then allowed her to complete a portion of her term at Saint Mary's. ZHU audits courses and regularly interacts with students at the College. 
"It is a very good experience to study Catholicism for many years, and it is good to study at a Catholic school," she said. 
ZHU serves as the assistant director responsible for plan­ning the religious studies pro­gram at Fudan, where she works to collect curriculum, arrange conferences, initiate search committees and grant proposals. 
ZHU said she could not help but notice the drastic differ­ence between courses at the College compared to those at her university in Shanghai. 
"Most [Saint Mary's] stu­dents have a relative back­ground different to my stu­
dents back in China, " she said. "Most [Fudan students] have an anti-religious attitude ... I worry if I teach in a cer­tain way I am evangelizing them." 
The students at Saint Mary's are more open to various reli­gious ideas and enjoy dis­cussing faith in their everyday lives, ZIIU said. 
"They really reflect on issues that deeply affect their lives -even those that do so subconsciously," she said. 
ZIIU said she hopes to incorporate these tactics into her courses at Fudan, and has realized "interpersonal engagement is much more important in the classroom than sitting down and writ­ing." 
Dolphin said ZHU's learning exchange is not one-sided. The College community's awareness and knowledge of Catholicism in China contin­ues to grow and other worldly issues from ZHU and her fam­ily, she said. 
"Having ZHU and her family here has been delightful," Dolphin said. "I have even learned a little bit of 
.Chinese." 
Dolphin was able to invite ZHU to campus through the continuation of a grant that allows her to host a diverse group of resident scholars through 2008. 
"[My family and I] come from a very big city, so we enjoy the quietness of campus and the friendliness of peo­ple," ZHU said. "It is a very small college and all people 
seem  to  have  a  very close  
relationship.  I  am  very  
impressed."  

ZHU will return to Yale in early May and complete her abroad studies in June. She said she will miss the College, its people and her time spent here. 
"My husband and I have been to many big American cities ... ·but we like it here the best," she said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

House, apartment or dorm a mess and YOU don't feel like cleaning? 
Call Dustbuster's Gleaning Crew to do it fo.r you! 

lo11~Z ABO's 


lJa~etiHf witA lAs Sta1s'l 
TH£H '(00 MOSf S££ fHtS! 



I Study 
continued from page 1 
well-being. 

The study will provide the University with comparative data showing how Notre Dame performs in relation to other colleges. 
"When something shows up you want to say, 'Well is that typical, is that characteris­tic:?' When you have a large enough pool you can answer that question," Jacobs said. 
Notre Dame was also selected to spotlight 50 stu­dents at the University who will be interviewed periodi­cally as part of the study. Those members of the Class of 2010 will likely be chosen during the first several months they are on campus -likely based in part on the information that comes back from the initial survey, Jacobs said. 
"What we're really interest­ed in is, what is the value added by a Notre Dame edu­cation, what is the transfor­mative effect of the ... experi­ences that we design into the curriculum as well as the co­curricular activities?," Jacobs said. · 
Such co-curricular activities would include international studies and undergraduate research -activities in which the University invests time, energy and resources. 
"I think what this study will help us understand is in what ways [those activities] add value," Jacobs said. 
Students involved in the study will not be forced into doing anything differently than other students on cam­pus, Jacobs said. 
"We picked a large enough sample -400 -that these students will just, in a sense, scatter across the University 

and do what they'll do," he but we'll also have some said. "The kinds of experi­shortcomings." ences they'll choose to do will Jacobs said these shortcom­be varied, which is good." ings may be relative to other 
Jacobs said the unpre­schools, and may be rather dictable nature of students' unexpected. choices will be one of the "This is more of a listening defining points of the study. exercise ... the students will 
"We would love to sample have opportunities {)Ver the all of our academic majors, years to tell their story, and but that by listening with a may not set of independent
"We don •t want the
happen," he ears -not from said. "In the study in any way to Notre Dame-we end, hope­may hear about
limit or perturb 
fully, mostly things that. we
/students•] experience 
all  of lthe  thought  were  
students]  at Notre Dame  - we  some  of  our  
will gradu­ just want to  strong points that  
ate, so we'll have some  capture it...  might not be so strong," he said.  
end point to  Ideally, Jacobs  
all of this,  Dr. Dennis Jacobs  said,  the  study  
but  along  vice president  will not interfere  

s t 
t 
r s 
s e 
0 

e 
I 
e g 
s 
e g 
e 



I Ceijtury Ceijter iij dowijtowij Sout~ :Beijd•• 
3  ••FREE Transpo from Library Circle on the :05 of every hour  
~ ~  freeforstudeijts wit~ lD aijd oijly$4for adultspectators 
c  

the way 
they will 
have taken different paths." 
According to Jacobs, this longitudinal study will be sig­nificantly more helpful than previous one-time studies. Senior surveys, which ask students to reflect on past experiences, may not capture the crucial moments of their lives at Notre Dame, he said. 
Jacobs said while there will be some commonalities ­many of the students being studied will travel abroad, as 54 percent of Notre Dame undergraduates choose to do so -the results of the study are unforeseeable due to individual endeavors includ­ing participation in student government and internships. 
"That mosaic of experi­ences will undoubtedly affect their development in different ways," he said. "I want to keep an open mind. I don't want to predict, but I imagine that because [the study is] looking at seven different dimensions to liberal arts education that [Notre Dame will] have certain strengths, 
with students' 
lives, and will take note of how liberal arts at Notre Dame affect students in terms of their civic engage­ments, ethical frameworks and passion for learning. Feedback on such topics will provide the University with more self-indicative informa­tion than ever before. 
"We don't want the study in any way to limit or perturb [students'] experience at Notre Dame -we just want to capture it. We want to doc­ument the kinds of experi­
ences  they're having," he  
said.  
The  conclusions  of  the  

study may not be perfect when the study is finished, but the information will be valuable, Jacobs said. 
"It's not just an answer in the end where we either pat ourselves on the back or not, it's a study that gives us the kind of feedback to make pro­grammatic improvements," he said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 


CONSU-LTING 
GROUP 
Domers Wanted 
IBB Consulting Group, the leading boutique Strategy and Technology Consulting Firm focused on Convergence issues in Cable, Broadband and Wireless in9ustries is looking for Undergrad Seniors and 2-year MBA candidates. Strong technology industry interest is a must. No minimum GPA required. 
Relocation to Philadelphia preferred. 
Please send cover letter and CV's to 1-fichael Wong (Class of 1996) at michaelw@ibbconsulting.com 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-_L 
5 
' 
. 
' 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 page 7 l
====================================================================================================================I 
s MARKET RECAP 
t 
1 
Dow

) c ~ 11,215.70 +61.16
jones 

i 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,118 I63 2,084 2, I 8 I ,098,490 

i t 
) 
fTSf IOO(London) 5,959.20 +23.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.7100  
EURO  0.8300  
POUND  0.5754  
CANADIAN$  1.1700  


L~EL3COMM INC(~Ln 
+8.11 
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) + 1.70 
INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.23 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) + 1.01 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) + 1.90 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.32 13-WEEK BILL +0.22 30-YEAR BOND + 1.40 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.81 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($!Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.42 5.60 +0.07 4.18 +0.24 19.82 
0.05 4.99 
+0.78 41.92 
+0.07 4.81 -0.10 45.27 +0.66 47.93 +0.85 47.73 
+0.38 66.45 +6.40 578.68 -2.70 66.95 
IN BRIEF 
Guidant detects quality problems 
INDIANAPOLIS -Guidant Corp. won't sell itc;; stock of Xience V drug-coated stents because some ofthe products failed to meet the company's manufacturing standards, the medical device maker said Wednesday. 
The Indianapolis-based company also will stop enrolling patientc;; in a clinical trial for the Xience V Everolimus stent and have delayed the European debut of the product until the third quarter. Company executives had hoped to start selling the stent in the second quarter after European regulators approved it in January. The stent is not on the market in the U.S. 
Stentc;; are wire mesh tubes that prop open dis­eased arteries; the drug coating keeps tissue from growing through the mesh. 
The company said the quality assurance prob­lems affected a small part of its Xience V invento­ry. The exact number of those affected was not immediately available. 
"Guidant is committed to providing the highest­quality products for the treatment of heart dis­ease," John Capek, president of the company's va<>cular intervention division, said in a statement. 
Stocks rebound as investors return 
NEW YORK -Wall Street rallied back Wednesday as investors seared ofl' by the Federal Reserve's assessment of the economy in the previ­ous session regained their confidence and bid stocks higher. The Nasdaq composite index reached a five-year high as investors focused on technolo!,ry and smaller company stocks. 
The advance reflectc;; investors' overall optimism about the economy and corporate earnings, although many remain concerned that rising bor­rowing and energy costs could weigh on both, analysl<> said. 
"I think after yesterday's sell-off, when we turned off the lights and came back in the morn­ing, we got a chance to say, 'You know what? We've overdone it here"', said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Co. 
Stocks sold off sharply Tuesday, pulling the Dow Jones industrials down 95 pointe;;, after the Fed suggested more interest rate hikes would be needed to head off inflationary pressures. The Fed's comments accompanied itc;; decision to raise its benchmark rate a quarter percentage point to 
4.75 percent. 
BELGIUM 

E.U. warns about antitrust laws 
Competition Commission investigates the unreleased.Microsoft Vista system 

Associated Press 
BRUSSELS -Microsoft 
Corp.'s new Vista operating 
system is still months away 
from hitting the market, but 
the European Union 
already has concerns the 
software could break 
antitrust rules. 
EU Competition 
Commissioner Neelie Kroes 
has written to Microsoft 
CEO Steve Ballmer to out­
line concerns that Vista's 
new functions will mean 
customers will not be 
offered a real choice on 
software packages, EU 
spokesman Jonathan Todd 
said Wednesday. 
"We're concerned about 
the possibility that the next 
Vista operating system will 
include various elements 
which are currently avail­
able separately either from 
Microsoft or other compa­
nies," he told reporters. 
He highlighted Vista's integrated Internet search, digital rights management used to protect copyrights and software that would create fixed-document for­mats comparable to Adobe's pdf. 
He said Kroes' letter to Ballmer came after Microsoft asked regulators to set out any possible antitrust problems with Vista, stressing that it was not the start of any formal probe into the new operat­ing system. 
"We assume that Microsoft has its own inter­ests at heart. It wants to launch another product without having to worry about the [European] Commission instituting var­ious actions under antitrust law," he said. "The commis­sion's concern is that com­puter manufacturers or consumers might be pre­vented from having a prop­er choice between different software packages." 

Windows Vista is Microsoft's first major update to the company's flagship operating system since Windows XP was released in late 2001. 
Microsoft said it could not comment on the contents of the letter because it had not received it. It said con­sumers were free to use a wide range of competitor products and Vista was designed to respect the choices that consumers make. 
"Keeping the industry and regulators informed of our product development plans has been, and will remain, a priority," it said in a statement. "We have 
===========================================================================================:I 
Whirlpool-Maytag merger·approved! 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Antitrust regula­tors on Wednesday approved Whirlpool Corp.'s proposed $1.79 bil­lion purchase of Maytag Corp., saying the merger would not reduce compe­tition substantially. · 
The existence of strong rivals and the cost savings the new company would generate indicate "this trans­action is not likely to harm consumer welfare," the Justice Department said. 
An investigation by the depart­ment's Antitrust Division found that an effort by the new company to raise prices on its washers and dryers "likely would be unsuccessful" because at least five other companies are well-established in U.S. markets. 
Those competitors include the Sears brand Kenmore, General Electric and Frigidaire. The Justice Department also concluded that LG and Samsung and other foreign manufacturers wor·ked hard to include partners and competitors in our planning so they can build products and services that work with Windows Vista." 
Vista's ability to work with rival products also comes under EU scrutiny. "There is also the possibili­ty that we won't have all the necessary technical information so that com­petitors will be able to make a product that is compatible with Vista," Todd said. 
Microsoft announced last week that the consumer version of Vista wi11 be delayed again, until early next year, further extending the long gap between major Windows releases. A ver­
have quickly established themselves in recent years. 
"LG, Samsung and other foreign manufacturers could increase their imports to the U.S.," the department said in a statement. "Existing U.S. manufacturers have excess capacity and could increase their production." 
The government also concluded that large retailers ineluding Sears, Lowe's, The Home Depot and Best Buy have alternatives available to help thmn resist any attempt by the combined company to raise prices. 
The cost savings and other efficien­cies gained by the merger should also benefit consumers, the department said. 
The companies had agreed not to close the transaction before Thursday. 
Some analysts and antitrust lawyers had expected the Justice Department to object to the deal. The merger would create a company producing half of the dishwashers in the United 
I 
I 

States and more than 70 percent of I 1 
the clothes washers and dryers. : 
Such a rise in market concentration : has typically drawn a challenge from : the government. 1 
Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, : Mich., is the largest appliance manu-; facturer in the United States. 1 
Maytag, based in Newton, Iowa, is: number three, behind GE Consumer 1 products. i 
The antitrust division has been: reviewing the proposed merger since ~ September. The companies: announced that they had signed a 1 definitive merger agreement in: August. : 
The government asked for more: time to review the merger last month, : prompting wide speculation that it • was preparing to challenge the deal. : 
Whirlpool offered to pay $21 a I share for Maytag. Including the~ assumption of $977 million of Maytag : debt, the entire deal is valued at l about $2.7 billion. • 
f 
~f
t
\ page 8 
ti 
[iHaiti
(l
!' 
tf continued from page 1 
1:------------­
,\ 
) it goes untreated. Hofman and Notre Dame's presence in Haiti can be attributed to Streit, who became involved with the study and treatment of ele­phantiasis after he accepted a postdoctoral position with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Whlle posted in Haiti, Streit conducted research on the 1 1 nature of the disease. He ( established the University's Haiti Program after joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1997. In \ 1999, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation awarded Notre Dame a $5.2 million grant to build facilities and offer program support for thelelimination of filariasis in 
I Haiti. Hofmari said Streit spends on average eight months a year in the region, and he has recently focused part of the 
· program's efforts on the AIDS epidemic in Haiti. Hofman's own involvement in the program began last 
1 August after he traveled on a "reconnaissance trip" to Haiti, he said. He first learned of the University's efforts in the region when Streit was invited to campus as the keynote 
. speaker in the Emil T. Hofman 
. lecture series -an annual lecture series dedicated to Hofman and his many years of teaching at Notre Dame. · 
"Father Streit was to give the lecture this fall, and as I learned more and more about the program in Haiti, I decided I wanted to go and experience it," Hofman said. 
And so he did. Hofman said he "went against all of the cautionary warnings that [he1 received because of all the perceived conditions in Haiti." 
"The Haitian people general­ly arc very, very fine people despite the conditions in which they live," he said. "Most of the very violent crime is from drug lords from Columbia using Haiti as traffic center." 
Hofman said his first visit to Haiti last fall sparked an ideji that gave his most recent trip an even greater purpose. 
"While I was there [in August], the idea occurred to me to involve as many of my former students as possible in the project," he said. 
.Hofman -who first began teaching at Notre Dame in the 1950s -said he has taught an estimated 32,000 students. Of those former students, two are noble prizewinners, a handful are university leaders and thousands are doctors, engi­neers and scientists. 
"The way I hope to get [stu­dents] involved is first of all by encouraging them to make reconnaissance visits of their own," Hofman said. 
Hofman said he hopes stu­dent trips might dispel some of the misunderstandings and fear people have about Haiti. Hofman said reconnaissance visits could also offer an opportunity to learn more about filariasis and AIDS from the resident doctors who live in Streit's compound. 
"I encourage [students] to then make a more lengthy commitment to stay for some future time so that they can 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
provide for the healthcare of the patients," Hofman said, while stressing the particular need for internists, urologists and medical technicians in the region. 
Upon returning from his most recent trip, Hofman said he saw more people and had even more interaction with patients than before. 
''I'm more convinced that our people [at Notre Dame] will want to participate in this worthwhile project," he said. 
Preparations have been made by Streit and the University to serve the needs of any alumni' who were inspired by Hofman. One for­mer student has already made a reconnaissance visit -and many more expressed interest, he said. 
"If an 85-year old invalid like myself can make two of these reconnaissance trips, certainly healthy young adults not yet out of their sixties imbued with all of the Notre Dame spirit of Christian chari­ty should want to involve themselves in this great work," Hofman said. 
Hofman said the presence of elephantiasis in Haiti is tragic. because, at its beginnings, the disease is relatively simple to treat and cure. As it progress­es, however, treatment becomes less successful. Proper medical care and pre­ventive knowledge is simply not available for much of the population, and so elephantia­sis continues to be an over­whelming health problem in Haiti, he said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

were some good questions. Hopefully, people are more
Clinic 
educated about approaching off-campus rentals."
continued from page 1 
Freshman Kristen Dold, summer and was further who plans to move off-cam­prompted by the autumn evic­pus junior year, said the sem­tions of Notre Dame students inar helped increase students' at Turtle Creek. knowledge of their options in 
"We hope to inform stu­cases of housing problems. 
dents so that they are better "It's good to be aware," she prepared to move off cam­said. "There are a Jot of grey pus," Guzman said. areas." "Originally, we Dold said stu­
thought we dents also want­would bring ed to hear more attorneys to about issues of


"We hope to inform 
campus to dis­criminal law,
students so that they e 
cuss these such as specifics issues, but we are better prepared of students' 
e

decided having to move offcampus. ·• options in situa­
a law student tions involving s perspective alcohol viola­
Nick Guzman

would be bet­tions. s 
e 

ter received by Community Relations Sophomore undergrads." committee chair Chris Schwarber, 
The Legal Aid Clinic, directed by professor Bob Jones, is Notre Dame Law School's teaching clinic and provides poverty­law assistance and legal edu­cation under the supervision of law school faculty mem­bers. 
Jones said the student pre­senters first met with Guzman and the Community Relations committee a month ago. 
"I was glad so many people came," Jones said. "There 
who will move e 
0

off-campus next 
e 

year, said he found information about the Disorderly House Ordinance 
s
and its amendment particu­
I
larly relevant. 
"(The presentation] was e also good regarding the pro­cedural part [of evictions]," he said. "I didn't know much about that." 
Contact Karen Langley at ldanglel@nd.edu -

ThinkPad® recommends Microsoft" Windows-XP Professional 
ThinkPad­ ,  leno11o  
~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME  lENOVO AND THE NOTRE DAME  
COMPUTER STORE TEAM UP TO BRING  
SAVE UP TO 37o/o OFF  YOU GREAT SAVINGS ON THINKPADS  
PERSONAL PURCHASES  AND PC ACCESSORIES  
free shipping with all online orders  


As part of the Notre Dame student~ faculty or staff community, you can take advantage of great savings on legendary ThinkPad notebooks and PC accessories. 
To take advantage of these special offers and more, click or call 
www.lenovo. com/shop/dea ls/notredame 
1-877-222-6426 Option 1, ext. 8218 ThinkPad is a product of Lenovo 
Warranty: For acopy of applicable product warranties. write to: Warranty Information. P.O. Box 12195_ RTP. NC, 27709, Attn: Dept JDJA/B203. Certain IBM and ThinkPad logo products: are not manu1actured. warranted or supported by IBM or Lenovo. IBM and Lenovo logos and trademarks used under license. Contact Lenovo for details. Trademarks: The following are trademarks of lenovo:. ThinkPad and ThinkCentre. IBM and the IBM logo are registered trademarks of IBM and are used under license. Other company, school. product and service names may be trademarks or servtce marks of other companies. ©2006 Lenovo. All rights reserved. Visil w-.lenovo.com/safecompufing periodically lor the latest information on sale and effective computing. 

The Observer + NEWS page 9: 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
hastily crafted without enough discussion as to how best define the MAC's pur­

., 
pose, especially in relation to 0 the already-permanent
n 
Diversity Committee. s Boyd said her committee 
r 
needed to become permanent

n 
immediately -or risk losing

e 
its footing once a new admin­istration and new senators..' take over April 1 . 
e 
"The fact that this is the first year minority members e of the student body had had s an undiluted and uncompro­mised voice in the Student s Senate is reprehensible and 
e 
to make those students wait another year to have that 

e 
[} voice be considered impor­tant enough to warrant its e own committee is equally 
unacceptable," she said. Boyd's chief concern was s making her committee per­
I 
manent -any other changes

B regarding its name or specif­
1 ic purpose could be made 
B later, she said. "If this Student Senate administration does not understand that minority students need a separate voice now, there is no guar­antee that you will under­stand that we need a sepa­rate voice an year from now, and by then it may be too late," Boyd said. Boyd's statement drew sharp responses from stu­dent body president Dave Baron and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell ­who both vehemently main­tained that diversity issues have been a cornerstone of their administration from the start. "To be completely frank, I am offended by the implica­tion that this isn't at the fore-
Trying To Decide What To Do Next Year? 
Become aHolv Cross Associate 
-1 year post-graduate volunteer program focusing on community, simple living, spirituality, and service 
-connection with Holy C.-.oss in local communities: Associates are welcomed with open arms in each of their communities by Holy Cross community and Associate alumni 
-rich tradition: in existence for 28 years, well-established in each location 
-intimacy of program: despite program's long history, we have chosen not to expand much in order to maintain a stronger sense of community and connection among Associates, past and present 
-importance of communal prayer: rooted in faith, communal prayer is a necessary part of HCA life...journey of faith together in community 
-Unparalleled Support from local communities, alumni, staff, neighbors, your fellow Associates 
APPIV bV April15thl 
http://holycrossassociates.nd.edu 
front of my concerns ... if there is one thing I would pledge, it is that before I leave here there will be a permanent means for minori­ty student voice on policy issues," Shappell said. 
For senators, the issue was not if MAC deserved constitu­tional recognition -but when such measures should be taken. Community Relations committee chair Nick Guzman said more time was needed to "see how Minority Affairs is going to have a permanent place." 
"I wonder if we make something permanent how different it would be to change in the future," Guzman said. " ... I also don't think it's big problem for them to become perma­nent in five days. As soon as you (Boyd) leave, the same issue can be brought to Senate." 
Diversity Committee chair Sarah Liu said more time was necessary to create last­ing, effective constitutional changes regarding MAC and the Diversity Committee. She admitted her committee has lacked dear direction or pur­pose this year. 
"It's important for [the Diversity Committee and MAC] to work together," Liu said. "We're not trying to compete for resources atten­tion ... Minority Affairs is not the problem here, it's Diversity Committee that doesn't have a clear goal." 
But Boyd insisted the two committees are very different -and since MAC knows its goals, it should be granted permanent status -regard­less of the lack of direction of the Diversity Committee. 
"Our fate right now is too much tied to what happens to the Diversity Committee," Boyd said. "Who knows when they'll know lwhat their 


RS• • • 

exact goals should be] and 
MAC is just hanging out in 
the air... that's what it feels 
like to me." 

O'Neill senator Steve 
Tortorello was wary of pass­
ing a resolution while know­
ing further changes would be 
made to it in the future. 
"If we're going to revise 
everything eventually, let's 
get it all into its place and do 
it like a Band-Aid, do it all 
at once," he said. "The 
answer can't come from a 
room of 60 people. The 
answer can come from four 
or five people sitting down in 
board room outside the 
Senate and hammering out 
this amendment." 

Tortorello then moved for a 
vote to give the resolution 
back to committee for fur­
ther work, but senators 
defeated the motion and dis­
cussion continued. 

Shappell said she support­ed sending the resolution back to the committee so that they "will have more time to sit down and talk it out and 
see what the best options are." 
"I can pretty much guaran­tee -being a part of the administration next year -it won't go away," Shappell said. "It will be here." 
Keough senator Rob Lindley said changes to the Constitution must be made prudently, or it risks losing its integrity. 
"If there's anything I'm growing leery of it's '!mend­ing the constitution on a reg­ular basis," Lindley said. "There's something about going in and saying· we've done this, we're set it in stone and then go back and say 'Well, we forgot about this and we change it again."' 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
MEXICO 

President Bush v~sits!i ' Cancun for meetings:: 
Associated Press 

CANCUN, Mexico -President Bush began a trip Wednesday intended to strengthen ties with Mexico and Canada on issues like terrorism, trade and prob­lems along the long borders the United States shares with its neighbors. 
Bush said he was concerned that a"protectionist tendency and isolationist tendency" could emerge among the three coun­tries and make cooperation more difficult, particularly in the face of economic challenges from countries like China. In an inter­view with Canadian television, he said the strong relationship with Mexico and Canada needs to be further strengthened. 
The president arrived in Cancun Wednesday evening to an understated welcome from just a few local officials gathered at the bottom of Air Force One's stairs. Bush is meeting Thursday 
and  Friday  with  Mexican  
President  Vicente  Fox  and  
Canadian  Prime  Minister  
Stephen Harper.  

While thousands of U.S. stu­dents lounge on the beach in this spring break spot, Bush, Fox and Harper will grapple with issues like trade, terrorism and border and immigration problems. 
The student crowds are small­er this year with the beachfront still rebounding from last year's Hurricane Wilma, and Mexican officials are no doubt hoping the international attention from the summit will help boost tourism again. 
"Cancun will be the eyes of the 
Experience another evening oj"Christian Taize prayer part ofa series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World" 

I 
world," said cab driver Luciano 1 Salgado Campos as he drove , past downed trees lining the 
1 
road from the airport to the : beachfront resorts. "President 1 Bush will be able to see how 1 much progress has been made I , already." , Fox's government has spent millions to rebuild the beaches . and dredge sand from the ocean · floor to replace what was swept : away in October, when Wilma : brought winds reaching 150 : mph. Many hotels still are · closed. , 
The three leaders will gather ; at the Fiesta Americana Condesa : on Thursday and Friday. By 1 Tuesday, police had already set · up roadblocks around the : perimeter and security forces ; patrolled from the air and water. ·: 
Bush plans to spend less than 1 48 hours in Cancun, squeezing in : 
I 
~ ~ 
l I 
I 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
r ------~ 
~age 10 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 
Catholic Q&A 

Do the terms ~~catholic Church" and 11 Roman Catholic Church/' denote the same thing? Are there other lie Churches besides the Roman Catholic Church? 
In the USA, the only Catholic Church that most people are familiar with is the Ron1an Catholic Church. Indeed, the vast majority of the world~s billion-plus Catholics are Catholics of the Roman or Latin Rite. A"Rite" is aparticular church tradition of how one celebrates the satne seven Sacraments instituted by Christ. Most Catholics at ND have been raised celebrating the Latin Rite liturgy, and this is the way all Masses are celebrated on campus. However, this is by no means the only way of celebrating the liturgy in the Church. Within the Catholic Church, there are over 30 different rites currently recognized by Rome and in regular use throughout the world. Each of these rites expresses the unique way that the Catholic Faith was celebrated among the various people, language~, and cultures the Apostles encountered as they first spread Christ's message throughout Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. The same Christian truths "were clothed in the symbols and trappings of the particular people, so that the rituals conveyed the desired spiritual meani~g to that culture. In this way the Church becomes all things to all Inen (1Cor. 9:22)" (Colin Donovan, Catholic Rites and Churches). 
One needs not travel far to experience other rites within the Catholic Church. Right here in South Bend, we have aconl­munity of Ukrainian Catholics that celebrates-the Byzantine Rite of the Catholic Church. Another community of Syrian, Egyptian, and Greek Catholics, the ancestors of whom would have been first evangelized by the Apostle James, celebrates the Melkite Rite. Each of these communities is united in Full Communion with the Pope, and shares the same Catholic Faith regarding all seven Sacra­ments. Catholics of any rite can participate fu11y in the liturgy of any other rite, including receiving Holy Communion. However, the liturgies of these various churches may appear very foreign to the average American Roman Catholic, and may include other lan­guages, customs, iconography and liturgical decor, and nmms for receiving the Sacraments. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo
Campus Ministry 
Web 

Ben Wilson's qualifications for this week's "Live It" installment can be measured· a unique way; by miles. Ben, asenior Philoso­phy Major and Theology and Anthropology minor, spent this past summer farther away most summer internships take college students. By virtue of aKellogg lntemship. Ben spent his summer in Uganda. Ben's ministrv there
'-' 

. 
was two-fold. His primary task was teaching 
English to Ugandan students at a vocational 
school. On top of that, Ben used agrant that 
he received to start a store to raise money for 
the school. Ben's faith and desire to minister 
carried him over 7,000 miles away from South 
Bend. fndiana. 

As some readers may or may not 
know, I am not a Ugandan school child. I was 
lucky enough to meet Ben through his stellar 
work as a Campus Ministry student assistant. 
While Ben's ministries are ditTerent here at 
Notre Dame, our community benefits from his 
gifts and talei1ts just like the children he served 
in Uganda. 

Ben's skills as an accomplished 
guitarist are on display at a veritable litany of 
ministry venues. Ben, a resident of Sorin Col­
lege, plays guitar for Sorin College's Sunday lit 
urgy as well as with the Celebration Choir. 
students who are participating in this weekend 
NDE will also witness Ben's combination of 
skill and faith. This weekend, the Sacred Heart 
Parish Center will resound with the smooth, 
praising musical stylings of Mr. Wilson. The 
last of Ben's activities that I have space to men­
tion is something any student can enjoy on any 
Tuesday night. Just head over to the Log Cha­
pel at lOpm and witness Ben's crazy skills as 
he leads the choir at the spirit-filled Log Chapel 
Mass. Ben, in both the little and the large 
you have ministered to those in need and 
good news. Thank you. 

Let us know who out there 
is making adifference! 
Send nominations to 
Brian Vassel at 
bvassel nd.edu 


Thursday, March 30, 2006 page 11
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Mine survivor returning home 
Moussaoui·lied about 
McCloy expected to be released Thursday 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. ­The sole survivor of the Sago Mine disaster is expected to be released from a rehabili­tation hospital and return home Thursday after more than two months of therapy, a family spokeswoman said Tuesday. 
Randal McCloy Jr.'s doctors h(!.ve scheduled a news con­ference for Thursday morn­ing to discuss his case, Aly Goodwin Gregg said. 
"He's been looking forward to going home and he's very, very close to that point now," Gregg said. 
"Being in his own space again is what he's looking forward to and what the family is looking forward to." 
The 26-year-old coal miner has been at a rehab facility in Morgantown since Jan. 26, recovering from brain damage and other injuries. Earlier, he was treated at hospitals in Morgantown and Pittsburgh. 
McCloy  was  taken to  his  
home  in  Simpson,  a  45­ 
minute  drive  from  

Morgantown, for a visit March 14, the first time he had been there since the Jan. 2 explosion that injured him and killed 12 co-work­ers. 
Gregg said McCloy will continue to receive therapy 

for some time at home. She said his wife Anna, who has been staying at a hotel in Morgantown since the disas­ter, will be his primary care­taker. 
McCloy and his co-workers entered the Sago Mine to resume production after a holiday shutdown when the explosion trapped them. It took more than 40 hours for rescue teams to reach the men, and by then, most had died of carbon monoxide poi­soning. 
McCloy was carried out 

with brain, kidney, lung, liver and heart damage on Jan. 4 and remained in a coma for weeks. 
He has since regained most of his movement, and is eat­ing and breathing on his own. 
While he also has been speaking, doctors have said it may be three to six months before he's able to carry on a normal conversation. 
Gregg said she did not know how much McCloy remembers about the explo­sion. 
i 
I I 
; 
II 
'I 
:I 
plot, prosecutors say 
,,
FBI ignored Sept. 11 leads, defense argues '' 
I I 
'I 
, I I covered about Moussaoui after I I his Aug. 16, 2001, arrest at a "I 
, I Minnesota flight training school. I 
'I I I
Agents also ignored far better , I leads about the Sept. 11 plotters I I . during the summer of 2001, he I I I 
i 

said. , ! I I 
"There's no evidence the gov­'I . I 
ernment would have behaved any 
differently than it actually did no 
'l 
matter what Moussaoui said or 
what he did," MacMahon said. 
:~ 
On rebuttal, prosecutor David 
Novak responded, "We're not 
here to tell you FBI headquarters 
did a good job." But he said the 
verdict form does not ask jurors 
to "grade the FBI (or) ... grade the 
CIA." 
"AU Moussaoui had to do is say, 
'I'm al-Qaida,"' Novak argued. 
The prosecutors said they had 
showed that if Moussaoui had 
confessed, when he was arrested, 
to the facts he admitted when 
pleading guilty four years later, 
the FBI would have identified 11 
of the 19 hijackers within weeks 
and the Federal Aviation 
Administration would have kept 
them off airplanes. 
Moussaoui watched the closing 
arguments impassively but shout­
ed "Victory to Moussaoui! God 
curse America!" after the judge 
and jury had left for a brief 
recess. 
If this jury unanimously decides Moussaoui is eligible for the death penalty, it will reconvene to hear more testimony about whether he actually deserves to be executed. Their only other choice is life in prison without possibility of release. That second phase would be a forum for aggravating and mitigating evidence about his role, including the testimony of families of Sept. 11 victims. 
An unresolved issue is what would happen if the jury is unable to agree on death-penaltyeligibil­ity. Defense attorneys say that should lead to an automatic life sentence; prosecutors argue it should result in a mistrial, which would allow them to retry Moussaoui with another jury. Judge Leonie Brinkema has appeared to favor the defense view on this but has not ruled. 
Moussaoui's dramatic court­room testimony Monday -that he was supposed to hijack a fifth jetliner on Sept. 11 along with would-be shoe bomber Hichard Heid and fly it into the White House -was a major focus of the closing argument..'>. 
MacMahon read the jury what Moussaoui said last April when he pleaded guilty to six conspira­cy counts and signed a confes­sion. "Point out a single para­graph where it says I'm part of 9/11," Moussaoui told the court at that time. "Everybody knows I'm not 9/11 material." Moussaoui said then that his plot was difler­ent; he was to fly into the White House later if the U.S. did nut release radical Egyptian cleric Omar Abdel Rahman, imprisoned fbr other terrorist crimes. 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDHIA, Va. Prosecutors said al-Qaida con­spirator Zacarias Moussaoui killed Americans on Sept. 11, 2001, by lying to federal agents weeks earlier to keep the plot secret. Defense attorneys called him an "al-Qaida hanger-on" who only dreamed he had a role in the worst terrorist attack in the nation's history. 
Summarizing 10 days of' testi­mony in a tumultuous sentencing trial, lawyers painted sharply divergent views of' whether the 3 7 -year-old Frenchman was responsible for any of the nearly 3,000 deaths on Sept. 11. Then a jury of nine men and three women retired to decide whether he should be eligible for the death penalty. 
They went home after an hour of deliberations. 
Prosecutor David Raskin told the jurors they could be sure of Moussaoui's lethal intent "because he admitted it right here in this courtroom" in bombshell testimony Monday. Defense attor­ney Edward MacMahon coun­tered that Moussaoui had told "a plethora of lies to aggrandize himself. You can't believe any­thing this man says." 
MacMahon said FBI headquar­ters refused to investigate what one "tremendous" field agent dis-



Thursday, March 30, 2006
page 12 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AFGHANISTAN 
Taliban militants kill two soldiers ·at base 
Militant actions bring death total to 223 
Associated Press 
KANDAHAH, Afghanistan ­Taliban militants launched a rare attack on a coalition base in southern Afghanistan Wednesday, killing an American and a Canadian sol­dier and sparking fierce U.S.­led retaliation that left 32 insurgents dead in the bloodi­est fighting in months. 
The attack came a day after at least 10 people were killed in two sepa"rate roadside bombings and reflected a growing intensity of militant assaults after the Taliban warned of a renewed offensive this year. 
"Over the last five or six weeks there have been various proven attacks mainly at night by the Taliban on that base, but I think it is fair to say this is the largest we have seen thus far," British spokesman Col. Chris Vernon told reporters in Kandahar. 
The battle began hours after Taliban insurgents ambushed an Afghan supply convoy as it returned to the remote forward operating base late Tuesday, killing eight Afghan soldiers, Vernon said. 
U.S. and British warplanes and helicopters were called in to provide air support and a Canadian quick reaction force was sent from Kandahar to the base, where a small contingent of American and Canadian sol­diers are stationed with Afghan troops in the Sangin district of the volatile Helmand province. 
Early Wednesday, the base came under a "significant Taliban attack," during which the Canadian and American soldiers were killed, Vernon said. At least five coalition troops were wounded, includ­ing three Canadians and an American, oflicials said. 
Twelve Taliban militants also died in the fighting, while 20 others were killed after coali­tion aircraft and artillery fire forced them to flee into the desert. 
The U.S. military said two compounds at a Taliban base were destroyed after the dis­covery of large caches of weapons, bombs and ammuni­tion. All were blown up, "caus­ing multiple secondary explo­sions and destroying the com­pound and all enemy military equipment inside," the military said. 
"The capturing of these two compounds with boots on the ground produced significant intelligence and allows us to continue to put pressure on the enemy," U.S. Brig. Gen. Anthony J. Tata added. 
The U.S. military did not release the name of the slain American soldier, but the dead Canadian was identified as Pvt. Hobert Costall of the 1st Battalion of the Princess Patricia's Canadian Light Infantry, based in Edmonton, Alberta. 
The 22-year-old Canadian was a new father who went to Afghanistan to "make a differ­ence," said his aunt, Colleen McBain. 
The American's death brought to 223 the number of 
U.S. service members killed in and around Afghanistan since the ouster of the Taliban in 2001. Twelve Canadians have been killed in the turbulent country since 2002, according to the Canadian Press news agency. 
In other violence, suspected Taliban rebels attacked a police checkpoint in Kandahar late Tuesday, killing two offi­cers and wounding four, police commander Abdul Nazik said, adding that insurgents had tried to occupy the post but were forced to flee. 
Another suspected Taliban militant was killed in southern Afghanistan's Zabul province when a bomb he was planting on a roadside exploded prema­turely, police chief Ghulam Nabi Malakhail said. 
Also Tuesday, a roadside bomb killed six Afghan soldiers on a road in Helmand province, and four private security work­ers -a Namibian and three Afghans -were killed else­where in the south in attacks blamed on Taliban rebels. 
Police said they also foiled an attempted suicide attack in Kandahar, pursuing two sus­pected bombers who eventually blew themselves up but caused no other casualties. 
Fighting has spiked in south­ern Afghanistan-in the past year, leaving swaths of it off­limits to aid workers and rais­ing concerns for the country's fragile democracy. 
Helmand also is Afghanistan's main opium poppy-growing region and fears of widespread violence have risen since an aggressive poppy eradication campaign started in recent weeks. 
Hugged mountains in the province are popular hiding places for Taliban rebels, many of whom are believed to slip back and forth across the province's largely unguarded border with Pakistan. 
More than 3,000 British troops are readying to take control of the volatile area. 
IRAQ 

Organized crime rising in Iraq 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq -Fourteen shot at a trading company. At least 90 kidnapped at other busi­nesses. Bodies dumped nightly, bound hand and foot, some tor­tured. A new brand of violence -a deadly mix of organized crime and sectarian murder-is tearing at Iraq. 
Its origins are murky. But the savagery has turned March into a pivotal month in the three-year war -a month of gruesome news, mixed with some good. A sharp decline in American deaths appears to be the payoff for handing more duties to the Iraqi army, leaving U.S. forces less exposed to attack. 
At the same time, there has been the rise in the slayings of civilian Iraqis, the reasons for which are hard to find. 
Not so many weeks ago, this was a conflict with straightfor­ward, if brutal, terms. Sunni insurgents and al-Qaida terror­ists used car bombs, roadside bombs, suicide bomb belts and sniper rifles to target U.S. troops, Iraqi soldiers, police and civil­ians -mainly Shiites, the newly ascendent majority after years of Saddam Hussein's oppression. 
Those groups still operate and still kill. But their war has been dwarfed by the shadowy and incipient terror stalking the capi­tal of Baghdad and its adjoining provinces. 
Or perhaps -as some Iraq officials believe -the insurgents simply switched their targets, moving from American and Iraqi troops to targeting businesses and Iraqi civilians as a way to cause chaos or to fund their ter­ror work. 
Either way, the staggering shift makes it difficult to predict how the U.S. military will or can react to the new climate of violence, a:pd what it might mean for hopes to begin a troop pullout this summer. 
Bombs still rattle the capital and elsewhere, but far less regu­larly. U.S. helicopters still thun­der through the sky, darting here and there and raising a racket that disturbs sleep and sends packs of wild dogs into a howling nighttime frenzy. 
The tanks in the streets these 
AllAN KITCHEN 
11:\iniltakatW( Italian.\Unbefit.~ably ·Gqod 
·• ....•. .... . . Reservations Accepted :Jll(l Edis.on LakeS. P~rkw~y. Mishawaka · ·•·· w; 571-lll-1692 · 
<.•::·~············.······ 

days aren't American, by and large, but old Russian T-7 2s driven by Iraqi soldiers. Faces at military checkpoints are increas­ingly Iraqi. 
As of Wednesday, 27 U.S. mili­tary personnel had died in March -the lowest monthly American death count since February 2004 and the second­lowest of the war, according to an Associated Press count. 
Coincidental with the sharp drop in American deaths was the huge rise in the number of exe­cution-style killings among Iraqis. Since the beginning of the month, at least 385 people -an average of more than 13 a day -have been found slain, the apparent victims of sectarian hatred and settling of old scores after a Shiite shrine was bombed Feb. 22. 
The count climbs to at least 486 when the last six days of February are added, according to figures compiled from daily AP reports based on police accounts. 
Also since the start of March, gunmen -mostly masked, many wearing police uniforms -have stormed at least six Baghdad businesses. On Wednesday, eight people were killed at the al-Ibtikar trading company when they were lined up against a wall and shot, and six others were wounded. At least 90 workers have been kid­napped and tens of thousands of dollars stolen in the five other assaults. 

University Libraries of Notre Dame 


Tell Us ..... 
UbQUAL~ 

We are listening! 
Answer the Library Survey Online 
March 21, 2006 thruApri/14, 2006 
httg://survcy.lihgual.org/indcx.cfm'?lD=863738 You could win one of six Apple Video iPods! 
·"'"''"'"'" Aglio. AlHor just $13.99. ·•····. 
~ 


Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

• 
p

page 14 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 

State law could have larger impact 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels 
Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63 I -4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631 ..8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and mllSt include contacr information. 
Q~stiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directf!d to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Til<: Obrcrvcr (USPS 5~ 2-4000) i< published Mooday through Frid>y <.apt durin8 exam and vacation pcriodl!i. A s~ptiun ro The Oh6corv<r is $100 for one aa.dcmi:c _yrar; $55 for one scmCMC'f. 
Til<: Observer is puhluhc:d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addr<::85 torrcctiDm to: Notre Dame. IN 465';6-0779 Til<: Observer l'eriodial po«ag< paid at Notre Dam< PO. B<:>xn9 aM addition.U mailing offict!S. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nwc Dame, IN 4&5~n9 

Til<: Obwv.:r is a m<mh<r or'the A=ciarc:d Prru. All reproduction rights >rc r<S<tV<d. 
A New York Times editorial predicts that a new South Dakota law, banning virtuaHy all abortions, wi11 "jump-start a whole new era of abortion battles." The law, House Bill (liB) 1215, affirms that "life begins at the time of com~ep­tion" and prohibits abortion as the only way to "fully protect" the mother as well as her unborn child. Let's examine why the Times' prediction is probably accurate. 
liB 1215 exemptc; a "physician who per­forms a medical pro­cedure ... to prevent the death of a preg­nant mother." The physician is required to "make rea~onable medical eflorts ... to preserve both the life ofthe mother and the life of her unborn child." Medical treatment causing "acci­dental or unintentional injury or death to the unborn child is not a violation" of JIB 1215. Also, liB 1215 exempts the mother from any penalty for abortion. 
liB 1215 rejecLc; the failed incremental strategy of proposing restrictions that nib­ble at the edges of legalized abortion with­out ever challenging the essential holding of Roe v. Wade that the unborn child is not a "person" entitled to the right to life pro­tected by the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court said in Roe that if the unborn child is a "person," the case for abortion "col­lapses." The Court, in Roe and since, has declined to decide whether the unborn child is a human being. Its ruling that, whether or not he is human, he is not a person is equivalent to a ruling that an acknowledged human being is a nonper­son. That principle, that innocent human 

Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 

beings can be defined as nonpersons and subjected to execution at the discretion of others, is the principle of the Supreme Court's 1857 Dred Scott case which said that slaves were property rather than per­sons. It is also the principle that underlay the Nazi depersonalization of the Jews. 
In Brown v. Board of Education, the Supreme Court insisted on considering public school segregation in light of pres­ent (1954) realities rather than as if it were still 1868, when the Fourteenth Amendment was adopted, or 1896, when Plessy v. Ferguson decreed the "separatP but equal" doctrine. Now, 33 years after Hoe, the evidence is compelling beyond any doubt that the victim of abortion is human, and that abortion is harmful to the mother and society as wen as to her unborn child. liB 1215 will confront the Court with the reality of abortion in a way that even a Supreme Court Justice will find hard to evade. 
Some criticize liB 1215 because it does not allow abortion where the unborn child is conceived as a result of rape or incest. Pope John Paul II said in Evangelium Vitae that a pro-life legislator could legitimately vote for an imperfect Jaw in some circum­stances. But there is no justification for pro-life advocates themselves to propose laws that validate the depersonalization of human beings. If an innocent human being is legally subject to execution because of the identity of his father as a rapist or as a close relative, he is legally a nonperson. HB 1215 invites the Court to decide whether the law can ever authorize the depersonalization and execution of the innocent. 
An unnoticed feature of HB 1215 is its assertion that, under the Constitution of South Dakota, "a pregnant mother and her unborn child" have a right to "due process of law" and "a natural and inalienable right to life." The Supreme Court has recognized "the authority of the State ... to adopt in its own Constitution individual liberties more expansive than those conferred by the Federal Constitution" Pruneyard Shopping Center 
v. Robbins (1980). liB 1215 provides to unborn human beings greater protections under South Dakota law than are provided by the Supreme Court under the Fourteenth Amendment. As an assertion of the reserved power of the State to define, a.c;; a matter of state law, the mean­ing of its 0\\-11 Bill of Hight'>, HB 1215 affirms the federalism embodied in the structure of the Untied States Constitution as well as in the Tenth Amendment. The Supreme Court has never ruled on this question of whether a state can apply to the unborn child the rule that a state can 
· use its law to protect rights beyond the 
extent to which they are protected by the 
United States Constitution. This could be 
the most important aspect of liB 1215. 
liB 1215 adopt'> the approach taken by Abraham Uncoln on the Dred Scott. case, which denied the personhood of slaves. In his Chicago debate with Stephen A. Douglas, Lincoln said: "If 1 were in Congress, and a vote should come up on a question whether slavery should be pro­hibited in a new territory, in spite of that Dred Scott decision, I would vote that it should .... Somebody has to reverse that decision ... and we mean to reverse it, and we mean to do it peaceably." 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School 
faculty. His column appears every other 
Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Katie Perry Chris Khorey Joe Piarulli Ken Fowler 
Marcella Berrios Jack Thornton How· do you feel about people Viewpoint Deirdre Krasula other than college students Alyssa Scene 
vie'Wing your Facebook proflle? 

Brauweiler Tae Andrews Graphics Graham Ebetsch Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
·www.ndsmcobserveccom • 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'"To fall in love is easy, el'en to remain in it is not difficult; our human loneliness is cause enough. But it is a hard quest worth making to find a comrade through whose steady presence one becomes steadily the person one desires to be ... 
Anna Louise Strong American journalist 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~--~ 

Life through Jesus' death 
Have you ever thought about how strange it was that Jesus wept at Lazarus' tomb just before he raised Lazarus from the dead? OK, maybe you haven't, but think about it. The raising of Lazarus (John 11:1-45) is Kate this Sunday's gospel, Barrett so you'll have anoth­er chance this week­FaithPoint end too. Hadn't Jesus sort of already planned to bring Lazarus back to life? Why, when he saw Mary and Martha and the others in tears, did he not right away reas­sure them that he could take care of their beloved Lazarus? Well, the gospel never tells us, but perhaps as part of our prayer this week we might wonder about that. Could Jesus have been looking ahead with apprehen­sion towa:td his own death? Were his tears for all the other deaths that take. place somewhere every day? 
The readings for our upcoming liturgies seem to push us to think more and more about death in these remaining days and weeks of Lent. We are to prepare ourselves for what we call the Paschal Mystery of Christ 
-the events surrounding his passion, death and resurrection. And although we have the gift of knowing that Easter comes, imagine the grief of Mary and of Jesus' disciples and friends on that first Good Friday, knowing only death, not remembering or comprehending Jesus' predictions that he would rise again. Even God the Father must have felt overwhelm­ing sorrow; after all, no matter that Jesus would rise from the dead on Sunday, he was really, truly and absolutely dead on Friday and Saturday. The author Michael Dubruiel writes in his excellent book "The Power of the Cross," "The dark­ness that covered the earth on that first Good Friday points, I believe, to the grief of God at the death of his Son. Though Jesus would rise on the third day, the first day was one of horror, pain and utter grief for all creation." 
We have each experienced death in some way or another in our lives, wheth'er through the death of some­one we loved deeply and intimately, or the deaths of large groups of peo­ple though natural disaster, acts of terror or war or some other instance of the loss of a loved one or acquain­tance. We ought perhaps to reflect on these losses during this last part of Lent. not in some kind of morbid fas­cination, but as a way to treasure and appreciate the saving death of Christ which we'll celebrate soon. Every hope that death extinguishes, every loss that death brings to the forefront · of our minds and hearts, every moment of overwhelming grief we feel we cannot escape, all are restored and brought to newness of life by Jesus' redemptive death on the cross. 

In our culture, we spend a lot of time (and money) trying to avoid get­ting older, or at least looking older. Old age reminds us of the inevitability of death. We know well, however, that death can occur at anyage and at any time. What we tend to call "untimely" deaths come to college students, young parents, middle-aged people and to unborn and infant babies. Perhaps a greater attention to death will bring us not only a renewed grat­itude for Christ's painfur. humiliating and "untimely" death, but also a deeper awareness of the short and fragile nature of our own lives and those of the people we care about. It's something to think about whenever we're making choices about how to spend the gift of time that God has given us. Do I use my time on myself or others? Does most of my time·go towards building up myself, either professionally or personally, or towards others who need my lo.ve, attention or help? How much do J focus, during my time on earth, on building up God's kingdom? 
Heflection on and prayer about death can be a way to clarify how we want to live life, and a reminder that every present moment and every hope we have for the future is a gift from God. The~person of Jesus, once dead, is alive and in our midst; he is very real, and ready to change our lives if we but welcome him in. 
Kate Barrell is the director of resources and special projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Irish' copyrighted 
We have been reluctant to engage in the argument about 
the Fighting Irish moniker so far, not because we don't care 
and don't feel that it is racist, but because we think this fight 
is futile. The issue is money. Notre Dame licensed products, 
which have the phrase "Fighting Irish," or a picture of the 
leprechaun, sell more than any other school apparel in the 
country. Do you think that Notre Dame has any intention of 
scuttling a million dollar industry because some whiney 
immigrants feel upset that they aren't being portrayed in the 
best light? As two of those immigrants, let us tell you about 
our run-in with the Notre Dame licensing department, and 
why it led us to believe the answer is no. 
A member of our lab was leaving, so we wanted to make · 
him aT-shirt as a going away present. We designed a ·"Scientist Leprechaun" that had no resemblance to the Notre 
Dame Leprechaun and drew him to be wearing a lab coat 
and goggles. 
We sent the image to a local T-shirt printing company to 
have the T-shirt made. The company owner told us he need­
ed to check with the Notre Dame licensing department. A 
lady from the department phoned us and flat out said we 
couldn't have our image printed, despite the fact that we 
promised a maximum of three were to be made and none 
were to be sold. We also tried to point out that Notre Dame's 
license covers the NO leprechaun, not every Leprechaun! We 
called the company owner back and told him that the design 
was distinct from the one copyrighted by Notre Dame, but he 
didn't want to annoy Notre Dame and wouldn't make our T­
shirts. 
We have looked up Notre Dame's licenses. Oui leprechaun 
was not in violation of their copyright, but they are such a 
behemoth in this area that small local businesses are afraid 
of upsetting them. We were even more irked to learn that 
Notre Dame has copyrighted the actual word "Irish" in any 
context. That means that we, as Irish-born immigrants, can­
not make something with the word "Irish." 
So what is.our point? Do we resent being forbidden to print 
a symbol of our country? Yes. Do we worry that we owe 
Notre Dame's licensing department money for every time we 
used the ''I'm Irish" chat-up line? Well, we're not paying 
them even if we do. Do we yearn to lay out that annoying 
leprechaun every time 'we see him bouncing around like an 
idiot at sporting events? Well. who doesn't? But we realize 
that all our frustration with the portrayal of our country 
won't make a difference. The images of Leprechauns and 
fighting Irish are negative stereotypes and by their very defi­
nition are racist but Notre Dame makes too much money 
and, as my experience has shown, is way too protective of 
their logos to let a few disgruntled students stand in their 
way. After all, they didn't let being wrong stand in their way 
of stopping us making a gift for our friend. 
Elizabeth Halpin Thomas Durcan graduate students March 29 

First, they came 
for the Indian ... 
I guess it was inevitable that the leprechaun mascot of Notre Dame would be deemed offen­sive to someone sooner or later. While Howley can speak about the indignity endured by the Irish who are portrayed as Quiet Man cast rpembers by the tourist board, I can speak about the significance of the Fighting Irish brand to Americans of Irish ancestry. 
First, it is important to remember that a sport mascot is chosen for the positive charac­teristics that the athletes are called upon to emulate. Indians are brave and fierce and strong. They represent the warrior spirit that athletes carry into their competitions. No school chose an Indian to be disrespectful. 
While a leprechaun is a mythical creature, he is pugnacious and clever, fearless and sly. Thomas Nast's nineteenth century cartoons depicted the Irish immigrant as an ape-like creature and much of America's opportunity was out of reach for the sorry lot of us. How fitting that the University of Notre Dame, as it welcomed the shunned Catholics, would take the sting out of this ugly caricature and adopt it as their leprechaun mascot. Fighting is a good thing to master if you are heading out to challenge an opponent. Not drunken brawling, but a spirited struggle to overcome obstacles. 
The leprechaun of Notre Dame is an American symbol, not an Irish one. Americans who were raised by Irish immigrants take pride in the unprecidented dominance of Notre Dame in so many areas. It's an elite institution with a blue-collar pedigree. A meritocracy. The lantern-jawed leprechaun with his raised fists is the perfect mascot. 
Mary Dudasik outside observer March 27 
Celebrate Africa Week 
This coming week, April 2-8, is Africa Week at Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Africa Faith and Justice Network, Africa Week is intended to generate dialogue about a range of issues concerning the African continent. For instance, topics covered during this year's Africa Week include genocide, agricultural trade, famine, child soldiering and war. Unfortunately, this sampling paints a rather gloomy portrait of the African situation. However, it is possible that through discus­sion, we might come to understand the ways that we are called to respond --ways in which we might unite with the peoples of Africa. 
In fact, unity is the theme of this year's Africa Week. But going above and beyond unity through dialogue, it is also important that we unite in celebration. Africa is not a black-hole continent -it is one of hope, opti­mism and resolve. The challenge posed to us is to recognize the beauty in African cultures, traditions and histories-to see hope and optimism where we might otherwise become discouraged. One aspect of Africa Week that highlights this aspect of unity well is Afrika Nite, sponsored by the African Students Association, to be held on Friday, April 8. In addition, T-shirts will be sold in the dining halls and in LaFortune at the beginning of the week so that others might become visibly­aware of our solidarity with the peoples of Africa. 
Lastly, posters and other flyers around cam­pus will announce the dates and locations of various lectures and panels being held in honor of Africa Week. 
As students at Notre Dame, we understand what it means to unite-whether on campus, in the community or on the field. Please con­sider taking part in Africa Week 2006 and demonstrating unity with the peoples of Africa, both in celebration and in considera­tion of the many obstacles that they continue to face. 
Katie Hauswirth sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall March 28 
-·-----­

Thursday, March 30, 2006 
page 16 
CD REVIEWS 
Multi-talented rock star reloads with 'Gun' 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistant Scene Ediror 
Mixing funky soul, echoing acoustic scales and harmonic blues rifts is a chal~ lenge for any musician. But Ponoma; Calif. born singer/songwriter Ben Harper man­ages to do this and more. 
Harper's music is powerful -both lyri­cally and musically -and is evocative of Jimi Hendrix, Bob Marley, Ben E. King and even Stevie Hay Vaughn. As has come to be expected from Harper, "Both Sides of the Gun," a double LP released by Virgin Hecords, is catchy, soulful and a poignant and politically aware mix of impressive music. This release is inordinately com­plete. 
The LP consists of two CDs, both provid­ing a completely different feel and sound, showing the range of musical variety Harper is capable of. The first CD, "Morning Yearning," reminds one of a rainy day, with the acoustic picking remi­niscent of raindrops on a sidewalk. Harper's voice is both soothing and melod­ic, and begs to be listened to. The first song, aptly named "Morning Yearning," is one of the album's best and inspires a feel­ing of somberness as well as a precedtmt for the tracks to come. Its combination of strings, guitar, harmonic melodies, piano and voice combine together into the perfect storm and an amazing song. 
The next song, "Waiting For You," is the type of amorous track that will have cou­ples slow dancing across the nation. But unlike the bulk of modern love songs, "Waiting for You" sounds sincere and true. In this earnestness grows something that many love songs cannot claim -believabil­ity. It is this sincerity-this utter domina­tion of the idea of truthfulness and trust in one's music-that elevates Harper into the upper echelon of music. The listener gets the idea that Harper creates music for him­self. He creates not for the masses, not for the popularity or the fame, but for the very joy of creation. He creates for the joy of singing and writing, of making something that will inspire both him and others. This is the basis ofHarper's greatness. 
Harper is also inspired on the song 

Both Sides of the Gun Ben Harper 
Virgin Records 


Recommended tracks: 'Better Way,' 'Waiting For You,' 'Black Rain,' 'Seroe Your Soul' and 'Happy Everafter In Your Eyes' 


"Happy Everafter In Your Eyes." This is in the same field as "Waiting For You," an idealistic love song that will bring a feeling of warmth even to the iciest of heart."i. 
The second CD of the LP is completely dif­ferent from the first. Entitled "Better Way," Harper shirks his acoustic gui­tar for the majority of the songs, giving the second half of "Both Sides of the Gun" a new vibe. This CD is primarily a mix of blues, funk and soul. While some of the tracks will remind the listener Hendrix's roaring guitar solos, others will inspire thoughts of Blue's Traveler's jam sessions. Harper makes both work in his favor. 
The CD opens with "Better Way," a catchy, upbeat tune about faith in oneself and one's ability to succeed despite set­backs. Even at one point when Harper's gentle voice turns to screaming, he makes it work. 
"Black Rain" is a song about the destruc­tion in New Orleans caused by Hurricane Katrina and speaks of Harper's feelings about the current government. "This gov­ernment business is straight up sadistic," Harper says, speaking of government's handling of one of the worst natural disas­ters in America's history. 
"Please Don't Talk About Murder While I'm Eating" is a song that is clearly inspired by Jimi Hendrix, and succeeds in this light. Harper shows a different side of his voice in this track, a far cry from the sweet sound in previous hits such as "Steal My Kisses" and "Burn One Down." 

Perhaps the song that most impressively shows Harper's versatility is the final track "Serve Your Soul." This song is an eight­minute blues, rock and soul jam session that will inspire millions to strap on an air guitar and rock out. The song shows all the facets of Harper's range in guitar as well a'i vocals, and is an auditory testament to his skill. 
Smart, savvy and soulful, Harper fuses his music with originality and sincerity. In doing so, he is a breath of fresh air in an otherwise stale musical environment. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmgradl@nd.edu 
Rock band proves there's no place like 'Home' 
By RYAN MILLIGAN Scene Critic 
Throughout the nineties, Collective Soul found consistent success and rose above many other grunge rock groups attempt­ing to do the same. Fans figured the suc­cess carne to an abrupt halt after manage­rial disputes resulted in over seven years without a decent release. The Atlanta­based quintet, however, carne storming back onto the music scene after recording "Youth" in 2004. And this time around ­they have decided to mix it up. 
Whenever a rock group decides to col­laborate with an orchestra, it always seems to be either a work of art or an absolute failure. Fortunately, Collective Soul is not Metallica so the former applies in this case. Listeners know the group has always relied heavily on strings to pro­duce most of their chart-toppers. So when it was announced that Collective Soul would put on a live performance with the original version in


Reconzmended tracks: 'December,' 'The World I 
"Youth." Originally 

Know,"Better Now' and 'Shine' just over three minutes in length, 
Atlanta Youth Symphony Orchestra, it was naturally assumed that the two would go well together. The end result is by no means a disappointment. 
"Home" is a two-disc set that includes all of Collective Soul's greatest hits, now enhanced by an orchestra consisting entirely of teenagers, along with a couple of hidden gems. Right off the bat, listeners can hear just h9w effective the combina­tion is, as a brief but effective orchestral introduction is followed up with "Counting the Days" -one of the group's most recent radio hits. The enthusiasm of the crowd also plays an immediate faetor, and it continues to do so throughout the album. 
Frontman Ed Roland is clearly at the top of his game during the entire per­formance. Occasionally labeled as one of the most underrated vocalists of the 90s, he puts listeners in their seats as the group belts out "December." The support­ing cast is just as solid. Newly acquired lead guitarist Joel Kosche made his pres­
ence felt during 
the recording of "Youth," and con­tinues to satisfy with fast-paced riffs in tracks such as "Precious Decl.aration" and "Heavy." 
Probably the most entertaining track is "Better Now," which was extended from its the live version goes on for over seven minutes. This is not necessarily a bad thing, as it gives the youngsters plenty of time to show ofT their talents. Once again, Roland does not have to make much of an attempt to get the crowd up and cheering, due to the fact that "Better Now" is one of the most lifting, upbeat songs that Collective Soul has ever released. The chorus embodies the whole message of optimism ("Break the news out I I've got to get out I Oh I'm feeling better now") and hearing it performed live only seems to magnify it. 

In the end, however, the songs that paved the path for Collective Soul prove to be the most captivating in "Horne." Fans who have heard the hit "The World I Know" can already appreciate what an inspirational song it is, and that it relies on violins to strike emotional chords in lis­teners. Now backed by a full-fledged orchestra, the result is something amaz­ing. "Shine," which marked the group's frrst reign at the top of the charts back in 1994, is another track that in many ways improves upon the studio version. Vocally, Roland is at his absolute best in the finale, singing his heart out to end an incredible performance. 
It is not clear as to where Collective Soul plans to go from here. They made a suc­cessful comeback and continue to flaunt their originality, but history shows that in the music business, second winds do not last as long as listeners may hope. Regardless of what happens, "Home" proves Collective Soul has made its mark. 
Contact Ryan Milligan at rrnilliga@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 
page 17 

CD REVIEWS 
Minneapolis rapper breaks a leg in latest 'Audition' 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Critic 
Stefon Alexander's acronymic nick­name changes its meaning all the time ("Produd of Society" and "Promise of Skill" being two examples) but P.O.S' talent is always present. The Minneapolis rapper's CD -"Audition" -is one of the strongest hip-hop 
albums since  Kanye  West's  "Late  
Registration."  
llis background  as a  punk rock fan  

makes his music sound fresher than a lot of current hip-hip. It doesn't explain his strange fascination with Charles Bronson, but his jams feature original electric guitar loops, and carry a punk rock attitude. Several notable guest appearances on "Audition" are Minneapolis natives, ranging from fel­low Rhymesayers rapper Slug (Atmosphere} to Craig Finn from the college Pock band, The Hold Steady. 
But no matter who is playing on P.O.S' team behind the mic or on the 
board, it works. The beats have a good variety of flow, such as the gangster­style delivery of "Half-Cocked Concepts" and the more dramatic and personal "Safety in Spe.ed (Heavy Metal)." P.O.S. uses all sorts of produc­tion styles. 
Some tunes have a rock 'n' roll feel, with elaborate electric guitar progres­sions and well-structured choruses like 
N.E.R.D. productions. Others are straight up hip-hop beats with turnta­bles, bass and minimal instrumenta­tion, similar to Cage tunes. Other songs celebrate old school soul with horn samples like Kanye's jams. Some include goofy insults and a lighter feel­ing that reminds the listener of Eminem ("You drink Fresca'? You're fired."). He showcases all the weapons in his arsenal successfully in just over 45 minutes. 
P.O.S. is a rare breed of a multi­dimensional rapper. In "P.O.S. Is Ruining My Life," he shows off his tal­ent as he spits lines as fast as Twista or Busta Rhymes, without disrupting the 
fragile beat of the music. Much like other Rhymesayers label artists, the lyrics are clever, even when they're about trivial movies: "The posters in the lobby of the theatre called it 'Predator'/ I called it weak really unacceptable I We've gotta stop falling for these double speakers from these double features I We've gotta keep 'em in the theaters." 


"Audition" is an album for the open­minded hip-hop aficionado. P.O.S. gives the listener a taste of his life in its entirety on each track with samples of punk rock, a political conscience and plenty of lyrical talent. 
Loaded with talented artists such as Atmosphere, I Self Divine, MF Doom and Brother Ali, Rhymesayers offers some of the best hip-hoppers available out there. P.O.S is a worthy addition 
among the ranks of some of the more unconventional rappers who have already established themselves on the hip-hop scene. 
Unfortunately, the album does have its weak points. For example, the tracks "Bush League Psyche-Out Stuff' and "The Kill in Me" definitely don't .• live up to the quality of the rest of the album. However, for the most part, eclectic up-and-coming rapper P.O.S. performs very well in his most recent "Audition." 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 

and unwatchable

Recommended tracks: 'Half-Cocked Concepts,' 
I Carl Weathers 

'Safety in Speed (Heavy Metal),' and 'De La Souls' and two futurf> governors, that's 
'Secret's' out: band's newest album release misses the mark 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Critic 
Secret Machines does not sound like they're from Dallas. They don't ·even sound like they're from America, as their cleanly processed and delibera­tively uttered rock music has a more European sound. 
But the Machines have been doing their thing in Texas since the critically acclaimed release of "September 000" 
· (2002). Singer Brandon Curtis's mature and crisp vocals reign over guitars, per­cussion and eleetronic effects, mashed together to produce an epic wave of sound on everv track. The Machines mastered the art of subtle detail and close attention to every moment on each song from the beginning. 
They garnered the most attention for their polished "Now Here Is Nowhere" (2004), an album that landed on several best-of-2004 lists. The album featured a mix of songs that develop slowly, such as the title track, and contain more radio-friendly pop tracks such as "The Road Leads Where It's Led." 



The Machines' trademark became songs with painfully long jnstrum~ntal introductions (sometimes without melody) keeping the audience in sus­pense, waiting for a pulse. Exhibit A: a nine-minute cover of Bob Dylan's "Girl From North Country" that opens with two minutes of a tone. 
But on the latest Machines release, "Ten Silver Drops," the formula has gotten played out. The band dawdles through eight songs in over 45 minutes. Even the more interesting tracks drag mon:, than any major label producer should allow. While the style might be innovative, making every tune sound 
· like its own epic adventure, none of the songs have much value beyond the first listen. 
After just listening to one song, the audience is already screaming, "No mas!" It appears the Machines have made an effort to drain energy from its listeners with each tune. 
"Ten Silver Drops" is the kind of music one might favorably look back on in 20 years since it was so intricately put together. But for now, listeners are better off getting their taste of mature­sounding indie rock from other artists such as I Love You But I've 
Chosen Darkness

Recommended tracks: 'Lightning Blue Eyes,' 'I Hate 
or Destroyer.

Pretending' and 'Alone, jealous and Stoned' The fact each song takes so 
long to build makes the end result much more dissatisfying given the album's weakness. There's no reason to run mediocre ballads, such as "Faded Lines," into the ground. The style is just digging the song's grave deeper. 
Besides the fact the writing isn't as strong as "Nowhere," once listeners get through the album, the last thing they'll want to do is listen to it again. Great albums are like addictions -enough is never enough, and wishful thinkers always wish the best songs were a little longer or the album had just one more track. 
On "Ten Silver Drops," by the time the closer "1,000 Seconds" is reached, it's a mystery why it's taken so long for the band to make their point. The album has virtually no repeatability factor, with the possible exception of one of the shorter tracks "I Hate Pretending," which clocks in at just over five min­utes. 

Each track is reminiscent of what a lot of rock bands have tried to toss at the end of albums -a conclusive and dramatic climax with sharp production that takes the liberty of being longer than an ordinary song. Unfortunately, the listener wishes he or she was at the end of the album after listening to just one song from "Ten Silver Drops." 
Contact Joe Latta! at jlattal@nd.edu 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Wade drops 37 to close gap in comeback win over Toronto 
' Harrington's 23 and late 3s from Sl'ojakovic not enough as Hawks sweep Pacers for first time in over 20 seasons 
Associated Press drew the foul before converting the Pacers on Wednesday night. the free throw to give Miami a The Hawks kept Stojakovic ­
TORONTO -Dwyane Wade one-point lead with 3:28 left. who hit four 3-pointers in the played so well that he earned a Toronto coach Sam Mitchell final 4:04 -from touching the kiss from Pat Riley. couldn't believe Wade was ball on the Pacers' final posses­
Wade scored 16 of his 3 7 allowed to take over. sion to complete a sweep of the points in the fourth quarter, "I think some of our guys season series from Indiana for and the Miami Heat overcame need to understand who the first time since the 1984-85 the absence of injured Dwyane Wade is and what he season. Shaquille O'Neal to beat the can do," Mitchell said. "I got "For some reason, we have Toronto Raptors 98-94 on. cable. Even before I got to the matchup problems," Stojakovic Wednesday night. NBA, I knew what Magic said of the last possession. "It 
O'Neal missed the game Johnson could do. I watched caused a little confusion on because of a hyperextended left TV. Even if you got three chan­offense. We shouldn't have put knee, but Wade rallied Miami nels, they're on TV." ourselves in that position." from a 16-point deficit. Wade sealed the victory with Jermaine O'Neal missed a 
As his All-Star guard walked six free throws in the final turnaround jumper with five to the dressing room afterward, minute. seconds remaining, and Fred Hiley kissed him on the back of Ilis two free throws made it Jones tipped a pass to Jamaal the neck. 92-89 lead with a minute left, Tinsley that could've given the 
"He's incredible," Riley said. but Eric Williams tied it with Indiana point guard a chance to "lie has no fear at the end and three free throws after being get ofT a shot from the left wing. he simply wants to be put in fouled on a 3-point attempt. Tinsley, however, was defend­that position. He was a way of ed tightly and decided to pass making plays, he's just incredi­Atlanta 94, Indiana 93 to Jones at the top of the key. ble." Peja Stojakovic is glad Jones' straightaway missed, but 
A humble Wade laughed Indiana has no more games this the ball left his hands after the about the kiss. season against the Atlanta buzznr sounded. 
"I put nn OK day in, especially Hawks. ~·we had some time but they in the second half. That's just "I know we've lost to them smothered us," Indiana coach coach Riley being the emotional twice since I've been here, and Hick Carlisle said. "We'll look guy that he is," Wade said. I know they lost to them twice back and kick ourselves about 
Miami trailed by as many as before," Stojakovic said. "It's a what could have been, but 
13 in the final period, but Wade problem when they go small you've got to give Atlanta cred­scored 10 straight points as because everyone is the same it. They fight hard, they play Miami went on a 16-4 run to size and it confuses us offen­well, they earned the victories take its first lead since early in sively." against us." brating. seven matchup. the first. AI Harrington had 23 points "We have bigger goals than "Everybody's playing togeth­
Wade crossed over Mike and eight rebounds, and the Cleveland 107, Dallas 94 that," Cavaliers coach Mike er, everybody's playing in sync," James, put the ball behind his Hawks snappe9 a five-game LeBron James was in seventh Brown said. "If the fans want to Ben Wallace said. "That's all we back and made a layup and losing streak with a victory over grade the last time the celebrate and the city wants to can ask for right now." 
Cleveland Cavaliers played in celebrate, that's f.ine. We . the postseason. expected to be in the playoffs." Boston 123, New York 98 And he wasn't even a Paul Pierce and Wally Cavaliers fan. Detroit 101, Philadelphia 91 Szczerbiak each scored 22 
"I was a Bulls fan -all With a balanced, dominant points, Delonte West added 21, Michael Jordan back then. I'm and deep roster, Detroit swept and the Boston Celtics beat the all Cavs now," James said. the season series against New York Knicks on Wednesday 
James helped end the NBA's Philadelphia. night. third-longest playoff drought by With the way both teams are The Celtics snapped a two­scoring 46 points in a victory playing down the stretch, the game losing streak and handed over the Dallas Mavericks on Pistons can start thinking about the Knicks their sixth straight Wednesday night, elinching another possible sweep over loss. Cleveland's first postseason the Sixers, .only this time in the Ryan Gomes added 15 points berth since 1998. postseason. · and 13 rebounds for the Celtics, 
The league's brightest young Chauncey Billups and Antonio who shot 57 percent from the star will be playing in late April McDyess each scored 18 points field and led by as many as 38 for the first time in his three to lead the Detroit Pistons over points. Raef LaFrentz and Tony years with the Cavaliers. James the slumping Philadelphia Allen each had 14 points. said he was pleased, especially 76ers on Wednesday night. The Celtics led 40-28 after after missing the playoffs by Richard Hamilton and the first quarter and never one game last season. Tayshaun Prince both had 16 relinquished their double-digit 
"I've always felt since I was points and Ben Wallace ~ lead. Boston pulled within three drafted here that I was going to grabbed 11 rebounds for the games of Philadelphia for the light it up like Vegas," James Pistons. eighth and final playoff spot in said. "I said that on Day One Detroit has a comfortable the Eastern Conference. once I got drafted. It's been lead in the Eastern Qyntel Woods scored a slow progress, but it takes a Conference standings, while career-high 20 points for the few years to put a building up the Sixers' three-game losing Knicks, who led only once, on in Vegas, too." streak has them in eighth Steve Francis' game-opening 
AP The Cavaliers were low-key place. The Pistons beat the jumper. Eddy Curry also had 20 Hawks forward AI Harrington, middle, is fouled by Pacers guard about their accomplishment, Sixers in five games in last and Stephen Marbury added Anthony Johnson, left, in Atlanta's 94-93 win Wednesday night. leaving the court without cele-season's first-round, best-of-19. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all dassifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
Come live at the POTATO HOUSE. Furnished 4BR house near ND. THE BEST HOME NEED A CAMPUS JOB FOR NEXT WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-_19237 Cleveland, close to ND. ADT,air,laundry,dishwash, IS NOW AVAILABLE FOR THE YEAR? Join the Student Activities WANTED ROOM HOMES Call Giovanni 586-405-8715. basement,yrd. 287-4961. COMING SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL staff. Real Jobs. Real Experience. 
Nanny wanted for infant & toddler. WTHF during academic year & 6 weeks in summer full time. ND tam· ily. Contact 246-0572 or ekenned1 @nd.edu 
Web Content Writer. Write item descriptions at home for Workingperson.com that are inter­esting and develop trust between customer and company. Use Internet research,humor,meet dead· lines. Contact eafisch1 @aol.com 
FoR RENT 
NEW! http://ndrental.tripod.com 
MMMRENTALS.COM 532·1408 
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993·2208 or grooms@ ourwebspot.net 
Just 1 block from campus! For lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom con· dos ranging from $1500-$2200 per month. 574·243·4554 ext.203. No utilities included. 
Beautiful 4bdrm house, 1 .5 baths, CIA. Gas stove,microwave, fridge, & WID. 2-car garage. Walk to ND. $1,400/mo ($350 per room). 57 4-277 ·1875. 
Furnished 4BR house near ND. ADT,air,laundry,dishwash,base­ment,yrd. 287-4961. 
Looking for lodging for home foot­ball games? Call 57 4-276-8417 for details. 
HISTORIC HOME-CHAPIN PK. 2800 slf+base,LR wlfp,4 bdrms,study + finished 3rd fl. Full appliances+ WID, 3 porches. 413 W. NAVARRE!$1250+util. 574­2322167 or 574-2613184 www.xog.com/property/413WestNa varre.html · 
Lake Cottage 4 rent Aug. to May. 269-699-5928. 

4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus. $1350. 220·8666. 
FoR SALE 
4 bdrm/2bth newly remode!ed house near campus. $87,000. 220-8666. 
TICKETS 
O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James Taylor. Call 272·7233. 
TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-1659. 
FOR 3·6 STUDENTS ALL THE AMENITIES 27:'3097 
PERSONAL 
Mercury, Investigate disappear­ance. Suspect Pluto is pulling something. Jupiter 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Real Money. Application deadline is Monday, April 3. Visit: sao.nd.eduljobs for more info. 
The little man who gets the train Got a mortgage hanging over his head But he's too scared to complain 'Cos he's conditioned that way Time goes by and he pays off his debts Got a TV set and a radio For seven shillings a week Shangri-la, Shangri-la, Shangri-la, Shangri-la, Shangri-la, Shangri-la -"Shangri-la" by the Kinks 
Mrs. Partyka is really cool. 
Hopefully my prospect isn't lame. 
--~-~~------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

This coming Sunday, these 13 candidates for Full Com-. 
n1union will con1plere their initiatiotl into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments of Confirmation and Eucharist at the 11:45arn Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please keep them in your prayers and help us to welcome them into our 
Catholic con1munity. 
Chris Wood 
Sponsored by Nick J;tu·t 

C-M 
---------------------Carnpu~ t·1~rtl$l:Tl 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 CoMPI LED FROrv1 THE ()BSERVER'S \VI RE SERVlCES page 20 
...... 
Men's Tennis ITA Rankings 
team previous points 

1 Georgia 1 750 2 Pepperdine 2 740 3 Illinois 3 730 4 Duke 5 719 5 Mississippi 4 711 6 Stanford 1 698 7 Florida 6 691 8 UCLA 8 672 .. 9 Baylor 9 675 10 Washington 10 663 11 Texas 12 649 12 Ohio State 11 642 13 Virginia 16 634 14 North Carolina 17 625 15 Clemson 22 609 16 California 14 603 17 Miami Florida 18 588 18 NOTRE DAME 26 578 19 Louisville 30 569 20 vcu 21 562 21 Arkansas 25 553 22 Georgia Tech 28 538 23 TCU 32 531 24 LSU 13 518 25 Wake Forest 15 506 
Women's Tennis ITA Rankings 
team 
1 Stanford 2 NOTRE DAME 3 North Carolina 
4 Southern California 5 Duke 6 Northwestern 


7 Floritla 
8 Georgia 9 California 10 Miami Florida 11 Texas 12 Arizona State 13 Vanderbilt 14 Pepperdine 15 Baylor 16 Harvard 17 UCLA 18 Wake Forest 19 TCU 20 Long Beach State 21 Va. Commonwealth 22 Michigan 23 Arizona 24 Georgia 25 Tennessee 
MIAA Women's Tennis Standings 
team league 
1 Albion 3-0 2 Kalamazoo 3-0 3 Hope 2-0 4 SAINT MARY'S 2-1 5 Tri-State . 1-1 6 Calvin 1-1 7 Olivet 0-2 8 Alma 1-3 9 Adrian 0-4 

around the dial 
NBA 

Suns at Pacers, 8 p.m., TNT Spurs at Lakers, 10:30 p.m., TNT MLB Red Sox vs. Reds, 1 p.m., ESPN Rockies vs. White Sox, 2 p.m., Comcast TENNIS NASDAQ-1 00 Open, 1 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Major League Baseball will investigate alleged steroid use by Barry Bonds and other players, and plans to hire U.S. Senate majority leader George Mitchell to lead the effort. 
A baseball of'f'ieial told The Associated Press on Wednesday that final plans were to be announced Thursday. The oflicial spoke on condition of anonymity because commissioner Bud Selig has not yet made his intentions public. 
Selig's decision to launch the probe, first reported Wednesday by 

ESPN, comes in the wake of "Game of Shadows," a book by two San Francisco Chronicle reporters detail­ing alleged extensive steroid use by Bonds and other baseball stars. The commissioner has said for several weeks that he was evaluating how to respond to the book. 
Some in Congress have called for an independent investigation. Mitchell, a Maine Democrat and a director of the Boston Red Sox, has been a director of the Florida Marlins and served on an economic study committee that Selig appointed in 1999. 
Mitchell's possible involvement was first 
IN BRIEF 
Eis!Jtteen-year-old shines at N.t\SDAQ-100 Open 
KEY BISCAYNE, fla. -A native of Hussia and a citizen of France, Tatiana Golovin also enjoys a home-court advantage-in South Florida. And she's making the most of it at the Nasdaq-100 Open. 
The 18-year-old Golovin earned a berth in the semifinals by sweep­ing the last five games Wednesday to beat Zheng Jie 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. 
Golovin was born in \1oscow, and her family lives in Strasbourg, France. She began training part­time in Florida at age 7, moved last fall to Miami and practiced over the winter at Key Biscayne with Andy Roddick's former coach, Tarik Benhabiles. 
"It feels really nice to be driving your car to the courts, sleeping in your own bed, knowing everything around," she said. "l just know the courts so well. and I know th•~ con­ditions and thP wind." 

mentioned Wednesday in The New York Times. The name of a lawyer who will run the mechanics of the probe also was to be announced. 
No matter what the find­ings of an investigation, it would ·be difficult for baseball to penalize any­one for steroids used prior to Sept. 30, 2002, when a joint drug agreement between management and the players' association took effect. Baseball began drug testing in· 2003 and started testing with penalties the follow­ing year. 
"I will only comment on things about Barry's on­field performance or con-
Texas Tech looks to replacehead coach Sharp 
LUBBOCK, Texas -Texas Tech officials have called a news confer­ence about the women's basketball program for Thursday, a day after Purdue coach Kristy Curry wrapped up a visit to the campus. 
Tech officials would not comment beyond what was in the release. The school is looking for a replacement for Marsha Sharp, who announced last month she was resigning after 24 seasons as head coach. 
Curry met with senior athletic department officials and toured the campus during a visit to Lubbock on Tuesday and part of Wednesday, Lady Haider spokes­woman Tammi Hoffman said. 
Last week, Texas Tech contacted Purdue athletic director Morgan Burke seeking permission to talk to Curry about the hPad coaching job. Purdue granted that rPquest. 
traetual status," said his agent, Jeff Borris. 
It is unclear whether current or former players would cooperate with an investigation or could be forced to do so by base­ball. Gene Orza, the chief operating officer of the Major League Baseball Players· Association, declined comment. 
Under pressure from Congress, baseball tough­ened penalties last year and again this season, when an initial positive test will result in a 50­game suspension. Twelve players, including Rafael Paimeiro, were suspended for 10 days each following positive tests last year. 
Sixteen-year-old Wie to play
IPGA tour event _ 
RANCHO MillAGE, Calif. -Michelle Wie tumbled out of the cart before it came to a halt, regained her balance and then ran in place like a girl who couldn't wah to get started. 
Turns out she was only trying to stay warm ori a chilly Wednesday morning in the desert. 
Her final practice round for the Kraft Nabisco Championship, her first LPGA Tour major as a professional, began at 
6:20 a.m., giving her enough time to squeeze in nine holes at Mission Hills before the pro-am came through. 
If she was cold, much less sleepy, it didn't show. 

Her fourth full swing was a 4-iron from 204 yards on the par-5 11th, struck cleanly and with such control that it stopped 15 feet away to the right of the pin. 
Each tournament is an evaluation of her game, and her decision to turn pro last October, six days bpfore her 16th 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Other Final Four teams looking for a share of the spotlight 
Florida, UCLA and LSU overshadowed by No. 11-seed Patriots 
Associated Press 
Florida, LSU and UCLA each have one seemingly impossible task this weekend -trying to steal some attention from the darlings ofthe Final Four. 
"In the NCAA tournament, there are two things people love to see -a Cinderella story and a team that is so powerful and explosive they look invincible," Florida coach Billy Donovan said Wednesday during a conference call with the other Final Four coaches. 
George Mason (27 -7) fits Donovan's first description per­fectly. 
Coach Jim Larranaga spent part of Wednesday's news confer­ence explaining how the universi­ty has dealt with its identity cri­sis, being confused with nearby schools such as George Washington and James Madison. 
By winning four games in the tournament and becoming the first No. 11 seed in two decades to reach the national semifinals, though, George Mason now has a place in college basketball lore. 
And the only way for Florida, LSU or UCLA to reclaim the spot­light is to ruin the feel-good story. 
"What I told my team right after we were seeded and placed into the brackets was that it real­ly doesn't matter where you're seeded, and I think George Mason is a testament to that and the parity in college basketball," UCLA coach Ben llowland said. "There's just so much parity now and the margin for error is so slight among the teams." 
In any other year, the three other teams headed to Indy might have taken the role as the sur­prise team. 
Florida (31-6) made it here despite starting four sophomores, losing its top three scorers from a year ago and lacking the veteran poise it usually takes to make a Final Four run. 
LSU (27 -8) is even younger ­and further ahead of schedule. After Brandon Bass declared for the NBA draft last spring many in Bayou country thought the Tigers were likely at least a year away from such a deep tournament run. Coach John Brady made sure they didn't waste the oppor­tunity and reached the Final Four after taking down both top-seed­ed-Duke and second-seeded Texas. 
UCLA (31-6), of course, is hop­ing to add to its NCAA record-set­ting collection of national cham­pionship trophies as John Wooden, the godfather of the pro­gram, watches from home. 
Only one coach coming to Indy -Donovan -has ever led his own team to college basketball's most glamorous event. 
The storylines span the genera­tions from Wooden to Donovan, and from the senior-laden team 
of George Mason to the newcom­ers at LSU and Florida. All of them, though, have been overshadowed by this mid-major. 

"In this day and age with the mid-majors being pretty talented, and they can throw a couple of seniors or fifth-year seniors at you, that's a big advantage," Brady said. ''I've never had the chance to coach a talented sen­ior at L';U because they're usual­ly gone early." 
To steal the show this week, one of the three big-name teams will have to beat George Mason. 
Florida gets the first crack Saturday night, and Donovan knows he'll face as great a chal­lenge in winning as he will get­ting fan support. 
"They are a terrific team and for us it's another challenge against a great team," Donovan said. "They've proven that with what they did against Connecticut and Michigan State and North Carolina. I'm excited for George Mason and it's great for college basketball." 
But the real test will be whether George Mason can con­tinue its quest by beating the odds and producing the final chapter in what would easily become the greatest tournament title run in history. 
"They play college basketball way they should play it," Donovan said. "We're looking at this game as playing one of the best teams in the United States of America because that is what they are." 



I 
e 
Receive $100 back through Kaplan's Rebate when you enroll in a Kaplan course in March! 
Take advantage of this limited-time offer. Enroll today. 

1-800-KAP-TEST kaptest.com/rebate 
HIGHER TEST SCORES GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK"" 
·res: names are regiStered trademarKs of their respective owners ..Condrt10ns and restrictlons apply For complete guarantee eligibility reQwrements. IIISit kaptest.cO!lllhsg The Htgher Score Guarantee applies only to Kaplan courses taken and completed within the United States and Canada tThis offer appl~es only to enrollments for Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions Classroom Courses, 15-. 25-, and 35-hour Private Tutonng Programs. and Premium Online Courses in tne 50 United States. the District of Columbia. and in Montreal. Ottawa. Vancouver. Edmonton. Calgary. and Victoria. Canada. Cannot be comb111ed wrth any other offer. discount, or promotton To be eligible. you must enroll between March 1, 2006 and March 31. 2006 Certatn conditiOns apply. See redemptiOn form for complete details. Redemption forms available at k.aptest comfrebate or at Kaplan centers 

Louisiana State's Tyrus Thomas, middle, celebrates at the end of the Tigers 70-60 Elite Eight win over Texas in Atlanta Saturday. 
Undergraduate
Engagement , Research:n . Scholarly,
and 

Creative End,eavors
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their sch()larly inquiry 
I Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Student Peace Conference 
"Voices of'T'oday, Changes for Tomorro"v" Auditorium, Heshurgh Center 
7-9 PM, Friday, March 31 
& 9:30AM -5 PM, Saturday, April 1 
L 
. underl!radresearch.nd.edu 

. 
. 
. ' ' 
.... 
• 
•t 
• 
t 
' 
• 
r
' 
' . 
• 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, March 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 r: 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Hoosiers hire Sampson to replace Mike Davis 
Lauren and son Kellen watching NCAA violations -were remarks, and Stephen Ferguson, then dropped White's name dur­
Forrner Sooners coach 
from the front row, a couple of addressed. He leaves Oklahoma the president of the university's ing his opening remarks. While addresses violations, hundred eager students burst amid an NCAA investigation into trustees, acknowledged ·it was White and about a half-dozen into a chant of "Boo, Hoo, Hoo­more than 550 impermissible something top officials sought to current players attended thewinning at pep rally siers" on cue. phone calls made to recruits by clarify during the interview event, Vaden, noticeably, did not. But even as Sampson signed a Sampson and his assistant process. White insisted neither his seven-year deal that pays an coaches. Sooners officials are "That was obviously our No. 1 appearance nor Vaden's absence 
A~sociated Press 
average of $1.5 million annually scheduled to appear before the concern," Ferguson said. "We was a signal of what either play­
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -what athletic director .Rick NCAA infractions committee on spoke with the attorney and er would decide. Indiana fans greeted new Greenspan believes is the richest April 21. Oklahoma extensively. We ''I'm going to listen to coach, Hoosier coach Kelvin Sampson deal for a coach in school history Any sanctions against reviewed the situation and we but I'm weighing my options," with a standing ovation. His next -Sampson's emotions covered Sampson could follow him to were satisfied." he said. "I've got to see what's job is keeping them on their feet. a wide swath. Indiana. Sampson has more immediate best for me.... I'm my own man 
Sampson took over one of First, he thanked Oklahoma's "It is a little bit embarrassing concerns, too. and Robert's his own man." America's most prestigious bas­president, athletic director and to stand up here and be asked Two of Indiana's top players, Herbert and Greenspan, who ketball schools Wednesday and fans for their support over the about NCAA violations, but you sophomores D.J. White and conducted the five-week search, quickly promised to keep past 12 seasons. also have to realize we're Robert Vaden, have both said insisted Sampson was the right Indiana's tradition intact by Then he sent an optimistic human and we make mistakes," they intend to follow former man for the pressure-filled job. doing three things: graduating message about returning the he said. "I made a mistake but · coach Mike Davis wherever he Greenspan praised Sampson's players, running a clean pro­Hoosiers' program to glory after we've corrected it and moved lands. Davis announced Feb. 16 ability to produce hard-nosed, gram and winning titles. going 1Y seasons without a forward." that he would resign at season's disciplined, unselfish teams that 

"I came to Indiana for one rea­national championship. The stu­Clearly, the allegations were end. I le has been rumored to be win consistently. son: I think you can win champi­dents responded with their loud­an issue for Indiana, which has in contention for jobs at Arizona Herbert took another tack, onships at Indiana," Sampson est applause of the day. a long-standing reputation of State and Alabama­emphasizing Sampson'~ ability said. "I think together we can do Finally, Sampson appeared avoiding NCAA trouble. Birmingham. to re-establish Indiana as one of some special things .at Indiana conciliatory when the two issues University President Adam Before the news conference, the nation's premier basketball University." that tarnished his reputation at Herbert addressed the allega­Sampson spent about 45 min­programs something 
With his wife Karen, daughter Oklahoma -graduation and tions in his introductory utes meeting with the players, Sampson helped Oklahoma do. 
College Park is now 

New Name. New Management. New Owners. Same Great Location. 
• Bulla and Ironwood Roads is the location, location, location 
• just outside the city limits, but a short stroll to campus 
• 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, in·unit washer-dryer 
• 1250 sq. ft., cathedral ceilings on the second floor, nice balcony 
• Currently leasing for the next school year 
• 
Competitive rents and terms 

• 
On-site management office 


Stadium Club Condos is now being managed by Real Estate Management Corporation, the largest property management company in northern Indiana and southwestern Michigan, managing over I ,200 units. 

Looking for a great new apartment? 
Contact Susan Miller, Director/Senior Property Manager, at 

574-243-7530 
www.stadiumclubcondominiums.com 

•

MLB Indians sign Sizemore .. to record six-year deal 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -The Cleveland Indians locked up their center field position into the next decade, agreeing Wednesday to a $23.45 million, six-year con­tract with Grady Sizemore. 
Sizemore's deal has the most guaranteed money for a player with less than two years of major-league service, $200,000 more than the Boston Red Sox guaranteed shortstop Nomar Garciaparra in a five-year deal agreed to in March 1998. 
"I didn't expect it to happen this fast," Sizemore said. "Last year, I was just trying to make the team." 
Sizemore's hustle and humili­ty have made him a favorite with teammates and fans. The Indians' female ra·n base has taken a particular liking to him -the team sold 200 "Mrs. Sizemore" T-shirts on the first day they were made available at Jacobs Field. 
His new status as a million­aire shouldn't hurt his populari­ty. Sizemore gets a $1 million signing bonus and salaries of $500,000 this year, $750,000 in 2007, $3 million in 2008, $4.6 million in 2009, $5.6 million in 1010 and $7.5 million in 2011. 
The agreement includes an 
$8.5 million club option for 2012 with ·a $500,000 buyout. If the option is exercised, the deal would total $31.45 million over seven seasons, and the option price could increase to $10.5 million depending on whether Sizemore is an All-Star, Gold Glove or Silver Slugger or does well in MVP voting. 
If traded, the option becomes Sizemore's decision and the buyout is forfeited if he declines the option. He would also get a $500,000 payment if traded, and the salaries in the remain­ing years of the contract would increase by 10 percent. 
''I'm still going to play the game the same way," Sizemore said. "I want to be here for a long time." 
Sizemore has played only one full season in the majors, but the 23-year-old outfielder did enough to impress the Indians. 
"He plays the gam~ hard. He respects the game. He's a good teammate, and he's pretty good as well," team president Paul Dolan said. 
Sizemore batted .289 with 22 homers and 81 RBI in 158 games last season. He also scored 111 runs, had 22 steals and became the second Indians player to record 20 doubles, 10 triples, 20 homers and 20 steals in the same season. 
Free SoftballWiftle bats to the first 200 fans! 
Saturday, Ap @12:00 vs. Co 
~UDDllQ~1w:, April 2 rovidence 
uffettDay! 
the first 250 fans to early arriving fans 
II win tickets to see 
oftball 
------~----------------~----------------------......................... 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2006 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Patriots are enjoying role as nation's underdogs 
George Mason's run drawing comparisons to 'Hoosiers', Bon Jovi 
Associated Press 
FAIRFAX, Va. -America's favorite new underdogs held one last pep rally Wednesday and departed for the land of "Hoosiers." 
A bit of a stretch? Well, if George Mason coach Jim Larranaga had his way, his team would be practicing at the actual gym where that movie was set. 
"It's not available the day we need it," Larranaga said. 
The shutout at Hinkle Fieldhouse at Butler University -where tiny Milan High beat mighty Muncie Central in the Indiana state title game in 1954 -is probably the first thing that hasn't gone just right for the Patriots in their incredible run to the Final Four. 
In the movie "Hoosiers," Milan was called Hickory High School. 
Now GMU is becoming movie material, although Larranaga said he would prefer to be por­trayed by Craig T. Nelson instead of Gene Hackman because: "We have the same hairline." 
His players want in on the act, too. 
"I think it's a Hollywood story already," guard Lamar Butler said. "If anybody wants to make a movie, come see me. I'll play my part. I'm a good actor. I can make a serious face." 
Certainly, no screenwriter embellishment will be needed if the Patriots can beat Florida on Saturday in Indianapolis and win the NCAA title game on Monday. The elements for good moviemaking are already there. 
Really, who could make this stuff up? 

+ 
Theme song: The Patriots' unofficial fight song, appropri­ately enough, is "Livin' on a Prayer" by Bon Jovi. The stu­dents certainly sing it louder than they do their real fight song.

+ 
Tearjerker moment: At the Final Four, Larranaga will see his newest grandson for the first time. James Joseph Larranaga III was born in February in Italy, where the coach's son plays pro ball. The son, by the way, has been call­ing Dad several times a day to offer coaching advice. 

+ 
Tidy coincidence: Larranaga was hired by George Mason on April Fool's Day in 1997. On Saturday, nine years to the day, he'll face Florida for a spot in the championship game. By the way, the 1997 Final Four was held where? In Indianapolis, of course. 


+ More coincidences: George 
Mason President Alan Merten used to be a dean at the University of Florida. He planned to vacation in that state this week. Naturally, he canceled the trip. 
Athletic director Tom O'Connor's grandson, Tommy Toole, will be a ballboy at the Final Four. O'Connor broke the news to Toole in December as a Christmas present, having no idea that Mason would actually be playing this weekend. By the way, Saturday is Tommy's 10th birthday. 
Larranaga understands why his team has so fascinated the American public. 
"Every one of us in this coun­try, we do not want to be con­sidered underachievers," Larranaga said. "Nobody wants that tag. We'd like to be at least achievers.... This team has exceeded expectations. I could probably thank (CBS commen­tators} Billy Packer and Jim Nantz for creating that, because nobody expected us to do anything. I told our te·am that has really helped us. It's helped us stay under the radar screen and be an unknown quantity, a mystery, to the opponents." 
They are unknown no more. Wednesday's pep rally at the student center drew more stu­dents than usually attend the Patriots' home games. Coeds lined two levels of balconies, while others stood on stairwells and tabletops to get a glimpse of Larranaga. 
The coach recounted how he compared· his team to "Kryptonite" against the Supermen of North Carolina, how he hummed the "Mission: Impossible" team to his players and referred to the Colonial Athletic Association as the "Connecticut Assassin Association" before the game against Connecticut. 
NFL 
Owners vote to curtail endzone celebrations 
Sharpies and sit-ups out, 'Riverdancing' and dunking allowed 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A<> a series of plays from the 2005 season flashed on the screen at the NFL meetings, people began to yawn. Examples of "down by contact" or minor movement that led to illegal procedure calls just weren't attention grabbers. 
They woke up quickly when a tape came up showing Cincinnati's Chad Johnson catch­ing a touchdown pass from Carson Palmer, then picking up a pylon and putting the football from the back line of the end zone. 
"He has a better stroke than I have," said supervisor of oflicials Mike Pereira, who was oversee­ing the video session. 
Entertaining as Johnson's putt looked, it won't happen again ­at least not without repercus­sions. 
NFL owners voted 29-3 Wednesday to limit end zone demonstrations, including those using props such as Johnson's pylon putt or Terrell Owens' Sharpie signing; or another Owens specialty, sit-ups after a score. 
Moves like that will now draw a 15-yard unsportsmanlike con­duct penalty. 
Also banned: Johnson's pro­posal to a cheerleader on the sideline -another of his shows last year -because he got down on one knee and doffed his hel­met. 
On the other hand, his "Riverdance" routine, one of last season's highlight film bests, will be OK because he stayed on his feet. That kind of thing is still allowed, as is spiking, dunking or spinning the ball after a TD. 
Still, there will have to be some innovation by the celebra­tors. 
''I'm looking forward to seeing what Chad will come to cele­brate with now," Indianapolis coach Tony Dungy said after the vote. 
Owners and league officials acknowledge the entertainment value of touchdown celebra­tions, many featuring Johnson, Owens or Carolina's Steve Smith, three of the league's top wide receivers. 
But they also had had numer­ous communications from offi­cials of youth football leagues, saying that more and more youngsters were imitating NFL players. 


Asian Summer Language Grant Program 
Dead line is March 31, 2006. 
The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates and graduate students who wish to study an Asian language not currently offered at Notre Dame. The program selected can be either in the U.S. or a foreign country. 
It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes will be counted for academic credit at Notre Dame. The competition is not open to seniors or graduate students completing their degrees. 
Applications at www.nd.edu/-cas 
New this year! 
First Annual Essay Prize in Asian Studies 
Deadline is April 10, 2006 
Two prizes of $100 each will be awarded for the Best Undergraduate and Best Graduate Essay. Essays should focus on Asia or Asian American topics. · 
Undergraduate submissions should be no longer than 20 pages. Graduate submissions should be no longer than 30 pages. 
Submit three copies (two without author i.nformation) to: 
Center for Asian Studies 
210 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
1-0487 
\N'W'W. nd. edu/-cas 


Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NCAA lACROSSE 
Duke students calling for tougher sanctions on lacrosse 
Team suspended from play until legal matter is resolved, officials said 
<\ssociated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -The presi­dent of Duke University met Wednesday with students who feel his suspension of the lacrosse team during a rape investigation was not enough, urging them to be patient while police look into the matter. 
"I don't want to say I'm satis­fied, but I will say that what happened in there makes me feel like we're moving in a good direction," sophomore Bridgette Howard said after the roughly hourlong session. 
The meeting between President Richard Brodhead and a few dozen students was closed to all media except' Duke's stu­dent newspaper. 
Brodhead suspended the high­ly ranked team from play until the school learns more about accusations that team members attacked an exotic dancer hired to perform at an off-campus party. The alleged victim, a stu­dent at nearby North Carolina Central University, has told police she was pulled into a bathroom, beaten, choked and raped by three men at a March 13 party, where she and another dancer were hired to perform. 
Police collected DNA samples with a cheek swab from 46 
members of the lacrosse team 
last week; the 47th player, the 
only black member, wasn't test­
ed because the victim said her 
attackers were white. 
No one has been charged, and the team's captains have said the tests will clear players. 
Police said three players who live at the house where the party took place spoke with investiga­tors and voluntarily provided samples March 16. A scheduled meeting between detectives and the rest of the team was later canceled by the players' attor­ney, and District Attorney Mike Nifong said Wednesday the play­ers still refuse to speak with investigators. 
News of the attack has sparked days of protest at Duke and in Durham, culminating Tuesday in Brodhead's decision to suspend the team. He stressed the suspension was not a pun­ishment, but a response to the inappropriate nature of playing while the investigation is ongo­ing. 
Those comments led about 100 students to approach Brodhead after Tuesday night's announcement and demand his administration deliver a stronger response. 
"We understand that the legal system is that you are innocent until proven guilty," said sopho­more Kristin High. "But people are nervous and afraid that these people are going to get away with what they did because of a wealthy privilege, 


-. 
have money," Christian told Durham's WfVD-TV. 
Later in the day, sophomore Jeff Shaw wore a Duke lacrosse T-shirt on campus in support of _ his friends on the team. 
"Even if it's true, it's three guys and unfortunately, this is going to be a label the team is going to carry," Shaw said. 
or male privilege, or a white privilege." 
Their protests led to Wednesday's meeting inside the campus' black cultural center, where participants said Brodhead urged patience as police continue to investigate. 
Graduate student Michelle Christian complained Duke is 

continuing to downplay the alleged attack. 
"They need presidents, they need administrators, they need faculty, to tell them that it was wrong behavior and that they are not going to be coddled because they are athletes, because they come from privi­leged backgrounds, because they 
Bookstore Basketball Captain's Meeting This Friday!!! 
Each team captain, or a representative of each team, should be present at the meeting to receive the tournament packet. 
4:00PM Friday, March 31, 2006. DeBartolo 1 01. Be there. 



The Open Tournament Starts Apri I 4th! 
Co111e out and support the 2006 Bookstore Basketba I I 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2006 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish suffer first loss of season to Vanderbilt 
l
\ 
l 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
After beginning the season 16-0 -the best start in school history -No. 2 Notre Dame suffered its first defeat of the year, a 4-3 loss at No. 11 Vanderbilt Wednesday. 
"It was definitely a hard loss for us because of it being the first one of the season," Irish junior Catrina Thompson said. "But we're going to look past it and focus on finishing out the year strong." 
Despite the loss, Notre Dame won the doubles point for the seventeenth straight meet. The Irish swept all three doubles 
matches.· 
Playing at No. 1 for the Irish was the No. 3 pairing of junior All-American twins Catrina and Christian Thompson, who improved their record to 11-2 this season. The sisters needed a comeback to top Amanda Fish and Amanda Taylor. 
Following them at No. 2 was the No. 29 pairing of sopho­more Brook Buck and freshman Kelcy Tefft. The duo clinched the point for the team with a 9­7 victory over Taka Bertrand and Caroline Ferrell. 
The No. 3 team for Notre Dame was the senior pairing of Kiki Stastny and captain Lauren Connelly. 
Stastny and Connelly downed Commodores Courtney Ulery and Liberty Sveke 8-4 to com­plete the doubles sweep for the Irish. The Notre Dame seniors improved their record to 16-1, their only loss coming last Friday to Iowa's Merel Beelen and Krissy Dowlin. 



"This season we have been really confident with all our doubles teams," Thompson said. "We are hoping to finish the rest of the season without losing [the doubles point]." 
In singles, freshman Katie Potts was the first to finish her match with a 6-2, 6-0 win over Sveke at No. 6 to put the Irish up 2-0 in the meet. 
However, Potts' win was fol­lowed by a 6-2, 6-3 loss from No. 74 Christian Thompson against No. 40 Bertrand at No. 2. 
Vanderbilt then evened the score 2-2 when No. 20 Fish defeated No. 30 Catrina Thompson 6-2, 6-2 at No. 1. 
"I knew it was going to be a tough match and tried to stay positive [throughout the con­test]," Thompson said. "She just played really well." 
Stastny then beat Ferrell 6-2, 6-1 at No. 5 to put the Irish up 3-2 and seemingly put Notre Dame in position to claim its 17th win of the season. 
It was not to be, however. 
The Commodores' Ulery upset No. 110 Tefft 6-3, 6-3 at No. 4, which tied the meet score 3-3 -leaving the No. 3 singles match as the deciding contest. 
Buck, the underdog against No. 75 Taylor, kept the match close but lost, 7-6 (13-11), 7-6 (7-4), to give Vanderbilt the 4-3 win. 
"We are hoping to rebound quickly because we have sever­al upcoming matches," Thompson said. "We have had a great start [this season] and we just need to look past this loss." 
The Irish return back horne to face Eastern Michigan this Friday at 2:30 p.m. at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 
Aldridge 'nicked up,' will practice 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame running back James Aldridge is participating in spring practices despite being "nicked up," Irish head coach Charlie Weis said after the team's fifth practice of the spring Wednesday. 
"I've kind of held him out a lit­tle bit," Weis said. "It's like one of those things where you get a guy coming in here and he's a little sore ... I just want to be precau­tionary because sometimes when a guy gets something you think its nothing, you have to make sure it's nothing before you put him back out there. I'm going to err on the side of caution in the spring." 
Aldridge, who finished with 3,808 all-purpose yards at Merrillville High School in Crown Point, Ind., enrolled early to gain an edge in spring practice. 
"I like a lot of what I ·see [from Aldridge]," Weis said. "He's big, powerful and he has very good quickness for a guy his size, which fires me up.... Athletically it's tough not to like what you see from him." 
Aldridge is competing for play­ing time at running back with rising junior Darius Walker and rising senior Travis Thomas ­both of whom have tw£l years of eligibility remaining. In his career, Walker has rushed for 1,982 yards and 16 touchdowns, while Thomas has 273 yards and five touchdowns. 

"[Aldridge is] going to have to 
Fighting Ir-ish Baseball 
vs. Pitlsbu.-gh Friday! March 31 
@6:05pm Saturday, April 1 
@1:05pm 
Sunday, April 2 
@ 12:05pm Admission for Students 
fight an uphill battle because this is going to be great competition at this running back position," Weis said. "I mean you've got your two guys to handle the posi­tion are back and back for another year after that, so be's gut his work cut out for him." 
Weis has also used Aldridge as a kick returner in spring prac­tice. 
Kicking team practices out­doors 
Notre Dame's practice on Cartier Field Wednesday was it's first outdoor workout of the spring. Weis said he waited to take the team outside until the grass was long enough to avoid injuries. 
Weis said the outdoor practice was important for practicing kickotl' returns, an area of con­cern he addressed at the team's spring media day March 21. 
"It's tough to get the full field going and the height of the ball and the timing of the [blocking] wedge," Weis said. 
Weis said he focused on the wedge in addition to auditioning new kickoff returners. 
''I'm looking for guys that can run fast and are new to the posi­tion," he said. 
At Wednesday's practice, early-enrollee receiver George West and rising junfor corner­back Terrail Lambert returned kicks. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
L. 

Thursday, March 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles split doubleheader 
Amram strikes out school-record 13 in win over Manchester 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's freshman pitch­er Kristin Amram wanted to even the score with conference rival Manchester after the Spartans topped the Belles 2-1 in the first game of a double­header to open Saint Mary's home schedule. 
Amram got revenge Wednesday afternoon. The freshman struck out a school­record 13 to lead Saint Mary's in a five-inning, 9-1 victory as the Belles (1 0-4) split their home openers. 
"We used that [first game] as inspiration to do better," Amram said. "It challenged us." 
Amram struck out the Spartans first three batters and never looked back. Saint Mary's immediately got on the board in the bottom of the first when freshman outfielder Calli Davison and Ashley Fusaro delivered one-and two-run base knocks, respectively. 
Amram appreciated the offen­sive support. 
"We used each others' strengths," said Amram. "We played off of each other." 
Manchester third baseman Jenn Allen offered an RBI single 
SMC TENNIS 
Hope snaps win streak in conference constest 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's fell to conference powerhouse Hope College 6-3 Wednesday afternoon, failing to extend its MIM winning streak to three matches in a row. 
"We're obviously really disap­pointed because this could have been a big win for us," Belles senior Kristen Palombo said. 
The Belles only managed to win one of the 
least one of the two sets by a score of 6-0. 
In singles, Hope senior Annesliese Fox defeated Palombo 6-0, 6-4 at No. 1, Flying Dutch freshman Samantha Stille topped Belles junior Kelly McDavitt 6-3, 6-0 at No. 2 and I lope junior Amy Norris beat Saint Mary's sopho­more Tara O'Brien 6-1, 6-0. 
In doubles, the Flying Dutch team of Fox and Stille topped Mulcahy and McDavitt 6-3, 6-0. 
Despite the loss, 
three doubles Palombo said the 
..We ·re going to
matches before los­Belles picked up ing four of six sin­go back and valuable experience gles contests. regroup for our as they faced some Picking up wins for of the best players
upcoming

Saint Mary's wEre in the conference on Mary Elizabeth conference Wednesday. Fox has Cambell at No. 4 matches.,, won the MIAA singles, Melissa championship the Dingler at No. 6 last three years, and
·Kristen Palombo
singles and the she has only lost one team of Tara Belles senior singles match in her 

in the third, but that was all Amram would surrender. 
Saint Mary's senior captain Bridget Grall opened the flood­gates in the bottom of the fifth with a double. 
"It was just one hit after the next," Grall said. 
Fusaro delivered an RBI sin­gle, third baseman Laura Heline and designated hitter McKenna Corrigan each knocked in two runs and Amram finished off the scoring -and the game ­with a two-out, one-run single. 
Amram faced 19 batters, giv­ing up three hits and walking one. It was her fifth win of the season. 
The game was called after 
her single in the fifth because of the mercy rule. 
In the first game, the Belles and Spartans were scoreless until the top of the fourth when Spartans catcher Holy McEathron blasted a solo home­run. 
The Belles answered in the bottom of the fifth as freshman catcher Martha Smid scored on an error by Allen. 
The Spartans regained the lead in the top of the sixth when Lisa Heaton singled, driving in Melissa Bower for the decisive 2-1lead. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

O'Brien and Mary Elizabeth Campell at No. 3 dou­bles. 
At No. 3 singles for Saint Mary's, Caile Mucahy won the first set of her match against Hope's Ashley Leary 7-5, but she fell 6-4 in the two remaining sets. 
The doubles team of Grace Gordon and Palombo also took its match to three sets, losing 5­7, 6-4, 7-5. 
But in each of Saint Mary's other four defeats, Hope won at 
conference career. That loss came last year to Saint Mary's top singles player -Palombo. 
"We're going to go back and regroup for our upcoming con­ference matches," Palombo said. 
Saint Mary's next plays Friday against Olivet Nazarene in Wheaton, Ill., and its next confer­ence match will be Saturday at Alma. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Forget everything you learned at Notre Dame! It's who you know. 
Robert Putnam 
Professor of Public Policy Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University 

Sunday, April 2 at 4:00pm Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Robert Putnam's book, Bowling ·Alone, seems to have struck a chord with many concerned with the decline of civic engagement in the United States over the last thirty years. 
A question and answer session will· follow Professor Putnam's presentation. 



business.nd.edu/socialcapital 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OJ:<' BUSINESS THE. KELLOGG INSTlTUTE FOR lNTERNATlONAL STUDIES THE NANOV!C INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES THE KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 



page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2006 
ND SOFTBALL 

Booth fans five in extra-inning shutout ofFalcons 
i . (17-10} Wednesday. ter Wendy Sheehan hit a tagged out in a rundown. The was called with player inter­
Lenn's double in 11th 

Notre Dame made two quick fourth inning bloop single. other base runners allowed ference. outs before Kotcheff landed a "Heather pitched great · by Booth after the seventh all Booth worked quickly in the
inning gives Irish 1-0 

I ' 
dying quail just between the today," Notre Dame coach failed to reach second base, 11th, keeping the game a 
victory at Ivy Field infielders and outfielders. Deanna Gumpf said. "She led as two were gunned down by scoreless tie before Lenn 's That hit set up Lenn's game­the team on and off the field Mallorie Lenn in attempts to game winner in the bottom winning RBI double. and kept the momentum our steal and a third was forced half. 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK Lenn's late inning heroics way." out on a field­Gumpf said Notre Dame's Sports Writer 
drove in the game-winning Booth worked er's choice to late-inning success was the run for Notre Dame, but it all her pitches ..After an emotional win second base. result of hard playing Notre Dame catcher was starting pitcher Heather effectively like this one, I think we "We defi­throughout the game. Mallorie Lenn's timing could Booth's performance in the against Bowling nitely had our "We had to keep the inten­
are more than ready to 
not have been better. circle that provided the Irish Green hitters, ups and sity high if we were going to 
Her two-out double in the with energy throughout the using a combi­go into the Big East and downs, but win this game against one of bottom of the 11th gave the game. nation of kick some butt. , we kept play­the best Bowling Green teams Irish their only run of the Booth pitched all eleven changeups and ing good soft­I've seen," Gumpf said. "We game, as she drove in fresh­innings, struck out five and breaking balls. ball," Booth know how bad we can be
Heather Booth 

man Alexandra Kotcheff from gave up three hits. She was The first scor­said. "The without our intensity, and 
Irish pitcher

first to give the Irish (14-10) perfect through 4.1 innings ing threat from box score they know they have to stay 
a 1-0 win over Bowling Green until Falcons designated hit-either team won't show it, focused." came in the top but we had a The 11-inning contest of the seventh when the lot of good at bats and the marked the longest win of the Falcons had runners at the defense played phenomenal-season for Notre Dame and 

· corners with one out. Booth }y. " the longest ever for the team worked her way out of the Notre Dame threatened to in Gumpf's five years as Irish jam by striking out the next score again in coach. two batters. the ninth with Notre Dame
"The boxscore won't 
Notre Dame rallied in the a leadoff dou­begins its Big
show it, but we had a lot
seventh, loading the bases ble by East schedule 
with only one ·out before Stephanie ofgood at bats and the Saturday at 4 
back-to-hack groundouts to Brown. p.m. against
defense played 
TRY OUR NEW 

third ended the inning and Kotcheff fol­Connecticut on

phenomenally.,,
sent the game to extra­lowed her with Ivy Field.
12
11 VALUE CHEESE PIZZA 

innings. what appeared "After an Booth showed her domi­to be the game emotional win
Heather Booth 
Only $4.99 

nance over Bowling Green winning hit, as like this one, I
Irish pitcher
($1 .00 tor each additional topping.) 

hitters in the four extra the throw from think we are innings, Gumpf said. Bowling Green more than The senior surrendered ieft fielder Allison Vallas got ready to go into the Big East
Call 631-2924 for fast free delivery 

only one hit in the extra past third baseman Gina and kick some butt," Booth 
Delivery hours: Spm-1 am 

frames -a single that sec­Rango, allowing Brown to said. 
ond baseman Megan cross the plate. 
McPherson tried to stretch But the third base umpire Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
into a double before being reversed the call as Brown jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
~{.$:S:;:8i81 
Receive a $.99 2 liter Coke product with the purchase of a 12" Sbarro Value Pizza. 
Receive a Free 21iter Coke product with the purchase of an 1811 pizza. 
No coupon necessary. Offers good until 5/12/06. Not Valid with other offers or promotions. 

·-------------· 
Proprietors 
1
I 
Warren & Linda 
I 

I 

I I I?rrsi (Jr~(;i'nal:Azza in Jonm /
I I
Since 1951 

) 1 $2 off Any Size Pizza 
I
Eat in OnlyI Limit One Per Table 
I 
Expires March 31, 2006 
I
I 537 North St. louis • South Bend, IN1 57-+-233-24(,4 
I
.. _____________ .. 
MARCH MADNESS 


A Noue Dame Tradition Since 1975 

) 
I 
flli{ONRII~!JT 

I ~ 
DEliVERS 

; 
2FRESH BAKED SUBS 
• Italian • Steak & Cheese • Veggie
16" CHEESE ss.95

) 
• Ham & Cheese • Chicken Club
~ 
Call 256.9000 or 273.3890

( 
FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS!
BU-~F F E T s6.99 


deli•ery area> & charges m"y vary by
52750 IN 933
T-Shirts and Othe?rournament Memorabilia GIVEAWAY Starts at 7:00PM 

location. ExcludPs other offers. Good at parti<ipating locauons only. 
(N. of Cleveland Rd. ­
2610 PrairieAve 

Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's)
288.3320 
www.brunospizza.com 

574-243-1122 
ViSit us on the Web at www.rnarcos.com 02006 Marco's FrarxhtSing, LLC 4831(1)-206 




Thursday, March 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Shootout 
continued from page 32 
season, will be a third Big East senior participating in the event. 
Butler guard Bruce Horan 
(41.1 percent) and IIJinois guard Dee Brown (32.1 per­cent) will also take part in the contest. 
Quinn becomes the third Notre Dame men's basketball player to compete in the 3­point shooting event. Notre Dame guard Martin Inglesby (200 1) and forward David Graves (2002) are the other two. 
Quinn earned first team All­Big East honors following his career season. He was a CBS Sportsline.com third-team All American and an Associated Press honorable mention All-American. 
The winner of the 3-point contest will compete against the winner of the women's event, which will also take place tonight at Hinkle Fieldhouse. Notre Dame guard Megan Duffy will participate on the women's side. Duffy was a 34.7 percent shooter from 3-point range this sea­son. 
This is not the first time this season the two Notre Dame guards have been paired together. Quinn and Duffy also earned ESPN The Magazine first team Academic All­American honors. 
Notre Dame coach Mike Brey was unavailable for comment. The event will re-air at mid­night on ESPN2 and April 1 at noon on ESPN. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Shutout 
continued from page 32 
27. And the lefty's perform­ance against the Broncos Wednesday was a good start given Notre Dame's lack of run production. The Irish scored only two runs on eight hits and left seven runners on base. 
"We don't have that much margin for error for us to be a great offensive team," Mainieri said. "It wasn't that we didn't hit great, we just didn't take advantage of a couple of opportunities." 
The Irish scored a run in the first inning for the seventh consecutive. game. Notre Dame first baseman Craig Cooper doubled down the first base line on the game's first pitch and moved to third on a bunt single by Notre Dame third baseman Brett Lilley. Cooper then scored on a single by Irish second baseman Jeremy Barnes. 
Notre Dame picked up a sec­ond run in the bottom of the third. Irish right fielder Danny Dressman singled to ieft field, where Bronco outfielder Kyle Maun us bobbled the ball, allowing the Irish junior to take second. The next batter, Notre Dame designated hitter Ross Brezovsky, drove in Dressman with a double. 
Western Michigan starter Bryan French went six com­plete innings, allowing both Irish runs on seven hits. He was replaced by freshman Billy Morrison, who pitched two scoreless inn.ings in relief. 
Notes: 
+ The complete game shutout was Notre Dame's third since 2002, when J.P. 

Gagne went the distance against BYU. Thornton record­ed the other two, including one earlier this season against Southern Illinois. 
"I've learned a lot from [Thornton]," Korpi said of the team's veteran ace. "I like the philosophy he uses of going out and throwing strikes and letting things happen." 
+ 
Irish pitchers have not allowed an earned run in 29 innings, a streak that dates back to a 12-2 victory over Georgetown Saturday. 

+ 
Notre Dame will play Pittsburgh Friday in a Big East matchup at Frank Eck Stadium. Samardzija will make his first home start of the sea­son. 


Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

MARY KATE MAN NIX/The Observer Notre Dame goalie Joey Kemp, lett; prepares to save a shot during Notre DamP.'s 11-5 victory over Brown Wednesday. Kemp had 10 saves in the win. 

NC)\\l ;\CC:EPTING i\Pl:>IJC:i\TICJNS f-7CJR TH.E 
JPW 2007 
Committee 
-
Apply by ivlarch 31st for any of the following positions: 
Chairperson Vice-Chairperson Graphic Designer Secretary Treasurer 
Gala Chair Dinner Chair Brunch Chair Mass Chair Hospitality Chair 
Workshop Chairs: Arts & Letters MCOB Science Engineering 
Position Descriptions and Applications can be found on the JP\Xl '.-vebsite: 
http://vvww.nd.edu/-jpw 
(~uestions? Contact the Student Activities ()ffice at 631-7308 or drop by 315 Lal~ortune Student Center. 

Bears 
continued from page 32 
"[Kemp] definitely bailed us 
out  in  the  first  quarter,"  
Driscoll said.  
Driscoll  - a  defender  - 

said his unit's play improved in the second quarter, over­matching Brown's enthusiasm and tenacity to take control of a game that became physi­
cal in the sec­
"All week in practice 
ond quarter. 
we've been talking about 
"I think we came out and going hard to the cage we settled 
and making something 
down," Driscoll 
happen ... 
said. "We buckled down and we got the Matt Karweck ball out of 
Irish mldfielder 
guys' hands after the first quarter." 
Driscoll forced several Brown (2-5) turnovers with big hits, jarring balls loose ­and on one occasion a play­ers' stick. 
With the Irish up 3-1 with six minutes left in the first half, Driscoll forced a second turnover in as many minutes. 
Three minutes later, Irish senior midfielder Matt Karweck converted that pos­session into a goal that Brown would never recover from. Taking the ball from the left rear of net, Karweek faked his defender 
kind of fed everyone else." 
The Irish out-hustled and out-muscled Brown the rest of the way and won the ground­ball battle 42-31. Driscoll and Irish sophomore defensemen Ross Zimmerman led Notre Dame with six pickups each. Senior face-off specialist 
I 
Steve Panos recovered from a . I I 2-of-15 performance against Hofstra Saturday to win 11­of-20 drops against the Bears. 
Notre Dame attack man Ryan Hoff recorded a game-high three scores for the Irish in the freshman's second multi­goal game of the year. 
fellow Irish freshman attack man Duncan 
Swezey matched Hoff's three points on one goal and two assists, and senior attack Pat Walsh also netted one goal and two assists, bringing his team-leading assist total to nine. 
Irish leading scorer Brian Hubschmann recorded his team-high 14th goal and added an assist, while sopho­more midfielder Mike Podgajny scored a first quar­ter goal in his first game back after missing three games 
with mono. 
The Irish 
began their 
one way and ..If we play like today offensive slipped around assault four
and take care of 
minutes into the
to the other 
business, good things 
side of the net. first quarter He dove for­will happen.·· with a Peters line drive from
ward and flipped the ball the top of the
D. J. Driscoll
behind his circle for his 
Irish defenseman 
shoulder first goal of the 
sending his 
teammates on the bench into a frenzy. 
"I was just trying to get to the goal and make something happen and get our team going a little bit," Karweck said'. "All week in practice we've been talking about going hard to the cage and making something happen." 
Karweck's score helped rally an Irish squad to two more scores before the half and left and some of his own teammates scratching their heads. 
"Watching that play devel­op, I had no idea what he was trying to do." Driscoll said. "I was back on defense, and I was like, 'What was that?' 
"IKarweck) is definitely a vocal leader on our team. Seeing him get into a groove 
season. 
Notre Dame's performance Wednesday was a nice rebound after Saturday's 13-5 loss to No. 4 Hofstra, Driscoll said. 
"To come out and outwork another team is pretty uplift­ing," Driscoll said. "We didn't over-think things [against BrownI. 
"Definitely at Hofstra we over-thought things. If we play like today and take care of business, good things will happen. That's all we really have to do." 
Notre Dame's will play Dartmouth Sunday before beginning .conference play against Butler in Indianapolis on AprilS.. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
~--------------------------------------------------~------------------.m--------------------------------------------------~-­
'
\ I 
page 30 
Fighter
I 
l \ i continued from page 32 
l i 
the Notre Dame junior TKO'd amateur heavyweight Artese Palire (23-4) before a crowd of
'1 
I 1,000 spectators. 
Notre Dame head coach 

l 
Charlie Weis supported his safe­
ty's decision, which will not inter­
fere with his football eligibility in' \ his senior season this fall. t "I think with any of our kids
. 
here, when you're looking at
'· 
each situation as its own sepa­rate entity, I think that you always have to make sure that you take care of Notre Dame first," Weis said. "But you've 'got to be realistic. And in this situa­tion, which was a very unusual situation, to take this opportunity away from him would have been the wrong thing to do." 

Ed Zbikowski said he wasn't worried his son might suffer a major injury in the bout. . 
"He's been doing this for 10 years, of course he gets hurt," Ed Zbikowski said. "It's a blood sport. You're supposed to get hurt. ... Every boxer gets hurt. When you come back from spar­ring, you're hurt." . 
He said it is his son's fearless­ness that allows him to compete in football and boxing, both difli­cult contact sports. From a dif­ferent perspective, Weis said Tom Zbikowski's toughness was what allowed him to excel in both sports. 
"And besides [being] very, very tough, I think he has skills," Weis said. "Boxing isn't for everyone, there's a lot of guys that are real­ly strong but those guys that are really strong aren't necessarily the guys that would be really good boxers. 

"A lot of football players that wouldn't fare so well in the ring ... I don't proclaim to be an expert on boxing, all I know is that he's a pretty darn good foot­
\ ball player and I'm glad we havet him." 
( 
t 
The road to MSG 
Ed Zbikowski said many peo­ple don't realize that boxing is more than a hobby for his son. 
l 
"When Tommy gets home from Notre Dame, he'll get up Saturday morning, have break­1 fast, go to the gym, and goI I knock off six or seven rounds without training or anything,"! . Ed Zbikowski said in a tele­phone interview with the I • Observer Wednesday. "I think
I 
the people at Notre Dame don't realize he's been boxing since he's eight, nine years old. He's probably a better boxer than he is a football player." 
Ed Zbikowski said his son has been active in charity fights, as well. 
"[Ofl the last ten fights that he had, seven have been for chari­ty," Ed Zbikowski said. · 
On May 20, the third-team All­American will fight in a set of bouts to help raise ·money for cystic fibrosis -an event that hopes to raise $200,000. 
"They believe with him in the charity event they'll be able to raise it," Ed Zbikowski said. 
But the offer of a professional career was the realization of his son's dreari1, the elder Zbikowski said. 
"It was an exciting day today,'' Ed Zbikowski said. "We flew out [to New York]; we were treated like royalty, rubbed elbows with the best in the business. He's on pay-per-view. He's at Madison Square Garden. That's like being in the Super Bowl. That's like being in the national cham­pionship. Fighters who have fought for 10 years-title-hold­ers-don't get a chance to fight at the Garden." 
Even in New York, the Notre Dame experience followed the Zbikowskis. 
"Tommy held his own throughout this whole [press conference], dead tired," Ed Zbikowski said. "lie was alone in the room ... and a gentleman came up to me, shook my hand, and said 'My name is Kevin Murphy, I graduated from Notre Dame.. I left my job and I took the train and I snuck into the press conference with my friend."' 
Ed Zbikowski said although meeting professional boxers was exciting, the Notre Dame con­nection was a highlight of the trip. 
''I'll never forget the warm feeling l had when [Murphy) came up," Ed Zbikowski said. "It felt like we had a friend. It felt like we had somebody ... we were· back in our little bit of ele­ment." 
But Tom Zbikowski's priority is to play football at Notre Dame, which his father said dated back to when he was recruited as a high school quar­terback. 
"lie gave up his dream to play quarterback to come to Notre Dame," Ed Zbikowski said, not­ing that Tommy was recruited 


; 
-~.· 
.., "... 
. ' 
I 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS

l ' 
( 
l 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the inter areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about 16 motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. M our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, 
j 
political science, and economics. 

{ 
If you are looking for

) 
i 
( I 
(I) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a sec major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORI\1ATION Professor John Roos. Political Science Department. 
Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April6. Late applications will be accepted only ifopeninl still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING Monday April 3 SPM, 209 O'Shaughnessy 

The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 2006 
by the Naval Academy as a boxer and quarterback. 
Eligibility issues 

Keeping Notre Dame football a priority was an issue when Tom Zbikowski was deciding to accept the contract. A primary concern was keeping him eligible for foot­ball in the fall. 
"I think that the most impor­tant thing for me, when I was approached by Tommy about that potential fight, after I got all the details about what exactly it was, the most important thing to me was to make sure that eligibility was not an issue," Weis said. "To be honest with you, it was an issue right up until Tuesday after­noon, because the one thing that I had settled with both Tommy and Mr. Zbikowski was that the one thing [we had to make sure of was] that there's not going to be a threat for losing his eligibili­ty. That would have been a deal killer-for us and for them." 
The NCAA regulates players who are professional in one sport to play college ball in another ­a situation that NCM spokesper­son Kent Barrett is not unusual, but generally reserved for foot­ball players drafted by Maj(>r League Baseball teams. 
, "I honestly haven't heard of it happening [an NCAA player box­ing professionally] but I can't say it hasn't," Barrett said. "It's prob­ably more common for people to play minor league baseball." 
According to NCAA Bylaw 12.1.2, "a professional athlete in one sport may represent a mem­ber institution in a different sport." 
The main difference is accept­ing endorsement money, said Mike Karowski, Notre Dame's associate athletic director in charge of compliance. 
"[An athlete's] name, appear­ance or likeness can't be used to promote a commercial product or service," Karowski said. "And the question was if there are promo­tional items related to his fight, how does that impact him'? And that's what we sort of have to navigate through, and ultimately it was decided that anything that was informational, factual in nature and specific just to his boxing match, it would be okay for him to participate in that." 
This means that in commer­cials publicizing the fight, Zbikowski can be referred to as a Notre Dame football player. However, a commercial entity could not otTer him money to wear their apparel or participate in advertising . 
"If he were to do that then he'd lose his college eligibility in all sports," Karowski said. 
Weis said the Zbikowskis approached him after they received an offer from Arum. 
"They were approached and immediately came to me because, fortunately for me, we have the program set in such a way that these guys know they can come to me and I'll work with them," Weis said. "They know that although I have Notre Dame football as my No. 1 priori­ty, I'm going to listen to each situ­ation and try to give them an objective answer to what I think -just as long as the kids are graduating and it's not going to ruin any chance of their eligibili­ty." 
A recent issue with eligibility and endorsement compliance was with Olympic skier Jeremy Bloom, who played football for the University of Colorado. In August 2004, the NCAA ruled that because Bloom accepted endorsements -even though they were not related to football -he was ineligible for college sports. Bloom appealed but lost and forfeited his football career. 
"You could be paid to ski but you can't endorse commercial products or services," Karowski said. 
Karowski said Rocket Ismail ­one of Notre Dame's most famous athletes -signed a contraet with the CFL after his junior year but ran track in the spring. But since then, the situation has been rare at Notre Dame, he said. 
~·we haven't had too many here," Karowski said. ''I've been here 14, 15 years, and I can't think of anybody up to this point who's been a professional in one sport and an amateur in another. 
"I don't anticipate any prob­lems. The only thing that could happen would be if Tom changes his mind and wants to do some­thing else ... [right now he seemsI committed to doing both and doing both the right way. 
Strong support 

As he makes his professional debut, Zbikowski will have a strong network of his coaches, teammates and family. His broth­er will be his manager, and his uncle -a former boxer, now bat­tling cancer -were with him in New York yesterday. 
And while Weis was not in New York, he said he is fine with the safety's decision. 
"Each situation has to be han­dled as a unique situation," Weis said. "But I think ifyou want your guys to stay in school and gradu­ate and one of these opportunities comes along, you have to be will­ing to work with him, you have to give a little." 
His teammates arc also behind him, including free safety Chinedum Ndukwe -his cbm­panion in the defensive backfield. 
"I think that he's been !boxing] for so long, ·since he was a little kid, I think 'it's just like second nature to 'him," Ndukwe said. "He's been doing it for so long, he knows what he's doing." 
Zbikowski's father said his son plans to return to Notre Dame for his senior football season and earn his degree, hopefully contin­
. uing his football career in the NFL. The rising senior was No. 13 in the nation in punt returns in 2005 and led Notre Dame with five interceptions. He was also fourth on the team in tackles 
(71 ). 

Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
On the 75th Anniversary of the Death of Knute Rockne The Notre Dame Athletics Department Presents 
"Knute Rockne and His Fighting Irish" 
A 52-minute Video Documentary Showings at 
3:00, 4:00, 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. 
Friday March 31 , 2006 Hesburgh Libra.ry Auditorium Admission is Free 
• 


Thursday, March 30, 2006 
The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
JOCKULAR 
He told you to meet him at Truman's! Hohol What'd you do:> 
Err... not important He'll get his. 
"' 

CROISSANTWORLD 
AU:t..lu\-\1 ... 'W\-\ P...\ T14E. \-\EU... uoE:S ON IN \1-\pt.'\ \'.:.N\t:r\4\S C.Ot..L\MSU.5 
'&U\1..1::>\N(t. \'V'E­Nt..\IE.\Z S~E..~ AN'tOt-Jt.. C.oi"\E 

CROSSWORD 

ACROSS  34 Fisherman's  57 Portion for  
1 Handball  story  Mother  
·playing surface  35 Forward-thinking  Hubbard's dog  
5 Regions  38 Sea bird  58 Make jaws drop  
10 Happy 14 Cranial bulb?  39 Spanish newspaper  59 Hardly nail-biters 60 Glasses, slangily  
15 Certain tribute  El  
16&170neina  40 Pressed  DOWN  
million 18 No ordinary joe?  41 MGM motto word 42 Procter and  1 Kind of connection for traveling computer users  
20 How to color neatly  Gamble shampoo  2 Tennis score after deuce  
22 Notable Dumbo  43 Choir section  3 Camera's eye  
features  44 Actress Jillian  · 4 Lothario  
23 Was in the van  45 Fall sound  5 Gun suppliers 
24 Drives out of bed  46 Irrelevant  6 Unseen parts  
27 B, gradewise 29 "The _, the proud, the Marines"  53 Manager with scientific expertise 54 Fan sound  7 With 25-Down, what couples have 8 Stadium in Queens  
32 "Hey, don't you recognize this voice?!"  55 Unvarnished 56 John who wrote "Ten North  9 Best Actor/ Original Screenplay  Puzzle by Byron Walden 30 Glass eel  43 Some sorority  49 Transport for a  
33 Long, long time  Frederick"  nominee of 1976  31 Gardeners' bane  women  short distance  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  10 Thou 11 Pushing midnight, say  33 Way off 34 Rejections  44 Drained of color 45 Choreographer Twyla  50 24-hr. breakfast place 51 Excellent  
12 Song and  36 McKinley policy  gymnastics  
dance?  for China  46 Thump  score  
13 Grade above ef  37 Prepare to play  47 Neutral color  52 Fearsome dino  
19 Dissembled and  42 1957 Nabokov  48 Say the same  53 Atlanta-based  
then some  novel  thing as  channel  
21 Saw  

24 CaiJ catcher' 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 25 See 7 -Down credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
26 Hopheads 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
27 "See?" 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 28 Circus reactions 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 29 North Dakota Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young city solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
That's it. He 'II be shampooing with Hey, Lord of the Flies, 
Nair tomorrow do you care to do this nrn,niPm On the board 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\\ IN'VO\:v ES D 1D 'fOU NOT\C.'C.. f"UN Sf'INP\C.I-\ HE. WASt4T ' 
I 

1)\f'. P.Nb 'Bows wE. A.R \ t4<::t A 
AN~ AR~OvJS . S't\\~T 

WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary w~rds. 
TELOX 
[J I 

02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Re~erved. 
MORRA 

I [ J 
VISNAH 

WHEN HER HAIR RETURNED TO ITS NATURAL. COL.OR,
I I I 
www.jumble.com 

5~ WENT BACK TO--­
I BROTED ± 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
I I [ J I Print~rere: [II J( I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: KNOWN HUMAN OSSIFY BESIDEYesterday's 
Answer: What she got when he took her shopping ­Hl5 MONEY 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Uideaki Takizawa, 24; Jennifer Capriati, 30; 
Lucy Lawless. 38; Bud Cort. 58 

Happy Birthday: You have the energy and discipline to start and·finish whatever you want to accomplish this year. Explore new avenues. knock on doors and ask for assistance. You can tum this into your most productive year yet. Focus on what you want most out of life, go after it and it will be yours. Your numbers are 4, 9, 17, 22, 31, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take a serious approach to every1hing you do today and you will get much further. Your ideas will be considered by someone you've impressed along the way. Today, others will be only too happy to assist you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may feel it necessary to take drastic measures but this will not tum out as planned. You will meet with disgruntled people ifyou don't get consent to proceed with plans that will affect those around you. Don't make hasty decisions. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your timing may be a little offtoday, making this an awkward time to present. promote or even discuss your plans. Make sure everything is exactly as you want it before you proceed. Be sale rather than sorry. 4 stars 
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may find yourself in an iffy position. lorn between two groups who both want your support. Reconsider how you feel and opt to make suggestions rather than take part in something you are undecided about. ~stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to get serious regarding your future and where you see 
yourself a year from now. If you research what it is you have to accomplish, you will be 
able to lay your plans out and start the process of putting all the components you require 
into place. 5 stars 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Anger or criticism will get you nowhere today. Refrain from wasting time trying to perfect everyone around you. Resentment is likely to develop, ltaving you in a precarious position. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make things happen today just by taking action and 
being decisive. Luck is with you as long as you stick to your standards. morals and ethics. 
A social event or short trip will spark an interest in something or someone new. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You've got a good understanding of what you must do. Get back to working on the things you enjoy doing most. Your creative side needs an outlet. Investments will pay off as long as you don't go overboard. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't give in to someone's complaints. Size up the situation and make a decision based on fair play. Not everyone will be happy with your decision but do what you mus~ and don't look back. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Emotional matters may cause difficulties at work as well. If you find yourself falling behind, ask for help. You may be given an ultimatum but that doesn't mean you have to take it. Finish what you start. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be fooled by someone who pretends to have all the answers. Consider your situation and you will come up with the best solution. A partnership with someone who can complement what you do will lead to financial gain. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make headway ifyou are prepared to promote an idea you have. Money is coming your way but not from a source you expect. Be careful what you wish for--it's likely to backfire. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive when it comes to getting your way. You have an open­minded and insightful way of looking at things that allows you to venture down paths others may not dare to go. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-
) 
-~ 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is. a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address·_____________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
~~--­
-------.----­
. ' , ' 
' ) 
, } 

THE OBSERVER 
I , I 
p

i 
I 
I ' Thursday, March 30, 2006 

page 32
I 1 : ~ 
I
i ) . BASEBALL 
I 
I I 
' I I ~ Sophomore hurler Wade Korpi fans 11 in three-hit shutout 
I I starter has a 1.80 ERA with 34 problems," Korpi said. "Now, I good, but I thought my change Tom Thornton, Jeff Manship
I By CHRIS KHOREY
I strikeouts and only six walks feel like I can throw all my up was really my out pitch." and Jeff Samardzija are slated
I 
Associate Sports Editor 

I this year. pitches for strikes." Mainieri said he was happy · to start in every three-game,
I 
I "It was an awesome perform­Korpi said he relied on his with Korpi's strong outing but conference weekend set this 
I Notre Dame sophomore Wade ance by Korpi," Irish head change up in two-strike counts, felt bad the team was unable to season. As a result, Korpi's role Korpi threw the first complete coach Paul Mainieri said. "It and the change allowed him to utilize it's bullpen. has been making the mid-week game shutout of his career was one of the best games you'll accumulate strikeouts as the "I would have liked to get starts against non-conference Wednesday and the Irish beat ever see around here." game progressed. The sopho­[sophomore righthander] Joey opponents. Western Michigan 2-0 at Frank Korpi threw 77 strikes out of more fanned five batters after Williamson into the game," Mainieri said he wants to see Eck Stadium. 114 pitches. The sophomore the seventh inning, Mainieri said. "He didn't get to Korpi emerge as the team's 
Korpi (2-1) struck out 11 -said his control was a result of "My change up was really pitch last week or against fourth starter heading into the the highest total of his career -his hard work over the summer. good tonight," Korpi said. Georgetown [this past week­Big East tournament May 23­( \ and allowed just three hits in "Last year, I used to try to "That's how I got most of my end]." nine innings. The southpaw nibble too much and I ran into strikeouts. My curveball was Notre Dame starting pitchers see SHUTOUT/page 29 
I 
~ ' 
FOOTBALL 

Froni safety to corner 
Tom Zbikowski announces he ~; zvill fight professionally at MSG 
c, 
'· 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Standing in the spotlight of Madison Square Garden Wednesday, Tom Zbikowski said he would make his professional boxing debut in the world's most famous arena in less than three months. 
In a press conference organized by Bob Arum of Top Rank promotions, Tom Zbikowski announced he signed a contract to fight one professional makh -which will be broadcastcd on IIBO via pay-per-view. 


"I would have done this for free, just to fight in Madison Square Garden," Tom Zbikowski said Wednesday. 
His heavyweight match is scheduled for June 10 at Madison Square Garden and will be the under­card for the WBO junior welterweight title fight between Miguel Cotto and Paulie Malignaggi. 
Tom Zbikowski has an agreement with Top Rank Promotions for the four-round fight. Arum saw 

j 
him fight a charity match on March 15 in the bar AP · 
f. 
115 Bourbon Street in Merrionette Park, Jll., when Irish safety Tom Zbikowski speaks at a news conference in New York City Wednesday. Zbikowski announced he will make his professional boxing debut see FIGHTER/page 30 at Madison Square Garden June 10. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish beat Brown in non-conference game 
quarter -with all but one

By TIM DOUGHERTY on shots coming from within 
Sports Writer 

t 
10 yards. 
Kemp's .596 save percent­

(',~ \ 
No. 11 Notre Dame defeat­
age (No. 16 in the nation)

~ 
I ed Brown 11-5 Wednesday
( p entering the game climbed 
I . at Moose Krause Stadi urn, to .615 after allowing only;t improving the team's record
f three goals against his 10 
saves.

before its Big East schedule 
"We got a really good
begins. 
game from Joey," NotreWith a four-goal second 

Dame senior co-captainquarter, the Irish jumped 

Drew Peters said. "If we can out to a 6-1 lead that the eliminate close up shots on

Bears (2-5) never threat­
him, we can have a chance
ened. 
in any game we play."

Paving the way for the Fellow co-captain D.J.
Notre Dame's early surge 
Driscoll echoed Peters' sen­

MARY KATE MANNIX!The Observer was sophomore goalie Joey 
timents.

lirsh midflelder Matt Ryan cradles the ball behind the Brown net Kemp, who recorded nine of Wednesday in Notre Dame's 11-5 win at Moose Krause Stadium. his 10 saves in the first see BEARS/page 29 


___,. 
5 
~ 
{ 
ND SOFTBALL

I. 
~i 
; 
" 
Notre Dame 1 ~ Bowling Green 0 
Irish defeat Falcons in 

I 
11 innings in their home 

,. 
(' opener at Ivy Field. 
~ 
i 
page 28

~ 
J 
~ 
I 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Quinn will compete in shootout 
Duffy slotted to enter women's 3­point event tonight 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame guard Chris Quinn displayed his 3-point shooting ability against Big East opponents all season, and the senior will have one last 
opportunity to do so in front of a national audience tonight. 
The Dell presents the College Basketball Slam Dunk 


and Three-Quinn Point Shooting Championships will be held at 7 
p.m. tonight in Butler University's Hinkle Fieldhouse. The tape-delayed event, which is a part of this weekend's NCAA Men's Pinal Fo.ur festivi­ties, will air tonight at 9 p.m. on ESPN. 
Quinn led the Irish with 17.7 points and 6.4 assists per game this season. The senior guard was 41.9 percent from 3-point range -third in the Big East behind Marquette forward Steve Novak (46. 7 percent) and West Virginia guard Mike Gansey (42.9 percent). 
Novak will be one of seven other players competing against Quinn in the shootout. West Virginia forward Kevin Pittsnogle, who shot 40.1 per­cent from behind the arc this 
see SHOOTOUT/page 29 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS FOOTBALL SMC SOFTBALL SMC TENNIS MLB 
Vanderbilt 4 Notre Dame halfback Saint Mary's 9 Hope 6 Major League Baseball Notre Dame 3 James Aldridge suf-Manchester 1 Saant Mary's 3 announced it will be Irish suffer first loss of fered a minor InJury Belles freshman The Belles failed to investigating steroid use season in road trip to during spring work-Kristin Amran struck extend their winning by San Francisco slugger Nashville. outs. out a school record 13 in streak to three games. · Barry Bonds. the win. 
page 27 page 26 page 27 page 27 page 20 









