
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 77 TUESDAY, JANUARY 31.2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Board ofTrustees holds meetings in Rome 
trip gives the trustees and offi­Jenkins taking ofliee on July 1, 
By MADDIE HANNA and cers groator insight into how 2005, it seemed like an appro­
HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN we can deepen our el'l'orts in priate time to have tho winter 
Nrws Writers this regard." meeting in Home, Brown said. 
Brown said he was unsure il' Brown also said it was unre­
Tlw Board ol' Trust11ns will University President Father lated to Jenkins' reeent converw in Home l'or its annual John Jenkins was going to addresses to students and fac­winter mnPtings today and mont Pope Bmwdict XVI, elect­ulty on aeademic freedom and WPdncsday to nwet with kPy ed in April 2005, while in Catholic character, issues that Valil'an leadPrs. participate in Home. The last time a Notre have prompted much discus­an acad1Hnie conl'en~nce and Damn prnsidnnt met the pope sion on campus over the past l'onl'er· two honorary degrees. was in July 2001 when then­week. 
Tlw five-day trip gives the University President Father "The board was scheduled to UniVPrsily an add11d avnmw to Edward "Monk" Malloy met meet in Homo a couple of years understand how to serve tlw with tlw late Pope John Paul II, ago, but the trip was post­Church. University spokesman Brown said. poned. in part beeause the Dennis Brown said Monday. Brown said tho idea of meet­University took steps at the 
"Wiwthnr thn board nwets in ing in Home stemmed l'rom a time to reduce costs during a Honw or not isn't essential to past plan to have a Board of downturn in tho U.S. eeono­Notre Damn's eommitmPnt to Trustees meeting there, one my," Brown said. "With Father sPrve thn Church." Brown said. that novor manil'nstod itself. As .Jenkins' new administration "Tiw Univorsity has been l'or a result. a meeting in this loca­now in place, this soemod like many years, and remains, l'ully tion has been on the Board's committed to that end. This agnnda l'or several years. With see BOT/page 8 

Catholic universities in U.S. assess acadetnic freedotn 
Statutes at other Catholic institutions less stringent 
By KATIE PERRY 
A~sistant News Editor 
Since the liberal policy of the "Land 0' Lakos" statPnHmt was reached in a 19(,7 assembly of Catholic university l1~acll~rship, tlw paths of colleges aflili­atml with tho Church have bonn divor­gnnt regarding issues of aeadomic fnHHiom and religious charaetnr. 
Tlw group of Catholic college admin­istrative nwmbors-hosted by University President I•:meritus Fathor TIH'IHiore llesburgh -assnrtod that Catholi1: universities "must havo a tnw autonomy and academic l'rnedom in tlw l'acn of authority of whatever kind, lay or rlnrkal, exlt~rnal or the aea­dPmi!: eommunity itsnll'." 
Although tlw statement emphasized tlw need for colleges to uphold a "pcr­cPptively prPsPnt and niTnctivcly oper­
see FREEDOM/page 4 


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer Students listen to University President Father John Jenkins' statements on academic free.. dom and Catholic character, above, in Washington Hall on Jan. 24. 
'Monologues' have been banned at SMC since 2001 
By KELLY MEEHAN and 
LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writers 
Academic freedom in tlw forms of "The Vagina Monologues" and tho Queer Film Festival has ineitod cam­pus-wide dnbato aftor University PresidP.nt Father .John Jpnkins ques­tiorwd tho appropriatoness of tlwir existence at a Catholic institution in rneent addresses. 
While the dobato ol' what is and is not appropriato matorial rages on at Notre Damn, Saint Mary's Colleg1~ has already taken action against perform­ances of "Tho Vagina Monologues," a play that indudos isstws that tradition­ally contradict Catholic teaching, surh as masturbation, homosexuality and premarital sex. 
see SMC/page 6 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

CLC reexan1ines its purpose, duty 

University addresses plagiarism accusation 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
Assistant News Editor 

A national Catholic organi­zation has asked thfl University to investigate the possibility that Notre Dame theology professor Father Hiehard McBrien plagiarized arguments, structure, themes and some exact lan­guage in a Los Angeles Catholic publication -an allegation the University has addressed, McBrien said Monday. 
The Cardinal Newman Society (CNS) -whieh aims to renew Catholic identity at United States Catholic uni­versities -requested an investigation ol' the caso in a Jan. 11J letter to University 
President  Father  .John  
Jenkins.  
Tho  CNS  alleg!HI  that  

McBri1m's Jan. (J column in The Tidings ol' the Archdi1H:eso of l.os Angeles mirron~d an op-ed pieen by Eilonn McNamara that had appearod in tho Dee. I I issue of tlw Boston Globe. McNamara had dnnounced a protest of a Catholic Charities l'undraisnr honor­ing Boston Mayor Thomas 
see MCBRIEN/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Salt on sn1all potatoes 
I don't remember the exact day I heard the phrase "small potatoes" used to describe something with little purpose or credibility. All I know is that it stuck with me ... and maybe it's from "The Godfather II." 
I have been using 
Joe Piarulli
the expression for some time, and have described many a 
Production
small potato. 
Editor
Examples range from: "that home­work is small pota­toes," to "that rash is small potatoes." 
Life is made of plenty of potatoes, and just about the only thing that matters less than a potato is a small potato. 
At this point, there's a very obvious path I can take with this metaphor. All I have to do is stress the importance of the little things in life, and how we need to make the most out of every moment, and about how you can use the small potatoes to make potato pancakes, or mashed pota­toes, or hash browns, or baked potatoes with cheese and bacon, or potato salad ... but I'm not going to do that because many of those things require recipes and cook­ing and so on. 
So instead, I'm just going to tell you why you should hate the small potatoes. 
When life gives you lemons, you should­n't make lemonade. You should tell life to keep the lemons and make it's own lemon­ade, then sell the lemonade to you for 50 cents a glass. Life needs to take a finance class or something. People don't want lemons. Come on life, it's simple supply and demand. 
When life gives you small potatoes, the issue gets more complicated. 
There are two ways to respond to life's small potatoes. You can leave the potatoes plain and consequently waddle through your colorless existence accepting every little obligation that comes along (because everyone knows small potatoes are bland and dry, and eating plain potatoes makes you a boring person), or you can add some salt. 
I always add too much salt and make everything bitter. That's why I don't like the small potatoes. 
Example 1: When I'm walking to a class, and a guy from that class starts walking faster than me, I get angry. I know you're in my class buddy. You don't have any­thing special to do in that class before I get there. You're not going there early to tell the other kids that I'm coming so they can jump out from behind their desks and sur­prise me. You are not a good person get­ting my hopes up like that. 
Example 2: When North Dining Hall doesn't have pepperoni at the Pasta Stirfry station, and I have to tell the guy, "Hey, there's no pepperoni here, guy. That's not cool." 
You see what I mean. The small things in life matter, not because we should cher­ish them and be thankful for them and all that, but because we need something to pay attention to so we don't turn in to bor­ing salt-free potatoes. Give your daily rou­tine something fun -pick something to be angry at, give yourself some purpose, because the only things worse than salt­free potatoes are small salt-free potatoes. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 31, 2006 QuESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES' MEETING IN ROME? 



Justin Doyle  Katherine Sloan  Nick Hussey  Dave Olson  Katie McHugh  Geoff Bennett  
senior Dillon  junior Lewis  sophomore Keenan  junior Carroll  sophomore Lewis  junior Carroll  
"I hear they have  "A good idea  "Why in Rome?  "I hope the food's  "/ think Father  "/ don't really  
great park  -!just hope  Why not Abu­ good at least."  Jenkins should  see the point. "  
benches. I doubt  no one gets hit  Dabi?"  be here, dealing  
the trustees are  by a  with the  
sleeping on  motorbike. "  academic  



freedom issuethem." 

Pastor gets 18 months for selling church 
MANTECA, Calif. -A pastor accused of selling the town's oldest church pleaded guilty to embez­zlement on Monday and agreed to 18 months in prison, court officials said. 
Randall Radic, 53, entered his plea as part of a deal in which prosecu­tors agreed to drop nine other charges. 
Radic had preached at First Congregational Church in Ripon for near­ly a decade before he sold the church last October for $525,000, allegedly 
TODAY 
a:: 
1.1.1 
:::c 

!;;: 
1.1.1 
3: 
....I c( (,) 
0 
..... HIGH 33 
LOW 31 
using the money to buy a BMW. He also faked docu­ments that gave him pos­session of his house, which was owned by the church, then used the property to take out loans, authorities said. 
Animal carcasses cause smelly detour 
WISCONSIN RAPIDS, Wis. -Animal carcasses and parts dumped on the Riverview Expressway gave motorists a smelly rush-hour detour Monday and left authorities hunt­ing for whoever dropped the material to the pave­ment. 
As of Monday evening, police Lt. Dave Wesener said investigators had not determined how the inci­dent happened or identi­fied who was responsible. 
"We got a partial description of the vehicle but did not locate it," he said. 
Police blocked a part of the expressway about 4 
p.m. and required west­bound traffic to use the left turn lane to avoid the mess, Wesener said. 
Information compiled from the Associated 
Press. 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY 
THURSDAY 

our school is facing." 
IN BRIEF 
Three panelists will address the question: "Iraq: What now?" today at 4:15p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Author Kirsten Sundberg Lunstrum will give a reading from her debut book, This Life She's Chosen, tomorrow at 7:30p.m. in South Dining Hall's Hospitality Room. 
The 2006 Winter Career and Internship Fair will take place tomorrow from 4 to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center fieldhouse. The event is free and sponsored by the Career Center. 
The College of Arts & Letters will present "You Don't Really Have to be a Rhodes Scholar to Land a Fellowship for Post Graduate Study" Thursday ai 7 p.m. in the Hammes Student Lounge of Coleman-Morse. 
Legendary rap artist Chuck D from the critically acclaimed Public Enemy will present "Rap, Race, and Reality" Thursday at 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, Room 141. A Jimmy John's reception will fol­low at 10 p.m. 
The band Nice Save! will play Friday at 10:30 p.m. at Corby's. 
RecSports' Late Night Olympics will take place in the Joyce Center from 10 p.m. Saturday to 4 a.m. Sunday. Donations of $1 are taken at the door. Proceeds benefit St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 30 HIGH 38 HIGH 45 LOW 28 LOW 30 LOW 27 
HIGH 38 HIGH 33 LOW 25 LOW 23 
Atlanta 55 I 38 Boston 44 I 36 Chicago 35 I 33 Denver 54 I 22 Houston 72 I 48 Los Angeles 67152 Minneapolis 31 122 New York 46141 Philadelphia 45 I 38 Phoenix 74 I 47 Seattle 45 I 39 St. Louis 53 I 29 Tampa 67157 Washington 43139 
Ti.1esday, January 31, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


BOG gives $80 to not­for-profit organization 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Saini Mary', hli10r 
Saint Mary's Board of (;ovnrnancn (BOG) nwrnbers approvml funds for two eo-spon­sorships during a brinf mnnting Monday. 
Saint Mary's snnior Molly Hitt1~r. tlw Collngn and Notre Damn rnp­rPsPntatiw for the not-for-profit organization Invisible Childrnn. pms1mtt~d lwr nllilrl'i to organize a sernnning of tlw doeunwntary 'Jnvisihln Childrnn' and asknd lilr $80 from BO<; to lwlp defray r.osl'i. 
"Tlw organization was a<tually startml by three college-kids. thr111~ guys from San Diego who wont to Uganda to document the war." Hitll~r said. 
<hw of tlw most trah>ie rnsult.'i of thn war in northern Uganda, Hitll~r said, involv1~s rnbnl forees kidnapping ehildren from their homos latn at night. As a result, thousands of ehildnm travel hours to nnarhy ritins naeh nvnning and slm~p whnrnvnr thny 1:an to avoid bning lim:nd to light. 
Thn ultirnatn goal of thn organi­zation, Hittnr said, is to raise mwugh money to build sehools and ndueatn I00,000 Ugandan ehildrnn. 
Shn n~snrvml I>nBartolo I01 for a scrmming of thn film at Notre Danw and has spnnt much of hnr 




-IIi­

SAINT 

MARY'S 

COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry, Center for Spirituality, and the Board of Governance 

own money in thn planning. Hitter said. 
"I just wanted to see if I could get a little money for food and snacks ... and a few extra bucks to make fliers to hang around campus. and obviously BOG sup­port of this would bo hugo." 
OITicers overwhelmingly approved granting Hitter $80 to hnlp fund the event. 
Shortly thereafter. the Board also votnd to give $150 dollars to help sponsor the two-part Saint Mary's security event "Wasted and Woundnd." The first segment of the program took plaee Monday night and brought loeal experts to eampus to speak about aleohol and sexual violenee against womnn. The event sur­passnd it.'> attendance goal of 250 people. according to health and wellness eommisioner Meghan Lambourne. 
"They talked about the realities of alcohol on your body ... and they talked about sexual assault and the resources on campus," Lambourne said. 
The seeond half of the program will take place Wednesday at 6:30 
p.m. in O'l.aughlin Auditorium and will include a live demonstra­tion of a law enliJrcement ollicer's posing as a young girl on the Internet to attract sexual preda­tors. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Group -weighs in on fiscal policy 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
A~sistant News Editor 
Student leaders debated ehanges to the student gov­ernment's fiscal policy at the Council of Heprescntatives 
(COR) meeting Monday night, adding ideas for a new pro­gramming fund to the discussion, whieh has been ongoing s i n c e November. 
Student body presi­dent Dave Baron and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell met with Father Mark Poorman, vice president for 

"What we're thinking about now is creating a programming fund. Any student group could apply andfunds could cover an event entirely or suppleme,;,t larger events." 
Lizzi Shappell student body vice president 
student affairs, on Jan. 20 to discuss COH's idea to use their carry-forward fund ­which currently contains $180,000 -to create an endowment for future stu­dent government expendi­tures. Poorman expressed reluctance to funnel the money into an endowment since carry-forward fund money originated from stu­dent activity fees. which are 

Shappell and Baron suggested creating a cap of $100,000 on the carry-over fund and taking $100,000 from that fund to place in a program­ming fund. w h i c h would be run under the supervi­sion of Student 
Affairs and Student Activities. This would leave room for the carry-over fund to grow by $20,000 before hitting its cap. 
"The idea behind putting it under the joint operation of Student Affairs and Student Activities is they have the most contact with donors," Baron said. "At various times, people come to Father Poorman and say, 'llow can I 
bennf'it studnnt lifn'?' If wn got a vostod interest from [Student Affairs and Studont Activitinsl. this is something wn can bring to tlw tablP." 
Under tlw proposal, groups would bo able to apply for portions of thn $20,000 that would bo available from Lhn fund for programming nad1 year. This fund would last for f'ivo ynars if left alorw, but its aff'iliation with Student Affairs and Studnnt Activitins might lead to sup­plementation by donors. 
COB members dnbatPd whether the $20,000 should be spent on onn large, nnw or supplenwntary project or if it should be divided among as many groups as apply. 
"The morwy should bn kept as one lump sum to make one notic1~able dil'f'erence," said O'Neill senator Stnvn To rto re II o. "Otherwise, everyone in the world will apply, and it will get chopped up until it's likn ltlw fund I didn't exist." 
Judicial Council president James Leito asked if student government would accnpt donations for the program­ming fund from donors who had specif'ic requirements for the usn of thnir gift. 
"I'd say anybody who's willing to giv11 us money, wo should take it." he said. 

Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
meant to be used immediatn­ly, Baron said. 
"What we're thinking about now is creating a pro­gramming fund," Shappell said. "Any student group could apply, and funds could cover an event entirnly or supplement larger evnnts." 


~--------­
1 
I 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
================================================================================================================== 
FreedoiD 
continued from page 1 

ative" Catholic character, the conference's Vatican II thinkers left the term open to interpre­tation by individual universi­ties. 
University President Father John Jenkins suggested his own interpretation last week -a bold stance that would disallow the presence of campus events that fail to align with Church teaching, if implemented into official University policy. Jenkins specifically cited the Queer Film Festival and the Vagina Monologues as events not in concert with teachings of the Catholic Church. 
The "Vagina Monologues" has faced increased scrutiny in recent years from Catholic leaders who believe the play degrades women with its frank and candid discussion of rape, sexual intercourse and female genitalia. 
In 2004, the Cardinal Newman Society (CNS) paid for a full-page advertisement in USA Today, denouncing the play's production on Catholic campuses and calling for mem­bers of the public to contact school presidents and other leaders to stop performances. 
Last February, the CNS released a statement on its Web site asking Catholic women to condemn the play's presence at universities affiliat­ed with the Church. 
The Society's efforts were not in vain, as 16 Catholic colleges across the country consequent­ly canceled performances of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus. But some Catholic schools, like Notre Dame and Boston College, continued to show the controversial play. A number of groups at Boston College endorsed the show, including the office of the vice president for student affairs, the women's studies program and the English and sociology departments. "The current student body is different from people that might have graduated from BC years ago," communications department chair Lisa Cuklanz said in a Feb. 17, 2005 article in Boston College's student newspaper, The Heights. "There is a cultural shift, and people have different thoughts on what Catholic tradition is. In that light, 'The Vagina Monologues' produce tension." 
Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy expressed this tension at the onset of last year's "Vagina Monologues" performances at Notre Dame. 
"Freedom in the Catholic tra­dition, and even in the American political tradition, is not the right to do anything," D'Arcy's said in a February, 2005 statement. "This play vio­lates the truth about women; the truth about sexuality; the truth about male and female; and the truth about the human body. It is in opposition to the highest understanding of aca­demic freedom ... A Catholic university seeks truth." 
Franciscan University of Steubenville (Ohio), adheres to a policy of academic freedom heavily centered around the deep-seated Catholic character of the institution and its desire to seek such truth. 
According to the university's mission statement, "Franciscan University ... opposes the pro­motion of propositions and val­ues contrary to Catholic teach­ing. This in no way impinges on true academic freedom, as the Catholic Church accepts all that is true and rejects all that is false." that [Georgetown] is a Jesuit faculty members in an academ­
Franciscan University university committed ... to ic institution to express their Associate Director of Public Catholic principles and reli­beliefs unabashedly and with­Relations Tom Sofio said rigor­gious values." out discrimination. ous discussion of all viewpoints Notre Dame's current policy Groups, speakers and other can occur in the classroom, but on academic freedom is also non-academic events deemed professors are not to "promote" relatively open-ended in its in conflict with Catholic charac­or advocate topics in conflict interpretation of Catholic char­ter have also faced sanctions 
with Church teaching. acter in 
"The pro-choice view could be explained or 

':4s a Catholic 
examined in the 

university, we cannot
classroom but not endorsed or advo­sanction an event cated," he said. "I 
that promotes a 
recently sat in on 

lifestyle that is in
a Great Books class where stu­conflict with Church dents learned all 
teaching."
about the views of Nietzsche, the 

Jack Dunn 
atheist who referred to himself spokesman as "the Boston College 
Antichrist," but those views were 

not endorsed by the teacher -students, the faculty, and the trary to Catholic teaching." his role in the-shaping of administration," they must be In his seven years at the human events in Germany, consistent with certain University, Sofio said he cannot however, were examined." University objectives and "[live] recall any "controversies or 
Statutes of academic freedom in the tradition of Christian confrontations" concerning at other Catholic colleges are belief." invited speakers or cultural less stringent. Georgetown The struggle to maintain events on campus. University's policy, as outlined Catholic values on campus goes The story was not the same in its Faculty Handbook, beyond the narrowest defini­at Boston College in December, emphasizes toleration but asks tion of academic freedom -that 2005, however, when the faculty members to "recognize is, the right of students and University canceled an AIDS 





pant your 
• 
I 
eas 
ere 
... we have. The GE H system turbine is one of the world's most efficient gas turbines. capable of delivering 60% efficiency. Higher efficiency means less fuel is required to generate electricity ... fewer emissions mean less greenhouse gas. In one year, a GE H turbine will emit 73,000 tons less carbon dioxide emissions as compared to the same amount of electricity generated by a conventional gas turbine combined cycle system. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to grow your 
ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance. manu­facturing, sales and marketing. human resources, or infor­mation technology. 
Come meet GE reps and learn more about full-time and internship opportunities at GE! 
Winter Career & Internship Fair February 1, 2006 Joyce Center -North Dome 4-8 PM On-campus interviews will be 
Feb 21st. 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 
• imagination at work 
an academia. on campuses across the coun­According to try. the Faculty Franciscan University policy Handbook, places standards on speakers ­"freedom of who must express views "con­inquiry and sistent with [the college's] stat­freedom of ed mission as a Catholic expression are Franciscan institution of higher safeguarded by education." t h e Speakers must be sponsored University." by a University department or The policy officially-recognized student adds that organization. Sofio said the although "the president can deny any rights and obli­approval for a speaker whose gations of aca­"appearance or remarks ... demic freedom would compromise the take diverse University's mission or promote forms for the propositions and values con­
benefit dance designed to be a "safe zone event" for GLBT (gay, lesbian, bisexual or trans­gender) students due to its dis­cordance with teachings of the Catholic Church. 
"The University's policy is that students apply for permits for events through the Office of the Dean for Student Development, and upon review­ing the request ... concluded, appropriately, that they could not endorse an event that advo­cated a position that was in conflict with church teaching," University spokesman Jack Dunn told The Heights in a Dec. 5, 2005 article. 
Dunn said the stance is what any of the other 238 Catholic universities in the United States would do in a similar situation. 
"As a Catholic university, we cannot sanction an event that promotes a lifestyle that is in conflict with church teaching," he said. 
Jenkins reiterated this belief in a series of speeches last. week in which he called Notre Dame's sponsorship of certain events inconsistent with Catholic teaching "problemat­ic." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Proud to be a Golden Key Sponsor 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, January j I, 2006 CotvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nigerians release foreign hostages 
ABU.JA. Nigoria -An American and three othnr fondgn oi I workors held hostage for two wonks wore rnlnased Monday after a secessionist leader appnalnd to their r.aptors, who had dmnandml soutlwrn Nigerians l.Jen­nlit more from tlwir rngion's mwrgy wnalth. 
The kidnappings were among a rash of rocont attarks signaling that violnncn is on tlw rise in tlw Niger l>nlta, which remains impoVPrislwd dPspitn its oil rnsnrvns. 
Tlw four mnn -Louisiana nativ11 Patrick l.andry, Briton Nigel Watson-Clark, Bulgarian Milko Nidwv and llonduran llarry !·:hanks -appnarod alongside Nigeria's prosidnnt al'tPr lwing brought to thn capital from soutlwrn Nignria hours after tlwir Parly-morning rnlnasn. 
Tlw four looknd tirNI and w<we still wearing tlw shirts and shorts tlwy worn drnssnd in wlwn capturPd by gunnwn .Jan. II at an oiT­shon1 Slwll oil rig in tlw Nigor dnlta. Thny did nol sjwak. 
Derailed passenger train kills dozens 
I.ONI>ON -Sncrntary of Slatn Condolnnzza Hie11 said Monday that "robust" nngotiations with Iran arc nnndod to deal with its I'nsumnd nuclear p1·ogram, as European ministnrs' talks aimnd at breaking thn diplomatic dnadlock appnared to fail. 
Hien said tlw inlnrnational community agreed that Iran should not have the means of dnvploping a nur.lear weapon, and ·she eriliciznd Iran's rnsponse to Hussian attmnpts to nwdiato in the standoff. "W11 b11li11vn that thnrn is a lot of life loft in tlw diplomacy," Hicn said. "Artnr all, going to thn Security Council is not the end of diplomacy. It's just diplomacy in a diiTnrent, morn robust context." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clerk swears in jury for Enron trial 
IIOUSTON -A jury of llouston-area rosident..r.; was selected Monday for the trial of former 1\nron Corp. chiefs Kenneth Lay and JefTrey Skilling, accused of orchestrating the massive fraud that mme to symbolize an era of corporate scandals. 
A murt clerk swom in the 12 jurors and four alternates, and U.S. District Judge Sim Lake instructed thnm not to talk about the case during tlwir snrvicn. lie also ordered them not to read, list1m to, or watch news reports about the trial. 
l.ay, the Enron founder, said he was pleased with tim panni: "My li.tte is in their hands, and wn'll get on to making the case for my inno­enneo." 

Mexican border remains vulnerable 
SAN I>IE<iO-A U.S. government efTort to find drug-smuggling tunnels underneath the Mexican bordnr with ground-penetrating radar and other high-teeh gear has had little 
SUCCilSS. 
lluman intnllignnee has proven to be the most effective method of finding the pas­sageways. A case in point: The longest tun­nel ever found along the border was discov­nrnd last week after a tip. 
Tho llomeland Security Department said Monday that a Mexican man, Carlos Cardenas Calvillo, was arrested in connec­tion with the 2,400-foot tunnel, which went as deep as CJO feet and was about 5 feet in height and 5 feet wide. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana police to recruit laterally 
INDIANAPOLIS-Indiana Stale Police will hn looking this summer for officers who want to switch uniforms. 
With openings for morn than 200 troop­nrs, state police plan to begin latnral rneruiting, drawing nxperinneed oiTicors from otlwr departmnnts rather than signing up rookies. 
As of Jan. 4, the !'oren had 1,126 of its 
I.:G4 troop<•r slots fillnd. 
"Wn arn in a comJwtitivn market," said I st Sgt. llavn Bursten. 
EGYPT 


Al-Jazeera airs al-Qaida video 
Second in command al-Zawahri calls Bush 'the butcher of Washington' 
Associated Press 
CAIHO -In a nnw video 
airnd Monday, al-Qaida's 
No. 2 Ayman ai-Zawahri 
mocked Prnsident Bush as a 
"failurn" in the war on ter­
ror, eallml him a "butcher" 
for killing innocent· 
Pakistanis in a miscarried 
airstrikn and chastised the 
Unitnd Statns for rnjeeting 
Osama bin Laden's otTer of 
a truce. 
Al-Zawahri, wearing white robes and a white turban and speaking in a forcol'ul and angry voice, also threatened a new attack in the Unitnd States -"God willing, on your own land." 
The video, broadcast on Al-JazePra TV a day before Bush delivers his State of the Union addrnss, provided the first concrete evidence that al-Zawahri was still alive after the Jan. 13 airstrike in eastern Pakistan that targeted him but killed four other al­Qaida leaders and 13 vil­lagers. 
The message came on the heels of a Jan. 19 audiotape by bin Laden, the al-Qaida leader's first tape in more than a year. Bin Laden said his followers were prepar­ing an attack in the United States and offered the Americans a conditional truce, though he did not spell out terms. 
A U.S. counterterrorism official, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity in com­pliance with office policy, said there is no reason to doubt the authenticity of the al-Zawahri video, which 
U.S. intelligence officials were analyzing. 
The counterterrorism ollkial noted the video was disseminated quickly, demonstrating al-Zawahri's ability to get his message out even faster than bin Laden. That suggests the two are not hiding together and bin Laden may be in a more remote location than his deputy, the official said. 
The Homeland Security Department had no imme­diate plans to raise the nation's terror threat levels because of the Zawahri tape. "Not at this time," said spokesman Russ Knocke said. 


U.S. officials had said after the bin Laden tape that no intelligence indicat­ed an imminent al-Qaida attack. On Monday, FBI Special Agent Richard Kolko said the bureau would ask agents around the country to review ongo­ing cases and tips in light of the al-Zawahri video, espe­cially with two major events in the United States this week -the State of the Union in Washington and the Super Bowl in Detroit. 
Al-Zawahri said in the video that he had a number of messages to give in the wake of the airstrike. 
In one message, he invit­ed Bush to convert to Islam. 
"If you accept, you will become a brother in our faith and God will forgive you your sins," the AI­Jazeera news-reader quot­ed him as saying. The invi­tation was not in the excerpts aired by the Arab satellite station. 
He said the airstrike in Pakistan by an unmanned Predator craft targeted himself and four of his "brothers" in al-Qaida. Instead, he said, it killed 18 civilians -"men, women, and children" -and he called Bush "the butcher of Washington." 
"Bush, you are not only defeated and a liar, but, with God's help and might, a failure. You are a curse on your own nation and you have brought and will bring them only catastrophes and tragedies," he said. 
"Bush, do you know where I am'? I am among the Muslim masses, enjoy­ing God's blessing of thnir support, care, generosity and protnetion," al-Zawahri said. 
lie said he had a message "to the American people, who are drowning in illu­sions. I tell you that Bush and his gang are shedding your blood and wasting your money in failed adven­tures." 
"The lion of Islam, Sheik Osama bin Laden, may Cod protect him, ofi'ered you a decent exit from your dilemma. But your leaders, who are keen to accumu­late wealth, insist on throw­ing you into battle and killing your souls in Iraq 
and Afghanistan and ­ God  
willing  - on  your  own  
land," he said.  

IRAQ 



U.S. journalist appears in video 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD-The U.S. journalist Jill Carroll, weeping and veiled, appeared on a now videotape aired Monday by Al-Jazeora, and the Arab television station said she appealed for the release of all Iraqi women prisoners. 
The vidno was dated Saturday ­two days after the U.S. military rnlnasnd live Iraqi wonwn. 
Carroll, 28, was crying and wore a consnrvative lsl<unie veil as she spoke to thn camera, sitting in front of a yel­low and black tapestry. The Al­Jazeera newscaster said she appealed for U.S. and Iraqi authorities to free all women prisoners to help "in winning her release." 

At one point, Carroll's eraeking voiee ean be heard from behind the news­rnadnr's voice. All that can be heard is ~arro!! saying, hope for the fami­
"000 
lies 000 

The U.S. military released tho women last Thursday and was bnlievnd bn holding about six more. It was undear how many women worn held by Iraqi authorities. 
Carroll, a freelance reportnr for the Christian Scienee Monitor, was seized Jan. 7 by the previously unknown Revenge Brigades, whieh thrnatnnnd to kill her unless all women prisoners were relnasNI. Al-Jazenra did not report any dnadlinn or threat to kill her Monday. 
Al-JazPnra nditor Yassnr Thahit said the station rncnivnd tho tapn Monday and that it was lmtwnnn two to thrnl' minutPs long, but only a fraction of the footage was tnh1casl. 
Tuesday, January 31, 2006
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
BOT 
continued from page 1 
an ideal time to make the trip as a way to renew previous relationships and make new ones." 
Trustees will meet with numerous Vatican officials, including representatives of the Congregation for Catholic Education, the Pontifical Council for Social Communications, the Pontifical Council for Justice and Peace, the Congregation for the Doctrine of 


the Faith and the "... [TJhis seemed sentatives will not be present
Secretariat of like an ideal time 
at the meeting,
State. 

to renew previous but a brief
The conference, 

relationships and report to update
entitled 
Trustees on the
"Contribution of make new ones. ,, group's initia-
Catholic 
tives since
Universities to the 

Dennis Brown October wasChurch and 
University spokesman sent to Vice
Culture," will fea­
ture addresses by Jenkins, Rino Fisichella, auxiliary bishop of Rome and rector of St. John (Pontifical) Lateran University, and Notre Dame Trustee Daniel Jenky, bishop of Peoria, Ill. 
During the conference, Fisichella will speak on "The Role of the Roman Universities," Jenky will address "The Congregation of Holy Cross and Catholic Education," and Jenkins will deliver an address entitled "Notre Dame: A Catholic University within American Academe." His address comes a little over a week after he sparked campus dialogue on academic freedom and Notre Dame's Catholic character. 
The honorary degrees will be presented to Fisichella and L. Frances Rooney Ill, U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See. 
Fisichella was appointed to his position as rector of the Pontifical Lateran University 

by the late Pope John Paul II in 2001 and served as a primary contributor to John Paul II's 1998 encyclical on faith and reason. 
Last June, Fisichella visited Notre Dame to address a bish­op's conference. 
Hooney, the former chief executive officer of Manhattan Construction Company, is the seventh U.S. ambassad01: to the lloly See since full diplomatic relations were established in 1984. He is a member of the Notre Dame School of Architecture Advisory Council. 
Student gov­
ernment repre­
President of 

Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, student body president Dave Baron said. 
Poorman will present the topics -community relations, the Transpo partnership, Eating Disorders Awareness Week, diversity and cultural competency and the Catholic Think Tank lecture series -in the "State of Student Government" executive sum­mary to the Board's Student Affairs committee. 
Brown said although the Board's agenda for the meeting is not made public, he expects there to at least be some work on the budget. 
"The winter meeting always includes work on the budget," Brown said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna and Heather Van Hoegarden at mhanna1@nd.edu and hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

for the creation of a committee that would address diversity in the Notre Dame curricula. 
Because the new committee would be under the office of the Provost, the CLC sent their resolution -which endorsed the Senate's proposal -to both Vice President of Academic Affairs Father Mark Poorman and University Provost Tom Burish. But Poorman wrote back days later saying he was unable to take action, since the resolution went against CLC by-laws. 
"I want to remind you that the CLC by-laws state that 'rec­ommendations shall be made directly to the vice president for student affairs' ... Because of the procedural difficulty, I am unable to take action ... " Poorman wrote in a Dec. 9 let­ter to the Council. 
But Baron said he wasn't worried about the roadblock, since the CLC's resolution was mainly an endorsement and could be remedied rather easi­ly. Instead, he wanted to use the confusion to discuss CLC's role in academic affairs. 
Carroll Hall rector Father Jim Lewis said the council should not spend too much energy on issues that go beyond the purview of the CLC, like academic affairs. 
"This seems to be a concern that comes up every year . . . I don't think we need to address every important issue that comes up on campus," Meyer said. "We would be serving the University better if we focus on student affairs." 
Welsh Family Hall rector Candace Carson encouraged members of the group to act individually about issues they care about that stretch beyond the scope of the CLC. 
"Sometimes the weight of an individual is as strong as the weight of the group. A'l long as it's the proper venue ... we're all on different things and we can work that way to achieve the ends we want." 
History professor Gail Bederman questioned and then clarified the purpose of the council. 
"It's specifically set up for all these people to talk to Father Poorman, and that's what we're here to do -to be the eyes and ears [on campus] and talk to Father Poorman ... It's a unique position." 
She said she could not think of any other student govern­ment groups that are so tightly tied with one University official. 
That strict union, though, prohibits the Council from speaking directly with any other administration members. Instead, it must ask Poorman to do so on their behalf. 
Lewis said it can be frustrat­ing to put energy into a resolu­tion, only to be told that the issue can't be taken on, but student affairs representative David Moss reminded members that the CLC has the inside­track into academic affairs and that its role is to give Poorman the "pulse of the campus in all areas." 
"So often in institutions you may have an idea you want to turn up the flagpole, and you get no response," Moss said. "Whereas with this body, at least we know we have the attention of the vice president of student affairs, and he's ready to respond to us." 
Baron asked the CLC task force on student voice and input to examine what univer­sity committees -if any ­addresses academic affairs with the voices of both students and faculty. 
The task force on social con­cerns and the task force on campus grounds and struc­tures had no new news to report. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

McBrien 
continued from page 1 
Menino, who supports abor­tion rights and homosexual marriage. 
The University has not released a report, but McBrien said the 
University h a s addressed the situation. 
" T h e University of Notre Dame has conduct­ed a review 

of this aile-Father Richard g a t i o n McBrien according to its normal procedures, and I am completely satisfied with its outcome," he said Monday via e-mail. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown declined to comment Monday on any such review. 
"We can neither comment on the results of a review nor acknowledge that an investi­gation or review has taken place," Brown said. "From the University's standpoint, it is completely a confidential mat­ter." 
Brown also would not con­firm whether or not a Notre Dame professor has been found guilty of plagiarism in the past. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1 @nd.edu 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
The play has been banned from the Saint Mary's campus since Jan. 2001. The mono­logues were performed for the first and only college­sanctioned time at Saint Mary's in the spring of 2000, and it sold out for both nights of its performance in Carroll Auditorium. 
After the performance, then-College President Marilou Eldred received a flood of disapproving letters and phone calls to the admin­istration. The alumnae, Board of Trustees and Parents Council were distraught after reading a letter by former College professor E. Michael Jones that the show went against Church teaching. This outcry led to Eldred's announcement of the admin­istration's decision to cancel performances of "The Vagina Monologues" on campus. 
According to an article in the South Bend Tribune last week, the college scheduled other activities to encourage discussion of sexuality and violence against women. 
In a Jan. 25, 2001 Observer article, Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm said Eldred believed "there are other ways dialogue can be continued to raise aware­ness about rape and address issues of sexuality." 
Some students were out­
raged by this decision and felt that the reasoning behind "The Vagina Monologues" cancellation was to appease alumnae, parents and the Board of Trustees. Debate erupted across campus in 2001 as some students felt the administration was too concerned with the opinions of those outsioe of the imme­diate College community. Students' anger was evi­denced in the creation of a petition that was passed around campus and also by a sit-in staged outside Eldred's 
office. "['TheSMC not oppose the 
On Feb. 19, Monologues'] is a right of small 2001, despite groups to gather
safe forum for 
the College without official 
refusing to women to reclaim College endorse­allow an official their ment for the performance of reading of plays
voices and have
"The Vagina such as "The
them heard. " 
Monologues," V a g· i n a fifteen women Monologues." from the Notre While "The
Ginger Francis 
Dame and Saint V a g i n a
CARE faculty advisor
Mary's commu­nity held an "underground" reading of the monologues in the Regina Hall lounge. Over 150 people attended. 
About one month after the unsanctioned performance, Eldred ordered three seniors to apologize or face discipli­nary action for participating in the play. According to the article in the South Bend Tribune, the seniors refused and instead submitted a writ­ten defense of their actions and explained why they felt the need to participate. 
This spurred a campus debate on academic freedom, -and students involved in the Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) continued to hold readings of "The Vagina Monologues" in the Regina North Lounge without college approval through 2004. The college had no response to these perform­ances. 
In a March 5, 2004 Observer article, Saint Mary's spokesperson Melanie McDonald said the College did 
Monologues" 
remain banned as a publicly sponsored perform­ance on campus, the adminis­tration has allowed and approved the performance of "The SMC Monologues." 
Created by the president of CARE Ginger Francis and CARE's faculty advisor, asso­ciate professor of psychology, Catherine Pittman, "The SMC Monologues" were first per­formed in 2005. 
Francis and Pittman wanted to address the issues present­ed in The Vagina Monologues in a way that was tailored specifically to the women of the Saint Mary's community, Pittman said. 
'"The SMC Monologues' is a story about us. It is an all­inch,Isive production created by us and for us." said Francis. "Women in the SMC community -students, facul­ty, staff and the Sisters of the Holy Cross -have written their own pieces about their experiences as women, expe­riences of sexual violence and experiences surrounding sex­uality." 
"It's a safe forum for women to reclaim their voices and have them be heard," she said. 
College officials did not comment on why "The SMC Monologues" are considered acceptllible while "The Vagina Monologues" remain banned. 
Last year CARE raised over $600 for SOS, the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County, through donations collected at "The SMC Monologues." 
There will be no admission charge for the event again this year, which will be per­formed Saturday, Feb. 18 at 7 
p.m. and Sunday, Feb. 19 at 2p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. A minimum donation of $3 at the door is being suggested, and all proceeds will benefit SOS. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at meehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Laura Baumgartner at baumgaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Tuesday, January 31, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
}ones ' 
/~ Same: Down: Composite Volun 1,596 2,279,180,280
145 '~ 

AME.X 1.838.89 +14,60 NASDAQ 2 306.78 +2.55 
,].:.,~·~·······--···········

NYSE. 8,105.25 +9.11; S&PSOO I ,285.20 +1.48 NIKKEI(Jbl<yo) 1635[2"3=--"'"oJb 
FTSE. IOO(l.Dndon) 5,779.80 -7.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.76 +0.21 28.00 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) + 1.86 +0.08 4.37 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.61 +0.20 12.61 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.09 -0.02 21.65 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.19 +0.08 42.19 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.60 +0.28 47.08 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.32 45.35 
5-YEARNOTE +0.61 +0.27 44.61 
3-MONTH BILL +0.12 +0.05 43.42 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.59 68.35 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.90 570.60 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.38 75.63 
E.xcha Rates 

YEN 117.6300 
EURO 
0.8270 

POUND 0.5654 
IN BRIEF 
Report estimates rebuilding costs 
I'I~NTAGON-A new government report eoncludes that it will take far more U.S. sup­port bnfore the Iraqi government is capable of taking control over billions of dollars in recon­struction projects. 
The report was prepared by the Special lnspnetor Gnneral for Iraq Heconstruction. 
It warns that 2006 will be a critical year of transition in Iraq. And it questions whether the Iraqi government has the needed resources to rebuild and protect the infra­strueture, develop the country's major cities and support private seetor projects. 
The report makes no recommendations on how much money is needed. But recent audits have said that billions of dollars in projects to improve water, sewer and electrical systems have been diverted to security and other high­11r priorities. 
IRS falls short of conversion goal 
WASIIIN(iTON -The Internal Revenue Service won't meet its goal of converting 80 percent of taxpayers from paper to electronic filing next year, but could get there by 2011, ageney overseers reported Monday. 
The independent IHS Oversight Board rec­ommended that lawmakers give the IHS an extra four years to meet the electronic filing target, set by Congress in a 1998 law. 
Hather than allowing the goal to expire, the board said an extension could keep the IHS and others focused on increasing electronic filing. 
The board credited the 2007 deadline with pushing the IHS to increasfl the number of tax­payers who lil11 th11ir returns electronically, a number that exceeded 50 percent last year. 
"It's visibility and clarity galvanized the IRS and its stakeholders into action and resulted in ehangml behavior by taxpayers. tax prepar­ers and tax softwarn companies, among oth­ers," the board said. 
Thn board projected that four out of five tax­payers will life nlnctronieaffy by 2011 if tlw tax eollm~tors 1~an keep the program growing at the same rate. 
Tlw IHS has mduend money and time spent on processing paper rnturns with the growth of nlm:tronk liling. 

Bush prepares to present budget 
Democrats contest he cannot make proposed deficit cuts while troops re1nain in Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON President Bush will renew his call for personal accounts within Social Security and ask Congress to renew tax cuts and curb the growth in benefit pro­grams like Medicare and Medicaid in his 2007 budg­et request next week, according to administra­tion officials. 
But since election years hardly ever generate results on the budget or attempts to cut the deficit, Bush is far more likely to find success in smaller­bore initiatives like freez­ing the operating budgets of most domestic Cabinet departments. 
Bush's call last year to let younger workers divert some of their Social Security taxes into private accounts never got off the ground with lawmakers despite an election-style campaign by the adminis­tration and its supporters. While the idea will again be in his proposed 2007 budget, the White House doesn't expect it to get even a nod this year from Congress, a senior White House official said Monday, speaking on condition of anonymity. 

At the same time, the ris­ing budget deficit and the budget. it used to be," said Stan don't work or that are enormous cost of the war "It's all, for the most Collender, managing direc­duplieative in nature, ... eut in Iraq may squeeze out part, replays of the same tor of Financial Dynamics, our deficit in half by 2009 upcoming Bush initiatives things that they've pro-a business communications and make sure the to boost access to medical posed for the past five firm. "They use it to make American people still get care -among the very few years," said lobbyist Hazen a political statement. It their tax relief." items in his budget that the Marshall, former GOP staff should in no way be taken But that deficit-eutting White House has trumpet­director of the Senate as what they would actual­claim is likely to come ed in advance. Budget Committee. "They ly do or what they actually under assault from 
Bush's market-based seem to be making a con-want or what they're ulti­Democrats charging Bush health care initiative certed effort to highlight mately going to accept." can meet the pledge only includes creating health health care, but the pro-Bush predicts the deficit by leaving out the long­savings accounts, making posals that I've seen for the current year will term eost of the war in Iraq out-of-pocket medical costs haven't been anything top $400 billion; last year's and by proposing unrealis­deductible, and allowing new." deficit registered $319 hil-tic budget cuts and fees. small businesses to pool · And the simple fact that lion. Bush says his budget "I think the president will the purehasing of health something is proposed plan will meet his pledge to send us a budget with insurance across state again and again means it's cut the deficit in half by the triple-digit deficits for the lines free of state regula­been rejected many times end of his presidency -to rest of his presidency ­tion. before. That's why many $260 billion from a prelim­can't avoid it-and with­
Few of these initiatives lawmakers will consider inary estimate of $521 bil­out any credible plan to are new; neither are much of Bush's budget lion for the 2004 budget balance the budget," said Bush's demands for perma­plan "dead on arrival." year. Hep . .John Spratt Jr. of nent extension of his 2001 "The president's budget Bush said Jan. 26 that South Carolina, top and 2003 tax cut bills and is not the agenda-setting his budget "will continue to Democrat on the House many other items in his development or event that eliminate programs that Budget Committne. 

Americans spend more, save less 
The Commerce Department reported ment. The baby boomers start turning
Associated Press Monday that Americans' personal sav­60 this year, whieh means they can ings rate fell into negative territory, begin retiring with Social Security in just WASHINGTON -Amerieans spent minus 0.5 percent, last year. That two more years. more than they made last year -some­means people spent all their after-tax With this huge wave of pnnding retire­thing they haven't done since the Great income and then had to dip into previ­ments, analysts said, the savings rat1~ Depression, a time of massive unem­ous savings or borrow more to finance should be going up rather than being on ployment and soup lines. their consumption. a steady decline over the past two This time the trigger was good eco­The savings rate has been negative for decades. The savings rate stood at 10.8 nomic news -a booming housing mar­an entire year only twice before, in 1932 percent of after-tax incomes in 1984 ket, which has made millions of and 1933 -two years when Americans and has been declining steadily sinee American homeowners feel wealthier were having to deplete savings to cope that time. It was down to 1.8 perennt in and thus more willing to spend with with the massive job layoffs and busi­2004 before turning negative last year. abandon. ness failures caused by the Great "Americans seem to have the fi1eling Government statistics released Depression. that it is wimpish to save," said David Monday showed they may have gone Now, soaring home prices are making Wyss, ehief economist at Standard &. overboard with all of that spending, con­people feel wealthier. But this behavior Poor's in New York. "Tho idea is to put suming all their after-tax income and could be risky at a time when 78 million away money for old age and we arn just then some. Americans are on the verge of retire-not doing that." 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

2006: Two parties, no choice 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisement.'>, is nor governed by policies ofthe ad:rninisrracion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on conrenr: 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions througb letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding ObserverpoliCies should he directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsei"Vtr (USPS 599 24000) 1$ published Monday thr-ough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. AsubscriptiQn ro The Obsenrer ~ $100 for one academic yean $55 fi:~r one $<:mcster. 
The: Obs:trver is publi~hed at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addt<!U c:onmions to: Non-e Dame. IN 46'SS6--0779 The Observct Pcriod.iul postage paid ar Notre Oiltnc P.O. Box 719 Jnd additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a membter of the Associated Pres5. All rtptoducti~m righu are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Dan Tapetillo Peter Ninneman Jack Thornton Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Kelly MacDonald 

It is an election year, Notre Dame. Be ready for electioneering, politick­ing and bucketfuls of empty promises from sleazebag politicians. This year we Americans will once again exer­cise our govern­ment-given right to choose our own rulers, which is apparently some­thing of which we should be proud. In America, you see, we can elect to dis­pose of our oppres­sors with the simple (or, in the case of Florida, not quite simple enough) punch of a button. 
I dislike elections. I think they bring out the worst in what is wrong with America: advertising blitzes, lies and slimy politicians smiling through their teeth as they rob us blind. What elec­tion years do offer, however, is some small hope that maybe this year will be different. Maybe, for some unknown reason, America will awak­en. 
However, I am also a pragmatic person. I know that if you are a Democrat, you will probably re-elect Slimeball X for his fourth term in the House. If you are a Republican, you will happily fill in the box next to Senator Liar Number Three and elect her for the 1Oth straight year. 
In America, party loyalty is more important than actually paying atten­tion. 
According to FairVote -The Center for Voting and Democracy, "In each of the four national elections since 1996, more than 98 percent of incum­bents have won, and more than 90 percent of all races have been won by non-competitive margins of more than 10 percent." There are currently only four states in this entire country in which all incumbents were not reelected, and the average margin of victory was over 40 percent. In Wyoming, an incumbent politician 

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 

has not lost a general election in 40 years. If I am not mistaken, the sta­tistics are similar in, say, Cuba. 
Politicians are like diapers: they both need to be changed. Often. 
But like I said, I am a realistic per­son. I know that most of you are happy with the mess in Washington. Who needs to change diapers when the ones you are wearing are so com­fortable? 
But are you really comfortabln with politics in America? Do the smiling faces of Ted Kennedy (slithering about the Senate since 1962) and Hobert Byrd (forget 1962, try 1953) keep you warm at night? I hope not. 
Until instant runoff voting is adopt­ed, which may occur around tho same time that NASA dedicates the George 
W. Bush Hotel on Mars, there is little hope for affecting dramatic change in the American political world. However, there may be one small way tion-party.net 
The Green Party: The Green Party is a left-wing party that supports socialized health care, reducing mili­tary spending and strictly rngulating greenhouse gas emissions. They are opposed to free trade as well as mili­tary action and believn in "grassroots democracy," "decentralization" and "social justice." Their Web site is www.gp.org 
Finally, in my not-so-humble opin­ion, the greatest political party in the United States: the Libertarian Party. The Libnrtarian Party bnlieves in free minds and free markets, that is, mini­mal government intnrvention in the lives of citizens. The LP is pro-Bill of Hights, anti-gun control, anti-Drug War, pro-immigration, pro-free trade, pro-gay rights and gcnnrally all­around anti-authoritarian. The LP 
supports lowering 
taxes, tariffs and 
reducing government 

in which each of us spending on as many
Politicians are like 
can do our part in levels as possible. The
diapers: they both need to
altering the political Libertarian Party's
be changed. Often.
landscape. Wnb site is www.lp.org 
This is my challenge to you: vote for at least one candidate in a local-, state­or federal-level election who repre­sents a third party. I do not expect a sweeping reevaluation of your politi­cal persuasion; what I do hope, how­ever, is that voting for one third party candidate in one race will open you up to the notion that our two-party system is flawed, and the time to fix it is now. Here is some information about three major American third parties. 
The Constitution Party: The Constitution Party can be considered strongly right-wing. It is staunchly pro-life, and their 2004 presidential candidate, Michael Peroutka, pledged to end abortion in the United States by the end of 2005. The party also supports gun rights and states' rights, while it opposes globalization, gay rights and "unrestricted immigra­tion." Their Web site is www.constitu-
So there is my chal­

lenge. You may con­tinue to support your favorite Hepublicrat politician, but in one election, I ask that you consider sup­porting a party that is not comfort­ably sustained by taxpayer money. Now is your chance to make a real political statement. Stop thinking in terms of the lesser of two evils and admit to yourself that until you are free enough to vote for neither of the two evils, you are not free at all. 
America needs more than two par­ties. The diapers are starting to smell. 
Scott Wagner is the president of the College Libertarians and writes offen­sive political satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision. He can be con­tacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDTIOR 
Vagina Monologues not the answer 
I am a woman, voicing my freedom in response to Maribel Morey's letter "More than just the heterosexual male point of view" (Jan. 30), lest we go on under the delusion that heterosexual males are the only ones in opposition to the production of The Vagina Monologues on campus. I sincerely sympathize with the harassment you faced during your time at Notre Dame, Morey, but I must say I disagree with your response. The answer to over-sexed males who hang nude pictures of girls in their dorm rooms, say things they have no right to say and look where they have no right to look is not to match them in vulgarity. This approach offends not only Catholic values, but also public decency. By all means, something must be done -but something positive, that will work towards the end of disrespect for sexuality, not something that will prolong it. And the Vagina Monologues do prolong disrespect for sexuality by mak­ing one of God's most beautiful gifts an everyday word to be thrown around for shock value. 
I also am appalled by your insinuation that Mother Teresa would be a staunch supporter of The Vagina Monologues, a production with close ties to Planne9 Parenthood. Let me clarify that we are talking about the same Mother Teresa. The Mother Teresa I am familiar with said, "It is a poverty to decide that a child must die so that you may live as you wish." Be careful who you twist to support your views, Morey. Mother Teresa is one woman whose name should not be linked to this produc­tion. As a woman, as a proud Catholic (who happens to support Vatican doctrine, as all true Catholics do) and as a supporter of an end to violence against women, I beg this University of Our Lady to look for another way to support the cause of the Vagina Monologues. 
Kateri Brown senior Lewis Hall Jan. 30 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of the Board 



1SUbmit aLetterI
of Trustees meeting in Rome? 

ito tbe Editor at · 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

jwww.ndsmcobserver.com
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The Church says that the earth is flat, but I know that it is round. For I have seen the shadow on the moon and I have more faith in the Shadow than in the Church." 
Ferdinand Magellan Portuguese explorer 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Pope .John Paull! said, "Every generation of Americans needs to know that freedom consists not in doing what we like, but in having the right to do what we ought" (Oct. X, I ()95, at Orioles Parkl. 
Tho rmnoval of explicit or implidt University sponsorship of any activity that is con­trary to tlw Catholic faith is surely not a violation of freedom as understood by Pope .John Paul II, hut is aetually an exnreise of such freedom, because it is what we ought to do. Wn must not misrepresent the Catholic faith. At a Catholic University like Notre llame, sponsoring in any way what is at odds with our faith is confusing and indeed scandalous boeausn it lins to tho world about Catholicism, yet it has occurred for the sak11 of "freodom." 
In tho United Statns, many things are being sacriliced for the sake of a flawed undorstanding of freedom. An nxample is tho 42 million babies that have been tragi­cally but lawfully killnd in abortion since the 1970s. Many on this campus share this llawml undnrstanding that freedom is a license to do whatever, whenever, wherever and it is this understanding that shapns their views of academic freedom. 
Lot us "do what we ought" in order to preserve Our Lady's University and Catholicism from scandal and eonfusion and promote the frnedom and responsibility we at the Univnrsity have to seek out the truth, while remembering that we believe Christ is the fullness of truth. Concerning the presentation of tho Vagina Monologues, our Bishop John D'Arcy said, "This play violates the truth about women, the truth about sexuality, the truth about male and female and the truth about tho human body [and] ... is in opposition to the highest understanding of academic freedom." 
What should we do? We must follow the guidance of J)'Arey and eanenl the prnsen­tation of the Monologues if indeed we wish to call oursolvns Catholic and aspirn to dis­cover truth as a great university should. 
The Vagina Monologues is oll'nnsive to womnn; it is antithetical to Catholic tmu:hing on the beautiful gift of human sexuality and also to the teachings of the church on llw human body relative to its purpose and to its status as a temple of tho Holy Spirit. 
This play violates the truth about women; the truth about sexuality; tho truth about male and female and the truth about the human body and is in opposition to tho high­est understanding of academic freedom. 
Jonathan Rose 
senior 
Alumni Hall Jan. 30 

---~================================================================================= 
D'Arcy's oxymoron 
l'vn hmm rnading with great interest tho discussions on academic freedom and the exprnssion of diverse points of view at the University. A<> one of The Observer artielos rightly states, this is not a new dnbate; we struggled with this issun in tho early '80s as well. A lew years ago Notrn Dame Magazine printed an alumni reunion spedal of "Molarity," a popular Observer cartoon strip back then. Visiting campus f{>r the first time in years, the alums are questioning their tour guide. She gleefully boasts about the studont population at Notro Dame: "Yes, thorn is diversity here: You get to meet Catholics from all over the coun­try!" 
Unf{>rtunately for faculty and stu­dnnl<>. them is no bright light in ques­tions of academic freedom and the pur­suit of enlightenment. Hight or wrong, as long as thn University maintains its ( :atholk ties with its core doctrines and bPiie('i, Notrn Dame rnmains subject to the ndiel'i of the Vatiean through il'i local prelate, in this ease Bishop John D'Arey of Fort Wayne/South Bend. And lw has not bmm afraid to keep his hands out of the theologieal eookie jar thai is Notre Dame, as his ecclesiastical hand­print is emblazoned on all the issues that have stirred this discussion. Father John Jenkins is merely articulating that the University will toe the Vatican line, now in the firm hands of the former Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, whose previ­ous post in the Curia was that ofhead of the Inquisition ... er, Congregation for the Doetrine of the Faith. 
The real question lor current students and faculty: Given this set of circum­stances, can you reconcile your core val­ues and beliefs and function as a vibrant, contributing member of a uni­versity community with an administra­tion that has reiterated its intention to adhere to church teaching at the expense of dialogue and open debate? "Academie freedom" as we have always known it is an oxymoron at Notre Dame. 
Eduardo Magallenez alumnus Class of 1983 Jan. 30 

Rethink approach to discourse 
Student responses to Father John Jenkins' speech last week have left me in doubt about whether or not we deserve the respect that he gave us by delivering his message as an open forum Jenkins gave us a look at what a good university ought to be. He gave us two values that are, literal­ly, sacred to this university -academic freedom and Catholic character. He then noted an apparent tension between the two and asked us, as a community, to help him solve that tension through discourse, open­ness and trust. 
The student body responded immediately by delivering emotionally charged speeches about the good done by the Vagina Monologues and by mocking Jenkins. Later, students gathered to protest and to "shame" the University into doing what they want. Opponents of the Monologues have deelared this a "war" and are calling the supporters of the monologues sore los­ers. 
The general assumption seems to be that Jenkins has already made up his mind, and no one seems willing to take him at face value when he says that he is exploring and probing and trying to discover the right course of action. Clearly he has lean­ings, but it is ridiculous to assume that he would go to the trouble of establishing a forum for students to spnak if he didn't want to hear what we have to say. 
Jenkins' approach seems to denote a belief that when ideas collide, what usually comes out is a synthesis of the two. If one wins, it is because that was the better idea. Jenkins is trusting in reason to serve as arbiter. The students who respond with protests seem to have forsaknn reason and instead trust in power. Their desire isn't to convince Jenkins by being right and giving reasons, but by talking louder than nvery­one else. 
If we want to be taken seriously by Jenkins, then we ought to begin by taking seriously both of the values he's put before us. Thern is a unique relationship to be dis­covered, and as the nation's premiere Catholic university, that responsibility falls to us. 
Chris Scaperlanda 
senior 
Keough Hall Jan. 30 

Detractors should reexamine Jenkins' statements 
It is sad to sne that Father John .Jenkins' attempt to nxplain and clarify the discussion regarding the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival has failnd to impact some of his detractors. The tired, irrPievant arguments they present do no good for .Jnnkins' niTort to address these issues on a rational and well-thought-out basis. 
I would bngin with Andrea Manka's letter from Jan. 26. There are parts of it which are sensible. lltlr point that it is important to discuss "views that diffnr from Catholic teaching" is well taken, as well as hnr compromise position of a symposium regard­ing "the thnology of the body and anthropologicaV soeiologieal idnas about sex" (though the Monologues may not have a valid place in such a symposium in my opinion}. I would direct Manka's attm1tion to Jenkins' own words (taken from the text on the president's Wnb site): "It is essential to a uni­vnrsity that there be a variety of views expressed vigorously, even those contrary to deep values of Catholicism. We are richer, and the Catholic intel­lnctual tradition is strengthened, if a variety of vit1ws are exprnssed and discussed." What Manka has failnd to realize is that no one, not Jenkins and not those who oppose the Vagina Monologues and ()uenr Film Festival, wants to end the discussion of particular ideas on campus. No books will be banned or teachers censored (or censured) because they discuss ideas, theories or issues raised by Ensler's vignettes or homosexual cinema. That point was made abundantly clear by Jenkins in his speech. The objection is to University sponsorship of events which contradict its Catholic character, not to the presence of such ideas in a proper academic setting on this campus. 
Perhaps the most stubborn and intransigent fail­ure to read/listen and understand Jenkins' words can be found in James Parrot's letter, also from Jan. 
26. lle throws out the same misguided and misdi­rected arguments that were never fully relevant in the first place and have surely been cleared up by Jenkins' speech. Parrot did not or perhaps does not want to see that Jenkins is perfectly open to the dis­cussion of issues regarding female sexuality and homosexuality, even from non-Catholic points of view (see quote above). His words. particularly his praise of the goals that the Vagina Monologues (ostensibly) promote, are proof of that. 
"Frank discussion," at least in Parrot's terms, seems to be one-sided portrayals via theatre or an anti-Catholic biased discussion panel (as was reportedly the case for last year's Queer Film Festival). This is not discussion. It is much closer to aggressive proselytization than reasoned discussion. If Jenkins and the University leadership really want­ed no public discussion of these issues, they would have ended both events without one word of expla­nation to students or faculty and removed evnry copy of the Monologues and every bit of homosexu­al-lifestyle-promoting cinema from the library. lias this happened? No. Indeed, they started the discus­sion anew this year through their actions. I would point out the one thing that Parrot may have gottnn right: Namely, that the University "has suppressed and criticized many manifestations of homosnxuali­ty.".Absolutely correct and absolutely justified, since a Catholic university has no desire and no businnss to promote a culture that often eelebratos sinful acts. 
I was extremely hopeful that Jenkins' spench would clear the field and make it possible for us to address the most important questions: 1) If and how the Monologues and Queer Film Festival are eon­trary to the Catholic faith and 2) Whethnr their pub­lic presentation by this University is tacit nndorse­ment of their values. I see now that it will takn longer for some to go beyond misconceptions, illu­sions and crusades and eome to the heart of these matters. 
Cole Milliard junior London Program Jan. 29 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 


I sc~& i&n
I 

Insanity, Hollywood style 
Let me preface this by saying that Charming will come along to rescue the everything I've learned about life has worthy damsel. Unfortunately, that does­come through Hollywood. A'> I grew up, n't bode well for everyone, as most peo­the lessons I've learned from movies ple are not born with chiseled features or have proven vastly more enduring than into a monarchy. those of my parents. More recent romantic films have Perhaps it's because shown a leveling of the playing field in it was Arnold · this regard, however, with both charac­Schwarzenegger ters being equally successful. Sometimes and Bruce Campbell it is the woman rescuing the man, but delivering the that doesn't make it any easier for gospel, but who am romance to occur. I to judge? The second is that apparently, every­
For example, it is one alive is completely neurotic. There is because of movies an adversarial mentality that comes from that the best most modern romance movies. It's a answer to any prob­girls-versus-guys thing, with the desired lem is excessive result being the subjugation of the oppo­force. If that fails, site sex. In "How to Lose a Guy in 10 going in alone with Days," each of the respective protago­Chuck Norris-like nists had their cadre of support that reflexes will get the helped them scheme and support them job done. And ifboth of those efforts in their choices, no matter how out­result in failure, it's because there was landish they were. The fact that they no dramatic montage. were each toying with a living person's 
However, some of the most important emotions never seemed to cross their things I've learned concern the realm of minds for the majority of the movie. gender relations. It's that time of year "Hitch" was the same way, only taken again, and like many others, even the more literally with a character that spe­mostjaded of individuals can find them­cialized in trying to cross the gender bar­selves pondering the mysteries of the rier. Guys counseled guys, and girls coun­opposite sex. But the messages of seled girls. But once again, the two didn't Hollywood, when viewed in a greater really mix until the end, which was per­scope, are tricky to decipher. formed in a completely over-the-top, 
During the '80s and '90s, it seemed ridiculous manner. Some people may call that girls fell into two categories -those it cute, but typically, jumping onto a mov­that needed rescuing and those that did ing car is considered insane. So in the the rescuing. Science fiction and horror realm of Hollywood cinema, does love films always seemed to fall into the latter then equal a type of insanity? category, be it the heroine from the Continuing the notion of insane "Aliens" series of movies, or from romance are movies like "Along Came "Scream." The former category can be Polly" and "Monster-in-Law." Both seen in almost any action movie, as they movies featured characters, which, while arc swept away by the hero's over­likable to the audience, would be consid­whelming masculinity. In either case, all ered completely loony in any convention­a guy had to do to win the girl was be al sense. Deception and abusing one's heroic, rugged and be in the possession mother seems counter-intuitive for of snappy one-liners. romance, but here they work perfectly. 
Sadly, most people of either sex never After my exhausting delving into the find themselves in the position to display realm of Hollywood romance, the conclu­their undeniable prowess. Although sion is suddenly clear. To woo a member Notre Dame has a Radiation Laboratory, of the opposite sex, all one has to do is the only thing that has ever come from it act as illogical, over-the-top and insane was a short-lived giant leprechaun that as possible. While it helps to have the did little more than amuse readers of perfect body and job, that's no guaran­The Observer. tee. The popular, rich guy often receives 
An extensive knowledge base of action the shaft because he is too ordinary or and horror movies thus prove to be conveniently revealed to be a jerk by the insuflicient. So to learn more about the relationship's conclusion. fabled inter-sexual relations, the dreaded Girls want a strong guy, who is also land of romance movies needs to be pil­sensitive and powerful, yet subservient. laged. A quick glance into the realm of Guys want a girl wild, yet tame, intelli­popular films in this genre reveals an gent, yet a little bubbly. interesting selection with fascinating I just realized that I haven't learned analyses. anything about real life from Hollywood. 
The first is that the aforementioned But at least a heart-felt confession will stereotypes still hold true, most of the woo any girl, no matter how I act. time. Movies like "Pretty Woman" show that women still want to be rescued by a man. The only difference between this Contact Mark Bemenderfer at and the action genre, however, is that the mbemende@nd.edu male trades in his automatic rifle for a The views expressed in this column are hefty bank account. It is a continuation of those ofthe author and not necessarily the "Cinderella" mindset that a Prince those ofThe Observer. 

Photo courtesy of dvd.ign.com 

"Terminator 2: Judgment Day," left, and "Hitch" showcase different gender rela­tions within their respective storylines. 
GENRE REVIEW 
80s classic comedi 
"Caddyshack" is a movie not to be missed. 
By SEAN SWEANEY 
Scene Wri rer "Ghostbusters" (1984) 
Bill Murray continued his hot streak in the In the age of comedians such as Ben 1980s with "Ghostbusters," a film following Stiller, Will Ferrell and Vince Vaughn, it is the exploits of three oddball scientists who hard to imagine comedies have been playing capture and exterminate ghosts for a living. in theaters from the time these men were Joining Murray for this film were "Saturday young children. The inspiration for the cur­Night Live" veterans Dan Akroyd and Rick rent generation of comics stems from the Moranis. The three teamed with director movies of the 1980s and stars like Bill Ivan Reitman ("Old School," "Animal Murray, Steve Martin, Chevy Chase and John House") to create a comedy intertwined with Candy. Comedies of the 1980s began the a sci-fi story about ghosts attacking New trend toward plot-driven comedies seen in York City. Murray again steals the show in a cineplexes today and deserve proper recog­movie filled with '80s haircuts and music. nition and appreciation from all film lovers. The special effects seem to be begging for Four comedies stand out as must-see films laughter as they are not good, but not awful from the decade. either. The comedy is what drives "Ghostbusters," and the wild success led to "Caddyshack" (1980) sequels, television shows, toys and many
This spoof about golf at exclusive country other types of marketing tie-ins. clubs began the decade and set the stage for "Ghostbusters" is another quality 1980s all other movies that followed. The main plot comedy that can always be called on for follows a caddy, Danny (Michael O'Keefe), laughs and fun. who attempts to raise money to attend col­lege. The plot is admittedly laughable, and "Planes, Trains & Automobiles" (1987) the real comedy in the movie comes in the This third must-see comedy of the 1980s talent of Rodney Dangerfield, Chevy Chase stars Steve Martin and John Candy as two and Bill Murray. Dangerfield plays AI unlikely traveling companions trying to Czervik, a loud, obnoxious golfer who is arrive home in time for Thanksgiving. completely out of place at the club. He com­Martin plays a quiet and conservative travel­pletely takes over the scene whenever he is ing businessman who encounters the show­present and offers enough one-liners to keep er-ring salesman played by John Candy. most comedians busy for a long time. Chevy Candy's character is the complete opposite of Chase plays his role to perfection and inter­Martin's, and they clash in a series of side­acts well against Judge Elihu Smails (Ted splitting incidents as they bumble their way Knight); "Caddyshack" marked the real start home. This road-trip film makes one think of of Bill Murray's career after his hilarious Laurel and Hardy skits, given the way portrayal as Carl Spackler, an insane Martin and Candy act together. Writer and groundskeeper constantly fighting a war director John Hughes ("Home Alone," with a gopher. Murray truly seems insane in "Ferris Bueller's Day Off'') turns in by far his his performance thanks to his slurred best work here in harnessing the energy of speech and crazy antics. Overall, the two comedians in a comedy that has 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Samurai Showdown 
Story-wise, the game is exactly what oneBy MARK BEMENDERFER would expect from the golden age of two­
Assisram Scene Editor 
dimensional fighters. A powerful being 
issues out a call to the strongest fighters 
Two-dimensional fighters are a dying around, and they converge on his location, genre. They had an impressive run in the getting into random skirmishes along the world of gaming, but like Nintendo, its time way. It's not the deepest plot, but in fairness, of dominance is past. it does not portray itself as having such. 
Most fighters currently out on the market The characters are a diverse bunch, with a boast fully three-dimensional engines, with total of 26 playable. They range from agile the latest aliasing and polygon effects. They ninjas to large Japanese ghouls of oriental push the boundaries of modern technology, lore. There are a number of hidden and with "Dead or Alive" and "Tekken" being unlockable ones as well, adding to the replay primary examples of this. But that is the pri­of the game. There are some clones in mary reason that the choice to release appearance and fighting styles. This charac­"Samurai Showdown V" is an odd one. teristic is a staple of its genre, as both 
"Samurai Showdown" was popular during "Mortal Kombat" and "Street Fighter" the height of the two-dimensional fighter employed clones to round out their rosters. craze, and even then it never quite reached Most of the characters show a unique the same level as "Street Fighter" and sense of style and ability, however. The "Mortal Kombat." The attempts that were aforementioned ghoul is a giant, taking up a made to modernize it were not nearly as quarter of the screen. Another character successful as it's brethren, so it remained in employs an oversized shuriken on a chain, a its original format. So now, 13 years after reasonably unique weapon in the world of the release of the original, garners are treat­gaming. ed to a home console release of the fifth iter­The game held a unique niche back when ation of the series. it was released and still manages to retain 
some of its distinctiveness. The 

focus of "Samurai Showdown" was weapon-based combat, and while games like "Soul Calibur" now occupy that same genre, it still manages to maintain its own identity. Unlike other weapon-based games, the emphasis here is not on combos or juggling the opponent. Instead, the focus is on defense and timing strikes to disarm the adversary. 


THE OBSERVER" 






CENE 


Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

The Oriental ghoul Kusaregedo, left, attacks the French fencer Charlotte, right, In he X-Box exclusive game, "Samurai Showdown V." 
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
s still earn laughs 
Photo courtesy of xenafan.com 

Harold Ramls, left, Bill Murray, middle, and Dan Aykroyd face off against ghosts with hilarious results In the 80s classic "Ghostbusters." 
rode its way onto the list of great comedy films. 
"The Naked Gun: From the Flies of Pollee Squad!" (1988) 
l.nslie Ninlsnn is known today as one of the all-time eonwdie grnal'i, in large part for his corny, deadpan eomie abilities. Nowhere arc tlwsn bnttnr showcased than in "The Naked Cun," thn first in a series of throe spoofs on detnetivn movies. Ninlsen became known for eonwdy from "Police Squad," but his real tahmt goes on display here. !In plays Lt. Frank l>rehin. an incompetent cop who sturnblns upon a plot to assassinate Queen Jo:lizabnth II on a visit to America. The corny language and sight gags eome so fast in this 
V' fills its target niche 
Single, pownrful moves are the primary form of combat in the game. A spneial move, titled a "ragn explosion," ean bn triggtwed at any rnonwnt and usnd to pllrform more pow­nrful moves. But if it does not eonneet, or if llw tirnnr runs out, the player loses the abili­
lhr thn rest of tlw rnateh. 
i 
Ell"orl'i have bmm made to modernize the 'Lilli~ in tlw form of making it compatible ith X-Box Live. For the first tim•~. one ean lay "Samurai Showdown" eompetitively vnr tlw lntornnt. Sincn the main draw for Lwo-dinwnsional fighters was playing movie that repeat viewings are a must. All spoof movies sinee "The Naked Gun" draw from and pay homage to its cheesy humor. 
It is clear that the 1980s was a time when humor ruled the box otlicc and comic leg­ends were born. These four movies are the all-stars of the generation and have survived as classics to this day. Certainly, there are many other comedies from the '80s worth seeing, but these four cover the entire deeade with all typns of humor, from one lin­ers to slapstiek. Next time you feel the need for lots of laughs, check out one of these movies, and you will be laughing until your sides hurt. 
Contact Sean Sweaney at ssweany@nd.edu 
against other live opponents, this is a wel­eome feature. 
"Samurai Showdown V" is an obvious throwback to the older days of gaming. The majority of its appeal lies in the retro nature of the game, and it appeals to an older erowd of gamers. People who grew up with the PlayStation 2 or e·ven the original Playstation, however, may find the game inevitably underwhelming. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbeniende@nd.edu 
page 11 

RECIPE TIPS 
Valentine's Day chocolate treats 
By MAUREEN MALLOY 
Scene Writer 

Although many people identify Fnb. 14 with dates, flowers and jewelry, I immediately think of dceadent choco­late treats. Valentine's Day provides a great opportunity to host a late-night dessert party. Serving only desserts is a fun and economical way to entertain. Whethnr you are hosting a speeial someone or a group of friends, it's safe to say they will enjoy a night filled with bites of rieh trullles, chocolate-covered strawberries and buttery blondies capped off with steaming mugs of hot chocolate. 
Coffee Chocolate Truffle Kisses 
9 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened) 3/4 stiek (6 tablespoons) unsalted but­ter, softened 1/2 cup heavy cream 4 teaspoons instant espresso powder 1/4 teaspoon salt Parchment paper 1 eup unsweetened eocoa powder 
Break chocolate into small pieces. In a food processor, pulse together choco­late and butter until chocolate is finely chopped. In a small saucepan, whisk together cream, espresso powder and salt and bring just to a boil. Pour hot cream mixture over chocolate mixture and pulse until smooth. Transfer mix­ture to a bowl. Let mixture stand at cool room temperature until just firm enough to pipe, about two hours. Oil a large baking sheet and line with parch­ment paper. Transfer choeolate mix­ture to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2­inch plain tip. Pipe mixture onto bak­ing sheet to form one-by-one-ineh cones, or "kisses." Chill kisses, uncov­ered, until firm, at least three hours and up to one day. Sift cocoa powder into a small bowl. Working with one kiss at a time, roll in cocoa powder to coat. Kisses keep, in one layer in an airtight container at eool room temper­ature or ehilled, two weeks. Makes about 64 kisses. Courtesy of Epicurious.com 
Chocolate Covered Strawberries 
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, ehopped 3 ounces white chocolate, chopped 
,. 
Photo courtesy of statlc.flickr.com Chocolate-covered strawberries are a delicious treat that are great for late-night dessert parties. They are simple to make and can be prepared quickly. 
1 pound strawberries with stems (about 20), waslwd and dried very well 
Put the smniswnet and white dweo­lates into two separate lwatproof' medi­um bowls. Fill two mndium saucepans with a eouple of inelws of water and bring to a simmnr over nwdium heat. Turn off the heat; set the bowls of chocolatn over the water to melt.. Stir until smooth. (;\lternativnly, melt the chocolates in a microwave at half power, for one minute, stir and tlwn heat for another minutn or until melt­ed.) Onee the ehoeolates are melted and smooth, remove from the heat. Line a sheet pan with parchment or waxed paper. Holding tlw strawberry by the stem, dip tlw fruit into the dark choeolate, lift and twist slightly, letting any excess chocolate fall back into the bowl. Set strawberries on the parch­ment paper. Hepeat with the rest of the strawberries. Dip a fork in the wh,ite chocolate and drizzle the white choco­late over the dipped strawberrins. Set the strawberries aside until the ehoeo­late sets, about 30 minutes. Courtesy of Television Food Network, G.P. 
Monster Macadamia Nut Blondles 
2 1/2 eups all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons baking powder 1/4 teaspoon salt 1 cup unsalted butter, at room tnmper­ature 1 3/4 cups firmly packed light brown sugar 2 whole eggs, at room tempnrature 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 eup chopped macadamia nuts 
Preheat an oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit and grease a 1:~-by-9-ineh baking dish. In a bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder and salt. In a large bowl or in a mixer, beat together the butter and sugar until light and creamy, then beat in the nggs and vanilla. Gently stir in the flour mixture, then the macadamia nuts. Mix until well blended and pour into the baking dish. Bake until a toothpiek inserted into the center of the dish eornes out clean, about 35 minutes. 
Let blondies eool in pan. To serve, eut into 9 large bars. 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloy 1 @nd.edu 
-------------------------------------. 
page 12 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Northem Iowa ranked for first time in history 
Michigan cracks top 25; more than half of Big Ten now ranked 
Associated Press 
Northern Iowa is ranked in The Associated Press' Top 25 for the l'irst time. Michigan is back in for the first time in almost a decade. 
The Panthers and Wolverines were among four teams new to the poll Monday, but their waits were a lot longer than Iowa and LSU, which were both ranked earlier this season. 
The top of the poll stayed the same with Connecticut, Duke and Memphis in the first three spots, but then came a number of changes after a week that saw 12 ranked teams lose at least one game. 
''I'm exc.ited for our players. This is the lirst time our school has ever been ranked and for this particular group to be one that cracks the Top 25 is very special," Northern Iowa coach Greg McDermott said. ''I'm sure in a lot of our fans' minds they think something like this has never been possible. I want them to enjoy it while it lasts and we'll do what we can to stay there but we're in a very tough league." 

Northern Iowa (19-3), ranked 25th this week, has been in the NCAA tournament the last two seasons. Last year the Panthers were one of three teams from the Missouri Valley Conference to make it. along with Creighton and Southern Illinois. The Missouri Valley is ranked sixth among conferences in the most recent public RPis. 
"The success of our league from the start of the season to now should have been enough for people to take notice of just how good the Missouri Valley is," said McDermott, whose team has won five straight and nine of 10, "but if us being ranked does that, that's great." 
Michigan (15-3) moved in at No. 21, the Wolverines' first appearance in the Top 25 since the final poll of the 1997-98 season, which was also the last time they were in the NCAA tournament. 
"I think for the road we've traveled this is a significant achievement for our kids," Michigan coach Tommy Amaker said. "The way we've been able to get to this moment has been to stay focused and take things as they come. Hopefully they will feel honored and deserving and keep it in perspective." 
The Wolverines have won four straight, the last two over Michigan State and Wisconsin. The only losses have been to UCLA, Indiana and Illinois. 
Michigan and Iowa give the Big Ten six teams in the Top 25, the most among the confer­ences. 
"It's a very tough league and the way our teams have played all year and now with everyone beating each other in confer­ence play it will only stay that way," Amaker said. "This league has shown its mettle over the long haul." 
Connecticut (18-1), which beat St. John's and Providence in its first week as the No. 1 team, received 65 first-place votes and 1,793 points from the national media panel. Duke (19­
1) beat Virginia Tech and Virginia and remained second with the other seven first-place votes and 1,727 points. Memphis (19-2) stayed third 
after  wins  over  UAB  and  
Central Florida.  
Villanova,  Gonzaga  and  

Illinois each jumped two spots to fourth through sixth, respec­tively. 
Texas, which lost at Oklahoma on Saturday, dropped from fourth to seventh. 

North Carolina grabs top spot, only unbeaten team left 
The Tar Heels received all 46 No. 21 as one of four newcom­the big game," Hatchell said. It was the first victory for
Duke slips to second, 

first-place votes from a national ers, the first ranking for the "Even when we were down, it's Kentucky coach Mickie DeMoss St. John's enters poll media panel. Wildcats in 13 years. St. John's just a special feeling that this over her former boss, Pat ''I'm happy for our kids," said came in at No. 25 to end an team has to never give up. It's Summitt. DeMoss spent 18 after 22-year drought North Carolina coach Sylvia even longer absence from the sort of like the wind. You can't years as Summitt's assistant at Hatchell, who guided the Tar poll -22 years. see it, but you sure can feel it." Tennessee before moving to 
Heels to the 1994 NCAA title. The other newcomers were Maryland remained sixth and Kentucky in 2003. 
Associated Press 

"They work really hard. But we No. 23 Boston College and No. was followed by Ohio State, "It certainly gives us a lift," 
North Carolina finally added know we can't relax. 24 North Carolina State. Both Purdue, Rutgers and Baylor. said DeMoss, who last season what was missing from its Everybody's going to be after had been ranked earlier this The only change in that group guided Kentucky to its first win­women's basketball resume us. And we want to be No. 1 at month. was Rutgers and Baylor switch­ning record since 2000. "Our after a national championship the end of the season." Notre Dame, Southern Cal, ing positions. motto this year has been to and two Atlantic Coast North Carolina, which moved Florida and Virginia Tech Oklahoma, which has won earn respect. It's earned. It's Conference titles -a No. 1 up from third, had never been dropped out after they went a five straight and eight of nine, never just given to you. It's just ranking. higher than No. 2 in 243 previ­combined 0-8 during the week. jumped two spots to No. 11 and another way of validating the 
North Carolina climbed to the ous appearances in The AP poll. Southern Cal and Florida had Minnesota was up· two places to fact that we have made some top of The Associated Press poll And the Tar Heels reached that entered the poll just last week. 12th. Then it was DePaul, progress at Kentucky." for the first time on Monday, a position only once -the week North Carolina had lost 12 Georgia, Stanford and New Kentucky had been ranked 90 day after the Tar Heels beat No. of Nov. 29, 2004. straight games to Duke before Mexico, followed by Michigan times previously, but not since 2 Duke in an intense game at Duke (20-1) remained second, beating the Blue Devils three State, Arizona State, BYU and the week of Feb. 2, 1993. Cameron Indoor Stadium. while No. 3 LSU (17 -1) and No. times last season. The Tar Heels Temple. St. John's (17 -3), in the poll 
The matchup became a battle 4 Connecticut (19-2) each made it four in a row with a Kentucky, Vanderbilt, Boston for the first time since the week for the top spot after Duke's vic­moved up one place. Tennessee sensational comeback Sunday, College, North Carolina State of Feb. 5, 1984, has improved tory six days earlier over (19-2) lost at Kentucky three rallying from 12 points down and St. John's completed the steadily under fourth-year Tennessee, which had been No. days after the loss at Duke and midway through the second half Top 25. coach Kim Barnes Arico. A year 1 for eight weeks. North dropped to fifth. Those were the to win 74-70 behind center With its 66-63 victory over ago, the Red Storm won 20 Carolina (20-0) is now the only first back-to-hack losses for the Erlana Larkins and fleet-footed Tennessee, Kentucky (15-4) games for the first time since unbeaten team in men's or Lady Vols since 1997. point guard Ivory Latta. became just the fourth 1988. This season, they're third women's Division I basketball. Kentucky joined the poll at "They love the environment of unranked team to beat a No. 1. in the Big East. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit  
all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Stop overpaying for rent.  1706 Logan, 6 bdrms,  COLLEGE PARK  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise!  
WANTED  Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  $200/person, B&G Homes. 574-250-7653.  CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR.  PERSONAL  5 Days from $299!1ncludes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun,  
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes,  TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS.  
 Acapulco, Jamaica from $499!  
ND family in Granger looking for  3 full Baths, 2+ Car Garage,  For rent: Two story house com- HURRY.  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS-HIR- Campus Reps Needed!  
part-time babysitter.  Fireplace, Cathedral Ceilings,  pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for  235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL  lNG NOW-Secure your summer job  PromoCode:31  
Flexible daytime schedule.  10x20 Deck,  immediate occupancy or next  now! Residential camp, located in  www.springbreaktravel.com  
If interested,  Close to Campus.  school year. Off street parking  2-6 BDRMS. WALK2ND.  south central, Indiana. Operated by  1-800-678-6386.  
please call Renee at 277-3496.  $1700 monthly.  includes motion sensor light for  FURN. 329-0308  the Catholic Youth Organization  
Available Aug. 06/07,  security. Four individually locked  since 1946. Serving campers aged  "The choirs broke out in immaculate  
Unix Server specialist needed to  Call574-232-4527, 269-683-5038.  bedrooms, central station monitored  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes.  7 to 16 in various programs.  chorus, as down fromthe heavens  
attach webcam to a server and then  security system, six blocks from  Website:  Inclusive of persons with disabili­ descended Chuck Norris; who  
link to a website for a local daycare.  Blue & Gold Homes is offering a  Notre Dame, bus stop in front of  mmmrentals.com  ties. Great staff coummunity.  delivered a kick that could shatter  
233-1605.  free pool table to all new tenants. 1­ house, surrounded by other student  Contact: Gary 574-993-2208 or  General Counselor, Specialty,  bones, into the crotch of Indiana  
7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open  housing, Laundromat next door,  grooms@ ourwebspot.net  Adventure and Health positions  Jones."  
FoR RENT  leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com  basement available for storage of bicycles,luggage,trunks, etc., new  123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath.  available. Training provided starting May 2006. For application and  -"Ultimate Showdown" by Lemon Demon  
or call 57 4-250-7653.  furnace and central air, new kitchen  Call574-229-0149.  information contact: CYO Camp  
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED- including new stove and refrigera- Rancho Framasa (toll-free):  Courtney, are you up for another  
ROOM HOMES  515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrrns,  tor, large living room for TV or  515 St. Joseph, 8 bdrms,  (888)988-2839, x25 or  scavenger hunt?  
MMMRENTALS.COM  $200/person,  entertaining, free trash removal.  $200/person,  e-mail  
532-1408  B&G Homes. 574-250-7653.  Call 289-4071.  B&G Homes. 574-250-7653.  angi@ campranchoframasa.org  Mike: Buffalo, what a waste  






OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
tP-am  rP.cord  pet.  GB  
New Jersey  22-20  .524  
Philadelphia  23-21  .523  
Boston  18-27  .400  5.5  
New York  15-30  .333  8.5  
Toronto  14-29  .326  8.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
I.Oillll record pet. GB 

Detroit 37-5 .881 Cleveland 26-17 .605 11.5 Milwaukee 23-21 .523 15 Indiana 21-21 .500 16 Chicago 20-23 .465 17.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division tPam rOI~OI'cJ pet. GB 
Miami 28-18 .609 Washington 20-22 .476 6 Orlando 18-24 .429 8 Atlanta 12-31 .279 14.5 Charlotte 11-35 .239 17 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tl'a m n•conl pet. (;B Denver 25-21 .543 Minnesota 21-22 .488 2.5 Utah 21-24 .467 3.5 Seallle 18-26 .409 6 Portland 16-27 .372 7.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

l.t~am rtH:ord pet. GB Phoenix 28-16 .636 LA Clippers 25-17 .595 2 LA Lakers 23-20 .535 4.5 Golden State 20-23 .465 7.5 Sacramento 18-26 .409 10 
Western Conference, Southwest Division team reeord pet. GB 
San Antonio 35-10 .178 Dallas 34-10 .773 0.5 Memphis 26-18 .591 8.5 New Orleans 22-22 .500 12.5 Houston 15-29 .341 19.5 
Men's Fencing Top 20 

No. Team No. Team 
1 Ohio State 2 NOTRE DAME 3 Penn State 4 Harvard 5 Columbia 6 St. Johns 7 Princeton 8 Pennsylvania 9 Stanford 10 Duke 11 Air Force 12 Rutgers 13 Brown 14 NYU 15 Yale 16 North Carolina 17 UC·San Diego 18 Wayne State 19 Brandeis 20 Cleveland State 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 
NOTRE DAME Penn State Columbia-Barnard Ohio State Harvard St. Johns Northwestern Yale Pennsylvania Princeton Stanford Wayne State Temple Duke UC-San Diego Air Force NYU Rutgers North Carolina Brown 
NBA 


Associated Press reacted, some may say over the scorer's table stances, the NBA made it that my wife should have and ran into the stands clear there will be no ATLANTA -Antonio called security -any of during a timeout in over­leniency for players going Davis served a five-game that," he said in the lock­time. He was ejected by into the stands, especially .suspension for rushing er room. "Bottom line is, the officials and suspend­after last season's brawl into the stands in defense it all happened. Hopefully ed by the league the next at Detroit during a of his wife, but his return something like that won't day. Pistons-Pacers game. to the court will have to happen again." "It's a tough situation, That melee resulted in wait. "But I don't think that I you know?" Davis said. lengthy suspensions and 
Davis, who was set to would have done any­"On the one hand, as criminal charges for start Monday night's thing differently. As of president of the (players') Indiana's Hon Artest, game against the Atlanta right now, I'm just glad union, I understand the Stephen Jackson and Hawks, was a last-minute that it's over and I can rules better than anybody Jormaine O'Noal. scratch because of lower get back to playing bas­and why that rule is in Even so, a number of back pain. Maurice ketball." place. But on the other playors have sympathized Taylor started in his Davis' wil'e, Kendra, hand -which I think is with Davis' plight.. place. exchanged words with a the part of me that took "It's been actually phe­
Before the game, Davis Bulls' fan during a Jan. over -as a man, you nomenal, the support that discussed the incident 18 game in Chicago. After have to protect your fam­I've been getting, oven that led to his suspension. another fan became ily." though I brokn a ruin," lw 
"Some may say I over-involved, Davis jumped No matter the circum-said. 
IN BRIEF 
Hurricanes acguire veteran 
Weight from Blues 
HALEIGH, N.C. -The Carolina Hurricanes acquired veteran center Doug Weight from the St. Louis Blues on Monday, adding another important piece to the best tnam in the NIIL. 
The 35-year-old Weight led the Blues with 33 assists and 44 points. lie was named to the U.S. Olympic team that will bo led by Hurricanes coach Peter Laviolette next month in Turin. 
"Doug is one of the premier for­wards in the National Hockey League and will add a strong element to our top lines," Carolina general manager Jim Hutherford said in a statement. "Ills skill, leadership and experience will be a great benefit for our team." 
The Hurricanes also received the rights to left wing Erkki Hajamaki. They sent right wing Jesse Boulerice, center Mike Zigomanis and the rights to unsigned draft pick Magnus Kahnberg to the Blues, along with three draft picks. 

Olazabal becomes latest 
victim of Wood's pressure 
LA JOLLA, Calif. -New season, old story: Everybody lets go of Tignr's tail eventually. 
Everybody expected Jose Maria Olazabal to make the putt. 
Tiger Woods certainly did. CBS had a camera trained on Woods as Olazabal settled over a 4-footer in the fast-fading afternoon light. And Tiger, cold-eyed as ever, was already staring off into the distance as if mentally rehearsing his next tee shot. 
Olazabal expected to make it, too, and with good reason. The 39-year-old Spaniard is one of the nerviest putters around. lie's rolled them in for two decades now, across five continents, with Masters, Ryder Cups and two dozen other tournaments on the line. 
But not this time, and not against Woods, because ... well, because nobody ever hangs on long enough to beat him. Olazabal missed the putt giving Woods his first victory of the season. 
Clemens pitches BP at 
Astros minicamp 
IIOUSTON -Hoger Clmnnns madn an unoxpected appearancn at tho start of tho Houston Astros' mini­camp on Monday, pitching batting practice to prospects that ineludnd his oldest son, Koby. 
The 4:l-year-old right-handnr has­n't decided whother ho'll play a 23rd season. lie led the major lnagues with a 1.87 EHA last year but was plagued by back and hamstring prob­lems late in the season. lie limped oil' the field aftp.r just two innings in the World Series opening gamn against the Chicago White Sox. 
Clemens said Monday his back and hamstr!~g were healed, but he has doubts wheth.er he could last another full season. 
"There will be a week I gnt up and I feel like I can do it again and then the next week, I don't want to gnt out in the outfield and start running those poles and doing those things," Clemens said. 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Illinois at Wisconsin 7 p.m. ESPN Florida at Mississippi 8 p.m. ESPN2 
NHL 
Minnesota at Colorado 9 p.m. OLN 
WINTER X GAMES 9 p.m. ESPN 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
NBA 

Bryant, Arenas create lllore issues for Pacers 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indiana Pacers, already reeling from injuries and a five-game losing streak, will face two of the league's top scorers in Gilbert Arenas and Kobe Bryant on back-to-back nights. 
The Pacers travel to Washington on Tuesday to face Arenas, then return home Wednesday to play Bryant's Los Angeles Lakers. Bryant leads the league with 35.9 points per game and Arenas ranks fourth with 28.1 points per contest. 
The Pacers, 21-21, are in danger of falling below .500 midway through a season that began with NBA title hopes. They'll try to bounce back against the two opponents who 
to
"They're two ofthe

have put up the really tough shots highest point totals best scorers in the against you. Even against them this NBA. and guys the when you play season. good defense
whole NBA's trying

Arenas had 37 against him, he 
to stop, and it's not 

points and eight hits tough shots. assists to lead working." You want to do as Washington to a good a job of tak­94-85 win in 
Sarunas Jasikevicius ing the ball out of
Indianapolis on his hands as possi-Jan. 13. Pacers guard ble and make the 
missing shots. They're worried about carrying their teams and making their teams better." 
The Lakers game will con­clude a four-game stretch in which the Pacers will have faced three of the league's top four scorers. The Pacers lost two in a row to LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers last week. The league's number three scorer, James averaged 
26.5 points, 8.5 assists and seven rebounds against Indiana. 
To prevent a trend of being torched by superstars, the Pacers will try to force other players to make the key shots. 
"Gilbert has been a guy who's dominated with the ball," Pacers forward Austin Croshere 
said. "He has the ability make 
Bryant scored 45 points, along with 10 rebounds and five assists in a 96-90 win over the Pacers in Los Angeles on Jan. 9. He scored 81 points -second in NBA history ­against Toronto on Jan. 22. 
"They're not only scoring points against us, they're scor­ing points against anybody," Pacers guard Sarunas Jasikevicius said. "They're two of the best scorers in the NBA, and guys the whole NBA's trying to stop, and it's not working." 
Arenas and Bryant proved to be unstoppable in the fourth quarters of their games against the Pacers this month ­Arenas scored 18 points and Bryant 17. 
"I think their confidence lev­els are so high right now," Pacers guard Stephen Jackson said. "They're just going out there and not worrying about 
other guys on the team beat you. 
"Kobe doesn't bring the ball up as much, but their whole offense goes through him," Croshere said. "You have to make him catch the ball a little farther out than he wants to catch it and run bodies at him and make him shoot tough shots." 
Besides being forced to defend two superstars, the Pacers will have to work Peja Stojakovic into the rotation. The 6-10 forward came to the Pacers from the Sacramento Kings last week in exchange for Ron Artest. 
The Pacers expect Stojakovic to contribute immediately. The former All-Star averaged 16.5 points a game with the Kings this season and is known as one of the league's top 3-point shooters. 
NINTH ANNUAL 
THOMAS AQUINAS SYMPOSIUM 
on 
THOMAS AQUINAS ON FRIENDSHIP 
Saturday., February 4., 2006 Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
2:30p.m. "Eros and Friendship" Keith J. Egan 
3:30p.m. Refreshments 
4:00p.m. "Thomas Aquinas on Friendship: Cultivating Intimacy and Emotional Integrity" Diana Frtiz Cates 
****** 
All Are Welcome: Especially Students A Celebration ofthe 60th Anniversary ofa Theology/Religious Studies Major at Saint Mary's College 
Sponsored by the  Aquinas Chair  
Joyce McMahon Hank  Saint Mary's College  
Aquinas Chair in Catholic Theology  Information: 574-284-4636  

Study Abroad this Su111mer through ND! 

Quito, Ecuador Paris, France Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Wednesday, February 1, 2006 5:00pm 229 Hayes Healy 
Apply now -deadline is March l, 2006! 
li.1esday, January 31, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 

NBA 


Last-second shot gives Hornets one-point w-in 
New players help Timberwolves trump Celtics 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY -Walking back onto the f'loor with 7.1 seconds left in a one-point game, Jamaal Magloire tried to get into the head of his young replacement on the New Orleans Hornets. 
David West didn't let it work. 
"He told me that 'You're not going to make it,"' West said. " ... I just said, ·Don't give me a shot' and they gave me a shot." 
West hit a foul line jumper with 0.1 seconds left to lil't the Hornets to a 94-93 win over Magloire's Milwaukee Bucks on Monday night in a meeting of teams who swapped players in the preseason. 
Speedy Claxton, who scored 12 of his 19 points in the fourth quarter, took an inbounds pass with 7.1 seconds left and passed to West for the game­winner. 
Because of the trade connec­tion, the teams had been exchanging barbs all game. Magloire, who'd been traded from the Hornets to the Bucks, spun and dunked on West for the game's first basket, and the words were free-flowing after that. 
Minnesota 110, Boston 85 
Few people mentioned Marcus Banks in last week's seven-player deal between Minnesota and Boston. 
On Monday night, it was Banks who made it look like the Timberwolves got the better of a trade headlined by Ricky Davis and Wally Szczerbiak. 
Banks had a season-high 20 points and six assists to lead a strong showing by all four ex­Celtics in Minnesota's victory. 
Mark Blount added 16 points and 10 rebounds to support Kevin Garnett's 15 points and nine boards. 
On Thursday, the Timber­wolves sent Szczerbiak, centers Michael Olowokandi and Dwayne Jones and a conditional first-round pick to the Celtics for swingman Hicky Davis, Blount, Banks, forward Justin Heed and two second-round picks. 
The Timberwolves have been aching for a true point guard sinee trading Sam Cassell in the o1Ts1Htson, and when Garnett was asked if' he liked what he saw l'rom Banks, he said, "I did­n't like it. I lovnd it." 
Cleveland 103, Charlotte 91 
Soaring after an impressive win over Phoenix, the Cleveland Cavaliers weren't about to eome crashing back down against the lowly Charlotte Bobcats. 
LeBron James scored 30 points in only three quarters to lead the Cavaliers to a victory over the gimpy Bobcats on Monday night. It was Cleveland's sixth straight win, four of which came on the road -the most since the Cavs' won five straight away games in April1998. 
"One of the things I pointed out to the guys was that it was a good win against Phoenix, but if we turn around and go to Charlotte and lose that ball­game, then beating Phoenix the night before doesn't really mean anything," coach Mike Brown said. "Our guys were focused enough to come into the building and get a W." 
Atlanta 120, New York 101 
Salim Stoudamire l'elt like he was back at Arizona, winning games and blowing opponents out. 
The lowly Atlanta Hawks led by as many as 30 points on the way to their biggest win of the season, a rout of the turnover­plagued New York Knicks on Monday night. 
AI Harrington scored 26 points, Joe Johnson added 24 and Stoudamire was one of four players off tiHl bench to reach double figures. 
"I felt like I was in college again," said Stoudamire, a rookie who was used to winning at Arizona. "That's one of the best feelings in the world. You don't have to worry about any­thing." 
Nnw York's Antonio Davis was set to return from a live-game suspension, handed down by the NBA after he charged into the stands in defense of his wil'l~ at Chicago. 
But Davis was a late scrateh from the starting lineup because of' a sorn baek. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
We are st1ll acceptmg any freshman students interestErl in the stu ­dent athletic training 
program. Please con­tact Chantal Porter at 631-7100. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2005 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squash team defeats regional rival Purdue 6-3 
Skiing places seventh at Crystal Mountain 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's improving squash club avenged a November loss to regional rival Purdue this week­end with a 6-3 victory at West Lafayette. The Boilermakers had defeated the Irish 7-2 at the Big 10 Championships at Northwestern in November. This marked Notre Dame's first win over Purdue since the club was reactivated five years ago. 
Captain James Zhang defeated Justin Woo 9-0, 9-6, 9-6 at num­ber one to set the tone of the match, but on this day, he shared the limelight with many team­mates. Freshman Javier Palomo debuted for the Irish at No. 2, bringing his experience as a for­mer member of the Guatemalan Junior National Team to the squad. Palomo defeated Ash Karamchandani 9-4, 9-7, 2-9, 9­
2. Javier was joined in the win column by his older brother Jose, who beat Vivek Sagi 9-1, 9-7, 9-6 at No. 6, becoming the first broth­er tandem to win in the same match. 
Another historic milestone was accomplished for the Irish at No. 5, where Katie Daley became the first woman to win a match for the Irish in intercollegiate play, defeating Javier luna 9-4, 9-8, 1­9, 10-9. Daley is currently the only woman on the squad, but new members are always wel­come. 
Phil Moss dropped a tough four game match at No. 3 to David Woo, and Michael McConnell defeated Roberto Vargas in four games at No. 4. Randy Rainosek and Pedro Gochicoa dropped matches at Nos. 7 and 8 to Purdue's Tabish Ashfaq and Marcus Calmet respectively. Chris Schlax defeated Yonghan Yeong , coming back from 2-1 down to win 9-5, 1-9, 6-9, 9-7, 9-6 at No. 
9. Leigh Chapman defeated Nataraj Paulraz at No. 10 and Julian Lagoy dropped his No. 11 contest to Shailesh Sanghai in a pair of exhibition matches. 
The Irish will next compete in the Stanford Invitational. 

Men's Volleyball Brad Weldon said, "Serving errors 
The Men's Volleyball team trav­were tragic in the first games. If 
eled to St. Joseph, Michigan to we would have kept our serves in 
play No. 9 Michigan State in their and not given Michigan State so 
annual "Battle at the House of many free points, we could have 
Noise" contest on Saturday. In a won those games." 
long, hard fought match before a . sold-out crowd, an Irish come­Skiing 
back fell just short as the Notre Dame's skiers and snow­
Spartans prevailed in five games. boarders traveled to Crystal 
Things looked awful for the Mountain for a weekend of races. 
Irish right from the start, losing For the men's ski team, 
the first game 25-11. With no Saturday's slalom event was dom­
offense and a powerful attack inated by freshman phenom Joel 
from MSU, the Irish had no Sharbough, finishing in seventh 
answers and were put away place. Behind Sharbough were 
quickly. However, the Irish were freshman Cono.r Byrne in 18th, 
able to put that game behind senior Andrew Breslin in 25th 
them and fight throughout the and junior Brian Hedges who 
next four games. Down one game recovered from a spectacular fall 
to none, Notre Dame came out still finished 29th. Other fmishers 
strong in the second game, going for the men were Pat Leimkueler, 
on an 8-2 run behind the serving Chris Eakins, Jon Merck, Alex 
of Nolan Kane. Balanced with Gloeckner and Tommy Balmat. 
good passing and aggressive Leif Pettersen and Steve Feutz 
attacks from Joe O'Connell, and livened up the slalom event with 
Drew Williams, the very exciting crash­
Irish put away the es. The men's team 
Spartans 25-17. "Serving errors finished in fourth 
Gaining confi­were tragic in the place on Saturday. 
dence from a great The women ski
first game. " 

game, the Irish team managed to came out fired-up put together a very and hungry for vic­Brad Weldon nice showing on tory. Unlike the first men's club volleyball Saturday with all of two games, the the women finish­
coach

third game went ing. Four women point for point, finished with out­with neither team going ahead by standing races in the top 15. more than four points. Senior Molly Butler finished in an Unfortunately, the Irish missed impressive fourth place. Behind many serves at critical moments )3utler were freshman Stepanie in the game. Michigan State was Dalton in eighth place, sophomore able to turn the Irish mistakes stud Sarah Rauenhorst in 12th into Spartan points and stole the place, and senior Lindsay May ill third game from the Irish 25-23. 14th. Other finishers for the The next game was similar to the women were Mary Kate Sweeney, previous, Notre Dame and Casey Dunne, Katie Coniglio, Michigan State exchanging points. Katie Paquette and Kerry This time, however, the Irish McGuire. The women's team fin­cleaned up their game. With ished the slalom event in second strong offensive attacks from jun­place behind a solid Michigan ior Mike Toomey, and the strong State team. serving from sophomore Dan The men's snowboard team Zibton, the Irish were able to blazed up the course during push the final points and win 25-Saturday's Giant Slalom event. 
22. All three men finished their races 
The fifth game belonged to and sophomore Nick Cottingham Michigan State the entire time. finished fourth, Senior Dan With the Spartans playing phe­VanDerWerff finished in fifth nomenal defense, not allowing a place and sophomore Oliver Short Notre Dame attack to hit the finished in a solid eighth. The ground, they took the fifth game men's team finished in second 15-10. When asked about the per­place. formance of his team, Irish coach The women's snowboard team followed the men in true fashion on Saturday with all four of the women finishing. Senior Nichole Mitchell led the women finishing in third place. Behind Mitchell were freshmen Katie Rehberger and Casey McNeill in sixth and seventh, and senior Dayna Dantzscher in eighth. The women's team finished in second. 
Sunday's abbreviated Giant Slalom event was drenched with a healthy amount of global warm­ing and about an inch of rain. Despite unfavorable snow condi­tions, the men's ski team had quite a nice showing. After the first run, four men were in the top 
15. Joel Sharbough was able to hold his spot in fourth, Conor Byrne finished in 11th, and Pat Leimkueler in 17th place. After his seventh-place finish in the first run, Hedges lost a ski and tum­bled down the mountain, finishing with a DNF. Other finishers for the men's ski team were Steve Feutz in 28th, Chris Eakins in 32nd, Jon Merck 36th, Alex Gloeckner 42nd and Tommy Balmat 43rd. 
After an impressive first run, senior Leif Pettersen incited laughter from the crowd with his crash and ensuing slide down the mountain. The men's team fin­ished in third place on the day. 
The women's team continued their success in Sunday's event fmishing again in second. Butler was the top finisher again for the women in a third-place finish. Dalton and Rauenhorst finished in eighth and ninth, respectively. Behind the three scorers were Lindsay May in 15th, Katie Coniglio in 17th, Mary Kate Sweeney 19th, Katie Paquette 24th, Casey Dunne 25th, and Kerry McGuire in 26th. The women's team remains the brightest spot for the Notre Dame ski team. 
Men's and women's snowboard­ing finished Sunday's giant slalom in good form, building on Saturday's success. 
The top fmishers for the men were Cottingham, VanDerWerff and Short. The four finishers for the women were Mitchell, Rehberger, Dantzscher and McNeill. 
Next week the two teams have a week off to prepare for their race on the weekend of 11th. 
Dryland training is scheduled for the coming week. 
Men's Water Polo 

Last weekend, the ND Men's Water Polo Team traveled to Tampa Bay, Fla. for the Gasparilla Classic. In their first tournament of the spring season, the Irish were a little rusty, but still per­formed admirably against some of the best teams in Florida. 
The Irish started things off with a win against hosts USF on Friday night, winning 16-2. The next morning however, the Irish ran into Riptide, a Senior Men's club team from the Tampa area. 
The Irish played hard, but numerous penalties and ejection fouls put the Irish in a hole they weren't able to dig themselves out of, as they lost 12-9. On the posi­tive side, goalie Scott Tagwerker was phenomenal, stopping three out of five penalty shots and mak­ing a variety of dazzling saves that kept the Irish in it despite their sloppy play. 
Tampa Water Polo Club was the next opponent for the Irish in the quarterfinals. 
The Irish came out firing, thanks to two-meter man Matt McNicholas, and jumped out to an early lead, which they held going into the final quarter. However, turnovers and ejection fouls once again proved to be the team's undoing, as Tampa mounted a furious comeback in the final two minutes to beat the Irish 9-8. 
The loss meant the Irish now faced an early morning matchup against St. Andrew's on Sunday. Luckily, the Irish showed no signs of letting up from the start, with Patrick Connors, Mike Silhasek and Steve Shepard firing them ahead to a lead which was never in danger, and ending with a score of 17-4. 
Figure Skating 

Notre Dame's figure skating club placed eighth among eleven closely bunched teams at this weekend's Midwestern Sectionals in Fraser, Mich. 
Captain Bridget Purcell's squad narrowly missed a sixth-place fin­ish that would have qualified the club for nationals. The skaters will next compete on February 11. 

N RIGHTS WATCH
Slz~}efie (Sizzlelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our specialty 
ational Film Festival
for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, 
January 31-February 2, 2006
savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented 
t Mary's College, Vander Vennet Theatre 


with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;>-Iefie (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 
In English{Cantonesr;~ Fujianese and Mandafin with Eng/fsh subtitle$. 

CENTER foRWOMEN~ 
INT£RCULTV/W.UAD£RSHIP 

Free and open to the public 
Pamela Yates, Paco de Onis: and Peter Kinoy, USA/Peru, 2005, 94 min. 
In English and Spanish with English subtitles. 
Saint Ma~s Colleg~
NOTRE DAME , INDIANA 
Thur., Feb. 2 7p.m. 
The Education of Shelby Knox 
Marion Lipschutz and Rose Rosenblatt, USA, 2005, 76 min. 
In English. 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute 
FOR INTERNATIONAL PEAC" STUDIES 

Sponsored by The Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, the English Department, the Women's Studies Program and the InterCultural Studies Program at Saint Mary's College, and by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 

Mile 
continued from page 20 
Bnnninger first brokn the magic mile barrier at last season's Meyo Invitational by docking a 3:5S.75, so his record-breaking perform­ance Friday was not entirely UIWXJHlCted. 
"Kurt was especially moti­vated tonight after he wasn't invited to llastl Saturday's H~~ n b o k II ndoor Ga rn n s I in Boston." Notre Dame coaeh .Jon Piano said. 
Saturday's Hnnbox Boston Indoor (;;Lilies fnaturnd many of the world's fastest miters as 11 runners l'inishnd the rae•~ in under four minutes. 
II' he had lwen invited, Benninger might have made it 12. 
"lin ran with a purpose and really wanted to show those nwnt organizers what tlwy wnrn missing out on. It may be their loss. but it's enrtainly our gain. and we're very happy with the way things turner! out for Kurt this evening." 
The extra motivation cer­tainly paid ofT. as Benninger turned in what was by far the best pMformance of the evening. Butler's Seott Overall stayed even with Bnnninger for the 
The Observer • SPORTS 


4:00.53, just off Benninger's pace. Benninger's accomplish­
the NCAA Indoor Championships. lie will look to continue his strong start 

ment is made more impressive by the fact that he is one of only three runners in school history to break the four­minute mile bar­rier. Luke Watson, the school record holder, ran the 
majority mile in
"Going into the 

of the 3:57.83 at 
meet. I definitely 

mile, but the 2002 Bnnning11r thought that I would M e y o 
0 u t • Invitational. The only
be able to break the 

kieked other Irish runner to 
0 v n r a 11 four-minute mark." craek the barrier was down the Chuck Aragorn, who stretch to Kurt Benninger accomplished the feat break the in 1981 at the Illini
Irish mller 

f o u r Invitational. minute Benninger has barrier. bounced baek strong Overall ended up finishing after suffering a season-end­the mile with a time of ing injury last season after 
"He ran with a purpose and really wanted to show those meet organizers what they were missing out on." 
Joe Plane Irish coach 
to the season this weekend as the Irish return to action when they host the M e y o Invitational this weekend. 
"I'm really looking for­ward to run­ning the 3K at the Meyo Invitational," Benninger said. "The 
defending national champion will be running, so I am anx­ious to compete, and I think I am fit enough to win the event." 
The two-day meet begins 5 
p.m. Friday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu 

]club_information_meetings.exe 
]Are you  involved  in  an  extracurriculariffic  
club? I  
make sure you check out the mandatory  
Club Information Meetings this week  

Tuesday, 1/31/06@ 4PM (Academic) & 5PM (Athletic) Wednesday, 2/1/06 @ 4PM (Cultural) & 5PM (Performing Arts) Thursday, 2/2/06 @ 4PM (Social Service) & SPM (Special Interest) * location: montgomery auditorium, lafortune * duration: 30 mins * 
] Any student who is a member of a recognized club is eligible to run for a CCC representative position. Those wishing to represent their division's clubs on the CCC should attend that division's CIM. I 
] Each club's two highest ranking officers must attend a CIM this week. i 
] Officers need not attend the same meeting. I 
This begins the annual Club Registration process. In order to be eligible for CCC allocations, concession stands, a table at Activities Night 2006, posting & room reservation privileges, and more, each club must meet the deadlines for registration. I 
Questions? Email: ccc@nd.edu or ageist@nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 




Captains flourish in leadership roles 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
One way to measure how suc­cessful a team will be is the atti­tude of the senior class -espe­cially the captains. If Notre Dame's 10-2 reeord and nation­al ranking are any indication, this season's leaders have cer­tainly stepped up to the ehal­lenge. 
This year's captains, Jamie Lutkus and Patriek Hefernan, were seleeted out of a group of 10 seniors by their teammates in a vote last spring. 
"I have complete faith in the process that we use," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "We have Ihad I a string of good eaptains in the past years, and this year is no difl'erent." 
Welsh said the main quality the Irish look for in a captain is the ability to communicate with both teammates and coaches. He added that it is essential each captain is well liked by his teammates but still a strong leader in and out of the pool. 
The coach seems to have found the right men. 
"Jamie is intense and really into the spirit of Notre Dame, while Patrick is more laid baek and keeps us loose." Irish swim­mer Graham Parker said. "They provide a good ying and yang that keep our team balaneed and together." 
However, the respect these captains earned from their coaches and teammates didn't come easily. The captains say 

they have worked hard for many years to put themselves in the leadership roles they have today. 
J.utkus, who competes in the breaststroke and individual medleys (IM). has been named to the all-Big East Conference team all four of his years at Notrn Dame. lie was also an All­American for thrnn conseeutive years in high school. 
lie currently owns the top six times in the 400-yard IM, as well as the second-best time in the 200-yard evnnt, in tho pro­gram's history. 
"I Bning a captainI gives you an extra push," J.utkus said. "It is important to load by example because fast swimming ean be contagious." 
llefernan has also left his mark in leading by example the past four years. lie ranks sixth all time in the 200 butterfly and was a part of a record-setting relay team during his sopho­morn season. 
J.utkus continued by attribut­ing llefernan's biggest asset to the team has been his unmatehed work ethic and self­less sense of team. 
This was evident early on when he was presented with the McManus Captains' Award ­given annually to the player who best exemplifies the word "teammate" -at the end of his sophomore season. 
"I just tried to show up every­day to practice and do what J could to help the team achieve our goals," llefernan said. 
Both Hefernan and Lutkus said they were "honored and exeited" when they learned about their responsibilities as captains. They began filling their new roles as soon as tlw team arrived on campus. 
"It was clear that they both had the ear of the team from the start," Welsh said. "They have been good leaders throughout the year, but they still both have a lot they want to accomplish in the next month." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
however, the Championships will be their opportunity to achieve what Carroll has already done -qualify for the NCAA Championship. 
The Irish are currently rid­ing a seven-game win streak in Nixon's inaugural season as 

Recruits 
continued from page 20 
quantity." 
In addition, Corrigan said this class' athleticism sepa­rates it from past groups, call­ing it "the most athletic class we've ever gotten," pointing to the incoming players' accom­plishments in multiple high school sports. 
Eight of them received a variety of all-conference and all-state honors in other sports. 
Three of next year's incoming head coach. 
Despite Nixon being a part of the program as both a com­petitor during the 1997-98 season and as an assistant coach in the 2004-05 season, several members of the team needed time to adjust to a new coach. 
"At the beginning of the year, everybody on the team just decided to trust her," Quinn said. "Our performanc­
senior years, as well as cap­taining the Western Empire Team in 2004 and 2005, where he played alongside Ciambella to a 2005 bronze medal. 
Midfielder Brett Vecchio was an all-county winner his soph­omore and juniors seasons at Cold Spring Harbor High School and was an alternate to the Long Island Empire Lacrosse teams. 
From Maryland, Corrigan nabbed midfielder Grant Krebs who earned Maryland Freestate Team hon­ors as a sophomore -and 6­foot-6 defense­man Chip 
freshmen will "They're quarterbacks Lanser. arrive from tal­Pennsylvania
on their football teams
ent-rich New produced two 
York. and pointguards on signees, 
M a t t their basketball Malvern Prep Ciambella is an defenseman
teams."

attackman who M i k e captained Creighton and Western New Kevin Corrigan Central Bucks York power­Irish coach East midfield­house Orchard er Adam Park to two Felicetti state semifinals appearances. (Doylestown). 
Midfielder Kelly McKenna Felicetti's junior season pro­captained his Penfield High duced a team high 41 ground­School team his junior and balls, 14 assists (third most on es since then have really cemented that trust, and our confidence in her has grown over the course of the year." 
Despite having their sights set on the national meet, the Irish say they are not going to overlook the Big East Championships. Notre Dame will face a tough Rutgers pro­gram, which enters the tour­nament on a high note after defeatingO No. 12 Penn State 129-112 in its final meet of the regular season. 

"We kind of felt that Rutgers was trying to send us a mes­sage in their last meet," junior Julia Quinn said. "We're still confident, though, because although Rutgers has some stars, they don't have the depth to match up with us." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
team) and 27 goals, earning America attacker Pat Walsh at him a first-team all­the end of the year, Corrigan Intelligencer spot from the believes the new class will local newspaper -not to contribute immediately offen­mention Intelligencer "Player sively. of the Year" honors as a wide "They're quarterbacks on receiver and safety in football. their football teams and point 
Defensemen Sean Callinan guards on comes to Notre Dame after a 
post-graduate "We're getting guys 
year at 

with a presence and
Deerfield 

Academy playmaking ability, 
(Massachusetts). guys who want the Neal Hicks is 
ball in their hands." 
the lone com­mitment south of the mid­Kevin Corrigan Atlantic and Irish coach New England lacrosse hotbeds, but the 
their basketball teams," Corrigan said. "We're getting guys with a presence and playmaking ability, guys who want the ball in their hands." "And we're not finished yet." In addition to the nine 
attackman from the Lovett announced commitments, Will School in Atlanta, Ga. is one of Yeatman from Rancho the most important pieces of Bernardo High School in the class. Poway, Calif., is expected to 
Hicks led his team to state sign with the class and play titles in his sophomore and lacrosse and football at Notre junior seasons -scoring 83 Dame. But due to NCAA rules, points on 48 goals. and 35 Corrigan cannot comment on a assists and collecting 7 5 recruit until he signs a letter groundballs in his All­of intent. American junior campaign. 
Though the Irish will lose Contact Tim Dougherty at second-team preseason All-tdougher@nd.edu 

McGraw 
continued from page 20 

loss, McGraw has indicated that there may be lineup changes, at least for tonight's game against Syracuse. 
"We're thinking about going to a smaller lineup, playing four guards." McGraw said. "We're just not sure which four that's going to be." 
Despite the potential starting lineup changes, McGraw has been adamant about trying to establish a post presence, where the team has had trouble lately. 
"We need to really rejuvenate the post game. I think that's a key, that's what was working for us early in the year," McGraw said. 
In part because of the post problems, the Irish have been notoriously streaky the last few games, equally likely to make dominating runs or go more than 10 minutes without a field goal. 
"We continually watch the droughts, to see what went wrong, what did we do wrong. It's just a lot of different things [contributing to them]," McGraw said. 
While lineup changes seem to be in effect for at least tonight, McGraw says the team has no plans of changing its overall phi­
-losophy or game strategy. "We're pretty much going to do the same thing we've been doing, offensively just hoping more shots drop in for us. Defensively, we haven't made a lot of changes there either," she said. "I think we're just trying to find the right combination right now." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 





Congregation of Holy Cross 
CORBY NIGHT "A great band ofmen had passed this way, men who had made and lived by their vows, men who had walked side by side in their following ofthe Lord. .."  IfGod is calling you • • • Join us. Think you ntight have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross communitv at Notre Dante ol .for an hour o.fprayer, pizza, and ill;[onnal discussion. Wednesday, Feb. 1, 8:30pm at Corby Hall vocation.nd.edu  


Tuesday, January j l, 2006 1/;e Obsetver +TODAY page 19 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILL SI:I0 RTZ 
ACROSS 37 Man o' War 63 "Danse Macabre"

1 Command to 40 Dam-building composerRover org. 
Saint­5 Feudal estate 41 Comparatively 64 Card catalog9 Veronica of "Hill close abbr.

Street Blues" 42 "What's in a 65 Towel14 Jai 

?";Juliet embroidery15 Not taken in by 
43 It's gender 16 Stubborn as DOWN44 Kafka's "In the17 British man-of­

__ Colony" 1 "Stop! You're war killing me!"
45 The Supreme19 Bulgaria's Court, e.g. 2 Trees in ancapital O'Neill title 20 On a higher 48 Lowly worker 3 "._ of Eden"plane 50 Place for things 4 Opera script21 Above to get sorted out 

everything else 5 They're not fair
53 Home in bed, ill 

23 Formerly, 6 Place to 
formerly 57 In other words overnight 

25 Nuns' garb 58 Portuguese 7 Jazz singer man-of-war James
26 Knuckleheads a A.J., the racer
29 Neighbor of 60 Copier company Francia 9 Rosh
61 Natural balm 32 Landed 1 o One-celled 
62 Three-point creature33 Yellow fruit shot, in hoops 31 Indiana 3920% 51 Town near

11 Civilian attire 
34 Nice winter coat slang hoopsters Santa Barbara 
43 A Rockefeller 12 "Middlemarch" 33 False start? 52 Blanc and

author 44 SupplicateANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Brooks 
-:-T::-r.:=..-:., 13 Bounds' partner 34 Friend of Kukla 45 Mideast princes and Ollie 54 Kind of need
18 Pair in a dinghy 46 Gymnast35 Alma mater of 55 Word with fee
22 "Casey at the Comaneci 
D.D.E. or IDBat" writer 

47 Family girlErnest 36 Virginia dance 56 Ed.
49 Sitcom thatLawrence 38 Brings to light debuted in 1994 59 High ball?

24 Treat roughly 26 A bit cuckoo For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a27 Sainted credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
Norwegian king 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday28 Capital near the crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ruins of the 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000ancient city past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).Pachacamac 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ___.__.__....._~ 30 Bowler's pickup solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed .is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ ___ Address--------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJ1M~illlliJK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WOGAL ± 

WHAT HE: E:NDE:D UP WITH WHEN HE: 

tMOANAZ±

J r J
1 
ATE: AL.L THE: 

www Jllf11bh, corn 
DOUGHNUT?. 

tKOYDEN ± Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as) I [ ) I
...,._..£.1._~:;::::-::,~~~~~...,.....~s~ug~g~ested by the above cartoon. 


A ·r I I I I I J" r1 I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Saturday's I Jumbles: CYCLE LARVA KINDLY BANGLE Answer: After an hour-long battle with the marlin, the fisherman was-"REELING" 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEIJI~ITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Khlco Thomas. 17: Christian Bale, 32; Phil Collins, 55; Wilmer Valderrama. 26 
Happy Birthdny: Don't expet·t things to happen overnight. Organize your time so you accomplish your goals without losing interest or ad1i.:ving li!tk. A methodical approach to one goal will hring you the high.:st returns. Although it's not your style to work this way. it will be \\·hat leads to success in the end. V our numhers arc 9, 13, 17, 28. 32. 39 
ARIF:S (Mnrch 21-April 19): You'll have some gn:at idens for rctorrning the way you and those around you do things. Don't h.: too pushy --dig in and do tlw work yourself and everyone else will follow suit. Don't overreact; file it away for the time hl'ing. **** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Rcconsidl·r what you want to do or even what you say today. Not many things are likely to go your WU)', especially if you push your will on others. Don't be aggressive or jump lo condusions today. •• GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): If getting ahead means going for an illlcrview or a job posting. get moving. You will hav.: some very interesting ideas and your curiosity and interest will be impressive to those who c·ould influence your !inure. 
***** 
CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): ·1 he changes taking place may not thrill you hut. in the end, you will he happy with the n:sult~. Stop lighting those who only want the h<:st for you. An older relative or friend will he a prohlt:m. ••• LEO (,July 23-Aug. 22): He careful how you react towurd someone who is getting more attention than you arc. Let this person have his or her time in the spotlight instead ofmuscling your way in. There is a time nnd place fi>r everything. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Partnerships arc looking good. Someone you work with may try to steer you in thl' wrong direction. Be smart and ch.:ck things out for yourself before you take someone else's word for it. •• • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a better look at your personal lift• and you will come up with some very good ideas to tinc-tunl·that area ofyour till!. A chanc·c to implement a new method into the way you are currently doing things will bring you some recognition. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You may fl.'cllike implementing changes t'Spe<·inlly at home and where your personal and family life is concerned. llut watch out: No matter how hard you try, someone will oppose you vdJt•mently. Choose your battles wisely. •• .,. SAGI'ri'ARIUS (Nov. 22-Ucc. 21): l.isten to what everyone has to say and you will be that much further ahead when it eomt·s time for you to give your opinion. You will be in a good position because of the experience you have to otli:r. Stic•k to what you know. ••** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Look to the people you arc most familiar with to lend you a hand. Don't limit yourself hy being stuhhorn. There is a time and place for evel)'thing and today it's time to he humble. gracious and compromising. 
AQliARilJS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You will n<:cd to be erllt·rtuined or ke-ep yourself husy right now. Getting involved in something unique will lead to a new and innovative or trendy idea. Don't travel or oppose someone in an authoritative position. ••• PISCf:S (Feb. 19-MIIrch 20): Money losses arc evident if you hove hcen 100 easygoing with investments. Tighten up your purse strings and refuse to give handouts until you get yourself back into good financial standing. Trouhle with legal matters will surface. ••• 
Hirthday IJnby: You have an inquisitive mind. You are eager to make the world a better place. You are a thinker and you like to push everything to the limit. You will never limit yourself'. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
--~--~ 

THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 
page 20 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Nowhere to go but east 
Irish absent from national top-25 polls for first time since 2003-04 season 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Wrirer 
After struggling to a 3-5 record in the first half of confer­ence play, the Carrier Dome may be just what the doctor ordered. 
The Irish, who an~ 12-7 overall and have fallen out of the top 25 for the first time since the end of the 2003-2004 season, will go into their game at Syracuse with an 18-2 overall series record and an 8-1 record when the game is played at Syracuse, where Notre Dame hasn't lost since the 1988-89 season. 
While the team will be making its third trip to the East Coast in a little over a week, Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw is confident that the team will not experience any ill-efl"ect from the travels. 

"We had yesterday off, so I think we had a nice day to get fresh, especially on a Sunday when they don't have class," McGraw said. "It was a good day ofT, so I think we'll be ready." Orange will be led by center the Big East in scoring with 16.1 right people shooting the ball, 
Syracuse, (2-7 in the Big East Vaida Sipaviciute, who currently points per game, including 25 which, of course, Megan is a and 9-11 overall), comes into the averages 17.6 points per game. points in a heartbreaking 68-64 prominent feature in that," game on a two-game win streak, The Notre Dame effort to end overtime loss to South Florida McGraw said. having pulled out victories its current losing streak will be Saturday. After Saturday's disappointing against Seton Hall and led·by senior guard Megan Duffy, "I think the thing that we want Providence last week. The who currently ranks eighth in to do is make sure we have the see MCGRAW/page 18 

MEN's LAcRossE 


Corrigan announces 2010 class 
Ciambella headlines field of nine recruits 
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sporrs Wrirer 

Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan has begun reeling in one of his best recruiting class­es in his 17th season as the face of the lacrosse program. 
~ Though the recruiting class of 2010 will not be finalized until the end of the April late signing period, Corrigan announced Monday that the Irish have inked nine new con­tributors for next season, all of whom were "very heavily recruited," the coach said Monday. 
The class includes three defensemen, three midfielders and three attaekmen from four different states, complement­ing the upcoming departure of this year's senior class (two defensemen, five midf1elders, one attackman, one goalie). 
"We're really excited about this class," Corrigan said. "It's deep. We've got quality and 
see RECRUITS/page 18 


TRACK AND FIELD 

Benninger cracks record books 
ND junior becomes only runner to break .. four-minutes twice 
ByJORDAN BELTZ 
Sports Wri rer 
Kurt Benninger always knew in his heart that some­day he might have record-­breaking potential. Little did he know that that potential would blossom so quickly. 
The Irish junior became the first runner in Notre Dame history to record two sub-four-minute miles in his career. 
"Going into the meet, I def­initely thought that I would be able to break the four­minute barrier." Benninger said. "I actually thought that I was fit enough to run a few seconds faster, but obviously I am happy with my per­formance and results." 


Long distance runner Kurt Benninger, right, broke four min­utes in the mile at last weekend's Notre Dame Invitational. 
Hailing from Chepstaw, he competed in the 2003 Pan Ontario, Canada, Benninger Am Games. was a member of the Canadian Junior team and see MILE/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 


Irish energizing for Big East meet 
Swimmers recover, refocus for looming postseason events 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sporrs Wrirer 
After rigorous training and preparation over the past three months, the Irish women will spend the next two weeks getting ready for tests against the nation's top competition. 
On Feb. 15, Notre Dame will start its postseason in the Big East Championships and con­tinue until the NCAA Championships March 23. 
"The NCAAs have been the focus all year/' Irish coach Carrie Nixon said. "Our goal has been to get as many girls to the NCAAs and score as many points as possible." 
To accomplish that goal, Nixon is easing up on work­outs for the next couple oC weeks. 
For example, the sprinters, who need the most rest because or their intense work­outs over the course of the season, will be tapering for a full10 days. 
Irish junior Katie Carroll, on the other hand will only be tapering for five days. Since Carroll has already qualified for the NCAAs by attaining an 'A' cut time in the 400 IM, the Big East Championships are just another tune up on the road to the national meet. 
For the majority of the team 
see BIG EAST/page 18 
en 
NCAA MEN'S BBAU. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BBNI 
NBA 

CLUB SPORTS MEN'S SWIMMINGNBA 

LLI 
c.:» Northern Iowa cracks North Carolina steals 

Skidding Pacers hope 

Captains Jamie z the men's AP top-25 for 
Squash team avenges

Hornets 94 
to turn things around

the No. 1 spot from 
Lutkus and Patrick the first time in school 
a Nov. loss to regional

Bucks 93 
Duke in the latest 
against two of the 

rival Purdue this week-Hefernana have playedDavid West's jumper 
=:5 
= history. 

Associated Press poll. 
league's top scorers ­

a pivotal role in leading Gilbert Arenas and 
end with a 6-3 victory in with 0.1 seconds left in the Irish this season. 
West Lafayette. 
regulation lifts the
cc 
Kobe Bryant. 

Charlotte over theti Milwaukee. 

page 12 
page 12 page 15

page 14 

page 17page 16
en 





