
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 82 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Guidelines differ for academic, dorm events 

By KAREN LANGLEY AssistaiH News Editor 
Like "The Vagina Monologues" and the formnr Queer Film Festival -focal points of University President Father John Jenkins' recent addresses on aca­demic freedom and Catholic char­actor -the Knenan Hevue and Dillon Pep Hally are annual stu­dnnt-mordinated nvents with rep­utations for generating controvm­sy. 
But unlike the two productions at the center of the current cam­pus debate, the Hevue and Pep Hally are dorm-sponsored events and thus will not bn impacted by any decisions stemming from 
Jenkins' addresses, University spokesman Dennis Brown said Monday. 
"His addressAs were specific to acadnmie freedom," Brown said. "Hesidence halls would not fall under the umbrella since they are sp~m~ored by non-academic umts. 
This distinction betwenn aca­demic and non-academic units frames tlw administration's treat­ment of residence halls and aca­demic departments. Hesidence halls fall under the auspices of Student Activities, whilo academic departments fall under the authority of the Provost's Ollice. 
"The bottom line is when it 
see STORY/page 6 

Participants In the 2005 Keenan Revue reenact the Infamous "Call On Me" video by Eric Prydz. 
Seniors consider life beyond the bubble 
NO Class of2006 anticipates variety of post-grad plans 
By KATIE PERRY A.'sisrant New~ Fdiwr 
No mattPr how securn or uru:nrtain tlwir post-graduaw fulurns may Lw, snniors said tlu1y will lakn skills aequirml al llw Univnrsity with tlwm wlwn thn NotrP DamP bubbiP bursts at rommmlCPlllPnt !.his May. 
CarnPr Cnntnr director Lnn Svntn said snnior placnment is aSSPSSPd at graduation eonjunclly with the OITiee of 
see SENIORS/page 4 


Students graduating 
from College arrange 
future, enjoy present 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
With just 102 days rnmaining until they don eaps and gowns to reeeive their diplomas, Saint Mary's seniors are maintaining an upbPat attitude as they wadn through job intervinws and grad­uate school applications. 
Marketing major Jaekin Paunicka, who already has thml' job olli1rs allnr a fall smnnstnr full of intervinws, said shn looks lilr­ward to graduating and moving 
Raymond VanderHeyden, left, assistant director for business career programs at the Notre Dame 
Career Center, counsels junior Katie Lacz on the fine points of job searching. see SMC/page 6 
--------·--===----===--================================================================================================== 
The Observer appoints next top three supporting editors 
Observer Staff Report 
Maddio I Ianna, Bobby (;riflin and Hama (iotturnukkala have bonn hired to oversee The Obsnrvnr's nditorial operations in 2006-07, incoming Editor in 
Chief MikP Gil loon announend Monday. 
( iilloon also said businnss manager !'aula Garda will he rntained at 


her current Hanna position for tho rnst of thn smnestnr. 
IIanna will snrw as Mana),ring Editor, whiln CriiTin and <lotturnukkala will serve as Assistant MamtJ.,ring Editors. They step into thosn roles on March 6. 
t\s Managing Editor, Hanna will be rnsponsible lilr assisting Gilloon in supervising The Observer's nditorial departments. She also plans to oversee techni­cal upgrades and rneruiting. 
"I look forward to hnlping pro­vide the leadership and the vision necessary to continue the tradi­tion of oxcellenee at The Observer," said Hanna, the papnr's eurrent A'lsoeiate News Editor. 
Griffin, who has worked as an Assodate Sports Editor since Mareh 2005, will ovorsee the day-to-day operations of the paper and work on writing improvmnenl<>. 
"I am honored to have the opportunity to help lead The Observer," Grillin said. 
Gottumukkala, who has 
worked as Scene Editor since March 2005, will also oversee the daily operations of the paper and work on produetion improve­ments. 
"I hope to learn from my n~sponsibilities as Seene Editor, induding the opportunity to lead a hardworking and talented Seeno staff, to aid the rest of the paper's daily activities. It's a chal­lenge f'm looking forward to tackling," Gottumukkala said. 
Hanna, a sophomore French major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor, began working at The Observer as a news reporter her freshman year and since has covered various stories induding the ftring of ex­Notre Dame football coach Tyrone Willingham, President 
see EDITORS/page 6 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Officers review-dance 

all-school formal and sharnd information about upcoming events. 
Saturday's all-school formal, held at thn Palais Hoyaln in downtown South Bnnd, was the most successful in recent 
see BOG/page 6 

By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The semester was clearly underway at the Saint Mary's Board of Governance meeting Monday as officers rei"Iected on the success of the recent 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

International inco111petence 
It was the assignment of a lifetime. 

My 48-hour Roman whirlwind, as Observer photographer Claire Kelley noted in her column yesterday, was cer­tainly not the norm for a college journal­ist -or for any journalist, really. 
Maddie Hanna 
Like Claire, I was thrilled at the 
Associate 
opportunity to 

News Editor 
cover events sur­rounding the Board of Trustees meetings in Rome. 

Unlike Claire, however, I was way out of my comfort zone. 
I do not have a good track record with Europe. Granted, I've only been once ­a family spring break vacation when I was in eighth grade, three days in London and three in Paris. 
That week is best characterized as a mistake. My family fell asleep on the top of a double-decker bus, my mom dropped a lamp on my foot and I spent our last night in the City of Lights vomit­ing up French pastry. Unforgettable, to say the least. 
So while I couldn't wait to take my first steps in Italy, I was certainly apprehen­sive. 
And when we landed at Fiumicino Airport, I was beyond grateful to have an experienced, Italian-speaking traveler who spent a year in Home by my side. 
"Just do what I do," Oaire told me repeatedly, slipping our tickets into the machine. We hopped on the train. I spent most of the ride with a death grip on my purse, awkwardly trying to avoid eye eontact with all potential pickpockets. 
Several train and bus rides later, we were in the heart of the city. I was enthralled. Student in South Bend one day, reporter in Rome the next. 

But it wasn't quite as glamorous as I had imagined it would be. Journalism, wherever you do it, is hard work. On multiple oeeasions. we were running through the cobblestone streets -most notably around the Vatican wall, search­ing desperately for the press entrance. 
Despite my best efforts to blend -I changed shoes after Claire told me "san­dals scream American" -my Midwestern naivete was glaringly obvi­ous, as was my nonexistent understand­ing of the Italian language. My contribu­tion to Claire's conversations was to smile and mumble "grazie" under my breath. 
I hit rock bottom on our flight home from Italy. With only an hour of sleep the night before and suffering from what I would call jet shock -lag is just too mild a term -Claire and I passed out imme­diately. I woke up an hour later, freezing despite my best efforts to cover myself with my coat and coveting a blanket on a nearby seat. 
"Hello? Scusi? Help?" I whispered to the man behind me, contacts shifted and glued to my eyes. Heceiving a blank stare, I shuffied down the aisle and tried repeatedly to yank the blanket out of the seat behind me -a blanket wrapped tightly around a sleeping woman, who was not very understanding of my confu­sion. 
Incompetent as I felt, we got the job done, with beautiful photos and beautiful Rome bylines. It was my first foray into international journalism, and hopefully not the last. 
But for now, I'm relieved to be back in the U.S. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reporting error, Emily Chin was incorrectly identified as a former student body president in the Feb. 6 story, "Tickets vie for student leadership". Chin was student body vice president under former student body president Jeremy Lao. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU PLAN TO DO AFTER GRADUATION? 


Nicole Horne Rachel Byrne Lauran Williamson John Park Laura MacGregor Kate Leahy 
senior senior senior senior senior law student Cavanaugh Cavanaugh Cavanaugh Zahm Cavanaugh Cavanaugh 
"Living in "Hopefully I'll "Public "They're letting "Crashing "Working for Chicago­be doing ACE, Relations for me graduate?!" weddings. " the Department 






ofJustice. " 
IN BRIEF 
The student government General Election Debate will take place at 8 p.m. Thursday in the Huddle area of the LaFortune Student Center. 
Participants in Speed Dating will have 10 dates in half an hour at 11:55 p.m. Thursday at Legends. To sign up, e-mail 
legends@nd.edu  by  
Wednesday.  
The  Pasquerilla  East  

Musical Co. will present Footloose at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, Friday and Saturday at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $7 for adults and ean be pur­chased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
The Edith Stein Project: Redefining Feminism, a two­day conference on violence against women, will take place Friday from 12 to 7 p.m. and Saturday from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. in McKerina Hall. 
The Notre Dame Symphony will present their winter con­cert at 8 p.m. Saturday in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It will feature two stu­dent soloists -winners of the ND Concerto Competition on the Beethoven Violin Concerto and Schumann Piano concerto. Tickets are $3 online and at the box office at 1-2800. 
The Handbell and Celebration Choirs will pres­ent their annual joint concert of sacred music in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 8 p.m. Sunday. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 30 HIGH 25 LOW 15 LOW 15 
hopefully not as teaching in the The Hartford." my sister's South ... of maid!" course, that's only ifthey want me." 

MARY KATE MANNIX!The Observer Taking a break from homework, the girls of Lewis Hall 3SW gather Monday night for "Magical Movie Mondays" to enjoy their favorite Disney flicks. 
OFFBEAT 
Kangaroo undergoes lip surgery after wolf bite 
MOORPARK, Calif. -Feznick, an aspiring celebri­ty kangaroo, underwent lip surgery because he was bit­ten by a wolf at a Hollywood animal farm. 
The 75-pound kangaroo underwent plastic surgery on Sunday and veterinarians say the marsupial will soon be ready to resume his act­ing career. 
Feznick is an aspiring actor who often appears at corporate events and was on the red carpet for the open­ing of last year's movie flop "Kangaroo Jack," his owner Eadie McMullan said. 

Last year, Feznick stuck his snout under a fence at a Kern County farm for Hollywood animals and was bitten by a wolf, leaving the 4-.year-old kangaroo with a toothy, Billy Idol-style sneer, veterinarian Scott Amsel said. 
Arcade claw offers live lobster prizes 
SCARBOROUGH, Maine ­You don't have to be a fish­erman to catch lobsters any­more. At a neighborhood store in this Portland suburb -and at restaurants and bars in more than a dozen states -customers can plunk down $2 for a chance to catch their very own lob­ster using a mechanical claw in an arcade-style game. 
The apparatus is a new version of the old-style amusement game where players put in a quarter or two in hopes of grabbing a stufl'ed animal. But instead of plush toys, the Love Maine Lobster Claw game has a water-filled tank full of lobsters. 
When a lobster is caught, the restaurants cook it for free and serve it with side dishes. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
< 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 30 HIGH 25 HIGH 27 HIGH 28
..... 

LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 20 LOW 22 
Atlanta 47 I 31 Boston 39 I 30 Chicago 33 I 18 Denver 44 I 19 Houston 64 I 38 Los Angeles 74 I 51 Minneapolis 25 I 12 New York 40 I 31 Philadelphia 42 I 28 Phoenix 79 I 50 Seattle 49 I 35 St. Louis 43 I 25 Tampa 68 I 53 Washington 45 127 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Architect explains designing divisions 
By RYAN SYDLIK News Writer 
Distinguished architect, critic and pont Hobert Campbell addressed the divisions in design and thinking that ol'tnn occur bntwmm modern and tradi­tional architects in a lncturn Monday night titled "Why Don't the Host of Us l.ikn the Buildings that Architncts I.ike'?" 
To start his leeturn, at times humor­ous and at timns serious, Pulitznr Prize­winner Carnpboll usod tho Scottish par­lianwnt building as an exampln of the rlash betwoon modern and radical arehitndural thought. 
While the building had won the Storling Prize the media ran a story shortly thcreaftor titled "Dnmolition," with a poll saying the building was one of tho twelvn most hatnd buildings in all of Britain. 
Campholl deseribod the situation as "a measure of the radical disconnect in our time." 
lie attributed this disconnect to the avant-garde movement, which is a form of arehitneture that completely violates the norms. 
Campbell said in the minds of its praetitiorwrs, "(Avant-garde( was help­ing a new future to be born." 
lie went on to describe the situation at the University of Virginia, where some modern-style buildings were con­structed but did not fit in with the cam­pus look. 
This led the University to hire some­one to oversee construction to ensure all new buildings would bn more tradi­tional in form. This move was criticized, based on the Jeffersonian principle of progressivism. Opponents said there was a dill"eronco between men~ly look­ing Jeffersonian and aetually being Jell'ersonian by building radical designs. 
This anecdote servnd as the lead into onn of Campbell's main points. The architecture Jefferson proposed was already brandnd from Greece and Rome, he said. 
"Jelforson wanted to speak in a lan­guage that the public could under­stand," Campbell said. "Jeflerson knew you eould be innovative if you knowing­ly violate convention as opposed to eom­pletely ignoring it." 
from here, Campbell entered into the main thrust of his lecture: art in all periods has to work between memory and invention. 
"The tension between [memory and invention] is where great architecture comes from," he declared. 
Campbell said traditional architects want everything to look beautiful according to a fantasy history they have been conditioned to love, and radical architects do not want to waste time with the quaint past and choose to live in the present or the future. 
Campbell was especially critical of the radical movement. 
"Avant-gardism is the curse of the 20th century ... It is a love affair of shapes that can be generated on com­puters," he said. 
Campbell said he valued originality and variety, as long as architecture had meaning. 
He described architecture's purpose as the art of making habitable places as opposed to being primarily an intellec­tual activity. 
He said, "Should a building be a metaphor? Did Einstein and Freud live and work in metaphors? No." 
Campbell closed the discussion by giv­ing two pieces of advice to aspiring architects. 
"Do more freehand drawing and go out and travel now when you aren't tied down by a spouse and a mortgage," he said. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd.edu 
Editors 
continued from page I 
Bush's speech on campus last spring and a series on discipline at Notrn Dame that ran this past fall. IIanna is originally from Milwaukee, Wis., and she lives in Lewis llall. 
Griffin joined Tlw Observer as an lnterhall fhotball writer in the fall of 2003. Since then, he has covered women's soccer, men's basketball. traek and Griffin men's lacrosse. 


Grifiin is a junior American Studios m<\jor. lin is a native of Palisades, N.Y., and he livos in Keough llall. Gottumukkala, a senior Film, Television and Theater m<Jjor, joinnd The Observer in the lhll of 2003. 
He has eovered various Scene stories including Vince Vaughn's comedy tour, an interview with John Walker (producer of Pixar's "The lncrndibles") and the release of 'The Passion of 


the Christ." Gottumukkala He also has covered men's swimming and men's tennis for the Sports department. Gottumukkala is from llouston, Texas and lives in O'Neill Hall. 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
memory, Residence Hall Association President Jackie Wright said. 
"For those of you who did not know, this was the first time in Saint Mary's history that HilA sold out (of tickets for the nvent(," she said. 
The eapacity of the facility was R50 people, but HilA chose to limit ticket salns at. R30 to alleviatn crowd ing. 
"Everything went really well. No one got arrested," Wright said. "If you want to judge by that, thnn it. was a great danen." 
Mission Commissioner Jenny Hobbins thanked Board mem­bers for attending thn second "Theology on Fire" lecture, which took plaee last Wednesday in the Saint Mary's Cybor Cafe. Hobbins dnseribod tho event, which foeusnd on marriage, as "wildly success­ful" and said thoro was "standing room only." 
President Kellye Mitros said she is looking forward to thn Keenan Hevue, whieh will takn place in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium this weekend. 
Saint Mary's Student Government. officers have the opportunity to review the pro­gram for inappropriate con­tent before opening night. 
"This Wednesday is the Keenan Hevue review day," Mitros said. "(Vice Prnsident Susan Mellduff'l and myself will be attending the last prac­tice ... Thursday night starts the performance, and it goes through Saturday." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 

• 


our 1 eas 
... we have. GE's LEXAN SLX body panels infuse plastic with pigment, reducing volatile organic compound emissions normally associated with conventional automotive paint. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to hatch your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing. sales and marketing, human resources. or information technology. 
Today is the last day to submit your resume to be eligible for an on-campus interview with General Electric! 
Resume Submittal Deadline: February 7, 2006 

ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 

• imagination at work 


Proud to be a Golden Key Sponsor 

r------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
applications and job offers. word from various law sarily less gritty." -sometimes thousands of Biology major Grant Osborn schools. If that falls through, miles from South Bend -the


Seniors 
continued from page 1 
Institutional Research. Last year, 82 percent of the senior class had jobs or had been accepted to graduate school or service projects. 
"Three months post-gradu­ation that percentage increased to 95 percent with 5 percent still seeking employment," Svete said. 
Ahead of the game 
While commencement cere­monies are not scheduled until May 21, some seniors like chemical engineering major Pamela Jefson have already secured jobs in their intended fields. Jefson said she will be working for Johnson & Johnson in its Global Operations and Leadership Development pro­gram. 
Jefson said she interviewed for the position and received an offer in November. During the next two years, she will be rotating between three dif­ferent companies -the first of which is with a medical device company in Juarez, Mexico. 
"While I am not certain how applicable my technical class­es will be, I believe the ana­lytical and problem solving skills that I have developed as an engineer will allow me to be successful in any rota­tion I may encounter," she said. 
The adjustment from living in the Midwest -where Jefson has spent her entire life -to working in a foreign country will be most stagger­ing, she said. 
"The cultural and lifestyle differences are innumerable," she said. "One of my biggest challenges will be getting used to not blending in with the majority of my co-work­ers and neighbors." 
Eddie Song, a double major in FFT and sociology, said he is "pretty certain" he will have a job next year in Japan as an English instructor. Additionally, he will be apply­ing to film production jobs to build a "solid network" in the business. 
Song said he will incorpo­rate skills honed during his time at the University in his anticipated career. 
"I will use all of my film production skills gained from the film classes here, apply film theory to make smart movies and use my sociology background to heighten my awareness of different audi­ence groups," he said. 
Other graduating seniors plan to continue in academia and have already secured their pathways for graduate school. Kat Roblez -a dou­ble major in political science and Spanish with a minor in Science, Technology and Values -will be attending Harvard Law School next fall. 
Roblez said research skills acquired at Notre Dame will "definitely" be helpful in grad school. 
"More than the classroom experience, my personal experiences at ND have helped me to grow into a much more mature, focused and centered person," she said. "Although many of my fellow students at Harvard will be much older, I feel quite prepared for the experi­ence." 
Up in the air 
The future for other seniors is clouded with pending said he "is at the mercy of" Regula said he has a job lined Looking ahead the eight graduate schools he up at home -though it is not In just three months, nearly 

applied to in order to receive preferred. a Master of Fine Arts in poet­"I suppose you ry. He will also be an appli­have a 'secure' cant in the Teach for America job in program. Pennsylvania as 
"Hopefully, I will get into a gravedigger one of the graduate schools I because people applied to or [Teach for are always America]," he said. "It's odd dying. So, I -I majored in biology but I guess I can am pursuing a career in aca­always find demia and poetics. Even ~ork, but I do though not directly related, not want grave both deal with the observiJ,­digging to be tion of the human and the my profession," 
2,000 graduating seniors will can say I bid farewell to the arms of 
"/ wouldn't mind spending another couple years in the 'bubble.,, 
Grant Osborn Notre Dame senior 

Our Lady, but Osborn might not feel the effects of post-University life quite so soon. 
"I applied to NO's grad school so I wouldn't mind spending another couple years in the 'bubble,"' he said. "I would also welcome 
desire to reach a greater he said. "Hopefully a Notre change, though." understanding of life." Dame degree can accommo­For the majority of graduat­English major Ryan Regula date me with something a lit­ing seniors whose futures will is also in limbo as he awaits tle different, but not neces-take them in divergent paths 
reality of the 'real world' has already started to set in. 
"A large part of me would just love to stay fat NO] and see another football season, but I am looking forward to stepping outside of my com­fort zone and begin working towards my future career," Roblez said. 
Jefson said she will cherish her last few months at Notre Dame, keeping in mind that all good things must come to an end. 
"I am ready to discover what else is out there," she said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


At Ernst &Young you'll get the on-the-job training you need to succeed on your own. 
We know you're new to the work force. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. If you're looking for agreat start, look for us on campus. Or visit us on the Web at ey.com/usjcareers. We won't steer you wrong. 






ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WlRE sERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Protestors attack Danish Embassy 
TEJIHAN. Iran -Jlundrnds ol' angry pro­tostnrs hurlnd stonns and lirn bombs at the Danish J•:mhassy in the Iranian capital Monday to protnst puhlieation ol' earkatun~s ol' tlw l'rophnt Muhammad. Policn usml tnar gas and surroundnd tho walled villa to hold hack tho erowd. 
It was tlw sncond attack on a Wnstnrn mis­sion in Tnhran on Monday. Earlier in the day. 200 studnnt dPmonstrators thrnw stonns at thn Austrian J·:mbassy, brnaking windows and starting small lin~s. Tho mission was tar­gntnd IJPr.ausn Austria holds thn prnsidnney of tlw I·:uropnan Union. 
Thousands morn poopln joined violent dmnonstrations arross tlw world to protnst publication of t.lw ntrieaturns of Muhammad, and tlw Bush administration appnalnd to Saudi Arabia to usn its influnnr.e among Arabs to lwlp naso tnnsions in the Middln I·:asl and l~uropP. 
Investigators suspect Yemini ties 
SAN'A, Ynmnn -lnvnstigators are looking into thn possibility that Ynnwni intelligmH~n olTi<~Prs lwlpPd 23 al-()aida prisoners ­induding a militant convietml in thn 2000 USS Colo hom bing-nsr.apn from an undmground prison locatnd lwrwath a heavily guarded s1wurity lwadquart1~rs. ollkials said Monday. 
Tlw prisorwrs nseapnd Friday, apparently by digging a tunrwl somn 1SO yards long that l'llliH"gnd at a rnosqun, thn sneurity oflieials said. 
It was not thn lirst major prison nseapn for al-<)aida militants. At lnasl four members of tho group hrokn out of a prison at Bagram, tl11~ main U.S. basn in Afghanistan in July. Among thnm was Omar ai-Farouq, a top lnador of ai-Qaida in Southnast Asia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Moussaoui criticizes lawyers, trial 
i\I.I~XANDHIA. Va. -l'rodaiming "I am al­<)a ida," tr. rro ri s t eonspi rato r Zaearias Moussaoui disruptPd thn opening of his sen­lnndng trial Monday and was tossed out of eourt as snleetion began for the jurors who will dneid11 wlwthnr he lives or dies. 
lie disavownd his lawyers and pledged to tnstify on his own bnhalf in the trial that is to bngin Mareh 6. 
An of'tm1 volatile ligurn in his proeeedings, Moussaoui was removed from the courtroom four separate times. "This trial is a circus," hn deelarnd. "I want to be heard." Of his lawyers, he said: "These people do not repre­sent me." 
After jury selection, cxpeeted to take a month, a penalty trial will determine wlwther the 37-year-old Frenchman of Moroccan descent, the only person in the 
U.S. chargml in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, will be put to death or sentenced to lifn in prison. 

Bush presents budf,!'et to Congress 
WASIIIN<;T<JN-Presicfent Bush urgnd lawmakers Monday to rnduee taxes $1.7 tril­lion ovnr the next decade, mostly ecmenting tax euts passnd earlir.r in his presidency. 
Thn budget blueprint asks lawmakers to prnsnrvn tax euts passed in rncent years for worknrs. parents. investors and othnrs. Those reductions would otherwise disappear by tlw end of the decadn. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Expert encourages molecular study 
Wl·:s'l' Li\Fi\YI·:TI'I·:. Ind. -A lop nanotech­nology PXpPrt urgPd ~~olh·g~~s and universities Monday to rontinue funding research into rashioning individual molecules and atoms into new malPrials, saying tlw work will load to hig sciPnrP payoffs yPars from now. 
M i h a i I Hoc o, tlw Nation a I Sr. inn r e hnrndat.ion's senior adviser on nanotechnol­ogy, addressPd n•spardwrs from around the nation during tlw l'irst. day of a three-day nan o t I' r h no I o g y co 11 fp r· 1n1 r n at Pu r d u n UnivPrsity. 

Senators interrogate Gonzalez 
Attorney General calls donzestic spying 'early warning systenz' for terrorists 
Associated rress 
Wi\SIIINGTON 
Senators raisnd doubts 
about the legal rati"onale 
for the Bush administra­
tion's eavesdropping pro­
gram Monday, foreing 
Attorney Gennral Alberto 
Gonzales to provide a 
lengthy defense of the 
operations hn eallnd a vital 
"early warning systnm" for 
terrorists. 
;\ handful of Hepublieans joinnd Democrats in raising questions about whethnr Prnsicllmt Bush went too far in ordering the National Security Agnncy's monitor­ing operations. Tho sena­tors were particularly trou­blnd by the administration's argument that a Septembnr 2001 eongressional resolu­tion approving use of mili­tary foren covered the sur­veillance of some domestic communieations. 
"The president does not havr. a blank eher.k," said .I udieiary Chairman Arlen Spneter, R-Pa., who wants the administration to ask the secretive Fornign lntelligencn Surveillanco Court to reviow the pro­gram. 
"You think you're right. but thero are a lot of people who think you're wrong," Speetor told Gonzales. "What do you have to lose if you're right?" 
Gonzales didn't respond to Spector's proposal directly. "We are eontinual­ly looking at ways that we ean work with the FISA court in being more effi­cient and more effective," said the formor Texas judge. 
Under Bush's orders, the ultra-seeret National Security Agency has been eavesdropping -without warrants -on internation­al eommunieations of peo­ple in the United States whose calls and e-mails may be linked to Muslim extremists. 
During the daylong com­mittee hearing, Gonzales and the senators reaehed as far back as eavesdrop­ping ordered by President Washington and delved into court deeisions surround-


ing presidential powers and the 197H Foreign lntelligenr.o Surveillance Act. 
Gonzales repeatedly defended the current pro­gram as lawful, reasonable and essential to national seeurity. He said the presi­dent's authority was strongest in a time of war, and he called the monitor­ing operations an "early warning system designed for the 21st century." He said no changes in law were needed to accommo­date the monitoring. 
"To end the program now would be to afford our enemy dangerous and potential deadly new room for operation within our own borders," he said. 
Democrats pressed Gonzales for details about the program and other sim­
ilar operations, almost all of which he would not pro­vide. They've asked Specter to file subpoenas for elassi­fied legal opinions on the subjoct. 
"The president and the Justice Department have a constitutional duty to faith­fully execute the laws," said Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy, the committee's top Democrat. "Nobody is above the law, not even the president of the United States." 
Loahy asked if the admin­istration has authorized the opening of U.S. citizens' mail. Throughout the hear­ing, Gonzales chose his words carefully. "We're only focused on interna­tional communications where one part of the com­munication is al-Qaida," he said. 
Sen. Diannn Feinstnin, 1>­Calil'., asked if the Bush administration had issund "any other seeret order or dircetivo" that would be prohibitod by law. Said Gonzales: "The president has not authorized any conduct that I'm aware of that is in contravention of 
law."  
Hepublicans, too,  were  
skeptical.  Sen.  Mike  
DeWine,  H-Ohio,  said  

Bush's power -and the country would be stronger if he came to Congress for statutory authorization. 
Sen. Lindsey Graham, H­S.C., said future presidents could be hurt when they seek authorizations to uso force ber.ause the Bush administration interpreted Congress' post IJ/11-resolu­tion so broadly. 
AUSTRIA 


Iran orders end to surveillance 
Associated Press 

VIENNA -Iran has told thn International Atomic linergy Ageney to remove surveillance eamnras and agency seals from sitos and nuelear nquipnwnt by the end of next wnnk in response to referral to tlw U.N. S1H~urity Couneil. the agency said Monday. 
Iran's demands canw two days af'ter tlu• 1/\E;\ reported Tnhran to the eouneil ovnr its disputed atomic pro­gram. 
In a confidential report to the IAEA's 35-mnmber· board on Monday, agnncy lwad Mohamed E!Baradei said Iran also announced a sharp reduction in thn numbnr and kind of IAEA inspne­tions, nffnctivn imrnndiately. The rnport was made available to The Assodatnd Press. 
Iranian ofTieials had ropoat1Hlly warned thny would stop honoring the so-called "Additional Protocol" to the Nudear Nonproliferation Trnaty-an agreement giving IAEA inspectors grnater authority -if the 1/\EA board rnferrml tlwir country to the coundl. 
;\ diplomat close to the Vienna­based IAI•:A told the AI' that Iran had also moved forward on anotlwr thrPat -formally setting a datn for n•sum­ing full-scale work on its uranium enrichnwnt program. Iran says it wants to makn ftwl through Pnrirh­nwnt.. but tlw activity ran also gPrH'r­ale tlw nudear corn of warlwads. 
Tlw diplomat, who spokP on comli­lion of anonyniitv b1'1~ausl' llw maltPr was conlid1:nt.iai. n~fttsPd to divui1-W the date. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
leaders are the only non-Keenan "It's a shame that we internal­football game, is not as widely dorm presidents and assistant students with input during the ize such repressive 'traditions' to controversial but still draws rectors.
Revue 

skit selection process. the degree that it is acceptable campus attention for occasional Carter safd he thought clear continued from page 1 Saint Mary's student body vice for men to talk about and make offensive jokes. acts of satire, such as the Pep 
president Susan Mcilduff said fun of women's sexuality, but it is Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle Rally, are often taken too seri­comes to events hosted by resi­she and student body president considered 'shocking' (to quote a said he tells Dillon residents they ously. dence halls and events hosted by Kellye Mitros were contacted by Saint Mary's student) for women must keep the show's content "'The Vagina Monologues' and academic units, it's apples and Gower and Flowers to arrange a to talk about their own," she respectful before they begin to the Queer Film Festival offend oranges," Brown said. review committee. This allows wrote. plan the Pep Rally. · those who are overly 
While residence halls are not the Saint Mary's student body Female students have not been "I put responsibility on stu­conservative and traditionally comparable to academic depart­president. vice president and the only ones to criticize a per­dents," he said. "If they screw religious," he said. "The Dillon ments in terms of guidelines for president-elect -this year, missive attitude toward jokes up, we deal with it." Pep Rally offends those sponsored events requiring Mcllduff-to preview the Hevue with serious subject matter. In the past, Doyle said Dillon who are overly liberal and politi­adherence to Catholic teaching, and make suggestions about In 2002, then-junior Seamus students who have acted inap­cally correct. While these groups dorm events must still follow offensive material. Hohn wrote a letter to The propriately in the Pep Hally have don't seem to have a lot in com­guidelines of propriety. llall rec­"We know it's just for fun," she Observer questioning the Notre been forced to call home or visit mon, they both only see in black tors work closely with the Office said "However, if [a skit] seems Dame student body's support of the Office of Hesidence Life and and white. They need to open of Student Affairs in preparation to be very hurtful or controver­Hevue material. Housing as punishment. their minds, stop taking every­for various hall events, Brown sial, we would definitely suggest "Many of the jokes in the "I think humor at other peo­thing so seriously, and accept said. they not perform it." Revue, like many of the jokes we ple's expense is cheap and 'The Vagina Monologues' as a 
"With things like the Keenan Mcllduff and Mitros plan to hear and tell everyday, were should be avoided," Doyle said. "I work of art and the Dillon Pep Revue, the rector reads through judge the skits on the case-by­predicated on racial, religious, don't know if there's Catholic Rally as a work of satire. If they the script for the Revue, and case basis, asking that skits be sexist or homophobic myths," he teaching that says, 'Don't make have a problem with either of oftentimes. changes are made," removed only when they might wrote. "I worry that these jokes fun of fat girls,' but I don't think them, they should just stay home he said. "It's all part of having truly offend a member of the suggest we are not nearly as it's right. When you belittle peo­and do serious things, like various events be consistent with academic community. serious as we claim about ending ple, it's one more drop of acid at taxes." the ideals and values of the "Our main concern is Saint prejudice and discrimination the problem that eats away." . Noting the difference between University." Mary's students," she said. along those lines." Doyle said offensive material University attitudes towards 'The 
The Revue, which last year "However, since it is taking place Rohn saw a problematic gap has no place at a Catholic univer­Vagina Monologues' and towards included jokes about homosexual on our campus, it's our responsi­between a student group's comic sity, even in the Pep Rally's similarly explicit material rape, disfigured babies and eth­bility to make sure other dorms presentations and the comedic context. addressed publicly by males, nic stereotypes, has been an at Notre Dame and Holy Cross University's professed ideals -a "We cannot have humor at Carter said female students at annual source of campus CQn­are represented in a fair man­disparity between actions and other people's expense," he said. Notre Dame are held to a stricter tention. ner." philosophies similar to the one "We are trying to build a standard than their male coun­
Keenan Hall rector Father The Revue has sparked sub­Jenkins recently has addressed. Christian community, not tear terparts. Mark Thesing, Hevue producer stantial debate during the past "There is a major conflict people down." "Males get away with so much Thomas Flowers and Revue few years in student publica­between the loving and accepting Dan Carter, head writer and more on this campus,'' he said. director James Gower were tions. community we claim to be and director for the Dillon Pep Hally "Do you think dorms with unavailable for comment In a 2001 letter-to-the-editor to the jokes we tell in close compa­for the past two years, said while females could streak through Monday. The Observer, then-Saint Mary's ny [or at the Hevue]," Rohn responsibility for screening [the] library?" 
The Revue has been held on senior Carolyn Kelley said she wrote. material for the even(fell mostly the Saint Mary's campus for felt the Revue's presence on cam­The Dillon Pep Rally, held on him and several other writers, Contact Karen Langley at decades, so Saint Mary's student pus was indicative of chauvinism. before each season's first home the process also involved the klanglel@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
to Chicago with friends. "Heck yeah, I'm ready to start making money," Paunicka said. 
Katie Jo Cornelius, an English literature and secondary educa­tion major who is spending her final semester student teaching at Saint Mary's, has not secured a job yet. But she knows she wants to find a position in Lafayette, Ind. 
" I don't have a job, but I'm not nervous," Cornelius said. 
Jefl' Roberts, the director of the Saint Mary's Center for Career Opportunities, said the seniors he has met the last few weeks are not "panicked" but "alert and highly motivated." 

"My message to seniors is it is never to late to use the Career Center, and if people feel behind, it is all the more reason,'' Hoberts said. 
Many seniors have already been accepted into graduate pro­grams, including law and dental school, Roberts said. Students majoring in computer science, fmance, business and marketing usually have the most success securing positions while still in school. 
Other majors, such as educa­tion, will not truly start their search until late spring and early summer. 
Charlotte Orzel, the only senior vocal performance major at the College this year, spent the last three and a half years preparing for a career in opera. But after a stressful fall semester she decided not to apply to graduate pro­grams in music and instead hopes to find a job in business. 
"The career of a musician is dif­ferent,'' Orzel said. "The lifestyle [is] very isolated, and there are no short term goals." 
Job-hunting can be tremen­
dously time-consuming, Roberts said. 
"The rule of thumb is that for every $10,000 [you want to earn] you should plan on spending a month in full-time work search­ing,'' Roberts said. 
Anne Knable, an elementary education major, went abroad to find a job. She will be teaching next year at The Irish Institute. an all-boys K-12 Catholic school in Monterrey, Mexico. 
''I'm ready to move to Mexico and be in the warm [weather],'' Knable said. 
Leaving Saint Mary's is an exciting but nerve-wracking prospect for many seniors. 
"It's kind of bittersweet," Cornelius said. ''I'm excited but I feel like I just grew so much here . . . It was just a huge part of my life where I became a whole new person." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

So you think you know lacrosse. 
Then share that knowledge and skill with middle and high school students trying to learn the game 
The Saint Joe High School JV Boys' Team and the Saint Joe Junior Lacrosse Club are looking for qualified coaches for Spring 2006. 
Stipend available. Send resume or contact kheisler@nd.edu or wbrenna1 @nd.edu 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,798.27 +4.65
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,971 139 1.313 2,133,249,290 

AMEX' I ,864.05 +13.29 NASDAQ \111_:19 +0.14 NYSf H,019.87 +18.47 
S&PSOO I ,265.02 +0.99 NIKKEI(Tolcyo) 16,7 57.4 2 +9.66 FTSf IOO(London) 5,772.40 +13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.63 -0.13 20.61 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.33 +0.04 12.25 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-1.34 -0.37 27.17 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) 
-6.33 -4.55 67.30 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) 
-0.27 -0.11 40.81 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.26 +0.12 45.45 13-WEEK BILL -0.34 -0.15 43.47 30-YEAR BOND -0.34 -0.16 46.22 5-YEAR NOTE +0.33 +0.15 45.10 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.26 65.11 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.70 574.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.60 75.90 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.8700 EURO 
0.8350 POUND 
0.5716 

IN BRIEF 
Google joins communication tools 
SAN FHANCISCO -Online search engine lead1~r Coogle Inc. is wedding its instant mes­saging and e-mail services in the same Web browser. hoping the convenience will lure usPrs from the larger communications net­works operated by its chief rivals. 
Tlw n1~w chat feature to be unveiled Tuesday will provide usnrs of Google's Gmail service with a list of eontacts drawn from past e-mail nxehanges and thm1 signal who's available for online conversations. 
Automatic status rnports about the onlinn availability of friends, family and co-workers have been a hallmark of instant messaging serviens for years. 
(;oogln hopns to makn it nven simpiPr to con­nnet with an online contaet by allowing users to initiate an electronic convPrsation within thn same Wnb browser showing an e-mailbox, bypassing the need to switch to a separate instant messaging application. 
Cruise line orders billion-dollar ship 
MIAMI-Hoyal Caribbean International on Monday ordnrnd the world's largest and most expensivn cruisn ship, a $1.24 billion vessel that will hold up to 6,400 passnngers. It's the latest step in thn industry trend of supersizing ships, which delight many passengnrs but are too crowded for othnr gunst..<;. 
Thn ship. dubbnd Project Genesis, will be 
220.000 gross rngistered tons when it is deliv­en~d to the world's s11eond-largest cruise opnra­tor in fall 2009 by Oslo, Norway-based ship­builder Ak11r Yards. Gross registnred tons is a standard way to mnasurn a ship's size and is a unit of volumn nqual to about 100 cubic feet. 
The ship will weigh about 100,000 tons based on displacnment-a Nimitz-class aircraft carri­er mmes in at about 97.000 tons.than any year in its history. said K11rry Dnsberg, a company spoknsman. 
Aknr said its eontract price of 900 million euros-about $1 billion-would be "the most valuable ship ever ordered in the history of commerdal shipbuilding." The $1.24 billion fig­ure includes all expenses for the ship, "from forks and knives and sheets to artwork and evnrything else," said llarri Kulovaara, the Miami-based cruise linn's executive vice presi­dnnt of maritimn operations. 

THE 0HSERVER 


USlNESS 
page 7 

Koenig testifies in Enron trial 
Former investor relations chief under plea agreement, but lacks credibility 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Enron Corp.'s former investor relations ehief said Monday he spoke, to no avail, with eompany founder Kenneth Lay and former CEO Jell'rey Skilling about investors' eoncerns over murky finan­cial disclosures months beforn Enron implod•1d in December 2001. 
In his third day testifying in Lay and Skilling's fraud and conspiracy trial, Mark Koenig said the obfuscation eontinued even as Enron disdosed massive quarterly losses in mid-October 2001, two months al'ter Skilling had rosigncd and Lay had resumed the role of chief nxeeutive ollker. 
When prosncutor Kathryn Hucmmler asknd him if Lay nneouraged him to always follow Enron's codn of othies rnquiring eandor, honesty and fairness. Koenig replind, "At timns, no." 
But Skilling lawynr Daniel Pntroenlli challenged the admittnd liar's credibility. Koenig pleaded guilty in 2004 to aiding and abetting securities fraud for lying to investors and is testifying under a plea agreement with prosecutors. He told jurors last week that before he cut the deal with the government. he lied to a grand jury investigating of 10 years in prison. Rebecca Carter. except for three former Enron because he hoped to The defense teams have Later Koenig told nxecutives who skimmed avoid being charged with a suggested that most of the Petrocelli he believed he millions from some dnals. crime. 16 ex-Enron executives would have been indictnd In mid-October 200 I 
"You're still in a mode of who pleaded guilty to had he not pleaded guilty. Enron announcnd more trying to protect yourself, crimes are saying what While answering a separate than $600 million in quar­aren't you?" Petrocelli they believe prosecutors question. Koenig said he terly losses because of asked. want to hear to avoid has two children in college money-losing broadband 
"I don't feel in the last lengthy prison terms. and one in high school. and water ventures and three days I've protected Koenig sometimes Lay's lead lawyer, Michanl bad investments. The eom­myself," Koenig said. noting appeared uncomfortable as Ramsey, was expected to pany also wrote down that he faces shareholders' Petrocelli grilled him, fidg­question Koenig Tunsday. shareholder equity by $1.2 lawsuits and will probably eting in the witness chair. Enron went bankrupt in billion because of an lose the $5 million he still He fought back tears when December 2001 within accounting mistake that has from his Enron days. Petrocelli asked how old his weeks of revelations of' hid­had gone unnoticnd for lie forfeited $1.5 million to children were when he den debt and inflated prof­months. the government as part of pleaded guilty. its. Prosecutors contend Koenig said Lay was his plea. U.S. District Judge Sim Lay and Skilling repeatedly among top executives who 
He also acknowledged Lake called for a break lied about Enron's health wanted to kenp that dntail that prosecutors can rec­though Koenig composed when they knew that out of thn company's earn­ommend a lenient sentence himself and insisted, ''I'm accounting maneuvers ings press release. if they are satisfied with his fine." During the break a propped up a faeade of suc­"By not putting it in the cooperation. Aiding and somber Skilling comforted cess. earnings relnaso, that was abetting securities fraud his weeping wife, former The defendants say thern an attempt to minimizn it," carries a maximum penalty Enron corporate secretary was no fraud at Enron Konnig said. 

Guidant CEO will recieve bonus 
CEO, who retired Nov. 15. Since June, Guidant has recalled Associated Press Boston Scientific spokesman Paul or issued safety advisorios on about Donovan declined to comment on 88,000 defibrillators and more than 
INDIANAPOLIS -G'uidant Corp.'s the compensation. A message seek­200,000 pacemakers. At least seven interim chief executive will receive a ing comment was left for Guidant deaths have been linked to the $1.5 million bonus after the compa­spokesman Steve Tragash. faulty devices. ny's planned acquisition by Boston The 279-page filing details the The acquisition, which is expect11d Scientific Corp. is complete, accord­terms of the Natick, Mass.-based to be eom pleted at the end of thn ing to documents filed Monday with company's $27.2 billion cash-and­first quarter, must still be approved the Securities and Exchange stock dna! with Guidant. by shareholders as wnll as regula­Commission. The deal announced Jan. 25 tors in the U.S. and Europe. 
James M. Cornelius, who was capped a nearly two-month-long Monday's filing also cautions that appointed to head the Indianapolis­bidding war with Johnson & Boston Scientific's credit rating based medical device maker in Johnson. Despite Guidant's regula­could be jeopardized and fall below November. will not be eligible for tory and legal problems stemming investment grade status. because of any severance, but will receive a from months of product recalls, both the almost $9 billion in debt thn $900,000 annual salary, records companies hoped the company company said it would need to show. would give them a stake in the finance the dna!. 
Cornelius succeeded Ronald W. lucrative $10.3 billion cardiac Donovan, though, said a decrease Dollens, the company's previous device market. was unlikely. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

The comet theory of life 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISffiATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisementS based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions reg11rding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC!dire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~ Ob$Crvtr (USPS 599 2-4000) ~ publi$h~cl. Ntonday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Asubscription to The Obsetvtr lJ: $100 for one academic year. .SSS for one semester. 
The ON:crvtr is-published at: POSTMASTER 024 Somh Dining Hall Send add res& C(}rtecdom (0~ None Dame. IN 46556..(1779 1bc Observer P<riodical. postage paid :u Notre Dame ro. Bo•779 .md additionitl miliHng offices. 024 &Hlrh Dining Hall 
Nom Danie, IN 465-56·0779 
The OhM:rver is a member ofthe ~datdi Pew. All reproduction righu are tesc:rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Dan Tapetillo Peter Ninneman Jack Thornton Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Mark Brauweiler Bemenderfer Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
Where has romanticism gone today? I am not speaking of the sappy and overly sentimental modern conception of the word, but rather in the literary sense of a general out­look upon life. This outlook embraces strong, passionate emotions, the value of individual cre­ativity and a love for the useless, fleeting, yet ulti­mately beautiful things in life. Some condemn romantics as being foolhardy idealists with no concern for the practical realities of life. However, the romantic is capable of great action within the world, and is indeed spurred towards such action by his strength of feeling. Romanticism, far from being a weak philosophy of mere dreamers, caused the great poet Lord Byron to throw his fortunes, and ultimately his life. into the Greek War of Independence­despite being no more a Greek than a soldier. His death was not an absurd, rash and foolish decision; it was the culmination of a life well spent clasp­ing life by its very fiber. 
The romantic emphasis upon strong emotions and passions is the inherent strength of the movement. Modern existence's complexity is diametrical­ly opposed to romanticism, and seems to have throttled the move­ment to the brink of its very death. The societal need to sustain this com­plex civilization has produced increasingly sterile generations focused upon merely climbing the modern "cursus honorum." People subordinate the vibrancy and poten­tial of their humanity to a common­place existence of fulfilling require­ments so as to advance towards the 

Ian Ronderos 
Liberated 

next step in the quest for the success. The contemporary understanding of success is hollow. Many people spend their entire lives wasting away in a safe, mediocre existence and never take time to savor the fiery passion of life. Our existence is full of emo­tion and feeling. Life is immediate. For all I know, a comet could hit me within the next minute, and my exis­tence could be snuffed out like a can­dle. Unpredictability is the only cer­tainty in the course of human affairs. Shall I face death burning in the embers of life, or suppressed by the stagnation of perpetual preparation? I should like to take the former. 
The aforementioned is an affirma­tion of existence and a solution to the misery born from the discord between the inborn vivacity of the individual and the timorous yoke society placed upon him. The roman­tic focus on the human potential pro­duces a pleasing life. A person finds harmony by living in accord with his internal drive to live out the innate exuberance of his passions. It must be noted that a wise person must be able to discriminate between the nobler passions and the baser ones. 
A person cannot entirely give in to his passions -particularly the harmful or unethical ones -but a rational decision to embrace life in all its brilliance and wonder leads a person to happiness. If a person should live the best and most full life he possibly can, then he would con­quer the transient nature of exis­tence that so terrifies many. The fleeting nature of things means noth­ing if one is focused most upon the very moment she is in and appreci­ates its beauty and tragedy. That is not to say that one should live with­out any abandon and think nothing of the future, but rather that the emphasis should be on the here and now. Hesitation to live leads but to regrets. No one wants to turn out like Eliot's J. Alfred Prufrock. The calcu­lated risk-adverse nature of our soei­ety paralyzes. 
A love for the useless, pleasant things in life is also characteristic of romantics. A disproportionate con­cern with utility reveals to strong a focus on the future, one that should be abandoned. Such a focus betrays a servile dedication to fulfilling soci­ety's desire to control the human spirit. Romanticism is a celebration of the individual, but this does not mean that romantics are self-cen­tered egotists. Concern for others is a very romantic concept, as compas­sion and selflessness are two of the most moving, noble and powerful of human emotions. The true romantic is not an individualist in the sense of caring nothing for the plight of oth­ers. A person of spirit must further­more cultivate a balance between the useful and pleasant. To live without any attention to the useful is obvious­ly an impossible way of life; to live without anything of the pleasant is to live a mundane existence best fitted to a machine. 
Ultimately, it is the beautiful and pleasant that we should seek by using objects of utility to aid us in this quest. As the romantic poet John Keats wrote, "Beauty is truth, truth beauty -that is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know." 
Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplementary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. Having retired from the College Republicans and adopting independent politics, he has entered the private life of peaceful contem­plation. Ronderos can be contacted at irondero@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDTIOR 

Controversy a blessing in disguise 
Censorship is bad! "The Vagina Monologues" are the Anti­Christ! Our academic freedom is being destroyed! Our morality is in jeopardy! Okay, okay, I think we've all got it by now. And if we keep playing the same arguments on repeat with steadily increasing volume for the next few months, we might just go insane. 
We can talk circles around each other about our polarized opin­ions on the best means to contend with the issue of Catholic stan­dards vs. academic liberty for weeks if we want-and the abun­dance of discussion on campus is undoubtedly a good thing. However, I feel that our debate will go nowhere if we keep hear­ing these same opinions shouted back and forth without any backup. Of course many students will unfailingly contend that the elimination of "The Vagina Monologues" and the Queer Film Festival is abhorrent, and of course their more conservative counterparts will argue that the University must not stray from traditional Catholic ideals. 
In nearly every article I've read regarding the Monologues, though, the issues have been so grossly simplified that it is impos­sible to know whether or not people have just taken hold of their generalliberaVconservative argument of choice and run with it, regardless of what they actually know about the Monologues and its messages. I'm not gonna lie, I haven't read the play. So how 
OBSERVER POLL 
~. u,b•,.11···.·:t• ~. t··e.···t··t·e·····r·.·
~..•....•. ..'I.•i ..•. .... u N·.·.· ·..••..•• ·...,.
Are you planning on atteniling any of the gay and lesbian films? 
to the •·· Editor at 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

www.nclsmeeeserver.e0m
'.:;/ . .. . . ·,,.,; ..
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

can I know whether or not it is truly as anti-Catholic as is con­tended? I really have no grounds to make an intelligent argument for or against the University's suppression of the event. Sure, I don't believe in censorship, but there must be more to it than that, right? And yeah, it doesn't seem very Catholic to wax poetic about premarital sex, but there's no way that's as deep as this issue runs. I propose we all do a little homework if we want these debates to be at all fruitful. Let's find out some actual specific details from the Monologues if we want to argue its morality rather than hearing the word "vagina" and automatically bran­dishing our crucifixes and holy water. 
Let's take a little time to think about what effects sponsorship or censorship would have on our academic life and what paths of action we have available, rather than immediately crying "dicta­torship." If we strive to be adequately informed about all aspects and contentions in this debate and hence can have an enlighten­ing discussion rather than a series of recycled inferences, I feel this controversy will be a blessing in disguise for Notre Dame. 
Meagham Garvey freshman Badin Hall Feb. I 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How many young men, in al(prevoius times ofunprecedented steadfastness, had turned suddenly wild and wicked for the same reason, and, in an ecstasy of unrequited love, taken to wrench offdoor­knockers, and invert the boxes of rheumatic watchmen!" 
Charles Dickens British author 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Father Jenkins' challenge 
Early lw;t term, Tlw Observer print1~d a filllr-part lnttnr in which I encouraged Fatlwr John .llmkins to engage a public debate on tlw way Notrn Damn is bdng run like a conmwrdal entnrprise. as well as on rl'latnd issues concnrning il'i PH operations and il'> methods of evaluating academic JWrliwmarm~. Hnsolution of various prob­lnms <L'isodatnd with tlwse issues, I argued, is ITW'ial to our future as a top-ranked Catholic university. Debate on thnsn matt1~rs may still be lilrtheorning. For the moment, how1wnr, Jenkins h<L'> ehosnn to li1cus on the interaction bntwmm Catholic valtws (or (:a tho lie dmraetnr) and acadmnic rrnedom instnad. The inlu~n~nt danw~r of making this topic tlw (ileus of a public discussion is that there is no shan~d undorst.anding within the University of what nitlwr Catholic dmracter or academic frm~dom amounl'i to. In somo s1~1'.tors, "Catholic values" is a mde-tnrm mandating strid orthodoxy in matters of' rnproductiv1~ morality, whnmas othnrs usn it in a snnsP having morn to do with sodaljus­tiee and shan·d neonomie opportunity. Similarly. "aradnmie frnedom" is under­stood by some to signify lack of rPstrictions in tlw conduct oftmtrhing and scholarship, while otlwrs intnrprnt it <L'> meaning free­dom to pursun truths divinely mnvnynd through tho institutional Church. 
In point of filet, Notrn I>arne is home to Catholics of wid Ply divergent leanings (a<; well <L'> to persons of otlwr litiths, which is not our presnnt concern). At one extreme an~ mnsnrvativos who make every emlrt to eomply impeccably with the teachings they pnrceivn a-; being p<L<;snd on through thn Church. At the other extreme is a group of' liberal adivisl'> seemingly dndicated to changing Chun:h teaching instnad. Wlille most of us are situated somewhere in the middle, wo still havn leanings toward one or the other of' thn two oxtmmns. Holations bntwmm these two polns of Catholicism at Notn~ Dame havn never benn ea<>y. Mary Kate Malone's Jan. 30 artido in The Obsnrvnr provided a valuable service in reminding us that local tensions between theso two orientations go back to the time when wn initiatnd a serious attempt to beeonw a ranking national university. Needless to say, that ellilrt is still underway. To avoid losing ground IL'i the nflilrt contin­ues, those disruptivn tensions must be con­vertnd into a produetive ennq..,ry joining lib­erals and conservatives in a eommon cause. 

It is hard to imagine a major national uni­versity that conceives academic freedom in terms primarily of the pursuit of' divinely mvealnd truth. It is equally hard to imagine a genuinely Catholic university whose con­eeption of' morality is limited to concerns of' soeialjustkn. II' Notre Dame is to becomn a major aeademic !'oren whilo remaining fully Catholic, it must enlist support from libnral and eonservativn liwces alike. 
By initiating a University-wide debate on Catholic values and acadnmie freedom in terms of two highly divisive extracurricular evenl'> (both having to do with sexuality, the bugbear of' the eontemporary American 

Libertarians mistaken 
In tlwir Idler or Feb. I ("Protecting Freedoms), The College libertarians or Notre Dame rec­ognized that our University is a private institution, and therefiJre not bound by certain legal strictures eoneerning l'rne speeeh lbr its students. Unf(wtunatnly, I do not think that they actual­ly apprndatn tlw difl(~nmee that this distinction makes. I have three objections to their article. 
First, I worknd filr Film this past summer and ean shed some light on why it gave Notre Damn a Hnd Light. It is not f(Jr the reasons that the Libertarians would like you to assume. FIHE's rating system ean be violated in many dillerent ways, and a quiek look at their Web site shows that Notrn Dame's "problems" are not the rnsult of our recent eontroversy. Indeed almost all of' the policies that FIHE eritiques foeus on tho vagueness or our hara-;sment poli­cies. Thn only other dillkulties that FIHE deems problematic indude rogulations on student dmnonstrations and limitations on obscene, pornographic, sexually explicit or offensive mate­rial put on postnrs or sont through the University sorvers. Neither of' these relate to our pres­nut controversy. The College Libertarians tried to suggost otherwise; don't bn f(loled. 
Snmnd, <L'> they point out, private, and espeeiaUy religious, institutions like Notre Dame have long maintaint~d the f'rnt~dom to educate their studenl'i aceording to a certain moral code. FIHE recognizes this too: "if' a private colloge wishes to place a partieular set of moral, philosophical or religious teaehings above a commitment to tree expression, it has every right to do so." lndnnd, "Private eolleg1~s and universities should be hnld to the standard that they tlwmselvns establish." So, let's look at the promises that Notre Dame has made to us. In the Mission Statmnnnt. the University prodaims that it is dedicated to academic freedom. It says two things or intnrnst: "A-; a Catholic university one of il<> distinctive goals is to provide a lilrtlm whnrn through frne inquiry and open diswssion the various lines of' Catholic thought may intersed with all the lilrms or knowledge." A-; of now, the Vagina Monologues will still intnrsmt with Catholk thought. just in a dill'nnmt filrum. 
The Mission Statmnent also prodaims that, "the University insist-; upon academic freedom which makes open discussion and inquiry possible." This is the crux of the issue. Wl1at does academic t'rt~edom mean at Notre Dame? I would propose that what Father Jenkins is doing at this juncture is trying to lind and elucidate nxaetly the answer to that question. And kindly, lw h<L'> a-;knd us to help. This leads to my third and final point: thn Notre Dame Libertarians hav1~ laid out their moral argument <L'> to what academic freedom should mean, and I for one am not convinced. They claim that "to limit the possibility of what a studont may learn does dism~dit to the mission of' education." But this is not what is happening; Jenkins said that the school will not limit what a ~tu(flmt may learn bneausf~ fitculty are free to toach dasses that usn tlw Vagina Monolo~-,ruos and students aro allilwnd to take that dass. Tho University's focus is not on limiting what a student may lnarn, but on controlling il'i own speech so that ruturn studenl'i, mrrnnt studenl'i, alumni and the rest of'tlw world know exactly what Notre Dame is saying. It has not only a legal right to do so, but a<> an institution of' the Catholic Church, a moral duty. The Libertarians also daim that the studonts are the true reason this University exislo.;. I'm not so sure I would complntely agren. The Mission Statement says that the University is "d1~dicatnd to the pursuit and sharing of' truth for its own sake." All faculty and studmtl'> are invited to join the Univt~rsity in that search. A<> a Catholic institution however, the University bdinves that wn alrnady know some of' that truth a-; it ha-; been revealed to us through .Jesus Christ, through the Church that he established and through the Bible that it, guided by the lloly Spirit. omm~d to tl1e world. Indudnd in that revelation is the moaning about human sexuality and f(~mininity. The Univnrsity is not only allowed, but h<L'> an obliga­tion to nnsurn that thn truth to whieh it is dndieatnd is not tainted by contrary understandings about the nwaning and fulfillnwnt of the human w~rson. Our Lady gel<> to speak too and not have lwr words garbled by others. 
Cody Groeber law srudenr Feb. 6 

Church), Jenkins hiL'i ratcheted up the tnn­sions bntwenn these contrasting forces in a manner that may prove counterproductive. The imminent dangflr is that he will use his prnsidontial authority to mete out vietory to one side and dernat to the other. If his final verdict is that aeadnmic freedom trumps Catholic values across the board. there will be cries of outrage among conservatives and sighs of relief' from the other direction. In the long tnrm, such a decision might make it diflicult to maintain the University's distinctively Catholic charaetnr. 
On the other hand, if' he decides that Catholic values systematically take preen­donee over academic freedom, this would cause rnjoieing among eonservativos but despair among liberals. (Not incidentally, such a deei<>ion would also got him oil' the hook with members or the Catholic hierar­chy and of the Board ofTrustoes who may well have encouraged him to raise the issun in the first place). The long-tnrm conse­quences of this docision, however, would bode poorly for Notre Dame's prospecl<> of becoming a first-rate academic institution. 
I laving already stirred up tl1e hornnt's nest, Jenkins' most promising strategy may be to look I'or a way of' enabling both sectors to emerge from the fray thinking of'them­solvos a<> winners. After all. both arn essen­tial parl<> of' the University he has been called to lead; and he must prove himself' capable of inspiring both fiJr the long haul ahnad. A false step at this point would increa<>e the likelihood of' Notre Dame's becoming either an a1~ademic institution with diminishing Catholic presence or a staunchly Catholic institution with diminish­ing acadnmie credibility. 
A-; a student of' ancient and mmlieval phi­losophy, Jenkins sumly knows of Plato's eondusion that a successful statesman must lind a way of blending thn mntm-;ting tal­onl'> of' thn morn virile and the morn compli­ant characters within the state. lf'thn virile pmdominate. the state will be roeknd by eonstant warf'arn; whnreas if' the meek have their way, it will soon fall in dolimt. This teaching in Plato's "Statesman" is the film­runner or Aristotle's doctrine of tlin mean. A<> courage is tho moan bntwnnn cowardice and filolhardiness, so virtue in general takes the middlo ground betwmm opposing extremes. In our current situation, extrm1w liberalism and nxtrnrnt~ eonservatism are both excesses to bn avoided. Our eommon good lies in linding a modus opnrandi some­whore in the middle. Civm1 his curn~nt posi­tion of leadership, it is Jenkins' task to dirnct us along a path that leads toward Notrn Dame's becoming a genuinely Catholic university with genuinely top­ranked acadomie staturn. I lis challengt~ at the moment is to lind a way of turning his back on partisan extremes and ol'lnading all sectors of the University toward an out­como that makes us all winners. 
Kenneth Sayre professor of philosophy Feh. I 


Monologues can still be useful tool 
The "Vagina Monologues" is scan­dalous to the faithful and non-faithful alike for many reasons. On the sur­face, the name is vulgar and evokes an image unbecoming of any univer­sity. Some of its skil<> glorify rape and abortions; others degrade men as a way to combat violence. These are not issues that should be glorified at any university, much less a Catholic university. In the name of "aeademie freedom" this production has had the privilege or being performed in the DPAC in coordination with a V-Day and fundraising for YWCA and S.O.S. Banning the "Vagina Monologues" from public, university or depart­ment-sponsored performance does not hinder aeademic freedom at all. If anything, the inquiries that the play raises would be more conducive to a classroom setting, where more pnople would actually be able to voice their opinions about the eon­tents of the play. True academic endeavors should aim to lind the truth, not play oil' the emotions of' students. 
What I suggest is an effort by stu­dents and the administration and faculty alike to try to lind another means to combat the issues of vio­lence against women. It is ludicrous to think that the only way to raise awareness about violence against women is with a crude perf(Jrmanee. The Edith Stein Project is one way through which studnnts are address­ing the issues that need to be brought forward in light of Catholic teaching. Many colleges have taken up the "Take Back the Night" campaign, which looks at the issues of' violence against women in the local neighbor­hoods, and visually makes a state­ment by a night march in many cities. There eould also be fundrais­ing for the local YWCA outside of 

context of the Vagina Monologues in 
the same way other organizations and dubs raise money on campus. 
The "Queer Film Festival" is also an ama of contention with the Church's sexual ethics. Films that glorify homosexuality and festivals that host speakers that only support homosnxuallifestyles without rnser­vations are in dirnd r.ontrast with the Catholic Church, and thnrefore the University of Notre Damn, which is an institution undnr the Church. I Iowever, I do not believe that the "Queer Film Festival" should bn abol­ished. To be honest, I am not sure how to precisoly makn the film festi­val conf(lrm to the tmu:hings of thn Church. Whiln using films, it could bn possible to look at the dillieultins that homosexuals have in soddy. The films could also be ust~d to look at stylistic aspecl<> of film in germral ­all in line with Catholic teaching. While advocates of honwsnxuality eould present thnir side, the issuns should remain largely in eonlimnity to the Church. I Iornosexuals deserve to bn treated with dignity, but. that does not moan that their sexual pref­erences need to be glorified. Sexuality is a broad and eomplicated topic, but it is not something that neods to be flaunted around liko a banner over each person's head cry­ing out "I am gay" or "I am straight." Thn issues address1~d by both the "Vagina Monologuos" and tho "Queer Film Festival" obviously neml to be addressed; they r.an be addrnssed, though, in dilfernnt ways and by dif'­lilrlmt means that acquiesce to the Catholic identity and dmraeter of' the University of Notre Dame. 
Ian McDole Secretary, ND Righr ro Life Feb. 6 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
I ....... ',OW "' I
SC~&~RD 
Comedy and the Super Bowl 
It's one of the most watehed, widely the wagon moves. It's revealed that televised events of the year. Millions of other horses are pushing the wagon spectators beeome eoueh potatoes simul­from behind, but once again it showed a taneously, turning the old television set tender side to the usual Super Bowl to the same ehannel. It's Super Bowl commercial. Sunday, but the 
Ameriquest Mortgage Co. featured football game some entertaining commercials based played sceond fid­upon awkward situations. The highlight dle to the real show of their lineup featured some hospital that day. employees, a defribulater and the wrong 
As everyone words at the wrong moment. While knows, the com­uncomfortable for the characters within mercials are the the skit, it was hilarious for the viewers main reason to turn watching the game. on the tube at the Fans of the old show "MacGyver" were crux of the early also given a treat in the form of a 
Mark 

months of the year Mastercard commercial. Playing off of 

Bemenderfer 

-not the overpaid their established motto, it shows the athletes, or the pos­Assistant character MacGyver escaping from a sible wardrobe Scene Editor bomb using ordinary objects. While not malfunction. From exactly humorous, it had a good retro future blockbusters vibe for fans of the series. to humorous marketing campaigns, the It was a little disappointing that there Super Bowl commercials run the gaunt­were relatively no surprises this year. In let of entertainment. past years, upcoming films such as 'The 
Comedy was once again the main Matrix" and "War of the Worlds" were theme of all the commercials, with the revealed to relatively unsuspecting audi­standouts being from certain beverage ences. This year had trailers for a vari­companies, car manufacturers and Fed­ety of upcoming films, such as "Pirates Ex. Magieal refrigerators, aggressive of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," "V two-hand touch football and cavemen lit for Vendetta" and for the television up audiences across the world this past series "Lost." Both are obviously house­Sunday. hold names by this point and don't carry 
Fed-Ex had one of the funnier com­the same punch as watching Neo leap mercials that evening. Set in a fictional over the rooftops or seeing the overpass world where cavemen and dinosaurs co­in "War of the Worlds" get demolished existed, it told the tragic and quite by an unknown force. humorous story of a caveman getting There was a small surprise in the form fired for the failure of a package deliv­of a trailer for the upcoming "The ery. Obviously, the package would have World's Fastest Indian." Featuring been safely delivered had Fed-Ex been Anthony Hopkins in the main role, it tells available, but their services were the inspirational story of a man's quest unavailable at the time. for excellence. While it lacks the com­
Some of the commercials featured a puter-generated punch other films might soft side while still retaining their offer, this one promises to still be worth humorous nature. Hummer, spoofing the watching. notorious rubber monster movies made Despite all this, it feels the Super Bowl famous by Godzilla, featured an interest­commercials are no longer pushing too ing love story between a giant lizard and hard to stand out. Cavemen, spoofs and his otherwise natural enemy, an equally movie trailers are hardly new when it giant robot. They fall in love, and comes to the Super Bowl airtime. While through a short montage, a Hummer H2 they remain entertaining, the commer­is produced from their union. While cials don't seem as memorable as they admittedly bizarre, it was still a change have in the past. of pace from the usual commercials. But one thing will always be guaran­
Another standout, this time from a teed-monkeys are comedic gold. beverage manufacturer, featured a young Clydesdale and the famous Contact Mark Bemenderfer at emblem of the company, a red wagon. mbemende@nd. edu With aspirations for the future, the foal The views expressed in this column slips on the harness and attempts to pull are those ofthe author and not neces­the wagon. After moments of struggling, sarily those ofThe Observer. 

Photo courtesy of dvd.ign.com Monkeys are a common animal In Super Bowl commercials. Every year's set strives to out-do the last in terms of comedy and unique traits. 
DPAC REVIEWS 



Family drama driv 
North Korean Army in a rage.By MARTY SCHROEDER The emotional force of this film is some Scene Critic of the most powerful to be delivered from 
a war film. Since the film revolves around 
Most war films made in the past have family and not the political leanings of dealt with the conditions surrounding one side or the other, it makes the emo­only one side of a war. With the possible tional conllict more poignant. exception of "The Longest Day," war films When Jin-tae learns that his brother usually concern themselves with the con­was not killed, he turns on the North ditions and events surrounding the Korean Army, which he had joined, only American side of the wars in which our to allow his brother to escape. The audi­country has been involved, or if not ence finds that it dolls not matter for America, the country concerned is the which side of the war Jin-tae is lighting, country where the film was made. so long as he can get his brother home 
"Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood of War," safely. written and directed by Kang Je-gyu, tells The camera work during the battle an apolitical story of two brothers who scenes is somewhat shaky, and there is are not concerned with whose side they excessive editing at times, but overall, the are fighting for, but more for the well­battle scenes are excellent with the prop­being and survival of each other. Instead er amount of build up and then emotional of the usual patriotic undertones (or turmoil as certain sympathetic characters overtones in are either badly some cases), injured or the focus is on Tae Guk Gi: The Brotherhood killed. The visu­family. al effects, sound
of War
The film 
effects and revo ved sound editing of around two the battles are brothers, Jin­also excellent. tae and Jin­Directors: Je-gyu Kang The gore effects seok who are are also espe­
Writers: Je-gyu Kang 
drafted into the cially well done.
Starring: Dong-Kun Jang, Bin Won, Eun-ju Lee, 
South Korean There was just
Hyeong-jin Kong, Yeong-ran Lee 
Army in 1950. enough dis-Attempting to played on gain leave from military service for his screen as to illicit the proper effect, but younger brother, Jin-tae takes on a suici­there was not so much that the audience dal mission in order to win the Medal of became disillusioned with it. Honor. His plan ultimately fails as his On a side note, the director had to build brother flees to return home and he finds a Korean War-era tank himself, as he his fiancee killed. After learning about could not get one from the South Korean his brother's supposed death at the hands government for use. of the South Koreans, Jin-tae joins the As driving as the emotional conflict is, 

'The Terrorist' portra~ 
a fellow rebel as she comforts him duringBy CHRISTINE NGUYEN 
his dying minutes and moments where 
Scene Critic 

she bonds with her young guide, Lotus. 
As Ebert said in his review of the film, 
Santosh Sivan's "The Terrorist" is an "This is not a film about the rightness or intense and emotional look at the individ­wrongness of her cause or the political uals who partake in terrorist tactics in situation that inspired it." Its true story is order to further their causes. This is no the psychological process dividing this action flick starring Bruce Willis -quite woman between her cause and her life. 1 the opposite, as its focus is on Malli, a 19-Raised to become a revolutionary, the year-old rebel assigned to a mission hor­daughter of a revolutionary poet and the rible but seemingly vital to her group's sister of a dead rebel, Malli's life up until cause: political assassination by means of she is chosen to carry on her mission is suicide bombing. fully involved in the movement. 
Based on the assassination of Indian However, Malli's decision takes her out­Prime Minister Rajiv Ghandi, Sivan's side of the secluded surrounding of her directorial debut moves beyond specific campgrounds and to the real world, full ideologies and names and focuses on of interesting people and individuals who thought processes and the point of view hold differing opinions, like Vasu, in of a human struggling with deciding her whose house she stays as she waits to own fate. Sivan complete her mis­chooses not to sion. His jovial

The Terrorist 
portray any demeanor and use specific terror­
of amusing philos­ists group, any ophy opens Malli's ideologies or mind to the "real the identity of world." She is nowDirectors: Santosh Sivan 
Malli's target. faced with the
Writers: Santosh Sivan 
Instead his idea that she
Starring: Avesha Dharker, K. Krishna, sonu
shots of rain on might be able to
Sisupal, Vishwas, Anuradha 
Malli's face and choose her own her steady future. stare hold the audience captured. Though tagged as extremely violent, 
Sivan creates a character that embod­most of the film's more disturbing scenes ies both the rebellious and dangerous are implied -the firing of a gun or a nature of her cause while allowing her flinch on someone's face shows more emotions and doubts. Self described as than any scene of direct violence. The the purveyor of 30 successful missions opening scene of Malli killing a traitor is and the daughter of a revolutionary poet, terrifying because of her proximity and Malli's actions are disjunctive with her the mercilessness of her actions. As we beautiful and thoughtful nature. In flash­hear the gun go off and see the blood backs, we see her fall slowly in love with splattered on her face, we understand the 


THE OBSERVER 






CENE 
page II


thnrn are times when tho film bncomes a bit nwlodramatk, sud1 as when thn char­actors flashback to tlw times bnforc the war. Tlw insnrtion of thesn scenes and thn musk playing with them makes thmn snnm almost diehe, and any real enw­tional impart, as far as thn flashbacks am conc1~rnnd. is lost. 
Ovnrall. this film is an exeellent re-tool­ing of tlw war film. It is beautifully shot, and the dosmwss of the family is nevnr 
artion, though we do not see
lim din. The foeus is on M<dli. 
While most films notnd as violnnt aetion s are gratuitous, "The Terrorist" uses sparingly, and each has a definite spedfk purpose. Sivan decreases the olnnrn in order to focus on Malli's story. An nxeellent selection for the Asian Film Festival, "Thn Terrorist" was fol­lowed by diseussion of thn film with a panni with faculty for discussion. Studnnts walkml into the Browning the-
questioned. The acting is excellent, and lhn sub-titles were very well written. This f'ilm should be recommended to anyonn who is looking for a different way of telling a war film -one that is apolitical and examines the emotional impacts a war ean have without glorifying a partic­ular ideology. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at marty.schroeder@gmail.com 
heavy human side 
atrn not knowing what to expect. The iqea that someone .the audience's own age is chosen to carry on a suicide bomb­ing is as foreign as it gets. However, many left with a little more understand­ing of the circumstances that are involved with the making of such dangerous deci­sions. 
Contact Christine NGuyen at cnguyen 1 @nd.edu 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'L'ecole' lesson in life, love 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Seem· Wrirer 

Students. professors and French 
speaknrs aliko found thnmselvns lrans­
portnd from the thoroughly modnrn 
Hngis Philbin Box Thoatrn to 17th-cen­
tury Franco with tho L'lllustrn Tl11\atrn 
de L'Universit1\ de Notrn Damn du Lac's 
production of' Moli(~rn's "L'EcolP dns 
Femmes" last wnokond at tlw 
DnBartolo l'nrf'orming Arts Center 
The production is the f'ruil of a 
semester's worth of' labors of' Paul 
McDowell's "French Thoatnr 
Production" class, and the snrins of 
porf'ormanccs has eome to be some­
thing of' an annual tradition on cam­
pus. 

This y1mr proved no excnplion to pre­
vious years' selling records, with all 
three showings sold out by Saturday 
afternoon. In spite of' any qualms about 
the work being conductod entirely in 
Froneh, tho box of'fice totals and enthu­
siasm of' the east proved this to be a 
nonexistent obstacle to enjoying the 
play. 

"Keep your seat. You will not be dis­
appointed," the show's program insist­
ed in a note from McDowell, who tack­
led both the role of director and actor. 
The work tells the tale of Arnolphe 
(Danny Kettinger). a middle-aged 
Frenchman who, out of an almost 
paranoid rear of infidelity. raises a 
young girl, Agnes (Mary Twetten) in tho 
total soclusion of a convent to later be 
his f'uturn bride. 

Unfortunately for Arnolphe, and 
under the hapless supervision of his 
servants Georgette (Anne Macrander) 
and Helene (Delphine Histo). Agnes 
l'alls in love with Horace (Michael 
Barrett), the son of Arnolphe's closest 
f'riend. Oronte (McDowell). 
Arnolphe, furious, pretends to aid 
young Horace while secretly pursuing 
his own agenda. All the while, 
Arnolphe's close friend Chrysalde 
(Andrea Nolet) looks on with a skepti­
cal eye. 

"It is ultimately a faseinating psycho­
logical portrait of a man who methodi­
cally plans to avoid the scorn that 
comes with being the husband of an 
unfaithful wife," McDowell describes. 
"When the time comes for him to .execute his plan, he is blindsided by 
the power of true love. In the process, 
Moliere hits upon any number of 
thomos -soeioty's pnrenption of' women, tho role of' f'atn in onn's lif'n, thn inad1~qu<u~ins of' Frnneh lngal system <~nd ..arrangnd marriagns, to namo a low. 
Porforming in l.lw Philbin Tlwal1~r provnd intnresting f'or this particular production, as its normal setting, Franen of' noarly f'our nmlurins prior. calls to mind imagns of ornaln clothing and snllings. Knnping llw eharaclnrs in traditional garb but stripping down llw set to a singln door and a pair of' molal chairs was a err~ativn way to l'ocus all1~ntion on the cast itself'. 
The cast nwmlwrs WIH"P, in a word. dolightJul. Knt.tingnr, as nndoubtndly tlw play's most dnspicable rharadnr, warmnlml smiles and hysterieal laugh­tor as tlw maddonnd Arnolplw. llis scnno with Barrett's llorace, in which hn reacts to diseovoring thn relation­ship botwnen Agrws and tho young man. is wondnrl'ully playod -his vivid facial nxpression and visibln shuddnr­ing were priceless. 
While lwr seen11' lasted no more than five minutes, Samantha Alarie-Lnea's appearance as the Notary was like injecting a miniature explosion into the play. She and Macrandnr's Georgette easily stole the show with tlwir por­trayals of somewhat lofl-of-conter characters. Maerander in partieular was notable for hnr great l'aeial expres­sivity and impressive physieal eomedie skill. 
Twettnn's Agnns and Barrett's llorace were your typieal young lovers ­eharming, but with few ovnrly inlernst­ing charaeter traits -with a notabln exception. Twetten in particular gave Agnes a sweet and good-natured snnsi· bilily, performing her small monologun about the rules of a wifn's behavior with impressive emotional rango. 
Barrett, too, had his moments. in particular when he humorously relayod the story of Agnes, in her igno­rancn, throwing a rock at him at Arnolphe's request with a love note attached. 
Lastly, the short but memorable appearance of McDowell himself, or "P MeD" as he was al'l'eclionalnly named by his cast members, was humorous in its turn for his portrayal of thn aging and white-wigged Oronte. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
-



MATI SMEDBERG/Observer 

Moliere's "L'Ecole des Femmes," a classic satirical play performed In Its original French language, was performed at the Browning Cinema on Friday. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
NBA 
Lebron James delivers in final seconds of Cavs' victory 
even mark for the first time in rebounds and eight assists. He
Shaquille O'Neal 
two months, even though Jordan also scored 11 points in the redeems himself by felt a bit sheepish about his moti­Heat's 22-6 run that put the vational speech after the game. game out of reach. 
leading Heat to win "It seemed good at the time: "It was an NBA win, good 'This could be the closing quar­teams of course are going to get ter for us to reach a mark that the lead but some teams are
Associated Press 
you guys have been talking going to come back and make a 
CLEVELAND -LeBron James about,"' Jordan said. "I haven't run," Wade said. "You just have delivered what meant most him really put a lot of stock in that. ... to withstand their run." when it mattered most to his If we thought .500 was a goal, The Heat held a 77-74 lead team -a go-ahead basket in the then there's nothing more to with a 1:13 left in the third quar­final seconds. achieve." ter, before going on their decisive 
Needing one rebound for a Even so, the players' thoughts run over the next 7 minutes to triple-double, James instead on being 23-23 called for every­seal the victory. powered his way to a layup with thing but a trophy presentation. "I thought we played better as 
18.7 seconds left and the The first words out of Gilbert far as moving the ball," Heat Cleveland Cavaliers held off Arenas' mouth were: "Five-hun­coach Pat Riley said. "The one Milwaukee's late comeback for dred. We made it." thing that happened the other an 89-86 victory. Antawn Jamison, who before day in New Jersey and where we 
"I knew I had to be aggres­the game compared the labori­get into problems is that we have sive," said James, who drove ous quest to the movie a bunch of guys that love to around Bobby Simmons at the "Groundhog Day" -"because attack and sometimes when we 
..... 
foul line and easily scored for an we keep finding ourselves one attack too much we don't get off 87-86 lead. "This was an impor­game below .500," he said -the ball." tant game. What's awesome is also felt a sense of accomplish­Paul Pierce scored 31 points to that we won the season series ment. lead the Celtics, who lost their and have done a great job in our "It shows a lot about the char­sixth straight. Raef LaFrentz nine assists, Kenyon Martin Such was the case when Kevin division." acter of this team, as far as stick­added 18 on 7-for-9 shooting and added 14 points and Earl Garnett blocked Shawn Marion's 
Cleveland won three of four ing to it and not giving up or peo­Wally Szczerbiak had 16 points. Boykins 13. short jumper at the buzzer to from the Bucks and is 9-2 in the ple upstairs trying to disassem­"We've got to keep our heads Denver whittled away at a 19-preserve the Minnesota Central Division. ble this team," Jamison said. up, we're going to turn this thing point deficit and drew with 119-Timberwolves' victory over the 
Simmons scored 21 points to "We didn't think it would take around sooner or later," Pierce 114 after an Anthony steal and Phoenix Suns on Monday night. lead Milwaukee, which has lost this long to do the things we said. layup with 23.8 seconds left. "That was a good block," live of eight including four in a thought we were capable of Wade's field goal 1:40 into the Greg Buckner gave the Garnett told reporters. "I mean, row on the road. doing." third quarter gave the Heat a 61-Nuggets a 68-60 lead with a 3-you all saw what you saw, but as 
James added 12 assists and Arenas had 23 points and eight 46 lead before the Celtics went pointer at 8:28 of the third quar­soon as it left his hand I got it, nine rebounds, but said he was­assists, and Jamison had 21 on an 8-0 run. Raef LaFrentz ter. They didn't score another you know. I'm sitting right here n't concerned about getting an points and 11 rebounds for the keyed the run with a 3-pointer field goal for the next seven min­in front of you all with a win." eighth career triple-double and Wizards, who took the lead early and a field goal and cutting utes. The Suns complained vehe­fourth of the season. in the first quarter and didn't Miami's advantage to 61-54 with The Warriors reeled off a 24-1 mently that it was goaltending, 
"If we had lost, I would've trail again. Arenas struggled 8:50 remaining in the third quar­run to take an 84-69 edge with but to no avail, and Minnesota cared," he said. "We won. That's from the field, making only 6 of ter. just over a minute left. Pietrus had its first victory in five tries all that matters to me." 24 shots, and Jamison was only Pierce's two free throws with scored 14 points in the quarter against Phoenix. 
Milwaukee's Michael Redd 8-for-19, but the Wizards won 1:45 left in the third period after being held scoreless in the "I feel like the Seattle scored 18 points, seven under the game by taking care of the reduced Miami's lead to 77-74. first half. Seahawks," said Steve Nash, his average, but came alive as ball. They had no turnovers in But the Heat started their game­Anthony, who has scored 30-referring to what the Seahawks the Bucks battled back from an . the first quarter, when they built clinching run with Wade hitting plus in 14 games, scored felt were bad calls by oflicials in 83-72 deficit with five minutes to a 12-point lead, and finished six free throws to end the quar­Denver's lone point during the Sunday's Super Bowl. "It's play. with seven for the game. ter and give the Heat a 83-7 4 run when Golden State was remarkable. There's like five 
Redd missed 10 of his first 14 edge. called for defensive three-second games this year where we've not shots, but scored five points in a Heat 114, Celtics 98 violation. The Warriors took an gotten a call in the last 30 sec­
1:06 span late. He hit a driving Shaquille O'Neal apologized to Warriors 122, Nuggets 114 87-73 lead into the final period. onds. After awhile, you realize layup, then less than a minute his teammates and tried to make Baron Davis had 23 points and Dunleavy was called for a fla­you don't get those games back, 
·later nailed a 3-pointer from the it up to them against the Boston 12 assists and Jason Richardson grant foul on Martin _ who was and it's tough to take." top of the key that got Milwaukee Celtics. added 28 points to help the driving to the basket at full speed Garnett scored Minnesota's last to 85-84 with 1:07 remaining. Disappointed with his perform­Golden State Warriors to a win _ with 26.6 seconds left in the five points to fmish with 19, but 
"I just knew we had them then, ance in Miami's loss Saturday at over the Denver Nuggets on first half. Martin was not pleased missed the second of two free but I was wrong," Redd said. New Jersey, O'Neal scored 21 Monday night. with Dunleavy and began going throws with 14.6 seconds to go. "LeBron made a huge play." points to help lead the Heat to a Derek Fisher scored 12 of his after him. Murphy tried to Nash got the ball inside to 
Jamaal Magliore missed a free victory over the Celtics. 14 points in the fourth quarter, restrain Martin and two oflicials Marion who went up for what throw that would have tied the "I had to apologize to the including seven in the final 1:52, stepped in the middle of con­would have been a tying basket score at 85, but Cleveland's Eric coach and the team," O'Neal said to hold off the Nuggets. frontation before it could esca­from about 8 feet, and Garnett Snow threw the ball away at the of his 11-point outing against the Troy Murphy also recorded a late. soared to knock it down. other end just 16 seconds later. Nets. "It was a terrible perform­double-double with 20 points Murphy was subsequently "It's irrelevant right now," 
ance by me." and 13 rebounds as the Warriors called for a technical, helping the Marion said of the non-call. "We Wizards 94, Magic 82 O'Neal also finished with six won their second straight at Nuggets open a 58-52 halftime shouldn't have been in that situ­
After weeks of downplaying rebounds and two blocked shots home for only the second time advantage. ation. It shouldn't have gone the quest for .500, Washington and his three-point play since a four-game streak Richardson hit a reverse dunk down to the wire like that. That's Wizards coach Eddie Jordan increased Miami's lead to 99-80 between Nov. 26-Dec. 2. Mike on an alley-oop pass from Davis what happens sometimes when turned it into a rallying cry at the with 5:53 remaining in the game. Dunleavy had 17 points and to tie the game at 46 with 3:19 you put it in someone else's start of the fourth quarter. "Throughout my career I've Mickael Pietrus added 16. left in the first half. hands." 
"We've been waiting for two never had two [consecutive] Carmelo Anthony scored 34 Suns coach Mike D'Antoni was months for this quarter," Jordan games like that. I had to come points to lead the Nuggets, who Timberwolves 103, Suns, 101 less charitable. He said he had told his team. back with more energy." lost their fourth straight on the In the NBA, one man's blocked reviewed the play "about five 
It worked. The Wizards beat Dwyane Wade scored a game­road, and five of six overall. shot can be another man's goal­times." the Orlando Magic hit the break-high 34 points and also had eight Andre Miller had 22 points and tending. "But it is what it is," he said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
Need students knowledgable about lacrosse to coach middle school in South Bend and/or help with St. Joe High School JV boys team. Stipend available. Send resume to kheisler@nd.edu or wbrennal@ nd.edu 
VACANCY 1. Secretary for Cardiac Clinic . 2 years medical experience preferred . Experience in Cardiology an asset 2. Physician with interest in cardiology to work in regional Cardiac Clinics. Please send CVs by e-mail to thesparmanclinic@ hotmail.com Or by fax to 246-436-5842 
FoR RENT 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532­1408 
Blue & Gold Homes is offering a free pool table to all new tenants. 1-7 bdrms, 24-hr maintenance & open leases. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com or call 574­250-7653. 
123 NDAve. 3-bdrm,1.5 bath. Call 574-229-0149. 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb­spot.net 
For rent: Two story house complete­ly remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles,luggage,trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertain­ing, free trash removal. Call 289­4071. 
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 

COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 


PERSONAL 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise I 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica from $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386. 
Spring Break 2006 with Student Travel Services to Jamaica, Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do not get left behind! Book now, limited space available. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Kate secretly loves me 

Happy belated 21st to the Sling Queen ... keep up the good work and good drinking. 
You're a handsome devil. What's your name? 
Pugs, only four days to go. Get your homework done. You can do it. Let's pick up the sticks. 
Dude, I want my flask back. Always test drive a car before you buy it, but when you find one you like, jump on it. 
B, sorry about the chicken wing 
incident.l was wrong. Domination of the NGF in 11 and counting ... 
You want the MSG. You know you do. My fingers hurt. 

Tuesday, February 7, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 13 
SuPER BowL XL 



Physical gags typify Super Bowl commercials 
Bud Light, Diet Pepsi lead advertising pack 
Associaled Press 
NEW YOHK -Cartoonish vio­loneo ruhHI tlw day at the annu­al knockdown corn pntilion among advnrtisors Sunday, as Bud Light. Dint l'npsi, Miehnlob and Sprint all used physical gags to hawk thoir warns at the Supnr Bowl. tho most-watchnd tPIPvision broadeasl of the ynar. 
Borrowing inspiration from Bustnr Knalon, advtlrtisnrs used mauling hears. flying dinosaurs and ev1111 adion m ovi n star .la1~kin Chan to wow viewers with sight gags. 
Othnrs went against the grain, such as soap brand Dove, whir.h sont a tnndnr nH~ssage about snlf-osteem among tonnage girls, and Toyota, which cPlebratnd a bilingual fatlwr and son who switch easi­ly between Spanish and English. 
In a spot that was reminiscent of the dassie short lilm "Bambi Meets Godzilla," a hapless eave­man is squishnd under the fool of a giant dinosaur, a final insult af"tnr being firnd for not using FedEx to deliver an important parcel. Never mind that FodEx hasn't be(m invent­ed yet. 
Miehnlob Ultra Amber harkened back to a elassic Supnr Bowl spot fnaturing Terry Tate as an "ollice linebacker." A gamn of touch football goes awry whnn a petite female play­or is lloornd by a vicious tackle, but she gnts her dun later in a bar with a deeidedly late hit. 
Bruce Vanden Bergh, profes­sor of advertising at Miehigan Staln University, spPnl Super Bowl Sunday with more than a dozen othPr faculty watching and rating thP commercials while ignoring the football part of the broadcast entirnly. One of tl111 standouts for his group was the FedEx spot featuring the caveman, which they found "very creative, and very origi­nal." 
Bud Light, one of the biggest heavyweights of the Super Bowl every yPar, had an interesting multi-part ad featuring a guy .who cleverly disguises his fridge stocked with beer from his thirsty friends with a secret revolving door that places the fridge in his neighbors' apart­ment. llilarity ensues when the neighboring kids start worship­ping the "magic fridge." 
Dint Pepsi got into the act as well with a stunt movie gag starring JackiP Chan and a can of Diet Pepsi. Everything seems to be going line with the movie shoot until Diet P1~psi's stunt double, a hapless can of rival Diet Coke, is squashed. 
Sprint, meanwhile, scored laughs with a goofy spot featur­ing a guy in a lor.ker room who touts the "crime deterrent" ability of his mobile phone -by hurling straight at the head of another guy after tempting him to try to steal his wallet. 


A spot for Dove soap also res­ing self-esteem among teenage <mated with viewers, sending a girls -not thn usual Supnr serious message about improv-Bowl fare. 
XL ranks as second most watched show in TV history ­
Wary NFL silences Mick Jagger during parts ofhalftime show 
Associated Press NEW YOHK The Pittsburgh Steelers' victory over the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl was watched in an average of 45.85 million homes, the second-highest 
total in television history behind the linal episode of 'M­A-S-II' in 1983. 
Pittsburgh's 21-10 victory Sunday got a 41.6 preliminary national rating, Nielsen Media Service said Monday, up slight­ly from the 41.1 rating last year. The share remained the same at 62. 
The game was watched by an estimated 141.4 million people in the United States, ABC said, the second-highest 
total to view a program behind the 144.4 million who tuned to New England's victory over Carolina in the 2004 Super Bowl. That number estimates the total amount of people to watch the game at any point. 
The estimated average of 
90.7 million people -or the estimated number of viewers throughout -was the largest Super Bowl audience since the Steelers last played in the title game in 1996, a loss to Dallas 

Now Accepting Applications For 


fHESHOW 
fhe Largest At1t1ual Cot1eert ot1 CatMpus! 
Positions Available Include: 
-Vice-Chair of Finance ·Vice-Chair of Marketing ·Director of Fundraising ·Treasurer ·Director of Volunteers ·Director of Hospitality ·Director of Production -Graphic Designers -Press Writer ·SMC/HCC Liaisons 

Apply Online at SAO.ND.EDU or Pick Up an Application in 315 Lafortune Email theshow@nd.edu with Any Questions 
Applications Are Due Monday, February 13th by 4:30PM!! 
that attracted an average of 
94.1 million people watching. This year's audience was 5 percent bigger than the 86.1 million people who watched the Patriots beat the Philadelphia Eagles last year. 
In 1983, the final episode of 'M-A-S-H' was watched in an average or 50.15 million homes. 
Super Bowl viewers feasted on another halftime show con­troversy, when the NFL briefly shut off Mick Jagger's micro­phone to avoid sexually-sug­gestive lyrics in two Rolling Stones songs. ABC also scored solid ratings for an episode of "Grey's Anatomy" following the game. 
While the Steelers won by 11 points, the game wasn't really decided until the final five minutes or so, which kept the audience attracted, said Larry Hyams, ABC research execu­tive. 
"The Super Bowl obviously is a national event and people are going to tune in regardless of whether the teams have national appeal," Hyams said. "It's up to the game to hold thn audience." 
The Super Bowl is tradition­ally the biggest television event of the year. The Academy Awards, jokingly called the Super Bowl for women, often comes in second; last year, 41.5 million people saw the Oscars. 
Pittsburgh had the largest Super Bowl rating (percentage of all sets, whether on or orn of any media market, with a 57.1, Nielsen said. Seattle fol­lowed directly behind with a 55. 
The "Grey's Anatomy" Ppisode after the game was seen by 38.1 million pnople, Nielsen said. That's 15 million more than has ever watchnd a single episode of the medical soap. It was the most-watched entertainment program of the season so far -even beating "American Idol." 
Since 1991, only two post­Super Bowl programs have drawn a bigger audience: "Survivor" in 2001 and "Friends" in 1996. It was solid exposure for a series that has already been growing in appeal during its second sna­son. 
At hall"time, Jagger was sil1mced during portions of the songs "Start Me Up" and "Hough Justice." An NFI. spokesman said the band knew ahnad of time that thn lnagun -still skittish ovnr .Jannt .Jackson's wardrobe malfunc­tion from two years ago -­wouldn't accept thn particular lyrics. 
"It wasn't that big of an issun for us," said Frank Supovitz, thn NI•"L's senior vice prnsid1~nt. who said the league wantnd to makn the halftime show family nntnrtainment. 
It's coming sooner than you think ... 
Valentine's Dag! 
is just around the corner! Get free delivery on your flover. balloons. or candy purchases bv ordering before 
Wednesday Feb. 8 
LaFortune Basement 
Iri~h ~a~o~ 631-4004 
MON-THURS 12:30-5:30
rkJwer ~h~p 
FRI-SAT 12:30-7:30 


'-­
Men's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 Connecticut 20-1 1,796 
2 Duke 21-1 1,723 
3 Memphis 21-2 1.637 
4 Villanova 17-2 1,570 
5 Gonzaga 18-3 1,499 
6 Texas 19-3 1,415 
7 Florida 20-2 1,376 
8 George Washington 18-1 1,188 
9 West Virginia 17-4 1,147 
10 Illinois 20-3 1,143 
11 Tennessee 16-3 993 12 Michigan State 17·5 985 13 UCLA 19-4 914 14 Pittsburgh 17-3 911 15 Georgetown 16-4 870 16 N.C. State 18-4 648 17 Boston College 17-5 634 18 Iowa 18-5 602 19 Ohio Stale 16-3 573 20 Oklahoma 14-5 287 21 Washington 16·5 264 22 Michigan 16-4 205 23 North Carolina 14-5 169 24 Indiana 13-6 161 25 Northern Iowa 20-4 117 
Women's College Basketball AP Top 25
-
team record points 
1 North Carolina 22-0 1150 2 Duke 20-1 1099 3 LSU 20-1 1019 4 Connecticut 21-2 1017 5 Tennessee 21-2 986 6 Maryland 21-2 927 7 Ohio State 18-2 878 8 Rutgers 11·3 795 9 Oklahoma 19·4 726 10 Purdue 18·3 716 11 Minnesota 17-4 672 12 Baylor 16-4 656 13 Georgia 17~5 624 14 Stanford 16·5 571 15 Miebigan State 17•7 448 16 Arizona State 18-5 429 17 DePaul 18-5 427 18 BYU 19·1 415 19 Temple 17-5 324 20 New Mexico 16-6 185 21 Boston College 17-6 182 22 Vanderbilt 16~7 181 23 St. John's 1.8-7 104 24 louisiana Tech 16·4 53 25 TexasA&M 17·5 53 
MIAA Women's Basketball 

team overall conf. pet. 
1 Hope 20-1 12-0 1.000 
2 Calvin 18-2 11-1 .917 
3 Olivet 12-9 8·4 .667 
4 SAlNT MARY'S 10-12 8-5 .615 
5 Albion 14·8 6·7 .462 
-
6 Alma 9·10 4·8 .333 7 Kalamazoo 6·13 3·9 .250 8 Adrian 7-13 3·10 .231 
> 
9 Tri-State 2·20 1·12 .on 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Tennessee at Kentucky 7 p.m. ESPN St. Joseph's at Villanova 7:30 p.m. ESPN2 Duke at North Carolina 9 p.m. ESPN 
NHL 

Atlanta at Toronto 7 p.m. TSN Chicago at Phoenix 9 p.m. OLN 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 14 

NFL 
AP A line of Seahawks players greets fans at a rally Monday for the NFC champion Seattle Seahawks. Seattle, which lost Super Bowl XL to the Pittsburgh Steelers 21-10, is still dwelling on the play of the team during the champi­onship despite having the best season in Seahawk's franchise history. 
Seahawks can't forget Super Bowl mistakes 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -No apprecia­tion or consolation in Seattle for the Seahawks, at least not yet. 
Nope, they were still stuck in frustration. 
The post-Super Bowl par­ties went into early Monday morning as the Seahawks at least tried to celebrate their season, instead of their somber Sunday. Later, coach Mike Holmgren tried to refocus the team, momentarily, on what it had done and what it still may do. 
"We're all a little disap­pointed this morning," Holmgren said at the team's hotel in suburban Dearborn, just before the team returned to Seattle and hours after the Seahawks' mistake-filled, 21-10 loss to Pittsburgh. "But I'm very, very proud of our football team, what we accomplished this year. We're going to come back firing away next year." 
After flying home, they went directly to a rally of a few thousand fans at Qwest Field. They came to cele· brate a franchise-best 15-4 season, a team-record 11­game winning streak and their first playoff win since 1984 as best they could. 
The civic pick-me-up was intended to move the team and its city past Seattle's Super Bowl implosion. But because the Seahawks feel they squandered the NFL championship, the future isn't foremost in their minds. 
"It's hard, man," defen­sive tackle Rocky Bernard said. 
And he didn't mean the pulled right hamstring he sustained late in the Super Bowl. 
"I mean, if a team just goes out and overpowers you, then you're like, 'Hey, we got beat.' But I think we beat ourselves," Bernard said. 
So did most of his team­mates -and even the per­spective-filled Holmgren. 
"I know they're not OK with it," the coach said of his players. "I wanted them to keep their heads up. There's no need to apolo­gize for anything. We lost the football game and we lost it because of the rea­sons you lose most games ... mistakes." 
The best team in Seahawks history was in no mood to revel in its accom­plishments. 
"Nah, man," linebacker 
D.D. Lewis said. "I thought about that last week . 

IN BRIEF Italians announce criminal 
drug policies for Olympics 
TURIN, Italy -Italian police have no plans to raid the Olympic village in search of banned substances, but ath­letes who test positive will be sent to court under Italy's criminal anti-dop­ing laws. 
"Police will not enter the village," Mario Pescante, a senior IOC member and Italian government official, said Monday. "This is not going to hap­pen." 
The prospect of police raids on the village and athletes being led away in handcuffs has been a major issue in the leadup to the games, which open Friday. 
Pescante was referring to random searches. The IOC has said it would not object if police, acting on a tip-off, went into the village to arrest any ath­letes or coaches trafficking in banned substances. 
Pescante tried unsuccessfully to get the Italian Parliament to suspend the anti-doping laws for the period of the Olympics. Legislators contended that such a move would show weakness. 
Stevie Wonderboy drops out 
of Kentucky Derby 
ARCADIA, Calif. Stevie Wonderboy has a small fracture in his right front leg that will keep the Breeders' Cup Juvenile champion and Eclipse winner out of the Kentucky Derby. 
Trainer Doug O'Neill said the colt came out of a workout Monday with the injury. 
"Stevie Wonderboy worked great today, then came out of it with a little filling in his ankle," O'Neill said. "We X-rayed it and he's got a hairline frac­ture of his right front ankle. They're supposed to do surgery in a couple of days. 
"He will be out at Merv Griffin's farm in La Quinta (Calif.) for 90 days before coming back into training." 
Owned by hotel and television mag­nate Griffin, Stevie Wonderboy fin­ished second behind Brother Derek in his 3-year-old debut in the Jan. 14 San Rafael Stakes at Santa Anita. 
Sall}pson pleads not guilty in 
pel]ury case 
RICHMOND, Va. -Former NBA star Ralph Sampson pleaded not guilty Monday to charges that he lied about his finances to obtain court­appointed counsel in a federal child support case. 
The 7-foot-4 former Virginia All­American was indicted last month on one count each of perjury and making a false claim. 
The charges stem from a child sup­port case in which Sampson, 45, was charged with failure to pay more than $300,000 in child support to two daughters by different women. Under a plea agreement, he was to repay the child support and be spared prison time and fines. 
At the time, his attorney said Sampson was working without salary for an online communications firm, but the indictment alleged Sampson had spent at least one month earning $5,000 as a consultant. 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
Safina advances in Paris 
Associated Press 
I'AHIS -l>nfnnding rhampion l>inara Salina advanend to tho sPct;nd round of tho (;az dn FranrP on Monday, boating llussian countrywoman Anna (:hakvt~tadw h-2. h-1. 
Salina had livn snrvicn breaks hut. also doubln-f'aultnd nino limns. 
"It was diflieult, as it always is wlwn I play against anotlwr Hussian," Salina said. "I missed snvnral nasy shots." 
Also, Franco's Stnphanie Forl'lz boat oighth-snednd Anna­l.nna Cromwf'nld of' Gnrmany 6­1, 1-6, 6-0; and Emilio l.oit ndgnd Italy's Holwrta Vinci 6-2, h-1 at Stadn Pinrrn de Coubnrtin. 
Saf'ina bnlinvnd winning tho Gaz do Franen last ynar. her biggest title to date, also lnd to somnwhat of' a slump. 
"Tho hardest limn f(>r mn was right aftnr Holand Garros. I was wondnring what was wrong with my gamn, why I was losing virtu­ally nvery match I was playing," shn said. 
Aftnr winning tho indoor ovent thnn claiming her fourth career titln in Prague, Salina f'nll in the lirsl round of tho Freneh Opnn. 
"I f!~alized af'tnr a while that bning snrious and working hard would nvnntually pay, and my gamn would eonw baek. And it linally did," shn said. 
Australian Opnn champion and top-sendnd Amelie Mauresmo bas a first-round bye and will play Vnra I>ushevina of' Hussia. 
want to be a 


Class onicer;J 
Info Meeting 
Today {Feb. 7) 7PM LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre 
All interested students are encouraged to attend to learn about rules, regulations, dates and petitions. 

Questions? 
Contact the Judicial Council at jcouncil@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Miller prepared for his starting shot 
Former walk-on now plays big part for the rebuilding Tar Heels 
Assudated Press 
CHAPEL IIII.L, N.C. -Wes Miller knows he's not sup­posed to bn horn. 
Former walk-ons and undersiznd shooting guards just don't play signifieant minutos l'or a sehool where names likn Jordan and Worthy hang in tho rafters beside national ehampionship banners. And they eortainly don't end up in the starting lineup. 
Yet there he is for North Carolina, a team lighting l'or every point after losing its top seven seorers from last year's NCAA champions. Miller is no longer the anonymous player who transl'erred to serve as practice !'odder for first-round NBA draft piek Haymond Felton. There's no more hop­ing to play just a few minutes at the end of a blowout. 
And as the Tar Heels (14-5. 5-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) prepare for No. 2 Duke on Tuesday, the junior is savoring every minute, every 3-point shot and defensive stop as a key scholarship eon­tributor. 
"I always dreamed I'd be able to eontribute in a game situation and help us win games out on the floor," Miller said. "But that was never anything that was promised to me and it was never a given at all. I've always tried to play hard and certainly I've realized that when you play hard, you put yoursolf' in position to get out on tho l'loor." 
Miller, 5-foot-11 and a eom­paet 1H5 pounds, ean spot up from 3-point range while teams double down on fresh­man Tyler Hansbrough inside. And sinee coach Roy Williams moved him into the starting linnup last month, Miller has gone !'rom averaging six points in 19 minutes through the first 14 games to nearly 10 points in 2H minutes in the past live. 
The eoaehes have named him the Tar HeP!s' defensive player of the game a team­best seven times, ineluding threo sinee he bneamn a starter. Not bad for a guy who scored just 26 points last sea­son, his l'irst sineo transl'er­ring from James Madison in 2003. 
"It's a feel-good story," said Duke reserve Lee Melehionni, himself a walk-on before earning a scholarship like Miller. "But hopefully, he doesn't hit a shot against us." 
Miller's game is a tribute to hustle. He scraps on every play, whether he's pestering a ballhandler or diving on the floor for a loose ball. It's an approach that's well-suited for Williams, who is unrelent­ing when it comes to demand­ing effort from his players. 
"lie's got good technique and he works like crazy," Williams said. "I wrote on the board sometime maybe before Christmas two questions: 'Who do you guys think is the best shooter on the team?' and Who do you think works 


hardest at it?' It's a prntty easy deal." 
Miller is hitting 44 percent from 3-point range on tho season, an average bolstered by his 15-for-30 showing in five games as a starter. 
In his first start, he hit six 3s for a career-best 1H points in an H1-80 win at Florida State, the last 3 eoming with his team down 78-76 in the final minute. Two games later, Miller hit four more 3s and finished with 14 points in a win against Arizona. 
Miller's performance against the Seminoles, howev­er, stood out with Duke eoaeh Mike Krzyzewski. 
"I wondered how they won the game," Krzyzewski said. "And there's this little kid who hit six 3s, every time it looked like they were going to get blown out." 
Miller, however. sounds more proud of his del'ense. lie even took a moment before practice Monday to stop by the honors chart outside tho Smith Center locker room to count the number of times he was named defensive player of the game. 
Defense helped Milltw dur­ing an off shooting day 
Saturday against Clemson. Miller had five points on 2­l'or-7 shooting against tho Tigers, but drew threo charges and was again the team's top defender. 
"There's no question, el'fort's a big part of' tho way I'm trying to play," Miller said. "I would hope nobody ever says I'm not playing hard." 
Still, he doesn't sound too willing to reflect on his jour­ney just yet. The Tar Jleols are trying to rnakn it baek to the NCAA tournament for the third straight soason, whieh would be a significant feat for a team that lost four under­elassmen to tho NBA last year. 
lle'd certainly love a story­
book ending to Tuesday's game. In the North Carolina mndia guide, Miller said his dream "SportsCenter" high­light would be hitting a half­court shot at tho horn to boat tho Blue Devils. 
lley, anything ean happen. Miller's already proved that. 
"You don't see a lot of' guys my size playing at this level," he said. "This kind of just foil to mo. I was kind of in tlw right plaen at the right tinw. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women's water polo starts season off strong 
Squash club begins with wins at West Coast Round Robin 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame women's water polo club opened its sea­son this weekend by sweeping four opponents at the James Madison University Invitational in Harrisonburg, Va. In their first game, the Irish dominated Ohio University 16-3 behind the strong offense from the center. Junior Kristen Schmidt and freshman phenom Kelly Horner each rifled home four goals to pace the attack. 
Penn State fell to the Irish 11-4 in the second round, as Schmitt again found the net for four goals and senior M.C. Cimino splashed home three more. In the day's final con­test, the Irish pasted host JMU 16-2. Lightning-fast Cimino led the attack with six goals, fol­lowed by senior Kristy Bohling, who contributed three of her own. 

The last team to fall in the Irish's path of destruction was Duke on Sunday morning. With Cimino and Horner each accounting for four goals, and junior Bridget O'Neill another three, the Irish thumped the Blue Devils by a final count of 16-5. The squad will travel to Michigan next week where many regional rivals will be lying in wait for the Irish. 
Gymnastics 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary's gymnastics club opened its season this weekend at the Miami Cup in Oxford, Ohio. Strong performances were turned in by both the men's and women's squads. Each of these squads has been ranked among the top ten teams in the country for the past ten years, with the men claiming two national titles and the women one during that span. 
The Irish women's squad was paced by freshman Anne Krishnan, who turned in a solid all-around performance adding up to a score of 31.375. Jill Mazur, Wendy Svetanuff, Cecilia Torres, Maura Stee, Jacquelyn Carney, Courtney Collins, and Lucianna Havasio all contributed to the team point total. The host Redhawks won the invitational, but other team and individual results were not available at the con­clusion of the meet due to a problem with the scoring pro­gram. It is expected that both Krishan and Svetanoff placed in individual events. 
Brian Dunn and Paul Kane stood out for the injury-deplet­ed Irish men's squad. The men's competition was won by Purdue, which will host The Golden Grips Invitational this coming weekend. The Irish hope to field a full complement of men at that event. 

Squash 
Notre Dame's squash club won four of six matches this weekend in the West Coast Round Robin, hosted by Stanford in a new six-court complex featuring an all-glass exhibition court. Captain James Zhang swept six match­es at the number one position to remain undefeated in CSA play this year. 
On Thursday, the Irish fell in their opener to the No. 22 Cardinal, 8-1, with Zhang's 3-0 win at number one the lone bright spot for the club. Friday proved to be the highlight of the weekend as the Irish swept USC 9-0. Trojan top seed Tyler Kurlas held a 2-1 lead over Zhang before falling in five games. 
The Irish dropped their next match to Washington in a 7-2 ren~atch of last year's CSA emerging teams division national championship. Michael Giordano and Zhang were the lone Irish to win against the Huskies, with Zhang avenging a loss last year to Saumil Gandhi. 
The Irish closed the CSA por­tion of the tournament with a pair of 8-1 victories over Cal Berkeley and Air Force. Phil Moss' exciting 3-2 win over the Golden Bears was the only closely contested match in the two contests. In an exhibition match, the Irish split a 4-4 contest with the UC Davis Graduate School club. Jose Palomo and Leigh Chapman both were victorious in five game matches. 
The CSA Nationals will be held at Princeton in two weeks and close the season for ·the Irish. 
NHL 

·Lightning pull out overtime win against N.Y. Islanders 
New York by one goal for the period with a man up, but the
Peter Schaefer scores 

third time this season. The Islanders got the better of the Lightning have won six straight scoring chances then, too. Only
two goals to lead 

against the Islanders, dating to Burke, who has been in a steady
Senators to 5-2 win a first-round playoff victory in goalie rotation with John 2004 during the Lightning's Grahame, kept the Lightning in Stanley Cup run. it. 
Associated Press 

Mike York and Jason Blake The Islanders failed to take 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. -Martin scored for the Islanders. advantage of Huslan St. Louis scored the tying goal Fredrik Modin put the Fedotenko's double minor for with 1:12 left in regulation and Lightning in front 1-0 just 1:22 high-sticking against former then set up Vincent Lecavalier's in and Burke finished with 28 Lightning defenseman Brad breakaway winner in overtime saves. Lukowich but they did tie it that gave the Tampa Bay Blake tied it with 5:46 left in before the second period ended. Lightning a 3-2 victory over the the second period with his 20th Blake whiffed on a shot, and New York Islanders on Monday goal. York put the Islanders in the puck slid to the side of the night. front 9:19 into the third with his net to Miroslav Satan. He moved 
With Sean Burke pulled for an 11th. He came in with just one it to York, who was just inside · extra attacker, St. Louis got his goal in 20 games. the right circle, for a quick shot stick on Dan Boyle's shot from New York lost for the second that deflected off Blake and in. the right point and knocked the time in three games following a New York took the lead when puck past goalie Rick DiPietro, season-best three-game win­Satan made a long lead pass to who didn't see it. ning streak. Brent Sopel, who found York in 
That tied the game at 2 and After the Islanders put early the left circle. only set up more drama in over­pressure on Burke, Tampa Bay time. turned the tide. Senators 5, Penguins 2 
New York nearly won it as the Lightning defenseman Paul Peter Schaefer had two goals clock ticked down in the final Ranger charged into the slot and an assist, backup goalie minute but Mark Parrish's from the left point to get to the Ray Emery got his first win in Ryan Malone and Eric Malone's opening goal 1:14 in, rebound shot was blocked in puck. He wound up for a big more than a month and the Boguniecki scored for scored his third 15:34 into the front by Darryl Sydor. Pavel drive but instead found Modin Ottawa Senators extended Pittsburgh, which lost 7-2 to second to draw Pittsburgh to 4­Kubina moved the puck out to alone at the left post for an easy Pittsburgh's losing streak to six Ottawa at home Wednesday. 2. St. Louis, who found Lecavalier redirect past DiPietro. games with a 5-2 win over the The Penguins have dropped 16 Schaefer restored the streaking alone at center ice. Tampa Bay had three power­plummeting Penguins on of 17. Senators' three-goal lead 51 
He came in on DiPietro, deked play chances in the opening Monday night. Schaefer assisted on seconds into the third when he him onto his back and beat him period against the NHL's worst Christoph Schubert, Zdeno Smolinski's 5-on-3 goal 10:33 put a nifty move on goalie Marc­with a shot past his glove with home penalty killers but could­Chara and Bryan Smolinski also into the second which put Andre Fleury before beating 
54.5 seconds showing on the n't generate much offense. The scored for Ottawa, which had Ottawa up 3-1 before adding his him with a well-placed back­clock. Lightning held only an 8-6 edge lost three of four, including a 2-own power-play goal at 11:39 to hand for his second goal of the 
Tampa Bay improved to 8-1-1 in shots through 20 minutes. 1 shootout loss Saturday in increase the lead to three. game, an unassisted effort for in its last 10 games and beat They even started the second Buffalo. Boguniecki, who assisted on his 13th of the season. 


W@@w@0@w2}0CS8l0o©\10o [§JJ~IJ'(S~@[RB ffi(S U8~®~o=uu 
Early arriving NDi HCC, and SMC students wi1l receive a Jersey Mike's sub and a gold wig 
Tuesday, February 7, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Heilman said Monday before 1,700 season-ticket holders at the Joyce Center. "I could go play professionally and make a lot of money and go that rout, or I tinish -come back and finish my career, play one more year with my team­mates. 
"It was something I eouldn 't pass up." 
Baseball also means a lot to current Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis, who was the lone catcher on the squad of 10 boys that composed the Middlesex High School (N.J.) varsity baseball team his senior year. 
But it doesn't mean as much as the lessons in responsibili­ty and teamwork Weis learned that year, when every person was so critical to the success of the "tenacious 10" that made it to the state finals after five of the original 15 players quit two games into the season. Weis said two of his nine teammates were members of his wedding party. 
"When I think about the les­sons I learned that senior year, I think that my founda­tions of being a team guy were established that year )through] the camaraderie we had in that group of ten guys," We is said in his keynote address at the event. "If I could get one message across to you, it's that you're not nearly as important as the team ... When you start some­~hin.g .~pecial, you have to lin­Ish It. 
Heilman did finish what ho started, and he did so with unprecedented exeollnnco for Notre Damn. lie started 15 games as a senior and turned in a 15-0 record for the Irish, fp,ading the squad to a nation­al No. 1 ranking late in the 
regular season,  a nnw  height  
for the University.  
During  the  banquet,  

lleilman and Weis highlighted the overriding theme of' the night -there should be more to athletics than just the product on the field. 
Heilman talked about the fall semester of' his freshman year, when his father got siek and the Logansport, Ind. native went to Irish coach Paul Mainieri to discuss the situation. 
"I was in shock. I didn't know what to do," Heilman said. "I was waiting for my sister to come pick me up and 
join Us 


Connelly 
continued from page 20 
the hardest workers on the team." 
Connelly is also on track to l'inish among the top five in Notre Dame history in over­all doubles wins. She and partner Kiki Statsny are ranked No. 45 in the nation in doubles. 
The statistics and the 
team's quick start validate the decision to name her captain prior to the season, but that doesn't mean Connelly expected the title. 
"It meant a lot to be hon­ored as the captain because of how many other seniors arc on the team," Connelly said. "I want to keep every­one focused on their goals and not to ever become dis­couraged, to motivate every­one in practice and make workouts fun." 

Earning the captaincy also established a legacy of team captains in the Connelly family. Last season, her older sister, Sarah Jane Connelly, served as team captain for the 2004-05 sea­son. 
But Lauren Connelly brings her own distinct tal­ents. 
"She has one of the best backhands on the team," Thompson said. "That is what makes her so competi­tive. She has natural instincts around the net and is just an awesome doubles player." 
Despite the immediate comparisons, Connelly does not view the role as succes­sor to her older sister as intimidating. Instead, she sees this opportunity as an honor to follow the footsteps of someone she greatly admires. 
"[Sarah Janel has inspired me to be a great captain because all the other girls looked up to her," Connelly said. "She was the person in practice that would keep the spirits up. She is someone I look up to and want to be like." 
Connelly's acceptance of the captain role this season marks the first time a pair of sisters have held this title in tennis and only the fifth time in all other varsity sports. 
And with two wins already in tact, Connelly is hoping the team's unity will create great results this season. 
"We are really unified, and we get along so well on and ofT the court," she said. "We have been really close all year. The dynamics of the team [are) really great and will help us during this sna­son." 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.cdu 




For Our Texas Hold'em 
First 

POKER TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm 
Limited Re-Buys Available 
Game Begins at 4pm 
(South Bend Time) ATM, Food &Beverages $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 'ltut 'f)ta_c,e PRIZE POOL IS 10% OF 




~ I () () () () 
THE FIELD TOTALLING 
$22,500
, 

Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 
drive me to the hospital. So I go over to Coach's office, and I sit down and kind of explain it to him ... lin says to me, 'Why are you here?' lie assured to me that his priori­ties were the same as mine: family came first and every­thing else camn s111:ond." 
lleilman said that encount«~r was one in a series of long­lasting memorins he made at Notre Dame -away from the baseball diamond -that rnaffirmed his lwlinf that the relationships he would devel­op in eollngn wnrn thn most important aspnet of his dnvnl­opment at school. 
"It's amazing. You never think that you'rn going to kenp your friends this long," hn said. "The number of my former teammates that attnnded my wedding was ­it blew me away that I had that many friends that stuck with me for that many years and still cared and still want­ed to be a part of my life." 
lie recalled his .June 26, 2003 Major League debut at Shea Stadium, which Mainieri and several former team­mates attended. 
"It's times like that that make this University special," he said, pausing to gain com­posure, "and make mo always want to como back, and never leave." 
Weis said he always likes to relate sports to his family life, especially when he watches his son play baseball and when his whole family watch­es a game together. 
"Baseball to me is America's game," Weis said. "It's a ganw where parents can take tlwir kids and go to a game and buy a couple of' hot dogs and some popcorn and ... spend some quality time with your family." 
Notre Damn begins its sea­so n Fn b . 2 :{ w i t h a ga nw against Indiana State in Millington, Tenn. The Irish are r a n k e d N o . 2 2 i n t lw National College Baseball Writers preseason poll. 
Notes: 
+ 
Irish eo-captains GrPg Lopez and Tom Thornton pn~­snnted Ileilman with a f'ramnd No. 22 jnrsey at the banquet from his days at Notre Danw. 

+ 
The Monogram Club pre­sented baseball and football athletic trainer Mike Bean with an honorary monogram at the nvent. Bean has work11d with the baseball program since 1992. 


Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
~'­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 7, 2006 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
stepped their offensive games, so I'm pleased at where we are right now with the offense." 
Notre Dame also has had success when it pushes the tempo of the game, and the team will look to dominate the tempo in tonight's game, McGraw said. 
"It's an important part of the game, and you really need to score in transition," she said. "That's about the only way we can score some nights, so I think it is important that we run up and push the ball." 
But the Irish may run into some problems trying to push the game's speed, as the Wildcats are known for having a very slow and deliberate offense. 
"A lot of teams run some version of [Villanova's slow­tempo offense]. I think that a lot of people run it, but they don't like to use the whole shot clock [like Villanova doesl." McGraw said. "The way they play, they don't have to worry about [stamina] in the game. So I don't think that's going to be an advan­tage." 
In part because of their offensive strategy, the Wildcats lead the nation in lowest turnover-per-game average -giving the ball away just 10.8 times per game. 
The Wildcats lead the nation in lowest turnovers-per-game 
average, but Villanova has struggled recently to score points -just as the Irish seem poised to end their scoring woes. 
"If you're not making [shots]. it doesn't really matter who you're playing," Villanova head coach Harry Perretta said. "You need to put the ball in the basket. Right now, I mean, that's a concern of mine because we seem to be gener­ating the same types of shots against all the teams in the league. It just seems like we're not making them. That's wor­risome." 
Though Notre Dame is only ninth in the Big East in rebounding, McGraw stressed the importance of limiting sec­ond-cl)ance opportunities on defense. 
"They're not a strong offen­sive rebounding team general­ly," McGraw said. "That's something they give up with four people on the perimeter. And we're not a strong team defensive rebounding." 
While the Irish have shown signs of life offensively in the past few games, Villanova's slow play could lead to fewer total points. 
"[But] wait until Tuesday," McGraw said after a 66-48 win over Providence Saturday. "It's going to be 15-14 at half­time." 
Notes 
+ Game time was moved from 7 p.m. to 6 p.m. due to coverage on ESPNU. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

HY PHAM!fhe Observer 
Irish point guard Tulyah Gaines, left, plays defense against Claudette Towers of DePaul in a win on Jan. 17. 

Happy 21st 


Steven 
Behave with the Rum 
Love, Mom, Dad, & Giovanna 
Illini 
continued from page 20 
win all three matches, all at the end, all on the road," Bayliss said. "If you're that good on the road, you're probably absolute­ly as good as they are on a neu­tral court, so we've just got to keep that in mind." 

The Irish have benefited from a revamped doubles lineup fea­turing juniors Ryan Keckley and Barry King together in the top spot. The two knocked off the nation's No. 1 doubles team of Riain Luichici and Brad Pomeroy at UNC and also post­ed a win at Duke. 
But Illinois -a perennial tennis power, particularly in doubles -also won the dou­bles point from the Blue Devils. The llllini account for Duke's only loss so far this season. 
Bayliss is confident in the team's ability against Illinois, despite recent struggles on the road. 
"I think the toughening process will take place now," he said. "I think we've got a bunch of Big 10 teams coming up next week -Illinois then Purdue, Wisconsin, Michigan State and Michigan. I think we'll benefit from the teams we've been playing. We've got to just build on it and turn our­selves into the team we know we can be." 
Illinois is 3-0 this season and has won five straight matches from the Irish, most recently a St. Patrick's Day showdown on March 17, 2005. The Irish fell 6-1 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

"We have to be ready to play a strong Illinois team that prob­ably is ranked three now, and they probably deserve to be because they've beaten Duke and Virginia," Bayliss said. "We know we're right thAre, but I don't think anyone's anywhere near satisfied. 


Illinois has four of the top 100 doubles players, led by Ryler DeHeart at No. 7. Kevin Anderson is tied for 37, and Ruben Gonzales follows at No. 
59. Ryan Rowe entered the rankings at No. 99. DeHeart is only eight career wins away from the Illinois record held by Michael Calkins with a record of 116-30. 
The Atkins Tennis Center in Urbana is also a difficult place for visitors to win. The lllinis boast a 4 7-1 record at the courts, which dates back to March 30, 2002. 
But Bayliss and the team remain undaunted by the sta­tistical disadvantages. 
"We've been in two matches against Top 10 teams and been in a position to win them both," Bayliss said. "We've been play­ing at a pretty high level, we just have to be able to win one of these. There's light at the end of the tunnel." 
The Irish and Illini take the courts at 6 p.m. today. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
T\.1esday, February 7, 2006 The Observer+ TO0 AY page 19 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE

JOCKULAR 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
Jlr?ffi.ijJ&J.JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
UMPIO 
( J I 
moos Tribuna Madia Services, Inc. 



~~1~r·t xJ 
DROWBY b 
WHAT THE: '?TUDE:NTS

I ( J 

C.ONSIDE:RE:O THE: 
www.jumble.com 

ART L.E:C.TURE:. DIPAUN 
j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car­
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: TULLE KITTY DONKEY CONCUR Answer: When the aging punter was released, he­COULDN'T "KICK" 
FEBRUARY 7, 2006 
CROSSWORD WILL SHOR:T'Z 
the P.G.A. Tour For answers, call 1-900-2855555555-5656, $1.20 a minute;
RIY A'f G 

ACROSS  31 Steps out of  58 High school  
1 Biblical gift­ France  grads?  
givers  34 Not completely  62 The one with 0  
5 Tattle (on)  closed  in 7-0  
9 Knight's "suit"  37 Loco  63 Not much  
14 "Ain't that the  39 Sound heard in  64 Craving  
truth!"  17-and  65 Bookkeeping  
15 Where to get off 16 Lorna of literature 17 Flier of coffee for long  58-Across and 11-and 24-Down 40 Grenade part 41 Kind of engr.  task 66 1936 Jean Harlow title role 67 Pizazz  
distances?  42 Hoofing it  DOWN  
19 "_luck!"  44 "This  test"  1 Capt.'s superior  
20 Big 60's dos  45 Long arms?  2 Te -·--cigars  
21 Flustered state  47 Went like a  3 "How about  
22 Fleet leader  shooting star  that?!"  
25 1981 Julie  49 Ottoman  4 Behind bars  
Andrews movie  governor  5 Cousin of  
26 Martians, e.g.,  51 TV spots  quadri­ 
in brief 52 Fearful feeling 27 Author 54 Private gag A. Conan 56 Corners 28 Bleep out 57 Alia _ (music 30 Surgery ctrs. notation) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 'lf'AR A E TIN 1D E G A S ~~ 0 S Q U A T E N 0 L A ts~ B p u[)II' c T I 0 N  6 Praise to the rafters 7 Empty promises 8 Word unit: Abbr. 9 Wings it 10 Tooth part 11 Milk? 12 Early stages 13 Brings up 18 Violinist  32 Tristan's love 33 Canonical hour 35 Intelligence or good looks, e.g. 36 "Set?"  46 Smoke and mirrors 48 Off -color 49 Perennial best seller, with "the" 50 Noted  53 Lacking lucre 55 "Back to you" 56 Dancer's dress 58 Essen assents 59 Electronic address  
ts'fp'EC~~L DARNED M A rl'oN E. FEST A L P T R A P S S E A T 0 T E E T H rprg I A E S I N-"""'"'1  Zimbalist 21 "Stick around!" 22 Clay for bricks 23 Miami stop on  38 Chern. or bio. 43 They may be graduated  bankruptcy of 2001 52 Ball's partner  60 Turkish title 61 Cub Scout group  

E V E I S T N T 
or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.24 Witticism from
S E L A. S T 0 G 0
E li5-' L 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Sherlock
S T E A 1J 0 MAR-

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.Holmes?
A R C H I E~ T E W A R D 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 25 Take care of
J U I C EiEIW T'oN 'fi 'o';; 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
28 Sleeve ends 
A L T A R S IHI 0 P S 'G 'T~ 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
R E f N S T I Y I P E A 1~~ 
29 Clumsy sort solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEURITIES UORN ON THIS DAY: Masaharu Fukuyama, 36: W. Axl Rose, 43; Natalie Cole, 55; Tnm Hrokaw, 65 
Happy Uirthday: This is the year lll get your linanccs in order. You have to make whatever changes are neces~ary to put yourself in a position that will lead to a bt'tter income. lifestyle and futun~. You have wh:ll it lake's tn rnak~ !hoM! changes happen, but if you sil around pronastinaling or undcrc~timatc your potential, you aren't likely to get too far. Your numbers are II. :!0, 23, 29, 41. 48 
ARIES (Man·h 21-April 19): Don't be fooled hy what people tell you today. Someone will try to Irick you into doing the wrong thing. Make your own decisions based on what you know is fact. *"' TAURllS (Aprii20-May 2(}): You will have a much better handk on what will work and what won't today. Don't be surprised if you are a little distracted lw someone who has a personal interest in you. **** · (;EMINI (Ma)' 21-Junc 20): You ~11<lllld lake a look at an investment opportunity. Real e~late deals will be profitable. Look for ways to lwtter yourself. A JK'W look will hring you plenty llf compliments. *"* CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mind will he on personal issues today. hut be cardul how you handle the people in your life. Not everyone will agree with what you want to do. Your plans will hav.: to he solid. *** LEO (.July 23-AuJ!. 22): You may have to take on a little more responsibility than you had planned on. Don't makt~ a fuss --instead get the work done and move on to better things. Love is in a high cycle. *** VIRGO (AuJ!. 23-Sept. 22): You have a lot going for you. llmuy nnt he a regular workday, but what you can get out of the way today will make your life t'asicr later on. An event will lead to a chance meeting. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't let an emotional issue s1iflc your plans or stop you from doing something that you really want to do. It's up to you to speak up and let others know what you want. Be brave. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 2.~-Nnv.. 21): What you see and what you get may not coincide. Check ev<>rything before you proceed. It's better to he safe than sorry. Personal issues can he dealt with. Sav what's on your mind. "'*** SAGJTTARHJS (Nov. 22-Dl't', 21): Refy on your friends for support and mlvice. and to have some fun with as well. Someone you arc close to will introduce you to a new acquaintance or concept that will spark enthusiasm. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may he out of ~orts if you let personal matters escalate. Do something productive and you will eliminalt' many or the problems trying to manifest in your private life. *** AQUARmS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Keep your ideas and plans secret for the time being. Someone you think you can trust is likely to ll'l you down. You will end up paying too much for something if you shop. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ynu may he feeling ambitious 1oday. Plan to elaborate on an idea you have. Crt•ative projects will take otT in a direction that looks promising. Attend a class that will inspire you. ***"' 
Uii·thday Uahy: You arc bright, articulate and very quick to real'!. You don't leave things to chance, but you arc willing to take a calculated risk. You arc thoughtful, caring, fair and just. 
Check our Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and cugenia/ast.com. 
----------------------------------~--------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13.000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make cheeks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, lN 46556 D Endosed is $100 for one aeademie year D Endosed is $55 for one semester Name---------------------­
Address _____________________________________ City _________ State _____ Zip_______ 

MEN'S TENNIS 



Fighting off the Illini 
Irish face third top-1 0 squad on the road in less than two weeks 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

Another day. another road match against a top-notch oppo­nent. 
After spending the weekend in North Carolina and dropping two 4-3 matches to No. 30 UNC and No. 9 Duke, Notre Dame is back on the road to face No. 3 Illinois. 
"I think it's a great challenge," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "That's what sports are all about. It's our job to be ready to play [today], and we will be." 
The Irish are 2-3, with wins over William & Mary and Northwestern. All three losses -including a loss to then-No. 1 Virginia -have been on the road, by the frustratingly close margin of 4-3. 
"You've been in a position to 
see ILLINII page 18 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team looks for third straight Big East win 
Irish can improve to 6-5 in conference play with victory tonight 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

With a new page on the cal­endar and shots finally falling in the basket, the Irish are attacking the final stretch of the season. 
N o t r e Dame (14-7, 5-5 Big East) has won its last two games by double-digit 
margins and seems ready to put its January funk, when the team went 3-5, perma­nently in the past. 
The Irish look to continue their streak tonight against Villanova, who comes into the game a loser of its last two games and just 3-6 in the con­ference. 


One of the reasons for the Irish successes of the past week is a rejuvenated offense that finally seems ablP to get points from inside. Hesurgent senior forward Courtney LaVere, who scored 14 and 18 points in the two Notre Dame wins against Syracuse and Providence, respectively, including a 9-10 performance from the floor against the Friars, has led this attack. She was recently selected to the Big East Conference Weekly Honor Roll. 
"I think offensively we're making some strides. It's nice to have somebody lead the team in scoring besides Megan Duffy. She's kind of carried the load for most of the year," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. "But in the last two games, we've got a lot more production from other people. Courtney LaVere was one. Lindsay Schrader and Charel Allen have all 
see VILLANOVA/page 18 
page 20 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Connelly embraces nevv role 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
Lauren Connelly is Notre Dame's captain for a reason, or so say her teammates ­and her results. 
The Irish senior lost just five games 
in three matches during N o t r e Dame's 7-0 victory over Ohio State and Xavier Saturday at 


Eck Tennis Connelly Pavilion. And the rest of Connelly's team followed her lead. 
"She's a leader on and off the court," junior Catrina Thompson said Monday. "She is always positive and one of 
see CONNELLY/page 17 


BASEBALL 

Alumni speak at banquet 
Heilman, Weis are keynote speakers at annual Irish event 
By KEN FOWLER 
Spons Writer 

Two Notre Dame graduates -one baseball professional, another baseball fanatic ­said that baseball means a lot, but only so much, at the fifth annual Opening Night Dinner Monday. 
It means a lot to four-time Irish All-American pitcher Aaron Heilman, the New York Mets' No. 1 pick -and No. 18 overall -in the 2001 amateur draft. 
But Heilman once rejected a million-dollar signing bonus with the Minnesota Twins after his junior season at Notre Dame, instead return­ing to the Irish for a senior season. Professional baseball could wait. Playing with his friends and developing rela­tionships at Notre Dame could not. 
"I had two choices," 
see BASEBALL/page 17 


SQUASH 

NHl 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

SUPER BOWl XL SUPER BOWl Xl 
NBA 
LLI 

(.) Team wins four of Senators 5 Former walk-on 
Cavaliers 89 z six matches 
Millions tune into
Seattle stru~les 
Penguins 2 enters lineup to forget mis akes championship Bucks 86
::3 

The club squash team 
Peter Schaefer had 
Wes Miller is ready to 

After a difficult loss to Only the final episode 
LeBron James scored performed well in the 
two goals and an assist 
assume starting duties 

the Steelers, the 
of M-A-S-H had a larger 
the winning basket in 

a. cc ti 
West Coast Round in Ottawa's win over 
for the North Carolina 

Seahawks and their audience than this 
the final seconds of Robin at Stanford. 
Pittsburgh. 
Tar Heels. 

coach remain frustrated. 
Cleveland's win over Milwaukee. 
year's game. 

en page 16 page 16 page 15 page 14 page 13 page 12 







