Fans still support Irish on road trip 
Students will travel to East Lansing Saturday 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
The Notre Dame vs. University of Michigan "Game Day" T-shirts are on sale at the Bookstore at a greatly reduced price -perhaps an effort to get rid of the apparel as quickly as Irish fans want to get rid of the memory of last Saturday's devastating blowout. 
Despite the loss to that Michigan school, many faith­ful Notre Dame students will flock to Spartan Stadium in East Lansing on Saturday to cheer Notre Dame to victory against Michigan State. 
Senior Kari LeBlancq won the chance to buy tickets to the game through the ticket lottery sponsored by the 
Students grapple with visual impairments 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
Junior Jim Lockwood is sit­ting on a bench in the lobby of the Hesburgh Library. Through the window Notre Dame Stadium looms above the pool reflecting Touchdown Jesus' out­stretched arms. Lockwood's dog Scout gazes up at him affectionately. 
But Lockwood has no idea. In fact, he's never seen the Stadium, Touchdown Jesus ­or Scout (his dog} for that matter. 
Lockwood is one of the visu­ally impaired (including two blind) students feeling their way through their college careers at Notre Dame. Through a combination of their own skills and the University's support, they seem to be succeeding. 
Dr. Tim Cordes, who is blind, felt his way right to the top of his class -he was the valedictorian of the Class of 1998, earning a 3.99 in bio­chemistry. He then went on to earn a medical degree from the University of Wisconsin, 
see BLIND/page 6 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 23 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER22, 2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student Union Board. 
Regardless of Notre Dame's loss last week, LeBlancq is hopeful the Irish will get back on their feet and bring home a win. 
''I'm still fully in support of the team and excited to go to the game," LeBlancq said. 
LeBlancq, who is road trip­ping to the game on Saturday, has plans to tailgate before kickoff. LeBlancq and other students who won tickets through the lottery paid $70 a ticket, she said. 
Senior Preston Carter, who also won a ticket through the SUB lottery, said he is "extremely confident" about the outcome of Saturday's game and looks forward to watching the Irish in East Lansing on Saturday. 
Carter said he is leaving for the game on Saturday and then spending the night at· 
see MSU/page 4 

Honor Code violations high among first-years 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
A~sistant News Editor 
Incoming University students 
who sign the Academic Code of 
Honor pledge -"As a member 
of the Notre Dame community, I 
will not participate in or toler­
ate academic dishonesty" ­
are assumed to be familiar with 
all the Code entails. 
However, based on statistics 
collected by the University 
Honor Code Committee, that 
assumption may not be entirely 
correct -especially for first­
year students. 
Thomas flint, faculty officer for the Honor Code Committee, · 3aid 58 honor code violations were reported during the 2005­
06 academic year. Of those, 40 were from 100-and 200-level courses -classes predomi­nately populated by freshmen and sophomores, Flint said. 
Of the remaining 18, 10 came from 300-level courses, seven from 400-level and one from a 500-level (an undergraduate taking a graduate level course). 
"The vast majority of students found responsible for Honor Code violations at Notre Dame are first-year students or soph­omores," Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs, also co-chair of the Honor Code Committee, told The Observer in September 2005. Jacobs could not be 
see HONOR/page 6 

Freshmen win SMC elections 

Gepert, Meade take race without runoff 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Camille Gebert and Rebecca Meade dominated the Saint Mary's student government elections for freshman presi­dent and vice president Wednesday, winning 50.8 per­cent of the vote and avoiding a runoff by collecting the 50 percent-plus-one vote neces­sary to win. 
It is uncommon for one tick­et to win the majority in the preliminary election, but this year Gebert and Meade were able to secure an overwhelm­ing amount of votes early. 
"I was very surprised with the results because everyone running was more than quali­fied for the position," Gebert said. 
Christin Molnar, Board of Governance elections com­missioner, was also surprised by the early majority win. 
"It is quite unusual to not have a runoff election when you have more than a few tickets running ... and with five tickets, I was surprised to have a winner in the first election," Molnar said. 
Leslie Youngdahl and Katie O'Brien won 23.2 percent of the votes. Brianna Ry·an and Natalie Bui came in third with 

14.6 percent of the votes. Hilary Petcoff and Kathleen Cullins and Jennie Hiatt and Lauren Kominkiewicz split the remainder of the votes. 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 



Actress promotes persistence 
'Selena' co-star, TV personality speaks at Hispanic Heritage event 
By SONIA RAO News Writer 
The keys to success are persistence, the ability to stand up for yourself and having the courage to make your own decisions, said actress, author, TV host and jewelry designer Jackie Guerra, who spoke at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Wednesday as part of Hispanic Heritage Month. 
Guerra, perhaps best known for her role alongside Jennifer Lopez in "Selena," described her transition from growing up as a "Mexican 
see GUERRA/ page 4 




page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 22, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What are 
•

yourunn1ng from? 
"I ran until my muscles burned and my veins pumped battery acid. Then, I ran some more." There's a nice Fight Club quote for you. I know what Chuck Palahniuk was talking about with the burning muscles, although Allison Ambrose I would be lying if I said I had per­
Photographer
sonally experi­enced battery acid going through my veins. There have been other harmful liquids in my bloodstream -and by that, of course, I mean that one time I drank pancake syrup as a child -but no battery acid thus far. 
Honestly, I don't like running. I wish I did. I wish I could run five miles every day like it was nothing. The only redeeming part of running, I think, is finishing. That's really a good feeling. I have plenty of reasons why I don't run: I don't have time (I'm PLS; enough said), my friends are all going out to eat, I'd rather take a nap, "Anchorman" is on TBS ... and yet, last year I ran the Holy Half Marathon. It was the most uncharac­teristic thing I have ever done in my whole life (if this statement is an exaggeration, it's a very small one}. I did it for the cause (Hurricane Katrina relieD and the promise of ending on the 50-yard line of the sta­dium, a promise which was unfortu­nately later broken. 
I called my father to tell him that I was doing it and the first thing he said was, "I'll pray for you next week at Mass." He hardly even believed me. Furthermore, since I've played bas­ketball my entire life, I run like a sprinter, landing on the balls of my feet and not the heels. This is not the best skill to have when you have 13.1 miles to go. My feet burned, my legs ached-even my arms hurt from swinging back and forth so many times. 
All I could think the whole 2 hours and 10 minutes was, "13.1 miles, 13.1 miles, 13.1 miles ... " That was not an encouraging thought. But I finally fin­ished, and then immediately collapsed on the grass outside Dillon. My sup­portive friends gathered around me and helped me trudge into SOH, where a waffie and copious amounts of syrup (I know, don't say it) may or may not have given me the energy to keep on living. 
I have a friend who averages 30 miles a week. That's, like, a lifetime achievement. I am in awe of this kid. I am also in awe of the amount of free time he has. But I don't think I'd want that lifestyle for myself, if for no other reason than I'd rather watch from the bench and take pictures of someone else running. I'm a photographer; that's what I do. 
I'd love to capture the muscles straining in a runner's legs, the sweat beading on his forehead and the expression on his face as he's just about to pass the finish line, half a second ahead of the runner behind him. 
A little battery acid wouldn't hurt either. 
Contact Allison Ambrose at 
aambrose@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us a·r 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU GOING TO THE MSU GAME THIS WEEKEND? WHY OR WHY NOT? 


Rachel Stewart Peter Kelly Paul Macias Kelly Short Lindsey Timpone Paul Laughlin 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore junior Badin St. Ed's St. Ed's Lewis Pasquerilla West Alumni 
"No-it's "No, because I "No. because I "Yes. since I "Yes. because "No. Tm going pretty difficult don't want to don't want to want to watch Kelly Short is to watch a 







my ride.·· girls' swim meet at Rolfs, since they actually know how to beat teams from Michigan.,, 
IN BRIEF 
Dr. John Seely Brown, for­mer Chief Scientist of Xerox Corporation and the Director of its Palo Alto Research Center will be speaking at the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza School of Business at 3 p.m. today. The workshop is entitled "High Tech, Higher Ed, and the New World Order." 
Rising star and Chicago native comedian Sebastian Maniscalco will be perform­ing tonight at Legends at 10 
p.m. All ND, SMC and HCC students are welcome at no charge. 
Legends will be having a Reggaeton Night starting at 
midnight tonight. All  ND,  
SMC and HCC students  are  
welcome at no charge.  

The Domer Run will kick off on Saturday at 11 a.m. The event will benefit ovari­an cancer awareness and education. The race start line will be on Moose Krause Drive. There will be 6-mile and 3-mile runs, as well as a 2-mile fun walk. 
Morrissey and Welsh Family Halls will be hosting a Michigan State game watch starting at 7 p.m. Saturday on South Quad. There will be a live OJ, trivia, and prizes. 
The CROP Walk will take place this Sunday at 2 p.m. at Howard Park in South Bend as parishes and com­munity groups will raise money to battle hunger and poverty. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 65 HIGH 73 LOW 48 LOW 53 
without a car miss the miss Peter the Irish teach or any., Flipside Kelly. ,, that state a money. bowling trip! .. lesson!.. 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer Pinwheels filled Alumnae Green at Saint Mary's College Thursday as part of Pinwheels for Peace. Participants were asked to write either a prayer for peace or their idea of peace on the pinwheels. The event, sponsored by the Center for Spirituality, marked the end of 10 days of prayers that began on Sept. 11. 
OFFBEAT 
Auto theft tattoo tips off pollee 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -A Canadian man's apparent fondness for the video game "Grand Theft Auto" has led to his arrest in connection with an auto theft, police said on Wednesday. 
The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said Shylo Kujawski -who has "Grand Theft Auto " prominently tattooed on his back -was spotted acting suspiciously in a Vancouver suburb where several stolen cars had been reported. 
Using the tattoo to iden­tify Kujawski as a convict­ed auto thief, police said they then set up a stake­out that nabbed him attempting to drive away in a stolen car. 
Police said during the stakeout they also watched Kujawski thwart his own attempt to drive away in another stolen vehicle by accidentally disabling the car with the owner's steering wheel lock. 
Teachers win suit over forced anthem singing 
TOKYO -A Japanese court ruled in favor of teachers who objected to being forced to sing the national anthem at school events, saying the Tokyo Metropolitan govern­ment's orders to do so infringed upon freedom of thought. The surprise rul­ing comes as conservative lawmakers, including Shinzo Abe, poised to become prime minister next week, seek to put more patriotism into classrooms in an effort to revive a Japanese sense of identity they see as lacking in modern-day society. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY c:: 
LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
ct 
(.) 



..... 0 HIGH 
HIGH 67 HIGH 75 HIGH 67 LOW LOW 62 LOW 60 LOW 45 
Atlanta 79 1 61 Boston 70 I 48 Chicago 71 I 54 Denver 50 I 40 Houston 91 I 78 Los Angeles 75 I 61 Minneapolis 60 I 51 New York 69 I 54 Philadelphia 72 I 51 Phoenix 93 I 69 Seattle 63 I 45 St. Louis 78 I 62 Tampa 91 I 71 Washington 74 I 47 

Bick nature trails at SMC fenced off 
Area was often used for educational purposes 
Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
The nature trails that once 
offered Saint Mary's College 
and the surrounding commu­
nity unique access to local 
wooded areas -for educa­
tional and personal benefits 
-have been blocked off this 
fall following the construction 
of a new fence that prevents 
access to the paths. 
The city of South Bend has 
undergone construction of a 
new sewer line in the woods 
behind the Saint Mary's cam­
pus, which has resulted in the 
closing of the Bick Nature 
Area, facilities director Bill 
Hambling said. 
The Bick Nature Area was 
named after two former biol­
ogy professors -George and 
Juanda Bick -who created 
the nature trails and used the 
area as an instructional aid 
for students in their classes, 
according to the Saint Mary's 
Web site. 
The fence around the 
nature area was installed 
during late summer and the 
area was closed to users 
beginning in September, 
Hambling said. The city will 
"be using heavy equipment, 
and a concern for the safety 
of everyone necessitated the 
closing of the trails," while 
construction of the sewer sys­
tem. is in progress. 
"However, special consider­
ation was granted to certain 
faculty and students to con­
tinue their academic activi­
ties in the woods," Hambling 
said. 
Biology professors Dr. Richard Jensen and Dr. Doris Watt are two of the profes­sors who have been permitted continued access to the trails. Chair of the biology depart­ment Dr. Thomas Platt said the professors were granted access on a "limited basis for educational purposes." 
Platt said Jensen has been using the nature area "to study the local flora for more than two decades" as part of the field botany class he teaches. Watt "is working with students to document seasonal changes along the nature trail with the goal of providing an on-line pictorial guide," he said. 
Due to the construction tak­ing place, Jensen said he is no longer sure if he will ven­ture into the woods with his class. However, according to Jensen, Watt will continue to access the trails to conduct field work with students. 
The decision to construct the fence and close the trails during construction was made by the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
"We are grateful to the [Sisters] for recognizing the educational value of the nature area and allowing our faculty to continue to use this resource while construction is underway," Platt said. 
Saint Mary's security is in charge of regulating and enforcing the closure of the nature area. Jensen said, "access must be arranged through [security]. who must be on hand to unlock the gates and then lock gates, both coming and going." 
Hambling said the trails will be closed throughout the con­struction period, but the area is expected to be reopened to all users in January. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Friday, September 22, 2006 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
MSU 
continued from page 1 
MSU. 
Sophomore Lauren Bennett is also traveling to Michigan on Saturday to show her support for the Irish. Bennet, howev­er. didn't have to pay, as a friend got a few tickets to the game for her birthday. Bennett said value of $70. 

Brittany Williams, a student worker at the LaFortune Box Office, said there were about 30 tickets remaining as of 2 pm. Thursday. Williams said she had been told the Notre Dame Alumni Association had made 100 tickets available for sale. 
Notre Dame students looking for a ride to the 
game can 
catch the 
she has friends Student
"rm still fully in 
at both Activities
support ofthe team
Michigan and Office Michigan State. and excited to go sponsored 
"I turned my to the game. ,, b u s phone off dur­Tickets ing the are $20
Karl LeBiancq
Michigan and on 
game," Bennett said when asked if she experienced any harass­ment from her University of Michigan friends last Saturday. 
Student government announced via e-mail early Thursday morning there would be a limited number of MSU tickets on sale to students at the 
LaFortune  Box  Office  
beginning  at  noon  on  
Thursday.  The tickets  

were sold at their face 

senior  sale  at  
LaFortune  
B  0  X  
Office,  according to  a  
notice  posted  on  

insideND. 
This Saturday's game will mark the 70th face off between the Fighting Irish and the Spartans. The Irish lead the all­time series, 43-25-1, and have a record of 17-13-1 in East Lansing. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
185 students voted -equiva­lent to 43.1 percent of the freshman class. 
The Board of Governance made changes to the voting process, which made Molnar wary about overall turnout. Students were originally sched­uled to vote online via PRISM, but the system was switched to paper ballots near election time. 
"I was concerned that we would have less voters due to the last-minute change to paper ballots," Molnar said. "It was wonderful that over 43 percent of the class voted." 
The voter turnout gave Molnar confidence in the fresh­men and their desire to partici­pate at Saint Mary's. 
"The women of the Class of 2010 clearly care a lot about their leaders, and that is a great sign for the future," she said. "I think that all of the candidates were enthusiastic and campaigned hard, which definitely urged their class­mates to vote. 
"Overall, I was just extremely pleased with the election." 
Gebert and Meade have many ideas for the Class of 2010, such as themed events, appar­
ed an audition, but the part was undergoing gastric bypass sur­given to another actress. It was gery, which she proclaimed to

Guerra 

not until the real Suzanne saw be "the best thing I ever did for continued from page 1 Guerra on "Politically Incorrect" myself," Guerra los.t 170 
and called the director of the pounds. valley girl from Los Angeles" to movie in Guerra's favor. "[I did] every diet known to becoming a public figure advo­"There are so many times mankind," she said, including cating for when someone is the color diet, which involved improvement going to say 'No, eating only one color of food for
"There are so many
in a variety you're not good each day of the week. "Luckily of social times when someone is enough' ... and if M&Ms come in every single one issues, going to to say 'No, you listen to those of those colors," she said. including people and you let Guerra has recently been
you're not good
racism, body them define what named spokeswoman for obesi­image and enough, ... and ifyou you're going to do ty health and has made a self esteem listen to those people in your life then "deliberate decision" to move as a remark­you're always away from acting and more
and you let them 
able learning going to lose," towards activism. She is cur­experience. define what you're Guerra said. rently the host of "Workin' It" Before going to do in your life "Those fools do on Air America Radio and has starring in not pay rent to live recently published the motivat­
then you ·re always
the WB's in your head." ing book "Under Construction." 
going to lose. ,,
"First Time Guerra also "You have to make the choic­Out," making spoke of other es that are right for you and not her the first obstacles in her the ones that will make some­
Jackie Guerra 
Latina to star life besides those one else like you," she said.
actress

in a network concerning acting, sitcom, including her Contact Sonia Rao at Guerra said that she "never struggle with weight loss. After sraol @nd.edu 
planned on being in show busi­ness." 
"It was never important to me," she said. 
Guerra said she realized her calling when she entered a tal­ent show in a bar, hoping to use her time on the stage to raise awareness of a boycott she was working on against a major hotel chain. After following "a drag queen that sung Gloria Estefan through his nose . .. I stood on the stage and it was the most seductive experience I had ever felt in my entire life," Guerra said. "I thought, 'This is what I was born to do.'" 
Following her epiphany, Guerra traveled as a standup comic for a year before landing her deal with the WB, but found herself truly tested when she vied for the part of Selena's sis­ter Suzanne in the Jennifer Lopez film and was initially turned down based on the fact that she was too light-skinned and not Mexican enough. 
''I've been Mexican my whole life and you're telling me I can't play a Mexican?" she quipped. 
Guerra remained persistent, sending faxes and leaving mes­sages with the director every hour until she was finally grant-

Holy Cross College 
is seeking comments from the public in preparation for its evaluation by the regional accrediting agency, the Higher Learning Commission. 
The college will undergo a comprehensive evaluation visit by ateam from the commission on October 23 to 25. The team will review the College's ongoing ability to meet the commission's Criteria for Accreditation. 
The public is invited to submit comments regarding the College. Comments should be addressed to the following: 
Public Comment on Holy Cross College The Higher Learning Commission 30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 2400 Chicago, Illinois 60602 
Comments must address substansive matters related to the quality of the institution or its academic programs. Comments must be in writing and signed, and will not be treated as confidential. 
All comments should be received by September 23. 
el, spirit weeks and planning activities between Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross. 
"We are hoping this will bring more school spirit and pride to our class," Meade said. 
Both Gebert and Meade have prior experience in student government and hope to use that knowledge to 
"What I think set
lead the fresh­Now that the presi­man class. us apart was that dential elections are "I decided to we went door to over, there are still 13 run [for presi­positions to fill on the
door to first years
dent] because I First Year Board.
in every dorm to
love being Platforms are due involved," remind them when Monday at 5 p.m. Gebert said. "I Youngdahl and
voting was.,, 
love the respon­O'Brien are already sibility my posi­planning to be a part tion entails." Rebecca Meade of student government 
Gebert and freshman in other ways. Meade cam­Youngdahl plans to
vice president elect 
"I think that Gebert and Meade are very personable, motivated girls who are ready for the tasks at hand as presi­dent and vice president," Youngdahl said. 
"They have a lot of good ideas 
for the Class of 2010 and will do a great job repre­senting the freshman women." 
paigned rigor­ously for the past two weeks with signs, posters and going out of their way to meet other first year students. 
"What I think set us apart was that we went door to door to first years in every dorm to remind them when voting was," Meade said. 
While not all participants in elections concede gracefully, runners up Leslie Youngdahl and Katie O'Brien are already showing their support for the victors. 
run for freshman 
board to stay involved 
at Saint Mary's. 
"I am enthusiastic and ready to help wherever I am needed," she said. 
O'Brien also plans to run for the board, based on her past experience in high school. 
"I love Saint Mary's and I love being involved," she said. "I know this year is going to have some great leaders." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu 


rL 
THE CUSHWA CENTER 
FOR THE STUDY OF -... AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 

• presents 
"Habits of Compassion: Irish Catholic Nuns and the Origins of New York's Welfare system, 1830-1920" (Illinois, 2005) By Maureen Fitzgerald, College of William and Mary 
Saturday, September 23,2006 9:00a.m. 
McKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education 
The Asian Indian Classical Music Society • 
52318 N Tall¥ HoD rlve, South Bend, lN 4 6 63 5 
Concert Announcement 
Jesse Bannister (Saxophone) Dr Rajeeb Chakraborty (Sarod) 
accompanied by 
Subhen Chatterji (Tabla) 
September 22,2006, Friday, 7.30PM 

esse Bannister delights audiences by performing North Indian classical music on the 'axophone. He teaches at the Leeds College of Music and has trdined with Pandits Rajan d Sajan Mishra, among others. Dr Rajeeb Chakraborty has emerged as one of India's finest young Sarod players ofthe younger generation. He trained with Pandit Rabi hakraborty, his father, and hails from the Maihar Gharana of Pandit Ravi Shankar and llstad Ali Akbar Khan_ 
Ustad Shahid Parvez (Sitar) 
accompanied by 
Rarndas Palsule (Tabla) 
Ouober 8, 2006, Sunday. 7.30PM 
llstad Shahid Parvez is widely recognized as one ofthe best sitar players ofhis 
•eneration and is a favorite concert artist both in India and abroad. He belongs to the 
•real musical family representing the lmdadkhani Gharana and trained with Ustad Aziz Khan, his father, and the renowned sitar maestro, Ustad Vilayat Khan. For more information see: W'!Vw mus_icalnirvana.com/hmdustani:shahid...Parvez.html. 
All concerts at: the Hesburgh Center for lntemational and Peace Studies Auditorium 
Tickets available at gate. General Admission: $10, AICMS Members and ND/SMC faculty: $5, Students: FREE 
Forfurther infonnation, crnta:t: Vidu~ Agte (~77-2250),Amitava Dutt(1730928) or Umesh Garg (2722957) 



Friday, September 22, 2006 CotvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Christians executed in Indonesia 
PALU, Indonesia -Three Christian mili­tants were executed by firing squad early Friday for leading attacks on Muslims six years ago that left 70 people dead, police and relatives said. 
The men were taken before the firing squad at 12:15 a.m. (2:15 p.m. EDT Thursday), said a senior police officer who asked not to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media. Family members later said they had received confir­mation of their deaths. 
In carrying out the death sentence, Indonesia ignored an appeal last month by Pope Benedict XVI to spare the men. A Vatican spokesman, the Rev. Federico Lombardi, told the Italian news agency ANSA that news of the execution "was verv sad and painful." • 
Muslim clerics want Pope removed 
LAHORE, Pakistan -About 1,000 Muslim clerics and religious scholars meeting Thursday in eastern Pakistan demanded the removal of Pope Benedict XVJ for making what they called "insulting remarks" against Islam. 
Benedict "should be removed from his position immediately for encouraging war and fanning hostility between various faiths" and "making insulting remarks" against Islam, said a joint statement issued by the clerics and scholars at the end of their one­day convention. 
The "pope, and all infidels, should know that no Muslim, under any circumstances, can tolerate an insult to the Prophet (Muhammad).... If the West does not change its stance regarding Islam, it will face severe consequences," it said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Six inmates escape from Texas jail 
NEW ORLEANS -A doctor accused of mur­dering four critically ill hospital patients with injections in the harrowing days after Hurricane Katrina is defending herself publicly for the first time, saying in a TV interview that she gave them drugs simply to ease their pain. 
"I have spent my entire life taking care of patients. I have no history of doing anything other than good for my patients," Dr. Anna Pou said in an interview to be aired Sunday on CBS's "60 Minutes." "Why would I suddenly start mur­dering people?" 

Pentagon rejects 9 I 11 accusation 
WASHINGTON -A Pentagon report rejects the idea that intelligence gathered by a secret military unit could have been used to stop the Sept. 11 hij ackings. 
The Pentagon inspector general's office said Thursday that a review of records from the unit, known as Able Danger, found no evidence it had identified ringleader Mohamed Atta or any other terrorist who participated in the 2001 attacks. 
The report was ordered following the assertion last year that the unit had identi­fied four of the 19 hijackers in 2000. That claim was made by a former intelligence officer who worked on Able Danger, Lt. Col. Anthony ShafTer, and by Rep. Curt Weldon, vice chairman of the House Armed Services and Homeland Security committees. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Guard fired after rape accusation 
INDIANAPOUS-The state has fired a guard at the Indianapolis Juvenile Correctional Facility after he was accused of sexual misconduct with a minor female inmate. 
Octavious Tyler, 25, who had joined the Indiana Department of Correction in May 2005, was fired Wednesday by Steve McCauley, the facility's superintendent. 
The agency's internal investigation began after the alleged victim told a second girl incarcerated there, who then reported it to the staff of the prison on Indianapolis's far west side, the DOC said. 
UNITED NATIONS 




Iranian president speaks at G.A. 
Ahmadinejad tries to improve image amid controversy over nuclear program 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iran's President Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad seems to be 
enjoying the spotlight at 
this year's U.N. General 
Assembly, easing his way 
into the international 
arena and trying to 
improve his image amid 
the controversy over his 
nuclear program and 
remarks about Israel and 
the Holocaust. 
When an Israeli reporter 
challenged him into 
answering a question at a 
news conference 
Thursday, Ahmadinejad at 
first stalled, whispered in 
Farsi to an adviser to skip 
the reporter, but then 
reluctantly gave his 
response. 
He showed no such cour­
tesy to an Israeli reporter 
during a news briefing 
here last year. 
On Thursday, he explained that when he called for the destruction of Israel and dismissed the Holocaust as a myth, his issue was not with the Jewish people but with Zionists, "who are not Jews." 
"We love everyone in the world -Jews, Christians, Muslims, non-Muslims, non-Jews, non-Christians," he said. "We are against ugly acts," he said. Boston. And this is the fundamen­during his stay here and 
"Everyone is respected. Ahmadinejad was vague tal principle of our foreign apologized to New Yorkers But I repeat, we are when asked if Iran would policy, and it does not pre­for traffic disruptions from against aggression, occu­stop arming Hezbollah and clude Lebanon," he said. the arrival of world lead­pation, killings.... We comply with a U.N. At the news conference, ers to attend the U.N. declare this in a loud Security Council resolution Ahmadinejad also General Assembly session. voice," he said. to disarm the Lebanese expressed love and affec­He reserved his harsh 
But Yaniv Halily, a guerrilla group, which tion for the American peo­words for the U.S. govern­reporter with Israel's fought a 34-day war with ple, just as President Bush ment -for its position on Yedioth Ahronoth was not Israel this summer. He reached out to the Iranian Iran's nuclear program impressed. said Iran gives only spiri­people a couple of days and its role as one of the 
"He's trying to portray tual and cultural support earlier. Ahmadinejad said five permanent members an image of a nice guy to the Shiite Muslim group. he wished he had more of the U.N. Security after all the things he said "We support ... peace time here to spend with Council. about Israel. Now he and permanent stability in them in person. "Jt's not the nuclear knows everyone thinks Lebanon, and we will fall "The people of the bomb that the American he's a bad guy," said short of no measure in United States are highly government is worried Halily. promoting this goal. respected by us," he said. about, for there are coun­
"He may sound nicer on Whether it's in the cultural "Many people in the tries in our region that are the surface, but on the or spiritual support that United States believe in armed with a nuclear inside he's the same," said we can render or whether God and believe in justice." bomb and are incidentally Kamran Dadkhah, an eco­it is the role that we can He thanked the New York supported by the U.S. gov­nomics professor at play in the international City police and security ernment. Now, how is Northeastern University in arena, we will do our best. forces for protecting him this?" said Ahmadinejad. 




Detainee trial rules established 
profile intraparty dL'iagreement. Warner of Virginia and Sen. Lindsey

Associated Press 
Sen. John McCain of Arizona. one of Graham of South Carolina that there be 

WASHINGTON-The White llouse three GOP lawmakers who told Bush he no attempt to redefine U.S. obligations and rebellious Senate Republicans couldn't have the legislation the way he under the Geneva Conventions. announced agreement Thursday on initially asked for it, said, "The agree­The agreement contains key conces­rules for the interrogation and trial of ment that we've entered into gives the sions by the White House, including suspects in the war on terror. President president the tools he needs to continue dropping a provision that would have Bush urged Congress to put it into law to fight the war on terror and bring interpreted Geneva Convention obliga­before adjourning for the midterm elec­these evil people to justice." tions and another allowing a deff:mdant tions. "There's no doubt that the integrity to be convicted on evidence he never 
''I'm pleased to say that this agn~e­and letter and spirit of the Geneva sees if it is classified. The legislation. ment preserves the single most potent Conventions have been preserved," however, makes clear the president ha.:; tool we have in protecting America and McCain said, referring to the interna­the authority to enforce the treaty. foiling terrorist attacks," the president tional treaties covering the treatment of CIA Director Michael I Iayden has said said, shortly after administration offi­prisoners in wartime. the agency needed to be confident that cials and key lawmakers announced The central sticking point had been a its interrogation program for high-value agreement following a week of high-demand from McCain. Sen. John terror suspects L<i legal. 
'
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~------------------------~.. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 22, 2006 
was even looking at it, signing decreasing the number of vio­the paper without reading," lations per year, Flint said he
Honor 

Flint said. "This is a real prob­expects to see numbers go up continued from page 1 lem, because this is already in the near future. 
the first dishonest act by stu­In 2005, the Honor Code reached for comment dents, and besides that, peo­Committee instituted a new Thursday. ple weren't getting familiar violation reporting policy, 
Flint said while it was diffi­with important information." which allowed professors and cult to know for sure why So, to make this information students to settle the problem younger students would be more accessible, the essential without needing a hearing in more prone to honor code vio­details were condensed into a front of a departmental hon­lations, he had some ideas. short student guide in 2005, esty committee, instead sub­
"Lower-level courses tend to which is sent to freshmen mitting a simple report to 
be required of students. Every before they come to Notre Jacobs. In the past, a hearing student is required to take Dame. Additionally, this past was the only official way to Intra to Philosophy, but a lot of summer, students were asked address violations -so, Flint them might not have any for the first time to take an said, professors were far more interest, so it may be that the on-line test on the material likely to deal with the problem temptation to cheat is going to presented in the guide. themselves and not make it be a little bit greater," Flint The quiz. designed by the known to the University. said. "These intra courses also Honor Code committee, pres­In the 2002-03 school year, tend to be much larger than ents students with eight out of 41 honor code violations were higher-level classes, so it 33 possible 'real-life' situa­reported -1 7 less than last could be that some students tions where the honor code year. A visible increase, but think their dishonesty will go would be involved. Six of the not as dramatic as expected, unnoticed." eight must be answered cor­Flint said. 
He also suggested freshmen rectly for the student to pass "Some other schools that might be coming to the -and if they fail, they must have changed their [honor University "having engaged in wait 12 hours before they can code violation] reporting poli­a lot of academic dishonesty in access the quiz again. cy have seen numbers go high school," according to sta­"Well into the summer, through the roof," Flint said. tistics that suggest more about 85 percent of students "So, there is an increase in the cheating goes on in secondary were passing the tutorial on numbers. but they're still very schools than in college. the first try, which suggests low, given that we know that 
"Some students may be they were actually looking at there had to have been far bringing bad habits with the guide more violations last them, which they're gradually before doing year than 58, losing through the course of it, and that based on a survey
"Some students
their college career," Flint reading the of the faculty we 
may be bringing 
said. student guide did several years Assistant Dean of First Year was sufficient bad habits with ago." of Studies Kenneth John to pass the Flint said he
them, which they're 
DeBoer agreed with Flint's quiz," Flint thinks the numbers
gradually losing 
assessment. said. "Only will see a spike "Most likely there was not a 10 first-year through the course once faculty mem­similar code of honor at the students who hers get used to
oftheir college 
[students'] secondary school, showed up ,, the new system, as 
career.
so it's a new world for them," without hav­the vast majority of DeBoer said. "And upper-level ing passed it reports to initiate students have been here -but I don't Thomas Flint from them. longer, maybe have had class­know for 
faculty officer "It's rare that a 
mates who ran into some sure what 
Honor Code Committee student would
[honor code] trouble earlier happened report another stu­and know this is serious situa­with them." dent for academic tion." DeBoer dishonesty, which 
O'Neill freshman Alexander said FYS was pleased with the is disappointing, because it McShea had another idea. effectiveness of the quiz -but suggests that students here 
"It's probably because we supplemented it with their don't take the honor code here freshman are more careless own advising. as seriously as they should," when we cheat as opposed to "We think the quiz gives Flint said. the more thorough upper heightened awareness of the For many students, however, classmen," he said. Honor Code to students, but of there are unspoken rules that 
In the past, freshmen were course, [FYS advisors] cover override any Academic Code sent the full Academic Code of [the code] as a topic in individ­of Honor they sign. Honor Handbook -"a long ual meetings with students," "I'd lose respect for the and imposing document," Flint he said. "Personally, I always [cheater], but turning some­said -and a statement to sign keep the student guide on my one in is really low," McShea confirming they'd read it. desk as sort of a reminder said. "[But] if the person's 
"We had heard from stu­that this is an important score was going to really dents on committee over the thing." upset the curve, I'd go for it." years that they didn't think Though this more student­anyone read the whole thing friendly approach to teaching Contact Amanda Michaels at and our fear was that no one the Honor Code is aimed at amichael@nd.edu 
he can often read books once they're scanned into his com­


Blind 
puter (which boasts a king­sized screen).
continued from page 1 
Despite these tools and where he is now working on a more, visually impaired stu­doctorate. dents admit that at times, 
He also holds a black belt in they've been lost. jujitsu and carried the Literally. Olympic torch in 2002. "One of the first days after 
Succeeding academically I'd trained Scout [Lockwood's "was just a constant learning seeing-eye dog], I was trying process," Cordes said. to go from DeBartolo to Eventually he learned what Siegfried and I got completely worked, and lost," what didn't. Lockwood 
What didn't "/fit's a cold day and I said. "I got to 
work, for exam­St. Joe's
need to find someplace
ple, were the Street and molecular dia­I'm supposed to be, I heard the 
grams an organ­can ask a complete sound of golf 
ic chemistry carts, and
stranger and they ·u
professor drew knew I was 
on the chalk­show me, just out of in the wrong 
board. What did the kindness oftheir place." work for Cordes Cordes got
hearts. People are 
were raised-line lost so many
always happy here., 
drawings times, he etchings on plas­made a reso­tic sheets. He lution during
Ashley Nashleanas 
also listened to his junior
blind student 
taped textbooks year. (or read them in "I decided I Braille, when was only possible), had a talking laptop going to take right-angle and employed a device called turns on campus, even if an Optacon, which features a there was a diagonal going tiny camera and pins to help across the quad," he said. But his fingers "feel" images. for him, getting lost was "just 
Where tools don't suffice, part of the game." real people -like the stu­With. time-consuming aca­dents employed by the Office demics and the long com­for Students with Disabilities mutes across campus, is -take over. Students serve there ever time for anything as readers and writers for else? blind and visually-impaired For Nashleanas, there's students. plenty, and she spends it in 
Sophomore Ashley the pool -she's been swim­Nashleanas is also blind and ming competitively since the majoring in the age of 13. She's sciences, though currently train­her focus is biolo­ing for the
"I was never 
gy. She uses many backstroke and
involved in high
of the same tools freestyle events as Cordes -but school. I realized at the 2008 those tools initially Paralympics in
here that becoming 
presented her with Beijing, China,
part ofgroups is a
problems. swimming six "When I first got really good way of days a week (or to Notre Dame, I five, if the
meeting people.·· 
had all this equip­pool's closed ment," she said. for a home "Figuring out what Jim Lockwood football game). to use, and 'what blind student and The Office for not to use was a Students with
Siegfried senator 
real challenge." Disabilities has 
Lockwood's visu-also provided al impairment -a combina­her with "tappers," or people tion of glaucoma and another to stand at either end of the affliction that is a "mystery" pool and tap her head with a to doctors -allows him to stick, telling her when to flip­see things in very high con­turn. trast (like black on white), so Lockwood serves as 
Siegfried's senator, where he 

Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 

Brazil 

Mexico Chile Spain 

Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2006 
spm 
101 DeBartolo Hall 


APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2006 
earned laughs during the candidates' spring debate. Asked to describe his cam­paign in one word, Lockwood replied, "Vision." 
In all seriousness, Lockwood said, coming to col­lege forced him to open up a little bit. 
"I was never involved in high school," he said. "I real­ized here that becoming part of groups is a really good way of meeting people." 
Part of getting involved, aside from being a dorm sen­ator, includes his membership in Amnesty International. 
Cordes, Lockwood and Nashleanas all said they were impressed by the kindness of the Notre Dame community. 
"My favorite part about coming here was how every­one was so nice," Nashleanas said. "If it's a cold day and I need to find someplace I'm supposed to be, I can ask a complete stranger and they'll show me, just out of the kind­ness of their hearts. People are always happy here." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


Friday, September 22, 2006 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


11,533.23 -79.96
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,366 127 1,909 2,627,441,415 


S&P500 1,318.04 -7.15 fTSE. IOO(l.ondon) 5,893.07 +30.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.67  -0.25  40.18  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.54  -0.30  19.19  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.97  +0.05  5.21  
MICROSOFf CP (MSFf)  -1.03  -0.28  26.90  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -1.37  -0.03  2.15  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -1.71  -0.081  4.648  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.52  -0.025  4.785  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.34  -0.065  4.784  
5-YEAR NOTE  -2.00  -0.094  4.598  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.85  61.59  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +2.1 0  588.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.50  87.00  
Excha  e Rates  
YEN  116.4250  
EURO  0.7815  
POUND  0.5257  
CANADIAN$  1.1 199  

IN BRIEF 
Pension law includes tax reforms 
NEW YORK -Americans are going to have to keep better records of their charitable con­tributions if they want to claim them as tax deductions in coming years. Older Americans, meanwhile, will get a break on taxes when they make donations from their Individual Retirement Accounts. · 
These are among the charitable tax reforms tucked into the huge Pension Protection Act of 2006 that was approved by Congress this sum­mer. Although much of the legislation focuses on keeping workers' pensions safe and fully funded, there are a number of provisions aimed at encouraging charitable giving while, at the same time, tightening reporting require­ments. 
Diana Aviv, president and chief executive of Independent Sector, a Washington, D.C.-based lobby group for foundations and charitable organizations, said it was too early to assess the impact of the tax changes on charitable . giving. 
Marsh supermarket suit goes to court 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Marsh family feud has spilled over into the courts days before the company's shareholders vote on a buyout offer from a Florida-based investment firm. 
David A. Marsh, the former chief operating officer of Marsh Supermarkets Inc., sued the Fishers-based grocery chain Wednesday in 
U.S. District Court in Indianapolis, claiming it owes him thousands of dollars in severance and benefits. The family-run company ousted him in February as president and chief oper­ating officer. 
The lawsuit claims Marsh is entitled to sev­erance pay based on his base salary and bonuses for three years following termina­tion, totaling more than $700,000 annually. The eight-page complaint alleges the compa­ny miscalculated his severance payments, underpaying him by more than $33,000 a year. 
The suit also alleges that the $31,000 Marsh is receiving to pay for life, medical, dental, accident and disability insurance is not enough to pay for coverage comparable to what he received as chief operating officer. 
The lawsuit is the latest in a series of trou­bles beleaguering the company. 
British mogul invests $3 million 
'Rebel billionaire' Branson pledges funds to help Clinton Global Initiative 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -British business mogul Richard Branson on Thursday pledged to invest about $3 billion over the next decade to combat global warming and promote alternative energy, saying that it was critical to pro­tect the environment for future generations. 
Branson, the billionaire behind the multi-platform Virgin brand, said the money would come from 100 percent of the profits generated by his trans­portation sectors -trains and airline companies. It will be invested in efforts to find renewable, sustain­able energy sources in an effort to wean the world off oil and coal. 
The so-called "rebel bil­lionaire" -wearing a dress coat with no tie and denim pants -made the announcement on the sec­ond day of the Clinton Global Initiative, an annu­al conference of business, political and nonprofit leaders hosted by former President Clinton. 
"Our generation has inherited an incredibly beautiful world from our parents and they from their parents," Branson said at a news conference, with Clinton at his side. "We must not be the gen­Branson's commitment in a globalized world. caused by Pope Benedict eration responsible for assured that the Clinton All stressed the impor­XVI's recent speech that irreversibly damaging the Global Initiative confer­tance of cultural exchange quoted a medieval figure environment. We must ence would surpass its and education. referring to Islam as vio­
hand it over to our chil­goal of matching last Karzai said the West lent, Tutu stressed the dren in as near pristine a year's efforts. By early had, at times, exhibited a commonalities among all condition as we were lent Thursday afternoon, ini­"lack of morality when it religions, but added: "I 
it from our parents." tiative organizers said applies to dealing with the think that the pope proba­
Clinton praised Branson, they had 114 commit­rest of the world" because bly wishes he hadn't said calling him one of the ments amounting to $5.7 it often did not realize what he said and has tried "most interesting," "cre­billion. In 2005, the con­how its interventi.on or to apologize. But it shows 
ference resulted in $2.5 lack thereof would affect how very difficult it is to

ative" and "genuinely committed" people he had billion in pledges. itself. say sorry. ... To say sorry 
About 50 current and lie noted that he had in public is one of the

ever known. 
Branson said he was former world leaders were urged Western govern­most difficult things.". inspired to contribute expected to attend the ments for years before the The initiative began after a meeting with AI summit, which is in its Sept. 11 attacks to help Wednesday with a slew of Gore, who served as second year. the people of Afghanistan. world figures, from first Clinton's vice president On Thursday morning, "But no attention was paid lady Laura Bush unveiling and has been highly visi­Afghan President Hamid because you in the West a plan to bring clean 
ble in raising awareness Karzai joined Jordanian were not hurt," Karzai drinking water to Africa about global warming and Queen Rania Al-Abdullah, said. "It was only us and and Pakistan President environmental issues. and Archbishop Desmond that didn't matter, and Pervez Musharraf stress­Gore was scheduled to Tutu for a panel discus­that is wrong. Seriously." ing the importance of speak Thursday afternoon. sion on managing diversity Asked about the furor Palestinian peace. 


Wal-Mart lowers prescription·costs 
pharmacies in Florida's Tampa Bay Arkansas-based retailer address an 

Associated Press 
area. It will be expanded statewide in image problem stemming from its poli­

NEW YORK -VVal-Mart, the world's January and rolled out to the rest of the cies on health insurance coverage for 
largest retailer, plans to slash the prices nation next year, company officials said employees. 
of almost 300 generic prescription Thursday. "They are doing something that may 
drugs, offering a big lure for bargain­The news sent the shares of big phar­be good for consumers, but they don't 
seeking customers and presenting a macy chains llke Walgreen's and CVS have altruistic motives," said Patricia 
challenge to competing pharmacy slumping because of fears that Wal­Edwards, a portfolio manager and 
chains and makers ofgeneric drugs. Mart's price cuts could cost them mar­retail analyst at Wentworth, Hauser & 
The drugs will be sold for as little as ket share. Analysts said consumers \\ill Violich in Seattle. "They are capitalists. 
$4 for a month's supply and include save an average of 20 percent and up They still need to make a profit." 
some of the most commonly. prescribed to 90 percent in some cases. Shares of Tampa Wal-Mart pharmacy customer 
medicines such as Metformin, a popu­prescription drug management compa­Pat Sulli.van, a retired Massachusetts 
lar generic drug used to treat diabetes, nies and some generic drugmakers fell police officer, said $4 generic prescrip­
and the high blood pressure medicine as well. tions would be a tremendous help. 
Lio;;inopril. Analysts said the risks to Wal-Mart ''I'm on disability and my benefit.;; run 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. will launch the are slim because profit margins on out by the end of the month," he said. 
program Friday at 65 Wal-Mart, most of the drugs already arf' low -"It comes down to where do I go for a 
. . ?"

Neighborhood Market and Sams' Club and the program could help the $100 prescnptwn. 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall, Nocrt: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING Eorma BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT Eorma: Joey King 
SPORTS Eorma: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina ·Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSlEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
{574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS 0FACE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(57 4) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily nevvspaper published in print and online: bythe students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ObHtrvt'r (USPS ')99 2-4000) ;_, puhliJu...J Mond:.~y through Friday .cxcep~ duriu~ exam and vacatirm pc:rioti.s. Asumcriptivn ro Tht: Ohscrver b S 100 for one-academic ycu; $~5 furtlnc: semester. 
"In.: Ob.erver is published'" POSTMASTER 
024 Sou1h Dining Hall Send addres5 correcrions w: 
Notr< Dame. IN 46556.()779 Th Observe: 
Periodical posugc-paid at Noue Dame P.O. Box 779 
lnd .a.ddition-.1 mailing offices. 024 SotHh Dining Hall 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 
The Obun-cr is a mcmbt-r of the Al.::sociatcd Pr~. AJI reproduction rights art r=rvcd. 
TooAv's STAFF 

News Sports Joe Piarulli Eric Retter Marcela Berrios Deirdre Krasula 
Jennifer Metz Ken Fowler Viewpoint Scene Joey King Marty Schroeder 
Graphics Jeff Albert 

Prepare for national election 
Outside Notre Dame, there are some things more important deficit in just two months. than football. In Pennsylvania, former state attorney general and pro-life 
The balance of power in the House and the Senate is up for Democrat Bob Casey leads two-term senator and conservative grabs, and only those who speak soon will have their voices stalwart Rick Santorum by nearly 10 points. heard at all. With core issues like the War on Terror, the But the true importance of the 2006 election is not in who economy and health care -your voice matters. It is impera­will be elected, but what they will stand for. Even a shift in tive for students to start the voting process now. just one of the two houses of Congress or a decrease in the 
Across America, absentee ballot application deadlines are Republican majority in both could dramatically alter the approaching for the most contested midterm election since course of the next four years. 1994. Domestic policies like suspected terrorist 
O Jhe

In an age when incumbents frequently win 95 userver interrogations, immigration and homeland percent of their Congressional races, political security are in the balance. So are America's observers are astounded that up to 50 races in foreign policies with Iraq, Afghanistan and Iran.
Editorial

the House of Representatives and eight in the This election means something -probably Senate are toss-ups. more than most. 
Right here, in Indiana's 2nd Congressional District, incum­And so do you. As an educated U.S. citizen, it's not just your bent Republican Chris Chocola trails Democratic challenger privilege to vote -it's your job. No one else can do it for you. Joe Donnelly by 10 points, despite a huge early lead in funds. Now is the time to print your absentee ballot application and 
And the story is the same across the country. mail it in. Or else your state -and your country -won't 
In Connecticut, three-term Senator Joseph Lieberman lost hear your voice. his Democratic primary to Ned Lamont but is mounting an For more information on how you can apply for an absen­independent campaign. tee ballot, visit your home state's board of elections Web site 
In Virginia, once-aspiring presidential candidate George or simply Coogle search your state and the words "absentee Allen went from a fairly safe Senate re-election to a six-point ballot." 
Surviving a most difficult week 
Oh Charlie, say it was not nearly 50 gods. with the team, Bleier called my neigh­points that buried the Irish. Bill, how Last weekend NBC offered a confus­bor before his death. Tears still well in could you get shut out as early as the ing, almost schizophrenic dilemma for ·my eyes as I recall the kind gesture. second game after your Super Bowl vic­my fellow Western Pennsylvania alumni Coach Weis is no stranger to selfless tory -on no less than a Monday night? with their airing of detailed compar­acts of kindness either, having called a For those of us Notre 
isons of Weis proteges, the "Brady young cancer patient's football play Dame graduates with Boys." Both are so competent and excel during a game. Weis knows that while roots in the in their overall performances. Yeah, I his job is to win games and champi­Pittsburgh area, it hate Brady. And yeah, I love Brady. onships, the game still needs to be kept has been an agoniz­I've never been, like so many who can in its proper perspective. Last week's ingly long week of be called a "Domer," that Notre Dame game reminds me of the scene in Tom football shock and alumnus with the special football talent Cruise's high school football movie, "All disbelief. In fact, I am of quoting every season statistic, every the Right Moves." The coach teaches still wearing the opponent record and Cruise to defend against brown paper bag Gary every play of every game the pass by going after over my head as I Caruso ever recorded in Irish the opposing player, not
Weis knows that 

type this column. history. It wasn't long the ball. In the game,
while his job is to 

Even the eye holes do Capitol ago that I finally learned Cruise tries to intercept not coincide with my Comments how to spell, win games and the ball, misses and the line of sight. Agony "Roethlisberger." I had man he was covering
championships, the 

knows no limits. scheduled another scores the winning
game still needs to 

A football "expert," a.k.a. bookie, I spelling study hour this touchdown. After the know is wearing his paper bag as well week to learn be kept in its proper game, Cruise could have -more to hide from his clients than "Samardzija." Now perspective. used a plastic bag over face the world. In his profession's what's the use? his head. macrocosm last week, everyone favored It occurs to me as my From all outward the Jaguars over the Steelers. He likes brain slowly sizzles from the steam appearances last week, both Cowher to call his early season setback an caught within my brown paper bag that and Weis reacted as a wise sage would "incentive" for his happy clients, one while sports plays a major· role as in a similar situation. Cowher knows that returns many dividends later in the recreation, it is only entertainment. The that a pass sailing a foot beyond Hines season. I am not certain that I have any best efforts of those in the arena some­Ward's hands at the goal line is rust incentives after last week. times excel and sometimes fall flat. between a quarterback and receiver 
At season's start I told my football Gaining only a handful of rushing yards that will disappear. Weis knows that a "expert" friend that the football gods like both Pittsburgh and Notre Dame pass tipped by his receiver into a were teasing me with did last week is a game­Michigan interception that started a Charlie Weis. First he defeating factor, but not scoring snowball will melt in future broke my heart when as It wasn •t long ago the end of life. In fact, games. Preparation, perspective and a Patriots coach his team compared to the starva­performance are hallmarks of both
that I finally learned 

eliminated the Steelers tion, death and violence coaches and teams. For us fans, paper from appearances in the how to spell. throughout the world or plastic is never an option. Super Bowl. With his ..Roethlisberger.., today, embarrassment on departure to Notre the field is nothing. Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a Dame, Head Coach Bill Notre Dame alumnus, political strategist who served as a leg­Cowher and the Steelers finally over­Vietnam hero and Steeler great Rocky islative and public affairs director in came the Weis obstacle. Charlie was Bleier taught me the value of leaving President Clinton's administration. His now on my side, and I could hardly wait my brown paper bag under the sink. column appears every other Friday. He for the many wins and national champi­During the Steelers' Super Bowl can be contacted at hottline@aol. com. onships he would shepherd to South dynasty of the 1970s, my 16-year-old The views expressed in this column Bend. But alas, last week he broke my neighbor lay dying of cancer. His wish are those ofthe author and not neces­heart again ... damn those football was to meet Bleier. While on the road sarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

How will Notre Dame finish 
Submit aLetter: 
"The best and safest thing is to keep a
...·· .. .. .·. ..... ., ·. ··. . . .·. I

the football season? 

balance in your life, acknowledge the great powers around us and in us. Ifyou
t tb Ed•t t~:: 
can do that, and live that way, you ~ 
10 or 11 
e 0 e [ tor a ' 
are really a wise man." 
wins-49% Euripides
VvWW.ndsmcobserver.com : 
dramatist 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Defining Notre Dame football 
Wins and losses not whole picture 

It would be tempting to dismiss as spoiled children the five seniors who defended --perhaps a bit too defen­sively -their early departures from the Michigan game. "Winning is fun," they declared. Apart from that origi­nal insight, they would appear to have benefitted in a limited way from their Notre Dame educations, and we all have to share that blame. 
They obviously learned nothing of respect for their fellow man, the per­spective that community is of value, and that there is more to life than their own vanities. Fortunately, Charlie Weis has included these val­ues in his own curriculum. 
The players, who may also have preferred to leave prematurely, showed respect for the student body by standing and singing the Alma Mater. The vast majority of students did likewise, like generations before them. They and and all of us were hurting from an embarrassing loss, but years from now they and we will remember that Notre Dame is a spe­cial place where some things are, in fact, more enduring than wins and losses. 
Matthew V. Storin faculry Sept. 21 
Leaving unjustified . 
I find it fitting that the authors of the Letter to the Editor ("Football is about victories," Sept. 21) compared supporting the football team in defeat to receiving an "F" in school. That argument is just ridiculous. Sure, football is more fun when you're winning. And of course every Notre Dame fan in his or her right mind would go to any game expect­ing his or her team to win. It doesn't take a "fervent" fan to acknowledge that. 
But to abandon your team, or, more specifically, your fellow classmates, when things aren't going their-or, as they would argue, "our" -way, violates the very tradition about which they write. Forgive me for sounding like a sanctimonious alum­nus, but when our class cheered on the Irish, it was also a tradition to stay through the entire game, win or loss, close game or blowout, until the alma mater had finished playing. 
I'd like to think that hasn't changed in the mere three years since my fel­low classmates and I graduated (and believe me, there were plenty of opportunities to leave early in my Notre Dame career). Even if you don't agree with that argument, look at it this way: you each paid a lot of money for the privilege to watch that game. I don't know about you, but I'd take advantage of every second of the game that I paid a decent amount of money to see. Essentially, leaving early would be akin to wasting your money. 
Perhaps "winning is what football is all about." But it shouldn't be what supporting our team is all about. Your classmates deserve better.. Perhaps if staying through four quar­ters of defeat is too much to ask, we should give these seniors' tickets to some of the many fans shut out of the ticket lottery who would have given a limb to sing the alma mater. 
Bryan Kronk alumnus Class of 2003 Sept. 21 

Notre Dame has special tradition 
The unique loyalty of the Notre Dame family seniors opining that Notre Dame football is just about winning seems at odds with most legendary coaches and players. Obviously, nobody ever wants to lose, but real fans, like most Notre Dame fans, stand and support their team always, as opposed to jumping on and off of bandwagons. Beyond champi­onships, Heisman trophies and gridiron legends, a unique loyalty of family is what raises Notre Dame and our football tradition above the rest. Lou Holtz, the last Notre Dame football coach to win a National Championship, was recently asked of which team or game he was most proud. He shocked many by saying, "our 1993 team against Boston College." 
For those who blocked out that painful memory, the '93 BC game was a hugely disappointing loss, costing an undefeat­ed and number one Notre Dame squad a spot in the National Championship game. So why is a successful coach most proud of a losing game? 
With tremendously famous victories over number one Miami in 1988, num­ber one FSU in 1993, Penn State in the 1992 "Snow Bowl" and the 1988 National Championship game over West Virginia, one might think the ESPN gig had tainted the old ball coach. But Holtz explained, "That team didn't give up, didn't hang their heads and never quit on each other ... You always gotta believe." 
Great Notre Dame coaches have been overwhelmed by support shown even after crushing defeats. Knute Rockne's teams were greeted by throng of cheer-
Fight song tribute honors visitor 
I'm not sure whether to take the letter 
written by Pat O'Brien as one of wit and 
sarcasm, or one reflective of his true feel­
ings ( "Limit visitor's tribute to pre-game, 
Sept. 20"). 
With due respect to O'Brien, he needs to lighten up. The tradition of playing the opposing tearh's song both before and after home football games is indeed a sign of sportsmanship and respect, aspects of modern college football that are woefully lacking at other schools (think trash-talk­ing, felony records, and pitiful graduation rates -problems thankfully not present at Notre Dame). 
To read comments such as "it sickens me inside to hear our own band, a source of inspiration and pride, play the worst fight song in the world" indicates to me and probably many others that the mes­sage Notre Dame is trying to instill in her students somehow got lost on O'Brien. It's quite ironic that he would follow that state­ment with comments about singing the alma mater for a university you so love. 
This kind of blind loyalty is dangerous because one loses the ability to put things in proper perspective. First, it's only a game, and second, the University, through its band, recognizes a tradition our rival brings -its own school song. The mes­sage the band's tradition conveys is simple -this is not war, it's a friendly competition between two rivals and academic neigh­bors. In the end, we still respect each other, and we go on, eagerly anticipating the next meeting. 
Years ago, after Texas, another school rich in tradition, played at Notre Dame sta­dium, I heard numerous comments on Austin radio stating what a classy place Notre Dame is to watch a game, from Longhorn fans who attended the game ­in particular, the band's playing the Texas fight song before, and yes, after the game. Many came back with a higher level of respect for Notre Dame because they have never experienced this at any other school. Comments like these from campus visitors ing students and fans at the train station even after depressing losses. Ara Parseghian returned from diflicult beat­ings and witnessed crowds of students rallied at main circle, welcoming home their trampled on team. Both of these men, famous for passionately wanting to win, and doing so very often in champi­onship form, recognized and appreciat­ed the great spirit of the Notre Dame students and fans, even in defeat. 
Following a 37-0 ND loss to FSU, our own Darius Walker chose Notre Dame over Ohio State and Stanford, saying how special the Notre Dame students were in standing until the very end. Just this week a top high school recruit from South Carolina, Gary Gray, committed to Notre Dame over the University of Southern California after his Michigan game visit. He, too, mentioned the amazing game atmosphere and students as solidifying his decision. 
The unique loyalty of the Notre Dame family does not go unnoticed. Supportive students (most, that is) staying until the bitter end and singing the alma mater makes Notre Dame different from the rest, but it isn't for others as much as it is for us. To borrow again from Lou Holtz, Notre Dame is special -either you get it or you don't. \'Vhile the con­stant goal is.obviously winning, as stu­dents, alumni and fans, we are always Notre Dame. As best I can write it, that is the special tradition of football at Notre Dame. 
Dave Daley junior off campus Sept. 21 
make me proud to be a Notre Dame grad. 
The class shown by Notre Dame, its teams, 
its community, and most of its students is 
one reason people love this place. 
It's also one ofthe reasons those who 
hate Notre Dame do so. And I hope this 
never changes, iffor no other reason than 
to show the world that Notre Dame, 
despite its faults and weaknesses, is still a 
unique and special place. 
Eduardo Magallanez alumnus Class of'83 Sept. 20 
Notre Dame respects opponents 
This ic; a brief response to Pat O'Brien's Letter to the Editor ("Limit visitor's tribute to pre-game," Sept. 20). As a member of the Band of the Fighting Irish, I stand by our tradition of playing the opponent's fight song at the end of a game. At Notre Dame, we do not leave all niceties at the door. We do not walk out of the stadium and rub a loss in anyone's face or throw insults at them ifthey win. We, the band, student body, and everyone associated with Notre Dame welcome all visitors to our home and give them the full respect due to them. 
It's not "You're welcome to come here as long as we still win;" it's "Welcome to Notre Dame -we hope you enjoy your whole stay here and thank you for com­ing." 
Notre Dame isn't about hating your opponents or trying to humiliate them or their fans in any way. It is about respecting others, respecting the game of football, and beh1g gracious in victory or defeat. Playing their fight song embodies this respect and welcoming nature. In victory, playing the other school's song is a farewell and appreciation for coming out. In defeat, yes, it sickened me inside to play "The Victors" after getting drubbed by Michigan, but at the same time it reminded me of what we're about and why we are here -I was still proud to be a part of the 
Atmosphere sets Notre Dame apart 
I'm writing in response to the self-right­eous seniors who took such pride in leav­ing Notre Dame's game against Michigan prior to the final whistle ("Football is about victories," Sept. 21). Football is about victories, they say, and they think cheering for a team that is losing by a wide margin is "blind" and "disappoint­ing." 
Before the quintet gets too wrapped up in its own strength of fandom, it may want to read the quotes of Gary Gray, a top­rated cornerback who was visiting for the Michigan game and verbally committed to play for Charlie Weis. The young man cites the strong student support for the team even in the face of a devastating loss as a major reason for his commitment. 
Yes, wins are important in football, and my parents wouldn't cheer a report card full of "F"s either. But they also wouldn't kick me out of the house or forbid me from eating dinner until my grades improved. They'd tell me they loved me, but this result was unacceptable and needed to be improved, and then they'd do everything in their power to help me succeed. 
That's what the students did last Saturday. And as long as we're going to talk about being disappointed, put me down as being disappointed that four Notre Dame students with multiple years of experience in Notre Dame and what it stands for weren't capable of realizing that. 
Mike Coffey alumnus Class of 1991 Sept. 21 
Notre Dame Family as I played that song. 
Michigan won handily and I tip my cap to 
them. But rest assured I will cheer, yell 
and play all the louder next time around. 
John Cogill president Band of the Fighting Irish Sept. 20 
Rough times demand greater support 
In response to Tom, Ricky, Tom, Rick and Kenny's letter ("Football is about victories," Sept. 21): 
First off, let me say how cute it is that it took all five of you just to write one letter to Viewpoint. As far as the content of your group work, you shouldn't walk out on something that you love just because they fail once. 
Tom, Ricky, Tom and Rick, ifyou found out that Kenny had a drug problem, would you kick him out of your little love penta­gon, leave him all alone, and just hope he gets back on his feet all by himself? No­you would stick with him and help him through his rough times. 
The student section that stayed Saturday was not there cheering blindly for our team just to "have fun and hear the band play" even though we were losing. We remained there to show our team that even in the rough times, we still support them. We stayed there for our friends and classmates who are on the team. We stayed to show that we believe they will win the next game, even though this one didn't go as planned. 80,000 people don't pack the stadium every week just to watch their team win; they come to help their team win by showing their support for something they care about. Ifsomewhere down the line, we happen to lose another home game, I hope the "Fab Five" doesn't walk out on something they claim to love. 
Tom Martin junior Siegfried Hall President Sept. 21 


page 10 Friday, September 22, 2006 
INDIANA SPOTLIGHT 
Old drive-ins ~ffer nostalgia, entertainment 



By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
One of the latest fads appearing in new movie theaters is making going to· the movies an experience once again. 
In the National Amusements' Cinema De Lux theaters, there are full service restaurants and bars where patrons can order full meals and have them waiting before they even arrive at the theater. While this is becoming trendy as a high­end movie-going experience, going to the movies used to always be about the experience-as opposed to the carbon­copy theaters that dominate the American movie scene today. 
There are still theaters, however, that since the 1930s have made going to the movies an. experience that everyone can enjoy-the drive-in. 
History of the drive-in 
The drive-in movie theater was the product of a young sales manager, Richard Hollingshead, who, while work­ing at his father's auto products store, had the idea to invent something that combined his two interests: cars and movies. 
Hollingshead's vision was that of an open-air movie theater where patrons could watch the movies without leaving their own cars. He experimented with this idea out on his driveway by mount­ing a Kodak projector on the hood of his car, projecting the image onto a screen he suspended from trees in his yard and using a radio behind the screen to pro­duce the sound. 
He then tested this prototype under various conditions. Sound quality issues stemming from changing weather were tested using a lawn sprinkler as trial rain. He also tested different ways to configure parking schemes as to allow each car a clear view of the screen. 
Hollingshead first began by lining the cars in his driveway, which caused sight problems for cars lined up each directly behind the one in front of it. He then determined the spacing needed at vari­ous distances and where to place blocks and ramps under the front wheels of cars that were parked further away from the screen. 
The first patent for the drive-in theater was issued in 1933, and with $30,000 Hollingshead opened the first drive-in theater in New Jersey. This initial the­ater used speakers mounted next to the screen, as opposed to individual car speakers that would develop in later designs for these theaters. 
Arguably, the most innovative theater to develop during this time was the one created by Edward Brown, Jr. who opened the first "drive-in and fly-in" the­ater for both cars and small planes. It had the capacity for 500 cars as well as 25 airplanes. An airfield was placed next to the drive-in parking grounds and the planes would taxi into the last row of the theater. \\Then the movies ended, Brown would provide a tow for the planes to be brought back to the airfield. 
In the 1970s, many drive-ins began to close. However, most drive-ins were still making money when they closed. The closings were primarily due to rising property costs in spaces occupied by the theaters. 
Location, as well as seasonal opera­tion, is often cited as the biggest problem to face drive-ins. By the 1990s, there were less than 600 drive-ins left operat­ing in the nation. As of 2003, there are currently 432 drive-in theaters still oper­ating throughout the country. 
At the Tri-Way Drive-In 
Indiana is known as the "Crossroads of America" due to the fact that more major highways intersect in the state of Indiana than in any other state in America. Indiana also contains more miles of interstate highway per square mile than does any other state -even though Indiana is only the 38th largest state in the country. This may help to explain the traditional popularity of drive-in theaters in the Hoosier state. 
During the late 1950s, the heyday for the drive-in cinemas, there were more than 120 theaters located in Indiana alone. Over the years, more than 82 per­cent of those theaters have gone dark or have been demolished. Currently, Indiana is one of America's top ten drive-in states with 23 theaters still in operation. Located less than half an hour away from Notre Dame, in Plymouth, Ind., is one of these valuable movie theater treasures, operating every weekend and showing six new releases. 
The Tri-Way Drive-In opened in 1953 with only a single screen. Tri-Way was the theater's original name -its name did not come from its now-three screens, but rather from its location near three major highways (30, 31 and 6). The Tri­Way can accommodate over 500 cars, has a full-service concession stand and features the famous vintage intermission trailers such as the "dancing hotdogs." 
Alongside the movie theater is the pop­ular Tri-Way Theater miniature golf course, which is the only championship realistic miniature golf course in the area. The golf course also includes an arcade room and a separate concession area. 
The 2006 theater season is the 54th consecutive season for the theater. Their season runs April through the end of September and each of their screens is lit-up with double features of current releases. The Tri-Way Theater recently just installed new "technalite" technolo­gy on its screens -one of the first drive­ins in the country to undergo this instal­lation -showing a picture two to three times brighter than regular drive-in screens. 
With no home game this weekend, consider spending some time at the local drive-in and experience a pastime which is swiftly fading into obscurity. 
The double features running this weekend are Gridiron Gang with Talladega Nights, Barnyard with How to Eat Fried Worms and The Covenant with Wicker Man. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 





Friday, September 22, 2006 
page 11 
,; _... ,_;;~;;­

~©g]M§ \_~J 
I > ~~:.•>f. -.~ 
' ~ . .. . 


Money, audiences drive major TV mergers 
By BRIAN DOXTADER and MARTI 
SCHROEDER 
Scene Writers 
Anyone flipping through channels on the new cable in the dorms may have noticed something -two major net­works, The WB and UPN, are no more. In their place is a single network, The CW. 
A joint venture between CBS (who owns UPN) and Time Warner, The CW launched this fall with programming designed to draw from each respective channel. With its formal opening on Sept. 20, The CW aired the season pre­mier of "America's Next Top Model." 
This opener showcases The CW's tar­get audience -the younger generation of America that are less interested in news and sports reports than sitcoms and reality television. However, The WB's top sitcom, "Reba," was picked up at the last minute even though it's out­side of The CW's target audience. With shows like "Reba" lined up with the teen sleuth show "Veronica Mars" and the definition of machismo, "WWE: Smackdown," the fact that The CW has a target audience at all comes into ques­tion. 
Who ultimately loses in these merg­ers? In most cases, it's the audiences the networks target. 
...... 

FILM REVIEW 
The WB and UPN had very different audiences, and it's difficult to believe that the programming The CW chooses will appeal to both. Indeed, it's more likely that the network will have difficul­ty balancing its demographics -net­work mergers typically don't have the audience's desires as the foremost con­cern. No, the ultimate motivation in these types of deals is money. 
Due to the fact that neither the WB nor UPN could compete with the big three (CBS, ABC, NBC) nor attain the miracle that Fox was able to muster, the parent companies for the tow channels decided to merge and hopefully bring both audi­ences from their respective channels to the new network. 
On a more positive note for the new network, the affiliates on board include 16 stations from the Tribune Company previously associated with The WB, which brings Chicago's WGN, Los Angeles and New York among others on board. Also, CBS Television Stations group has committed 11 stations previ­ously associated with UPN. Of the 11, Detroit, Philadelphia and Atlanta are the biggest. 
With these stations, The CW will reach about 48 percent of the American mar­ket -and this is only from 27 affiliates. This does not include many other affili­ates, which hosted either UPN or The WB and will now be hosting The CW. 

Photo courtesy of starshollow.de Lauren Graham, left, stars as Lorelai Gilmore and Alexis Bledel stars as Rory Gilmore in the former WB sitcom ''Gilmore Girls." The show is now part of The CW. 
This new network will reach many peo­ple, but the only question is whether people will watch it. 
Les Moonves, the chairman of CBS, may claim, "This new network will serve the public with high-quality program­ming and maintain our ongoing commit­ment to our diverse audience," but that same diversity means an uneven split 

between programming. After all, do CBS and Warner really believe that the people who watch "Gilmore Girls" are also interested in "WWE: Smackdown "?  
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu  
.j  
I I  

'Crank' gives an adrenaline thrill-ride at a non-stop pace 
ByTAEANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 
·You might say Chev Chelios is having a bad day. He wakes up feeling like death, then finds out he might literally be a dead man walking after watching a DVD left by an enemy, which reveals to him that he's been poisoned in his sleep. 
The antidote? There is none. After con­sulting his doctor, Chelios finds out that the only way to for him to stay alive is to keep his adrenaline flowing in order to stave off the chemical compound which is not-so­slowly killing him. 
Enter the world of "Crank." If you're asking yourself questions like, "Why wouldn't the bad guys just kill him in his sleep?" then you're asking the wrong questions and missing the point. This movie is a bullet-ridden joy-ride that apol­ogizes for absolutely nothing and never slows down. 
Chelios is a survivor, hell-bent on doing whatever it takes to stay on his feet long enough to dole out some punishment on those who poisoned him in the name of sweet vengeance. 
The main idea for Chelios is to load up on enough stimulants (and "stimulating activities") to stay alive long enough to kill ofT his many enemies. As such, he self­medicates with copious amounts of drugs in a desperate attempt to prop himself up. 
Crank 

...:-,:JJ .. ;}~ .. ;J J t--.1 J':'r-J Jf\..J
"" -..:..­

Directors: Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor Writers: Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor Starring: Jason Statham, Amy Smart 
Chelios snorts cocaine, pops pills like Skittles, and drinks more Red Bull thau sleep-deprived students pulling all­nighters. 
Chelios also spends a lot oftime running. In fact, the working title of "Crank" proba­bly could've been something akin to "See Chev Run." And "See Chev Drive Around at 100 mph." And "See Chev Shoot Anything That Moves With a Massive Handgun." 
In a movie like this, where the basic premise is absurd and the actor is basical­ly placed on a revved-up treadmill with bullets flying everywhere and explosions going off every minute, the character is everything. And what makes Chelios work as a charr<1.cter is actor Jason Statham ­he's perfect. 
Clearly, Chelios is from the school of hard knocks and won't hesitate to use meat cleavers, guns, other assorted weapons and the two mitts he calls hands in his pursuit of bloody vengeance as he races against the clock. 
Statham just looks the part. As the con­summate man's man, he's balding on the top of his head, but makes up for it with ample body hair just about everywhere else, and practically oozes testosterone. Add in a blocky chin chock-full of stubble plus a pair of mean eyes squinting out from underneath his Neanderthal brow, and you've got what Isaac Hayes would describe as one "bad mother shut-your­mouth." 
Directors Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor seem to have taken a page from Quentin Tarantino or attended Robert Rodriguez's 1 0-minute film school -in a style reminiscent of "Sin City'' and "Kill Bill," hands are chopped off, blood spurts everywhere and lead sprays from ubiqui­tous firearms like celebratory champagne. 
In addition to this "praise the Lord and pass the ammunition" filmmaking ethos, the directors also manage to mix in a lot of 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
Jason Statham brings his tough and gritty acting to "Crank." Although it does not have much in the way of narrative, the movie has plenty of fast-paced action. 
ridiculously funny moments amongst all 
the car chases, explosions and general 
chaos, including a sex scene hilarious 
enough to rival that of the puppet love­
making in "Team America." 
Something new that Neveldine and Taylor bring to the table is that they crank up the speed, taking Tarantino's cinematic . hyperbole and ratcheting it up to a blister­
ing pace. 
Unlike such previous winners of the elu­
sive five-clover review such as "Brokeback 
Mountain," the word "good" doesn't come 
to mind when assessing "Crank" as a film. 
This is not a movie that's going to win any 
awards. However, the words "awesome" 
and "sweet" do pop into one's head, as in "That was awesome!" or "Dude, this movie is sweet" (two comments made several times during and after the viewing of "('.rank"). 
So fear not, "Brokeback Mountain" fans -"Crank" doesn't threaten to join "Brokeback Mountain" in the annals of five-clover mention. However, like the drug laden cocktails Statham throws down his throat to propel himself along, "Crank" has the perfect combination of adrenaline, testosterone, blood and sweat (no tears here) to propel itself along at its frenetic pace all tl1e way to its heart-stopping con­clusion. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

\ page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 22, 2006 
MLB 

Oakland's win lengthens team's lead to seven in AL West 
• 
Detroit loses; Tigers pitch count increased to 75. 
He had five straight strikeouts tied for first with during one stretch, striking out the last batter in the first andTwins in AL central then the side in the second fan­ning Jhonny Peralta, Joe Inglett and Andy Marte on pitches of 
Associated Press 

95 mph, 96 and 95 that inning. 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Rich Harden allowed one run, two Harden wanted to keep going hits and walked a batter, then he felt so strong after 55 pitch­left for the clubhouse afterward es. Yet Oakland's star right-han­to high-fives and handshakes der knows he must pace himself from his teammates. in order to be on the mound in Closer Huston Street entered meaningful games come with no outs in the ninth after October. Jay Witasick allowed back-to­
The Athletics are in position hack singles to Marte and Kelly to clinch the AL West this week­Shoppach, then the reigning AL end against their biggest divi­Rookie of the Year finished for sion rival and Harden is thrilled his 36th save in 44 chances. he helped his team take a step After a single loaded the bases, closer to that goal. · Street gave up a sacrifice fly to 
Harden struck out seven in an Jason Michaels to make it 7-4. impressive return from the dis­Fans cheered when Harden abled list and Jason Kendall hit headed to the outfield to warm a pair of two-run singles in up more than an a half-hour Oakland's 7-4 victory over the before the first pitch and gave Cleveland Indians on Thursday. him another loud greeting when 
"It felt great to be out there," he was announced with the Harden said. "I was a little starting lineup. nervous. I didn't know if my He was reinstated from the 
body would hold up." DL before the game after recov­It sure did. ering from a strained ligament The first-place A's reduced in his right elbow. 
their magic number to four to The A's are hopeful Harden's win their first division title since health will hold up so he can on a double steal before Mora Baltimore closed to 3-2 Angeles for the wild-card lead. 2003 and lead the idle Los pitch in the playoffs. Oakland hit a grounder inside the third­against Nate Robertson in the Florida was four games back Angeles Angels by seven games has missed the postseason the base line. fourth. Tejada led off with his entering Thursday. heading into the teams' key last two .years after four Chris Ray pitched the ninth 200th hit, a single, and Ramon New York already clinched three-game series starting straight trips, all of which they for his 33rd save. Hernandez walked before Kevin the NL East title earlier this Friday night. Oakland watched lost in the first round. Nearly a thousand disgruntled Millar hit an RBI double. After week, so Martinez (9-7) is just the Angels win the West by "Having a healthy Rich Orioles fans walked out of the Robertson hit Corey Patterson trying to get healthy and sharp clinching in the Coliseum each Harden being able to go out and game in the fourth inning, cul­with a pitch, Fernando Tatis in time for the playoffs. of the past two years. pitch seven innings is absolutely minating a demonstration delivered a sacrifice fly. He had a discouraging outing 
"Win two out of three and we a tremendous plus for the club," aimed at team owner Peter Detroit loaded the bases with in Pittsburgh last Friday night, could be the team celebrating manager Ken Macha said Angelos, who has run the team no outs in the fifth, but failed to his first since missing a month / out on the field instead of before the game of Harden's during its club-record run of score. In the bottom half, the with a strained right calf, and them," Oakland's Nick Swisher potential down the stretch. nine straight losing seasons. Orioles filled the bases with two was nearly in tears in the said. "Assuming that happens." Miguel Tejada had three hits outs before Patterson hit a rou­dugout after lasting only three 
Chad Gaudin (3-2) pitched 1 for the Orioles and Gomez had tine fly to center. innings. 1-3 innings for the win, Marco Orioles 4, Tigers 3 two, extending his hitting streak Baltimore again loaded the But Martinez got off to a good Scutaro and Milton Bradley Melvin Mora doubled in two to a career-best tying 14 games. bases in the seventh before start in this one. He faced the both singled in runs and Mark runs in the eighth inning, cap­Tejada moved within two hits of Jamie Walker struck out minimum 12 batters through Ellis added a sacrifice fly for the ping a comeback that carried matching his career high of Patterson for the third out. four innings, striking out five, A's, who won for the seventh the Baltimore Orioles past the 204, set in 2002 with Oakland and got help from his defense in time in eight games. They Detroit Tigers Thursday. during a season in which he Marlins 5, Mets 2 the form of a double play and moved 26 games over .500 (89-The loss dropped Detroit into was voted AL MVP. Pedro Martinez looked more two diving catches in the out­
63) for the first time since Sept. a tie atop the AL Central with Magglio Ordonez and Curtis comfortable in his latest playoff field. 5, 2004, when they were 81-55. the Minnesota Twins, who faced Granderson homered for the tuneup, but he was outpitched The three-time Cy Young 
Grady Sizemore hit a solo Boston on Thursday night. The Tigers, who were forced to by Florida rookie Anibal Award winner ran into trouble home run in the third against Tigers were alone in first place make a stopover in Baltimore to Sanchez in the Marlins' victory in the fifth, when he gave up Harden and the Indians pulled since May 20. make up the rainout of May 11. over the New York Mets on four hits and hit a batter with a within 4-3 on consecutive RBI Kris Benson (11-11) allowed Detroit played in Chicago on Thursday night. pitch. Still, few balls were hit singles by Victor Martinez and three runs and eight hits in Wednesday and will open a Miguel Olivo and Hanley hard against him, and he struck Ryan Garko in the fifth. But eight innings for the Orioles. He three-game series against Ramirez each drove in two runs out seven over five innings Oakland batted around in the walked off the mound with Kansas City on Friday. during a four-run fifth against before leaving for a pinch hitter. sixth and added three more Baltimore trailing by a run, but Detroit went up 2-0 in the Martinez, and Sanchez (9-3) Martinez yielded four runs ­runs. ended up earning his first win first inning when Granderson worked seven strong innings to three earned -and one walk, 
Harden pitched three strong since Aug. 18. led off with a double and win for the fifth time in six deci­throwing 52 of 87 pitches for innings in his first start since Brian Roberts led off the Ordonez hit his 24th homer sions. strikes. He is 1-3 in five starts June 4, his sixth outing of the eighth with a pinch-hit single with two outs. That gave Florida won its second con­since Aug. 3. year overall and only his second off Fernando Rodney (7 -4). Ordonez 100 RBis, the first secutive game following a four­Sanchez allowed two runs ­since April 26 because of two David Newhan was hit by a Tiger to reach that number game slide that hurt its postsea­one earned -and seven hits in stints on the disabled list. pitch and replaced by Jeff since Bobby Higginson and son chances. The Marlins open his third start since a no-hitter Harden, who won 10 games last Fiorentino. After Chris Gomez Dean Palmer had 102 in 2000. a three-game series Friday against Arizona on Sept. 6. He's season and 11 in 2004, will fouled out after attempting to Granderson made it 3-0 in the night in Philadelphia, which beaten the Mets twice in those start again Tuesday with his sacrifice, the runners advanced third with his 16th home run. began the day tied with Los three outings. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AJ dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. needed, customer sales/service, conditions apoly. All ages 17+, Call Today. ·574-273-3835. 
Looking tor kind, responsible & playful female to occasionally watch my 2 kids (9&5yrs). 
Call Ji1128~HlHl 
FoR SALE 
Investment homes for sale near NO. 866-521-8989. 

FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam­pus homes &weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk to stadium. Terrace Ln. 269-930­8038. swmient@qtm.net 
One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30 miles fr SB. www. Eastofedenatunionpier. com. $350 wkend. 513-697·7766. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­259-8603. 
ND home games rental. 1 mi to NO. Sleeps 2. Full accommodations. $900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718. 
1 bdrm apt. 1 mi. to NO. Laundry. Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester. Quiet area. $550/mo. Call574-532­8718. 
2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. $275 NO Football Wkends; $200 Non-Game Wkends. 630-238-0400. 
Lake Front cottage for rent NO home games. Monthly or for winter season. 269-699-5928. 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www. N Dstudentrentals .com 
TICKETS 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­
0964 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WI~L PAY MORE. 574-288·2726. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK· ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232­2378. 
Wanted: UNC Tix. (574)273-9845 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK­ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY games.Call517-351-1992 or order online 24f7 at WWW.JAMESTHET· ICKETMAN.COM we have tickets local or nationwide. 
PERSONAL 
www.ndgamedayroom.com 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Happy Birthday Kaila (Monday). Sorry I was stuck at work. 
Rhode Island is the smallest state with the longest name. The official name, used on all state documents, is "Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. • 
In the average lifetime, a person will walk the equivalent of 5 times around the equator. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, September 22, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERVfCES page 13 
Men's Soccer NSCAA/adldas Top 25 

team record previous 
1 Clemson 7-0·0 2 2 Virginia 7·0-0 3 3 SMU 8·0·1 1 4 Washington 7·0·0 4 5 Duke 6.0-1 5 & Maryland 6-1-0 6 7 Wake forest 6·1-0 12 8 West Virginia 6..0·2 8 9 Ulinois-Chiugo 6-D-2 18 10 UCLA 4·2·1 RV 11 South Caronna 6·1...0 . 1t) 12 Fordham 5-t)~1 ······•e14 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

13 Old Dominion · · 
14 . Northwestern 15 Memphis 16 South Florida 17 San Francitco 18 Norrtt Carolina 19 Failieigh DiCkinson 20 Saint Louis 21 Seton Hall 22 Akron 23 California 24 Virginia Tech 25 UC Santa Barbara 
5-'1..0 211 

6-1-0 
RV 7"'1-·0 25 4-2·2 21 5·1-1 11 

·.·· 16
6·2··0 
3-2-2 17 3o.24 NR 6·2-0 NR 6--1-0 . NR . 5-2~1 .·.NR 4•2•1 24 4·3·1 22 
Women's Soccer NSCAA/adldas Top25 

team Record previous 
1 . NOTRE DAME 8--8-0 2 Florida Stale 6·0-0 3 UCLA 6~1-0 4 North Carolina 8--1·0 5 Santa Clata ~2-0 6 · West Virginia 7..1.-0 

7:.#~::·<:~:·): Portlartd · ·::::~~;~;:;::x:~-~:::r-:~-> ·-:.~2.. 0 '#i si:; rennessei ·· ..:. <..~._.~:, 
9 Penn State' 4-2·2 10 Wake Forest 8--f;.O 11 Colorado $-.14 · 12 Boston tlni~l'flty 

13  Texas A&M  ·:  ·.·.  ·  
Cal  
4-4·0·  
54•2  15  
5--2·1  21  
]..1~0  16  
&..1-0  RV  
4-3,1  RV  
7·1-2  RV  

MIAA Volleyball Standings 
league  overall  
team  record  record  
1  Calvin  5-0  12·1  
2  Hope  3-1  8-5  
3  Adrian  3-1  7-5  
4  SAINT MARY'S  3-1  10-2  
5  Tri-State  2·3  5-10  
6  Kalamazoo  1·2  5-7  
7  Alma  1-3  4-8  
8  Albion  1-4  6·6  
9  Olivet  0-4  0-12  

around the dial 
GOLF 36th Ryder Cup 8:00 a.m., USA 
MLB 
Cardinals at Astros 
7:05 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL Northwestern at Nevada 8:00 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A lead­ing group of black football coaches is pleased Division I schools are considering more minorities for coach­ing jobs, but it says improvement is too slow and applying civil rights laws might be a way to speed progress. 
"I think we'll have to put a magnifying glass on searches," said Floyd Keith, executive director of the Black Coaches Association. "Change is not something that has been as quick as we'd like to see it." 
There are now only 11 minority head coaches among the more than 200 
NCAA Division I-A and 1-AA schools that are not histori­cally black institutions. 
The BCA, in a report card released Thursday, says universities must appoint more minority coaches and more diverse search com­mittees. The group says evidence shows more diverse committees leads to more consideration of minority coaches. 
And if that means apply­ing Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, which makes it illegal for employ­ers to discriminate on the basis of race, so be it, Keith said during a conference call. 
The third annual report card showed mixed results. 
While a record 12 of the 26 Division I-A and I-AA schools that hired head coaches received overall grades of A, a record six schools also received F's, including five who received the failing marks for not reporting to the BCA on what steps they took to consider minority coaches. They included perennial Big Ten power Wisconsin and two other I-A schools, Rice and Boise State. 
Among 414 coaching vacancies in Division 1-A since 1982, only 21 blacks have been hired, a huge disparity given the number of minority athletes on the playing fields, the BCA 
said. 
"The BCA wants the best candidate to be chosen irrespective of race," Richard Lapchick, director of the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida, said in the report's forward. "With only five African-American head coaches in the 2005 sea­son, college football is emphatically the most seg­regated position in all of college sport." 
Three of the 12 schools that received overall A grades this year -Buffalo, Columbia and Southeast Missouri State -hired black coaches. Kansas State, which also hired a black coach, received a B. 

IN BRIEF 
Braves ink Smoltz to $8 
million contract extension 
ATLANTA -The Atlanta Braves have exercised the team's 2007 option with John Smaltz, ensuring the right-hander will return for his 19th season with the team. 
The announcement was made before Smoltz started for the Braves at Colorado on Thursday night and is worth $8 million. It came one day after the Braves agreed on a 2007 contract with closer Bob Wickman. 
''I'm happy I know I'm going to be playing here next year," Smoltz said before the game. 
General manager John Schuerholz said he told Smaltz on Wednesday of the team's plans to exercise the option. 
"John has been a constant for this organization, both with his pitching and his leadership, and our plan to exercise this contract option for next season was never in question," Schuerholz said. 
Dislocated shoulder leaves 
Malkin's availability in doubt 
PITTS-BUHG II -Evgeni Malkin dislocated his left shoulder during his first preseason game with the Pittsburgh Penguins, knocking him out of practice Thursday and rais­ing questions about his availability for the Oct. 5 opener. 
Malkin attended practice but did not take part, and teammates said he looked much better than he did after getting hurt Wednesday night against the Philadelphia Flyers in an exhibition game in New Brunswick. 
The Penguins did not say how long they expect the 20-year-old Hussian star to be out or if he will be ready for their Oct. 5 opener. 
Malkin. who had made several excellent passes earlier in the game, skated off the ice during the second period of a 5-4 victory over Philadelphia in Moncton after col­liding with teammate John LeClair. 
Hamstring may keep lineman 
Diem out of Sunday's game 
INOIANAPOLIS. Ind. -Colts tackle Hyan Diem injured a hamstring during practice Thursday and was listed as questionable for Sunday's showdown with AFC South rival Jacksonville. 
The extent of Diem's injury wasn't immediately known. 
The Colts, meanwhile, still awaited word on the availability of defensive end Dwight Freeney, kicker Adam Vinatieri and receiver Brandon Stokley, all of whom were hurt in last week's 43-24 victory over Houston and have not practiced this week. 
"The guys that have played, it's not so necessary (to practice during the week)," coach Tony Dungy said. "For guys that haven't played, you want to see them go and you want to see them have some confidence." 
Dungy said he hoped to know more about the status of Freeney (leg), Stokley (ankle) and Vinatieri (groin) by Friday or Saturday. 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 22, 2006 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Keough passing game to test O'Neill defense 
going against the Dawgs' defensive Sorin vs. St. Edward's probably go out and crush them." since turnovers killed Zahm 's By KATE DONLIN, JAY FITZ­line. One definite advantage Alwnni Sorin and St. Ed's square off in a offense against Knott. PATRICK and SARAH has over the Manorites is that it has fJOd Quad showdown Sunday at 2 Zahm vs. FISher Wieland was simple about his THOMAS already played a game this season. p.m. as both look to rebound from Defending champion Zahm looks team's offensive needs. Sports Writers Not only were the Alumni players tough opening losses last week. to rebound from a tough loss last "We just need to score points," he 
able to see how things came togeth­Although the two dorms are the week at the hands of Knott in a said. "WB need to play better offen­Keough vs. O'Neill er on the field, but they also learned only male dorms on God Quad. game against Fisher Sunday at 1 sively, and that's one of the key 
The Keough Kangaroos hope to what areas of their game need Stedsmen captain Ge Wang said he p.m. parts.. " rebound from a disappointing loss improvement. This week the Dawgs feels there is no rivalry between the Fi"her has yet to play thl,;; sea..,on last week and upset the Angry Mob made a few minor adjustments to two. after an opening week bye, but cap­Siegfried vs. Knott from O'Neill this Sunday at 2 p.m. their game plan to flx issues they "I don't think it really counts a.c; a tain Tom Bufalino is confldent the Siegfiied and Knott, both coming The 'Roos will have their hands full, noticed during the first matchup. rivalry when they're a bunch of extra week of practice will give it an off big wins, will face off in what however, judging by the defensive Klein does not think the first girls," he said. advantage against the Rabid Bats. promises to be a tough game at 3 
\. dominance O'Neill demonstrated in week bye will negatively affect his The Otters lost last week to The one main area the Green p.m. Sunday. its 7-0 victory over Dillon last week. team. Carroll as the Vermin were able to Wave hopes to improve from last Siegfried dominated the 
Besides seeking their first win of "We have high expectations for pass all over Sorin's secondary for season is their offense, which was Stedsmen last week with a power­the season, the Keough players are this year," Klein said. "With a lot of an opening week loss. It is this sec­largely ineffective when compared ful rushing attack but was only able especially geared up for this week­returning players and several ondary the Stedsmen, led by wide to what Bufalino considers a top­to put up seven points in the win. end's game because O'Neill ended strong additions to the team, we receiver Corey Fitzpatrick, look to notch defense. Looking to beat their Mod Quad their season last year. The O'Neill feel that we can play with anyone." overpower for a second straight "We really want to establish our­rival this week, .Siegfried plans to defensive line managed to stop week. selves offensively," Bufalino said. finish drives and put the ball in for Keough's 2-point-conversion Stanford vs. Dillon "[He] will have at least 200 yards "We didn't have the best production touchdowns more often. attempt, allowing the Angry· Mob to Stanford and Dillon both suffered this game," Wang said. "We are a last season, but with a new quarter­Senior captain Matt Wopperer led walk away with a close 14-13 victo­losses in their season openers last very well-balanced team thic; year." back we hope to really set the tone the Ramblers' rushing attack with ry and securing its position in the weekend, and each squad has its St. Ed's will have to go through offensively." 59 rushing yards. playoff.:;. eyes on redemption this Sunday at the air ifit hopes to beat Sorin. The While the offense needed a lot of Knott, on the other hand, soundly 
Last week the Keough offense Riehle Field. team's running game was shut improvement from last year, the beat Zahm 12-0, a vast improve­had a tough time moving the ball The stakes are high. Only one down last week against Siegfried. defense has made few changes this ment from last season when it went down the field. In this week's team can walk away with the covet­Wang, however, is still confident season. winless. The Juggerknott.:;' offen.:;e matchup it will look for the open ed 'W,' and the other will have to that his team will win Sunday. "Last year we were effective at was led by talented junior running receivers and take advantage of settle for a 0-2 record. "I don't think we need that much shutting down the run, and we've back Trey Patrick, who put up 70 holes in the Angry Mob's defense. Coming off a heart-breaking last­improvement," Wang said. "We are improved our passing coverage this yards against a strong Zahm The 'Roos plan to come out strong minute fumble la.c;t Sunday result­a very well-balanced team this year," Bufalino said. "We aren't defense. and put some points on the board ing in a loss to O'Neill, the Big Red year." doing anything special -just com­Knott's defense was also solid in early in the game. are hungry for another chance to Overall, St. Ed's still believes it is ing right at them." the win, forcing three interceptions 
But the men ofO'Neill are ready. prove themselves. Dillon spent this the best team this season and has. But while Fisher was at home last from Zahm quarterback Sean 
"This week's game is a rivalry past week's practices working in early championship hopes. week, the Rabid Bats were losing to Wieland and recovering a fumble. game between us and Keough. It new plays and formations on both "We don't see the loss as a set­Knott-a winless team a year ago. Against the run, the J uggerknotts should be fun and exciting," O'Neill sides of the ball. Captain Justin back," Wang said. "We are shooting The game marked the Bats' first were dominant, stuffing most of the captain Pat Conley said. Figueredo is confident the hard even beyond the stadium this sea­loss in more than a year. Rabid Bats' attempts. 
Although the O'Neill team work his team put in all week will son." Zahm captain Sean Wieland said Knott hopes to continue forcing showed the quality of its defense in show on Sunday in an improved On the other sideline, the Otters although his team lost last week, it mistakes on defense to give the ball last week's shutout versus Dillon, offensive execution. will look to forget last week's drub­would still have the advantage to its talented offense thic; Sunday. Conley said there is always room The team is "excited because it's bing. Their work has mostly Sunday. for improvement. a new game," Figueredo said. focused on improving Sorin's pass­"It all comes down to game 
"We learned a lot from last "They have worked hard and [their] ing game. The Otters have also speed," he said. "We have already Contact Kate Donlin at week's game," he said. "Our offen­hopes are up." tried to tighten up their defenc;e and played a game at full speed againc;t kdonlin@nd.edu, sive and defensive linemen are the The Big Red focused on their build their running game. an opponent and they haven't." Jay Fitzpatrick at key players in our games. If they offensive attack this week putting in "We hope to rebound this week To recover from la<>t week's tough jfitzpa5@nd.edu and control the line of scrimmage, we spread formation and utilizing the with a solid win," Sorin sophomore loss, the Rabid Bate; have worked Sarah Thomas at control the game." pass a lot more, he said. Preston Bennett said. "We will on keeping better control of the ball, sthomas6@nd.edu 
Stanford coach Brandon McLeod Alumni vs. Morrissey said the Griffins will be much more Alumni is coming off a big win prepared than they were for 
last weekend versus Stanford, and Alumni la.<,i week. 
the team will look for similar results "We added some new plays and when it goes head to head with formations and we're going to try to Morric;sey on Sunday. be a little bit more balanced this 
Morrissey had a bye in week one, week," he said. s6 the team hopes to start the sea­While McLeod thought the 
John Seely Brown 

son on a positive note. The team Stanford offense did well last week, has practiced for an extra week and but the Griffins plan to play even feels prepared to take on the better this week with an enhanced Dawgs. strategy. 
"This week in practice we are Uke Dillon, the Griffins had a dis­
"High Tech, Higher Ed, and 

focusing on getting ready to play appointing loss lac;t week to start off with higher intensity to get ready their season 0-1 against Alumni. for the faster speed of games com­They put up a strong defensive pared to a practice," Morrissey cap­front in the second half, but an 
the New World Order''

tain Steve Klein said. interception returned for a touch­
Last week, Alumni's defense led down by the Dawgs in the third the team to victory. Stanford was quarter was the last score of the unable to get any running game game. 

Friday, September 22nd, 2006 
• Oear Coat 

OFF 

• Premium Soft Cloth 
Jordan Auditorium, MCoB -3:00pm
Wasi1
OUR 

• 
Polish-n-Seaier Wax Applied 

• 
2-Step UnderlJody


·'-' 
BEST 
Protectant 

52694 State Road 933 ~ ~ 
Kaneb Center for Teaching and

• Spot-Free South Bem11ndiana 46637 ~ 
Rinse Just 2 miles north of Notrr Dame on U.S. 31 ;
WASH 
Learning

·--------------------------------· 
353 DBRT, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (574)-631-9146 kaneb®nd.edu 
Please Register Online -http://www.nd .edu/-kaneb/events/fatl06/register.shtml 



Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Runners prepare for first MIAA Jamboree 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's has spent this week physically recuperating from a difficult weekend of rac­ing and training for the MIAA Jamboree, which will be hosted by Hope College Saturday. 
At the National Catholic Cross Country Invitational last ing healthy foods," senior Sara Otto said. 
White, a senior, also com­mented on the importance of the Belles' training. 
"This week we want to keep our intensity up during our workouts while trying to mini­mize stress, maximize sleep and stay healthy for one of the most important races of our season," 
she said. 
The Belles 
weekend, Saint will compete
··closing the gap 
Mary's came in last against all
for the top runners
among 34 teams. members of the The top finisher for will not be easy, MIAA at the the Belles at the Jamboree, giv­
but it certainly can 
meet -which was ing them their
be done.,,
hosted by Notre first glimpse Dame -was soph­into the compe­omore Caitlin Sara Otto tition they face Brodmerkel with a in competing
Belles senior 
time of 23:19. 
For both of their last two meets meets, the Belles have faced a few internal chal­lenges in addition to those pre­sented by the fast pace of Division-! teams like Indiana University, Notre Dame and Marquette. 
Many of the Belles were deal­ing with colds, soreness and injuries, including captain Katie White, who couldn't finish Saturday due to shin splints. The team also had to deal with conditions out'iide of its control. 
"I think the weather played a factor this weekend, having it so cool and damp all week, only to race in 85 degrees and sunny," Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. 
The Belles did hill workouts on Monday to prepare for Hope's inclined course and have been preparing all week to give themselves a better chance in the meet. 
"[We're going to] pay closer attention to getting enough sleep, staying hydrated and eat-
for the league 
championship. 
Last year, Saint Mary's came in fifth out nine teams in the Jamboree, with Calvin taking the overall title. The overall individual winner, Camille Medema, led Calvin with a time of18:43. 
Otto had the best time of the Belles' returnees at last year's event, which she finished in 
20:07. Kelly Biedron, who recorded a 20:47 last year, will help lead the Belles. 
Strategy-wise, the Belles will continue to focus on their team goal of closing the gaps among the top five runners. 
"Closing the gap for the top runners will not be easy, but it certainly can be done," Otto said. "I think right now our bod­ies are at various levels of health and training, and I sus­pect we will see the time gaps becoming much smaller in the next few weeks." 
Contact Becki Domer at rdomer1@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles will look to rebound 
Team turns to Heline in pursuit ofkey win over Illinois Wesleyan 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
A fired up Saint Mary's squad will travel to Illinois Wesleyan this weekend for one final tune-up before beginning conference play. 
The Belles (1-4) are coming off the most one-sided loss of 
their  season  so  far  to the  
Calvin  Knights  - a  6-1  
blowout last Tuesday.  

Earlier in the season, Calvin also came from behind to beat Illinois Wesleyan with two second­half goals Sept. 2. The loss dropped the Titans to 1-1, but they have since recov­ered, winning three of their next five games. 
"The score against Calvin does not accurately reflect how I believe we played together as a team, and I expect the entire team to come out hard against Illinois Wesleyan this Sunday," senior Caroline Stancukas said. 
The young defense will need to compete at full speed in order to shut down the Titan offense and give senior captain and goalkeeper Laura Heline assistance in the backfield. Heline made nine tough saves against Calvin as she was constantly peppered with quality shots from the Knights' top scor­ers. 
Illinois Wesleyan will again test the Belles' defense. The Titans have outshot oppo­nents 102-68 through their first seven games this sea­son. Senior Lyndsay O'Brien 
leads a spread offense with three goals and two assists. 
"Our goalkeeper, Laura Heline, is consistently one of our strongest players and I know she will come out Sunday with the intention of winning," Stancukas said. "However, soccer is not a one-woman show. 
"If one player has a big game, it is merely a reflec­tion of the team and how well the team connects with one another." 
Saint Mary's will look to continue to improve that essential team chemistry in their last warm up before official MIAA play begins Tuesday. The young team has been working since August to find the right connections. 
On offense the Belles' goal is to push the ball forward as much as possible in order to put pressure on the Titan defense early and often. Sophomore Lauren Hinton leads Saint Mary's in scoring with five goals while senior Ashley Hinton has also added three goals and two assists. 



The duo leads the team on offense for the second straight year, but can expect help from other underclass­men as they mature. 
"With the amount of talent we possess in every area on the field, there is no telling where our goals will come from," said Stancukas, who also has one goal this sea­son. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


y~~ 
NoTRE DAME INVITATIO 
ALL DAY SATURDAY~ SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 23RD ~ 24TH GoLF CouRSE 
~~jf~ 
ToM FALLON INVITATIONAL 
ALL DAY FRIDAY , SUNDAY 
SEPTEMBER 22ND , 24TH 


r 
) 
' 
Friday, September 22, 2006 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
Phoxes 
continued from page 20 
than enough points on the board to win this weekend. 
"{This week} we worked on bet­ter passing routes and just want­ed our receivers to establish a bet­ter relationship with the quarter­back," Riemersma said. "We just want a more polished offense." 
Badin vs. Welsh Family 
Badin has a lot on its plate this week as it faces off against Welsh Family Sunday at 2 p.m. on West Quad, attempting to make up for a sloppy 13-0 loss to Cavanaugh Tuesday. 
"Tuesday night was tough, espe­cially since the weather and slip­pery field gave us a few injuries, but we are excited to move ahead to the next game," Bullfrogs cap­tain Meghan Charlebois said. "[Welsh Family] sounds like a solid team so I am sure it will be good competition and we are excited for the chance to have to step up our game." 
The Bullfrogs {1-1) have confi­dence in their team -especially with their offense -which pulled off a 30-yard reverse for a touch­down in their first game. Badin's defense was also strong against Cavanaugh Tuesday, stopping red zone drives as well as picking off Chaos passes. 
Welsh Family (2-0) has outscored its opponents 29-6 in its frrst two games -a tight 8-6 vic­tory over Walsh and a 21-0 shutout of Lyons Tuesday. 
Cavanaugh vs. Lyons 
Lyons will look to gain its first win of the season Sunday when it takes on the Cavanaugh Chaos Sunday at 1 p.m. on West Quad after falling 21-0 to Welsh Family in its first game earlier this week. 
"I think we had first game jit­ters," Lyons captain Cheron Wilson said of her team's per­formance against the Whirlwinds. "We have a lot of freshmen on the team and we were a little anx­ious." 
This week, the Lions will prac­tice staying in their zone on defense. Wilson said the team plans to adjust its game to Cavanaugh's on both sides of the ball. To do so, the Lions will try to show more patience against a Chaos squad who is capable of running the option. 
"Last game there were some tough weather conditions which worked in our favor. We were able to exploit the run and run the option," Cavanaugh middle line­backer Kerri Bergen said. "We just work with what we're given. We try to be as diverse as possible in both the passing and running games." 
Pasquerilla West vs. Farley 
Pasquerilla West will look to add another win to its total Sunday in a Gold League contest with Farley at 4 p.m. at McGlinn Fields. The Finest already dropped a heartbreaking 6-0 game to last year's runner-up Pangborn on Sunday. This Sunday, they are seeking the upset of the other half of last sea­son's title game. 
The Purple Weasels come in having dominated Breen-Phillips last week 20-0 and will be fresh off a championship rematch with Pangborn. As the defending champs, Pasquerilla West expects to see the best possible effort from its opponents week in and week out. Team captain Maureen Spring acknowledged the differ­ence when playing with a target on her back. 
"We definitely know that people are out to get us," she said. "We actually talked about the similari­ties between our team and Notre Dame, how we have to keep our egos in check, and not let what people say get to our heads." 
The star receiver, who reeled in two receiving touchdowns in last Sunday's action, deflected praise for the team's offense, focusing 
rather on the defense  as the  
team's mainstay.  
"Our defense is  our  rock,"  

Spring said, referring to a unit that did not yield a point in its opener. "They come to play every week, and we know that we can count on them." 
"We all love coming out and playing everyday, so I think that not having a game Thursday would be more of a problem for us." 
McGlinn vs. Breen-Phillips 
The Shamrocks will look to earn a win against the pink -clad Babes of Breen-Phillips Sunday in a Gold League match up at 3 p.m. on McGlinn Field. 
The Babes will be playing their third game of the season, while McGlinn will enter the game hav­ing played only a Thursday con­test against Lewis. McGlinn cap­tain Madeline Boyer said the extra time before the team's first two contests could work in its favor. 
"It's good that we have extra time to prepare," she said. "We have a lot of freshmen, so we can use this time to teach them the rules and get them used to the game's style." 
Meanwhile, Breen-Phi1lips will try to rebound from a 20-0 shutout loss at the hands of defending champion Pasqueri1la West. 
"We were definitely disappoint­ed in the result," Breen-Phillips captain Melissa Meagher said. "We saw a lot of improvement from last year." 
Meagher noted that the team focused on running tight routes during practice this week in an effort to improve an offense that failed to find the end zone. 
"I tried to improve my move­ment in the pocket, and try and roll out a bit so that I could fmd my open receivers," Meagher said. 
Breen-Phillips also focused on improving its pass defense, more specifically defending long passes. "We also have experienced coach­es, and a lot of enthusiastic girls who are eager to play," Boyer said. 
The pass-catching combo of Tara Johnson and Tara McCarron will test the freshman-laden Shamrocks. 
Boyer hoped Breen-Phillips' struggles would continue -at least for another game. 
"They're probably down after that loss," she said. "Hopefully, we'll be able to keep them down." 
Contact Andrew Kovach at 
akovach@nd.edu, Michael 
Burdell at mburdell@nd.edu 
and Colin Reimer at 
creimer1@nd.edu 

anni~ aroo tri~ to see eMic igan State game? Make sure to avoid unnecessary ~enalties! ~ Underage dri~ing laws will be strict~ enforced • T ai~ate lots will open at 1:00 p.m. -traffic lineups will not be permitted ~ Akoool is mt permitted on camp.JS at any tine prior to the tailgate lots openi~ For more information see: www.hofllfootball.msu.edu  
WIN YOUR OWN , TRUST FUND ENTER TO WIN AT: www.TrustFundlivinu.com  
ec:=• StudentUniverse.com  

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

~--~~~~~----------­
1 Jam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
-------~F&.......-----­
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie,. Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area. near Pendle Road on 3 I 
Introducing 


Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5ll0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 

From ..,.., ICitmon to Youro
271-1692 
SMC GOLF 
MIAA 
year gets started 
By BECKI SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
The Bel1es have a chance to show their new improved attitude coming into their first MIAA Jamboree conference tour­nament this weekend, the Comet Classic. 
"These past few tourna­ments have been testing, but all of our issues should now be dealt with," sopho­more co-captain Alex Sei said. "We've been practic­ing hard and it should show at the Jamboree." 
With several disappoint­ing finishes in non-confer­ence tournaments this year, the Belles hope to record a low score to start strong at the conference tourname.Qts. 
Olivet will host the two­day, 72-par tournament at the Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich. The tour­nament, which Albion orig­inally intended to host, was rained out last week. 
Three golfers on the team have played the course before, but it still will be a tough test for the relatively young team. Junior captain Katie 0 'Brien believes having played the course before doesn't provide too big of an advantage. 
"Whether they have played it or not, all of the team will have an opportu­nity to play very well here," she said. 
Head coach Mark Hamilton said the team would travel with eight girls, three of which will participate in the tourna­ment as individuals. 
"We have a lot of good skills on the team," Hamilton said. "It just seemed the wheels were falling off on some of the holes [the past few week­endsj. We fixed those problems pretty easily and now we're ready to go." 
The top of the lineup will include Sei, who will focus on personal goals as she sets the pace for the team. 
"[I'll just] take one shot at a time," Sei said. 
O'Brien has high hopes for the Jamboree and knows that the team has the ability and desire to finish strong. 
"If we keep our heads in it this weekend, we are going to do very well," she said. 
Contact Becki Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 


Friday, September 22, 2006 page 17 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Comeback 
continued from page 20 
good place to start. The Panthers are undefeated in their last four games and hold the fifth-place spot in the Big East -one spot ahead of Notre Dame. 
Pittsburgh's conference record of 2-1-1 is good for seven points, one point better than Notre Dame's six conference points. 
"This is a gigantic game for us," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "We're capable of winning every one of our nine remaining games, but we have to take them one at a time. That starts with Pitt.·· 
The Panthers Big East resume includes wins over opponents that have given Notre Dame trouble this year -a 2-1 victory over Cincinnati, who defeated the Irish 2-1 last Saturday, and a 0-0 tie against South Florida, who beat Notre Dame 2-0 earli­er this season. 
Although Pittsburgh's overall record of 3-4-2 is not as impres­sive as its record in conference play, Clark feels that the Panthers' recent performances are more suggestive of their true quality. 
"They started off very slowly, but they're on an upswing now," Clark said. "I don't know where they were at the beginning of the season, but they obviously have tons of momentum right now." 
Momentum is something Notre Dame could use. 
The Irish are 0-1-1 in their last two games, with their last win coming one Friday ago against Louisville. Notre Dame has only managed to win two consecutive games one time this season, and the team's start is taking its toll. 
"We're doing what l call stut­tering along," Clark said. "As a top class athlete, though, you can't let that affect your focus. I feel like there's some frustra­tion, but I feel like we're going to stay focused on what we're trying to get done." 
Notre Dame began this season with dreams of a conference title and a deep run into the NCAA Tournament. For Clark and the team, though, the focus is on the here and now. 
"We're not giving [the Big East tournament or NCAA tourna­ment] any consideration right now," Clark said. "You don't overly concern yourself with things that are months away. You concern yourself with what's right in front of you, and, for us, that's Pitt." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

JENNIFER KANG!The Observer Notre Dame forward Joseph Laplra, right, beats a Northern Illinois defender to a loose ball In the teams' game Wednesday. 
Unbeaten 
continued from page 20 
can creep up if the Irish set­tle down too much in the Big East season -especially when facing unranked teams like Louisville and Cincinnati. 
"There's still some disparity between the top and bottom teams [in the Big East confer­ence]," Waldrum said. "It's difficult to get teams mentally prepared to play everyone. Sometimes you tend to play down to the team you're play­ing. 
"But in non-conference sea­son playing teams like USC and Santa Clara, you know the girls are going to be up for top ranked teams." 
The Bearcat and Cardinal programs enter their respec­tive games from different directions. Head coach Meridy Glenn of Cincinnati has tasted success in her 24 years coaching at Cincinnati. She has led the Bearcats to six NCAA Tournaments ­including a ,second round defeat of Notre Dame in 2001 
-while becoming the 1Oth win­ningest coach in women's colle­giate soccer histo­ry with a 242­165-32 record. 
However, the Bearcats have hit hard times recently, rebound­ing from a 3-11-3 campaign -and hoping to compete for a Big East tournament spot. Early wins this 
against Kentucky and Miami of Ohio indicate they are an improved te<:~m, Waldrum said. 
"I don't think there's any doubt they're better [this yearJ." he said. "Years ago 
Cincinnati had a very good program. We're another year or two away to see if they're going turn it in that direction but they're clearly on their way." 
Top-ranked Notre Dame will 
clearly be the most important game on Cincinnati's schedule, as they are advertising a '"C' of Red Night" to encourage fans to watch them try to knock off the nation's top team. 
With the protec­tion of freshman standout keeper Andrea Kaminski, who ranks second in Big East saves, the Bearcats hope to pose a tougher challenge than 
··rhese are two very important games because of seeding at the end ofthe year, and they are conference games.·· 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
time the women's soccer program has received such honors from any national publi­cation. But Waldrum won­dered whether Louisville can continue play­ing at a level it hasn't experi­enced before. 
"They have a lot at stake in this game. But 
opener.
"[Dew] brings a 
The Cardinals calming effect to will also be backed by keep­
the back line. When 
er Joanna Haig,
she·s there. I think 
a teammate of Kim Lorenzen sophomore plays better, defender Carrie Dew and sopho­
Christie Shaner 
more midfielder plays better and Brittany Bock 
Ashley Jones plays during the U-20 
W o r 1 d
better.·· 
Championships earlier this sea­Randy Waldrum son. Since return­
Irish coach 
they did in last year's 4-0 Irish victory. 
Undefeated 6-0-1 Louisville, on the other hand, is a pro­gram on the attack. Its momentum was confirmed this week when Soccer Buzz awarded the Cardinals votes in its weekly poll -the first 
so do we," said Waldrum, whose Irish beat the Cardinals 3-0 last year. "These are two very impor­tant games because of seed­ing at the end of the year, and they are conference games." 
Waldrum said the Irish will look to stop Cardinals senior forward Jamie Craft, the reigning Big East Offensive Player of the Week after scor­ing two goals and an assist to defeat Cincinnati 4-1 in each 
team's confer­
ence 
ing from the 
tournament in Russia, Dew has helped shore up an Irish back four that Waldrum and Lorenzen agree have made too many mistakes for championship defense. 
"She brings a calming effect to the back line," Waldrum said. "When she's there, I think Kim Lorenzen plays bet­ter, Christie Shaner plays bet­ter and Ashley Jones plays better." 
Jones earned Big East Defensive Player of the Week honors this past week next to Dew with her performance in Notre Dame's shutout wins over DePaul and Michigan. Jones is the second player to receive conference honors after freshman Michele Weissenhofer won Rookie of the Week status scoring or assisting five of seven Irish scores last weekend. Her 10 assists lead the nation, and her 20 points rank second. 
·Bock's two goals and assist helped the Irish to victory against the Blue Demons. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 


"1# don't offer an earlypartner track or a flexible work environment, hut our tote hags are the best in the industry." 
Looking for a career instead of just a job? We're RSM McGiadrey, the professional services firm for people on th~ move, with over 7,000 of the brightest minds in the industry. With a focus on midsize companies, we provide valuable exposure~ sooner, to the challenges and rewards of developing innovative solutions to enhance our clients' 
' 
businesses. \\#ant a career that's challenging and inspiring, instead of run..of~the .. mm? learn more at rsmmcgladrey.com. 
RSM McGiadrey 
ACCOUNTING • TAX • BUSINESS CONSULTING 
-

r-··
J 
') 
'·' 
> 
l!i' 
page 18 

·~\ 
!l "We want to break 300 all three rounds. We feel confi­
Coach

.,) 
dent knowing the course," Maunu said. "Playing on our
continued from page 20 

own course definitely gives chance to see the Irish up us an advantage of a couple close for the first time. of strokes. We already know 

"I was able what to hit off to see the team the tees. It is a play last week­big difference 
end because "I was able to get a from other tour­we were head start by seeing naments when 
paired togeth­you only play
the team play. I feel 
er, which was one practice 
a good thing we played well. but I round. We've 
for me," she think we can also do played this said. course
"I was better. .. hun­
able to get a dreds of times." 
head start by Also teeing off 
seeing the Susan Holt for the Irish this 
team play. I Irish coach weekend will be 
feel we played senior Stacy 
well, but I Brown, who fin­
think we can also do better." ished tied for 17th in last 
The Irish will again be year's tournament, and fresh­without junior captain men Kristin Wetzel and Annie Alejandra Diaz-Calderon, Brophy, who all contributed who will miss scoring rounds her second for the Irish
l! straight tour­"Playing on our own last week. 
nament with an The first two 
course definitely
r undetermined rounds of the back injury. gives us an tournament
i. \ 
"There aren't advantage ofa will take place any problems on Saturday,
couple ofstrokes. We
) 
) with the disc, with the final 
( but they still do already know what round on not know what to hit offthe tees.·· Sunday. The is wrong," top four scores Diaz-Calderon from each team
Lisa Mauna 
said. for each round 
Leading the Irish player will count Irish will be toward their senior Noriko overall score. Nakazaki, who tied for the Results will be posted on individual title last year with und.com after each day's play a 7-over-par 223, and sopho­has concluded. more Lisa Maunu, who tied for 20th at the Cougar Classic and tied for eighth at last Contact Chris Hine at year's Invitational. chine@nd.edu 
Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Schedule 
continued from page 20 
than the young Irish -that earned a 6-8 Big East record and an 11-16 overall mark. The team's three wins this sea­son have come against UNC­Asheville, James Madison and Maine. 
Rutgers, however, has a potent offensive threat in sen­ior outside hitter Lora Yankauskas. She was selected to the 2006 Preseason All-Big East Team and has averaged 
4.03 kills per game, along with 
3.39 
digs. Freshman Christina Kaelin leads the Irish with 

4.05 
kills per game. 


"We definitely remember [Yankauskas] from last year ­she's a very good player," Brown said. "She's definitely their go-to player, but we feel pretty confident that we can slow her down." 
Yankauskas is aided on her attack by senior setter Jocelyn Greenwald and sophomore Roxy Calder, who both average 
5.28 assists per game. 
On the defensive side, fresh­man Brittani Rendina leads the Scarlet Knights in digs per game with 3.97. Irish senior libero Danielle Herndon leads the team with 5.34 digs per game. 
Villanova (5-8) hosts Notre Dame a day after the Wildcats open their Big East season against DePaul, while Rutgers will play DePaul at home a day after the Irish leave New Brunswick. 
The Wildcats close out a six­game home stand against the Irish, and they have won the first four games against Holy Cross, Sacred Heart, Maryland-Baltimore County and La Salle, after starting the season 1-8. 
"When we play back-to-hack matches like this, we really play it one game at a time," Brown said of her team's preparation for Villanova. "We watched video to see if there's one thing we needed to emphasize in practice. 
"Even though their record is bad right now, they've played a very strong schedule." 
Villanova senior Adrian Semrau was named this 
week's Big East Player of the Week for her efforts in the four-game win streak. Semrau was also named MVP of the Villanova Classic for her 52­kill performance -a .590 hit­ting percentage -in the three matches. 
On the season, Semrau leads the Wildcats in kills (154) and blocks (43), while averaging 
1.05 blocks per game. Villanova compiled an 8-6 con­ference record last season and was 21-11 overall. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 


I 
L 
!l 
Sat1..1rday, Septer,.-.ber 23, 2006 
~c:~~lcE? thE? l::>e»1r... E?.-F?11...1..-. CE;T41E!?CII t I Talk about the Pancakes you ate! Ovarian Cancer you'll help eliminate! Then go 1/Vatch the Irish beatState! 

I' 
) r 
l f 
I 
I 
~ 
l ~ 
I! 

A 73 ~-fi.;t::· fi>r OVC'LI<-~ COl.~-aAA.Joc...r-e~~ Of...-Y\.d.--e.dA.A..c~~Y\/ 
ND/SMC/HC Community $10.00 in advance $15.00 day of race Alumni & Select Groups $15.00 Register in advance at RSRC or dovvnload registration forrn @ recsports.nd.edu Advance registration ends @ 7:00pm Friday, Septen~ber 22 Race day check-in @ Legends
~~ 
(l 
r 
I 
I 
I 
~: 

For more information, call631-6100 orvisit recsports.nd.edu 



Friday, September 22, 2006 page 19
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
' 

I 'DONI Ur-lcat.sI M>t:> ri. 'V-'E''IJE. C.\-\~E.P 
E.\l~'f PLAc.E ON CA~A.\S AND WE-. 
•
1' FIND HeSeMF.li \-l. 

DoN1-TJ.\\N\c:. OUR. 'f£t1W,...'fS 

t1o -n..uxr ~Aft.. • 
HE.'{' \...E.'lS RlDE. ""t"o ~u~ 
~Po· SOH~ 
"':S...lt-\p s w l'l"\.i .,-HE: S€;c.:r-WP..'fS. 
JUMBLE 
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NUKKS 
rJ 
1 
1!:>2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~~f"l) 
FOLFAY 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 
I 
PANUCK ± 
I I r J I 
Print~ here: Al I I I J rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturda 's I Jumbles: BYLAW NOISY TRUANT HEARTH y Answer: What the seamstress enjoyed on her wedding day-"ALTAR-AllONS" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


-
WHAT THE SAILOR EXPE:RIE:NC.E:D WHEN HIS BROKE:N LEG HEALED. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
"""""".......................... 31 Big Wheel rider 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
61 Mythical reveler 62 Mice catchers 63 Spent 
DOWN 1 Pedestrian 2 One whose flag 
features a dagger and two swords 
3 Santa Claus, for one 4 Big race sponsor 5 Freshness 6 Events with tents 7 Offensive 8 Handbag monogram 9 Film attacker? 10 Postal unit 11 Like some troops 12 Homologous 13 English horn, e.g. 
18 River whose mouth is near Nieuwpoort 
22 Annual meeting attendees 24 Head­25 Dump (on) 28 They keep large flocks 29 Justice Fortas and others 30 Lighter, briefly? 
WILLSHORTZ 

1 
Puzzle by Patrick Merrell  
32 Jaffe who wrote "The Best of  45 "Oh my!," for one  50 Is visibly miserable  
Everything" 34 Complex unit 35 Santa Claus feature 37 Poisonous ornamental 40 Not stay on deck  46 Erratic 47 Take second, e.g. 48 Result 49 Like baseball infields, before games  51 Actress Raines 52 Etymology info 56 Sign of overfilling 57 Big Ten sch.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
......

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip_·______ 

·----------------------------------------------------------~ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Joseph Mazzello, 22; Nicole Rich it 24; Faith Hill. 38; Ricki Lake, 37 Happy Birthday: Stay on top ofthings this year. If you let down your guarc chaos will erupt. Love and romance is looking hot, so don't hesitate to rene' your vows ifyou are married, commit to someone you love or look for a ne' love. You will have a chance to do something ofa serious nature that will impres others. Your numbers are I, 8, 22, 2,8, 33,37 ARIES (March 21-April 19): Think about the consequences before you mak a move that is questionable. Partnership problems can be resolved. You ar thinking in extremes, and that will backfire in the long term. ** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't let emotional matters escalate. ~tay calrr don't believe everything you hear. Don't make a decision based on half-truth and innuendos. Focus on your own advancement.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Money matters will be on your mind. Mak constructive changes. Minor mishaps or accidents are likely if you are confuse about something. Problems with your boss or an authority figure will spin Ol of control ifyou retaliate.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Consider the pros and cons of making a changt Ask someone with more experience to lend you a hand. You have the credential and the talent to do much better ifyou are willing to take a chance and move or **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do what you can to clear your backlog and focus o what you can do to ensure advancement. Think big and you will impress everyon< A little love problem is likely to develop. Be careful. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): An opportunity to find true love or to make th relationship you are in even better must be taken. A short romantic trip or tim spent doing something special will pay off. An idea you have can turn out to b quite lucrative. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be thinking on a big scale today, but don be impulsive about dishing out the cash. Refrain from letting others spend you money or take advantage ofyou. Focus on work-related projects that can brin you advancement or recognition. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep your thoughts to yourself and don't k anyone coerce you into doing something you don't feel good about. Privat information should be kept that way. A slip ofthe tongue will lead to argument and bad feelings. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Getting along with your peers will be hal the battle. Don't expect to feel good if you overindulge. A chance to get ahea is present if you are willing to give 200 percent. Time spent on ferreting ot information will be well worth it. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): All that's required is a little extra time an patience and you can be the one everyone looks up to. Travel looks very promisin from many different standpoints. Business mixed with pleasure can be your guid to sealing a deal.***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to look out for your own interest! Someone you least expect is probably causing more trouble for you than yo realize. You should probably start to question some of the relationships yo have.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need a break. Take a short pleasure trip an you will discover things about yourself you didn't know. Love and romance ar in a high cycle. Be creative and you will dazzle everyone you come in contac with. **** Birthday Baby: You are full of hope, desire and all it takes to be successfu You are a participant who is thoughtful, aggressive and to the point. You thriv on accomplishment. 
Eufi:enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, euf<enialast.com for confidential consultatior. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Brewer's need 5 Borderline 9 Salvaging aid 
14 Strike 15 Art Spiegelman's Pulitzer-winning 
graphic novel 16 Show fear 17 Upper 19 Set free 20 Nice one 21 Sat. rehearsals, 
perhaps 22 Back up 23 Brand whose 
logo is a cone-headed character 
26 Voltaire's "La de Cesar'' 27 Electronic music pioneer 28 Culmination 
31 Bring (out) 
33 1990 #1 rap hit 36 Her name can be touch-typed with just the right hand 
38 BBQ annoyance 
39 Like kilts 
41 Faux Japanese reply 
42 Conductor's need 43 Prefix with -crine 44 Snarly sort 46 Biblical path to heaven 50 Pacific 53 RR sta. info 54 It's stranded 
55 Hymn start 
56 Bedtime cover 
58 Fellow 
59 React angrily 
60 Pivot 



Friday, September 22, 2006 
page 20 

ND WoMEN's .SoccER 

Queens of the hill 
Irish finish road trip 'lvith game at Cincy 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Assistant Sporrs Editor 
As No. 1 Notre Dame set­tles into its Big East sched­ule, the Irish travel to Cincinnati today to cap_ off a five-game road stretch before returning to play Louisville for their first home match in a five-game stand at Alumni Field. 
Notre Dame dismantled its first conference foe DePaul last Friday 5-0 before edging out a sloppy 2-0 non-confer­ence win against Michigan Sunday. From today until round one of the NCAA 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Tournament, the Irish will only see their familiar Big East opponents. 
As the Irish enter the sec­ond part of the season, cap­tain and defender Kim Lorenzen hopes this consis­tency will help their concen­tration. 
"[The different stages of the season] are kind of like gradual steps until the final NCAA Tournament," she said. "Now that we're into conference play, it'll help us focus on the end goal to get good wins against these teams [in order to earn a top tournament seed]." 
At the same time, Irish coach Randy Waldrum espoused the dangers that 
see UNBEATEN/page 17 


I, ~ . 
Irish ready to open Big East schedule 
I. 
I' I' 
I 
I 
By KYLE CASSILY 

.~ 
Assistant Sports Editor 

"· 
Notre Dame opens its Big East schedule this weekend 

•'' 
with a two-game East Coast

I. I• ,_· 
swing, hoping to start the new season like it ended the previ­ous one -with a win over Rutgers. 


In the final game before Notre Dame went on a three­game run to take the 2005 Big East championship, the Irish 

defeated Rutgers 3-0 to share the regular season title with 

Louisville (both teams finished 13­1). 
The Irish (6-5) travel to New Brunswick, 
N . J . , 
Brown S a .t u r d a yfor a mid­day match against the Scarlet Knights, before a Sunday 
matchup in Pennsylvania against Villanova. 
Rutgers (3-7) will play not only its first conference game of the year against the Irish but also its first home match of the season. Notre Dame is 13-0 all-time against the Scarlet Knights. 
"I don't know that I even knew that -the team doesn't know that," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said when asked about Notre Dame's unbeaten record against 
MEN'S SOCCER 

·., 
Squad hopes to change fortune 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is in an unex­pected and unfortunate posi­tion early in the 2006 season -outsiders in the top NSCANadidas top 25 for the first time this year and second to last place in the Big East's Blue Division. 
But that could change short­ly. 
If the Irish are going to begin their ascent in the con­ference standings, Saturday's 7 p.m. matchup against Pittsburgh at Alumni Field is a 
see COMEBACK/page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL 


Rutgers. "Just in terms of practice, we thought we had so much to work on, on our side of the ball. We know what Rutgers brings, but probably more important than that, we know how we exe­cute and how we play our way, focusing on the funda­mentals." . 
The Scarlet Knights return only six letter-winners from their 2005 squad -one less 
see SCHEDULE/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
New coach debuts in home tourney 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
New coach Susan Holt will make her Notre Dame debut this weekend as the Irish try to defend their title in the sev­enth annual Notre Dame Invitational at the par-7 2 Warren Golf Course. 
"This weekend I'm just look­ing for them to come out and play like the) are capable of and the victory will take care of itself," Holt said in a state­ment released by the 
MlB 
MLB 
Stanford coach 
Orioles 4 
Athletics 7 
Brandon McLeod says 
Tigers 3 
Indians 4 
the Griffins are 
Detroit falls into tie 
prepared to overcome a 
Rich Harden returns
for first in AL Central. 
first week loss. 
from the DL to help 
Oakland pick up win.

>r'-, 
page 14 
page 12 
page 12 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Pangborn to battle Howard 
By ANDREW KOVACH, 
MICHAEL BURDELL and 
COLIN REIMER 
Sports Writers 
Two teams coming off very sim­ilar triumphs will match up this weekend with a clear path toward the playoffs on the line, when undefeated Pangborn and Howard both attempt to avoid their first loss this Sunday at 5 
p.m. on West Quad. 
Pangborn (1-0) beat Farley 6-0 in a defensive struggle last Sunday. The lone score of the game was provided by a Meghan Bescher reception in the back of the end zone. But despite the vic­tory, captain Katie Riemersma knows the team still has much work to do. 
"The defense played very well, but the offense struggled," she said. "We put enough points on the board to win but we need to play better." 
Howard (1-0) also has strides to make on offense. Sheena Ketchum's pass to receiver Megan Savage was the difference in a 6-0 win over Lewis last week­end. 
"We played well but could have done more offensively," team cap­tain Catherine Krug said. "We would have liked to score more points." 
This week in practice, both teams worked on their offenses, making sure they could put more 
see PHOXES/ page 16 
University. "I just want them to shoot rounds that are indica­tive of their talent." 
Notre Dame has won the event four out of the past six years and will have to compete against 13 other teams to reclaim its title. 
The Irish opened their sea­son at the Cougar Classic in Charleston, S.C. last week, fin­ishing 12th out of 19 teams. At that tournament, Holt was still coaching her former team, Southern Florida, but had the 
see COACH/pagel8 
MlB 
Marlins 5 Mets 2 
Rookie Anibal 
.Sanchez pitches seven strong innings to clinch Florida's victory. 
page 12 
. . . 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 22, 2006 
Weis can earn his keep Saturday 
Two weeks ago, Joe Paterno called Charlie Weis "one of the best" coaches in football at exploiting opponents' weaknesses. A week later, Weis was helpless in the face of the Michigan onslaught. 
But Weis can't dwell on what people say or what hap­pened a game ago. Weis must put the past behind him and do what he does best -find a soft spot in Michigan State and attack it. 
Weis did just that against Pittsburgh, Purdue, BYU, Tennessee, Navy and Syracuse in 2005. Calling swing pass. after swing pass in the face of BYU's 3-3-5 defense helped Weis secure a 1 0-year contract extension worth somewhere in the neighborhood of $30-40 mil­lion. 
If there were ever a time to earn that salary, it's now. 
Against Georgia Tech, the Irish offense struggled mighti­ly with one main exception ­the no-huddle offense. Notre Dame found comfort in the hurry-up attack again against Penn State. And when the offensive woes returned to Notre Dame Stadium against Michigan, Weis' only success­ful strategy, limited as it was, amounted to sending Brady Quinn to the line in a no-hud­dle offense that moved down­field not because of a strong plan but because of the Wolverines' confusion. 


At this point, Weis may have gone to the well too many times. So Weis' job is to figure out what this Notre Dame team can do to beat Michigan State. 
On offense, he must figure out a way to neutralize Michigan State's speed rush­ers Justin Kershaw and Ervin Baldwin on the ends while not feeding into the hands of 300­pound behemoths Clifton Ryan and Ogemdi Nwagbuo in the middle. 
That might mean utilizing counters and misdirections against the Spartans -some­thing the Irish have not done a single time this year. Or it could equal running out of a two-tailback set-another void of the Irish offense. Or maybe Weis will have Notre Dame's guards pull more than they have this year to help clear a path for a struggling Darius Walker. 
Weis must make that call and figure out what will work best against a defense that has surrendered just 78.67 yards per game, No. 22 in the nation. It's what he's paid for. 
But it's not the only thing. On the defensive front, he faces the challenge of getting more pressure on the quarter­
back -Notre Dame is just yards per game, third best in No. 65 in the country in sacks the NCAA. -against a team that is in They can. the top-25 in protecting its Weis, Minter, Oliver and quarterback. And that quar­Lewis shut down Michigan in terback just happens to be the September of 2005. They kept elusive Drew Stanton. USC in check four weeks later. 
To make the challenge even 'And they held Georgia Tech tougher, the average weight of and Penn State to minimal 
Notre Dame's  production  
defensive line- earlier this  
men (277 pounds) is more than 30  Weis must put the ·past behind him and  year. Weis and Co. have beaten  
pounds less than Michigan State's offen­sive linemen  do what he does best ­find a soft spot in Michigan State and  opponents almost singu­larly by using Xs and Os in  
(309 pounds).  attack it.  nearly half of  

Compare that to the 10­pound advan­tage the Irish offensive line maintains over the Spartan defensive line, and sit's easy to see the potential problem. 
But Weis may have a soh.I­tion. The Irish used "stunt" rushes more in their first two contests than they did in most of 2005. By creating a little confusion on the offensive lines of Georgia Tech and Penn State, the Notre Dame defense kept quarterbacks Reggie Ball and Anthony Morelli off balance enough to control the game. 
Weis and his defensive staff -coordinator and lineback­ers coach Rick Minter, line coach Jappy Oliver and sec­ondary coach Bill Lewis ­must figure out how to stop Stanton's Spartans, who have gained a Herculean 506.33 
their games 
coaching ai 
Notre Dame. There's a reason why JoePa, college football's most revered leader, sang nothing but praise for Weis. 
But like Heisman Trophy caliber players, coaches have bad games. Weis had one against Michigan. 
And like Heisman Trophy caliber players, coaches must rebound from those bad games and put in one of their best performances. 
Weis has shown he can do it before, just ask BYU. The question is, will he do it again? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
game hype 

Chartie Wets Irish coach 
" This is why you come to Michigan State, to play in rivalries like this. This is what its all about. ,, 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"/ think people are ready to look forward; want tojust get a win. That's what we're worried 
about.,, "This has to be a collective effort. It starts with my message to the players and to the coaches.,, 

Drew Stanton Spartans quarterback 
''Min or loss, you got to move on, you got to handle things the same, move forward'' 

Tom Zbikowski Irish safety 

Darne Faculty, Staff and Students 
Get a Super 
Cool New BlackBerry® 7130c -for $19999 
Plus, ge1: an addit:ie>nal 
$50 Visa D~bit Card 
back -Fre>m Rl M 
Ask a sales representative for 
details.. Offer available at Cingular 
retail locations.. 
Visit: us at this location: Universit:y Park IVIall 
6501 N. Grape Road 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
(574) 243-8016 
Reference Discount FAN #2391191 
~ cingular

raising the barT••11I'"... Some rest:rictions apply. Offer good for a limited time only. Subject to credit approval. 
Friday, September 22, 2006 

The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

At left, Spartans linebacker Kaleb Thornhill tackles Irish quarterback Brady Quinn in Michigan State's 44-41 overtime victory at Notre Dame Stadium in 2005. At right, Spartans quarterback Drew Stanton eludes former Irish linebacker Corey Mays. 
Michigan State is now Notre Dame's nemesis 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

Forty years ago, the Michigan State athletic department hand­ed out 7 45 press credentials for a football game played on a dreary November day in East Lansing. 
Forty years ago, seven consen­sus All-Americans played in that contest. 
Forty years ago, Notre Dame ran out the clock on Michigan State as the game ended in a 10­10 tie. 
This Saturday night, Notre Dame and Michigan State mark the anniversary of one of the greatest college football games ever played when the Irish and Spartans square off for the 38th time since their infamous dead­lock. 
And while Michigan State looks back on the 1966 matchup and cringes at a national title that slipped away, Notre Dame looks at more recent history with the thought that the team they so famously edged for the cham­pionship 40 seasons ago has finally gained the upper hand. 
Immovable objects 
Notre Dame was rolling in 1966. Three years into the Era of Ara, the Irish were No. 1 in the country, had outscored their opponents 301-28 through eight games and needed just two more victories to win Ara Parseghian's first national championship. 
Michigan State wasn't doing so bad itself. The Spartans were undefeated, No. 2 in the country and fresh off a 12-3 victory at Notre Dame one year earlier. 
Notre Dame came one win from a national title in 1964. Michigan State almost won the championship in 1965, falling 14-12 to UCLA in the Rose Bowl. Now ranked first and second in all the major polls, the Irish and 
Spartans met  to  decide  the  
national champion.  
The  Irish  had  four  All­ 

Americans on their side ­defensive end Alan Page, offen­sive guard Tom Regner, halfback Nick Eddy and linebacker Jim Lynch (who would go on to win the Maxwell as the nation's best player.) 
The Spartans had three of their own in halfback Clinton Jones, defensive end Bubba Smith and defensive back George Webster. Smith, especial­ly, was a force. Standing 6-foot-7 and weighing 283 pounds, he was a monster by 1966 stan­dards. Comparatively, Page ­who would become an NFL Hall­of-Farner-stood 6-foot-5 and weighed in at 238 pounds. 
Simply put, the only squad in the country that could stop Notre Dame was Michigan State and the only squad in the country that could stop Michigan State was Notre Dame. 
Unfortunately, neither went anywhere. · 
"Tie one for the Glpper" 
It's hard to find anything bad about Ara Parseghian. 
A legendary coach, charismat­ic speaker and head of a founda­tion searching for a cure to a disease that has taken the lives of three of liis grandchildren, Parseghian is known, respected 

AP Irish quarterback Terry Hanratty cuts to the corner during Notre Dame and Michigan State's famous 1G-10 tie Nov. 19, 1966. 
and loved by millions. 
If there is a chink in his armor, 

it could only come from one 
event. 
The year-1966. The oppo­

nent -Michigan State. The 
score-10-10. 
When Parseghian ran out the 

clock with the ball at Notre 
Dame's own 30-yard line and 
1:10 remaining, he took plenty of heat. 
Sports Illustrated writer Dan 

Jenkins wrote that Notre Dame 
had "tied one for the Gipper." 
Michigan State fans howled, 

upset the Spartans were still 
stuck at No. 2 with no more 
games to play. (Though Big Ten 
champions, Michigan State could 
not play in the Rose Bowl that 
season because of conference 
rules against back-to-hack 
appearances.) 
Notre Dame exhaled -happy to win after losing Eddy and quarterback Terry Hanratty to injuries during the game -and went on to thump USC 51-0 and win Parseghian's first national title. 
Of course, the tie would never happen today, as overtime was introduced to college football in 1996. 
Spartan backers like to say Parseghian was afraid to lose. Irish fans point out he had a dia­betic backup quarterback in Coley O'Brien and choosing to escape East Lansing without a loss and with the No. 1 ranking was a smart decision. 
Neither side will ever agree. 

No easy win 
1966 was Michigan State's last serious run at a national title. While the Spartans struggled for the next 30 years, the Irish flour­ished, winning three more championships. 
Notre Dame rarely lost to Michigan State after the famous tie, winning all but four from 1967 until the series took a two­year break, beginning in 1995. 
That's where things get inter­esting. 
Maybe Notre Dame just declined. Maybe the Spartans finally figured out a formula for beating the Irish. Whatever the reason, t.he Irish-Spartans series -whose most famous game is one only Notre Dame remem­bers fondly -has turned into one dominated by Michigan State. 
It might he the years of beat­ings by Irish hands. It might be the national title they felt they should have won. It might be just that one program has gotten bet-

NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP EDITION 
-~--.-...... ···---~---·-····"""""""'· 
THE OBSERVER 
Observer Archives The front page of the Nov. 17, 1966 Observer guides students from South Bend to East Lansing before the "Game of the Century." 
ter and the other has declined. 
The fact is that Michigan State isn't just a pesky opponent Notre Dame must deal with before big­ger games against Michigan and USC every season. Michigan State is now Notre Dame's biggest problem. 
Upset no more 
The Irish have entered their game with the Spartans as the higher-ranked team six times since the arinual series returned from its hiatus in 1997. Notre Dame's record in those games? 1-5. 
Overall, the Irish are 2-7 against the Spartans in that span. The only time Michigan State entered as the higher­ranked team was 1997, when Notre Dame lost 23-7 at home in former coach Bob Davie's first season. 
Mter the 1966 matchup, Notre Dame could practically write in the Michigan State game as a win. In more recent years, the same could be said for the Spartans. 
Michigan State has found the formula to beat Notre Dame. It doesn't matter if Notre Dame is the favorite -which it almost always is -the Spartans con­sistently beat the Irish. 
Unlike 40 years ago, Notre Dame enters this game far from the No. 1 spot after its 47-21 loss to Michigan last Saturday. Still, No. 12 Notre Dame heads to East Lansing in a more promi­nent position than the Spartans, who haven't cracked the AP poll, but do have 33 votes. 
What's Vegas have to say about Saturday's game? The Irish by three. 
The only sure thing is there won't be a tie. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Consecutive years Lou Holtz's Notre Dame teams beat Michigan 
8 
State, from 1987-94. 
5 
Consecutive seasons in which Michigan State beat Notre Dame under Bob Davie, from 1997·2001. 
Points both Michigan State and Notre Dame scored in their famous 1966 tie. The two teams will honor the "Game of the Century" this 
10 
week by wearing a commemorative patch. 
11 Wins Michigan State has against Notre Dame over the last 16 matchups in which the Irish entered with a higher ranking. 
Victories Michigan State earned against Notre Dame in the teams' 
4 
annual meetings between 1966 and 1994. 
5 
Touchdowns Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw in Notre !lame's 44·41 overtime loss to Michigan State in 2005. 

page 4 Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 



.. . 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 2-1 AP: 12 Coaches: 13 
Charlie Weis Second season at Notre Dame career record: 
11-4 
at Notre Dame: 
11-4 
against Michigan State: 0-1 


Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. 1 D.J. Hord WR 6-1 2 Darrin Walls DB 6-1 3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 4 Demetrius Jones QB 6-4 5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-1 6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 7 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 8 Ra<>shon McNeil DB 6-0 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 10 Brady Quinn ·QB 6-4 11 David Grimes WR 6-0 12 Zach Frazer QB 6-4 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 14 Bobby Renkes K 6-0 15 Leo Perrine DB 6-0 17 Geoffrey Price 6-3
p 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 19 George West WR 5-8 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 25 Munir Prince RB 5-10 26 Wadelams DB 5-9 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 29 Jake Richardsville WR 6-0 30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-1 32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 33 Nate Whitaker K 5-9 34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 35 lim Kenney DB 6-0 36 DexCure RB 6-1 37 Junior Jabbie RB 5-11 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 43 Eric Maust p 6-1 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 46 Kyle Charters LB 5-11 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 48 Steve.Quinn LB 6-2 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 54 Anthony Vemaglia DB 6-3 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 63 Jeff lisak OL 6-3 64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 69 Neil Kennedy DL 5-11 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 89 John Carlson TE 6-5 90 John Ryan DL 6-5 91 Travis Leitko DL 6-7 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 % Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 
Wt. 192 175 208 202 212 189 170 175 203 
227 
170 215 207 195 186 186 1% 219 179 188 175 197 203 170 178 175 188 215 187 205 189 195 180 193 184 230 165 209 247 180 215 190 183 185 230 220 234 231 170 180 180 
250 
174 183 230 195 240 220 220 230 290 285 212 228 221 290 
238 
252 340 238 242 
305 259 
263 
288 260 290 
292 
288 292 
268 292 290 
298 
285 200 
192 185 216 
250 245 
245 239 255 240 270 301 265 
247 
260 267 220 
293 
261 
YR 
so 
FR JR FR SR 
so 
SR FR SR SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR JR SR 
so 
SR FR JR FR SR SR JR JR FR JR SR 
so 
SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR 
FR 
FR FR FR SR SR FR JR JR 
FR FR JR 
so 
so 
so 
FR 
so 
so 
so 
SR 
so 
JR SR JR SR FR SR FR SR FR JR 
FR 
SR SR FR SR JR 
so 
SR SR SR JR FR so FR FR SR SR 
so 
SR SR 
FR 
JR FR SR FR 
JR SR FR SR FR SR 
so FR JR SR 
so 
FR 
SR JR 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

NOTRE DAME 
CORNERBACK

2006 Schedule 
Williams 

Sept. 2 atGT-W Sept. 9 PSU-W Sept. 16 l\1IaHGAN-L Sept. 23 at MSU Sept. 30 PURDUE Oct. 7 STANFORD Oct. 21 UCLA Oct. 28 at Navy Nov.4 UNC Nov.11 at Air Force Nov. 18 ARMY Nov. 25 at USC 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
:E 
cC 
Q 
LLI 
a:: 
t­
o 
z 
LLI 
~ 
, 
..... z 
cC 
":c ­
CJ
-
:E 

Confidence in Charlie Weis is bruised but not permanently damaged. He understands how much is riding on this game and on this season. Weis needs to bring his  Brady Quinn had an off-game last week, but it was a total failure by the offense as well, with poor protection and some dropped balls by receivers. If anyone can  After gaining just four yards on the ground against Michigan, the Irish have spent the week trying to get the running game back on track. Darius Walker has proven to be a  Notre Dame's totaled 774 yards through the air this season, with six passing touchdowns (all Quinn's}. Rhema McKnight leads the receivers with 18 catches for 243 yards and two TDs.  
team out ready for this game -the way they weren't ready against Michigan.  take a confidence hit and then successfully rebound, however, it's Quinn.  dual threat both rushing and receiving, as well as blocking and picking up blitzes.  Tight end John Carlson is averaging 13_5 yards per catch and Jeff Samardzija has two scores.  
John L. Smith is in one of the best positions of his career as far as returning starters and veteran experience. He's shown he can play in big games, but teams tend to collapse  Drew Stanton is a dark­horse Heisman candidate with the possibility for a breakout year_ With some of his favorite targets returning and superior mobility, he might have a  In three games, the Spartans have picked up five sacks and held their opponents to 236 rushing yards and two rushing touchdowns_ They return six starters on defense, but  Michigan State's three opponents have passed for over 600 yards this season and average over six yards per pass. The team has three picks, two by linebackers. Both  
later in the season_ Smith is 14th among active coaches in career wins, with 128.  chance to light up the Irish again_ In three games, he's 56-of-82 for 677 yards and six touchdowns.  just one is on the defensive line, tackle Oifton Ryan. A major strength is the line­backers.  the strong and free safe­ty are new starters, but the two lead the team in tackles.  
Weis has a lot to prove after last season's beating, and an experienced team  Two of the country's most accomplished and veteran quarterbacks face  Walker needs to be able to turn the . corner. against a weaker defensive line  If Quinn and his receivers, including Walker, can click, they will  
like the Spartans to make a statement before the schedules cools off. Smith has talented players but lacks Weis' preparation  ra:.~i~i.~j.~E·'.:r:~,···\!~il'~·hse~e .. ixploit ' · I sh s .· o ··· ~bet e. ,if n  than thelrish have seen so far this year. If the Spartan linebackers can stuff the run, the Irish will be forced to revert to the  be unstoppable. But if the Spartans are able to keep pressure on Quinn and limit the rushing game, they will see the same  
and playcalling abilities, as well as the motivation he has for this game.  poised to again demon­strate the talent he's shown.  one..dimensional passing game thafwas inetl'ective against Michigan.  results as the Irish put up against Michigan last weekend.  


Bobby Griffin 
Asst. Managing Editor 




out of the locker room flat, watch out. defense and coaching over it'i opponent this week. ANAL SCORE: Michigan State 42 ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 Notre Dame 30 Michigan State 17 
Mike Gilloon 
Editor in Chief 
Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


Michigan State Spartans 
MICIHGAN SfA1E 

CORNliRAACK 
Richardson 
2006 Schedule 

larnbortor McNeil 
.-, 

SPARTANS RUSHING SPARTANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-t
::a 
ITI 
c 
3: ~ 
ITI 
-
(") 
:::t:
-
G') 
z ~ 
en
; 
~ 
ITI 

Notre Dame's defensive line has yet to have a breakout game. It gives up over 100 yards per game on the ground. and oppo­nents average nearly four yards per rush. The play of the linebackers will be crucial to stopping new running back Javon Ringer.  The Irish gave up a 69-A yard bomb early to Michigan quarterback Chad Henne, who passed for three touchdowns in just one half. Chinedum Ndukwe has two picks on the season and Tom Zbikowski had his break­out game in 2004 against the Spartans.  Charlie Weis and spe­cial teams coach Brian Polian have stressed to their players that they must protect the ball after David Grimes' fum­ble and Tom Zbikowski's muff against Penn State. Notre Dame is expecting to break a return for a score.  After struggling at Georgia Tech, Notre Dame came out firing on all cylinders against Penn State. It remains to be seen how the Irish will react in their first regular­season loss since last year's USC game ­a con­test the Irish avenged with a 49-23 "in over BYU.  
Sophomore Javon Ringer is averaging 7. 7 yards per carry on 46 rushes this season, and the Irish will struggle to contain a more mobile quarterback in Stanton. Jehuu Caulcrick is a 260-pound workhorse with three rushing scores.  Stanton is entering his second year as starter with pressure to perform in the backfield. Matt Trannon is a dangerous receiver who has 19 catches and two scores this season. Jerramy Scott has a 41­yarder under his belt and Kerry Reed averages 13 yards per catch.  Michigan State's return game has been weak this season, but the team has punted just six times in 2006 thanks to its potent offense. Spartans punter Brandon Fields has boomed those few chances, accumulating a 49.2-yard average.  The Notre Dame game is Michigan State's biggest every year. The Spartans can take advantage of the adrenaline they will have flowing -at home -much like Michigan did in South Bend last week. The Spartans are confident and are primed for an upset.  
The Spartans have three stong runners in Ringer, Caulcrick and Stanton. The. ·offensive line returned just two starters but has" given. up only  Michigan State has an explosive offense and will be able to thteaten Notre Dame in the air and on the groWid. Only bruisng hits by  Averaging 48 yards a boot, Notre Dame punter Geoff Price is able to turn field posi­tion into Notre Dame's favor with long, hanging  Michigan State has owned Notre Dame since Lou Holtz retired, ·winning seven of the last nine matchups, and every sign points to another Spartan  
three sacks. If the Irish are unable to stop the running game, the Spartans could explode for  the secondary will help quench the aerial fire­power and force the Spartans~to be conserva­ kicks. Punt returner Tom Zbikowski is always a danger to score, unlike  victory. The Spartans' biggest advantage is Smith's desire to .avenge a mediocre '2oos· season  
huge rushing totals.  tive.  the Spartan return men.  with a win over the Irish.  

IDAHO-W E.MICH.-W at Pitt-W NOTRE DAME ILLINOIS at Michigan OHIO STATE at Northwestern at Indiana PURDUE MINNESOTA at Penn State 

Michigan State 
Spartans Record: 3-0 
AP: NR 
Coaches: NR 
John L. Smith 4th season at Michigan State career record: 128-78 at MSU: 21-18 

against Notre John L. Smith Dame: 2-1 Spartans coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
2  Diego Oquendo  WR  5-9  178  so  
3  Matt Haughey  K  5-9  172  so  
3 4  Nehemiah Warrick Carl Grimes  s WR  6-1 5-9  203 178  JR so  
4  Ed Wagner  p  5-11  226  FR  
5  Drew Stanton  QB  6-3  2.30  SR  
6  Matt Trannon  WR  6-6  235  SR  
7  Brian Hoyer  QB  6-2  210  so  
8  Brandon Fields  p  6-6  235  SR  
9  Marcus Webb  WR  5-11  203  FR  
9  Demond Williams  CB  s-9  174  SR  
10  Connor Dixon  QB  6-4  190  FR  
10  Devin Thomas  WR  6-2  217  so  
11  Marcus Hyde  s  6-1  186  FR  
12  Clay Charles  QB  6-1  203  FR  
12  T.J. Williams  WR  6-3  184  FR  
13  Travis Key  DB  5-10  185  JR  
14 14  Cole Malatinsky Brett Swenson  s K  6-1 5-8  199 151  JR FR  
15  Kerry Reed  WR  6-2  198  SR  
15  Todd Boleski  K  6-6  214  so  
16  John VanDam  QB  6-3  225  JR  
17  David Stanton  DT  6-3  290  SR  
18  Terry Love  WR  5-11  177  JR  
19  Dav1d Williams  WR  5-9  168  FR  
20  Ashley Beaudouin  s  6-l  221  JR  
20  A.J. Jimmerson  RB  5-10  205  FR  
20  Jason Teague  RB  5-9  193  SR  
21  Jacob Balr  QB  6-1  202  FR  
21  Otis Wiley  s  6-2  209  so  
22  Brandon Denson  RB  5-11  211  FR  
22  Enrique Shaw  s  6-1  185  FR  
23  Javon Ringer  RB  5-9  198  so  
24  Brett Kahn  RB  5-9  178  JR  
25  Blair White  WR  6-2  195  FR  
25  Jesse Johnson  s  5-10  173  FR  
26  Kyle Mayer  K  6-1  220  SR  
26  Tom Dance  5  6-1  211  so  
27  Sir Darean Adams  DB  6-1  230  JR  
28  Mike Bell  5  5-11  189  so  
29  Greg Cooper  CB  5-11  186  SR  
30 31  Jehuu Caulcrick Ashton Henderson  RB CB  6-1 5-11  260 181  JR FR  
32  Mike Cordell  CB  5-9  182  so  
32  Jerramy Scott  WR  5-10  186  SR  
33  Dan Fortener  s  6-1  191  FR  
34  Jelani Nantambu  CB  5-9  186  so  
35  Kiel Beltinck  DB  5-9  199  SR  
36  Jon Misch  LB  6-2  210  FR  
37  Ross Weaver  CB  6-1  202  so  
38  Kendell Davis-Clark  CB  5-11  195  so  
39  Mike Parrelly  RB  5-7  183  FR  
40  Roderick Jenrette  DB  6-1  188  FR  
41  David Herron Jr.  LB  6-1  245  SR  
42  Rob Tabatchnick  DB  5-11  206  JR  
43 44  Kaleb Thornhill Josh Rouse  LB LB  6-1 6-3  239 222  JR FR  
45  Andrew Hawken  LB  6-2  235  FR  
47  Brandon Long  DE  6-4  244  so  
48  Eric Andino  TE  6-4  233  so  
49  Steve Juarez  LB  6-1  232  JR  
50  Jeff McPht>rson  LB  6-1  2.36  so  
51 52  Ervin Baldwin Andrew Pendy  DE LB  6-2 6-1  252 225  JR FR  
53  Derrick Johnson  LB  5-9  248  JR  
54 55  John Masters Adam Decker  c LB  6-4 6-2  296 240  JR FR  
56  Brian Bury  SN  6-0  240  SR  
56  Kyle Smith  LB  6-2  222  so  
57  Rocco Cironi  OT  6-6  288  FR  
58  Reggie Graham  DE  6-4  217  FR  
59  Eric Gordon  LB  6-1  215  FR  
60  Mike Bacon  c  6-4  296  so  
61  Tramonte Pointer  DT  5-10  312  JR  
62o2  Derrick Outlaw Abre Leggins  DT OG  6-3 6-3  257 310  JR FR  
63  Devin Pritchett  LB  6-2  247  JR  
64 65  Brendon Moss Joel Nitchman  OT c  6-6 6-3  289 275  FR FR  
66  Mike Gyetvai  OT  6-7  307  JR  
67  Brandon Bjerk  DE  6-6  248  FR  
67  Alex Shackelton  SN  6-2  266  FR  
68  Tom Kaczmarek  OT  6-5  316  so  
69  Ryan Connor  OG  6-2  286  so  
70  Joe Toth  DT  6-2  298  JR  
71  Kenny Shane  OG  6-5  312  JR  
72  Jason Diehl  OL  6-3  290  FR  
73  Roland Martin  OG  6-5  325  so  
74  Kyle Cook  OG  6-3  295  SR  
75  Pete Clifford  OG  6-7  300  JR  
76  Mike Schmeding  or  6-8  300  FR  
77  DanielZynn  OG  6-2  317  5R  
79  Jesse Miller  OT  6-6  306  so  
80  Kellen Davis  TE  6-6  253  JR  
81  Dwayne Holmes  TE  6-1  277  so  
82  Ryan Allison  WR  6-3  210  FR  
83  Charlie Gantt  TE  6-4  244  FR  
84 85  DeonCurry Travis Willard  WR TE  6-1 6-2  210 250  so FR  
86  Jeremy McGinnis  WR  5-11  177  so  
87 88 89  Kyle Sackrider John Stipek Colin~eely  TE DT DE  6-2 6-5 6-1  245 251 241  JR FR FR  
91  ]'Michael Deane  DT  6-5  295  FR  
92  Clifton Ryan  DT  6-2  302  SR  
93  NickSm1th  DE  6-3  280  JR  
94  Jonal Saint-Die  DE  6-1  260  JR  
95  Justin Kershaw  DE  6-4  254  so  
%  Patrick Rigan  DE  6-5  2.36  FR  
98  Bobby Jones  DT  6-4  302  JR  
99  Ogemdi Nwagbuo  DT  6-4  297  JR  


QUARTERBACK Stanton Hoyef"  LEfT GUARD Shane Bacon  ~·.  
RIGHT GUARD Martin lynn  
Miller Moss  r~/ STRONG) SAfElY ZbltowsW Herring _/y'·--!_~  
Wilts  

Sept. 2 Sept. 9 Sept. 16 Sept. 21 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 14 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 



The wheels fall off the bus Saturday for Notre Another week, another must-win for the Dame. Irish. But Saturday, the Irish come out disci­The Spartans will tear through the Irish plined and focused. They eliminate drive­defense and shut down the inconsistent Notre stopping penalties and are able to put 
Irish

Dame offense in a blowout. Expect Drew Stanton together a balanced rushing and passing to exit the game early in the fourth quarter and attack. The defense is able to adjust to Drew the Irish to score late to narrow an otherwise Stanton's unique game, as Victor Abiamiri huge deficit. and Ronald Talley exploit Michigan State's 
experts

Kate Gales young offensive line. Ken Fowler FINAL SCORE: Michigan State 4 7 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Sports Editor Notre Dame 21 Sports Editor Michigan State 24 

Sizing up the Irish and the Spartans 
• 

Notre Dame Michigan State 
25.33
Points Scored ~---__,-----~~-,··-·"n··· ~w 
... ~ 
24.67 
Total Yards Gained 506.33 

.·····<>····~~~~ 
I 

Total Yards Allowed 327.33 299.33 
·-·--·~· 
. ' 
I

Passing. Yard_s Allow 220.67 

Turnovers...Lost.... .Turnovers.. Recovered..... 


·.... 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 22, 2006 
MICHIGAN STATE 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Michigan State com­bines speed and mas­sive size on a defensive line that has held its first three opponents to 78.7 yard rushing. 
The interior of the Irish offensive line has struggled, which is where Spartans tack­les Clifton Ryan (pic­tured) and Lgemdi Nwagbuo feast. 
Ryan and Nwagbuo have combined for 13 
. tackles this season, including 2.5 for losses. If Michigan State can control the line of scrimmage when Notre Dame is on offense, it will be an easy day for the Spartans. 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFENSIVE LINE 
The Notre Dame offensive line must put in its best performance of the year to allow Notre Dame's offense to keep up with Michigan State's. 
Darius Walker has had no holes to run through, Brady Quinn has been pressured, and penalties are piling up on the unit. 
Center Bob Morton and guards John Sullivan and Dan Santucci have to con­trol the inside of the line of scrimmage against the Spartans' 300-pound tackles. 
If the Irish can estab­lish a running game, the offense can put points on the board. 

NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED BUYING & TRADING· ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS ~-..:. --,--18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE CASH PAID TODAY Preferred Tickets 234-5650  

Friday, September 22, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Notre Dame downplays rushing troubles 
ly care less." 
Walker says he will 
Walker, whose 25 yards made rally back after 25-him the only player \\'ith positive net rushing yardage againstyard performance Michigan, isn't discouraged either. The junior has rushed for over 2,000 yards in his career with the 
By KATE GALES 
Irish. 
Associate Sports Editor 
"I can speak for myself and say that my confidence defmitely isn't There's more to a game than damaged," he said. "I definitely statistics. want to go into this next game 
Even so, the Notre Dame will and play." have to generate a more potent His ability to block and catch rushing threat than the four yards passes out of the backfield has they gained against Michigan last been a huge asset in Notre Dame Saturday. coach Charlie Weis' offensive 
"Of course it was a hard time scheme. He has 18 receptions for for us and a tough game that we 125 yards this season to go with went through," Irish running the yards he generates on the back Darius Walker said. "I defi­ground. nitely think we can rally back and But the running game is where be good." Walker is a leader, and he is pre­
After running for 138 yards pared to return to a level he against Georgia Tech and 110 knows Notre Dame is capable of against Penn State, the Irish could playing. not establish any sort of a ground "We've got to stay focused," he game against Michigan. Part of said. "We've got to work hard and that may have been the understand blocking schemes and Wolverines' early lead, and part make sure we know who we're of it may have been the strong blocking. That's always something opening holes for the running trailing, every play doesn't have the running backs want to work Michigan defense. Either way, in the running game that can be backs are important jobs of the to be an 80-yard dash. Although together to make the rushing Notre Dame doesn't think it can difficult, because defenses like to offensive line, Morton said. The Notre Dame's deficit in the game more successful against a afford a similar performance jump around and juggle players two work together to create a bal­Michigan game changed the Michigan State defense that may against Michigan State Saturday. in and out offronts and whatnot." anced offense -usually a hall­scheme slightly, panic can set in, be more susceptible to the run. 
Toeing the company line, the Basics have also been a focus of mark ofWeis' schemes. and Walker knows the danger of But after the game, Walker Irish say they are worried about the offensive line, Morton said. . "It's important to have a bal­that. won't be checking the box scores. fundamentals -not what out­"It's just a matter of practicing ance," Walker said. "A balanced "You can fall into trouble think­He'll just be looking at the score­siders are saying about rushing low pad level and working cohe­offense always keeps a defense ing that you have to have it all in board. yards last week. sively as a unit and that's what off-balance and you never really one play, and I think that's where "I don't really get into the whole 
"The opinions and the statistics you really strive to do every single know what to expect whether experience and stuff comes in," statistical thing too much," I care about are the ones that are day, make sure that the hips stay you're going to run the ball or Walker said. "You understand Walker said. "We're defmitely just presented to me via Coach Weis, loose," Morton said. "[We prac­pass the ball so it's definitely that football is still played play by trying to focus on this next one Coach Latina, and from the [play­ticel helmet to helmet, what we something that we can do." play and you still have to do the that we've got to do." ers)." Notre Dame center Bob call face-mask to face-mask, Lto As a veteran running back on a necessary things to try to get Morton said. "Outside of that ... get] proper leverage." veteran offense, Walker under­another yard on the ball." Contact Kate Gales at as far as statistics go, I could real-Protecting the quarterback and stands that even if the Irish are Walker, the line and the rest of kglaes@nd.edu 
Stanton strikes dangerous pose for MSU 
so successful on third down. 44-41 win in 2005 -an inci­By BOB GRIFFIN You have that run or throw dent Weis adamantly denied Sports Wrirer option that he has, a lot of using as motivation this week. 
weapons around him, it's going Stanton finished 16-of-27 

It's taken four full seasons, to be a challenge for us." passing for 327 yards and and a unique progression from Stanton has lived up to his four touchdowns (one rush­special teams standout to NFL billing this year. The quarter­ing) against the Irish. quarterback prospect, but back has completed 68.3 per­So how does Notre Dame go Michigan State senior Drew cent of his passes for 677 about ensuring it limits Stanton has finally made a yards and six touchdowns in Stanton Saturday in what name for himself on the three games. He also has 30 could be the biggest game of national scene. carries for 193 yards and three its season? 
It was only a matter of time. rushing scores. "I think Double D better get Irish safety Tom Zbikowski To put that in perspective, Irish loosened up here today," Weis recalled Wednesday his first running back Darius Walker has said referring to freshman memories of encountering the carried the ball 52 times for 180 quarterback Demetrius Jones, Michigan State quarterback, yards. another dual threat who is tracing back to Stanton's late­"Obviously the key person. the being used to mimic Stanton game entrance in 2004 against one who makes this week in Notre Dame. this all go, is practice. "He 
"I know two years ago get­Drew Stanton," '"{Stanton] can throw, he might get him­ting ready for the game, they Notre Dame self a workout
can throw in the pocket, 

weren't sure who was their coach Charlie here this
he can roll from the

quarterback," Zbikowski said. Weis said week." "He came in late in the game Tuesday in his pocket. he can throw Zbikowski and kind of started moving the press confer­expects
across his body. ·· 

ball, just taking over. Ever ence. "He's a Stanton and since then, they've had just a heck of a the Michigan prolific offense that puts up a player. He's a Charlie Weis State offense lot of points-a lot of yards.". dual threat Irish coach to spread the ., 
No kidding. In 2005, Stanton who can run, Irish defense became the second Spartans he can throw, across the quarterback in the school's he can throw in the pocket, he field by running various history to throw for over 3,000 can roll from the pocket, he screens. yards (3,077), finishing the can throw across his body." The senior said staying fun­season with 3,415 total yards NFL scouts have noticed as damentally sound and making and 26 touchdowns (22 pass­well -Mel Kiper has him open-field tackles will be the ing}. ranked a~ the No. 2 senior defense's major point of 
He is a dual-threat weapon quarterback prospect in the emphasis in limiting Stanton's who is equally dangerous nation (second only to Irish effectiveness. scrambling as he is stepping signai caller Brady Quinn). He "You talk about them up in the pocket -pretty good is No. 4 overall on Kiper's big spreading it out, throwing the for a kid who as a red-shirt board, behind Quinn, ball, then you look at how freshman in 2003 was mostly Wisconsin offensive tackle Joe much they're rushing for," relegated to punt coverage. Thomas and Georgia defen­Zbikowski said. "We got to get 
"[Stanton's) definitely going sive end Quentin Moses. ready for that, get in the film to be one of the best we go He was also a major reason room and keep studying." against this year," Zbikowski why Michigan State had the said. "Any time you have that luxury of planting a flag in Contact Bob Griffin at dual threat, that's why they're Notre Dame Stadium after its rgriffi3@nd.edu 


... 

I 
I . 
I I I 
' page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 22, 2006 
't 

Learn more about Xavier Flores and teU us more about you. Visit pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 
' 

*connectedthinking 
. s.-~

,_.,..[ f:.. '~ ~ ..·;::,if~ \":"1-'• '-~·'r,:,_·:.-.·-~,---., -~~-:..:._,, ::":-\"'-'"-'=:"'"':'(:-::' ~· 'oYo_~:_ ·-.: _.:.··~-'· ,: -m :' ~;_.._'\•. --~:-·....... 
.._-..~~~~ • ..__,f :.J"t~-•.· t)?'nt~)r?h!"Ti~~ .~..,.~ :~;...:~1 ··-""7·/~~:r;... -~.:.:....:~ :r~ ·:-~~.. _,_.:: . ;! !-~--•• -~ _. ---~...:.~(-. ·--. 1-· '~ .• ..,_. . :.:: ; . : ~',_· -~L~----, ·. : ~ p! 
. ' 
·-' 











