
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students pleased with 2006 Shirt 
I'm surprised by how well the reaction went over." 
The Shirt Project -now in its seventeenth year -raises money for different aspects of student life at Notre Dame. This year's The Shirt is navy blue with the word "Tradition" in bold writing on the front. The back of The Shirt features for­mer coaches Knute Rockne, Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz, as well as the Four Horseman. 
Current head coach Charlie Weis also appears on The Shirt above a packed Notre Dame sta­dium. A Knute Rockne quote, "This is the day and you are the team" is written across the bot-
see SHIRT/page 4 

Bush speechw-riter returns to Notre Datne 

By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame fans who felt they had outgrown the sea of green era and were not quite suited for yellow may now contribute to a new hue in The Shirt's recent years -navy blue. 
A cheering crowd greeted the unveiling of the 2006 version of The Shirt at the Hammes Bookstore Friday afternoon. The Shirt Project president Richard Fox said he was excited to see a positive response to the navy blue color and simple design of The Shirt. 
"I thought the reaction was going to be good," Fox said. "But 

By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
William McGurn left the halls of the West Wing and the Oval Office Friday for the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
. Though miles away from Washington, the chief speech­writer for the White House ­a 1980 Notre Dame graduate -was hardly disoriented as he returned to his alma mater to present his lecture "Future Government and Public Policy." 
A former editorial writer at the Wall Street Journal, McGurn first became a part of the Bush administration in early 2005, and has since become the head of the entire speechwriting team in the White House. 
lie spoke to an audience of students and faculty members on topic ranging from his work in the West Wing, the challenges of speechwriting for the President and the role of the media in the portrayal of news. 
McGurn said for any given speech, there might be approximately 30 people working to produce an aver­age of ten drafts. He said focal and delicate matters such as the war in Iraq generally require even more prepara­tion. 
"We're trying to explain to the American public a very difficult situation and the President's perspective, his voice," McGurn said. 
When asked if he had ever written a speech outlining something contrary to what he believed was correct, McGurn said though there may have been occasions where his per­sonal opinion was different from that of the White House -he would never promote anything he did not consider 
see WRITER/page 3 



Dancers raise record amounts 
By MEGAN O'NEIL Senior StaffWriter 
After nearly 12 hours on their feet, participants in the Riley Hospital for Children dance marathon were begin­ning to look weary Saturday morning. 
Then came the annouQce­ment that made it all worth­while -Saint Mary's had broken the record for the most money raised by any institution's first dance marathon in the state of Indiana. 
The $21,047.42 total roughly doubled to previous record held by Indiana University at Bloomington. 
see MARATHON/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
D'Arcy denounces NDpolicy 
Bishop disapproves of Jenkins' recent choice 
By KAREN LANGLEY Associate News Editor 
In a visit scheduled months before campus controversy about academic freedom would prompt him to issue a statement of disappointment with the 
University, Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne­South Bend Diocese spoke Friday to stu­dents and fac­ulty at Notre Dame Law 


School about D'Arcy a particularly timely topic -the pastoral role of the bishop and his relationship to the Catholic university. 
D'Arcy said the Second Vatican Council had a strong impact on the role of the bishop within the Church. 
"We see an attempt to move the bishop from being a CEO and administrator to a pastor and evangelist," he said. 
When asked by a student about his relationship with the University administration, 
. D'Arcy connected his pastoral role to the recent debates on academic freedom that have for months embroiled Notre Dame's campus. 
"It is important to recognize the independence of the Uniyersity and its academic free­dom," D'Arcy said. "But I have pastoral freedom. I cannot 
see D'ARCY/page 6 


Speaker encourages 
careers in social w-ork 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 

Over two dozen students and faculty members gath­ered in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall where co-founder and executive director of the Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy (LAANE) Madeline Janis-Aparicio spoke about the variety of career options within the field of social work. 
Janis-Aparicio rallied for six years to pass the Los Angeles living wage ordi­nance prior to co-founding LAANE, a social justice 
agency in Southern California. 
"In the face of globaliza­tion, in the increasingly face­less world of capital, how can we make the world a better place," Janis Aparicio said. "Oftentimes poor people are hidden." 
Janis-Aparicio encouraged the crowd to consider a career in social work through the retelling of her own expe­riences in the field. 
Social justice careers have many forms from community and union organization to research and legislative advo­
see SPEAKER/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 24, 2006 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Leaving out a legend 
The Shirt 200(> was almost one of the 
lwst evnr. 
Ttw 1 00-plus ynars of Tradition­
Thn Shirt's theme-converging with 
thn hope of an unforgettable season to 
comn (my last as 
an undnrgradl on Tim Dougherty
Pat O'Brien's 
timnless prophecy 
in Knutn Hoekne Sports Writer 
Ali-Ameriean: 
"This is thn day 
and you are the tnam." 
Down right inspirational-it literally 
gave mn chills to think of the possibility 
of sneing my life's fulfillment mere 
months away. But like a loss in next 
year's roeord, it had one fatal blemish, 
and The Shirt fell short -shockingly 
so. 
Frank Leahy's .864 winning percent­
ago is Division I college football's second 
highest earner mark, behind only Knute 
Hockne's .881. llis lads' 39 game 
unbnatnn stn~ak (37 -0-2) from 1946­
1950 remains Notre Dame's longest 
over and ninth in Division I history. No 
list of all-time college football's greatnst 
eoaehes that omittnd his name would 
be !'rndibln, mueh less a list of great 
Notre I >ame coaehes. 
The same goes for any shirt that uses the likenesses of Fighting Irish coaches to boast its proud Tradition and refUS!$ to aeknowledge the spndal place Lnahy holds in shaping the very Tradition of Notrn Dame an enduring rnality li1r eaeh pnrson who has ever dreamt of those gold helmel'i shining in the sun. 
Unfortunatnly, The Shirt Committee didn't get the memo. 
Knute Hockne, The Four Horseman, Ara Parsnghian, Lou Holtz, and Charlie Weis unmistakably desnrvnd to be on Thn Shirt. Although the eommitten's "system" (sne httpf/theshirt.nd.edu/cur­rent.htmll has some truth to it, under Thn Shirt 2006's theme of Tradition. that "systmn" omittnd tho absolute most important rnason why those limr r.oaeh­ns bnlong on The Shirt. Knute had three of thnm, Ara two, Lou one, and Weis­wnll, aceording to the committee's interpretation of Hoekne's immortal words at the 1928 Army game, this coming fall should bn his first. Leahy, on the othnr hand, led all Notre Damn eoaehes with li1ur consensus national ehampionships. 
Whiln Hor.kne certainly started the Tradition, Leahy is truly the one who made it perennial, from his dominance in the late 40's to his All-American grand-lad Hyan Leahy ('96), who donned the blue and gold the last time (1993) the Irish could look at them­selves in the mirror and say they were without question the best toam in the eountry. Without Loahy, Notre Dame is the University ol' Chieago on prayer-oids -or Boston Colloge (whom he left to roturn to Notrn Dame) at host. 
The absonee of Loahy's imago on this year's shirt is an absolutely unforgiv­able allhmt to the 87 wins he earned and the 23 consensus Ali-Amerieans ­induding four lleisman winners-he producod in the 11 years or service and Tradition he gave to Our Lady's University. In the end. The Shirt is clos­er to Jack La Motta than The Gipper. It coulda be!m a contender. 
It shouldn't take a giant statue outside of Notrn Dame Stadium to prove my point, but it is there nonetheless. For the millions of fans who walk around the stadium next year staring into the tens of thousands ol' The Shirt's seam­poring around the stadium on game day, their only visibln reminder of Leahy's place in ND Tradition will be that hefty hunk of bronze outside the East Gate. At lea'it Jerry McKenna knew something about Tradition. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at 
tdoughter@nd. edu 
The oiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DID YOU PARTICIPATE IN MUDDY SUNDAY? 







Caroline Green Christian Medeiros Hollywood Healy Megan Marsh Michelle Byrne Phil Mauro 
freshman sophomore junior Cavanaugh Keenan off-campus 
UNo.,, 
"/invented "Science mud." fiction!" 
freshman Cavanaugh 
"Good times getting dirty. " 


KATIE RIVARD/The Observer 
Participants of the second annual Eucharistic Procession and Divine Mercy look on as priests ascend the stairs on the Main Building on Friday afternoon following the 11:45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Mass. 
OFFBEAT 

by one last year. A day later, he showed up at a hospital complaining of a headache. 
Surgeons pulled the nails out with needle-nosed pli­ers and a drill. The patient was later transferred to psychiatric care and stayed under court order for nearly a month before leaving against doctors' orders. 
In his report, the neuro­surgeon who oversaw the patient's treatment says no one is known to have sur­vived firing so many for­eign objects into the head. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Pollee rescue naked man stuck in chimney 
Hayward, CA -Police say they've arrested a man who spent five hours naked and stuck in the chimney of his stepmoth­er's California home. 
Police say Michael Urbano locked himself out of the house early yester­day morning and decided to get in on a cable TV wire through the chimney. 
lie told police he thought taking off his clothes would help ease his way down the chimney. 
But the cable wire broke and Urbano fell, getting stuck about three-quarters of the way down. He was freed when a firefighter pushed him up to safety. 
Urbano was arrested on suspicion of being under the influence of drugs. 
Oregon man survives 12 nails to the head Portland, OR -Doctors say a dozen nails in the 
head caused  no  serious  
lasting  effects  for  an  
Oregon man.  

A report in the current issue of the Journal of Neurosurgery says the man was suicidal and high on methamphetamine when he used a nail gun to fire the nails into his head one 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::E: 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
...I 
<
(.) 



HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 
0 

HIGH 68 HIGH 48
..... 

LOW 42 LOW 42 
freshman sophomore Cavanaugh Keough 
"Yes?" "Absolutely. I grilled burgers." 
IN BRIEF 
Environmental specialist Sister Paula Gonzales will speak in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's College at 7 
p.m. today 
From 11 ::lO a.m.-2 p.m. today students are invited to tie-die free T-shirts on O'Shag quad as part of the AnTostal events. 
Notre Dame sol'tball will take on Purdue at 4 p.m. Wednesday at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame baseball will take on Bowling Green at 
5:05 p.m. Wednesday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The world premire of the opera "Witness" will be at 
6:30 p.m. on Wednesday in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. It will run through the weekend with performanees at 7:30 
p.m. on Friday and Saturday and 2:30 p.m. on Sunday. 
The SMC Irish Dance Club will perform at 4::l0 p.m. Saturday and 7:30 p.m. Sunday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
Class of 2006 Senior Week tickets will be on sale at the LaFortune Rox Office this week. Graduating seniors interested in purchasing tick­ets to the events must bring their Notre Dame ID to the Rox Office between 12-6 p.m. 
The AnTostal: First Annual Dorm Olympics will take place from 4-7 p.m. Tuesday on South Quad. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

60 
40 

66 
45 


--------------------------------------. 
Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
w-w-w-.rocknebookmark.com 

Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
front 

This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funeral. 
:=~ 

• 
Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 



...,,,,__ ".


·-it

.....~. • Buy before you leave for summer vacation 
---~~'~­
-/)( 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A. 


--...,_ 
:.~~--~.;~-­
..~: 
J&K Card, LLC 



Writer 
continued from page 1 
truthful and substantiated. 
"The people elected him," he said. "It's the Bush admin­istration, not the McGurn administration." 
He said speechwriters that are acutely opposed to one of the President's stances are generally assign()d to work on an unrelated issue, to avoid a conflict of objectivity. 
McGurn also commented on the role of the media, and the ways in which every network or newspaper bias deters from the message he and the President are trying to evoke. 
"In many cases, the report­ing may be slanted not con­sciously or on purpose, but rather due to ignorance and a lack of knowledge of all the facts," McGurn said. "Sometimes the media isn't even aware of the existence of a counterargument to what they are saying." 
He also expresse<;l frustra­tion in the way that television and newspapers highlight drama and controversy, some­times neglecting comprehen­sive and responsible journal­ism. 
"The President may be delivering an important speech on Medicare but if someone yells out something from the back, that becomes the news," McGurn said. "From the inside that is really frustrating but we understand the media needs the drama, sometimes over substance, to sell more." 
But sensationalist reporters are not the biggest problem McGurn and his team of writ­ers face every day at work. Instead it's the challenge of striking a balance between informative and clear speech­es. 

"A speech can't be too dense with facts, or else people won't follow," he said. 
All bases must be covered, though, and all relevant points must be addressed, he said. Knowing presidential speeches are subject to the scrutiny of the media and his­tory, omitting complicated information is also not an option. 
McGurn said even after the efforts of the speechwriting team, President Bush makes the final decision by approv­ing or rejecting a speech. 
lligher-ranking government officials often check content and interpretation of policy within the text. McGurn said. But it is Bush who goes gives final approval to all of his public oratory. 
He said Bush consistently reminds his speechwriting team of his enrollment within an American oratory during his time in Yale University and reminds his speechwriting team of that advantage on a regular basis. 
McGurn said the President likes to adhere to the method­ology and rhythm he learned in such course. 
The speechwriters are always busy looking at the next of fifteen drafts before their speech airs throughout the world, he said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
AnTostal to return to calllpus 
Student Union Board has week of fun events plannedfor Notre Dame 
completely unifYing event for the By KATHLEEN McDONNELL Notre Dame campus, with every News Writer student participating in one way 
or another," Vassel said. From free movies and tie-dying The events begin today and T-shirts on the quad, the events continue through Saturday, April 
of the 39th annual AnTostal will distract stu­dents from their homework throughout the week. 
AnTostal Gaelic for "the festival" returns to Notre Dame's campus this week as a celebration of spring. Events this year are a mix of old and new, and the Student Union Board (SUB), 
29th. Events are free and open to the "'n years past, entire Notre Dame community.
AnTostal was a 
On Monday stu­
completely 
dents can tie-dye T­
unifying event for shirts in front of O'Shaughnessy Hall
the Notre Dame 
on South Quad and 
campus, with every 
some students will student receive Panera participating in bagels that will be delivered to selected 
one way or 
classrooms. 
another." The First Annual Dorm Olympics scheduled for
Pat Vassel 
Tuesday allow stu­


SUB manager 
dents to participate in mattress races AnTostal is all about." 

A showing of "Top Gun" on North Quad and the Quarter Dog Eating Contest -two annual traditions -will take place Tuesday evening. 
Thursday's carnival on North Quad boasts a Mechanical Bull, Euro Bungee ride, caricature artist and other traditional carni­val games. 
AnTostal's musical events include Thursday's AcoustiCafe, which will take place on the Fieldhouse Mall. Friday evening Legends will host the annual Battle of the Bands, which will feature ten student groups. Judges and audience voting determine which band will be deemed the best of Notre Dame. The evening's events will con­clude with late night Karaoke at Reekers. 
On Saturday students can return to Legends to hear rock band Matchbook Romance. 
"Whether through contests, performances, or any other vari­ety of activities, students in decades past always looked for­ward to the end of the year cele­bration organized by the Student Union Board," Vassel said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonne@nd.edu. 
AnTostal's sponsor and organiz­er, hopes to bring the traditional festival back to its early days of glory. 
SUB spends the entire year programming this event that hopes to "truly complete the col­lege campus experience outside the classroom," SUB manager Pat Vassel said. 
"In years past, AnTostal was a down South Quad, obstacle courses and wing eating con-· tests. 

"This year, the AnTostal com­mittee has made a special effort to reach out to the dorms with the Dorm Olympics," Vassel said. "A number of dorms will be par­ticipating in a wide range of events, and that level of student involvement is really what 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 24, 2006 


Marathon 
continued from page 1 
"It was amazing to have so 
many peopln them ... at six in 
tlw morning when we released 
the total amount. It was the best 
feeling ev1w," said organizer and 
freshman class pn~sidnnt 
Frances<:a Johnson. 
Thn money raised at the event, 
which ran from 6 p.m. Friday to 
6 a.m. Saturday, will go to Hiley 
Hospital for Children in 
Indianapolis. The hospital, which 
never denies care to a patient, 
n~ceives no state funding and is 
entirely dependent on corporate 
and private donations. 
"One out of' every two children 
that walk into the doors of the 
hospital can't afford to pay for 
the service they are receiving," 
Hiley special events manager 
Kristi Judson said. 
On a scale of one to ten, 
Judson said, she would give the 
Saint Mary's dance marathon a 
15. 
"We live ofT groups like this 
who stay up all night land raise 
money for usl." Riley events 
coordinator Katherine Cain said. 
The number of universities 
and colleges who put on dance 
marathons has grown to 14, 
Cain said. While the ba<>ic struc­
ture of the event is sHt, Cain 
works with studP.nt leaders to 
develop programs that best fit 
their schools. 
Cain described the Saint 
Mary's dance marathon, which 
was largely spearheaded by the 
frnshrnan dass, a<> "impressive." 
The partieipants were enter­tained by dancing group TroopND, a cappella singers The Undertones, Saint Mary's cheer­leaders and the Notre Dame band Speedway. Further, dancers kept busy playing improvised games of volleyball and basketball, as well as writ­ing cards to patient<> at Hiley. 
The morale committee kept students energized by teaching tlwm a "morale dance" in small increments throughout the evening. The groups then per­li~rmed the dance in its entirety at the fmd of' the 12 hours. 
i\ local family who personally benefited from the medical serv­ices ofl'ernd by Hiley was present to share their story with the stu­dents . 
. Johnson said 140 of the 190 registered studenl<> showed up to dance Friday night. They were joined by 50 marathon commit­tee members. There were stu­dents who left the event, Johnson said, but she estimated there were still 120 dancers on the floor at the closing ceremony. 
While the first dance marathon exceeded all expectations, .Johnson said, there is always room lor improvement. 
She said she hopes to confine future events to one condensed arna in order to keep the group united, noting that at any given time Friday night there were 25 people on the second level of the 
!-,')'Ill. 
"In th11 future I would like to have a few hundred dances stay the wholo time," Johnson said. 
Organizer /\my Dardinger said it was dillicult to eonvince people to return to the dance floor after they were permitted to sit briefly in order to eat. ­
"For the first year, I think the marathon ran smoothly," Dardinger said. "We followed the schedule almost exactly until about thrne in the morning, then we started some games. i\ little after thrnn. the dancers realized that they were actually going to make it until 6, so the energy level picked up again." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Sophomore Mary Beugelsdijk attended the unveiling ceremony Friday. She said the crowd was very excited after seeing The Shirt's new look. Beugnlsdijk said she likes The Shirt and would wear it to the games n1~xt year if she were not in the band. 
"I like the color first of all and I like the simplicity of it, especially the front," Beugelsdijk said. 
Fox said the combination of the new color and the prospe<:l<> of a successful season will bode well for sales of this year's version of The Shirt. 
"Given the extreme excitement over The Shirt, we look forward to setting a few new records this year," Fox said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Shirt 
continued from page 1 
torn to compiHte the design. 
Bookstore greeter Cindy Ciesiolka said the crowd gath­ered at the unveiling -approxi­matflly 2,500 to 3,000 people ­reactf~d with "a great big gasp and a cheer" when they saw The Shirt lor the lirst time. Ciesiolka said crowds were streaming in all day to purchase the new edi­tion. 
"[People arel very excited to see Charlie Weis's picture actual­ly on the shirt," Ciesiolka said. 
Joe Petros was on campus this weekend vi<>iting his son, a soph­omore at Notre Dame. He said this year's The Shirt is the best one yet. 

"[I likel the color [andl the design," Petros said. "I think the Four Horsemen and the coaches ... stand out in people's minds ­the tradition. Everything about it is great." 
Fox said he anticipated a posi­tive student reaction to the shirt because of the simplicity of its design and its historical signifi­cance. 
"Everything on there is instant­ly recognizable by students," Fox said. 
The Shirt Project website said the design of this year's The Shirt attempts to link the successes of past Notre Dame football eras to the potential of the current team. The general student consensus seems to favor this year's shirt over last year's tor the design and the color. 

Freshman Hebecca Svenson wa<> at the bookstore on Friday to buy The Shirt. Svenson called The Shirt dassy and said she was relieved it was not yellow again like last year's The Shirt. 
"It's a lot nicer than la<>t year," Svenson said. "I like the color." 
Graduate student Yinlu Chen was al<>o at the bookstore Friday to buy The Shirt, but said she liked last year's yellow color bet­ter than the navy blue of this year's shirt. 
"I prefer a lighter color," Chen said. 
Freshman Andrew Bertoli has not yet purchased The Shirt, but he has seen it and said he likes the navy blue color. 
"It's a lot better than the yellow they had last year," Bertoli said. 
Call Me Text Me Pix Me 


It's all free for me. 
Take our best netwod challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
. W'i-· 1~onned il'lfh ·''(Jlf. 
Oftilf valid on two-year senlice agreement on local and regional plans of $39.95 or higher. All service agreemen1s subject to an ear1y temlinatioo fee. Credff approval required. $30 actlvafioo fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges. fees. surcharges, IJ'Iel1lge charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Aegulat!xy Cost Recovery Fee applies. This is not atax or govemmem-requlred charge. Local nelwol1< coverage and reli­ability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full mlnutB. Use ol OOIVice constilu1es acceptance ol our terms and conditions. Free CAll ME Minutes"' are not deducted from package minutes and are only availabkl when receiving callS In your local caUing area. Local calling area differs from national calling area. Promotional phone Is subject to Change. $50 mail-In rebate and purchase ol $9.95 unllmtted easyedge.. access plan required. Available on new activations or renewal of OO!Vice. $9.95 unlnnited easyedge access plan must be on account ol minimum of 90 days. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate process­ing. Umitad time offer. See store or website for details. pffer not available on TalkTraclleJ"' accounts. U.S. Cellular and easyedge are proprle1ary mru1<s. All other trademru1<s are the exclusive property ol their respectiYe owners. Cusl!lmers may only use the easyedge U!lllmited plan for access to easyedge applications. All other usage IS stnctty prohibitlid. Text Messaging-acharge ol $.10 per outgoing message applies ~ no messaging package IS selected or existing package limit is exceeded. By using U.S. Cellular's text messaging you agree to be bound by all terms and conditions at www.uscellular.com/Messaglngterms. Picture Messaging requires U.S. Cellulal®-approved phone and usage plan. Picture Messaging only available In easyedge coverage area (see brochure for details). You may be charged for picture messages sent lroo1 your phone, 6'100 Hnot delivered to the interlded recipient due to system or compatJbility issues. U.S. Cellular® IS not responsJble tor conlerlt of pictures. :ll-llay Guarantee: Customer is responsible for any charges incurred prior to return. All rights reserved. Otller resllictions apply. See store for details. Umited ~me offer. C2006 U.S. Cellular Co!poration. 


ie.US.Cellular 
r--------------­




ORLD & NATION 
-~-------------------. 


Monday, April 24, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Insurgents kill three soldiers 
BAGHDAD -Insurgents killed three American soldiers in the Baghdad area Sunday and fired mortars near the Defense Ministry in a spree of violence that killed at least 27 Iraqis as politicians began work on forming a new government. 
The largest Sunni Arab party raised new allngations of sectarian killings -one of the most urgent issw~s facing the new leader­ship. 
U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad said the next government must decommission sectarian militias and integrate them into the national armed forces, warning that the armed groups represent the "infrastructure for civil war. 
Protesters burn effigy of king 
KATMANDU, Nepal -The protesters crowding a Katmandu road in a whistling, seething mass Sunday were dearly unified in their quest to force Nepal's king from power. 
They roared their approval as a straw effigy of King Gyanendra was burned. They cheered demonstrators who dared to confront police. They chanted for a return of democracy and an end to royal rule. 
Two weeks of demonstrations have regular­ly brought tens of thousands into the streets around Katmandu. and smaller crowds in other cities across this Himalayan nation, but under that surface unity is a deeply fractured political scene. . 
Politicians ousted when the king seized absolute control in February 2005 want back in power with a restored parliament, but are widely despised for ineffectiveness and cor­ruption. Maoist rebels want to end genera­tions of feudal-style rule, but have a long his­tory of brutality in areas under their control. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush urges quick formation in Iraq 
TWENTYNINE PALMS, Calif. President Bush on Sunday called Iraq's top leaders to congratulate them on breaking a political impasse and urge the quick formation of a coalition govern­ment. 
Bush said he told President Jalal Talabani, Prime Minister-designate Jawad al-Maliki and parliament Speaker Mahmoud al-Mashhadani that they have a duty to improve the lives of Iraqis, defeat the insurgency and unite the country. 
White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters that Bush encouraged the leaders, especially al-Maliki, to act quick­ly and pick a Cabinet. 
FEMA requests return of funds 
BEAUMONT, Texas -The federal gov­ernment is asking 625 people in Texas to pay back a total of $1.26 million in recov­ery aid they shouldn't have received after Hurricane Rita. 
Texas families received more than $592 million from the Federal Emergency Management Agency after the September storm. 
Most of the money FEMA wants -$1.14 million -was incorrectly paid for damage to homes that were not the owners' pri­mary residences, agency spokeswoman Hannah Viek said. Damages to secondary residences are ineligible for FEMA money. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man retried for quadruple murder 
LAWHENCEBURG, Ind. -The retrial of man accused of killing a woman and three children will begin Monday in Dearborn County. 
Hobert Bassett Jr., 43, was sentenced to four life terms without the possibility of parole in 2001, but the Indiana Supreme Court overturned the conviction and ordered a new trial because evi­dence and testimony about Bassett's pre­vious criminal record were improperly presented. 
CoA,\PI LED FRO/v1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Finance ministers discuss policy 
Proposals concerning oil prices, trade gaps and other growth problems endorsed 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Finance ministers endorsed propos­als Sunday intended to make it easier for interna­tional lending institutions to deal with soaring oil prices, trade gaps and other prob­lems that threaten to derail growth. 
The policy-setting com­mittees for the 184-nation International Monetary Fund and the World Bank told the World Bank to attack corruption and directed the IMF to explore ways to give tougher policy advice to member countries in such areas as budget deficits and currency val­ues. 
Oil prices, now at a record $75-plus per barrel, were among the develop­ments causing officials from Europe, the United States and other countries at the institutions' weekend meetings to worry about the prospects for long-term growth. 
With U.S. pump prices already above $3 per gallon in some places, the White House is under pressure to act. On Sunday, for exam­ple, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee said the government should consider a tax on oil com­panies if they make exces­sive profits. 
In talks that wrapped up Sunday, ministers resolved a dispute over anti-corrup­tion efforts by pledging "to improve governance in all countries." 
Some European nations complained that the World Bank's president, Paul Wolfowitz, was emphasiz­ing the fight against cor­ruption at the expense of poverty reduction. The for­mer top Pentagon official began his five-year term in June. 
Wolfowitz told a closing news conference that he was satisfied with how the debate was resolved. 
"These are complex and nuanced issu.es, but we must develop a common approach if we want to deliver results for the poor," he said. "It is an effort that will take some time." 


The Bush administration says it's critical to crack down on corruption so that the U.S. is assured its dol­lars supporting the bank are not wasted. 
"With billions of people still living in destitute con­ditions, we cannot rest," Treasury Secretary John Snow said. "We must do more to make these ideas and programs even more productive, beneficial and effective." 
On the issue of oil, the world's seven wealthiest industrial countries met Friday night with three big oil-producing countries ­Saudi Arabia, Russia and the United Arab Emirates -to explore ways to improve data about produc­tion and reserves to give oil markets better information. The G-7 countries also called for increased invest­ment in exploration and refinery capacity to boost supplies. 
The meetings went ahead without any of the large­scale demonstrations that in years past have filled the streets around the IMF and World Bank headquarters, a few blocks from the White House. This year's events were on a small scale; one man among a group of 30 protesters was arrested Saturday and charged with carrying a stun gun. 
Anti-poverty activists expressed disappointment that more was not accom­plished toward meeting the U.N.-sanctioned goal of cut­ting poverty in half by 2015. 
"By their next meeting, we want to see real change -not just pocket change ­for the 100 million poor children out of school," said Max Lawson, policy adviser for Oxfam International. 
Getting the go-ahead at these meetings was what supporters hope will prove to be a broad overhaul of IMF operations. Proposals include giving rapidly growing economies such as China, South Korea and Mexico greater voting power. 
AFGHANISTAN 


Troops face increased resistance 
Associated Press 
KABUL -Britain's defense sec­retary warned on Sunday that any let up on militants could see the toppled Taliban regime and al­Qaida regain power in Afghanistan. 
As John Reid made his call dur­ing a visit to Kabul, gunbattles elsewhere killed five people and rockets slammed into a U.S.-run base in the south. 
The warning followed a spike in bombings and shootings targeting coalition troops, Afghan forces 

and often ordinary locals as the Taliban apparently have made good on threats to increase attacks during the warmer spring and summer months. 
""The greatest danger of all for the people of Afghanistan and the people of the United Kingdom would be if Afghanistan ever again came under the rule of a Taliban regime prepared to protect al­Qaida or terrorist groups," Reid told reporters in the capital. 
Spiraling violence is a growing concern for nations contributing troops to a force operating here 
under a NATO mandate. The force is to rise from its current 10,000 soldiers to about 21,000 by November as it gradually assumes command of all international troops in Afghanistan. 
Some 6,000 mainly British, Canadian and Dutch soldiers have started deploying in the remote tribal-dominated southern region 
At least 18,000 U.S. soldiers are in Afghanistan -more than four years after the U.S.-led invasion toppled the hard-line Taliban regime for hosting al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden. 
.---------~-­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 24, 2006 
Speaker 
continued from page 1 
1:aey -all involving business skills aimed at reducing poverty instead of' turning a profit. 
"Each of these is a profes­sion in a new kind of way," said .Janis-Aparieio. 
She said LAANE is an inno­vative ageney beeause it incorporates a variety of professions, rather than tai­loring its work to one specif'­ie arena. The ageney works to ensure that all workers in Los Angeles County labor for a living wage and have nec­essary union protnetion. 
down," she said. have prosperity much suffer­ing. It's not possible, and it doesn't work." 
Aftnr gradu­ating from law school, Janis­Aparicio said began her career help­ing low­income ten­ants who had been cheated by their land­
"You can't to public service by starting 
amidst so LAANE 13 years ago. 


D'Arcy
"Non-profits are the vehicles we 
continued from page 1 
have in the U.S. to"Non-profits are do social justice," 

refrain from preaching the the vehicles we she said. 
Gospel." While a career 
In his response to University
have in the US. to 
in public service 
President Father John Jenkins'
do social justice. " 
may not be lucra­

April 5 announcement that the tive, Janis­
"Monologues" would not be pro­Aparicio said the 
hibited on campus, D'Arcy said
Madeline 
rewards of social 
he was "deeply saddened" by the 
Janis-Aparicio 
justice extend 
decision.
co-founder 
beyond money and 

lie told audience members Los Angeles Alliance fame. 
Friday that this difference of for a New Economy "You gain a 
opinion has affected his eonnec­sense of 'this is 
tion with the eurrent administra­what I need to be 
tion. 
lords -a rewarding yet lim­happy, and I don't need a 
''I've always had a very good 
iting job, she said. whole lot,"' she said. 
relationship with three 
To overcome her career 
[University] presidents," he said. 

"It's under stress now. I don't immoral, but is pulls us all decided to devote her career aruffner@nd.edu 
"Not only is poverty restrictions she said she Contact Adrienne Ruffner at 
enjoy that." 
D'Arcy mwer referred to "The Vagina Monologues" by il<> name Friday, calling it instead "the play." 
"This is Notrfl Dame," he said.


North Pole students return to class 
"We dare to say it is the school of 
Associated Press 
ANCIIOHAGE, Alaska ­Students were encouraged to return to North Pole Middle Sehool Monday with the assur­anee that police would patrol the halls following the weekend arrest of' six seventh-graders suspeetnd ol' plotting a deadly attaek. 
Nine other seventh-graders also wern suspended in possible r.onneetion with the elaborate sehmno to kill faculty and class­mates using guns and knives at the school, where about 500 
The story has been widp,Jy broadcast, but some residents aren't worried about the arrests tainting the image of North Pole as the idyllic home of Santa Claus. The town reeeives thou­sands of letters each Christmas from around the world. 
"I think most people are savvy enough to realize that violence of this nature can happen any­where, to the best of families and the best of communities," Mayor Jeffrey Jacobson said. 
Still the allegations have shocked this "nice little commu­
nity," said Laura 
Harper, who has 
sixth- through  "/ think most  lived in North Pole  
eighth-graders have !'our weeks  people are savvy  for 2 3 years and works in a local  
until  summer  enough to realize  restaurant.  "We  
vacation, ollicials  that violence of  just can't believe  
said. "We're going  this nature can  something this horrible is hap­ 
to have school,"  happen anywhere,  pening in this good  
said  principal  to the best of  town."  
Ernie Manzie. "We l'onl that all the students  families and the best of  The boys, who could faee charges of first-degree con­ 
involved arn not  communities."  spiracy to commit  
at school, so we  murder, are at the  
fiH-ll it's saf'n." The town  ol'  Jeffrey Jacobson  Fairbanks Youth Facility in  
1,600 people is  North Pole mayor  Fairbanks.  
about 14 miles  Without elabo­ 
sou thnast  or  rating on the evi­ 

Fairbanks in Alaska's interior dence, North Pole Police Chief and is homo to many military Paul Lindhag said the boys had families from nearby Eielson Air planned to disable the school's Fon:e Bas11 and the Army's Fort power and telephone systems, Wainwright. giving them time to kill their victims and leave town. 
The group wanted to seek revenge for being picked on, he said. 
The story in North Pole broke two days after five Kansas teenagers were arrested on sus­picion of planning a shooting rampage at their high school last Thursday, the seventh anniversary of the Columbine High School massacre in Colorado. 
"Our investigation does not reveal any connection to any of these other school tragedies," Lindhag said. "I think it's more coincidental than anything." 
In Riverton, Kan., a communi­ty of about 600 people in south­east Kansas, near the Oklahoma and Missouri borders, prom went on as planned Saturday. 
"Our school is not big on can­celing things," said Daniel Koucky, a senior at Riverton High School. "We haven't had a 
snow day in two and a half years." 
Sheriffs deputies found guns, ammunition, knives and coded messages in the bedroom of one suspect and documents about firearms and references to Armageddon in two suspects' school lockers. 
A bond hearing for the sus­pects-ages 16 to 18 -was set for Monday afternoon. The prosecutor said he would soon determine whether to file crimi­nal charges. 

to attend only the graduation 
Mass. 
"There was someone on that platform whose position on unborn life was unacceptable to me," D'Arcy said. "The church's position is mine. I didn't want the young people to think that was OK ... If the bishop is there, that is what it means." 
Throughout the disagreement. D'Arcy said he retained his respect for the University. 
"I never bashed Notrn Dame ­becausn it is too elegant a place to do that." he said. "I have groat afl'ection and love for this place." 
Though he spoke out against Jenkins' decision not to ban the "Monologues," D'Arcy advised students to read the play and become informed about the sur­rounding issues. 
lie said his actions and deci­sions have been based on the late Pope .John Paul ll's definition of academic freedom. The Catholic teaching states that members of a university should be treated with academic fmedom so long as the rights of the individual members are maintairwd, D'Arey said. 
"In all this 10 week debate did you ever heard that definition?" he said. "Did you ever hear it on this wonderful campus?" 
The students present ques­tioned the Bishop about how they should express their dissatisfac­tion with Jenkins' decision to allow the continued performance of the "Monologues" and their concern that dorm Masses are celebrated improperly. 
D'Arcy rejected a student's suggestion that Notre Dame was no long1~r a strietly Catholic uni­versity. 
"I think among the major uni­versities it is by far the most Catholic," he said. "I have great affection for it, and so does [Popel Benedict [XVII." 
Contact Karen Langley at klang1el @nd.edu 
Write News. Call 1-5323. 

Our Lady.... This place has a special obligation." 
The Feb. 2005 campus visit of "Vagina Monologues" playwright Eve Ensler was "especially painful" to him, D'Arcy said. He said he and the Diocese were originally notified by event organizers that they could have a representative on discussion panels to convey a Catholic stance on the matters discussed but that the offer was withdrawn "at the last minute." 
"Who was constricting aea­demic freedom that time," he said. 
D'Arcy noted another time when he disagreed on religious grounds with a University action. In 1992, the pro-choice Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan was awarded the Laetare Medal, Notre Dame's highest honor. Though he planned to attend the commencement ceremony that spring, D'Arcy ultimately chose 


Arts and Letters Forum on Attending Graduate School 
Thursday, April 27, from 7-9 P.M. in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
A :p:mel of three CUITent N::Jtre D3rre students will address those factors and };)B:]Ple who influencEd than to enter Ph.D. prcgrams next year. A N::Jtre llirre alum, nON a 4th-year graduate student at lVJichigan State Uh.iversity, will offer her ~tive en awlying to and. sucx:mlirxJ in 
graduate schc:Dl. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, April 24, 2006 
.. page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 9 764 ..38 +89.70 
Jones_$~ 
:&,'IJIS II/IS 

1.933.53 +18:=111 5.94075 -+43.15

MM8(' .. 

,.".'• 
104535 +7~9:Wif(J(IJ 
(JOk}q 10.1&.04-0.00 +5130 

~lJSS;IIJ" QADK) tSf'!1  -410..14  -40.21  2.28  
Slltll &III::~CJS'VS (Slt~  ~SA  ..0.1~  !l.S<L  
~c~~)  -a..a1  ..0:05  12.28  
l'ff'Q.·~P (.Nlt:)  ....122 .O.:U  30.80  
W::~cP{WSI'T)  -O:JI.S  ..0.1:1  28.78  




Excl-taage Rctes 
109 
O.BS4.6 
O.BDDi 
1.32::1 
IN BRIEF 
Merck responsible· for Vioxx death 
HIO GHANDE CITY, Texas -A state jury found Merck & Co. liable Friday for the death of a 71-year-old man who had a fatal heart attack within a month of taking its since-with­drawn painkiller Vioxx and ordered the com­pany to pay $32 million. Merck said it would appeal. 
The damage award will likely be reduced because of a state law capping punitive dam­ages. 
The jury of 10 men and two women deliber~ ated for about seven hours over two days before returning the verdict in favor of the family of Leone! Garza, who had suffered from heart disease for more than 20 years and had taken Vioxx for less than a month. 
The company was ordered to pay $7 million in non-economic compensatory d~mages and $25 million in punitive damages. 
Crude-oil prices continue to rise 
NEW YOHK -Crude-oil prices broke through $75 a barrel to hit a new record Friday, fueled by concerns about Iran's nuclear ambitions and tight U.S. gasoline supplies. 
Prices at the pump also kept rising, with the average price of a gallon of unleaded regular gasoline at $2.855, up 3 cents from a day ear­lier and more than 60 cents higher than a year ago, according to AAA's daily fuel gauge report. 
Crude prices, which are more than 40 per­cent higher than a year ago, have risen 8.4 percent from Thursday's closing price -the biggest weeklong jump since the week ended June 17, 2005, when crude futures rose 9 per­cent. 
Ford records loss for first quarter 
DEARBOHN, Mich. -Ford Motor Co. swun1f to a $1.2 billion loss in the first quarter as it began a costly restructuring effort amid weak 
U.S. sales, leaving Ford executives disappointed but determined to go ahead with their plan to cut 30,000 jobs and remake the No. 2 automak­er. . 
ford's stock fell 63 cents, or nearly 8 percent, to close at $7.32 on the New York Stock Exchange, approaching its 52-week low of $7.13 

Eli Lilly involved in racism suit 
Lawsuit alleges discriminatory pay rates on behalf of 1,000 black employees 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A racial discrimination law­suit alleges Eli Lilly & Co. paid black employees less than their white peers, passed them over for pro­motions and subjected them to harassment such as epithets. 
The lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court also claims a Lilly human resources staffer told a complaining female employee that her managers on the manufac­turing side considered her previous corporate supervi­sors to be too accepting of blacks and that they were no longer in a position to address her concerns. 
"It's like the plantation, unfortunately, at the manu­facturing site. It's blatant discrimination,'" Cassandra Welch said Friday, the day after the lawsuit was filed. Lilly fired her in mid-2004 for allegedly falsifying e­mails in an unrelated financial dispute with another employee of the Indianapolis-based drug company. 

_Welch, two other former employees and a current one are named as plaintiffs in the complaint, which seeks class-action status on behalf of more than 1,000 black employees whom attorneys said might have faced the same kinds of have contacted the plain­technology, was promoted Racist comments by and discrimination "since August tiffs' lawyers, Joshua and · to a salaried position in among white workers 2003. It seeks unspecified David Rose of Washington, 2000. against black employees damages, lost compensa­D.C., about possible repre­The lawsuit alleges she and other blacks were tion and an order enjoining sentation in the case, was paid at a grade lower common in a manufactur­Lilly against future discrim­Joshua Rose said. than her responsibilities ipg department where ination. "Lilly managers tend to merited and was part of a Welch worked, the lawsuit 
Each of the four plaintiffs groom white employees for team whose white male said. also have complaints pend­promotion and bonuses members received bonuses, "On one occasion, Welch ing with the U.S. Equal more effectively, more rap­merit awards and promo­found a dark colored doll Employment Opportunity idly and more often than · tions that were denied to with a noose around its Commission, the lawsuit their African-American her. neck on her desk," the law­said. peers," the attorneys, w'bo "I have to say the execu­suit said. 
Lilly spokeswoman Carla specialize in employment tives and Lilly, in terms of When her complaints Cox said the company was law, said in a written state­(diversity) strategy and pol­about discrimination went withholding comment on ment. icy, has one of the best in nowhere with her depart­the specific allegations as Welch, 45, now a north­the industry," Welch said in ment managers, she went officials had not yet ern Virginia-based business a telephone interview. to human resources, where reviewed the lawsuit. consultant, said she began However, she said man­a representative told her 
"It's certainly part of our at Lilly in 1992 as a pro­agers only went through manufacturing managers company fabric to treat duction worker earning an the motions with those considered corporate offi­people fairly and with hourly wage, transferred to policies. "A policy only is as cials to be too acc;epting of respect," Cox said. finance and, after obtaining good as it's implemented. It blacks, referring to them 
More than 20 present . her bachelor's degree in was more of a check-the­with a hostile slang term, and former Lilly employees accounting and information box exercise." the lawsuit said. 

Delphi attempts to cancel contracts 
Associated Press Management LP, a New Jersey-based from $27 an hour to $16.50 an hour by 
·hedge fund that owns 9.3 percent of 2007. 
DETROIT -The United Auto Delphi's stock, said in a filing that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain Workers and other unions opposed Delphi hasn't proven canceling its con­is scheduled to consider Delphi's request Delphi Corp.'s attempt to cancel its labor tracts would be better than waiting until May 9. He ordered opponents of the contracts in court filings Friday, saying they expire and renegotiating them. plan to file their objections by Friday the auto parts supplier has failed to Appaloosa also is concerned Delphi's and gave Delphi until May 1 to respond. prove it needs to slash workers' wages motion will be considered before a com­The UAW, which represents 24,000 as part of its Chapter 11 restructuring. mittee representing Delphi's 300,000 Delphi hourly workers, said Delphi's 
"This is a case in which the debtors shareholders can be formed to review it. motion is premature because it depends have opted to place litigation before Delphi, which filed for bankruptcy on GM to supplement workers' wages, bargaining and to place confrontation protection in October, asked a federal something GM hasn't agreed to do. A before consultation," said the United judge to void its labor contracts March financial adviser to the UAW from New Steelworkers, which represents about 31 after it failed to reach an agreement York-based Lazard Freres & Co. said 1,000 of Delphi's 33,000 U.S. hourly to lower wages with its unions and Delphi also failed to provide relevant workers. General Motors Corp., its former parent financial information until a few days 
Unions aren't the only parties opposed and largest customer. Under its latest before its motion, if at all, violating its to Delphi's motion. Appaloosa proposal, Delphi wanted to lower wages bargaining agreement with the UAW. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, April 24, 2005 
EGYPT 
Osatna bil) Laden issues new-threats in video tnessage 
Terrorist leader warns of civilian attacks, remains most wanted 
Associated Press 
CAIIW -Osama bin l.adnn 

issued rww threats in an audio­
tape broadcast on Arab telnvi­
sion Sunday and accused the 
llnit.nd St.at.•~s and l~urope of 
supporting a "Zionist" war on 
Islarrr hy cutting of'f funds to tlHl 
llarrras-lnd Palnst.inian govern­
nwnl.. 
liP also urged followms to go to Sudan, his fornwr base, to right a proJlOSIHI U.N. peace­kenping force. 
II is words, tlw first rww nws­sa).{e by tlw al-{}aida leader in t.hrne rrronths, S!Willl'd designed to justify potPntjal attacks on civilians -sorrwthing al-<)aida has bePn l"ritidzed for evim by its Arah supportms. 
liP also apJHlarNI to he trying to drum up support among Arabs hy ac:nrsing tlw West of targeting llamas. a militant group that fights against Israel and now !wads tlw Palnstinian governrn P nt. 
Citing the Wnst's decision to I"Ut ofT aid to the llamas-led goVIlrnnwnt h!H~ause it refuses 
l.o rnnotrncn violmu~n or recog­nize Israel, bin Laden said Washington and Europe were waging war on Islam. 
"The blockade which the West is imposing on the gov­ernnwnt of llamas proves that tlwre is a Zionist, 1~rusaders' war on Islam," bin Laden said. 
President Bush was told about the tape Sunday morn­ing. The intelligence communi­ty has informed the White llouse that it believes the tape is autlwntic, said Bush's spokesman, Scott MeClellan. 
"The ai-Qaida leadership is on the run and under a lot of' pressure," MeCIP-IIan said at a Marine base in Twentynine Palms, Cali!'., where Bush ,was having lunc:h with military fam­ilies. 
"We are on the advance. Tlwy are on the run." 
Al-!)aida is not believed to have direct links to llamas. whil:h is an outgrowth of the Muslim Brotherhood. llamas spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri was qukk to distance the group from bin Lad1ln, deelaring that "the ideology of llamas is total­ly diiTnrent from thfl ideology of ShPik bin Laden." 
The groups do, however, share an anti-Israel idnology that calls for the destruction of the .Jewish state. And recent playing cat-and-mouse with reports in Middle East media those hunting him. have said al-Qaida is trying to "It's when p11ople have kind build cells in the Gaza Strip, of forgotten about him, when the West Bank, Lebanon and he's not been on the news. that Sudan. lsnwl has indieted two the tapes emerge," Ayers said. Wnst Bank militants for al­"It's kind of his way of thumb­()aida nwm bership. ing his nose at the U.S. and 
Israeli government saying, '!ley, I'm still out here, spokesman Haanan Gissin said and you haven't caught me and it appeared bin Laden decided you can't.' That;s what he's to issue the verbal assault to saying." ddlcct growing Arab animosity Concerning Sudan, bin Laden toward ai-Qaida. called on "mujahedeen and 
That criticism peaked in their supporters, especially in Decmnber when the leader of Sudan and the Arab peninsula, the al-Qaida in Iraq group, Abu to pwpare for long war again Musab al-Zarqawi, claimed the crusader plunderers in responsibility for the bombings Western Sudan. Our goal is not of .Jordan hotels that killed defending the Khartoum gov­many Arabs. ernment but to defend Islam, 
"This is something the Arab its land and its people." world can agree upon," (;issin "I urge holy warriors to be said. acquainted with the land and 
Bin Laden "has bonn criti­the tribes in Darfur," he said, rizPd for the destruction and adding they should be aware carnage he's causing tho that the rainy season Muslim nation. lie's looking for approaches and that will ham­another justification," Gissin per their movement. said. "Criticizing Israel sounds Al-Qaida has targeted more politically correct." Western forces in Africa before 
The U.S. ambassador to Iraq, -including its attacks against Zalmay Khalilzad -a former U.S. troops trying to bring ambassador to Afghanistan -peace to Somalia in 1993. said the tape was another The fighting in Darfur began attempt by bin Laden to gain when rebels from black African attention for his eause. tribes took up arms in 
"lie wants to be relevant to February 2003, complaining of the situation, wauts to get discrimination and oppression attention that he still is a play­by Sudan's Arab-dominated er," Khalilzad said on CNN's government. "Late Edition." The government has been 
The voice on the tape sound­accused of unleashing Arab ed strong and resembled that tribal militia known as the on other reeordings attributed .Janjaweed against civilians in a to bin Ladnn, but its authentici­campaign of murder, rape and ty could not be verified inde­arson -a charge it denies. At pendently. least 180,000 people have died 
Al-Jazeera tele­ many  from  
vision appeared to  hunger and dis­ 
have had the tape  "lie wants to be  ease-and 2 mil­ 
long enough to make significant edits, with its  relevant to the situation, wants to  lion people have been displaced in the vast, arid  
news reader pro­viding back­ground com- get attention that he is still a player. "  region of western Sudan and as refugees in neigh­ 
ments. The net­work broadeast  Zalmay Khalllzad  boring Chad. The United  
about five minutes of the tape in all. Bin Laden's  former Afghanistan ambassador  Nations described conflict as  has the the  
remarks touched  world's  gravest  

on the full range or issues that humanitarian cns1s. The anger militant Arabs and other United States has described it Muslims. Many of them see a as genocide. renewal of' a Christian-and Negotiators are trying to bro­.Jewish-inspired Western "cru­ker a peace deal between war­sade" to dominate the Islamic ring factions by an April 30 world and to confiscate Muslim deadline. Members of the lands and resources -particu­African Union have agreed in larly oil. principle to hand over peace­
Bob Ayers, a security expert keeping duties to the United with the Chatham House think Nations this fall. . tank in London, said the tape The Saudi-born bin Laden set may be bin Laden's way of' up headquarters in Sudan after he was forced to leave his homeland, but Khartoum expelled him under threats from the United States. He moved to Afghanistan, where he trained fighters and organ­ized the Sept. 11 attacks.He is believed hiding in the rugged mountains on the Pakistani side of that country's long bor­der with Afghanistan. 

In Washington, U.S. intelli­gence officials said bin Laden was living separately from top deputy Ayman al-Zawahri and, in a sign he has to be careful about whom he trusts, sur­rounded by fellow Arabs. 
The al-Qaida. chieftain," who last issued a message broad­cast by Al-Jazeera on Jan. 19, also made a point of trying to 
· justify attacks on eivilians. lie said citizens of Western coun­tries were equally responsible with their governments for what he termed the "war on Islam." 

"I say that this war is the joint responsibility or the peo­ple and the governments. While the war eontinues, the people renew their allegiance to their rulers and politicians and con­tinue to send their sons to our eountries to fight us," bin Laden said. 
In his last message, bin Laden ofl'ered the United States a long-term truce but warned that al-Qaida soon would launch a fresh attack on American soil. But no new attacks on the United States have occurred. 
In the Sunday broadcast, bin Laden called for a global Muslim boycott of' American goods similar to the recent ban on Danish products after the publieation of' caricatures of Islam's Prophet Muhammad that outraged the Muslim world. 
Prosecutor's son questioned abotit Holloway murder 
Associated Press  questioned as witnesses in this  bring my father down."  guard searehes of the sea floor.  a judge by April 25 to keep van  
investigation and  was  never  The elder Dompig said earli­ Authorities  continued  to  Cromvoirt in custody. They had  
OllAN.JESTAI>. Aruba - The  considered a suspect," Dompig  er  that Holloway's mother,  study images or the sea floor  not yet done so as of' Saturday,  
fornwr load investigator in the  said during a phone interview.  Beth Twitty, has hurt the inves­ taken during a four-day search  she said.  
disappearance of U.S. teenager  It was not known if the ques­ tigation by rtJleasing sensitive  by the Netherlands Antilles  Van Cromvoirt's lawyer said  
Nataloo Ilolloway said Sunday  tions concerned van Cromvoirt,  information during her fre­ and Aruba Coast Guard, said  he  has  no  connection  to  
his  IIJ-yoar-old  son  was ques­ who was arrested on suspicion  quent appearances on U.S. tel­ Mariaine  Croes,  a  spokes­ llolloway's disappearance in  
tionod  as  a  witness in last  of "criminal offenses that may  evision shows, but he said  woman  for the proseeutor's  May  2005.  Holloway,  of'  
YIHtr's still unsolved ease.  be related  to  the disappear- Sunday he did not agree with  office, on Saturday.  Mountain Brook, Alabama, was  
Aruban Police Commissioner  ance" of llolfoway, according  his son's comments and called  "There is nothing we can say  last seen driving away from  a  
c;llrold  l>ornpig  told  The  to authorities who have not  the interview a  "regrettable  immediately  about  the  bar with three young loeal men  
Asso!'iatod Press that police  provided details.  incident."  results," said Croes, who has  on  the final night of a  high  
have twice questioned his 19­ Dompig made the comments  Loeal  newspapers  say  declined to say what authori­ school graduation trip to the  
ynar-old son, Michael  - once  • after his son told Fox News on  Dompig's son  worked for the  ties hope to find in the images  Dutch Caribbean island.  
siru~e  the April 15 arrest of'  Saturday that the Holloway  same private security company  or to say how the search was  Aruban  authorities  have  
CeoiTroy van Cromvoirt, who is  family and others who have  as  van  Cromvoirt.  He  was  related to Holloway's disap­ arrested seven  people in con­ 
also IIJ.  alleged incompntence and con- questioned during a  resur­ pearance nearly a year ago.  nection with Ilolloway's disap­ 
"Miehaol  was  mnrdy one of  nicts of' interest in the investi­ gence of activity in the past  Croes said that prosecutors  pearance and later released  
tlw  many people who  were  galion have been "trying to  week that included  new coast  must present new evidence to  them for lack of 1widence.  

Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer +NEWS page 9 
Wal-Mart practices under fire 
Company engages in battle with politicians aiming to change its policies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -There is no candidate. There are no ballots. There won't be an Election Day. And yet it may be the hottest, highest-stakes political contest in America today. 
It's the campaign against Wal­Mart. 
i\ year-old efl'ort to force the nation's No. 1 private employer to change its business practices has evolved into a Washington­style brawl: tens of millions of dollars spent by Hepublican and Democratic political consultants using polling, micro-targeting, ads, e-mails, direct mail, grass­roots organizing and strategic methods to drag the company into the public square and try to shame them into change. 
Both groups have hammered the world's largest retailer about its wages, health insurance, treatment of workers and pro­clivity for buying non-U.S. goods. Wal-Mart has responded with counterattacks and a multimil­lion-dollar public campaign to polish its image. 
On both sides are some of the best political strategists money can buy. 
WakeUpWalMart.com is run by Paul Blank, political director for Howard Dean's 2004 Democratic presidential campaign, and Chris Kofinis, a former political professor 

"war rooms" to ply their trade in the corporate world.  "Our opponents have organized the likes ofa political  who helped draft retired Army Gen. Wesley Clark into the same race.  
Their fight involves some of society's most  campaign against us.  Their campaign has all the mark­ings of the Dean  
vexing trends, induding the ris­ Bob McAdam  and Clark insurgen­cies -a snappy  
ing cost of health care, the painful realities of glob­alization and the  vice president of corporate affairs Wai-Mart  Web site, volunteer action lists and an issues-based grass­root<> campaign.  
waning rele- Among  those  

lined up against the company at Wal-Mart Watch are Jim Jordan, vance of organized labor. 

"Our opponents have organ­ized the likes of a political cam­paign against us," said Bob McAdam, vice president of cor­porate affairs at Wal-Mart. "It would be nonsense for us not to respond in a similar fashion." 
Wal-Mart's main opponents are the Service Employees International Union, which start­ed Wal-Mart Watch, and the United Food and Commercial Workers International Union, which funds a separate cam­paign called WakeUpWa!Mart.com 
After failing to organize employees of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. with traditional tactics, the unions decided to use modern campaign and communications 
too-cozy relationship with China." 
Under fire, Wal-Mart turned to Reagan adviser Michael Deaver, Bush-Cheney political director Terry Nelson and several Democrats, among them civil rights leader Andrew Young and campaign strategist Leslie Dach. 
Talk about odd bedfellows: Democrats working for Wal-Mart against organized labor. 
"We were being attacked. We wanted to hire people who knew how to respond," said Wal-Mart's McAdam, formerly a GOP aide on Capitol Hill and political strate­gist for the tobacco industry. 
WakeUpWalMart.com claims 212,000 supporters who can be mobilized with a computer stroke to recruit members and participate in media events designed to shine a bad light on the Bentonville, Ark., company. 
The group also passes out UFCW-sponsored workers' rights material outside Wal-Mart stores. 
A goal of the UFCW is to show Wal-Mart's 1.3 million U.S. employees -many of whom have a low opinion of unions or fear retribution if they organize -that unionized labor can change their workplace and lives 
for the better. 
For years, labor 
campaign man­leaders were fight­
"Wal-Mart is 
ager for 2004 ing Wal-Mart the 
Democratic pres· giving capitalism a old way, but times idential nominee bad name., have changed," John Kerry, and Kofinis said. Terry Holt, a "Instead of organiz­
Terry Holt
spokesman for ing workers, the 2004 Bush­spokesman they're trying to Cheney cam­organize the paign. nation" against 
Odd bedfellows: A Republican Wal-Mart. working for unions against Wal­In its own way, this campaign Mart. over Wal-Mart is as important as 
"Wal-Mart is giving capitalism the congressional races this year. a bad name," Holt explained. Bringing Wal-Mart to heel with "It's lost touch with its small­21st-century tactics would signal town roots and has become a a fresh approach for organized company that is depending on labor after a decades-long corporate welfare ... and an all-decline in membership. 

IRAQ 
Marines not standing still in city 
Associated Press 
RAMADI-Weapons locked, loaded and ready, a U.S. Marine platoon runs through this troubled Iraqi city's war-wrecked streets, hurling yellow, gray and violet smoke grenades to shroud their path. 
Pausing only to train gunbarrels around corners or scan rooftops for insurgents, they bound across desolate roads lined with broken glass and charred cars -and start running again. 
Stancling still is rarely an option in this insurgent-plagued metrop­olis beset by roadside bombs, rocket fire and, Marines here say, the worst sniper threat on the planet. 
"Every time we go out, we run," said 2nd Lt. Brian Wilson. a 24­year-old platoon commander from Columbia, S.C. "If you stand still, you WILL get shot at." 
And most of the time, Marines shoot back. 
Buildings around Government Center, the Marine-defended headquarters of provincial gov­ernment. offer stark evidence of fighting between insurgents and 
U.S. forces in downtown Ramacli, a city 70 miles west of Baghdad in the heart of the Sunni Arab-domi­nated insurgency. 
Some buildings have been blown away by air strikes, their walls ripped open, their twisted floors collapsed. Others, inclucling a small mosque and il<> tank-blast­ed minaret, are riddled with rock­et and bullet impacts. Plastic awnings over shopfronts are shredded. Power lines hang down along sidewalks. 
Marines patrolling this city on foot don't like to stay exposed too long, preferring instead to blow front gate locks off private homes with special shotgun shells to take temporary cover in walled court­yards before moving on. They don't knock first -there is no time. 
On one recent sweep, U.S. and Iraqi infantrymen climbed over walls between houses instead of risking the streets outside. 
"We try to stay mobile so snipers can't aim in on us," said 1st Lt. Carlos Goetz, a 29-year-old Miami native. "If we walk, then it gives them more time to aim in on your head." 
Running around with 60 to 80 pounds of gear, the Marines' pace is more of a quick jog. 
The urban environment of walled villa rooftops and four-to five-story windowed buildings keeps Marines edgy. 
"You try to take cover wherever you can, but it just feels like some­one's always watching you. It real­ly messes with your head," said Cpl. Jason Hunt ofWellsville, N.Y 
"You look for dark windows, tiny holes anywhere," the 24­year-old said. "They could be sit­ting back on a bench with a scope and a barrel -they see you, but you can't see them." 
Troops from the 3rd Battalion, 8th Marine Regiment aggressively patrol the blown-out district around Government Center at all hours -conducting raids and sweeps during the hazy, gritty heat of the day, and in the quiet of night when moonlight casts build­ings and villas in blue hues. 
Marines say the patrols have disrupted insurgent operations. But the guerrillas operating in small teams are relentless, firing rockets, mortars and machine guns daily at Government Center, 
U.S. bases and fortified observa­tion posts. Sometimes they attack the same targets several times a day. 
Goetz said Marines patrol hop­ing to bring insurgents out into the open, where they are little match for the overwhelming U.S. firepower. 

TURKEY 
Orthodox Christians celebrate Easter Sunday 

Associated Press 
ISTANBUL Orthodox Christians around the world cel­ebrated Easter Sunday, wor­shipping at candlelit services from Russia to Ethiopia before gathering families for outdoor feasts. 
Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I, spiritual leader of 200 million Orthodox Christians, led prayers on Easter eve in the crowded Church of St. George in Istanbul. A flame brought from the site of Jesus' grave in Jerusalem was passed from candle to candle. 
The patriarch called for peace, telling the congregation, "We call for an end to the killing of one another, and we denounce the violence and fanaticism that threatens life." 
In Jerusalem's Church of the Holy Sepulcher, hundreds of Orthodox Christians gathered for Mass. Candles glowed around the tomb where many Christians believe Jesus was buried, and hymns filled the cavernous grotto-like church. 
Orthodox Christians use a dif­ferent calendar from Roman Catholics and Protestants, so their celebration of Easter usu­ally falls on a different date from the rest of Christianity and always after the Jewish festival of Passover. Coptic Christians in Egypt and some 25 million Ethiopian Christians also cele­brated Easter on Sunday. 
At the Vatican, Pope Benedict XVI joined Orthodox religious leaders' calls for peace and offered prayers for victims of flooding along the Danube River. 
"In the joyous atmosphere of these days, I cannot not recall that many of these peoples, in Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, are suffering because of the flooding," he said, speaking from his window overlooking St. Peter's Square to tens of thou­sands of pilgrims. 
The disaster has forced thou­sands from their homes yet Orthodox Christians still man­aged to celebrate Easter. Romanian refugees held servic­es outdoors in the flood-stricken village of Rast, where priests used an improvised altar in an open tent. 
Similar services in other flooded Eastern European vil­lages were accompanied by fire­works and even celebratory gunfire. 
Easter celebrations, a blend religious and local traditions, typically include a spit-roast lamb dinner and a display of hard-boiled eggs, dyed red to symbolize the blood of Christ. 
In Cyprus, youths around the island lit traditional Easter bon­fires to burn effigies of Judas ­the disciple thought to have betrayed Jesus. 
In Greece, Orthodox leader Archbishop Christodoulos said the church remains a source of defiance against the negative effects of globalization and dom­inance of major world powers. 
"The church is our hope for the future," Christodoulos said in his Easter message. "It is the living and new resistance against the murderous world order which throws every inde­pendent voice, every protest of 
conscience  and  reasonable  
opposition  into  the  meat  
grinder."  

Christodoulos' remarks were seen in part as a reference to the United States, ahead of demonstrations planned this week by anti-globalization and other groups against a visit by 
U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
Political and religious leaders in predominantly Orthodox countries used Easter messages to issue appeals for national unity. 
At Moscow's Cathedral of Christ the Savior, President Vladimir Putin attended Easter prayers led by Patriarch Alexy II. 
"I heartily congratulate Orthodox Christians and all citi­zens of Russia celebrating Christ's resurrection. Easter gives millions of Russians joy and hope," Putin said. 
Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko said he hoped mod­eration would prevail in tough negotiations to form a governing coalition as well deep division between the nation's Ukrainian­speaking, nationalistic west and pro-Moscow, Hussian-speaking east. 
"God will give us wisdom and lead us down the correct path," he said. 
Monday, April 24, 2006 

page 10 The Observer + COLLEGE NEWS 
Analysis sho-ws college grads flocking to big cities 
Associated Press Washington and Austin, Texas. 
Molly Wankel, who has a doetor­
W"'")IIJNCTON -College gradu­ate in edueational administration, ates am flocking to Anwriea's big said she moved to the Washington cities, chm;ing jobs <Uld cultum and area li1r a job, and the culture of driving up home prie(~S. the city pulled her from the sub­
Though many of the largest cities urbs. Wankel, 51, grew up in east­havn lost population in the past ern Tennessee and works at a eom­thrnn decades, nmtrly all have pany that develops software and added mllngn graduates. an analy­training materials. She recently sis by The Assodatnd Pmss fhund. bought a home in the eity. 
Thn findings ofli~r hopn li1r urban "I just enjoy walking around look­arnas, many of which have spnnt ing at the architeeturn and the way dneades struggling with financial pnople have rnnovated these 100­problems, job losses and high year-old homes," Wankel said. "I pov(wty ratns. loV(~ the landseaping and ti1e lovely 
But they also spell trouble for mix of many races, straight people, some dtins, nspeda.lly thosn in tim gays, singles, older people, youngnr Northnm;t and Midwest, that have people." fitllnn !)(~hind the South and West in The AP analyzed eensus data attrading highly ndueated workers. from 21 of the largest cities from 
"The largnst pmdietor of eco­1970 to 2004. The AP used every­
nomic wnll-bning in  1 0-year census data  
dties is thn percent  from 1970 to 2000,  
of college gradu­atns," said Ned llill, professor of eco­nomic development at Cleveland Statr~ University. To do well. he said, cities must bn attractive  "I had always been a small town girl, and I didn't know ifI could adjust to living in a big city. Now, I don't want  and the Census Bureau's American Community Survey for 2004. The 21 cities were chosen because of their size and loca­tion to provide  
to edueatnd people. Nationally, a littin more than one­ to go back to the suburbs."  regional balance. The analysis was expanded for 2004,  
fburth of pnoph~ 25  the latest year for  
and older had  at  Molly Wankel  data, to include all  
least bachelor's degrees in 2004.  Washington resident  70 cities with popu­lations of 250,000 or  
Some H4  pereent  more.  

had high sdwol diplomas or the While most states in the equivalnnt. Northna'it have high percentages of 
By comparison, in 1970 only a bit college graduates, their big cities do morn than one in 10 adults had not. bachdor's degrees and about half Massachuset1s, Connecticut and had high sehoul diplomas. New Jersey were among the top 
Seattin was ti1n best-edueatnd city five states in the percentage of in 2004 with just over half the adult<; with college degrees in 2004. adulL'i having bachelor's degrees. But the Northeast placed no city Following closely were San among the top five, and only one Franciseo; Haleigh, N.C.; from tim region -Boston -was in the top 20. 

Cities with few collego graduates have a hard tinle generating good­paying jobs. That, in turn, makes it hard to attract more college gradu­ates, said Richard Vedder, an eeo­nomi(:s professor at Ohio University. 
Cities such as Newark, N.J.; Detroit and Cleveland have relative­ly few college graduates, which helps explain why they are strug­gling to recover from the decline of 
U.S. manufacturing, Vedder said. 
Among the three, Oeveland had tim largest share of eollege gradu­ates in 2004, 14 pereent of those 25 and older. 
"Society is paying people more for their brains than for their brawn," Vedder said. "The nerds and the wimps and the geeks are ruling the world." 
College graduates made about two-thirds more money than high school graduates in 2004, accord­ing to the Census Bureau. The median income -the point at which half make more and half make less -for adults wiili bache­lor's degrees was $42,404. lt was $25,360 for high school graduates. 
AdulL'i who did not graduate high school had a median income of $18,144. 
Many cities wiili a lot of college graduates also have expensive homes, even with the softening real estate market. 
San Francisco was the costliest in 2004, with a median home value of $662,000, according to census data. That was more than four times the national median of $151,000. 
Cities that want to increase their pool of skilled labor need to foster an environment that wekomes out­siders, including inlmigrants and people from elsewhere in the U.S., said Richard Florida, professor of public policy at George Mason University. 

"You know what they say, they say we want our kids baek. We want them to stop leaving," Florida said, paraphrasing leaders of many depressed cities. "What iliey don't say is that they want other people's kids to move there." 
Most big cities are strapped with struggling publie sehools and need to attract ouL'iiders to improve edu­cation levels an10ng adult'i. It's pos­sible, in part because unmarried college graduates are the most mobile demographic group, according to census data. 
"Cities have realized that they can attract edueated people and they don't need good schools to do it," said Florida, who wrote the book, "The Rise of the Creative Oass." 
But cities need good schools to keep people from fleeing to the sub­urbs once they beeome parents, said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
Frey pointed to Washington, a city witi1 lagging public schooL<; but impressive education leveL<; among adulL'i. 
"D.C. is like a revolving door," Frey said. "These young people move in and then they move out when they want to have kids." 
But Wankel, the Tennessee native, said she has no plans to leave Washington. She said she would miss the restaurant<;, muse­UlllS and convenient public trans­portation, what she calls "eiviliza­tion." 
"I had always been a small town girl, and I didn't know if I could adjust to living in a big city," Wankel said. "Now, I don't want to go baek to the suburbs." 
IU tnusic students die in crash 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. Georgina II. Joshi had studied at the Hoyal College of Music in London and sung in Wales. Zachary J. Novak shared his love of music with children as a church choir direetor. 
Joshi, Novak and three fellow graduate students from Indiana University's music school died late Thursday when the small plane Joshi wa'i piloting cra'ihed near the Monroe County Airport. 
"This is a deva'itating loss that is deeply fi~lt on the Bloomington campus," IU President Adam llnrbcrt said at a news confer­ence Friday afternoon. 
Investigators from the Fnderal Aviation Administration and National Transportation Safety Board were searching for answers about what caused the single-engine Cessna to crash in heavy fi-1g. But without a cockpit recorder and with no distress call from tho plane, answers wnrn fi~w Friday. 
Ed Malinowski, an air safety investigator for the NTSB, said the probe would look at the plane, the pilot and the weather. A preliminary report could be available within a week, but the final report could take a year or more, he said. 
The students were identified as Joshi, 24, of South Bend; Novak. 25. of Anderson; Robert Clayton Samnls, 24, of Medina, Ohio; Garth A. Eppley, 25, of Wabash, Ind.; and Chris Bates Carducci, 27, of Monroe, Mich. 
They were returning from a rehearsal for a community eon­cert in West Lafayette, about 90 miles to the north, when the plane disappeared from radar about 11:40 p.m. Thursday. 
Emergency crews found the badly damaged craft more than four hours later, upside down in dense woods just south of the airport a couple miles west of Bloomington. The main fuselage appeared to be in one pieee, and the landing gear was still attached, but the wings were damaged. 
Malinowski said the plane hit nose-first. Nicole Meyer of the Monroe County coroner's office said all five students died instantly. 
Autopsies were scheduled Friday and Saturday. 
Several 911 callers had described "the spit and sputter­ing of an airplane" and the sound of "extreme acceleration unusual for a plane coming in for a landing," said Mike Cornman, deputy lire chief in Van Buren Township. Some reported hearing a loud boom. 
Malinowski said visibility was about a mile at the time. 
Investigators said they did not immediately know how much flying experience Joshi had. 
The plane was registered to Yatish Air in South Bend. A phone number to Yatish Air could not be found. 
The crash came as the IU campus prepared to celebrate the Little 500 men's and women's bicycle races, a two­day event that draws thousands to Bloomington for racing and parties. 
As students cried and con­soled one another at the music school's building, rock music echoed from the Delta Upsilon fraternity house across the street, where students played volleyball and threw Frisbees. 
"It's kind of put a strain on the party. I know a lot of students have a heavy heart about now," said Ryan Pappas, a 19-year-old freshman from Cincinnati, as he returned to the party. 
The music school, with about 1,600 students, is one of the largest in the nation, with pro­grams in opera, jazz, orchestral music and early music. Still, Herbert said, it has "a family kind of environment." 
"Students are taking it very hard," he said. 
Sam Page, a 19-year-o.ld freshman from Columbus, Ohio, majoring in performance bas­soon, agreed. 
"To lose one student, let alone live, is such a tragedy. It will have a big inlpact on all of us," Page said. 
A memorial service was planned Friday evening at First United Methodist Church, where Novak was worship coordinator and directed the Wesley choir and ehildren's choir. Church members put up silver-framed photo of Novak on table with three white roses as a photo col­lage of him stood nearby. 
"Zach was just a beautiful person, more full of life than anyone I know," associate pas­tor Jimmy Moore said. 




Big oil companies now recruiting on campuses 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas-University of Texas senior Thuan Phan switehed majors from computer science to geological sciences, fig­uring the field trips would make it more fun. Now his degree turns out to be lucrative, too. 
"Big Oil" has been doing some big recruiting on U.S. campuses this year -as have many small­er companies in the petroleum and natural gas business. The combination of high priees, an aging work force 
for petroleum engineers and geologists -fields that were so slow in recent years some univer­sity departments closed. Offers made last fall to undergraduate petroleum engineers averaged $62,236, up more than 6 pereent, and the highest of any categories in NACE's survey (geologists' starting salaries are generally somewhat lower). 
Prominent geoscience pro­grams, including those at Texas, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Colorado School 
of Mines, are 

and a tight pipeline reporting more
"My guess is the 
of trained workers companies inter­has the industry demand for viewing on cam­desperate for tal­geoscientists is pus. William ent. Phan accepted Fisher, dean of
roughly twice the 
a $55,000-per-year UT's Jaekson
supply.,,
offer in Houston at School of Schlum-berger Ltd., Geosciences, saw an oilfield services something this
William Fisher 
firm. year he'd never
dean
"The pay's really seen before: a stu­
University of Texas
good, and it's just dent got a signing 
exciting," says Phan, who may pursue a mas­ter's degree while he works. 
For job-hunters, 2006 is a good time to graduate from eollege. The National Association of Colleges and Employers' most recent survey found companies planning 14.5 percent more on­campus hiring this year; a recent salary survey showed offers up significantly across a range of fields. 
But it's a particularly good time 
bonus -for a summer internship. 
"My guess is the demand for geoscientists is roughly twice the supply," Fisher says. 
Adds Maria ZubBr, department chair of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences at MIT: "I have high-level people oil compa­nies who are in my office fre­quently saying, 'send me more students.' We can't keep up with the demand of what the oil com­panies need." 

Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

····.·.0~t/~ 
F 

y ';/'-' . . / .. . ' . 
'\ " "" CONSUMfR• (h•ly "" '"''" ,ml "'"""'-'~' "'' "'" '" '""" "'~"" ~ , 
...~/·_·.-,\.. "1-~,~C'·K··-"SUt(J' ~--.-'J'-/ -:~t i,.. , ~:~~~§~1~§§~:~r~s~~E~;~g~~1s~·-._-_--:lw:$domp~lHl.:;.dr:lros~ MoJ:it(IUj)N1~ft::CM~(l.lPf 49(\~0.!Jn~f~t.thmf,l. · ­.... _-· ~," _',~/_ 
. DtiAIO, 'X79!';40. CASHIER:Eutrtl r~:~tmlr.ricohcra:c. __,_____t ·:
/. ?__,-.
~?Qil£i Tll'l Coco-Ca~ r;o:npa.'l~ ~vAULT," 'VAtltl' l.w'!'llml tha 1/,\Ul.! !c!;ln r.~ ;­
•, ~"" ; ' .7". I . ~ ··~ ... l'l'ilill~ilt; If .Y~ / ~~ ,A / ·~-<' , /-\. ····· \.. / \._ .· ''... .. \.! ..· ." ..,,~ ~~~L.,....-t 
' . . ._~«<·---·-.-r.-__, ,...•...,_,_~ _ _.,..,......_,~---..-.,...-...--_ '.~ /__ , __ -. / _-_-_· .i 
. ) ' ·. / -' / . /" ' / -/ /-·-­~~-~ . -~-. \ ·. ·.. ' / / .... /ft ... / i~ . . ~"' .. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, April 24, 2006 
THE OBSERVER Scientology and me 
1~0. !lux 779, Notre Oamo, IN 46556 0.!4 South Dining Hall, Notn: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EI>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddi~ Hanna Paula Garcia 
Assl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Roben Griffin 
NEWS EOITORS: Amanda Michads Mary K.11e Malon~ VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS E!liTOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kell)' Meehan PIIOTO ElllTOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEH ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff SYSTI\MS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6.~1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESk 
(574) 631-4540 scenc.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(S74) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
Tht· Observer is the indept·ndent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the student> of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either instituti<>n. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all re-aders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.etters to the Ediwr must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qumiom rq;arriing ObsmJ" pulii:ies should be dim-red to Editor in ChiifMike GiUoon 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
T'ht-Ot.crver (USPS ~911 l-4000} i1f111hli.ho:d Mmw.lay thn1ugh Frid.ay cxupt durin~ mwtu .wd Vllt,.ui"n petimk A •u~Tipuon wl'he Oh••.-rvcr is $1011 fi.u one K"o~dc:mi1. yc-o~r; $"i~ hJruurJoC"mnter, 
Tht ~rwr IS pubhdu:d .11: PO>"fMASTER 024 Sooth Dining H.all Send addrell' 'orn:ctiom to: Nntrt l)•me,IN 46'S'5U·0779 The()h!w:rnr l1eriodiu/ pn.t,.tilgt' p;~id at Nofre Dame r.o. Bm 779 .md .ad.iilional mailing nffico 024 South Dining Hall 
NoH~ Dune, IN 46556-0n9 
The Olxcrvcr b .a member of the A.w~ural Prcsa. 1\Jl n::pruduaiun righ's .llrt fa~rv«<. 
With all this ehatter about Katie Holmes giving birth to her daughter in silenee so as not to traumatize it later in life and her baby's daddy, Tom Cruise, supposedly gnawing on the poor girl's plaeenta for the alleged health benefits, Seientology has onee again reemerged in the national spot­light as the eraziest religion on Earth not practiced by Madonna. 
But as I gazed over the numerous tabloid photos of the former Joey Potter of "Dawson's Creek" fame proudly knoeked up by the pseu­do-homosexual, ex-Mr. Nicole Kidman, I eould not help but wonder what about this mysterious religion made people like Cruise do the cha-cha on Oprah's eouch and engage in hand-to­hand combat with Matt Lauer over the benefits of psychiatry. After all, rumor has it that Scientology was ereated by its founder, L. Ron Hubbard, as a joke after he bet a friend that he could start and popularize his own religion as a money-making scheme. 
Sure, Scientology Web sites claim that their religion is on par with the Eastern religions that seek salvation and unity with God through personal enlightenment. But on the flip side, many have accused it of being run like a commercial business (unlike Catholicism, of course), in which members are charged for each of the religious services performed by the church. Plus, the Church of Scientology itself is rumored to have real estate holdings valued in the bil­lions of dollars (unlike Catholicism, of course). 
Beyond these financial practices, though, there are some tenets of Scientology that make the rumor about Hubbard's facetious formation of the church sound highly plausible. For instance, the central practice of 

Joey 
Falco 
Forty 
Ounces 

Scientology-auditing-requires a counselor to measure the electrieal resistance running through a practi­tioner while he holds onto metal objects as a means of quantifying dis­turbances in his spirit. Also, to those who obtain a certain level of clarity in Scientology, Hubbard's teachings promise a number of supernatural abilities, inc! uding telekinesis, immor­tality and even immunity from the common cold. 
Best of all, though, Scientologists supposedly believe that our emotional and physical problems emerged 75 million years ago, when an evil galac­tic warlord named Xenu attempted to fight interplanetary overpopulation by dumping trillions of bodies into Earth's volcanoes. Eventually, their radioactive souls attached themselves to the spirits of human beings­henee the plethora of modern mental disorders. 
So no wonder Tom Cruise had the munehies for his tyke's placenta. His soul was actually locked in battle with the tortured spirit of a 75 million­year-old alien! Give the guy a break. 
Well, I was going to do just that, and in my quest to achieve true solidarity with the guy who had me from hello in "Jerry Maguire" and the girl who stole my heart while making out to Sixpence None the Hieber songs on "Dawson's Creek," yesterday morning I snuck into the Founding Church of Scientology of Washington, DC. 
Upon entering, I was not only struck by the lavishness of the chapel which held the Sunday service -mahogany walls and bookshelves, beautiful stained glass covered in esoteric Scientology symbols, a large portrait of the deific Hubbard and comfortable wicker chairs that could have doubled as patio furniture-but also the size of the place. While the overall building was a palatial mansion, only 25 to 30 people could even fit into the tiny chapel itself. 
We began the service by reciting a creed, and then followed that with some readings from a massive collec­tion of Hubbard's writings. To be hon­est, I was pleasantly surprised by the scriptural part of the service­Hubbard's teachings did seem to of'l'nr thoughtful insights on how to deansn one's soul and become a psychosomat­ically sound individual. 
But thnn things just got weird. 
The minister dragged out an E­Meter -a laptop-sized electromag­netic sensor that measures an individ­ual's stress levels -and proceeded to test it out on a member of the congre­gation. Then, the doors to the chapel were ominously slammed shut as the lights were dimmed, and I grabbed my wicker chair expecting my soul to be sucked out by an alien warlord with an E-Meter. 
Instead, we ended the service with an activity called group processing, in which those of us in the congregation proceeded to roll our necks, nod our heads, find the 11oor, envision the walls, find our heads and bodies and shout words like "Okay!" and "Here!" back and .forth with the minister. I lit­erally felt like I was a four-year-old with ADD playing Simon Says with my psychiatrist and therefore had no desire to stick around after the service to sign up for the extremely expensive weekday processing sessions. 
Still, with absolutely no mention of aliens, silent births or Tom Cruise, I have to admit I was a little disappoint­ed with the whole Scientology experi­ence -except for the part where I got to watch middle-aged men and women shouting things like, "My head is a part of my body! My body is in the chair! The chair is on the floor!" 
If L. Hon Hubbard really did start this whole thing as a lucrative practi­cal joke, then it's safe to say the joke was on these idiots. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. /lis column appears every other Monday. lie can be con­tacted at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The 0/Jserver. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Closing statement response 
In his response to University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement, Hev. John J. Coughlin, 
O.F.M. argues that "the University needs to hire more devout Catholic pro­fessors who cherish the Catholic approach to reason and are also top notch in their respective academic dis­ciplines" ("A response to Father Jenkins," April 20). I wonder if this is absolutely necessary since for the most part Catholic reason does not seem to enter classroom discussion, outside of possibly Theology, and Philosophy ­never once in my courses in political science did I hear any mention of reli­gion or get a Catholic perspective on issues, and I would have benefited immensely from such input. 

Unless a student gets to know a pro­fessor on a one-on-one basis, the faith and beliefs of the professor seem to be irrelevant. There is a long held tradi­tion in academia that seems to separate the personal beliefs in both the secular and religious spheres from teaching. If this is the case, why would a person's religious background matter? In my two years at Notre Dame, the most enriching conversations I had about Catholicism were with a non-Christian faculty member who, out of personal interest, knew an immense amount about Catholicism and challenged me to understand more deeply what it is about Catholicism that is important. 
Notre Dame's Catholic identity is expressed in ways that go beyond hir­ing mainly Catholic professors. The top quality and the willingness to engage the students in thought and discussion seem to be important in the hire of fac­ulty at Notre Dame. Besides being taught the faith and having it deepened and nourished, Catholics also need to learn how to engage it with the rest of the world, and a diverse faculty and student body is one of the best ways to understand, live and deepen one's faith. 
Fr. David Kashangaki, CSC Andre Formation House Jinja, Uganda April20 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Kelly Meehan Matt Puglisi Nicole Zook Jay Fitzpatrick 
Do you agree with ClAP's 
Laura Fran Tolan 
proposal to raise the hourly 
Baumgartner Scene Viewpoint Molly Griffin wage for campus workers to 
Margie $12.10 per hour? Hosmonowski Graphics 
Vote by Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
James Rudy at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
j Submlt aLetter1 

·~ 

"Give to every human being every right that you claim for yourself-that is my doctine."
·to the Editor at . 
Thomas Paine American Revolutionary writer
.: www.ndsmcobserver.com
.,~: 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, April 24, 2006 
It's just too soon for this tagline: "September 11, 2001. Four planes were hijacked. Three of them reached their target. This is the story of the fourth." 
It's the tagline for "United 93," a movie, told in real­time, about the plane that crashed into a Pennsylvania field on that fateful morning. 
Maybe I've watched a little too much cable televi­sion over the years, but to me, that sounds an awful lot 
The Coffey

like the tagline of 
Grind

MTV's hit reality show. You know it ­"This is the story of seven strangers, picked to live in a house and have their lives taped, to see what happens when people stop being polite and start getting real." 
And while "United 93" is the story of 45 people (many of whom were indeed strangers) who chose to take a plane out of Newark International Airport on a sunny September morn­ing, this story -unlike the one on MTV -is not entertainment. Moreover, unlike MTV's contrived "Real World," this actually was the real world. It still is. 
In fact, Osama bin Laden, the orchestrator of the 9/11 attacks, is 


Too soon for 1 United 93' 
still wandering the deserts of Pakistan. And from wherever he is, he's still making videotapes and threatening more attacks against America. Each time a new tape is released, the al Qaeda leader still makes the front. page of American newspapers. 
In a United States Federal Courthouse, Zacarias Moussaoui is currently on trial for conspiring with al Qaeda to commit the 9/11 attacks. During the past few days, the jury has heard testimony from those who lost loved ones in the World Trade Center Towers and the Pentagon, including Michael Williams, a man who lost his 24-year-old son in the World Trade Center. Before the attacks, Michael was helping to plan his son's wed­ding. After the attacks, he helped to plan his funeral. 
On Wednesday, the jury will hear similarly gripping stories from the families of Flight 93 victims. Flight 93's cockpit voice recording will be played publicly for the first time. Then on Friday, April 28, a major motion picture will be released. It's just too soon. 
But we all love movies about heroes, right? Who didn't love "Batman" or "Indiana Jones?" And the men and women of Flight 93 were undoubtedly heroes. But if this Friday night I ask a friend what movies are playing at the local theater and she lists "United 93" as one of the options, I can't see myself exclaiming, "Oh yes! I really wanted to see that one!" That just wouldn't seem right. 

I couldn't buy a greasy tub of pop­corn and sit in a cushiony reclining chair to watch something so similar to what jurors are watching (and weeping over) in an Alexandria, Virginia courthouse. I just couldn't do it. The jurors are listening to the tes­timony in an attempt to decide whether or not to give Moussaoui the death penalty. But it's too soon for me to watch that in a movie theater. It's just not the right time. 
So when is the right time? When September 11 stops being news. And that might take a while. 
On July 18, 1863, Colonel Robert Gould Shaw led the 54th Massachusetts Voluntary Infantry, the first all-black regiment, into battle at Fort Wagner. The group experienced catastrophic losses. One hundred and twenty-six years later, TriStar Pictures released a movie about it. 
This movie, "Glory," received much critical acclaim. It grossed over 25 million dollars. Denzel Washington won an Oscar for his performance. I even watched it in my Civil War class last semester. And I loved it. 
But I don't need to watch a movie about Flight 93 in my American History class. I already saw live footage of the Shanksville, Pennsylvania field in my second peri­od AP American History class, back 
page 13 

on a September morning when I was a junior in high school. 
We don't need a major motion pic­ture about September 11. We can still see footage of it on CNN. Note that CNN is a 24-hour news network, not to be confused withE!, the 24-hour entertainment network. 
A film about September 11 will never be viewed as entertainment in the same way that MTV's "The Real World" is. One hundred and twenty­six years from now, the story of September 11 will undoubtedly evoke strong emotions in those who didn't watch two airplanes hit the World Trade Center towers in the middle of their American History class. But for these students, the events of September 11 will no longer be front­page news. For these students, 9/11 will truly be American history. 
Flight 93 crashed in a Pennsylvania field on September 11, 2001. It was part of the most devastating attack ever on American soil. Four and a half years later, Universal Studios is releasing a movie about it. That's just too soon. 
Liz Coffey is a junior American Studies major. She is studying in Washington, D. C. for the semester and can be contacted at ecoffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Chicken rights 
In the April 19 issue of The Observer, Julie Nichols expressed her perspective on how we students could do our part to "make the world a better place" and "ease the suffering in the world" through decisions based on "compassion and decency" ("Rid campus eateries of battery-cage eggs"). I highly doubt any­one would argue that these abstract goals are quite worthy of our attention and commitment, as suffer­ing and injustice are rampant on both an interna­tional and local scale. 
Amidst my consideration of how to address suffer­ing around the world, Julie pointed out to me that farmers are confining their egg-producing chickens to "barren, wire cages" all over the world. Wait a second. Now this is a topic that truly deserves my attention. Let me forget about the international struggles against genocide in Sudan, the enslave­ment and forced prostitution of women in Eastern Europe and the growing sweatshops in Southeast Asia. All of the homeless, starving and impoverished people living on the streets in the US are also going to have to wait. Sorry CLAP and AllianceND, but it's the chickens' turn. 
I cannot truly express my severe disappointment that human rights (on whatever scale) are less important than the quality of life for your average chicken. At no point should animal rights step ahead of our own as a campus priority. While nothing nec­essarily threatens our existence as students, our attention would be much better spent addressing any worthwhile human cause before an arbitrary animal rights cause. 
Ultimately, Julie would like to see Notre Dame buy its eggs from a source that does not confine its chickens to a cage. If it were up to me, I'd much rather see the effort and money that she would apply to this cause sent to an international relief organization or earmarked for an increase in the wages of campus employees. While I completely agree that we should base our decisions on "com­passion and decency," I find that neither of these criteria is met by wasting resources on a species that is not even capable of appreciating it. Go tell a starving child or an impoverished working father that mistreated chickens deserve aide before them, and I guarantee that you do not understand compas­sion and decency. 
John Lentz sophomore Keough Hall April20 

Catholicistn equals patriarchy? 
Critics of President Father John Jenkins' "closing statement" should help us understand their response to the following questions. In what sense does "The Vagina Monologues" mount an "attack" on the Church or on Catholic teaching or the Magisterium? "Does it really reduce women to one of the female organs of reproduction?" 
No doubt theatre and film can be used to attack corporate greed or the war in Iraq. But since I'm not a trained film critic, I ask myself such simple questions as how does "The Vagina Monologues" stack up against such "classics" as "Roger and Me," "Fahrenheit 9/11" or "Bowling for Columbine?" 
The difference that seems most significant is that there is never, ever, any doubt as to who or what Michael Moore is attacking: the CEO of General Motors, President George W Bush and his rubber stamp Congress, absentee or uninvolved parents and indifferent school teach­ers. 

Who or what is Eve Ensler attack­ing? Women? The Catholic Church? The Magisterium? The proposition that sex outside marriage uniting a man and a woman is sinful? Forgive my dullness, please, I just don't read the script that way. 
I read "The Vagina Monologues" as a very broad satire, even a bur­lesque, ofthe basic principle of patri­archy -that men control female sexuality and fecundity and, neces­sarily, women's bodies, particularly their reproductive organs. It also ridicules male control of the lan­guage and speech used to describe female sexuality and women's bodies and body parts. 
As a Catholic, I would like to believe that an attack on patriarchy is NOT in itself an attack on Catholicism or on Catholic sexual morality. I would also appreciate the opportunity to invite my students to interpret such texts as "The Vagina Monologues" for themselves. 
Would it be too much to ask those who disagree with this interpretation of "The Vagina Monologues" and the academic freedom appropriate for college students to rebut it directly? 
Edward Manier professor of philosophy and history April21 


One loyal daughter's dissent 
In the thirty-some years since my graduation from Notre Dame, I have been embarrassed to be associated with the University only once: on April 5, 2006, when the new University President Father John Jenkins issued his profoundly disap­pointing "closing statement" on "Academic Freedom and Catholic Character." From Jenkins, the philosopher, I had hoped for so much more. 
For the last five years, when con­templating Notre Dame's sponsorship of the sexually degrading "Vagina Monologues," I thought perhaps philosophically serious people had not considered the work's implica­tions. As Father Wilson Miscamble points out in his clear-eyed open let­ter to Jenkins, the production is an insult to the dignity of women and men alike ("An open letter to Father John Jenkins," Aprilll). It reduces women to their body parts and pre­tends to define their identity and worth in terms of their sexual experi­ences (an attitude associated until now only with testosterone-driven alpha-males). It exalts lesbian rela­tionships. It is man-hating. It sepa­rates sex from relationships and love. It directly contravenes Pope John Paul II's important work on the inte­gral nature of body and spirit in what has been called Theology of the Body. 

The young woman who will sup­posedly spearhead "Loyal Daughters," a soon-to-be-created version of "The Vagina Monologues," believes the objections to the original production are fundamentally "politi­cal." What? The objections are philo­sophical. The issue is not Republicans versus Democrats -it is the sort of idea and mindset pro­moted on the Notre Dame campus and what it means to have a Catholic identity. 
Jenkins intuited this with his initial statements, and then he caved. Amazingly, he has been lauded for his "courage" to stand by the status quo. Real courage is the virtue it would take to do the right thing-to say, "I was wrong" and reverse course. That would be a model of courage this loyal daughter would not soon forget. 
In the meantime, could we please not label another sexually debasing performance, written by women who currently attend Notre Dame, "Loyal Daughters?" Some of us are offended enough already. 
Mary Beth Klee Class of 1975 Aprill8 


THE OBSERVER 





CENE

Monday, April 24, 2006 page 14 
SCENE • 
I 


IN PERSPECTIVE ·~ 
1United 93' raises questions about film, history 
Intense, beautiful'Exils' chronicles self-discovery 
By GRACE MYERS 
Scene Critic 

The 2004 French film "Exils," direct­ed by Tony Gatlif, tells the story of a couple who travel back to their parent's Algerian homeland, in search of their past, their families and themselves. The rich story is marked by cinematography of excess -intense music, colors, sounds and sex. Throughout their jour­ney through Europe and Africa, tho couple struggles to find a place where they bnlong. 
"Exils" deals with the difficult issues faced by thousands of Europeans from Northern African descent in a strikingly artistic: manner. Indeed, the most suc­cessful aspects 
of' the film were 
selves. the teehnieal In Andalucia, achievements they meet Leila and tho musieal and Habib, sib­scorn. which lings who left 
Director: Tony Gatlif 
highlights the their homes in difTnrent cui­Writers: Tony Gatlif Algeria to work turns encoun­Starring: Romain Duris, Lubana Azabal, Leila and study in tered and pro­Makhlouf, Habib Cheik and Zouhir Gacem France. Zano 
ptds tlw plot. 

Aetors Homain Duris and Lubana Azabal star as Zano and Naima, lovers living in Paris. In the IHmt of their pas­sion, they decide to travel to Algeria, thn country that tlwy and their familins fled when they were children. Out of rwn1ssity -but also as a personal chal­lenge -they sneak on trains, buses and walk to Spain. They end up sleeping in fields, the forest and benches, and they are often mistaken for Spanish gypsies. They bring only a fnw pairs of clothes and their musk as thnir baggage. 
Music is their sustenance throughout the journey. When Zano says, "Music is my religion," he neatly encapsulates the film's emphasis on music in their lives. 
They become intoxicated with the sensual land and music of Andalucia. Zano and Naima become lost in the pri­mal quality of their new life independ­ent of society, encountering many mishaps and adventures. 
The audience comes to realize that they have not known each other for very long before they left on this jour­ney. It becomes obvious that Naima has had a difficult life and now struggles with intimacy and having a sense of belonging. Lubana Azabal's portrayal of this passionate and troubled character is astounding. The couple fights and make up passionately continually, as they learn more and more about each 
other and them­
and Naima work in fields with them and hear their story. They also meet many other immigrants who have also snuck into Spain in hopes of finding a better life. Naima learns a little Arabic, while she tells Leila how to survive in Paris. The couple lets time slip by while they stay in Andalucia, until they finally decide to cross the Mediterranean. 
Once in Africa, it becomes painfully clear that they are traveling against the norm. This is represented in a scene where the couple walks to the city where Zano's parents and grandparents lived. They must walk against a large By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

Paul (;reengrass' "United 93" opens 
next weekend. pre-empting other 9/11 
themed films like Oliver Stonn's "World 
Tradn Center." The film is projneted to 
perform wPII both critically and com­
nwrcially, as it has been re<:eivcd posi­
tively in prn-rnlnase ser()(mings. 

"United <J]" is partieularly notable 
because it is tlw first major fictional film 
based on the events of IJ/11. Prior media 
eoveragn was primarily documentary in 
nature, induding slanted non-fiction like 
Mkhanl Moore's "Fahrenheit 9/11." 
From "Titanie" to "Schindler's List" to Grnengrass' own "Bloody Sunday," his­torical tragedies arn a einematic staple. Yet never has the event been as dose to the American people as 9/11, and per­haps morn importantly, 9111 was a ·reeent event. Unlike most films based on historieal events, "United 93" arrives less than half a decade from the tragedy itself. This raises an important question: is it too soon? "United 93" lacks the advantagp, of time and history given to most cinematic depictions of real-life 
events. 

The movie's oiTieial Web site 
(www.united93movie.com) claims that, 
"tho time has come for contemporary 
einema's leading filmmakers to dramati­
cally investigate the events of [9111]." 
But is it truly time for sueh an investiga­
tion? Is five years enough? There are those for whom the event is still a very real and very fresh experience, and in light of America's continued involvement in tho Middle East, the consequences of the event are still left unresolved. 
The other important question is this: what are the filmmakers trying to achieve? The shock of the tragedy of 9/11 gave way to unified heroism and unbridled patriotism. Greengrass, in the "Director's Statement" on the official Web site, speaks of the "courage and endurance" of the men and women involved in 9/11 -is "United 93" thus a film about herons, or is it, as the trailers lead us to believe, about ordinary peo­ple'? The easy answer, of course, is that it's both -a film about ordinary people who became heroes. 
Such a depiction is in and of itself extraordinary, especially since the offi­cial Web site describes the flight as "one of the most heroic legacies of I incompre­hensible tragedyJ." Such a statement raises another question: if the tragedy of 9/11 is still incomprehensible, if its meaning has not been sorted through by time and understanding, is it really appropriate for filmmakers to be depict­ing such events? 
Some may feel uneasy due to the fact that the media seems to have cashed in so quickly on this tragic event. "United 93" is a feature film with a relatively small, but not unsubstantial budget (15 million dollars). It will undoubtedly make a lot of money in its theatrical release, and then in DVD sales. 
lnVJo"lh«•n•o•Graphic 

Paul Greengrass' movie "United 93" chronicles the flight of the fourth plane hijacked by terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001. The plane crashed In Pennsylvania. 
What was so striking about the media reaction to 9/11 was the respect and taste Hollywood showed -films and tel­evision programs were delayed or had the Twin Towers digitally removed. For instance, a "Spider-Man" trailer featur­ing the World Trade Center was pulled from theaters. 
Yet here we are some five years later, and between Stone's film and Greengrass' film, it seems that Hollywood has returned to the tragedy with full gusto. Is it appropriate? Is it respectful? The quality and depictions of the films themselves will contribute much to the perception of Hollywood's 9/11, but only time will tell. And though Hollywood may believe the time is now, it remains to be seen if the time is right. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. The Scene staff contributed to this article. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
I . I "Exils" follows the journey of Zano (Romain Duris), left, and Naima (lubana Azabal), both of North African descent, as they discover their cultural past. 
crowd going the other way, and in this manner, Zano and Naima recreate the path of' exile. 
Upon arrival in Algeria, Zano and Naima's entire backgrounds are not revealed. Instead, the audience only sees the childhood house Zano lled from and a series of photos of relatives, mak­ing the past appear even more elusive. 
The couple also struggles with the dif­ficulties of the new culture, which is compounded by the fact that they speak very little Arabic. Naima is forced to wear traditional Algerian clothing to avoid being publicly scoffed for her immodest dress. However, she soon feels too constrained and quickly looses the garments. In spite of how little they know about their past, the couple man­ages to find a sense of' who they are through these trials. 
"Exils" is an incredibly interesting and striking film. The cinematography and music are stunning and highly memorable, a showcase for Gatlif's tal­ents as a director. 
The film is difficult at times, but, over­all, is a remarkable portrayal of a pas­sionate journey to self' discovery. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Monday, April 24, 2006 
page 15 
SHOW REVIEW 
~Rent' rocks the Morris Performing Arts Center 

The first production of "Rent" on Broadway featured Jesse L. Martin, right, and ldena Menzel, second from right, who would later star in the 2005 film version. 

By LAURA FOX 
Scene Writer 
The performances of "Hent" at South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center­which ran for three nights this past week -provided audiences with a unique personal encounter with a famous Broadway production. 
Started as a script for a theatre work­shop, the evolution of "Rent" into a renowned musical involved a seven-year struggle with writing and rewriting for first-time playwright Jonathan Larson. Larson, however, was never able to see his masterpiece performed. After receiv­ing congratulations concerning his anticipated success, Larson died of heart complications on the eve of the show's opening. Grounding the musical in the celebration of life and the perme­ability of death, the spirit and tenacity of Larson's legacy has infused following performances with true emotion. 
In the year following Larson's death, "Rent" premiered to commercial and critical success. The musical received a total of 17 awards in 1996, including a number of Tony Awards and a Pulitzer Prize. 
The minimalist props the musical employs reflect the initial budget con­straints that Larson faced while writing "Rent." Three "Frankenstein" tables are usually used for multiple purposes, and a simply crafted metal spire may signify either a Christmas tree or a church steeple depending on the scene. 
This sparse, industrial set contrasted sharply against the ornate beauty of the Morris Performing Arts Center. Golden cornicfls and crown molding only fur­ther highlighted the bleak surroundings inhabited by Larson's vivacious charac­ters. 
The cast's performances offered an infectious spirit, which involved audi­ences in the closely intertwined ele­ments of levity and tragedy within the show. Focused on the lives of struggling artists in New York City, "Rent" func­tions as a musical and a social commen­tary. Once asked to describe his work in one sentence, Larson concluded, "'Rent' is about a community celebrating life, in the face of death and AIDS, at the turn of the century." 
The community Larson adeptly created consists of 

"It's great that SUB
a number of complex rela­ing the negative influ­tionships formed out of the can get students ence of commercialism universal human search for upon their neighborhood,
involved in the 
love, identity and friendship. through their collective
South Bend 
The narrator and central mooing. character, Mark is the spoke community.,, Notre Dame students and impetus around which were offered a unique most of the relationships in opportunity to see the
Katie Helm
the play revolve. He binds them together into a circu­lar, inter-relational unit. 
Mark is the former boyfriend of the spunky and irrepressible Maureen, now a lesbian with the intelligent Joanne. He lives with Roger, an aspiring musician who meets and falls in love with Mark's beautiful and self-possessed neighbor Mimi. Mark befriends both Collins and Angel, who later become lovers. 
Many of the relationships within "Rent" have their problems -each pairing endures the hardships of AIDS, death, and jealousy but they do not do so individually. Instead, the beauty of their interactions allows them to share and shed their grief in an ultimate avowal of human dignity and strength. 

The audience at the Morris was capti­vated and included in this sensation through various scenes. The scene in which Maureen protests the attempted eviction of a homeless population from a vacant lot by the group's former friend Benny was a particularly good example of this effect. 
As a performance artist, Maureen uses her art to discuss the unnatural venture Benny is attempting to undertake and calls for universal action through a com­munal "leap of faith." Maureen further involves the audience as she calls them to "jump over the moon," a metaphor for overcom­
show for greatly reduced
SUB 
prices through the 
Student Union Board (SUB). Students were only charged $10 for tickets originally priced at $42. The decision of SUB to purchase such a large number of tickets and to offer them for such a low price was a welcome one for Katie Helm, the organizer of the outing. 
"It's great that SUB can get students involved in the South Bend community," Helm said. 
According to the testimonies of many of the attendees, students loved this opportunity to reach beyond the borders of campus and foray into the cultural life of South Bend. Jeniffer Velez, a pro­claimed lover of the popular movie ver­sion of "Rent," thought of trekking to Chicago with some of her friends to catch one of its. performances there, but was dissuaded by the high costs and dis­tance. 
"Having it play in South Bend was really convenient," Velez said. "It was awesome that SUB provided the stu­dents with tickets and transportation, especially since they gave us such a big discount." 
The musical invoked a common enthu­siasm among those who attended. Velez recounts her favorite memory of the show as "exiting the parking lot with the car in front of us blaring 'Seasons of Love.'" 
Orllana Gutierrez, also a big fan of the movie, was particularly pleased by the live performance of the musical as it offered her "extra insight into the emo­tions and experiences of the characters, and the additional scenes, excluded from the movie version, especially drew my interest." 
The staged production of "Rent" included various scenes that the movie excluded, further cementing the sense of community which Larson created. One in particular, the singing of "Christmas Bells" by the homeless street vendors and many of the main charac­ters of the cast elucidated both the tumultuous nature of their surrounding community and the love encompassed within their shared vivacious relation­ships. 
The local production of "Rent," a major musical, proved to be an exciting and enjoyable experience for many Notre Dame students. 
Contact Laura Fox at lfoxl@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 24, 2006 
MLB 

Maddux improves to 4-0 as Cubs beat Cards 
basnrunners after Orlando
Angels squeak past A's, 

Hudson's bloop HBI double with out and
Rockies outlast Giants one in the second, 
departed with a 6-2 lead. "lin worked himself out of
Associated Press 

somn jams, and that goes to 
ST. LOUIS -Cn•g Maddux is show how good a pitcher he is," turning back the eloek for a !Judson said. "lin kept his com­tnam missing its ofTimsivn star posure, and his boys made the and two of its bnst pitchnrs. plays bnhind him and swung the 
The four-tirnn NL Cy Young bats bnhind him." Award winrwr. who turned 40 Tomko (2-1) threw 36 pitches narlinr this month. threw seven in thn first inning, giving up an scornlnss innings on Sunday to unnamed run whnn first basn­lwlp the Chkago Cubs bnat thn man Olmedo Saenz fielded St. Louis Cardinals 7-3. lin has Shawn Green's bases-loaded won his first four starts for the grounder and blew the play lirst time in his earenr, to go with while trying to flip the ball with a miniscule 0.99 EH.i\. his glove to Tomko at the bag. 
Maddux's big start is helping "It was just nice to get out of rnscue a team that donsn't have that inning with one run," I>errnk Lnn. Mark Prior or Kerry Tomko said. "It wasn't one of Wood. those days where you're just 
"It's just amazing what he does saying to yoursnlf, 'What is going bn1:ausn lw's not throwing 94, 93 on,' or 'Where's my stuff?' I mph," outl'inlder Juan Pierre actually felt pretty good. I didn't said. "You watch Gn~g Maddux, feel like I was wild or that didn't that's an art." know where the ball was going. I 
Maddux (4-0) hnld the was making good pitches and Cardinals to fivn hits and also hitting my spots, but I was just singled and scornd. helping the missing. I had a little hiccup in Cubs avnrt a thrne-gamn swnep the second, but I got on a roll and win for thn first time in after that." throe games since losing Lee for J.D. Drew homered and Bill at lnast two months with a bro­Mueller drove in two runs with a ineluding both managers. I lolliday was hit on purpose but put the Angnls ahead, then he knn wrist. This is thn first 4-0 double that highlighted a four­"No brawl. No fight. Kind of a no so Marrero. singled in a run in the third. lie start for Maddux sincn 2000 run lirst inning against Ortiz, strange," Giants manager Felipe sent a 2-1 pitch from Kirk with thn Bravns when he nendnd who thrnw 63 pitches and Alou said. "I never saw anything Angels 4, Athletics 3 Saarloos into the stands in left six starts. and it's his first four­allowed four runs, four hits and like that before." Adam Kennedy lunged to his field in the fifth for his fourth game winning streak since July live walks in just 1 2-3 innings. Morris was tossed after plunk­right behind second base for a home run of the year. 17-Aug. 7, 2004. "We wnre just trying to get a ing Eli Marrero in the first. He spectacular diving stop on Adam Jose Molina addnd an HBI sin­
All month. Maddux has insist­ball in the zone," Drew said. "He had been warned by Heininger Melhuse's sharp grounder, gle and Hobb Quinlan doubled nd that he's doing nothing dill'er­was on· the corners of the plate, after he struck Matt Holliday two quickly flicking the ball to short­and scored a run for the Angels, nnt and not trying to fill the void. so you just try not to chase and batters earlier. Alou drew an stop Orlando Cabrera to start a who concluded a 10-game, 11­
"I wish I could explain it," get a ball you can handle. The automatic ejection and San double play with the bases day road trip with a 5-5 record Maddux said. "Personally, I'm guys did a good job of getting Francisco pitching coach Dave loaded. -the first of two 1 0-game trips just getting ready to pitch like I quality at-bats, and that makes Righetti was tossed for throwing His teammates considered that this season for Los Angeles. always have, I'm just catching a it easier to get to their bullpnn his pitch counter onto the field masterful fourth-inning turn a Nick Swisher hit his team­lot of breaks. early." and yelling at Reininger. true game-turner. leading eighth home run of the 
"Sometimns you catch a few Hoekies starter .Jeff Francis hit Vladimir Guerrero homered season with a solo shot to right breaks in this game, and right Rockies 3, Giants 2 (10) Steve Finley with a pitch in the the next inning and fmished with in the sixth, a day after getting now I am." Rockies reliever Ray King was­sixth but stayed in the game, three RB!s and Kelvim Escobar his first career grand slam. 
Jacque Jones hit his second n't only angry about his ejection much to the chagrin of Giants pitched seven strong innings to Milton Bradley homered leading horner, and second against the but the four others that marred coach Hon Wotus, who had lead the Los Angeles Angels to orr the seventh for the A's, who Cardinals, lnading orr the fourth the Colorado's victory over the taken over for Alou. In the another one-run win against refuse to be concerned about yet against .Jason Marquis (3-1 ). San Francisco Giants. eighth, Rockies manager Clint their rival, 4-3 over the Oakland another slow April start. They 
Aramis Harnirez, who nntnred Giants starter Matt Morris was Hurdle and King were ejected Athletics on Sunday. are 8-11 and have lost nine of the game in a 3-for-18 slump, hit thrown out by home plate after the left-hander hit Vizquel The Angels did all the right 12. a two-run shot into the visitor's umpire Travis Reininger, a with a pitch, putting runners at things to send Oakland to its The A's have only 32 hits in bullpen bnyond the left-field wall Triple-A reserve, in the first the corners with one out and the fourth consecutive series loss: their last six games. in the fifth. inning Sunday of Colorado's 3-2 Rockies elinging to a 2-1 lead. getting solid starting pitching, "There are so many games 
win in 10 innings -and that Mesa and Vizquel played superb outings by the bullpen, left, we just have to continue to Dodgers 6, Diamondbacks 4 was just the beginning of the together in Cleveland from strong defense and timely hit­work hard," Erie Chavez said. 
Brett Tomko and Huss Ortiz early exits. 1992-98 but their friendship ting. "We haven't hit the ball well all both had early control problems "With the ejections early, the ended when Vizquel criticized ''I'm speechless," Cabrera said year. It's only a matter of time." and threw an inordinate amount umpires lost control of the game Mesa in his 2002 autobiography of Kennedy's play. "Great play, Escobar (3-1) retired the first of pitches during the first couple and it changed the game," King for blowing the save in Game 7 man, unbelievable. He covered a nine A's hitters -four on fly of innings. The difference was said. of the 1997 World Series against lot of ground. I didn't think he balls to center -before allowing that Tomko was able to figure Crew chief Derry! Cousins Florida, and Mesa vowed never was going to be able to make it. three straight singles to start the out how to corrnct it. defended Heininger, saying the to forget the criticism. He got it done. We always come fourth by Mark Kotsay, Swisher 
Tomko lasted through six umpires weren't going to let Alou said it's a shame these out with good plays in those kind and Chavez. impressivn innings, helping the things get out of hand a day two teams are paying for the of situations." Bradley drew a bases-loaded Los Angnlns Dodgers beat the after Jose Mesa renewed his Mesa-Vizquel feud. Guerrero, the 2004 AL MVP, walk to bring in a run but Arizona Diamondbacks 6-4 on long-running feud with Omar "Whoever is in charge of stop­entered the series finale mired Kennedy followed with his big Sunday. The right-hander gave Vizquel by plunking the short­ping it better stop it and stop it in a 4-for-27 funk but made the defensive stop. up two runs -one earnnd -stop with a pitch. soon. Because we play 15 more most of his at-bats and hit safely "That was the game," Escobar and four hits while striking out The game featured four hit games," Alou said. for the 14th time in 19 games. said. "That play right there was four. He allowed only two batters and five ejections, King said it was obvious His RBI groundout in the first the key." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


Paid Summer Internship. Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 4 BR,1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. Kymanox,LLC is seeking SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east mi. to NO. 428 Preston. $795/mo. 574-232·0964. WANTED 1·2 students with energy, talent FoR SALE of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact 269-663-2299. 
& a desire to learn about Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everen, 3 Tim McGraw Faith Hill tix. Highly motivated, ethical/socially the Biopharma industry. Do not rent or live in a dorm. Noah Davey 574-271-4060 4 bdrm,2.5 baths house. Chicago Allstate Arena 4/28. 634­responsible, entrepreneurial, go­Engineer/technical majors Come see 429 Tonti, Call Judy 2138 geners with desires to make a preferred. 1/2 mile from NO Campus! Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at 574-298-6217. meaningful impact on transforming Highland Park,IL. Make your dream of $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking the international business world Go to homeownership a reality. Distance to NO. Contact Grubb & Room available anytime but 1st PERSONAL while making a large amount of hnp://www.kymanox.corn/intern for 1232 sq It, Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey renter gets 1st month free. $$$$. more info. 3+car garage. 574·271-4060. $350/mo. Beautiful & very clean UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do I am an alum based in Mr. Perry will be on campus 27-Call Donna @993·5060. home. Close to NO. Parking avail­not go it alone. If you or someone Jackson Hole and am 28APR06 for possible interviews. Large 2br apt. near NO. able. Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell you love needs confidential support looking for students for Starting at $595. 57 4·386-7272. or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. part time, full time, or Now accepting resumes for NO Call 277·9372. Gude, CSC at 631-7819. For more

FoR RENT 

summer employment to work Coca-Cola Campus information, see our bi-weekly ad in for commission. Rep Internship. Area houses and apartments for Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn TICKETS THE OBSERVER. Can work from home. Freshmen & Sophs rent. Log onto Rd. Walk to class @ NO.4 huge www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co email resumes to MichianaRentals.com. bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge O.A.R. tix first 3 rows. Call272-0-R-1·0-L·E-S m Jwilson2@ nd.edu Call 574·993-RENT (7368) fenced yard. Call317-431-9508 7233. Orioles Magic: make it happen 
I .. . I ~-• I '. , 
• ·~ 1 ~ . J . · I I ~~ 1 




OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 24, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 12-7 .632 6·4 . Baltimore 11-9 .550 6-4 1.5 New York 9-8 .529 6-4 2 Toronto 9-8 .529 6·4 2 Tampa Bay 8·11 .421 4·6 4 
American League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB Chicago 13-5 .722 9·1 Detroit 12-7 .632 7-3 1.5 Cleveland 10·9 .526 4·6 3.5 Minnesota 7-11 .389 4·6 6 Kansas City 4-13 .235 2-8 8.5 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Anaheim 1D-9 .526 5-5 Texas 10-9 .526 8-2 Oakland 8-11 .421 3-7 2 Seattle 7-13 .350 2-8 3.5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB New York 12·6 .667 5-5 Atlanta 8·9 .471 5-5 3.5 Washington 7-10 .412 5-5 4.5 Philadelphia 7-10 .412 6·4 4.5 Florida 5-11 .313 4-6 6 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB Houston 13-5 .722 8-2 Cincinnati 12-7 .632 6·4 1.5 St.louis 11-7 .611 6~4 2 Chicago 10·7 .588 5-5 2.5 Milwaukee 9-10 .474 3-7 4.5 Pittsburgh 5-15 .250 H 9 
National League West 

team record perc. last10 GB San Francisco 16-8 .556 5-5 Colorado 1D-8 .556 5-5 los Angeles 9·10 ,474 5·5 1;5 San Diego 8·10 .444 5·5 2 Arizona 8-11 .421 4-6 2.5 
NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 

team conf. pet. overall NOTRE DAME 13·1 .929 3218 Connecticut 13-3 .812 26·12 St. John's 8·6 .571 25·13 Cincinnati 8·7 .533 24•15 Louisville 8·7 .533 17•23 Rutgers 7-7 .500 17-18-1 South Florida 8-9 .471 19-22 West Virgina 7-8 .467 27-13 Villanova 4-8 .333 19-17 Georgetown 5-10 .333 17·24 Pittsburgh 5·12 .294 17"21 Seton Hall 4-12 .250 12-24 
NCAA Women's Softball Big East Conference 

team conf. pet. overall South Florida 10-0 1.000 38·19 NOTRE DAME 9-1 .900 2H3 Syracuse 11-3 .786 29-16 louisville 5-3 .625 26-8 Pittsburgh 8-6 .571 27-20 Providence 6-6 .500 23·13•1 DePaul 5-5 .500 20·15 Seton Hall 5·9 .357 27-21 St. John's 5-9 .357 22-22 Connecticut 4-8 .333 17·21 Rutgers 4-10 .286 12-30 Villanova 2-12 .143 13-28 
around the dial 
NBA 

Denver at Los Angels Clippers, 10:30 p.m., TNT Chicago at Miami 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL 


Associated Press 
GREENBURGH, N.Y -Jaromir Jagr got only as far as the trainer's room Sunday after leaving the ice with his left arm limp a day earlier in the New York Rangers' play­off opener. 
His teammates practiced without him and there was no immediate indication that the All-Star who scored 123 points this season would be available to face the New Jersey Devils in Game 2 on Monday night. 
"He's uncomfortable, but it doesn't appear to be too bad," coach Tom Renney said Sunday . 
As disjointed as the 

Rangers looked in giving up five power-play goals during Saturday's 6-1 thrashing, having to face the formida­ble Devils without Jagr makes the outlook that much bleaker. 
Patrik Elias had two goals and four assists for New Jersey. 
"We're definitely playing with confidence," Devils for­ward Jamie Langenbrunner said. "When you have confi­dence, things seem to go better." 
The first half of New York's practice was sluggish but improved steadily. The highlight of the hourlong session was Michael Nylander's outburst that 
IN BRIEF 

Rockies more o~timistic about Helton's health 
DENVER-The music was a little louder, the mood a little lighter in Colorado's clubhouse, and the Rockies' 3-2 win over San Francisco in 10 innings Sunday wasn't the only thing they were celebrating. 
Slugger Todd Helton seems to be improving, although the stomach ail­ment that landed him in the hospital and on the disabled list Friday remained a mystery 48 hours later. 
"More a positive vibe because he is feeling better," team trainer Keith Dugger said. 
Helton is expected to be released from Rose Medical Center on Monday after another battery of tests. Dugger said doctors "haven't officially elimi­nated anything" but reiterated that Helton's condition isn't considered life-threatening. 
"I think there is improvement," manager Clint Hurdle said. "More optimism maybe today than there was yesterday." 
came after the puck was knocked away. He respond­ed by slamming his stick hard against the glass sever­al times. 
New Jersey already entered this first-round, best-of-seven series as the heavy favorite. New York is riding a six-game skid that cost them the Atlantic Division title to the Devils. 
Officially, Jagr's injury is being described as an upper-body problem. While getting a rare shift as a penalty killer, Jagr tried to take a swipe at Devils for­ward Scott Gomez. He made a stiff-arm type move as he carried the puck and didn't connect, apparently causing 

Red Sox, former _player 
agree to send World Series 
ball to Hall of Fame 
BOSTON -The Boston Red Sox and their former first baseman, Doug Mientkiewicz, agreed to end their legal fight over ownership of the ball from the final out of the 2004 World Series by sending it to the Hall of Fame. 
"An amicable agreement was reached many weeks ago, and it pro­vides a permanent home at the (Hall of Fame), with opportunities for some public display as well at Fenway Park," Red Sox president Larry Lucchino said via e-mail Sunday. 
The agreement was first reported Saturday night in The New York Times. 
Pitcher Keith Foulke fielded the ball off the bat of Edgar Renteria on Oct. 27, 2004, and threw to Mientkiwicz for the final out of Boston's four-game sweep of the St. Louis Cardinals. 
the injury. It'll be up to doc­tors, Renney and Jagr to decide if he can play Monday. 
"As long as we're working hard and playing within our system we should be able to get scoring chances with him out there at less than 100 percent," Renney said. "But we're going to be really very, very careful here and make sure that we give him a chance to assess where he is, both psychologically and physically." 
Rangers defenseman Darius Kasparaitis also sat out Sunday's practice as he recovers from a groin injury that forced him to miss 12 of the last 14 games. 
lniured Street still unavail­
atile for A's 
OAKLAND, Calif. -Huston Street's strained chest muscle is taking longer to heal than he might have expected. 
What the Oakland Athletics' closer thought would probably sideline him for only a couple of days could end up keeping him off the mound for more than a week. 
Street was unavailable to pitch for the fifth straight day Sunday and his status for a three-game series at Texas starting Monday also is in doubt. The A's have an off day Thursday before a weekend series at Kansas City, so they might decide to rest the reigning AL Rookie of the Year until then to be extra cautious. 
Street played catch for the second straight day Sunday but did not feel good enough to work off the mound, which had been a possibility if he had been physically able. Trainer Larry Davis is going to be conserva­tive with Street. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 24, 2006 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish cotne back to edge Rutgers 
Foote became first ND player with 200 points 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior Crysti Foote led the team with four goals and five assists as the Irish snapped their two game losing streak Sunday, topping Rutgers 13-8 in a rainy game at Yurcak Field in Piscataway, New .Jersey. 
The No. 7 Irish had previ­ously dropped back-to-hack I 1-10 contests to No. 1 Duke and No. 3 Georgetown before improving their record to 11­3 (3-1 Big East) with Sunday's win over Hutgers. 
"I was ecstatic about the win," Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said. "I was real­ly happy about the way we responded to a lot of the chal­lenges they put out for us." 
The Irish got ofT to a quick start, with senior All­American candidate Crysti Foote seoring 48 seconds into the game, and recording an assist on freshman .lillian Byers' goal 1:04 later. 
Behind two goals from Katie Batiuk, the Scarlet Knights were able to tie it just as quickly, making the score 2-2 at 22:46. 
Although the Irish increased their lead to 5-2 with goals from sophomores Mary Carpenter, Heather Ferguson and Caitlin McKinney-Foote picked up assists on two -Hutgers again fought back, scoring four unanswered goals to go into halftime with a 6-5 lead. 

As the second half began, Foote took control offensively. The senior was involved in the first three goals of the half, scoring two goals after picking up an assist on Byers' half-opening goal. 
A candidate for the Teewaraton Trophy, which honors the nation's best play­er, Foote has 55 goals and 29 assists this season, and is only four assists away from breaking Notre Dame's single­season and career records. 
Foote's nine-point perform­ance was her third of the sea­son and made her the first Irish player to score more than 200 career points. 
"The thing about Crysti !Foote]'s game is that she just accomplishes things you don't even notice," Coyne said. "She works hard creating opportu­nities for others. Whatever the defense throws at her, she can recognize whether it's her time or someone else's." 
Once Foote's first goal of the half made the score 7-6, the Irish never relinquished the lead. 
After Kathryn Lawrence's goal 6:4 7 in to the half again made it a one-point game at 8-7, Byers, who finished with three goals and two assists, scored with 22:16 left to play and ignited a Notre Dame offensive run. The Irish score five straight goals, increasing their lead to 13-7 while hold­ing the Scarlet Knights score­less for 16:59. 
With games against No. 13 Syracuse and Vanderbilt remaining on the schedule, Notre Dame hopes to enter the postseason on a high note. 
"Our goal this year is to fin­ish on a winning record, and we can do that if we win our next two games," Coyne said. "[HoweverI. that will be a tall order with two good teams left to play." 
Notre Dame will play Syracuse at home Saturday at noon. 
Notes: 

+ Byers now holds the Notre Dame freshman record for goals scored. Her first goal of the game, which was her 39th of the season, pushed her over the mark. Byers currently has 41 goals with two games to play. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
PGA 

Appleby wins in Houston 
Five-under Sunday secures win for golfer 
Associated Press 
HUMBLE, Texas (AI') ­Stuart Appleby made it look easy in the Shell Houston Open. 
Appleby shot a S-under 67 on Sunday to cap a wire-to­wire vietory and join Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson as tlw only two-time winners on the I'GA Tour this year. 
Appleby, also the J 999 win­ner in Houston, linished at 19­under 269 on the new Tournament Course at Hedstone, six shots ahead of Bob Estes. Appleby matched the tournament record for margin of vietory and was the first player in the event's 60­year history to lead from the opening round to the end. 
The victory margin was also a personal best in eight career wins for Appleby. He won twice in playoiTs and the other live by one shot. 
"To have a eomfortable vie­tory has never left my lips," said Appleby, who won in 1999 by one stroke over John Cook and llal Sutton. "It was niee to know, coming down the last part of the day that things were in hand." 
Like a pinch to make sure he wasn't dreaming, Appleby asked caddie Joe Damiano where he stood with two holes left. 
"I knew where I was," Appleby said, "I just wanted to hear it from his lips." 
Appleby, who turns 35 on May 1, earned $990,000 and 

has two victories in the same 
year for the first time in his 
career. In January, Appleby 
won the season-opening 
Mercedes Championships for 
the third straight time. 
Lately, Appleby was growing increasingly frustrated that he couldn't win anywhere but Kapalua. 
"There needed be another dose of that throughout the years and there hadn't been," Appleby said. "Winning now, twice, puts that emotional feeling at a higher level. Once is nice, twice certainly shows and proves to you that what you're doing works." 
Estes dosed with a 69 to fin­ish second, and Steve Stricker was 12 under after a 66. Mathias Gronberg, paired with Appleby on Sunday, had a 73 to match Jerry Smith (72) at 10 under. 
None of them ever threat­ened Appleby, who won for the fourth time in five tourna­ments when holding the 54­hole lead. His one blemish came in 2004, when he closed with a 76 at Bay Hill and lost to Chad Campbell. 
Appleby never wavered this time. 
I le moved to 15 under on the first hole, curling in a 20-foot­er that danced halfway around the lip before falling. Gronberg, 5 feet closer, left his birdie putt short. 
Appleby extended his lead with birdies on Nos. 4 and 6. Before another birdie at No. 8, Appleby was careful to follow the rules. 
He hit his approach into a greenside bunker and found a bug crawling on his ball. He tried to shoo it away, but never touehed it. Once the bug disappeared under the sand. Appleby blasted out to 10 feet and sank the putt. 
Typical of Gronberg's day, his eagle chip from behind the par-5 eighth lipped out and he gained no ground. Gronberg then three-putted the ninth, while Appleby made a par to lead by four at the turn. 
As relaxed as he looked all week, Appleby said he was still churning inside. 
"You always feel pressure," he said. "As the week goes on, the pressure mounts. You've got too bleed it off and keep it at the level where the cooker doesn't blow." 
It never eame close. 
Estes mounted the only other mild threat, closing within three on the front nine. But Estes, from Austin, sliced his drive into the water on No. 8 and bogeyed the hole to drop four back. 
By the time Appleby reached No. 13, the only question was whether he'd break the tour­nament scoring record of 22 under set by Vijay Singh in 2002. 
Appleby reached the par 5 in two en route to a birdie, then fell back to 19 under with a bogey on 14. He made routine pars the rest of the way. 
The Houston Open will move to the weekend before the Masters next year, a jump tournament organizers hope will strengthen the field. 
They may also have to sell more players on the 7,457­yard Tournament Course, which got mixed reviews in its debut. 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame adds four to Regionals 

Annen, Weber headline Irish qualifiers at event 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued its 
success on the track this 
weekend as the Irish sent the 
majority of their squad to the 
Central Collegiate 
Championships hosted by 
Eastern Michigan in Ypsilanti, 
Mich. 

The highlight of the meet was sophomore Kyle Annen's first-place finish in the ham­mer throw event with a total distance of 187 feet, one ineh. The seventh best toss in Notre Dame's history, Annen eclipsed distances that haven't been touched in over a decade. The mark was also long enough to qualify the Idaho native for the NCAA Hegional meet. 
"Kyle has done very well recently in practice, he is real­ly starting to come into the peak of the season and com­peting at the top of his game," freshman Anna Weber said. 
Weber, Annen's female coun­terpart, was also successful as she logged a length of 147 feet, five inches. The throw was just long enough to nudge out Eastern Michigan's Marika LeRoy for a second place fin­ish. Weber also placed first in the shot put competition earli­er in the day. 
The only other regional qualifier at the meet was the 4 x 100-meter women's relay team. The crew ran to its fastest finish of the season to claim second place behind the EMU Eagles. 
Maryann Erigha, one of the four members of the team, also ran well in her individual 100-and 200-meter sprints earlier in the day. She placed second in both events, with times of 12.2 and 23.71, respectively. 
"This meet was more about getting people ready for the Big East, trying to improve our marks," Weber said. 
Other notable performanees for the Irish included Okechi Ogbuokiri and Kate Mattoon, who both took home first place finishes in the 400-meter race and the pole vault, respective­ly. Notre Dame also added to its point total in the women's high jump as Stacey Cowan, Emily Loomis and Lauren Biscardi swept the top three spots. 
"We went in with a new phi­losophy to just win the compe­tition, rather than go for the best mark," Cowan said. "It helps to get your adrenaline pumping." 
On the men's side, Garet Koxlien was also a winner, dominating the competition in the discus throw with an ini­ti<tl mark of over 51.5 meters. Ryan Postel finished second behind Michigan's Stann Waite in the 400-meter race. 

The men also sent four dis­tance runners to Hayward Field in Eugene, Ore. for the Oregon Invitational. Thomas Chamney and Kurt Benninger became the third and fourth members of the team to quali­fy for the NCAA Regionals, as they both ran for the first time since the beginning of the out­door season. 
Chamney finished third in the 800-meter run with a time of 1:49.44. Benninger compet­ed in the 5,000-meter race. He finished in seventh place of the "A" bracket. 
Freshman Patrick Smyth also ran the 5,000-meter for the Irish. His time of 14:10.05 was good enough for third place, and he was only .05 seconds away from joining both Benninger and Chamney as a qualifier for the regional meet. 
Next week the Irish will split up again with the top athletes going to the Drake Helays in Des Moines, Iowa. The rest of the team will compete in the llillsdale Gina Relays in Hillsdale, Mich. The two com­petitions will be the last tune­ups before the Big East meet kicks off May 5. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmur­phy6@nd.edu 
.------~~---~------~---~--·­
=M=o=n=d=ay='=A=p=ri=l2=4='=2=00=6===============================Ti=h=e=O=b=se=r=~=r=+==S=P==O=R=T==S=========================================p=a=ge===l9 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish, Walsh down Lehigh in final away game 
Down 1-0, senior attackman Corrigan said. "We had a good them, we played pretty well. added their 14th and fourth
Fourth quarter surge 
Brian Hubschmann began his solid crowd and obviously a lot But we kept them in the game. goals of the season, respective­propels Irish in win four-point day by turning a Bill of our fans there with Joey and They had seven at one point, ly, and Matt Karweck picked Liva pass into Notre Dame's some of the other local kids." and it should've probably been up his 16th -good for third first score with 7:38 in the first Going into the fourth frame, 9-3." on the Irish season leader By TIM DOUGHERTY quarter, and feeding freshman Notre Dame's comfort and con­After disappointing losses in board in both goals and points. News Writer Ryan Hoff's strike minutes fidence paid dividends as the Colorado last weekend against Senior reserve face-off spe­later for a short-lived lead. Irish defense held strong, lim­No. 15 Denver and Air Force, cialist Steve Panos split time The only signs of Irish senior After knotting the game 2-2 iting Lehigh to one goal. The Corrigan was pleased the Irish with injury-ridden sophomore Pat Walsh's illness Sunday was after one period, Lehigh defensive effort came just in made the plays necessary to starter Taylor Clagett (whose his sick play on the field. jumped on top to take a 4-2 time for Walsh to take over, en come out on top Sunday. .616 percentage would put him 
Walsh, who Irish coach Kevin lead several minutes into the route to passing Steve "We kept our poise at the 1Oth in the country if he had Corrigan said felt ill all day, second quarter after one of Pearsall's 77 goals for ninth on end," he said. "And [we] made enough face-offs to qualify) to took over in the fourth quarter junior attackman Alec Hooff's the all-time Irish goal list (79). the plays down the stretch we go 12-19 against the 13th best against Lehigh, scoring three team-high three goals. "Pat was terrific today;" needed to make." face-off team in the nation. of his four goals to lead No. 17 The Irish closed out the half Corrigan said. "He was sick With four-point performanc­"[Clagett] is a little banged Notre Dame (8-4, 1-2 GWLL) to up 5-4 with three straight and played quite well in spite es by both Walsh and up, and Steve gave him a 10-7 victory at Georgetown scores, the last coming from of [it]." Hubschmann, Sunday's win break," Corrigan Prep in Bethesda, Md. Walsh's first of a season-high Walsh's third goal, which put marked the sixth game this said. "[Clagett] is really tough­
With the score tied 6-6 after four goals. the Irish ahead for good 8-7, season that the duo combined ing it out...And there are no three quarters, Walsh sparked Though senior attackman came off an assist by junior for eight or more points. It was complaints from him. He's a a late Irish surge that Matt Karweck lifted the Irish Brannon Halvorsen after the second Irish win against a warrior." outscored the Mountain Hawks lead to two minutes into the Corrigan said the midfielder team ranked in the Top 20 at With the non-league sched­(8-6, 4-2 Patriot League) 4-1 in third quarter, Notre Dame made a "terrific play" to get the time of the game. ule finished, the Irish turn the final frame to pull out could not ground the Mountain Walsh the ball. When the two leading Irish their attention to this Notre Dame's last non-league Hawks -who soared back However, the Irish coach scorers .(Walsh 36, Saturday's contest against Ohio game. behind another Hooff goal to wished Halvorsen's efforts Hubschmann 35) fail to notch State (6-5, 3-1 GWLL), who 
Despite recording their tie the game at 6-6 after three were not necessary to ensure eight points, the Irish are only split its weekend matches, fourth game with 10 or more quarters. the victory. Despite showing 3-3, highlighting the impor­falling 13-9 to No. 15 Denver goals, Corrigan said poor Despite traveling much far­signs of the team ranked as tance both play in the Irish Friday and downing Air Force defensive awareness by the ther to Georgetown Prep than high as No. 8 in the country defense. 11-7 Sunday. The Irish need Irish kept Lehigh in the game Lehigh's eastern Pennsylvania earlier in the year, the Irish "We need them to score and convincing wins against the by making mistakes that led to home, Corrigan who could not play 60 minutes of take advantage of opportuni­Buckeyes and May 6 at home Mountain Hawk opportunities. arranged the location of the consistent lacrosse. ties we create as a team," against Quinnipiac (6-5, 0-3 
"I thought we did a good job game -said they felt like the "The pace of game was what Corrigan said. "Clearly, they're GWLL) to make a late case for of keeping them in the game home team throughout the day. we wanted to be," Corrigan our two best offensive players, an at-large tournament bid. for 50 minutes," Corrigan said. Sophomore goaltender Joey said of his team's performance and we play better when they "[We also did] a good job of Kemp went to high school at through the first three quar­put points on the board." closing the game out in the last Georgetown Prep. ters. "When we settled down Freshmen attackmen Ryan Contact Tim Dougherty at 10 minutes." "It w as a nice atmosphere," and played six-on-six with Hoff and Peter Christman also tdougher@nd.edu 
ATP 
No. 2 Nadal upsets Federer in Monte Carlo Masters final 
Tennis star beaten in French Open warmup 
Associated Press 
MONTE CARLO, Monaco ­Rafael Nadal called his latest clay-court win over top-ranked Roger Federer easier than the one at the French Open. 
Federer believes he is closer to figuring out how to beat Nadal on clay. 
Second-ranked Nadal defend­ed his Monte Carlo Masters title with a 6-2, 6-7 (2), 6-3, 7-6 (5) win over Federer on Sunday, handing the seven-time Grand Slam champion his second defeat of the year. 
Nadal has beaten Federer four times in five meetings, and twice on clay after winning in four sets last June at Roland Garros. Federer, who had 78 unforced errors on his least-favorite sur­face, is now 28-2. 
"I was beating him easier today than in Paris," Nadal said. 
"To begin the clay season like this, for me, is unbelievable." 
Nadal extended his winning streak on clay to 42 matches and can pass Bjorn Borg's mark of 46 and move behind Guillermo Vilas (53) if he wins next weekend at Barcelona. 
"One day, for sure, I'm going to lose on clay," said Nadal. "I just hope it isn't next week." 
Federer complimented himself on "a fantastic week" and felt his chances of one day over­hauling Nadal on clay "went up." 
"I've got to adjust quite a bit to play Rafael," Federer said. "But I already feel like I'm improving a lot. The more I play against him, the more I'll be able to figure out his game and the easier it will be." 
Nadal broke Federer seven times, overcame a 3-0 deficit in the fourth-set tiebreaker and won the match with a forehand pass that bounced on the line. 
"It's very special for me to defend the title," Nadal said. 
"Beating Federer in a final is special too. I was very aggres­sive with my forehand and I had a good touch." 
Federer lamented missed opportunities, felt his serve was below par, and was upset at converting only 4-of-18 break­point chances. 
"I was not serving well enough or just playing well enough from the baseline," Federer said. "I thought I gave him a little too much." 
Nadal used his big forehand to pressure Federer on his weaker backhand. 
"He's a lefty, so I'm always going to have problems," Federer said. "I enjoyed the bat­tle against him. I have answered some questions I had about how to play on clay." 
Federer appeared in his 12th consecutive final, but his win­ning run in Masters series matches ended at 29. His previ­ous Masters defeat came at Monte Carlo in a quarterfinal loss to Richard Gasquet of France last year. 
Federer started with a string of erratic shots that helped Nadal race to a 4-0 lead. 
He finished with twice as many unforced errors as his opponent, and his first-set loss was the largest margin this sea­son. Federer's previous worst sets were 3-6 against Olivier Rochus, Nikolay Davydenko and Tommy Haas. 
"I don't care about the unforced errors, as I had no choice but to attack him," Federer said. ''I'm going to make errors because I'm the 

guy pressing." 
Nadal served for the second set at 5-4, but Federer broke him, and closed out the tiebreaker with an ace. At the start of the third set, Federer broke Nadal to love and looked comfortable on serve before suf­fering a lapse. 
"I thought I let him have a couple of breaks, you know, just stuff out of the blue really," Federer said. 
Nadal broke for a 5-3 lead, and Federer screamed in frus­tration while losing the next game. 


Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Only 200 Reservacions Available! 
•2 GAME TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS {AA} O'HARE TO lAX 

•2 NIGHTS HOTEL RESERVATIONS 

•GROUND 
TRAVEL TO/FROM COLISEUtvt 


•CATERED RALlY THE FRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE G.<'\Mf 
TotaI Package: 
$2,650 per reservation 
((heck or Cash) 
GO IRISH! 


page20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 24, 2006 
Mark Stolze: Early Riser Rookie Surfer Professional Rocker* Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Mark and tell us more about you visit pwc.com/bringit 
t . 

*connectedthinking 
C 2005 PncewaterhouseCoopers llP. All rights restlf'Vad. "PricewaterflouseCool)efS" ref8nl to PricewaterhouseCoopens LLP (a Delaware limited Uabihty partn8nlhipl or, as the context require&, o~ member flnns ofPr"ia!walert\oi.Jse\..oopers lnt~~mational Umtted, 9aCI1 of which Isa separate and Independent entity. •connectedthinking i9 a trademark of Pricewatemouseeoopers LLP (US). Weare proud tobeen Affinnatove Action and Equal Opportunrty Employer. 
--------------------------------' 
Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NO SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame dominates opponents in sweeps 
Irish hitters unload for 31 runs in four games 
By DAN MURPHY and JAY 
FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writers 
Notrn Dame finished its home Big East schedule on a high note, sweeping both Villanova and Hutgers in weeknnd dou­bleheaders. 
Irish pitcher Heather Booth dominated the Scarlet Knights in game one, throwing a perfect gamn in the five-inning win. The pm~fect game was Booth's first, as .well as her first solo no-hitter in her already illustri­ous career. The complete game also brought Booth over the XOO inning mark. making her the first Irish pitcher to accom­plish this feat in the school's history. 
Thn Irish were also able to hit the ball hard all weekend, driv­ing in eight runs in three of· their games and seven in the fourth. 
Notre Dame catcher Mallorie l.enn and third baseman Meagan Huthrauff had huge days at the plate, each hitting a homerun and driving in multi­ple runs, and shortstop Sara Schoonaert inade a big impact in the field by robbing hitters of what would have been base hits. 
Notre Dame 8, Villanova 7 
The weekend started in excit­ing fashion as the Irish (31-13, 13-1 Big East) needed some last-inning heroics to overcom~ the worst inning in Notre Dame's recent history for an 8­7 win over Villanova. 
Notre Dame entered the bot-
EARTH 
What's the World Doing About l•t? . 
·what Can You Do? 
1/Th.e Earth Charter, Sustainable Development and Saint M:rry' s college" 
Sister Paula Gonzalez, SC, Ph.D. 

tom of the seventh down two runs. Ruthrauff started the inning with a deep solo shot over the centerfield wall. Then consecutive doubles brought around Notre Dame lirst base­man Linda Kohan to tie the game as right fielder Carissa Jaquish, the winning run, stood at second. 
Two batters later Notre Dame designated player Erin Glasco stepped to the plate and deliv­ered her second game-winning hit of the season. A sharp single through the left side of the infield scored Jaquish easily and the Irish survived Villanova's scare. 
The excitement for Notre Dame came after an explosive Wildcat fifth inning. Villanova piled up seven runs off of six hits against Booth. There were no errors or. extra base hits ­the entire Wildcats' lineup got the job done with consi~tent hit­ting. 
Notre Dame 8, Villanova 3 
The second game of the dou­bleheader was also close for the majority of the game, and once. again, Glasco came through with the big hit Notre Dame needed. A two-run home run in the fifth inning put the Irish ahead for good. 
The score was tied 3-3 as a fired up Villanova once again looked to be in position to upset the Irish. Two sacrifices scored Wildcats leadoff hitter Cassie Koenig after she started the game with a double to right field. 
Notre Dame's scoring started in the fourth frame with three consecutive bunt hits at the top of the order. Ruthrauff then added two more as she double into left field to take a 3-2 lead. 
The advantage did not last ­long as the Wildcats responded in the fifth as Villanova first basemen Laura Determan sin­gled in the tying run -setting the stage for Glasco's homer. 
The Irish tacked on two more in the fifth and one in the sixth to go ahead 8-3 and freshman Brittany Bargar (8 hits, 7 strikeouts) was able to silence Villanova for the remainder of the game. 
Notre Dame 8, Rutgers 0 
The Irish started game one strong against Rutgers (12-34, 4-14) behind. Booth's perfect game in l'ive innings of work, including four strikeouts. Booth overpowered Hutgers, using all of her pitches effectively to keep every Scarlet Knight off the basepaths. 
"Heather dominated today, making hitters look sick with her changeup," Irish head coach Deanna Gumpf said. "She went out and had great com­mand over her pitches today. 
Booth's perfect game was aided by a hardworking defense behind her, including great plays by Kohan and Jaquish. 
"The defense played awesome today," Booth said. "They went out and took away a lot of hits." 
Notre Dame also had a big day at the plate from the start, sending seven batters to the plate in the first and scoring three runs behind a Ruthrauff single and a two-run double by Kohan. 
After a quiet second inning, Notre Dame continued the onslaught in the third with two more runs. Kohan knocked in sophomore pinch runner Brittany Glynn with a sacrifice fly while Jaquish poked an RBI single over the shortstop to add 

Notre Dame alum (MFA Class of 2000) 
TONY D'SOUZA 
reads from his debut novel 

April25 7:30p.m. 
Recker's Hospitality Room 
TONY o·souzA 
ALLISON AMBROSE!fhe Observer 

Irish pitcher Heather Booth delivers a pitch in an April 11 win against Ball State. Booth pitched a perfect game Sunday against Rutgers in an 8-0 win. 
another run to the Irish lead. 
Notre Dame finished off the five-inning contest with a big final inning, led by back-to­hack homeruns by Lenn and Ruthrauff. Kohan followed with a walk and Glasco finished off the win with an RBI double to left center. 
"We unloaded on their pitch­ing today," Booth said. "They tried a lot of different things against us, but no one could control our bats today." 
Notre Dame 7, Rutgers 0 
The Irish came out a little slow in the second game, but an explosive five-run fifth inning helped Notre Dame pull well out of reach from the Scarlet Knights and complete the sweep. 
Notre Dame batted around in the fifth, starting with a double to the warning track in center by second baseman Katie Laing. Laing's base hit was fol­lowed by a single from Schoonaert and a two-run dou­ble to left center by Leon to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. The Irish were able to knock in three more runs in the inning to secure their eventual 7-0 win. 
One important reason for the offensive turnaround for the Irish in the fifth was their abili­ty to make adjustments to Rutgers' pitching. 
"We needed ~hat bi.g rally in the fifth," Gumpf said. "We had the bases loaded with no outs twice, and we couldn't have that. We made some good adjustments in the fifth and that really helped out." 
With the sweep, the Irish complete their home Big East schedule, but still have key matchups on the road against Louisville and South Florida to come. 
"We aren't looking to the postseason yet, because we still have a lot of tough parts of the season left," Booth said. "Louisville and USF are going to be big games that we need to win." 
Contact Dan Mnrphy and Jay Fitzpatrick at dmnrphy6@nd.edu and jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Presented by the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program 
page 22 Monday, April 24, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
No. 11 KPMG cruises past Fully Depreciated 
Average foe's, Smush Parker also advance 
By TIM DOUGHERTY AND 
FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writers 

In a business battle botween old and new, No. 11 KPMG stearnrolled its toughest compo­tition of tho tournament so far to advanco to the round of 64 with a 21-7 win against Fully Deproc.iatod. 
Matdwd against live formida­bly-sizod University mnployees in tho accounting orliee, whoso narno suggosts their gamns (and aecountsl aren't what they used to he, tho accounting firm-spon­sored studonts overcame expe­rioneo with frosh innovation ­and logs. 
KI'MG establishod a physical defensive presonce early. matching its strength with youthful quickness that enabled tho team to force turnovers when Fully DPpreciatod players drovo into the lane. 
"These guys were pretty big and physieal. so it was good to go out and bang with them," KI'MG senior financo major Greg Hiltz said, while adding that Fully Depredated was KI'M<;'s most worthy victim thus far. 
Former walk-on running back junior Hobert 1/ydfl led KPMG to an 11-4 halftime advantage with four of his live points. 
Then Greg "Busch Leaguer" Hiltz Show took control. as he buried three of KPMG's next four points on mid-range jumpers to stretch the lead to 15-4. llis shot tingled the nylon en route to his game-high seven­points for KPMG, of whom Hiltz said -if not for sponsorship restrictions -would be aptly named It Tingles. 
Hyde and Hiltz, two Keough Hall "Sons of Grace," were too much for Grace Hall's current office occupiers, according to Fully Depreciated's Andy Hoeder, who said the team did not have high expectations for the game. 
Captain Kyle Johnson agn~ed, especially since the team had to pick up two late subs. 
"The score was closer than tho game looked;" Johnson said. 
The Smush Parker Project 21, Team Vinny 4 
Bookstore Basketball learned a n71w term Sunday, as Team Vinny found out what it feels like to get "smushed" in the final day of round of 128 play. 
Though Webster and Oxford may not inelude "smushed" in their literal lexicons, the defini­tion would have something to 

-do with falling behind 8-0, 
being dominated in the paint, 
and succumbing to relentless 
transition basketball by Dillon 
freshman. 
Michael Wakim was all over 
the court for Smush Parker, 
hounding ball handlers by pick­
ing their pockets or forcing 
errant throws. Smush Parker 
then beat Vinny down the court 
to convert those turnovers into 
easy baskets around the net. 
Only one of Smush Parker's 
first-half points came outside of 
10 feet from the rim, as the 
squad commanded an 11-4 
lead. 

Team Vinny struggled to lind 
an inside presence all day, set­
tling for unsuccessful long 
jumpers into unpredictably 
gusty winds. 
Wakim was on the receiving 
end of several fastbreaks that 
he started, leading Smush 
Parker with six points and sev­
eral steals in a game which the 
team was fully prepared. 
"We came and scouted them 
the game before and knew we 
had nothing to worry about," 
Wakim said confidently. 
After the win, Smush Parker 
ran through a tunnel of hands 
formed by their numerous fans. 
"We had great fan support out 
there," Wakim said. "We had 
the sixth man on the sidelines." 
On the court, it was Mark 
Langhans who complimented Wakim's performance with live hard-earned baskets around the rim, establishing an inside game that featured rebounding dominance thanks to Smush Parker's superior ability to box out. 
Langhans, on the other hand, explainnd their overall success more simply. 
"They got smushed," he said. 
Team Mountain Lightning 21, Pageantry 12 
With a smashmouth style of play resembling that of a foot­ball team. Team Mountain Lightning defeated Pageantry Sunday. Mountain Lightning's Brent Gills was able to put up a game-high 13 points despite the physical play by both teams. 
"Nobody could hit a shot in the beginning, but I eventually found my stroke," Gills said. 
Both teams maintained high intensity levels throughout the contest, but Mountain Lightning was able to pull away early in the second half. 
"Both teams got pissed off but, after about two hours of play, we were happy to come out with the win," Mountain Lightning captain T.J. Ceravolo said. 
Ceravolo also said the Pageantry players were poor sports when they fell behind. 
"They got really whiny," he said. 
Mountain Lightning was thrilled to advance to the next round after the rough vktory. 
"We're definitely ready to move on," Ceravolo said. 
Average Joe's 21, Justice League of Notre Dame 10 
Average Joe's cruised ·to a victory over a less-than-super Justice League of Notre Dame team Sunday. The Average Joe's are already preparing for its round of 64 matchup. 
"We gon' get to that next round," Average Joe's swing­man Benedict "Hendry" Pietrzak said. "I wanna know where the gold at." 
Average Joe's dominated the J ustiee League inside to build an 11-6 halftime lead. 
It also employed a sufli>cating 2-3 zone that Justice League was unable to solve throughout the contest. 
Average Jon's point guard Jeff Schweitzer, generously listed at 5-foot-4, shouldered much of the o!Tnnsive burden to take the pressure off of his teammates. 
"Jeff played liko he was at least 5-foot-8 today," Pietrzak said. "lie was a monster for us." 
Contact Tim Dougherty and Fran Tolan at tdougher@nd.edu and ftolan@nd.edu 
... MEN'S GOLF 

Irish look to -win third straight Big East championship 
... 
By JOE QUINN Sports Writer 

After a week-long hiatus fol­lowing their best outing of the spring, the Irish will travel to Dade City, Fla. for the Big East championship on Monday and Tuesday. 
After hosting the Big East Championship five out of the past six years, Notre Dame will attempt to win its third straight championship on South Florida's home course. 
The course, however, is not the only new element of the 

CAREER PERIPECTIVEJ: 
HEAR FROM NOTRE DAME ALUMNI 
17t,· Srudenr .Alumni Xeiartons Group fS,lft:G! tnvtres vou ro parrlctpare In a a1reer p<'rspecrlves opporruntrv tor Norre Damr Srudenrs. Current and former rumbns ofrile .Alumni .Assoclar/(lf(s &,,rrd ofD!reaors rvlfl be on campus ro snare rlletr prvfesstonal srorv wtrll a llmtrrd number ofsrudmrs. 17te Career 'Perspecrtves 'f'ro(lram rvlfl r,rJ,,· p/.ra ,u },{cXenn,r Jf,r/1 from 1:30.3:00 p.m. on Sarurdav . .April Z9.Z006. 
;R_~t71Sfr(({/On ft1fmS C<lll be t1CCCSSed tlf llttp:/ /a/umn/.nJ.eJu/(froUps/sarg.nrm/ and ,rre due'" S.UG ar 100 Ed Cenra. ,,r bv e·mtlfl ro rllurclltZ@nd.edu. no huer rluw Tu6dtrv. Ap!ll ZS. 2.006. Dress Is casual. 
/ATURDAY, APRIL 29TH FROM 1:3o-3:00 PM IN THE MCKENNA HALL BMEMENT 
-G

Stu4mtA/umniRt:t.~llONSGK<ll'l Quesr/tJnsl 1'/rase cull rnt' -~lumrrl )lss,,c-Jculon ar 631·6000. 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE £t STORAGE 
3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E Mc/{;ntey Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH'S RENT AND FREE LOCK 
with purchase of un;t 
valid with student 10 
expires 515106 
tournament this year. After expanding the conference. Notre Dame will see a number of new teams. 
"With several new Big East teams now in the fold, it should make for a very competitive event," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. 
One of the new teams, Louisville, has replaced Notre Dame atop the Big East stand­ings, much to the team's dismay. 
"I was a little surprised by that," Kubinski said. "Especially after beating them [in the Boilermaker Invitational], to see Louisville get the No. 1 seed was unexpected to say the least." 
If the Irish hope to regain their first place spot, they will most likely call on their seem­ingly unmatched experience. 
"One of the coaches joked about this being Mark [Baldwin.]'s lOth Big East cham­pionships," Kubinski said. 
While 10 is a bit of a stretch, 
both  Baldwin . and  Scott  
Gustafson  have  been  here  
before.  

"Mark, being the defending individual champ, and Scott, now playing in his fourth Big 

St:z;,le'ne (Sizzfelini®) ­On Tuesdays, get our speCialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;>-}ene (Bellini)­
A frosty raspberry. green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 

East Championship, there's no question that will help us this week," Kubinski said. 
One player. who hasn't been there before is freshman Josh Sandman. But if his play over the past month is any indica­tion, that won't hurt him in the least. 
Kubinski said Sandman, who posted a 69 in the final round of the Boilermaker invitational, has been playing as well as any­one on the team. 
In fact, Kubinski feels Sandman can lead the team to this year's championship. · "If he plays like he's been playing, he could possibly lead the team in scoring. And if he does that, we'll be in good shape to win," Kubinski said. 
Fortunately for Sandman, he won't have to do it by himself. All live golfers have been show­ing signs of greatness over the week-long break. 
"Mark, Cole, Josh and Scott have all shot in the mid-60s in qualifying matches," Kubinski said. "And our 'fifth' guy, Tommy Balderston, shot a 71, so he's not too far olTthe pace." 
Kubinski is quick to note Balderston is not a typical fifth player, as he may have the most tournament experience. After battling neck and shoulder 

. injuries in the fall. he was unable to participate in any om­cia! tournaments. Kubinski, however, is confi­dent that won't hurt his per­formanee. "Tommy was actually selected All-Big East twice, so he knows how to play in these kind of tournaments," Kubinski said. "It's like having a number two or three talent at tlw number five spot." 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 

------------.---------­
~­

Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page23 

-

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 24, 2006 

Cha01ps 
continued from page 28 
Sunday. 
Not only did the win help Notre Dame retain its title from last snason. but the Irish also collected their seventh title overall al'tnr joining thn Big East in 11JIJ5. 
Despite the successes the Irish have found this season. they nnver looked past any of their competitors en route to the finals for the conference titlo. 
"We came in really confident, and we knew the match (against South Florida! was 

"We had such a
going to be a chal­Thompson's lenging one," senior good team effort, loss was the only Kiki Stastny said. and Nos. I and 2 defeat the Irish "Wn didn't underes­suffered
played really
timate them, and throughout the
well."
we were going to entire champi­light for the win." onship. Notre Dame Louderback
Jay Louderback 
began the contest said the deter­
Irish coach
with a pair of dou­bles wins -its 25th consecutive doubles point. No. 6 juniors Catrina and Christian Thompson topped the Bulls' No. 10 Gabriela Duch and Neyssa Etienne H-3. 
No. 38 sophomore Brook Bud and freshman Kelcy Tefft fol­lownd up their win, clinching the point after downing South Florida's Liz Cruz and leiri Hai 
H-4. 
The final match between sen­iors Laurnn Connnlly and Stastny and South Florida's Luisa Obardo and Courtney Vernon was abandoned, as the Irish already held a 5-4 lead. 
Coach Jay Loudnrback believes the doubles point has played a significant factor in the team's success all season. 
"We had such a good team efl'ort. and Nos. 1 and 2 played really well." he said. "II' we're ever close in a match, it is doubles that carries us." 
In singles, first off the court was No. 31 Catrina Thompson, who defeated No. 63 Etienne 6­2, 6-2. The next win came from Connelly, who topped Obardo 7­6 (7-2), 6-3. The final and clinching victory for Notre Dame came from Stastny, who eelipsed Hai 3-6, 6-1, 6-1. "I had a rough start at the beginning, so I was [focusing on I keeping the ball in play," Stastny said. "[Further into the contest] I was playing more con­fidently and consistently. So it was slow start, but strong lin­ish." 

No. 57 Vernon claimed the only victory for South Florida, defeating Notre Dame's No. 99 
Christian 
Thompson 6-2, 
6-0. 

mining factor in  
the  win  was  
experience.  
"We  have  played such  as  

tough schedule this year. South Florida is a good team, they just haven't played as tough of a schndule, and that experience really helped us out," he said. "We played a lot on the road against good teams, so playing here didn't affect us." 
Ilowever, the one variable that was dif'ficult to adjust to were the weather conditions. "It was really hot and humid, and wo did a great job of surviv­ing that," Louderback said. 
"We also didn't have really long matches !leading up to the finals!, so we were pretty well­rested." 
Notre Dame returns to the courts on May 12 in the first round of the NCAA Championships. 
The draw will be announced on May 3. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK 
Bettis makes return to ND 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Former Notre Dame running back Jerome Bettis said Saturday's Blue-Gold game was the first time he rnturned to Notre Dame Stadium since entering the NFL in 1993. 
Bettis was one of four hon­orary coaches for the game, along with former Irish stand­outs Hocket Ismael. Bob Golic and Mike Golic. 
Bettis said he had seen road games when Notre Dame played near Pittsburgh when he was with the Steelers, but time constraints kept him from attending road games. 
"I had a day job, so I couldn't make it," he quipped. 
Bettis' appearance was a long time in the making. Bettis said a prior commitment prevented him from serving as an hon­orary coach at last year's Blue­Gold Garno but told Irish eoach Charlie Weis that he would coach in the 2006 event. 
"IIc booked me a year-and-a­half in advance, and didn't let me get out of it," Bettis said. "It was like, you are booked, it's a done deal, go to the next ques­tion," 
Bettis said he was glad to finally return to the fold at Notre Dame. 
"It was fun I got some goose­bumps going down the tunnel," he said. ''I'm just glad to be back and be a part of every­thing that's going on." 
+ The attendance of 41 ,279 was the highest in Blue-Gold history. 
Bob Golic attributed this to the excitement Weis and his coaching staff have brought to the program. 
"There is a different look in people, there's a different look in the eyes of the players there's a different look in the eyes of the fans, because they see something," he said. "Everything is going in the right direction, [and! because of that, there's this optimism, this excitement; people are actually enjoying going to the game." 
+ Junior punter Geoff Price had a strong showing Saturday afternoon, moving him closer to becoming the starting punter. Price punted the ball four times, with punts of 43, 43, 50 and 52 yards for a 46.3-yard average. 
"It's good to see price punting the ball pretty [well]," Weis said. "lie had multiple 50 yard punts, that lifts my spirits."
+ Irish kicker Carl Gioia struggled Saturday, going 1-for­3 in field goals and missing both within 40 yards. 
"Missing two field goals, sign me up it concerns me," Wcis said. 
But he was pleased that Gioia rebounded and made the kick to end the game. 
"Even though it's not the pressure of real game it's still the last play of the game," Weis said. "You kick the field goal, you're either in overtime or you win the game in regulation. It's just like when a quarterback throws an interception, you want to come out there and throw a pass right off the bat and get it out of the way, well same thing with field goals." 
+ Notre Dame running back Travis Thomas capped his strong spring with the 77-yard touchdown run in the third quarter. Weis said Thomas' hard-hitting style complements starting running back Darius Walker's finesse game well. 
"[Thomas] is just going to pound you and pound you and pound you and hit you in the mouth," Weis said. "lie's very unique, because there are very few offensive players with defensive mentalities. He plays the game like he's a line­backer." 
+ Notre Dame senior line­backer Mitchell Thomas started for the Gold team -with the defensive first team -and looks to compete for a spot to join Maurice Crum Jr., who is currently injun~cl, in the start­ing linebacking corps. 
Mitchell Thomas joined soph­omore Anthony Vernaglia and freshman Paul Quinn as the starters for Gold. 
+ Irish freshman Evan Sharpley took steps to distin­guish himself as the backup quarterback for next season. Sharpley was 1 0-of-12 for 112 yards. 
"Completing 10 out of 12 passes, I think that's a pretty good day," Weis said. "I thought he held up well for himself today." 
But Weis was not pleased when Sharpley fumbled a snap early in the second half­something that competing quarterback sophomore David Wolke also did. 
Wolke completed his only pass attempt of the game for eight yards. 
+ Weis said he has boon pleased with the talent level in his receiving corps. 
lie said the return of consen­sus All-American Jeff Samardzija and the team's for­mer No. 1 receiver Hhema McKnight has created a buzz in some eirdes. 
"I was talking to one of the scouts for the [New England I Patriots during pre-game, and we were looking out there at Hhema and Jell', and they were like 'Whoa, we got a couple of legit receivers now,"' Weis said. "You could match those two up with anybody. They're two front line receivers." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles drop lllatch to Calvin 8-1 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
This is not how Saint Mary's envisioned heading into the MIAA conference tournament. After fighting to within a half-game of first place in the conference with a dramatic win over Kalamazoo ten days ago, the BeJles fell to fourth place in the MIAA with Saturday's 8­1 loss to Calvin. 
The loss drops Saint Mary's conference record to 5-3 on the season. The Belles are currently behind Albion, Calvin and Kalamazoo. Calvin moved into second place in the MIAA with its victory over the Belles. 
"Calvin is a really good consistent team," senior co­captain Kristen Palombo said. "They don't have a true number one player, but their players are very consistent throughout their line-up. That puts other teams at a disadvantage." 
Palombo, who lost her match to Calvin's Amy Zeilstra by the score of 6-2, 
7-5, was one of five Saint Mary's players to lose her singles match in straight sets. 
No. 3 Calie Mulcahy lost to Annie Huizenga 6-4, 6-4, while No. 4 Mary Elizabeth O'Connor was defeated by Kari Lipinski 6-3, 6-0. 
No. 5 Tara O'Brien, return­ing after a one-match absence due to injury, was unsuccessful in her return as she lost to Allyson Logan 6­2, 6-1. No. 6 Melissa Dingler fell short against Kim Bosscher 6-2, 6-4. 
Junior co-captain Kelly McDavitt was the only Saint Mary's player to walk away from Saturday's match victo­rious, defeating Emily Dosterhouse 6-1, 6-2. 
The inability to win close games, which has been an issue for the Belles in their past couple of matches, plagued Saint Mary's again Saturday and is an issue that the team knows it must work on. 
"In close games, a lot of the time it comes down to believing that you can win the point, and that's some­thing we're really struggling with right now," Palombo said. "We have to play to win the points rather than not to lose them." 
One positive the team took from Saturday's match was that it prepared the Belles for next weekend's MIAA conference tournament. Saint Mary's was on the court for 12 hours against Calvin, and that foreshadows the type of stamina the Belles will need next week­end. 
Each player will have to play up to four matches in the conference tournament. 
Although Saint Mary's is currently in the midst or a two-match conference losing streak and a four-match los­ing streak overall, the team is ready to use the upcoming week to prepare itself for the conference tournament. 
"We're just going to try and have a couple of good practices this week," Palombo said. "We can't con­trol our draws, so we're just going to try and get our con­fidence back." 

Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
an 0-2 fastball, and Irish des­ignated hitter Matt Bransfield
Sweep 
delivered a two-out, two-strike continued from page 28 dinger with two on to give Notre Dame a 4-3 lead. ing faltered in the seventh. Cooper's homer extended his 
"I've coached too many program-record hit streak to games against Rutgers to know 21 straight. Mainieri said he they were not going to quit on hasn't approached the subject us," Irish coach Paul Mainieri with the senior. said. "All I'm doing is staying 
Southpaw reliever Mike Dury away from Cooper and letting surrendered two runs on three him play," he said. "I just tell straight singles and a hit bats­him what time to be at the man before Mainieri brought ballpark, and hopefully that's in right-hander Joey enough." Williamson. With two on and Cooper was 4-for-5 with two two in, Williamson walked the doubles, a homer and five RBI first batter he faced, allowed in the game. He finished the an HBI single and series 8-for-11 delivered a wild with nine RBI, pitch that allowed ''And we've got a eight runs, three Rutgers center homers, two
guy like Jeff
fielder Jeff Grose doubles and a to score. Samardzija, who's 1. 727 slugging Notre Dame practically a rock percentage. The freshman left­performance
star celebrity in 
bander Kyle boosted his sea­
this town." 

Weiland finished son batting the inning -and average to .441 the game and his career
Paul Mainieri 

allowing just two Big East batting
Irish coach 

inherited runners average to .445 to score unearned -now first­following a fielding error by place all-time in the confer­third baseman Brett Lilley. ence. 
Weiland (2 2-3 innings, two In the fourth inning, Notre hits, no runs) and right-hand­Dame right fielder Cody Rizzo ed reliever Jess Stewart (4 1-3, hit a two-run single, and two hits, two runs) were the Cooper followed with a two­bright spots for Notre Dame in run double to give the Irish a an otherwise difficult day on 13-6 lead. Lilley knocked in the mound. Irish shortstop Greg Lopez 
"It's unimaginable, but true, with a ground ball single in that we could give up 20 hits the sixth to extend the lead to in a game, and I could sit here 14-6. and tell you that the key to the The win was the eighth victory was our pitching," straight comeback victory for Mainieri said. "I thought Kyle Notre Dame and 13th such win Weiland was phenomenal at in the team's streak. the end of the game." 
Stewart relieved Irish starter Notre Dame 15, Rutgers 3 Tom Thornton, who allowed The Irish used a nine-run three runs and was hit in the sixth inning Saturday to blow left knee with a hot-shot up open a close game and tie the the middle in the first inning. longest winning streak in Mainieri allowed Thornton to school history with a 15-3 vic­finish the first, but took out tory over Rutgers at Frank Eck the lefty after he surrendered Stadium. a double to Grose in the sec­Notre Dame sent 14 batters ond. to the plate in the sixth frame, 
In the first, Scarlet Knights garnering seven hits and scor­catcher Frank Meade delivered ing all nine runs with two outs. a two-run double off the lefty, "We got clutch hit after and first baseman Steve Hook clutch hit," Maineri said of the hit an RBI double off Thornton offensive outburst. "That's after the senior was hit to give what our guys have been Rutgers a 3-0 lead in the first. doing, getting the clutch hits 
But Rutgers' lead was short­when we need them." lived. With the Irish up 4-3 in the 
Notre Dame first baseman sixth, Notre Dame right fielder Craig Cooper blasted his fourth Danny Dressman got the rally leadoff homer of the year on started with a base hit with two outs and a runner on first. Designated hitter Jeremy Barnes knocked in two runs with the single, then, after the next two batters reached base, scored from third on a two-RBI single by centerfielder Alex Nettey. Lopez was hit by a pitch, and catcher Cody Rizzo emptied the bases with a three-REI double. 
After a walk and a hit batter loaded the bases again, Dressman knocked in two more runs with his second sin­gle of the inning. 
Right bander Jeff Manship earned the win for the Irish, throwing seven innings and allowing three runs -all in the first inning -on six hits with eight strikeouts and two walks. 
Mainieri said Manship's per­formance Saturday was remi­niscent of starts by Notre right-hander Jeff Samardzija, who has given up early runs several times this year only to shut down opponents for the rest of the game. 
"I thought what Manship did was Samardzija-like," Maineri said. "He struggled early, but was able to battle back and dominate the game." 
Notre Dame 11, Rutgers 5 
The fan and media that descended upon Frank Eck Stadium to see Jeff Samardzija pitch in Friday's series opener served as an electric backdrop for an electric day at the plate for Notre Dame. A crowd of 3,507 fans -part of a record-setting weekend attendance of 10,003 -saw the Irish top Rutgers in the first of three weekend games. 
Cooper extended his hit streak to 19 games with two two-run home runs over the right field fence, and Samardzija (6-1) picked up the win after working seven and one-third innings and allowing three earned runs on six hits and three walks. He struck out six Rutgers batters. 
"It was a monumental night for Notre Dame baseball," Mainieri said. "We had a packed house, beautiful weather, a 19-game win streak on the line. And we've got a guy like Jeff Samardzija, who's practically a rock star celebri­ty in this town now." 
The Irish rode a three-run rally in the fifth inning to break open a 2-2 deadlock. Cooper belted his first long 

ball off Scarlet Knights starter Steve Holt to spark the offen­sive outburst, scoring center fielder Nettey. Designated hit­ter Brezovsky gave the Irish the 5-2 advantage several bat­ters later on an RBI ground­out. 
"[Cooper] has been phenom­enal. If he's not the player of the year in the conference, I don't know who is," Mainieri said. "He's just been fantastic -great defense at first base, hitting in the clutch, getting us going, hitting home runs, doing all the things that he needs to do." 
The Irish added two more runs in the sixth inning off a bases loaded chop RBI single over the pitcher's head by third baseman Brett Lilley and a bases loaded walk by Dressman. 
A four-run seventh inning completed the damage inflict­ed by the Notre Dame bats on the day. Lopez belted an RBI sacrifice fly to center field, and Nettey knocked home another run on an error by Rutgers' first baseman Steve Hook. 
Cooper later hit his second two-run dinger over the right field fence to extend the Irish lead to 11-2. 
But Rutgers cut the score to 11-5 with a three-run eighth inning. Stewart entered in relief and stopped the Scarlet Knights attack, striking out four of six batters faced in his inning and two-thirds of work. 
"He's been so reliable for us coming in, throwing strikes, changing speeds," Mainieri said. "And he's been like that all year for us." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu, Kyle Cassity at cassily@nd.edu, and Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Helgeson put the Irish on the and they provided a pretty stiff Bayliss said. "I think we were In singles, Parbhu put Notre board with a 6-7, 6-3, 6-2 win challenge," Bayliss said. "But I better, but sometimes you're Dame up 2-0 with a 6-2, 6-0
Louisville 
at No. 3 singles. think we played very well, and better and you don't play like win at No. 2. Keckiey won 6-1, continued from page 28 It would be the last point for I think we only lost one set in it, and I think we established 6-1 at No. 4 and Bass clinched the Irish in the tournament, as singles." control early and stayed there the win 6-1, 6-0 at No.1. ference finals. Sheeva Parbhu lost 6-4, 3-6, 7-Notre Dame swept the dou­the whole match." Helgeson, King and 
"[Louisville] played with a lot 6 (7-2) to Jakob Gustafsson. bles matches to take the point, Langenkamp led before the of passion, and they have a The final point went to Slavko with wins by Helgeson and Notre Dame 4, Georgetown 0 match was abandoned. very senior dominated team," Radman, the No. 1 singles play­Roth at No. 3 and a clinching In the quarterfinals against The NCAA tournament begins Bayliss said. "They turned er for the Cardinals, who beat victory by King and Parbhu at eighth-seeded Georgetown, the May 12 at various campus around some matches we had Stephen Bass 2-6, 6-4, 6-4 for No. 2, both by scores of 8-5. Irish had no problems over­sites. The field will be won last week, we played the the win. Radman At No. 1, whelming the Hoyas. announced May 3. same players, and we had is No. 53 in the Keckley and "Georgetown was not a diffi­The Irish will have a much­some leads we didn't turn into national rankings, "{Louisville] played Langenkamp led cult match in that we've played needed rest before returning to wins." while Bass stands with a lot of 6-4 before their a much mpre challenging prepare for the rest of the post­
In their regular-season show­at No. 18. match was aban­schedule, and we're just defi­season.
passion, and they

down, Notre Dame took the doned. nitely better in every position, "We'll definitely take tomor­doubles by upsetting two Notre Dame 4, have a very senior­In singles, and the scores reflected that," row off-they're pretty beaten nationally-ranked teams on USFO dominated team." Langenkamp won Bayliss said. up right now," Bayliss said. Louisville. The Irish easily 6-1, 6-0 at No. 6 In doubles, King and Parbhu "We 'II bounce back. The next But it was a different story beat tournament and Helgeson had won 8-4 at No. 2, and Keckley time, hopefully we're in this sit­
Bobby Bayliss

Sunday when Ryan Keckley host and fifth­a 6-1, 5-2 win and Langenkamp clinched the uation -maybe in the NCAA and Eric Langenkamp -seeded South Irish coach after his oppo-point with a 9-7 win at No. 1. tournament -we'll win those ranked No. 25 nationally-lost Florida Saturday nent retired. Helgeson and Roth led 7-3 at matches when they're close. 8-4 at No. 1 doubles, and Barry to earn a berth in Keckley clinched No. 3 before the match was "But we've won our share of King and Sheeva Parbhu lost by the conference tournament the match with a 6-3, 6-2 win abandoned. close matches this year ... they the same score. Brett Helgeson finals. at No. 4 to clinch the win for "I felt the doubles, I felt we just didn't fall our way today. and Andrew Roth trailed 7-4 "They were a little more the Irish. Bass was trailing in did not play well in doubles, Louisville played with a little when the point was clinched, problematic [than Georgetown, the second set at No. 1, but but well enough to win all the more courage, a little more and the match was abandoned. the first-round matchup] Parbhu and King both led at matches, and in singles we conviction when it mattered." 
The Cardinals took a 2-0 lead because they have an older No. 2 and 5, respectively. were absolutely in control of when Nicolas Houard beat Eric group of international players "I was pretty pleased with every single match," Bayliss Contact Kate Gales at Langenkamp 7-6 (7-5), 6-3. But who were very experienced, that effort, with the team," said. "It was over quickly." kgales@nd.edu 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 24, 2006 

Clausen 
continued from page 28 
high school teammate Marc Tyler, a 6-fiJOt, 215-pound run­ning back. 
Tylnr is widely considered one of the top three tailbacks in the eountry for his cla.•.;s. 
'Tvn seen [Clausen's interest in Notre I>mne) boom since tim first time he brought me out hero for [Notrn Dame's) junior day," Tyler said aftnr the press confimmce. "I was like, 'What school are you going to recruit me to?' But he wouldn't say. After that, I knew he liknd Notre Dame a lot." 
Clausen's father, Jim, said he wa.<.; plea.<.;ed with Jimmy's deci­sion. 
"It's a dremn comn true," Jim Clausnn said. 'Tm overwhelmed by all this. Wf~'re tremendously honored." 
Jim Clausen said he is most proud of the efliJrt his son has put into his football career. 
"I don't know if [Jimmy's) good enough to play fbotball at Notrf~ Damn or not, but I know he's a young man that has worked extremely hard to get to this point," he said. 

Jimmy Clausen's brother, Ca.r;;ey Clausen, said he wanted to play at Notre Dmne but went to Tennessee because Irish coach Bob Davie wanted an option quarterback at the time instead of a drop-back passer. Casey Clausen started four years for the Volunteers from 2000-03. 
"I think once Coach Weis cmne here and did what he did last year, with Coach Willingham's players basically, it kind of opened up [Jimmy's) eyes a little bit," he said. "He's one of a kind -m1d I'm his oldest broilier, so I'm his biggest critic. But this a kid who's kind of in a league of his own." 
Clausen's mmouncement gives Notre Dame three verbal com­mitments for hir;; recruiting class. Kerry Neal, a defensive end from Bunn, N.C. and linebacker Aaron Nagel of Lemont, Ill. have already said they intend to play for Notre Dame. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
Blue 
continued from page 28 
up front without blitzing, I thought that there was good pressure applied, especially by that first group on defense," head coach Charlie Weis said. "I thought that first line was creating a lot of havoc in there, which that was encouraging." 
The effort was led by junior defensive taekle Trevor Laws, whose two sacks earned him the Defensive MVP award. Laws had three total tackles in the game. 
"Obviously, Trevor [Laws) got the MVP because of the pene­tration he was causing right there," Weis said. 
The blue team was led by the starting offense and the gold team was led by the starting defense. Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis pitted the first team units against each other and the second team units against each other in order to ensure parity. 
His plan worked. The game was a scoreless tie for much of the first half, until junior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija caught a 35-yard touchdown pass from junior quarterback Brady Quinn with 3:15 left in the second quarter. 
An 83-yard touchdown run by junior running back Travis Thomas in the third quarter was the only other score until Gioia's game-winner. 
"I showed patience and something broke open for us," Thomas said. "[Ferrine] was coming behind me and I was like 'five more [yard!. five more [yards]' and I looked behind me and I was like 'leap!' and I got in there." 
The game's first possession ended when Samardizija attempted a pass and was intercepted by cornerback Ambrose Wooden. The play 

was one of four trick plays drawn up by the two offensive honorary coaches, Raghib Ismail and Jerome Bettis, none of which had much success. 
But while Ismail and Bettis used their permitted trick plays, the defensive coaches ­Bob and Mike Golic -didn't participate much in the on­field action. 
"They gave us both headsets that didn't work; we got incom­ing but there was no outgoing," Bob Golic joked after the game. "I got that right away [that our headphones didn't work], [my brotherI Mike actually didn't get that until the second quar­ter." 
On the next possession, Gold appeared poised to score, driv­ing 60 yards in nine plays behind 4-of-5 passing from freshman quarterback Evan Sharpley, but the drive stalled and Gioia missed the 34-yard field goal. 
After the game, Weis was pleased with the play of both defenses -especially sinee the Irish ran a base defense for much of the afternoon. 
"I think that it's been pretty obvious that one of the things we've done throughout the spring is try to keep it relative­ly simple to make sure that we can evaluate their athletic abil­ity based ofT of them not hav­ing to think about what they have to do," Weis said. "I think it's a positive when you can turn 'em instead of playing base defense and be able to hold up pretty well." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Are vou asophomore Accounting Major looking for great pav and atremendous business experience;» ... Or asophomore or junior looking to use vour Web design experience to build aresume;» 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! 
The Observer is now accepting applications for Controller and Web Administrator. 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


Monday, April 24, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
With these girls constantly bickering about each other•, it's great how no one takes shots at ND guys. 

Yeah, you'd think someone would make fun of all our flaws. 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJlJr~'jJ&11IE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
STYTE 
j
rJ r 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. Al1 Rights Reserved. 
HABET 
j
I I r (] IREPUMB j 
WHE=N THE= SPY
I I r (] 
www.jumble.com 
WORE= A WIG, IT 
WAS--­
ITORREC t 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rI J J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

'l I I J' rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' I Jumbles: GASSY EMPTY PONDER SLEIGH s Answer: What the editor and the tailor shared in their 
daily routine-GOING TO "PRESS" 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 43 Alan of 70 Glimpsed 1 Role to play 
"M*A*S*H" 

5 Poison ivy woe 44 French cubist DOWN Fernand
9 In _(not yet 1 Look for people 
born) 45 Big _ (circus) 

to scam online 14 Worker in the 46 Mischief-maker 
2 Major blood garden 49 Hornswoggle conveyor 15 Connecting 51 Poet T. S. 3 Story-telling point uncle
54 Apportions16 Word before (out) 4 Pieces of land and after say 
to develop58 Vein 17 "My Friend _ " 5 Put words62 Powderedof 50's TV cleaning agent 6 Bugs Bunny or 18 Mangled Wile E. Coyote63 Guy with an19 Words before Irish Rose, on 7 Computer "So sue me!" 
old Broadway information 20 Vain holder
64 Delete 23 Hurried 8 Funnyman 
65 Question to the 

24 It "has fleas" in Youngman
Lord in Matthew an old ditty 26 9 A choir may 25 A few sing in it
66 Shout 28 Forward flow 1oOld Western
67 Prefix with 32 ''That was bad 

Union delivery 
scope of you!" 11 Foul doings
68 Goes a few 35 Claw rounds in the 12 Where a yacht 
38 Pay the kitty ring (with) might run 36 Be in the red 47 One of the 57 Attackaground
39 Vane 69 Not delete Carringtons on 58 Neither good 
13 City reg. 37 "And stay by my 
"Dynasty" nor badcradle till 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 21 Capital of Japan 48 _ Fail, Irish 59 Cereal for
morning is _"before 22-Down 

coronation stone 34-Down -=+*.±-i-1 22 Old name for 40 Mangle 50 Son of Darius I 60 Alexandria's Tokyo river
41 Prefix with 52 Green-lights -;::-t~::t~ 26 Homo sapiens 61 Go soft, as
classical 53 Lhasa's land butter
..::-t-:::-t:~':-1 27 Airline to Tel 
55 Hearty steak 
42 Many an Arthur 62 Baby's dinner Aviv Miller work 56 Give the slip neckwear29 Condo, e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
~iaiij~H!~~~~H~~~ 30 Normandy
invasion town 
31 "S.O.S.!" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
-:-+-:+:-:+::-! 32 Nicholas II was 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
the last one 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -=+-=+.;;:.+=+.:,..+=+;:..+::::+:::::+::=-! 33 Room in una past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). cas a 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ..:..r..-'-'-'-_._;..&..;'-'-..L-..,L..;..-'--' 34 See 59-Down solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
> 

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State _______ Zip__________ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Kelly Clarkson, 23: Jean-Paul Gaultier, ---.,­53; Barbra Streisand, 63; Shirley MacLaine, 71 
Happy Birthday: If you truly believe in yourself and your ideas, take the first step to making them happen. A chance to do something big is present, so think about what's really important to you. Make a concerted effort to change that part of your life. It could be the start of a whole new personal and professional life. Your numbers are 6, 18, 23, 29, 33, 37 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): A sudden change in your financial situation is apparent. An older relative may pose a problem for you. Do the best you can to help, but don't let anyone make you feel guilty for something you have no control over. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Today is all about love, romance and spending time with someone you really adore. You can rely on friends. relatives or even neighbors to help you out. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can get a lot done today. Reconsider your lifestyle and make changes to help you look and feel your best. You will be torn between making a change and keeping things exactly the same. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's time to take a chance and hook up with some different people or take a short trip. Visit someone or attend something that will get you excited and optimistic about making a change. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have to try exceptionally hard if you want to avoid problems with a loved one or friend. Watch what you say and how you act. Someone may have a change of heart. Prepare to defend yourself. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This can turn out to be a very exciting day for relationships and partnerships. Open your heart and your mind to the ideas that others have to offer. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind will be on getting ahead. A change of direction or taking a unique approach to what you would normally do while at work will be what leads you in a new direction. Discipline will be the key to your success. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Update your looks or take a fresh new look at something you are trying to create. Walking away from something you believe in will not help matters. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A sudden change of luck is heading your way. Do something to fix up your residence or make it more comfortable. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Friendship will be important today. A trip that takes you back to your roots will be eye-opening. You shouldn't have to spend too much money on entertainment. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep your thoughts to yourself, especially about your home and personal life. The fewer decisions you have to make, the better. A creative idea may be your answer to financial freedom.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Children and elders may play a role in your life today. You will be a little unpredictable, but that will only draw more interest in you. This is the perfect day to spend time with someone you love or want to get to know better. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, careful and very intuitive. You have charm and integrity and can always come up with a unique solution. You are gullible and will always give others the benefit of the doubt. You must protect your heart from those who are untrustworthy. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-

--------------~-----------------------------------~---------~ ---------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 24, 2006 
page 28 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Highly-touted recruit Clausen commits to Irish 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
SOUTII BEND -For Jimmy ClausPn, it was all about the coach. 
Tlw Westlake Village, Calif., quarterback said Saturday he will attend Notrn Dame thanks to the straightfiJrward recruiting of Irish eoaeh Charli1~ Weis. 
"It all comes down to Coach Weis," Clausen said. "Throughout 
FOOTBALL 

the recruiting process, he has been straightforward with me. I just think this is a great situation, and every high school quarterback would want to play under Coach Weis." 
In front of more than 250 people during a news conference in front of the lleisman Gallery at the College Football Hall of Fame, the nation's No. 1 high school quarter­back -and arguably the most highly touted quarterback recruit since Ron Powlus -announced he will enter Notre Dame as an early­enrollee next spring. 
"I think you all know why I'm here today," Clausen said. ''I'm very excited and proud to say that in January I'll be attending the University of Notre Dame." 
Clausen's announcement was followed by 27 seconds of thunder­ous applause from the fans in attendance. The 6-foot-3, 195­pound protege of renowned quar­terbacks coach Steve Oarkson has thrown 88 touchdowns and just 11 interceptions while leading his Oaks Christian High School team to a 27-0 record as a starter. 
''I'd like to say 'thank you' to Coach Weis for having the confi­dence in me throughout the recruiting process," Clausen said. "I look forward to thi<> afternoon to meet my future teammates and help bring us national champi­onships." 
Feeling Blue 
Gioia boots game-winner as time expires, Blue edges Gold 10-7 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
With only 17 total points, it was dear Saturday's annual Blue-Gold game was a defen­sive battle. But the story of the game wasn't either team's 

r 
df1fense -it was the leg of junior Carl See Also 
Gioia that "Bettis makes gave the blue 
return to ND"
teamai0-7 vietory. page24 
Gioia nailed a 20-yard field goal to break the 7-7 tie as timP expin~d in the fourth quarter -in front of a record 41,279 fans. Gioia had missed a ]4-yard liPid goal earlitw in the first quarter and Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis was happy the junior ended the game when he did. 

''I'm glad we kicked a field goal, because I didn't know what I was going do with over­time," Weis said. "I didn't say too much during the game, but I did say center the ball and kick the field goal." 
Both Notre Dame defenses played well and limited the scoring opportunities of the opposing offenses. And for Notre Dame, who ranked 75th in total defense and 103rd in pass defense last season, get­ting pressure on the passer had been a focal point during spring practiees. 
"All spring long I've been talking about getting pressure 
see BLUE/page 26 


Clausen said he decided last week that he would attend Notre Dame and informPd Weis after the team's practice Friday. 
Clausen said he will be an active recruiter for Notre Dame and already has phone numbers for many of th1-1 top prospects. During the press conference, he pointed out one person he would recruit that he's already familiar with ­
see CLAUSEN/page 26 

ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish take ho111e Big East title 
Championship is team's seventh since joining the conference in 1995 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
The defending champs and top-seed Irish went into the Big East ehampionships with high expectations -and they didn't disappoint. 
No. 2 Notre Dame downed second-seeded No. 37 South Florida 4-1 in the finals of the tournament in Tampa, Fla. 
see CHAMPS/page 24 

-------=======-=============================================================-_:__:-::._-=--===-================= 
BASEBALL 

Streak hits 22 vvith Rutgers svveep 
By KEN FOWLER, KYLE CASSILY and CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writers 
There was no catch-22 for Notre Dame this weekend. The Irish (31-8, 14-1 Big East) beat Rutgers 14-12 in a wild game Sunday to sweep the Scarlet Knights and extend their winning streak to a pro­gram-record 22 games. 
But it wasn't easy. 
Ahead of Rutgers 14-6 with a 21-game winning streak on the line, Notre Dame's pitch-
see SWEEP/page 25 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame 10 Lehigh 7 
Irish senior attackman Pat Walsh paced the Irish attack with four goals against the Mountain Hawks Sunday. 
page 20 MEN'S TENNIS 
Team falls to Cards in conference finals 
After flawless run to championship, Irish lose 4-1 to Louisville 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Despite not giving up a mateh en route to the eham­pionship, top-seeded Notre Dame fell to Louisville 4-1 in the Big East tournament 
Sunday. 

TRACK 
Irish sophomore Kyle Annen recorded the sev­enth best hammer throw in Irish history to lead team at 'the Central Collegiate Championship Saturday and Sunday. 
page 18 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame 13 Rutgers 8 

Irish attack Crysti Foote recorded nine points to become the first Irish player with more than 200 career points SundaY: 
page 18 
"It was, to me, a crushing disappointment," Bayliss said-. "If you look at the scores, we were in positions to win many of the matches and colleetive­ly just didn't give it done." 
Notre Dame topped Georgetown Friday and host South Florida Saturday. The Irish -who lost to Louisville in the NCAA tournament last year -beat the Cardinals on April 12, but eould not reprise the vietory in the con-
see LOUISVILLE/page 25 
MLB 
Cubs 7 Cardinals 3 
Greg Maddux tossed seven scoreless innings to improve to 7-0 as the Cubs avoided being swept by the Cardinals. 
page 16 





