
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 59 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER30, 2006 

Three female presidents discuss leadership 
Former student body officers, Shappell speak ofexperiences as women, leaders at Notre Dame 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
The spirit of Rosie the Riveter filled the Oak Room of South Dining Hall Wednesday night as the three women who have been Notre Dame student body president gathered to discuss female leadership issues at the University. 
Alumnae Brooke Norton (2001-2002), Libby Bishop (2002-2003) and current stu­dent body president Lizzi Shappell were the feature guests at the Gender Relations Center's "We Can Do It! Women and Leadership at NO" lecture. 
Norton, Bishop and Shappell each took a turn to speak about their experiences as student body president, addressing tri­umphs, inspirations. difficulties and lessons learned from the perspective of a female leader at Notre Dame. 
Norton identified Father Hesburgh as a key figure in her path to becoming Notre Dame's frrst female student body presi­dent. 
"To [Father Hesburgh] it seemed like Our Lady's University should be a place for women," she said. "He felt it would only be complete when a woman would become student body president." 
For Norton, it would be a long process to decide whether or not to run, but in doing so she assumed a groundbreaking role, which allowed her to "[plant] the right seeds so that trees could grow later." 
Her influence spread both to Bishop, who became president during the following term, and Shappell, who realized her goal of student body president after looking at a poster of Rosie the Riveter -a gift from Norton to the student government office. 
"Coming to Notre Dame I had no intention of becoming stu­dent body president," Shappell said. 
But after viewing the poster. which was displayed in front of the panelists during the event, Shappell said she "knew it was time for female leadership at Notre Dame to become less of an exception and more of an expectation." · 
Each of the women acknowl­edged that being student body president was a demanding, stressful job with its own prob­lems. 
Bishop's election came in conjunction with the adminis­
see WOMEN/page 6 


Zahm identity faces future change 
dorm, I see that every day." 
It hasn't taken long for fresh­men to notice a gap between the "old" Zahm -which lives on in word-of-mouth primarily within the dorm's walls -and the "new" Zahm, a hall that seems to have shed much of its more infamous past. 
To Zahm rector Father Dan Parrish, the dorm should be "a place where the heart grows as well as the mind." 
"Because that's what a Holy Cross education is all about," he said. "You don't just come here to check into an apart­ment, or a frat house, or what­ever -you come here to be part of a Christian community. And in so many ways, when we started this in 2003, we real­ized that every part of the Zahm community needed to be rehabbed and cared for.... 
"I think there's a much 
see ZAHM/page 6 


By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
Editor's note: This is the sec­ond story in a two-part series examining changes to resi­dence life within Zahm Hall and what those changes mean to the campus community. 
When freshman Brad Monroe pulled up to Zahm in August, unloading boxes and belongings, he didn't really know what to expect -not of college, but of his dorm. 
Zahm, after all, was a place where "crazy, lewd and obscene acts" supposedly hap­pened on a regular basis. 
''I'd heard Zahm had a bad reputation over the years, but everyone just emphasized the fellowship," he said. "It hasn't really lived up to the expecta­tions as far as doing crazy stuff. but the closeness of the 
STUDENT SENATE 
Shappell praises TC's policy 
By KAITLYNN RIELY News Writer 
A suggested ease between student-community relations was the focus a "very produc­tive" meeting between Turtle Creek Apartments community manager Francis Schmuhl, Senate Community Relations Chair Josh Pasquesi and Student Body President Lizzi Shappell, Pasquesi reported at Wednesday's Senate meeting. 
The meeting focused on Turtle Creek's approach to the eviction clause of South Bend's disorderly house ordinance and their relationship with the Indiana Excise police, he said. 
see SENATE/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM Abroad program thrives 
ND ranked sixth in annual mobility report 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
This year's Institute of International Education's annual report, "Open Doors", showed Notre Dame has the sixth largest percentage of students participating in study abroad programs among American research universi­ties. 
The report -comprised of data collected through 2004­2005 on student participation in international study --con­cludes that about 58 percent of Notre Dame students par­ticipate in study abroad pro­grams at some point during their academic careers. 
Julia Douthwaite, assistant provost for international stud­ies at Notre Dame, said she was happy with Notre Dame's sixth place finish, but thinks there is still room to improve. She suggested there are undiscovered opportunities for meaningful student academic and cultural experiences in the international community. 
"We would like to be number one," she said. "but we are certainly holding our own." 
"I would like to see 80 per­cent of our students go abroad -either for a semester, year or during the summer," Douthwaite said. "I think stu­dents need to be abroad for a minimum of six weeks for the 
see ABROAD/page 4 


Broden addresses state 
death penalty laws 
NDASK lecturer is the fifth in series of six 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Indiana compares well to other states in its application of the death penalty, but legislators, judges and lawyers must remain diligent said Indiana State Senator Joe Broden Wednesday. 
Broden, who represents the cities of South Bend and Mishawaka in the State Senate, spoke at the fifth of a series of six lectures in the Notre Dame Against State Killing (NDASK) Fall Lecture Series. 
Broden, a 1987 grad~ate of 
Notre Dame, offered insight from his experience in the legislature as well as from his membership in the Indiana Assessment Team of the American Bar Association's Death Penalty Moratorium Implementation Project. 
Broden said the Moratorium Implementation Project began in 2001 following an ABA resolution calling for a review of capital pun­ishment in policy and practice in each of' the 38 states with a death penalty. Indiana's report is expect­ed to be finalized early next year. 
"The American Bar Association recognized ... that there are differ­ent methods of imposing the death penalty," he said. 
These methods can vary 
see NDASK/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Insider NFL 

rankings 

This column is dedicated to Bill McGarry. 
It's official. The 2005/2006 Super Bowl Champion is not going to repeat this season. 
Some have said that the 
Greg Arbogast 

Steelers wouldn't repeat from 
Sports Writer 

the beginning when Ben Roethlisberger nearly died in a motor­cycle accident. Others jumped on the bandwagon when the Pittsburgh quar­terback needed an emergency appen­dectomy before the first game of tlre season. Me? I knew it wasn't Pittsburgh or Roethlisberger's year when he tried to toss his wristband into the stands after Sunday's game against Baltimore and it was intercepted. 
With that being said, it's time to look at this season's serious contenders to hoist the Lombardi trophy come February in Miami. 
1: San Diego Chargers -Over his last five games, LaDainian Tomlinson is averaging 134.6 rushing yards per game and 3.2 total touchdowns per game. Over a full season, that would average out to 2,154 rushing yards and 45 touchdowns. And you wanted to take Larry Johnson with the first pick of your fantasy draft. 
2: Indianapolis Colts-If you like 6­foot-5 quarterbacks with laser rocket arms ... and defenses that allow 155 rushing yards per game. 
3: Chicago Bears-I don't trust Rex Grossman to win a playoff game on the road. Come to think of it, I don't trust Rex Grossman at all. 
4: Dallas Cowboys -So ifthat's Chase Anastasio's fiancee, and Tony Romo can get Jessica Simpson, imagine what Tom Brady's girlfriend must look like. 
5: Denver Broncos-Don't only blame Jake Plummer for the Broncos recent struggles as the once stellar Denver defense has given up 24.2 points per game over their last five. Blaming Plummer isn't a bad place to start, though. 
6: Baltimore Ravens -This team is starting to look an awful lot like the Baltimore team that won the Super Bowl in 2001. 
7: New England Patriots-Can you imagine Bill Belichick wearing a suit on the sideline? The only combination with less potential is Tom Brady and his cast of receivers. 
8: Seattle Seahawks-Shaun Alexander looked an awful lot like the back who ran for 1,880 yards last sea­son on Monday night. Or was that just because he was playing against the Packers? 
9: Carolina Panthers -Seriously, why don't other teams just triple cover Steve Smith on every play? What are the Panthers going to do, run the ball? 
The Relegation Bowl: In addition to the playoffs, I propose that at the end of each season the team with the worst record in the NFL play the national champion of college football. Like you wouldn't watch this? 
The likely 2007 match-up: Ohio State ( -1) vs. Oakland, and my prediction ... the Buckeyes win on a late safety, 2-0. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 30, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE THING TO DO WHILE PROCRASTINATING? 

Caitlin Ivester Liz Lefebvre Dan Allen Jillian Pearson Michelle Anderson Nick Kraft 
sophomore sophomore senior sophomore freshman sophomorePE Badin O'Neill Farley Regina Stanford 
"Get some "Watching "Mario Kart.·· "YouTube." "Facebook, all "Playing an 




shoes." videos on YouTube." 
Ex-principal accused of kissing feet 
LORAIN, Ohio -A former Roman Catholic school prin­cipal accused of kissing three male students' feet has pleaded not guilty to misdemeanor charges of sexual imposition. 
Robert Holloway, the for­mer principal at St. Anthony of Padua School in Lorain, entered the plea Monday. He also pleaded not guilty to charges of unauthorized use of public property. 
Police Sgt. Mark Carpentiere said foot fetish material was found on two school computers seized from Holloway's office, and U.S. 36 after the spill. Workers and customers were evacuated from busi­nesses within 100 yards of the spill and about 10 peo­ple were treated at the scene or a nearby hospital for skin, eye or respiratory irritation, Madison County Emergency Management spokesman Todd Harmeson said. 

The spill happened about 
10:30 a.m., when two 55­gallon drums of Bondmaster glue the truck was carrying tipped over and leaked onto the highway. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

despite the educator's claims he did not have a foot fetish. 
Holloway, 50, resigned as principal in the spring after the 14-year-old students and their parents reported the foot-kissing to police. 
Glue spill shuts Indiana highway 
PENDLETON, Ind. -A semitrailer carrying large drums of glue spilled part of its load onto a state highway Tuesday, causing the road to be closed for about three hours as crews worked to resolve the sticky situation. 
Police officers diverted traffic off Indiana 67 and 38 



the way." obscure game on Yahoo called 'Sheep's Head."' 
IN BRIEF 

A Thai and Cambodian fundraising dinner buffet will be held today at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune. Heather Connell, producer of the film "Small Voices," will discuss her work with Cambodian orphans and show clips from her upcoming film beginning at 7 p.m. A $5 dona­tion is suggested for the dinner. 
Mike Henry, actor, writer and supervising producer for the show "Family Guy," will speak today at 8 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. 
David Roodman from the Center for Global Development will give the lecture "The Commitment to Development Index: Which Rich Countries do the Most to Help Poor Ones?'' today at 4:15 p.m. in room C­103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
All Basilica choirs will partici­pate in Advent Lessons and Carols Sunday at 7:15 p.m. in the Basilica. This one-hour serv­ice will include seasonal music provided by the ND Liturgical Choir, Women's Liturgical Choir, Basilica Schola, Folk Choir and Handbell Choir. 
Christmas at the CoMo Benefit Concert by the ND Celebration Choir is Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the first floor Coleman Morse student lounge. International students will pro­vide reflections of Christmas in their home countries. There is no admission charge, but a freewill offering will be sent to St. Jude's Primary School. Jinja, Uganda. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
c::: 
IJ.I 
:::c 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
..... 

····~···
<( (,) 
0 
HIGH 53 HIGH 28 HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW 32 LOW 18 LOW LOW 



Atlanta 69 1 57 Boston 49 I 40 Chicago 40 I 38 Denver 311 5 Houston 66 I 63 Los Angeles 72 I 44 Minneapolis 24 I 12 New York 66 156 Philadelphia 68 I 52 Phoenix 57 I 37 Seattle 43 I 37 St. Louis 38 I 35 Tampa 82 I 65 Washington 69 I 52 
Thursday, November 30, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC seniors partake in 'Real World' lessons 

to provide activities for seniors By LAURA BAUMGARTNER that would ease the transition into 
News Writer 
post-graduate life, senior class 
president Kat Kindt said. 
Saint Mary's seniors stepped out · The night began with a lesson in of the academic environment salad dressings and appetizers as Tuesday night, sampled some Sodexho executive chef Patrick delectable treats and learned McGarry taught students how to some valuable life lessons along properly create a balsamic vine­the way. gar reduction, which was sampled 
Chefs and a sommelier tutored on strawberries and a Caprese 
LAURA BAUMGARTNE Observer

30 College students about the arts salad. 
Saint Mary's executive chef Patrick McGarry teaches College seniors how to prepare tortellini
of cooking and fine wine Tuefiday McGarry said he was inspired to 
with alfredo sauce and other foods Tuesday night in the Noble Family Dining Han. 
night in the Noble Family Dining become a chef at a young age -a Hall. dream he attributes to his mother, 
The event -sponsored by the who put him in charge of cooking "We wanted to be able to sit it was fun because they always menu and a recipe booklet for the senior board's "Real World" com­dinner while the family was at down and have [a family dinner] enjoyed it," he said. event -said teaching a cooking mittee -was created in an effort work. experience together, and I thought McGarry -who created the class at Saint Mary's was some­

THE POWER TO GET A 
PHONE THAT ROCKS 
FUSIC by LG® only from Sprint.
Phone and MPJ e TM 
Bluetooth® technology
player in one. 

Built-in MP3 player with FM transmitter 
Reg. $299.99 each. Save $150 instantly plus $50 mail-in rebate. 

Plus get LG® portable speakers 
FREE 
reg. $58.65. While supplies last. 
Phone and free speaker offer requires activation of a new line of service on a $39.99 or higher service plan with atwo-year agreement on each phone. 

GET THIS CAMERA PHONE 
FREE, INSTANTLVI 
SCP-3100 by Sanyo• Offer requires activation of anew line of service with a 2-year sub­


Sprinf )I, POWER UP~ 
scriber agreement. Reg. $179.99. After $179.99 instant savings. 


REGISTER TO WIN $10,000* 
Visit your local Sprint Store to register for a chance to win the $10,000 Money Talks Grand Prize or one of 25 $1,000 First Prizes. 
Sweepstakes ends 12/10/06. No purchase necessary. See store for complete sweepstakes rules. "Registration available at Sprint Stores or Preferred Retailer locations only. 

New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 
Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people. 
thing he has always wanted to do. 
"A cooking class is for anybody who has the desire or wants to learn different things about cook­ing," he said. "That's my passion, so I want to spread that." 
The main course of the evening was tortellini with Italian flavored chicken, vegetables and a home­made Alfredo sauce. McGarry selected several volunteers to assist him with the preparation of the sauce while the remaining stu­dents observed the process. 
Seniors Courtney Johnson and Anne Cusack were two of the vol­unteers who participated in the hands-on instruction. 
"As graduating seniors, it's great to have formal instruction on how to cook," Johnson said. 
Cusack also felt that the class was beneficial. 
"This is the best event I've been to at Saint Mary's yet," she said, "I learned so much." 
Chef Jake Tannehill said the key to making this event a success was teaching students how to make meals they may have originally thought were too complicated or difficult. 
"We want to get the knowledge out to people about how simple things can really be," he said. "You can make something different by doing something really simple." 
Receiving instruction on new and almost effortless skills was the highlight of the event for many of the seniors. 
"I liked learning about the dif­ferent techniques and learning how you could spice up a dish with something really simple and easy," senior Ashley Oberst said. 
While students sampled the meal, they also received a lesson in wine tasting from sommelier Kevin Hogan. 
Hogan began his career in the wine industry in 1989 with Gallo Wines and now owns The Vine and Spirit wine shop in South Bend, from which he donated a white, red and dessert ice wine for the tasting. 
Hogan provided instruction for properly storing and tasting wine, including a demonstration on swirling wine in the glass to pro­mote oxidation -a task that enhances the wine's flavor, he said. 
"[This] was a great way to bond with everyone and it was neat to be able to try all the different wines," senior Maggie Oldham said. 
For dessert, students learned how to make bananas foster and take a plain angel food cake and make it more unique by toasting it and topping it with chocolate sauce, whipping cream and toast­ed coconut. 
Kindt said she felt everyone involved thought the cooking class was a success. 
"We're doing it again next semester," she said. "What more needs to be said? We had a great response and I feel sorry for the people who didn't come." 
SPRINT STORES  PREFERRED RETAILERS  ALSO AVAilABLE AT  
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  NILES  
Martin's Plaza 2035 South Bend Ave. 574-277-7727  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge South of the Mall across from McDonald's  Sunday ........ 12pm-5pm Mon.-Fri........ 10am-8pm Sat•............ 9am-7pm  Sprint Store Express 52991 SR993 Ste. B 574-243-8900  Sprint Store Express University Park Mall 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360  2010 S. 11th St. 269-357-0000  
574-243-2100  
Se habla Espaiiol  

..Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or gov't-req'd charges. 
Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million people. Offers not available in all mar­kets or retail locations. Add' I terms & restrictions apply. Subject to c.redit. See store or Sprint.com details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 12/31/06 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes excluded. Activation at time of purchase required. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 12/31/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo. the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. SWEEPSTAKES: NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. PURCHASE DOES NOT IMPROVE YOUR CHANCES OF WINNING. The Sprint "Money Talks" Sweepstakes begins 12:00:01 a.m CST on 10/23/06 and ends 11:59:59 p.m. CST on 12/10/06. Open only to legal U.S. residents of lA, IL, Ml, IN, OH, PA, TN and WV, 18 years of age or older. Void where prohibited by law. To enter: Visit a participating Sprint retail store, complete the official entry form and drop in the entry box at the store or enter online at www.moneytalks/registertowin.com. Limit one entry per per­son. Subject to full official rules available online at www.moneytalks/rules.com. Odds of winning are dependent upon number of eligible entries received. Prizes: One (1) Grand Prize: $10,000 Cash. Value: $10,000. Seven (7) First Prizes: $1,000 Cash. Value: $1.000 each. All prizes will be awar.ded in the form of a check. Total Value of all prizes: $17,000. SPONSOR: iPCS Wireless, Inc., 1901 N. Roselle Rd.. Schaumburg. ll60195. OPT-OUT: Ifyou do not want to be contacted regarding iPCS Wireless Inc.'s. Products or services in the future, write to: Jill Moravec, The Ad Group 230 E. 2nd Street, Davenport, lA 52801. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 30, 2006 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Though the ordinance calls for eviction after the first offense, Turtle Creek's approach gives students a warning rather than an imme­diate eviction, Pasquesi said. 
"They are changing their policy and now they have a one-warning policy, where if you get in trouble with the police ... you will be sent a warning letter," he said. 
Schmuhl said the new policy seems to be working, Shappell said, and that Turtle Creek has had a quiet fall. 
"[Turtle Creek] has experi­enced [the new warning poli­cy] working, which we think is a vast improvement from last fall," she said. 
Shappell and Pasquesi asked Schmuhl about the rumor that Turtle Creek had called in the Excise police earlier in the semester, Pasquesi said. Schmuhl "debunked" that rumor, he said. 
The other chairs reported to the groups the tasks their committees are working on. 
Lyons senator Mariana Montes, vice chair for the Senate Residence Life commit­tee, said they are working on enabling all vending machines on campus to take Domer Dollars. 
"We should have functioning machines all over. campus, so 
NDASK 
continued from page 1 
between urban and rural areas and are also dependent on the quality of a defendant's legal rep­resentation. 
His team's preliminary findings were promising when compared with some of Indiana's neighbors, but there remains room for irllprovement, Broden said, 
"Indiana is usually a state where, frankly, we're oftentimes compared with states that don't fare particularly well on [issues such as] education and infant mor­tality," Broden said. "[But on the issue of] the death penalty, I think that Indiana might stack up quite favorably." 
Broden cited several state laws that put Indiana ahead of the national curve, including one that requires that a person charged with a capital crime to be repre­sented by two attorneys -with at least one who previously partici­pated in a death penalty case. 
Also, the Indiana Supreme Court cannot refuse to hear an appeal in a capital case, and a defendant has the right to a hearing to deter­mine whether any new evidence warrants a second trial. 
Indiana's legislature passed a law prohibiting the execution of individuals with demonstrable mental impairment in 1994 ­eight years before an equivalent ruling by the United States Supreme Court. 
Despite recent progress locally, Broden said public awareness of Shakespeare's Globe Theater, being temporarily adopted by a French family and studying economic development in Uganda are all available. 

During any given semester, we are trying to get that fixed," Montes said. 
Academic Affairs Chair Jim Grace told the senators to expect a resolution on clocks in all the classrooms at the meeting next week. He said his committee has also begun working on the possibility of proposing a business certifi­cate for students in Arts and Letters and adding a global health minor. 
Gender Issues Chair Ashley Weiss updated the senators on the progress her committee has made with the eating dis­orders conference planned for February. 
"We've contacted over five hundred university depart­ments across the country that would have an interest in pre­senting on this issue," Weiss said. 
They have also secured the involvement of departments and groups from within Notre Dame, she said. The exact schedule, advertising strategy and budget are still being finalized. 
Social Concerns chair Sheena Plamoottil asked sena­tors to survey dorm residents 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
optimal experience." 

International studies department administrator Joan Clark said there was a 76 percent acceptance rate of study abroad applicants dur­ing the 2005-2006 school year, making study abroad competitive but feasible for interested Notre Dame stu­dents. . 
The application deadline for study abroad in the 2007­2008 academic year was Nov. 15, Douthwaite said. She did not have exact statistics on applications received for the 2007-2008 academic year because her office is still in the process of reviewing them. 
She said the international studies staff would be dis­cussing application numbers and trends at a meeting today. 
She does know the "num­bers (of applications) were good." 
"All of our programs are 
growing," she ings to ask them whether they 
at their next hall council meet­
said. "Students know what rector funds are, if 
are definitely they know what an 
interested in ombudsperson is, and if they 
studying abroad. have seen posters for 
There is no ombudspersons. 
downswing here." ' Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 
Students can kriely@nd.edu 
choose from 19 different study 

abroad locations, with sites from high-profile wrongful conviction 
Notre name's statistics has prompted the contro­
largest program versy surrounding the death 
in London to the 

sible," he said. "I think we contin­ue to make progress on a lot of the due process issues surrounding the death penalty, [for which there is] good bipartisan support." 
Broden also pointed to the suc­cess of laws in Illinois and Minnesota that require all confes­sions to be recorded on video, and he highlighted the importance of "putting our money where our mouth is [and ensuring] competent counsel" for those accused of capi­tal crimes. 
Wednesday's lecture was spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns and Campus Ministry, and co-sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture. The final lecture in NDASK's Fall Lecture Series will feature Dale Recinella, the Catholic Lay Chaplain for Florida's death row, at 7:30 p.m. Dec. 6 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
"As You Wish" {j.... ( mports -_,~,  Last year we pledged $2000 for hurricane relief in the Guatemalan village where we work. In the end, we spent S4400! Thank you for  
Loads of Sliver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry Wall Hangings, Hand Crafted Gift items,  your support! Please stop in to look. buy, or just visit!  
Accessories, and Much, Much Morel  

DIRECT IMPORTS! LOW PRICES! 

Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India 
LaFortune-Sorin Room (1st Fl.)  Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving  
Nov. 27-Dec. 2 (Sat.) 11-Spm  hands ol Guatemalan families 3 times their average  
& M-F Evenings 7:30-lOpm  salary, as well as lunds lor their education.  

the size of the University's diverse abroad options can· range from over 100 students in the London pro­gram to a sole Domer enrolled at a foreign uni­versity. 
Douthwaite said that London draws the most applicants annu­ally, with Dublin, Toledo and 

"All ofour programs are growing. Students are definitely interested in studying abroad." 
Julia Douthwaite assistant provost International Studies 
Rome tied for second place. 
Senior Packy Cain was one of 10 Notre Dame students who ~tudied abroad in Innsbruck, Austria during the 2005-2006 academic year. He said he lived in a dormito­ry but also had an Austrian "guest family" -a family that volunteered to have a relationship with Cain during his time in the family's home 
"The big surprise this year was that students are applying to the more challenging locations. " 
Julia Douthwaite assistant provost International Studies 
country. 

"If I were to look back at the whole year, I think the most memorable things for me would be the lit­tle things -vis­iting my guest family every Sunday for Iunch. noticing myself adapting
to the culture and becoming 
more a part of the interna­tional community," Cain said. 
Douthwaite said she is excited that Notre Dame stu­dents seek to engage with the international community. She is especially excited that a growing number of students 
& THE ·/·.;.:M•_.::·-,.: OF ~;A~:r·to:(olDI<>·c· CITIES for LIFE 

choose to study in less tradi­tional locations. 
"The big surprise this year was that students are apply­ing to the more challenging locations," Douthwaite said. 
She said mim­bers of applica­tions for study in Cairo, Uganda and China have noticeably increased. 
Study in Uganda is a rel­atively new pro­g r a m , Douthwaite said. 
"Notre Dame joined the con­sortium with the 
School for International Training in the course of the 2004-2005 school year," Douthwaite said. 
"We recruited students [to study in Uganda] in 2005­2006, and this year we have our first cohort of students there as part of an official NO program," she said. "But stu­dents have been going on this program -either independ­ently or during the summer -for several years prior to 2004." 
Douthwaite said she thinks providing students with opportunities for internation­al education is imperative to Notre Dame's mission as a Catholic university "to (help students) gain a sound under­standing of other cultures and to master a second lan­guage as part of their com­mitment to attaining compas­sion for other people." 
Douthwaite said the study abroad experience ultimately plays an important role "to strengthen student resolve to work for social justice." 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 

penalty to reemerge. 
"One hundred persons in some twenty-three states have gotten oil' death row ... because they had been exonerated," he said. "I think Americans take deep offense to [the legal system's failure[." . 
Although Broden said any pro­posal for a moratorium on the death penalty would be likely to fail in Indiana, he laid out some practical objectives he believes the State Senate might address. 
"There's a real stirring to at least have our system be as fair as pos­recently instituted program in Uganda. 
Notre Dame study abroad programs provide experi­ences as diverse as the loca­tions available to students. Immersion in a foreign lan­guage, acting on the stage of 
FALL 
LECTURE SERIES 
Dati.'! R~H::HHtt:la fs -2 1976 gradual~ D~ath Row ·~ Solitary Cvt~tme:n$r:L 
Prayer at thf! Grotto I ·· Lecture at Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
::J! th~ Univ;;:r!:.Hy of Nnff~Z n~=ne Law Suw.ei .;:SOli ;::l c~lhvfic Li:!y C?iapla::n lo~ Fi;.:,rld-!:1'~ He auti10r*d t!'le book; rlrfl 8tl.-d;c-.al r.-uth t?J:;Out Ame,·i;;;c?'s LJeath PJB!"';aitf 

.,
C-M 
S 0 C l A L.. 

Campti!» Minh•tr·y C:oNc.ii:fR·N·s 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 30, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERvnrs WIRE SERVIc:Es page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Powell calls Iraq 'a civil war' 
DUBAI -Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said Wednesday at a business con­ference here that the war in Iraq "could be considered a civil war," the conference organizer said. 
Powell made the comment during a ques­tion-and-answer session after a keynote speech, according to David Hellaby, who organized the "Leaders in Dubai Business Forum." No cameras were allowed in to record the talk, but Hellaby was present and issued a press release quoting Powell. 
Powell could not be immediately reached for comment. Hellaby said Powell was leav­ing Dubai immediately after Wednesday's conference. 
Powell's comments come in sharp con­trast to those of ·President Bush, who said Tuesday that Iraq is not in a civil war. Bush blamed al-Qaida extremists for the daily violence there. 
Bush said Iraqis had "a chance to fall apart and they didn't." 
Radiation found on British planes 
LONDON -Officials found traces of radi­ation on two British Airways jets as part of an investigation into the poisoning death of a former Russian spy, and the airline appealed Wednesday to tens of thousands of passengers who flew to Moscow or other cities to contact health authorities. 
Two Boeing 767s at London's Heathrow Airport tested positive and a third was grounded in Moscow awaiting examination, British Airways said. The airline said "the risk to public health is low" but that it was attempting to contact some 33,000 passen­gers who have flown on the jets since Oct. 25. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hurricane season comes to an end 
MIAMI -The mild 2006 Atlantic hurricane season draws to a close Thursday without a single hurricane striking the United States -a stark contrast to the record-breaking 2005 season that killed more than 1,500 people and left thousands homeless along the Gulf Coast. 
Nine named storms and five hurricanes formed this season, and just two of the hurri­canes were considered major. That is consid­ered a near-normal season -and well short of the rough season government scientists had forecast. 
"We got a much-welcome break after a lot of the coast had been compromised in the last several years, but this is a one-season type break," said Gerry Bell, lead seasonal hurri­cane forecaster for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. 
Frist backs out of Presidential race 
WASHINGTON -S~nate Majority Leader Bill Prist renounced a bid for the White House in 2008 on Wednesday, an early dropout from the most wide-open presidential race in decades. 
"In the Bible, God tells us for everything there is a season, and for me, for now, this sea­son of being an elected official has come to a close," said the Tennessee Republican, a sur­geon before he entered politics in 1994. 
While the first national convention delegates won't be chosen for more than a year, jockey­ing among potential presidential contenders is well under way.ing. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Burns indicate arson in house fire 
MARTINSVILLE, Ind. -A fire that forced a man to jump from a second-story window while carrying his 10-month-old daughter was arson, authorities said. 
Investigators found an irregular burn pat­tern on the kitchen floor, indicating arson, said Andy Zirkle, spokesman for the Indiana Department of Homeland Security's Division of Fire and Building Safety. 
Dennis Sizemore, 4 7, remained in critical but stable condition in Methodist Hospital in Indianapolis after being severely injured Thursday when he jumped from the window of his house near Martinsville. 
U.S.-Iraq summit canceled 
Bush administration says delay is not related to White House memo leak 
Associated Press 

AMMAN, Jordan President Bush's high-pro­file meeting with Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki on Wednesday was canceled in a stunning turn of events after disclosure of 
U.S. doubts about the Iraqi leader's capabilities and a political boycott in Baghdad protesting his attendance. 
Instead of two days of talks, Bush and al-Maliki will have breakfast and a single meeting followed by a news conference on Thursday morning, the White House said. 
The abrupt cancellation was an almost unheard-of development in the high­level diplomatic circles of a 
U.S. president, a king and a prime minister. There was confusion -and con­flicting explanations ­about what happened. 
Bush had been scheduled to meet in a three-way ses­sion with al-Maliki and Jordan's King Abdullah II on Wednesday night, and had rearranged his sched­ule to be in Amman for both days for talks aimed at reducing the spiral of violence in Iraq. 
The last-minute cancella­tion was not announced until Bush had already come to Raghadan Palace and posed for photographs U.S. Ambassador to Iraq balked at the three-way hotel. alone with the king. Zalmay Khalilzad, basically meeting after learning the The cancellation came 
White House counselor echoed Bartlett's account. king wanted to broaden after the disclosure of a Dan Bartlett denied that The Jordanians and the the talks to include the classified White House the delay was a snub by al­Iraqis jointly decided it Israeli-Palestinian conflict. memo, written Nov. 8 by Maliki directed at Bush or was not the best use of Two senior officials trav­Hadley. In one particularly was related to the leak of a time because they both eling with al-Maliki, who harsh section, Hadley memo written by White would be seeing the presi­spoke on condition of asserted: "The reality on House National Security dent separately, said the anonymity because of the the streets of Baghdad sug­Adviser Stephen Hadley official. sensitivity of the informa­gests Maliki is either igno­questioning the prime min­Members of the tion, S/.l,id the prime minis­rant of what is going on, ister's capacity for control­Jordanian and Iraqi dele­ter had been reluctant to misrepresenting his inten­ling violence in Iraq. gations contacted Khalil­travel to Jordan in the first tions or that his capabili­
"Absolutely not," Bartlett zad, who called Air Force place and decided, once in ties are not yet sufficient to said. He said the king and One and spoke with Bush Amman, that he did not turn his good intentions the prime minister had and Secretary of State want "a third party" into action." met before Bush arrived Condoleezza Rice, giving involved in talks about Administration officials from a NATO summit in them a heads-up, the offi­subjects specific to the did not dispute the leaked Latvia. "That negated the cial said. U.S.-Iraqi relationship. account, saying that on purpose to meet tonight However, Redha Jawad With Maliki already gone balance the document was together in a trilateral set­Taqi, a senior aide of top from the palace, Bush had supportive of the Iraqi ting." Shiite politician Abdul-Aziz an abbreviated meeting leader and generally por­
A senior administration al-Hakim who also was in and dinner with the king trayed him as well-mean­official, who spoke with Amman, said the Iraqis before heading early to his ing. 

Consensus reached on Iraq policies 
sensus ... and we will announce that have not been announced.
Associated Press 
on December 6," Hamilton told a President Bush is under growing 
WASHINGTON-A bipartisan com­forum on national security at the pressure to craft an exit strategy to mission has reached a consensus on Center for American Progress, a lib­withdraw substantial numbers of new U.S. policies for Iraq and will eral group. U.S. troops while shifting more announce its recommendations next "We're making recommendations," responsibility to the Iraqi govern­week, the group's co-chairman said said Hamilton, who led the group ment. Even so, top military com­Wednesday. with former Secretary of State James manders have said they would con­
Former Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., A. Baker III. sider increasing U.S. troops, at least declined to disclose any specifics Defense officials, meantime, said temporarily, if they deemed it neces­about the Iraq Study Group's deci­the Pentagon is developing blueprints sary. sions. The report, much anticipated to send four more battalions to Iraq Bush said Tuesday he would not by the Bush administration and early next year, including some to withdraw American forces "until the members of Congress, is.coming out Baghdad. mission is complete." next Wednesday amid the spiraling The extra combat engineer battal­The study group is expected to rec­violence in Iraq that has raised ques­ions of Army reserves would total ommend regional talks involving tions about the viability of the Iraqi about 3,500 troops and would come Syria and Iran. The Bush administra­government and U.S. policy for a from around the United States, said tion has been reluctant to engage deeply unpopular war officials who spoke on condition of those two countries, which it says 
"This afternoon, we reached a con-anonymity because the deployments have abetted the violence inlraq. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 30, 2006 
ZahiD 
continued from page 1 

greater level of care for every 
part of the Zahm community 
now, and people feel that." 
It's a far cry from crazy, lewd and obscene -and that's something former residents say current students will never understand. 
"People who live in Zahm now don't know what it was like before," said Matt Walsh, a 2006 alumnus who lived iri the dorm during his sophomore year and second semester of his junior year. " ... Traditions are going to fade away." 
Senior Kevin Gimber, former Zahm president who lived in the dorm for three years, also noted how "there's no one liv­ing in Zahm" that remembers the past. 
"These freshmen don't know any different," he said. 
Implications of "indifference" 
Those freshmen, who say they've heard stories about the Zahm of years past, agree that's the case. 
"I guess our rector has been cracking down more and more, which sounds like it was need­ed," freshman Tim Thayer said. "I think people who have gone through the changes and saw what Zahm was before prefer that. 
"But I'm kind of indifferent." 

Parrish also touched on that idea of indifference -not indifference to the dorm, nec­essarily, but indifference to its image as "some sort of frat house on North Quad." 
"And even as we're leaving behind some of that each year, people still try very hard to force it on us," he said. "I think as in any dorm, there is a great spirit here, and it's also some­thing I've told the hall govern­ment every year, that the majority of the hall is the silent majority. And I would say it's somewhere between 60 and 80 percent of the hall [residents) that either don't buy into some of ... the events that are more in the eye of the public, or they just don't give a dang about it. 
"But there's also a great, a very strong vocal minority as there is in any group, that kind of sets the tone for what will be, and that's what you see," he continued. "Because you don't see the people who aren't as interested in that, because they don't get together and go out on the quad and do things that are, you know, in public." 
If the freshmen will set the tone of the future, however, it doesn't seem like the fraternity comparisons will continue. Based on what upperclassmen have shared, new residents said an evolution of the dorm's culture was probably for the best. 
"People complain about Father Dan, they talk about how it used to be, [you] could do whatever you wanted with the old rector, but I think [more rule enforcement] was neces­sary," Monroe said. 
Freshman Mike Perez first encountered "negative rumors" about Zahm when he stayed in the dorm during Spring Visitation Weekend. 
"No one would fill me in on any details but would instead say, 'Ooh, Zahm,"' he said. 
So this summer, when the incoming freshman found him­self assigned to Zahm Hall, he "wasn't too excited" about hearing anti-Zahm jokes for the next four years of his life. 
But those verbal jabs, he said, don't really mean any­thing. 
"I quickly learned through Frosh-0 and other activities ... that there is more to Zahm than what you hear," he said. "Zahm is a brotherhood and I've come to embrace it." 
But will everyone embrace it in the future? 
Seniors and alumni said they think an increasing number of upperclassmen will move out of the dorm in the future. 
"I think it will continue, because now the trend has been set," said Joe Cussen, 2006 alumnus who served as dorm president during the last of his three years in Zahm. 
But Cussen also pointed at what he said was a "campus­wide" trend of moving out of the dorms "as a senior, or even a junior" -a trend he said now seemed to be catching up to Zahm. · 
"I wouldn't even eall it a problem -it's a big change," he said. 
"For better or for worse" 
For now, however, Zahm 's freshmen express a seemingly high level of satisfaction with dorm life. 
"Zahm does catch a lot of heat from other dorms -that kind of sets us apart, but that only strengthens us as a group," freshman Brian Price said. "We have reputations, you know?" 
Within the Zahm community, Priee said he has found "a strong sense of tradition that you just want to uphold." 
"It's a family within a family," he said. 
Upperclassmen have men­tioned big changes within the community over the past sever­al years, Price said, but he doesn't believe much has ehanged. 
"I mean, that's been talked about," he said. "I guess, that's been tough for me -it's been hearsay for me -but the over­all environment has remained the same, in terms of everyone being close-knit." 
While Thayer said he wasn't very familiar with other men's dorms, he agreed there was an especially developed character that set his hall apart -a "common bond" among resi­dents established "just by being in Zahm." 
"For better or worse," he said. "I don't know." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
WoiDen 
continued from page 1 

tration's ban on hard aleohol, putting her in a dil'lkult posi­tion as a mediator between students with "unfeasible" demands' and the administra­tion. 
"The people making the big deeisions for thl'~ University at the time were still white males," Bishop said, noting that her "feet didn't even toueh the ground" in the overstufl'ed ehairs she sat in during meet­ings with the administration. 
Shappell diseussed her difTI­culties in dealing with contro­versial issues that ranged from evietions to the Vagina Monologue·s and sexual assault on campus. 

While being a female student body president at Notre Dame certainly stands out as an anomaly, all three spoke of a 
sentiment to  focus less  on  
"female"  and  more  on  
"leader."  

Shappell said during her campaign for president she tried to remain as gender-neu­tral as possible, trying to "make sure that no one pegged me as a crazy 'femi-nazi."' 
Bishop stressed that future women leaders see "it's not about being the best 'female' leader. It's about being the best leader." 
For Bishop, being student body president at Notre Dame pushed her to focus on the smaller things. 
"Leadership is not just hav­ing a title," she said. "It's not just being student body presi­dent. It's in the aetions, and it's in the little things." 
Norton stressed "the best kind of leadership is servant leadership," and relayed advice from Father Hesburgh, saying, " ... you don't make decisions beeause they are easy; you don't make them beeause they are cheap; you don't make them because they are popular; you make them because they are right." 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 


Viewing begins 
Thu rs) Nov ember )0 
from 7:00-1 O:OOpm Judging and Ceremony begins at 8pm 
~howeasing N® stud~nt art. 
Prizes awarded to top pieces at opening night ceremony. 
For more information, please contact Elizabeth at enye@nd. edu 
Castle Point Apartments 574-272-8110 18011 Cleveland Road 
574-272-8114 FAX S0uth Bend, lnd.iana www.cppj.com 
O.,:.,:ening Gueae R~,pt. Special.s! 
() Indoor/Outdoor Tenn.is and Basketball 

I 
I 

Thursday, November 30, 2006 


Dow 
12,226.73 +90.28

}ones 
UfX Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,626 124 674 2,793,434,860 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.69  +0.30  44.07  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.24  +0.26  21.24  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.19  +0.01  5.36  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.61  +0.18  29.57  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.27  +0.0 12  4.521  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.35  +0.0 16  4.612  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.27  +0.0 12  4.5 I 5  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.47  62.46  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.90  641.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.53  90.95  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.2050  
EURO  0.7594  
POUND  0.5133  
CANADIAN$  1.1382  

IN BRIEF 
Ford employees accept buyout deals 
DETROIT -Ford's hourly work force is shrinking to half its current size, following the announcement Wednesday that 38,000 hourly workers have agreed to accept early retirement or buyout packages this year. 
That still might not be enough to revive the nation's second-largest automaker, however, which is contracting in the face of multibil­lion-dollar losses and fierce competition. Now, say analysts, Ford Motor Co. needs to rekindle interest in its cars and reclaim some market share lost to Asian rivals. 
"They've got to learn how to build a prod­uct that is acceptable in the market at a good price," Turnaround specialist Jim McTevia, of McTevia & Associates in Bingham Farms, said. "They've got to build it economically and they've got to sell it economically." 
Ford had expected 25,000 to 30,000 work­ers to sign up during an open enrollment period that expired Monday. The new reduc­tion figure would amount to nearly 46 per­cent of the 83,000 unionized employees that Ford had at the start of the year. 
That will eventually save Ford about $5 billion a year, but it still has a long way to go and more painful measures to take before it's financially sound. 
GM to begin work on plug-in car 
LOS ANGELES -General Motors Corp. has begun work on a plug-in hybrid power sys­tem for its Saturn Vue sport utility vehicle that could save on gasoline use, Chief Executive Rick Wagoner said Wednesday at the Los Angeles Auto Show. He offered no timetable on when it will be available, how­ever. 
Wagoner also said GM will start offering versions of its Hummer models that could run on biofuel within three years. The Hummers have become a lightning rod for critics of vehicle fuel efficiency. 
Hybrid vehicles have both electric and gasoline power systems. They save on gas consumption by shutting off the engine while idling, giving the vehicle a boost of electric power during acceleration and capturing electrical energy when the vehicle is brak­ing. 
--------------------------------------------------------..., 
THE 0HSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

U.S. to enforce new trade policies 
Government to use iluxury sanctions' to reprimand N. Korea for nuclear tests 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -In a 
novel effort targeting the 
lifestyle of North Korea's 
eccentric president, the 
Bush administration wants 
to make it tougher for him 
to buy iPods, plasma televi­
sions, Segway electric 
scooters and more. 

It is Washington's first­
ever attempt to use trade 
penalties as a way of per­
sonally aggravating a for­
eign leader. They target 
items believed to be 
favored by Kim Jong II or 
presented by him as gifts 
to the roughly 600 loyalist 
families who run the com­
munist government. 

Kim, who orchestrated a 
secret nuclear weapons 
program despite interna­
tional efforts to stop him, 
has other options for 
obtaining high-end con­
sumer electronics and 
other luxuries. 

But the list of proposed 
U.S. penalties, obtained by The Associated Press, aims to make Kim's swanky life harder: No more cognac, Rolex watches, cigarettes, artwork, expensive cars, Harley Davidson motorcy­cles or even personal watercraft, such as Jet Skis. 
The ban would extend 
even to musical instru­
ments and sports equip­
ment. The 5-foot-3 Kim is reason than to benefit Lewis, a former State Korea, one of the world's 
an enthusiastic basketball North Korea's governing Department official who most isolated economies, is 
fan; Secretary of State elite." worked on arms controls. impoverished and routinely 
Madeleine Albright pre­Gutierrez said penalized "Unless it's too large to fit suffers food shortages. The 
sented him with a ball items were "carefully con­into the cargo hold of a new trade ban would for­
signed by Michael Jordan sidered and carefully tar­commercial aircraft, it's bid U.S. shipments there of 
during a rare diplomatic geted." going to be tough to Rolexes, French cognac, 
trip in 2000. Kim's former Experts said the U.S. lux­restrain him." plasma TVs, yachts and 
secretary, widely believed ury sanctions would be the In Beijing, U.S. and more -all items favored 
to be his new wife, studied first ever to curtail a spe­North Korean diplomats by Kim but unattainable by 
piano at North Korea's cific category of goods not failed to reach agreement most of the country. .Pyongyang University of associated with military on when they might "It's a new concept. It's 
Music and Dance. buildups or weapons resume disarmament kind of creative," said 
"While North Korea's designs-and the first tai­negotiations on Kim's William Reinsch, a former people starve and suffer, lored to annoy a foreign atomic weapons program. senior Commerce Depart­there is simply no excuse leader. They acknowledge Japan's Kyodo News ment official who oversaw for the regime to be that enforcing the ban on agency cited unidentified trade restrictions with splurging on cognac and black-market trading people at the talks as say­North Korea under cigars," Commerce would be difficult. ing that Kim demanded the President Clinton.·· Secretary Carlos M. "He's got folks who can U.S. freeze the penalties on Reinsch predicted gov­Gutierrez said Wednesday move around nuclear luxury goods and other ernments will comply with in a statement. "We will weapons. If he tells these items imposed after the the restrictions, but agreed ban the export of these and · guys to get him a case of North's first nuclear test on trying to block all under­other luxury goods that are Scotch, they're going to Oct. 9. ground shipments will be purchased for no other pull it off," said James A. The population in North frustrating. 

FEMA ordered to resume payments 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Bush administration must immediately resume housing payments for thousands of people displaced by Hurricane Katrina, a federal judge said Wednesday, heaping more criticism on the government's handling of the 2005 disaster. 
U.S. District Judge Richard J. Leon's ruling sharply criticized the Federal Emergency Manage­ment Agency for illegally cutting housing funding and subjecting storm victims to a convoluted application process he called "Kafkaesque." 
It is the second court victory for Katrina victims this week. A fed­eral judge in Louisiana said Monday that many homeowners might be entitled to more insur­ance money for flood damage. 
In the Washington case, Leon said FEMA mishandled the transi­tion from a short-term housing program to a longer-term pro­gram this spring and summer. 
FEMA, which was criticized in the wake of the storm for responding too slowly, defended itself in a statement released Wednesday night. FEMA said it sent letters outlining the program changes, explaining why some people were ineligible and describing the appeal process. 
Leon, however, said those letters contained only program codes and agency jargon and didn't explain anything. Some evacuees got mul­tiple letters with conflicting infor­mation, he said, leaving families unable to understand why their aid was being cut. 
Until FEMA explains itself and allows victims to appeal, Leon said the government must keep making housing payments. 
"It is unfortunate, if not incredi­ble, that FEMA and its counsel could not devise a sufficient notice system to spare these beleaguered evacuees the added burden of fed­eral litigation to vindicate their constitutional rights," Leon wrote. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 8 
Thursday, November 30, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

The cult of the celebrity 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumuk.kala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Anronacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlbert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.I@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either instirution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Qtmtiom regarding ObserverJWlicies should be direcf;(d tt) Editflr in ChiifMike Gilluon. 
POST 0FACE INFORMATION 
The <:ll=mor (USPS 599 2-4000) u p•bliili<d Mornby thm<>gh 11-Ui.y =<P' during aam and wc:ation period!;. A ~ption to The Ob.Krvcr is $100 for om: <a42denUc year. $55 .fOr one sema;.tcr. 
Tilt Ohstrvtr it published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send .address .com:ctions co: 
Nocre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observ" 
l"-triodic:al postage paid .at Notte Dame P.O.Box779 
and additional mailing offices-. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
Norn: Dame, IN 465:56-0779 
The Observer ls a member ofthe Alisociated Ptess, All reproduction right!O are 
'~­
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler Maureen Mullen Jay Fitzpatrick Uz Harter Chris Hine Viewpoint Bill Brink 
Alyssa Scene Brauweiler Erin McGinn Graphics Madeline Nies 

This week, the Pope makes a historic visit to Turkey that will strongly influ­ence Muslim-Christian dialogue in the coming months and years. In New York last Saturday, police officers fired fifty shots on an unarmed man in a case that may or may not be a flash­point of police bru­tality. The violence in Iraq continues to escalate, and NBC now officially refers to the conf1iet as a civil war. 
All these headlines dominate the news this week, yet many Americans are going to give them only a passing glance or ignore them completely. Instead, most of us will read about Tracy Morgan's DWI, catch up on the latest Brad Pitt and Agelina Jolie drama and/or baby adoption or immerse ourselves in the details of Tom Cruise and Katie Holmes' post-matrimonial escapades. This excessive admiration for particular indi­viduals resembles a cult, in a fully pejo­rative sense. 
It's no great insight to say that our culture has an unhealthy fixation on celebrities and their meaningless (but still more interesting than our) lives. It puzzles me why we do, when our quali­fications for fame are so low. It seems that all it takes anymore to become famous is having a sex video leaked to the Internet. We don't demand much more than that. Once you're in, you can sit back and relax -we maintain your fame. We obsess and worship our celebrities. Even though we love to see their shortcomings, we still allow them more leeway than any average citizen dreams of. Living an outrageously lav­ish life is fawned over. The more gratu­itous and disgustingly-affluent ways you 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

can find to waste your money, the more airtime you'll be awarded on MTV. 
We are not alone in this mania. England has its royalty to obsess over (though it isn't so much that eelebrities replace royalty figures as objects of public lixation, but rather royalty moonlights as celebrities. Whether this rnpresnnts the triumph of mass democ­racy or the conflation of the political and entertainment realms -a related plwnomenon in full swing-remains to bn secnl. And sometimes individuals even do something to mnrit our atten­tion-we still have our sports icons to glorify and drool over, after all. Yet sports icons these days are adopting the roles of social luminaries. We know ath­letes as much for their product promo­tions as for their physical accomplish­ments. Just ask Michael Jordan or Tiger Woods. Your career never ends; when you run out of steam or get too old, you can just move into the announcer's booth or start your own reality televi­sion series. Hey, it worked for llulk !logan. 
Why do we obsess over these figures? Why are Brad Pitt and Agelina Jolie more important to us than violence in the Sudan, starvation in Ethiopia and war in Iraq (combined)? Why do we proclaim ourselves leaders of the free world as we apathetically ignore world politics and instead devour tabloid mag­azines which dig up dirt on the latest break-ups, pregnancies, weight-gains and drug rehab stints? 
Our aversion to reality seems to be worsening. The circulation of Us Weekly rose 18 percent last year, In Touch Weekly's 30 percent. Compare that to Time's measly 0.1 percent growth or National Geographic's one percent loss. We shield ourselves in an exciting fan­tasy world where our only problem is predicting which celeb has a drug addiction problem next. I don't mean to be a Gloomy Gus -life sucks some­times, and we need lighter things to occupy our time or we'd all crack. But celebrities don't really fit this bill: we love to see them fail. Tabloid magazines don't run articles about celebrities' accomplishments and success stories; they feature stories about lovers' forbid­den trysts, broken celebrity marriages and Oprah's latest dietary habits. We set up our idols and then we smash them down. 
Maybe that's what we love-the feel­ing of authority we get in building these people up and having the power to break them down again. Because it is really we, the masses, who build up the sacrosanct images that celebrities become. We hype them, we follow them and we love them. And then, when they've reached the pinnacle of popular existence (e.g. the cover of TV Guide or People), we know we have the power to strip them of their pristine reputations and east them back down to the dregs. 
What sick, twisted creatures we are. 
But hold on-I said I wouldn't be bleak. There may be some good in our relation to celebrities. As I mentioned above, it's in some ways a communal celebration of our popular influence. An exercising of our democratic power, with no harmful effects (for us). A per­verted, megalomaniacal exercising of that power, true, which can ruin the individual lives of the actors, singers, dancers, athletes, artists, daytime talk show hosts, food critics, movie review­ers, fitness coaches and politicians that we build up -but at least it's not us taking the fall. 
Although maybe it would be worth it, just to be on the cover of People. 
James Dechant is a junior English and Theology major. He can be contact­ed atjdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Will you be watching the Notre Dame women's soccer team in the Final Four this weekend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
rSubmit aLetter 
, E''':d·'·t t
to : th,, :e, ,' f<~1 ;or a...•,, 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Well, dinner would have been splendid ... if the wine had been as cold as the soup, the beef as rare as the service, the brandy as old as the fish and the maid as willing as the Duchess." 
Sir Winston Churchill former British prime minister 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 30, 2006 page 9 
Don't give in to stress 
Stress. It can be an ugly thing. High blood pressure, pim­ples, weight gain, irritability and a host of other unappeal­ing, even unmentionable, physical symptoms have all been linked to experiencing stress. And how is everyone feeling these days, now that the Thanksgiving holiday milestone has been breached? Stressed. Somehow, we can hold it at bay Kate through the great feast on -to quote Barrett my brother -the "large roasted 
FaithPoint
flightless bird." However, some of you may have even noticed the stress creeping up on you as the holiday weekend came to a close ... and when you got back to class on Monday? Bam! Stress city! There's no longer anything between you and finals! 
You have probably noticed, however, that sometimes stress can be a good thing. Who hasn't been able to whip out a paper simply because it was due the next morning (or that same afternoon)? Who hasn't found their study habits suddenly improving as the test grew nearer and nearer? Ironically, we often get a lot more done when we're busy than when we have plenty of time on our hands. 
One of the unfortunate side-effects of both kinds of stress -the over-the-top-can't-sleep-because-of-it stress and the adrenaline-buzz-high-productivity stress-is that both can induce high levels of selfishness. In the midst of our shoul­der-tightening anxiety, we believe that no one else could possibly have more work, harder profs, a more demanding schedule or longer papers than we do. We grouse at our roommates, who are certainly just sitting around doing nothing compared to the amount of work we have. Or, while zipping around in caffeine-induced super-productivi­ty, we come to think a little too highly of our own speed writing or cramming abilities. Who needs study groups, friends to proofread papers or any help at all, for that mat­ter? On a tight deadline, we're the best! 
Well, step back and take a deep breath, regardless of how you're experiencing the stress during these last few busy days of the semester. Althea Gibson, the trailblazing tennis player of the 1950s who became the first African­American to ever win a Grand Slam tennis tournament (she won 11) and the first African-American voted by the Associated Press as "Female Athlete of the Year" said, "No matter what accomplishments you achieve, somebody helped you." Whether you feel overwhelmed and alone or slightly on the cocky side, reach out to someone else in these next few weeks. We are more connected than we realize, for as St. Paul wrote to the Philippians, "It is God who is at work in you, enabling you both to will and to work for his good pleasure" (2:13). 
Finally, if you will accept a few words of advice from a voice of experience: 
Be kind to your roommates and friends, even if you don't feel like it. 
Stand up straight Gust trust me on this; it really helps). 
Don't drink too much coffee or alcohol. Neither will help as much as you think they will. 
Don't eat too much, especially when you're just mindless­ly moving your hand back and forth between chip bag and mouth. It will only make you feel worse. 
Get a little exercise, even if you just take a quick walk around the quad. 
Sleep never hurts either. It help~ the brain absorb infor­mation and it also helps ensure against involuntarily falling asleep during the exam itself (as I did once during a Calculus final my freshman year). 
Pray with these words from Archbishop VIrgil O'Brien, who recently visited the Notre Dame campus: "Never is life so insecure as when we hold it in the palm of our own hands and think we can control it. Never is our own life safer than when we entrust it to the hands of a merciful God in Christ." 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Kate Barrett, direc­tor ofresources and special projects in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholics, capital punish111ent and Cities for Life 
In the week leading up to this month's national elections, as you might recall, Saddam Hussein was sentenced to death by hanging. While President George Bush smirked, declared victory and spoke about "healing jus­tice," nearly every European leader, including Bush's closest allies, wore long faces on the news and condemned the sentence for its inhu­manity. This article is an invitation to the Notre Dame community to think about these different reactions. On a campus regularly dotted with right to life campaigns calling for an end to abortion, Notre Dame students have an oppor­tunity this week to reflect on another dimen­sion of the right to life and, if so moved, sym­bolically challenge the death penalty in the United States. 
On Thursday, Nov. 30, students from the campus' Sant'Egidio community and Notre Dame Against Killing (ND ASK) will be cele­brating the worldwide Cities for Life day. Sponsored by the community of Sant'Egidio in over 400 cities on Thursday, groups around the world will be lighting up big-city monuments­like the Coliseum in Rome and La Moneda in Santiago -to commemorate the first abolition of the death penalty by law, in the Great Duchy of Tuscany, 1786. On campus we will be light­ing candles at the Grotto with Dale Recinella, a Notre Dame law grad who gave up his life as hot-shot international finance lawyer to minis­ter spiritually to inmates on death row in Florida. Following a series of speakers on cam­pus by ND ASK to mobilize support and collect signatures to end the death penalty, Dale will talk afterwards about his experience making and losing friends on death row. In his recent book, Dale notes that most Americans who believe in the death penalty, like George Bush, defend it on religious grounds, believing that God demands this justice in death, that in some way the death penalty can bring healing vengeance. 
While the Biblical commitment to justice by God is great, it is always underscored by a more powerful call towards compassion, for­giveness and love. As the last few popes and the U.S. conference of Catholic bishops have all emphasized, it is only through these fundamen­tal exigencies in which true healing can occur, not through the violence of the executioner's switch, noose or needle. If we can defend socie­ty bloodlessly, why should Catholics continue to support the violence of society and the destruc­tion of human dignity by allowing our govern­ment to kill our criminals? Who are we to allow the legitimized violence of the state to mobilize so completely against one person when their very crimes mirror our own collective inability to have reached out and helped them in the first place? As Gandalftells Frodo, "Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgment. For even the very wise cannot see all ends." 
Michael Driessen graduate student political science Nov. 25 

NDAA care package thanks 
On behalf of the Notre Dame Accounting Association, we would like to say thank you for the generous support and donations given to us for the Care Package Drive to the Troops. Through your help, we were able to send out over 155 packages to soldiers serving all over the globe and will hopefully give them a little piece of home for the holidays. It was expressed to the soldiers that they are continuously in our thoughts and prayers, and we are grateful for their sacrifices. We received monetary donations, great goodies and gra­cious letters to put in the packages, as well as discounts and donations from Wal-Mart, Hobby Lobby, UPS, Martins, Osco, Sam's Club, Athletic Department, Food Services and The Shirt. Once again, none of this could have been achieved without all this support and we thank you all for it. 
Liz Byrum junior Rena Zarah semor Service Commissioners Notre Dame Accounting Association Nov. 29 
Stop using the 'but' 
As college students, we have the new and often unappreciated privilege of being able to vote. We can have much influence on the future, and as moral, religious people we can influence the character and morality of those who we chose to rule our country. One thing we need to watch out for is politicians who claim to be personally opposed to some moral wrong, yet do absolutely nothing about it politically or even encourage that wrong through their political decisions. This position is called the "I am personally opposed, but ... " position and was popularized for our generation by the antics of Senator John Kerry in the 2004 presidential election with his posi­tion on abortion. Bear in mind I am not discussing abortion, so you avid pro-lifers or pro-choicers can calm down. I just find the "I am personally opposed, but ... " position invalid and completely inconsistent. A politician who discovers moral norms that are not often justifiable when broken should be willing to rally support for those issues. Being personally opposed and politically in favor means you are supporting and cooperating in what is wrong. 
My problem is the misconception of private opposition and public sup­port. I believe Catholics and all politicians need to stop hiding behind "pri­vately opposed," speak the truth, be honest about their beliefs and stop what I see as the cynical appeal of votes from their party members by fak­ing a strong and unwavering faith. Our friends the Catholic bishops have made noise on this topic and a few threatened to deny communion to pres­idential candidate John Kerry. You may ask, what gives the bishops the right to do this? What about separation of church and state? In fact, the free,exercise clause of the First Amendment of the Constitution allows this. Both bishops and politicians are completely free to persuade the public to the moral truth they discovered, not created. Religious freedom is no excuse for the inconsistencies of the "I am personally opposed, but ... " position. A politician cannot support publicly what he knows is wrong per­sonally. How can you support something you find wrong? It is unnatural to not be in line with your personal beliefs. 
The evil of slavery was ended by consistent politicians who were morally opposed to slavery and actually did something about it to try to end a wrong to so many innocent people. The "I am personally opposed, but ... " position prevents the spread and clarification of debatable moral truths of our time such as torture, stem-cell research, nuclear war and even abortion. 
Eric Kosmo freshman Alumni Hall Nov. 29 

We are not animals 
Daniel Amiri (whom I don't know) recently wrote a most apt descrip­tion of free will, an element which separates us from animals. "We are not animals. We do not have to be trained to obey," he wrote. The Servant of God, Pope John Paul II, addressed the International Congress on Life-Sustaining Treatments and Vegetative State Mar. 20, 2004 and began by asserting his concern that "vegetative" has become entren­ched in our vocabulary: "A man, even if seriously ill or disabled in the exercise of his highest functions, is and always will be a man, and he will never become a 'vegetable' or an 'animal."' The Holy Father pro­claimed these words one year before his entrance into Eternal Life while he was most seriously ill and disabled in the exercise of his highest func­tions ... and teaching us some of his most profound lessons. May God bless you all through Our Lady. 
David Spellman Notre Dame parent Logansporr, Ind. Nov. 29 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, November 30, 2006 

Who decides what Americans have a right to see? 
The cancellation of Simpson's book might lead down a slippery slope 
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Editor 
In our modern-day world it is next to impossible to escape from the influence and impact of the media world. With the nearly constant con­nection to media outlets -from tele­visions, to computers, to books and newspapers -the American public is constantly absorbing information of all kinds. 
Although not everything that pass­es from the media to the public is of interest to everyone, the beauty of having such a diversity of options is that the public can choose what they want to pay attention to and ignore the rest. 
In the middle of November, ReganBooks and the FOX television network announced that they were, respectively, publishing a book writ­ten by and airing an interview with the notorious O.J. Simpson. The two­part interview was between Simpson and his publisher, Judith Regan, about his book entitled "If I Did It." On November 20 -just ten days before the book was scheduled to hit the shelves -News Corp. (who owns both HarperCollins/ReganBooks and FOX) announced that it was cancel­ing both the book and television interview. 
Aside from being a Heisman winner at USC, an NFL Hall-of-Farner with the Buffalo Bills and the San Francisco 49ers and an actor in such 

On Oct. 3, 1995 the jury returned a verdict of "not guilty" in front of an audience of 150 million American television viewers. There was never a moment when the American media public was not involved -or at the very least interested -in the Simpson case. 
Only a few weeks ago ReganBooks announced that they were publishing a 240­page book written by is appropriate or not in the media. Although there were protesters to "If I Did It," there were also supporters. 
The spokesperson for Borders, Inc., Ann Binkley, stated that the book would be carried at Borders and Waldenbooks stores because of their belief that "it is the right of cus­tomers to decide what they read and what to buy." Borders, Inc. also stat­ed that they were donating all of the proceeds from sales of "If I Did It" to charity. 
What some people deem offensive, others will enjoy while being offend­ed by yet other material. There are consistently cases of outcry over everything from "South Park" to "Harry Potter" to "The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn"-but where is the line that decides when it is allow­able for material to be pulled from the hands of the public? 
In the case of "If I Did It" it was the squeaky wheel that got the oil. 
While some are rejoicing over this questionable victory, it leaves others worrying about the precedent that this sets. The Simpson trial was important enough in the eyes of the public to be called "The Trial of Century." 
Dozens of books have been pub­lished about the case -without the same cries of exploitation. This was 
not even OJ's first book. In 
1995, Simpson published 

copies of the book have How soon until "I Want to Tell You" where since shown up on he responds to letters and
"The Catcher in the
eBay and changed questions about his life,
Rye, and "Harry 
hands, with bids the trial and his declared reaching upwards of a Potter, are recalled innocence in the murders. million dollars. That book has not been
from shelves and 
Although books have pulled off the shelves to be been recalled for destroyed? destroyed. 
instances of plagia­rism, this is a rare instance where a book has been pulled over its content. The Associated Press called the book's cancellation "an astonishing end to a story like no other," recognizing that a publisher withdrawing a book for its content "is virtually unheard of." 
Both the Brown and Goldman fami­lies were vO"cal about their opposi­tion to both the television interview and book, appearing on several news shows and giving several interviews. 
The Goldman family started an online petition at dontpayoj .com, and garnered 58,395 signatures. They argued that this move by Simpson was nothing but exploitation and was allowing him to profit from the mur­ders of their family members. 
The question resulting from this overall debacle is who decides what 
But now the line has 
been drawn. Is it about 

the exploitation of the deaths of innocent people? Then how soon until books, or movies, about 9/11 are pulled? Is it about appropri­ateness and offensiveness? How soon until "The Catcher in the Rye" and "Harry Potter" are recalled from shelves and destroyed? Or public book burnings of "Mein Kampf?" 
Where does the line stop? 
Simpson's book might be shelved indefinitely, but the American people are left to struggle with the ramifica­tions of, what is ultimately, his cen­sorship. 
Contact Erin McGinn at 
emcginn@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
The question 
Hollywood hits as "The Simpson called "If I Did Towering Inferno" and resulting from this It," where Simpson "The Naked Gun," hypothetically
overall debacle is 
Simpson is arguably most describes in the sec­
who decides what 
famous for being the cen­ond-half of the book ter of "The Trial of the is appropriate or how he would have Century" where he was committed the murders
not in the media. 
accused of committing the murders of his ex-wife Nicole Brown and her friend Ron Goldman. Anyone older than a toddler during the summer of 1994 will remember watching the footage of the slow-speed white Bronco chase across the California Interstate on almost every major net­work -NBC even interrupted its coverage of the 1994 NBA Finals in order to air the pursuit. 
From beginning to end, Simpson's criminal courtroom trial was a com­plete media frenzy. Every single minute of the trial aired on Court TV -there were 133 days of televised testimony, making it the most public criminal trial to date. 
of Brown and Goldman 
if he had been guilty of 
the crime. 

His publisher, Judith Regan, told the Associated Press that she consid­ered the book his confession to the crime. 
The book was to be preceded by a two-part interview between Simpson and Regan (Barbara Walters initially asked for the interview, but then backed out of the project) that was going to air on the FOX network on Nov. 27 and 29. 
Just over a week before both the interview and the book were to go public, News Corp. issued a state­ment that both had been cancelled due to criticism over the releases. 
HarperCollins, of which ReganBooks is a division, announced that all copies of "If I Did It" that had been shipped to stores were being recalled and that every copy of the book is to be destroyed. 
However, several 

' .
. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, November 30, 2006 
page 11 
releases -arguably even beating out such By ERIN McGINN 
well-known powerhouses as "Call of Duty." Assistant Scene Editor 
"Gears" spans a 36-hour period chroni­cling the exploits of soldiers from the "Gears of War," a new third-person Coalition of Ordered Governments in their shooter for the Xbox 360 produced by Epic desperate fight against the Locust. The Games, is Microsoft's flagship title for the game begins with a quick animation holiday season. Set to compete with the detailing the destruction of Sera's civiliza­release of two hotly-anticipated gaming tion on Emergence Day by the Locust. The consoles -Sony's PlayStation 3 and Locust are a gruesome, ferocious enemy Nintendo's Wii -"Gears of War" debuts often discharging from the depths of Sera with high expectations. without warning to rampage and generally "Gears" is primed to be the game that cause havoc. Their motives are unknoWI:t the Xbox 360 will be known for, much like and never truly explained to any satisfac­how "Halo" provided the heart for the tory degree, leaving the Locust in the original Xbox. realm of a generic, destructive, horde 
Set in a post-apocalyptic universe on the creature. planet of Sera, "Gears" provides a com­The game is split into a number of chap­pelling atmosphere of beautiful desolation. ters, each composed of missions that range The character models, environments and from extremely short to quite long. During weapons are detailed with dirt, grime and the soldier's fight of survival against the debris that easily draws players into what Locust hordes, the player is armed with a is arguably the prettiest game on the Xbox truly brutal array of weapons that only 360 to date. Sera and its destroyed civiliza­helps underpin the game's juxtaposition of tion are brought to life through intricate elegance and devastation. Enemies are environments ranging from massive, immolated, sundered and maimed in a destroyed cityscapes to underground cav­most visceral fashion producing a satisfy­erns. Sera's ambi­ing feeling of retribution. ence is most spec­Weapons such as the
Gears of War 
tacular during the Hammer of Dawn will night scenes. The 
leave avid garners grinning darkness adds sev­from ear to ear. Although eral interesting members of the Locust are twists to the game­for the most part a genericConsole: Xbox 360play. foe, they do provide an
Genre: Third-person shooter 
The plot is that of excellent source of fodder
Developer: Epic Games 

typical first-person for the uniquely designed shooter fair, but the weapons. game's atmosphere easily makes up for The soundtrack and effects will satisfy the lack of storytelling. In fact, the game's any audiophile, and those lucky garners atmosphere sets a new standard for future with 5.1 surround sound will be in for a 
Photo courtesy of I 

"Gears of War," one of Xbox 360's newest games, takes the genre of the third­person shooter to new heights with the mission difficulty and graphics quality. 
treat. The music changes pace to match The game requires a high level of finesse the action on screen. Each weapon pro­and planning, especially once the higher duces an exhilaratingly deep response. levels of difficulty are unlocked. In fact, the The voice acting for the characters is done higher levels of difficulty are near impossi­well, although the dialogue leaves much to ble without the help of a fellow gamer in be desired. Each line of absurdity is deliv­co-op mode. "Gears" provides the best co­ered in a spectacular and grandiose man­op experience available on the Xbox 360 ner, often eliciting a good chuckle. and is playable either in split screen or 
The control scheme adopted by "Gears" through Xbox Live. is non-standard and takes a little while to "Gears" is a guaranteed pleaser for both learn. But with a little patience, the con­the avid and casual gamer, and easily the trols they feel extraordinarily natural. The Xbox 360's strongest argument to put buttons are all context-sensitive and pro­them at the head of the console battle. vide a rather large repertoire of mobility options. "Gears" utilizes a cover system Contact Erin McGinn at that is fairly reminiscent of "Killswitch." emcginn@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 
Oasis returns with a strong compilation album 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
A decade after their zenith in popularity, it's easy to remember Oasis for the things that happened -the infighting, a raw arrogance, the rotating supporting cast ­and forget that, for a few years, it truly may have been among the great bands in the world. 
The two-disc compilation "Stop the Clocks" collects 18 tracks from all six Oasis albums (with the notable exception of 1997's "Be Here Now") released over the course of their decade-long career, demon­strating just how great-and surprisingly consistent -Oasis really was. 
Oasis was essentially one half of the major Brit Pop equation, competing against Blur for popular supremacy. Where Blur was a pop band whose influ­ences came from a variety of sources, Oasis was a rock band, with crunchy gui-

Recommended tracks: 'Wondenvall,"Live Best of Blur," "Stop the 
Clocks" mixes in B-sides Forever,"Talk Tonight' and 'Acquiesce' and fan favorites along­
._________________________, side the bit hits, which 
tars, simple hooks and sneered vocals. They also had a pretty good singer in Liam Gallagher, who improved with each pass­ing album and a pretty good songwriter in his older brother Noel, who penned some of the biggest hits of the 1990s. 
Oasis was accused of being a Beatles knockoff, and occasionally of being out­right thieves, which is aurally evident in some of their best-known songs. The open­ing piano of "Don't Look Back in Anger" does evoke Lennon's "Imagine." But Oasis has a signature sound that manages to squeeze them past those pilferings. 
It's easy to harp on what's missing from a compilation, and there's plenty missing from "Stop the Clocks," most notably any­thing from "Be Here Now." That album spawned its share of hits ("D'Yer Know What I Mean?," "Stand By Me," "Don't Go Away"), but hindsight proved it to be an insufficient follow-up to "What's the Story," which may account for its com­plete absence. 
And while fa,ns might harp that a popular favorite or two is missing (their volatile cover of The Beatles' "I Am the Walrus" would've been welcome), "Stop the Clocks" gets it mostly right. 
Much like Blur's own compilation, 2000's "The means that, yes, "Wonderwall" and "Live Forever" are here. But so are lesser­known tracks like "Talk Tonight" and "Acquiesce." All this adds up to make "Stop the Clocks" sound fresher and also serves to strengthen the ubiquitous songs, since they're given a different context. 

And really, the music is great. Aside from all the songs already mentioned, there's a wealth of great material here, with five tracks each from "Definitely Maybe" and "Morning Glory," and a total of four songs from Oasis' last two albums, though this makes sense since the zenith of the band's career was during that time. 
"Stop the Clocks" makes a great compi­lation for newcomers and casual fans, but it won't be of much use to longtime devo­tees, who likely have most of the material already. 
For anyone else whose only exposure to Oasis is through "Wonder\\; all," however, "Stop the Clocks" serves as a great intro­duction to one of the brightest bands of the 1990s. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 30, 2006 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Ducks take down Hoyas; Colonials scare Panthers 
No. 23 Georgetown loses second game ofnon-conference schedule 
Associated Press 
Aaron Brooks scored 15 points, and Oregon made up for poor shooting with hustle and rebounding to improve to 6-0 with a 57-50 upset of No. 18 Georgetown on Wednesday night. 
Oregon was better than Georgetown in nearly every facet of the game, but they couldn't hit their shots until midway through the second half. The Ducks never had any­thing close to a comfortable lead until a 10-3 run gave them a 53­44lead with 1:36 to play. 
Bryce Taylor scored nine of his 14 points in the second half for the Ducks, who are 6-0 for the first time since the 2002-03 season. The victory was also the first ever for Oregon on the road against a ranked team in the Eastern time zone. They had previously been 0-7 on such trips. 
Oregon held the rebounding edge over Georgetown until late in the game and neutralized the fearsome frontcourt of Jeff Green and Roy Hibbert, who went scoreless in the first half and combined for only nine points on 4-for-11 shooting. Green, considered a potential Big East player of the year at the start of the season, had yet another very quiet game: 2-for-4 from the field with five points and three turnovers before foul­ing out in the fmal minute. 
Jonathan Wallace was the lone star for the Hoyas, scoring 17 points on 8-for-13 shooting. The rest of the team was a com­bined 14-for-36, and the entire team went 1-for-9 from 3-point range. The Hoyas (4-2) were a preseason Top 10 team, but they've now lost twice at home to unranked opponents, and their next game is at No. 11 Duke. 
Pittsburgh 67, Robert Morris 53 
Aaron Gray's size and scoring touch inside proved too much for smaller Robert Morris to handle and No. 2 Pittsburgh held off an upset bid by its city rival, over­coming a second-half deficit to rally for a victory Wednesday night. 
The 7-foot Gray, four inches taller than any Robert Morris starter, scored 13 of his 21 points in the second half and had 15 rebounds. The Panthers (7-0) outscored the Colonials 26-11 down the stretch after trailing 42-41 on Derek Coleman's drive to the basket with 13 minutes remaining. 
The Panthers answered Robert Morris' comeback try by going on a 12-2 run finished off by Gray's three-point play. Gray had seven points during the surge, and Ronald Ramon hit a 3-point­er after Robert Morris had closed to 4 7-44. 
Mike Cook added 11 points and Levon Kendall had 10 for Pitt, which improved to 26-0 against Robert Morris and 64-0 against Northeast Conference teams. The Panthers, ranked No. 2 for the seventh time in school histo­ry, are 7-0 for the fifth consecu­tive season. 
Robert Morris, a commuter school based near the city's air­port, hung in despite getting only six points from A.J. Jackson, who was averaging 24 points but made only two of 13 shots. 

Coleman scored 12 points as Robert Morris shot only 37 per­cent (20-of-54) to Pitt's 51 per­cent (27 -of-53). 
LSU 91, McNeese State 57 
Garrett Temple had 17 points and Tasmin Miteh<~ll scored 14 of his 16 in the second half, leading No. 10 LSU to a win over McNeese State on Wednesday night. 
Temple shot 7 -of-12 from the field and hit three 3-pointers for the Tigers (3-1 ). Glen Davis made only three field goals but hit nine free throws to finish with 15 points. Heserve guard Ben Voogd scored a career-high 12 points, and Darnell Lazare added 11. 
Aldryan Wardell paced McNeese State (2-5) with a sea­son-high 16 points. John Ford, who made three 3-pointers in the first half, had 13. 
Jarvis Bradley, the Cowboys' leading scorer, was held to six points -eight below his season average. 
The Tigers used a couple of scoring flurries in the first 10 minutes to take control. 
LSU ran off eight straight points to take a 10-2 lead four minutes into the first half. A cou­ple of minutes later, the Tigers scored 12 consecutive points to go ahead 23-6. Alex Farrer and Temple made 3-pointers during that stretch. 
Butler 60, Valparaiso 4 7 
Mike Green scored 16 points and A.J. Graves added 13 to help No. 19 Butler, playing with its highest ranking in 57 years, beat Valparaiso on Wednesday night. 
Green scored nine straight points, highlighted by a 3-point­er that bounced high off the back rim and then in, during a decisive 14-1 run late in the first half that stretched Butler's lead from 16-14 to 30-15. Valparaiso (3-3) never got closer than 11 after that. 
Valparaiso, which shot 8-of-1 0 from 3-point range in the second half to give eighth-ranked Marquette a scare during a 65­62 loss on Monday, couldn't get its outside game going against Butler (8-0). The Crusaders were 3-of-17 from 3-point range. They also were 8-of-19 from the free­throw line. 
Brandon McPherson led Valparaiso with 14 points and Jarryd Loyd had 10. 
Butler, which shot below 40 percent for six straight games, shot 42.5 percent against the Crusaders. The Bulldogs also were 20-of-26 from the free­throw line. Butler is off to its best start since opening the 2002-03 season with 10 straight victories. 


Purdue 61, VIrginia 59 

Tarrance Crump drove to the basket and hit a floater with 1 second remaining, giving Purdue a victory over No. 25 Virginia in the ACC-Big Ten Challenge on Wednesday night. 
The Boilermakers (5-1) blew a nine-point lead midway through the second half and fell behind by five before consecutive 3­pointers by Marcus Green, Chris Lutz and David Teague. The Cavaliers (4-1) tied the game for the final time at 59 on two free throws by Sean Singletary with 29 seconds left. 
After a Purdue timeout, Carl Landry held the ball away from the basket until about 7 seconds remained, then got the ball to Crump, who drove in and scored from the right side of the lane. Virginia had one more chance, but turned the ball over on the inbounds pass. 
Landry led the Boilermakers with 19 points. Teague added 14 points and five assists. 
Virginia was paced by 
Singletary with 21 points and Mamadi Diane with 17. 
Virginia had averaged almost 91 points in its first four games, but poor shooting and turnovers prevented the Cavaliers from exploiting Purdue's sloppy play early in the game. 
Nevada 86 Louisiana-Lafayette 74 

Marcelus Kemp and Nick Fazekas combined for 40 points and 24th~ranked Nevada broke open a close game midway through the second half to take a win over Louisiana-Lafayette on Wednesday night. 
Kemp had 19 points, including two baskets in a 50-second peri­od, to begin a 16-2 run for the Wolf Pack (6-0). Fazekas had two baskets during that stretch, including a three-point play with 
8:08 left that gave Nevada a 69­56lead. Fazekas finished with 21 points on 8-of-12 shooting. 
JaVale McGee's layup in transi­tion gave the Wolf Pack a 71-56 lead with 7:40 left and Nevada led by double figures for all but 22 seconds the rest of the way. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Adult cat from Angela Blvd. Dark gray with white "bib". Green eyes, 10 lb. neutered male. Kids miss him. 574-232-1584. 
FoR SALE 
Need diving coach part time 2-3 afternoons/wk. Girls & boys teams. Call Washington High School Athletic Dept. 574-283-7206. 
FoR SALE 
1991 Audi Model 80. 4-dr. excellent condition. $2,000. Call561-596­0194. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, ott-cam­pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com 
3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals. Contact Gary 574-993-2208. 
BEST HOUSES & CHEAPEST RENT offered by ND GRADs. Available 07-08 or NOW. Call312­545-5123. 
One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area available Spring semester. Laundry & security. $575/mo. Call574-283-0325. 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Would you like to be an Observer comic artist? If so, please e-mail editor in chief Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu or call him at 574-631-4542. The application process will include preparing 3-5 sample comics. 
Dear Abby, I have a problem. My coworker is very demeaning to my hero. What should I do? -Siopey Dear Slopey, Rely on statistics over hunches. -Abby 
She's barely moving now Warming in the sun Warming in the sun I left her colder now Than almost anyone Warming in the sun Warming in the sun And the light she finds is golden And I can't take my eyes away But I'm no longer welcome And this is-Not my place to stay Cigarettes fill my lungs One by one by one And I wish spring would come Warming in the sun 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 30, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's W!RE SERVICES page 13 
NCAA Men's Basketball 
APPoll ..-.-.:n~:i{::·  
team  terord  points  
1  UCLA  4~0  1727  
2  Pittsburgh  6"0  1666  
3  Ohloo Stale  6·0.  1649  
4  Florida  6~1  1576  
5  Kansas  5c1  1490  
6  Alabama  5·0  1404  
7  North Carolina  4c1  1389.  
8  Marquette  6·0  1240  
9  TexasA&M  5-0  1213  
10  LSU  2-1  985  
11  Duke  5c1  946  
12  Wisconsin  5-1  807  
13  Washington  5·0  731  
14  Memphis  3-1  685  
15  Syracuse  6-0  662  
16  Arizona  3-1  652  
17  Wichita State  4-0  635  
18  Georgetown  3-1  628  
19  Buller  1-0  572  
20  Connecticut  5-0  516  
21  Georgia Tech  5-1  511  
22  Gonzaga  6-1  421  
23  Maryland  1-0  376  
24  Nevada  5-0  349  
25  Virginia  4-0  91  

NCAA Women's Baketball AP Poll * 
team 
1 
2 
3 3 5 6 7 
8 Georgia 9 Purdue 10 Texas 11 LSU 12 Vartderbilt 
13 Baylor 14 Arizona State 15 Stanford 16 California 17 DePaul 18 Rutgers 19 LouisviUe 20 Michigan Slate 21 George Washington 22 Texas 23 BYU 24 Kentucky 25 Texas Tech 
1 
2 3 
4 
5 6 7 8 9 


around the dial 
NBA 
Detroit at Miami 
8 p.m., TNT 
Utah at Los Angeles Lakers 
10:30 p.m, TNT 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Arkansas at Missouri 
9 p.m., ESPN 2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD ­Losing isn't the only thing con­tagious on the New York Giants these days. 
Blowups are just as popular, and Pro Bowl defensive end Michael Strahan on Wednesday joined the ranks of Jeremy Shockey and Tiki Barber in mouthing off in what is quickly becoming a season of frustration for the team. 
Unlike Shockey and Barber, who criticized coach Tom Coughlin and his staff after losses this season, Strahan did his best to intimidate an ESPN reporter who attempted to question him about comments he made on radio Monday about receiver Plaxico Burress quitting on plays. 
Strahan, who has been side­lined the last three weeks with a foot injury, called out Kelly Naqi, ESPN's New York-based reporter, as she stood behind about three dozen members of the media trying to question him. 
"Come here, I want to see your face when you ask this question, the way you are going to ask it," Strahan said. "I know you are going to ask it in a way there is more division and more of a negative way than it was, so come here, I want to see your face, please." 
Strahan then asked the media to clear a path so he could see Naqi. 
"You're a responsible jour­nalist, look me in the eye and ask this question the way you want to ask it," said Strahan, who only came into the locker room after being told by the public relations sta.ff that Naqi was questioning his team­mates about his comments. "Look a man in the eye before you try to kill him or make up something." 
Naqi then asked Strahan whether he had spoken with Burress since his comments, which came before the Giants held a players' only meeting Monday after a heart-break­ing 24-21 loss to Tenriessee. The setback was New York's third in a row, and it came in a game in which it blew a 21-0 fourth-quarter lead. 
The Tennessee comeback started after Burress gave up on a deep fourth-quarter pass by Eli Manning and Adam "Pacman" Jones intercepted. 
"It's a shame," Strahan said on the radio Monday. "You can't give up. You can't quit, because you're not quitting on yourself, you're quitting on everybody. I don't quite under­stand what his lack of motiva­tion is in those types of situa­tions. But I'm going to try to see what it is, and if I can talk to him about it. He's too good for that." 
Strahan got snippy after Naqi questioned him about talking to Burress. 
IN BRIEF 

Hoops coach finally gets new facility for team after court fight 
MONTGOMERY -An Alabama high school basketball coach who was fired when he complained that his girls' basketball team wasn't treated as well as the boys' team-and won a pivotal Supreme Court ruling ­has reached a settlement that includes a school board promise of equal facilities. 
"My aim all along was to ensure fair treatment for Birmingham female athletes and this agreement, at long last, should guarantee that happens," said Roderick Jackson. 
Under the settlement reached Tuesday night with the Birmingham Board of Education, Jackson will receive $50,000, his lawyers will receive $340,000, and the board will take all necessary steps to provide female athletes with facilities compa­rable to those used by male athletes. Jackson had complained in part that his players had to practice in a gym built in 1908 rather than a new one used by boys. 
Jackson fined $25,000 for criticizing officials 
NEW YORK-Phil Jackson was fined $25,000 by the NBA on Wednesday for criticizing referees Friday night after the Lakers' 114­108 loss to Utah. 
Jackson was quoted in several newspapers about the way the offi­cials -Derrick Stafford, Derek Richardson and Leroy Richardson -handled second-year center Andrew Bynum. 
In the second quarter, Bynum was called for traveling and moments later he was whistled for a foul when he thought he drew a charge against Matt Harpring. The 19-year-old Bynum approached the referees, but teammate Kobe Bryant intervened. 
"The big key with Drew is they wouldn't let him play," Jackson said following the game. 
Jackson called the matchup a "roughhouse game" and it was 
"one of those nights in Utah that you know you're going to get." 
"The league throws out some ref­eree corps that you're dubious about to start with and, you know, the game ends up to be like that," 
he said.  
Each  team  was  called for  26  
fouls.  
Titans hire Indiana native  as  
new team doctor  

KNOXVILLE -Tennessee has hired a former assistant team physician from the Indianapolis Colts and Purdue to be the team doctor, school officials announced. 
Dr. Chris Klenck, 35, has complet­ed a primary care sports medicine fellowship at Indiana University Medical Center. He worked for the Colts during preseason training camps and has been a high school team doctor in Indiana. 
Klenck, a native of Evansville, Ind., replaces Dr. Val Gene Iven, who served for 14 years as the head doctor. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2006 
ONE FEE FITS ALL MORTGAGES. 
Short or tall. Big or small. Whatever the size ofyour home, the closing costs are the same. 
For a limited time only, you'll pay just $799 in closing costs! 
Let us help you into the home ofyour dreams. Contact us today. 
Stop in at any of our 12locations 

1!4.. NOTRE DAME
or visit us online. 

~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION
574/239-6611 • www.ndfcu.org 


NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 
MASTER OF SCIENCE IN EDUCATION PROGRAM 
Ranked #10, Best Graduate Schools ofEducation, 
U.S. News and World Report 
One year program option in 
• Elementary Teaching • Secondary Teaching • • Advanced Teaching • • Higher Education Administration and Policy • 
Early Admission Deadline Fall 2007 January 5, 2007 
Monthly Information Sessions and Thursday Morning Drop-Ins Available 
Call or Email with questions: (847) 467-1458 
!!!.~.~dpt:ag(if!.n?.ai.ls.(?.Sf!,U!!.Et.!n\:t.~ste.!:n..P~lt! 
Visit our website at 
www.sesp.northwestern.edu/msed 

NFL 

Ravens can earn spot in playoffs vvith win 

9-2 Baltimore takes on Cincinnati Thursday 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Marvin Lewis won't compare Baltimore's cur­rent defense to the record-set­ting one that helped the Ravens win the Super Bowl six years ago. 
"That's a long time ago," said Lewis, who was their defensive coordinator in 2000. "I don't even remember that. They're this year's version of the Baltimore Ravens." 
This version is looking like a champion, too. 
With a victory over Lewis' Cincinnati Bengals on Thursday night, the Ravens (9-2) would become the first team to clinch a division champi­

onship this season. "/think we're career, he has A victory in put up passer
better than 
Cincinnati would ratings above
them."
snatch the AFC 120 for three North title away games in a row. from the Bengals T.J. Houshmandzadeh Studying film of (6-5) and put the that game in
Cincinnati receiver 
Ravens on course for greater things. 
"There's some­thing much more that we're shooting for, other than just win­ning the division," safety Ed Reed said. 
First, they'd like to put the mouthy Bengals in their place. 
Some Ravens are miffed by the way T.J. Houshmandzadeh talked down to them the first time they met this season. The Havens won 26-20 on Nov. 5, but lloushmandzadeh wasn't about to give them any credit after­ward. 
"Deep down, we know we're better than Baltimore and they know it," Houshmandzadeh said. "We've got better players than they do." 
Houshmandzadeh isn't backing down. 
"I think we're better than them," he said Tuesday. "We'll lind out." 
Sure will. 
The Havens know their three­game lead on the Bengals -and the chance to clinch a title on their field -speak for them­selves. Heed chortled when 1-Ioushmandzadeh 's comments were brought up. 
"Keep your mouth shut, man," Heed said. "Play football. I heard it. It is what it is. The game speaks for itself. If you think you're a better team, then come out and let's play football, man." 
The Havens are used to hear­ing good-natured trash talk from Bengals receiver Chad Johnson, but Iloushmandzadeh's slight struck a nerve. 
"He must not have played in the game that we were playing in," linebacker Terrell Suggs said. "Anybody could have lined up across from us that day and we had their number. It's evident on the film. If he feels passionate about it, then go out there and prove it this time." 
That jarring loss in Baltimore became a turning point for Cincinnati. The offense finally got on a roll, with Carson Palmer throwing for nine touchdowns in the last three games. For the first time in his 
Baltimore made 
him cringe this 
week. 
"When I say it hurts, I mean it literally hurts watching what we did against them the last time," said Palmer, who was only 12-of­26 with two interceptions in the loss. "We didn't play well at all. I feel we've come a long way and made a lot of progress offensive­ly. They'll be seeing a different unit, a unit they've seen in years past but not in this past game." 
There was a confidence in Cincinnati's locker room this week, a sense that all was well again. The Bengals knew that a victory over Baltimore would leave them in good shape for the playoffs -they're currently one game out in the wild-card stand­ings. 
They also knew there was no margin for error. 
"We know what's at stake," Houshmandzadeh said. "We can't afford to stumble and lose another game." 
The Ravens haven't lost since that win over Cincinnati, stretch­ing their winning streak to five games while taking control of the division. Baltimore played its best game of the season last Sunday, a 27-0 victory over the Pittsburgh Steelers. 

Thursday, November 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
AFC South in Colts' grasp 
Indianapolis can win division with victory over 4-4 Tennessee Sunday 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts know that on Sunday they could clinch their fourth straight AFC South title and lock up a playoff spot with four weeks left in the regular season. 
Their memory of a 14-13 home victory over Tennessee in Week 5, however, leaves them expecting a challenge in Sunday's road rematch _with the 

ND SWIMMING 

Woinen get ready for 
.:..
key U.S. Open meet 
Titans -a team the Colts believe has been on the rise in recent games. 
The Titans (4-7) have posted a 4-2 record since that loss to the Colts, amid the quick matura­tion of rookie quarterback Vince Young and the strong play of running back Travis Henry. 
Young is 4-4 as a starter since taking over the Titans' offense in a 45-14 loss to Dallas on Oct. 
1. He gave the Colts defense plenty of troubles when he made his second NFL start at 
the RCA Dome last month. 
Although he passed for a mea­
ger 63 yards, hitting on 1 0-of-21 
passes, he ran for 43 yards in 
four carries, including a 19-yard 
touchdown. The Colts failed to 
record a sack against the elu­
sive Young. 
Henry, meanwhile, has been 
on a tear of late and has a team­
leading 7 56 yards this season. 
He ran for 123 yards in just 19 
carries against the Colts, whose 
run defense has been a weak 
point all season. 
"They're just playing well. 
They're making a lot of plays," 
Colts quarterback Peyton 
Manning said Wednesday. "We 
played them early on and now 
those guys are more comfort­
able in the system, so you just 
see them communicating and 
making a lot of plays right now." The Colts (10-1) can clinch the division with a win on Sunday coupled with a Jacksonville loss _to Miami or a tie by either the 
Colts or the Jaguars. The Colts 
are 3-0 in the division after win­
ning home games against all 
their AFC South rivals in the 
season's first five weeks. 
They travel to Jacksonville 
next weekend and then play at 
Houston on Dec. 24. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said 
has been particularly impressed 
with the development of Young, 
the Titans' first-round draft 
choice last spring. 
Olympic competitors await Irish at Purdue 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
It has been 11 days since No. 20 Notre Dame's last meet, but the Irish must make sure they show no signs of rust at the 
U.S. Open, which begins this Thursday in West Lafayette, Ind. at the Boilermaker Aquatic Center. 
The three-day, six-session event will run from Thursday through Saturday with the preliminary rounds in the morning and the finals at night on each day. The tourna­ment boasts an impressive field filled with both quality and depth. 
Combining both the men and the women who will partici­pate in the meet, there will be almost 1 ,000 swimmers taking to the pool this weekend. The field also will include multiple Olympic athletes, including American record holders Katie Hoff of USA Swimming, Amanda Weir and Kaitlin Sandeno of USA Swimming and Southern California. 
Despite the stiff competition that awaits, Notre Dame has plenty of reason to be confi­dent heading into this week-end's meet. The Irish have won all three of their dual meets this season, comfortably defeating Purdue, Michigan State and Pittsburgh. 

In its latest event, Notre Dame rallied for a first-place finish in the 11-team Minnesota Invitational. The Irish won the Minnesota Invitational with a total of 889 points, enough to edge second­place Tennessee by a margin of 83 points. Notre Dame was led by senior Katie Carroll, who tallied one first-place fin­ish and three second-place fin­ishes over the course of the three-day meet. 
Only the Notre Dame swim­mers will be participating in the U.S. Open. The Irish divers will travel to Columbus this weekend to take part in the Ohio State Invitational, which begins on Friday. 
While most women will be in West Lafayette, the Irish men will be fully dedicated in Columbus. 
The Irish will be one of 13 teams competing in the event hosted by the No. 12 Buckeyes. Buckeyes diver Kellen Harkness leads the squad and earned Big Ten diver of the week honors this week. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 30, 2006 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Old foes to renew rivalry 
Oklahoma and Nebraska will face each otherfor Big 12 championship 
Associated Press 
NORMAN -With Barry 

Switzer on one side and Tom 
Osborne on the other, no rivalry 
was bigger th;w Oklahoma­
Nebraska. 
When the Sooners and 

Cornhuskers collided, the 
impact could be felt throughout 
all of college football. Between 
1971 and 1988, the teams met 
17 times when both were in the 
top 11, including 15 times with 
both in the top 10. Their 1971 
meeting as No. 1 vs. No. 2 went 
down as "The Game of the 
Century." 
Former Sooners quarterback 

Cale Gundy, now an assistant 
coach with Oklahoma, remem­
bers watching some of those 
classic matchups. The suspense 
was unbearable. 
''I'd run outside because I 

don't want to see the play on 
TV. I'd come back inside and 
figure it out or my mom sticks 
her head out and tells me what 
happened," Gundy said. 
The rivalry has lost its luster 

in recent years, but on 
Saturday at the Big 12 title 
game in Kansas City, Mo., 
Oklahoma and Nebraska will 
be playing for a championship 
again-for the first time in 18 
years. 
"It's a big-time game regard­less of who we're playing," Nebraska linebacker Stewart ·Bradley said. "But when you put Oklahoma and Nebraska in the game with all the tradition, 
it makes it that much bigger." 
Chuck Fairbanks was coach­

ing Oklahoma and Bob Devaney 
was at Nebraska in 1971, when 
Johnny Rodgers led the top-ranked Cornhuskers to a 35-31 victory over the second-ranked Sooners. 

In 1972, Osborne took over for Devaney and a year later Switzer replaced Fairbanks. For the next 15 years, the Big Eight was the Big Two with the Sooners and Cornhuskers fight­ing for supremacy. 
"It wasn't just a game, it was the good guys against the bad guys. Good against evil. Tom Osborne against Barry Switzer," said Bill Barnett, a defensive tackle on Nebraska's 1978 team that upset top­ranked Oklahoma 17-14. "In our eyes, Tom was the good guy and Barry was the bad guy, but Barry always figured out a way to get the best of us." 

Switzer won his first six against the 'Huskers, leading up to that 1978 game. 
"The games usually went right down to the final minutes, but 'Sooner Magic' was out there waiting to show its ugly face," Barnett said. "So when we finally beat them in 1978 it was like toppling an empire." 
Nebraska or Oklahoma won the Big Eight title outright or had a piece of_ it every year from 1962 to 1988. 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students (Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800; or Fr. Dick Warner, CSC, at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center (Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@.nd.edu 
Visit our web site at: 
http://www.corecouncil.nd .edu/ 
NFL 

Hohngren confounded by injury speculation 
Hasselbeck: Hand not much of a problem 
Associated Press 
KIRKLAND Matt Hasselbeck has a bruised hand, perhaps even a broken finger. 
But the standard for Seahawks fractures, infections and hospitalizations has been set ridiculously high during Seattle's season ·of attrition. So a Pro Bowl quarterback's man­gled fingers on his non-throw­ing hand that has him listed as probable !'or Sunday night's game at Denver? 
Big whoop. 
"Like my dad to taking snaps Thursday. 
When pressed on the injury, Holmgren said he thinks "there's probably a little some­thing that's broken" in Hasselbeck's hand. 
Holmgren said Hasselbeck's three interceptions and lost fumble that Green Bay returned for a touchdown -all before halftime -had nothing to do with the injury. The coach said rust from Hasselbeck's monthlong layoff caused two uncharacteristic misreads of defenders and stare-downs of intended receivers. And he dis­missed Hasselbeck's third inter­ception, which deflected off the facemask of Packers defensive 

said, 'It's your left lineman Ryan
"So in an effort to 
hand. Suck it Pickett, as
'break the big one' 
up,"' Hasselbeck "unlucky." said Wednesday, I am going on "He played a re fe rri ng to pretty good game
record saying this 
rugged former -except for four
is not a big deal. 
NFL tight end plays," Holmgren Don Hasselbeck. OK? Golly sakes. " said. "It's just Coach Mike good to have your Holmgren said leader back." 
Mike Holmgren
that his quarter­The leader of
Seahawks coach 
back is "fine," will start Sunday and should have no limitations. Holmgren then playfully marveled at breath­less reports over Hasselbeck's minor injury that began circu­lating Seattle late Tuesday. 
"Goodness gracious," Holmgren said. "I mean, I'd be the last one to be critical of these Watergate-type investiga­tive reporters, because I think that was a very important time in our history. It was important that story came out. 
"THIS, however, is not one of those situations.... So in an effort to 'break the big one,' I am going on record saying this is not that big a deal. OK? 
"Golly sakes." 
Hasselbeck had four turnovers but also threw three touchdown passes in his first game Seattle's offensive 
line, Pro Bowl 
center Robbie Tobeck, will not be back to play the Broncos. Holmgren said that although Tobeck is out of the hospital after spending his Thanksgiving weekend there getting intravenous antibiotics for an abscess on his hip, he won't get blood tests to see if the infection has dissipated until Monday. So Spencer, Seattle's 2005 first-round draft choice, will remain the starting center indefinitely. 
The leading Seahawks receiv­er from last season, Bobby Engram, won't be back Sunday, either. Holmgren said Engram, listed as probable, will miss his eighth consecutive game because medication to slow his accelerated heart rate from a thyroid condition is still fatiguing 

Monday night after him.
"Like my dad said,
missing four Darrell
'It's your left hand. 
weeks with a Jackson, who sprained knee. He Suck it up."' leads the NFL said he injured the with nine touch­top of the palm of down receptions, 
Matt Hasselback
his left hand watched the 
Seahawks quarterback indoor practice
between the index 
and middle fingers sometime during the second quarter of the win against Green Bay. 
As for the knee, Hasselbeck said it was "a little sore." "I hadn't played football in a long time," he said. 
He practiced Wednesday with the same black brace encasing his right knee, a wrap and glove over his left hand and his middle fingers taped together. He received only one direct snap -accidentally, when both he and center Chris Spencer forgot about the injury. 
Hasselbeck said he'll be back but did not par­
ticipate Wednesday. He is listed as probable with a right knee injury. 
Holmgren said starting right tackle Sean Locklear will be a game time decision Sunday because of his high left ankle sprain. He has missed the last five games. 
The Seahawks also placed fullback Josh Parry (foot) on injured reserve and signed tight end Bennie Joppru, a second­round draft choice by Houston in 2003 who has played in one game during four NFL seasons. 

SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 

Thursday, November 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Jones 
continued from page 20 
one of the treasons why chose to go to Notre Dame ­because it had such a great balance of having excellence in both areas." 
In addition to starting at right back for the No. 1 Irish, Jones became the seventh Notre Dame women's soccer player honored with first-team Academic All-American hon­ors. Jones was voted on by College Sports Information Directors of America and was one of only three non-seniors on the 11-member squad. 
"She's just one of those kids I've said all along is just a pil­lar of consistency," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "That's the way she is in her life away from the soccer field, and I think that's the way she is on the soccer field as well. Whenever she puts her mind on a task she's going to get 
"She's just one ofthose
that task done gories. the best that kids1've said all along is "I really did­she can." just a pillar ofconsistency. n't expect it 
Jones, who has earned 17 As and 2 A­minuses in two full years at Notre Dame, has been a critical component of a defense that ranks first in the nation in 
total goals against (8) and goals against average (.317), helping the Irish maintain their No. 1 ranking from the first weeks of the year. Her value on the Irish backline rose after sophomore Big East defensive player of the year Carrie Dew was lost for the season with an injury in Notre Dame's final regular season game and senior defender Christie Shaner missed two NCAA Tournament games while battling meningitis. While Jones appreciates the recent honor, she said, her main priority is continuing the help the defense capture Notre Dame's third national champi­onship. 
"Ultimately it's all about the team," Jones said. "I think a national championship means a lot more to me than any individual academic or athletic awards. I think that's some­thing I'll remember when I'm older and cherish much more in the future." 
Senior midfielder Jen Buczkowski (3.39 GPA in mar­keting) and Shaner (3.49 GPA in design) received second team All-District V honors. Senior defender Kim Lorenzen and sophomore forward Brittany Bock were also nomi­nated. 
Jones isn't the only Irish player who has a chance to earn hardware this year. While Jones earned top honors in the classroom, sophomore forward Kerri Hanks was named Monday as one of three finalists for the prestigious 
M.A.C. Hermann Trophy for the nation's best player. Hanks' 22 goals and 20 assists 
lead the nation in both cate­

That's the way she is in her life away from the soccer field, and I think that's the way she is on the soccer field as well." 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
just because I'm younger," Hanks said. ''I'm a sopho­more, so I did­n't expect it b e c a u s e there's so many other players out there that are great and can 

have every opportunity to be one of the finalists as well." 
The Hermann Trophy likely will be announced Thursday night in Cary, N.C., the day before Notre Dame takes on Florida State in the national semifinal match. 
''I'm not going to be too focused on it right now because one of my goals and the team goals is to get into the finals," Hanks said. "It's an individual award, and it'd be awesome to get an individual award but the team's more important." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

BCS 
continued from page 20 
there has never been an inclination to do that," Slive said. "So, in other words, we don't try. ... We've had rematches in major bowls over the last 20 years -a lot of them." 
Because the Rose Bowl has automatic tie-ins with the conference champions of the 
PAC-1 0 and Big Ten ­and this year USC of the PAC-1 0 and Ohio State of the Big Ten 

· likely will square off in the BCS National Championship game -the Rose Bowl will get the first two selections for 
rematch with Michigan "We have a methodology would dimin­
ish the

for selecting the teams 
appeal and

and ... if the teams are likely hurt 
eligible, the bowls have the television ratings.
right to go ahead and 
But Slive

make those picks that said the would create a rematch.'' search for the BCS' common
Mike Slive 
good would 

BCS coordinator 
take a back seat to Bowl autonomy. 

year of eligibility remaining. Sophomore running backs Darren McFadden of Arkansas and Steve Slaton of West Virginia are the other two finalists. 
Quinn finished the 2006 regular season with 35 pass­ing touchdowns and only five interceptions. He completed 
63.4 percent of his passes for 3,278 yards and a passing efficiency rating of 151.59. He also rushed for two scores. 
. Smith, widely considered the front-runner for the 1-Ieisman Trophy, an award given by the New York Downtown Athletic Club to the nation's most outstanding player, completed 67.0 per­cent of his passes for 2,507 yards, 30 touchdowns and five interceptions. He rushed for 233 yards and one touch­down and had a passing effi­ciency rating of 167.87. 
Brennan led the nation in passing efficiency with a rat­ing of 186.7. He completed an NCAA-best 72.0 percent of his passes for 4,589 yards, 51 touchdowns and nine inter­ceptions. 
Slaton is second in the nation in rushing yards per game with 147.36. He has 1,621 yards and 14 touch­downs on 222 carries, for a 
7.30 yards-per-carry aver­age. 
McFadden, who was injured early in the year, came on strong and finished the regu­lar season with 1,485 yards on 244 rushes (6.09 yards per attempt) and 14 touch­downs. 
McFadden and Arkansas take on Florida Saturday in the SEC title game at the Georgia Dome in Atlanta. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
teams in the eligible top-14 of the BCS rankings -two from the SEC and Wisconsin from the Big Ten -will be pre­vented from attending a BCS bowl due to a rule limiting a conference to two teams in the series. 
That leaves Notre Dame a near-lock for an early selec­tion. And while Notre Dame· hasn't played in a Rose Bowl since Knute Rockne led the Irish over Stanford in 1925 en route to a national title, a 
teams. The Rose Bowl com­mittee likely will select Michigan first, who will have an automatic berth to the BCS with a top-3 finish in the BCS standings. 
After the Rose Bowl picks twice, the Sugar Bowl will pick an opponent for the SEC champion, then the Orange Bowl will choose a team to face the ACC winner and the Fiesta Bowl will pick the final squad to face the Big XII champion. 
Because of Notre Dame's national appeal and the rela­tively weak pool of eligible teams this season, the Irish are nearly a lock to be select­ed for one of the BCS bowls. Boise State will earn an auto­matic berth for its top-12 fin­ish in the BCS, and three 
"We have a methodology for selecting the teams and ... if the teams are eligible, the bowls have the right to go ahead and make those picks that would create a rematch," he said. "I can't speak for my fellow commis­sioners, but there has not been in the past an inclina­tion to make changes." 
Notes: 
+ The Walter Camp Football Foundation named Irish quarterback Brady Quinn one of five finalists for its annual player of the year award. 
Quinn, Ohjo State quarter­back Troy Smith and Hawaii quarterback Colt Brennan are the seniors on the list, though Brennan has a fifth 

nneJ ancy? 
you love needs l1.elp . please call. 
OP, Student Affairs, 1-7819 
"'"'"''-'"'Counseling Center, 1-7336 Services, 1-8286 
munity Resources: 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer At left, Irish guard Kyle McAiarney drives to the lane in Notre Dame's 90-45 win over Winston-Salem State Wednesday at the Joyce Center. Center, Irish guard Colin Falls looks for a passing lane. At right, Irish forward Rob Kurz, who led all scorers with 18 points, elevates over a Rams defender for one of his five field goals. 
Sale01 
continued from page 20 
pleased with his improve­ment and where he is men­tally. 
"There  isn't  a  harder  
worker in  our  basketball  
program."  

As a team, Notre Dame out-rebounded Winston­Salem State 41-19. 
"We knew coming into the game that we had a size advantage," Kurz said. "Our focus was really to get on the glass." 
The Rams, who dropped to 1-9 in their first year in Division I, scored first, but the Irish responded with 10 straight points, including a steal-and-slam by senior guard Russell Carter, to take a commanding early lead. 
Winston-Salem State scored the next four points, but Notre Dame responded 
with 12 points to go up 22-7 and cruised into halftime lead­ing 46-25. 
The Irish kept their foot on the gas in the second half, extend­ing the lead to 30 with 10 minutes left in the game and outscor­87 loss to Notre Dame Notes: Monday, the Irish held the + Each of the Rams uni­Rams to 30.4 percent shoot­forms read "C.E. Gaines" on ing from the field the back nameplate to honor Wednesday, including just 19 former coach Clarence "Big percent in the second half. House" Gaines, who coached 
"We definitely played pret­at Winston-Salem State from ty solid [defense]," Kurz 1946 until 1993 and died in 
said. "We weren't happy with our defen­sive effort Monday night and we concentrat­ed on rotat­ing better and commu­nicating bet­ter on defense in practice." 
Irish for­ward Ryan Ayers played 21 minutes Wednesday, 
"We definitely played pretty solid [defense]. We weren ,t happy with our defensive effort Monday night and we concentrated on rotating better and communicating better on defense in practice. ,, 
Rob Kurz Irish forward 
2005. 
The Rams will wear the special uni­forms all sea­son. 
+ With a free throw in the second half, senior guard Colin Falls became the 45th play­er in Notre Dame history to score 1,000 career points. 
F a I I s 
scoring six 

points, grabbing three rebounds, blocking one shot 
"[Tonight] was good for our confidence. We have to play two really good teams next week, but I think we,re a pretty good team too. ,, 
Rob Kurz Irish forward 
and getting two steals. Brey said he was glad to be able to get Ayers some quality min­utes because he wants the sophomore to be a consistent part of a nine­man rotation this season. 
"We have a rotation, but 

ing the Rams 44-20 after the the ninth guy is the one we're break. trying to figure," Brey said. After Lehigh made 56.9 "We need to find our if we 
percent of its shots in a 93-have nine or not." 
scored 13 points Wednesday, bringing his career total to 1003. 
+ Thirteen players saw action for the Irish, with 11 scoring points. Brey used a nine-man rotation for most of the game and inserted freshmen Joe Harden and Jonathan Peoples with seven minutes to play. Peoples scored seven points while Harden tallied two on the night. 
Walk-ons senior Kieran Piller and freshman Tim Andree entered the game with 1:36 to play, but neither scored. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Rout 
continued from page 20 
now say it lost to a clear NCAA Tournament team. 
Notre Dame has shown an ability to score the ball at will this season (85.8 points per game) and has a rebound margin better than every team in the Big East, includ­ing perennial inside power­houses Connecticut and Pittsburgh. 
Granted, it's early, and the quality of opponent (save Butler) hasn't been close to what the Irish will see in the next week and on their Big East schedule. 
But Notre Dame is doing something so far that it hasn't done in several years -it's dismantling early season opponents. Instead of squeak­ing out wins over IPFW, Columbia and Wofford, the Irish are putting on offensive clinics in games they are expected to win -visible in Wednesday's 90-45 win over Winston-Salem State. 
There is work to be done defensively, but two days after Lehigh torched the Irish with 57 percent shooting (77 per­cent from 3-point range), Notre Dame held the Rams to 30 percent from the floor. 
The Irish will need their best effort on both ends to beat either Maryland or Alabama. The guards are going to have to pressure the ball all night and the for­wards will need to continue dominating the paint. 
And coach Mike Brey is going to need a couple gutsy efforts from the bench. Brey has taken a lot of criticism lately, some of it deserved following his team's inability to win games down the stretch last season, but let's give credit where credit is due. 
Instead of sticking to his guns, he's completely retooled this year's offense, emphasiz­ing team chemistry and ball movement when his squad grew far too willing to let one player control the game for the last three seasons. 
He's done a solid job man­aging his bench -see Luke Zeller, who sat out for the entire second half of Monday's win over Lehigh because the matchups favored Luke Harangody (far more bruising) and Zach Hillesland (far more athletic). 
And, finally, for a coach who has been slammed by Irish fans for being unable to bring forwards along in his system -Rob Kurz looks very improved from last season and Harangody could be an NBA player in four years. 
Beating Maryland or Alabama, or both for that matter, is going to be difficult. Both teams are on fire and each is more athletic than the Irish. 
But a win in either would be a stepping-stone for the Big East season. It would give the team a swagger that only comes from knowing it's capa­ble of winning big games against tough opponents. 
If Notre Dame loses both games, it's still questioning its identity come January. It also continues to carry the painful memories from last season's embarrassing record in close games. 
But a win in one or both games and there's a clean slate, fans are back in the Joyce Center and the Irish can safely expect special things for the remainder of the season. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgrifji3@nd. edu 



Thursday, November 30, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR 

NO-S.E.f(..\0\.1.-0\-1 NO. '/OU C:&U'\S 'l>ON"T \o-\Po.'IE.. ONE 't>O '{OU"'? 
ALEC WHITE 
SUT, \ (::I.UE.SS '1-\e C..JI>.,N,. f't.,t.."\ 'C..,O.USE. ~E.. 
\-\.1>.5 -ro (.:s 0 lX::l A. 
(;UNG\-\ OS: IMf>O~T,._NT 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TAABE 
rJ I 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ANBOT 

j

ri I ItBEHREY -IIJ I I 
1 
www.jumble.com

tFLEMSY J I I ( J 
Answer: 

THE[ I I I I]-[ I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: CRANK SNACK MEASLY PIRATE Yesterday's Answer: When Mom heard Junior's excuse, she said that-TAKES THE CAKE 
page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


_;; 
WHAT THE: MATHE:­MATIC.IAN FAC.E:O WHE:N HE: 5TAYE:D OUT L-ATE:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Note: The clues in this puzzle appear in a single list, with Acrosses and Downs together. Answers that share a number in the grid also 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 42 Pen part 
share a clue.  
CLUES  13 Children's  26 Not fine  
1 Maple syrup need  author Le Cain  27 Cast one's lot . (with)  
2 Co-star of John and Samuel in  14 " Scusami" (1960's song)  28 Library catalog abbr.  
"Pulp Fiction" 3 Part of a  15 Ready for later 16 Nat!. Humor  29 Fitting in the hands  
Southern network 4 A Guthrie  Month 17 Painter Veronese  30 Dunk 31 Short sleepers?  
5 Prepare to  18 Kitchen whirrer  32 Witticism  
emerge from bankruptcy  19 Custody sharers, maybe  33 Apply to the skin, say  
6 A dwarf  20 Brown building?  34 "...  wed"  
7 Cutting down  21 Nickname of  35 _eye for  
aAscribe to  the household  (discerns)  
9 Subspecies especially  head on TV's "Hazel"  36 Good tennis score  
adapted to their  22 With #61, a  37 Intermit  
environments 10 "Sure thing" 11 Singer Jackson 12 Activity for some season ticket holders  common e-mail address ending 23 Prefix with -graphy 24 Not many 25 Intend to  38 "Mary Worth" cartoonist Ken 39 Leaving via ladder, perhaps 40 First-time stock 41 In pieces  53 Dancer Castle and others 54 The Little  58 Give back 59 Tops  on the  64 cheri 65 Swine cooler? 66 Newman's  

Colonel 60 Tropical 67 Tricks
~:-r.:cr:-1 43 Part of a 
monkeys 

68 Something supermarket 
possessive 55 Trawl 
61 See #22 valuable held in 56 Singer born reserve
brand name 62 Dir. down BajaEithne Nf 69 Pro-school grp.
44 _paradox California 
Bhraonain 
70 Ninnies

45 Some salts 63 Goes hither and 57 Yellow yon 71 Size two, say
46 Sofa ~~:'+:="! 47 Use a Singer 48 Freshwater 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ~-=+=+=+::-! catch credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
49 Mauna 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 50 Sprite flavor Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
~-:-+-::+-:-! 51 Amazed 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-:::+.=+::+.-=-:i 52 Loy of "The 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
Thin Man" 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ___~.-----------------­
Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Cathy Moriarty, 45; Andrew McCarthy, 43; Jonathan Knight, 37; Kim Delaney, 44 
Happy Birthday: Change has become routine in your life and you have leamed to take advantage of it. Now it is time to try your hand at something you've always wanted to do. Financial gains look positive, but you need to revise your spending habits. Your numbers are 13, 17, 22, 30, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Whatever isn't paying you back or working for you must be stopped. You've been working too long and too hard. Your generosity has become a hindrance, so get back to doing what counts. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Bend over backward for an older friend or relative. Now isn't the best time to take on another responsibility but, by doing so, you will please someone who will make a difference in your future. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Try to settle down a little and focus on one thing. Multitasking is fine, but not today. Put your thoughts on paper. You can get your point across ifyou are precise.*** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have some minor disputes with older or younger people. Today is about love, getting along and doing things that will bring you closer to someone you truly care about. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let little things depress you. Everything is OK, even ifyou can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. Ignore the negative and you will see some good possibilities to work toward. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): You're in dreamland, so shake yourself before it's too late. Someone may try to take advantage ofyou when he or she doesn't think you'll notice. Keep a sharp eye while taking part in fun activities. * * * * LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can make your professional position more interesting. A new way of doing things or achance to try something different will bring you greater recognition. Include friends and family in your ideas. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Things are either moving way too fast or way too slow. Get used to it. Today will be arepeat of the past and an indicator of the future. Base your actions on your past experience. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Do something that will help your self­esteem. Spending time with someone you respect will change your attitude and give you some great ideas about things you should pursue. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let someone take advantage of you because of your interest in him or her. Ifyou can keep things even, you stand a better chance of gaining respect and getting what you want. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take your time and do things by the book or you may face ridicule for what you didn't do. Sudden changes will affect your future. Don't be discouraged --you need more time. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be hard to resist no matter what you do. Everyone will be looking to you for answers. Don't let it go to your head. One slip up and you may get caught in the middle. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are in control. It is your own uncertainties that will hold you back. You are respected, looked up to and called upon to solve problems. You can do anything you set your mind to. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 30, 2006 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Salem, without a stake 
Kurz leads squad with 18 points and 10 boards in rout over Rams 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Even with two ranked teams looming next week, Notre Dame wasn't caught looking ahead Wednesday night. 
The Irish (5-1) dominated an overmatched Winston-Salem State squad 90-45 at the Joyce Center in their final tune-up before facing No. 23 Maryland Saturday in Washington, D.C., and No. 6 Alabama next Thursday at home. 
"[Tonight] was good for our confi­dence," Irish forward Rob Kurz said. "We have to play two really good teams next week, but I think we're a pretty good team too." 
Kurz led the Irish with 18 points and 10 rebounds. The junior hit the bottom of the net on every shot he took, going 5-of-5 from the field and 8-of-8 from the free throw line. 
"All my shots were pretty open," Kurz said. "My teammates did a good job of finding me for open looks." 
While Kurz was humble, Irish coach Mike Brey praised him. 
"He's a guy who has really arrived as an excellent Big East forward," Brey said. ''I'm really 
see SALEM/ page 18 

Above, Irish senior guard Russell Carter splits two Winston-Salem defenders for a layup. At right, Irish freshman guard Tory Jackson elevates for a basket ofhis own. 
+ 

PHOTOS BY ALLISON AMBROSE 
After blowout, next two games can shape remainder of season 
Forget the Big East. Notre Dame's upcoming games against Maryland and Alabama are the two most important contests of the sea­son. 
A victory in either would pro­vide the Irish with a quality non-con­ference win ­something they have struggled with the last cou­ple seasons -and 

in the process bol­ster the team's  Bob Griffin  
RPI come  
February.  Sports Writer  
But looking at  

the bigger picture, it would set the course for the rest of the season. 
Saying the Irish are going to beat two of the hottest teams in the country -both squads are unde­feated and have looked impressive in the process -is a stretch, espe­cially in back-to-hack games. 
But momentum's a funny thing. Just ask Butler. 
Suddenly, 16 days after what was then an embarrassing loss to a mid-major reminiscent of last sea­son's struggles, Notre Dame can 
see ROUT/page 18 
NO WoMEN's SoccER 

Honors abound for No. 1 Irish 

CHRISTOPHER MASSAD/The Observer Irish defender Ashley Jones earned ESPN The Magazine first-team Academic All-America honors for her 3.96 GPA. 
Team is gearing up for semifinal match with Florida State 
By TIM DOUGHER1Y Sports Writer 
This week is all business as Notre Dame prepares for the College Cup semifinals. But for defender Ashley Jones, it's all business all the time. 
The junior accounting major was rewarded for her work in the Mendoza College of Business, as she was named to ESPN The Magazine's first-team Academic All-American squad last week thanks to her 3.96 cumulative GPA. 
"Both academics and ath­letics are equally important to me," Jones said. "That's 
see JONES/page 17 
fOOTBALL 

BCS chair: Rematch in Rose not off table 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's bowl picture just got a little murkier. 
Bowl Championship Series (BCS) coordinator Mike Slive, who also serves as the Southeastern Conference (SEC) commissioner, said in a teleconference Wednesday that the BCS commissioners will keep in mind the BCS by­Jaw allowing the Notre Dame and the six BCS conferences -the SEC, Big Ten, Big XII, Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC), PAC-10 and Big East­to adjust bowl pairings for maximum "appeal." 
But he added a warning: While many expect the confer­ences to step in to avoid a Midwestern rematch of Notre Dame and Michigan in Pasadena, the conference commissioners will be hesitant to change what the bowl chairmen want. 
According to Section III, paragraph 5(b) of the BCS selection procedures, "After completion of the selection process ... the Conferences and Notre Dame may, but are not required to, adjust the pairings taking into considera­tion ... whether two teams that played against one anoth­er in the regular season will be paired against one another in a bowl game." 
"It's something that's been on the books since the outset [of the BCS in 1998], and of course that's done after the teams have been selected, and 
see BCS/page 17 

NCAA MEl'S BBAll
~D SWIMMING 
~fl
~CAA fOOTBAll 
NFL NFL 
LLI ~ Big XII title game Oregon 57Giants problems

U.S. Op'en 

Colts at TitansHasselbeck injury 
z 
Georgetown 50 

New York defensiveThe Irish travel to 
Indianapolis visits
Seahawks coach Mike Legendary Big Eight 
::5 

The Ducks travel toend Michael StrahanWest Lafayette for the Tennessee with a chance foes square off with a Holmgren announces
~ 

the Hoyas' home courtto lock up the AFC loses his cool withthat quarterback Mattconference crown on the 
prestigious national
cc 

and upset the No. 23 18 years. 
South with four weeks ESPN.
competition.
line for the first time in Hasselbeck is not seri­team in the nation. 

remaining.
ously injured. 
page 13 page 12
page 15 
page 15page 16 = page 16 





