
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Business school earns top-30 national ranking 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
For the third straight time, Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business ranked among the top 30 in BusinessWeek maga­zine's biennial survey of MBA programs nationwide. 
The rankings feature -which spotlighted Notre Dame at No. 26 -is in the Oct. 23 edition on newsstands now. BusinessWeek placed the program at 24th in its 2002 survey and 29th in its 2004 survey. 

Finance department chair Robert Huang said Notre Dame is consistently recognized by such rankings because the MBA program is "never satisfied." 
"We never stop improving our­selves," he said. "Both the facul­ty and the staff are united in making our students their top priority." 
The magazine also named Notre Dame to its list of the top 10 schools for fastest return on 
see MBNpage 6 
CASHING IN ONANOTRE DAME MBA DEGREE 
4.4  Average years ofwork experience for  ~.:.;::·:7\,  
two-year students  
93  Percent graduates acceptingjob offers  
within three months ofgraduation  
Approximate nwnber of~tB  
Average G~T'"'.................  


Irish fans pleased with road victory 
Historic competition entices loyal crowds despite lengthy traveling distance 
By PATRICK CASSIDY 
News Writer 
The last time Navy beat Notre Dame in a football game, John F. Kennedy was still President and man had not yet stepped foot on the moon. The Irish dominance over that span has remained unaltered as Notre Dame improved to 7-1 with a 38-14 victory over Midshipmen. 
Freshman Brendan McQueeney attended the game and said M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, Md. was "mostly in favor of the Irish." 
"However there were obvi­ously pockets of Navy sup­port," he said. "The atmos­phere was unbelievable and was well worth the ten-hour drive." 
Notre Dame's consecutive win streak over Navy -43 games -is the longest such streak in not only division-one college football, but any sport. "It's not even a challenge any­more," freshman Jeremiah Herman said. "I enjoy the tra­dition the game brings, but we should play a team that will help us morn in the rankings." 
Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn had an efficient day, passing for nearly 300 yards and scampering for a 19-yard touchdown. 
"I didn't know he could run that fast!" freshman Brock Hagerman said. "If Quinn con­tinues to take over games like he has the past couple weeks, his chances for the ... Heisman Trophy will only con­tinue to increase." 
After giving up over 200 yards in the first half to the Midshipmen's option offense, the defense made adjustments and helped the Irish cruise to a lopsided victory. 
"Navy's offense became too predictable and it was just a 
see GAME/page 6 

ND democrats try to rally supporters 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
With less than two weeks until Election Day, the Notre Dame College Democrats (NDCD) staged a "Campus Invasion" this weekend, bring­ing together Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Ball State University students to canvass the St. Joseph County area for the Joe Donnelly for Congress campaign. 
The event united approxi­mately 25 students -three of which came from Ball State in Muncie, Ind. -and while organizers had initially expected participants from other schools in the region, like Indiana University South Bend and Indiana State, they were still satisfied with the turnout. 

"Even though we expected more schools to come, it ended up being a very successful event with very good turnout," said Caitlin Conway, member of the NDCD and intern for the Donnelly campaign. "We cov­ered a lot of precincts, and the students from Ball State really helped out." 
Canvassers were spread throughout St. Joseph County on Saturday and Sunday, with groups of five per neighbor­hood. Each individual approached 40 or more hous­
see POUTICS/ page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Students lineup 

for event 

Sale of basketball season tickets begins 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Hundreds of students waited in the rain Thursday evening out­side the Joyce Center to attend the opening event for this year's men's basketball season and to receive a voucher that would allow them to purchase season tickets. 
Irish coach Mike Brey kicked off the event by introducing the evening's keynote guest -for­mer Notre Dame basketball play­er and NBA great John Paxson, currently General Manager of the Chicago Bulls. 
"I always enjoy the chance to come back to campus," Paxson said. 
Paxson spoke briefly about the responsibility of Notre Dame's students to support the players throughout the season, and said that students' enthusiasm at games is a strong factor in the team's success. 
"I can see what impact student bodies have on games and on their team," Paxson said. "It's nice when students are behind the guys that work so hard." 
Brey agreed, saying that the quality of the support from stu­dents and the full integration of student athletes into the University community allows Notre Dame to stand out among its peers. 
see TICKETS/page 6 


FRANCESCA SETAfThe Observer The leprechaun performs push-ups with the cheerleaders after a Notre Dame touchdown against Navy. 
Diverse dinner aids needy 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
McGlinn Hall's first Meal of Nations event lilled more than just stomachs Sunday -it also filled a need to raise money and awareness to benefit Our Lady of Fatima Parish in I Iondo Valle, Dominican Hepublic. 
The event was hosted by the Vietnamese Students Association, the Filipino American Students Organization, the African Students Association (ASA), the Hawaii Club and the Caribbean Students Association. 
The campus-wide event hailed exotic food from all of these cul­tural organizations and seemed to promote its cause in a unique way, said junior Lauren Gamboa, 
see MEAL/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 30, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
We is 


uninhibited 
I'm sure you saw it. And in case you didn't, I'm sure someone in your dorm taped it. 
"60 Minutes" essentially advertised their piece last night on Charlie Weis as "Weis Uninhibited" and starting out, 
Ryan Sydlik 
that's what it seemed to be. But after the first few minutes, the por­

News Writer 
trayal changed. It was still "Weis Uninhibited", but it had a very different kind of frankness. 
There are many complicated people in the world, but Charlie Weis will never be one of them. His behavior focuses on two simple goals: 1) Complete, utter and undisputed victory and 2) Family. 
Sometimes you have to prove a point. One way to make your case is to reason with someone. Example: "Hey, I need you guys to work hard in practice because ifyou do you can get stronger and win more games, so pretty please, could you run a littler faster today?" 
Ok, I'll step back a bit. Appeals to rea­son are not necessarily that wimpy and ineffective. After all, Weis has been known to use simple math to encourage recruits. Example: four Super Bowl rings X you = you + NFL. But everyone, by their human nature, will have peri­ods in their life where they are tired, lazy, or just a little too comfortable when they shouldn't be. So, how does one solve a simple problem of human nature? Using very loud, but yet very basic methods! 
Jimmy Johnson, former coach of the Dallas Cowboys and Miami Dolphins, once criticized head coaches who say they rank God and family ahead of coaching. He said something to the effect that many, ifnot most, coaches spend an hour a week in church, two hours with family and the other 165 hours in a week doing something related to coaching. It even seemed that he him­self was conceding the fact that he was living an upside down life. 
Weis said he was a brutally honest man in the "60 Minutes" piece and by the frank tone of his voice, I believed every word he said. Many coaches live personal tragedies obscured by false public glory. But while they might feel hopeless in dealing with family, Weis lacks that major flaw. Just as he'll use any words necessary to win a football game, he also said he'd do anything nec­essary to remain a faithful husband and a dedicated father. And though he might be vulgar on the field, he's certainly not one to bring hi<> work home with him. 
"I don't do anything for just me. I don't play golf. I don't go fishing. I don't even go to a ball game," is a witty Weis crack, but it speaks volumes about his priori­ties. The priests at Notre Dame might have been offended by Weis' language last night, but they should take much greater solace in the fact he is a symbol for the whole world to see the impor­tance of the bedrock institution of family. 
Are Weis' means pretty? Not always. But is he an honest man living towards the ends of a noble life? You better (insert your favorite Charliesm here) believe it. 
Contact Ryan Sydlik at rsydlik@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE PERSON IN THE WORLD AND WHY? 







Alicen Foresman  Andrew Saville  Drew Davy  Andrea Teske  Ben Willis  
senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Pangborn  Dillon  Alumni  Breen-Phillips  Siegfried  
"Pucettius the  "The makers of  "Trey  "My old drum  "The stir-fry  
Sicel because  Tropicana  Tumminello  instructor  cook at South  
rm a classics  because I live  because he's big  because he  Dining Hall  
nerd."  on orange juice.  sexy.  taught me  because he  
There are 18  everything I  knows how to  
cartons in my  need to know  cook my meat  
dorm room. "  about  well."  
percussion.  


DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Junior Zan-wei Khaw participates in the Great Lakes Conference Championship, which the Notre Dame men's water polo club hosted this past weekend. The club team went 3-11n Its four games. · 
OFFBEAT 
Black cat adoptions banned on Halloween 
BOfSE, Idaho -No black cat will cross your path this Halloween, not if a northern Idaho animal shelter can help it. Like many shelters around the country, the Kootenai Humane Society in Coeur d'Alene is prohibiting black cat adoptions from now to Nov. 2, fearing the animals could be mistreated in Halloween pranks -or worse, sacrificed in some satanic ritual. 
The risk may be remote, said the shelter's executive director, Phil Morgan. 
"It's kind of an urban leg­end. But in the humane industry it's pretty typical that shelters don't do adop­tions of black eats or white bunnies because of the whole satanic sacrificial thing," Morgan said. "If we prevent one animal from getting hurt, then it serves its purposn." 

Vampyre club seeking new members 
LONDON -Vampyres are prowling for new rncruits in London as llalloween approachns to partake in wild parties, trips to Transylvania and bat spot­ting nights-but coffin­dwelling, blood drinkers need not apply. 
With a penchant for cus­tom-made fangs, striking make-up and gothic clothes, members of the London Vampyre Group (LVG) say it's their fasdnation with the romantic notion of vampires, rather than any darker intent, that draws them together. 
"People who think they're un-dead, hundreds of years old, or that you have to drink blood if you're inter­ested in the dark side of things, we can put them right on that," LVG's Mick Smith, 57, told Heuters. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
% 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
3: 

J)
.... 


~ 
c( 
(.) 

..... 0 HIGH 66 HIGH 57 HIGH 51 HIGH 48 LOW 48 LOW 51 LOW 31 LOW 31 IN BRIEF 
William Franke of Vanderbilt University will present a lecture entitled "Scripture as Theophany in Dante's 'Paradiso"' today at 
4:30 p.m. in 210 McKenna Hall. Refreshments will be served. 
The film "Harlan County, USA" will be shown today at 
4:30 p.m. in C-100 Hesburgh Center Auditorium as part of the Labor History Film Series. The film, documenting a cole miners' strike in 1973, will be accompanied by speaker Dan Graff. 
Painter Leonard Porter will present a lecture entitled "Painting in a Classical Landscape" today at 4:30 
p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
The Class of 2008 will pres­ent Verbinski's film "The Ring" in Washington Hall tonight at 8 p.m. 
Walter M. Miller, Jr. will give a lecture entitled "A Canticle for Leibowitz" tonight at 8 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. This event is open to the public and is the second of four lectures in the Catholic Culture Series "Hediscovering Four Catholic Authors." 
Michael Neill will present a lecture entitled '"The little dogs and all': Ceremony, Nakedness, Shame and the Deconsecration of Kingship in 'King Lear"' tomorrow at 
5:00 p.m. in 210 McKenna Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

HIGH 43 HIGH 42 LOW 29 LOW 29 

Atlanta 76 I 48 Boston 55 I 42 Chicago 68 I 46 Denver 56 I 28 Houston 80 I 66 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 62 I 30 New York 60 I 48 Philadelphia 77 I 54 Phoenix 83 I 59 Seattle 48 I 31 St. Louis 74 I 51 Tampa 84 I 64 Washington 67 I 51 
Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 

New-law-s restrict trick-or-treating 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE. Tenn. -Sex offenders on probation or parole in Tennessee are banned from Halloween costume parties this year and aren't even allowed to put up decorations like jack-o­lanterns that might attract youngsters. 
The new state guidelines are meant to clarify policies that prevent offenders from interact­ing with children, said Board of Probation and Parole spokesman Jack Elder, and were not enacted in response to any specific problems the board has seen during the Halloween season. 
Tennessee isn't the only state keeping close watch on sex offenders during Halloween. New York issued similar Halloween restrictions for sex offenders this year and imposed a 3 p.m. to 6 a.m. Halloween curfew on them. Sex offenders in Lima, Ohio, and Gaston County, N.C., were ordered to attend meetings with authorities that coincide with the prime hours for trick-or-treating. 
Maryland has even told sex offenders on parole or probation to keep their porch lights turned off Tuesday night. In addition, Baltimore County wiU pay about 20 plainclothes officers overtime to work the streets and look for sex offenders who have contact with children other than their own, said county police Cpl. Michael Hill. 

The Tennessee restrictions prohibit sex offenders from attending special Halloween events like corn field mazes and haunted houses, handing out treats, displaying Halloween decorations, accompanying trick-or-treating children or wearing costumes. 
They apply to all sex offenders on probation or parole -about 2,000 of the 8,100 registered offenders living in the state ­and not specifically to those offenders whose crimes involved minors. 
"No matter what their sex offense might have been, they must adhere to the same rules," Elder said. "Any sex offender is not supposed to have contact with minors. They all sign the same directives." 
That even means that offend­ers with children must find someone else to accompany them on trick-or-treating walks, he said. And if other children knock on their doors on Halloween, the offenders must not answer. 
page 3 

President fired at leading school 
Students, faculty celebrate trustees' decision 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON The board of trustees of the nation's premier school for the deaf voted Sunday to terminate the appointment of the incoming president, who had been the subject of protests, the board announced. 
The vote at Gallaudet University came after a day­long closed-door meeting that followed a month of protests by students and faculty members. Jane Fernandes, the school's for­mer provost, had been selected in May to take office in January. 
"Although undoubtedly there will be some members of the community who have differing views on the mean­ing of this decision, we believe that it is a necessity at this point," the board said in a written statement. 
Fernandes did not imme­diately respond to an e-mail seeking comment. 
Protesters had said 
Fernandes, 50, was a divi­sive and ineffective leader as provost. They said the board ignored surveys by students and faculty during the presidential search that called her "unacceptable." The faculty voted this month, 82 percent to 18 percent, for Fernandes to resign or be removed. 
Fernandes had refused to resign, saying it would hurt the university to allow protests to determine the school's leadership. She said she had become a lightning rod for those frustrated about changes in deaf cul­ture because she hadn't learned to use American Sign Language until she was in her 20s. 
Celebrations broke out on campus when the decision was announced. Professor Diane Morton, who joined protesters for a rally at the university gymnasium, said students were "elated" when protest leaders received the e-mailed announcement. 

Notre Dame Seniors DON'T FORGET This weekvou mustreturn vour SENIOR PORTRAIT PROOFS! Lauren Studios will be collecting proofs in the Dooley Room of the La Fortune from October 30 -November 3. Proof Return times are from 9 am ­1 pm and from 2 pm ­5 pm. Please please plan on returning your proofs, making your yearbook pose selection and placing your portrait order at this time. Portraits make wonderful Christmas gifts and are the best possible way to show off your achievement ofgraduating from Notre Dame. ln order to avoid long lines, we have scheduled proof return days by the first letter of your last name. • Ifyour last name begins with A-E, your proofreturn date is 10130, • Jfyour last name begins with F-K, your proofreturn day is 10/31, • Ifyour last name begins with L-P, your proofreturn day is 1111. • {(your last name begins with Q-S, your proofreturn day is 1112, • Ifyour last name begins with T-Z, your proofreturn day is 1113. Remember, you must retum your proofs this week in order to guarantee Christmas delivery for your portrait package and that you receive the pose ofyour choice in your yearbook. Lauren Studios 9607 Business Center Dr. #13 H Rancho Cucamonga, CA 91730 (800) 888-5155 www.LaurenStudios. com  

1 
l 
_j


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 30, 2006 



Meal 
continued from page 1 

McGlinn's multi-cultural commis­sioner. 
"We gave patrons the opportu­nity to enjoy dishes ranging from Malawi Chicken from the ASA to Hal Pio from the Hawaii Club," she said. "There were also dance presentations from the Hawaiian and Filipino groups." 
The purpose carries additional significance for McGlinn Hall because its rector, Sister Mary Lynch, SSJ, visited Our Lady of Fatima a few years ago and saw it as a huge anchor for a poverty­stricken community in a third­world country. 
"The Parish [at Our Lady of Fatima] offers services that the Dominican government doesn't offer or charges more than the people can afford," she said. "Twenty-thousand people are part of the parish, and they're divided into small groups called, 'campos,' each of which contain a spiritual leader." 
Posters in the 24-hour lounge of McGlinn contained pictures and descriptions of the Church's outreach program. A wide range of services are available to them, including involvement in the sacramental life, discovering new water sources, education and community farming. 
Lynch is also a friend of Sister Jean Reilly, CSJ, of the St. Joseph Parish in Philadelphia, who is organizing a pharmacy and gro­cery store in Hondo Valle. The store, also a part of the Church's outreach, will receive the pro­ceeds from the Meal of Nations. 
"The store will only charge its customers three percent of the costs," Lynch said. "So that pno­ple can afford to buy any grocery items whenever they need ii. Many grocers in the Dominican Republic only sell certain prod­ucts when they exist in excess." 

McGlinn Hall President junior involved," she said. dub member Theophilus Ossei­Taryn Lewis felt the event The cultural groups, such as Anto, from Ghana, "but our con­"brought authenticity to the ASA, were also glad that nections with [Gamboa] and the McGlinn" and was pleased with their contributions -such as help of McGlinn arc getting our its success. preparing Cameroonian Poulet voice out on campus, and we're 
"Our residents and other Notre du diroct!mr general (Chicken of also glad to be a help in any way Dame students are really getting the CEO) -put them on the that we ean." a feel for the situation down in map. the Dominican Republic and "Wn're a really quiet organiza­Contact Rohan Anand at we're really happy to be tion on campus," said sophomore ranand@nd.edu 
Ave Maria School of Law offers a rigorous curriculum that successfully prepares graduates for the practice of law in all jurisdictions throughout the U.S. Our students benefit from an emphasis on ethics, natural Jaw, the moral foundations of Jaw, and the rich Catholic intellectual tradition. 
Inspired by Pope John Paul ll's encyclical, Fides et Ratio, Ave Maria School of Law produces graduates who are extremely well prepared for the practice oflaw and will approach their legal careers as an extension oftheir personal values and faith. 
Ave Maria graduates have: 
• 
Taken the bar exam in 33 states, achieving a first-time pass rate of 88 percent 

• 
Secured 34 prestigious judicial clerkships, 28 of these with federal courts 

• 
Accepted employment at national and regional law finns, federal and state agencies, and a host of public-interest organizations 


Visit Ave Maria's website for information about the Law School's generous scholarship program. As many as 20 full-tuition awards will be granted to members of the 2007 entering class. 
-----------~ 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 30, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Militants kill 23 Iraqi policemen 
BAGHDAD-Suspected Sunni Arab gun­men killed 23 policemen Sunday, including 17 in one attack in the predominantly Shiite southern city of Basra, signaling the p.ossible start of an intensified insurgent campaign against Iraq's predominantly Shiite Muslim security forces. 
Political tension deepened in Baghdad when Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi, the coun­try's highest-ranking Sunni politician, threat­ened to resign if Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki did not act quickly to eradicate two feared Shiite militias. 
Al-Maliki, a Shiite, depends heavily on the backing of the two Shiite political parties that run the militias and has resisted American pressure to eradicate the private armies ­the Mahdi Army of radical cleric Muqtada al­Sadr and the Badr Brigade, the military wing of Iraq's biggest Shiite political bloc, the Supreme Council for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq. 
Serbia resolves to reclaim Kosovo 
BELGRADE-Serbian voters have approved a new constitution reasserting Serbia's claim over the breakaway Kosovo province, inde­pendent observers and Serbia's prime minister said Sunday. 
The Belgrade-based Center for Free Elections and Democracy said their sample count after polls closed in the two-day vote indicated that 96 percent of those who partici­pated in the referendum supported the draft charter. 
At least 50 percent of the country's 6.6 mil­lion voters had to participate for the results to be valid and the group estimated turnout at 
53.3 percent. The final result is expected on Monday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Audit highlights missing weapons 
WASHINGTON -Nearly one of every 25 weapons the military bought for Iraqi security forces is missing, a government audit said Sunday. Many others cannot be repaired because parts or technical manuals are lacking. 
A second report found "significant challenges remain that put at risk" the U.S. military's goal ·of strengthening Iraqi security forces by trans­ferring all logistics operations to the defense ministry by the end of 2007. 
A third report concerned the Provincial Reconstruction Team program, in which U.S. government experts help Iraqis develop regional governmental institutions. "The unstable securi­ty environment in Iraq touches every aspect of the PRT program," the report said. 
St. Louis named most dangerous city 
ST. LOUIS -Just days after the St. Louis Cardinals won the top honor in Major League Baseball, their hometown jumped to first place on a list no one wants to lead: the most dangerous cities in the United States. 
This Midwestern city has long been in the upper tiers of the annual ranking of the nation's safest and most dangerous cities, compiled by Morgan Quitno Press. Violent crime surged nearly 20 percent there this year, when the rate of such crimes rose much faster in the Midwest than in the rest of nation, according to FBI figures released in June. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Program to boost Hispanic business 
INDIANAPOLIS-The Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce's Hispanic Business Council has developed a program to boost growth in central Indiana's Hispanic-owned business population 
The Mentor-Protege Program aims to provide leadership for the creation, growth, development, and retention of Hispanic businesses throughout the Indianapolis area. 
The program is designed to develop and grow three _to five Hispanic-owned businesses each year for a three-year period and foster the estab­lishment of long-term business relationships between protege companies and majority corpo­rations. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Parties set for upcoming election 
Democrats claim momentum, Republicans hope to mobilize base before Nov. 7 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Repub­licans on Sunday said a major voter turnout effort would help them stay in power after the Nov. 7 elec­tions, while Democrats claimed momentum as they seek to tap into voter unhap­piness over Iraq. 
Both sides agreed that the war in Iraq was a leading, if not central, issue in the con­tests to decide control of the House and Senate. 
"This election is becoming more and more a referen­dum on George Bush, his failed policies both overseas and at home with a rubber stamp Congress," said Sen. Charles Schumer of New York, head of the Senate Democratic campaign com­mittee. 
His Republican counter­part, Sen. Elizabeth Dole of North Carolina, said Iraq 
and  the  broader  fight  
against  terrorism  were  
important  issues,  but  

"President Bush's name is not on the ballot." Dem­ocrats, she said, were trying "to make it a national refer­endum." 
Schumer and Dole were among the politicians and party leaders who sparred on the Sunday talk shows just nine days before the elections. 
Democrats need a gain of 15 seats to win control of the 435-member House and six seats to claim the 100-mem­ber Senate. 
With approval slumping for both the war and the president, recent polls show Democrats have their best chance to reclaim the House since the GOP swept them from power in 1994, and a shot at capturing the Senate as well. 
As the candidates entered their final full week of cam­paigning, House Democrats worked to emphasize the GOP role in the Iraq war. The party's campaign com­mittee said it would air tele­vision commercials criticiz­ing Republicans for support­ing the war in about a dozen competitive races in the coming days. 


"Despite a war gone wrong and no plan for victo­ry, politicians like (Rep.) Rob Simmons keep voting to stay the course again and again," says one commercial, airing in Connecticut. 
Democrats have increased the number of races where they are advertising in recent days, a sign of confi­dence as the election approaches. In addition to new offensives in Kansas, Kentucky and New Hamp­shire, officials disclosed plans to run commercials against Republican Rep. Jim Walsh this week in the area around Syracuse, N.Y. 
House Majority Leader John Boehner, R-Ohio, said polls showing a Democratic advantage, especially in the House, "don't mean any­thing, because what we have are 435 individual races all around the country, local candidates running on local issues." 
"If we mobilize all our vot­ers, we'll do well on Election Day," Boehner said. 
Ken Mehlman, chairman of the Republican National Committee, sounded a com­mon Republican theme ­that a Democratic-led Congress would mean high­er taxes. Democrats accused him of scare tactics. 
Mehlman suggested "across-the-board tax increases affecting millions of Americans" if Democratic Rep. Charles Rangel became chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee. The New York lawmaker is now the panel's senior Democrat. 
Last week, Vice President Dick Cheney contended Rangel wanted to undo pop­ular tax cuts enacted during Bush's first term. Cheney's claim was based in part on Rangel's own remark that he could not think of one of Bush's tax cuts that merited renewal. 
"Once again the vice presi­dent hasn't the slightest clue about what he's talking about. He's never talked with me and neither has anyone in the administration about taxes," Rangel said Sunday. Rangel said his own remarks referred to broad­based tax overhaul efforts. 
NIGERIA 

Nearly 100 dead in plane crash 
Associated Press 
ABUJA -A Nigerian airliner with 104 people on board slammed into the ground moments after takeoff on Sunday -the third deadly crash of a passenger plane in less than a year in this West African nation known for its notoriously unsafe air industry. Six people survived, and the rest were believed dead. 
Among those killed was the man regarded as the spiritual leader of Nigeria's Muslims, and thousands of people gathered at a regional airport to receive his body. 
The Boeing 7 3 7 crashed one 

minute after taking off from Ahuja airport, said Sam Adurogboye, an Aviation Ministry spokesman. President Ol use gun Ob asanj o ordered an immediate investiga­tion into the cause of the crash, his spokeswoman Remi Oyo said. 
Rescue workers found debris from the smashed plane, body parts and luggage strewn over an area the size of a football field. The plane went down inside the sprawling airport compound about two miles from the runway. Smoke rose from the aircraft's mangled and smoldering fuselage. Its tail hung from a tree. 
Emergency workers pulled 
blackened corpses from the wreckage, then covered the bodies with white sheets and hauled them away in stretchers. An Associated Press reporter counted at least 50 cadavers, though other bodies had been transported earli­er to local morgues. 
Through the day, airport securi­ty officials kept back anxious peo­ple seeking information about friends or loved ones. 
Adurogboye said 104 passengers and crew had been aboard the doomed flight, and he knew of six survivors who had been taken to a hospital. "Obviously the rest are feared dead," he said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 30, 2006 
procedure for buying basket­
said. Nike and PepsiCo. 

ball tickets is very similar to
MBA 
Tickets

The central mission of the MBA "Recruiters tell us our innova­
continued from page 1 

investment, or the number of years it takes former students to recover the fmancial investment required for the graduate pro­gram. 
Students can get a quicker return on investment by "choos­ing a mid-tier program as opposed to one in the top five," according to research disclosed on the BusinessWeek Web site. 
"The mid-tier schools like Wisconsin, Notre Dame and career development team is to connect students with career opportunities. Dowd said the team provides tools that can be used in all stages of career deci­sion making: "figuring out what's important to you now, exploring options, developing market posi­tioning strategies, evaluating alternatives, making decisions and re-evaluating your situation on an ongoing basis. 
"We don't offer this service to boost the rankings, but because it is the best way to help our stu­dents and alumni manage their 

Rochester did very "It is not just about careers in a way well in the [return that is ultimately
preparing [students] 
on investment] forward-moving 
analysis. You can for Wall Street, but and satisfying," recoup your for the world. ,, she said. investment in five Overall, starting years or less," salaries for MBA
Robert Huang
said associate edi­graduates are "on 
chair

tor Louis Lavelle the rise," the on the magazine's finance department magazine said. 
Web site. "The top-ranked schools . . . all did pretty poorly. You're looking at 12 to 15 years before you break even." 
Karen Dowd, Senior Director of Career Development at Mendoza, said the MBA program's focus on "leadership in thought, action and values-based decision mak­ing" prepares graduates not only in their first few years post-grad­uation, but also later on as their careers progress. 
"Our MBA graduates are recruited into positions that aren't simply training jobs, but substantial opportunities that allow them to use their skills and add value to companies and organizations immediately," she 
Politics 
continued from page 1 
es, according to Conway. 

Conway explained that the focus of the canvassing was pri­marily to encourage Donnelly supporters to vote, rather than informing them of the 2nd District candidate's platform. 
"Over the last two years, we've been trying to get the word out about [Donnelly's] platform," she said. "But at this point, so close to the election, we figure a lot of people have made up their mind already. Now, we're just trying to get them to the polls." 
The canvassers also made it a point to mention South Bend's early voting system, which, opening last week, allows those 
Ga01e 
continued from page 1 

matter of time," sophomore Chris Narvaez said. "Our defensive line got it together in the second half and decided to play within their assign­ments instead of just flying to the ball carrier." 
The Irish, now with seven wins, look toward their next game against North Carolina. 
Future Notre Dame oppo­nent USC lost this weekend to unranked Oregon State. Notre Dame still controls its own "One of the 
biggest surprises was how well this year's grads fared in the job market," Lavelle said on the Web site. "We found that the average salary for our top 30 schools was up more than $8,000, or about 9.7 percent, to $95,000, which doesn't include signing bonuses [and other finan­cial rewards]." 
According to the MBA program Web site, 93 percent of 2005 graduates seeking employment accepted offers within three months of graduation. Their average base salary was $80,000 with a median sign-on bonus of $10,000. Employers of the gradu­ates included IBM, JP Morgan, Ford Motor Company, Microsoft, 
who might not make it to the polls on Nov. 7 to cast their vote at a more convenient time. 
"[The early voting system] is important for us to mention, because some people might not realize it's available," Conway said. "I know I talked to a lot of Donnelly supporters who didn't know about the early voting, but thought it sounded really con­venient and said they would look into it." 
To kick-off the event, partici­pants went to Donnelly's cam­paign headquarters, where the candidate gave them words of thanks and encouragement. 
"[Donnelly] told us how impor­tant this election was for this country, for getting some change in Indiana and for getting a change in the House [of Representatives] for the democ­rats," Conway said. "And he 
destiny as it looks to secure its second consecu­tive BCS bowl. 
"The rest of 

tive, integrative curriculum focused on problem-solving meshes well with their hiring needs," Dowd said. 
Huang said Notre Dame gives students a well-roundnd nduca­tion that encompasses both busi­ness and ethics. 
"The most important thing is not just to teach them about the financial tools of the trade, but to teach how to do the right thing," he said. "It is not just about preparing them for Wall Street, but for the world. After all, we are Notre Dame." 
The University of Chicago topped the list, followed by the MBA programs at the University of Pennsylvania and Northwestern University. The complete list can be viewed at the BusinessWeek Web site. 
The BusinessWeek rankings were based on a three-part methodology: student surveys (45 percent of the ranking), corpo­rate recruiter surveys (45 per­cent) and the analysis of "intellec­tual capital," as based on journal articles written by faculty mem­bers (10 percent). For the 2006 edition, the magazine used sur­veys results from 9,000 gradu­ates and more than 200 recruiters. 
Notre Dame was also ranked 32nd among the world's top 100 full-time MBA programs by the Economist Intelligence Unit in results released Oct. 12. Mendoza was 20th on the list of American schools and singled out as the top program with "Potential to Network." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

thanked everyone for all their hard work too." 
Over the next nine days lead­ing up to the national election, Conway said the College Democrats will not have any more events like "Campus Invasion" planned, but many club members will be working the phones for Donnelly's cam­paign. 
The NDCD is also planning to stick to home base, rather than reciprocate the journey to the Ball State area. 
"In the past, when the elec­tions in this region haven't been so close, we've traveled to other campuses to help out," Conway said. "But this year, this cam­paign is one of the ones that needs help the most." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
pionship dreams alive. 
"It's always nice to 
our schedule looks good," jun­see USC lose, but it 
ior Mary Beth actually might hurt 
Scully said. "It's 
us in the long run. ,,
always nice to see USC lose, but it actually might Mary Beth Scully hurt us in the juniorlong run." 
While Notre 

"!There were so many I near misses, McQueeney said. "With Texas com­ing baek to win, Tennessee avoid­ing upset and USC going down, our shot at this year's National Championship took a huge hit, 
Dame seems poised for a b~t y~u never know with the strong finish to a hopefully lnsh. successful season, the Irish will need some help around Contact Patrick Cassidy at the nation to keep their cham-pcassidy@nd.edu 

continued from page 1 
"One thing about our guys . . . they live with you, they eat at North and South Dining Hall, they do the same things [aca­demicallyl," Brey said. "[And then! they have to go out and compete in the Big East." 
Entertainment for Thursday's event was provided by the Porn Squad, members of the band, cheerleaders and a video showing highlights from past games. Students in the audi­once were selected to partici­pate in free throw contests and a relay with players, and prizes were given out to some of the winners. 
At the conclusion of the event, students were able to redeem their vouchers and purehase season ticket books. 
"LThe process] is a little bit convoluted, but it's worth it because I'm a sports fan," freshman Kia Johnson said. "And for basketball [the price] is pretty reasonable." 
Josh Berlo, direetor of ticket operations, said that this year's the routine from last year. 

"We did streamline it a bit by doing away with wristbands and making tickets available immediately following the event or on subsequent days to better accommodate student schedules," he said. 
Berlo also said fans can look forward to a great season with a full Joyce Center. 
"It is a bit early to know how ticket sales will be for this year," he said. "However, thus far they appear strong and similar to previous seasons." 
Students' opinions of Thursday's event were mixed, but most agreed that this year's price for season tickets was a bargain. 
Freshman Joseph Nachio was pleased with the process for purehasing tickets overall. 
"It seems really easy, well structured, [and] pretty con­venient," he said. "[And the price] is really good-sixty bucks and you're getting a full season." 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 


713 'h W. LaSalle, historic 2 bedroom, living room, kitchen, all appliances with washer & dryer, $650 includes water. 
2 bedrooms, 1% baths, eat~in kitchen, living room w/ fireplace, dining room, hard wood floors, 1 car garage, appliances, 123 Sunnyside, $1100. 
Swanson Heights, bHevel 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room, family room. all appliances, 2 car attached garage, 17550 Bandel, a must to see, $1300. 
New home Staffordshire Estates 2341 Harwood, convenient to by-pass, great location, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, kitchen and nook, living room, full basement. 2 car attached garage, $1250. 
Brand New Dublin Village Townhouse, 3 bedrooms, 3Y2 baths, kitchen, living room. dining room. family room, fireplace, all appliances, 2 car garage. $1400. 
,;) 
.:f~j
Wt 2416 LW.W 4 bedrooms, 1Y2 baths, living room, · f d•ning room. 2 car garage $000. 

Call Portage Realty, 272-7750. Ask for Sharon. 


THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Monday, October 30, 2006 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,090.26 -73.40
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composit2 Volume: I, I 6 I 126 2, II 4 2,463,333, 180 

S&PSOO 1,377.34 -11.74 
···~~J~!,J~lll:,!illlllllllll!lllllll! 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,160.90 -23.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -1.42  -0.61  42.21  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -3.08  -0.67  21.10  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +2.61  +0.14  5.50  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.04  -0.0 I  28.34  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.97  -0.046  4.675  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.20  -0.010  4.965  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.93  -0.045  4.796  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.30  -0.061  4.632  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.39  60.75  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 1.20  601.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.15  92.03  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.5300  
EURO  0.7849  
POUND  0.5266  
CANADIAN$  1.1193  

IN BRIEF 
Bans could derail Great Lakes fishing 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -A government crack­down on live fish shipments from the Great Lakes states is intended to check the spread of a deadly aquatic virus, but critics say it could devastate the region's fishing industry. 
In an emergency order last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service banned interstate transport of 37 species of live fish from the eight states adjacent to the Great Lakes. Importing those species from the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec also was prohibited. 
The agency's target is viral hemorrhagic sep­ticemia, which poses no risk to humans but caus­es internal bleeding in fish. VHS was discovered in the region last year and is blamed for fish kills in lakes Erie, Ontario and St. Clair and the St. Lawrence River. 
Among species susceptible to the virus are pop­ular sport fish such as chinook and coho salmon, rainbow trout, walleye and yellow perch. 
Federal officials do not know how the virus, long a problem in Europe, reached the Great Lakes. But state fishery managers believe it came in ballast tanks of oceangoing cargo ships, con­sidered a leading source of exotic species such as zebra mussels that are damaging the lakes' ecol­ogy. 
Scientists resign to avoid crackdown 
WASHINGTON-Nearly 40 percent of the sci­entists conducting hands-on research at the National Institutes of Health say they are look­ing for other jobs or are considering doing so to escape new ethics rules that have curtailed their opportunity to earn outside income. 
Most scientists say the ethics crackdown is too severe, and nearly three-quarters of them believe it will hinder the government's ability to attract and keep medical researchers, accord­ing to a survey commissioned by the govern­ment's premier medical research agency. 
The tightened rules were put in place last year after NIH found dozens of scientists had ran afoul of existing restrictions on private consult­ing deals that had enriched them with money from drug and biotechnology compa­nies. 
Outside income from such companies is now banned. NIH also is placing greater restrictions on employees' financial holdings. 
CEO: AK Steel still not for sale 
As lockout of labor employees nears ninth month, some analysts predict takeover 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI-As a lock­
out of union employees 
nears its ninth month, AK 
Steel executives insist that 
they are not shopping the 
Ohio company even though 
some analysts think it is 
being eyed for a possible 
takeover. 
"We are all about improv­
ing our competitiveness," 
CEO James Wainscott told 
investors last week. "If in 
the process of doing that it 
makes us more attractive, 
so be it; but we are not 
actively marketing AK 
Steel." 
Some analysts believe that 
potential suitors are just 
waiting for AK to resolve its 
labor problems. The compa­
ny has been operating its 
largest mill, the Middletown 
Works, about 30 miles north 
of Cincinnati, with replace­
ment workers since it began 
a lockout March 1. 
"There have been lots of 
takeover rumors," said ana­
lyst Charles Bradford, of 
Bradford Research/Solei! 
Securities in New York. 
'The industry is consolidat­
ing, and they (AK Steel) are 
subject to takeover because 
they are relatively small and 
flexible. If they solve their 
(labor) problems, they 
become more attractive." 

Industry analyst Michael Locker, who has been a con­sultant to the union that September and a similar tivity has increased 36 per­"The bottom line is we are represents the locked-out one in October that would cent, Wainscott said. prepared to operate in this workers, said he believes have had everybody back to The Middletown Works fashion indefinitely if we AK has had a lot of lookers, work in 90 days. After that, had about 2,700 hourly pro­need to do so," Wainscott but no takers. the company put a signifi­duction and maintenance said. "Having said that, just 
"Obviously, small and cantly worse offer on the workers in January. When it as we have for the past 11 medium-sized mills are fac­table. became evident that some months, we will continue to ing consolidation," Locker AK has said the Middle­kind of job action was emi­bargain in good faith to said. "What I hear is that town Works operates at a nent, a wave of resignations reach a labor agreement nearly every international $40-a-ton cost disadvantage began as workers who had that allows us to compete at producer that is interested and the company must have 30 years seniority took Middletown Works." in buying into the U.S. mar­a contract that eliminates advantage of their eligibility Wainscott has gone out of ket has looked at AK." work force guarantees, to retire with full benefits. his way to tell investors that 
But nobody wants to take allows greater flexibility in The work force had AK is happy with its niche on AK's current legacy costs scheduling, passes on some dropped to about 2,500 market status and wants to for pensions and health health care insurance costs when union workers were stay independent. care, he said. and converts a defined ben­locked out on Feb. 28, when "We're not for sale," he 
"Until that is resolved in a efits pension to a contributo­their contract expired. More also told analysts in July. favorable way that both par­ry plan. retirements and resigna­"This is a company that is ties can live with, I don't Since Wainscott's team tions have reduced union standing alone, and we hope think you're going to attract took over management of membership to just over to do so more profitably." much of an interest among AK Steel three years ago, 1,800 -about the same He repeated that assess­buyers," Locker said. the total work force has number of replacement ment when AK announced 
Union workers voted been cut from around 9,000 workers who were hired to its profitable third-quarter 
down a contract proposal in to about 6,600 and produc-keep the mill going. results last week. 

Stocks down on slow GDP growth 
Associated Press growth, the report underscored con­Poor's 500 index slipped 11.74, or 
cern that a cooling housing market 0.85 percent, to 1,377.34, and the 
NEW YORK -Stocks pulled back could spill over into other parts of the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index 
Friday after a government report economy. fell 28.48, or 1.20 percent, to 
stirred concerns that the economy "I think that the market actually 2,350.62. Technology stocks retreated 
may be slowing too much. was poised for profit-taking and con­Friday afternoon following a report 
Investors have bid up stocks solidation," said Quinry Krosby, chief from Goldman Sachs Inc. that warned 
sharply in October on the notion that investment strategist at The Hartford. of weakness in orders for computer 
the economy is slowing, but not in a She contends the GDP report gave parts. 
way that would threaten corporate investors an excuse to catch their Over all, the major indices showed 
profits and consumer spending. breath after the recent run-up and gains for the week despite Friday's 
Investors are also counting on a grad­called the pullback a healthy pause. decline. The Dow rose 0.73 percent 
ual slowdown to reduce the threat of The Dow Jones industrial average for the week, while the S&P gained 
inflation and convince the Federal was down 73.40, or 0.60 percent, at 0.64 percent and the Nasdaq added 
Reserve to lower short-term interest 12,090.26. The Dow Jones industrials 0.36 percent. Despite the overall 
rates. achieved a new high close in each of advances in the market, the S&P 
While investors expected Friday's previous four sessions and 13 of the stands about 9.8 percent below its 
advance reading on gross domestic previous 18 sessions. high close of 1,527.46 and the 
product from the Commerce Broader stock indicators also Nasdaq is even further off. at about 
Department would show slowing moved lower Friday. The Standard & 53 percent. 


Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Board of Health vveighs potential benefits of trans-fat ban 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -There are plenty of things in Kentucky Fried Chicken that are bad for your health -cholesterol, sat­urated fat and salt, to name a few. But only one has the potential to get the colonel's recipe banned in New York City. 
That ingredient is artificial trans fatty acids, which are so common that the average American eats 4. 7 pounds a year, according to the Food and Drug Administration. City health officials say these so­called trans fats are so unhealthy they belong in the same category as food spoiled by rodent droppings. 
On Monday, the Board of Health will hold its first public hearing on a proposal to make New York the first U.S. city to ban restaurants from serving food containing artificial trans fats. 
Eateries are scrambling for ways to get trans fats out of their food. 
KFC Corp. said it was plan­ning a "major announcement" in New York on Monday about a change coming to all 5,500 of its U.S. restaurants. Franchise owners told several newspa­pers and magazines that KFC would stop using partially hydrogenated vegetable oil ­the primary source of artificial trans fats. 
Representatives of the com­pany and its parent, Louisville, Ky.-based Yum Brands Inc., declined to comment, but the possible switch was applauded by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, which sued KFC in June over the trans fat content of its chicken. 
"Assuming KFC goes through with it, it would be a tremen­dous improvement for the nutritional quality of their foods," said the center's execu­tive director, Mike Jacobson. 
Invented in the early 1900s, partially hydrogenated veg­etable oil was initially believed to be a healthy substitute for natural fats like butter or lard. It was also cheaper, performed better under high heat and had a longer shelf life. Today, it is used for deep frying and as a shortening in baked goods like cookies and crackers. 
Ironically, many fast food companies became dependent on hydrogenated oil about 15 years ago when they were pressured by health groups to do something about saturated fat. McDonald's emptied its fry­ers of beef tallow in 1990 and filled them with what was then thought to be "heart healthy" partially hydrogenated veg­etable oil. 

Virus attacks Midwest fish 
Associated Press 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. -A government crackdown on live fish shipments from the Great Lakes states is intended to check the spread of a deadly aquatic virus, but critics say it could devastate the region's fishing industry. 
In an emergency order last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service banned interstate transport of 3 7 species of live fish from the eight states adjacent to the Great Lakes. Importing those species from the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec also was prohibited. 
The agency's target is viral hemorrhagic septicemia, which poses no risk to humans but causes internal bleeding in fish. VHS was discovered in the region last year and is blamed for fish kills in lakes Erie, Ontario and St. Clair and the St. Lawrence River. 
Among species susceptible to the virus are popular sport fish such as chinook and coho salmon, rainbow trout, walleye and yellow perch. 
Federal officials do not know how the virus, long a problem in Europe, reached the Great Lakes. But state fishery man­agers believe it came in ballast tanks of oceangoing cargo ships, considered a leading source of exotic species such as zebra mussels that are dam­aging the lakes' ecology. 
The federal agency has scheduled a meeting with state and industry representatives for Tuesday in Washington, D.C., to discuss regulations aimed at containing the virus. 
The emergency order "just puts everything on hold until we can figure out what we're going to do," spokesman Jim Rogers said. 
But some in the region said they were blindsided by the order, which could be especial­ly hard on commercial fish farms and live bait vendors. It also could hamper stocking programs essential to the region's $4.5 billion fishery, critics said. 
"This order will completely eliminate long-established trades of sport fish between state agencies that are crucial to the maintenance, restora­tion and enhancement of sport 
• 
Teens main target of addictive beverages 
Energy drinks create dangerous tendencies 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -More than 500 new energy drinks launched worldwide this year, and cof­fee fans are probably too old to understand why. 
Energy drinks aren't merely popular with young people. They attract fan mail on their own MySpace pages. They spawn urban legends. They get reviewed by bloggers. And they taste like carbonated cough syrup. 
Vying for the dollars of teenagers with promises of weight loss, increased endurance and legal highs, the new products join top­sellers Red Bull, Monster and Rockstar to make up a $3.4 billion-a-year industry that grew by 80 percent last year. 
Thirty-one percent of U.S. teenagers say they drink energy drinks, according to Simmons Research. That rep­resents 7.6 million teens, a jump of almost 3 million in three years. 
Nutritionists warn that the drinks, laden with caffeine and sugar, can hook kids on an unhealthy jolt-and-crash cycle. The caffeine comes from multiple sources, mak­ing it hard to tell how much the drinks contain. Some have B vitamins, which when taken in megadoses can cause rapid heartbeat, and numbness and tingling in the hands and feet. 
But the biggest worry is how some teens use the drinks. Some report downing several cans in a row to get a buzz, and a new study found a surprising number of poi­son-center calls from young people getting sick from too much caffeine. 
E. coli outbreak to ere ate future benefits 
New packaging will prevent contamination 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO -Like lab technicians on a crime­scene television drama, investigators have tracked a strain of bacteria over thou­sands of miles -from bagged spinach in Midwestern refrigerators to the guts of a wild pig in the hills of California's central coast. 
While they may never pin­point the exact source of the strain of E. coli blamed for killing three people and sick­ening more than 200, they have come closer than ever before. And experts say the investigation has yielded valuable clues for preventing future outbreaks. 
"We've completely over­hauled the way we test and 
package greens," said Samantha Cabaluna, a spokeswoman for Natural Selection Foods LLC, the company that packaged the tainted spinach. "Regardless of the source or method of contamination, we're better prepared to catch it." 
That's little solace to vic­tims and their families. 
"This was a long, convolut­ed story that took a long time to unfold," said Ken Costello, whose elderly mother-in-law was among those who died. 
The case started with scat­tered reports of people falling sick. A 6-year-old boy in Wisconsin had bad cramps. A 12-year-old girl in Kentucky was hospitalized with vomiting. An elderly woman died in Wisconsin. 

fish programs" in the region, Sam Flood, acting director of the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, wrote in a letter to the federal agency. 
Dan Vogler, who raises rain­bow trout in Harrietta, about 30 miles south of Traverse City, said the order had taken away 70 percent of his customers. He sends live fish to other states for sale in restaurants and markets, and for stocking lakes and rivers. 
The virus hasn't been detect­ed on any fish farm in the Great Lakes region, Vogler said. Michigan has 4 7 fish farms, with combined sales of $2.4 million in 2005, according to the USDA. 
Greg Oswald, president of the Minnesota Aquaculture Association, sells his fathead minnows for sport fishing bait across the nation. He estimat­ed his business could lose $600,000 this year and more in 2007 if the interstate ban continues. 
Industry spokesmen said the ban could mean live bait short­ages and higher prices. 
Dealers who supply bait shops in Ohio buy about half their stock from other states, said Fred Snyder, an Ohio State University extension agent. Ohio's trout farmers get young fish to raise from other states. 
Meanwhile, trout farmers in Minnesota and Wisconsin have millions of pounds ready for stocking lakes elsewhere. 
"All of a sudden they can't move these fish," Snyder said. "These people are going to be financially devastated." 
The National Aquaculture Association, a fish farming trade group, asked the govern­ment for regulations to help prevent the virus from spread­ing, said its president, Randy MacMillan. He said the associ­ation didn't request the emer­gency order but understands the need. 
It could take the federal agency two or three months just to write interim rules, MacMillan said. "In the mean­time, the movement of poten­tially infected live fish would continue," he said. 

Trans fats significantly raise the level of so-called "bad" cholesterol in the blood, clog­ging arteries and causing heart disease. Researchers at Harvard's School of Public Health estimated that trans fats contribute to 30,000 U.S. deaths a year. 
"This is something we'd like to dismiss from our food sup­ply," said Dr. Robert H. Eckel, immediate past president of the American Heart Association. 
Wendy's, the national burger chain, has already switched to a zero-trans fat oil. McDonald's announced in 2003 that it intended to do so, but has yet to follow through. 
If approved, New York's ban would only affect restaurants, not grocery stores, and would­n't extend beyond the city lim­its. But experts said the city's food service industry, with 24,600 establishments, is so large that any rule change is likely to ripple nationwide. 
"It's going to be the trendset­ter for the entire country," said Suzanne Vieira, director of the culinary nutrition program at Johnson & Wales University in Providence, R.I. 
Richard Lipsky, a spokesman for the Neighborhood Retail Alliance, said many New York eatery owners rely on ingredi­ents prepared elsewhere, and aren't always aware whether the foods they sell contain trans fats. 
Consumer reaction remains to be seen. 
New Jersey state Sen. Ellen Karcher said her office was flooded with threatening phone calls after she proposed a simi­lar trans fat ban in early October. A proposed ban in Chicago was ridiculed by some as government paternalism run amok. 

--------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 30, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1Stay the course' cuts and runs 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 63H541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ ~(USPS 599 24000) i$ published Monday thruugh Frida:y w:cpt during exam and ucadon periods. A subscription ro The Ob~rv(:r is $100 f9r one academic: year.: $55 for one st'mc;ter .. 
The Obstrver is publishc:d. at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address cortl!cdons w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
P-eriodital postrage paid at NoEre Dame: P.O. Box 779 

and addi.tiorud malli-ng ofti.ces. 024 Souch Dining Halt 
Nom Dame, IN 46)'>6·0779 
The Observer is .a member ofthe Associated Pte55. All reproduction rights are tCSc!ri(:d.. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Joe Piarulli Kate Gales 
Laura Kyle Cassily Baumgartner Fran Tolan Steve Kerins Michael Bryan 
Viewpoint Scene Lianna Marty Schroeder 
Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 
This past week White House Press Secretary Tony Snow announced that the Bush administration will no longer be using the phrase "stay the course" in regards to our Iraqi War strategy. This is clearly an interesting turn of events as "stay the course" has been hammered into our psyche for months and months, often in response to a recently released casualty or intelligence report which would seem to indicate that our cur­rent strategy is not working. This is par­ticularly interesting as "stay the course" was the Bush Administration's and also Bush supporters' means of contrasting their strategy to that of the Dmnocrats: the cowardly "cut and run" tactic. However, this reevaluation of strategy and semantics speaks to a larger phenomenon of tying complicated nuanced issues to as few words as possible and then repnating that phrase over and over until America believes that the issue is that simple. 
However, no issue facing America is simple enough to be reduced to a three or four word credo. The utter failure of the government to control the situation in Iraq and to come up with a feasible strat­egy for both Iraqi and American success deserves more than three words and obstinate, stubborn rhetoric whieh insists that ifwe simply keep doing what we're doing, we will win. This simplistic fa~ade that has repeatedly been presented to the American public is additionally reflected in a grossly insulting way through the midterm election campaign commercials that have begun to dominate television screens across the country. 
The ad campaigns have taken simpli(y­ing a message to a new low, simplifying the opponent's platform to a few mislead-ing words and atrocious analyses of posi­tions. For example, any stance which attempts to determine if there is a way to integrate already present illegal immi­grants into our society is automatically considered "amnesty." Any politician who agrees with President Bush the majority of the time is made out to be a puppet of the eurrent administration. Anyone who has evnr shaken the hand, as would bo the responsible thing to do when meeting someone of any kind of objectionable fig­urn, will undoubtedly have that picture induded in their opponent's campaign ad as if all opinions, issue stances and agen­das are magically transported from the questionable party to a eandidate through a simple handshake. 


Personally I'm sick of it. And even worso than my porsonal disdain for the lack or othies in political semanties these days is that thosn who are perpetrating these damaging, misleading, and ulti­mately usP!nss mnssagos are those who wo are lim:od to choose between. Each day we hear tho dirtiest and grossest mis­representations or candidatos' character and policies and ultimatnly one of them will win. What is being perpetuated is a cydo of distrust and loss of faith in politi­cians and while there certainly is no laek of seandals, ehnating, lying and incompe­tent roprosnntation in Congress, neither party should have to spend tens of mil­lions or dollars to point out their potential fi1r failuro as opposed to their own candi­dates' reasons fi>r inevitable success. 
What I propose is a contraet which obli­gates the m;~jority of a candidate's approvod ads to be positive. Call it the "Integrity in Campaigning Agreement." Essentially it would eurtail negative cam­paigning oflkially sponsored by candi­dates, by fim:ing them to spend more money and minutes of airtime on positive campaign ads than on negative cam­paigning. Such an agreement could be signed by the major candidates in any elm:tion and quite frankly would put the spotlight back on the candidate, their achievements and why they would be a good public oflicial. 
In addition, I hope that one day both the Hepublican and Democratic National Committees will collaborate and form a campaign oversight eommittee whose sole purpose is to analyze the daims of candi­dates and to diligently fact-eheck and explain the sources and details of each claim. Perhaps if there were a central non-partisan authority whose sole pur­pose is to bring truth back into politics, more Amerieans would have a better understanding of the politieal process, those who take part in it and what they a1:hieve. Maybe then more Americans would turn out to vote. 
Suc:h a committee will never be formed. But, hey, I ean dream. 
What it eomes down to is this: Americans deserve bettor than to have their vote courted by sound bites and catch phrases. Americans deserve better than gross misinterpretation of crucial stances on serious issues. Americans deserve better than the barrage of nega­tive eampaign eommerdals that flood their living rooms with doubt and anxiety over whether any eandidate is acceptable. It's time to bring truth and ethics back to the fornfront of political campaigns. It's time for Americans to demand something better. This midterm eleetion season, vote based on the faets -not based upon the distortions and oversimplilieations of issues inherently found in negative cam­paigning. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for The Colbert Report and Fox News, Chris Wallace in particular. All letters ofsup­port, disdain or otherwise relevant com­mentary should be forwarded to him at mcauli.ffe.4@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

IHt COORS~ !I SlAV ECOURSfll
' . /
.. 
•" If 
never 
mind 

OBSERVER POLL 
Does Halloween falling on a Tuesday affect your plans to celebrate? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
.· www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'11 truly good book teaches me better than to read it. I must lay it down and com­mence living on its hint ... What I beq,an by reading I must finish by acting. ' 
Henry David Thoreau author 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, October 30, 2006 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Support for 'Bras Around the Bend' display 
Bras for a cause 
In response to Lauren Galgano's "Downtown display inappropriate," I find her statements like a bra with no wire ­lacking support. 
She should really "push up" her opinion with some facts. One in eight women in the United States will be diagnosed with some form of breast cancer sometime in their life (American Cancer Association). This translates into about 212,920 women who will be found to have breast cancer this year, and about 40,970 of those women will have died from it. 
How can you bash a display that is intended to bring awareness and raise funds for research that can reduce the number of women dying every single year from breast cancer? 
This disease will even affect many of the women on the Notre Dame campus in one way or another. I am one of them. My mother is still in remission after being diagnosed with breast cancer three years ago. She is a women who all her life stressed about being a conservative, upstanding woman. After being diag­nosed, she quickly realized that there is no shame for her body. This is coming from a woman who was afraid to take her bra off for mammograms in front of a female nurse! After surgery, chemothera­py, radiation, hundreds of check ups, needing the help of her daughter to bathe, she is not ashamed -not ashamed of her bra or her breasts. 
Even more so, my family and I used humor to help her forget about the pain, about the sickness that came with chemotherapy, about the loss of her hair, about the trouble getting in and out of bed, about the struggle to get healthy so she can enjoy her life once again with her family. 
The "Bras Around the Bend" display does not have an underlying innuendo about sexuality. It is meant to raise awareness through something that helps thousands of individuals forget about their pain-through humor. And Lauren Galgano, if you cannot be mature enough to see beyond this display, then you are marginalizing the pain, the struggle, the love and the support of what that display means to hundreds of thousands of peo­ple. 
LuLu Meraz sophomore McGlinn Hall Oct. 28 

U-WIRE 
Deep in the drink 
Last year, I attended a small, private col­lege in a middle-sized Iowa town. Students at this college drank, but the drinking was rarely out of control. When I transferred to Iowa State University, I was fully aware that the alcohol con­
Stephanie Eifler
sumption would increase, but I was completely oblivious Iowa State to its level of severity. University 
I don't drink. I Iowa State Daily never have and most likely never will. Although I don't under­stand or agree with the obsessive need for college students to drink in excess, I don't have a problem with students who choose to do so. That is, however, until I am disre­spected by intoxicated individuals who have lost control of themselves. Unfortunately at Iowa State, this happens more often than not. 
Although I may not drink, I am no stranger to parties. I don't mind making an appearance at a house or apartment burst­ing with friends who are consuming alco­hol because I can leave the party the moment I feel uncomfortable or annoyed. The problem begins when drunken individ­uals find their way into my residence hall. 
My residence hall is my home. I shouldn't have to want to escape my own home because drinkers lose control, but I do. On the weekends, it is normal for the hallways to be exceedingly loud at three or four in the morning when I am trying to sleep. 
When I finally ignore the noise long enough to drift away into my dreams, I am usually angrily woken up by an irritating fire alarm pulled by someone under the influence who thinks the stunt is absolutely hilarious. After descending down and climbing up nine flights of stairs in the wee hours of the morning, it becomes clear why I don't appreciate drinking in excess. 
On Saturday and Sunday mornings, I'm afraid to see or smell the interior of the elevators. Multiple times this semester, the elevator floors have been disgustingly caked with beer, vomit and garbage. After I try desperately not to touch anything in the elevator, the doors open to a main floor covered with ripped newspaper and more beer and garbage. 
By Sunday, my home is completely trashed by out-of-control drinking. I did nothing to contribute to the destruction, yet I suffer from the consequences. 
At my small, private college, the rules regarding drinking were strictly enforced. Because the rules were enforced, I was able to go to my own residence hall -my home -to escape the rowdy students. At Iowa State, little is done in the residence halls to prevent the destruction from drinkers. Instead, people seem to turn their heads and ignore the damage as if it's normal, acceptable behavior for 18-, 19­and 20-year-old underage drinkers. People act as if nothing ever happened. 
Something destructive does happen, however, every single weekend. For some, it may be entertaining to see their drunken accomplishments from the previous night's adventure. 
For me, it's not only frustrating but sick­ening as well. Obviously my choice to not drink makes me a minority among stu­dents at Iowa State, but I shouldn't be forced to suffer because of that choice. My choice is the legal choice, yet my home is destroyed. 
I understand underage drinking will hap­pen. After all, we are in college. I don't support drinking, but to an extent, I can accept its presence in my life. 
When my home and comforts are violat­ed, however, the line is crossed. Since I've arrived at Iowa State, I have constantly felt violated. I know I am not alone, but the only way the problem will be fixed is if it can no longer be ignored. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 27 edition ofthe Iowa State Daily, the daily publication at Iowa State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Sexual innuendo not goal in display 
I would like to respectfully dis­agree with a letter by fellow gradu­ate student Lauren Galgano in which she suggests that the "Bras Around the Bend" display in downtown South Bend is a wrong-headed and provocative attempt to use sex appeal to publicize a good cause. While I am not a big fan of much of the music played on U93 and think that many current pop and R&B hits objectify women and sex, I simply don't think that the radio station was implying a similar message with the "Bras Around the Bend" campaign (which is also cosponsored by LaSalle Bank and Unity Surgical Arts). 
Neither the advertisements I heard on the station nor the advertisement on its website carry any sort of sexu­al connotation. They simply say, donate a bra, and for each bra donated, monetary contributions will be made to RiverBend Cancer Services. They don't say bring your laciest, raciest bra so we can spice up the downtown scene (for a good cause). 
The website graphics include a simple pink ribbon, not a scantily clad lingerie model. As for Lauren's idea that bras themselves are a sex symbol and therefore make the dis­play inappropriate, I would have to reply that I think most anything can become a sex symbol if the viewer intends for it to be one. 
By stringing bras around trees and lightpoles, I don't think U93 or the town of South Bend is attempting to conjure up images of cleavage-bar­ing Victoria's Secret models. Instead, I think that the bra display intends and should bring to mind the mil­lions of women who are affected with breast cancer, many of whom have to deal with the physical and emotional side effects of having a mastectomy. 
Rebecca McCumbers grad student off campus Oct. 27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



Tl··lE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 Monday, October 30, 2006 
The dry SJWII following tlw nnd of sumnwr is finally over as tlw winter months usiH•r in a bounty of must-sen movies just in time for awards s1mson to begin. TlwrP is a general lull in quality film rnleases in tlw months of September and October as sumnwr blockbusters end and studios hold their Os1:ar hopefuls for a rolease time closer to Oscar season, lest those films be forgotten come January and February. This win­ter sonms to ofl'nr it all -disturbing and riveting dramas, wnll-ac.ted and l'art joke-free comndies, a Beyone1\-lead musical and blond-haired, blun­eyed Daniel Craig as the newest 007. 
The Queen (Oct. 6, 2006-Limited Release) 
llelen Mirrnn stars as Queen Elizabeth II in "The Quefm," a lilm alrnady generating Oscar buzz for its lead performances and dnt'tly han­dled storyline. "Tho Queen" f'leshes out the tumultuous period following the death of Princess Diana in August 11) 1)7, spncil'ically through the Inns of tlw British Hoyal Family and thnir rnaetions. Profiling a conllid between tho formerly stoic royals ami the plwnomcmal out­pouring of grid among thn public worldwide, director Stephen Fnmrs captures this struggle in a skillful way atrc~ady garrwring attnntion from the prnss and rritic:al film c:irdes. 
"Tho Qtwcm" limturos performances, which are sure to be strong, from .James Cromwell ("L.A. Confidcmtial") as tlw Queen's husband Prince Phillip, Miduwl Sheen ("Underworld") as Prime Minister Tony Blair and tlw venorabh~ Mirwn as the embattled Qw~nn lwrs1dl'. Mirrcm 's porform­ancn has already bn1~n the cause of Oscar rumors. as she rc~cently won the Volpi Cup for her performance in "The Queen" at the Venice Film Festival. Frears and sernenwritnr Pntnr Morgan also won top honors for their rnspoctivn categories, cemcmting the possibility for "The Queen" to make a strong showing como Oscar season. 
Stranger Than Fiction (Nov. 10, 2006) 

Will Ferrell returns to the silver screen in a role very difl'erent than his last as comic raeocar driver Hieky Bobby. lie plays llarold Criek, an everyman ms auditor whoso life is being written by novelist Kay Eiffel (Emma Thompson). She does not realize this peculiar relationship, yet he hears her discuss the novel of his life in his head. He consults professor Jules Hilbert (Dustin Hoffman) to hnlp him with this voice -which seems to know what will happen before he does. Hearing the voiee pulls Crick out of his dull exis­tence, but trouble ensues when he hears she plans to kill him. 
This movie has garnered attention dun to the all-star cast. Ferrell has been playing more and more dramatic characters of late and this film is in that vein. Thompson and HolTman bring their considerable acting chops and will most definite­ly provide a solid supporting east to Ferrell. The 
~.-~..:. 
~ales 
STORIES B y 
up and corning Maggin Gyllnnhaal also makes an appearancn as Crick's governnwnt-hating lovn internst Ana Pascal. Tlw story is intcm~sting and fresh, the cast is top-notch and it sc~nrns that director Marc hll·stc~r has inserted the right amount of drama. romanc:o and cornndy to rnako this one of 200(J's most nwmorablo lilrns. 
A Good Year (Nov. 10, 2006) 
According to its tag line, "Everything matums... evcmtually." And whiln tho main char­acter, Max Skimwr (Hussnll Crown), might, this film might have nnough impact to deserve praise usually rnsnrvnd for a rnaturo French wine. "A Good Year," directed by Hidley Seott and written by Mare Klein. is based ofT a book written by Pntnr Mayle. Although it is advertised as a eomn­dy, it appears to be a drama at heart. Workaholic Max Skinner suddcmly rneeives notien that his favorite undo (Albort Finnoy) has passod away. 
Aftor journeying to Italy to sort out thn will, Max loarns that lw has inlwritod his uncle's vine­yard. But the Italian lifnstylo dons not mnsh very wPII with Max's love of work and monoy, and he must doeide whether to sell ofT his childhood mmnorins or mako monoy oil' tho vineyard. 
This is tho crux of a journey of pnrsonal discov­ery and lovn. Hominiscont of "Undor tho Tuscan Sun" and about a million other dramatic roman­tic: commlies, the film donsn't. appcmr to lw very original. But it could turn out to bn a latn snason surprisn that garnnrs Scott somo of tlw credit hn has rncnntly lost. 
Casino Royale (Nov. 17, 2006) 
A nnw Bond hnralds a new start to this iconic franchise. "Casino Hoyalo" tolls tlw story of how .Jamns Bond transl'ormnd from grunt assassin to supnr-spy 007. Snt in tho Bahamas, it is basnd on the lirst book writtnn by Jan Fleming, author of the .James Bond novnls which inspirnd the lilm franchise. Thn narrative weaves itsell' through a poker game that Bond is sent to inf'iltrate in order to keep terrorist bankroller Le ChifTre (Mads Mikkelsen) from ever again sening the light of day. 
It introduces Daniel Craig as Bond, who starred in the underground British gangster film "Layer Cake" under the direction ol' Matthew Vaughn, the producer ol' Guy Hitchie's "Snatch" and "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels." He takes the helm from Pierce Brosnan, who many considered thn best Bond since Sean Connery. The flaxen-haired Craig has stirred much contro­versy for inheriting the Bond mantle with his rugged looks that are not in line with the more suave Bonds of the past. 
Famed Damn Judi Dnnch reprises her role as the leader of the British intelligence service, Ml6. Eva Green ("Kingdom of Heaven") is the newest "Bond girl" in her role as the watchful Vesper Lynd. Martin Campbell, director of "Goldeneye," a lilm many consider the best Bond lilm in recent 

T H E 0 B 
memory, returns to hE mcmt in the Bond serif 
For Your Consideratit 
With his reliable c again. Christopher G (with Eugene Levy) "I a look into the cha llollywood. The film I they learn that their are garnering critiea Guest takes a diffen project. Past films "Tl for GuiTman," "Best Wind," have all been areas such as small-t shows. "For Your Con predecnssors and is rnmains largely imprc 
Improvisation is a films. Therefore, he b tional comedic talen returning for "For Y1 Catherine O'Hara, E! !larry Shearer, John Coolidge, Parker Pos McKean, Frnd Williart neweomer is Hieky Ge Guest and Levy write· oaeh character that tl from as they imprm Long-time fans are v and "For Your Consic pated rollow-up to 2( Gunst's eult-like follow 
Deja Vu (Nov. 22, 20 
"DI1ja Vu," directed by Bill Marsilii and Tf many respects. The I featuring Denzel Wast Caviezel. Denzel Wast investigating a New explodes -or does it' concept of time, alle!.,riJ "triek of the mind" bu evidence that humant across the time contim 
Although the goverr ing a "time viewing" nl film, time travel has b science, and the film of time travel that h<nl entific community. 
In order to be succ' and save hundreds o learn how to shuffie t1 to prnvent the crime. 1 a witty one -especi, allows the same day again-action-paekec The preview draws in and the movie looks 

NSIDER 
OTHE Monday, October 30, 2006 BSERVER Notre Dame 38, Navy 14 
Exhausting Navy's options 
Irish score on five offirst six drives to overpower the Midshipmen rushing attack 

By ERIC RETTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE -Notre Dame scored on five of its first six possessions, but that wasn't good enough for quarterback Brady Quinn. 
"[We wanted to go] six of six and make them all touch­downs," Quinn said after Notre Dame's 38-14 victory over Navy Saturday in Baltimore ­its 43rd straight over the Midshipmen. "That's our goal every time, especially when we're in the red zone." 
In the seven Irish possessions with Quinn in the game, Notre Dame scored six times -five touchdowns and one field goal. Notre Dame's only non-scoring drive during the stretch occurred when running back Darius Walker was stopped on a fourth-and-goal from the three-yard line at the start of the fourth quarter. 
"I think you see a lot of frus­tration on some guys when we don't score a touchdown when we're in the red zone," Quinn said. 
Notre Dame finished with 471 total yards on offense, and Quinn had another standout day for the Irish, completing 18-of-25 passes for 295 yards and three touchdowns. He also added a 19-yard rushing 
touchdown midway through the third quarter. 
"I thought [Quinn] played pretty darn well," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "He's not [just] one of the best quarter­backs in college football, he's one of the best players in col­lege football." 
Notre Dame opened the game with a seven-play, 40-yard drive that resulted in a career­long 40-yard field goal by Carl Gioia. The possession -which stalled on the Navy 23 yard line -was the only Quinn­engineered drive that didn't advance into the red zone. 
It didn't take long for the Irish to fix that problem. 
Notre Dame pushed the score to 10-0 with on the following drive, as David Grimes capped off the possession with a 36­yard touchdown reception ­his first career score. Weis said the play was especially impor­tant because the Irish faced third and 18 at the time. 
"That early touchdown was a really big play in the game, because it was third and forev­er," Weis said. "I was hoping to just get some of it back so we could kick a field goal, but Brady stepped over to the left and saw him over there. 
000 
This is a couple games in a row now that [Grimes] is making some plays for us." 
Navy broke onto the score­

board on its second drive, marching 80 yards on nine plays using its patented triple­option attack. Quarterback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada finished the drive with a one­yard sneak. 
But Notre Dame responded with its own nine-play, 80-yard drive, when Travis Thomas ­who starts at linebacker ­scampered into the end zone from 16 yards out to make the score 17-7. 
The touchdown run was his first carry since a one-yard score against Penn State on Sept. 9. 
Notre Dame established its running game -which has been inconsistent for much of the season early on Saturday. The Irish ran the ball 37 times for 176 yards, com­pared with just 41 yards on 35 carries last week against UCLA. Quinn was sacked only once on Saturday, while UCLA got to him five times. 
Darius Walker led all rushers with 20 carries for 106 yards, his third 1 00-yard game of the season and the 11th of his career. 
"I was much more pleased with how things went in the running game," Weis said. "I think that across the board we were more physical at the line of scrimmage I had a lot
000 

more hardball runs where you go smash them in the mouth." 
Navy again replied to a Notre Dame score with a sustained drive, covering 65 yards in 13 plays. Kaheaku-Enhada fin­ished Navy's scoring drive with another one-yard touchdown run to make the score 17-14 with 2:43 left to play in the half. 
Notre Dame scored the final points of the half on its last possession. The Irish covered 80 yards in just 1:24 playing mostly out of the no-huddle, with a 33-yard touchdown pass from Quinn to receiver Rhema McKnight with 1:19 to go in the half giving the Irish a 24-14 advantage. 
It was the sixth time in eight games this season that Quinn has led the Irish to a score on their last possession of the first half. 
"Our entire offense is pretty comfortable with [the hurry-up offense]." Quinn said. "We've been used to coach Weis's style and philosophy for the past couple years now. I don't want to say it's a backbone for us, but we definitely feel comfort­able in the two minute [offense]." 
While effective offensively in the first half, Notre Dame struggled to stop Navy's option attack early in the game. The midshipmen picked up 211 of their 271 rushing yards in the first half, and they had a run­ning play of ten or more yards on nine separate occasions before the half. 
"You just got to get caught up with the speed of the game, how fast they're pitching that ball [and] getting outside," Irish safety Tom Zbikowski said. 
Notre Dame made adjust­ments at half time, limiting Navy's production in the sec­ond half and not allowing a score. Meanwhile, the Irish offense kept moving. 
Notre Dame put together a nine-play, 69 yard drive on its first second-half possession. capped off by Quinn's touch­down run. 
And after Walker failed to punch it in on fourth and goal from the two-yard line, Quinn responded with a six yard touchdown strike to McKnight to make the game 38-14 on the next possession. 
''I'm really happy to be leav­ing here the way things played out today," he said. "I was happy the way our defense sucked it up in the second half and played well. I thought the offense played pretty good most of the day and we're
oo· 
looking forward on moving on to North Carolina." 
Contact Eric Retter at 
eretter@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Brady Quinn 

The senior quarterback completed I8-of-25 passes for three touchdowns and ran for another score. 
stat of the game 
0 
Number ofpunts by Notre Dame Saturday. The Irish scored on six of their possessions and turned the ball over on downs twice. 

play of the game 
Rhema McKnight's second-quarter touchdown 
The senior wideout put the Irish up by IO right before halftime and Notre Dame never looked back 
quote of the game 
"What we had to do is have one of those 11ames where we score earlyand ojten. Fortunately, that's how it panned out." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 30, 2006 
report card 
A B+ A­B+ A­8­
B B 
B+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn was sharp all day, leading six long scoring drives in the eight possessions he was in the game. He threw three touchdown passes and ran for another. 
running backs: Walker bounced back from 
a bad game against UCLA with over 1 00 yards against Navy's undersized front. Aldridge ran out the dock, but found 
little garbage-time running room. 
receivers: Grimes had another 
impressive game, including a nice 
diving touchdown catch. McKnight 
and Carlson continued their 
productive seasons. 

offensive line: Notre Dame outmanned Navy at every position in the trenches, and it showed, but the line was not as dominant as it could have been against the smaller Midshipmen. 
defensive line: Tllis unit struggled early, but recovered and blew up several option plays before they got started, especially in the second half. They also recorded four sacks in only 11 Navy pass attempt<>. 
linebackers: This unit looked lost early, often leaving the pitch man wide open on the option. But like the rest ofthe defense, they recovered to shut out Navy in the second half. 
defensive backs: The secondary tackled 
well, especially Zbikowski and his 
team-high 14 stops. But it didn't step 
up to the line and stuff the option 
enough, especially when Navy ran it 
wide. 

special teams: Notre Dame's kick returns were solid and Gioia made hi<> only field goal attempt, but punt returns were com­pletely ineffective. The Irish also never punted. 
coaching: The offense was ruthlessly effi­cient, but the defense looked unprepared to stop the option, especially early. Second half adjustments worked, but not before Navy had two long TO drives. 

3.37 
overall: The Irish allowed a lot of yardage on the ground, but dominated offensively and adjusted defensively for the win. 
adding up the numbers 
Navy rushing yards in the first half, the highest amount for an Irish opponent 
211 

for an entire game besides Michigan State. 
60 
Rushing yards by the Midshipmen in the second half. 
Punt by either team in the first half Saturday, a 
1 

42-yard boot by Navy's Greg Veteto with 1:03 left in the second quarter. 
Passes Brady Quinn has thrown since his last interception, coming in the second
168 
quarter against Michigan State Sept. 23. 
Touchdown passes Quinn has thrown since his 
13 

last interception, including three TDs on Saturday. 
Yards rushing for Darius Walker, his third 1 DO-yard game of the season.
103 
Total punt return yards Saturday for the Irish, 
2 

who have not had more than 10 yards in punt returns in a game since Michigan State. 
Straight wins for the Irish over the Midshipmen. 
BAlTIMORE-If the 38-14 Irish vie­tory over Navy Saturday rna.llirmnd three things, they were as follows: quarterback Brady Quinn is pretty good, the Midshipmen ollense is pretty exciting and, most importantly, the Notre Dame fami­ly extends far beyond students and alumni. 
Let's start with the first point. Quinn put<; the Irish on his shoul­ders when it mat­ters most game after game. The quarterback wa<> poised against UClA when his team needed a late-game score, sur­prising nobody when he delivered under pressure. 
And Saturday, amidst questions regarding Notre Dame's offensive inconsistencies and lack ofa big play ability, he led the team to scoring drives on 5-of-6 possessions to start thn game. Two of his touchdown passes came on throws of 30 or more yards-:n yards to Rhema McKnight and 36 yards to David Grimes. 
"Sometimes you don't realize he is that good, but he continues to imprnss us each and every game," McKnight said ofQuinn after tlw game. 
On the othnr sidelinn, Navy showod why it has one of the most intriguing offenses in the country. Of course, Midshipmen coach Paul Johnson (and his . 7 42 earner winning porcnntagel didn't invent the option -but his tnam runs it beautifully. 
What his team lacks in size. it makes up with athleticism and intellignnce, and it took the Notre Dame defense a full half to adjust. 
"The scout team gave us a !,<rnat look, but nobody runs tlmt ommse like Navy does," safety Tom Zbikowski said. 
But nqually notable, and far less pub­licized, is how important this game ­or any Notre Dame game f(>r that mat­ter-wa<> to the thousands ofIrish fans 

Bob Griffin 
Sports Writer 

who don't have tho luxury ofcalling themsdvos Domers. 
Boeausn f(>r every student or ~-,rradu­atn who attnnds home games on Saturdays, there are hundrods more who tune in faithfully on TV. 
And these fans are just as loyal a<> those doing pushups in Notre Dame Stadium alter touchdowns. 
l'hl~se diehards -the Sullys from Southy and Sals from Secaucus ­never had the 1-,rrades li>r "Notah" or "Notuh" Dame, and many don't have the time to leave jobs as carpenters, plumbers and eleetricians to make pil­grimages to Northern Indiana. 
"The lfans I on the nast coa<>t got an opportu­nity to get to see us play without having to travel as long a dis­tance, so that's onn of the roa<>on I think the crowd was so big," Wnis said altor thn game Saturday. 
But whnn a gamn does come around on the nast coast-a first in two years under Charlill 
But when a game does come around on the east coast -a first in two years under Charlie Weis -l-95 is flooded from the construction work in New England, through the east and west spurs in Jersey, all the way down to the 695 exit in Maryland-for one reason. The Irish are playing football. 

Wois-1-95 is flooded from the eon­strudion work in NPw England, through the nast and wnst spurs in Jnrsey, all thn way down to the 695 exit in Maryland-for one reason. 
The Irish are playing f()()tball. 
And while many spend much of the yoar at odds over Yankee-Hod Sox alle­giances, they make up with a few com­mon interests-unwavnring passion li>r tho Irish, a drnam that one day their own kids will have the chance to call Notro Dame home and a few eases of Budwoiser in the back of their trunks. 
And you ean bot anything they'll talk about the experienco for tho rest of their lives-the time they were lucky enough to get their hands on a ticket to see Notre Dame play football. 
After the game Saturday, outside GateD at M&T Bank Stadium, a Notre Dame fan was commanding attenUon from the top of what appeared to be a merchandise stand. 
I lis chant-E-A-G-L-E-S Eagles­wa<> ironic ba<>ed on the stadium's loca­tion (Baltimore) and the nature of the game (Notre Dame-Navy). 
But at the same time, it made perfect sense. 
Because subway alumni-Notre Dame fans who didn't attend the University -are not tied together because the Irish are from their home state. They don't grab on to the Irish 
because they lack local teams to root for. And they defi­nitely don't share a passion because they know what the Golden Dome looks like on a snowy day. 
But they are into sports. So much so that this particular Philadelphia fan felt the need to let people know who he roots for on Sundays, aware that while specta­tors might support 
other rivals -their favorite college fi1otball team provides a bond tight enough to compensate for any differ­ences. 
So as Quinn inches doser towards a lleisman Trophy and the Irish creep further into the BCS picture, under­stand one thing. 
Not all diehard fans named Fitzpatrick have actually seen the Notre Dame engineering building. But a lot of thflm are busy working construction on similar ones. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsever. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgrij]i3@nd.edu. 

Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Thomas scores TD on only carry 
Running back-turned-linebacker shows he still loves the offensive side of the ball 

By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
BALTIMORE -If a statistic for red-zone rushing efficiency among linebackers exist­ed, Notre Dame senior Travis Thomas would be at the top ofthe list. 
Actually, he would be the only one on the list given his unique situation as a dual­threat running back-linebacker. The last two times Thomas, Notre Dame's starting strong side linebacker, has touched the ball as a running back-he has scored. 
"It's a return to what I do," Thomas said after the game Saturday. 'That's what I've done from the start, and it just feels natural tome." 
Thomas scored on a 16-yard off tackle run in the second quarter against Navy Saturday, his first carry since a two-yard score against Penn State Sept. 16. 
The senior linebacker -who still consid­ers himself a running back at heart -was limited to playing defense after suffering a rib injury against Michigan State. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis wanted Thomas to get healthy before giving him reps at run­rung back. Weis was more concerned about Thomas regaining speed and strength on the defensive side of the ball than getting him involved offensively. 
"He never really lost his spot, he was back into it this week because last week was his game to get back full time on defense," Weis said. "Thic; week I was able to flip it back over and practice him some on offense." 
And when Thomas' number was called to Notre Dame established the run early Dame's 14:29. But the Irish made adjust­touch the ball -he made something hap­against Navy Saturday, much of the credit ments in the second halfand kept the ball for pen. going to starting running back Darius 17:10 in the third and fourth quarters. 
"[The scoring play] was his play," Weis Walker. After a quiet 21 carries for 53 yards "[Navy's offense is] a lot faster, and there's said. "He has certain plays he would be in in Notre Dame's 20-17 win over UCLA, not many reads they have as opposed to a for, that happened to be one of them." Walker responded with 20 carries for 103 traditional offense," Thomas said. "It's just 
But senior offensive tackle Ryan Harris yards. Walker also caught three passes out of making the reads you have faster." spoke more in depth about what challenges the backfield for 32 yards. Because Thomas is responsible for being a Thomas presents when he enters the game So how exactly does Thomas define his reliable linebacker on defense and providing on offense. Harris credited his teammate's type ofplays? the Irish with explosive running when neces­talent and ability to make plays on both sides "I like my play to be a touchdown every sary on offense, the senior is in a unique ofthe ball. time," Thomas said matter-of-factly. position where he is both taking and receiv­
"He's in some of our packages, when he's But while Thomas received attention for ing hits. But Thomas made clear Saturday in the game, he's just a phenomenal athlete, his powerful score on offense, his primary which of the two prefers. and he can make things happen," Harris job Saturday was not establishing the run, "If you're running well and it's a good play, said. "It's always great to get off the ground but stopping it. and it's a stalemate but the other guy gets the and see somebody in the end zone and we're The Irish defense struggled in the first half worst of it, I think you can like that," Thomas happy he got into the end zone. limiting Navy's option attack. The said. "But I don't think any running back 
"A guy like that. it's good to see good things Midshipmen controlled the clock, keeping the happen to him." ball on offense for 16:31 compared to Notre Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Abiamiri, Wooden return to Baltimore 
Grimes scores first career touchdown; Aldridge gets late-game action; Vernaglia suffers injury 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
BALTIMORE -Senior defen­sive end Vietor Abiamiri and senior cornerback Ambrose Wooden had the opportunity to play in front of their hometown crowd in Baltimore for the first time since joining the Irish Saturday. 
"It means a lot, especially being able to come home sen­ior year and play in front of the home crowd," Abiamiri said. "I had all my family and friends and extended family there in the crowd. I was only able to come up with 12 or 13 [extra tickets] but I had a lot more friends in the stands." 
Weis described Abiamiri ­who had four solo tackles and two sacks -as being especially "geeked up" the entire week leading up to the game. 
"Sometimes we forget, because we're sitting in South Bend, Ind., how special it is for guys to have games in their area in their country," Weis said. "He had adrenaline flow­ing all week long." 
+Saturday's sellout crowd of 71,851 at M&T Bank Stadium in Baltimore marked the 61st time in the previous 66 road games Notre Dame has played in front of a capacity atten­dance. 
"I think there's a strong fol­lowing [of Notre Dame on the East Coast]." Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I think half of them might have been my family. 
+Quarterback Brady Quinn has not thrown an interception in his last four games -his last coming with 9:04 left in the first half of Notre Dame's 40-37 win at Michigan State Sept. 23. 
He now has 168 consecutive passes without an interception. He has four interceptions ­three of them coming on Sept. 11 against Michigan-com­pared with 21 touchdowns on the season. 
Weis jokingly knocked the wooden podium at his post­game press conference when asked about the recent streak. 
"He's a really good player, [and] we really haven't had a bad game since the one game [against Michigan] earlier in the year," Weis said. "There's a little-bit of luck sometimes involved. I don't think there were any balls that were close to being picked today, but we've had some balls that were close to being picked off [in the last few games.]" 
+Freshman running back James Aldridge had 10-plus carries for the first time in his career. He rushed for 33 yards on 12 fourth quarter carries. Aldridge -who missed much of the first half of the season with a knee injury -had four carries for 26 yards against Stanford Oct. 7. 
Coming into the game, Weis had hoped Aldridge would have opportunity to carry the ball between 10 and 15 times. 
"[We wanted] to start build­ing his stamina," he said. "Fortunately we got him in there and got him hit a little bit too, which is a good thing for him ... Now he's been hit a lit­tle bit, [and] it means that he'll physically and mentally keep on gaining some confidence." 
+ Sophomore wide receiver David Grimes' 36-yard touch­down reception in the first quarter was his first career touchdown. The reception was also the longest of his career. Grimes finished with three catches for 72 yards, and he now has 16 receptions for 206 yards this season. 

Weis said he is pleased with Grimes' progression over the last few weeks. 
"This is a couple games in a row now that he's making some plays for us," he said. 
+Freshman running back Munir Prince did not travel with the team to Baltimore. Weis would not give the specifics pertaining to Prince's absence. 
"Munir [Prince] didn't make the trip because he didn't deserve to be on the trip," Weis said. 
Prince has 12 carries for 21 yards this season. 
+Linebacker Anthony Vernaglia was injured on the kickoff return following Navy's first touchdown early in the second quarter, and did not return. Weis was not sure of the specifics of his injury imme­diately following the game. 
"He did something with his knee," Weis said. "I saw him wrapped with an ice bag at halftime." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
•
scoring suinrnary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Notre Dame  10  14  7  7  38  
Navy  0  14  0  0  14  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 3, Navy 0 Carl Gioia 40-yard field goal with 11:45 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 40 yards, 3:15 elapsed 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 0 David Grimes 36-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 1:32 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Navy 7 Kaipo-Noa Keheaku-Enhada 1-yard run with 
11:39 remaining. (Mall Harmon kick) Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 4:53 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, Navy 7 Travis Thomas 16-yard run with 8:00 remain­ing. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 76 yards, 3:39 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17, Navy 14 Kaheaku-Enhada 1-yard run with with 2:43 remaining. (Harmon kick) Drive: 13 plays, 65 yards, 5:17 elapsed 
Notre Dame 24, Navy 14 Rhema McKnight33-yard reception from Quinn with with 1:24 remaining. (Harmon kick) Drive: 7 plays, 80 yards, 1:24 elapsed 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 31, Navy 14 Quinn 19-yard run with 8:10 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 9 plays, 69 yards, 4:37 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 38, Navy 14 McKnight6-yard reception from Quinn. (Gioia kick) Drive: 7 plays, 47 yards, 2:42 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards rushing yards passing yards 



time of possession 
~ 
w #If 
37-176 rushes-yards 56-271 
18-25-0 comp-att-int 4-7-0 0-0 punts-yards 4-154 0-0 fumbles-lost 2-1 4-35 penalties-yards 4-43 25 first downs 19 
passing 
Quinn 18-25-0 K-Enhada 
rushing 
Walker  20-103  Campbell  14-81  
Aldridge Quinn  12-29 4-28  White K-Enhada  4-44 19-42  
T. Thomas  1-16  Singleton  4-34  

receiving 
McKnight  6-94  Tomlinson  1-19  
Carlson  5-75  Singleton  1-9  
Grimes  3-72  Campbell  1-9  
Walker  3-32  Ballard  1-6  

tackles 
Zbikowski  14  Little  10  
landri  11  Tidwell  9  
Crum  11  McGown  8  
Abiamiri  6  Wright  8  
Brockington  6  Miles  7  
Richardson  5  Caldwell  6  
Ndukwe  5  Mahoney  6  
lambert  4  Spencer  5  
laws  4  Cylc  4  
T. Thomas  3  Sovie  3  


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 30, 2006 

SAILING AWAY 
A fired up Brigade marched on the field and made noise as Navy's crisp option attack kept the game close for a half. 
But Notre Dame's resurgent running game and efficient passing by Brady Quinn, who tossed three touchdowns and ran for another, allowed the Irish to score at will. Effective defensive adjustments shut down the option in the second half and Notre Dame pulled away for its 43rd consecutive victory over the Midshipmen -its fifth straight win since losing to Michigan Sept. 23. 


Photos by FRANCESCA SETA/The Observer 

Top left, Notre Dame and Navy players stand together for the playing of "Navy Blue and Gold." Top right, Irish wide receiver David Grimes dives Into the end zone for his first career touchdown. Center, Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn sprints past Navy linebacker David Mahoney on his way into the end zone. Bottom right, Navy quarterback Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada pitches to running back Reggie Campbell as Irish defenders close in. Bottom left, Quinn sets to pass. 
Tl·--1 EOBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 30, 2006 
page 13 
SERVER S C E N E S T A F F 
this twenty-first install-
covering theater and dog " departs from its a narrative, yet it 
Tony Scott and written Rossio, is promising in 's cast is star-studded, Val Kilmer and Jim plays an ATF agent eans ferry boat that movie plays with the that deja vu is not just a a true repetition of time, can flow back and forth 
is far from develop­F'-'lll.l.m that appears in the a long-debated topic is use some hypotheses been released by the sci-
in his investigation , Washington must past days in order concept of the movie is for an action flick. It to repeat over and over 
yet different every time. the audience immediately, ifit will do the same. 
The Fountain (Nov. 22, 2006) 
Fresh off "Hequiem for a Dream," a harrowing look at the shattered dreams of four drug addicts, Darren Aronofsky set out on a mission to film a science-fiction epic for Warner Bros. With Brad Pitt, Cate Blanchett and a $75 million budget in tow, the talented young director was six to eight months away from creating his first mainstream masterpiece. 
That was in 2001. 
Five years later, the latest iteration of Aronofsky's undying passion project -"The Fountain" -is barely recognizable from the film it once was. But it still holds all the same promise. 
An imaginative tale of one man's thousand­year quest to find the Tree of Life and save the life of his beloved, "The Fountain" has been recast with enchanting leads Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz. Although the budget was cut to $35 million -meager by the bloated standards of current Hollywood fare -Aronofsky put his burgeoning career on hold for years just to see this film through. 
Now that "The Fountain" is on the cusp of its final unveiling, a very simple question remains for Aronofsky. After his exhausting odyssey, will it have been worth it? The answer to that query lies with the lilm's ability to do more than just astonish the senses. It needs to resonate within hearts and minds. 
Blood Diamond (Dec. 15, 2006) 
Following yet another acclaimed turn in a Martin Scorsese picture, Leonardo DiCaprio will take on a more popcorn role in December's "Blood Diamond." He teams up with Jennifer Connelly and Djimon Hounsou ("The Island") in a story where DiCaprio, a greedy South African mercenary, enters into an unlikely alliance with Hounsou, a fisherman who has lost his family because of diamond mining, to obtain control of a rare diamond. 
The setting of civil war in Sierra Leone in the 1990s provides a social and political backdrop against which this action thriller will try to deliv­er a message. Early reviews of the film call it anywhere from award-winning material to another standard Hollywood blockbuster. Director Ed Zwick ("The Last Samurai," "Glory") has a penchant for creating movies that audi­ences either love or hate, and it appears this will be no different. It is almost certain, however, that the star power of DiCaprio will make "Blood Diamond" a highly watched and commercially popular movie, regardless of its critical success. 
Dreamgirls (Dec. 22, 2006) 
Academy Award-winner Bill Condon directs this film adaptation of the eponymous Broadway musical. "Dream Girls" follows three talented soul singers, forming "The Dreamettes," on their rise to success in the 1960s and 70s music indus­try. The trio, consisting of Deena {Beyonee Knowles), Lorrel (Anika Noni Hose) and lead singer Effie (Jennifer Hudson), receives its big break when the singers are discovered by talent manager Curtis Taylor Jr. (Jamie Foxx). 
As "The Dreamettes" start to gain in notoriety, Curtis Taylor Jr. exercises increasing power over the group's musical direction. The girls struggle with the changes made in exchange for success, eventually jeopardizing the group's survival. 
"Dreamgirls" promises to be an intriguing film, full of spectacular music, a talented east and the feel-good ideal that dreams do live forever. 
Rocky Balboa (Dec. 22, 2006) 
Sixteen years after "Rocky V," the Italian Stallion steps back into the ring for what's been billed as "one final round." "Rocky Balboa" fol­lows the titular character (Sylvester Stallone), who challenges young fighter Mason "The Line" Dixon (Antonio Tarver) in an exhibition round. With Adrian dead, the heart and soul of the series may have gone out of Stallone's beloved franchise, and it may be hard for "Hoeky Balboa" to recreate the financial and critical success of the initial 1977 release. 
Sylvester Stallone wrote this 111m along with "Rocky," and he is also returning to the director's chair. However, his creative capacity may have gone the way of the dodo as he gets on in years. Unless he can find the next inspirational song to pair up with great cinematics (''The Eye of the Tiger" with the now famous steps scene), this one will not stand up to the greats of this fran­chise. Nonntheless, an early Christmas present may in the works from one of America's most beloved stars and hearing that familiar Bill Conti theme in the trailer is enough to get any Rocky enthusiast pumped to cheer one last time for the ultimate underdog. 
Children of Men (Dec. 25, 2006) 
The eagerly anticipated futuristic drama by director Alfonso Cuar6n ("Y Tu Mama Tambien," "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban") has already garnered early award buzz. Based on the novel by P.O. James, "Children of Men" stars Clive Owen as Theodore Faron and envisions a future in which women are no longer able to bear children. When Faron discovers a pregnant woman, he tries to help her escape to a sanctu­ary at sea that may preserve humanity. 
The obvious Christian allegory may generate some controversy as this film is set to debut on Christmas Day. However, "Children of Men" comes just in time for this year's Oscar nomina­tions, something the producers surely had in mind. Cuar6n may be looking for his break into the inner circles of Hollywood and Owen is assuredly hunting for the Best Actor statuette. Supported by Julianne Moore and Michael Caine, "Children of Men" promises to be one of the more interesting films released this winter. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 30, 2006 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oregon State survives late rally by No.3 USC 
left, USC got one more shot. then outplayed South Carolina
Tennessee, Texas and 
Booty completed 24-of-39 throughout, falling on .Josh Florida narrowly passes for 406 yards and three Brown's improbable 49-yard touchdowns with one intercep­field goal -a victory evenavoid weekend upsets tion. Smith caught 11 passes for Spurrier deseribod as a miraele. 258 yards. It looked like Spurrier's hex Associated Press Moore completed 21-of-32 was in efl'ect again at Williams­passes for 262 yards and a Brice Stadium aftor South 
CORVALLIS, Ore. -Turns out touchdown, while Stroughter Carolina (5-3, :3-3) overcame a No. 3 Southern California was caught eight passes for 127 two-touchdown deficit to lead vulnerable. yards. 17-14 after three quarters. 
Oregon State capitalized on But Ainge found Smith on a four turnovers to upset the No. 8 Tennessee 31, 12-yard TD pass to put the Vols Trojans 33-31 on Saturday, South Carolina 24 ahead for good with 13:10 left. snapping USC's 27-game Pac-10 Tennessee's Phillip Fulmer After forcing South Carolina to winning streak and breaking earned the right to take a cou­punt on its next possession, the national championship race ple of verbal pokes at Steve Jonathan Hef'ney had a 65-yard wide open. Spurrier this year. punt return to South Carolina's 
USC (6-1, 4-1) had also won Don't count on the Vols' coach 5 and Arian Foster scored on 18 straight road games. But the doing it. That's just not his the next play. mighty Trojans had shown style. The Gamecocks closed to 31­cracks in their last three games, "He's a good coach," was 24 on Syvelle Newton's 1-yard each a victory by seven points about all Fulmer would say TD run with 2:24 to go. or less. about of his Southeastern Tennessee was foreed to punt­
Against the Beavers, they Conference rival after Ainge was out with a bad ankle couldn't escape and came up Tennessee beat South Carolina on the series -and South one play short. Saturday night. "I don't know Carolina had one final ehance. 
John David Booty's 2-yard where all that gets started." However, Newton's desperation scoring pass to Steve Smith with If Fulmer really wanted to heave was intercepted by 7 seconds left made the score find the answer, all he had to do Demetrice Morley as timn ran 33-31. But Oregon State's Jeff was glance across the field at out. Van Orsow batted down a pass Spurrier. on the 2-point conversion to The Gamecocks ball coach No. 5 Texas 35, Texas Tech 31 preserve the lead. has made his reputation Colt McCoy threw for 256 
USC started the day as was through the years beating then yards and four touehdowns, and one of seven unbeaten teams in needling the Vols. He did it Tnxas erased a three-touch­the country. Now there are six. again this week as South down deficit to beat Texas Tech 
Ohio State and Michigan won Carolina relived last season's on Saturday night. their games and will hold on to historic 16-15 victory at The Longhorns (8-1, 5-0 Big the top two spots in the Bowl Neyland Stadium, its first win in 12) won their 20th straight con­Championship Series standings Knoxville. ference game and 17th consec­when they come out Sunday. After this one, Fulmer had utive road game, but didn't take That valuable spot behind the every right to gloat, but didn't. their first lead until early in tho in the first half. He got the Hed Whatever you want to call it, Big Ten powers, previously held "There are times we fourth quarter when McCoy Haiders inside the Texas' 20-it's been all Gators lately. by USC, is now up for grabs. All should've won and didn't. There threw a 28-yard touchdown to yard line only twice in the sec­With the latest victory, Florida those teams with one loss are are times he should've won and Quan Cosby to make it 35-31. ond half. remained atop the Southeastern feeling a lot better about their didn't. That's the way it," he Tech (5-4. 2-3) had chances in Conference East Division and chances to play for a national said. "We're glad to get a win so the final 6:14. No. 9 Florida 21, Georgia 14 moved a step closer to return­title. And Thursday's Big East we can improve to 7-1." Twice tho Hed Haiders failed Florida coach Urban Meyer ing to the conference title game battle of unbeatens between Erik Ainge threw for 254 on fourth downs inside Texas was the first to toast his defense for the first time since 2000. West Virginia and Louisville just yards and two touchdown pass­35. Both plays -a completion -an appropriate gesture even The Gators (7-1, 5-l) need to got a little bigger. es to Bret Smith as the Vols to Joel Filani and a quarterback if this wasn't supposed to be a beat Vanderbilt and South 
Oregon State fans celebrated ended a year of ugly memories sneak by Graham llarrell -cocktail party anymore. Carolina to make it happen. wildly in the second half when from the last South Carolina came up just short and were The defflnse forced two fum­The Bulldogs (6-3, 3-3) lost Matt Moore hit Joe Newton with game. reviewed but tho ollieials' spots bles and intercepted two pass­for the third time in four games a 9-yard scoring pass and "That was a hard loss," were upheld. es, helping the Gators beat and essentially dropped out of Sammie Stroughter ran a punt Tennessee's Marvin Mitchell The second opportunity carne Georgia on Saturday and con­the division race. back 70 yards for a touchdown said. "They beat us last year, after Jamaal Charles fumbled tinue their recent dominance in Although Andre Caldwell to give the Beavers (4-4, 3-2) a but hey, we got them this year." for a second time, this one com­the rivalry. scored two early touchdowns ­30-10 lead. Spurrier has largely had his ing at his own 24, and Tech's "Thank God for great a 12-yard run and a 40-yard 
USC, which was coming off an way with Tennessee (7-1, 3-1) Jake Hatlifl" recovered. But Tech defense," Meyer said. reception from Chris Leak ­off week that allowed All­through the years. The coach failed to take advantage of tho Florida now has won eight of Florida's defense got the credit American Dwayne Jarrett and won at Neyland Stadium with turnover when llarrell's sneak nine and 15 of the last 17 in the for this one. fellow receiver Smith to heal Duke in 1988, then took eight of came up short. series that's been known for The Bulldogs managed just 64 injuries, came back with Booty's 12 games from the Vols as Harrell completed 42-of-62 decades as the World's Largest yards rushing, and freshman 4-yard scoring pass to Fred Gators coach from 1990-2001. passes for 519 yards and three Outdoor Cocktail Party. School Matthew Stafford completed 13 Davis to close out the third And when Rocky Top support­touchdowns. lie throw ono and city officials believe the of :n passes for 151 yards and quarter. ers gleefully planned for interception, his first since nickname conjures up images of was sacked four times in his 
Booty then found Smith in the revenge after Spurrier took throwing five in games against drunkenness -not what they fourth start. end zone and Chauncey over at South Carolina, they Missouri and Colorado. want to promote, flspecially "They are a great defensive Washington ran in the 2-point were still left frustrated. Texas put more pressure on after tho deaths of two Florida unit that sometimes get over­conversion to narrow it to 33-That last defeat was particu­Harrell in the second half, students the past two years. shadowed because of their 25 with 12:09 left in the fourth. larly embarrassing to the Big enabling tho Longhorns to hold They urged television net­ofl"ense," Stafl"ord said. 
After Alexis Serna's 4 7 -yard Orange. The Vols had retired the Hed Haiders scoreless. works to stop using the moniker Not Saturday. Florida's defense field goal attempt went wide the jersey of Peyton Manning, Harrell had been noarly perfect altogether. made several key plays. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classiflcds f(Jr content without issuing refunds.  
45 minutes from Notre Dame  House Available for 07-08 Year.  FOR SALE:  Travel with STS to this years top 10  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
FoR SALE  Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack  Close to Campus. Just Renovated to Brand New Condition. Open to  ND TICKETS. 232-0964  Spring Break destinations I  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs  
Resort 269-646-2181.  groups of 9-11 Students. Contact  Best deals guaranteed!  confidential support or assistance,  
3-4 bdrm home. 1.5 BA, 2 mi. N of  MacSwain@ gmail.com  WANTED:  please call  
ND. 2-stall garage. 4 lots.  HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6  Highest rep commissions.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,  
$101,000. 52420 Forestbrook. Call  Bedrooms www.NDstudentrentals.com  Charming 4-bdrm 2 bath home cur- FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOL- at 1-7819.  
Terry 574-289-5630 or Ron 277­ rently rented to SMC students.  LAR PAID.  Visit www.ststravel.com  For more information, see our bi­ 
4122.  2 rooms in private home w/separate  Available 07-08 or 08-09. $385/ea +  or call 1-800-648-4849.  weekly ad in The Observer.  
entrance for football weekends.  utilities. Updated & as cute as can  NOBODY WILL PAY MORE.  Great grou12 discounts.  
Shared bath. Close to ND. 574-259­ be! Safe area. John 574-274-5692.  BOO!  
foR RENT  8603.  RENT-Furnished 1 bedroom  574-288-2726.  PERSONAL  Exactly one month til the most hap- 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES. off-cam- Rooms for rent for football week- Jamison condo Nov-May 07. Call  FOR SALE:  
 pening day-of the year ...  
pus homes & weekend rentals.  ends. Close to campus. Call574­ Mary Anne Benedict@ 607-723­ Spring Break 2007 Celebration 20th  
243-0658.  7363 or 607-770-0944.  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS.  Anniversary w/Sun Splash Tours  "Barney's movie had a Iotta heart  
Bluegoldrentals.com  Free trip on every 12 before Nov. 1.  but 'Football in the Groin' had a  
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home. walk  ROOMS FOR RENT for ND games,etc.  TICKETS  BEST PRICES. 574-232-2378.  Free Meals & Parties. Hottest Deals Ever. Group Discounts on 6+.  football in the groin."  
to stadium, Terrace Ln.  Visitgardenviewbedandbreakfast.co  Hottest Spring Break Destinations.  Ryan Frost kissed several other  
269-930-8038.  m or call574-243-0392. Special  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­ Need NC football tix. Will pay face.  1-800-426-7710. www.sunsplash­ men this weekend.  
swmient@qtm.net  rates available.  1570  Call574-276-8507.  tours.com  He might be crossing over.  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 30, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points previous  
1  1623  1  
2  1547  2  
3  1494  3  
4  397  5  
5  1278  6  
6  Auburn  8~1  1250  7  
7  Aorida  7·1  1243  9  
8  Tennessee  7~1  1232  8  
9  usc  6-1  1059  3  
10  California  7·1  1040  12  
11  NOTRE DAME  7-1  1037  11  
12  Arkansas  7·1  935  13  
13  LSU  6·2  842  14  
14  Boise State  8·0  688  15  
15  Rutgers  7•0  644  16  
16 17  Boston College Wisconsin  5·1 7-1  624 617  18 17  
18  Oklahoma  8·1  589  19  
19  Clemson  7•2  435  10  
20  Georgia Tech  6·2  402  21  
21  TexasA&M  8·1  353  22  
22  Wake Forest  7·1  246  24  
23  Virginia Tech  6·2  188  NR  
24 25  Oregon Washington State  6·2 6·3  167 40  25 NR  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Coaches Poll  
team  ·  record  points previous  
1  Ohio State (63}  9·0  1575  
2  Michigan  9·0  1500  
3  West Virginia  7·0  1437  
4  Texas  8·1  1347  
5  Louisville  H.  1271  
6  Auburn  8·1  1235  
7  Florida  7-1  1167  
8  Tennessee  H  1118  
9  usc  6·1  1049  
10  NOTRE DAME  7~1  1030  
11  California  980  
12  Arkansas  
13  LSU  
14  Boise  
15  
16  Bostgn  
17  Wisconsin  18  
18  Oklahoma  19  
19  Clemson  11  
20  Georgia  21  
21  TexasA&M  22  
22  Oregon  24  
23  Wake Forest  ::·:·:h>  NR  
24  Virginia Tech ····•·········  NR  
25  Missouri  23  


team  record  comp. avg.  Harris  
1  Ohio State  9-0  2  1  
2  Michigan  9-0  1  2  
3  West Virginia  7·0  13  3  
4  Florida  7-1  4  7  
5  Louisville  7-0  9  5  
6  Auburn  8-1  7  6  
7  Texas  7~1  12  4  
8  usc  6  9  
9  NOTRE  5.  10. ·.  
10  a  11  
11  10  8  
12  8  14  
13  14  12  
14  11  15  
15  16  16  

around the dial 
NFL 

New England at Minnesota 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 
WALTHAM, Mass. ­Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers called his players together before practice to talk to them about Red Auerbach. It was too late to get to know him, but important that the players understood what he meant to the team, the city, the game. 
Older players had seen Auerbach's fire for them­selves-both the competi­tive one and the flame at the end of his ever-present cigar -but didn't know how he defined the game early on, then continued to dominate as his players became coaches and gen­eral managers running teams of their own. For the rookies, who never got a chance to meet him, it was a lesson about the franchise icon who trav­eled across New England to preach about the young NBA and build a mystique that would come to be known as Celtic pride. 

"I wanted our young guys to hear those sto­ries," Rivers said following practice Sunday, a day after Auerbach's heart failed him at the age of 89. "I don't think they knew a lot about him." 
A young team with an average age under 25, several of the current players were infants when the Celtics won the last of their NBA-record 16 championships in 1986. None of them was born yet in Auerbach's heyday, when as coach and then general manager he led Boston to eight consecu­tive titles. 
But what Rivers wanted to talk about wasn't what the Celtics did but what they looked like doing it; more precisely, it was the fact that Auerbach didn't care what they looked like. He drafted the NBA's first black player, hired its first black coach and fielded its first all-black starting five, and he did it in racially combustible Boston. 
"Red did all that, but he wasn't doing that because he was trying to break ground," Rivers said. "His response was always: 'I'm trying to win a game and that's who I think gives us the best chance.' I think his example spread throughout the league." 
The message got through, Celtics captain Paul Pierce said. 
"I don't think a lot of these guys even knew that before Doc said it today," he said. "I think these guys really have to under­stand the history of the game. And Red is a big part of the history of the whole NBA -not just the Celtics, but the whole NBA." 
IN BRIEF 
Man arrested for murder 
of former boxing champ 
KINGSTON, Jamaica-A 20-year­old man was arrested in connection with the killing of former heavy­weight champion Trevor Berbick, who was bludgeoned and left to die in a church courtyard next to his family's home in a rural hamlet. 
Several residents of the remote farming community in Norwich dis­trict said the suspect was involved in a land dispute with the troubled boxer. 
Les Green, a Scottish detective who this year was appointed assis­tant police commissioner of the vio­lence-wracked nation, refused to identify the man before his arraign­ment, which has not been sched­uled. 
"We have some very good infor­mation from witnesses, and we have recovered a weapon we believe was used in the assault," he said Sunday. 

A's to interview internal 
candidates, Hershiser 
OAKLAND, Calif. -The Oakland Athletics have scheduled interviews with their two internal candidates about the club's managerial opening. 
Bench coach Bob Geren is set to meet with general manager Billy Beane and other team officials Monday, then third-base coach Ron Washington will follow Tuesday. 
Beane also has an interview set up with Orel Hershiser, currently an ESPN baseball analyst, in Phoenix for sometime the following week. 
Beane fired fourth-year manager Ken Macha on Oct. 16, two days after Oakland's season ended in a sweep by the wild-card Detroit Tigers in the AL championship series. The A's won a playoff series for the first time since 1990, ending a string of four straight first-round exits from 2000­03. 
Beane has other business aside from finding Oakland's next manager. 
Federer wins fourth in a 
row at Swiss Indoors 
BASEL, Switzerland -Roger Federer beat Fernando Gonzalez 6-3, 6-2, 7-6 (3) Sunday to win his fourth straight title and 11th of the year at the Swiss Indoors. 
The top-ranked Federer hit a fore­hand return for a winner on the first point of the third-set tiebreaker and cruised from there to win his home­town tournament for the first time in seven attempts. 
Federer overpowered the defending champion, hitting 14 aces and break­ing Gonzalez's serve three times. 
"It is indeed magnificent," Federer said the event he used to work as a ball boy. "Different countries, differ­ent titles, they all have a different meaning. Winning Basel, my home tournament, it's one of those moments I'll never forget." 
The final was a rematch of last week's Madrid Masters final, also won by Federer in three sets. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2006 
NFL 

Jaguars hunt down Eagles in defensive battle 
quite like the show he put on.

Falcons, Chiefs win 
Few teams have. 

close ones; Giants The mercurial quarterback 
has led the Falcons (5-2) to con­defeat Buccaneers secutive wins over the defending 
Super Bowl champion Steelers 
and the defending AFC North

Associated Press 
champion Bengals by throwing 
the ball. Vick has thrown seven 

PHILADELPHIA The touchdown passes in the last Philadelphia Eagles had a two games, proving his point. dropped pass, a penalty and a "I feel I just need the opportu­sack on their first three plays. nity to throw the ball," said 
It only got worse for the NFL's Vick, whose passer rating of top-ranked offense against a 140.6 was the second-highest of Jacksonville defense missing his career. "Just give me the three starters. chance to do it. I've felt like all 
Fred Taylor keyed a strong along, this is what I could do." running attack, backup quarter­No matter what they did, the back David Garrard was effi­Bengals ( 4-3) were helpless to cient and the Jaguars shut down run him down or shut him Donovan McNabb in a 13-6 vic­down. tory Sunday. Many of the Bengals' defend­
"As a team, it was embarrass­ers had never faced Vick, who ing," McNabb said. "Offensively put on quite a show in his first as a unit, we weren't able to do career visit to Cincinnati. He our job." went 20-of-28 for 291 yards and 
Jacksonville held the Eagles to left would-be tacklers scattered 229 total yards -164 before all over the field while running the last drive. Philadelphia for another 55 yards. came in averaging a league-best Seen enough, Bengals? 417 yards per game, but could­"l-Ie's a heck of a player," n't generate much, even with defensive end Bryan Robinson the return of dynamic receiver said. "When your goal is to keep Donte' Stallworth. him in the pocket and you do 
Meanwhile, the Jaguars kept that and he still makes the play, it simple on offense without that's frustrating." injured quarterback Byron In the last two games, Vick Leftwich and relied on Taylor has gone 38-of-58 for 523 yards and Maurice Drew, who totaled with those seven touchdowns muscle, connected with Eddie going to put it on there on the down. 103 and 77 yards rushing and two interceptions, which Kennison for 51 yards to set up money, what can you do?" The Cowboys then completed respectively. Of the Jaguars' 285 translates into a passer rating of Johnson's go-ahead score. Broncos cornerbaek Champ the 2-point conversion when total yards, 209 were gained on 119.5. Previously, Vick had Bailey said. Romo faked a draw and threw a the ground. never thrown more than four Giants 17, Buccaneers 3 Not much, as the Broncos (5-pass to Terrell Owens to make it 
Jacksonville improved to 4-3, touchdowns in any two-game On a cold, blustery afternoon, 2) found out repeatedly, watch­21-14. while the Eagles fell to 4-4 with span of his career. the New York Giants displayed ing Manning lead the Colts to Dallas sealed the win when their third straight loss. "He's leading like a champi­the depth of their defense. scores on seven of their final Roy Williams intercepted Jake 
"We felt challenged by some on," said tight end Alge Despite playing without three eight drives -the only miss Delhomme's throw on the next comments made this week," Crumpler, who has caught four injured defensive starters and coming when he kneeled on the possession. Delhomme lost Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio said. of those seven touchdowns. "He losing another early, the Giants ball to end the first half. another fumble with under two "I feel good about the character never points fingers at anybody held Tampa Bay to 174 total Manning's llnal drive set up minutes to go, Carolina's third and toughness of this team. It's in this locker room and is con­yards and set up a score with a the winning points on a 37 -yard turnover in the fourth quarter. nice to go back to work after a stantly encouraging everybody." turnover deep in Buceaneers' field goal by Adam Vinatieri nice victory like this." He was so good that Carson territory in a victory Sunday. with 2 seconds ten. It made the Bears 41, 49ers 10 
A swirling wind made it diffi­Palmer, last year's NFL leader in "You know what? I'm not sur­Colts the first team to go 7-0 in Brian Urlacher's one-handed cult for both offenses, but touchdown passes, and Pro prised because the baekups, the consecutive seasons since the interception was headed to the Jacksonville's superior ground Bowl receiver Chad Johnson guys who came in, are like 1929-31 Green Bay Packers did highlight reel as soon as he game was the difference. After were reduced to a sideshow. starters," Pro Bowl defense end it three straight times. tumbled to the ground after the Eagles went three-and-out Michael Strahan said after the Manning made a moekery of somehow batting the ball to on the opening possession, the Chiefs 35, Seahawks 28 Giants (5-2) won their fourth Denver's cushy zone defense. himself. Jaguars drove 48 yards -all on The Kansas City Chiefs kept straight game. "They are play­Wayne dissected it best, cateh­Urlacher's stellar play symbol­the ground. trying to self-destruct. Larry ers." ing 10 passes for 138 yards, ized what kind of afternoon it 
Garrard scrambled for 13 Johnson, Tony Gonzalez and During the winning streak most of them in front of Broncos was for the refreshed and still yards on fourth-and-3 to keep Damon Huard kept stopping which started after a bye week, cornerback Darrent Williams. unbeaten Chicago Bears -and the drive going and Taylor ran them. the defense has allowed 42 how frustrating the day was for in up the middle from the 15 to Johnson scored four touch­points, and hasn't given up a Cowboys 35, Panthers 14 the San Francisco 49ers. make it 7-0. Somehow, that held downs, including the go-ahead touchdown in the last two home Tony Homo waited four years Wearing bright orange uni­up against a high-powered score with 2:15 to play, and the games. to get his first NFL start. It looks forms and showing their speed offense that had averaged 28.6 mistake-prone Chiefs (4-3) The Bucs (2-5) were 2-l'or-16 like he'll have the job for some on defense and special teams, points in the first seven games. escaped with a wild victory on third-down chances and 0-time. the Bears overwhelmed the It helped that the Eagles had the Sunday over the injury-depleted for-3 on fourth-down opportuni­Homo rallied Dallas from a 49ers from the outset. They ball just 23:09. Seattle Seahawks. ties in seeing their two-game 14-point first-quarter deficit, jumped to a 24-0 first-quarter 
"Starting from the first play, I In the final 17 minutes, the winning streak snapped. They throwing for 270 yards and a lead and 41-0 halftime cushion knew it was going to be a Seahawks (4-3) took the lead also fumbles six times, losing touchdown, and Julius Jones before coasting to a 41-1 0 victo­smash-mouth day," Taylor said. with two touchdowns resulting one important one. rushed for 94 yards and a score ry Sunday. 
Taylor had a 54-yard TD run from outrageous Kansas City What made this performance as the Cowboys beat the At 7-0, Chicago is off to its negated by a holding penalty on mistakes. so impressive was who the Carolina Panthers Sunday. best start since the 1985 Super tackle Maurice Williams in the Seneca Wallace, making his Giants were missing. Dallas set a team record with 25 Bowl champions won their first second quarter. But it didn't cost first NFL start in place of All-Pro defensive end Osi fourth-quarter points. 12 games. Jacksonville, which went ahead injured Pro Bowl quarterback Umenyiora (hip), strongside Romo, starting in place of the "It was amazing. Twenty-four 10-0 on Josh Scobee~ 40-yard Matt Hasselbeck, put Seattle on linebacker LaVar Arrington benched Drew Bledsoe, slowly points in the first quarter? field goal in the third quarter. top 28-27 with a 49-yard TD (season-ending Achilles' injury) lead the Cowboys (4-3) baek, That's pretty impressive, espe­
The Eagles finally scored on a pass to Darrell Jackson after and starting cornerback Sam with poise, using a variety of cially in this league. It doesn't 25-yard field goal by David cornerback Ty Law fell down. A Madison (hamstring) wern all short passes to a number happen a lot," said Rex Akers with 1:10 left in the third few plays before that, Law out. receivers. Grossman, who rebounded from quarter. McNabb turned what dropped a sure interception. Early in the fourth quarter, his poorest performance to could've been a big loss into a Late in the third period, Colts 34, Broncos 31 facing a third-and-12 from the throw three TD passes. 12-yard gain on the first play of Seattle's Kelly Herndon Maddeningly nwtieulous and Carolina 21, Homo sidestepped Urlacher's acrobatic intercep­the drive, eluding two tacklers returned a fumble 61 yards for impeccably preciso, this was pressure and nred a 16-yard tion, in which he batted Alex and juking linebacker Clint another touchdown when Peyton Manning at his cruol pass to Jason Witton. But the Smith's pass and then caught it Ingram. Kansas City holder Dustin best. drive stallnd, and al'tl~r Homo with one hand as he was being 
Colquitt, after mishandling the Skewering a l>onvnr defense misfired to Witton in the end knocked down by the 49ers Falcons 29, Bengals 27 snap on a field goal attempt, that was designed specifically to zone on third down, Mike Justin Smiley, was ono of four 
Michael Vick has found a bal­tried an ill-advised pass. stop him, Manning led the Vandorjagt kickod a 24-yard turnovers the Bears generated ance. His passer rating is just as That cut the Chiefs' advantage Indianapolis Colts over, around l'ield goal to cut tho PanthPrs' in the llrst half. All four led to impressive as his 40-yard dash to 27-21 with 1:27 left in the and through the Broneos on lead to 14-1 3. touchdowns. these days. third period. and then Jackson's Sunday, throwing for :H5 yards On the ensuing kickoff, Sam Urlacher's play came on the 
Vick threw three more touch­TD stunned the sellout erowd and three touchdowns to Heggie Hurd ripped the ball from Brad heels of a national sports maga­down passes on Sunday, leading when the Seahawks took a one­Wayne for a message-sending Hoover and reeovered the fum­zine survey of NFL players in the Atlanta Falcons to a victory point lead. But a moment later victory. ble at tho Carolina 14. On the which he was rated the second­over a Cincinnati Bengals team Huard, who was a game-day "When you play a guy like next play, Jones ran untouched most overrated player to Terrell that had never seen anything decision because of a sore groin Peyton Manning, and the guy's up the middle for the touch-Owens. 

Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
SMC SoccER 
Belles knocked out of playoffs by Kalamazoo 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The season came to a dramat­ic end for the Belles Saturday afternoon as they lost 4-3 in a shootout in the first round of the MIAA playoffs. 
Fifth-seed Kalamazoo came in to the game as an underdog to the fourth-seed Saint Mary's club. After 110 minutes of score­less play, the Hornets buried four of their five penalty kicks to advance to the semi-final against the Calvin Knights. 
"We were obviously disap­pointed because we all played so hard," senior captain Colleen Courtney said. "But we were happy with how well we played." 
Senior defender Kari Brodsky scored the final goal to break a 3-3 tie and end the Belles' sea­son. 
Kalamazoo jumped out to a 2­0 lead in the shootout when shots from Ashley and Laura Hinton both missed wide right. 
Kelly Lepper, Jenn Russart and Paige Howell rounded out the scoring for the Hornets in the first three rounds. Senior goalkeeper Laura Heline made a diving save on the fourth shot, 
giving the Belles a  chance to  
stay in the game.  
Courtney  and  freshman  

Bridget Ronayne had scored for Saint Mary's at that point, giving Heline an opportunity to tie the game as she came out of the goal to take the team's final attempt. 
"I wanted to be in that spot and I knew I was going to score because we deserved to win," Courtney said. 
She converted but was unable to make the final save to send the contest into sudden death. 
1-Ieline, who started all but two games in her four-year career, finished the game with eight saves for the Belles. She is one of six seniors who played their final game at Saint Mary's Saturday. 
1-Ieline, along with fellow tri­captains Courtney and senior Ashley Hinton, end the year with a 5-8-2 record because the loss was technically considered a tie. Caroline Stancukas, Nicole Leach and Sarah Budd round out the senior class. 
"We had a lot of freshman this year and I think that we showed them how important team unity is. I hope that they can continue that next season and in the future, " Courtney said. 
She had one of the teams five shots on net during regulation. Ashley Hinton -who had 24 shots on goal during the regular season -led the team with two on Saturday. Freshmen Colleen Ferguson and Micki Bedinger had the other two shots but opposing goalkeeper Kassandra Johnston was true to the task on all five shots. 
Head coach Caryn Mackenzie had her first losing season with the Belles in her third year with the program. The team went 10­6-1 in 2004 and 11-7-1 last year. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Adrian narrowly manages to hold off host Saint Mary's 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
The Belles fell just short of a stunning comeback Saturday, los­ing to visiting Adrian 3-2 at the Angela Athletic Center. 
The win improved third-place Adrian's MIAA record to 12-4 (17­8 overall). Saint Mary's dropped to 9-7 in conference play (16-9 over­all). The Belles finished the regu­lar season in fourth place in the MIAA. 
The Bulldogs took control of the beginning of the match and won the first two games 30-22 and 30­
28. But when it looked like Adrian would cruise to victory, Saint Mary's stormed back, taking the third game 30-26. 
The Belles then fought off match point in the fourth game to win 32-30 and send the match to a fifth and deciding game. 
After chipping away at an early Bulldog lead in the fifth game, Saint Mary's closed to within a point before falling 15-13 in the clincher. 
The match was the Belles' sec­ond five-set match in a row -the first came with a 3-2 win Tuesday over Tri-State. 
"We were definitely disappoint­ed by the final result," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "But even though we lost the match, we cannot let the outcome overshadow all of the positives. We fought hard with incredible spirit and talent." 
Junior Lindsay Eshelman led Adrian with a match-high 24 kills and nine digs. Senior Abby Sikora also turned in a strong perform­ance with 28 digs and 66 assists. 

Students 
FlvCheaper 
Sampie Fares from South Bend to:  Sample Fares from Chicago to:  
Atlanta  $202  Paris  $431  
Portland  $202  Amsterdam  $446  


The Bulldogs will face off against Tri-State in the first round of the MIAA tournament Tuesday. 
For the Belles, Kristen Playko posted her 19th double-double of the season with 23 kills and 20 digs. Libera Anne Cusack led the way defensively with a match-high 32 digs. 
"The comeback and intensity we showed was just the beginning," Schroeder-Biek said. "We need to carry over that same determina­tion into the conference tourna­ment." 


St. Mary's will begin play Tuesday in the MIAA Tournament against fifth-seeded Alma. The Belles split the regular season match-up, winning 3-0 at home Oct. 8 and falling 3-1 at Alma. 
Coach Schroeder-Biek said the team is looking forward to the match. 
"We are definitely excited to be hosting the first round," she said. "This will be a tough match, but we have to have teamwork and desire to win, and we are ready to compete." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Busin_ess and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Leadership and Ethics" 
Sharon Allen Chair of the Board of Directors Deloitte & Touche USA LLP 
Wednesday, November 1, 2006 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2006 
SMC SWIMMING 
Hope, Carthage down Belles in dual meets 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Saint Mary's lost two dual meets this weekend -a close conference contest to Hope and a lopsided away match with Carthage. 
The Flying Dutch swam past the Belles at the Rolfs Aquatic Center 132-112 Friday, and the Lady Reds kicked their way to an easy 121-79 victory over the Belles at the Koenitzer Aquatic Center in Kenosha, Wise. Saturday. 
In the first of Saint Mary's two contests, Hope won nine of the meet's 11 events. Flying Dutch freshman Kate Williams led the way, capturing two titles -the 50-yard freestyle (26.15) and the 1 00-yard butterfly (1 :01.46). 
But there were a few bright spots for the Belles. Saint Mary's won both 200-yard freestyle relays over the weekend. 

The combination of freshmen Sara Niemann and Lindsey Nelis, sophomore Melissa Gerbeth and junior Kelly Tighe captured 18 points, finishing in 1:48.89. 
The following day, the group won their event again over Carthage. 
Saint Mary's also captured indi­vidual breaststroke events both days. Tighe took first in the 100 breaststroke against llopn with a time or 1:16.69, and sophomore Katie Carroll won the 200-yard discipline against Carthage in 2:46.48. 
The Belles had two other win­ners against Carthage. Sophomore Mellissa Gerbeth won the 1,000-yard freestyle in 11:16:49, and Nelis took the 200­yd freestyle in 2:06.92. 
Carthage won the rest of the events, but even then Saint Mary's li>und a bright spot in one of its swimmers. 
Frnshman Kayla Ferguson was the Bellns' top finisher in the freestyle sprint events against Hope. Ferguson finished fourth at 
27.30 in the 50-yard free and sec­ond in the 1 00-yard event with a time of 59.32. Ferguson's time in the 50 free was 0.7 seconds slow­er than Tighe's team-low for the 2005-06 season, and her 1DO­yard time was just .31 seconds ofT Tighe's team-best time in that event last season. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SWIMMING 
Irish leave 
•

A&M In 
their vvake 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

No. 17 Notre Dame made a big splash in its first dual meet of the season, beating Texas A&M 169­129 Saturday at the Student Recreation Natatorium in College Station. 
The Irish won nine of the 16 events, and took three of the five scoring spots in 12 of the 14 non­relay events. 
Sophomores Jeff Wood and Sam Pendergast, who each picked up two wins in their first dual meet performances for Notre Dame, led the Irish. 
Wood, a transfer from Indiana, won the 100 and 200-meter back­stroke. Pendergast, who didn't compete in a meet during his fresh­man season, finished first in the 100 and 200-meter breaststroke. 
Irish assistant head coach Matt Tallman was not surprised at the breakout performances of his two sophomores. 
"It was the reason they were brought here," Tallman said. "It was expected, and we hope to see a lot more ofit." 
Wood and Pendergast were also part of the victorious 200 medley­relay team that included seniors Tim Kegelman and Louis Cavadini. Kegelman also tallied a victory in the 100-meter butterfly. 
Junior Jay Vanden Berg (1000­meter freestyle), senior Ted Brown (200-meter freestyle) and freshman John Lytle (100-meter freestyle) also picked up first-place finishes. 
Lytle's performance offered a preview of what Tallman hopes to be strong performances from the freshman class this season. 
"Our freshman class is -top to bottom -one of the best classes we've ever had, and it's the best class we've ever had on paper," Tallman said. 
"We're just glad they dove in and turned what they do in practice into racing." 
Tallman also credited the team's hard work in training as a contri­bution to Notre Dame's perform­ance on Saturday. 
"The guys have worked real hard since they got on campus at the end of August, especially since we started official practice in September," Tallman said. "They've been waiting for this day, and they put it all together." 
The Irish will return home Friday to face Purdue in their next dual meet at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

<15 
~ 
Q) 
0) 
"' 
" 

~ oi e :i
Q) cno:::JO CXI 
c "' ,.,

::J Uq .....
0) ~g~_e 
• 

-en~ 
-
Q) c::: ~·~~~ E 
0 X C: Q)

-·-~-0
0 Cl:S ~ ~: ~ 
(.) ~ 
! g-~ I ~ 
~ '8 ~­
::l

CJ) .... Ill 
~ a <P 

-
0 -~ 5 :5 5 Q)
::) C/) ~~;; Ol 
t-$ il 

Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish men, women take third in Big East meet 
leading the Irish across the earned All-Big East honors, Patrick Smyth said. "I think "Jake's doing an awesome
Oldingfinishes in top 
line in sixth place (21:00). making this the fifth consecu­we can get a lot of it taken job for us," Smyth said. "He's "I wasn't disappointed with tive year the Irish have had care of by nationals. So we are been incredibly consistent,
10 for second season 
my performance but I wasn't three runners earn all-confer­happy, but definitely a little performing well time and 
ecstatic either," she said. ence honors. disappointed." again. Hopefully he can keep By DAN MURPHY "Basically I was going for the Rounding out Despite the dis-doing that for the next two Sports Wrirer least amount of points possible Notre Dame's races."
"/ think we can use appointing team 
to help the team because we scoring runners finish, senior Kurt The last two Irish scorers 
Notre Dame's men and were looking for a great team were freshman this as motivation. Benninger (23:31) were Notre Dame's top fresh­women had the same result in finish. Lindsey We need to perform and Smyth (23:32) men -Brock Hagerman Friday's Big East meet, but "I hoped to improve upon my Ferguson (27th, had nothing to (23rd, 24:22) and Jake Walker
better come race
with two very different reac­finish from last year and I 21:51) and jun­complain about, (33rd, 24:34). Hagerman's tions. wasn't able to do that, so that ior Julie Opet time and really finishing second time was best among rookies Both teams finished third in was a bit of a disappoint­(28th, 21:58). concentrate on and third, respec­competing in the meet. the conference championship, ment." The Irish hope tively. "I don't think we can ask a
what we need to be
with the No. 12 men's team But Olding could not have to use this "Kurt and I were whole lot more of [Hagerman finishing behind No. 20 earned the third place finished strong finish in and what we need pretty happy with and Walker]," Smyth said. Providence and No. 16 on her own, and was backed the coming to do.,, our finish," Smyth "Brock had a great race. Jake Georgetown while the women up incredibly well by Notre meets, with the said. "Martin Walker a little tired after a also finished behind the No. Dame's senior pair of Ann Great Lakes Fagan [of hard week of training and
Patrick Smyth 
12 Friars and No. 18 Hoyas. Mazur and Amy Kohlmeier. Regional Meet Providence] ran then the race. I think they'll 
The third place finish was Mazur and Kohlmeier ran well approaching on Irish runner away with the race both be alright by the next especially uplift-together through­Nov. 11. Notre and we just fought meet." ing for the out the race, fin­Dame needs a it out for the two The race was the final tune­women, who had "/hoped to ishing only sec­top-two finish in the regional and three spots." up for Notre Dame going into experienced improve upon my onds apart as race to get an automatic bid to Next crossing the line for the NCAA Great Lakes back-to-hack dis­Mazur placed the national race, and Olding Notre Dame was junior Jake Regional meet Nov. 11. Even
finish from last
appointing races 12th (21:27) and feels this win could help pro­Watson, who finished ninth with the disappointing finish in the Notre year and I wasn't Kohlmeier pel them to that finish. with a final time of 23:54, just in the Big East championship, D a m e able to do that, so crossed the line "It made us really excited ahead of Friar junior Ahmed Smyth still thinks they have a Invitational and 14th (21:31). and we look forward to com­Haji. shot at finishing near the top
that was a bit of a
the Pre-National "Both of them peting [in the Great Lakes The finish earned Watson, of the regional race. 
Meet. disappointment.,, probably had the Regionals)," she said. "We def­along with Benninger and "I think we can use this as "I was very best race of their initely have to be on top of our Smyth, all-Big East honors -motivation. We need to per­proud of our careers," Olding game in order to be better the first for him, Smyth's sec­form better come race time
Sunni Olding
team's perform­said. "I just really prepared for the regional ond and Benninger's third. and really concentrate on
Irish runner
ance," juinior think that's a meet, but I think this is a big This accolade has helped cap what we need to be and what Sunni Olding reflection of their step in the right direction for off a very productive season so we need to do to finish in the said. "We had our two seniors, determination and hard work us." far for Watson, who led the top two at Regionals and get I felt, really stepped it up. It and how much they really Despite also finishing third, team to victory in the National the automatic bid to nation­was definitely a confidence were dedicated to the team the Irish men were not quite Catholic Championship and als." builder going into Regionals." and wanted to do really well." as happy with their result. breaking personal records at 
Olding finished in the top 10 By finishing in the top 15, "We definitely didn't have the Notre Dame Invitational Contact Dan Murphy at for the second straight year, Olding, Mazur and Kohlmeier our best day ever," sophomore and Pre-National Meet. dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series 

Itt,
I 



R6,,DISCOVERING FOUR, CA,JHOLIC AUTHQ..,R.S
.~;::: :.;::.~;.:.,.:::: 


"The Call of the Desert in the Age of Ashes: The Centrality of Suffering in Walter Miller's A Canticle for Leibowitz" 
Ralph Wood Professor of Theology and Literature at Baylor University 
Monday, October 30 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 8:00 PM 
Also Coming 

Tuesday, November 7, 2006, DBRT 155 8:00PM "Bernanos and the Noonday Devil" Ralph Mclnerny:Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 14, 2006, DBRT 155 8:00PM "Robert Hugh Benson: Anticipating the Apocalypse" David Solomon: Professor of Philosophy, University of Notre Dame 
For more 
r--= -----The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2006 
i ================================================================================================================================ 
I I 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles take fifth in MIAA championships 
overall individual competi­ninth Belles runners packing slower times across the close and said the team
Megan Gray finishes 
tion. very well. board but nothing drastic." would especially miss the Rounding out the top five Despite her stellar time, Wnather and thn team's seniors. Otto, a senior her­
sixth to earn first­
for the Belles was Megan Gray said that she and hor youth were both factors in self, echoed her sentiments. 
team MIAA honors McClowry with a 27:00 mark other team membors didn't thn Belles' season-long per­"As a senior, I wish this for 32nd place, followed watch their times. formance. For Bauters, the wasn't the end of cross-coun­closely by Emily Graf in 35th "lWei weren't really wor­toam's progress through tri­try," Otto said. "But still I'm 
By BECKI DORNER 
with a 27:20 time and Caitlin ried too much about times," als such as the elements as excited to see how these Sports Writer 
Stevenson in 38th at 27:39. she said. "Our goal was to wnll as inexpnrinnee helped women do in the future. I Sara Otto said that a fellow position ourselvos well indi­snason her squad. hope to one day watch them 
Megan Gray posted the best teammate really stepped up. vidually in order to place "I'~ plea~ec~. with my compete on our home course individual finish by a Belle "I was especially pleased well as a team." t11am, shn smd. Wn are very too." harrier Saturday at the MIAA with one of our l"irst-years, As a team, the Belles' fifth­young and thorn is still a lot The Belles will next com­Championships, leading the Emily Graf, who ran fourth place finish ties last year's for them to lnarn in so far as pete in the regional meet in team to a fifth-place finish in for the team," she said. mark. Calvin onco again took compnting, gntting used to Hanover in two weeks, where the conference meet at Alma "She's worked hard through­tlw team crown and swept thn (Jk at thn nnd of the sea­they hope to improve and College. out the season, but I feel she the top l'ive spots. son and just collegiate athlnt­register solid times. 
Gray's time of 23:44 on the really stepped it up in this Calvin was led by Camille il:s." "Saint Mary's is definitely 6K course earned her sixth meet to help contribute to the Medema with a lime of 22:51-1, One particular highlight making some heads turn and place and a spot on first­team." followed by Christina came at Loyola, whnrn almost I'm confident we'll see even team MIAA. Her performance The Belles runners did well Overbeck, Lydia Singer, Calah the entire team ran their per­greater improvement in was a history-breaking one -to stick together, Belles coach Schlabach and Lauren sonal best Limns, despite the 2007," Otto said. since the 1998 season, when Jackie Bauters said. Bergstrom. llope College hills and ovnrerowdnd course Bauters, however, knew the Saint Mary's cross country "The pack needed to move came in second, followed by and at Benedictine. Saint Belles had come a long way. first joined the MIAA, no up in order to compete with Kalamazoo and Albion in Mary's eame in fourth over­"I believe this was a suc­Belle has ever finished in the Kalamazoo and Albion third and fourth. all, but was the f"irst Division cessful year for the Belles," top ten at the conference more," she said. "They had The weather provod to be a III team out of' 24 teams she said. contest. real solid packs together tester for tho runners, total. Finally, at Manchestnr "I couldn't be more proud 
Sara Otto also turned in a ahead of our [third to firth­Haulers said. the Belles plaeed third and to be coaching such a fine stellar performance, earning place runners]." "It was definitely a cold, only five points away from group of young women." second-team MIAA honors Yet the teamwork that had wet and windy day," she said. sncond. with a time of 25:11, good become the team's goal was "I think the conditions may Gray was disappointed that Contact Becki Dorner at enough for 14th place in the realized with the third to have contributed to slightly the season was coming to a rdorner1@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish head to South Carolina for Watts/Paln1etto event 
Squad feels confident after strong finish two weeks ago 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The women's golf team heads to Kiawah Island, S.C., to close out its fall season in the 54-hole Edwin Watts/Palmetto Intercollegiate Tournament Monday and Tuesday. 
The Irish enter the contest following a fifth place finish in the Taylormade Aztec Fall Classic two weeks ago in San Diego. There, the Irish shot a 299 on day two, their first round under 300 all year. 
"Hopefully we can keep the good the ND program is," momentum from the play in Holt said. the last round of the last Playing from the No. 1 slot tournament," coach Susan is senior Noriko Nakazaki, 
Holt said. ''I'd  who enters the  
like for them to  tournament  
finish the sea­son on a strong note." .  "'t's a good field so we hope to move up  playing her best golf of the sea­son. Nakazaki  
Notre  Dame  in the rankings. "  finished  fifth in  
enters the tour­ the Taylormade  
nament ranked 66th according to Golfstat.com.  Lisa Maunu Irish sophomore  Classic with a one-over par 145, her best  

Out of the 20­team field, six are ranked higher than the Irish, with Campbell being the highest ranked at No. 43. 
"This is a real opportunity for the team to prove to themselves how good they are and show others how 

finish of the sea­
son. 

In the No. 2 slot is sopho­more Lisa Maunu. Maunu fin­ished tied for 31st in San Dingo despite nearly missing thn tournament with a throat ailment. 
"I worked a lot on my short game because it was really cold this last wonk," she said. "It's a good l'ield so we hopn to move up in the rankings." 
Freshmen Kristen Wetzel and Annie Brophy will also compete in team play this week. On the season, both Wetzel and Brophy havfl had nino of their l"irst 11 rounds as members of' the team count toward the overall team scores. 
''I've been working a lot on my putting," Brophy said. "It's be~n a constant struggln for me. 
Junior Jane Lee rounds out the Irish lineup. Lee is partic­ipating in her fourth tourna­ment for the Irish and is car­rying a stroke average of 
78.63 into South Carolina. 

The tournament will take place at the Oak Point Golf Club at the College of Charleston. 
"It has a lot of' marsh land and it's quite narrow. We had a good practice round LSunday]," Holt said. "It's a course that requires you to respect it. It's easy to let your focus drift." 

The Irish will once again be final 18 coming on Tuesday. without junior Alejandra Live scoring of the tourna­Diaz-Calderon and freshman ment will be available on Julie Kim, who have missed golfstat.com. the entire fall season due to injury. 
The teams will play 36 Contact Chris Hine at holes on day one, with the chine@nd.edu 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish extend losing streak 
Team falls to Big East's Louisville, Cincinnati 
By DEVIN PRESTON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish couldn't halt their downward spiral weekend this weekend. 
Two conference losses rounded out the team's longest losing streak since Sept. 2004. Falling to Cincinnati (17-5, 7-3 Big East) and Louisville (16-6, 9-1 Big East), the Irish (13-10) are now one of three teams in the Big East with a record of 7-3. 
Notre Dame has lost its last nine games, and was swept on three consecutive occasions. Previously Notre Dame had not lost three games of a con­ference match since Nov. 2004. 
Cincinnati 3, Notre Dame 0 
Freshman Christina Kaelin led the effort against the Bearcats with 13 kills in the 
20-30, 22-30, 28-30 loss. 
Cincinnati won the final game in the same fashion that they won the first. Putting six unanswered points up right from the start, Cincinnati would not lose its lead for the entire game. 
Notre Dame attempted to gain control late in the game with a 7-2 run, coming within four points of Cincinnati. This was not enough to fend the Bearcats off, and in the end, a kill from sophomore Jessie Nevitt sealed the match. 
Sophomore Mallorie Croal tallied six blocks and 10 kills at a hitting percentage of .261 for Notre Dame. She was also second on the team with 13 digs. Senior Danielle Herndon led the Irish with 22 digs. 
Freshman Jaime Frey led the Cincinnati defense with 33 digs. 
Louisville 3, Notre Dame 0 
Mallorie Croal and sopho­more Justine Stremick each recorded ten kills in the 30-14, 30-22, 30-19 loss to Louisville. 

The Irish worked well to keep up with the Cardinals in the third match, but a kill from freshman Tatyana Kolesnikova kicked off an 8-2 run for Louisville that Notre Dame was unable to recover from. 
A final kill from senior Stephanie Marsh ended Louisville's sweep of Notre Dame. 
Croalled the team with eight digs. The Notre Dame defense, which averages 17.5 digs per game only averaged 11.3 digs per game in their match against the Cardinals. This effort was not nearly enough to contain Kolesnikova's 19 kills, which she hit at a per­centage of .692. Louisville as a team out hit Notre Dame .476 to .169. 
Co-captain Adrianna Stasiuk, who is the team points leader at 4.06 points per game did not play in either match this weekend. 
Contact Devin Preston at dpresto1@nd.edu 
BACK OFF 


Hockey 
continued from page 24 
since 1998, when they won their first six games. 
Christian Hanson, who was named the tournament MVP, scored the game-winner three minutes into the sec­ond period when he tapped in a rebound off of a Jason Paige shot. 
Paige increased the lead to 2-0 less than 10 minutes later when he beat Air Force 
goalie Ian Harper with a wrist shot on an Irish power play. 
Harper finished with 23 saves on the night. Opposing him in net, Brown was able to stop all 28 of the Falcons' shots. 
The senior netminder suf­fered an ankle injury in a CCHA playoff game with Alaska-Fairbanks last March, but he has had no troubles this season after a summer of rehab. 
"He's playing extremely well and I want to make sure 

he continues to do so, Jackson said. "I need to give him a break once in a while." 
Brown had the night off on Friday night when Notre Dame blanked Army 3-0 to reach the tournament cham­pionship. Sophomore Jordan Pearce was between the pipes for the Irish and had seven saves in his first start in 2006. 
Freshman Ryan Thang started off the scoring at 
10:58 in the first period with his fourth goal of the season -one behind Mark Van Guilder for the team lead. hard last week and did a lot Kyle Lawson found Thang of things better." with a pass in the center of Garret Regan rounded out the ice, which he one-timed the scoring with two minutes past Army's Josh Kassel for left in the game when he and 
the power play goal. 
The Black Knights held Notre Dame off for the next 30 min­utes until Hanson got loose and put a wrister in the top corner 
~~-------------------------------------------------------------------------.to give the
Irish a 2-0 
s lead. 
Hanson 

broke out of 
his slump with
this 
"It was kind ofa key weekend for Christian because he was in jeopardy ofbeing taken out ofthe lineup. He practiced hard last week and did a lot of things better. " 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 

Lau 

Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
at Leasing for 2007-2008 school year Houses, Townhouses, Apartments
you? 
• 
Close to campus • Washers & dryers 

• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • Internet ready 

• 
24-tlour maintenance staff • Lawn service 


a big week­

end at just the right time. "It was kind of a key week­end for Christian because he
Man 
was in jeopardy of being taken out of the lineup," Jackson said. "He practiced Paige capital­ized on a 2­on-1 opportu­nity. 
Notre Dame will rest up this week in preparation for the open­ing of CCHA regular season play as they travel to Columbus to take on Ohio State. 
The two-
game series will wrap up Notre Dame's seven-game road trip, the longest of the season. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Lectio@Eleven 

A Late-night Cabaret for the Soul Readings, music, and open mike at Recker's Tuesdays 11:00 pm-Midnight, starting Halloween contact 1onathan Couser, jcouser(W,nd.edu or 631-3923 
Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032rcell) (574) 234•2436toffice) 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 30, 2006 

we play up front. She's got saves, but Notre Dame outshot such strength and ability to the Hod Storm 12-to-3 in tho
Advance 
hold the ball and she's such a first half, earning seven cor­continued from page 24 weapon in the air." nnr kicks in the game, induct­
Bock said Waldrum has ing thn one sophomore for­defense as it trickled over the emphasized being aggressive ward lla.nks snrvieed Bock on line and past Red Storm keep­in the air, and Sunday she lwr second score. er Jaime Beran for the game's took it espe-Notre Dame first score. cially to heart. playnd without 
Four minutes later, Bock's "The set "We haven't finished on star sopho­brow capitalized on another pieces and more center
a lot ... Any chance I 

set piece -powering a Kerri winning head­back Carrin Hanks corner kick into the ers is one of had I wanted to make Dew, who torn back of the net to go ahead 2-my big sure I made a state­her ACL dur­0 and weather the Storm's things," Bock ing Tunsday's
ment and got after the 

threat to keep the Irish from said. "I 3-0 win at advancing to next weekend's haven't gotten balls." Cincinnati, and Big East semifinals in Storrs, a lot this year, liknly will miss Conn. but it's some­thn rest of the
Brittany Bock 

"We really wanted to focus thing coach y e a r
Irish forward 

on dead ball situations and set has been Frnshman pieces because in our [2004] harping on. de fonder I Ia loy championship run that was We haven't Ford accompa­such a big part," Irish coach finished on a lot ... Any nied senior captain Kim Randy Waldrum said. "In this chance I had I wanted to make Lorenznn in the eenter of" thn point in time of the year it's so sure I made a statement and back line Sunday, as junior important, and Bock was got after the balls." Ashley Jones filled in on the unbelievable in the air all day Irish junior keeper Lauren right and senior Christie long today. We continue to say Karas saw more first half Shaner on the left. Waldrum how important she is to how action than usual, making two was pleased with the dnfense's performance, though he said all year in those situations. 
there were a couple times Instead, he saw Bock step when they missed Dew. forward and get stopped by 
"The nnwness of Haley and Beran, spoiling the sopho­ILorenzen I playing together more's bid for a hat trick. were just But he didn't some commu­mind -not
"I was happy to see
nication when his 
Iproblems I." /1/anks/ turn around team's leading 

Waldrum said. and get the goal in the scorer gave up "Two players a sure scoring
end and reward her for 

going for the chance to help
that. I think when 

same hoad her teammate ball, we did teammates are looking earn some that a couple deserved deco­
out for each other like 

of' times -ration for her
that, you've got 

just a few heat-seeking periods of' something special. " head. indecisive­"It says a lot ness." about your
Randy Waldrum 
II a n k s team being
Irish coach 

addnd the concerned l'inal tally for about each tlw Irish in thn H9th minutn on other," Waldrum said. "I was a J'nnd from snnior midfinldnr happy to see lllanks] turn­Jon Buczkowski. Waldrum was around and get the goal in the morn imprnssnd. though. with end and reward her for that. I tho shot she didn't takn. think when teammates arc 
WIHln junior midf"ieldnr looking out for eaeh other like Amanda Cinalli was fouled in that_. Y~!u've got something the box with thren minutes specmi. remaining. Waldrum nxpeetml llanks to lineup and nail the Contact Tim Dougherty at pnnalty kiek, like shn's done tdougher@nd.edu 

We is 
continued from page 24 
cesses "Sunday through Friday." 
"My pet peeves with our players are to go to class, be there on time, be 
"My pet peeves with our
prepared, he's spend­use our players are to go to class, be ing time in the confes­
academic there on time, be prepared, 
resources sional, I'll 
use our academic resources. " 
... and do encourage the best him to you can, Charlie Weis keep doing Weis said that and
Irish coach 
in a por­tion of an interview that CBS made available on Yahoo.com. "And when people don't meet that criteria, they're in my door ... and that's an unpleasant situa­tion.... And when it comes to practice, I do my best to try to humiliate them in front of their teammates that they don't go to class." 
Kroft called Weis an "offen­sive genius" and an exception­al motivator who was brought into a program that had suf­fered two consecutive "miser­able seasons." 
"At 6-foot-1, 300-pounds, his girth is exceeded only by his super-size personality that seems out of place at a univer­sity run by the Holy Cross Fathers," Kroft said. 
When Kroft quoted 
Philadelphia Eagles eoaeh Andy Heid saying that Weis must spend a lot of time in confession, University President Father John Jenkins offered his opinion from the roof of the Hesburgh Library. 
"I've heard foul language in football locker rooms before," 
Jenkins 
said. "If 
repent." In anoth­er part of the interview made 
available only through Yahoo.com, Weis said his wife, Maura, and son, Charlie Jr., opposed his deeision to have gas­tric bypass surgery in the summer of 2002. Weis nearly wanted to keep tho media's focus on the team. not on him. 
On Oet. 3, Wnis said he would talk about the segment only during Notre Dame's bye week. Wlwn Weis did talk, one week later, he kept his com­ments to a minimum. 
"What happened was they did a special on Tommy Brady last year," Weis said. "Steve (Kroft! became intrigued by me. As the year went on, he deeided he wanted to do something. We started about eight months ago doing little parts of this." 
CBS promoted the segment with a series of commercials that aired over the weekend during NCAA and NFL football games and included the clips 
''I've heard foul language in football locker rooms before. If he's spending time in the confessional, I'll encourage him to keep doing that and repent." 
Father John Jenkins University president 
of Weis using his New Jersey vernaeular. 
Kroft, an 18-year vet­e r a n reporter of 60 Minutes and a native of Kokomo, Ind., has won five George Foster 
Loss 
continued from page 24 
from 25 yards out to tally his second goal of the season. 
Although it didn't all'oct Hollas' shot, the wind would turn out to be a big factor all evening for both teams. 
It was a difficult night to play, Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
"We played superbly with the wind in our faee in the first half, but we didn't really eapitalize with the wind at our backs in the second half," he said. 
Notre Dame outshot Hutgers 9­4 in the first half and would take their one goal lead into the lock­er room at halftime. 
But the Irish weren't able to hold that lead. 
The Scarlet Knights found their equalizer in the 80th minute on the first of Sternberger's two goals. Rutgers' midlielder Kyle Grato sent a free kick through the Irish wall, and although Notre Dame keeper Chris Cahill made the save, Sternberger was there to put the rebound into the net. 
"1\venty-six minutes and almost two overtimes later, Sternberger scored again to book the Scarlet Knights ticket to the semi-finals. Another dead ball proved to be the lri"sh 's undoing as Sternberger got onto the end of a Zach Simi corner kick firing home at the back post. 
Although Notre Dame held a slim 13-12 advantage in shots on the evening, the Searlet Knights out-shot the Irish 8-4 in the see­ond half and overtime periods. Notre Dame didn't register a shot in either of the overtime periods. 
"We played very well in the first half, but we felt we should have been able to put the game away in the second half," Clark said. "We played well without generating a lot of chances in the overtimes. It wasn't like they were handling us in the overtime periods." 
Saturday evening was the sec­ond time in the last four games that the Irish were unable to hold an early one-goal lead. Notre Dame was also ahead of No. 4 West Virginia 1-0 at half­time on Oct. 18, but the Mountaineers scored two-second half goals to seal the victory. 
The Irish will return home with nearly two weeks to pre­pare for the first round of the NCAA tournament which begins on Friday, Nov. 10. Clark sees this break as an advantage for his team. 
"[Losing to Rutgers] might prove to be a blessing in dis­guise," Clark said. "We've played a game every 3.3 days since Aug. 17, and that's a lot of games. I think the break will give us an opportunity to recharge our bat­teries, and hopefully the boys will take advantage of that." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
died in the aftermath of the surgery after suffering exten­sive internal bleeding in the surgery. 
Weis repeatedly declined to comment about the segment before it aired, saying that he 
Peabody Awards for distin­guished achievement and mer­itorious service in broadcast­ing. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Monday, October 30, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLDALEC WHITE 

JUMBLEJOCULAR 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Gee, Marvin, this ball 
has holes in it 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i~f;~l [)
tYEUFLE 
WHE:N THE: "SMAI<.T"

CROISSANTWORLD 
GIRL. We:NT BOWL-­
J I I t:u 
IN& WITH HE:R DATE:,


www.jumble.com 
SHE:--­
!!.01'-\E. C..HIC.\(..
Sl C:2\-\l-\ ... 

\NE. NEED S.OI'-\E­-rk IS. IS f'E:oSAe.L'f 
'fOU CAL-L 
tYASMID j
\N~\TE!> A 
"T'HAI CONTRo­
TI-i IN l:r Slt.:.-~ 
Now arrange the circled letters 

..,-1-\E. M~TSO~~ 
to form the surprise answer, as
VIEWPOINT 
B I u (;r E..C.. -n..t At-J
VE:.R.."""'f? KUK'? 
suggested by the above car·

E.A~ E\IE:.~ ro~ 
I.-E.-rn:~ ASCUT 

IS THA1" WHAI c..c:>N"mOVE..2.S'f 
TK£ IRAQ WAR.. 
'JOU CAl..I....
A"i t-lcrlj~;(. 
IHE:Ris 
CoN-r~oVE.ii:.S~ 
(Answers tomorrow) 
F£W 
'{0'-' L.A"Z..'/ 
Jumbles: BLAZE CREEL VASSAL BECAMEYesterday's
f.lo£oN:::. '· 
Answer: What the postal clerk sought when she went online for a date-"MALE" CALL 




CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  37 Go bankrupt  66 Mailed  
1 Comedian  38 Ever and  67 "Full House"  
Foxworthy  39 Kind of lamp at  actor Bob  
5 Tiff  a luau  68 Being nothing  
9 Manhandle  40 Composer Franz  more than  
14 Early TV role for  41 Give temporarily  69 "The Bridge on  
Ron Howard  42 Genesis garden  the River  "  
15 Author Victor  43 _Major  
16 Comment to the  44 Popeye's burly  DOWN  
audience  foe  1 Runs for  
17 1960's series  45 Feature of the  exercise  
about a boy and  Christian God  2 Sporting sword  
his bear  48 Cathedral seat  3 Huckleberry_  
19 Outsides of  49 Dernier _(the  4 Offensive­ 
lemons and  latest thing)  smelling 
limes  50 Cold and damp,  5 Mountain  
20 12th-grader  as a basement  climber's guide  
21 Swiss-based  52 Home of a  6 Place to play 
relief group  hypothetical  darts  
23 Johnny of  monster  7 Chemical used  
"Pirates of the  57 "I haven't the  by document  
Caribbean"  foggiest"  forgers  
25 ltsy-bitsy  61 Miss  of  a Dial  
26 Choose  TV's "Dallas"  9 Package  
29 Greeting with a  62 Compliment  10 "If memory 
hug and a kiss,  64 Grabs (onto)  serves ... "  Puzzle by Dave Tuller  
say  65 Object of  11 Overindulger of  33 Three-card  46 Polar explorer  55 Read over  
35 Cawing birds  devotion  the grape  scam  Shackleton  hurriedly  
12 Throws in  34 Furnish with a  47 Wick holder  56 Pro or con  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  13 Trueheart of "Dick Tracy" 18 Big name in movie theaters 22 Lived (in)  fund 36 Porch music maker 40 Alison who won a Pulitzer for "Foreign Affairs"  51 Newsstand 52 Chicken drumsticks 53 Earthenware pot  58 Provoked, as enemy fire 59 Poet St. Vincent Millay 60 Wine-producing region of Italy 
24 Employer of flacks  44 Previously, up to this point  54 Job for a drain cleaner  63 Neither hide hair  
26 Santa's reindeer,  
minus Rudolph  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 28 Subway coin Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 30 En_(asa crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. group) Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
31 Harry Potter, for 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young one solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 

32 Outdo by a little 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amit Paul, 23; Ben Foster, 26; Kate Jackson, 58; Richard Dreyfuss, 59 
Happy Birthday: You have to go the distance if you want to get results. Don't stop halfway or give up because of the obstacles you've faced. The past year has been a learning experience. Your numbers are 6, 24, 25, 29, 33, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You can utilize everything you've learned in the past and impress everyone you deal with today. Your kindness and generosity will bring you good returns. Your intuition will not let you down. 4 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): It's not the best day to face the music or to try to get someone's attention. You are better off working on your ideas a little longer and avoiding conflict with the ones you love. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a serious look at your past, present and future and decide what it will take to reach a lifelong goal. It's never too late to learn something new or to make a move that will benefit you. Be honest with yourself. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): This is the perfect day to bond--but remember, you don't have to go into debt to do so. Simplicity will be the key. Take the time to find out what everyone you care about is up to before you start. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be careful --someone you live with may try to bait you into an argument. Honesty will be the most important factor when it comes to relationships. Like it or not, the truth must be told if you want to move on to better times. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything should be about your home and family today. Try to make alterations that will free up your time and allow you to make your place more comfortable and user-friendly. Love is looking very good. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to avoid emotional issues by throwing yourself into your work. Take a look at your past goals and consider if you have come close to meeting them. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let anyone tell you what you can and can't do. If someone is putting restrictions on you, consider if this relationship is really to your benefit. At some point you have to rely on yourself and go it alone. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A little pleasure trip will take you a million miles away mentally. You need a bit of a change to set your mind free. Distance yourself from everyone who is trying to push you one way or another. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't trust what others tell you, especially if it has to do with the way you earn money. You have to judge for yourself. Now is not the time to trust anyone with your future. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You won't be able to make a good decision, so don't bother trying. Travel and communications will end in delays and disasters. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you come into something special like a winning, gift or other means of fast cash, keep it to yourself. A problem with someone older is likely to spoil your day if you let it. Don't give in to the demands of others. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are captivating, charismatic and, above all, compassionate. You show an interest in everything but know how to focus on what's important. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City __________ State __________ Zip_______________ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, October 30, 2006 
page 24 
NO FOOTBALL 
CBS features Weis in Sunday's '60 Minutes' 
..._ 
< 
Irish coach profiled by Kroft on news program 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Charlie Weis often says he's a straight talker and "brutally honest" -and he furthered that image in a CBS "60 Minutes" feature that aired Sunday Night. 
In a segment by longtime reporter Steve Kroft, Notre Dame's second-year coach said he does not care what people out-See Also side his fami­
"Exhausting
ly think about his coaching, Navy's options" 
nor believe 
Irish Insider 
that any coach will do a better job for his team than he does. 

"You only feol the pressure if you really care what everyone else thinks," Weis said. "And I don't eare what anyone thinks." 
The 15-minute segment, which aired on CBS affiliate WSHT-TV (Comcast channel 12) and began at 7:57 p.m., high­lighted Weis' use ol' foul lan­guage on the tield and in prac­tice, including a clip of Weis screaming at Irish special teams coach Brian Polian to "get the I expletive) off the field" and complaining about a "buil­l oxpletive I eall." 
At one point, Weis complains to an assistant coach about a blown blocking assignment. 
"We've got a defensive end and we've got two tight ends and we don't touch the mother­lexpletivel," Wnis said. 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said Weis can be a jerk at times, a comment the senior said he would never repeat to Weis' face. 

WoMEN's SoccER 
No prayer 

St. John's can't pull offupset win over ND 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 

While the rest of America was falling back Sunday, sophomore forward Brittany Bock sprung forward ­knocking in two headers to lead Notre Dame over St. John's 3-0 in the Big East quarterfinals at Alumni Field. 
Bock netted her two scores within the first few minutes of the match on set pieces that found her in the box. 
In the seventh minute, Michele Weissenhofer's flip throw-in landed softly on Bock's head before the for­ward touched it over the 
see ADVANCE/page 22 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Rutgers eliminates ND from tournament 
Scarlet Knights come from 1-0 deficit to end Irish hopes in Big East championships 
resume all but ensures them a By GREG ARBOGAST spot in next month's NCAA Sports Writer Tournamont. The Irish will 
h~arn their first round destina­
Two latn goals by Hutgors for­tion and opponent on Nov. 6. ward Adam Sternberger worn Saturday's game started well enough to snnd No. H Notre for Notre Dame as sophomore Damn home while the Searlnt midlieldor Cory Hellas gave the Knights advaneed to tlw snmi­Irish the lead in tho 35th finals of the Big East tourna­minute. Bellas eollnc~ted the ball ment by the score of' 2-1 outsidn the Hutgers the penalty Saturday evening at Yurcak box, turned and -despite field. howling winds in his face ­
The loss drops tho Irish's rocketed a shot into the goal roeord to 13-5-2 on the season. but Notre Dame's season see LOSS/page 22 

The segment also noted Weis' focus on player academics. Kroft said Weis found players on the team in a state of "com­placency about winning, going to class and their potential." That stands in contrast to prior statements by athletic director Kevin White, who praised for­mer Irish coach Tyrone Willingham, who Weis replaced, for the team's sue-
see WEIS/page 21 
HOCKEY 
Irish beat Air Force in Tampa 
Team's tournament win also milestone for both Jackson, Brown 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
It was a night of milestones for the Irish. 
With a 2-0 victory over Air Foree Saturday night in Tampa, Fla., Notre Dame won their l'irst in-sea­son tourna­ment in 25 years, Dave B r o w n broke a pro­gram record with his seventh c a r e e r shutout and head coach .Jeff Jackson cap­tured his 200th career win. 
Jackson only needed seven years and six games in his cigh th season behind the bench to reach the bench­mark. lie is currently 22nd all-time in wins and his .713 winning percentage leads all activo eoaehes in the 1\CAA. Jackson won 1H2 games !'rom 1990-1996 with Lake Superior State and has 18 sinee coming to South Bend last season. 
"I think, most of all, it is a rcl'loction or all or tho teams and coaching staffs that I have had with me along the way," Jackson said. 
Jackson's No. 11 Irish are ofT to their best start (5-1-0) 

see HOCKEY/page 21 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 

NO SWIMMING
~D Vm.LEYBALL 
w 
Irish take third in 

Notre Dame 169
Belles finish fifth

Co) Notre Dame drops 
Texas A&M 129
in MIAA meet 
meet

<-
z third straight
:3 
Both the men's and 

The No. 17 Irish win
The Irish lose two 
Megan Gray leads 
women's side finish 

nine out of the 16 events
Saint Mary's in one of

= < crucial matches against 
Saturday at Texas A&M.
third at the Big East
the season's last races.

Louisville and
ti meet this weekend. Cincinnati. 
page 19 
page 18

page 21 
page 20 






