
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 130 FRIDAY, APRIL 28.2006 
Dissenters criticize Jenkins' statement 
Bishop, professors ask University president to reconsider decision 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Editor 
Three weeks after University President Father John Jenkins issued a largely well-received closing statement permitting "The Vagina Monologues" on campus, prominent voices of dis­sent are beginning to emerge ­including that of South Bend-Fort 
Problems plague Webtnail 
OIT predicts faster service by finals week 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
In this age of high-speed com­munication, people can spread news of an event to all corners of the world just minutes after it happens. But for Notre Dame stu­dents, opening up Webmail often recalls the days of the Pony Express. 
While the problem has been steadily building, during this spring semester in particular e­mail users have begun to notice longer delays in logging onto the e-mail program to read mes­sages. And though officials hope to alleviate the problem before the semester ends, a long-term fix may be more of a wait. 
"It goes slow a lot and some­times it goes so slow you can't really log in," freshman Kyle Peters said. "It usually just takes a couple of seconds, but when it's bad it takes a couple minutes. Usually ifit's taking a couple min­utes, I just 'X' out and don't even 
try." 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) is aware of the troubles users have had in accessing e-mail through e-mail clients Webmail, Outlook, Eudora and Thunderbird this semester. Denise Moser, consolidated oper­ations manager for OIT, said her office frequently receives calls from students and faculty experi­encing problems opening their e­mail quickly. 
Students tend to use Webmail, and faculty and staff use the other e-mail programs more fre­quently, but all are experiencing the same problems right now because they usc the same server, she said. 
see WEBMAIL/page 4 Wayne Bishop John D'Arcy, who issued a nine-page statement Thursday denouncing Jenkins' decision. 
Jenkins' April 5 decision to not prohibit the "Monologues" came 10 weeks after he appealed to the University community to engage in dialogue about academic free­dom and Catholic character at Notre Dame. 
D'Arcy, who said three weeks ago he was "deeply saddened" by the decision, criticized Jenkins Thursday for not "adequately and fully" including Catholic teaching in his closing statement. 
"My pastoral concern is not only because of the decision not to ban the play, but because of the rationale that accompanied the decision," D'Arcy said Thursday in a statement that will appear in the April 30 edition of Today's Catholic. "It fails to give room to the great truths of the faith." 
D'Arcy is not alone in his senti­ments. At Notre Dame, a series of letters to the editor by University professors printed in The Observer have criticized Jenkins' decision, several asking for Jenkins to reconsider. 
Jenkins responded in a state­ment Thursday, saying the public dissent -which heightened when an April 25 column written by law professor emeritus Charles Rice called for Jenkins' resignation -is part of a pro­ductive, ongoing dialogue. 

The University, he said, "bene­fits from fruitful discussion of dif­ficult issues." 
"Often, the voices of dissent present themselves louder than those of support," Jenkins said. "I continue to respect the opinions of those who have shared their views publicly and privately with me and other members of the University." 
D'Arcy, who spoke at Notre Dame Law School on April 21 
see DISSENT/page 4 

Hesburgh picture unveiled 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
Although the walls of LaFortune are decked with many pictures of illustrious Notre Dame athletes and legends, nothing quite paral­lels the image that hangs there now. 
Thursday afternoon, the Multicultural Affairs Committee of Student Senate organized an unveiling ceremony of a special photograph of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. linking arms with a young Father Theodore Hesburgh, University president emeritus. 
The gathering, held in the Dooley Room of LaFortune, celebrated not only the unveiling of the picture but also King's legacy, Hesburgh's 
see PICTURE/page 6 


Chandra Johnson, director of Cross-Cultural Ministry, left, and University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh stand by a photo of Hesburgh from the 1960s. 
Academic building in the works at SMC 

An artistic rendering of a yet-unnamed academic building was revealed to Saint Mary's Thursday. 
Director of Public Relations Melanie McDonald said the new building does not yet have a name -it is unclear whether it will be named after a particular donor -but as long as fund-raising goals are met, groundbreaking could begin as soon as fall 2006. 
Currently, Saint Mary's is $800,000 short of its $16,500,000 goal-which 
see SMC/page 9 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER News Writer 
Saint Mary's campus was abuzz with change Thursday, as the sounds of drills meeting concrete from the renovation of Madeleva Hall rang out at the same time plans for a new three-story, 68,000 square foot academic building were revealed to the College com­munity. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Shack City to be built Saturday 
Founder of Habitat for Humanity set to visit 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for Humanity will chal­lenge students to think inside the box this Saturday at its third annual Shack City event. Founder and former president of Habitat for 
Humanity International, Millard Fuller will speak at 8 p.m. Saturday night on South Quad. 
In an effort 


to raise funds Fuller for and awareness about the two billion people worldwide who live in substandard housing, Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity co­president Ryan Iafigliola said participants will give up the comfort of their beds to sleep in cardboard boxes on South Quad. Students will write quotes and statistics about poverty on the boxes to aid in the educational component of this unique event. 
Shack City was designed with the intention to educate, advo­cate, raise funds and allow stu­dents to experience a night with-
see HABITAT/page 9 

Cotntnittee pilots ne-w course rating process 
By KATIE MCDONNELL News Writer 

It's crunch time. Your DART time is here, but the final spot for your first choice class was just filled. Now it's time to make the decision -do you pull up the vague course description in the undergradu­ate bulletin, or the heavily slanted opinions in NDToday.com's teacher rat­ings? 
Neither -at least at some point in the near future. Thanks to the efforts of the Committee for Better Informing Course Selection, Notre Dame students will one day have more detailed course informa­tion at their fingertips. Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs heads the joint student, faculty and administrator committee work­ing to give students what he deemed a "richer description" of available courses before reg­istering. 

"We want to give students more detailed information ­what the course's intention is, learning goals, modes of learn­ing," Jacobs said. "To give stu­dents a much clearer picture about what they might be con­sidering." 
Currently, students com pile information from the course handbook, undergraduate bul­letins or department Web sites alongside external sources like NDToday.com. But senior Vijay Ramanan, the student chair of the committee, said the infor­mation these sources provide "is sometimes very good and in other situations quite spotty." 
While Web sites may be out­dated and descriptions often short, teacher evaluations on NDToday.com face the problem containing only a few, strong, variable opinions, he explained. 
see COURSES/page 8 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 28, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Thank you, everyone 
Barring a mirade or drunken mishap by somnone in the Hn1-,ristrar's oiTicn, I will probably not be delivering any gradua­tion day relln1:tions in any public forums (other than standing on a bar with a drink in my hand). (;iven that this will 
Sam Pandolfo 
probably be my 
linal inside column, 
I wanted to take the Advertising 
opportunity to t.xecutive 
thank enrtain peo­
ple on earnpus f(>r making my four years 
at Notre Damn truly unforgettable. 
For f(>Ur years, I have awoken morn 
times than not to Maurieo, Zahm's head 
custodian, sin1-,ring XOs pop songs in the 
bathroom or ban1-,ring his vacuum into my 
door at 7 a.m. I'm sineerely and honnstly 
going to miss hearing, "Sam, Sam, what 
up num ... Yeah, Jibba, Yeah Yeah!" 
every morning. So to Maurice and all tho 
hall <:ustodial staff mombers across earn­
pus, thanks filf putting up with us with a 
smile~. 
Oflknr Kelly. North Quad NDSP night patrol woman extraordinaire. No week­end wm; evor complnte without seeing you in Zahm trying to find out who did whatever out on the quad. l'vo never seen sonwono hamlin drunken idiol<; with such grace and composure. If I had a vote, I would give you, and all the night patrol safi~ty oflieers, a huge raise. Thanks fi1r hdping us make it home salil, bncausn Int.'s bP horwst, somo nighl<; that walk from D2 or Library Cirde can seem like a marathon, and no ono wanl<; to spend the night in a bush. 
Dining hall card swip<~rs. Despite our diflimmces over the years-the ind­denL<; involving Zahm dorm dinners and body paint-you always manage a smilo when we come in li1r a meal. You've actually convinced me in this last year that you know my namo, even though you're probably just <:heating off my II>. That's okay though, because hoaring you say "llello Samuel" actually eases the pain of knowing that I just spent $10 on tlw continent.al breakfast. So thank you fi1r the smiles, and I hopo they get you bolter chairs. 
I .ibrary security guards. For almost 20 hours a day, you keep us safe while we study. I can't even begin to imagine how good you are at solitaire on the computer. You've probably even played alllO,OOO games of FreeCell. (When you get bored of eomputer games I reeommend SuDoku -you can print free grids at www.boardholl.org, and they ean help kill time like you wouldn't believe.) All thrnn and half times I have been in the library in my four years here, I felt nxtremely safe. In fad, I felt more safe whiln naked in the library than anywhere el<;e on eampu<;. 
Finally, I'd like to thank the Office of Alcohol and Drug A<;sossment. Most of my fhend<; know you all bottor than I do, but I'm grateful for the work that you do. By your definitions, nearly everyone at Notrn Dame ha<; a drinking problem, so knowing that I'm like my peors and that I fit in has made me more eonfident in soda! situations. So, thank you for help­ing me make friends everywhere. 

Afinr fimr years, tl1ings that once amazod me have become dull and bor­ing. But I've notieed tlw little things, and not so little people that make this place possible~. So to everyone else -profes­sors, oiTice workers, rectors and altar boys (and girls)-thank you for making Notrn Dame unforgettable. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at 
spandolj@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a production error, in the April 27 edition of the Observer several articles in the News section were not completed. Full text of these articles can be accessed online at ndsmcobscrver.com. The Observer regrets rhis error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK TCEs ARE EFFECTIVE? 



Bodie Solomon  Mark Bond  Noelle Crooks  Chrissy Derek  
freshman Stanford  freshman Stanford  freshman Cavanaugh  junior Holy Cross  
"My professors are still here -what do you think?"  "Ofcourse­they get rid of all the bad teachers. "  "No. "  "2o minutes of less class time is fine by me."  


Steph Snyder 
senior Holy Cross 
"/ think it is of the upmost importance that they know what I, Stephanie Nicole Snyder, think ofthem. " 


Caitlin Stevenson 
first-year McCandless 
"/feel like most people don't take them seriously. " 
IN BRIEF 
The debate teams from leg­endary football rivals Notre Dame and USC square ofT for the first time at 4 p.m. today in the Decio Theatre of' the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The topie will be: "HESOLVED: That the University of Notre Dame should defeat the University of Southern California in the 2006 eollegiate football eontest." 
The dean of the Yale Univnrsity Divinity Sehool, Harry Attridge, will give a loeture on "The Future of the Faith in an Age of' Fundamentalism and Seeularism." It will be held from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 p.m. today in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Donald Crafton, chair and pro­fessor of film, television and the­atre, will speak about "The Irish 
. Movie Mogul: Joseph P. Kennedy's Film Career" today at 3 p.m. in 424 Flanner Hall. 
AnTostal continues at 7 p.m. tonight at Legends with the Battle of the Bands. This event is sponsored by SUB, the Class of 2008 and Legends of Notre Dame. It is free and open to NO, SMC and !:ICC students with ID. 
The SMC Irish Danee Club will perform at 4:30 p.m. Saturday and 7:30 p.m. Sunday in The Uttle Theater in Moreau Hall. 
The No. 17 Irish men's lacrosse team will face Ohio State at 3 p.m. Saturday at Mooso Krause Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

OFFBEAT 
Goose befriends elderly cancer patient 
FERNAN LAKE, Idaho ­A northern Idaho man diag­nosed with terminal cancer says a usually cantankerous goose that befriended him on his walks has helped him live past doctors' predic­tions. 
Last fall Bill Lytle's, 73, skin turned yellow overnight, and doctors diag­nosed pancreatic cancer, giving Lytle only months to live. But Lytle continued his walks, having to cut them down to two miles at a near­by lake, where he met the goose who has inspired him to keep going even when he wasn't feeling well. 

The goose, about 30 pounds with a red beak and red feet, approaches Lytle when he calls and rubs its head against his arms. But it snaps at anyone else who gets too close. 
NASA says reducing road­kill will save astronauts 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. ­Picking up roadkill may save astronauts' lives. Kennedy Space Center managers said Thursday they have launched an effort encour­aging workers to notify road -and-grounds crews when they see roadkill. 
The theory is that remov­ing dead animals could cut down on the number of vul­tures looking for meals at the 140,000-acre center, part of which is a national wildlife refuge. 
A vulture struck the fuel tank of space shuttle Discovery during last year's launch, but it didn't cause any major damage. 
"We're trying to avoid that again and by doing that we're trying to reduce the food source," said John Shaffer, a scientist who works at Kennedy's environ­mental program oflice. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

...J 
~ 
(.) 0 

...I HIGH 67 HIGH 57 LOW 45 LOW 45 

65 
43 

62 
40 

Friday, April 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Red Rose Gala blossotns at ND 
Tonight's dinner and dance will raise money for YWCA and S-0-S 
By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 
When University President Father John Jenkins announced his decision to disallow the fundraising aspect of "The Vagina Monologues" this year, organizers of the hotly-debated performance, members of Feminist Voice. the Campus Alliancn for Rape Elimination and Student Government offi­cials united to plan an event in hopes of raising a portion of the $15,000 they had expected to get from the "Monologues" per­formance. 
The Red Rose Gala, to be held tonight from 8 p.m. to midnight in the East Wing of South Dining Hall, is a result of brainstorming and months of planning by stu­dents dedicated to providing continued support for the YWCA and S-0-S -two South Bend organizations that have previ­ously benefited from "The Vagina Monologues"' ticket pro­ceeds. 
The South Bend YWCA is a domestic violence and chemical dependency shelter that is only one of a handful in the nation to allow both women and their children. S-0-S, South Bend's only rape crisis center, also runs a support group for victims of rape. Funds raised by the Gala will be given to these organiza­tions to be used at their discre­tion. 
"These organizations have come to expect and rely on this donation,'' said Kaitlyn Redfield, one of the primary organizers of the Gala. "It is unconscionable that survivors of rape and domestic violence and their chil­dren, members of our own com­munity. be made to go without because of a political decision made by our University's presi­dent." 
As of Wednesday, approxi­mately 100 tickets had been sold for the event. Event organizers are hoping for a dancing, food and auction of items -such as a private tour of the tunnels, lunch with Jenkins in his office and hotel accommodations in Chicago ­the event will feature speaker Cynthia Mahmood, a University professor and expert anthropol­ogist in the field of gender vio­lence. 
"It is crucial that people on this campus understand that 
every 16 sec­
onds, a woman is 
beaten in her 
number closer "These organizations own home and to 500. every 2.5 sec­
have come to expect

"We want to onds a woman is raise the and rely on this raped," Redfield $15,000 [in donation." said. "In South anticipated Bend, these "Monologues" women and their 
Kaitlyn Redfield children need a
funds] back. Frankly, unless a Red Rose Gala organizer safe haven. The 
miracle happens at the 11th hour and people sud­denly become very generous or start buying tickets madly, this unfortunately won't happen," Redfield said. "Far more people will pay to attend 'The Vagina Monologues' than will likely attend this fundraiser, and we can only charge so much for ticket prices and auction items. But, any money is better than nothing." 
While the Red Rose Gala is primarily a fundraising event, Redfield and other event organ­izers hope it will help to raise awareness about some very important issues as well, she said. In addition to a live band, 
only locations 
available for 
them are the YWCA and S-0-S, and these organizations need our support to keep their doors open. As Catholics, as citizens of South Bend, and as members of the very privileged Notre Dame community, this is our responsi­bility." 
Tickets for the Gala are on sale all this week at the LaFortune Box Office. The cost is $15 for undergraduates, $25 for faculty and community members and $5 for the first 50 graduate students. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

Professor's vvork set to 111ake vvorld pre111iere 
By NICOLE ZOOK Senior Staff Writer 
It's not every day Saint Mary's and Notre Dame studenl'> get the chance to witness a world pre­miere event, but starting tonight visitors to O'Laughlin Auditorium will do just that. 
"Witness," an opera based on the Karen Hesse novel of the same name, was written and con­ducted by Saint Mary's music pro­fessor Zae Muon. The opera's world premiere begins tonight at 7:30p.m. and is open to the pub­lic. 
Muon, who teaches music com­position, theory and orchestration at the College, said she is excited for the work to open and believes both students and South Bend residents have a lot to gain from viewing the opera. 
"I hope people will love the music, be thrilled by the story, and understand that it has real meaning for our lives today," she said. 
"Witness" tells the story of a Vermont town infiltrated by the Ku Klux Klan in 1924, focusing on the impact the group has on the lives of two young girls -one Jewish, one African-American. 
Muon said that the story is par­ticularly relevant in today's "polit­ical climate," and that the "both fascinating and frightening" coali­tions formed in the opera can "easily be seen" in America today. 
Muon also said the characters in the opera undergo profound changes and eventually come to know tolerance. 

"A central issue of the opera is how characters can change in the midst of a community crisis," she said. "[The entire community! emerges as a more tolerant and diverse community, a better com­munity." 
Muon's nine-scene opera ver­sion of "Witness" will feature a seven-musician orchestra, 20­voice chorus and eight lead vocal roles performed by Saint Mary's music students and singers from the community. 
Muon said Saint Mary's is a great environment for a world premiere opera. 
"A hugely important first step [in an opera's success] is to have this first set of performances and an excellent DVD which docu­ments the opera," Munn said. "Doug Boyer, the stage director, has contributed enormously to the likely survival of 'Witness,' because his stage pictures and dramatic vision have taken the music where it could not have gone on its own." 
While many students may fmd opera an inaccessible art form, Muon said her opera -written in English -is both accessible and relevant to young people today, and encouraged them to find out for themselves. 
"Opera really is much, much more than the music," she said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

100 N. Center St. * The Boiler House * Mishawaka, IN 46544 
Phone the Bone 574-254-9999 




KEVIN 

POLLAK 

M~a~~~~ May~S/6 


M~~ 11/1l/1~
HOSTAGE/300MILES TO GRACELAND/CASINO AFEW GOOD MEN/THE WHOLE NINE YARDS GRUMPY OLD MEN/GRUMPIER OLD MEN Comedian/Writer/Producer 
He's appeared in over fifty films and television projects and unchallenged by her peers. Voted Best Female Stand-Up at has established himselfas one ofthe first-stand-up the American Comedy Awards-Kathleen's ability to talk comedians to go 011 to have asuccessful dramatic film about serious topics and draw insane conclusions is the reason she sells out comedy clubs and theaters across the
career. 
countr . 



Friday, April 28, 2006

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Web01ail 
continued from page 1 
orr organizational communica­
tions analyst James Cope said 
the reason for the slowness of e­
mail clients like Webmail is not 
an increase in e-mails sent and 
received but rather an increase 
in concurrent users -more 
people are logging on at the 
same time. 
"What has increased signifi­cantly is ... the number of con­nections to e-mail, so that the number of concurrent connec­tions -different people con­necting at the same time to email servers -has gone up 25 percent over the past year," Cope said. "It is a behavioral thing. People simply seem to be checking their email more fre­quently." 
Sophomore Dee Gulis said she cheeks her e-mail approximately 20 times a day, and sometimes it takes a few minutes to open. 
"Especially lately it's been really slow logging in and load­ing up messages," Gulis said. 
Webmail is the preferred e­mail client for students because it can ·be accessed at any com­puter connected to the Internet sinee it is a Web-based service. The Webmail system students usn today is about three years old. 
Moser said other factors have contributed to the slowing down of the e-mail dienl<> this semes­ter. More people have wireless capabilities on laptops or Personal Digital Assistants (PDA'i), so they can log onto their e-mail at any time, she said. 
Users also slow down the sys­tem by enabling an IMAP proto­col to store mail on the server so they can access it from any loca­tion at anytime. The system can become overwhelmed if users changn the preferences on their e-mail client to check for new messages less than every 10 minutes. 
Moser attributes the increase in daily usage to "the growing popularity of e-mail and wanting it instanta~eously, like Instant Messengt~r. 
OtT does have plans for improving e-mail serviee, Moser said. She hopes by next week they will begin to move the mail store to faster drives, a process that could take up to a week and a half. Moser said e-mail users should start to receive faster service in the middle of finals week. 
Over the summer, OIT admin­istrators will work on long-term changes and improvements to the system to keep up with the increasing demand, Moser said. 
English professor Dr. Noreen Deane-Moran uses Eudora to access her e-mail. This semester, she sometimes has waited up to 15 minutes before she can read a message. Deane-Moran men­tioned the delay to an orr employee in her building recent­
ly. 

"I said, 'You know I could read a novel in-between the time I click and when [the message] comes up,"' Deane-Moran said. 
Deane-Moran typically keeps her Eudora account open on her computer all day and notices her new messages open slowest between noon and four and at some hours during the night ­times when people are checking their e-mails in mass numbers. 
orr has prevented some usage problems this year by enabling a spam firewall to block junk mail from entering the inboxes of e­mail users. 
"If we did not have the spam controls that we have in place, the system would be totally over­whelmed," Cope said. "Fortunately we filter out a lot of the spam mail that comes through campus." 
Cope said though the e-mail clients must be improved to deal with the increasing usage of stu­dents and faculty, the system currently in place is still better at handling the communications needs of users than previous e­mail services. 
"We've gone from e-mail sys­tems that were routinely down to very highly reliable systems that from time to time may be a little bit sluggish because of the load, but are certainly for the most part available," Cope said. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Dissent 
continued from page 1 
regarding the pastoral role of a bishop and his relationship to a Catholic university, also said it is his responsibility "as a shepherd" to point out that Jenkins' decision requires more informed consider­ation. 
"Otherwise, our beloved Notre Dame will go down a road which it has always resisted traveling," he wrote. 
Rice, like D'Arcy, not only denounced the decision on the "Monologues" but also criticized Jenkins' rationale, writing that Jenkins "distorted the meaning of a Catholic university" with "per­sistent incoherence." 
On Thursday Rice told The Observer Jenkins' decision "destroyed his effectiveness as a president." He again said Jenkins should step down, leaving the decision for his replacement to the University Board ofTrustees. 
Rice's piece appeared two weeks after Father Wilson Miscamble's 1,500-word letter to the editor in the April 11 edition of The Observer said Jenkins "was asked to be courageous and set­tled for being popular." 
Miscamble said Thursday he received a stream of supportive responses from alumni after his letter was published. 
"[They were] broadly support­ive, [and] worried about the direc­tion of Notre Dame," Miscamble said. 
Miscamble, a history professor, wrote his letter "to alert our facul­ty, colleagues and our treasured students that not all members of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to which we belong, endorse [Jenkins'] decision." 
Another dissenting letter to the editor -this time by theology department chair John Cavadini -was published in the April 19 edition of The Observer. The next day, a letter to the editor was printed from Father John Coughlin, who said he was "stunned" by Jenkins' decision. 
Cavadini declined to comment to The Observer Wednesday, and Coughlin was unavailable for com­ment Thursday. 
Despite the consistent appear­ance of the dissenting letters to the editor, Rice said there was no coordination between the authors. His colleagues have said little in response to his piece, Rice said. 
Referring to John Paul II's 1999 papal document, Rice said the recent letters to the editor reflect a "studied reaction on the part of the people who have a concept of a Catholic university which is in accordance with Ex Corde Ecclesiae." 
Miscamble said he has spoken with priests on both sides of the issue about both his letter and Jenkins' statement. He said he feels he is most distinctly in the minority among Arts and Letters faculty and said their differing opinions stem from opposing views on how to best enhance the 

academic reputation of Notre Dame. 
"They LArts and Letters faculty in support of Jenkins' decision] are deeply worried about what they think a decision to restrict 'The Vagina Monologues' would mean for our academic reputa­tion," he said. 
But Miscamble sees it different­ly. He said not prohibiting the "Monologues" surrendered "our distinct identity and a great oppor­tunity to contribute to American higher education precisely because we are somewhat differ­ent because we are a religiously based institution." 
D'Arcy said he is not seeking control over Jenkins' decision­making. In his 21 years as bishop, he said he has never "interfered with [University] governance, and I have ·never required the University to adopt any particular policy, nor have I ever asked, required or demanded any partic­ular action of the University." 
But his statement added more weight to a growing opposition to campus events that dissenters say are inconsistent with Catholic teaching. 
"Notre Dame, with its vast resources. can do better than this," D'Arcy said. "I believe it will. Its responsibility to its students and to the position it has attained in higher education calls for it to do better." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

A concert of Indian Classical Music--Dhrupad 
featuring 
Umakant and Ramakant Gundecha-VOCAL 
accompanied by 
Akhilesh Gundecha -Pakhawaj 
Sunday, April 30, 2006 7:30p.m. 
t tlie .!llutfitoriumJ :Jlesburgli Center for Internationa[ StutfiesJ 'l.lniversitg of 'l{otre tJJam 
Sponsored by: South Asian Studies Program Office of International Student Services and Activitiess The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: Free Contact: Amitava Dutt 631-7594; 273-0928 

'~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BsERVER'S WIRE SERVlcrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China rate hike has global impact 
BEIJING -China's central bank raised interest rates Thursday in the govern­ment's strongest move yet to cool an econ­omy verging on overheating. The news sent resource stocks. oil and commodity prices lower around the world. 
The People's Bank of China raised the minimum rate banks charge on one-year loans in local currency, the yuan, 27 basis points, to 5.85 percent. The increase, which goes into effect Friday, was the first since October 2004 when the central bank raised the lending rate the same amount. 
Oil prices, which surged in recent months in part on growing demand from China, fell and shares of mining companies tum­bind as traders bet that the growing dPmand for copper. steel and other com­modities fueled by China's rapid expansion could slow. 
Sunni vice president's sister slain 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Just two weeks ago, Iraq's new Sunni vice president was attend­ing the funeral of his brother, shot and killnd while driving in the capital. 
On Thursday, Vicn President Tariq al­llashimi was mourning his sister -her white SUV riddled with assassins' bullets only a day al'tnr he called for the Sunni­dominated insurgency to bn crushed by force if necessary. 
The two deaths underscore the risks fac­ing Sunni Arab politicians who have agreed to join the political process. Last year, al­llashimi broke with many fellow Sunnis and endorsed the new constitution after Shiites and Kurds promised to consider amendments. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Freedom Tower construction begins 
NEW YORK -Gone were the angry words between politicians and developers, who spent months trading accusations of greed and stalling while ground zero waited for il<> rebirth. 
Heplacing them were smiles, applause and construction workers wearing hard hats embla­zoned with the American flag, driving huge trucks down the World Trade Center site's ramp to start work on the Freedom Tower. 
New York and New Jersey's governors, Mayor Michael Bloomberg and developer Larry Silverstein, embroiled for months in a bitter bat­tle over control of buildings and money at the site, clapped and shook hands Thursday at a ceremonial start on the 1,776-foot skyscraper being built to replace the destroyed trade center. 

Libby's indictment not dismissed 
WASHINGTON -A federal judge refused Thursday to dismiss charges against I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, the former top White House aide who was indicted on peijury and obstruc­tion charges last year in the CIA leak scandal. 
In a 31-page opinion, U.S. District Judge Reggie B. Walton turned down a motion by lawyers for Vice President Dick Cheney's one­time top assistant, who challenged the authority of Special Counsel Patrick Fitzgerald to handle the case. 
Libby's lawyers had argued that Fitzgerald was given too much power and that the appoint­ment should have been made by the president with the Senate's approval. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man charged in Evansville killings 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Authorities have charged a Vincennes man with three counts of murder in the slayings of a woman and her two children, police said today. 
Daniel Ray Wilkes, 37, was being held in the Vanderburgh County jail today, Evansville police said. Vincennes police had picked up Wilkes the day before on a Pike County warrant for failure to pay child support, Vincennes Police Chief Robert Dunham said. 
Congress struggles with fuel 
Public anger over high gas prices causes leaders to take action in Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Congress considered bil­lions of dollars in new taxes on oil companies Thursday, looking for ways to punish the cash-rich industry and soothe grow­ing anger over high gaso­line prices. 
Senate Republicans also proposed a $100 fuel-cost rebate for millions of tax­payers, and Democrats talked of suspending the 18.4-cent federal gasoline tax for two months to ease Americans' pain at the pump. 
But even as lawmakers jockeyed for political advantage on the volatile issue, there was wide­spread agreement among economists and energy experts that the govern­ment has ~w if any weapons to quickly drive down gasoline prices that have rushed past $3 a gal­lon across much of the country. 
"Unfortunately there's nothing, really, that can be done that's going to affect energy prices or gasoline prices in the very short run," Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told a congressional hear­ing. 

Still, lawmakers scram­bled Thursday to put together legislative pack­antacids under the strain of imposing $4.3 billion in ers $100 checks. They also ages they hoped would -if searing gas prices," said additional taxes on the oil proposed for the first time at times only symbolically Sen. Bob Menendez, D-N.J., companies over the next a federal law against price -demonstrate their sym­Menendez proposed a 60-five years. Only recently gouging. pathy for the nation's day suspension of the 18.4-House Republicans and the "It's a bold package to motorists and their willing­cent federal tax on gasoline White House had strongly help consumers ... to help ness to stand up to Big Oil. ~ and 24-cent-a-gallon diesel opposed the change. ease the pain," said 
Congressional anxiety in tax. Revenue lost to the The oil industry said it Majority Leader Bill Frist, this election year is government, as much as $6 amounted to a windfall who promised a vote on the increasing as major oil billion, would be made up profit tax, which oil compa­measures by next Tuesday. companies begin announc­by removing some oil-com­ny executives have said "We are going to ease the ing huge frrst-quarter prof­pany tax breaks, he said. would reduce the amount burden," promised Sen. its. Exxon Mobil Corp. said Among the tax provisions of money available for oil Pete Domenici, R-N .M., Thursday it made more targeted by both exploration and develop­chairman of the Senate than $8 billion during the Republicans and Democrats ment. Energy and Natural January-March period, the was a measure that has Presumably, oil compa­Resources Committee. fifth largest quarterly profit allowed oil companies to nies also could pass an But Democrats criticized for any public company save tens of millions of dol­additional tax burden onto the GOP proposal because ever. lars through rules for oil consumers. it linked attempts at short­
"While ExxonMobil exec­inventories. Senate Republicans, term relief with oil drilling utives are popping cham­A House-Senate negotiat­meanwhile, unveiled a 10-in the Arctic National pagne and celebrating their ing committee appeared point response to high fuel Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, record profits, American dose Thursday to changing costs including a proposal an issue that has divided families are popping the accounting rules, to give millions of taxpay-the Senate for decades. 

BULGARIA 


U.N. credibility at stake over Iran 
weapons. "It's pretty dear Iran is not energy program. Iran denies it but 
Associated Press 

going to meet those requirements," says it must retain control of sensi­
SOFIA-Iran seems determined to Rice said. "When that happens the tive nuclear technology, including defy international demands to con­international community, represent­uranium enrichment. trol its disputed nuclear program, so ed by the Security Council, is going to The United States has long sought it is time for the U.N. Security have a choice." the Security Council review now Council to act, Secretary of State Quick action by the council to under way, but the powerful U.N. Condoleezza Rice said Thursday. impose economic or punitive sanc­body is divided over what to do next. 
"Is the Security Council going to be tions seems remote because of splits Russia and China, both veto-wield­credible?" Rice asked after meetings among its members. The United ing permanent members of the with NATO foreign ministers. States is pressing for a strong Security Council, oppose sanctions 
Tehran faces a Friday deadline response and Rice wants such steps against Iran. The United States, from the Security Council to stop to remain an option. France and Britain say if Tehran enriching uranium, a process that The United States and European does not meet the deadline, they will can lead either to nuclear power for allies accuse Iran of hiding ambitions make the enrichment demand and electricity or to development of to build a bomb behind a legitimate other conditions compulsory. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 28, 2006 
ND priest appointed to Foundation's board 
Special to The Observer Companies subscribing to 
the principles are encouraged 
Hnv. Oliver Williams, C.S.C., to make clear statements of director of the Center for support and to submit an Ethics and Heligious Values in annual report that includes Business at Notre Dame, has concrete examples of good boon appointed a charter practices for other firms to member of the three-person emulate. board of directors of the newly Joining Father Williams on nstablished Foundation for the the board of the Foundation Global Compact. for the Global Compact are the 
A non-profit entity that was chair, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Iau nched last week, the foun­and James V. Kearney, senior dation was crnated to help partner of Latham & Watkins fund thn work of the United LLP. The board will oversee Nations Global Compact, tho the foundation's goal of raising world's largest voluntary cor­$1 million annually for recur­poratn eitiznnship initiative. ring Global Compact activities 




U.N. Secretary-General Kofi such as outreach (espeeially in 
Lafortune. Annan first raised the notion developing countries), publica­
"The LaFortune Student of developing a "global com­tions, translations, and the 
Center is pretty much the cen-Undergraduate Female of the Year Undergraduate Male of the Year pact of shared values and development of practical tools. 
tral pole for student life on Lisa Ruffer-Cavanaugh Michael Ortiz-O'Neill principles" in business at tiHl An associate professor of 
eampus," Baron said. "It is Heather Vanhocgarden-PW Joe O'Connell-Sorin World Economic Forum in management, Father Williams 
where we study, where we eat, Anne Parrett-Farley Brendan McCarthy-St. Ed's .January I CJIJCJ. specializes in understanding 
where we talk and hang out. 1------------+-------------t 
lin challenged world busi­how the ethics of virtue might 
It is where we relate." 
Grad/Fac/Statl' Female of the Year Grad/Fac/StaffMale of the Year 
ness lnaders to "embrace and inform the ethical conduct of 
Chandra Johnson, director of 
Erin Galloway Thomas Clark
nnact" a set of policies that managers. 
Cross-Cultural Ministry and would increase and diffuse the lie is the author or editor of 
Kristy Divittorio Deyvehn East
associate director of Campus benefits of global economic 14 books in the field. 
Ministry, led the ceremony Isabelle Cote Carson Rasmussen devnlopment, especially for In April 2002, Father 
that unveiled the picture from 1-------------~-----------­dnvnloping countries, through Williams hosted the first U.S. 
its eovering and blessed it with Game of the Year voluntary corporate policies mneting devoted to discussion 
holy water. 
Stanford vs. St. Ed's (lH Ice Hockey Semifinals)
and actions. of the Global Compact. 
Johnson said President 
Pangborn vs. PW (IH Women's Rag Football Finals)
Annan's vision bncame reali­Co-sponsored by Notre Dame 
Dwight D. Eisenhower 
Stanford A vs. Siegfried A(IH Men's Soccer Finals 
ty IS months later with the and the United Nations, the 
appointed Hesburgh to the crnation of' the U.N. Global meeting brought together 
U.S. Commission on Civil Compact. scholars, corporate leaders 
Hights. 1-----------~-----------1 Tho initiative snts forth 10 and U.N. representatives to 
During a time when clergy Team of the Year Fans of the Year prineiplns related to human advance knowledge of the 
members were critieized for St. Ed's Ice Hockey Zahm Football rights, labor rights, corporatn compact and its implementa­
not speaking in support of civil Zahm Football PW Flag Football c~orruption and conenrn for the tion among U.S. corporations 
rights and not speaking out PW Football Alumni Icc Hockey onvironmn n t. and higher education. 
against raeism and hate, "the 

Attention Graduating Seniors!! 
Notre Datne's Office of Undergraduate Adtnissions anticipates hiring Adtnissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an in1portant contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alumni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, con1n1unication within the geographic area, assessn1ent and evaluation ofapplications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Among our candidates, we will seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects ofstudent life at Notre Dan1e. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including n1any evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2006. 

Please complete the Human Resources on-line application to be considered: Requisition #020060193 
President of the University of Hights Act of 1964 that he, as Notre Dame stood with Dr. a member of the commission,

Picture 
King and moved this country helped to ereate. continued from page I forward," Johnson said. lie counted the Act along Ilesburgh was present with the Declaration of 
work in civil rights and the throughout the ceremony and Independence and the role of Notre Dame as an aca­gave a keynote address after Emancipation Proelamation as demic institution to the picture the three most important educate and pro­w a s American documents.
"We are holding
mote equality unveiled. "I would hope that there between people of hands for what was Hesburgh would be more minority stu­all races and Americas greatest explained dents at Notre Dame," creeds. that the pic­Hesburgh said. "We are work­
need."

"We are holding ture was ing on that." hands for what taken more Turning to the picture, he was America's Father Theodore than 40 said, "We can create in this greatest need," Hesburgh years ago spot some sense of what it is to Ilesburgh said. during a be a child of God. When God
University President 
"This photo is a prayer serv­created us all, he wasn't wor­
Emeritus

symbol and a ice at ried about eo lor." reminder for our Soldier Field University community," former when King visited Chicago. Contact Maureen Mullen at student body president Dave llesburgh discussed the Civil mmullen1 @nd.edu 
Baron said. lie also spoke of the signifi­cance of hanging the picture in 
Friday, April 28, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


11,382.51 +28.02

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,234 140 2,021 2,399,238,230.00 

AMEX l•,99.j;;ta. (~I.II!:I~~il NASDAQ 2,245.04 +19.29 
NYSE 8,440,$Q..··•·lJ;i]·••iH~~!;•61'! 
S&PSOO 1 ,309. 72 +4.31 
NIKKE.I(Tol<yo) ·1'7.ll~~54•:llili .. ·tlOOJMJ!, FTSE IOO(London) 6,060.00 -44.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.96 +0.40 42.26 
INTEL CP (INTC) +3.03 +0.59 20.08 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.43 +0.21 14.93 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.55 +0.1 5 27.25 
VITESSE SEMICOND (YTSS) -27.49 -0.69 1.82 
Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.41 +0.21 50.84 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 46.57 30-YEAR BOND +0.08 +0.04 51 .82 5-YEAR NOTE -1.08 -0.54 49.61 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.96 70.97 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.70 636.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +3.00 85.90 
Excha Rates 

YEN 114.1250 
EURO 
0.7979 

POUND 0.5551 
CANADIAN$ 1.1234 
IN BRIEF 


McClatchy sells papers to MediaNews 
NEW YORK -Six weeks after announcing a deal to buy the nation's second-largest news­paper company, McClatchy Co. has agreed to sell four Knight Ridder Inc. newspapers to MediaNews Group Inc. for $1 billion. 
The four papers -three in California and one in Minnesota -are among 12 that McClatchy has said it intends to sell because they don't meet its acquisition criteria, which include being located in rapidly growing mar­kets. Still to be sold are eight other papers, including The News-Sentinel in Fort Wayne, Ind. 
The deal announced Wednesday increases the profile and reach of MediaNews, a pri­vately held company based in Denver and run by William Dean Singleton. With financial backing from Hearst Corp., another newspa­per publisher, MediaNews will wind up own­ing the San Jose Mercury News, the Contra Costa Times, the Monterey County Herald and the St. Paul Pioneer Press. 

Experts say Macs are prone to risks 
SAN FRANCISCO -Benjamin Daines was browsing the Web when he clicked on a series of links that promised pictures of an unreleased update to his computer's operating system. 
Instead, a window opened on the screen and strange commands ran as if the machine was under the control of someone -or something ­else. 
Daines was the victim of a computer virus. 
Such headaches are hardly unusual on PCs running Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system. Daines, however, was using a Mac -an Apple Computer Inc. machine often touted as being immune to such risks. 
He and at least one other person who clicked on the links were infected by what security exports call the first-ever virus for Mac OS X, the operating system that has shipped with every Mac sold since 2001 and has survived virtually unscathed from the onslaught of malware unleashed on the Internet in recent years. 
"It just shows people that no matter what kind of computer you use you are still open to some level of attack," said Daines, a 29-year-old British chemical engineer who once considered Macs invulnerable to such attacks. 

THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Pause in rate increases ahead 
Bernanke's comment causes an optimistic attitude as stocks close mostly higher 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Stocks closed mostly higher Thursday as Wall Street brushed aside concerns about a Chinese interest rate hike to focus on comments by Federal Heserve Chairman Ben Bernanke that a pause in U.S. rate increases may be ahead. 
In trading pushed and pulled by the cross currents of earnings reports, fluctuat­ing energy prices and inter­national events, Bernanke's commenl'i overrode all other distractions, analysts said. 
"What he's coming through very clearly and saying is we will probably pause soon but don't assume we're done because we pause.... But I think the market is just reacting to 'Hey, hey, Ben said we might be done soon'," said Jeff Kleintop, chief investment strategist for PNC Wealth Management. "Whenever you take a little uncertainty out of the picture, well, the market is going to like that." 
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 28.02, or 0.3 percent, to close at 11,382.51. 

Broader stock indicators also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 4.31, or 0.3 percent, to 1,309.72, and the Nasdaq composite index rose 11.32, or 0.5 percent, to 2,344.95. barrel on the New York energy prices could jeopard­preclude actions at subse­
The gains in stocks offset Mercantile Exchange. That ize a strong economy and quent meetings," he added. early reaction to an came after the Energy lead to further rate hikes, the That was all investors announcement by Chinese Department said demand for market chose to focus on needed to hear. officials that they will raise gasoline rose just 0.3 percent comments suggesting a tem­"The knee-jerk reaction (to interest rates to slow a over the past four weeks porary pause may be com­China's rate hike) was simply churning economy. China's compared with the same ing. followed by money on the rapid growth has accounted period in 2005. At this time "At some point in the sidelines that said this is an for a sizable share of world­last year, demand had risen future, the committee may opportunity to get in," said wide demand for raw mate­1.5 percent. decide to take no action at Hichard Cripps, chief market rials and other goods, and But momentum was one or more meetings in the strategist for Stifel Nicolaus. the announcement pushed reversed in U.S. equity mar­interest of allowing more "Then Bernanke's comments down prices for oil, com­kets after the start of con­time to receive information just emphasized the larger modities and European gressional testimony by relevant to the outlook," issue that the market is try­stocks. Bernanke. Bernanke said. "Of course, a ing to deal with, which is 
The price of oil fell 96 While the Fed chairman decision to take no action at the Fed is going to get out of cents to settle at $70.97 a told Congress that rising a particular meeting does not the way." 

Enron defense blames investors 
stock, had bravely clung to their ments at fire sale prices until the insti­
Associated Press shares, dismissing all the spooky news tution is left with insufficient assets to reports -another sinister culprit, repay all its deposits. NEW YOHK -The Enron corporate along with short sellers, in the con­But the reality is that most banks murder mystery is solved. The spiracy theory being spun from the survive a run on deposits, and any investors did it. witness stand. The same would have resulting failure is the reflection of a That is essentially who Kenneth Lay held if all the lenders had seen pre-existing financial ailment exposed and Jeffrey Skilling have blamed by through the panic rather than choking by a run. Research shows this was describing the energy trading compa­off Enron's liquidity. true even before the arrival of federal ny's collapse as a "classic run on the An underlying presumption required savings insurance to reassure deposi­bank" during testimony at their fraud for this scenario to be true is that tors, according to George Kaufman, an trial in Houston. nearly all investors erred in assessing economist at Loyola University Had investors and creditors not run the company and the financial impro­Chicago who focuses on banks and scared as the scandal unfolded in prieties that Lay and Skilling have financial markets. 2001, dumping their Enron shares and downplayed as the deeds, limited in "The fable is that a run can bring refusing to lend more money, the com­scope, of an unethical few. down a solvent bank. What a run does pany and its purportedly healthy busi­Irrational market hysteria is a basic is: It causes an insolvent bank to be ness wouldn't have been forced into characteristic of a "classic" bank run, recognized as insolvent," Kaufman bankruptcy, the former top two offi­where word spreads that a financial said. cers of Enron argued. institution is short of cash and pan­A run needn't be fatal because an There's a term for this type of rea­icked depositors rush to their branch otherwise healthy institution has the soning. It's called blaming the victim. to withdraw their savings before the wherewithal to raise sufficient cash or From this vantage point, Enron money is all gone. borrow it from other lenders that would have weathered the storm if Occasionally, the crush of with­wouldn't risk their money on a bank institutional and individual investors, drawals can be ruinous for a bank, whose ability to repay was suspect, he despite their staggering losses on the forcing it to quickly liquidate invest-added. 


page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 28, 2006 
"the assignments and aetivities and number of times the elass of this course promoted my has been taught in recent :JJ~
Courses 
learning in this area," "I felt years. a p~pduction error, in continued from page 1 engaged in this course," and The committee envisions stu­"the instructor was accessible dents logging into this resource "The open ended text boxes to students outside of class with a Net!D and password, 's edition of the Observer 



WAKE UP THE ECHOES 
-w--w--w-.rocknebookmark.com 
Knute Rockne 75th Anniversary Commemorative Bookmark 
front 

This bookmark is an exact replica of the actual prayer card distributed at Coach Rockne's Funerat_ 
.,..,., 

• Must BUY for Alumni, Family and Friends 
"~dl.....­
'" -~·W.:i/?:.:.:f' ·li.·i:·. 

• 
Lifetime Keepsake 


• 
Buy before you leave for summer vacation 

• 
Have it shipped home or to your dorm 

• 
Made in the U.S.A . 



J&K Card, LLC 


tend to be forums for rants for time." The results are printed Hamanan said. or against an instructor, rather on bar graphs, allowing stu­Both the Student Senate and than an objnetive evaluation of dents to view the full range of the Aeademie Council accepted tho learning environment in a responses. the committee's proposal this dass, while the multiple dwice Both students spring. But qunstions are geared towards a and instructors because its crude numeric identification of will bnnel'it from implementation
"/ don't want to

'easy eoursns,"' Hamanan said. this information, requires a num­
Last WIHlk the Academic Hamanan said. promise a ber of eampus Couneil approvnd a process "Students who particular timeline, offices -the that "will unfold ovnr time," have an idea of offiee of informa­
but we're trying to

Jacobs said, giving students a the course's char­tion and technol­voien by induding fivn addition­aeter ahead of the put it in effect as ogy, the regis­al qunstions to the teacher start of classes quickly as it can." trars, institution­eourse nvaluation rrcm form. will be better pre­al research, the Thn administration eurrently pared to engage in provost office ­
Dennis Jacobs 

usns TCI<:s to make pnrsonnel the kind of think­Jaeobs could not decisions, meaning studnnts ing that the Associate Provost set a date when an1 not allownd to vinw tho instruetor wants the information results. to promote," he will be available. 
The results of the additional said. "As such, I "I don't want to fivn qtwstions. however, will be think that learning environ­promise a particular timeline, part of a nnw, ments will benefit but we're trying to put it in romprnhnnsivn from this kind of effect as quickly as it can," he dns1~ription for resource, and that said.
"The responses 

students, and will in turn Jacobs, H.amanan and others
would be 

will not. be used eneourage the have been formulating this by tho Univnrsity represented in a participation of projeet since January and both as part of faculty students and fae­hope to see the fruits of their
way the students 

evaluations. ulty in providing work in the near future.
could see ifother

"The rnsponses information for Barnanan praised the eoopera­would bn repre­students were this resource." tion of the committee through­sented in a way engaged in the Information on out the project. tho students the forms is also "Everyone has kept an open
course. " 

eould son if other gathered from the mind and has provided a students were instructor and unique perspective," he said. engagod in the Dennis Jacobs registrar. The "This has helped us to create a course," Jacobs Associate Provost instructor answers resource that provides a com­said. questions about prehensive picture of the fea­
Betwoen 500 primary learning tures of a course for students, and 1,000 students are piloting goals, use of class time, type of but does so in a way that will vnrsions of these questions this assignments, role of teaching ultimately benefit both teaching spring, Jaeobs said. Students assistants and type of reading and learning." are asked to rate, on a scale materials. The registrar pro­from strongly agree to strongly vides information on class size, Contact Kathleen McDonnell at disagree, statements such as eollege and year of students kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
article~, in the News section not fully printed. Full text of 
ndsmcobserver.com. The Observer for the inconvenience. 
hack 

-------------------------------------------------------. 
Friday, April 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 



Habitat 
continued from page I 
out shelter. 
Entertainment provided by Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for Humanity will encourage fellowship among participants. 
lafigliola explained the hope for the future inherent in the event. 
"Students at Notre Dame are going to become doctors, busi­ness executives, politicians, and other leaders of the future," Iafigliola said. "If we can plant a seed with these leaders of tomorrow, then we are one step closer to our goal. But we also hope they can see that there's so much they can do today." 
Fuller's participation in Notre Dame's Shack City 2006 makes this year's event even more highly anticipated than it has been in years past. Fuller founded Habitat for Humanity in 1976 with his wife, linda. He is a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor. 
"Millard Fuller has traveled literally around the world to inspire thousands of Habitat volunteers, packing churches and auditoriums everywhere he goes," Iafigliola said. "In January, when I invited him to our campus chapter's event, he was immediately excited about the possibility. We actually chose the weekend for Shack City based on when he could visit." 
Iafigliola encouraged stu­dents to go hear Fuller speak, no matter what their interests or inspirations. 
"Fuller is a unique and remarkable mix of entrepre­neurial genius, social-action visionary and passionate man of faith," he said. "It has always been his Christian faith that has inspired him. Literally every­one has reason to go hear him." 
Habitat for Humanity is based upon what Fuller has described as "the economics of Jesus." Habitat's no-profit, no-interest economic philosophy stems from Exodus 22:25, which calls those lending money to the poor to neither charge interest nor act as creditors. Habitat homeowners are partners in the Habitat homebuilding process. They typically invest 500 sweat-equity hours into their home and then pay for the cost of the home at no profit and no interest. 
About 200 people have already registered online for Shack City, and walk up regis­tration will be allowed on Saturday evening, Iafigliola said. Everyone is invited and encouraged to come hear Fuller speak, even if they can­not participate in the camp-out. 
Habitat is currently a little over $1,000 shy of its $5,000 fundraising goal and is asking Shack City participants to obtain a minimum of $5 in pledges to support its cause. 
"Fighting poverty takes per­sonal sacrifice, but that doesn't mean it can't be fun and rewarding -just ask anyone who's ever worked on a Habitat house project," Iafigliola said. "I hope Shack City is not an end, but rather a spark for serving others. Let's not just talk about fighting poverty ­grab a hammer. But first ... let's sleep on it." 
Shack City is just one of sev­eral Habitat sponsored events this week. The successful Keenan-Habitat Muddy Sunday Volleyball Tournament held last weekend served as a kickoff for the week. The official dedica­tion of the 12th student Habitat house and a year-end celebra­tory luncheon with some of Habitat's supporters will con­clude the week of advocacy and action. 
Contact Meghan Woos at mwons@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

includes $1,500,000 to establish an endowment fund to assist with future operating costs of the building. McDonald said alumna Jennifer Mathile Prikkel and the Mathile family are the primary donors for the project -Prikkel and her family's donations total $6,000,000 -but construction will not begin until "100 percent of the project costs are committed through charitable gifts," she said. 
The building, which will be located east of the Science Hall and north of Madeleva Hall, was designed by Ballinger Architects of Philadelphia and the Architecture Design Group (ADG, Inc.) of South Bend. ADG, Inc. also designed the Noble Family Dining Hall and the Student Center. 
Junior Johnnie Quigley said she had concerns with the location of the building, but also said she understood there were limited possibilities for building sites. 
"The building looks really gor­geous," she said. "I wish it~ could have been built sooner, however, so I could have used it." 
While she was disappointed she wouldn't be able to have class in the new building, Quigley said she thought it would benefit enroll­ment at the College. 
''I'm excited to see it go up," she said. "I think it will bring more people to campus." 
Architect Jed Eide said the building "is designed to look like a new building, but one that blends in with the best existing architecture at Saint Mary's." 
The exterior of the building will be a combination of brick and limestone, similar to Le Mans Hall in color, have pitched slate roofs and "a lot of glass-particularly on the south side to let natural light penetrate deep into the building in the winter," Eide said. 
Freshman Danielle Franklin said she felt the building was too 
They first met 80 years ago ... Since then, 14 Reisman Trophies & 20 National Championships have changed hands. This year, there's more than just a Shillelagh at stake. 
ND vs. USC: THE DEBATE 

Come watch ND debaters Tim Fiorta and Corey Mehlos tackle USC debaters Michael Smith and fullback Brandon Hancock as they argue the issue: 
RESOLVED: That Notre Dame should win its 2006 football game against USC 
Friday, April 28 @ 4 P.M Live at the Decio Theatre Marie P. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Free tickets can be picked up at the DPAC box office. Students are entouraged to wear "The Shitt" 
Sponsored by The William T. and Helen Kuhn Carey Chair In Modern Communications, the Office of Student Affairs, and the Notre Dame Debate Program 

modern looking for the Saint Increasing enrollment and Mary's campus. diversifYing the student body are 
"I wonder why they couldn't current goals at the College, and keep it more old-fashioned look­freshman Ashley Clark said with ing," she said. "I just don't feel the growth projected for next like the building will fit in with the year she is glad there will be area." more classroom space o"n campus 
A floor-plan and artistic render­in the future. ing of the building is currently "With the population increas­located in the atrium of the ing, I think it's good to branch out Student Center, and the display into a new building because has attracted the attention of Madeleva seems really crowded many students. Freshman Maggie right now," she said. Rippinger said after viewing the Overall, there will be 80 faculty plans she thought the building and staff offices which will be looked "a lot more modern than located in six "office suites," Eide many of the other buildings on said. All of the departmental campus." offices will border central student 
"At first glance, it looks pretty," workstations, which Eide said he Rippinger said. "And there are a hopes will create a "more profes­lot more seminar-style class­sional faculty office space that is rooms, which we really don't designed to promote collegiality, have besides the one in Madeleva cross discipline interaction among right now." the faculty and accessibility to 
Eide said the new building will the students." contain 17 classrooms, including Creating an environmentally­one 60-seat and one 40-seat, friendly structure was a major tiered classroom. There will also concern during the design and be two "collabora-planning phases tories" -which for the new build­Eide said are simi­"With the ing. McDonald said lar to computer population the building will labs -nine "medi­have many fea­
increasing, I think 

um" size class­tures, including rooms with seating it's good to branch "furnishings made for 32 and four out into a new from recycled "small" seminar materials, dual
building because 

rooms with seating flush valve toilets,
Madeleva seems

for 16. carpet tiles rather 
"In addition, really crowded than rolled prod­there are eight ucts to allow for
right now.,, 

small group meet­partial replace­ing/conference ment and energy­rooms for students Ashley Clark efficient windows distributed around freshman to maximize natu­the building, and ral light," which special rooms will add to the designed for conducting experi­environmental sustainability of ments in the social sciences," Eide the building. said. Other features of the building 
All of the classrooms will be will be a two-story lounge area on equipped with wireless Internet, the first floor, as well as a cafe and $300,000 to $400,000 will be with a roof-top terrace, a small spent on new computers and dig­reflection room and a student ital projection equipment, he said. lounge and seating areas over­
The new building will become looking the lounge below, Eide home to all of the departments said. and programs currently located "The building also has a large in Madeleva, with the exception · open stairway connecting the first ofthe education and mathematics and second floors, and a sky-lit departments. McDonald said oval stair that connects the sec­those two departments will ond and third floors," he said. remain in Madeleva, which will If plans for the building remain undergo an interior renovation on schedule, McDonald said it once the new building is complet­could be in use as early as 2008. ed. Once completed, the building 
The offices of the Center for "will be a state-of-the-art facility Spirituality, Center for Women's designed to meet the modern-day InterCultural Leadership, Center needs of students and faculty," for Academic Innovation and the she said. Center for Career Opportunities will also be moved to the new Contact Laura Baumgartner at building. baumgaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

POM SQUAll fRYOUfS 
Workshop 1: Thurs Apr 27 6:30-9:30pm 
1stcut: fri Apr 28 6:30>AA9:3 
Workshop 2: Sat Apr 29 11:00-2:00pm 

final cut: Sun r 30 4:00...1:00Pii 
Trvouts will take place in 'the Pit" of the JACC 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 28, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 SoU!h Dining Hall, Norn: Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala A.~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone VmwroiNT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MAllY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan Pmno EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctsch 
AUVER'IlSING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Au DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLI.f.R: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althofr SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63!-4541 obsmc@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

Worker conditions need greater attention 
A little more than a week after Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves issued a statement that denied the Campus Labor Action Project's recommendation to institute a task force to examine Notre Dame's labor policies and reaf­firmed the University's current employment policies, many workers are still dissatisfied. 
It was an explanatory statement from the University -but not enough. 
Workers told The Observer that many of Affleck-Graves' arguments -that the University already pays a "fair and just wage," that workers receive substantial benefit and insurance packages ' -just don't hold O Th 
oserver
weight. 
While this may be, the issue is not so simple. Graves' emphasis that dialogue regarding cam­
The eeonomic implications of raising the hourly pus labor issues should take place between the

Editorial 
wage for campus workers to $12.10 are sub­stantial. 
It is a fundamental tenet of economics that raising the mini­mum wage will create higher unemployment in the long run. The lowest wages at this University may seem like a trivial percentage of' the budget, but they are a percentage. It is easy to imagine the administration spending extra money on hiring more professors for smaller class sizes rather than more cleaning staff for cleaner buildings. By raising the campus wage, Notre Dame could be forced to decide where its priori­ties lie. 
Yes, the trade-ofTs the University would face represent only a basic economic argument. And yes, there are more complex factors involved. It certainly docs not imply that raising the wage isn't worthy of serious consideration. Other prominent universities, such as Harvard, Georgetown and Washington University in St. Louis, have raised wages for campus work­ers. 
CLAP has been working to raise awareness of its cause for most of this semester. After continued demands that .Jenkins issue a public statement in support of a living wage, the group submitted an 11-page report to .Jenkins, Provost Thomas Burish, Aflleck-Graves and Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman on March R. Aflleck-Graves' response came April 19 -more than a month later. Until recently, the University has been relatively quiet regarding the issue. The response has been inadequate. 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university. Furthermore, it is a uni­
versity that prides itself on its efforts -espe­
cially the efforts of its students -to promotn 
social justice around the world. So Affleck­
University and its workers -not students -is 
nothing less than jarring. By implying that stu­dents should not be concerned with the employment condi­tions of the workers who serve this community daily, the University undermines much of' what it stands for. 
The wage issue is far from straightforward, a complexity­laden argument that must take a multitude of' factors into con­sideration. One thing is clear, however -no University employee should ever work in fear. 
That mentality. Aflleck-Graves said, is "deeply disturbing." But just because the thought is disturbing doesn't mean the University can ignore the large number of workers who fear reprisal if' they speak up against their employers -a genuine fear that deterred many of them from speaking to The Observer this week. 
It's not just wages. It's about respect-respeet for the work­ers, respect for the students and, most of all, respect lilr Notre Dame. 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 sccnc.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe Universiry ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observt:r reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief. Managing F..ditor, Assistant M;maging F..ditors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to tht· Editor must be signed and must include conran inf(ltmation. 
Qu~tions regarding Ob,-m;erpolicies ,-hould be dirmcd trJ F.diwr i11 ChiefMikr Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'1 he Ohtc:rvt:t HlSf'S lj!f') l-4000) i.ll puhli.Jlrd Morl~l.&y dnuugh Fricby c~t«pt ~turinjl: r.qru und Vllr..llion pctmllo~. A aul»ulptwn lu 1'hc Oh~ervcr is $100 fur unc ;k"ttdcmk ynr; s" (." 111\t' 'lt'm~t'f. 
'11);( OIIIICrvcr i1 puhlhht:d ~1: POSTMASTER 02" South Dimng lbU Send addreu cortectioru: to: 
Nunc Dame, IN 46~~.on9 The Obs<""" 
l'cnndic.al p<.141:1Kf p.aid .u ~tU't D.unc: r.o.~.x.n9 .:~nd ~Jdiciund mailing ntfko. 024 SQuth Dining lbJI 
Nom D<~mc, IN 416')5(i.on9 
lhc Observer U. o1 member of th<e Aaocilted Pta.. All reproduaion righu .m 
re-~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Ken Fowler Mary Kate Kyle Cassily Malone Deirdre Krasula 
Jenny Hames Scene Viewpoint Liz Byrum Joey King 
Graphics Matt Hudson 


Thanks for the lllelllories 
This is my last column. Lately, I have heard the word "last" thrown around quite a bit. For the most part, it always seems to invoke feelings of sadness, and I don't want to make this a sad article. The last two years I have spent writing for The Observer have been nothing but a great joy, so I don't plan on getting down on myself now. 
Being named a columnist was a huge honor for me. Initially, I was sur­prised to get so much positive feed­back -now I am very grateful for all the support I have received. It is always exciting when someone recognizes your name and says they enjoy your column. It is quite flattering to know that I actually have some readership. Most of the letters I received were either those thanking me for what I wrote, those telling me they enjoyed my humor or alums remi­niscing. Additionally, every week I also received a number of invitations to parties and request for dates. 
Of course, like any journalist, I have also received some negative respons­es. My "hate mail," as I refer to it, has come mostly from disgruntled Cubs fans and some people who dislike the lighthearted nature of my topics. I cannot say I completely disagree with these people because this has been quite true. I never wrote about "The Vagina Monologues," the Queer Film Festival or the 2004 elections because 

Molly Acker 
Nobody Likes a Dumb Blonde 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you agree with CLAP's proposal to raise the hourly wage for campus workers to $12.10 per hour? 
a. 
Yes. b.No. 

c. 
I would have to know more 


information. 

*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 430 responses. 
I thought I'd leave that that for the more erudite writers. Instead, I brought you why Weis is the right man for Notre Dame, tales from celebrating a White Sox World Series, why praying is important, why men no longer wear hats, etc. I figured that we listen to our peers' and professors' opinions on more serious topics on a daily basis ­who needs to hear about mine? I high­lighted the lighter, more social aspects of college, and have never regretted it. 
As this is my last column, I suppose the topic of graduation is inevitable. In keeping with my trend of keeping things blithe, there is not much I can say about 
graduation except take "In keeping with I'd like to take heed of pleasure in it. Spring in my trend of that famous humanitari­South Bend can actually an and comedian, Bob
keeping things 
be a lovely time of year, Hope, who so famously so enjoy the weekend blithe. there is not used to sing "Thanks for with family and friends. It much I can say the memories ... How is not as though you are lovely it was." I've cer­
about graduation 
saying goodbye, because tainly made some won­after four years, Notre except take derful friends over the Dame and Saint Mary's pleasure in it. " past few years. I thank 
have become homes that will always welcome us back. Of course, this is not to under­mine the fact that graduating is a big step in our lives. We are all about to embark on new adventures and encounter vast changes, but this should also be a time of celebration. We have accomplished a great deal in our collegiate careers, so have a cele­bratory glass of champagne and take your folks to the 'Backer to have some fun. 
As we approach our last days of class, senior week and commence­ment, many fond memories of the last The Observer for this 
great honor and opportu­nity. It was a pleasure writing every other week and I appreciate your readership. I wish you all the best, and here's to a national championship next year! 
Molly Acker is a senior communica­tions studies and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be contacted at acke6758@saint· marys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There can be no real individual freedom in the presence ofeconomic insecurity. " 
Chester Bowles 

U.S. diplomat and economist 
four years come to mind. I look back on the great relationships I have made with a vast variety of people. Though we've seen each other at our best and our worst, I seem to find myself look­ing back over these times with rose colored glasses. I keep having happy reminisces and can't help but thinking that if we hold on to these thoughts, we will maintain these close friend­ships forever. 
Maybe it is just my own lighthearted nature that I have exhibited in my columns, but I believe that just because the time has come to move 
on, it is not necessarily 
time to get glum. Instead, 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, April 28, 2006 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Agree to CLAP 
In response to a rise in student action, the University recently released a statement on the living wage which, unsurpisingly, failed to provide a moral rationale for the share of Notre Dame workers who continue to live in poverty. It also included two misleading state­ments. 
In it they claim: "Notre Dame has long recognized the right of our employees to unionize if they wish." The fact is that the last time work­ers tried to form a union the University was found guilty of ille­gal anti-union activity by the National Labor Relations Board in 1978. 
A second claim is that "The aver­age salary of our service employees is 15 percent above the market." In fact, the gap between low and high paid workers at Notre Dame has been increasing. While national wages for low-income workers are ten percent above those in 1979, those for top quartile of income earners have increased by fil'ty per­cent (Economic Policy Institute). The market is creating a large and growing gap between the working poor and rich, does Notre Dame want to follow its lead? 
The University maintains that its system of wages is just, but does not provide a legitimate moral argument to support the idea that it should be spending $50 million on a new building, paying top-adminis­trators $300,000, or maintaining a $2-3 billion endowment, while workers are living at or near the poverty level. Notre Dame workers should be paid enough for their family to be above the poverty level, and more critically enough to pro­vide them with the dignity and recognition that they deserve. 
We deserve a public dialogue on why University President Father John Jenkins is making $300,000 while other workers make $20,000 or less. Is this level of economic inequality and poverty acceptable for a Catholic university? 
Stafl", students and faculty should be outraged. The administration should disclose statistics on how wages and economic inequality have changed at Notre Dame for the past thirty years. It should take action to remedy this injustice by agreeing to the demands of the Campus Labor Action Project. 
Aaron Kreider alumnus Class of'03 Masters Degree in Sociology April27 

Response to 'no one true faith' 
In response to Mr. Ronderos' article "There is no one true faith" (April 25): 
I would like to begin by stating two compli­mentary principles which we both agree upon quite strongly: the beliefs that "truth is present in all religions" and that "human logic can never completely comprehend or understand the divine." Any one individual has an extremely limited perspective; thus, in seeking truth, we must look beyond our own custom­ary ways of thinking. The metaphor that George Weigel attributes to Pope John Paul II sums it up perfectly -truth is best found as if ascending upon a spiral staircase, walking around an issue from numerous perspectives and taking what is good from each. 
Ronderos proceeds from here to conclude that each individual should develop his or her own unique "fusion of religious ideas." I dis­agree for two main reasons, both of which fol­low directly from our shared beliefs stated above. 
First of all, by taking such an individualistic stance, one ends up undercutting one's com­mitment to real, ongoing dialogue. Ronderos suggests that each individual should take what he or she happens to like from each tradition: the problem is that, were each to do this, there would soon no longer be any traditions. Rather, there would merely be many individu­als with different beliefs, and with no better standard for holding their particular set than simple personal preference. C.S. Lewis likens the continuity which a tradition provides to the ownership of a set of good maps, made by hundreds of sailors who have gone before you. The "personal," "empirical" experience of tak­ing a walk on the beach may be quite fulfilling, in the moment-but you will never get any­where unless you put out to sea with a set of trustworthy maps. Thus a commitment to engaging deeply with the views of others means not merely conversation and explo­ration, but above all entering into a committed, shared life within an ongoing faith tradition. 
Furthermore, we agree that the Divine is inexpressibly above the human: which implies that we can never attain to God by our own efforts; rather, God must come to us. Hence we must look to Revelation of some sort. And though Ronderos mentions "great sages," there is one religious founder to whom that term glaringly does not apply. As both The Everlasting Man and Mere Christianity argue convincingly, Jesus simply cannot be consid­ered a "wise man," equivalent to Confucius or the Buddha. The "Lord, liar, or lunatic," argu­ment may be commonplace, but that does not make it unsound. 
I wish Ronderos the very best in his search for truth; as you graduate from Notre Dame, please bear in mind that He who said "seek and you shall find" also said "I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life. No one comes to the Father except through me." 
Brian Boyd sophomore Keough Hall April27 


Rice's critique unfair 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice expressed passionate and personal vehemence in his April 25 column about University President Father John Jenkins' closing statement ("Jenkins' statement a serious misstep"). That is unfortu­nate for two reasons. First, Jenkins may be the first University president in memory to publicly solicit input from the two principal constituen­cies -students and faculty -on a matter of important concern. And that would include the presidencies of Fathers John Cavanaugh, Theodore Hesburgh and Edward Malloy ­more than 60 years. 
Second, the Catholicity of the University is not so fragile that presentation of a play will weak­en its fabric, even a play replete with vulgarities and crudities. To establish our resolve to the concept of academic freedom, it should not be necessary to dance to the tune of author Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues." Ensler does­n't have a franchise on fighting violence against women. Nor is it necessary to placate those fac­ulty fascinated by seeing the University strug­gling on this issue. 
Rice will never win the award for gentility of expression. His indictment of Jenkins includes such accusative phrases as having "ignored the substantive effects," "fell for the lie" and con­firming "that political correctness is the opera­tive official religion of Notre Dame." Rice fur­ther suggests Jenkins will be responsible for "creation of a diverse and predictably useless committee to discuss things" from which will emerge a "fig leaf to cover an accommodation to the relativist, homosexual culture." 
With these attacks, Rice moves beyond advo­cacy to assassination of his target when he writes that Jenkins has "distorted the meaning of a Catholic university" and "did it all with per­sistent incoherence." 
Rice concludes by saying that Father Jenkins should resign or be removed, noting these alter­natives involve "no animosity or disrespect toward Jenkins." We can only wonder how Rice would thunder against someone he disrespects and bears animosity toward. 
Surely it is unusual for a faculty member, cur­rent or emeritus, to declaim so stridently and so personally toward a University president. The tone is one of disparagement. The heat of the peroration suggests anger. This may not have been one of Rice's best case presentations. Father Bill Miscamble's letter on the same issue ("An open letter to Father John Jenkins," April 
11) was very direct but well within the bounds of civil discourse. 
The issue has left our Bishop saddened and Rice apoplectic. But the University and Jenkins will persist. Academic freedom at Notre Dame will endure and adherence and devotion to our Catholic faith will not be abridged in the least. And Jenkins will serve long and well as Notre Dame's president. 
Robert 0. Murphy alumnus Class of'51 April25 


Rice defends vvrong rights 
Reading Professor Emeritus Rice's scatologi­cal op-ed piece ("Jenkins' statement a serious misstep"), I was left wondering when did one's personal religious beliefs become a warrant for hatred, homophobia and contempt of dif­ference? His egregious refusal to understand ways of life other than his own is his own busi­ness, but to claim that the portrayal of women's lives in "The Vagina Monologues" or those of lesbians and gay men in the Queer Film Festival must necessarily be anti-Catholic is ridiculous. Can Rice not conceive that, in a plural and secular society, lives take place out­side the ambit of his own limited social com­prehension? His evident failure to recognize the value of gay men and lesbians, and of women secure in their non-Catholic identities, reveals the arrogance of the reactionary right, who seem to think they talk to God on the phone daily. Rice's article is another example of the special rights claimed by religious zealots worldwide -the right to intolerance. 
Todd Nathan Thorpe grad student April26 



Open letter to Jenkins 
As an alumnus of the University of Notre Dame with two masters degrees-commu­nication arts and theology -I am extremely disappointed in you and your recent sophomoric decision concerning academic freedom and Catholic character. 
You unfortunately surren­dered good academic reasoning for the more popular phony logic. You confused academic freedom with academic licen­tiousness. 
I join Bishop John D'Arcy and others in denouncing your unsatisfactory decision. 
Please change your mind and decision. 
Brother Don Fleishhacker, C.S.C. Assistant Superior Schubert Villa/Dujarie House April26 

Re-open senior week 
I am writing to address Kelly Meehan's article "'Senior Week' events not open to all seniors" appearing in April 25th's Observer. As a current fifth-year senior, I found several aspects of this article very puzzling. First, if the Senior Class Council insists that students can only celebrate senior week the year that they graduate, then how come not one of the fifth-year students I know, including myself, has been invit­ed to participate in this year's senior week? Second, and more important, Anna Skoien is quoted as saying that "Regardless of if [a student) entered as the Class of 2006, the University's policy is if [a student] does not graduate in May they cannot participate in Senior Week." Not only is this a terrible policy, but it also seems to be a recently invented one. 
Despite being a "non-graduat­ing senior" last year, I was invit­ed to all of last year's senior week activities, attended several of them, and was allowed to remain in my dorm for that week. I also knew fourth-year architecture students, both last year and the year before, who were able to do the same. This seemed natural to me; I consider myself a member of the class of 2005, I appeared in the 2005 yearbook, and I plan on attend­ing reunions with the class of 2005. The students who graduat­ed last year were my roommates, my lab partners, those random people I still remember from Frosh-0, and my best friends. Every fifth-year student I have talked to -whether architec­ture, dual-degree, double major or just taking his time -agrees that the class they entered with is the class that they identify with. 
So why the sudden appearance of this restricting "University pol­icy?" I would encourage the Senior Class Council to stand up for those fourth-year architec­ture students and other non­graduating seniors, and in the meantime don't forget about the fifth-year students either. Let all seniors celebrate four great years with their friends on senior week. 
Stephen Schwall senior Off Campus April25 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Friday, April28, 2006 
MUSIC SPOTLIGHT 
The ten finest albums of the semester 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Critic 
WVFI Station Manager Joe Latta! selnets tho Notre Damn Wnb radio sta­tion's ehoicns for best albums of the semester, a list that highlights the top independent and mainstream discs that have been relnased this year. 
The list was compiled from the best discs that arrived at the station in the past four months. While it includes sev­eral familiar faees, it also has its share of relatively new aets, some of whom have performed at Notre Dame. 
Belle and Sebastian, "The Life Pursuit" 
WVFJ's favorite group from Scotland just wrapped up a suecessful tour with Matador Heeords friends New Pornographers. Belle and Sebastian relnased "The Life Pursuit" just nine months after "Push the Barman to Open Old Wounds," proving that they are as energetie as ever. But where does "Life Pursuit" rank among some of the band's dassics sueh as "The Boy With the Arab Strap" and "If You're Feeling Sinister?" Every fan will disagree if this is their best. hut what is certain is that this was the best CD to hit WVFI over the last four months. 
Mates of State, "Bring It Back" 
Having achieved great success with its last LP, Team Boo, the keyboard-drums duo has done it again. With this album. listeners are treated to a more mature Mates of State that is not afraid to ven­ture forth from its staked claim on the pop map into a more varied territory. This feel good album is perfect for hum­ming along on warm summer 
days with that using a little bit more of a
Every fan will disagree if

spncial someone. straight-edge sound. 
["The Life Pursuit,, is Yeah Yeah Yeahs main­Jenny Lewis and [Belle and Sebastian's] tained punk credibility the Watson with rougher tracks like
best, but what is certain is

Twins, "Rabbit "Cheated Hearts" and Fur Coat" that /it] was the best CD to "Mysteries," but it featured Rilo Kiley fans hit WVFI over the last four more refined rock dimen­
anticipated what 
months.

Jenny Lewis's solo project would sound like, and the result was more than agreeable. Featuring Conor Oberst (Bright Eyes), Ben Gibbard (from Death Cab For Cutie and The Postal Service) and other talent, "Habbit Fur Coat" is the complete pack­age -full of more laidback, Rilo Kiley tunes, some upbeat material and the alt­country single of the year so far, "Rise Up With Fists!" 
The album has been extremely popular 

and well-received and has stayed in WVFI's top ten for nearly two months. 
Margot and the Nuclear So and So's, "Dust of Retreat" 
When Margot played Legends in September as the opening act for Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, the Indianapolis band immediately made a fan out of the 500 audience members. Since that per­formance, the band has earned numer­ous praises for its successful debut album. Not only did the band execute in the live setting, but the studio album also offers solid indie rock, adeptly com­
bining several influ-The Strokes reaffirmed Combining jangly, ences. meandering pop tunes
themselves with their latest 
with wonderfully spun

album ["First Impressions of
I Love You But I've and creatively clever 
Chosen Darkness, Earth,] -possibly their lyrics, Bejar achieves "Fear Is On Our strongest release ever. greatness only hinted at 
Side" 

Austin's "I Love You But I've Chosen Darkness" debut CD climbed for eight straight weeks on CMJ's Hadio 200 chart. The opening track, "The Ghost," sets the tone for the entire album. The music slowly swims through gentle chord progressions until the terrorizing rhythm guitars and per­cussion enter. The song drifts into a cli­mactic chorus that escapes and returns liberally. Like the rest of the album. "The Ghost" is the most mysterious pop music listeners have heard since Interpol's "Turn on the Bright Lights" and almost as strong. 
Yeah Yeah Yeahs, "Show Your Bones" 
Karen 0 and the gang faced lots of pressure after the successful garage punk "Fever to Tell." The New York band took a different direction with "Show Your Bones," 
sion, which comes out clearly in the single "Gold Lion" as well as other tracks such as 
"Phenomena" and "Way Out." The risky move proved successful as the band added other styles to its songwriting besides going all out with screams and distortion. 
Islands, "Return to the Sea" 
After the explosion and subsequent dissolution of the Canadian Independent stars The Unicorns, two members con­tinued on together to form Islands. While this new project is clearly influenced by the former band, it has a sound that is more mature and altogether its own. Including complex melodies with a sharp pop sensibility, a significantly darker overall tone and even a bit of hip-hop, this new formation is sure to please new and old fans alike. 
Destroyer, "Destroyer's Rubies" 
Opening with an epic title track that clocks in just shy of ten minutes, Dan Bejar's (aka Destroyer) latest effort, "Destroyer's Rubies," is a nearly flawless album. 
on his previous discs. 
Bejar, who is also a member of the critically acclaimed band New Pornographers, has been making solo projects through this moniker for several years and through several albums. "Rubies," by far his most cohe­sive album, is easily one of the best discs of 2006 thus far. 
The Strokes, "First Impressions of Earth" 
The Strokes reaffirmed themselves with their latest album -possibly their strongest release ever -which came out in the first week of the year. Julian Casablancas' vocals were clearer and more comprehensible than ever before, guitarists Nick Valensi and Albert Hammond Jr. finally showed off their tal­ent, bassist Nikolai Fraiture showed some personality, and Fabrizio Moretti's percussion was heavier than ever. 
With a more appropriate running time than their previous work and more dili­gent songwriting, the Strokes finally pro­duced what fans have really been wait­ing for -a satisfying album from begin­ning to end. 
Morrissey, "Ringleader of the Tormentors" 
When Morrissey isn't busy condemning entire nations or penning press releases. he actually makes fairly good music. "Ringleader" features more rocking tunes than Morrissey's last release, "You Are the Quarry." As always, his elegant voice shimmers whether he is pulling for romantic or aggressive effects. Morrissey's undying eloquence makes the typical rock star look like Wesley Willis. 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 


Graphic by MATI HUDSON!The Observer Belle and Sebastian's latest release, "The Life Pursuit," tops WVFI's selections for best albums of the semester. The list Includes Mates of State's "Bring It Back and The Strokes' "First Impressions of Earth," among others. 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Italian play 
The nineteenth century comedic romp " weekend. The performance, with all di 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
Scene Writer 
The Department of Homance Language and Literatures will present a student peJ formance of "Miseria e Nobilta" ("Miser and Nobility") that will run both Friday an Saturday night in the Philbin Studi Theatre. 
Undergraduate students enrolled in tb two-credit Italian theatre Miseria e Nol course will per­
Romance Language and 

form the show 
Where: Philbin Studio, d

entirely in 
When: Friday and Saturd

Italian. The 
and 9P.M.

play, directed 
How much: $7 Faculty an 

by Professors 
seniors, $5 all students

Colleen Hyan­Scheutz and Jen Testa, presents an illustration of life withi Italian social classes of the late 19th centt ry. 
Originally written in 1888 by Eduard Scarpetta. the famous Italian comedic acto and master of the slapstick farce, the stor was made into a film featuring the youn Sophia Loren in 1954. 
The tales chronicle life with the likabl scatterbrain, Felice Sciosciammocca. As a: impoverished and unemployed man, Fefic, is convinced to masquerade with the rest o his family as nobility. Eugenio, a youn~ noble, requests Felice's disguise, fo1 Eugenio is in love with the beautiful balleri· na, Gemma. But Gemma is not noble and Eugenio's family would not consent to sue 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 28, 2006 
page 13 
brings Romance to DPAC 


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 
e Nobilta" ("Misery and Nobility") will be performed in the Philbin at the DPAC this in Italian, is sponsored by the Romance Languages and Literatures department. 
a marriage. 
Promising payment, Eugenio requests of Felice that he and his family pose as Eugenio's relatives in order to get Gemma's family's approval for a marriage. Felice accepts the proposal and proceeds to don both the attire as well as the attitude of a noble. 
As their ruse plays out, and as the scam turns quickly into an utter debacle, the audience is treated to a hilari­
ous characterization 

of nobility and some studied Italian.
Audiences are in for quite an 

surprising revela­In the program,
entertaining evening as they

tions that expose the action of prejudices about observe Felice and the other each scene is social classes. characters, amusing antics detailed very Indeed, audiences thoroughly. It is
[in "Miseria e Nobilta 7

are in for quite an entirely possible 
entertaining evening 

as they observe Felice and the other characters' amusing antics. 
The cast includes Michael Subialka (Felice), Jenna Olson (Louisella), Derrick Testa (Eugenio), Patricia Alvarez (Gemma} and Jason Wittenbach (Gaetano}. 
Overall, every cast member gives a very respectable performance. The fact that the play is performed entirely in Italian only adds to the impressive and admirable act­ing. 
The language is perhaps what is most interesting and most remarkable about the show. After all, most of the cast members only began studying Italian upon beginning their undergraduate careers at Notre Dame. With only a handful of semesters of Italian under most of their belts, the stu­dents deliver a very professional high-qual­ity performance. Their speech is fluid, and their accents well developed -in short, it is far better than to be expected from stu­dents who have taken only a few semesters of the language. For audience members familiar with Italian, the performance is only that much more enjoyable. 
But that's not to say that the play is 
meant only for 
those who have 
to have no 
knowledge of the Italian language and attend the perform­ance. 
The characters are incredibly animated, gesture a great deal and convey the events of the play through not only their words but also their body language -making the show something that everyone can truly enjoy. 
Miseria e Nobilta' will be performed twice both days of its scheduled run. Shows are set to begin at 6pm and then again at 9pm on Friday and Saturday. Tickets are $7 for faculty and staff, $7 for seniors and $5 for all students. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 
-Lu"'''"' Notre Dame students from the Romance Languages and Literatures department. though the majority of them have only a few semesters of experience. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 28, 2006 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 

Top seeds prevail on the court in sweet sixteen 
No. 1 U Got a Bad Draw defeats No. 16 The Marksmen 21-9; Marksmen's Chris Devitt scores eight baskets in loss 
there, he's been doing that By DAN MURPHY and GREG throughout the whole tourna­ARBOGAST ment," teammate Dan Djondo Sports Writers said. 
Fisher finished with two 
lt was business as usual for U points, and Djondo added two Got a Bad Draw, as the top of his own. snnd dnfnatnd the Marksmen "We were happy with the 21-IJ Thursday at the Bookstore performance overall," Djondo courts. said. "Hopefully, we will be 
The Marksmen, the last able to come back next year unranked tnam remaining in and earn ourselves a seed." the tournament, put up a good U Got a Bad Draw now moves fight early but could not con­on to the Elite Eight, only three tnnd with tho size of Bad Draw. victories away from collecting 
Bad Draw towen~d over the its second title in three years. competition and used its power to drive tho lane. The No. 5 Clover Ridge 21, No. 12 Marksmen had to foul early Rocco's Pizza 18 and ortnn and soon found Despite tallying 10 points, themselvns in troubln. Bad Brcndon Collins could not lead Draw big· man David Fitzgerald Hocco's into the Elite Eight as it (live points, live rebounds) was fell to Clover Ridge 21-18 :~-for-3 on fhw throw attnmpts, Thursday at the Bookstore and Chris l>ovitt added one courts. morn from tho line. Devitt lnd Collins scored four of the first all scorers on the ganw with five baskets for Hocco's and night points. remained hot throughout the 
.Jay Morris led the Marksmen contest. He was helped by with three baskets. The team teammates Kern Creevey (throe had trouble hitting shots early, points) and forward Chris despite creating scoring oppor­Cavanaugh, who added two. tunities to stay in the game. But the bigger and stronger The Marksmen trailed by seven Clover Hidge team passed the at the half. ball with ease. spreading 
"They were a pretty good around the offense as all five team-thoy hung with us for a players dropped multiple bas­while," said Bad Draw's Brady kets. Quinn, who had four in the The team used its size as an winning effort. advantage as it was able to get 

Quinn and Chinedum Ndukwe to the foul line nine times. John Ridge's Paul Hagan answered and team members said they ed a lopsided victory, the game looked for tho big play through­Carlson led the team, hitting with his own deep basket to ice are thankful they were able to was close throughout much of out the game -the two two free throws on five the game and push his team to discover their star point guard. the evening. After Mean Girls' atternptod two alley-oops but attempts. lie had seven points the Elite Eight. "I played against him a cou­Nick Ortiz's layup cut the were unable to connect on in all. ple of times at Rolfs, and we deficit to 13-9, the Saltines both. Ndukwe also had a "The difference in the game No. 7 Mean Girls 21, No. 10 really needed a point guard so went on an 8-3 run capped off chance to end the game with was John Carlson -his mon­Saltines 12 we asked him to play with us," by Courtney's dunk. an exclamation point, but his ster play and hustle led us to With a vicious put-back dunk, sophomore Chris Lund said. The bigger problem for the dunk attnmpt rimmed out and victory," teammate Pat Devitt Pete Courtney finished off No. "lie's better than some D-1 Mean Girls came earlier in the went out of bounds. said. 1 0 Saltines' 21-12 victory over players I know. We're just glad game when they were unable 
"lie can get it there," Quinn Devitt, a Zahm freshman, had No. 12 Mean Girls and sent his to have him." to capitalize on some beneficial said. "We are all just a little two buckets, and his brother team through to the final eight It was not just Andersen, foul calls. After an aggressive tired right now from lifting and Ed added five more. The sib­with an exclamation point. however, who contributed on style of play put the Mean Girls running." lings provided a height advan­While Courtney's dunk Thursday night, as all five in the bonus with the score 
The game highlights all carne tage and worked themselves brought down the house, it was Saltines scored at least two only at 4-2, the Mean Girls from Marksmen's undersized into the key against Rocco's his freshman teammate point points. In addition to some fluid were unable to take advantage guard George Fisher. Fisher's defenders. guard Carl Andersen who was ball movement that led to sev­as they went 1 of 4 from the 5-foot-6 frame took a beating "I thought we played them the crowd favorite throughout eral easy layups, the Saltines charity stripe for the rest of the as he fearlessly stepped in the pretty tough," Rocco's guard the night. Displaying a variety were able to get inside the half. lane to take charges from John Paul Lichon said. "They of inside moves as well as a whole game through their big "Those are free points, and Ndukwe and the 293-pound were a big team." delicate outside touch, men Courtney, Lund and Brent you've got to capitalize on Fitzgerald. Fisher also man­Rocco's was able to keep the Andersen led the Saltines with Locey. those," Mean Girls' guard Alex aged to tie up the senior offen­game close but couldn't hit the seven points. "Our style is impetuous and Klupchak said. sive lineman at one point -big shot to take the lead. The only freshman member our defense is impregnable," earning a jump ball for the Creevey played well down the of the team, Andersen played sophomore Dan Ott said. Contact Dan Murphy and Greg Marksmen. stretch, hitting two jumpers much older. It was clear that "We're nasty." Arbogast at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
"lie showfld a lot of heart out from behind the arc. But Clover the Saltines were his to lead -While the final score indicat-and garbogas@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Housemate: 3 guys need 4th in 4br Large 2br apt. near ND. Starting at 3-6 BDRM HOMES.$195/PER 6.12 house. 309-3105. $595. Call277-9372. PERSON MO. WALK TO ND.06/07 WANTED OR SUMMER.574-329-0308 TICKETS Anyone up for eggs bendict at 
Summer Job. Local family seeking Large house for rent. 18285 Dunn Nick's Patio? Highly motivated. ethical/socially nanny for 1 yr. old boy. Hours are Rd. Walk to class @ ND. 4 huge 2 BDRM HOME.$590 M0.272-6306 responsible, entrepreneurial, go-flexible, approx. 20 hrs/wk. bedrooms, 3 full baths, Huge TOP $$ PAID FOR SEASON TIX. Jordan, Ashley sends her love and getters with desires to make a References required. 574-271-fenced yard. 2 bdrm/2bath apt. Sub-let at dis-574-232-0964. chicken wings all to you. meaningful impact on transfonning 0747. counted rate, with option to stay the international business world Call317-431-9508 longer. $555/mo. Down from $705 I WOULD LIKE TO BUY YOUR Don't declaw your cats. while making a large amount of for Jui-Aug. 257-0659. FOOTBALL SEASON TIX. $$$$. I am an alum based in 4 BR, 1.5 BA, fenced back yard, <2 PLEASE CALL 277-1659. To whoever bought Mark Saurer's 
FoR RENT 

Jackson Hole and am looking for mi. to ND. 428 Preston. 1 bdrm apt. 1 mi to ND. loft-you don't know where that's students for part time, full time, or Area houses and apartments for Laundry,security,quiet historic been. summer employment to work for rent. Log onto $795/mo. 269-663-2299. neighborhood. $600/mo. Call 283­

PERSONAL

commission. Can work from home. MichianaRentals.com. Call 574-0325. Garrett sits on the rim. www.effectiveexecutivecoaching.co 993-RENT (7368} 4 bdrm,2.5 baths house. m 2 Houses for rent. 3 bdrm house at UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do The new Brei Diskin is better than 
Retail/Office Space For Lease 1800 Call Judy 574-298-6217. $900.4 bdrm at $1200. 1 mile from not go it alone. the old Bret Diskin. SUMMER WORK $15.50 base-SF at $10 PSF NNN on SR 23 east ND. Call277-1875. If you or someone you love needs appt. FT/PT schedules,customer of Ironwood, Near ND. Contact Room available anytime but 1st confidential support or assistance, News team assemble I sales/service,no experience neces-Grubb & Ellis/Cressy & Everett, renter gets 1st month free. please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC at sary, all ages 17 & older, conditions Noah Davey 574-271-4060 $350/mo. 631-7819. 4A is proud to announce the
FoR SALE
apply. Call Now, Start After Finals! For more information, see our bi-engagement of Pat and Paul South Bend/Elkhart 574-273-3835 Office Space For Lease 1733 SF at Beautiful & very clean home. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. Rigney. Paul proposed on banded Indianapolis 317-253-2734 Fort $1000 Per Month NNN. Walking Close to ND. 97 Honda wagon, EX Accord. knee in the middle of a heated Wayne 260-492-9159 Bloomington Distance to ND. Contact Grubb & Parking available. 105,000 miles. 1-owner,red,asking What Would Jeremy Crouch Do? Dungeons and Dragons battle. The 812-330-1104 Evansville 812-477-Ellis/Cressy & Everett, Tony Davey Call Bill 574-246-0872 or cell 574-$4800. Car on campus. 269-445-was robbed last night. Let 'em play two plan on marrying this fall in the 2702 Lafayette 765-449-41 00 574-271-4060. 386-7272. 1437 or 631-5962. ref. Enchanted Forest of Lame. 






OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
Collegiate Baseball Newspaper Poll 

team record previous 

1  North Carolina  34-8  
2  Cal State-Fulterton  31-10  
3  Rice  35·9  
4  Nebraska  32-6  
5  Georgia Tech  32-9  
6  Alabama  31-12  
7  Oregon State  28·9  
8  NOTRE DAME  32·8  
9  Texas  28-15  
10  Florida State  33-10  
11  North Caronna Stale  31-13  
12  Clemson  29·13  
13  Houston  28·15  
14  Oklahoma  32·10  
15  Virginia  34-10  
16  Arizona State  28-14  
17  Miami (Fla.)  2}•15  
18  Kentucky  3{1-1(1  
19  South Carolina  30·11  
20  Mississippi State  29-11  
21  Wake Forest  30-14  
22  Mississippi  26-15  
23  Arkansas  30·12  
24  Vanderbilt  25·16  
25  Old Dominion  35·8  
26  College of Charleston  33·9  
27  Washington  2J.15  
28  Pepperdine  27-16  
28  Baylor  25·16  
30  Winthrop  31-12  

NCAA Softball Big Easf Conference 
team conf. 
NOTRE DAME 13·1 USF 11·1 Louisville 9-3 Syracuse 12·6 DePaul 9-5 Providence 9.-7 
Pillsburgh st. John's Seton Hall Connecticut Rutgers Villanova 

1 
2 3 4 8 12 14 16 
··s· 
6 7 9 19 23 18 10 
11 
26 
13 15 24 
20 17 21 25 
.­
29 
overall 
32~14 
41"20. 31-8 31•19 2745 
. >27~14 
MIAA Softball 

team 
Hope Alma SAINT MARY'S Albion Olivet Tri-State Calvin Adrian Kalamazoo 
leagile 
134 .. 10.4 9-5 8-6 8-6 
1·1 
5-9 3•13 HS 
i>ueiiali 
25~11< 
2141· 25-'11 20"18 22-10 
19·~·· 13~19 > 
··t2•24 .. 6•24 

around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox at Indians, 10 p.m., Comcast Brewers at Cubs, 2:20 p.m., Comcast 
NBA 
Cavaliers at Wizards, 8 p.m., ESPN Spurs at Kings, 10 p.m., ESPN2 Suns at Lakers, 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Dallas at Colorado, 4 p.m., OLN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Barry Bonds will have to wait until he passes Hank Aaron before baseball throws a party for him. 
Major League Baseball is not planning any celebra­tion for Bonds if and when he tops Babe Ruth's mark of 714 home runs, commis­sioner Bud Selig said Thursday. 
"Hank Aaron broke Babe Ruth's record," Selig said. "We don't celebrate 1UlY­body the second or third time in." 
Bonds has been the sub­ject of steroids speculation for several seasons. The recent book "Game of Shadows" detailed allega­tions against him, and a federal grand jury is inves­tigating whether he com­mitted perjury when he told another grand jury that he had never know­ingly used performance­enhancing drugs. 
Bonds hit his 711 th homer Wednesday. His San Francisco Giants were off Thursday, and open a three-game series Friday night at home against Arizona. 
Selig does not figure to be in San Francisco or in Milwaukee or Philadelphia, where the Giants play next week as Bonds nears Ruth . 
"We celebrate new records, that's what we do. We're being consistent," Selig said during the Associated Press Sports Editors annual meeting with league commission­ers. "There's nothing to read into that." 
Ruth is second on the career home run list, trail­ing Aaron's total of 755. When Aaron broke Ruth's record in 1974, commis­sioner Bowie Kuhn was not in attendance. Kuhn's absence rankled many, including Aaron. 
Bonds has been hobbled by bad knees, and missed most of last season. 
IN BRIEF 

Duke accuser previously
reported rape 
DURHAM, N.C.-The woman who says she was raped by three members of Duke's lacrosse team also told police 10 years ago she was raped by three men, filing a 1996 complaint claiming she had been assaulted three years earlier when she was 14. 
Authorities in nearby Granville County said Thursday that none of the men named in the decade-old report were ever charged with sexual assault there, but they didn't have details why. 
A phone number for the accuser has been disconnected and her family declined to comment to The Associated Press. But relatives told Essence magazine in an online story this week that the woman declined to pursue the case out of fear for her safety. 
The existence of the report sur­prised defense attorneys, one of whom has sought information about the accuser's past for use in attacking her credibility. 
Canadiens fall to 
Hurricanes 
MONTREAL -Carolina felt like it finally caught a few breaks and the Hurricanes can only hope they came soon enough to get their playoff run back on track. 
Eric Staal scored a power-play goal 
3:38 into overtime Wednesday night to give Carolina a 2-1 victory over the Montreal Canadiens as the Hurricanes avoided falling into an 0-3 hole in their first-round playoff series. 
Montreal's Tomas Plekanec was sent off for hooking 2:35 irito overtime and Staal won it with a drive from the point that went through traffic and past goalie Cristobal Huet. 
Huet said he lost sight of the puck and knew it was bad news when the raucous Bell Centre crowd of 21,273 suddenly went silent. 
"We needed the win," Staal said. "I didn't get as much wood on it as I would have liked, but I found the back of the net with a good screen in front." 
"He's had a remarkable career. Whatever happens, happens," Selig said. "We're going to let nature take its course. Commissioners don't sit around and say, 'I hope this guy breaks it or not."' 
Selig said he had read "Game of Shadows" but not seen "Bonds on Bonds," the ESPN reality show about the slugger's life. 
Selig said the book was among several factors that prompted him to launch a baseball investigation into steroids, headed by former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell. There is no timetable for complet­ing the probe. 

NFL draft still holds 
uncertainties 
NEW YORK -Two days before the NFL draft, even the players who will be picked at the top are tired of listen­ing to the chatter and reading the gos­sip. 
In other words, just get on with it. 
"There's so much uncertainty I don't even pay attention to what they're say­ing anymore," Southern Cal quarter­back Matt Leinart, the 2004 Heisman Trophy winner, said Thursday during an NFL-sponsored media session for six of the top prospective draftees. Those players have spent the last few days in New York at similar events leading up to Saturday's lottery at Radio City Music Hall. 
"I don't want to watch television. I don't want to look at mock drafts. I just want it to happen." 
Of all the top picks and there's a general consensus on the top 10 or 12, Leinart seems to be the one sliding in the final days, although no one is sure why. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2006 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish, Buckeyes set to square off in conference contest 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
No. 15 Notre Dame (8-4, 1-2 
CWLL) hopes to spoil Ohio 
State's bid for a share of the 
Creat Western Lacrosse League 
championship when the two 
premier Midwest programs 
renew their longstanding rival­
ry Saturday at 3 p.m. at Moose 
Krause Stadium. 
The Buckeyes helped keep the Irish out of the NCAA tour­nament in 2003 and 2004 with midseason victories that ulti­mately proved fatal to the Irish, as Ohio State (6-5, 3-1) repre­sented the GWLL in the post­season. 
But last year Notre Dame returned the favor, stunning the Buckeyes 16-5 in Columbus in the season finale for the Irish -knocking Ohio State out of a share for the league lead. 
An Ohio State win would put them in a position to tie Denver (11-4, 4-0) for the league championship if the Pioneers should falter Saturday against Air Force in Colorado Springs. 
Irish senior co-captain defenseman D.J. Driscoll said if Notre Dame is to play the role of spoiler again, it will need all the fight it can bring to tackle the physical game the Buckeyes will bring with them to South Bend. 
"Since freshman year, [Notre Dame-Ohio State games have] always been a dogfight," Driscoll said. "Tough games, hard-nosed games. They are just big athletic kids who come for you and you have to be ready for it." 
Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said Ohio State's rugged athleti-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


~L 

SATURDAY, APRil 29 
Games at 
1

lA•na·ss,r I'S S "I'sr
WI ·_u_l ·, ~c .J ·'" ~ -'-~c 
,NOON ISSE. IS~ 1111STATE. 
I :I101PMI
!J~,gJI-!!!l!i 
WLAX GOLD GAME FIRST 200 FANS AT THE WOMEN'S GAME Will GET AGOLD GAMEST-SHIRT 
Recycle the Observer. 
cism is the team's biggest strength -and one which Notre Dame will have to over­come both on offense and defense. 
"It makes them an effective full-field team that they have to defend because they get up and down," Corrigan said. "They ride hard, and they clear well. They're strong on both ends of the field. 
"Because of the fact that you have to defend the whole field and they can create situations across the whole field, there's pressure from them, so we'll have to be vigilant in our deci­sion making and what we're doing." 
The physical challenge Ohio State presents ensures Notre Dame's GWLL-best .717 goals per game scoring defense must play hard-nosed determined lacrosse Saturday. The Irish effort should be in no short supply, as they face-off against one of their biggest rivals for the 25th time in the 25 years with the series history on the line, tied 12-12 since the 1983 campaign -the first season Notre Dame fielded a lacrosse team. 
Although Notre Dame has taken four of the past seven, the seniors must win Saturday to tie the series for their careers. 
"Certainly the names Notre Dame and Ohio State [stand out]." Corrigan said. "If our seniors win this game they'll even the series during their time at 2-2. There aren't many teams we have a losing record against during their four years. We definitely look at Ohio State as one of our biggest rivals, because of the proximity, the 

league and the history of our 
two schools." 
In light of the added implica­tions of the rivalry match-up, Corrigan is doing his best to keep the Irish enthusiasm from boiling over before the teams face-off Saturday. 
"There are different emotion­al things going on each week," he said, "but the trick is not to get caught up too much emo­tionally in [rivalry] games.. You have to show up ready to exe­cute in what we do. Consistency is important." 
The match-up has special sig­nificance for Driscoll, who chose to attend Notre Dame over Ohio State four years ago. He is excited about the intensi­ty the game brings out between the two teams. 
"It will be tough but it will also be fun at the same time," he said. "It's real energetic and get your emotions in it. ... I look forward to the game Saturday." 
Driscoll remembers clearly last year's route of Ohio State. But he also remembers Notre Dame's 12-11 loss to Fairfield last season that dashed the team's postseason hopes. He thinks the Irish are again more committed than ever to make their last games their best ­regardless of whether or not they come in the tournament. 
"We still have gotten pretty energetic practices coming in," he said. "People have been coming in and working harder than they have all year in prac­tice and hopefully that carries over." 
Driscoll said Corrigan has forced the Irish to forget about their losses and focus on the present to prepare for their last 

_
Moose Krause 
Admission is 
FREE 

Street Signs &Jimmy John's Sandwiches to early fans at both games 
contests against Ohio State and Quinnipiac (6-5, 0-3). 
"Everyone is just taking it one day at a time," Driscoll said. "We're going out there and enjoying each practice, getting the most out of each person." 
Senior attack Pat Walsh has been the exception to that rule, as he missed two days of prac­tice this week with a viral infection lingering from Sunday's 10-7 win against Lehigh (8-6, 4-2 Patriot League). During the game, Walsh scored three of his four goals to lead the Irish fourth quarter surge 4-1. But Corrigan has no concerns about Walsh's time off during the week as long as he's able to play this weekend. 
"This time of year, missing a day of practice is going to hurt a guy like Pat," Corrigan said. ''I'm not worried about the effects of him missing a prac­tice. I'm worried about him get­ting himself healthy and ready for the weekend." 
Walsh has sounded progres­sively better throughout the week, and regardless of how well he feels, he said he will be on the field Saturday to face the Irish rival. 
"I played through it Sunday," he said. "And if I need to, I will again." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

The UPS Store 
"May Move Out '06" NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 10am-5pm 9am-5pm -Fri, Sat,Mon 

--------------------------------------------.
.-----------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
TRACK & fiELD 
TeaiTI sends athletes to tvvo co1npetitions 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
With several important compe­titions looming in the next few weeks, Notre Dame will send portions of iL'i team to compete in both thn Hillsdale "Gina" Helays and the Drake Helays Friday and Saturday. 
A week before the Big East Championships, several Irish athletes are looking to post quali­fying marks for the conference meet. 
"This weekend, we want a few more athletes to qualify [for the Big East]," sprinters eoaeh John Millar said. "Those who have qualified already might just need to get a lighter workout in." 
The "Gina" Relays, hosted by llillsdale College in Michigan, will feature approximately 30 Notrn Dame athletes. 
"We should be able to get some good preparation in for next weekfmd," Millar said of the event. 
The Irish will also send run­ners to the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa. Hosted by Drake University, Millar called the event "one of the biggest meets in the country." 
"The only reason we don't send more athletes [to the Drake Relays] is because we have the Big East next weekend," Millar said. 
The Irish will be well repre­sented in Iowa. The men's 4x1600, 4x800 and 4x400 relay teams will compete, along with throwers Caret Koxlien and Kyle Annen. 
After adding four NCAA quali­fYing marks to their record last weekend at the Central Collegiate Championship and Oregon Invitational, the Irish are also looking forward to the NCAA Regionals, to be held May 26-27 in Knoxville, Tenn. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish return hotne to face Orange 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
After a month on the road, No. 7 Notre Dame returns home for its final Big East game against No. 13 Syracuse Saturday at noon. 
The Irish (11-3, 3-1 Big East) last played at home March 25, drubbing Canisius 18-2, and since have compiled a 3-2 record away from Moose Krause Stadium -induding back-to­hack 11-10 losses to No. 2 Duke and No. 3 Georgetown. 
The team is looking forward to finally stepping out onto its home turf after the East Coast swing. 
"It feels great," Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said. "I think that its great to be at home, especially since we're heading into a more difficult academic time so it's just good to have the consistency of not having to worry about packing again for another away trip." 
Notre Dame will be led by sen­ior attack Crysti Foote, the only similarly potent squad in Irish player to ever score more Syracuse, which operates an up­than 200 career points and a tempo attack. finalist for the Tewaarton Trophy "They like to run and they're recognizing the best women's very athletic," Coyne said. "I lacrosse player of the year. think we've been preparing for 
Foote has tallied 84 points this that." season on 55 goals and 29 In the eight meetings between assists, and her total point and the two teams, the Orange hold goal totals are a 6-2 advantage, already Notre including last sea­
"We know that
Dame single-sea­son's 14-9 victory son records. Her we're going to get over the Irish at mark of 55 goals Syracuse. But
Syracuse's best 
on the season , Notre Dame is 2-1 
game.
places her second at home against nationally, and she the Orange and is just four assists excited for the
Tracy Coyne 
shy of breaking the competition.
Irish head coach
Irish single-season "I think we're at mark. the stage in the 
Foote is joinetl on the offense season where ... we welcome by sophomore Caitlin McKinney tough competition." Coyne said. and freshman Jill Byers. "We know that we're going to McKinney has 51 points on 32 get Syracuse's best game. We've goals and 19 assists, while Byers had a good, intense rivalry for has 41 goals and 18 assists for years, and it's always a good 59 points. It's the highest scoring game." trio in program history. 
Contact Eric Retter at 
The Irish offense will face a eretter@nd.edu 
MLB 
Matsui breaks out of slump, leads Yankees over Devil Rays 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Gary Sheffield drove the ball to deep left-cen­ter in the first inning. It was headed over the wall for a two­run homer, until Joey Gathright sprinted over from center, leaped and pulled the ball back in. 
"You say, that's not a good sign," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
But one night after failing to take advantage of numerous chances, the New York Yankees rallied past the Tampa Bay Devil Rays 4-1 Thursday as slumping Hideki Matsui hit a tiebreaking, two-run single in a three-run sixth inning. 


N•
~ t "'j
'A.·r.~· 
'~ 
llS 
~t.Stee1 
~ 


Graduation Weekend: Your reservation is waiting. 
Start your groduotion celebrotions someploce where 
you do not need to hove your hond stomped to get 
bock into the party. Your porent's will thonk you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 3pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops • seafood 
so, ou w nt to 

NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 

Pre-Law Summer Institute 
JUNE 19-23, 2006 • CHICAGO CAMPUS 

a 1 
Shawn Chacon put his early struggles behind him with his second straight strong outing, and the Yankees bounced back from Wednesday's 4-2, 10­inning loss. In that one, none of the 14 Yankees who Walked came around to score. They had three walks in this one, and all three runners came across. 
"You'd assume that somebody would score yesterday. That's how it goes," said Derek Jeter, whose walk sparked the sixth. 
Jeter raised his average to .408, going went 3-for-3 with two singles and a walk against Mark Hendrickson (1-1) and an RBI double in the seventh against Ruddy Lugo. 
"I don't really pay much attention to it. We've only played a couple weeks," Jeter said. "I don't overanalyze." 
New York, which has won four of five, rallied for three unearned runs in the sixth after an error by third baseman Russell Branyan, who backed up and let Sheffield's two-hop­

? 
$ 

Developed and taught by faculty of the Northwestern University School of Law, this one-week noncredit institute introduces participants to five main topics: Introduction to the American legal system, legal writing, analysis, sources of law, and the components of oral argumentation. 
• 
Explore a possible future in the legal profession 


• 
Sharpen your critical thinking and analytical reasoning skills 

• 
Network with experienced professionals in the field of law 


• 
Prepare for and get ahead in the law school admissions process 


Register today! 


847-491-5250 NORTHWESTERN 
www.northwestern.edu/summer UNIVERSITY 
Tf1e Northwestern Pre-L11w Summer ~nstitute is a non-credit p11:Jgram developed by the Northwestern Umversity School of Law and School of Co11titwing Studres. 
per kick off the heel of his glove and roll through his legs. 
"I should make that play. I'm a lot better player than that," Branyan said. 
He was making his first start of the year at third because Ty Wigginton shifted to second to replace Jorge Cantu, who went on the disabled list Wednesday with a broken left foot. 
"If I hit him 100 fungos, he'll make that play 99 times," Devil Rays manager Joe Maddon said. 
Gathright put Tampa Bay ahead with an RBI single in the fifth inning following Damon Hollins' double. His first-inning catch was the defensive high­light of the game. 
"Sheff doesn't like me too much right now, I guess," he said. "I've made some diving catches in the gaps, but never anything like that, bringing back a home run. I've been waiting to do something like that." 
Torre said Minnesota's Torii Hunter was the only other play­er capable of making that type of catch because Sheffield had hit the ball so hard on a line. 
"That was a great play _ not the fact that he caught it, the fact that he caught up to it," Torre said. 
Chacon (3-1) allowed four hits in 6 1-3 innings. In his last two starts, he has lowered his ERA from 8.03 to 4.56. 
"Most of it just comes down to being aggressive," he said. 
Mike Myers escaped a two-on jam in the seventh, Kyle Farnsworth got the last two outs of the eighth and Tanyon Sturtze allowed a leadoff single in the ninth. Mariano Rivera, who allowed a pair of lOth­inning runs in a 38-pitch outing Wednesday, got three outs for his third save in four chances. 
"I was ready," Rivera said. "It didn't matter how many pitches I threw yesterday." . 
Hendrickson, making his first start after a stint on the dis­abled list caused by shoulder tightness, gave up just four hits in six innings, and all the runs off him were unearned because of Branyan's error. 
SMC TENNIS 
McDavitt, Belles set forMIAu\tounnarnent 

By KEN FOWLER and GREG 
ARBOGAST 
Sports Writers 
Arter losing S-1 to both Calvin and Indiana Wesleyan Saturday, Saint Mary's knows it nends to turn its ship around -qukkly. 
The Bnlles nntPr this weekend's MlAA Championships at Hope Collegn with a 10-10 overall rncord and 5-] mark in leagun play, tied fi1r filurth in the lrmgue with llopn. llope beat Saint Mary's 6-3 March 29 to win the tin-breaker for the No. 4 sm~d in the toumanwnt. 
"We've learrwd a lot f'rorn the matches we've lost." lklles junior Kr~lly McDavitt said. "We're going to try to go in with an open mind, stay positive and try to get a big win to make up f'or the losses we'vn had over thn srmson." 
Saint Mary's last win c:ame April 12 against Kalamazoo, a thrilling 5-4 victory in which the Belles captun~d the final four singles rnatdws oil the court to top the r:onfimmen lim. 
McDavitt. sparked tlw rally with hnr (,-4, 6-0 victory over Kalamazoo's Laura Spencer for Saint Mary's first singles victory of' the matr:h. 
But sinee then -bef'om th11 two losses last weekend -Saint Mary's has lost to mnfimmee l'oe Albion and non-confernnee oppo­nont Bethol. 
"We all feel that we have the potential to beat the people that we've lost against," McDavitt said. "It's exciting to havn a chance to beat them now, espedally those who lost dose matches -it's a chance to show all the conl(mmee teams how talented we are and that wn can be No. 1." 
Kalamazoo enters the tourna­ment as the No. 2 seed with a 6-2 MIAA reeord and a 14-6 mark overall. They earned U111 tiebreak­er with a 5-4 vktory over Calvin (12-S, 6-21 earlier this year. 
Alma ( 13-9, 8-0) is tho top snnd and Tri-State (9-7, 3-51 is sixth. Olivet (S-10, 2-6) nnters No.7, Alma (3-12, 1-71 is No. 8, and win­less Adrian (0-12, 0-7) is at the bottom of' the MIM. 
Friday's matches will be held on I tolland City's Moran Courts and Holland lligh Sehool Courts. Saturday's matches will begin at 9 
a.m. exclusively at Holland High School. 
The MIM erowns r~hampions at each position in the lineup, awarding titles to six singles play­ers <Ulli three doubles teams. 
"I think we all have a good chance ol' winning our matches," McDavitt said. "We've had to over­come a lot of' injurins and mental struggles, but we'rf1 all going in tomorrow with an open mind, take each match one step at a time." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu and Greg Arbogast at gacbogas@nd.edu 


Congratulations, Graduates! 
Think ofLePeep for your graduation celebrations. -Reservations for large groups -Utilize the entire restaurant for after hour parties at no additional cost -Conveniently located close to campus -Customized menus available -Voted Best Breakfast 4 years in a row 
Call 288-PEEP or 27~-PEEP for details. 
Our Visa® Platinum Credit Card gives you a full 

In addition, you may view your current balance, and make payments online. 
Apply Today! 
SUBS SO rASTWORLD'S GREATEST SANDWICH DELIVERY YOU'LL rREAK! 
SOUTH BEND JIMMY 
54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. -574.277.8500 JOHNS 
I•I•il
MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. -574.968.4600 COM 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
*See a lfcallon for details and full disclosure. Independent of the Universiiy. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, April 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish -win rescheduled gatne against Valparaiso, 6-2 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame rebounded from its 7-4 home loss to Purdue Wednesday with a 6-2 victory against Valparaiso Thursday behind a three-run rally in the third. 
A single by shortstop Sara Schoonaert and a fielder's choice by Linda Kohan set up Notre Dame's first run of the third against the Crusaders (18­2(>, 5-11 Mid-Continent Conference), as Meagan Ruthrauff's single to right tied the game at two. Second base­man Katie Laing followed with a double to right, driving in two more Irish runs for a 4-2 lead. 
Notre Dame had fallen behind early in the game after a two­run Valparaiso second. Irish starting pitcher Heather Booth gave up two runs in the inning -only one of which was earned -on a double and a single, but worked out of the jam by getting Crusaders center fielder Karen Korb to foul out to third base. Booth pitched a four-hit gem other than the sec­ond, striking out three and allowing only four hits in the game. 

"Heather did have one inning when they got some hits off of her, but she go(back in control and buckled down," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
The third inning was proof of the intensity that the Irish have used all season to win games ­something that Gumpf has told her team is necessary to its suc­cess. 
"The hitters are really confi­dent right now," Gumpf said. "We keep swinging at the good pitches and just do what we need to do to win." 
Notre Dame added a run in each of the next two innings, the highlight of which was in the top of the fourth when left fielder Gessica Hufnagle blasted the first homerun of her career over the left field fence. The Irish capped off their scoring against the Crusaders in the fifth inning. Kohan led off the inning with a hard-hit ground ball up the middle for a single. Ruthrauff followed with a deep double to right field to drive in Kohan from first. 

LAS7 CONCER7 OF 7HE YEAR! 
Saturday, April 29 • IOpm @ Lagands 
No Cover I ND,SMC,HCC ID Req'd I legends.nd.edu 


Gumpf said the Irish played well against the Crusaders, especially after the second inning, as Booth allowed only one hit in the last five innings of the game. 
The Irish will resume Big East play this weekend with double­headers against Big East new­comers South Florida and Louisville Saturday and Sunday, respectively. 
The doubleheaders will be two of the toughest tests for Notre Dame this season, as the Bulls and the Cardinals are sec­ond and third. respectively, in the Big East behind the Irish. 
Notre Dame and USF each have only one Big East loss on the season, and the match-up will be crucial in deciding the top seeds in the Big East tour­nament. 
But the Irish aren't worrying about the Big East yet, knowing they still have tough competi­tion ahead of them 
''I'm not looking past Saturday," Gumpf said. "We have to take care of South Florida, and when we do that we have to take care of Louisville. 
"This is going to be a big weekend for us." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
---•mramemtn' --..... 


Friday )un12 9, 2006 • 8:00pm Morris Pcuforming Arts C12nt12r South B12nd, lndiono 
Tickets go on sahz Saturday April 29 at 10:00am at Morris Box Office. Charge by phone 574/135-9190 or online www.morriscenter.org 
@~IJJtiil' 
LIMIT 10 TICKETS PEl'( PERSOtll 

:::::::;.:,... : 
W¥i:.:i:··. 
:::::· .: .

.<Fspoas
.,,,:catt:="" 



page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2006 
TUR 

New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest to Campus. 
~--------------------------------------~ 
•Newly Remodeled 

You're Invited for 
Stovall 
continued from page 24 

What's morn, Stovall's breakout ynar eamn during a season when questions rnmained about how thn receiver who graced the cover of Sports Illustrated as a frnshman had disappearnd in the midst of c:oaehing changes and Irish mndioerity. 
But thosn close to Stovall (6­foot-5, 222 pounds) knnw his tal­nnt was them all along. It was only a matter of being in the wrong offnnsive system while simultaneously attnmpting to live up to thn expectations hn set fix himsnlf his frnshman year. 
.lust ask his fathnr, Maurice Stovall Sr. 
"Mo is prntty much the most produetivn lreeniverl in his class," Stovall Sr. said in a phone interview with Thn Observer Thursday. "If he had gotten thn ball a little morn learlierl ... hn could havn benn a lot more pro­ductive." 
Part of Uw mason hn didn't get tlw ball morp frequnntly during his sophomorn and junior ynars was bncause forrnnr c:oaeh Tyronn Willingham and curront coach Charlin Wnis had dill'nrnnt idnas about how Stovall should lw used in tlw oll'ense. Stovall Sr. said his son was in a position whnn1 Weis told him to los11 25 pounds before the 2005 s1mson bneausn lw had bPen asked by Willingham to add tlw woight narlinr. 
"Thn main thing, as I sne, who­nvnr gets Maurien is going to get a gnn Unman," Stovall Sr. said. "lin will do everything that you ask him to -and that's the typn of young man hn is." 
And that willingness for the blue-chip prospect from Philadelphia to compromise his individual goals for the team ­while other classmates like Ohio State receiver Santonin llolmes and Florida's Chad Jaekson were piling up numbers -revealed this charaeter. 
But now the issue isn't if Stovall will ever reach his poten­tial and be drafted -it's only a mattnr of when and where. And this reality has beeome a fre­quently asked question leading up to the drart. Many experts have pegged him falling some­where in the second or third round, including NFI.DraftCountdown.com analyst Scott Wright. 
"I think he could go as high as the second round Ito Philadelphia)," Wright said in a phone interview with The Observer Thursday. "lie's really the type of big Ireceiver I they need." 
A return to Philadelphia would be coming full drcle. As a high school prospect from Arehbishop Carroll in Philadelphia, Stovall had his choice of any major col­lege. lie was heavily recruited as an Army All-American and chosn Notrn Dame over Gnorgia Tnch, Michigan, Tennessee and Virginia. 
With all the exdtenwnt n~turn­ing to play in Philadelphia could generate for the area and the Stovall family. Stovall Sr. said the family would bn satisfied no mat­ter wlwre he ends up. 
"That's exciting lor us knowing that's a possibility he'll go t11 Philadelphia with their second pick," Stovall Sr. said. "All you ask for as a young man ... is the opportunity to showcase lyourl skills. 

"If he's there for IPhiladelphial. Fine. If he goes somewhere else [earlier] ... we'll be elated." 
Wright said if Philadelphia does not target Stovall in the middle of the second round, New England, Pittsburgh and Denver might be interested. Wright named New England as the team most likely to pursue a big receiver like Stovall. 
In the last two seasons, New England lost two starting receivers -David Givens (Tennessee) and David Patten (Washington) -to free agency. With third receiver Troy Brown quickly aging (he will be 35 in July), Weis' old friend Bill Belichik might be interested in Stovall's services, Wright said. 
"You look at the build," Wright said. "The one thing teams are gonna take away from Stovall is the !jump ball ability!." 
That same jump ball athleti­eism is attractive to Pittsburgh as well. Wright said the Steelers could target Stovall as a replace­ment for Plaxico Burress, the 6­foot-6 receiver who signed with the Giants after the 2004 season. 
But regardless of where Stovall lands, h11 will be fulfilling a life­long dwam for both he and his family. And Stovall Sr. said the most important thing is that he was able to reach this point after a college earner that wasn't always on the up -well, until lately, that is. 
"lie's in the position that we had anticipated he'd be in," Stovall Sr. said. "Last year [the draft experts! were saying he'd possibly go in the sixth or sev­enth round. We're just excited about ... where he is right now." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Big East title in sight for No. 12 Irish crew 
By TIM KAISER Sports Writer 

No. 12 Notre Dame enters Sunday's Big East Championship at Lake Quinsigamond in Worcester, Mass. as the favorite to win the varsity eight. 
The Irish will compete against Cincinnati, Connecticut, Georgetown, Louisville, Hutgers, Syracuse and West Virginia in the event. It will be the first competition in three weeks for Notrn Dame -which last rownd at the Indiana Classic on April 8 and 9 -in which the Irish defeated thnn-No. 15 Wisconsin in the varsity eight, finishing with a time or 6:55.80. 
Notre Dame's varsity eight team, consisting of junior coxswain Maria Bomano, sophomores Julie Sobolewski, Amanda Polk, Mary Quinn, Laura Pearson and Allison Marsh, and seniors Melissa Fnlker, Mnghan Boyle and Sarah Palandech, also finished second to reining national champs California in their see­ond race at the Classic. 
Despite the team's suecHss, Notre Dame has continued to work just as hard in praetien to prepare for the Championship, Palandeeh 
said. 
"We've been doing a lot of hard work. and we've been tired, but we've just been pushing on, getting stronger eaeh day," she said. "We want to row really well, go really fast and win as many events as we possibly can. Wn want to control whatever we ean control." 
The Irish are making sure the high expnctations and past results don't affect their preparation or their perform­ance. 
"IThe aeeolados ami flatter­ing," Palandeeh said. "But it's not something that wn can pnrform with. You still have to go out thern, and the compnti­tion is going to bn tough, and a labnl is not going to get thn job donn." 
Asidn from not overestimat­ing themselves, thn Irish are making sure not to undnrnsti­matn thn eompntition. 
"Tiwy'ro really gnmt tnams, and they'rn not sornnthing to mess around with," Palandeeh said of the Big East eompeti­tion. "Louisvillo looks likn it's a very talnntnd tnam and Syracuse will also bo a chal­lenge, but it really depends, because there are so many difTerent schools and events." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
•Walk to Campus 

Rent from 
• Sparkling Pool 

$560*
• Covered Parking 
Up to 1/2 Month Free Rent! 

(888)-278-5962 171 0 E. Turtle Creek Dr South Bend, IN 46637 
@ 
EQUAL HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 
*Prices subject to change 

Free Food, Drinks and Desserts!!! 
4/29 4/30 5/2 5/5 5/6 5/7 5/13 

Check out our Newly Remodeled Homes! 
Turtlecreek-IN @aimco.com www.CampusCribs.net 
2:00-5:00 
12:00-5:00 3:00-6:00 3:00-6:00 2:00-5:00 12:00-5:00 9:00-5:00 
Friday, April 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL DRAFT 
Le Voir and Stevenson work out for pro teams 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
This weekend's NFL Draft will shape the next few years in the lives of Notre Dame offensive linemen Mark LeVoir and Dan Stevenson. 
LeVoir, a native of Eden Prairie, Minn., and Stevenson, from Barrington, Ill., have inter­viewed with almost all 32 NFL teams in anticipation for the draft. 
"The most difficult thing is just the unknowing," LeVoir said. "You have no clue where you're going to go, what's going to hap­pen.... You're going to be in one of the 32 NFL cities, but you can't plan or do anything until you know [which one]." 
LeVoir started 36 straight games at right tackle with the Irish. He has traveled to Cincinnati and Chicago, and talked to most -if not all -of the NFL teams. He began prepa­rations for the draft immediately after Notre Dame's 34-20 loss in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2. 
"All I did to prepare was pre­pare for pro day and personal workouts," he said. "Some guys chose to stay here -I chose to go down to Arizona for a change of scene." 
Stevenson, a right guard, spent time in Houston preparing for various pre-draft events. 
"I trained there for five weeks before the combine, went to the combine, came back to school and I just worked out here with our strength coach here," he said. "We had a pro day [on campus], and a couple individ­ual workouts with teams that I did." 

Stevenson has also talked to all of the NFL teams. 
"It's no telling where you're going to go in the draft, where you're going to go and the kind of pressure is definitely some­thing.... You can't understand until you're there," Stevenson said. 
Both linemen said it's hard to believe that Draft day is fmally here. 
"I still don't think it's really hit me all that much," Stevenson said. "Even at the Blue-Gold game last weekend, even that, 

.l.VIay 4, 5, 6: 7am t:o 3:00am lVIidnight: Snacks! .l.VIay 7-11: 7am t:o 3:00am Finals Week: .l.VIay 8-11 Roon.s a'•ailable ex:cepr -.vhen scheduLed by 
rhe Regi.~rrar•s office. 
l.VIay 12 DeBartolo Hall closes 30 minut:es aft:er last: scheduLed exam t:hrough t:he Regist:rar's Office. l.VIidnight: Snacks available during Study days. 
See BuiLding Suppor' PersonneL ifyou have spec{fic needs: Room 103, 104. 
<&Q!IZ££?: 

Coleman-~orse: 
1st Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. 2nd floor 7am-3am Same dat:es as list:ed above. Ahvays! Free Snacks! 
~.
~."" ·~~'* 
~ 
o~shaughnessy 
STUDY DATES AND TIIVIES: l.VIay 4, 5, 6: 8:00am t:o 1:OOam .l.VIay 7: 1:OOpm t:o 1:OOam Finals V\leek: lVIay 8-11 Roon.s avaiLabLe 5:00pm-3:00am ex:cepr 
-.vhen scheduLed by rhe Regisrrar,s office. 
Rooms: 106, 107, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118,204,206, 207, 208, 209. 
f~ Good Luck ~it:h Finals <:~ 
...~peciaL ~'hanks to Bu.s·iness Operacions:. Can-zpu.s .ll-:finis~r._v and che ..S..cudenr C.Inion Board.. 
it's hard to feel that your time here at Notre Dame is over and you're moving onto something you've obviously always dreamed of." 
LeVoir, who is still living in South Bend, has experienced the same sense of a turning point. 
''I'm just trying to soak it all in and enjoy my last few days here at Notre Dame," LeVoir said. 
An important part of their Notre Dame experience, Stevenson said, was Irish coach Charlie Weis, who proved a valuable resource as the two prepared to make the jump to the NFL. 
"I've had a huge support staff," Stevenson said. "I don't think this process would have been as easy without them ­Coach Weis, [Notre Dame offen­sive line] Coach Latina, obvious­ly my family -just talking to them, they obviously keep my spirits high." 

LeVoir mentioned Weis specifi­cally as a significant mentor. 
"[He's] the best resource a col­lege player could ever want," he said. "With his experience in the NFL, it speaks for itself." 
As for draft day, LeVoir will be playing golf or doing something else to relax, and Stevenson will wait to hear about his friends while focusing on other things. 
"What's going to happen is what's going to happen," LeVoir said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Fasano 
continued from page 24 
Athletes First to represent him exactly for that reason. 
"They're great guys, and that's one of the best decisions I've made so far," he said of his agents. "You never get lost in the mix. [It's] really a family style type of place." 
Fasano said teams have asked him everything from what CD he has in his Walkman to the last book he read and the last nice thing he has done for somebody else. 
Brian Murphy of Athletes First said he told Fasano to be himself when fielding questions in inter­views because he believes teams will value the type of person Fasano is. 
"Teams want players who are going to make an impact off the field," Murphy said. 
Murphy's firm also represents Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer and New York Giants receiver Amani Toomer, both of whom have earned praise for their involvement in the commu­nity. Palmer signed one of the NFL's largest contract extensions this off-season that will keep him in Cincinnati through 2014. Murphy said one of Bengals owner Mike Brown's reasons for giving Palmer the contract ­reportedly valued at $49 million -was Palmer's extensive com­munity service and reputation as an upstanding citizen. 
Murphy said to attract that type of person is a goal of the firm -and why Fasano fits in as a client. 
But Murphy said he also knows Fasano has the skills to make an impact on the field. As a 1992 graduate from Notre Dame, Murphy said he watched Fasano develop as a receiver and blocker since the New Jersey native started three games in 2004 under Tyrone Willingham. 

"What he has done this year under [Irish] coach [Charlie] Weis speaks for itself," Murphy said. 
Fasano gives Weis credit for teaching him how to study film better and how to be a profes­sional. 
"Coach Weis has done a lot for me not only in the way to pre­pare but a lot off the field," Fasano said. 
But even Fasano's advantages don't make him a sure-fire, early round pick. Murphy said the 2006 draft has as many quality tight ends of any draft he has seen. 
Maryland's Vernon Davis is 
expected to be a top-15 pick and the first tight end taken in the Draft. Davis is joined by Marcedes Lewis of UCLA, Leonard Pope of Georgia and Fasano as top-line prospects leaving college this year. 
"Every team needs an all­around good tight end that's willing to do blocking and pass catching the same," Fasano said. "I think I do have the potential to be an impact play­er." 
Expected to be a middle-round pick in the NFL Draft, Fasano said he is excited to make the jump to the pros. 
"Everything's been going real well," he said. "It's been a great whole process for me." 
Fasano fmished his career sec­ond among tight ends in Notre Dame history with 92 recep­tions. He averaged 12.2 yards a catch for 1,112 yards and eight touchdowns in three years. 

He had two touchdowns and 47 receptions in 2005 and was a finalist for the John Mackey Award, given annually to the best tight end in the country. 
"I just want to get drafted as high as possible, and I hope someone drafts me on the first day," Fasano said. "But you never know." 
Murphy said he advises all his clients who won't be drafted early in the first round to stay active in the morning and then spend time with their families in the afternoon. 
Fasano said he would take that advice. 
"I probably will go play golf in the morning to stay away from the TV," he said. "It's just a long day." 
Contact Ken Fowler at 
kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Economy Storage 
great low rates space available now· 
269.684.9420 
Undergraduate
Engagement Research,111 Scholarly,
and 
Creative Endeavors 
Come hear Notre Dame undergraduates present the results of their scholarly inquiry 
School ofArchitecture 
4th yr Downtown Studio Final Academic Review 
Bond Hall Gallery, 1-5 PM, Fri., April 28 
Dept. ofAmerican Studies 
Senior Honors Forum 
119 O'Shaughnessy, 1:30-3:30 PM, Fri., April 28 
Dept. of Sociology 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 28, 2006 
12 win ovnr Hutgers last Sunday. Thornton had X-rays
Huskies 
on Monday and an MHI Tuesday -both came backcontinued from page 24 
negative -but Mainieri said 
the senior is not at full "What we've donn so far has strength. put us in position to have a Mainieri said he expects very spneial season, but in Thornton back on the mound ordnr for us to finish the job, next week. wn have to get the job done After Connecticut, the Irish over the next four weeks," will play a non-conference Maininri said. game at home against 
The II uskies come in to the Cleveland State May 2 and series winrwrs of then will face SIWIHl of tlwir last Louisville in a 10 and on an "What we've done three-game con­night-game Big ference series
so Jar has put us in 
East winning beginning May 5
position to have a
streak. They are at Frank Eck batting .297 and very special Stadium. have outseorP<I After taking
season, but in 
their opponents exam week of'f,
order for us to
270-140 this sea­Notre Dame will son. finish the job, we head to South On the mound have to get the job Orange, N.J. for a Connnctieut's ace, three game con­
done over the next
senior right-han­ference set May der Nick Tued, is four weeks. " 13-14 and will 7-0 this season face Michigan in with a 2.15 ERA. the teams' annual
Paul Malnieri 
Notre Dame will match-up in Grand 
Irish coach

counter on the Rapids, Mich. the mound with junior following Tuesday. right-hander Jeff The Irish will Samardzija (6-1, 3.81 EHAJ in wrap up their regular season the first game of a double­in Plymouth Meeting, Penn. header Saturday, senior right­May 18-20 against Villanova hander Jell' Manship (5-1, 2.25 and then head to the Big East EllA) and sophomore lel't-han­tournament in Clearwater, der Wade Korpi (5-1, 1.56 Florida May 23-27. EHAJ. The first two games of this 
Korpi, who usually starts in weekend's series in Storrs will Tuesday non-conference be played in the doubleheader games for the Irish, is expect­Saturday beginning at noon. ed to start Sunday in place of Sunday's contest begins at 11 senior southpaw Tom a.m. Thornton, who was hit in the leg with a sharp grounder in Contact Chris Khorey at his last start, Notre Dame's 14-ckhorey@nd.edu 
AA MINI WAREHOUSE ft STORAGE 3 Convenient Locations for Your Storage Needs Call us TODAY! 
5510 Shaugn St 816 E McKinley Ave 5213 N Grape Rd 271-1105 259-0335 272-4434 
$10 OFFAT MCKINLEY FOR FIRST MONTH'S RENT AND FREE LOCK with purchase of Unit 
valid with student ID expires 515106 
:#DELUXE FOOTBALL PACKAGE 
Notre Dame vs. USC Nov. 25th, 2006 
Only 200 Reserviltions Avi1ilable! 
•2 GA.~1E TICKETS 
•2 
AIRLINE TICKETS 1AA1 O'HARE TO LAX 

•2 l\ICHTS HOTEL RESERVATIO!'\S 

•CROU'JD 
TI\AVH TO/fROM COIISH.J,\11 


•CATERED RALLY THE fRIDAY NIGHT BEFORE THE CAME 
Total Package: $2,650 pE-r reserw1tion 
\(heck or Cash) 

could," Pastelitas captain was disqualified for having too Raquel Ferrer said. "We'll defi­many volleyball players on the
Eight 
nitely be going to the Final squad. Teams arc allowed a Four." maximum of three varsity ath­
continued from page 24 
Team 17 hopes to use letes. the top seed. Pastelitas' confidence as moti­"We haven't played our best 
"One of the players on vation in the game. yet in the tourna­Anthony's Travel is our former "We're the under­"We haven't played ment, but we're coach, Jill Bodensteiner," Fresh dogs and that's a looking forward to
our best yet in the 
Five captain Stefanic Broderick good position to be playing our best
tournament, but
said. "Ws learned a lot about in," Team 17 cap­against defending in the post from her tain Amy Leonard we're looking Powerhouse," Hule and that's what we will have to said. forward to playing No. 76 captain do against their height." In the third game Brenna Mannion 
our best against 
Fresh Five features two cur­of the Elite Eight, said. rent Saint Mary's No. 4 Powerhouse. " Led by Anne basketball players "We're the B u i I d Parrett, and one former Powerhouse is
underdogs and U P Brenna Mannion 
player. Yo u r fresh ofT a 21-10
that's a good Assets Rule No. 76 captain
Another matchup Sweet Sixteen win features No. 2 position to be in. " w iII over No. 14 We've Pastelitas against take on No. 5 Got Skillz. Team 17. With a Newsom's Blue "Our center is coming back
Amy Leonard

majority of its team Chips. from a broken foot, so our 
Team-17 captain

from ~ McGlinn, Meanwhile, Hule game plan is to not have her Pastelitas defeated No. 76 (Women) re-break her foot," Parrett said. Middle School MVPs to earn a will challenge No. 3 "It should be a good game. spot in the Elite Eight. Powerhouse. Both teams seem to be legit." 
"We're going to try to take Hule No. 76 advanced to the advantage of our height and Elite Eight by forfeit against Contact Chris Hine at run the ball as much as we Thin, Quick and Nasty, which chine@nd.edu 
She said that the Belles have said. "Make no mental mis­looked forward to the post-sea­takes."
Hornets 
son all year, and their energy is If Saint Mary's does not qual­peaking now. ify for the MIAA tournament,
continued from page 24 
"The motivation the game against earned a win from the mound of making the tour­"The motivation of Kalamazoo will be in the first game, and nament has really the last for Belles'
making the 
Schoolmaster once again tal­been carrying us seniors Grall,
tournament has
lied a hit. Hornets outfielder through," Grall Audrey Gajor, and Lauren Millar led the Hornets said. really been M e g h a n from behind the plate driving The sweep of Marenkovic. As the
carrying us
in three RBis. Goshen brought seniors head into
through."
The Belles swept Goshen 10-Saint Mary's win the last few weeks 1 and 6-1 Wednesday. total to 25, giving of their season, Belles coach Erin Sullivan the team its high­Bridget Grall Grall says they are said the team is looking to est number of wins focusing on what
Belles pitcher
carry the momentum from the since 1984. lies ahead. 
victories into the Kalamazoo game. 
"We are going to try and jump on them early," Sullivan said. "Swing a good strike." 
Saint Mary's pitcher and out­fielder Bridget Grall agrees. 
Sullivan said the Belles have taken steps to reach the MIM tournament but need to contin­ue playing their game to get there. 
"We are going to look to per­fect the little things," Sullivan 
"We are not focusing on the past at all," Grall said. "We are only looking to what the future may hold." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 


THE 

FISCHOFF 
NATIONAL CHAMBER MUSIC COMPETITION 
See it, hear it, believe it. 
May 5-7 University of Notre Dame 
Friday, May 5th (free) Saturday, May 6 (free) Senior Strings 9:30-5 DeBartolo, PAC Senior Strings 9:30-1 I DeBartolo, PAC Senior Winds 9:30-5 Washington Hall Senior Winds 9:30-1 I Washington Hall Juniors 9:30-7 DeBartolo, PAC Juniors 1-5 DeBartolo, PAC 
Sunday, May 7, FINAL ROUND Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo PAC Tickets required: 63 1-2800 
Senior Finals 11 :30-3; Junior Finals 3-4 Grand Prize Winner's Playoff Concert 7:30 
visit www. fischoff.org 
GC) IRISH! 


Friday, April28, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROSSAINTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 28 Ask 50 Flawless 1 Modern diamond
29 Somethinginvestor's option ventured display? 7 Potluck supper 51 "Hooray for the 
30 Calvins, e.g.

offering red, white, and 32 Nosy Parker blue!"
14 Where some bank deposits 34 Hall-of-tamers 52 They may give are made Bill Klem and players a stiff 
15 Talkative one Nestor Chylak, arm 
16 Part of a frame e.g. 53 Thrifty 18 Deride 35 "_-Ami" (Guy 
customer? 
de Maupassant novel) DOWN 

19 Ranger that 
cost about $2,500 38 Milan-based 1 Museumgoer, 20 -Saint-fashion house e.g. 
Laurent 2 Shined (Quebec region) 
39 She's a plus 3 Network devices 40 French writer 

21 Fair 4 Emporia _ t:;-;--+---t-+--
Frangois _de23 Gold medalist in Chateaubriand 5 Bathysphere Sarajevo and reading

41 Ring side 6 San Jose-to­

Calgary 
24 Actress Polo of 42 Capricious Fresno dir. 
"Meet the conceits 7 No longer Fockers" 44 Gray shade practicing25 Not sharp 45 Privy fixture 8 Bowed 26 A pair apart? 
46 "Cqmo_?" 9 Montreal-born 27 Co. founded by comic who 

H. Ross Perot 47 Sparing no 30 Wait 37 Pitch from 43 Baseball's Little
wrote jokes for 

in 1962 expense Carlton or Merit Colonel
J.F.K. 31 Daniel Decatur 10 Booking letters 45 Capital founded ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of "Dixie" ingredients

11 Desert rats in 1191 32 It supplies 39 You can get
12 Disestablishes drivers down from them 48 Prefix with 

13 Big news in the 40's and 50's 33 Renaissance 40 Do a price state 
15 man check on 
49 Judah's house specialists 35 Edge 42 Basketball in a Lew
~~~~~00i2~mrrrrrr; 
Short-hop

17 "Room 222" 36 As one maneuver Wallace novel actress Nicholas 
t-:-lt-:-IB-:-1-71.-~I!'t--=+~""""--:::+-:+:-t 22 Cause for an 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aassignation 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
···!f~n!lliJl~~~t~J1ji~~~w 
23 Griper's litany 

.;: 26 Groaners crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -:::+-:::+-:+:~ 28 Many a prayer Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 29 Couldn't hide past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). one's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young astonishment solvers: nytimes.com/learninglxwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RATYR 
± 
@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HUTOY 
± 
tWASALY 
SHE: KE:PT THE: 
HAND-ME:-DOWN

J I I []
www.jumble.com 
C.HE:ST BE:C.AUSE: IT WAS--­
AWBEER 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

[ J I [ J
'---'-""-..Ll'-----''-----'---'-"-.L.J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

A"[ I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: FAULT HOARD SINGLE BARIUMYesterday's Answer: 
Why the bride didn't want a train on her wedding gown -IT'S A "DRAG" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sheena Easton, -+7; Ace Frehley, 55; .• Anouk Aimee, 7-t; Casey Kasem, 74 
Happy Birthday: The long-range view is what's important. not the immediate. You will learn and gain experience this year that will guide you to a better place in years to come. Someone older is likely to put pressure on you. Don't let it have a daunting affect on your progress. Your numbers arc 7, 13, 19, 23, 26,39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trust your instincts and the way you feel. Focus on all the little things you have neglected lately and you will feel much better at the end of the day. The changes you make today will ease some of the stress you've been experiencing. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may find it difficult to control your feelings regarding personal issues, so deal with these matters hcfore they drive you to distraction. Don't sit hack feeling sorry for yourself--refuse to let anyone take advantage of you. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't trust anyone pushing unusual philosophies or looking for handouts today. You may be asked to do something that is questionable. Focus on your home and making it more comfortable or livable. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Offer help or your services for the right reason. Professional gains can be made if you talk about your intentions and ideas. You can count on others to do favors for you or to assist you in reaching your goals. Believe in your ability. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be too quick to offer your services or help. Stay in the background. It will be impossible to please everyone today. If you try, you are likely to be burdened with someone else's responsibilities. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Join in the fun. Being a participant will lead to meeting all sorts of interesting characters. Try your hand at something new. Money ventures are looking very positive. Love and romance are in a high cycle so make social 
plans. ****** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should give all you've got to getting ahead. 
Professional advancement is apparent and the chance to take on a new challenge will enable you to prove your worth. Money matters may take a dive, especially with questionable investments. *** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Partnership problems can be expected. Don't limit yourself by taking on responsibilities that don't belong to you. Stay on top of things if you don't want to suffer losses. Romance is in a high cycle. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your mind will be on investments, property and new ways to build your equity. Your efforts will pay off if you are relentless. You'll get the recognition you deserve for a job well done. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get involved in a money venture with family or friends. You will be confused by the offer someone makes you. If a relationship you are in is giving you grief, consider ending it. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to deal with issues that have been holding you back. Make it perfectly clear what you want and need to move forward. Get back to basics and you will find it much easier to cope with everything around you. 
**** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will have a fresh new view of something you've been working on. Talk to someone in the field that interests you. A pleasure trip will open your mind to new concepts. Focus on what makes you happy. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are tough, resilient and very competitive. You are determined to follow your own path but open enough to observe what everyone else is doing. You are dedicated, loyal, inventive and very original. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eugenia/asr.com for confidential con.su/ration.s 
.. 

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, April 28, 2006 
page 24 
BASEBALL 

Irish, Huskies set to battle for control of Big East helm 
for a crucial three-game Big long way toward deciding the done." was the second phase of' our By CHRIS KHOREY 
East series with second-place conference champion. Mainieri said the series repre­schedule. Now we're in the final Associate SportS Editor 
Connecticut. "It's pretty apparent that sents a shift in Notre Dame's stretch run. We have 10 of our The Irish (33-9, 14-1 Big East) either Notre Dame or schedule. next 14 games on the road." 
With its school-record 23-have a one and a half game lead Connecticut is going to win the "This weekend we begin the Mainieri stressed the impor­gamH winning streak over after over the Huskies (27-13, 13-3 Big East regular season title," third phase of our season," he tance of the last third of the an 11-8 loss to Bowling Green Big East) in the conference Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. said. "The first phase was most­schedule in anticipation of the Wednesday, Notre Dame will standings. With just three series "If we want to call ourselves ly tournaments at the beginning NCAA tournament. have to refocus this weekend as left in the Big East regular sea­champions, we have to go to of the year. Then we played a the team travels to Storrs, Conn. son, this weekend's set will go a Connecticut and get the job bunch of games at home, which see HUSKIES/page 22 
NFL DRAFT 
Stovall hopes to go in first round of Saturday's draft 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame receiver Maurice Stovall is snlected in Saturday's NFL Draft, it will be the appropriate culmination of a four­year journey -one that 
moved from high potential See Also to rnlativn stagnation to, finally, climactic achieve­"lineman ready ment. 
for draH day"
This achinvemnnt is delined by a senior season page21 where he had 69 catches for 1, 149 rtlceiving yards and 11 touchdowns. In two games that sea­son -an eight-catch, 130-yard perlormance against Navy Nov. 12 and a 14-catch, 207­yard gamn against BYU Oct. 22 -exceeded his entire production !rom his junior s1mson in 2004. 
see STOVALL/page 20 

War room 

Fasano tells teams he'll be tough guy and model citizen 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Anthony Fasano wants two difTeront per­sonas in the NFL. 
The former Notre Dame tight end has told the Jets, Hedskins, Cowboys and Patriots that he'll be a tough guy between the side­lines and a devoted member of' the commu­nity off the field. 
"I think I'm a real good teammate, where I can work with a lot of people," Fasano said. "And with the way I play, I'm a )physi­cal] every-down player." 
Ahead of' Saturday's draft, Fasano has interviewed with a slew of' teams in both conferences, mostly in the two Eastern divi­sions. He said he has tried to get across the first part of that sentiment to the teams he met with in preparation for the draft. 
The 6-foot-5, 255-pound senior picked 
see FASANO/page 20 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 

Fresh Five ready for Travel 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
The women's bracket enters its Elite Eight today at 6 p.m. with a schedule of four games at the Bookstore courts before Saturday's 
s e mi f i n a l s See Also and Sunday's champi­"Top seeds 
onship game. 
prevail"

In the first 
page 14

matchup, No. 1 Anthony
• 
Travel will 
face No. 57 Fresh Five. Fresh 
Five is coming off a win via for­
feit against Team 39 and has 
an interesting connection with 
see EIGHT/page 22 

SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles battle for berth in the second season 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Spores Writer 

Saint Mary's heads on the road Saturday to take on Kalamazoo at 1 p.m. in its last regular season game, hoping to secure a berth in the MIAA tournament. 
The Belles are currently No. 3 in the league, leading Albion and Olivet by one game. The top four teams in the conference earn bids to the tournament. 
Saint Mary's last squared off with Kalamazoo last sea­son when the Belles swept the Hornets 4-3 and 10-4. 
The two wins over 
Kalamazoo were the only two conference wins the Belles collected in the 2005 season. But Saint Mary's enters the weekend with a 25-11 record, including a 9-5 mark in league play. 
Kalamazoo is 1-13 in MIAA action heading into its final game. The Hornets last played Tuesday against Olivet and fell 11-0 and 12-0. 
Kalamazoo pitcher Michelle Brittain and first baseman Emily Schoolmaster each posted a hit in the game. 
Before the losses to Olivet, the Hornets swept Goshen 6-5 and 2-1 on April 22. Brittain 
see HORNETS/page 22 
ROWING 
NO SOFTBALL 

SMC TENNIS 
TRACK
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
w 

Notre Dame will send 
u Big East 
Notre Dame 6, 

MIAA Tournament 
Syracuse at Notre 
Ohio State at 
z Championship 
Valparaiso 2 
Dame 
Notre Dame

selected athletes to the 
Friday -Sunday 
Hillsdale "Gina" Relays
:3

li: en 
Sunday 

No. 5 Saint Mary's 
Saturday, noon 
Saturday, 3 p.m.
The Irish scored three
c:l

= 
and the Drake Relays
The Irish seek another 
runs in the third inning 

will look for the confer-
The Irish look to secure 
The No. 15 Irish face
c:c: 

Friday and Saturday. 
a win in their first home 
Big East ti tie in 
to beat the Crusaders 

ence championship in 
off against the Buckeyes 
Thursday. 

Holland, Mich. 
game since March 25. 
in a GWLL showdown. 
Worcester, Mass. 

a. ti 
en 
page 19 
page 18 
page 17 
page 16
page 20 

page 17 




