r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 89 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 16.2006 
1Monologues' conclude on campus 
Jenkins' attendance, broad panel discussion cap off third and final night of perfomances 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Nrw.,Writ<·r 
Tlw third and final production of "Tiw Vagina Monologues" at Notrn Damn this y11ar was marknd by thn attnndancn of Univnrsily Prnsid1n1l Father .John .Jnnkins and a wide-ranging parwl discussion on snxual vio­lnHrn, Catholic. teaching and ollwr lopks Wednesday night. 
.11~11kins saw the play per­l"orrm~d for tho f"irst time W1Hfrwsday, just ovnr three w1wks after hP initialed a Univnrsity-widn discussion about acadnmk l"mmlom and Catholic characll~r in addresses that ineluded his bnlinf that the "Monologues" should not take placP al Notrn Dame. 

"I went to listnn and learn, and I did that tonight and I thank the east," Jenkins said af'tnr the play . 
.Jenkins, who dedinml further comment on the "Monologues" Wednesday, had mandated the play be pnrformed in the aca­demic setting of DeBartolo Hall this year, without the l"undraising ticket sales of' years past. Junior Madison Liddy, director of this ynar's "Monologues." and later the panelists thanked Jenkins for his prnsenen at the performance . 
During tho panel diseussion fol­lowing thn play, panelists applauded the efforts of the pro­duction toward eliminating vio­lence against women and nncouraged the continuation of its annual performance (now in 
see JENKINS/page 4 


FACULTY SENATE 

Members enter academic freedom discourse 
and sponsorship. But nearly all agre·ed that a line must be drawn regarding academic freedom. Where that boundary belongs, though, was a point of contention. 
"There is a line," eeonomics profes­sor Thomas Gresik said. "One thing we ean do in a statement is to say, 'Yes, there is a line between aeeept­able and unacceptable activities and that academic freedom does not per­mit everything.' 
"The challenge Jenkins gave us is to say that we need to do a hotter job of finding out what that boundary looks like." 
But English professor Noreen Deane-Moran said she feared that a top-level deeision by the administra­tion could lead to boundaries that aro 
see FACULTY/page 6 


By MARY KATE MALONE 
Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Faculty Senate engaged in active discourse Wednesday about how best to respond to University President Father John Jenkins' recent address­es regarding academic freedom and Catholic character. 
Disagreeitlg on some points, unified on others, faculty members partici­pated in a give-and-take session for nearly two hours as they pounded out points that will be includnd in a docu­ment the Senate plans to present to Jenkins. 
Members debated the definition of art, zeroed in on the need for better communication and faced the difficult relationship between endorsement 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT SENATE 

Leaders push wage 
•


calllpaign 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
After loaders of the Campus Labor Aetion Projoct (CLAP) delivered a eornprnhnnsivo presentation on the group's living wage campaign to Student Senate Wednesday, senators responded by unani­mously passing two rolated resolutions -one basod on policy, tho other on ideology. 
CLAP membnrs said they want University President Father John Jenkins to issue a publie statement in support of a living wage -ideally, the group will push for a $12.10 per hour rate -and form a task foree to invostigatn issues surrounding this change by the end of this year. 
The Senate resolutions wnro designed to support tlwsn ends. Entitled "Expressing the Will of the Studont Body for the lmplomontation of a Living Wage" and "Supporting tho Creation of a Living Wage Joint Task Foree," both resolutions are products of the Univorsity Affairs eomrnittoo. 
The resolution promoting tlw implementation of a living wage at Notre Dame is ideo­logical in nature and goes to the heart of CLAP's campaign, eom paring national and Notre Dame statisties -the typical starting full-time employnwnt wage as a Notre Dame staff membnr is $6.45 to $10.17 per hour, whiln tho wage tlm~shold for federal benefits is $12.10 per hour -and stressing Catholic soda! toaehing. 
see SENATE/page 8 


Students anticipate 
Shappell-Andrichik 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 
With ballots eounted and winners announeed, Notre Dame students who votml in Monday's stud1ml body presi­dential election said they are eager to see Lizzi Shappell and Bill Andriehik put their platform in motion. 
"I votnd for the tieknl that won," senior Lindsay May said. "I havn a lot of respect for Lizzi and tlw limn shn's spent in student govern­nwnt." 
Shappell and Andriehik, both juniors, won a majority of votes -more than 51 per­eent -so there was no need for a run-ofT election. It vvas the first presidential eleetion wilhout a run-off sinee 1999. 

The pair won 2,202 of the 4,253 votes east Monday ­the highest number of votes east in recent years. 
"I think Lizzi will work hard for the students," May said. "I would always sec her in Lafortune working on things for student government ... 
. you really have to support sonwone who's going to put in so much time and effort." Other studnnts who voted for Shappell and Andriehik said they wore impressed by 
see ELECTION/page 6 



Farley refurbishing begins 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
The newest renovation on campus hopes to make "The Home of the Finest" a little finer. 
farley llall's restoration proj­ect, expected to cost more than $3.5 million, began last week with ehemieal cleaning to the bricks on the outside of the building. Jeff Shoup, direetor of the Of'fiee of Hesidence Life and Housing, said most of the work will be done over the summer and rwt during the school year. 
"The minute that students leave ... they'll completely go crazy in there starting to dis­mantle things and do demoli­tion," Shoup said. Farley's 
see FARLEYIpage 6 

..--------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Wovved by Wikipedia 
The online encyclopedia Wikipedia has come under fire recently for false state­ments in articles on many topics, some of the most outrageous accusations being leveled against targets ranging from Tony Blair to Ernest Hemingway. 
Tim Kaiser 
Despite its inconsis­tencies, Wikipedia deserves to be hon­
Sports Writer 
ored for its achieve­
ment. 
Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia written by everyday folks, and in more than 200 languages to boot. The idea is, you don't need a degree to share information you have­just a keyboard. You can add to or edit existing articles, or create a new one for a topic that is not yet listed. 
For this reason, it would take an enor­mous amount of manpower for Wikipedia administrators to comb through each new addition to check for authenticity. Thus, the same people who write Wikipedia also have to edit it. 
Ifan article is thought to be biased, or incorrect, a Wikipedia user can file a complaint and the article will be tagged with a banner. While this can prove for some confusing-and sometimes just plain inaccurate articles -the positives far outweigh the negatives. 
I have no way of comparing the amount of mistakes in a print encyclope­dia to those on Wikipedia, and I'm not arguing that anyone can write an ency­clopedia, I do think that taking advan­tage oftechnology in order to create a global database of knowledge is a won­derful and exciting idea. 
Some of the recent fallacies included in articles have been rather harmless, such as David Beckham's position being listed· as "18th century Chinese goalkeeper" and the full name of England's Prime Minister listed as "Tony 'Whoop de-Doo' Blair." 
Others have had more serious ramifi­cations. An article on Ernest Hemingway gave him a fictional communist friend called "Henryk Batuta" -a mistake that lasted 15 months before the myth was debunked by Polish users. Another scan­dal has been politicians editing their biographies to portray them in a more favorable light, most notably when a summer intern ofU.S. Rep. Marty Meehan (D-Mass.) removed from his article promises he had made to voters and not fulfilled. 
Uke any source ofinformation, one cannot blindly believe what is stated. But Wikipedia is not a totally corrupt source of information. In fact, it is largely accu­rate and extensive. With proper skepti­cism, Wikipedia can be an invaluable tool. 
You can go there for work, you can go there for fun. Just by looking at thi<> week's featured articles, you could have learned that the author of "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" worked as a chick­en shed cleaner, and that the Beatles recorded a version of "I Want to Hold Your Hand" in German called "Komm, gib mir deine Hand," or "Come, Give Me Your Hand." 
Wikipedia should be supported by its growing online community. It would be a shame for a wealth of information like this to be discredited because ofa few goofballs who didn't like "The Sun Also Rises." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at 
tkaiser@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Thursday, February 16, 2006 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU LOOKING FORWARD TO JPW WEEKEND? WHY OR WHY NOT? 






Elizabeth Wagner Eric Beurgler Frankie Bontempo Ill Larissa Zavala Maurice Crum Steve Zakas 
sophomore Lewis  senior off-campus  junior Siegfried  
"No, because of fewer social opportunities on campus for underclassmen."  "No, I'm a senior. I won't even be here."  "Yes, FB II and FB III won't disappoint."  

junior off-campus  sophomore Siegfried  junior offcampus  
"Yes, I can 't wait to shop and party with  "Not really, it's just another weekend."  "No, I'll be in the library."  

my parents." 
IN BRIEF 

The Saint Mary's psychology department will host a lecture by Notre Dame head football coach Charlie Weis today at 1 
p.m. in the Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center. Weis will discuss autism and global delays as part of psy­chology week at the College. 
The Saint Mary's College Dance Ensemble Workshop will host its annual perform­ances Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Saturday at 2:30p.m. and 7:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. The programs will include ballet, jazz and modern dance. 
The Saint Mary's Book Club will meet Thursday at 6:30 
p.m. in the SMC student center lounge for "pleasure reading with a purpose." The first book, "Prep," is available in the book­store. 
Black Koffeehouse, a show­case of African American art, literature and music expressed in the Notre Dame community, will take place Friday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
The "Irish women's tennis team will face Tennessee at 12 
p.m. Saturday and Harvard at 10 a.m. Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Israeli philosopher Avishai Margalit will speak at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies' annual John Howard Yoder Dialogues on Religion, Nonviolence and Peace at 11 a.m. Monday at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
(f 

HIGH 17 HIGH 29 LOW 9 LOW 15 
Atlanta 63 I 41 Boston 45 I 35 Chicago 33 I 30 Denver 15 I 8 Houston 78 I 62 Los Angeles 62 1 43 Minneapolis 18 1 7 New York 51 I 34 Philadelphia 54 I 37 Phoenix 49 I 40 Seattle 37 I 29 St. Louis 57 I 48 Tampa 78 1 56 Washington 59 1 36 German skiers wear caps with Belgian colors 

FRANKFURT -Some 30 German skiers at the Winter Olympics have to wear caps in Belgian national colors after team sponsor Adidas supplied them with the wrong gear. 
An Adidas spokesman said on Wednesday the firm had provided German athletes in biathlon and Nordic com­bined with caps in Belgium's black-gold-red instead of Germany's black-red-gold. 
"We regret this technical mistake and do apologise to all athletes," Jan Runau said, adding that caps with the right colors would now be produced but not arrive until next week. 
Among German athletes competing in the caps were Martina Glagow, who won bronze at the women's biathlon 15 km on Monday, German media said. · 
Curling skip samples pizza for day job at Olympics 
PINEROLO, Italy -U.S. men's curling skip Pete Fenson is making the most of being in Italy for the Olympics to do some research for his day job. 
He's the owner of two Minnesota pizza parlours. "We've been to more than one pizza place, it is excel­
lent, really good," he said. "But it's not like mine. Mine's different than most." 
"Our crust is a little bit thicker, our sauce is a little spicier and there are more ingredients on the top," he added after sweeping the 
U.S. to a 10-4 win over New Zealand on Tuesday. 
Fenson has been voted the American Olympian with the "coolest job" by some of his country's media for owning Dave's Pizza in the curling hotbed of Bemidji, Minnesota, home to half of the U.S. rink. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
u.l 
:::1: 
!;;: 
u.l 

3: 
.... 
c( (,) 


0 

..... HIGH 55 HIGH 31 HIGH 30 HIGH 24 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Book club to promote casual reading at SMC 
By ELIZABETH VOSS 
News Writer 
With full ~~ourseloads, extracur­ricular activities and sodal lives, r.olh\).W stud1mts rarely lind time fiw piPasurP reading, but a group of Saint Mary's women arn invit­ing tlwir penrs to do just that. 
Four Saint Mary's students ­with tlw help of women's studies professor Astrid llnnry -have 1:reatnd tlw SMC Book Club as part of an independent study dw;s. 
"We wanted to J.,rive studenl'i the opportunity to talk to fellow stu­!ll•nts about books in a easual way," said snnior Mary Nelson, one of thn group's lilunding mem­bers. 
Books in tho series are addressed for two weeks each, with disr.oursn enntnring on nxpn­rinnens of young women in soeiety involving relationships and sflxmtl­ity. In thn first wonk, members talk frm\ly about the literature. In the snwnd, mmnbors integrate arti­dns or thdr own personal stories into thn disntssion. 
The dub will taekle four books throughout the semester, starting with the novel "Prep" by Curtis Sittnnli\ld -a book whose eritieal popularity has lwlped generate intnrnst in the\ young dub. Hook dub ernator Mogan Cassidy said t.lw novnl was solnetnd bm:ause it is engaging, fun to read and prompts meaningful discussions rnlatnd to eollngn life. 
Thn thrnn other books the group plans to discuss are "The Handmaid's Tale" by Margaret Atwood, "A Heturn to Modesty"? by Wondy Shalit and "Female Chauvinist Pigs" by Arinl Lnvy. 
Book dub advisor A'>trid llnnry said thn final two nonlietion books will spark dnop conversation. 
"I'A llnturn to Modnsty'l takes a look at how our eulture has bneome over-sexualized and argues for a return to more tradi­tional values, while !'Female Chauvinist Pigs'! approaches [soei­etyl critically from a feminist per­speetive," llenry said. 'They are tw~1 ~nry dil1immt ways of looking at tt. 
llenry said one of the more dilli­cult issues the new dub will eneounter is garnering student interest at the College. With jam­paeked sehedules, it is often tough for students to make time to read, she said. 
"Saint Mary's students work very hard and it's not uneommon lhr them to take 18 credit hours or more," she said. "Teachers expect a lot and it's hard to keep on top of course work." 
But Nelson said the time com­mitment is worth it. 
"A lot of' people think it's hard to lind the time to rnad, but it's possi­ble if you make the time to read," she said. "It's hard in college because you feel so swamped by homflwork. We want people to take time to road for enjoyment and to think about things." 
Contact Elizabeth Voss at voss 10 17@saintmarys.edu 
Filmmaker discusses Emmett Till 
By KAREN LANGLEY Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame students were ealled to partieipate in the ongoing eivil rights movement Wednesday when activist and filmmaker Keith Beauehamp sereennd his documrmtary "The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till" -a film that has helped to reopen the 50-year-old case of' a killing that garnered support l'or the fledgling movement in the 1950s. 
"Bel'ore there was a Martin Luther King, Jr. or a Hosa Parks, there was the murder of Emmett Louis Till that sparked the eivil righl'> movement in the American South," he said. 
In the lilm, Beauehamp inves­tigates the August 1955 ease in which 14-year-old Emmett Louis Till, while visiting rela­tives in Mississippi, was mur­dered for addressing a white woman in public. The case drew national attnntion for the barbarie nature of' the killing ­Till was mutilated, shot in the head and his body left at a river's bottom -and, despite extensive evidence of their guilt, the two white men who stood trial for the kidnapping and murder were acquitted. 
Though Hoy Bryant, husband of the woman who aeeused Till of improperly addressing her, and his half-brother J.W. Milam later eonfessed their roles in the kidnapping and murder in a national magazine when a reportflr offered them $4,000, they were proteeted from pros­ecution by the "double jeop-ardy" rule. 

But the attention brought by Beauchamp's film prompted the Justice Department to reopen the case in 2004 under a feder­al-state partnership. 
The Federal Bureau of Investigation conduded its investigation in .January, and the Distriet Attorney of' Money, Miss. -the town where Till was killed -may issue indict­ments against as many as 14 people who were involved in the kidnapping and murdflr. 
"I was able to use the film as a vehicle that would ultimately get the case reopened," Beauchamp said. "We owe it to Emmett Till, to his family and to ourselves to see alter so many years if justiee is still possible." 
Beauehamp asked the audi­ence to write letters to the I>.A. of Money. 
"I come to you ... asking you to keep the lire of this move­ment burning," he said. "I encourage you to gnt involved in a eivil rights movement that still exists today." 
The scre1ming and prnsenta­tion were sponsored by the Multicultural Student Programs and Services olliee and h111d at the llesburgh Center auditori­um. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 

In the offices of the Alliance for Catholic Education, 112 Badin Hall 



From2-4PM Friday, Feb. 17th 
If you're interested in ACE, and want to let your parents find out more information, please stop in! 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 16, 2006 

Photos by CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer 
Tona Boyd, left, performs "The Little [expletive] That Could," Joanna Collins, center, acts out "I Was 12, My Mother Slapped Me" and Stefanie Dittert, right, per­forms "The Vagina Workshop" at the third and final production of this year's "The Vagina Monologues," held Wednesday in DeBartolo Hall. 
"This is what speaks to people," from which "The Vagina by an audience member, Porter and saying there is no middle 
Nordstrom said. Monologues" arose. Porter said it expanded on the theme of the ground in dating. Nordstrom proposed students is necessary to understand the necessity of academic freedom to Porter also discussed the strain continued from page 1 write a· Notre Dame version of differences between the origins of further intellectual growth. in gender relations at Notre "The Vagina Monologues" to both sets of ideas, but expressed "Theology as a discipline ... is Dame and in society in general. its fifth year) at Notre Dame. explore issues of gender relations confidence that the two views impossible except in an atmos­"I am more and more con­
Carolyn Nordstrom, a professor and sexual violence that affect could find some areas of mutual phere -in a climate -of some vinced that the kinds of anxieties in the Anthropology department, students at the University. She understanding. intellectual openness," she said. and controversy that this event is was a member of the panel said Notre Dame, as a Catholic "I think that a dialogue Porter said the failure to think generating at Notre Dame is mir­Tuesday night and spoke again university, has the influence and between these two worlds is pos­openly about religious views roring what is happening in the Wednesday. Nordstrom encour­ability to engineer solutions to sible," Porter said. might lead to a deterioration of Catholic Church," Porter said. aged the use of performances like end sexual violence. Mary Rose D'Angelo, who is faith. Before the start of the play, stu­"The Vagina Monologues" to stop "Next year, let's watch a hun­also a professor in the theology The three panelists supported dents encouraged audience the trend of sexual violence dred universities across America department, said she appreciated the continued performance of members to sign petitions in sup­against women. perform what we've written," the accomplishment of the play "The Vagina Monologues" at port of the "Monologues" and 
"These are the ways in which Nordstrom said. toward moving frank discussions Notre Dame as a way to strength­academic freedom. Jenkins has war is stopped," Nordstrom said. Theology professor Jean Porter about sexuality out into the open. en gender relations and to stop said he hopes to make a decision "It's not pleasant, it's not easy, but also addressed the controversy D'Angelo said she hopes the the perpetration of sexual vio­by the end of this semester about it's real." surrounding "The Vagina Catholic Church can be open to lence. In a question-and-answer whether the University will con­
Nordstrom -who has studied Monologues," and discussed the listening to views such as those section, the panelists discussed tinue to allow academic depart­sexual violence perpetrated play in relation to the Church's presented in "The Vagina problems that strained gender ments to sponsor the perform­against civilians in war zones -moral teachings on Catholic sexu­Monologues." relations create at Notre Dame. ance of "The Vagina Monologues" compared the struggles faced by al ethics. Porter said some sexual "I worry about people who find Nordstrom criticized the lack of and other events deemed to con­those recovering from sexual vio­acts and experiences depicted in their Catholicism threatened by institutional procedures that deal flict with Catholic character. lence to those struggling to define the "Monologues" are contrary to things like 'The Vagina with sexual violence and issues of gender relations and sexuality. the ethics of the Catholic Church, Monologues,"' D'Angelo said. "I sexuality at the University. Kelly Meehan contributed to 
"The themes to which this play but emphasized the play is fear that this results from a deep Nordstrom said other factors con­this report. speaks are universal," Nordstrom intended as an artistic piece and lack of confidence in Catholic tribute to strained gender rela­said. not as an answer to moral issues. moral tradition." tions at Notre Dame, calling the Contact Kaidyn Riely at 
Citing a statistic that said one of "This is an artistic perform­In response to a question posed dorms "awash in pornography" kriely@nd.edu three women will be sexually vio­ance, and works of art don't take lated in her lifetime, Nordstrom positions in the same way that an compared the United States to a encyclical ... takes an approach war zone. Plays like "The Vagina on moral questions," Porter said. Monologues" are stopping the She discussed the different violence in America and through­"worlds" from which teachings 
out the world, she said. on Catholic sexual ethics and 

Jenkins 



4.0 Student Living 
At Notre Dame 
(888) 278-5962 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
NOW LEASING FOR 
• Covered Parking 

2006! •Laundry 

Mention This Ad
Facilities On Site And The Application 
Fee Is FREE! 
'Prices are subject to change 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, Indiana 46637 Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 
·.·...... 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S Wl RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Three die in Prophet drawings riot 
I'I~SIIAWAH, Pakistan -Gunfire and riot­ing erupt1~d Wmlnesday as tons of thousands of 1wople took to tlw streets in Pakistan's third straight day or violmlt protests ovnr the l'roplwt Muhammad cartoons. Thrne peopln Wl're killl'd. induding an H-ynar-old boy. 
Tlw IO:uropean Union condemned both the cartoons, first printed in a Danish newspaper in St>plt>mber. and what it r.alled "systnnuttic incilenwnl to violt>nr.e" against t·:uropean diplomatic missions hy sonw unidnntifind governnwnts. 
t\t !Past I<) pPople have dind in demonstra­tions and vioiPnce this month rnlatml to the drawings. l·:lnvnn havP died in Afghanistan. fivP in Pakistan and orw each in Kenya, I.Phanon and Somalia. 
Britain bans glorification of terrorists 
I.ONIJON -British lawmakers votPd WPIInt>sday to ban glorifying terrorism. giv­ing l'rinw Minister Tony Blair a badly rwmlml virtory on a nwasurP hn said was kPy to pre­vc·nling ful.un• attacks. 
Th<' llousP of Commons appn>VI~d tlw ban, St'ruling it hack l.o l.hP llousn of Lords, which had '>!ruck down llw IPrm "glorilkation" ear­liPr this yt>ar, saying il. was dangerously vagHP. Tlw two charnbers must rea.r.h agree­lllPnl for llw mPasurl' to bt>1:onw law. 
Blair said lht> volt' SPill a "signal of stn·ngth, vital in cirnrmstances wlwre the lhrPal that WP fact' is not just from tlw incli­vidual acts of tPtTorism bul tlw people who <'Pit>hral.t' il. who try and Pntice othl'r people or nwruit olhnr IHH>pln into doing it," hn said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man charged in death of wife, baby 
BOSTON -British authorities arrnstod a man Thursday in tlw shooting dnaths of' his wifl' and baby daughter, and prosenrtors say lw may lwve bar.knd out of a plan to commit suicide after killing them in thn family's Massachusetts homn. 
Neil l·:ntwistll\ who rnturrwd to his native l·:ngland a day after the killings, is charged with two r.ounts of murdnr and two weapons­related r.hargns, Middlnsnx District Attorney Martha Coakl1~y said. 
lnVPstigators belinvn he used his father-in­law's handgun to shoot his wife and daughter on tho morning of .Jan. 20. Coaklny said. She said lw may havo intendnd to kill himself as WPII, possibly lwnws1~ of linandal diflkulties as his lntnrrwt business venturns failnd, but lw didn't follow through. 

Guard charged in aiding jailbreak 
CIIIC;\(;() -A guard accusml of' hnlping six inmatns nseapn from tho Cook County .Jail ovnr tlw wnnknnd handeufTnd himself and gavn the prisorwrs his uniform and hoots, prosecutors allngnd during a !waring Wndnnsday. 
Darin Catnr. 36, of Chicago, appeared in c:ourt by vidno but did not onter a plea or rnakn a statnnwnt. A judgn snt his bond at 
$:100,000. 
l'rosneutors said Catnr gave a handwritten stalllnwnt dntailing his involv1Hnnnt in the nsc~apn. Outsidn thn eourtroom, Gatnr's attor­rwys said lw is innoeent. 
"Wn'vn lward allngations of an admission by Mr. <;atnr," attornny Stevnn Watkins said. "Our stanc:n right now is that any admission he allngndly madn was eoereed." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Reality series filmed at Ind. prison 
INI>IANt\I'OI.IS-An eight-wenk reality series sot to prnminrn on MTV this surnrnnr will doeunwnt tlw stories of 16 Indiana juvenile dnlinqunnl<> who wind thoir way through thn jus­tice systmn. 
Filming of "MTV .Juvies" at northwestHrn Indiana's Lake County .Juvenile Center began in .January and wrapped up this week, said Karnn <;rau, a fi>rrner Indianapolis journalist who crc­atnd thn doc:unwntary. 
"Wn'rn them fi>r every ankln shackling, we're thorn fhr evory meal, we're thern for lighl<> on, lighl<> oil'-literally from the minute they arrive until tlw minuto they leave," said Grau. 

Cheney addresses gun accident 
Vice president takes full blame, calls shooting 'one of the worst days of my life' 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Soft-spo­
ken and contrite, Dick 
Chenny relived tho horrible 
momnnt when he !ired his 
shot).,'llll at a quail only to see 
his bloodied hunting eom­
panion drop to tho ground. 
"I ran over to him," 
Chnney said, tolling his ver­
sion of shooting 7H-year-old 
llarry Whittington on 
Saturday for the first limo 
Wmlrwsday to Fox News 
Channnl. "IIn was laying 
thorn on his baek, obviously, 
blooding. You could see 
whnrn thn shot struck him." 
lin said Whittingt(in was eonscious and breathing but stumwd silent. 
"I said, '!larry, I had no 
idea you wnrn there.' lie did­
n't respond," Chmwy said. 
The vim prnsidnnt trind to stnm thn damagn from a publir. relations disaster fi•r tho Whitn llousn, accepting responsibility for the aeei­dent while ddnnding his decision to keep it from thn public until tho next day. 
"You can't blame anybody olsn," Cheney told Fox's Brit llume in a half-hour inter­view. "I'm thn guy who pulled the trigger and shot my fi'in'nd." 

"Thn image of him falling is sonwthing I'll never ever be able to get out of my mind," Cheney said. "I fired, rind that Cheney's silence that Whittington was at fault said hn and a third hunter and tlu~re's !larry falling. It had suggested a possible in the shooting because, she walked about I 00 yards was, I'd have to say, one of cover-up, and Cheney said, he failed to announce away to wlwrn anollwr tho worst days of my lifi~ at acknowledged that he himself as hn rejoined the eovey had bnnn spottml. lin that moment." delayed an announcoment hunting linn. But Chenny, said immediately after he 
Cheney said he had had a over the advice of Bush's who has been hunting for at shot at a bird flying to his beer at lunch that day but prnss advisers. least 12 years, said in no right, hn saw Whittington in nobody was drinking when "We really didn't know uncertain terms that his linn of lin~. they wnnt back out to hunt.a until Sunday morning that Whittington was not to lin said Whittington was couple hours later at a Ilarry was probably going to blame. drnssnd properly in orange~ sprawling Texas ranch bn OK, that it looked like "You can talk about all of and tho uppnr part of his owned by mutual frinnds. there hadn't boen any seri­the other conditions that body was visible, but lw was Law enforcement offkials ous damage to any vital exist at the time, but that's standing in a gully with thn have rulnd out alcohol as a organ," he said. "And that's the bottom line and -it was sun bnhind him, whir.h l'ador. when we began the process not Harry's fault," hn said. alli~ctnd his view. 
The vice president has or notifying the press." Texas officials said the "I saw him fall. basically. It bnen under intnnse political Cheney said he agreed to shooting was an aceidont, had happnnnd so fast." prnssurn to speak out about the suggestion of ranch and no charges have been Chnnny said. "lin was struc:k the accident, which has owner Katharine Armstrong brought. in tlw right sidn or his l'aen, become a public relations to have her announce it to a Cheney said the aceident his neck and his upper torso embarrassment and poten­local newspapnr. "I thought happened after Whittington on the right sidn of his body.'' tial political liability for the that was the right call. I still stepped out of the hunting Whittington was in stable White !louse. Snnior advis­do," the vice president said. party to retrieve a downnd condition Wmlrtnsday at a ers to President Bush wor-Armstrong has suggested bird in deep cover. Cheney Texas hospital. 
Saddam: I warned U.S. of threats 
well.'' gist can make a bottle or germs and
Associated Press But he insisted Iraq would never drop it into a watnr townr and kill NEW YORK -Saddam llussein launch such an attack. "This story is 100,000." told aides in the mid-1990s that he coming, but not from Iraq," he said. "This is not done by a state. No warned the United States it could be The State Department had no com­need to accuse a statn. An individual hit by a terrorist attaek, ABC News ment on the report, which aired on can do it,M hn said. reported Wednesday, citing 12 hours World News Tonight. ABC News said Hussein Kamnl, a son-in-law ol' of tapes the network obtained or the U.S. ofl'icials confirmed the tapes Saddam's, who was then in charge former Iraqi dietator's talks with his were authentic. of Iraq's weapons of mass dnstruc­Cabinet. ABC News said the CIA found the tion efforts, explained how Iraq held One of Saddam's son-in-laws also tapes in Iraq and that the 12 hours back information from thn U.N. explained how Iraq hid its biological were provided to it by Bill Tierney, a inspectors. weapons programs from U.N. former member of a U.N. inspoction "We did not reveal all that wn inspectors, according to the tapes team who was translating them for have," he said. "We did not reveal from August 1995. the FBI. ABC News quoted Tierney the volume of chemieal weapons we The corning terrorist attack as saying the U.S. government was had produced." Saddam predicted could involve wrong to keep the tapes secret. Hussein Kamel dnfected to Jordan weapons of mass destruction. Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz shortly after the tapes were reeord­"Terrorism is coming. I told the told Saddam on the tape that "the ed, and Iraq was forcnd to admit it Americans," Saddam is heard say­biological [attack] is very easy to had concealed its biologieal weapons ing, adding he "told the British as make. It's so simple that any biolo-program. 

has ever told me 

what I could and could not 
the distinction he has 
made I don't agree with," 
Deane-Moran said. "He has 
made a distinction between that 
which is legitimate academical­
ly and that which is sponsored 
external to that." 
llistory professor Gail Bederman .agreed. Bederman helped organize the academic panel discussions that followed each of the three performances of "The Vagina Monologues" this week. 
"Once you start thinking, 'This is too far or that is too far,' without consulting with people who actually teach the area where does it end?"
oo· 
Bederman said. 
Film professor Christine Becker recalled one of her for­mer students, Liam Dacey, who was one of the original organiz­ers of the event formerly known as the Queer Film Festival. 
"Liam Dacey was our ideal student I understand !the
000 
need for] a line, but in some ways it's ideal that our students cross it," Beeker said. 
Communication between the administration, faculty and stu­dents is key to finding common ground, Bederman said. She said people on both sides of the issue must improve their con­versation -saying it was "per­haps one of the most important things we can do here." 
"If anything is going to heal the misunderstanding, it should be where people get to say, 'I don't get that, that makes me feel uncomfortable,' or, 'You're disrespecting my wife and my mother and myself,'" she said. 
Gresik said Bederman hit "the heart of the issue." 
As the nation's leading Catholic university, said a pro­fessor who wished to remain anonymous, the policy that Jenkins will eventually make will reverberate to Catholic institutions across the country. 
"What's at stake here is the study of feminism, gender and sexuality at our University I
00. 
think it is perfectly legitimate to support the flourish of the arts and to support more speech rather than less speech when it comes to controversial issues," she said. 
But if the University decides to restrict that dialogue, she said, it risks losing its ability to recruit and retain "top-notch" faculty. 
''I'm worried we're going down a path that· we will regret," she said. 
Program of Liberal Studies professor Julian Marvin raised the issue of artwork -and the multi-faceted ideas one piece of work can represent. 
"To say that presenting a work of art constitutes advoca­cy of what it's saying, implies that we all know what its say­ing, and (that] it's only saying one thing ... [but] this is not the case in works of art that are of any merit," Marvin said. 
John Robinson, associate dean of the Law School, is the chair of the Senate's ad-hoc committee charged with draft­ing the document to Jenkins, which is scheduled to be com­pleted by March 3 and present­ed to Jenkins before he visits the Senate's March 7 meeting. 
Robinson has also planned a faculty forum on March 8 where a representative from the American Association of University Professors will speak 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
in defense of academic free­dom, and the chancellor of the University of Dayton will speak on Catholic character. He is still seeking a third speaker that would serve as "the merger of the two" viewpoints. 
"We've asked each person to speak for no moPe than 15 min­utes their task is to stimulate
00. 
discussion among us," Robinson said. "We're deliberately trying to bring in people from the out­side." 
The mobilization among fac­ulty is not restricted to the· Faculty Senate -meetings and conversations have been taking place within the College of Arts and Letters as well, said philos­ophy professor Vaughn McKim. McKim met with Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Mark Roche last week, where he said he learned that Roche's main goal is to provide a posi­tive alternative for Jenkins before he issues a "unilateral decision." 
"We I the College of Arts and Letters] want to offer construc­tive alternative to the presi­dent," McKim said. "It is much better to say yes to something than to say no. The question is what can we suggest to him that is something he can say yes to? 
"The suggestion is going to be made that the president might want to consult with elected members of the Academic Council or subset of the group and have a consultation," McKim said. "We're not looking for consensus but [rather] post­poning as far as possible the need to make some unilateral decision ... that simply steps on various people that have been involved in the chain of deci­sion-making." 
McKim attended the panel discussion following the per­formance of "The Vagina Monologues" Tuesday and said it was "one of the most impor­tant experiences" he's had at Notre Dame. 
"To see what happened between students and the panel 
oo. 
it was extraordinary," McKim said. "I don't know if I can recall another Notre Dame moment of such poignancy, of anger, of tears. It's clear the University has a deeper prob­lem dealing with women's needs on this campus." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 
of the day becomes "Who's next?" 
That question is not answered thoughtlessly, Shoup said. 
The Facilities Operations group does a nearly six­month review of all the buildings, paying careful attention to infrastructure, heating systems, windows, plumbing and electrical sys­tems before making any decisions. 
Former renovations also pIa y a r o le . S h o u p s a i d dorms like Badin and Sorin -that have had some restoration in the last 10 to 15 years -would not be like­ly candidates for renovation in the near future. 
"It's up to Facilities Operations to take a look at how significant and how urgent the needs are in those buildings," Shoup said. "They're keeping track of which buildings have the greatest needs." 
That leaves good news for some, and less exciting news for others. 
"Right off the top of my head, !Breen-Philips]. Cavanaugh, Zahm and Carroll are probably in the next group that have the greatest needs," Shoup said. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

Farley 
continued from page 1 
transformation will be quite similar to that of Dillon last summer and Alumni during the summer of 2004. 
The extensive renewal will include installation of new windows, refurbishment of the building's roof, restora­tion of exterior ramps and 
stairs, upgrad­ed electrical systems and lighting and replacement of some lounge furniture. Bathrooms are another target area, Shoup said. 
"Community restrooms, just like Alumni and Dillon, [will] be completelY gut­ted, demolished 
"It's up to Facilities Operations to take a look at how urgent the needs are in those buildings., 
Jeff Shoup director Office of Residence Life and Housing 
and replaced," he said. "There will be completely new bathrooms." 
Shoup says the University covers the $3.6 million cost of the project, but a constant flow of funds is never guar­anteed. 
"Every year there's a cer­tain part of the budget that's put aside for renewal," he said. "September 11, 2001 

Election 
continued from page 1 
their campaign. Students respected how Shappell and Andrichik conducted them­selv·es and also liked their platform, which included instituting student choice Grab 'N Go and maintaining a dialogue with University President Father John Jenkins about academic free­dom. 
"I voted for IShappell­Andrichik] because Lizzi came by my room to intro­duce herself," senior Casey Dunne said. "Being person­able makes you a good candi­date." 
Dunne also said she had a class with Andrichik, and when a professor asked the 
really challenged the University's investments. I don't think that next summer we did any renovations to the extent that we're doing this year." 
The renovations in Dillon and Alumni finished almost the same time as resident assistants arrived on cam­pus. Shoup expects the Farley project to be com­pletely finished by the time students arrive in the fall. 
"Usually those last cou­ple of days we're scram­bling to do a lot of vacuum­ing and trying to clean up," Shoup said. 
The main goal for the rest of this semester is to get the masonry done without dis­turbing the 
students too much. 

"I don't think they'll be working this Friday for [Junior Parents Weekend]," Shoup said. "They may be off for a two-week period once study days start For
000 

finals, obviously they're not going to be. sawing bricks outside." 
For students who do not reside in Farley, the question 
vice presidential candidate to Student government and the talk about his ticket's plat­Judicial Council sent e-mail · form in class, he declined reminders about the upcom­because student government ing election, but some stu­prohibits campaigning in dents said there was not class. enough publicity about when 
"He's all about the rules," the event would take place. Dunne said. "I didn't even know when 
Junior Jason Laws and [the election] was," junior sophomore Chris Tracy said. "I Bob Costa­thought it was the main "Being personable tomorrow. I was competition going to vote for
makes you a good
for Shappell some of the fresh­
·candidate.,
and Andrichik men running." -came in Shappell and second place, Andrichik will take
Casey Dunne 
garnering office April 1.
senior 
more than 34 Shappell replaces percent of the Uave Baron as stu­vote. dent body presi­
"I voted for Laws," fresh­dent, and Andrichik replaces man Chinedu Dike said. "I Shappell as vice president. know more about him than the others and that was the Contact Adrienne Ruffner at main basis of my vote." aruffner@nd.edu 
2006 

Bookstore 
Basketball Commissioner Signups 
GO ONLINE to http://www.nd.edu/-bkstr/downloads.htm to download an application. Turn in the application to 314 LaFortune by Friday, February Jth@ 5PM and schedule a short interview. 

Thursday, f;ebruary 16, 2006 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
15.12

}ones 11,058.97
t,. 
Some: Down: Composite Volume: 2,204 165 1$971 2,456,447,590 
~ 
•<fiV 

AMfX 1,797.11 +3.38 NASDAQ 2,276.43 +13.77 NYSf 8,019.76 -1.81 S&PSOO I,2XO.OO +4.47 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 15,932.83' 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 5,791.50 -O.XO 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
AMGEN (AMGN)  +1.45  + 1.04  72.97  
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  +0.64  +0.26  41.16  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.09  -0.02  21.35  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +1.22  +0.24  19.94  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.86  +0.23  26.88  


10-YEAR NOTE  -0.17  -0.08  46.06  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.34  -0.15  44.32  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.44  -0.20  45.75  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.09  +0.04  46.05  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.78  59.25  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.20  542.70  
PORK BELLIES (centsllb.)  +1.70  81.80  
fxchan  Rates  
YEN  117.9100  
EURO  0.8411  
POUND  0.5744  
CANADIAN$  1.1576  

IN BRIEF 
GM to invest in five Michigan plants 
PONTIAC, Mid1. -General Motors Corp. said Tw~sday that it will hire nearly 300 workers and invest $545 million in live Michigan plants, which is good news lilr the autornaker's horne state, but still only a fraction of th1~ 30,000 jobs GM is shed­ding nationally by 200H in a broad restructuring strateJ.,ry. 
GM's horne state has lost an estimated 130,000 auto manufacturing jobs in the last five years. A'i a whole, tlw eompany has let go more than 27,000 workers sinee 2000 as it faeed mounting competition and rising cosL'i for health care and pm1sions. 
A big ehunk of the inv1~strnent -$163 million -will go to c;M's Pontiae Assembly Center, which makes tlw Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra pickups, GM spokesman Dan Florns said. Production of thn next w~nnration of those piek­ups is scheduled to begin later this year. 
GM plans to hire 2HO pnople at the Pontiac plant. all workers who are eurrnntly employed at c;M planL'i or have been laid oil' from their jobs. GM has several thousand laid-oil' workers in a jobs bank. Thny w~t most of tlwir pay and bene­tiL'> even when they'rn not working. 
The eompany also disdosed thrno improvnrnent projnel'> that have alrnady benn started. 
The eompany is investing $152 million in its Ypsilanti transmission plant to inerease produc­tion eapadty for its rear-wheel-drive, six-speed transmissions, Flores said. It is investing $60 mil­lion in iL'> Homulus nnginn plant for making tim small-block VH nngim~s that will go into il'i new full-sizn trucks. It is also spnnding $32 million to updatn tlw hydroforming equipment in its Pontiac~ nwtal stamping plant, which uses water to lwlp makn tho uniqun eurvns on Uw Pontiac Solstkn and Saturn Sky roadstc!rs. 
(;M said it is invnsting $1 :{S million to expand thP body shop in iL'> Lansing Grand Hivnr iL'ismn­bly plant, a statP-of-thn-art fadlity that will make tlw nnw Cadillar CTS. Tho sndan will go into pro­duci.ion latl' this year or narly noxt year. 
Jon Spidman, vil:o pn~sidnnt and gn1wral man­agpr of GM's North Anwrican manufac~turing operations, said tho invnstmnnts demonstrate c;M's c:ommitnwnt to Michigan and to improving iL'i producl'i. 
"It's good for our peopln. It shows wo'ro invest­ing in our futurP," Spielman said. 






USINESS 
page 7 

Bernanke testifies; stocks rise 
Federal Reserve chairman's Congressional speech predicts expanding U.S. economy 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK-Stoeks 
rose modestly Wndnnsday 
after investors bobbed and 
weaved with nvnry word ol' 
new Fednral Hcservn 
Chairman Ben Bnrnankn's 
t11stimony before Congress. 
The marknt snnsawnd through Bnrnanke's first morwtary policy testimony beforn the I Ioirsn Financial Snrvieos Committen. Stocks I'Pil as he warned of morn rate hikes, rosn as he rnas­surnd investors about tlw sprnad betwnen long-and short-tnrm bond yields, then turned mixnd as he nxpressed eonenrn about federal budgnt dnfieits. Thn major incl!~x11s erept upward al'tnr his dnbut nndnd. 
Bnrnankn said inl'lation is contained. but warned it could tick higher. lie left tlw door open to futuro intnrest rate inereases. lie was upbeat about the U.S. oconomy, saying the latest employment and consumer spending data "suggests that the economic expan­sion remains on traek." 

The market has recently New York Stock Exchange. F11deral Heserve industri­inventory data showed bnen hypersensitive to any Stocks' advance was al production data showed increasing supplios of hints about future Fed rate slight because "we had a manufacturing rising in gasoline and oil. Light hikes, said Brian big move Tuesday and we January; rnanufaeturing crude fell by $1.92 to settle Gendreau, investment need to digest it," said data for both December at $57.65 a barn~l on the strategist for lNG Greg Church, chief invest­and Novnmber was revised New York Mereantile Investment Management. ment offiecr of Church upward. The latest Empire Exehange. It was the low­Bernanke's testimony sug­Capital Management. State Manufaeturing index, est settlement price for the gests that "if the Fed is Stocks may continue to a measurement of New front-month futures eon­going to err, it will be on sway until it becomes dear York's manufaeturing sec­tract since Dec. 19. the side of more rate when the Fed will stop tor and a barometer for Brokerage Merrill Lynch hikes," Gendreau said. raising interest rates, said the rest of the nation, also & Co. Inc. rose 14 eents to 
The Dow Jones industrial Richard Madigan, global came in above economists' $75.30 after it agreed to average rose 30.58, or investment strategist at JP expectations. combine its investment­
0.28 pereent, to 11,058.97 Morgan Private Bank. Bonds were higher, with management business with after rising 136 points "There's a jumpiness in the the yield on the 10-year money manager BlackHock Tuesday. markets that we're going Treasury note falllng to Inc. in exchange for a 
Broader stock indicators to, unfortunately live with 4.60 percent from 4.61 nearly 50 pereent stake in were slightly higher. The a little while longer," ho percent late Tuesday. The BlackHoek, the two sides Standard & Poor's 500 said. U.S. dollar was mixed said. The transaction, index rose 4.47, or 0.35 The market had opened against other major cur­expected to elosc in the percent, to 1,280.00, and lower as strong data from rencies in European trad­third quarter, would trans­the Nasdaq composite the manufacturing sector ing. Gold prices were form BlackRoek into one of index rose 14.26, or 0.63 resurrected investors' lower. the world's top money percent, to 2,276.43. fears that the Fed eould Crude oil futures fell for managers, with an asset 
Advancing issues out­hike rates past 5 percent, the fourth straight day, base of around $1 trillion. numbered declining issues which would exeeed Wall dipping b11low $59 a barrel BlackHock rose $5.29 to by roughly 2 to 1 on the Street's expectations. after U.S. government $151.25. 

Youth's e-textbook demand is slow 
staring at the computer that long-I want to do anything that's a lot difl'cr­
Associated Press 

don't think a lot ol' people would find ent than their penrs." 
PHOVIDENCE -Brown University that a better way to read," Thompson Others, however, say thn publishers junior Stuart Thompson jumped at the said. are the ones that are conservative, chance to save $30 and become a digi­Of the 100 or so students enrolled in doing little more than adding somn tal pioneer when his school bookstore the course where Houghton Mifnin hypnrlinks and search capabilities. offnred a discounted, eleetronie ver­Co.'s "A People and a Nation" is Tools arc available f'or rwte-taking and sion of an American history tnxtbook. assigned, Thompson was the only stu­highlighting, hut Thompson said those 
But after making the purchase, he dent to buy the oleetronic version. arc no substitute for marking up noticod a few things amiss: lie eould­Brown is oll'Bring two other e-tnxt­paper. n 't run a highlight marker over key books this semester, but nonn of the For thn most part, n-books <tro points or jot notes in the margins, nor 150 students in those elasscs have mnrely olnetronie representations ol' eould he curl up with the tome with­bought one, even at 35 perc:nnt oil' the the printed pages. out printing out the pagos. prkc of a now printed eopy. C. Sidney Burrus, fornwr dean of 
lie won't rule out another c-book, Students are going to have to see engineering at Hice Univnrsity and an but he's not completely sold, either. morn value in e-toxtbooks bnl'orn they e-book author, said technological 
So much for the belief that this gen­takn off, said Larry Carr, Brown's ehangns typieally come in two phases: nration of youths is comfortable with dirnetor of bookstore and snrvkes. Heplication of oldnr technology, fol­everything digital; The publishing "Students arn pretty conservative lowed by innovation. industry has bnen talking about elec­when it comes to their gradns," said "Wn'rn in the lirst phase, with elt\e­tronic textbooks for a deeade already, David Serbun, direetor of partnerships tronie doing what tho traditional but sales remain minusculn. for Houghton Milllin's college division. paper has donn," he said. "Nothing's 
"If you'rn reading a 100-page book, "Our research has indieatcd they don't really nov1~l." 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, February 16, 2006 
Moussaoui behaves during jury selection 
Al-Qaida conspirator allowed back in court 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. Unexpectedly allowed back in court, confessed ai-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui kept quiet Wednesday as two Muslims from South Asia and a Marine Corps lawyer whose boss' Pentagon office blew up on Sept. 11 cleared preliminary hurdles to sit on his sentenc­ing jury. 
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema had barred Moussaoui from jury selection Tuesday because until the 1 p.m. lunch break. 
"No, I'm going to pray," Moussaoui replied. But the morning session concluded before his appointed prayer time anyway. 
His only other remarks were barely audible to a few spectators sitting near the side door. "God curse America," he muttered twice as he left court for breaks. 
Brinkema qualified a Muslim woman, originally from Pakistan, and a Muslim man, born in Kabul, Afghanistan, after each said their origin and religion would have no bearing on their deliberations. She also qualified a woman who had worked as 
he wouldn't "God curse a secretary for promise to stop the CIA in the
America." 
giving insult­1960s and for laden speeches. the Drug
Zacarias Moussaoui 
Brinkema did Enforcement not explain her defendant Administration 
change of mind in court. but she had said the day before that she might recon­sider if Moussaoui decided to alter his behavior. Even Moussaoui's court-appointed defense lawyers did not know why she changed her mind. 
Fifteen of the 24 prospec­tive jurors interviewed Wednesday were qualified for service -three over defense objections and one over gov­ernment protest. Identified only by number, they were ordered to return March 6 when lawyers will exercise peremptory -or unexplained -strikes to whittle the pool to 12 jurors and six alter­nates. More potential jurors will be selected between now and March 6. 
The jury will decide whether the 37-year-old Frenchman of Moroccan .descent, who pleaded guilty last April to conspiring with al-Qaida to fly planes into 
U.S. buildings, is exeeuted or imprisoned for life. 
The 15 included three who expressed deep concerns about imposing a death penalty and two who expressed support for the principle of "an eye for an eye." All said they could fol­low the l_aw despite these views. 
Nine potential jurors were dismissed. Most were sent home either because they could not impose a death sen­tence under any circumstance or because a trial that might last until the end of May would pose financial hard­ship. One man, who served in the Air Force during the Vietnam war, was dismissed beeause he knew someone who was killed in the Sept. 
11. 2001, attack on the Pentagon. 
Clad in a white knit cap and green prison jump suit with "prisoner" in white block let­ters on the back, Moussaoui arrived through a side door without warning moments after the proceeding came to order. lie craned his neck to scan the prospective jurors' faces and intently watched them answer individual ques­tions. 
Moussaoui kept silent except when Brinkema asked him if he would delay his mid­day prayer from 12:30 p.m. 
in Afghanistan 
in the 1970s. 
The three potential jurors who survived defense objections included a female lawyer in the Marine Corps general counsel's office who said her boss' office blew up in al-Qaida's attack on the Pentagon though he was not injured. She told Brinkema she wasn't worried about how her boss and co-workers would react if she did not impose a death penalty. 
Defense attorney Gerald Zerkin argued: "That's a pret­ty close tie to events in the case.... I don't see how some­one like that can be fair no matter what they say." Noting that the woman had worked both as a·prosecutor and a defense attorney in her career, Brinkema responded: "Tho fact that her boss' office was blown up is not a suffi­cient connection to this case." 
A white-haired man with 30 years of active and reserve duty for the Navy, including time at the Pentagon, also survived defense objections. He said he knew a contractor working in the building near the crash site on Sept. 11. 
"I remember him telling me it was very loud and surpris­ing, and he ran faster than he ever had in his life," the juror said. 
Zerkin objected because "he knows someone who was at the crime scene." 
But Brinkema said that she would not disqualify potential jurors "just because they knew people who worked at the Pentagon," absent some­thing special about their rela­tionship or experience. 
Over defense objections, Brinkema also qualified a young female teacher who endorsed the "eye for an eye" principle. 
Over objections by prosecu­tor David Novak, Brinkema qualified a man who thought the FBI had missed a lot of clues before 9/11 and expressed concern the war on terror was eroding civil liber­ties. Brinkema accepted his assertion he could set these views aside to weigh evidence fairly. 
Moussaoui says he had no role in the Sept. 11 plot and instead was training to fly a 747 jetliner into the White House as part of a later plot. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
It's important that "Notre Dame as a Catholic institution strives to exemplify Catholic teaching, which states that all workers have the 'right to a wage determined by the crite­rion of justice' ('Pacem in Terris')." the resolution reads. 
Catholic social teaching is more significant than ever at Notre Dame given the current campus atmosphere and Jenkins' emphasis on Catholic character, CLAP member Jackie Clark said. 
"It's important here to address problems in our own community," she said. "Notre Dame can afford a living wage." 
She quoted one of the more than 100 Notre Dame staff members CLAP has spoken to in its research, a worker who expressed feelings of alien­ation from the community. 
'"We're not part of the fami­ly. We're brought out to clean, and otherwise pushed aside,"' Clark said. 
CLAP member Nick Krafft said until the University improves its labor practices, it will not be true to its Catholic mission. 
"As a Catholic university, we claim to uphold our Catholic character ... [but] there's a discrepancy," he said. 
The second resolution urged the creation of a University task force composed of admin­istrators, students, workers and faculty to "examine cam­pus labor practices and imple­ment a just employment poli­cy." 
While detail-oriented sena­tors questioned certain parts of CLAP's proposal -num­bers, budgetary aspects and future implications -student body president Dave Baron said he fully supported taking an active role in the campaign. 

"I think it is wholly in our interest to look at workers' rights," Baron said. "It's com­pletely within out duty and our responsibility." 
In other Senate news: 
+ Senators formally passed a resolution in support of a report to improve campus ath­letic grounds and facilities, a topic discussed at last week's meeting. 
The report was a joint proj­ect between Senate's Residence Life committee and the Campus Life Council's Task Force on Campus Grounds and Structures. It passed in CLC on Monday and will be sent to Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman for consideration. 
+ Baron said he met with director of Student Activities Brian Coughlin, Assistant Viee President of Student Affairs G. David Moss and director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo to discuss problems with bowl game ticket distribution. 
Next year, a swipe-card sys­tem will be used to distribute bowl game tickets, Baron said. 
+ 
The Hesburgh Library will be open 24 hours a day during the week before spring break, as a result of a resolution put into motion by the Academic Affairs committee to increase the hours during peak study times. Senate passed the reso­lution Jan. 26. 

+ 
Junior Chris Hollon was sworn in as the new Stanford Hall senator, replacing former senator David Thaxton. 


Hollon has served as student government parliamentarian since November. During last week's meeting the Senate impeached Thaxton, since he is studying abroad this semes­ter. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 




Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou orsomeone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, l-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, l-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 



South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


.--------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
IRAQ 

Nevv prison abuse photos surface 
Experts fear harsh response franz Iraqis 
Associated Press BA<;III>Ail-New images showing Iraqis abus('(l by U.S. guards at Abu (;hraib prison l.hrnn ynars ago thrnatnnnd Wnthwsday to nnl'lamn pu blie anger aln~ady running high over footage of British soldiers bPating youths in soutlwrn Iraq. Images of naked prisoners, somn bloodied and lying on tho l'loor. worn taken about tho samn Limn as earlinr photos that triggNIHI a worldwide scandal and lnd to military tri­als and prison sentences for s1~vnral lower-ranking Anwriean soldiers. Many of tho pictures broad­east Wndrwsday by Australia's Spndal Broadcasting Service, including some that appear to show corpses, wnrn more graphic than those previously publislwd. One of the video dips dnpid1~d a group of naknd men with hags over their lwads standing togothor and mastur­bating. The network said they wnrn lim:mlto participate. Some key Iraqi ollkials urged tlwir countrynwn to rnad eahn­ly since thn pictures wore old and the offenders had bnen punished. In tlw Middle East, where there have been widespread anti-Wnstnrn protests recently ovor earicaturns of the Prophet Muhammad, Al-Jaznnra and AI­Arabiya TV aired some of the Australian station's footage but rnfrained from using the most shoeking and snxually explicit irnagns. CNN also broadcast excerpts. Iraq's aeting human rights ministnr, Nermirw Othman, said sho was "horrified" by the pic­tums and would study whether any action could be taken against those rnsponsible, even though some offnnders have bn1m imprisoned. "Thorn will be two kinds of reactions from Iraqis," she told Tho A-;sociated Prnss. "One will he anger and others will feel sorry that thny (SBSI didn't give thnm to the Iraqi governmnnt to invostigatn. Why use them? 

Why show them'? We have had enough sull'ering and we don't want any more." 
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said the Defense Department believed the release of additional images of prisoner abuse was harmful and "eould only further inflame and possibly indte unneeessary violence in the world." 
Whitman said he did not know whether the photos and video clips were among images the Pentagon has been with­holding from public release since 2004. 
But another defense official said Army officials had reviewed the photographs post­ed on the Sydney Morning Herald's Web site and matched them to images that were among those turned over to mil­itary authorities in 2004 by a 
U.S. soldier. 
The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to address the matter publicly, said the photos contained no new information about abuse. 
Although the Abu Ghraib ease was exhaustively reported here years ago, the new images eould revive the issue of treat­ment of Iraqis by U.S.-led occu­pation forces, who face the ever-present thnmt of death or serious injury at the hands of 
I 
insurgents. 

This week's release of video showing British troops beating Iraqi youths during a violent 2004 protest in the southern city of Amarah prompted the Basra provincial administration to severe ties with British authorities. 
Members of Shiite political groups opposed to the U.S.-Ied coalition appeared to have engi­neered that move. They were apparently seeking to exploit public sensitivities after attempts by the British to crack down on Shiite militias. 
The fresh Abu Ghraib pic­tures were broadcast as the United States is trying to reach out to the disaffected Sunni Arab community, the backbone of the insurgency, in hopes of encouraging Sunni insurgents to lay down their arms and join the political process. 
Most of those who suffered abuse at Abu Ghraib were believed to have been Sunni Arabs. Sunni leaders have also alleged mistreatment by Shiite­led Iraqi government security forces, a development that has sharpened sectarian tensions. 
Mindful of the risks, some key Iraqi officials either avoided comment or sought to play down the images, noting the Americans had already pun­ished Abu Ghraib guards. 
GENEVA 
Europe begins taking avian flu precautions 
Afriea. hut that measurns bning
Dead .swans elicit 
ordered by 1\uropnan ol'lkials government response Wmlrwsday were prudnnt. Thn fear of birds migrating from Africa has been augment­
Associated Press 
ed by thn dnaths of swans from 
the Baltic Sea to tlw soutlwrn 
GENEVA-European govern­tip of Italy. Bncaus1~ of liH~ir sus­mnnts arc bolstering their guard ceptibility to bird llu, swans an~ against bird 11u, faced with a among thn first birds to din from growing number of dead swans the disnasn, giving an indication and the risk that migratory of where it is present, nxperts birds -which begin returning told Thn Assoeiatnd Press. north next month-could bring Tlw first swan deaths in the disease from Afriea. Europe were recorded in 
Concerns about the disease, Croatia in October, leading to and its possible threat to controls on eontacts with wild humans, have mounted. birds. In Austria, authorities 
"Avian influenza is a big said two swans found dnad threat," Dr. David Nabarro, the were infected with 115Nl. At U.N.'s top bird 11u specialist, least nine dead swans have said Wednesday. "It bonn found on is spreading Danish islands
"Avian influenza is 
throughout the in thn Baltic, world." a big threat. It is and two swans Song birds are spreading died in 
expected to start Gnrmany.
throughout the
arriving in southern In Slovnnia, a Europe from Africa world." swan infectnd in two weeks. They with bird l'lu are judged to be less was found dnad
David Nabarro 
likely earriers of last week.
bird flu specialist
bird flu than ducks Laboratory 
and other water fowl because song birds fly longer distances and tend to stay away from wetlands, where the disease is more prevalent. The migration period is heaviest in March and April, but runs into May for some species. 
France, Germany, the Czech Republic, Switzerland and Sweden all took steps Wednesday to try to prevent the spread of the deadly 115N1 strain, ordering that domestic fowl be kept in screened, venti­lated buildings, where they are less likely to come in contact with wild birds. Britain and the Netherlands have yet to record bird flu outbreaks, but ordered similar precautions. 
Bird conservationists cau­tioned against a rush to judg­ment. They maintain that bird flu most likely reached Nigeria in poultry trade from Turkey and China. Veterinary special­ists said they have yet to deter­mine how the disease arrived in 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
The University of Notre Dame Concert Bands 5:00pm, Friday, February 17, 2006 Leighton Concert Hall DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Free Tickets, Call 631-2800 
~DE BARTOLO 
~ PERfORMING ARTS CENTER 
fEATURIN6 A TRIBUTE TO ROSA PARKS 
tests are still under way to determine whether it is the 115N1 strain. Bulgaria has confirmnd one swan death from 115N1 and is testing thre11 others. Thn coun­try has implemented disinfec­tion of cars and shoos at the entrance to poultry farms. 
Greece has four confirmed cases -in three swans and a goose -and Cyprus has a eon­firmed case in a ehicken. Italy confirmed six swans died of the disease, whieh has also been detected in birds in Hussia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. 
Bird flu has killed at least 91 people since 2003, aecording to the World Health Organization. Almost all the human dnaths have been linknd to contact with infeeted poultry, but exports fear the 115N 1 virus could mutate into a form that sprnads easily among people, possibly sparking a pandemie. 
Dr. William Karesh, director of the field vetnrinary program fi1r the Nnw York-based Wildlife Conservation Society, said it was likely the virus sprnad from A-;ia in a leapfrog fashion, with onn bird picking it up from another, rather than onn bird 11ying a long distancn with thn diseasn. 
Expnrts are now concentrat­ing on Nignria, whnn~ thn~e states have confirmed 115N 1 among domestic poultry and five othnrs have suspneted cases. Seim1tisL'i assume migra­tory birds brought tho disnase to Africa, but hav1~ yet to find proof. 
"We don't know how the dis­ease got into Nigeria," said .Juan Lubroth, head of the infnetious disease group at tho U.N.'s Food and Agriculture Organization. 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 16, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Breaking bread 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

I have of late -but wherefore I know taste a madeleine to unleash a cataract of might otherwise talk only amongst them­EDITOR IN CHIEF 
not -become preoccupied with sorting reminiscence, but in my case it has very selves. It was quite fitting then that it was Claire Heininger through my memories of my time as an little to do with the food itself, about in the Eagle pub that Francis Crick (of MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER undergraduate. I have never been in the which I remember very little beyond the "Watson and" fame) first announced, with Pat Leonard Paula Garcia habit of taking photographs, but I imag-fact that it wasn't very good. No, what I characteristic modesty, "We have discov­me that the experi­miss is the habit of dining with others on ered the secret of life." 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 

ence is rather like a daily basis. There's a particular kind of Now that collegial dining is no longer
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

going through a shoe­unhurried conversation that takes place part of my student experience, I try to AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegatden box full of unsorted over a meal that isn't possible in other compensate whenever possible by eating photographs and social situations, even at parties where with friends. My favorite way of doing this 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

being able to remem­the imperative is to circulate and where is at a dinner party (for which I have a 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 

ber the moments talking to the same person or group for a convert's zeal) but most of the time I end 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 

recorded without long period of time can appear antisocial. up going to restaurants with friends. 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

recalling why they Shared meals help to define and build a Since many of these friends are men, this GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
and not others community. In his letter to the Galatians, means that I have unwittingly been on ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri seemed worthy of St Paul recalls how he excoriated the many "man dates," although I wasn't An DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning preservation. apostle Peter for refusing to eat with aware of the fact until I came across the CoNTROLLER: jim Kirihara Few memories of Gentile Christians. Paul held that this was term in a New York Times article written 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff my freshman week antithetical to the unity of the church; to last April by Jennifer Lee. remain. I vaguely be a true community the followers of In her article Lee described, with a recall the college dean welcoming us with Christ, Jew and Gentile alike, should casuist's eye for detail, the various rules 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 

(574) 
631-7471 a speech mostly devoted to the impor­break bread together. Or, as Paul would of etiquette observed by two men dining FAX tance of being on time for things. I have probably preferred to put it; together in order to make it abundantly 

(574) 
631-6927 remember more vividly a student assur­because the followers of Christ are a true . clear to anyone who might be paying 


ADVERTISING 

ing me that my experience at Oxford community they must break bread attention that they are not gay.
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 

would be nothing like Brideshead together. Apparently ordering wine is just about
EOITOR IN CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 Revisited. It was a kind gesture, meant to The universities of Oxford and acceptable while splitting a bottle is tan­MANAGING EDITOR put me at my ease, but since at that time I Cambridge are unusual in the world of tamount to coming out of the closet and 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu had not read the novel, the ease with contemporary higher education because so on and so forth. 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

which he alluded to a book I didn't know a substantial proportion of the professors Aside from revealing an unhealthy
(574) 631-4324 

only made me feel more intimidated. at each institution still dine in their col­obsession with how we appear in the eyes 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

I don't remember walking into a lamp­leges with their colleagues. There is even of those we don't know and whose specu­
(574) 631-5313 

NEWS DESK post while waving to my first girlfriend in one college, All Souls, Oxford (the closest lations about our sexuality we have no 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu her room, but I know it must have hap­thing that England has to the Institute for reason to care about, Lee's article reveals VIEWPOINT DESK pened because I do remember very clear­Advanced Study at Princeton) where an impoverished view of the possibilities 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 

ly imagining how this wholly unintention­young scholars of exceptional promise of male friendship. Worst of all, those 
SPORTS DESK 

al piece of slapstick must have looked are elected to special fellowships which who assume that two men eating togeth­
(574) 631-4543 sports.I@nd.edu 

from the perspective of her third floor carry no teaching obligations whatsoever er in a restaurant must be lovers show a
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu window. Then there was the day when but do require the recipient to dine in col­failure to imagine the pleasures of the 
SAINT MARY'S DESK the heating in my dorm cut out and lege a certain amount of times per year. kind of protracted conversation which smc.1 @nd.edu rather than going a day without washing As well as improving the sense of com­has no purpose beyond conversation itself 
PHOTO DESK 

I decided to take a cold shower, attempt­munity, eating together can be intellectu­and which is best savored over a good
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 

ing to keep myself warm using nothing ally fruitful. During the 1950s the scien­meal.
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

but bad language. tists working at the Cavendish Laboratory 
(574) 631-8839 Something that I never would have in Cambridge were required to eat lunch Peter Wtcks is a graduate student in been able to predict at the time was how at the nearby Eagle pub. The director of the philosophy department. Peter can be many of my best memories are connected the laboratory at the time believed that contacted at pwicks@nd.eduOBSERVER ONLINE with food. The narrator of Marcel this would be good not only for morale, The views expressed in this column are
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Proust's semi-autobiographical Ala but also for the research conducted by those ofthe author and not necessarily POLICIES recherche du temps perdu had only to the various groups at work there who those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 

·Beware the Notre Dam_e bubble 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, 

Since our student body is on the topic of academic freedom poseful disdain towards the State of the Union, fully aware that
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views and intellectual dia.logue, I wanted to express disappointment · it was being aired but writing it off as insignificant because of of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe concerning a disturbing amount of apathy towards the State of their dislike of the current administration. Yet still, it is perti­Observer. the Union address aired over two weeks ago. nent, fostering healthy dialogue about foreign policy, economics 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free It happens once a year and outlines the current administra­and social issues. Dismissing it as a "waste of time" is down­expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. tion's goals for the upcoming year. Regardless of one's political right ignorant. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include 
affiliation, it is an important event for our country. Some dis­It underlies a growing problem at this University: the Notre 
contact information. 

miss it as a partisan sideshow and justify ignoring it by that Dame bubble. Students have been discussing "The Vagina rationale. The reality is that it is an important event for our Monologues" and Queer Film Festival with fervor because of 
Q=tions regarding Observerpolicies should be 

country, along with the rest of the world, and serves as an their apparent importance to the academic integrity of this 
directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 

opportunity to listen to our president's explanation of the past University, yet many do not care about the agenda of our coun­year(s) and ambitions for the future. Although the State of the try. For citizens of other countries, the State of the Union is a
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Union doesn't fall neatly under the category of academia, I hallmark event marked on their calendars. But here, its impor­
The Observer (USPS 5991.-4000} ia: published Monday thro1.1gh Ftid.ay except during 

would argue that the we are somewhat obliged to take note of it tance is lost in the shuffle. Although I appreciate the current
txam and vacation pcriQds. Asubicription to The Ob~t ill $100 fOr Qnt academic 

year; $55 for one $Cmc:sru. -as members of the informed public, students at an institution discussion of "The Vagina Monologues" and Queer Film Festival of higher learning and responsible citizens. here at Notre Dame, there's a big world out there that cannot Tht Ob$t'rvcr is published .at: POSTMASTER Many students I have come across, however, do not share this afford to be ignored. The problem pertains more with our gen­
024 South Dining Hall Send addres& c~tecdons to: 

Notre Dune, IN 465'5-6-0779 The Obscm:r view. I expect the primary reason that many did not watch it eration than Notre Dame, yet I cannot overlook such a discrep­
Pc:riodic:.tl postage paid ar Nou~ Dame P.O.Box:779 

was general complacency; however, if the hit show "24" was ancy from a student body that supposedly craves open, intellec­
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 


Peter Wicks 

Englishman Abroad 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 being showed, most would not miss a beat. And although I love tual dialogue. Jack Bauer, it is somewhat sad that many have an easier time recognizing a fictional CTU agent than our own Secretary of 
The Ob~rvcr is a membe( ufthe Al>sociatcd Pr~. AJI ccptoduction clghu _are reserved. 

Defense or newly appointed Supreme Court Justices. I encoun­tered an overwhelming amount of students expressing a pur-



TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL Katie Perry Chris Khorey Joe Piarulli Kyle Cassily 
Marcela Berrios Tim Kaiser Are you going to "The Vagina Viewpoint Scene 
Monologues"?
Sarah Falvey Liz Byrum Graphics Matt Hudson Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Matt Somma graduate student Feb. 15 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No yesterdays are ever wasted for those who give themselves to today. " 
Brendan Francis writer 



THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 16, 2006 page II 
I don't mean to tear you away from any rnsidual bliss you may still be enjoying from Valentine's Day, but it's lime to look alwad. No, not to St. Patrick's Day or Easl«~r. though tho llallrnark distributors arn working l'nvorishly oven as you road this 
Kate Barrett

to dean out the pink lwarl cards and replacn thorn with Faithpoint gn~nn shamrock cards and pastel bunny and egg cards. 
l.tml's c:orning. Ash Wndnnsday falls on March I this year, and bnfilrn you start quietly groaning, rnmornbnr that it could lw worse: last ynar, l.nnt started beforn Valnnlirw's Day, surnly fordng many to rhoosn bntwmm a) saving llwir Valnntine dweolatn for more than a month until it collided with their Easter ehoeolatH and brought about one giant sugar frenzy, or hi <·.n~aling one of thosn "I'm sure (;od will understand this" rationalizations jus­tifying why it was rnally, nmlly okay, just for today, to eat the vory itnm only so rerenlly plaend on the "given up for Lent" list. 
On preparing for Lent 
All kidding-and all chocolate ­aside, Lent provides us with an absolutely wonderful opportunity to prepare. The point is not to test our resolve as wo walk past the dessert section in the dining hall, or to see if wo ran make it through the six weekends of Lont without drinking, though sarrilke may well play a signifi­cant role in our Lenten preparations. What we arn meant to do with Lont, with our Lenten opportunity, is to prepare our hearts, our lives and indeed our world, for the transforming power of Jesus' res­urrection' at Easter. For as Christians we hnlieve that the death and rosurrection of Jesus continues to make all the dill'enmce in our world and that our participation in that death and resurrection dnmands a lifetime of living and growing in Christ. What we do with l.ont, then, shouldn't be some impossible system of deprivation that we can barely carry out filr forty days, much loss the rest of our lives, but a balanced, challonging combination of sac­l'ilice and nll'orts to grow in faith that will bear fruit in our lives long al'ter the Eastor soason onds. Put another way, each Lent should move us forward in some way so that when the next Lent rolls around we have to look for new ways to sacrifice and grow because we've made progress since the year before. 

As you begin to think about how this year's season of Lent can transform your heart, you might consider as a companion the Letter of James, way back toward tho end of the New Testament. The Church is reading through .James during each weekday liturgy from now until next Saturday, February 25 . .James is such a short little book (five pages in my Bible) that you could easily road it in one sitting, but it's worth taking smaller bites and chewing each om~ thoroughly, as your mom would say. James is loaded with spneilic, practical demands upon the Christians to whom he wrote that they live out their faith in a(~tions of generous love. lie had little patience for people who called themselves Christians but whose lives in no way reflected this claim. Out of that impatience comes two of James' best-known quotations: "Be doers of the word and not hearers only, deluding yourselves" (1 :22), and "Dmnonstrate your faith to me without works and I will demonstrate my faith to you with my works ... for faith without works is dead" (2:18,26). 
James knew, as did St. Paul, that tnw faith will lead us unmistakably to loving our neighbor as ourselves. James could be quite compnlling rnading for anyone trying to decide how you might spend Lent well this year. Jle calls us to deep«m our faith, whieh during Lent naturally leads our thoughts to prayer and sa<:ri­liee; and he calls us tlwn to live out that faith through service to others (our "works"), particularly those who find themselves most in rwed. We have a great and generous gift from (;od before us! Don't miss this chance to receive the gift and give it back to c;od in love. 
Kate /Jarrett is director(~{ llesources ,rv Special Projects for Campus Ministry. c'>'he can be reached at/Jarrett.2R@nd.edu 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those (~{The Obsenwr. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lessons from. other universities 
Some p1mple have come to believe that the rm~ent address by University President Father .John .Jenkins is an assault on free speech that would result in Notre Dame becoming a pariah among universities. But is it the ease that secu­lar universities are promoting a freer discourse than Notre Dame? llaving spent the first 10 years of my career at the University of Virginia as an assistant and assoeiate Professor and the next eight years as a full professor at Harvard Divinity School I do not believe this is the case. 
Let nw begin with freedom of expression regarding the matter of homosexuality at Oberlin College. Hnquired reading on this score is an essay by Gilbert Meilaender titled, "On Bringing One's Life to a Point." I met Meilaender for the first time while reviewing research proposals at the National Endowment for the Humanities in Washington, D.C. The fact that he was chosen to review the work of senior colleagues from across the country is testimony to his scholarly creden­tials. And the fact that my former chairperson at Virginia and Dean at Harvard counted him as their friend is a good sign of his personal demeanor. As a general rule, he is well liked by those who don't share his views. 
Yet he had the temerity one year to voice in a public fashion his reservations about the nor­malization of homosexual behavior in civic life. For his efforts he was subject to terrible harass­ment at Oberlin -a process that became so uncomfortable that he eventually left. I remem­ber during this episode talking to another junior colleague at Virginia who shared Meilaender's position. lie feared going public would severely hamper his career. 
As a young, impressionable faculty member I watched all this with great earnest. No doubt it had a lot to do with 111y own choiee to remain silent. I can't imagiml that I would have beflll appointed to Harvard had I chosen otherwise. I watched other applicants to that school never reach the front door for far lesser crimes. Outside of Notm Dame, freedom of expression on issues like this is fraught with risk. 
i\nd then there is the matter of abortion. During my last few years at llarvard our senior faculty was debating the merits of various candi­dates we were interviewing for a position in reli­gious ethics. As it turned out there were reason­able grounds to wondf1r whether one of the per­sons in the running might have some reserva­tions about unlimited access to abortion. One faculty mmnbnr piped up in discussion: "how do wn know that !this female candidate! thinks the way wn do about women's reproductive rights?" By this point in my stay at llarvard, I was not surprised that this would be a real problem. 
Mary Ann c;tnndon of the Law School had been ordered not to use llarvard stationery to pro­mote pro-lifo values oven though colleagues on the other sid11 of the fence were able to do so with impunity. A pro-life ethicist was not going to be appointed to this faculty in religious ethics. And all of this occurred at a school whose very raison d'etre is that of offering a pluralistic per­spective on the great religions of the world. That pluralism could often reduce itself to a very nar­row bandwidth. 
In his Feb. 7 letter to the editor ("Beyond either-or"), Brad Gregory noted that secular uni­versities are non-theleological. Although I know what he meant in context, there is a way in which non-religious universities very much have certain "ends" in view especially when it comes to homosexuality and abortion. And on these issues there is much more diversity at Notre Dame and scope for wider freedom of expres­sion. One can actually hear the positions of the Catholic Church argued and defended here alongside a vocal opposition to those very posi­tions. And faculty members can assume positions that are consonant with church teaching without fearing that it will compromise their academic advancement or standing. 
But let me not be misunderstood. I am not arguing that we should follow the example of Harvard or Virginia and censor discordant voices on campus. Let's not take away their stationery. But if so, what is the bottom line with respect to the Queer Film Festival? As long as it is renamed, I don't think it should be censored. Homosexuality is an issue about which the church still has a lot to learn. Showing films does not constitute endorsement. 
Yet, I must confess, I don't understand the logic of presenting "The Vagina Monologues" every year on the same day, Feb 14. Would we allow "The Merchant of Venice" to be performed every year during Holy Week? And what if groups gath­ered to revel in the "values" of that play (yes, anti-Semites still exist). Would we stand mute before the totem of "unlimited academic free­dom?" Certainly not. Academic freedom does not have a univocal meaning; it is always under negotiation. "The Merchant of Venice" is okay on campus as long as it's performance is occasional and its repugnant presentation of the Jews is named and criticized (which frequently happens in the program notes if not in other ways leading up to the performance). 
Catholic universities need not and should not fear positions that challenge their own, nor should they hesitate from engaging all forms of contemporary culture. But they should take spe­cial care to make sure that allowing such events on campus is not confused with endorsing them. How to do that is precisely the discussion Jenkins wishes us to have. Let's be thankful that Our Lady's University allows us the freedom to do this. 
Gary Anderson professor department of rheology Feb. 15 
Commending the young womenofND 
As an alumnus and a woman, I'm disappointed that the University opposes the staging of "The Vagina Monologues." I commend the young women who have raised funds for the last several years with this play for sexual assault prnvention. 
As adults, students should make their own decisions about the suitability of entertainment. Having read about this issue in the national press, I felt embarrassP.d to be an alumnus of Notre Dame. 
Nancy Meier alumna class of 1976 Feb. 15 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 








CENE 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 

CD REVIEWS 
Christian rock quartet returns to old sound 
By RYAN MILLIGAN Scene Criric 
P.O.D. is attempting to make a state­ment in "Testify," the group's fourth studio release. The opening track is titled "Roots in Stereo," and makes the elaim that the Christian rap/rock quar­tet has gone back to the original sound that n~warded them with the success they have today. "Testify" satisfies that goal, but only to a degree. 
Heeently, hints of reggae have played a faetor in making P.O.D. such a distin­guished band. Unfortunately, it ean only be heard in the opening track and later on in "Strength of My Life." The album as a whole is consistent for the most part, but that ultimately poses a problem. Before playing through all of the traeks, a listener will likely ques­tion whether or not the same songs have played more than onee. Even melody. "Lights Out" is P.O.D.'s latest version of their hit "Boom," and would make an outstanding fit for any sports highlight reel. The rest of the tracks, however, seem to serve as nothing but filler. 

It seems as though P.O.D. is in the middle of what some may call an iden­tity crisis as guitarist Marcos Curiel, one of the founders of the group, was replaced by Jason Truby in 2003. This was shortly before the release of a "Payable on Death" album that left many wondering whether or not P.O.D.'s time was up. 
The group has obviously worked hard to revise its sound in a way that will retain listeners. The end result is a head-scratcher -Truby does a solid job, although fans will still miss the likes of Curiel, and the band as a whole gives a commendable effort. This time around, however, it almost sounds like 
P.O.D. is trying to enter the pop seene and abandon the genre it helped estab­lish. 
There is no doubt that P.O.D. has come a long way since its debut album, "Snuff the Punk," was released in 1994. Any band that manages to remain successful in the music industry for that long deserves a world of credit, but it is only a matter of time before other performers take over the center stage. 
Contact Ryan Milligan at rmilliga@nd.edu 


worse, songs like "Goodbye For Now" contain verses and riffs that could be mistaken for something written by Linkin Park. The expansion of the rap/rock genre has, without question, hurt P.O.D. and may potentially play a part in the group's eventual downfall. 
P.O.D. has earned the reputation as an openly spiritual band, and the members have never hesitated to incorporate lyrics dealing with their personal faith. This can especially be seen in the aforementioned "Strength of My Life" ("Take away the scales from my eyes I Anoint your love upon my life"). While no one can blame them for expressing themselves, few listeners will actually take time to notice, and the lyrics orten become stale relatively quickly. 
This is not to say that there are no bright spots in "Testify." P.O.D. fans will be sure to find a couple of songs that they like, whether they take the 
form of the heavy "Say Hello" or the mellow "Let You Down." Although somewhat gener­ic, the lyrics in "If You Could See Me Now" are still very meaningful ("As long as I can try I'll make through I But it might take a 
while to lead me
Recommended tracks: 'Say Hello,''Let You Down,' 
to you"), and go
'Strength of My Life' and 'On the Grind' along well with the laid back 
Say Anything's reissue not worth another listen 
most commercial music lacked. 
Bemis became a textbook tragic character, writing about sex, suicide and politics. But he used more distor­tion and profanity than Hamlet or Antigone. 
The other members of his band, Coby Linder (drums) and Alex Kent (bass), were merely a supporting cast for Bemis' emotional delivery. 
On the re-issue, Say Anything added an extra CD of seven tracks originally recorded for a charity record. According to a press release, Bemis decided to turn the charity record into a separate project after the band earned more popularity, so he could raise more money for the effort. 
But maybe it is beeause Bemis thinks a new audience might be conflieted about buying a charity album that fea­tures lyrics about killing children ("Little Girls") or thank you letters to women for sleeping with him ("Most Beautiful Plague"). 
Even the tunes that begin sounding 
innocent take unpredictable turns towards self­loathing, hate, bitterness and hostility. 
The acoustic guitar intro for "Total Revenge" evokes warm feelings until lyrics about sex­ual inadequacy kill the mood faster than a bad joke at a party. The song takes another turn further from a love song later 
By JOE LATTAL Scene Criric 
When Jeff Tweedy left rehab, Wilco released the phenomenal "A Ghost Is Born." 
While Pete Doherty was struggling with a drug addiction, The Libertines produced their magnificent self-titled album. 
When Say Anything's frontman Max Bemis returned to the scene after struggling with psychological prob­lems, his only present was a re-gifted and re-wrapped version of his band's mediocre full-length debut, " ... Was a Heal Boy." 
Say Anything's original release from 2004, "... Is a Heal Boy," reeeived attention for its aggressive guitar-driv­en emo combined with Bemis' fright­eningly personal lyrics about ex-girl­friends and disturbing thoughts. The musical production was acceptable and Bemis' openly amateur vocals gave the songs a sincere sound that 


on when Bemis goes off on a tangent about his appointments with coun­selors. 
There's nothing wrong with a teen­angst concept album, but when every song is two to four minutes of hysteri­cal, irrational whining, the effect is buried. 
If nothing else, the reissue opens the audiences' ear to the realization of how average the original album was. Whether going from those early tracks to the new additions, or back the other direction, the listener will begin to realize how painful of an album " ... Was a Heal Boy" really is from start to finish. 
With more focus on the vocals, Bemis' character turns from pitiable to 
desperate and pathetic. His lyrics pro­vide enough detail to please a voyeuristic audience momentarily, but a normal listener will just shut off the CD player. 
It might have been challenging for an audience to criticize this album if it was actually raising money for a good cause. But Bemis and the band have gone .a completely different direction, changing the release to a reissue. Fans already criticize bands that reissue albums, saying they are greedy and too lazy to produce a new project. However, more than anything else, fans will be criticizing this reissue for its weak substance. 
Contact Joe Latta! at jlattal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, February 16, 2006 
page 13 
DPAC REVIEW 
Valentine's Day performance a success for Hewitt 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assist.tnt Scene Fditor 
t\lthough not st.rktly Homant.ic in the dasskal sPnsl', t\ngPia lll'witt's piano conrPrt Ttwsday was still appropriate Pnough for Va!Pntinn's Day. 
Ff'aturing a sf'lnction that ineluded pil'ros hy Bach, Coupnrin ami Havol, tlw rn!'ital -lwld in tlw l.nighton Concert llall of thf' !>!~Bartolo Centnr for lhl' l'nrforming t\rts -engagingly dnmon­stratPd lll'witt's considnrabln skill. 
ThPSI' skills haV!' brought llnwilt ron­sidnrahln l'ritical acclaim. t\ musician sinn~ slw was a toddll'r, the Canadian­horn pianist has honl'd her talent over thl' yPars, pPrforming throughout Asia, J•:uropn and Arn.•rica. She has played with thl' l.ondon Philharmonic, tlw Clnvnland Orchestra and the Australian (:hamlwr Orehnstra. 
t\mong hnr rncordings arc works by Chopin, Coupl'rin and Bach. ller piano 
DPAC Performance 
Angela Hewitt 
Piano Recital 

Fcatu red Selections: Bach's 'Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, BWV 903' and movements from 'Partita No.4 in D Major, BWV 828,' Couperin's 'Treizicme Ordre' and Ravel's 'Le Tombeau de Couperin' 
vorsions of Bach's work in particular have brought her attnntion and acclaim, as the piano was never consid­ered the primary instrument for his work. Most of his compositions were intnndcd for chamber orchestra, organ or harpsichord, which makes her piano interprotations revnlatory in a way. Though Bach has bonn played on piano bnforc. llnwitt's recordings of his com­pinto solo keyboard concertos arc quickly bl'r.oming standards within thP dassical musk world. 
The !:onccrt itself was a success, though rather long-with intermission and encore it lasted over two hours. liPwitt's musicality and occasional burst of showmanship. coupled with the undnniable genius of the music itself, rarely let the performance drag. Though piano recitals aren't exactly known for their pyrotechnics, Hewitt's stylistic tendencies (onc-handnd, hand­ovnr-hand) wnrc without doubt fun to watch. The Leighton Concert Hall itself added to the show, as the acoustics gave the music a wonderfully grandiose gracn. 
ThP featured selections by Johann Sebastian Bach werp, "Chromatic Fantasy and Fugue, BWV 90:~" and "Partita No. 4 in D Major, BWV 828." The movemp,nts in "Partita" were 
::<~uverture ,IA.!leg.ro~:" .."~llemande.:: Courante, Ana, Sarabande, "Meneut" and "Gigue." Though lesser­known compositions by the legendary Baroque genius, Jlewitt's piano per­formance brought them to life. Hearing Bach's work on piano was indeed as unique as might be expected, but llewitt's unparalJp,]ed musicianship made it sound natural. Following the intermission, Hewitt playp,d "Treizieme Ordre" by Francois Couperin, who was a French contempo­
rary of Bach. The pieee was in five movements -"Lp,s Lis naissans," "Les Hozeaux," "L'Engageante," "Les Folies francoises", "ou Les Dominos" and "L'Ame-en-peine." Though not quite as musically satisfying as Bach's work, Couperin's piece was again given an interesting piano treatment by Hewitt. 
The final piece of the night was Maurice Havel's "Le Tombeau de Couperin." Unlike both Bach and Couperin, Havel's piece, which derived from the late Homantic period, was not Baroque in origin. Ravel's composition came in six movements -"Prelude," "Fugue," "Forlane," "Rigaudon," "Menuet" and "Toccata." "Le Tombeau de Couperin" may have been the best 

CD REVIEW 
'Voices' an emotional compilation of anxious songs 
By CHRIS McGRADY 
Assistant Scent' Ediwr 
Bring out tho KIPPJWX and hide all tlw sharp ohjocls lwforP listening to this lwauty of a CD. Matl'hbook Homanco. tlw oJJw-group hailing from l'oughkPnpsie, NPw York rnc:nntly rnlnasnd "Voieos," its 11ttl•st pffort undPJ' tlw Epitaph lalwl. If painting on copious amounts of black nyn­linPr and spiking your black hair up isn't quill' mwugh to nxprnss thn sadnnss you an• now li~Pling, this album is for you. 
Matchbook HomaneP, known in a previ­ous lifo as thn band (;otaway. is dassilind most ol'tnn as "pmo," which is short for "nnwtional." Thesp mnlodie rocknrs are uniqw• not only for thnir sound, but also for llw way llw band got startnd. 
Tlw group first formnd when bassist Hyan Kienle, vocalist/guitarist Andrew Johnson and drummer Aaron Stern's band Fizzlowink added Hyan DePaolo as anotlwr guitarist and became the band Getaway. Hather than take the tried and tnrn method of trying to start as a small­tinw band touring between various cities and spnnding hours on tho highway, tho group dncidnd to jump on the informa­tion super-highway and put many of its tracks on the websitn MP3.com. 
Tho group's music began to spread, particularly through tlw East eoast of the Unitod States and eventually found it's way to tho ears of Brad Gurcwitz of lipitaph Hecords. Getaway was signed to the labnl and arter some legal issues, changed its name to Matchbook Homance. 
The group's rwwnst effort "Voices" is 
dillkult to navigate. The CD oll'ers to the listener a variety of musir.iJ.\ options -melodic har­monies, shredding metal sounds, piano serenades a.nd catchy ri_f'f~. 1 he mUSICS biggest problem actually lies in its diversity, some­thing that is fairly unusual. Most albums can be bolstered by a degrne of musical variety through­out the tracks. 
work played by Hewitt all night. She brought flair and stylo to Havel's diffi­

-
cult composition. flying through meas­ures with fluidity and style. 
When the last note of "Toccata" was played, the audience demonstratpd its appreciation with a standing ovation. Hewitt's stunning musicianship lit up thP Leighton Concert llall throughout the night, and her reputation and stature should only continue to grow ­yet it's talent and skill that do the talk­ing most effectively, as llewitt showed that her reputation as an excellent pianist is well deserved. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 



Ilowevnr, in "Voices," it makes the listnn­nr feel like he or she is jumping around genres and dons not let them settle into any kind of mood. The bnst CDs are not only about the quality of the individual tracks but also how they are presented to the listener and how they make them feel. This CD leaves tlw listener feeling anx­ious and, frankly, a little sad. Them again, maybe that was the group's goal. 
Some of the tracks that stand out as strong points on the CD are numbers live and 10. "Monsters" (traek fivn) is the catchiest song of the album and will have even the most morose of emo-kids bounc­ing up and down like a giddy-school girl. Track 10, "What A Sight," brings the album together by slowing it down a notch. Well-written and full of emotion (surprise, surprise), this song definitely warrants a Iiston. 
Tho CD all together does justice to Matchbook Homancn's eausn as a lngiti­mate band. I lowever, tho group's biggest strength (the purn emotion of tho musie) is also its biggest fault. This Adtillns hen! .-~ ean make tho listener fnnl likn thny arn listening to a screaming drama-queen at limns. 
Overall the album is a good dl'orl. if a listener likes this typo of music. Although not nearly as strong as the group's previ­ous works, Matchbook Homance contin­ues to make a case as being an essential part of any emo collection. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 16, 2006 
NBA 


Red-hot Cavaliers ride over Celtics in overtime 
15 points, 10 rebounds and
Paul Pierce scores 50 
eight assists for the Celtics. in a 113-109 defeat; Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 14 points for Cleveland, but missedLeBron puts up 43 a pair of free throws with 7.1 seconds remaining in regulation Associated Press that would have iced the game. 
BOSTON-LeBron James and Following Ilgauskas' misses, the streaking Cleveland Pierce drew a foul on James Cavaliers spoiled the highest­with 0.2 seconds remaining and scoring game by a Celtics' play­hit both free throws to send the er in more than 16 years. game into overtime. 
James had 43 points, 12 Cleveland was just 25-of-40 rebounds and 11 assists for his from the free-throw line. fourth triple-double of the sea­"It was a winnable game," son and the Cavaliers overcame West said. "This one is tough to Paul Pierce's 50-point perform­swallow." ance to beat the Celtics in dou­After a pair of Ryan Gomes ble overtime on Wednesday layups gave the Celtics a 90-88 night. lead with 1 :54 remaining, James 
Drew Gooden added 19 points hit a layup in traffic to tie the and 11 rebounds and Damon game. Jones had 13 points for James then deflected a pass to Cleveland. Pierce, raced down the floor, 
Pierce shot 17 -for-36 from the received an Eric Snow pass at field and 16-for-20 from the the free-throw line and threw free-throw line to become the down a slam dunk over West to first Celtic to score 50 since put the Cavaliers up 92-90 with Larry Bird had 50 on Nov. 10, 1:23 left. 1989. . Damon Jones made 1-of-2 free 

"I really got into a groove in throws with 26.4 seconds the second half," Pierce said. remaining and James blocked a "Guys were getting the ball to West 3-point attempt in the clos­me. It felt good to me. You know, ing seconds. it would have felt a lot better if James was outscored by key for us." points. after slamming the ball down in we would have been on the Pierce 17-6 in the fourth quar­Gasol, the first Grizzlies' All­The positions were reversed in disgust over an· offensive foul other side, but it was just a ter and missed a potential Star, connected on 10 of 17 the second quarter as the Kings whistled on him in the lane. great game to be a part." game-winning layup in the clos­shots from the field and added seemed to benefit more from an Both Allen and coach Bob Hill 
Cleveland (31-21) matched its ing seconds of the first overtime four blocks, part of a season­out-of-control pace for both complained that the calls were 52-game record from last year. before redeeming himself in the high 14 for Memphis. The teams. Martin had 10 points in one-sided, a cry normally While the Cavaliers closed last second overtime. Grizzlies have won three the first half and Sacramento sounded here by the home season 11-19 and missed the "This is a team win, but it straight games after enduring a held a 4 7-42 edge at the break, team. playoiTs, this year's team enters goes back to LeBron James four-game losing streak on the matching its biggest lead of the "Referees always assume that the All-Star break in second coming up big for us," Brown road. game. I'm going to shoot the ball, and place in the Central Division. said. "He's a heck of a player Atkins added 17 points for they watch for the shot instead 
Cleveland coach Mike Brown and he definitely helped us get Memphis, while Eddie Jones Timberwolves 102, Sonics 92 of watching for body contact," said this is a game the Cavaliers this win tonight." scored 13. Battier had 10 points, For once, the Minnesota said Allen, who also went with­would have lost last year. eight rebounds and five blocks. Timberwolves put together a out an assist. 
"We're not a good road team Grizzlies 84, Kings 78 Kevin Martin scored 14 points complete performance. For their Minnesota was proud of the and so any way we can win on The Sacramento Kings began and Mike Bibby finished with 12 next act, they'll attempt to climb effort -denying passing lanes, the road, we'll take it," their All-Star break about five for the Kings, who placed six back into the playoff race. hustling back and even applying Cleveland coach Mike Brown minutes too early. players in double figures. Kenny Ricky Davis contributed 25 some full-court pressure. The said. "It was a character win The Kings failed to score in Thomas had 12 points and 12 points and tough defense, Kevin pick-and-roll defense was because we could have folded." the final 5:13 Wednesday night, rebounds, Francisco Garcia Garnett added 23 points and 15 noticeably improved, too, after a 
The Celtics trailed by as many letting a slim lead slip away and scored 11 off the bench and Ron rebounds, and Minnesota beat handful of bad showings in that as 13, but Pierce scored 31 losing to the Memphis Grizzlies. Artest and Brad Miller each had the Seattle SuperSonics on area. points after the first half to keep "We had a lot of chances, but 10 points. Wednesday to end a four-game "This is the way that we play the game close before fouling we just didn't finish," Kings The Kings missed 18 of 19 losing streak-all at home. basketball," Mark Madsen said. out with a minute remaining in coach Rick Adelman said. shots from behind the arc. "It does help the mood," coach "Communicating, talking, get­the second overtime. Boston "You've got to finish strong, and Sacramento's last points came Dwane Casey said. ting..guys through the pick-and­(20-32) lost its seventh game in we just didn't do it. We were on a 20-footer by Garcia with Trenton Hassell chipped in 12 roll. nine tries. right there again, and we have 5:13 left. The Grizzlies had four points, Anthony Carter and The Wolves had a chance to 
James, coming off a 44-point to realize we have to finish. blocks the rest of the way, Rashad McCants each scored take some much-needed
-· performance against San You've got to keep playing." including a pair by Gasol against 10, and the Wolves (23-29) won momentum into the All-Star Antonio on Monday night, drew Pau Gasol scored 24 points Artest. for only the second time in their break with the five-game home­Pierce's final foul with 1:00 and grabbed seven rebounds to "That happens," Garcia said of last nine games heading into the stand, but all that could be sal­remaining and made 1-of-2 free lead Memphis. Back-to-hack 3-the scoreless span. "They were All-Star break. vaged was one victory over scuf­throws to put the Cavaliers up pointers by Shane Battier put playing really good defense. We "Even though we've been los­fling Seattle. 109-107. Memphis ahead 80-78 with 4:34 just made a couple of mistakes, ing and going through hard "Let's build on it," Madsen 
On Cleveland's next posses­left and erased the Kings' 1-and when you are on the road times, we've kept our morale said. sion, James sealed the game point lead. and you make mistakes like up," Garnett said. Still, it was clearly their night with a layup in traffic. Neither team would score that, it's hard to win the game." Ray Allen scored 23 points for for once. Marcus Banks missed 
"We just made the big play at again until a pair of free throws Memphis had its own offensive the Sonics, who lost for the sev­a wide-open reverse dunk, but the end," James said. "We just by Eddie Jones with 13.9 sec­problems down the-stretch, par­enth time in eight games, but he he got his own rebound and willed a way to win. This was onds remaining. Two more free ticularly Gasol, who committed didn't try a free throw for the made the layup over two one of the wildest games, espe­throws by Chucky Atkins with two turnovers on bad passes second straight contest and had defenders before the bench cially on the road. But I love it. less than a second left sealed and missed a pair of free only two points on 1-for-5 shoot­could get too angry with him. Being on the road, you got the the Memphis victory. throws. ing in the fourth quarter. That gave Minnesota its biggest fans against you and we found a "We've been doing a better job Neither team played with Rashad Lewis was held -large­lead, 90-77 with 6:44 left. way to win. It was awesome." these last few games of keeping much emotion from the start. ly by Davis -to eight points on "Recently, teams go on a run 
Wally Szczerbiak scored 17 our defense up the whole Memphis led 23-19 after the 1-for-7 shooting, drawing a and we don't respond to it," points and Delonte West added game," Atkins said. "That's the first quarter as Gasol had 10 technical with 4:28 remaining Allen said. 

The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Stop overpaying for rent. COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI· 2·3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate & UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 2006·07. Security,phone included. not go it alone. II you or someone WANTED FoR SALE Visit BlueGoldrentals.com SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED· 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com you love needs confidential support ROOM, TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235· or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled 123 NO Ave. 3·bdrm,1.5 bath. 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. Gude, CSC, at1·7819. For more Civil Engineer-We are seeking May house near campus. $90,000. Call PERSONAL information, see our bi-weekly ad in 2006 grads w/a BS in Civil 220-8666. Call574-229-0149. 06-07/3BR2BA/2AttGar/AI lApp I THE OBSERVER. 
Engineering. Job functions consist 1 mileN/built2000/.5acre Spring Break 2006 with Student of land development engineering for 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. $1200mo/Grad0nly/RENTND@aol. Travel Services to Jamaica, Wanted: Skinny squirrel willing to Site/Civil firm in Indiana and FoR RENT com Mexico, Ballamas and Florida. Do shake her laffy taffy for cookies. Florida. Web site:mmmrentals.com not get leli behind! Book now, limit­Contact Cheech inthe nest by NOH. Please send all resumes and ques­WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 BED· A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near· campus. ed space available. Call for group tions to mhoward@rw-engineer· ROOM HOMES Contact:Gary 574-993·2208 or All appliances included. Pets wel­discounts. Info/Reservations 800· Please donate all unwanted tank ing.com MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 grooms@ ourwebspot.net come. $1350. Call220-8666. 648-4849 www.ststravel.com tops to Miichael Maus. 
.;. __ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 

NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team reeord OT points NY Rangers 35·15 8 78 Philadelphia 33·16 9 75 New Jersey 30·22 6 66 NY Islanders 25·27 4 54 Pittsburgh 14·34 11 39 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
temn rAcord OT points 
Ottawa 37·14 5 79 
Buffalo 36·15 5 77 
Montreal 26·22 8 60 
Toronto 27·25 5 59 
Boston 24·24 10 58 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Carolina 39·14 4 82 
Tampa Bay 32-22 4 68 
Allanta 26·26 6 58 
Florida 22-27 8 52 
Washington 19-32 5 43 
Western Conference, Central Division 
tnam n1eord OT points 
Delrolt 39·13 4 83 
Nashville 34·18 6 74 
Columbus 23·33 2 48 
Chicago 18·31 6 44 
St. Louis 16·31 8 41 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
tnam record OT points 
Calgary 33·17 7 73 
Vancouver 33-21 5 71 
Colorado 32-21 6 70 
Edmonton 30-20 8 68 
Minnesota 29-25 5 63 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
tnam record OT points 
Dallas 38-17 3 79 
Los Angeles 32·23 5 69 
Anaheim 27·19 11 65 
San Jose 27·21 8 62 
Phoenix 27-28 4 58 
CCHA Hockey 
team record points 

1 Miami 18·4·2 38 2 Michigan 13·8·3 29 3 Michigan State 11-7·6 28 4 Lake Superior 11·9-4 26 4 Nebraska-Omaha 11·9·4 26 6 Ferris State 9·10·5 23 7 Northern Michigan 10·12·2 22 7 Ohio State 10·12-2 22 9 Alaska-Fairbanks 9-12·3 21 9 NOTRE DAME 9-12·3 21 11 Bowling Green 8-15·1 17 12 Western Michigan 6·15·3 15 
around the dial 
NBA Philadelphia at Chicago 6:30p.m., TNT Houston at Phoenix 9:30p.m., TNT 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Georgetown at Marquette 9 p.m., ESPN San Diego State at UNLV 9 p.m., ESPN2 Arizona at California 9:30p.m., FOX Sports Net Morehead at Samford 8 p.m., ESPNU 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Iowa at MichiganState 7 p.m., ESPNU Tennessee at Georgia 8 p.m., ESPN2 

. NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio ­Ohio State, awaiting a decision on possible penal­ties for NCAA rules viola­tions under former basket­ball coach Jim O'Brien, could have to pay him mil­lions of dollars for firing him under a judge's ruling Wednesday. 
O'Brien daimed the uni­versity improperly fired him in June 2004 for loan­ing $6,000 of his own money to a recruit. 
Ohio Court of Claims Judge Joseph T. Clark ruled O'Brien broke his contract by giving the loan and failing to inform uni­versity officials, but the error was not serious enough to warrant firing. The university violated the contract by firing him without compensation, the ruling said. 
The 55-year-old O'Brien sued for $3.5 million in lost wages and benefits. The award, which could reach nearly $9.5 million with interest and other damages, will be deter­mined after another hear­ing. 
O'Brien said he was pleased with the decision, but disappointed in the way the dispute had to be settled. 
"As much as it's a niee outcome for me, I still don't really feel that there are any real winners in this thing," O'Brien said. 
The NCAA is expected to decide within the next few weeks whether to penalize the school for violations committed during O'Brien's tenure, induding gifts of cash, housing and other benel1ts to players. Earlier this month, the NCAA found seven viola­tions in the basketball pro­gram and one each in the football and women's bas­ketball programs. 
O'Brien, who coached 
the Buckeyes for seven years and led them to tlw Final Four in 1999, testi­fied he gave $6,000 in $50 and $100 bills that had accumulated in his offir,e desk drawer to Aleksandar Hadojevic, a 7-foot-3 prospect from Serbia. lie said he gave Hadojevie the loan in 1999 because the player's father was dying and the family had no money for medicine or the funeral. 
O'Brien argued the loan did not violate NCAA bylaws because he knew Hadojnvie already had lost his amatnur status by play­ing professionally. 
IN BRIEF 

Giants anticipate injured said on the subject, emphasizing that so dose," Golovin said. "Kim was Bonds' arrival he's more concerned about Bonds' absolutely solid at decisive points and 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Barry Bonds physical condition than where he bats was playing very aggressive through­was the big topic of conversation in the order. out." Wednesday when pitchers and catch­Clijisters beats Golovin to Czech goaltender Hasek ers reported to the San Francisco win Diamond Games leaves ,-vith leg injury (;iants' camp for the start of spring ANTWEHP, Belgium -Top-ranked TOHINO, Italy-Goalin Dominik training -even though he was Kim Clijsters scraped past French Hasek, who starrnd in t.lw Czeeh nowh1~re to be found. teenager Tatiana Golovin 4-6, 7-6 (4), Hepublie's surprisn vietory in the 19'JH It's unknown when Bonds will report 7-5 in her comeback match at the Olympics, left Wednt\sday's round­to spring training as he tries to Diamond Games on Wednesday. robin opnner against Germany in the bounce back from his injury-short­It was Clijsters' 11rst tournament first period with an apparnnt lngened 2005 when he played just 14 since she had to leave with an ankle injury. 
games after undergoing three opera­
injury during an Australian Open Hasek, one of' thn NHL's top goal­
tions on his knee. The Giants' position semil'inal match against eventual tendnrs f'l1r years, grinuu~ed in pain as 
players report Monday, but Bonds 
champion Amelie Mauresmo. hn spread his lngs to stop a shot dur­eould choose to come earlier because Afterward, she treated the 11,000 ing a German power play about sixof the injury. 
fans at the Sport Palaee to a bottle of minutes into tlw game. lin didn't liu:nManager Felipe Alou said he was anx­r.hampagne each to celebrate her first another shot for the nnxt li1w minutns,
ious to have Bonds in camp and 
mateh in her Belgian homeland as the but left the ie11 whnn play stopped 'Jimmediately was asked if he still is world's No. 1-ranked player. 1/2 minutes into the period. 
entertaining thoughts of having the 
But the party was almost spoilnd by After consulting briefly on the benehseven-time MVP bat second in spite of 18-year-old Golovin, who was coming with the Czech coaches, Hasek was
the superstar's preference to remain in the heart of the order. 
ofT the semifinals in Paris last week­taken to a loeker room to be exam­"I said I was going to talk with Barry, end. ined by physicians. lie rdurned to the and we're going to talk," was all Alou "Of course I am disappointed, I was bench area late in the period. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 16, 2006 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 

Bloom ellininated from gold medal contention 
Two-sport star will attend NFL combine after Turin games 
Associated Press 
A bobble through the bumps and a small splash of snow hit Jeremy Bloom harder than any linebacker could. 
Might have made him wish he'd stuck to football, too. 
Bloom's skiing adventure came to a less-than-satisfying close Wednesday. The two­sport star finished sixth in Olympic moguls and felt com­pelled to smile through it all, even though the ending wasn't the one everyone expected. 
"It really isn't about winning the medal for me," Bloom insisted. 
That honor went 
"'t really isn't 

to fellow American well. His run 
Toby Dawson, who about winning the was quite good, capped off four medal for me." he just made a years of single­little error and it minded toil to fm­ended up cost­
Jeremy Bloom 

ish third. Mikko ing us." Ronkainen of U.S. Olympic skiier Dawson, the 
Finland won silver and Dale Begg-Smith of Australia added to his recent dominance by taking the gold. 
American Travis Mayer, the silver medalist in 2002, fin­ished seventh and announced his retirement afterward, while teammate Travis Cabral came in ninth. 
Bloom has bigger things on his radar now _ starting with a trip to the NFL scouting com­bine next week _ and wallow­ing in disappointment isn't part of that. 
"This may be my last mogul competition and if so, I'll look back on it with a huge smile on my face," he said. "I've had more success in this sport than I ever dreamed possible. It's just been an amazing ride and I don't think a medal here would have affected that at all." 
Great PR, but hard to believe given what he's been through. His two years as a football star at the University of Colorado ended after the NCAA ruled he couldn't accept endorsement money for skiing. 
Determined not to be pushed around, Bloom dropped out of school and focused on skiing, saying football was his true love but refusing to give up his other passion. To him, the move was as much a matter of principle as practicality. He also wanted to better his ninth­place fmish in the 2002 Games. 
He won an unprecedented six straight races and the World Cup title last season, position­ing himself as the man to beat in 2006. 
Then, the finale _ an average trip down the slope at Sauze d'Oulx that made him look more like a football player who likes to ski than someone who has devoted his whole life to the mountain. 
"I knew I had made a mis­take," he said, referring to his run. "I came here to accom­plish my goals. I didn't come here to win any certain color medals. I was so close, you know." 
Bloom bumped around a lit­tle on his ride through the moguls between the first and second jumps _ nothing terri­ble, but noticeable nonetheless. The landing after his second jump was what really did him in, a result of over-rotating his 720-degree, off-axis spin. Snow flew up behind him as he hit the ground with the back of his skis, his knees bending too much to call it championship form. At the bottom, he smiled and raised his hand, although it looked more like a sigh of relief than a victory fist pump. When his score came up, Bloom nodded knowingly. 
U.S. freestyle coach Jeff Wintersteen said nobody should have expected his star to coast to a medal. 
"A lot of people made the assumption that it was in the bank, but it wasn't," Wintersteen said. "I thought 
Jeremy handled the pressure extraordinarily 
South Korean-
born, American­adopted 27-year-old, skied under the radar, as all of Bloom's teammates did the past few years. He pursued ski­ing with single-minded tenacity after a self-described meltdown in qualifying for the 2002 Olympics. 
"I basically completely choked," he said. ''I'm a little older, a little more mature. I was able to keep my wits about me, qualify, put together a cou­ple good runs and get a medal here." 
His road to the bronze was not about glamour, but rather the hard work of improving on the technical side of skiing through the moguls. 

Ohno leads U.S. relay team 
Standout speedskater redeems himself after fall in Sunday's race 
Associated Press 
Apolo Anton Ohno managed to stay out of trouble. With no medals on the line, that's all he needed to do. 
Ohno shook off a disappointing start to the Turin Olympics by leading the Americans into the relay final with a vintage short track performance Wednesday night: He put his team out front with a gutsy pass of two skaters and gave an emphatic pump of the fist when he crossed the fin­ish line ahead of everyone else in the chaotic 5,000-meter race. 
"It was just total instincts," Ohno said. "I just let it go." 
He also advanced comfortably from the preliminary heats of the 1,000 -an expected result, but one that couldn't be taken for granted after Ohno's mishap on the frrst night of short track. 
The 23-year-old skating star cost himself a chance to defend his Olympic title in the 1,500 with a boneheaded move in the semifinals. Already in position to advance, Ohno bumped the leader in a turn, wobbled and bobbled before regaining his balance, and wound up missing the final. 
"I know what happened," Ohno said. "Everybody knows what happened. I had to come out strong." 
The only gold medal Wednesday went to China's Wang Meng, who fulfilled the role of overwhelming favorite in the women's 500. The 20-year­old Wang, competing in her frrst Olympics, led from the opening gun and held off Bulgaria's Evgenia Radanova by the length of her right blade. 
Radanova also won silver in the 500 at the 2002 Salt Lake City Games and has three Olympic medals in all. Canada's Anouk LeBlanc-Boucher earned the bronze. 

Ohno won a gold and a silver at the last Olympics, and he hopes to lead the men's relay team to its first medal since 1994. 
He took control of the semis with one dynamic move, shifting into a higher gear that sent him careening around skaters from China and Italy with 30 laps to go. The crowd let out a gasp, then erupted in cheers at the sight of the soul-patched skater moving so effortlessly from third to first. 
"It was the right move at the right time. It was perfect," said Rusty Smith, one of Ohno's teammates. "They slowed down a little bit, and we took advan­tage of it." 
China and the Americans 
swapped the top spot a couple of times before Smith grabbed it for good, then passed off to Ohno for the finishing kick. The lead­ers didn't have to push them­selves too hard after skaters from Japan and Italy wiped out with 21 laps to go, leaving them far behind. 
"It's awesome for me and Apolo to make another Olympic final together," Smith said. "We've been in this sport for a long time, and neither one of us has gold in relay. We have at least one more final in us." 
The top two teams in each semifinal advanced to the final, which will be held Feb. 25, the day before the games end. Italy also got in when Japan was dis­qualified for Takahiro Fujimoto's reckless pass in the turn, which sent him and Yuri Confortola spiraling into the boards. 


Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 
Latvia ties USA in first garite of group play 
Canada blows out ovennanned Italy; Tjarnqvist scores twice for Swedes against Kazakhstan; Finland blanks Swiss, 5-0 
Assndatcd Press 
TliHIN, Italy John <;rahamP watdwfl thP movin "Mirarln" almost 100 limns during tlw Nlll.lockoul. 
Tlw way thn U.S. hodny Lnarn playnd against Latvia in tlu• Olympic OJlPIWI', c;rahamo and his tnammatns might rwnd anollwr miraeln for history to rPpPal ilsPlf. 
.Ionian I.Popold scorml narly in thP third 1wriod, and tlw t\nwrkan tnam with a rostnr l'ull.ol' Nlll. playnrs only man­a g P d a ;{-;{ tin a g a i n s t the undnrdog Latvia. 
Wlwn tlu~ final horn sounded, tlw Latvian playnrs raisnd Lhnir 
a r m s i n t r i u m p h w h i I~~ t he 
t\nrnricans slowly gathnred around goalie Crahame. 
"Wn worn not oxpnetnd to win or nvnn got tho tin," said l'ornwr Nlll. goalie t\rturs lrbo, who madn ;{I) saves -I X in tho third 1wriod -for Latvia. "Wn w1~n~ big-timn undnrdogs in this gamn in nvnrybody's nyns exenpt our own pnopln. 
"You ran say that this proba­bly nwans morn to us than to tho t\nwrican toam." 
Latvia, with only two current Nlll. playnrs, rallied from an narly two-goal dnl'idt and Ill' o v n d U . S. eo a c h Peter l.aviolnttn had evnry n~ason to bn worried about this opening matrhup in Olympic (;roup B. 
I .at via had tlw luxury of play­ing mostly as a tnam in reennt wnnks, while tho U.S. squad was sratternd around North t\nwrka. Only two t\meriean playnrs wnro in Italy by Monday and tho tnam had just onn prartirn bnl'oro hitting the 
February 16 
ico Wedrwsday night. 
On the !lip side. their oppo­nents -who linislwd ninth in Salt Lakn City four years ago­had practiced togetlwr since Feb. 5. 
"t\ lot of guys just got ofT tho rtight ynsterday. Thnre's no excuses hut that's tho reality," Grahanw said. 
The United States will play Thursday against Kazakhstan. Latvia will face Slovakia . 
Latvia's biggest oiTensivo star was t\nalwim del'ensnman Sandis Ozolinsh. who had two assists in his first game sinco Novembnr. lie was sidelined by a knee injury and then was in the league's substance-abuse program until being reinstated Tuesday. 
Canada 7, Italy 2 
Jaromn lginla started thesn Olympics tho samn way he ondnd thnm in Salt Lake City­with two goals -and gold medal favorite Canada sur­vivnd a brief scare with a dom­inating sncond period in a rout of Italy in its tournament opnn­nr Wednesday. 
With troublod team nxeeutive Waynn c;retzky looking on nervously from a private box high in the grandstands, Canada was locked in a sur­prising l-all tie early in the second period. Or right about tho time the soon-to-be-over­whelmed Italians realized who they worn playing. 
Canada, using its overwhelm­ing speed and stickhandling ability to ereatn dozens of scor­ing chances in the second peri­od alone, scored live consecu­tive goals in a span or 13 1/2 Jokinen each had two goals and an assist, and Finland gave Switzerland few chances to score against Antero Niittymaki, who made 24 savns in a 5-0 rout Wednesday in men's Olympic hockey. 


Jokinen got things started with a power-play goal late in the first period. and then addnd anothnr in tho second when the Swedes scornd four times to grab a 5-0 lead against Martin Gerber. 
Gerbor, who didn't havn a lot of' defensive help in front of' him, took tho Carolina llurrieanns mask he was wear­ing to the bench and sat out the third period after making 19 saves. lin was replaced by Colorado's David t\ebiselwr, who stoppnd all 13 shots lw faced in thn Group A opnrwr for both tnams. · 
Tnppo Numminen, a Buffalo Sabrns dnfnnsnman, started thn second-period onslaught at 
3:35 by ripping in a shot from just inside the right point. 
Jokinnn, tlw Florida Pantlwrs captain. made it 3-0 when Ville Pnltonnn -who also assisted on the first goal -fed a pass in front for a quick onn-timnr past Gnrber at X:04. That gave Finland thrne pownr-play goals in four chancns. 
What Really Happens in Graduate School and How do I Get There? 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. 
Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
~ 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME C:OJ.I.F.Gf. OF ARTS AND UlTTF.RS 

minutes to turn the unexpect­edly dose game into the antici­pated rout. 
Sweden 7, Kazakhstan 2 
Minnesota Wild defensnman Daniel Tjarnqvist had a pair of goals as Sweden blnw away Kazakhstan to open the men's Olympic ice hoekey tournament on Wednesday. 
Even with forward Peter Forsberg resting an injured groin, and several other play­ers out, the Swodos ran up a 3­
0 f'irsl' period load and  never  
looked back.  
I>aninl  All'redsson,  Mats  

Sundin, P'er Johan t\xelsson, llnnrik Sedin and his brother, Daniel, also scored for Sweden, who are considered a serious threat to dethrone reigning champions Canada. 
At times tho ice appeared to give the Swedos more prob­lems than their opponents. Yevgeniy Koreshkov scored just seconds into the second period after a Swedish defender lost the puck whilo trying to skate out of his own end. 
The puck hit a puddle of water on the ice and stopped dead, catching everyone off guard except for Koreshkov, who swooped in to pick it up. 
Vladimir t\ntipin had the other goal for Kazakhstan. 
Forsberg said before the match he would not play as he continues to get treatment on his groin. 
''I'll skate on Friday and will see how it goes," Forsberg said. 
Finland 5, Switzerland 0 
Teemu Selannn and Olli 




page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 16, 2006 
ND ATHLETICS 
Two Irish seniors receive academic awards 

ECDC 2006-07 Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame (ECDC) is currently registering for the 2006 Summer program and the 2006-07 School Year. 
Registration Due Dates: 2/15/06 2006-07 Kindergarten Registration 3/1/06 2006 Summer Program 4/3/06 2006-07 School Year For more information please call ECDC-SMC: 284-4693 or ECDC-ND: 631-3344. 

l 
;;-~ 


iii{IHRII~Z'I
Local Tradition Since 1975 
Call for Campus Delivery: 273-3890 or 

l'ive races in 
which she par­
ticipated during the 2005 cross 
country season. For her efforts 
during this domina,nt run, Madia 
·-was among four finalists for the Honda Sports Award, given annually to the top women's cross-country athlete. She ended the season with a third place fin­ish at the NCAA championships. She is currently running with the Irish track and field team and recently placed fourth at the 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

No.9 Pittsburgh holds off Friars in 85-77 win 
Associated Press 
When his teammates got him the ball, Aaron Gray didn't miss. 
The 7 -foot junior scored 22 points on 9-for-9 shooting to lead No. 9 Pittsburgh to an 85­77 victory over Providence on Wednesday night. 
"All of the guys made sure to get us big guys involved in the second half and we were able to get a tough win on the road," said Gray, who had nine rebounds. 
The Panthers the deficit to
"All the guys made 

East) have won sure to get us big guys G e o f f at least 20 involved in the second McDermott's games for a alley-oop dunk
halfand we were able

school-record on a pass from
to get a tough win on

five consecutive Sharaud Curry seasons and the road." with 5:48 they extended remaining. their winning K e i t h
Aaron Gray

streak against Benjamin
Pittsburgh center

the Friars to responded with 
five games. 
Senior guard Donnie McGrath matched his career high with 28 points for Providence (11-11. 4-7), which had won its last two games. McGrath was 6-for-10 from 3­point range for the Friars, who have eight scholarship players, four of the freshmen. 
"The tale of the tape was pretty evident," Providence coach Tim Welsh said. "They wore us out with their inside bodies that they threw at us. The physical presence of Gray and (Levon) Kendall hurt us 
a 3-pointer with 5:26 left that pushed the Panthers' lead back to nine. 
"We gave up 52 points in the second half," Welsh added. "There you have it." 
Benjamin added 15 points and Krauser had 12 for Pittsburgh, which snapped a three-game road losing streak. 
"We didn't do a good job penetrating their zone in the first half," Benjamin said. "Then Carl did a good job get­ting Aaron the ball and it opened things up for me and the other guards." 
and their depth really wore us out in the second half." 
John DeGroat's 3-pointer 4 minutes into the second half gave Pittsburgh its first lead of the game, 45-44. The Panthers then went on a 7-0 run with Gray scoring two baskets, one part of a three­point play, and another from Carl Krauser. 
Pittsburgh took its largest lead of the game midway through the second half at 62­50 on a basket by Kendall. 
The Friars cut 
Honors faculty mentoring pro­gram. 
This award is yet another achievement for the All­American senior, who has put together a solid career running for the Irish cross country and track teams. 
"It's one small part of my Notre Dame experience," she said. "It's one additional thing to add to the great memories I've had here." 
Madia and the Irish track and Notre Dame and has compiled a 

3.80 cumulative GPA. Davis will be competing at his fourth Big East Championship meet this week at East Meadow, NY, and will participate in three events. lie will be swimming in the 1,650 yard freestyle, 500 yard freestyle and the 400 individual medley. 
Davis was unavailable for cmn­ment Wednesday. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu
.-;­

Good Tldcots flwUal>h at Cowlakl S!Gdlum 11-Bed,llotEkv-llalOIIU.oi--GIId 
__Cile'1f.., ..... ..174/l9}Wf.
~ 


Sunday March 19 • 7:30pm Morris Performing Arts Center 
TICKETS GO ON SALE SATURDAY FEB 11 of 1O:OOam of Morris Box Office, charge by phone 574/235-9190 or · 7it./)j www.morriscenter.org (f!.1.f!!!},~)' 
49400901 
Meyo Invitational for the 3,000

Runner and swimmer 
meter run, qualifying provision­will receive $2,000 ally for the NCAA Indoor Championships.
post-graduate stipends ''I'm really honored to be con­sidered for this award and I feel that I'm in good company with 
By JASON GALVAN 

the others who have been Sports Writer 
awarded with it," Madia said. "A lot of people have made this pos­Senior All-American distance sible, Notre Dame is a place runner Stephanie Madia and where I have had people in both senior Irish freestyle swimmer the academic and athletic por­Patrick Davis have been awarded tions of my time here greatly 
$2,000  post­ contribute  to  
graduate  what  I  have  
stipends from the Big East Conference for  "''m really honored to be considered for this  done." In addition to her achieve­ 
their academic  award and I feel that  ments  on  the  
and athletic achievements. Madia, a three  I'm in good company with the others who  running paths, Madia, a fmance major. has com­ 
time  All- have been awarded  piled  a  3.48  
American in <Toss country  with it."  cumulative GPA and is a two­ 
and track and !'ield, placed  Stephanie Madia  year member of the athletic  
sixth or higher  Irish runner  department's  
in each of the  Academic  

field team are set to compete at the Big East Indoor Championships this weekend at Akron, Ohio. She will be running the 5,000 meter and 3,000 meter rims and is looking to improve upon her performances from this season. 
''I'm really looking forward to it, and I'm really excited about our team's prospects for winning the meet," she said. 
Patrick Davis has compiled his own set of accolades, earning All-District V honors (College Sports Information Directors of America) and putting together 19 career individual wins with three from this season. Davis also holds several impressive marks, ineluding the third-best time in school history for the 1,650 freestyle (15:34.411. the fourth­best time in the 1,000 free 
(9:23.23) and the fifth-best time in the 500 free (4:28.89). 
Davis, a computer science major in the college of engineer­ing, has made the Dean's List during each of his four years at 
OPM 
up and More Go to brun to download a $1.00 OFF Coupon , zit&, Call: 288-3320 26tp Prarie l)ye: South Bend,IN46614 

---------, 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ND SOFTBALL 

Irish open season in Vegas 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Albion in MIAA contest, 77-58 
Bridget Boyce did reach stw­

Guard Bridget Boyce 
nral significant milestones and was the lone br·ight spot

becornes sixth player 
for the team, as she scorod l (J to score 1,000 points p oi n t s to br i n g hn r e a r tw r 
tally to over 1,000 -becom­
ing just tho sixth Belles playnr

By FRAN TOLAN 
to rnad1 that mark. Boyce has 

Sports Writer 
one regular season game 
remaining to increase her 

Albion College defeated total. Saint Mary's 77-5H Boyce also hit her 12Hth Wednesday at Kresge career threo-pointer, which Gymnasium in Albion, Mich. ties .Julie Hadkn for most The Britons earner three-used terrifie point field perimeter goals in 
shooting to go school history.
"We just played with

along with a Albion was strong inside zero confidence after led by eenter game to win Katie Elder,
their hot start. " 

the MIAA who recorded showdown. 12 points 
Steve Bender

Saint Mary's and sevon fe II to 11 -1 3 Belles head coach rebounds in overall and 9-6 just 17 min-in conference utes of play­play as Albion ing time. improved to Forward 16-8 overall and H-7 against Megan Garvey also added 12 MIAA opponents. points and guard Kellyn Glynn 
Albion jumped out to an chipped in 11 to round out the early lead, making H-of-12 double-digit scorers for first half three-point attempts. Albion. The Belles, on the other hand, Forward Erin Newsom could hit just 25 pereent of seored 12 for the Belles. 
their total Saint Mary's now sits· in field goal third place in attempts the MIAA 
before the standings with half. Saint one regular Mary's was "We're glad {Albion/ had season game left to play.
also outre­their great game 
bounded 42-The Belles
tonight."

32 and head to llope outscored :~2-College on 14 in the Steve Bender Saturday for a 
paint. Albion 3 p.m. tipoff.
Belles head coach led 40-20 at Most likely, halftime and the Belles will 
never let the faee Albion Belles baek in again in the the game: first round of "We just played with zero the eonfernnee tournament 
Notre Dame will play five games at UNLV Desert Classic 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Wrircr 
With spring just around the corrwr, tlw Notrn I>amn sol'lball tnam is rnady to bngin its nnw snason this wnnknnd at the UNLV Dnsnrt Classic in Las Vngas, Ntw. 
Tlw tournament will eonsist of five garnos ovnr a thrno-day span, with two on Friday and Saturday and one on Sunday. Tlw Irish opon up Friday with games against Colorado State, tho only tmun in the tournamnnt that did not reenivo a voto in the coaches' poll, and 25th-ranked BYU. 
On Saturday tho team will faee its toughnst opporwnt in the Desert Classic -tlw Orogon Statn Bnavnrs, the 12th-bost tnam in thn country -as woll as UNLV. Tlw Irish linish the week­ond against Cal State Fullerton, a pnrnnnial eontonder in the NCM tournament. 
The team, whieh flew to Las Vegas Wednnsday, eould not be rnadwd filr eommnnt. 
This tournament should be a boon to tho Irish, who are play­ing without the expnrifmen that· has guidnd them to I 0 straight Big East regular season titles. Notre Dame has snvnn frnshrnen on the team, with only fimr sen­iors and limr juniors. Onn posi­tion whern the Irish's youth will show in the tournament is at pitdwr. 
With only one proven piteher on the starr-senior !leather Booth, a two-timn All-Big East pitdwr and tho 2003 Big East 
BETH WERNET!The Observer 
Notre Dame sophomore Katie Laing takes a swing against Northwestern April16, 2005. The Irish return to action this weekend. 
Hookin of the Year -Notre Dame will expose its inexpnri­nneed pitehers to the college game. Freshman Brittany Bargar and junior Kenya Fuemmeler round out the stan· for the Dosert Classic. Freshman Christine Farrell may appear, but will most likely lim;ed to Iim­itod piteh eounts until well into the season due to off.'ieason sur­gery. 
The Irish's pitehing staff during tho tournament will be anehored by Booth, with relief coming from Bargar and Fuemmeler. Fuemmeler, in her third year with the Irish, has only seen lim­ited time on the mound beeause of the strong presence of other pitchers, sueh as Booth and last year's Big East piteher of the year, Irish graduate Steffany Stenglein. But with the Irish see­ing five games in throe days this early in the season, all three pitehers should be guaranteed some innings. 
The Irish infield is set at three spots, with three all-Big East players returning this season. Senior Meagan Huthrauff will anehor the inlield at lirst base with Katie Laing and Sarah Sehoonaert playing up the mid­dle. Although Schoonaert has not had much college sueeess at the plate, she has always demon­strated good glove work, which should help bolster tim infield. 

The only question mark remaining in the Irish infield is at third, where junior Carrisa .Jaequish and freshman Linda Kohan are competing for the starting job. 
Perhaps Notre Dame's most solid position is at cateher, where senior Malorie Lenn will return as the Irish backstop. Lenn has been a standout behind the plate, committing only one error all last season in 359 total ehances. She will be instrumen­tal this weekend in helping the young pitehers on tho team cope with the eollege game. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa4@nd.edu 
~··············································· 
: University Resources ~ 
confidence after their fast Fob. 21 .
• 
for Gay, Lesbian, & : start," Saint Mary's head "We want to send a mossage
• • coaeh Steve Bender said. out that we're already looking During the seeond period, forward to that game. We're
•• Bisexual Students •• • the Belles were never able to glad they had thnir groat
•
• • eut the deficit to fewer than game tonight," Bender said .
•e TH• ., llol't0tot4 19 points, which turned out to 
• Co""""'rr~::a: o" be the final margin. Contact Fran Tolan at 
e 0AY AND l.&AatA" 
Saint Mary's senior eaptain ftolan@nd.edu
•

e STUDI!:NT Nr:t:D!I 
• 
ENGINEERING INTERN OPENINGS

• The Standing Committee on Gay and ••
• •
• Lesbian Student Needs ••• 
Exciting Summer Opportunities with a leader in Electro-hydraulics . 
• 
FEMA Corporation announces it is seeking mechaniccal engineering student candidates for summer engineering internships to work in a 
(Confidential information, education, and resources)
• Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • 
world-class manufacturing environment. 

• members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Successful candidates will be exposed to

• 
the following real life training:

Office of Campus Ministry • 
Product orientation o Testing equipment training o 
Laboratory procedures o Product development testing o Process development and continuous improvement o And more more 

• (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • 
• and their friends; pertinent library resources in • • 304 Co-Mo~ confidential discussion and support) • 
This is a great opportunity to begin building the knowledge and experience needed to be a successful engineer in

Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
today's world. These positions are full-time summer assignments starting at $15.00 per hour . 

• University Counseling Center • • (Individual counseling) • 
Interested candidates should respond by resume and cover letter to: 

Contact: Dr. Maureen Laflerty at l...afferty.3@nd.edu 
FEMA Corporation 1716 Vanderbilt Rd . Portage. Ml 49024 c/o Summer Intern Program 

• For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • 
Or via email to Summerintern@fema-corp.com Documents should be either Word or PDF format. 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 16, 2006 


Tourney 
continued from page 24 
line every day, not ljustl every game," Irish coach Mike Brey said after Wednesday's win. " ... We've got our sense of urgency every day." 
Notre Dame remains No. 14 in the 16-team Big East despite its win over the Bulls. St. John's and Hutgers each hold 4-8 con­ference records -one ahead of the Ir-ish -after the Johnnies' 54-51 win over the Scarlet Knights Wednesday. Louisville (4-7) and Providence (4-7) are also one game up on Notre Dame, despite the Friars' 85-77 Joss to Pittsburgh Wednesday. 
Common belief holds that three positions remain for these programs and possibly DePaul (2-9) to qualify for the 12-team Big East Tournament in March. 
At this point, then, an Irish win is automatically a positive -they must win out simply to finish .500. But Wednesday's game should not sit well with this team. Not that they need to dwell upon the game's down­side. Notre Dame has no time to look back with Seton Hall (Saturday), Connecticut (Tuesday) and Marquette (Feb. 
25) waiting in the wings. 
Still, it should unnerve Brey that his team committed more turnovers (12) than it dished assists (11) against a winless (in Big East play) South Florida team. It should bother him that shooting guard Colin Falls and small forward Russell Carter continued to fire from the out­side early Wednesday, and miss, while forwards Torin Francis and Rick Cornett were calling "ball" with palms open. 
It was a failure to stay true to the formula that amassed a 27­point blowout of Rutgers just one week ago. 
Notre Dame showed no disci­pline Wednesday. 
Granted, the team had a week off. The rust that com­piles with rest can slow a squad down as it swings back into the normal schedule. But even one of Notre Dame's co­captains, point guard Chris Quinn, was eoncerned with the sluggish start following the seven-day break. 
"You would think [a week off] would help us, give us a little extra burst," Quinn said. "But we weren't knocking down shots at the beginning. Luckily, we were pretty good on the defensive end and were able to take a lead into halftime." 
And luckily, they were play­ing South Florida. Seton Hall and Connecticut will beat Notre Dame badly if the Irish play them like they did the Bulls. Brey practically said it himself post-game. 
"We're gonna have to be a lot tougher to play Seton Hall," Brey said, "or they'll beat us up." 
Give the Notre Dame coaches and players credit. They adjusted to a much different and, admittedly, quite deceptive South Florida team. The Irish have not been blown out this season. They have been in every game. They have won the last two -must-wins-with the intention of snagging a final spot for the conference tourna­ment at Madison Square Garden. And Wednesday's win was one more step toward that goal. 
But it is equally as important that the team learn from this one. 
Notre Dame needs to score points down low early, shoot free throws better and continue its defensive improvement. More importantly, Notre Dame must play every game con­trolled, yet passionate, like it needs the win desperately ­even against the South Floridas and DePauls of the league. 
Otherwise, if the Irish do not show that "sense of urgency" Brey proclaims, Saturday at Continental Airlines Arena will be quite a wake-up call. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
Brey said. "They were going "I thought overall we were to play a certain way. I think very good defensively to keep


Bulls 
it was 57-54 the other night them in the 50s," Brey said. continued from page 24 down in Louisville. Louisville South Florida shot 23-of-56 
pressed them the whole way from the field and just 1-of-6 got some speed, and they do and couldn't from 3-point have a shot blocker back speed them up. range. Brey said there, which kind of changes "Fourteen is a South Florida's things and has guys looking big lead with "We didn't expect struggles from around sometimes." that tempo." behind the arc
them to quit; if

Despite Notre Dame's shoot­South Florida allowed Notre
they did quit we

ing problems, the Irish were cut the lead to Dame to stay in able to put together an 51-43 with 3:08 would have won by control down the impressive 19-2 run to bounce remaining in the stretch.
30.

back from an 11-6 South second half on a "I thought we Florida lead with 13:50 left in Soloman Jones did a very good the first half. Kurz sparked free throw, but Russell Carter job of not letting the run when he immediately Notre Dame Irish guard the 3-point line hit two quick shots after immediately hurt us," he said. checking into the game. . responded with "Because in a 
"The one thing that Rob did a Carter layup. game like that, bring for us tonight, which I The score went back and they throw a couple in ... thought was important, was forth for the next few min­that's when they have a shot high energy and activity," utes, as both teams traded to win the game at the end. Brey said. "When he came in baskets on their respective That's been their history." and made those two buckets, possessions. Bulls forward James Holmes that kind of got us going." "We didn't expect them to led South Florida with 19 
The run was highlighted by quit; if they did quit we would points on 8-of-16 shooting. a Russell Carter breakaway have won by 30," Carter said. Jones added 13 points and 12 dunk with 9:51 "But they kept on rebounds -including a sec­remaining. fighting and they ond half alley-oop dunk that
"The one thing that 
Carter led all clawed their way awed everyone in attendance. Notre Dame Rob did bring for back a little bit." The win was Notre Dame's scorers with 13 Irish guard second consecutive victory in
us tonight, which I 
points on 5-of-Chris Quinn -the Big East. 
thought was
1 0 shooting. who has been the The Irish have put them­The early lead important, was most reliable selves in a position where which high energy and offensive player every game is a must-win to reaehed 31-19 for the Irish all get into the Big East tourna­
activity. " 
at half -let season -strug­ment. Notre Dame stay gled offensively But Carter said the Irish are in control of a Mike Brey throughout the not worried about figuring out game where game. Quinn was how many of Notre Dame's
Irish head coach 
South Florida averaging 18.6 five remaining games will be played its own points per game necessary to win in order to style of basketball. coming into Wednesday's make the tournament, which 
Brey knew exactly what to game, but scored just 12 takes the 12 best of the 16 expect from the Bulls, who points on 3-of-10 shooting. conference teams. have been known to slow "We didn't do a very good "I let all of you do the look­down game tempo and grind job of moving on the offensive ing," Carter said. out possessions on both ends. end," Quinn said. "We didn't "I don't know who is ahead He also knew Notre Dame do a great job of moving the of us and who is under us. All would have trouble building ball, and it showed in our I know is we are 3-8. I think I on a lead that reached 14 offensive production." do it on purpose so I don't early in the second half. Brey credited his defense have to worry about anyone 
"I think for us, it wasn't for making up for the of'fen­else." going to flow like the Rutgers sive struggles on a night when game because we weren't Quinn and Falls eombined to Contact Bobby Griffin at going to get it back as quick," shoot 4-of-20 from the field. rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Announcing the Year 2006 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2006 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or a foril,lal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study ofItalian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University ofNotre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department ofRomance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1)  an explanation ofhow the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description ofthe research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved;  
5)  ·the names oftwo references.  
Application Deadline:  Friday, February 17,2006  
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

OIN 

Thursday, February 16, 2006 
Catholic Q&A What's the difference between aparish, ,1 chapel, abasilica, and acathedral? 

Aparish church is the place where most Catholics have their most im­mediate contact with the universal Church. The parish that one belongs to is normally based upon where one lives. Every piece of land in the world falls within geographic boundaries assigned to a particular parish. In more rural areas, a parish's boundaries may cover hundreds of square miles; in cities with high Catholic populations, it may only cover a few blocks. 
Achapel is a place for prayer and worship at a residence hall, hospital, military base, etc, where the liturgy may be celebrated. Some larger churches may also have chapels attached to them for private prayer or smaller community gatherings. 
Abasilica ~s an honorary title given to a church from the Pope because of its historic significance, its artistic beauty, and the high quality of the liturgies celebrated there. There are four major (or patriarchal) basilicas, all of which are in Rome: St. Peter's, St. Mary Major, St. John Lateran, and St. Paul 's-Outside-the-Walls. All other basilicas in the world (includ­ing NO's) are technically called minor basilicas. There are a significant number of minor basilicas throughout the world (eg, Sacred Heart Basil­ica is one of two basilicas in Indiana, and there are three additional ones nearby in Chicago.) When a church is designated a basilica, it is given a large red and yellow umbrella (or umbrellino) and a special bell (or tintin­nabulum), both of which can be seen near the high altar in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Acathedral is the most important church in adiocese, where the bishop presides over special liturgies of significance for the entire local com­munity: the ordination of diocesan priests, the blessing of the Holy Oils on Holy Thursday, and the Rite of Election for those preparing to join the Catholic faith. Acathedral gets its name from its cathedra, the bishop's chair, which serves as a sign of his pastoral authority in the local diocese, and has nothing to do with the building's size or grandeur. Some cathe­drals may also be designated basilicas, following the guidelines above. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114 CoMo 
Campus Ministry 
Web 
campusministry.nd.edu 



sorRE 
"You've lost that loving feeling". It was with those words that Elizabeth Staten was c ..r ...n•.HLI ed by the male members of the last Freshman Retreat team. The reason for this serenade is that all of those guys knew what you will learn: that Elizabeth Staten is a Campus Min­
. i~try superstar. Because Elizabeth is presently serving as the Student Coordinator for the Freshman Retreat, anyone involved in the last retreat got to personally witness Elizabeth's gifts and talents. Since joining the Freshman Retreat team, this Sophomore History and Pre-Professional Studies major (and overachiever) has helped the program make great strides in its effort to better minister to freshman students. However. this is not the only Campus Ministry program that owes a great debt of gratitude to Elizabeth. Anyone who has attended a night of Four: 7 Catholic praise and fellowship undoubtedly has seen Elizabeth happily exercising one of the many duties that flow from her being on the Four: 7 leadership team. Elizabeth also coordinates the Emmaus groups that further cater to the spiritual needs of those students who attend Four: 7. Since Elizabeth has no regard for her own sanity, she also extends the same level of intense service to Walsh Hall as she does the rest of Campus. Elizabeth is Liturgical and Big/Little Sister Commissioner for her hall. Any reader should know that this is an ab­breviated summary of the ways Elizabeth ministers to her peers: space honestly did not allow for full disclosure. All of these activi­ties portray a very vivid picture of how com­mitted Elizabeth is to her faith. Next time you see Elizabeth, thank her for her service and awesome example. Oh, and if you feel like it. little serenade is never out of line. 
Let us know who out there is making adifference! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel nd.edu 

r----­
t 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thurssday, February 16, 2006 

Spartans 
continued from page 24 
er before Michigan," Irish cap­tain Patrick Buchanan said. 
The Irish got off to a strong start, winning the doubles point in under an hour. Brett Helgeson and Andrew Roth, playing at third doubles, were first off the courts with an 8-3 win over John ABare and Joe McWilliams. Eric Langenkamp and Sheeva Parbhu followed to clinch the point, defeating Michael Flowers and Alex Forger 8-3 at No. 2. The pair improved to 3-0 together this season. 
Although the Irish had already secured the point, Ryan Keckley and Barry King topped Adam Monich and Nick Rinks by an 8-5 margin. 
"Certainly it's a lot better than what we have been doing and over the weekend, the doubles points were fairly decisive," Bayliss said. 
In singles, King was first off the court with an impressive 6­0, 6-0 win at No. 4. The Ireland native has only dropped one game in his last two contests. Helgeson followed King with a quick 6-2, 6-3 victory at No. 3 and Parbhu clinched the match for the Irish at No. 2 with a 6-3, 6-2 win. 

Bayliss and associate head coach Todd Doebler have rotat­ed Bass and Parbhu in the top spot. Both are ranked in the nation's top 15 and have wins at both positions. 
After the clinching match, Langenkamp defeated Scott Rasmussen 6-3, 6-1 to put the Irish up 5-0. 
To close out the match, Bass at No. 1 and Keckley at No. 5 both won in match tiebreakers. 
''I'm especially proud of Stephen and Ryan," Bayliss said. "When the umpire ruled that they would play match tiebreakers, which is the first one to 10 points -and its cer­tainly more of a crapshoot than playing out the third set -each could have not handled the way he should and allowed it to affect his play and probably lost. But both really handled the ruling well and played aggres­sively and they came out on top." 
Keckley was the only Notre Dame player to lose the first set but closed on a high note, win­ning 4-6, 6-2,1-0 (10-4). 
Bass dropped his second set but ended up with a 6-2, 4-6, 1­0 (10-7) to finish the match with a perfect ending for the Irish. 
"[The scoreI says we played very well this afternoon," Bayliss said after the match. ''I'll let you know Saturday if it says anything about progress." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Golfers 
continued from page 24 
Leading the charge for the team was Nakazaki, whose average round score of 74.18 is more than two strokes bet­ter than the program record she set her freshman year. 
When the spring season 
position of 30th or better," she said. "In the past we have fal­tered a little bit in the spring, so we've been working on a better mental game, strength and conditioning," 
The Irish were ranked No. 31 at this point last season, but finished third in the Big East Championship after win­ning it the previous two years and then placed 18th in the 

opens next 
Monday,  the  
team  will  be  
going  for  its  

third straight appearance in the NCAA Tournament. The feat would be especially impressive con­sidering no Irish team had done it before King arrived in 2001. 
"I think it'd definitely show 
"/think it'd definitely show how far we've come, especially for the senior class being Coach King's first recruiting class." 
Lauren Gebauer Irish golfer 
Central Regional. 
"Our scoring average com­pared to any other year was improved, and the fact that we feel that we could've done better is a good sign," Nakazaki said. 
When the Irish compete in Central District Classic in Parris, Florida next 

how far we've come, especially Monday, they may have to for the senior class being shake off some rust. The team Coach King's first recruiting has not played in a tourna­class," golfer Lauren Gebauer ment since Nov. 8, and thanks said. "From not even being a to the cold climate of South top 100 team to being a top 30 Bend, the team has had to 
team  would  practice at the  
show a lot of growth, and to leave the pro­ "We'd like to maintain our  Loftus Center. "I guess there is a disadvan­ 
gram at that level would be a great feeling."  position of30th or better."  tage, but we cover it by doing other stuff like  
Since women's  physical training  
golf  has  only  Suzie King  and indoor prac­ 
been an official  Irish head coach  tices," Nakazaki  

Big East sport for less than five years. no automatic bid to the NCAA tournament is awarded for placing first in the confer­ence. Thus, the only way for the Irish to make the 21-team Central Regional is to earn an at-large bid. While an invite isn't assured just yet, the team is focusing on even larger goals. 
"Our goal is to beat a 301 average in every tournament we play -that would be our short-term goal -and our team's long-term goal is to make Nationals," said golfer Suzie Hayes. 
King was more restrained in her assessment. "We'd like to maintain our 
said. "The 
biggest thing is we can't play on the golf course, but we try to make it up by practing indoors." 
Notre Dame will see warmer weather in the next few weeks, as the Irish play their next three tournaments in Florida, Texas and Hawaii, respectively. 
'Traveling is fun first of all, but having to do school work at the same time, missing classes for 2-3 days in a row is kind of hard, but we are play­ing golf, and that's what we love to do," Nakazaki said. "It's very exciting." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 
i 
join Us -~~-­
For Our Texas Hold'e111 
First 

POKER TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2006 
Doors Open at 2pm Limited Re-Buys Available Game Begins at 4pm 
(South Bend Time) ATM, Food & Beverages $100.00 entry fee includes $25 registration 
"?Vl4e 'Pta-c-e 
PRIZE POOL IS 10% OF THE FIELD TOTALLING
I (), ()()() 

$22,500 
Register early at: www.fop36.com 
1st Place Prize and Prize Pool based on 300 participants prizes will be adjusted for fewer participants 

Thompson, who topped Delicata 6-2. 6-1 at No. 1 and



Michigan 
earned her 14th win of the continued from page 24 year. 
Following at No. 2 was No. of juniors Christian and 44 Christian Catrina Thompson topped Thompson, who Michigan's Kara Delicata and defeated No. 48 Allie Shafner 8-3 at No. 1. Yaftali 6-4, 7-5. 
"/ loved the way our

Playing at No. 2 for the Irish Thompson's lineup has was the No. 35-ranked duo of victory over team performed today. " been solidi­sophomore Brook Buck and Yaftali claimed fied with freshman Kelcy Tefft, as they her second con­Potts at No.
Kelly Nelson 

claimed victory over the secutive win 6, the Irish 
Irish senior

Wolverines' Debra Streifler over a top 50 have been 
and Chisake Sugiyama. opponent. 
Following at No. 3 was No. Buck beat 45-ranked Connelly and senior Sugiyama 6-1, 6­Kiki Stastny, who cruised to 0 at No. 3 as she 
an 8-3 win over Michigan's Lindsey Howard and Nini Yaftali. 
"We all know we have great talent in dou­bles and it defi­nitely gives us confidence," Connelly said. "It does a lot for the entire match because it gives you broke a two­match losing streak, followed
"We all know we 
by Tefft at No.

have great talent in 
4, who suffered 

doubles and it a 3-6, 7-6 (7-4), 1-0 (10-3) loss
definitely gives us 
to the

confidence." 
Wolverines' Streifler. Lauren Connelly At No. 5, Stastny topped
Irish captain 
Michigan's Elizabeth Exon 6-1. 4-6. 1-0 

momentum [heading into the (10-5) and freshman Katie rest of the match]." Potts defeated Allie Shafner at Leading the Irish in singles No. 6, 6-0, 6-4 and clinched was No. 24-ranked Catrina the victory for the Irish. 
"I didn't know where would end up in the lineup !this season]," Potts said. "But I've been trying hard every match and [Shafner] was just 
more incon­sistent than me." 
Since the 
excelling 
across the 
courts. 
However, part of the success the Irish found Wednesday can be attributed to the atmosphere playing against their rival. 
"I loved the way our team performed today," senior Kelly Nelson said. 
"There was a lot of intensity out there against Michigan. It was definitely a great atmos­phere." 
The Irish return to the courts this Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion as they face Tennessee. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame Tuesday, February 21 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 


The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coftee at the Co-Mo. Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. .Coffee and refreshments will be served 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY &lESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 

--~ 
l 
l 
: 
Thursday, February 16, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
==================================================================~================================================== 
ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
AND  BE.I·\\N'D  I'"HE.  NDS?  IS  ONE.  ON  THE.  ~R\ur11  (lOOD  \'DE.I>-.  1<€..NI1Nl:t  
M£. OVER. "TI-\E.RE.  AR.M  OF  A  MUCH  S\'t>E..  I  '10U  C.J:...N  ''~\XD~ '',  T?A"P.  
I!>  AN  NDSP  LP.R<:.E.R.  ND  U.S E.  U N L.. I 1"\ \"I E..l:>  NO\tt.E:.  "P~M€  
VEI-\IC:.LE-.  OR<.::l AN \"Z.. A\\ ON  N A PI<.. IN$  IN  6R'E..P..TI  
\IV~OSE.  f''jt..IKP\tl-~  1\--1 e:;  1:> I N I N b1  1-\ P., \..L  

(:JOAL IS \0 IN c. oN \1 'E.. NIE:.NC.t: '(OU. 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
1 With 70-Across, Hagen Krupa in "The Gene Krupa
source of the 32 Say "aloha," sayquip at 21-, 39­
Story"34 A pair of rattlers

and 58-Across 64 Management 38 Tiny channels counterpart
6 Travels erratically 39 Quip, part 2 65 Art Deco alias 
11 They're missed 41 Lewis Carroll 
66 Rear-_ by airballs creature 67 With a full head of steam
15 Nancy's wealthy 43 Part of a rare 
pal in the comics 68 U.P.S. drivers
birth have them16 Actress Lindley 44 Thrusts out a lip 69 Tosspotsof "Three's or two

Company" 70 See 1-Across 
45 Where a drive17 Condo. e.g. 

might start 
DOWN

18 Identity hider 46 Criteria: Abbr. 
1 Revered19 Brown-coated 

50 Syr. neighbor answererermine 

2 Did an aria

20 Little: Prefix 51 Country whose flag says "God 
3 Like sheets right21 Start of a quip out of a dryeris great"24 Cramp site 4 "How sad!"

55 N.C.'s capital25 Mini-albums, for 5 Actress Perez short 57 Abbr. after 6 What a pace

manv a26 Banks on a horse is notedgeneral's name

runway 
for 27 Ed.'s request 58 End of the quip 7 It has strings Puzzle by VIctor Fleming 
28 Popular ice 62 Padre's attached 36 In ____ of anger 47 Like some 54 Speaker's finale cream hermanas a"_getit!" elders
37 Higher-ups 56 1980's-90's 
9 The doctor in 48 Without, with Emmy-winning
39 Achievement

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE "Daktari" "of" 
drama 10 Debaucher 49 Laurence whohonoree 
40 Collect slowly 59 Takes
11 Jamaican spirits wrote "A 
advantage of

41 Camel, notably Sentimental Journey" 60 Uncool sort 12 Per se 
13 One of the 42 Start of a archangels warning sign for 52 Winter coats 61 Suspense 
14 Ordinal restaurant 53 Kind of group, novelist __ numbers in Los customers in chemistry Hoag Angeles, e.g. 

't-=-f~~ 22 Sudden growth 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20"a minute; or, with a 1-=11-:::t'At::::-"'!'"1-:-+.-t-::-1~~-:-:t:::::-t-:::+:~ 23 "No argument credit card, 1-800-814-5554. here" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
••t.m~~-~~~!l.·l 29 on the ball crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. t-:-~f-:-+.,:-t:::+.::-f"!!'t-::+.-~t::-1"!"1-=t":-t::+.i:-1 31 Service expert? Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 -:+:+::,.r.;.R 33 Ugly scenes past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ..::-+:+.::+.-:-8 35 Warmly Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young welcomes solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying fonn and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
RIMPE 
± 
!tf.2006 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All r-llghls flesarved. 
TALME 
j
I I r (]
tATEOUE 
WHE:N HE: BROKE: THE: SOUND BAR­
J [J lu 
!<IE:!<, HE: E:NDE:D 
www.1umb1e.com 
UP TAL-KING--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
m 3: 
A rI I I ] A rI I I I I ] 
(Answers tomorrow) 
I 
Jumbles: APRON BRAVE ICEBOX ADDUCE Yesterday's Answer: 
What the investor did when he bought a doughnut shop-HE "EXPANDED" 
EUGENIA LASTHOROSCOPE  
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Brandon Boyd. 30; Mall Groening, 52;  
Melissa Mam;hester, 55; Jane Seymour. 55  
Happy Birthday: Any opportunity to use your creative imagination lhis year will  
set you apart from the competition. You will change your mind a lot, hill only  
because you are thinking quickly and re>ponding to your thoughts. The more you  
follow your gut feelings, the hetter off you'll he. Your numbers arc'-!, II, 14, 26,  
32,45  
ARIES (March 21-April111): Stick to basics and focus on business. You will have  
some very unusual ideas and, if you can develop lhcm to a point others will gel  
what you arl: trying lo do. you will he ahk to mlisl help. ***  
TAlJRUS (April 20-May 201: Don't kt the lillie things bother you so mtK"h aml  --­ 
refuse to ovcn·cact. You have far better things to do with your lime--like k•nding  
a hl'lping hand to a cause or tricnd. 11w more immersed you hewmc in doing what's  
righl, the mnre personal gain you will make. *****·  
GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Don'lleave anything to chance. Although you may  
think everything is falling into place, ~omeonc will prohahly interfere with your  
plans. Personal problems will surface with someone you can usually count on* •  
CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You will mi>s out on a good thing if you arc reluctant  
lo take a chance. Romance is in the stars, so make your move. Travel, S(>cialiJ.ing  
and hooking up with old friends will turn out superbly.****  
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Money-minded interests will turn out well. Let your true  
feelings be known and share what it is you want to do. You will lind yoursdf in a  
very strong position regarding a deal you've hcl'll trying to hring to tlw lahk·.•**  
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): An:omplishment will conK' easy as long as you arc  
honest ahout what you CIUI and can't do. Bringing in the help of someone who can  
take care of the things you can't will show how eftident, complimentary and in  
control you can he. ***  
LIBRA-(Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't labor over lhc personal changes you should  
probably he making. Lei things go for now and sec what you can do ahout your  
financial situation. Don't ex.pect the people closest to you to undcl'itand what you  
arc trying to do. ***  
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nnv. 21): Rcsu·iclinns may he in place hut, if you follow your  
own path. you will discover a whole new way of expressing yourself. Don't get  
angry --get busy following your heart's desires. Problems with nmlral·tors can he  
expected. ****  
SAGITTA.RilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't he too 4ukk to make changes. You will  
make a mistake if you lei your JK'rsonal life interfere with what you must gl'l done  
today. Look at the big picture. Your emotions will he diflicult to control.**  
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 1'1): You'll he ahead of the crowd no matter what  
you decide to do: Your timing will he impeccable and your ahility to pick and  
choose who and what you should spend time with and on will bring fortunate results.  
*****  
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Do what you can lo enhance your surroundings.  
Renovation or redecorating will turn out to your liking. Making changes to your  
personal situalion can be expected hut don't he disappointed if things don't move  
as 4uickly as you would like.***  
PISCES (l?l•h. Ill-March 20): Relationships will he a lillie convolulcd. Don't  ~­ 
assume other people arc thinking alung Ihe sanw line~ as you. You will face sonu:  
strong opposition if you don't respect what others want. ***  
Birthday Baby: You arc a strong contender in the game of life. You arc a drt•amer,  
an inventor and an adventurer. You have strong opinions and the ability to take over  
and get things done .  
EuJ?enia's Web sites: astrvu.dvice.cmnforjtm. cugenialast.comfor conjiclential con.wllalimu  

The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name----------------------­Address------------------­City ________ State---~ Zip______ 
-



THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 16, 2006 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish shoot 4-of-20 from the 3-point line 
in Big East victory 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame forward Rob 
Kurz scored 10 points and 
grabbed 11 rebounds as the 
Irish emerged with a 62-55 
victory over South Florida 
Wednesday in a game where 
Notre Dame struggled on the 
offensive end. 
The Irish (12-10, 3-8 in the Big East) shot 4-of-20 from 3­point range and 19-of-50 over­all. Notre Dame guard Colin Falls highlighted the rough night by shooting 1-of-1 0 from the field (0-of-9 from 3-point range) for nine points. 
"You've got to give them credit," Irish coach Mike Brey said of South Florida (6-18, 0­11 in the Big East). "They defend pretty good and they've 
see BULLS/page 20 

Irish rodeo 
Above, guard Chris Quinn moves around South Florida's Collin Dennis Wednesday. At right, guard Russell Carter drives to the hoop. 
•

PHOTOS BY 
GEOFF MATTESON 
page 24 
Irish need to stay disciplined in order to earn postseason bid 
Good wins bring smiles and celebration. Sloppy wins on the cusp of an imposing schedule do not. And the tone of the Notre Dame players and coach­
es following a 63-55 vic­tory over South Florida Wednesday reflected that attitude­we're glad we won. We 

needed to Pat Leonard win. Let's move on. 
Sports Writer 
It's the unfortunate reality for a Big East team cur­rently buried in the conference standings. 
"Our postseason life is on the 
see TOURNEY/page 20 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Strong fall has golfers swinging away at spring season 
half. After posting the best sin­and [King) said that she had she'll be there to support us, in the Notre Dame Women'sBy JACK THORNTON gle-semester performance in some great expectations for us and to do great this season." Invitational and grabbed sec­
Sports Writer 

program history, fourth-year and she expected us to put in Last fall, the squad had a slen­ond-place in both the Lady coach Debby King said she is more hours and work hard," der scoring average of 301.71, Razorback lnvitaional in 
Anyone who has been in making sure the Irish golfers said Notre Dame golfer Nariko the lowest in program history. October and the Lady Jaguar sports for a long time knows realize they have to be sharper Nakazaki, who is the national The Irish -currently ranked Invitational in November. that a good first half can be now than ever. co-leader in birdies with 49. No. 30 in the nation by golfs­wiped out by a sloppy second "We did have a team meeting "The main points were that tats.com -snatched first-place see GOLFERS/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Wolverines declawed by No. 15 Irish, 6-1 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
The No. 15 Irish remained undefeated this season as they upended No. 30 Michigan 6-1 Wednesday and improved their spring season record to 5-0. 
Not only did Notre Dame defeat its third consecutive opponent with the victory, the Irish also snapped the Wolverines' six-match home winning streak -dating back to Feb. 26 of last sea­son. 
But despite the success 
Notre Dame has found early in the season, the Irish didn't take their Big Ten foe lightly. 
"We didn't going into the match thinking it'd be a cakewalk," senior captain Lauren Connelly said. "We have had a couple of close matches with them in the past and knew they'd be playing their best." 
Despite the Wolverines' best efforts, the Irish found little trouble in shutting their opponent out in all three of the doubles matches. 
The No. 1-ranked pairing 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish ace Spartans in sweep 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish finished their four­game homestand on a high note Wednesday with a 7-0 shutout of No. 75 Michigan State. 
The win improved the No. 31 Irish to 6-4, capping off four consecutive wins at home. 
"It was one of our most com­plete matches," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said after the match. 
The team dropped only two sets en route to a rapid and dominant victory over the Spartans. 
"It's a great confidence boost-
see SPARTANS/page 22 










