

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 93 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22,2006 
Keough rectOr to take on new role 
Father Jarret appointed new superior of ND Holy Cross community 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
After live years as reetor of Keough Hall. Father Peter Jarret will now prepare to lead a VP.ry diiTerent group of men. 
In July, Jarret will take over for Fathnr Bill SeP.tdl as supe­rior of the lloly Cross commu­nity at Notre Dame, responsi­ble for the Ordnr's nearly 80 rnligious at thn Univnrsity. llis duties will cnnter on Corby Hall. where lw will oversee morning and nv11ning prayer and Mass -in short. Jarrnt said Tuesday, "maintaining the regular rhythm of the religious house." 
In this new role, the University announced Tuesday, Jarret will also become a 
Trustee and Fellow of the Univnrsity reprnsen ting tho Order of tho Holy Cross. Jarret said he became familiar with 


s o v e r a I Jarret members of the Board of Trustees while he was snrving as counselor to University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy from 2003-05. 
"[The Board of Trustees] is a wonderful group of people ... I'm excited about [working with them)," Jarret said. 
Jarret's appointment was orticially announced to the Holy Cross community on Feb. 12 and to the residents of Keough at Mass Sunday night. Jarret said Father David Tyson, provincial superior of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross, approached him about the job last. fall. 
Jarret said while he is excit­ed about the new opportunities with lloly Cross, he will miss being rector of a men's dorm. 

"]Leaving) is a tad bittllr­sweet ... I love Keough llall," he said. 
Jarret said Keough residents were "doing fine" after the announcement, but said a "mixture" of emotions -both for him and the students ­inevitably comes with the change. 
Junior John Lindennwynr, Keough Hall president, expressed the dorm's thanks for Jarret's time with the hall 
see JARRET/page 6 
'Bouts' gloves up for 76th year in the ring 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Wrirt·r 
Bnngal Bouts, the annual amateur Notre Dame boxing tournament that raises tens of thousands of dollars for the lloly Cross Mission in Bangladesh, began Tuesday night as more than 50 eon­tenders met in the ring in the Joyce Center. 
Now in thoir 76th year, the Bengal Bouts are a staple of Notrn Dame athletie tradition. Proceeds from the Bengal Bouts have been donated to the lloly Cross Missions in Bangladesh formerly known as the East Bengal province of India-every year sinee 1931. 
The Bengal Bouts brought in $500 in 1931, a nurnbor that had grown to $100,000 by last year. The money raised has helped build several elemen­

tary and secondary schools in Bangladesh and also has launched several medical care and nutritional programs in the region. 
Senior Miehael Schmitt returned to the Bengal Bouts ring Tuesday night after a yearlong absence, since he spent a semester abroad. He won the 140-pound weight division two years ago. 
"I think the competition is much more challenging this time around," Schmitt said. "There are just a lot of really ta~ented .~ids in the program thts year. 
Most of the Bengal Bouts contenders enter the program without any prior experience in boxing, according to the Bouts' Web site. 
Junior and senior captains assist the .coaches in leading the students' fitness drills and 
see BOUTS/page 6 

The Observer names next General Board 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer has hired department editors for all but two 2006-07 General Board positions, incoming Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon announced Tuesday. 
The appointments are effec­tive March 20. 
Two of the 11 positions are being filled by those who have previously served in their posts. Jim Kirihara has served as Controller since the fall of 2005 and will continue through this semester before becoming Business Manager next fall. Graham Ebetsch will remain as editor of the Graphics Department through 2006-07. He has held that 

post since the spring of 2005. The nine new General Board appointments are: 
+Mary Kate Malone and Amanda Michaels, News Editors 
+ Ken Fowler, Sports Editor +Brian Doxtader, Scene 
Editor +Dustin Mennella, Photo 
Editor  
+Joey  King,  Viewpoint  
Editor  
+Kelly  Meehan,  Saint  

Mary's Editor +Sharon Brown, Ad Sales Manager +Nina Pressly, Ad Design Manager "Each person selected 
see BOARD/page 6 
THE 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND senior re1nams 111 hospital 
Student hit by car early Sunday now in fair condition 
By KAREN LANGLEY Assisranr News Editor 
Notrn Damn senior Brian Cardiln remainnd hospitaliznd Tuesday artnr sustaining lwad injuries whnn he was hit by a ear early Sunday morning, ofli­cials said. 
Cardile was in fair condition Tuesday at Memorial llospital in South Bend. a nurse said Tuesday night. 
Witnnsses told South Bend police oiTicors Cardilo walkod into East Hdison Hoad in front. of a moving vnhieiP. driven hy Chicago rnsident .Jon Schonnwetnr at approximatPiy 
2:30 a.m. Sunday, the South Bend Tribune reported Monday. Schoonwllter was uninjured. 
The South Bend Police Department did not return calls seeking comment Tuesday night. 
Cardile, a former Keenan Ilall resident who now lives at Turtle Creek Apartments, was struck by a ear "while walking home !from I the Linebacker ILounge 1." Koenan rector Father Mark Thesing said in an e-mail sent Sunday night to current Keenan rnsidents and former rnsidnnts now living ofT­campus. 
"I would not be surprised if he is released from the hospital within the next few days," Thesing said in an e-mail to 
see ACCIDENT/page 6 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Law student Jeffrey Simko, left, takes a hard punch from junior Christopher Hanlon, who went on to win their match Tuesday. 


1Merchant' sparks heated debate 
Panelists discuss anti-Semitic attitudes in classic Shakespearean play 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL News Writer 

A discussion between six panelists about anti-Semitism 'in William Shakespeare's "The Merchant of Venice" drew an audience packing the Philbin Theatre in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC) beyond capacity Tuesday. 
Those arriving 10 minutes prior to Tuesday night's panel discussion, "Engaging the Merchant of Venice: Academic Freedom and Anti-
see PANEL/page 8 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Yes sir!' 
So you think waking up to your radio alarm at 8 a.m. is tough? Try being roused out of your sleep at 6:30a.m. by reveille blaring on the school PA sys­tem. 
After promising to visit my friend at school for four years, I finally made it to the Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs over the weekend. 
I knew I was 


going to be about Megan O'Neil as far removed from Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's
as I could get. The 

Editor
Academy is 80 per­cent men, and after receiving many an e-mail about the miseries of hazing I half expected to be ordered to drop and give 20 as soon as I walked through the door. 
The mood of campus was very pro­fessional and the decor rather somber. Instead of a nice fountain or a beautiful bell tower, the Academy has retired fighter jets parked on its main quad. As my friend and I approached the library door, I suddenly realized every student around me had his or her hand raised to their forehead in a salute to some high-ranking officer who was walking by. 
Despite my general suspicion of the military, I decided I had to attend at least one military science class during my visit just for the experience of it. I sat in a room of cadets -decked out in fatigues and boots-in my jeans and sweater looking very conspicuous. The lesson of the day? Give a detailed brief­ing on how to invade North Korea, attack its defenses and destroy weapons of mass destruction. 
Anyone up for a nice Jane Austen novel? Anyone? 
The fourth years (freshmen) at the academy are easy to spot. They have the shortest haircuts and the most hag­gard look in their eyes. Fourth years are not allowed to carry their book bags over their shoulders but instead have to lug them around by hand. 
Exhaustion seems to be the norm at the Academy. Not anI-stayed-up-until­4-in-the-morning-writing-a-paper tired, but an I-stayed-up-until-4-in-the­morning-and-woke-up-at-6-and-failed­my-uniform-inspection-and-got­screamed-at-and-then-had-to-run-S miles type of tired. 
One cadet, looking like a zombie, lowered his cheek to the table in front of him. "No heads on the desks," the professor called out. 
While I myself would never choose to attend a military school, it was impossi­ble not to admire the work that was being done there. Everyone was very friendly and welcoming toward me. Even in the brief weekend I spent with cadets, it was clear they had a strong sense of duty and a desire to serve their country. 
Friday was "Hundreds" day at the Air Force Academy, the day on which lirsties (seniors) are handed an enve­lope with their base assignment at a fancy dinner. As they trickled back into the dorm after the ceremony chatting with friends and calling parents, I found myself excited for their futures and confident that those fighter jets are in good hands. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
-------------------. 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT THE COLLEGE READERSHIP PROGRAM? 

Elizabeth Sullivan  Heidi Hansen  Kevin Washington  Mary Morales  Mary Pat Smith  Winifred Samuels  
junior  junior  freshman  senio~  junior  senior  
Pasquerilla East  Pasquerilla East  Knott  offcampus  McGlinn  Pasquerilla East  
"Are we still  "The what?"  "As long as  "'t's great!  "/ liked it when  "There is a  
doing that?"  college students  People should  it was free. "  world that  






exists outside of the gates ofND, so ofcourse people should know about its truths." 
IN BRIEF 

Debbie Johnson Schibert, Chair of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees, will speak as part of the "After Graduation: Your Saint Mary's Degree" at 6 p.m. tod­night in the west wing of The Noble Family Dining Hall. 
Wasted and Wounded II, a tutorial on Internet predators, will take place at 6:30 p.m. tonight in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The "Around the World Film Festival" will take place at 7 
p.m. tonight in Vander Vennet Theater in the Saint Mary's Student Center. 
Saint Mary's Dalloway's Board will host Wednesday Night Live, a night of music and comedic skits, tonight at 8 
p.m. at Dalloway's Coffee House. 
Bishop Thomas J. Gumbleton of Detroit will speak at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library as part of the Catholic Think Tank lec­ture series. 
The Saint Mary's Book Club will meet Thursday in the Student Center Lounge from 
6:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. The group is starting "A Hand Maid's Tale" by Margaret Atwood. 
Gabriel Meyer, author of "War and Faith in Sudan," will give a lecture at 7:30 p.m. Thursday in room 131 of DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 34 HIGH 

23 
LOW 17 LOW 

17 
can read, then the program's all right with me, but seriously I don't know what  be more aware ofwhat's going on in the world."  
that is."  
•  


DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Bill Reagan, right, assistant director of RecSports, presents a check to Andrew Sarna, left, and Mostafa Sabet for winning the Feb. 4 Late Night Olympics with a team of MBA students. The pair prompty donated the money back to RecSports, the first winners ever to do so. 
OFFBEAT 

Man gets violent after roll comes up empty 
MOSS BLUFF, Fla. -A Florida man has been accused of fatally beating his roommate with a sledgehammer and a claw hammer because there was no toilet paper in their home. 
Franklin Crow, 56, was charged Monday with homicide in the death of Kenneth Matthews, 58, according to the Marion County Sheriff's Office. Capt. Thomas Bibb said 
. Crow initially denied his involvement, but con­fessed during questioning. 
Crow told investigators 
TODAY 
a:: 

that the men were fight­ing about the toilet paper over the weekend when Matthews pulled out a rifle. Crow said he then began beating Matthews with the sledgehammer and claw hammer, according to an affidavit. 
Matthews was beaten so badly he had to be identi­fied through his finger­prints, detectives said. 
Hot sauce fires diner's temper 
COUNCIL BLUFFS, Iowa -Talk about a hotheaded reaction to hot sauce. 
vandalized a bathroom at a Mexican restaurant because he thought employees put hot sauce on his tacos. 
Two men ordered some tacos at Taco John's drive-thru around 8 p.m. Friday. 
After receiving their food, they pulled over in the parking lot and one of the men walked into the restaurant and yelled at employees for putting hot sauce on his tacos, police said. 
Information compiled 
LLI 
::z: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
....1 c( 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 40 HIGH 36 HIGH 38 HIGH 38 
LOW 29 LOW 24 LOW 24 LOW 29 
Authorities were look­from the Associated ing for a man they say Press. 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Atlanta 44 I 37 Boston 33 I 20 Chicago 32 I 12 Denver 42 I 6 Houston 55 I 37 Los Angeles 57 I 42 Minneapolis 33 I 10 New York 35 123 Philadelphia 33 I 25 Phoenix 63 I 44 Seattle 41 I 30 St. Louis 34 I 22 Tampa 75 I 54 Washington 40 I 28 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Volunteers help decipher fortns 

By MAUREEN MULLEN 
Nt·ws Writer 
With April I!i loom in!{ on t.hn not-so-distant horizon, tho Nolrn Damn Tax i\ssislanen l'ro!{nun (T/\1'1 is commillod to lwlping t.axpaynrs in tho South Bnnd/Michiana community file on limn. 
TAP is a lax program that hogan operating during the narly 1970s with tho initial goal of' helping Indiana taxpayers file f'or speda I Indiana ermli t. Ti\P currently f'unetions "to provide l'reo income tax return prepara­tion service to low-inconw indi­viduals on a regularly sdwdulnd basis at wnvnnient. locations," mads tho ollidal mission stato­nwntlinmd on TAP's Wnb site. 
Ti\P is a program supportnd by student volunteers, certified public accountants and faculty and staff' voluntnnrs, the Web silo said. 
Matllww /\dams. chairporson ol' TAP's studnnl administrator group, said Nolrn Damn and Saint Mary's studonts familiar with U.S. tax law arn oligibln to work as volunleors lilr tho pro­gram upon comploting a two crodit. pass/fail course. Tho eourse is a f'our WE~nk personal ineonw tax prnparatory course taught by l'rof'nssor Kenneth Milani. who has bonn involved with thn program sincn its lwginning. 
In addition to gaining aea­dmnic crmlil and valuabln ~_~xpn­riEmco in an:ounlancy, studnnl volunteers are doing a true service to their community, /\dams said. 
"We arn doin!{ real tax work li1r our dienL'i," /\dams said. "It is a very satisf'ying thing to know that something you lnarn in tho dassroom can have such a positive oll'nct on a person's lif'e." 
Thn servico-lnarning program is ollilrod to dinnts "1 00 percent f'rce ol' charge," he said. 
TAP's Web site explains the program is equipped to serve both domestic dients and inter­national elienls -two popula­tion groups with very dill'ernnt needs. 
Domestic clients may qualif'y l'or Ti\P if their yearly incomn is $:~5.000 or less. These clients are largely from the Michiana area and can receive the lax program's services by visiting one of thn several local Ti\P ol'lices. Ol'lkcs are located on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses as well as local public libraries and city centers, all of which are listed on TAP's Web sitn. 
In addition, the program is equippnd to provide individual on-site hnlp -either at home, extended care faeilities or soda! servien agnndes -to taxpayers unable to visit a regularly scheduled TAP location. 
The Web site also describes the service Ti\P provides to international clients, or nonresi­dent aliens. Eligible persons arc international faculty, researchers and visiting schol­ars as well as international stu­dents and overseas students. Volunteers aiding international clients must have training in 
U.S. international tax treaties as well as U.S. tax law require­ments that are imposed on legal residents and nonresidents. 
Last week -the first full work week for Ti\P volunteers -nearly 300 tax returns were completed, and /\dams said the next lew weeks will be busy. 
"Even if you can't get some­one a refund, you sure feel good knowing that you saved them the money of having thoir taxes prepared elsewhere," /\dams said. 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullen1@nd.edu 
Haiti Aw-areness Week brings issues to light 
Organizers strive to teach politics, history 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER 
News Writer 

Organizers of llaiti Awareness Week will attempt to enlighten the Notre Dame community this week as they examine and publicize Haiti's political problems while also celebrating its rich eulturn. 
Throughout the weE~k. dillcrent evenL'l will explore topics ranging from economics to dancing in 
order to educate "Part ofour and canceled in 
the Notre Dame education program recent years, community about l'etnrok said. 
is getting students
llaiti. The week, "Part of our edu­also part of' Black involved in learning cation program is 
History Month about 1/aiti in their getting students events on cam­involvf~d in learn­
specific programs of
pus, includes stu­ing about Haiti in
study."
dent projeets and their specific pro­diseussions about grams of study," llaili. The evenL'i Sarah Peterek Peterek said. "So are sponsored by many diseiplines
manager
the Department can apply to this
Haiti Program 
of Biological somehow." 
Sciences, the Kellogg Institute and several other organizations on campus. 
"This is our second year organ­izing llaiti Awarennss Week," said Sarah Peterek, pro1,rram manager of the llaiti Program. "We're try­ing to raise awareness about health issues and life in llaiti." 
llaiti has been wrought with political violence and devastating hurricanes in recent years, and event organizers hope to expose the University community to both its problems and its triumphs. 
Both Notre Dame and the Congregation of the Holy Cross have important tics to llaiti. The llaiti Program at Notre Dame funds disease and healthcare 
Tho week began Monday with a reeeption in O'Shaughnessy llall l'naturing arehitncture and industrial design student proj­ects. In recent years, Notre Dame students have gone to Haiti for spring break seminars through the Center for Social Concerns. and the dHsign proj­ects were used to mpair watnr pumps and wells in the country. However, because of violence. the trip was deemed unsaf'e 
In Fnbruary 2004, a violent rebellion shook the country, eausing political tur­moil and uphnaval. Onn goal of' llaitian i\wanmess Week is to dis­sect and understand the inllu­onees and implications of llaiti's politkally unstable history. 
On Tunsday "The Agronomist," a film about the life of Jean Dominique, a llaitian journalist and civil rights activist. was shown in the llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Students will present their proj­ects on llaitian history, religion and political issues at 2 p.m. Tuesday and Thursday in the llesburgh Center. 
In addition to evenl'i on llaitian 
research, and Holy Cross Associates-a post-graduate service program -sends volun­teers to work in the country each year. Notre Dame's relationship with llaiti began 14 years ago when Father Tom Streit began research in the country on mos­quito-born diseases. 
"The real driving force behind his work is eliminating disease," Peterek said. "With what can be done, there's so much potential to help." 
politics, there will be cultural events during the week as well. On Wednesday, students can learn Caribbean dance moves from professional instructors in the LaFortune Ballroom at 7 p.m. The week will dose Friday with a llaitian/1\rneriean Mass at 5 p.m. in Pangborn llall, followed by an Africana dinner at 6 p.m. in the Colcman-Morsn Center. 
Contact Adrienne Ruffner at aruffner@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 22 




THEOLOGY ON TAP 
Presents 
Brad Gregory 
Notre Dame History Dept. 

What 01akes a University Catholie? 

The differences bet"'een Notre DaJDe and Stanford 


More to Come on 3/22 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 
page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 22, 2006 



GRAHAM 
DANCE COMPANY 
to South Bend'e MORRIS PERFORMING ARTS CENTER program includes Graham's groundbreaking 11APPALACHIAN SPRING" 
SAT. FEB. 25 AT 7:30PM 
$45-30 general public, $38-28 faculty/staff. $38-26 seniors. $25-15 aU students 
For lickets to NO PRESENTS: LIVE AT THE MORRIS"'""''· call (574) 235-9190 or •isH WWW.MORRISCENTER.ORG. 
r;:E1UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 

ROBERT AND REBECCA BLUESTONE 

WOVEN HARMONY 
SAT. MAR. 4 AT 8 PM 
CLASSICAL GUITAR AND LARGE-SCALE TEXTILE ART 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE I STUDENT TICKETS $15 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~-------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Search for miners proceeds slowly 
SAN JUAN Dl·: SABINAS, Mexieo -Hescuc workers searching for 65 coal miners trapped deep hmwath the desert scrub of northern Mexico made excruciatingly slow progress Tuesday, working with picks and shovels as anguished rnlatives demanded information. 
Morn than two days after a gas explosion filled tunrwls with fallen rock, wood and metal. rescuers have found no sign of the workers -either dead or alive -in the Pasta de Conchos mine, about 85 miles southwest of l•:agle Pass, Texas. 
Crews wearing gas masks and oxygen tanks got through orw wall of debris. only to encounter anotlwr about 1,800 feet inside the tunnel 1mrly Tuesday. At least two eon­veyer belt opPrators may be just beyond the wall. hut most of th1~ other miners were thought to lw as far as mw to three miles from llu~ mirw's entrance. 
Car bomb kills 22 in Iraqi capital 
BA<;IIDAI>-A car bomb nxploded Tuesday on a street pal'ked with shoppers in a Shiite area of Baghdad, killing 22 peoplo and wounding 28, poli1:e said. It was tho deadliest homh attack in tlw Iraqi capital in a month. 
'I'PtTiliPd drildren screanwd and several wonHHJ wailed for tlwir dead. crying. "the ter­rorists. may Cod punish tlwm." Shattnrml bits of' l'nrits and vngPtables from vendors' push­earls lay scallerPd on tlw street amid pools of' blood. 
At loast Pight otlwr pnopln wem killed and morn than :w injured Tuesday in bombings and shootings nlsnwhern in Baghdad and in attacks on lwauty parlors and liquor stores ­symbols of' Westnrn inflwmee -in Baqouba northeast of' tlw capital. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Supreme Court to address abortion 
WASIIINGTON-The Supreme Court said Tuesday it would consider reinstating a federal han on what opponents call partial­birth abortion, pulling the contentious issue back to tlw high court on conservative .Justice Sarmwl Alito's first day. 
Alito could well be the tie-breaking vote when the court decides if doctors can be jailml for performing the abortion proco­
dun~. 
It is tlw lirst time tho eourt has consid­ered a federal rnstrietion on abortion, and conservatives said thny expect tho member­ship chango to affect the outcome. 
"This is tho frontline abortion ease in tho wuntry," said .lay Sekulow, chief counsel for tim 1:onsnrvative American Center for Law and .lustien, who represents members of Congress in tim ease. 

Three indicted for plotting attacks 
CLEVI·:LANI> -Three Muslim men from tlw Middle East have bnen ehargnd with plotting tnrrorist attacks against U.S. and eoalition troops in Iraq and other countries. 
Orw of the men, a citizen of both the U.S. and .lor·dan. also was accused of' threaten­ing to kill or injure l'residnnt Bush, accord­ing to an indictment relmtsed Tuesday. 
All throo had livod in Toledo within the past ynur and wore arrested over thn week­end -two of them in Toledo, tho third in .Jordan. authorities said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teachers commited to evolution 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Ten years ago, high sdwol biology teachers in Indiana spent little time teadring students about evolution. 
Despite eontrovnrsy ovnr the plaee of evo­lution instruction in tho classroom, there's bonn a shil'l in the lloosier state: A now study indieatns teachers arn devoting morn, not fnwnr, hours to irH~orporating Urn concept of I'Volution into tlwir lessons. At tlw same tinw. tlw study says. Indiana sdwols of ndu­cation rould improve their preparation of sriPnl·e tnadwrs on tlw subject of evolution. 


Bush defends port company sale 
Deal with United Arab Emirates shipping companies endorsed by President 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON­
Brushing aside objections 
from Hepublicans and 
Democrats alike, President 
Bush endorsed the takeover 
of shipping operations at six 
major U.S. seaports by a 
state-owned business in the 
United Arab Emirates. lie 
pledged to veto any bill 
Congress might approve to 
block the ahrreement. 
The president on Tuesday defended his administra­tion's earlier approval of the sale of London-based Peninsular and Oriental Stearn Navigation Co. to Dubai Ports World. dnspite eoncnrns in Congress it eould incroasn the possibility of terrorism at American ports. 
Thn saln -expnetnd to bn linaliznd in early March ­would put Dubai Ports in charge of major shipping operations in New York, New .Jersey, Baltimore, Nnw Orlnans, Miami and Philadelphia. "If' there was any chance that this trans­aetion would jeopardize the security of the United Statns, it would not go forward," Bush said. 
"It sends a terrible signal to friends around the world that it's OK for a company from one country to managn the port, but not a country that plays by the rules and has got a good track record from another part of the world," Bush said. 
To assuage concerns, the administration disclosed some assurances it had rwgotiatod with Dubai Ports. It requirod mandatory par­ticipation in U.S. security programs to stop smuggling and detect illegal shipmenl<> of nudear materials; rough­ly :n other port companies partieipate in these volun­tarily. The Coast Guard also said Tuesday it was nearly l'inishod inspecting Dubai l'orb' l'adlities in the Unitod States. 
A senior Homeland Socurity ol'l'icial. Stewart Baker, said this was the first­ever sale involving U.S. port operations to a state-ownod government. "In that sense 

RussiA 


this is a new layer of con­trols," he said. Baker added that U.S. intelligence agen­cies were consulted "very early on to actually look at vulnerabilities and throats." 
Bush sought to quiet a political storm that has unit­ed Hepublican governors and Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist of Tennessee with liberal Democral<>, inducting New York's two senators, llillary Hodham Clinton and Charles Schumer. 
Frist said Tuosday, before Bush's comments, that he would introduce legislation to put the sale on hold if the White House did not delay the takeover. lie said the deal raised "serious ques­tions regarding the safety and security of our home­land. 
!louse Speaker Dennis llastert, H-111., asked the president for a moratorium on the sale until it could be studied further. "We must not allow the possibility of compromising our national security due to lack of' review or oversight by the federal govornment," llastert said. 
Maryland's Hepublican Gov. Hobert Ehrlich, during a tour of Baltimore's port on Tuesday, called tho deal an "overly sneretive process at the federal level." 
Bush took the ram st11p of calling reporters to his con­ference room on Air Foree One after mturning from a speech in Colorado. IIe also stopped to talk bnli>re televi­sion cameras after he returned to the White llouso. 
"I can understand why some in Congress havn raised questions about whntlwr or not our country will be less seeuro as a rnsult of this transaction," the prnsidont said. "But tlwy rwod to know that our gov­ernnwnt has looknd at this issun and looknd at it earn­fully." 
A senior exoeutivn from Dubai Ports World plndgnd tlw company would agrnn to whatovnr sneurity precau­tions the U.S. govnrnmont domandod to salvagn tho dnal. Chief oporating ollker Edward "Ted" II. Bilkey promisml Duhai Ports "will fully eoopnrato in putting into place whatever is necns­sary,to protoet the termi­nals. 



Iran says negotiations 'constructive' 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -A top Iranian negotiator on Tuosday said "constructive" nudear talks in Moscow offered hopn of ending a diplomatic standoff, but some Hussians voieod concern that Iran was using the talks to slltll for time and avnrt interna­tional sanctions. 
Tim lltlks centnred on a Knmrlin com­prorniso proposal, backod by tho Unitod Sllttos and the European Union, that c<tlls for uranium for Iran's nuclear nnnrgy prof.,'l'<Un to be nnriehod in Hussia to prn­vent it from being divnrtod for atomic wNtpons. 

Enriched uranium can be usnd as fuel for a nudear roactor or fissile material for a bomb. Iran says it is pursuing peaceful nuclear energy but Western nations fear it is seeking an atomic weapon. 
"In our boliel', tho trend of nogotiations was positive and constructive," Iran's chief' negotiator, Ali llosseinitash. told state-run Iranian television as he lel't Moscow al'tor two days of'meetings. 
"Thorn arn elmnents in these negotia­tions that givn us ~-,rrounds l(lr hope that we will roach an agreement," Hussia's Interfax news agency quotod I Iossninitw;h, l11n deputy secrnlltry of the Supreme National Security Couneil, as saying. 
The negotiations nndnd without any visible progross, but Hussian Fornign Minister Sergey Lavrov dndinod to Ialli'! llmm a litilurn. 
"I would bn cautious about using tho term 'litilum' or 'sntbaek' as long w; tlw nogotiations have not linishnd," hn said in tnlovisnd romarks. 
U.S. Undorsn1:rntary of State Nicholas Burns s<tid Tunsday on a visit to Moscow that "from what wn know ... no nnw h'l'ound wa..'i bmknn," but addnd thai. Ju~ l110ught broad mopnration among mun­tries in pressuring Iran W<L'i working wPIJ. 
---------------, 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
Accident 
continued from page 1 
The Observer Tuesday night. 
Thesing visited Cardile Sunday afternoon and explained the situation to the dorm in his Sunday night e­mail. 
"[Cardile] was alert and com­municative, although very tired and experiencing a good deal of pain," Thesing said in the Sunday night e-mail. "At this point, none of his injuries appear to be life-threatening. He will have a long recovery process." 
Thesing asked residents to keep Cardile and his family in their prayers. 
A close friend of Cardile's who was contacted by The Observer Tuesday night subse­quently spoke to Cardile, who requested he not comment. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 


Jarret 
continued from page I 
and the residents' regret at seeing him go. 
"I am happy that the order of Holy Cross has seen the great potential in Father Pete and is willing to give him such a won­derful opportunity," Lindenmeyer said. "However, Father Pete has been an extraordinary rector during my years in Keough. He has acted as leader, priest, brother and most sincerely of all, friend. 
"For that, I think I can speak for the dorm in saying that he will be truly missed." 
Jarret is, however, looking forward to a bit less stress on the job with the Holy Cross priests. 
"I'll go to bed earlier lin Corby]." he joked. "[Moving from Keough) will be a little bit of an adjustment, but not bad." 
Neither Seetch nor Tyson could be reached for comment Tuesday. 
Jarret received his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame in 1986 and his master of divinity degree from Notre Dame in 1991, and was ordained a 

month and a half as a group, doing drills and training

Bouts 
together, and becoming friends," he said. "When the
continued from page 1 
championships finally begin, introduction to basic boxing you fight each other and it's techniques-such as how to intense, but when it's over, as throw and block punches -soon as you step out of the and footwork. ring, you're immediately 
Junior captain Andrew friends again." McGill, a winner Tuesday Freshman Joey Leary, a night, said the training is winner Tuesday night in the intense, often demanding 150-pound division, said it three or four was the pro­hours every gram's serious­
"When the

day. ness and inten­Aspiring championships finally sity he found 
champions begin, you fight each appealing. 
must perform "I was a
other and it's intense, 

more than pretty commit­300 push­but when it's over, as ted athlete in 
ups, 500 sit­soon as you step out of high school, 
ups and but I'm not
the ring, you're 

1,000 jump-currently in 
ing jacks immediately friends any varsity every day again. team, so before the Bengal Bouts training really caught
Andrew McGill 

matches even my attention begin, McGill Bengal Bouts boxer and gave me said. an opportunity Though the to stay program is physically involved in a serious sport," demanding and time consum­he said. ing, McGill said the Bengal Some years, the crowds the Bouts offer a team-like expe­fights draw are surpassed rience that attracts students. only by those at football "This is the only program games. The 1999 finals were I've ever heard about where the second most attended guys that will eventually have athletic event of the year, the to fight each other spend a Bouts' Web site said. 

Board 
continued from page 1 
brings significant talent and experience to their respec­tive positions," Gilloon said. "I am confident the staff assembled will build on the tradition of excellence The Observer has established." 
Malone is a sophomore from Farley Hall majoring in American Studies and minor­ing in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. The Columbus, Ohio native started working at The Observer during the fall semester of her freshman year, and has since covered topics including the contro­versy surrounding the 2005 regilding of the Golden Dome and aspects of the current academic freedom and Catholic character debate. 
Michaels, a junior from 
Badin Hall majoring in English, started working with The Observer during the fall semester of her freshman year. The Sewickley, Penn. native previously worked as an Observer associate news editor and has spent two summers as a reporting intern at the Pittsburgh Post­Gazette. 
Fowler, a sophomore from Siegfried Hall, is a Political Scie nee major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor from Long Beach, N.Y. He has covered Notre Dame women's soccer, Notre Dame women's basket­ball, men's golf and Saint Mary's basketball. 
Doxtader is a junior major­ing in History, Film, Television and Theater and English. Originally from Hurley, N.Y., Doxtader lives in Alumni Hall and has worked in the Scene 
"I used to box, so I know Napolitano introduced an from experience there is Olympic boxing style to the nothing more invigorating Bouts in which fights are while you're scored by the fighting than number of punch­the crowd's "/ never thought I'd es landed, as energy," Bouts like boxing, but the opposed to pro­announcer fessional boxing,
Bengal Bouts have a
and law stu­where the dent Jeff really noble strength and Robinson said. purpose. impact of the 
Junior punches often Katherine determine the
Katherine Coba 
Coba said she has a friend junior competing this year and is looking forward to cheer­ing him on. 
"I never thought I'd like boxing, but the Bengal Bouts have a really noble purpose, and since you know the guys who are boxing, it's really exciting to watch," Coba said. 
The Bouts' Web site gives a detailed history of the event's presence at Notre Dame. 
Irish football coach Knute Rockne first brought boxing to South Bend in the 1920s with the intention of keeping his players in shape during the spring semester. 
The program was taken over in 1931 and expanded by a boxer from New York, Dominic "Nappy" Napolitano, who directed and coached the Bengal Bouts for 55 years. 
Department since the fall of his sophomore year. 
Mennella, a sophomore from Keough Hall, is a Civil Engineering major who hails from Seattle, Wash. He has worked in the Photo Department since the fall of his freshman year. 
King is a Mechanical Engineering and Philosophy major who has worked in the Viewpoint Department since the spring of his freshman year. King came to Notre Dame from London, England and lives in Siegfried Hall. 
Meehan, a Communications major living in Le Mans Hall, is a native of Poland, Ohio. She joined The Observer dur­ing the fall of her freshman year and has since covered various Saint Mary's events including the SMC Monologues. 
Brown, who lives in Welsh Family Hall, is a Marketing 
winner. 
Knockdowns in 
the Bengal Bouts' 
ring are not a common sight, as Notre Dame boxers learn instead a style of boxing that focuses on technique, agility and movement. 
And the Bouts go beyond the Notre Dame community. The celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Bengal Bouts in 2000 brought boxing legend Muhammad Ali to South Bend to receive a spe­cial Bengal Bout Award, given every year to an out­standing figure in boxing and humanitarian causes. 
Other recipients of the award include Father Ned Joyce and two-time world middleweight champion Tony Zale, "the Gary Man of Steel." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at mberrios@nd.edu 
major and Chinese minor from Highwood, Ill. She is currently an executive in the Ad Sales Department. 
Pressly, from Palm Beach, Fla., is a junior from Howard Hall. The Graphic Design major has worked as a graphic designer for Legends of Notre Dame. 
Kirihara is a former Knott Ilall resident who currently lives off campus. lie is a fourth-year Accountancy major and Japanese minor from Bloomington, Minn. 
Ebetsch, a junior Graphic Design major, has been Graphics Editor since the spring of his sophomore year. He lives in Carroll Hall and is a native of Wheaton, Ill. 
The Observer is still accepting applications for the Web Administrator and Systems Manager positions. Please direct all inquiries to Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
priest in 1992. From 1991-95 he was deacon and associate pastor at Christ the King Parish in South Bend. He was pastor of St. Pius X Parish in Granger, Ind. from 1995 until his return to the University in 2001. 
Jarret currently teaches one course a year in Notre Dame's master of divinity program, which he plans to continue doing next year. 
Jarret said he believes the Office of Student Affairs will soon begin the search for a new Keough rector. 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


An Eveningof Prayer from Around the World 

Pleasejoln us for an eveningof 

Z.en Me tation 

as r,;->rt ofa series explor-ingthe beliefs and prnct:k:.es ofthe world's ~-eat: faith traditions. 
Guided by D1·. Thomas F~tersen and n:. Gene Gor-ski, CS(::. 
Thursda_y3 F~bruar:y 2?1 2006 ??0 coleman-tv1orse 7 -:-7:+5 pm 

Sponsor·ed by: Campus Ministr~J· FOG Graduate Re5odence.s, Graduate Student Union, International Student Service:; & Activitie5, Univ<:r.sit,y Village, and ND Muslim StudentAssociation 
CM 


HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 

You can advance the Catholic Mission ofHoly Cross! 
HALL DIRECTORS NEEDED 
2006-2007 HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
GRAD STUDENTS LAW STUDENTS 
ndergraduates are also encouraged to inquire about RA vacancies 
CONTACT RESLIFE@I-ICC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Wednesday, February 22 , 2006 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

11,069.06 -46.26
}ones 
,A 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,550 163 1,782 2,129,681,100 
-.,~,, 

AMEX I ,833.27 +12.64 NASDAQ 2,262.96 -19.40 NYSE 8,082.66 -9.76 S&PSOO 1,283.04 -4.20 NII<KB(Tokyo) 15.887.09 -·7.8-5~ FTSE IOO(London) 5, 8 57.7 0 -5.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -1.12 -0.46 40.75 INTEL CP (INTC) +0,05 +0.01 20.62 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -I ,52 -0.08 5.18 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0,60 -0,16 26.54 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -I AI -0.28 19.58 
Ti'easurles 

30-YEAR BOND +0.48 +0.22 45,63 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.41 +0.18 44.45 5-YEAR NOTE +0.40 +0, 18 45.27 3-MONTH BILL +0.77 +0,35 45,84 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) +I AS 62,74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.00 556,60 PORK BELLIES (cencs/lb,) +3,00 87,33 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.5950 EURO 0,8393 POUND 
0.5731 CANADIAN$ 
1.1472 
IN BRIEF 
Boston Scientific stock increases 
BOSTON -Shares of' Boston Scientific Corp. rosn IH~arly 9 pnrcent Thursday after llw nwdical cl!wicn maker's finaneo chief bought almost $4.5 million worth of' his com­pany's stock, prompting investors to follow his Inad. 
Thn shares' rise to their highnst dosing pri1:e in morn than a month !wiped thn stock rnhound from a rneent slump amid investor worries about llw eompany's pnnding $27 bil­lion acquisition of' Guidant Corp. Shares of' Boston Sdnntilk also havn languished f'ollow­ing a Jan. 2fi warning by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration about quality-eontrol probiPms at thi~ Natkk-based company. 
Analysts said invostors Thursday rnsponded to stock purehas1~s by Chief Finandal Ol'lieer Larry Bnst that amountnd to a personal vote or conlidnnen in his eompany's future. 
"I think investors do take insider buying as a good sign, and I think they especially want­Pd Boston Sdnntilir to do it," said Jan Wald, an analyst with A.C. t•:dwards & Sons. 
Economic indicators rise dramatically 
NEW YOBK -A closely watched gauge of futun~ neonomie aetivity rosn sharply in January. suggesting the nation's economy could s1w robust growth in tho spring, a pri­vatn research group said Tuesday. 
Thn Confernnen Board said its Index of Loading Eeonomie Indicators rose 1.1 pereent last month, lwttnr than thn 0.5 porcent gain nxpneted by marknt analysts. January's inrrnasn follows a 0.3 perennt increase in Dn1:nmbnr. 
The gain in Dm:mnbnr's lnading oeonomic indieator was rnvisod upward l'rom what was originally rnportnd as a 0.1 percent inernasn, aeeording to Ken c;oldstoin, thn Conference Board's labor economist. 
The leading index's January inerease n~flects improvement in six of 10 components, induding stock priees and building permits. The index has increased 2.3 percent from July 2005 to January 2006. 
"The oeonomy got oil' to a good start learlyJ in the lirst quarter," said Joe ·LaVorgna, ehief fixed-income economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

RadioShack CEO steps down 
David Edmondson resigns following questions concerning his resunze's accuracy 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -HadioShack 
Corp.'s embattled president 
and CEO, David 
Edmondson, resigned 
Monday following quns­
tions about his resume's 
accuracy. 
The Fort ·worth electron­ics retailer said that its board accepted his resig­nation and has promoted Claire Babrowski -execu­tive vice presidnnt and chin!' operating oflieor -to aeting CEO. 
Leonard Hoberts, HadioShaek's ehairman and Edmondson's prnde­cossor as CEO, said the movn was necessary to restore the company's erodibility. 
"One ol' the most impor­tant things we have as a corporation is integrity and trust and we know we have to restore that back to the public," he said. 
Edmondson issued a brief' statement Monday but did not discuss his resume. 

"For tho last 11 years, it has bnen my privilege to be associated with HadioShack." he said. "At this time the board and I have agreed that it is in the best interest of the compa­ny for new leadership to step forward so that our turnaround plan has the best possible chance to sw:cond, as I know it will." quit, the company said. Wednesday he believes that didn't think the change 
Edmondson's troubles Edmondson, 46, joined he received a theology would rome on a public began last Tuesday when RadioShack in 1994 and diploma called a ThG, but holiday, as it did, whnn errors in his resume were had been CEO since May. not the four-year bachelor financial markets wnre reported by the Fort Worth Edmondson had claimed or science degrnn listed on closed. Star-Telegram. The compa­that he received degrees in his resume. lin could not "If you think about his ny's board said it stood theology and psychology document the ThG diplo­tenure, it's not as if lw's lnd behind its CEO, a deeision from Paeifie Coast Baptist ma. a turnaround of' this emn­Hoberts said he now College in California, whieh Hoberts said company pany," slw said. "That regrets. moved in 1998 to background checks did not being said, it would be dil'­
On Wednesday, Oklahoma and renamed include academic vnrific:a­fkult. for the board, c:onsid­Edmondson said he took itself Heartland Baptist tion in 1994 as it d1ws nring tlw things that have responsibility for the Bible College. today. cornn out, to lind a n~ason errors. Separately, The school's registrar Hobnrts said to kenp him." HadioShack said it would told the Stat·-Tolngram that Edmondson's severancn Tho company has since hire outside lawyers to records showed package will be less than removnd biographir.al investigate errors in Edmondson completed only $1 million in a cash payout, skntehns of its executives, Edmondson's resume, two semestnrs and that the but said morn details will induding Babrowski, and including claims that he school nnver offered bn n~leased Ttwsday in a rnplaend it with tlw follow­earned two college degrees degrees in psychology. The rngulatory filing. ing stat1mwnt: "We an1 cur­for which th11 school he school oflkial declined to The move did not sur­rently updating and vali­attended has no records. comment to The Assoeiatnd prise Stacey Wldlitz. ana­dating all of' the biographi­
That investigation won't Press. lyst for Fulcrum (;Jobal cal information for mu:h of continue since Edmondson Edmondson said last Partners LLC, though she our senior executives." 

Interest rate decisions unpredictable 
Associated Press "Although the stance of policy that time to hnlp knnp inf1ation in 
seemed close to where it needed to cheek. 
WASIJ[NGTON -Federal Heserve be given the current outlook, some At the January menting, thn policy-makers last month indicated future policy Jirming might be need­Federal Hesnrve boosted a kny intPr­that interest-rate decisions could ed" to keep inflation and the econo­est rate, called the federal funds become less predictable, relying my on an even keel, according to the rate, by one-quartnr pereentagn more heavily on short-term econom­minutes. point to 4.50 porennt, the highest in ic prospects than on more sweeping One of the first challenges faeing nnarly live years. That was the 14th monetary strategy. Bernanke, whose first day on the job increase or that size since tho Jo'nd 
Minutes of the Fed's closed-door was Feb. 1, will be to work with his began to tight1m eredit in June 2004. meeting on Jan. 31 -Chairman Fnd colleagues and decide when to The funds rate, the interest that Alan Grnenspan's last -were stop boosting rates. If he stops too banks charge each other on released Tuesday and oll'ered insight soon, inflation could get out of hand. overnight loans, is the Fed's main into policy-makers' thinking as they If he waits too long, the economy tool for influendng oeonomie adivi­contemplated what might be the could be hurt. ty. appropriate end point in the Fed's Bernanke's Jirst interest-rate meet­In the future, though, the path of nearly two-year credit tightening ing is March 27-28. In congressional interest rates might not be nearly as campaign and as they prepared for testimony last week, he hinted that predictable as it had been, Fed poli­the new chief, Ben Bernanke. another rate increase could come at cy-makers indicated in the minutes. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
Semitism," had to stand throughout the presentation, as nearly 80 people attended the event expected to draw fewer than 50. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform "The Merchant of Venice" in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of !WAC Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
The debate surrounding "The Merchant of Venice" focuses on Shylock, a wealthy Jewish moneyhmder who is often con­sidered Shakespeare's most controversial character. In the play, Shylock agrees to lend Antonio -the merchant of the play's title -money on condi­tion that Shylock may extract a pound of Antonio's !lesh if he defaults the loan. Despite offers to pay twice the price of the loan, Shylock is determined to take his revenge when Antonio defaults, until Shakespeare's heroine frustrates Shylock's plans and redeems Antonio in court. 
Diseussion grew heated as the topic transitiolll~d between anti-Semitism and academie freedom at the University. In a Jan. 23 address to the faeulty, University President Father John Jenkins said the blatantly anti-Semitic play "Oberammergau Passion" would bn hypothetically unac­eeptable for performanee at Notre Dame. Panelists drew parallels between that play and "The Merchant of Venice." 
The opening remarks from Henry Weinfield, Program of Liberal Studies department chair and English professor, were pointed jokes. 
'"The Merchant of Venice' was absent from Jenkins' speech -isn't Shakespeare good enough to be a problem?" he said. 
• 
Walk to Campus 

• 
Covered Parking 

• 
Laundry Facilities On Site 

• 
Wireless Internet Available 



Apply Online At www.campuscribs.net 
Each panelist discussed his one is isolated and marginal­views on the anti-Semitic impli­ized." cations of the text. Politieal sei­. Film, Television and Theatre ence professor Michael Zuckert department chair Peter ehallenged some apparent Holland said he has seen pro­aspects of anti-Semitism in ductions of the play that were Shakespeare's play by examin­offensive to him as a Jew. He ing the complexity of Shylock's recalled a Royal Shakespeare character. performance that portrayed a 
Shylock is morally irrepara­large number of Jews accom­ble, but his moral offenses con­panying Shylock to the trial, nect with Shylock as a human chanting liturgy in an apparent 
being  rather  endorsement of  
than Shylock  the  eminent  
as a Jew, Zuckert said. Shylock breaks many Jewish  "fsn 't Shakespeare good enough to be a problem?"  murder. "As a Jew. I was very upset about it," he  
laws in "The  said.  
Merchant of Venice" laws coneern­ Henry Weinfield department chair  But Holland was quick to point out that a  
ing diet, usury  Program of Liberal Studies  complex, vary­ 

and morality. Antonio's tri­umph therefore does not repre­sent that of the Christians over the Jews because Shylock him­self is no representation of the Jewish tradition. 
Panelist Gareth Armstrong ofl"ered a point of view different from the five academics -that of an actor. Armstrong, who will play Shyloek in the week­end's productions, spoke from a unique perspective. 
"When you tour this play, there is a sense of isolation if you play Shylock," Armstrong said. "The truth is, it's Shylock -he's the essence of isolation. Shylock isn't a eharacter peo­ple speak to, they speak at him." 
Armstrong applied his expe­rience as Shylock to the broad­er issue present -not just anti-Semitism, but the ostraciz­ing of any member of society. 
"This is what happens when you marginalizing someone who is different," Armstrong said. "[Shylock] demands a pound of flesh. Is this grotesque? Yes -but he's pre­
ing work is 
open to inter­pretation -and it was that particular interpretation that was offensive. Emphasizing diseussion and debate, Holland placed the play in context with the larger issue of aeademie freedom. 
Furthermore, Holland warned that important lessons could be lost if aeademic free­dom is limited to only that which we morally approve. 
''I'd be perfectly happy, as both a Jew and the chair of FTT, to see the 'Oberammergau Passion' play performed at Notre Dame because of the discussion it would raise," llolland said. 
Audience members partici­pated heavily in the diseussion, voicing concerns on both sides of the issue. 
While opinions differed as to how to interpret anti-Semitic tones in "The Merchant of Venice" and in the morality of performing contentious plays, all panelists agreed on the importance of debate -espe­cially on controversial issues. 

pared to kill someone against all of the laws of his faith. This Contact Kathleen McDonnell at is what happens when some-kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
4.0 Student Living At Notre Dame (888) 278-5962 
New Look. Better Lifestyle. Still Closest To Campus. 
NOW LEASING FOR 
20061 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee Is FREE! 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, Indiana 46637 Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 
Embattled Harvard president to resign 
Summers steps down amid debate 

AP Harvard University president Lawrence Summers addresses stu­dents who gathered to protest his resignation Tuesday. 
Associated Press 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. Lawrence Summers ended his tumultuous stint as llarvard University president Tuesday, choosing to resign June 30 rather than fight with a faculty angered by his management style and comments that innate ability may explain why few women reach top science posts. 
"I have reluctantly eoncluded that the rifts between me and segments of the Arts and Sciences faculty make it infeasi­ble for me to advanee the agen­da of renewal that I see as cru­cial to Harvard's future," Summers wrote in a letter post­ed on the 
"These last years 
school's Web served Harvard site. have not been without with extraordi­
"This is a day nary vision and
their strains and 
of mixed emo­vitality," the
moments ofrancor.''
tions for me," he members said. added in a con-Summers, a ference call with Lawrence Summers former U.S. reporters. Treasury secre­
Harvard president 
Effective at the end of the academic year, Summers' move brings to a close the briefest tenure of any Harvard president since 1862, when Cornelius Felton died after two years in office. Summers has led America's wealthiest univer­sity, with an endowment of more than $25 billion, sinee 2001. 
He became embroiled in sever­al controversies early in his tenure, among them the depar­ture of prominent black studies professors such as Cornel West -who left after a falling out with the university president. 
Last year's comments to an academic eonference on women in science grew into a broader debate of Summers' manage­ment style, whieh some consid­ered brusque and even bullying. 
He also was also eriiieized by some for his handling of plans to expand Harvard's eampus aeross the Charles River in Boston. 
The discontent prompted a 218-185 no confidence vote from Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences last March -the only known instance of such an action in the 370-year history of the university. Faculty votes are symbolic because the seven­member Harvard Corporation has sole authority to fire the uni­versity's president. 
Another no confidence vote was seheduled for next Tuesday. It was called following the resig­nation of Faculty of Arts and Sciences Dean William Kirby: Some faculty believe he was pushed out by Summers, though Kirby has said the decision was mutual. 
On Tuesday, Kirby issued a statement saying Summers had aecomplished a great deal dur­ing his tenure, and "he has set in motion important initiatives for the university's future." 
Derek Bok, Harvard's presi­dent from 1971 to 1991, will serve as interim president of the University from July 1 until the conclusion of the search for a new president. 
Board members said in a letter posted online that the past year has been difficult and "some­times wrenching," but they look baek on Summers' tenure with 
appreciation. 
"Larry 
Summers has 
tary in the 
Clinton 
Administration, was a prominent economist when he became Harvard's 27th president after Neil L. Hudenstine announced his resig­nation in May 2001 after nearly a decade in ofliee. 
A former professor of econom­ics at Harvard, Summers said he'll return to teaching at the school after a year sabbatical. 
"These last years have not been without their strains and moments of raneor," the 51­year-old Summers acknowledged in his letter on the school Web site. 
Judith Ryan, the professor of German and comparative litera­ture who introduced the latest no-eonfidence resolution, said Summers' resignation was appropriate under the eircum­stances. 
''I'm eertainly glad we're not going to have to have that faculty meeting on Feb. 28th, which would have been agonizing for both sides," she said. 
On eampus Tuesday, about 80 students gathered outside Summers' office inte_rmittently chanting, "Stay, Summers, Stay" and "Five more years." 
"I don't think it's the worst tragedy to happen to Harvard, but it's a shame," said Jonathan Blazek, 21. "He's done a lot for this university." 
Summers eventually emerged from his office to address the students. 
"This is a bittersweet day," he said. 

Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
PHILIPPINES 
No sign of landslide survivors 
Marines, volunteers keep searching Filipino village despite setbacks 
Assodatcd Press  
CUINSAUCON-Thn U.S.  
Marinos dug 10 l'nnt down.  
tlwn 20. hut tho mud bngan  
collapsing just as thny triml to  
usn thnir shovnls to widnn thn  
liUin lwln.  
Dnspitn growing frustration,  
and rnpnatnd l'ailurns, troops  
and voluntnnrs prossed th(1  
snarch l'or a mud-swamped  
school as l'nars grnw that time  
alnHtdy may havn run out for  
rescuing anyonn nlsn from a  
massivn landslidn.  
And no one was sure just  
whnrn to dig on Tunsday.  
"1\vml tbn IO!:al population  
has kind or lost their bnarings,"  
U.S. Marines dig through mud and rocks in an effort to findsaid l.t. .Jack Farlny, who was  
survivors from last week's landslide in Guinsagon, Philippines. leading about 40 Marirws at  
tlw sitn. "Thny don't have thosn  
tnrrain l'naturns around to dis­ structure to indicate the loca­ Taiwanese teams set up sen­ 
tinguish wlwrn sonwthing rnal­ tion or the school," said .Jonl  sors in hopes of detecting  
ly is."  Son, in charge of a group of  sounds from any survivors.  
Slill. tlw Marines promisnd to  minnrs at the site. "It's all  High-tech gear detected  
knnp trying until all hopn was  mud."  some underground sounds late  
gonn.  Hopes for a miracle have  Monday, creating a buzz of  
"Wn just knnp thinking if it's  l'ocusnd on the school largely  excitement and adrenaline  
OIW of our lost. our lovml OIHlS,  because of unconfirmed  among troops, miners and vol­ 
out tlwrn. wn want someone  n1ports that survivors thnre  unteers whose hopns of finding  
working for us," Farlny said.  sent mobile phone text mes­ life had all but vanished.  
"Wn'rn hnrn to lwlp in any way  sages to rnlativns shortly after  By Tuesday. the buzz was  
possibln."  thn landslide hit Friday.  gone again, replaced by a grim  
The snarch tnams suspended  Nobody has bnnn found alive  workmanlike attitude.  
work ovnrnight b(1cause or con­ since just hours aftnr a moun­ The Marines, Philippine  
(:nrn that rain was making thn  tainside collapsed in a wall of  troops and technicians from  
arna morn pronn to further  mud and bouldPrs that  Malaysia and Taiwan had to  
landslidns. Also, a small gmwr­ swampml the farming village or  give up digging at the most  
ator usnd to light thn area ran  Guinsaugon on Lnyte island.  promising site because the soft,  
out or runI.  The of'fieial death toll rose to  wet mud kept collapsing.  
But a l'nw tnams using spn­ 107 Tuesday, but authorities  "As we'd dig deeper, we'd try  
cialized gear stayed behind  fear it eould surpass 1 ,000.  to dig wider, but with the rain  
latnr to take advantage or thn  After daybreak Wednesday,  last night ... there were little  
silencn to listen for sounds  in a grimly familiar routine,  landslides happening around  
undnr thn mud.  Philippine soldiers began dig­ us," Farley said. "The soil here  
"Wn have not found any  ging with shovels, and the  is so unstable."  

February 23 So What Do You Plan To Do With a Philosophy Degree? 
Meet the Career Center Team and find the answers to those pesky questions from parents and roommates. 
Hammes Student Lounge, 
Coleman Morse. 
Contact information: 
Office of Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
C:OU.Hal 01' ARTS ANI) l..liTTiiRS 

GU11111an arrested after slaying, hotel standoff 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -Police blastPd out a 20th story window and stormed a room at a Las Vngas Strip hotel-casino Tuesday, arresting a gunman who author­ities say killed a man and shot at polieo and a security guard dur­ing a six-hour standoll'. 
No shots were fired in the linal assault on Hoom 2036 of Harrah's Carnaval Tower, as a SWAT team burst in around 7 
a.m. Police would not say how they shattered the window on the 35-story tower, dPscribing it only as a tactical diversion. 
"We WPrP forced to take out an outside window in our attempts to take him into cus­tody," Sgt. Chris Jones said. 
llotel guests on the 19th. 20th and 21st floors were evaeuatnd about 1 a.m. af'tnr several peo­ple said they heard shots ring out. 
Police said the man tired three shots at a sncurity guard who went to the hotel room. llo also lirnd on SWAT ollicers through the door and the wall twicn, but did not injurn anyone during the nngotiations, police said. 
Tho allegnd gunman was uninjurnd. Curtis Billy Bonilla. 22, of Las Vegas. was charged with murdnr, attnmpted murdnr and thrnn counts of' attnmptnd murdnr of a polien ollicer. 
Gunsts in sleep elothes and robes wPrn ovacuatml from the 19th, 20th and 21st floors and oiTnrPd blankets and food at the hotel buffet, Harrah's spoknsrnan Albnrto l.opnz said. 
ThP victim was latnr pro­nounend dnad at a hospital. Polieo said hn was from Heno but did not identitY him. 
Tho gunman and the dead man wore idontilind as guests at the 2,575-room hotnl. Police said the motivn was not elear and it was not known wlwthnr the nwn knew each othnr. 

ENGINEERING INTERN OPENINGS 
Exciting Summer Opportunities with a leader in Electro-hydraulics. FEMA Corporation announces it is seeking mechaniccal engineering student candidates for summer engineering internships to work in a world-class manufacturing environment. 
Successful candidates will be exposed to the following real life training: 
Product orientation o Testing equipment training o Laboratory procedures o Product development testing o Process development and continuous improvement o And more more 
This is a great opportunity to begin building the knowledge and experience needed to be a successful engineer in today's world. These positions are full-time summer assignments starting at $15.00 per hour. 
Interested candidates should respond by resume and cover letter to: 
FEMA Corporation 1716 Vanderbilt Rd. Portage, Ml 49024 
c/o Summer Intern Program 
Or via email to Summerintern@fema-corp.com Documents should be either Word or PDF formal. 
Things To Do Before Leaving ND.... 
DLunch with Father Hesburgh DFootball Locker Room Tour with Coach Weis DDinner with Brady Quinn DSign your name inside the Dome with Father Poorman 
All ofthese things you can find at the 
BP Meal Auction 
Thursday February 23 6:00-9:00 LaFortune Huddle Area All proceeds will go to Hannah and Friends 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Moderation is the dirtiest word 
Tin: /nd~[Jtmdnu, Daily Nnvspaper Serving Nom Dam~ and Saint Mary'y 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574} 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574} 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. " 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inf(lfmation. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Ob$crver (USPS ;;99 1.-4000) i.5 publlshed Monday through Friday ~pt during ~Jeam and vacation periods. A subiuiption ro The Observer is: $100 fur one academic ytar: $55 for one scmem:r. 
Thl! Obscrvtt is published at: POSTMAStER 02-4 South Dining Ha.ll Send address cott«tions to~ Notre Dame, IN 465S6..0779 l"h< Observer Periodiui postage paid ou No£re Dame P.O.Boxn9 md additional mailing offices. 024 Sou£h Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, lN 465S6-0n9 

The Ohsc:rvc:r is a member ofthe Associated Pro.s. All reproductiDn rig_hts arc reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Megan O'Neil  Ken Fowler  
Nicole Zook  Kyle Cassily  
Maureen Mullen  Fran Tolan  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Laura  Brian  
Sonn  Doxtader  
Graphics  
Graham Ebetsch  

I am convinced that doing anything more than a single major is total folly. It distresses me to see students piling on the majors and minors. I have heard a variety of excuses for this excessive behavior. Not being able to get in a certain class is the biggest one. I have a single major, the most superior major offered of history, and have had no trouble taking the classes in political science, theology, peace studies, etc. I wanted. 
Sometimes, it involved something few are ready to do -go to the professor and ask to be in the class. I mostly take classes based on the teacher anyway. Books are books, but a great instructor is treas­ure. Also, instead of looking at classes like the live-dollar buffet, piling the plate only because it is there and available, be picky, get a good plate and enjoy. 
Others say they are trying to make their primary major more complete. cannot understand the need to do more than one major there either. Like roses cluttered with filler flow­ers, less is always more. Granted, people have different interests and may want to draw from other disci­ples to complement their primary interest. That is what guided reading, a thesis or independent study is for, in my mind. I wrote a history paper on Martin Luther King, Jr. for a peace studies conference to combine my var­ied interests. It shows more creativity and character to design and execute your own project than heaping on the majors for extra run around and grief. 
Next people say they have multiple majors because it's college and they want to study as much as they can. 

Kamaria Porter 
Black, Red and Catholic 

This is the worst rationalization to me. Students see college as the last chance power drive for learning, which is the opposite of what it should be. Here we can gain the praxis to be good thinkers, readers and writers for a lifetime of learning. Trust me, there are good libraries, bookstores and smart people outside of Notre Dame. Relax. Focus. Learn more through taking risks and doing projects that challenge you. 
Also, this attitude takes a short­sighted view of college. We should be developing all our faculties -the mind, the heart and the gut. The mind finds release through asking question upon question and digging deeper. The heart wants real friendships and mentorships with people. The gut wants to take risks, make mistakes and become a legend. 
Notre Dame is a treasure trove of resources and people to help us grow in faith, intellect, character, relation­ships and experience. The Notre Dame archives are stocked with pri­mary sources from distinguished peo­ple and important events. Spending time on the sixth floor of the library encountering history is better than bean-counting classes for your majors or burying yourself in secondary sources, regurgitating other people's ideas on the past. 
Try forming a real relationship with a great professor outside of regular classes. Either through an independ­ent project or more informal arrange­ment -find a mentor to really invest time with you and you with them. Yet, do not be a leech and pull on multiple people. Find your mentor and stick. 
Go to retreats, but do not become a retreat junkie. Reflection is important and better to integrate to you daily (or weekly) life than running off campus every other weekend. I recommend using Campus Ministry resources ­they know their stuff and that is a resource you will be hard pressed to find outside of Catholic strongholds like Notre Dame. 
Go to lectures, but do not make them your master. Try, instead of sit­ting in the audience, organizing your own panel or lecture. 
Last, do not simply run through the packing machine, but leave something behind for others to continue, enjoy and ponder. You can either be the per­son that does great things, or the per­son that hangs out with the great peo­ple. News flash, you cannot become accomplished and talented through osmosis-make your life extraordi­nary or stop leeching. 
The people we heroicize were not hand-picked beforehand by some prophecy, but wanted to live inten­tionally. When you enter a room or meet a new person, think about how you will change the energy of that space and make an impression on that person. How will your presence and talents revolutionize this campus? How will Notre Dame be better for having accepted you? Get a reputation and leave a legacy. 
Everything we are given in the end is not really for us. Our lives, girts, opportunities and abilities to love and take action -all are for the greater glory of God. With that as our goal, how can we distract ourselves with stockpiling classes and majors? We have such important work to do. Use Notre Dame to prepare you for this life long journey-glorifying the cre­ator and bringing about the Kingdom of God. 
Kamaria Porter congratulates Sister Sue Dunn on her new office in Student Affairs. Also, a big shout out to the #89 Red team: Kathryn, Tim, Nicole, Patrick, Nick, Jennifer, Chris, Megan, Paris, Todd and Fr. Jim. E-mail her for a non-violent duel at kporter@nd.edu to challenge the obvious supremacy of the history major. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Social justice and the living wage 
Amidst all the recent talk about academic freedom and Catholic integrity, I think that the true meaning of Catholic character has been lost on us. It seems that the proponents of "Catholic character" favor closed-minded­ness and exclusionism, while those in the academic free­dom camp choose love and acceptance. However, to this point, University President Father John Jenkins has not shown a willingness to go as far as possible to make this a true Catholic institution. So far, all that he has done is promote hard-lined conservatism on the issues that mat­ter the least. At the same time, he has repeatedly refused to answer the questions posed to him by Campus Labor Action Project. 
The heart of Catholic character lies in its social justice teachings. These teachings call for and demand a living wage and dignity for all workers, everywhere. Eight dif­ferent papal encyclicals talk about it, including Rerum Novarum, which says we have a, "great and principal obligation to give everyone that which is just, to exercise pressure for the sake of gain, upon the indigent and des­titute and to make one's profit out of the need of another, is condemned by all laws, human and divine. To defraud anyone of wages that are his due is a crime which cries to the avenging anger of heaven." And yet, on our cam­pus, a plethora of workers start between $6.45 and $10.17 an hour, well below the $12.10 called for by CLAP. 
As a university, we cannot complacently ignore these teachings out of convenience or practicality. We also can­not afford to let the market dictate our wages; they must be based on justice. No Notre Dame workers should live in need, and until their needs are met, any talk of this university having Catholic character is merely talk. It is time for Jenkins to form the taskforce that CLAP has called for and to meet this important issue head-on. 
OBSERVER POLL" 
Do you think the College 

~Submit aLetterI
Readership Pr.ogram is the right use for the student activities fee increase? 
:~ to tbeEditor at t 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Nick Krafft freshman Stanford hall Feb. 21 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The path to our destination is not always a straight one. We go down the wrong road, we get lost, we turn back. Maybe it doesn't matter which road we embark on. Maybe what matters is that we embark. " 
Barbara Hall Canadian politician 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Peace Week calls all to love 
Literary characters-from Vicky Austin to Aloysha Karamazov to Jean Valjnan -havtl been hallmarks in my intnllnctual and idnologieal dovnlop­nwnl. Jean Valjnan and tho whole story of' Lns Mist~rablos, in particular, has grnatly impacted my thoughts siru:e I f'irst saw tho musieal version in London in tlw summer or 2000. Tlwrn are many groat diehotomins that Victor llugo draws in his famous novel, ()f)P of' which is tho impact or .Jpan Valjnan's lil'o and tho non-impact of' the nwolutionarios. Despite their hnst el'forts to chango society to bo more just through violent. moans, tho rnvolutionarins of tho ABC cal'c\ end up bringing destruction to the streots of l'aris that leads only to their own deaths. On tho other hand, Jean Valjoan, al'tnr his conversion, brings tlw love that he encountered through tlw actions of tho Bishop to all those hn nuwts. This radical lovn is trans­l'ormativn in tho lives or others and, 

consequently, in the culture. This love, contrary to the emotional love espoused by our culture, is self-sacri­ficial action. It is a catalyst for change in a way that no violent revolution can even aspire to be. 
What is so powerful about Jean Valjean's self-giving love is that it is an echo of an ovnn greater love ­Christ's. Christ failed to live up to the Messianic hopes of many ancient Jews, who expected the Messiah to come and free them' from the political oppression thny nxporiencNI at the hands of tho Homans. This sort of' political oppression and worse stampod tho 20th century, marking it as om1 of tho most violnnt centuries in history. Many of those who longnd for pnace and freedom strived for it in the mode of Jean Valjean and Christ. Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Polish Solidarity Party are all well-known examples. Others, like the Chilean transition from dictator-

Peter Schroeder 
Will Write for Food 

Reality check 
I promised myself I wouldn't do it. I His debut on rnality TV was in 1995, and know it wasn't healthy, and I would only he is still going strong. He is also almost be wors11 ofl'liw it. It was of' no dis­34 years old. I believe that most people ePrnibln worth, but I eouldn't stay away. would like to sec their livns at 34 indude l'vn bonn watehing the "Hnal World!Hoad a steady job, probably a loving spouse Hules Challnnge: The and possibly even a family. Mark's 34­CauntiPt II" on MTV. year-old reality consisl'> of him eomplet­
It's like (disgusting ing objectives such as pushing a ball mntphor ahead) a down a hill without using his hands, as scab; you know you well as dealing with the drama that should just I nave it comes with telling a younger woman alone, and it'll be (Jodi) that you love her and then leaving gone in a whiln. You her, only to find that you are living on a know that. but you tropical estate with her and your new c:an't hnlp but chock girlfriend (Hobin). This is nowhere near it out, piek at it a lit­"reality," but it is rapidly approaching tle. Bnl'ore you know "pathetic." it, you'rn blooding But I am sure that ifyou asked Mark, again, it hurl<; and he would say that ho views his life as an you'll now have a essential thread in the fabrie ofAmerican scar to remind you of society. Of course, he would be wrong, tlw time you eouldn 't loavn it alone. and that is another issue with those That's what watching The Gauntlet II is shows: the over-inflated sense of self­likn: a big, oozing scab. importance that these pseudo-celebrities 
To summarizn tho challengn show for­develop since everyonn around them is mat, a varifJty of "Hoal World" and "Hoad li1oding on that same self-interest. Hules" cast members from years goon by For example, in a previous episode, the have rnturned to some tropicalloealn to two femaln team captains were having a compottJ in a varinty of team competi­heart-to-heart. Kina asked Huthio, the tions to earn cash and prizes and avoid other captain, if she was worried about any sort of legitimate employment. This being gunned after by her own team­year, thn teams are divided into mates, since she L'> smaller than most. Chalhmge Hookies and Challenge Ruthie's response? "My whole life has Vntnrans, whieh means that wo've had been about the fight ... Kill or be killed." enough ehallengn shows to merit deem­The next day, what "fight" did Ruthie ing somn players "Veterans." Now here's find herself having to "kill or be killed?" the twist: if a team loses a challenge, the The teams had to soak up sea water with team captain and a member oftheir own sponges attached to their bodies, and toam must face off in The Gauntlet to then squeeze it out over buekel'> in sug­t:nmpote to stay on thfl show and avoid gestive poses. The winner got a Nintendo tho terrors of paying bills and gainful OS. Not exactly survival of the fittest. mnployment for another few weeks. The people on this show take very 
Tho major problem I have with these seriously something that is not serious in shows is that the people on thfJm havn any way whatsoever. No matter how you dono nothing worthwhile to merit thnir slice it, we are watching a bunch of peo­e!llobrity status and do not really deserve ple who backed into their celebrity com­tlw opportunity to win $10,000 for their mit demnaning tasks as a way to put off team bank aceount by eovering a board dealing with the mature responsibilities in paint without using th(Jir hands. In that their age should demand. liu:t, that's the rnason thnsn people wore Thousands of members of the youth of chosen li1r these shows; they weren't America watch this show and think this nxeeptional or unique. The original type of behavior is OK, and it's not. premise of "The Heal World" and "Hoad These people got their start on a show Hulos" was that M·lv was going to give called 'The Heal World," and now America's youth some "real" youth li1r us through these challengns, they arn doing to watch and relatn to. Sornewhero along all they can to avoid it. tlw way, the in1portance of that connec­tion was lost. and wn ended up with eari­Peter Schroeder is a senior Hnglish cutures ofyouth archetypes, as well as major. Ifhe, could be a tree, he would be that weird Puck guy. the mighty redwood. llis column usually 
I Iownvnr, I think it is tlw east mnmbnrs runs every other Monday. lie can be thmnsnlves that are most damagnd by reached at pschroed@nd. edu tlwir unaceomplishnd celnbrity. For The views expressed in this column exampln, Mark Long, from the original are those ofthe author and not neces­"Hoad Hulos" is on the current challenge. sarily those ofThe Observer. 
ship to democracy are less familiar. John Paul II traveled to Chile near the end of Augusto Pinochet's violent rngime, when many were tired of working non-violently towards dnmoeracy. In the Chilean national stadium, whore many Chileans wern taken and held in the early years of the dictatorship, John Paul II ended his speech with the bone-chilling words, "El amor es mas fuerte, paz es mas fuertc," (Love is stronger, poaco is stronger). Christ's love is truly stronger, stronger even than death. While the Chileans nonviolnntly over­throw an oppressive political regimn, Christ did much more-he l'rned us from death. As Christians, we are called to model our lives after Christ's -and this ineludes cultivating his peace and love in our hearts and lives, taking seriously his call to turn the other cheek. When Christ's love and peace arc at the heart of nonvio­lent resistance, we can truly hope for 
change in our culture and in our world. War and violnnee are means for ovoreoming opprnssion for those who do not have faith in the resurrnc­tjon. For thosn of us who place our hopn in Christ, we must usn his moans to work toward chance. In this week of pnace, I urge all of you to grow elosor to Christ through prayt'r and the sacraments, l'or we as wn grow elosor to Christ wn are able to cultivate his pnaco and lov11 in our own hearts and lives. I urge you to then share this peaen and love with those around you. In this way, your love, likn J11an Valjean's lil'n, will begin to transform our culture. Most of' all, I urgn you to have faith that the lovn, the lovn that eorHrunred doath, truly is strongnr. 
Anamarfa Scaperlanda-Ruiz junior !Iowan! hall Feb. 21 
U-WIRE 

Beyond ice cream 
In 2003, Star Spangled Ice Cream Co. also perlix:tnd the art ofwnightlnss rhntorie. dnbuted amid a climate ofimminent war and State oftl1n Union Addrnssns offnr presidenl'> climbing Bush approval ratings. tim yearly chance to refnr va~-,ruoly to the ger­Championing il'>elf as the conservative a)tor­mane issues of the day, all the whih1 reinlhre­native to Ben & Jerry's, the company has ing their support by alluding to tl1e goldnn scooped its way to being a ideaL<; of democracy and fmedom. successful enterprise. Farraz The problem with empty rhntorie is inten­
This month, the compa­Khan sified when it is preached by powor-holders ny announced it will and L'i willingly and thoughtlessly adopted by expand from Internet-only the gnnnral population. To the average 
Daily Texan

sales. Several hundred 7-Ameriean, these empty words seem to pro­
University of

Eleven stores in the Mid­mote tho contention that superficial change
Texas

Atlantic region will stock means real change. the product, allowing Ostensibly, superlkial name-ehangns offer countless more customers to experience Amerieans no conceivabln way to properly "Tho Sweet Taste of Freedom." understand or interprnt the eonllicl<; the U.S. 
In fact, freedom comes in a variety of fla­engages in. If anything, they promotn a false vors, including "I I late the French Vanilla" sense ofwhat it means to btl patriotic: nating and "School Prayerleens & Creme." freedom fries. lndned, in and of il'>Pif. con­
Star Spanglnd's wittily-titled dessert<; suming large quantities of frind potatoes remind us of a blaring and unsettling truth doesn't eonstitutn loving your country; it that continues to define our eountry. It'> prod­doesn't make any tangible contribution as, ucl'> epitomize how issues ofsubstantial say, an intelligent diseoursn on why France importance ean be trivialized by a society may have rnservations about tho war would. that increasingly wanl'> politics and global The acceptability ofsuch inane namn­rnlations to be as consumable as a pint of changing procedurns, howevnr, is ontiroly "Ara-Fat Free" iee cream. understandable. They are producl<; of tho 
Unquestionably, the simplification of major widespread ill ofsocial and politieal apathy. issues suppresses their active and effective True, media outlet<; depend almost nntirnly discussion. In turn, achievable solutions arn on appealing sound bites to eonvny a mes­buried beneath a pile of empty stereotypes, sage. True, politicians make every nlfort to meaningless rhetoric and widespread disin­keep the message a'> bask and simpln <L'> terest. possibln. But, in the nnd, Ameriean society is 
Take the way eager politicos, ratings-crav­treated thL'i way beeausn of our own apatl1y. ing media and uncompromising extremists Ovnr time, many Americans' priorities have constructed and promoted skewed have shifted considerably from coneern for stereotypes. Driving down the street, one can society to near-exdusive eoncnrn for onnsnlf. 
find bumper stiekers which attempt to sum­Tho individual's exdusive focus on himsnlf marize entire political, social and economie prevent<; him from realizing that he is indood philosophies into fatally incomplete and mis­part of a greater whole. leading one-liners: "Annoy a liberal.... Work Perhaps apathy is why voters proudly dis­hard and smile." "Bomb Texas: They have play "I Vot~1d!" stickers on Election Day a<; if oil!" Whiln the stickers may be amusing, they voting is a milestone. Thus, when individuals are inaccurate representations ofwhat it suggest that voting is a cumbersome-enough means to be a Democrat or Republican. process, aetually taking time to question, to 
Ukewise, the media uses simplistic tags, learn and to dL<;cuss the problems of tho barring room for gray areas but saving time nation and of tho world is out of tim question. for commercials. The last presidential elec­The inevitable rnsult of all this is tl1e propa­tion yielded virtually no practical information gation of ignoranee and demago1-,11wry. Thn about John Kerry's platform. The only thing labels, bomb<L'>t and apathy cultivatn <Uld most people are likely to remember about nourish the developrnnnt of a pervt1rtnd view Kerry is that he was a "flip-flopper." of the world. What's left is a J..'11Y buying an 
lronieally, tho most incisive commentary $11 pint of ice <:roam bncause it prov11s he's a about rnlevant issues comes in the form of true patriot. satire. Shows such as "Saturday Night Uve" But surely, frnedom's morn than a pint of and "The Daily Show with Jon Stewart" pro­ice cream. vide a relatively deeper insight into situations by unashamndly and irreverently shining a This column originally appeared in the light on something that isn't otherwise Feb. 21 issue ofthe Daily Texan, the daily expounded upon. oreourse, most folks would publication at the Uni11ersity of1h·a.s. rather look to outlet<; like CNN or Fox News The views expressed in this mbunn are for more "in-depth analysis." those ofthe author and not necessarily those 
In addition to the labels, politicians have ofThe Obseruer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
STEPHEN KING 
Ho-w a horror auteur became a literary king 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assisram Scene Editor 
Stephen King once wrote about human nature and why horror is appealing in his book "Danse Macabre." He wrote that it satiates a primal part in everyone, a part that cannot be ignored. King fulfills his own primal urge by watching horror movies. 
"I like to see the most aggressive of them ... as lifting a trapdoor in the civilized forebrain and throwing a basket of raw meat to the hungry alli­gators swimming around in that sub­terranean river beneath," King wrote. 
But that doesn't fully explain why 
King set a standard for the majority of his subsequent books. 
Richard Bachman 
Bachman is an oddity of King's. A pseudonym King developed, stories published under Bachman's name often go further and show more excess in vice. When King chose to write under this name, it gave him the chance to write about things he typi­cally would not, pushing beyond the boundaries of decency that King typi­cally skirted. 
The results were mixed, however. Under Bachman's name, King pub­lished six different stories. They were "Rage," ''The Long Walk," "Roadwork," "The Running Man," "Thinner" and · "The Regulators." The last 
King writes the one tied in with a story
A self-professed lover 
books ·he does·,· that King wrote under
ofhorror films, King's 
books that·-have· his own name, made him one of the connection to "Desperation." wealthiest authors King retired the pseu­
Hollywood has been 
in existence. His donym in 1985, only to
strong. At the front of
influences are wide resurrect it one last time and varied and help his latest book, "Cell," when he released the to understand his aforementioned
King gives thanks to 
writing. "Regulators." King often
Richard Matheson and
One of King's obvi­playfully denies his con­ous influences is George Romero. nection with Bachman 
Hollywood. A self­professed lover of horror films, King's connection to Hollywood has been strong. At the front of his latest book, "Cell," King gives thanks to Richard Matheson and George Romero. 
Several of King's works have made their way into film, adding to the pre­existing connection. Some, such as "Carrie" and "The Shining," have received several treatments. 
The Early Years 
In 1967, King sold his first profes­sional short story to the magazine "Startling Mystery Stories." Titled "The Glass Floor," it stars a man des­perate to enter the room in which his sister died. Eventually he enters it, but to disastrous consequences. 
While it was short, and King was reportedly only paid around $35 for the publication, the themes of family, dementia and death paved the way for future works. During the early years of his marriage, King sold many short stories to various magazines long before he published his first book. 
In 1973, Doubleday & Co. agreed to publish King's "Carrie." This book was instrumental to King's future career as an author. It was wildly suc­cessful, eventually spawning both movies and plays, and the profits allowed King to quit his job as a teacher and write full time. 
"Carrie" starred a social outcast in an American high school with psychic abilities. As the book progressed, the tortures she had to endure, commit­ted by her mother and by her school­mates, worsened and eventually cul­minated in a disastrous school dance. By taking a standard setting and cor­rupting it into a nightmarish setting, 
however, and has even 

attacked the Bachman works for their violence and depravi­ty. 
"A nasty man," King once said in an interview. ''I'm glad he's dead." 
The Accident and The Dark Tower 
June 19, 1999. It was on this date that King was hit by a van while out on a walk. Sustaining several serious injuries, King was immediately rushed to a hospital. His condition was even­tually stabilized, but the memory of the accident remained. 
This event left a great impression on him and was incorporated into the concluding chapter of King's opus, "The Dark Tower." 
King is known for tying all of his works together through subtle hints and nods, but his overall arching sto­ryline "The Dark Tower" manages to tie them all together. Featuring multi­ple worlds with different levels of existence, it starred Holand of Gilead. 
Inspired by Hobert Browning's poem "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came," Roland's quest for the Dark Tower was a central focus that all of King's other works tied into in some form. The recurring villains, the Crimson King and Handall Flagg, also appear in many of King's other nov­els. 
Stephen King has been writing for nearly 40 years. His influence over American readers, and readers worldwide, is undeniable. His latest book, "Cell," continues in the tradition of its predecessors and helps King feed the horror urge of readers every­where. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
'THE CELL' BooK REVIEW 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assisram Scene Editor 
One of the greatest tricks an author can pull is to take something completely ordi­nary and twist it into a source of unimagin­able horror. 
Stephen King does this in his latest book, "Cell." King realizes that today's world is saturated in cellular technology and uses that abundance as fuel for his earth-shak­ing catalyst. While most King stories take place over a fairly limited radius, the events that unfold here are enough to shake the entire world and leave no individual untouched. 
At the beginning of the book, artist Clay Riddell has just sold his idea for a graphic novel to Dark Horse comics. Feeling a sense of accomplishment, he walks the streets of Boston with his artwork in hand and a spring in his step. Pausing to get ice cream, he glances around and notices an abun­dance of people using cell phones. 
Then instantly it happens. King corrupts this picturesque moment, and immediately anyone using a cell phone turns to violently attack the person standing next to them. Clay is shocked to find the world suddenly turning on itself, as mothers and daughters lose any semblance of humanity as they viciously maim each other. 
Clay survives the initial barrage of insani­ty due more to luck than any skills. Encountering several other survivors, they begin to trek across the East Coast in search of loved ones and shelter. In an iron­ic twist, the characters can only safely move at night, as the cell-phone-induced zombies only move by day. Clay has an estranged wife and a son, with whom he wishes to reunite. Unfortunately, his son was in pos­session of a cell phone at the time of the incident, and that thought remains with Clay the extent of the novel. 
Part of the effective nature of King's books is his ability to use recognizable names in the context of his story. Familiar locations are employed, and several of the organizations, such as Dark Horse comics, are non-fictitious. The brands of cell phones 
and other products stem from real life, 
adding their own dark awareness. 
Another thing for which King is known is 
inserting subtle, and some less-than-subtle, 
nods to his fans during the duration of his 
books. In "Cell," the graphic novel Clay has 
sold is titled "Dark Wanderer." This is a 
direct reference to King's own "Dark 
Tower" series of books. Several other refer­
ences can be found as well, so longtime 
King fans will find plenty to like here. 
A simple description of the book would be 
to call it King's "zombie book." Like 
"Salem's Lot" was his vampire novel and 
"Tommyknockers" was his aliens novel, 
"Cell" represents King's first major foray 
into the realm of zombies. 
King's influences while writing this book 
are fairly obvious, and the first half is fre­
netic. Inspired by llollywood, the first half 
reads in a highly visual fashion, packed 
with kinetic energy and a sense of over­
whelming despair. It's easy for the reader to 
mentally picture the events as they unfold, 
adding to the realism of the story. 
However, the complaint that arises with 
"Cell" happens in the second half. Unlike most of the movies in Hollywood, King takes . the story one step further by attempting to introduce an explanation for the zombies. As the story progresses, the zombies begin 
to evolve into a new, original creation. 
While these new monsters are powerful, 
they lack the visceral scares that their earli­
er incarnations incited in the reader. The 
main characters, through a twist halfway 
through the book, also become relatively 
untouchable, which removes the risk factor 
from the book. This creates a slower, less­
engaging second half. 
"Cell" is King's latest work and reflects 
upon his considerable expertise in the field 
of writing and horror. The first half is one of 
the most visceral, engaging stories one will 
find in the modern selection of horror. It's 
too bad the second half couldn't maintain 
the same intensity as the first. But at the 
very least, cell phones won't look so inno­
cent after a read. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 


t 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE 0HSERVER 

Wcdn<'<lay, F,bn'"'Y 22, 2006 page 13
c ENE 
=============================================================== 
'KING' OF HOLLYWOOD 
StPplwn King will always bn synony­wus with horror novt1ls. but, in rnality. is rmmn is litltwnd around llollywood on 1jncts ranging from movins to minis­rins. h•w authors havn had a litnrary lOr as prolilk as King's, and it snnms 
atural that his prnsnncn in llollywood is ually nxpansivn. Whiln King is most r.losnly assodatnd ith adaptations of his classic horror 
owls. his involvnnwnt in llollywood lso inrludPs work on non-horror wvins, tnlnvision shows, minisnrins and 1rays into nntnrtainnwnt writing. 
"Carrin" ( 197(,) was thn lirst of King's ovPls to bn adaptnd for tho big sernnn, nd it is still onn of his most famous 
vins. DirncttHI by Brian Dn Palma, it 
n a star out of Sissy Spaenk and also tadn dumping pig's blood on thn prom unnn an indnlibln part ol' dnnma histo­
rtwrP am many othnr lilrn vnrsions of ng's horror novnls as wtdl. "Cujo" ll{l) rnt~ounL'i tho lain of a Sl. Hnrnard Lt wrnaks havoc: on a small town. lldrnn. who worship a malnvolnnl rsnncn in tho eornfinld, bngin to kill Jlls in tlwir small Nnbraska town in ~4's "Tiw Children of tho Corn." Tho n has spawnnd a litany of snquels, ;h tlw franehisn now counts snvnn ns undPr tho "Children of tlw Corn" 
nnnr. T'lw IIJH4 lilm "Firnstartnr." starring a 
Jung Drew Barrymore, follows a girl ean start lirns with lwr mind. Thn 1~an bn brought back to lili1, but not 
turrwd to their exaet state before alit, in IIJHIJ's "l't~t Snmntary," for 
ch King also wrotn thn ser1~nnplay. Onn of thn most famous King adapta­ms is Stanlny Kubriek's "Thn Shining." 
tarring Jaek Nieholson and Shelley 
I. thn 19HO lilm famously rncounts isolation can rnakn pnopln go a little 
nuL'i. Whiln thn film version is by far ortl famous, a minisnries of "Tho Shining" was madn in 1997. While not quitn as innovativn as Kubrick's version, thn minisnries was a mueh eloser adap­tation of the book. 
"Thn Dnad Zonn" is anothnr King story that has had multiple inearnations. Tho 19H3 movie version of King's book fea­turnd Christopher Walknn as a man who, aftnr waking from a live-year eoma. can son an individual's futuro whnn he has physical eontaet with thnm. In 2002, the book was adaptnd into a tnlnvision show starring Anthony Michael llall. 
While primarily assodated with hor­ror, King's writing has also bonn tho inspiration for some surprisingly normal films. Tho mming-of-agn story "Stand by Mn" (19Hf>) was basnd on tho King story "Tho Body." It is known for its great east, whieh indudnd Hivnr Phoenix, Corey Feldman. Jnrry O'Connell and Kiefer Southerland. 
Tho most famous example of a King film that is rarnly associated with him is "Tho Shawshank Hndemption" ( 1994). Tho story ehronides the wrongful imprisonment of Andy Dufrnsnn (Tim Hobbins) and how he survives in prison with thn help of' his friend Hed (Morgan Freeman). Based on tho short story "Hila llayworth and the Shawshank Hndmnption," tho film is really unlike any othnr King film and is arguably one of the best basnd on his work. 
Other somewhat unexpected films from King inelude "Misery" (1990), which won Kathy Bat11s an Oscar and eoneerns a woman who kidnaps a writer with whom she is obsnssed. "Apt Pupil" (199R) starring lan McKellnn, relates the story of a boy who blackmails his neigh­bor who hn believes is a Nazi war crimi­nal. "Hearts in Atlantis" (20()1) starring Anthony llopkins, roveals how a mysteri­ous boarder changes the life of a young boy and helps him diseovor hidden pow­ers. "The Grenn Mile" (1999) combines fantasy and dramatic elements individu­ally present in some of King's other works to tell the story of the mysterious healing powers of a convict on death row. 
Beyond the cinema, King has done influential work on telnvision, and snvor­al of his works have been adapted into television miniseries. "It" (1990) featurns a group of friends battling evil in the limn of a down. "Hose Red" (2002) por­trays tho evil that is unleashed after a group of people with psychic powers spnnds the night in a haunted house. A hospital built on a graveyard and they mysterious oeeurrnnens that go on tlwre lies at the heart of' "Kingdom Hospital" (2004). Other mini series basnd on King's works include "Desperation" "The l.angoliers" (1995), "The Stand" (1994) and "Salem's Lot" (1979, 2004). 
Beyond miniseries, King wrote an episode of' the television show "The X­Files" called "Chinga" and has written soveral episodes of' "Tales from the Darkside." 
While his presence as a novelist is felt most forcefully in Hollywood and the world of' entertainment in general, King's non-fiction work has also come under attention latnly. He is currently a fea­tured columnist in "Entertainment Weekly," where he writes about pop cui­tum in general. 
I lis book "Danse Maeabrn" discusses Unitnd States pop eulture, speeilically tho horror genre, in terms or what dnviens !'unction to create speeilie ell'ects in horror works. lie also wrote "On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft," whieh details his own writing style and his lif'e as an author. 
Stephen King's strong presence in entertainment spans decades, genres and media forms in a way that fi)W other authors could ever hope to achieve. While horror truly is his area or expert­ise, it is his inlluence in unexpected places, such as on films like "The Shawshank Hndemption" and his eolumn in "Entertainment Weekly," where King is able to show his depth and ability as 

-
an author and as an inlluenee on enter­tainment. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 
.. 

addition to horror, Stephen King has tackled the prison drama In "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption." 1994 film adaptation, starring Morgan Freeman (left) and Tim Robbins (right) was a critically-acclaimed success. 
,. ·~I .. I, J • 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
SCENE fEATURE 

A retrospective look at the best CGI films 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Scene Writer 

Feature-length animation has come a long way since the era when Walt Disney created memorable, hand-drawn films like "Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs" (1937) and "Pinocchio" (1940). In this dig­ital age, movie studios have decided that computer generated imagery (CGI) is the way of the future when it comes to ani­mated films. Since 1995, when computers began to replace pencil and paper in mak­ing animated movies, CGI movies have flooded cineplexes every year. 
Monsters, Inc. (2001) 

This Pixar film explores life from the point of view of the monsters who hide under children's beds. In the city of Monstropolis, where energy is created from the screams of children, James P. Sullivan ("Sully") and Mike Wazowski are the top scarers for Monsters, Inc., the city's energy company. The main action occurs when a child runs loose in the city and the two must bring her home amidst various struggles. 
In addition to being a heart-warming story, "Monsters, Inc." stands as one of the most complex and imaginative CGI movies ever created. The textures and scenes cre­ated feature thousands of details almost unnoticeable to the human eye. The peo­ple at Pixar have imaginations that seem boundless, and this movie depicts that perfectly. The coupling of that imagination with their excellent talent makes "Monsters, Inc." a must see for audiences of all ages. 
Shrek (2001) 
Dubbed the "greatest fairy tale never told," "Shrek" is an irreverent comedy 

·from Dream works that follows the green ogre, Shrek, who teams up with a talking donkey to save a princess from an evil king. The voice talent of Mike Myers (Shrek), Eddie Murphy (Donkey) and Cameron Diaz (Princess Fiona) helped this movie draw in huge audiences. While "Shrek" has grown into a huge franchise, the original still stands out as a classic. The story is original and represents the best animated film from Dreamworks. This is because "Shrek" is as rooted in fairy tales as it is in popular culture. The sacrile~ous take on fairy tales is coupled with numerous references to modern cul­ture and results in a film that, while topi­cal, is easily enjoyed b:y kids and adults. 
Finding Nemo (2003) 
An intelligent CGI film that is able to delight, "Finding Nemo" also sends a posi­tive message. Marlin is a clownfish who is overprotective of his son Nemo. When Nemo disappears, his father journeys across the ocean in a touching father-son story. The most impressive aspect of "Finding Nemo" is the underwater world Pixar has created. There are a multitude of details in the CGI ocean that make it real, alive and believable. Most important­ly, the characters in this film are endear­ing and entertaining. Albert Brooks is excellent as Nemo's father and Ellen DeGeneres gives a funny performance as Dory, the fish with no short-term memory. Overall, the world of "Finding Nemo" is one an audience can dive into for first­rate entertainment. 


Toy Story (1995) 
Still, the first CGI movie, John Lasseter's "Toy Story," remains the best. Pixar's inaugural film was a labor of love for all involved. In the "Toy Story" universe, toys like Woody the cowboy (Tom Hanks) come alive when their owners leave the room. When Woody and his gang are joined by the new toy, Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen), friction develops until the toys can unite behind the common cause of outwitting the neighborhood bully. It appeals to the imagination thanks to its originality and heart. Famous for its lovable characters and Randy Newman's endearing sound­track, this is a timeless classic that has spawned sequels, television shows and theme park rides. While ancient by CGI terms, "Toy Story" set an impressively high bar for all successive films. 
The CGI genre is still young and it pro­gresses by leaps and bounds with each new film. These four movies are the cream of the crop and represent the best that CGI films have to offer -if future endeavors follow the path blazed by Pixar and Dreamworks, the medium is in good hands. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@~d.edu 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 

Spring Arts Fest to screen uplifting Olympics film 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 

Hugh Hudson's "Chariots of Fire" is an oddity, a critically-acclaimed Best Picture winner that everyone's heard of, but few casual viewers have actual­ly seen. 
Perhaps best known for Vangelis' ingratiatingly pulse-heavy electronic score, the film was an under-
stories. 
"Chariots of Fire" is a film of quiet brilliance, with an effective but low-key plot. Nothing about it is particularly flashy, which is surprising for what seems to be a feel-good sports flick. Even the Olympic sequences, ostensibly the climax of the film, arrive refresh­ingly devoid of melodrama. The picture is instead driven by the characters as it follows them in their their calm deter­
mination to win. 
All the virtues of 

dog at the 1981 running are lauded
Chariots of Fire
Oscars but 
throughout the pic­brought home ture and the audi­the top prize, ence comes to sym­beating out pathize with all of Warren Beatty's the characters. Theheavily favored Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC 
acting is superb

"Reds" _ a fit-When: Friday at 7 p.m. 
across the board, 

ting victory for a film about over­coming the odds. The film will be screened Friday in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC) as part of the Spring Arts Fest. 
Though it might be lazily categorized as a sports film, "Chariots of Fire" ­like its Best-Picture predecessor "Rocky" -transcends its athletic ori­gins and becomes about characters and story rather than sport itself.. 
Based on a true story, it follows two runners as they prepare for the 1924 Paris Olympics. Eric Liddell (Ian Charleson) is a devout Christian who runs for the glory of God. By contrast, Harold Abrahams (Ben Cross) is a Jewish student who runs to prove that Jews are not an inferior race. The film follows the two as they train and pre­pare for the Olympics -balancing drama and character development with effective cross-cutting of the parallel 
particularly Ian 
Holm's ornery train­er, Sam. The film is extremely effective throughout, especially in its opening, which depicts runners on a beach to Vangelis' famous score, and in the Olympic sequences, which celebrate the purity of the event and the positive intentions of the amateur competitors. 
"Chariots of Fire" remains an anom­aly to this day, as it was directed by a little-known filmmaker in Hudson who had done nothing before and has done little since. It starred unknown actors in Charleson, who died of AIDS in 1990, and Cross, whose credits since have included such gems as "Exorcist: The Beginning" and the softcore thriller "Cold Sweat." Aside from the venerable Holm, who seems to be everywhere (he has been in everything from "Alien" to "Lord of the Rings" to "Garden State"), there is not a single immediately recognizable name involved in the entire project -every-one from the director to to the screen­writer (both of whom garnered Academy Award nominations for their work) have continued to toil in obscuri­ty. 


Yet something happened with "Chariots of Fire." The filmmakers came together and made a very special film. Almost everything about it is superior, from the screenplay to the acting to the score. It is old-fashioned, traditional filmmaking, but really, what's wrong with that? 
There was virtue in a good story 
well-told in 1981, and there is virtue in .the same today. Perhaps that's why "Chariots of Fire" holds up so well more than two decades later. It treads familiar ground, but it touches the heart and stirs the soul and does so with earnestness and touching sinceri­ty. 
A great film, to be sure, and an uplifting affirmation of the human spir­it. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 22, 2006 

WINTER OLYMPICS -TURIN 

Americans find offense, lose to Russians 5-4 
United States scores three power-play goals; Robert Esche stops 16 shots in loss to move team to 1-3-1 in tourney 
Associated Press the goalie's pads. It took one 
more whack from Gionta, 
TURIN, Italy-Brian Holston's Gomez's New Jersey Devils shot bounced off the goalie, teammate, to finally make the struck the crossbar and sent a work pay oil water bottle flying on its way "A couple of bounces finally into the net. went our way," Gomez said. 
Needing all that elTort for one "That's what you need in these goal, who knows what it will tournaments, the breaks. We got take to lift the U.S. men's hockey them, but so did the Russians." team to Olympic victory. Trouble Gomez got one of his own is, the club has only one more when he deflected in a shot 5 chance to figure it out. minutes into the third period to 
Rolston scored one of the tie it at 3, but Alexander Americans' three power-play Ovechkin's goal 4:55 later put goals Tuesday, but on a night Hussia on top again. they finally found their offense, "It seems like we always have the defense and goaltending shootouts with these guys," wasn't up to par in a 5-4 loss to Weight said. Russia. With the Americans scheduled 
"I wouldn't say it's frustrating, to play again Wednesday in the it's more maddening than any­single-elimination medal round, thing else," coach Peter goalie Rick DiPietro got the night Laviolette said. off; Hobert Esche started in his 
After managing only two goals place. in two consecutive losses, the Erik Cole swung behind the 
U.S. team broke out in a game net and stuffed a shot past that could only serve them in the Sokolov at 1():38 to tie it at 4, but confidence department. It didn't it took just another 1:14 for quite work out that way. Hussia to take the lead again ­
The Americans (1-3-1), the this time for good -as Alex fourth-place team in Group B, Kovalev ripped a shot past Esche were already locked into a quar­inside the left post. terfinal matchup Wednesday He finished with 16 saves in with Group A-winning Finland what was likely his only appear­(5-0). As the No. 2 team in Group ance in these games. As is the 
B. the Russians (4-1) will face norm, Laviolette wouldn't reveal Canada (3-2) in the quarterfi­who would start in goal against Martin Brodeur played like a The day after executive direc­enough as the Czechs pressed nals. Finland. gold-medal wirining goalie, too. tor Gretzky promised one goal the play after that, getting goals 
"It's almost like a playoff game Early on, it looked as if the That doesn't mean Canada would lead to another, he was from Pavel Kubina and Petr where you are playing a great U.S. would struggle in all facets solved all its problems during an right. Brad Richards, Martin St. Cajanek. The Czechs outshot defensive team with gnmt goal­of the game. encouraging but far-from-per­Louis and Pronger scored in a Canada 26-8 over the final two tending," U.S. forward Doug The Americans brought in a fect performance one day before 12-minute span of the first to put periods and 33-16 overall. Weight said. "If we don't get a woeful power play that had con­the Olympic men's hockey games the defending gold medalists up "We gave away some bad goal early -if something bad nected just four times in 22 start to count. 3-0. goals at the start but, if we play happens -we have to keep opportunities. Chris Pronger scored a goal Canada had been shut out for like we did in the last 40 min­playing our game for 60 min­At the end of the Americans' and set up another in a three­129 minutes, 11 seconds, a span utes, we will be OK," Jaroslav utes." first power play, Chris Drury goal first period and Canada that included losses to Spacek said. 
The U.S. can win the scoring attempted a pass along the blue ended its long scoring slump, Switzerland and Finland, before Brodeur made one difficult chances fight every game as line but had it intercepted by then held off the Czech Republic Richards scored on what looked save after another, turning aside Laviolette suggests, but if the Alexander Korolyuk, who Tuesday for its first victory in to be a harmless wrist shot from 31 shots in the kind of perform­scoreboard isn't in their favor streaked down the ice alone and three games. the slot about 7 1/2 minutes into ance that carried Canada to the against Finland, the Americans scored at 9:27 of the first. "A couple of goals helps the the first. gold medal following an equally will truly be finished. Given another chance less confidence," Pronger said. "It was an ugly type of goal slow start in Salt Lake City. 
"I don't think that they're than a minute later, Pittsburgh "Finally getting a win after a and Brad had a cheeky grin on In that Olympics, Canada down," Laviolette said. "We just Penguins prospect Evgeni couple of games gives everyone his face, but it was what we shook off two consecutive poorly remain confident that we're Malkin finished a short-handed a lift." needed," Kris Draper said. played games to tie the Czechs, going to win a hockey game." 2-on-1 with Darius Kasparaitis By winning, Canada (3-2) fin­St. Louis, Richards' teammate then went on to win its final 
Rolston, Brian Gionta and by beating Esche. ished third among the four qual­with the Tampa Bay Lightning, three games and the country's Scott Gomez all scored man­"They used their power to try ifiers in six-team Group A and followed with a bad-angle shot first men's hockey gold medal in advantage goals, but the U.S. to get it to the crease and jam will meet Russia (4-1) in the from along the goal line that 50 years. allowed as many goals by Russia it," Russian captain Alexei quarterfinals Wednesday. banked off Nashville Predators Brodeur appeared to be favor­as it did in the three previous Kovalev said. "We tried to use . The Czechs (2-3), last year's goalie Tomas Vokoun, who was ing his left knee during the sec­games of the tournament. Each the pass and our speed." world champions, finished a dis­pulled after the first. Pronger ond period, but said it wasn't a time they did score, their faces Russia had top goalie Evgeni appointing last among the four scored in the final minute of the problem. displayed surprise along with Nabokov in goal for the first Group A qualifiers and meets period on a slap shot from the "The worst thing for us was their joy. period, but pulled him in favor of rival Slovakia (5-0), the top team high slot following a long probably getting the lead early," 
The first goal was Rolston's Sokolov, who made 23 saves in Group B, on Wednesday. rebound. Brodeur said. "We sat back after trick shot, the second was nearly over the final 40 minutes. "We didn't win a lot of games, "We tried to start better and that, but in the end we held on as difficult. Nabokov will be back against but the tournament really starts score a couple of quick goals, and got a good performance out 
After Maxim Sokolov stopped a Canada. with the quarterfinals," Czech and it was a big plus when we of our guys." long shot, he then turned aside forward Milan Hejduk said. did that," Simon Gagne said. Pronger had a strong game, the rebound he left in front. Canada 3, Czech Republic 2 "Today we showed some signs of "Overall, I think we played pret­rebounding from a big mistake Gomez got to that bouncing The goals came, as Wayne life and, if we play well in the ty well defensively." in Finland's 2-0 victory over the puck, too, and slammed it into Gretzky predicted they would. next few games, we'll be fine." The three goals were barely Canadians on Sunday. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  2-3-4 BEDROOMS. Immediate &  1-7 bdrm. homes starting@  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don  
WANTED  FOR SALE  BlueGoldrentals.com  2006·07. Security,phone included. 315·3215. ndstudentrentals.com  $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool tables, 1st mo. free. Call574-250­ not go it alone.lf you or someone you love needs confidential support  
123 ND Ave. 3·bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call  7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
Civil Engineer-We are seeking May  A 4 bdrm, 2bth newly remodeled  574-229-0149.  For Graduation and Sports Events.  
 Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more  
2006 grads w/a BS in Civil Engineering.  house near campus. $90,000. Call 220·8666.  3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web  2BR Guest House. Fully furnished. 25 minutes from Campus, overlook- PERSONAL  information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary  ing Diamond Lake. Owner lives  
Job functions consist of land devel­ 2002 Dodge Neon 4D. 53,700 mi.  574·993·2208 or grooms@ourweb·  next door. Low rates for longer  Wanted: An art teacher for Kyle  
opment engineering for Site/Civil  Good cond. $6,500.  spot. net  rentals. 269-445-8468 or  Spring Break 2006 with Student  Reis.  
firm in Indiana and Florida.  Call Carlos 57 4-271·2275 or cmen­ geok21751 @yahoo.com  Travel Services to Jamaica,  
doz1 @nd.edu  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI·  Mexico, Bahamas and Florida. Do  Kyle Martin is the better twin.  
Please send all resumes and ques- UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07  Rent furnished house-walk ND. 3  not get left behind! Book now, limit- 
lions to  SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED- students $300, 4·$275 + utilities.  ed space available.  Ray Smego is terrible at  
rnhoward@ rw-engineering.com  FoR RENT  ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  ADT. 574-309·3105.  Call for group discounts.  hockey .... and life.  
Info/Reservations  James Leila, you never visit, whats  
Kaplan: summer office help needed  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED·  A 4 bdrm, 2blh house near campus.  515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student  800·648-4849  the deal man.  
$7.00/hour  ROOM HOMES  All appliances included. Pets wei­ rentals, $1200/mo.  We miss you.  
272-4135  MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  come. $1350. Call220-8666.  57 4-250· 7653  www.ststravel.com  Love Thad.  


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
CCHA Hockey  
team  record  
1  Miami  18·6·2  
2  Michigan State  13·7·6  
3  Michigan  13·9·4  
4  Nebraska-Omaha  12·9·5  
5  Lake Superior  11-11-4  
6  Northern Michigan  12·12·2  
7  Ohio Slate  11-12-3  
8  Alaska Fairbanks  10·12-4  
9  Ferris State  9·11·6  
10  NOTRE DAME  10·12-4  
11  Bowling Green  8·16·2  
12  Western Michigan  6·16·4  
NCAA Baseball  
team  record  
1  Clemson  3·0  
2  Florida  6·1  
3  Georgia Tech  6·0  
4  North Carolina  3-0  
5  Rice  6·2  
6  Tennessee  6·1  
7  Texas  5·5  
8  Oregon State  3·3  
9  Cal Stale Fullerton  5·4  
10  Tulane  6·1  
11  Mississippi Slate  0·0  
12  Missouri  4·2  
13  South Carolina  5·1  
14  Florida State  7-1  
15  San Diego  7·2  
16  Pepperdine  6-4  
17  Arkansas  6·0  
18  Long Beach State  6·4  
19  LSU  6·1  
20  North Carolina State  8·1  
21  Texas Christian  4·3  
22  Cal Poly  9·3  
23  Mississippi  2·0  
24  usc  7-4  
25  Nebraska  3·1  

points 
38 32 30 29 26 26 25 24 24 24 18 16 
pre!!. 
1 2 3 4 5 8 7 6 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 19 20 21 18 22 23 25 
NR 
NCAA Women's Golf 

tPam  200.5 /JS. Top 2.5  
1  Duke  24·0  
2  UCLA  23·1  
3  Auburn  21·3  
4 5  Pepperdine Arizona Slate  19-4 18·6  
6  Tennessee  17-7  
7  California  16·7  
8 9  Geo.rgla Ohio State  11·7 15·9  
10  Florida  13·10  
11  Oklahoma State  12·11  
12  usc  11-12  
13  Tulane  11·12  
14  Arkansas  9·13  
15  Wahington  7·16  
16  Missouri  7·16  
17  LSU  8·9  
18  Arizona  8·15  
19  Texas  6·18  
20  Furman  5·18  
21  Stanford  5·18  
22 23  Virginia Tulsa  4·19 4·20  
24  New Mexico  5·19  
25  Washington Slate  1-16  

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Illinois at Michigan, 7 p.m., ESPN Xavier at Dayton, 7:30 p.m., ESPN2 Alabama at Arkansas, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WINTER OLYMPICS ­
TURIN 


Associated Press TURIN, Italy-Sassy Sasha Cohen saved the best for last. And boy was it good. With U.S. flags waving and chants of "USA! USA!" rocking the arena, the U.S. champion dazzled the judges with a sensational short program Tuesday night and slipped past 
world champion Irina Slutskaya of Hussia by a slim .03 points. 
Cohen's spectacular spi­rctls and crisp footwork had the crowd clapping to the beat of "Dark Eyes," a Hussian folk tune. She even Bashed some attitude as she concluded a solid evening of skating that will wrap up with Thursday night's free skate, snap­ping her lingers and dou­ble-pumping her fists as if to say, "Top that." 

"I just believed in myself," Cohen said. "To have something like this come out is really great. I am going to believe in myself and expect the best." 
She got the marks she felt she deserved -and the United States has yet another women's gold in sight. Americans have won three of the last four Olympic titles, and if Cohen, a two-time world silver medalist, is this dynamic in the finale, she could add another one. 
"When the numbers came up, I wasn't sure where I would be," Cohen said. "To be in first, it was like 'Wow, I did it, the judges did it. We did it together.' " 
A win for Cohen would break Hussia's strangle­hold on figure skating golds at these games. No country has swept all four events, and the Hussians already own three ­pairs, men's and danee. 
Japan's Shizuka Arakawa and Fumie Suguri were third and fourth, and American Kimmie Meissner was 
IN BRIEF 
Ramirez given permission 
to arrive at camp late 
FOHT MYEHS, Fla. -Manny Ramirez was given permission by the Boston Hed Sox to report to spring training on March 1, six days after the team's first full-squad workout and one day after Major League Baseball's mandatory reporting date. 
"Manny is in Florida completing an extensive training regimen and is prepared to have an exceptional sea­son," said a joint statement from Hamirez and the team that was releasod by the Hed Sox on Tuesday. 
"There are a lot of factors involved, some of them are personal, some are family related," general manager Theo Epstein said. "lie assured us that by staying in Miami and contin· uing to work with his personal train­er, continuing his regimen, that he wouldn't be behind. In the end, after talking to him, we were OK with accommodating him. It's not perfect, but we're going to support him through this." 

Former U.S. soldier medals 
CESANA, Italy -Shauna Hohbock shivered as she grabbed the American l1ag and draped it around her shoulders. 
This wasn't any U.S. athlete using the Stars and Stripes as a prop in some post-race celebration for TV. 
This, was a proud American sol­dier. And now, Olympic medalist. 
"It's an amazing thing to win a medal for your country," she said. "We have the most beautiful flag, and I wanted to be wrapped in it." 
Blasting down an Alpine slide in a shiny, dark American convertible, Rohbock won a silver medal in women's bobsled on Tuesday, finally ending an 0-for-Olympics stay for the 
U.S. sliding teams. 
With roommate Valerie Fl!lming providing the push and applying the brakes, Hohbock completed her four runs down the track faster than everyone but gold-medal winners Sandra Kiriasis and Anja Schneiderheinze of Germany. 
lil'th. 
Emily Hughes, added to the U.S. team nine days ago when Miehelln Kwan withdrew with a groin injury, wasn't intimidated in her first major interna­tional event. Tho sister of 2002 gold medalist Sarah Hughes -who was in the audience -finished sev­enth. 

Cohen and Slutskaya, the 2002 Olympie silver medalist, have been in contention before. All they have to do is rneall Salt Lake City, where, skating with the title within road1, both stumbled enough for Sarah lluglws to take tho gold. 
Sorenstam named top
women's golfer 
No one doubted Annika Sorenstam was the No. 1 player in women's golf. Now it's ollicial. 
The Women's World Golf Hanking finally made its dobut Tuesday morn­ing with Sorenstam far atop tho list. based on her 21 vietorios worldwide and three major championships over the last two years. Sorenstarn's lead was nearly doubln that of Paula Creamer at No. 2. Tho only surprise was Michelle Win. 
The 16-year-old from llawaii, who turned pro in Octobnr, cheeknd in at No. 3 and eould movo ahoad of Creamer depending on what hap­pens in the Fields Open in llawaii this week on the LPGA Tour. 
The women's ranking, sponsornd by Holnx, will be published nvnry Tuesday and used as criteria for w~t­ting into tournamonts such as t.lw LPGA Championship, tho Womnn's British Op(m and the IISBC Women's World Mateh Play. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
NHL 

Hasek not ready to return 
Associated Press 2004. The concern is Hasek may ... it's like three or four inches 
not be able to bounce back in from the experience I had 
OTTAWA -Ottawa Senators time for the stretch run and the before." goalie Dominik Hasek said playoffs. Hasek walked without a visi­there's "very little chance" he'll Hasek has been a big reason ble limp into an Ottawa news be able to play when the NHL Ottawa is in first-place in the conference. But the Senators, resumes March 1 and isn't sure Northeast Division. l-Ie's second who return to practice when he'll return from a groin in the league in Wednesday and injury that forced him to with­goals-against aver­play their first
"When I made a

draw from the Olympies .. age (2.09), fourth post-Olympic "Of course I'm worried. I'll be in save percentage save I felt a really game a week later honest," the 41 -year-old said (.925), tied for at Pittsburgh,
sharp pain and I 

Tuesday as he met with third in wins (28) can't predict his
knew right away 

reporters for the first time since and tied for second return. 
returning from the Turin Games. in shutouts (five). that it's bad." "I wish to be Hasek was hurt in the first Hasek was hurt back on the ice period of the Czech Hepublic's while making what against Pittsbijrgh 
Dominik Hasek 

opening game last week. appeared to be a but, because of 
Senators goalie 

"But on the other hand, I want routine save the way I feel to do all the best to get on the against Germany. right now, there's ice as soon as possible, and I He underwent an MRI with no strength in that particular hope I can be in the same shape Czech team doctors and a sec­muscle. I don't think it's possi­I was during the season,'' he ond one in Ottawa on Tuesday ble, to be honest. Maybe, but added. "But I have to admit, I morning. there is very little chance," am worried. It's a di!licult situa­"When I made a save I felt a Hasek said. tion for me." really sharp pain and I knew "It's only been one week since 
Hasek underwent surgery to right away that it's bad," he I got injured and I feel better ... repair a serious groin injury said. I'm feel almost pain free, which before signing with the Senators "It's hard to describe, it's a lit­is a good sign, but there's still as a free agent in the summer of tle bit diil'erent than in the past lots of work ahead of me." 

BENGAL BOUTS 

Pepe triumphes over 
Heder111an in 111atch 
Carroll residents, fought a 
By TIM KAISER 

tough match that once again Sports Writer 
saw an aggressive style pay 

off. Bret "The Mail Never Stops" Pepe won by unanimous Shapot vs. Nick "The decision in an otherwise even Extinguisher" Stalschmidt bout on the strength of flur­
Sophomore Bret "The Mail ries of punches -one each Never Stops" Shapot came round, the second of which away with a victory by unani­sent Hederman up against mous deeision against senior the ropes, where Pepe con­Nick "The Extinguisher" nected on hard shots to the Stahlschmidt in a match dom­body. inated by Shapot's reckless offense. Jesse "Wolverine" Brawer 
Shapot brought a unique vs. Tomas Castillo and energetie fighting style to In the last match of the the ring, throwing non-stop night, sophomore Jesse punches. He blocked poorly "Wolverine" Brawer toppled but never allowed freshman Tomas Castillo. Stahlschmidt to get going. Brawer controlled the bout Shapot bloodied with a ferocious offense, Stahlschmidt's nose and con­sending Castillo to the canvas nected on both head and in the first round. The second body shots to seal the win. round was fairly even before 
Brawer blew the fight open in David Pepe vs. Kevin "Let's the third by landing powerful Engage in Fisticuffs" jabs on the overmatched Hederman Castillo. 
Sophomore David Pepe and junior Kevin "Let's Engage in Contact Tim Kaiser at Fisticuffs" Hederman, both tkaiser@nd.edu 


9C 
www.homecityice.com 
Great Job Opportunities!! 
B.et;ible ~ & GR~A I .eAY.!! 
We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 .. $12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us! 
So;l~"""'oe!t 1-!ICO.J~0-0152 Notltl W<tNsl•• 1-300-SU-'35€6 Ft W•yn~ 1-1l~C~-G555 Merion 1-.'l{;!Xol.2-$$>1 SQ~~M H>lroo! l~C-157-4423 Sculh &M~ 1-SC0.~67-4~Zl :;)l"fWm P<l!nl1-®C-'lS7-44a'J · Sptlfl9fi•ld 1·SCil-l'i42-a&54 
No Exporiwm:a Necessary. Tr.;m•H>M ~ liltlin!J..::h<Xli•mi•mri<.in ~!<£ rf®.11J ""'""'&~ tn><>i<. W• oliur ~-Slll!1 Loinlr,g t!!2l::l'­
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend ! 
www .homecityice.com 
The Kaneb Center presents the Scholars in the Classroom Series featuring: 
"The Impact of Hurricane Katrina and Predicting Storm Surges in Southern Louisiana" 
Joannes Westerink, Associate Professor­Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences, University of Notre Dame 
In addition to being an expert in his field, Professor Westerink received the 2004 Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award in the College of Engineering. 
Thursday, February 23rd, 4:00pm 
Presented by

APRil 18 • THI JDYCI CINTIR 
On the campus of the University of Notre Dame 
;!i

Tickets at the Notre Dame Joyce Center Ticket Office (located at Gate 10) Charge-By-Phone: 574-631-7356 
r:Pif'C C '
..: ac 1c oast oncerts4

Order online at www.und.com & click on "Tickets" 
126 DeBartolo Classroom Building 
Registration: 
http://kaneb.nd. edu/events/register.shtml 
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Ci111ino defeats Weber after going to 111at in second round 
By TIM KAISER 
Sports Wrircr 
.1 unior Christian Kondratowiez defeated freshman piratn afi­cionado Brian "Captain .lack" Blacker with a win by split deci­sion Tuesday. 
The first round was a sloppy all"air, with both boxors missing a several pundws. The socond round W<Ls again an nvnn one, but the v1docity of the punchns increased. Near thn end of' the round, Kondralowicz hit Blacker with a hook that snnt his mouth guard flying. 
Blacknr failml to block his oppo­nent's shots in tlw third, and Kondratowicz smLind the win. 
Chris Hanlon vs. Andy Simko 
.Junior Chris llanlon boat grad­uate stuclont Andy Simko in a bru­tal match that saw both pugilists lmtvn bruised and bloodied. 
Much of thn light W<Ls btu:k and forth. with both boxers trading hard shots with mteh other. llanlon linislwd tJw soeond round 
with a bloody nose, and Simko got one in the third. llanlon won by split decision. 
Alec Racklsh vs. Brian "Bulldog" Barrett 
Froshman Alee Hackish lost a unanimous decision to graduate student Brian "Bulldog" Barrett in the next match. 
Af'ter an even f'irst round, Barrett dominated the beginning of the second round, and Hackish nearly fell, spawning a standing count. Hackish rebounded at the end of' the round and landed a few shots to Barrett's head to dose the gap. In the third, Barrett threw a series of hard punches, ensuring his victory. 
Dan Rogers vs. Matt De Lucia 
Graduate student Dan B.ogers defoated junior Malt De Lucia by TKO in a bout that showed two very different lighting styles in action. 
De Lucia spent the lirst round ducking and weaving while Hognrs stood tall and connected on powerful punches, backing De Lucia in a corner where he con­tinued his assault. The referee stopped the light 40 seconds into the second round after Hogers eornernd De Lucia on the ropes. 
Robert "Golden Boy" Cimino vs. Mark Weber 
Hobert "Golden Boy" Cimino won by split decision over fresh­man Mark Weber in a frenetic light that saw a huge number of punches thrown. 
Weber's reckless lighting style got the senior Cimino against the ropes in the lirst round but left him open to hard jabs from Cimino. Cimino began the second round on the oll'ensive before slip­ping onto the canvas after being hit with a hard punch from Weber. In the third round, Cimino took advantage of Weber's aggressiveness by countering enough of Weber's wild punches to win. 
John "The Hlghllghter" O'Connell vs. Patrick Martin 
In the debut match of the 150­pound division, .John "The I-lighlighter" O'Connell beat fellow freshman Patrick Martin by unan­imous decision. 

O'Connell began the light with a flurry of punches that put Martin against the ropes. Martin was less tentative in the second, throwing more punches but still ending up with a bloody nose by the end of' the round. 
Kevin Garcia vs. Guillermo "Almost Done with Law School" Tijerina 
Freshman Kevin Garda lost by a split decision to third-year law student Guillermo "Almost Done with Law School" Tijerina. 
Tijerina began on the oll'ensivn, but Garcia sat back and landed a few counter-punches. In the sec­ond, Tijerina fought Garcia up against the ropes. In the third round, Garda knocked Tijerina to one knee, where he rmnained for a four-count before finishing the fight. 
Joey Leary vs. John Aland 
Joey Leary beat fellow fresh­man John Aland by a unanimous dodsion in a sloppy light. 

Aland slippod on tho canvas early on and nearly slid out of tlw ring. Lalor in the lirst, the lightors boeame intertwined and eollapsed in a piln on tho wnvas. Tim two wore clinching li1r most of tho sec­ond round, and any punchos landed were thrown as tho two grabbed at each otlwr's hnads and torsos. 
Brian Tyrrell vs. Paul Mower 
Junior Brian Tyrrell bnstod sophomore Paul Mower in a matehup of O'Neill rnsidonls. 
Tho light proved to be largnly uneventful. In the first, both light­ers traded punches, with Mower landing some hard shols. Tho snc­ond round W<Ls another back-and­forth" alli.tir, this time with tho two tired lighters dinching nvnry fi~w seconds. Tyrrell had to have his bloody nose patched up by lrain­nrs al'ler the round, but he over­came tho injury to last another dose round, al'lnr which he won by split decision. 
Pat O'Brien vs. Mark Dummett 
Pat O'Brien won a unanimous decision over Mark Durnmntt in a fairly oven matchup of sopho­moms marknd by O'Brien's knark fiu· landing big pundws. 
Dummelt appmm~d to tirn by the end of tho l'irsl round and began clinching, a tnmd which hP continlll~d throughout tlw light. lin was morn aggrossivo in tlw second round, but 0'Bri<m coun­tered to land some morn impn~s­sivn punelws. Tho third round saw O'Brien get. incrnasingly aggrnssivn, b<u:king l>ummPlt up against tho ropns and finishing him on· with morn power punrh­ns. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.cdu 

COrtCERT CfiLErtDfiR 
REO SPEEDWAGO" 
BLUE OYSTER COLT 
Stmdoy /'fqr(h "' 
Horrl& hrformlng flrtl (fl!tcrr 



,_.,flprlll!l 
t1otrb P'<lffo""lnt Arts (411\Mt em Ulll $O<unMy _,4ol 



page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS· Wednesday, February 22, 2006 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Hayes leads Irish clubs in Florida tournalllent 
King said. "That's really excit­
Team finishes 11th 
ing. For her, in the second semester of her senior year, to
with athree-round 932 
have a personal best is really exciting."
By TIM KAISER 
Lacey Jones of Southern 
Sports Writer 
Methodist, who shot a one­under 215, took the individual 
The Irish opened their title for third-place SMU. spring season this week, fin­The Irish finished 36 shots ishing 11th out of 14 teams in behind Baylor, who came in the Central District Classic first with an 896. Ohio State Tuesday in Parrish, Fla. wrapped up second place with 
Using a five-person team of a 907, just one stroke ahead of Suzie Hayes, Noriko Nakazaki, the Mustangs. Lauren Gebauer, Lisa Maunu, This was the first tourna­and Katie Brophy, ment of the 
Notre Dame shot a 932 (62-over­ "Well, the first  spring Irish,  for who  the fin­ 
par) for the two­day, three-round tournament. The Irish began  round, 305, we felt pretty good about. We were extremely  ished the fall sea­son Nov. 8 with a second place fin­ish in the Lady  
the tournament well, firing a 305 in the first round Monday at the 6,099-yard River Wilderness Golf Club. A difficult 318 in Monday's afternoon round  disappointed with the second round, and the third round was just mediocre -one good round out of three."  J a g u a r Invitational in Augusta, Ga. After finishing in the top four in five of six events, and after a win­ter spent training inside, the team  
placed the team  is still tightening  
in 11th heading into the final round. There, a  Debby King Irish head coach  up its game, hop­ing to be ready for the Big East  
309 kept the Irish  Championship in  
in that spot.  April and NCAAs  

"Well, the first round, 305, in May and June. we felt pretty good about," Despite the "mediocre" fin­Irish coach Debby King said. ish, King was happy with what "We were she saw. 
The College ofArts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Stuart Greene, Associate Dean 1 04 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, February 24, 2006 
extremely disap­pointed with the second round, and the third round was just mediocre -one good round out of three." 
Senior co-cap­tain Suzie Hayes paced the Irish with a personal record nine-over 225 for the tour­nament. She 
"Suzie Hayes had her career best game in this tournament. That's really exciting." 
Debby King Irish head coach 
"I think they struck the ball really well," King said of her team's performance. "Our golf swings looked really good. We [just] need to do some fine tuning on our short game and chipping." 
The Irish will compete next in The "Mo" Morial 

began the event with a blister­ing one-over 73 and fired a three-over 7 5 to finish in a tie for ninth among all golfers. 
"Suzie Hayes had her career­best game in this tournament," 
in Bryan, Texas, a three-day tournament beginning March 10. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
Call for Student Nominations 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for a Kaneb Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms may be found on the College of Science webpage at: http://www.science. nd.edu/kanebAward.shtml or you may pick up a nomination form in the Dean's Officel 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Friday, March 1 
Return to : Sr. Kathleen Cannonl O.P. 1 Associate Dean Dean's Officel College of Science 248 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Wednesday, february 22, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
AliDa 
continued from page 24 
llw lkllns' mach until thn nnd. 
l'n1u:ock was a dominant lilrcn for Alma, posting I 0 rnhounds and nPtting I (J points -12 from llw charily slripn. The Scots as a tnam shot 17 -of-20 on foul shots, as Alma was alrPady in tlw bonus with sovnn minutns n~maining in thn sec­ond half. and did not eornmit its sPvnnth foul for anolhnr two minutns. This gavo thmn a dear advantagn ovnr tlw Bnllns, and Alma capitaliznd. Thn high numlwr ol' fouls put two ol' the Btdlns' key play1~rs, guard Bridgnl Boy1:n and forward Erin Nnwsom. in foul trouble much ~~arlinr than coach Stnvn Bnnder would havn liknd. 
"Tiw trnnds ol' tlw fouls killnd us," Bnndnr said. "They were mostly touch fouls and mugging lintls -stull' that wasn't rnally 1:allnd in tho l'irst half. That really took us out ol' our gamo, nspneially ai'Lnr thren quick fouls on Bridget Boyce." 
This gamn dnmonstratnd the ability ol' thn Saint Mary's dnl'nnse more than in recent games. The Belles were able to hold an opponent to under 50 points for the first time since Jan. 3 against Tri-State. 
The Bellos played tough del'nnso in the 11rst half after Bendnr deeided to add pressure on the passer to try and stop the high-low gamo for Alma. This added pressurn helped the Bolles immensely, leading to a slow ol' del'ensiv1~ stops for Saint Mary's al'tnr tho switch. 
But one major problem for the Belles in tho high-low game was tlw inability to cover the post player, Alma forward Darde Philp. Nnither Newsom nor ennter Nicole Beier were eompletnly efl'nctive in shutting down Philp, who contributed 14 points and l'ive boards in tho upset. 
The Bolles held Alma to just :n percent shooting for the game, but Saint Mary's as a team shot evnn wvrse from the floor at :n.6 percent, including 17.(J percent from behind the are. 
"II' you had told me that we would have hold Alma to 49 points, I would have been sure we would win that game," Bender said. "But we just weren't dieking on oll'ensn. We eouldn't make the easy shots." 
Bendor said one positive he can build on next year from Tuesday's game is the play of current junior Bridget Lipke. Lipke nxcellcd in against Alma, scoring 11 points with four rebounds and six assists -and the guard played the full 40 minutes. 
"I was really impressed by the play ol' the throe veterans -Lipko, BoycH, and Isophomore I Knssler," Bender said. "They started oil' a little slow, but onee they bought into the system, we really took oil" 
Bender said the season was a crucial one for the Belles, who started l-5 but finished third in the conl'erenee and are owners of the best reeord in sehool his­tory. 
Less than an hour after the loss, Bender said he was alroady looking forward to next season. 
"We arc going to be tougher than nails and we are going after it," he said. "Look for us in the IMIAAJ top two next sea­sorL" 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Huskies 
continued from page 24 
strong three-point shooting, found ways to get to the basket against a tough Huskies defense-induding a go-ahead layup with 10:24 left in the sne­ond half. 
But it was Conneetieut for­ward Hilton Armstrong's free 
p 

102WIDG I 
JlJ)irA~ A 
Thur$day, February 23, 2006 8:"00 pm, Le1ghton Concert Hall N DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Tickets: $6 general, $5 faculty/staff, $4 senior citizens, $3 all students Call631-.2800 for tickets or visit http://perfonningarts.nd.edu 
0 
~ 
\JNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAM· DEPARTMENT OJ· MUSIC 

Spacious Apaflments Fantastic Location Great Rent Specials 
Weight Room & Business Center Huge Swimming Pool Sauna. Whirlpool. & Free Tanning Indoor/Outdoor Basketball & Tennis Gated Community 


-

throws with 4(J seconds loll in overtinw that gave tho lluskies thn 75-74 lead for good. Armstrong seored 11 points and grabbed nine rebounds. 
Notrn Damn guard l!ussnll Carter misstid a !wavily con­tested layup on tho following possession, but forward Torin Francis grabbml the loosn ball and Notre Damn callnd a time­out. 
With 27.6 sm:onds rnmaining, Irish guard Chris Quinn received an inbounds pass and waitnd for tho clock to run down bel'orn driving towards the basket. Quinn missed the layup and Cay grabbnd the rebound to protnet tho win. 
''I'll go to bml with that Chris Quinn runner for the rnst of my life and play the law of avnr­agl~s." Brny told the Associated Press. "We did not gnt it." 
(iay, who picked up his fourth foul with night minutns l1d't in tho second hall'. playnd smart down the strnteh to avoid foul­ing out. lin finished with 17 points on H-of-16 shooting. 
Notre Damn, which won~ its black road jnrsPys for tlw sm:­ond consecutive ganw, t.raiiPd by 16 points at halftime as Connecticut dominatnd the offensive glass. The Huskins led by 19 points with 17:57 loft in the sncond hall'. 
But Connnetkut ftdl llat from that point on, allowing the Irish to crawl back. Tho Huskins opted for quick shots early in their possessions. They also could not secure as many o!Tnn­sivn rebounds as they did early in tlw ganw, as Notre Dame outworked Conrwcticut undnr­neath. 
Francis lnd Notre Damn with I 0 rebounds, and forward Hob Kurz added seven ol'l' the bend1. 
The Irish got hot ol'fnnsivnly at thn same time. Coming out of the television timeout with roughly 15:40 left in tho second hall', Notre Damn wont on a quick 7-0 run, prompting Connnetkut coach Jim Calhoun to call a timeout. 
Notre Dame continued its impressive shooting out of a timeout, seoring on four con­secutive possessions. Falls seored live ol' Notrn Damn's II points in this stretch. 
The loss snapped a three­game Notrn Damo winning streak. Notre Damn has three games loft this season -a home game against Marquntte and two road ganws against Provid1mco and DePaul -as it continues to try to snrurn a spot in tlw Big East tournamnnt. 
Tho Huskins block1~d a Big East-record 19 shots in thn game. Armstrong lml thn way with snvnn blocks, and for­wards Josh Boorw and Cay added four and thnw, respec­tively. .... 
Thn Observer was unable to contaet Brny following tlw loss. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 22, 2006 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Road 
continued from page 24 
"I thought Charel played well in the last five minutes [Sunday], when she had most of her points -I'd like to see her do that for an entire game," McGraw said. "She has really stepped up and shot the ball when we've needed her to. She's scoring more points now, and that's what we look for .her to do." 
West Virginia 
presence, the key to West Virginia's offense has been the team's three-point shooting. The Mountaineers enter mak­ing a strong 35 percent of their shots from long rang£:, while Notre Dame is allowing a league-high 38 percent three-point defense. 
McGraw said she is upset with the team's perimeter defense as a whole but has seen some individual improve­ment, especially from guard Breona Gray. 
"We work on it every day for 
the whole year, 
and it's not get­

will  need  a  "/ think we have  ting better," she  
- strong perform­ance out of cen­ter Olayinka  similar problems. We are both scoring  said. "I think Charel's gotten a lot better, and  
Sanni  and  not as many points  [Gray] is great.  
emerging guard LaQuita Owens if  as we would like.,  We need her and more people t.o  
the Mountaineers  play like her."  
allow Allen to get  Muffet McGraw  The Irish will  
hot.  Irish coach  need  a  strong  

Since West Virginia's All-American guard and leading scorer Meg Bulger (19.3 points per game) tore her anterior cruciate ligament during the team's loss to St. John's on Jan. 29, Sanni and Owens have stepped up to fill the void. Despite the 1-5 record since Bulger's injury, Owens has had two 20-point perform­ances and a 15-point outing in the six games, and Sanni has maintained her season aver­age of 13.1 points per game. 
"It's just like every other team we've played-you can't just shut down one person [to winl," McGraw said. "I think Sanni's playing really well for them. She's a tough matchup for us inside." 
While the Irish must worry about West Virginia's post 
defensive per­formance if they hope to win, McGraw said. 
"They're a lot more athletic than we are," she said. "Their guards are shooting the ball [well] from the perimeter." 
Notes: 

+ After the loss to the Huskies, Notre Dame's ratings percentage index (RPI) actual­ly jumped one spot from No. 40 to No. 39. McGraw said she believed the team needed an RPI under 40 to ensure itself of a bid to the NCAA Tournament. The selection committee chooses 31 teams for at-large bids to join the 34 conference winners in the tournament. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
·Castellanos by a split deci­sion. 
Biddle held the advantage in the first round as The Hurricane struggled to find a way inside his taller opponent. 
The Hurricane was more successful at landing punches in the second and third rounds, but Biddle scored points with a series of left­right hooks to secure the win. 
Anthony "The Desire" Steier 
vs. Glenn Gutierrez 
After an uneventful first round, Glenn Gutierrez set the tone in the second round of his match against senior Anthony "The Desire" Steier but was unable to hold on for the win. 
The speedy Gutierrez worked his way inside his opponent, landing a left jab and right hook that drew a gasp from the crowd. 
He ran out of gas in the third round, though, allowing the taller Steier to land sever­al left-right jab combinations that forced Gutierrez to wrap up. The Desire won on the comeback by a split decision. 
Sean Mallin vs. Pat 
"Homewrecker" Garrison 
In a battle of Keough Hall dormmates, sophomore Pat "Homewrecker" Garrison implemented a classic style to defeat freshman Sean Mallin by unanimous decision. 
Mallin used the height advantage, but Homewrecker danced around his opponent, finding and attacking the body whenever he could. After an even first, Homewrecker forced Mallin into the corner several times in the second round and delivered a right jab that nearly knocked him over in the third. 

Sean "Ooohs and Ahhs" McNichols vs. James Draths 
After freshman Sean "Ooohs and Ahhs" McNichols nearly fell in the second round, his opponent freshman James Draths went in for the kill. 
Sensing McNichols's vulner­ability, Draths backed him into the corner and delivered a series of right hooks that sent "Ooohs and Abhs" to the mat -the first time all night a fighter fell. 
McNichols tried to take back the advantage in the third but lowered his defenses midway through the round, allowing Draths to keep him at bay while the round ended. Draths won by unanimous decision. 
Jim Buffi vs. Lawrence "The Boston Massacre" Sullivan 
In the bloodiest match of the first session, sophomore Lawrence "The Boston Massacre" Sullivan beat soph­omore Jim Buffi by a technical knockout in the third round. 
The fight started poorly for Buffi, as he was knocked down in the first minute and lost his mouthguard after Sullivan landed a forcible left jab. The bout had to be stopped several times as Buffi required medical attention but kept getting back into the ring. 
One minute into the third round, The Boston Massacre landed a powerful right hook­left hook combination, causing the ref to stop the fight on a standing-eight count. 
Mike "Soldier" Schmitt vs.
'lntr O!f'ection and21st Century 'lnte(fectua( 
Mike Amenta 
In a match in which both fighters came out aggressively, 
£ije 

senior Mike "Soldier" Schmitt established the pecking order against freshman Mike Amenta. 
A Series ofLenten and Easter 
In the first round Amenta Fireside Chats with the Dean ofthe FirstYearofStudies 
used his height advantage to keep Schmitt from getting inside, but the off-campusColeman -Morse Center senior proved to be too quickFirst Floor lDunge 
for his opponent. Effectively mixing in high and low body shots, Schmitt 
TOPICS 

delievered a right hook to Amenta's head 1:10 into the Journals, Notebooks, and "Aha Moments" 
third round, causing the ref to 28 February 200 6 
call the fight in Schmitt's favor.
5 -5:30PM 
Brian "Mad Dog" Desplinter 
life Beyond "IM," ''Facebook,"and CellPhones-Silence, 
vs. Jim Duffy
Selective Disengagement, and Self Discovery 
Using a shifty hit-and-run 7 Much 200 6 
style, Brian "Mad Dog" 5 -5:30PM 
Desplinter defeated fellow 
Alumni Hall freshman Jim 
Duffy by unanimous decision. 
Liberal Learning and Reading as Spiritual Disciplines Desplinter was too quick for22 M'l rch 200 6 his dormmate, landing quick
5-5:30PM· 
jabs and getting out before Duffy could retalliate. 
Creating a "Personal" University-Mento ring Relationships and the Life of the Mind 
After falling in the second 29 March 2006 
round, Duffy landed some big 5 -5:30PM 
right hooks and left jabs in the third, but Mad Dog held on for the win. 
John "The Iceman" Cooney vs. Mike Batanian 
The first 145-pound division fight of the evening featured sophomore John "The Iceman" Cooney and freshman Mike Batanian. 
Both boxers were timid in the first round, but they came out firing in the second. Iceman opened with a series of jabs to the head, turning Batanian's face bright red. In the third round Batanian mixed up his style with high­low and left-right body shots, while Iceman kept punching Batanian in the head. 
Cooney won in a split deci­sion. 
Eddie "His Love" White vs. Calvin Evangelista 
In 140-pound division action, sophomore Eddie "His Love" White and freshman Calvin Evangelista competed in the most exciting fight of the first session. 
White began the first round on the attack, but left himself open to a series of big right jabs from Evangelista. Something must have been said about someone else's mother, because the boxers ran out in the second round and exchanged a rabid volley of left and right hooks that roused the audience to thun­derous applause. 
Neither boxer bothered to defend during the exchange, and Evangelista eventually gained the advantage. White came out aggressively in the third round, but Evangelista maintained control and won by unanimous decision. 
"Gentle" Ben Vincent vs. Mike "Just call me Merck" Henning 
Junior Mike "Just Call Me Merck" Henning was anything but easy on freshman "Gentle" Ben Vincent, as Henning forced a technical knockout 15 seconds into the second round. 
One of the fastest fighters of the night, Henning dodged most of "Gentle" Ben's punch­es, and then landed big hits on his out-of-position opponent. 
Andrew McGill vs. E.J. Alston 
In the 145-pound division, junior Andrew McGill forced another second round techni­cal knockout against freshman 
E.J. Alston. 
Alston had a slight height advantage, but McGill was too quick, landing left jabs at will and getting inside for some bodyshots. 
In the second round, a dev­astating right hook from McGill caused the ref to give Alston a standing-eight count. McGill continued his domi­nance, and after another standing-eight count, the ref called the bout 1:10 into the second round. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 

Lectures, Symposia, and "Starbuck's"-Intellectual Growth Beyond the Classroom 5 1\pri 1 200 6 5-5:30PM 
Books, hlms, Art, and Music -Your Lifetime Conve rsatipn Partners . 12 Apri 1 200 6 5-5:30 PM 
Formulating a Three-Year Undergraduate Learning Plan 19 Apri 1 200 6 5-5:30PM 
rTiiirt_y Uinutes if'Rejfectionfor a Lifetime ifLearning 

Wednesday, February 22, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

JUMBLEJOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RAFOL 
± 
ll:t.?006 Tnbune Media Services. Inc. All Aighls Reserved 
GEGAU 
j 
1 
ri I I 
ADAM FAJRLHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD DINKLY 
WHAT THE: Bll....l­C.Ol-1-E:C.TOR SAID
j 


-
WHE=N HE= C.OMPL-E=­

t1 
ri [] 
TE=D HIS ROUNDS.

www.jurnble.corn 
FLEEDI 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
J rJ I I 

A: .. 
• rI I J·rI I JTHE rI I J.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: IMBUE OPERA AFFIRM SCROLL Yesterday's Answer·. 
The young politician ran lor office because he was this-FULL OF "PROMISE" 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HoRoscoPE 
ACROSS 31 Composer 59 Plane domain 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS llAY: Charlotte Church, 20; Jennifer Love Hewitt, 27; Kelsey Grammer, 51; Tyne Daly, 60
Franck

1 Dismay 60 Brewer's kiln 32 Best Picture of Happy Birthday: Don't let laziness hold you back. You will have the perfect
61 Staring intently6 Like flags 
1958 opportunity to do something you've wanted to do for some time. A financial gain 10 Rap sheet 62 Growing fig.? is evident ifyou are willing to go the distance. Your own insecurity and lack of
33 Number of 

confidence in your abilities will be what hold you back. Your numbers arc 4, 15,
letters 63 Squeaks (out)
plays attributed 

22,38,40,46 13 Ragu rival to William 64 Flying Pan Shakespeare ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Ifyou arc on the go from morning to night, progress
14 Native will be made. Financial gains look very positive. Good fortune and luck arc in your38 "Rats!"
Canadian DOWN corner. You will have the competitive edge. ••••• 39 Decorative TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Your kindness and generosity will impress others
15 Hasty escape 1 Boorish 
and lead to greater self-worth. You will gain respect and receive rewards fi1r your 16 Tchaikovsky 2 Most stiffly sel ness actions. Someone may take advantage of you by trying to get you to pay42 "_Mucho" tor his or her mistake. ••• 
pitchers 

overture proper GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Don't count on things running smoothly. You will45 Can't-miss 
3 Good baseball proposition
19 Carrier to take things the wrong way if you let your emotions get in the way of rational 
Europe throw thinking. Rushing to finish something will not prove to be the most ctlicicnt means 47 Heinz tally of of getting things done. •••
4 Turkish title
20 S _sugar CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Love and romance are looking very positive but
flavors 

5 Much avoid getting involved with someone you work with. A setback may he upsetting21 Former Georgia 
49 "Star Trek" but, ifyou are determined, no obstacle will stop you from reaching your goal. ••• 
senator Sam 6 Locale
helmsman LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make things happen that you've been trying to 7 Directional get otT the ground for some time. Cold calls, interviews, pitching an idea or even22 Frost-covered 50 Fuji film 
suffix just barreling ahead with your plans will bring you good li.>rtune. You don't have competitor
24 Boiling point of to show otT in order to impress others. ••••• 
a Freshly painted
water on the VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may not like what you see but retrain fi·om being
51 "What can I 

Celsius scale 9 Fresh critical. Putting pressure on someone you care about will backfire. Self-improvement 
say?" 

will bring far better results than trying to reti.>rm others. Meddling will lead to a 28 Noted painter of 53 Test site series of negative events. ••
10 Fascination flowers LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visit someone who can enlighten you about something
11 Julie known as54 Sum of 16-, you want to do. Do your own research and carefully cover every aspect of whateverthe voice of
30 Opposite end of 24-, 33-and 34 Butts 43 Physical 48 Sleeveless it is you want to do. Be careful, too many things on your mind will result in minor
Marge Simpson
the point 47-Across exertion garments accidents. ••••
35 Koala's hangout

12 Fix SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The less risk, the better. Don't let anyone know 36 Pasture parents 44 Photo repro 52 Barely beat what your plans are--today is about taking others by surprise. Brainstorming may
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
17 Article in Die 
result in discovering a gimmick that will be marketable. You are on the right track. •• Zeit 37 Convert to a 45 Ward of "The 55 Make a bed? 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-nec. 21): Change is upon you even ifyou aren't relishingfine spray Fugitive," 1993 the thought. For now, it's best to let things unfold naturally. Your motives may be18 Extremes 
56 Furniture wood 

questioned if you aren't upfront about what you want to do. ••40 Salon treatment 46 Open with a
19 Former CAPRICORN (()ec. 22..Jan. 19): Ifyou are too open, you will give your competition 
pop 57 Homonym for

McDonald's 41 One-inch pencil, the upper hand. Drastic measures will not be the answer once a problem is set in 
36-Down

head Ray for example motion. Keep a low profile, be observant and stay in control. •••
47 Political party in AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let your humanitarian side shine through. Being 42 V.I.P. Palestine 58 Convened 

a spokesperson for a problem you have had first hand experience with will do you 25 " an good. Your inventive ideas will help to bring about long overdue changes.•••• Englishman" 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Being cocky about what you know and can do will
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 

not impress anyone. You are likely to face an unsavory situation ifyou let someone("H.M.S. 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 

comer you about your past. Lashing back or trying to cover up will only make you Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday look guilty. ••
Pinafore" song)26 Impel crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Birthday Baby: You have an explosive personality. You are a doer, determined
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 to make your mark. You are giving, loyal and a trooper when it comes to lending
27 Less worldly 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

29 Islamic Sabbath a helping hand. You have great strength and courage.
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Ob-solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Eul!enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for tim. eul!enialast.com for confidential consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City __________ State _______ Zip._________ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, February 22, 2006 
page 24 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Opening blows 
Fighters square off in 

first round of annual -boxing tournament 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
In the first fight of the evening Tuesday, sophomore Chris Izaguirre took the initia­tive over graduate student Joe "The Duke" Herzog, winning by unanimous 
decision. See Also In the first 
r o u n d , "Cimino tops 
Izaguirre did Weber after 
a better job
of mixing up going to the mat" 
his punches, page 19 
but left him­
self open to 
retaliation. A flurry of left-right 
and high-low combos in the 

Above, Mark Weber looks down
second round put the match solidly in Izaguirre's favor. 

after knocking down Robert
The Duke and Izaguirre trad­ed a series of headshots to end 

Cimino. Top right, Andrew 
the third round. 

McGill celebrates his win. Right,
Dan "The Hurricane" Castellanos vs. John Biddle Alec Rackish, left, defends 
The second match of the night featured size versus himselffrom Brian Barrett. 
speed, as sophomore John Biddle used his long reach to 
•

defeat the quick-footed fresh­man Dan "The Hurricane" PHOTOS BY 
see BOUTS/page 22 DUSTIN MENNELLA 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Season ends with tourney defeat 
Belles guard Allison Kessler misses a three-pointer as time expires 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
With time running out in the first round of the MIAA Tournament Tuesday, Belles guard Allison Kessler took a desperation three that bounced off the rim, gave No. 6 seed Alma College a 49-46 upset of the No. 3 seed Belles and ended one of the best seasons in Saint Mary's history. 
Kessler hit a three-pointer on the previous Belles possession to cut the Saint Mary's deficit to 47­46 with less than five seconds remaining in the game. 
The Belles fouled Alma senior Katey Peacock for the third time in the fmal minute, and the veteran made 6-of-6 from the free throw line to keep the Scots just out of 
see ALMA/page 21 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Heartbreak n1eets ND in Hartford 
Squad erases 19-point deficit in second half but falls in overtime 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Not even a 25-2 Irish run in the second half was enough for Notre Dame, as the Irish dropped their ninth Big East game of the season Tuesday to No. 3/4 Connecticut in overtime, 75-74-the team's sev­enth league loss by three points or fewer this season. 
Connecticut guard Marcus Williams led the Huskies (24-2, 11-2 in the Big East) with the sixth triple-double in school history. He scored 18 points to go with his 13 assists and 10 rebounds. 
"We gave ourselves a chance to win a basketball game against a very good team," Brey told the Associated Press after the game. "For our group, there is no more resilient basketball team than my guys." 
Colin Falls led the Irish (13-11, 4-9 in the Big East) with 23 points and sparked the Notre Dame ofl"Pnse during its second-half run. The junior, who is known for his 
see HUSKIES/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish travel to West Virginia for big game 
Team visits hostile WVU Coliseum after loss to No.6 UConn 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

Notre Dame can secure a spot in the Big East Tournament with a win over conference foe West Virginia tonight at 7 p.m. in Morganstown, W.Va. 
Both teams have struggled over the past few weeks. 
The Irish (14-10, 5-8 Big East) enter the WVU Coliseum on the heels of a 79-64 loss to No. 6 Connecticut. The Mountaineers (12-12, 4-9) lost their fifth straight contest Sunday, a 62-58 defeat at the hands of Pittsburgh. 
"I think we have similar problems," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We are both scoring not as many points as we would like." 
Notre Dame has not scored 70 points since beating DePaul 78-75 at home on Jan. 17. West Virginia last accom­plished the feat against the Blue Demons as well, topping the then-No. 11 Demons 82­70. 
After dissecting the team's 15-point loss to Connecticut, McGraw said sophomore guard Charel Allen will be a key to improving the Irish offense. 
see ROAD/page22 

ND WOMEN'S GOlF 
NASCAR 
OlYMPICS 

MLB 
OlYMPICS 
OLYMPICS 
Central District 
Russia 5 
Former soldier Shauna 

Jimmie Johnson's crew 
Classic 

The Boston Red Sox 
Sasha Cohen leads 
USA4 

chief was suspended for 
Rohbock won the silver 

women's figure staking 
granted Manny Ramirez 
three races for making 
medal in women's
Senior co-captain 

the right to report to 
by a slim margin after 
The American hockey 

illegal modifications to 
bobsled Tuesday for
Suzie Hayes paced the 

spring training a day 
the short program of the 
team lost its third 

the racer's car during 
America's first sliding
Irish with a nine-over 

later than the league's 
event. 
straight game but 

Daytona 500 time trials. 
medal in the Turin
225 for the tournament. 

required deadline. 
advanced thanks to 
Games. 
Latvia's loss. 
page 19 
page 17 
page 17 

page 17 
page 16
page 17 












