
. . . .. . 

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 18 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,2006 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Experts debate universal health concerns 

Large audience greets academic forum panel 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
The overwhelming global health crisis might not be as complicated as most Americans -Notre Dame students included -think, said three distinguished panelist<; at the University's academic forum in the Joyce Center Thursday. 
Gwen Ifill of "Washington Week" and "The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer" moderated as humanitarian Dr. Paul Farmer, economist Dr. Jeffrey Sachs and Ugandan Dr. Miriam Opwonya educated the audience, then prod­ded it to take action. 
Jordan Hall officially dedicated 
Jenkins blesses new $70 million science building during cerenzony 
By ADRIENNE RUFFNER News Writer 
An official dedication of the Jordan Hall of Science drew members of the University community Thursday in a cel­ebration of Notre Dame's com­mitment to scientific inquiry. 
"May it become a center where our students discover the truth," University President Father John Jenkins said as he blessed the building with holy water before a crowd of benefactors and offi­cials. 
He prayed that students would use their scientific knowledge to strengthen their 
see JORDAN/page 10 

A thunderous round of applause greeted Farmer, the first to take the stage. Focusing on the results made possible by the United Nations Millennium Project, Farmer laid a fine foundation for Sachs, the director of that initia­tive. 
Farmer said "vertical funding" -that is, money designated for a specific area, like AIDS -can and must be used to treat other dis­eases like malaria and tuberculo­sis, since the diseases often coin­cide. 
Farmer, the director of nonprof­it international healthcare organi­zation Partners in Health, and his colleagues recently applied that very thinking to an HIV-positive, tuberculosis-afflicted Rwandan man who, in the photograph Farmer flashed, looked like a skeleton. 
"He was hungry, as he put it. IOther! physicians might have said he had a consumptive disease, but we knew better; we listened to him ... In the corporal works of mercy, there is a radical notion that we ought to treat hunger with food," Farmer said. "We fed him and gave him antiretrovirals and [tuberculosis] medicine. 
"Now look at him." 
A gasp was audible as a Rwandan man with an almost Santa Claus-like belly appeared on the projector, grinning at the audience. 
Sachs bowed to Farmer when he stepped onstage, then steered the discussion in a more serious direction. Pummeling the audi­ence with statistics -a result of his self-professed "economist's 
see FORUM/page 9 
Suspicious package found to be harmless 
Bomb squad probes in response to concern 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
A package delivered to the Galvin Life Science Center Thursday afternoon initially generated suspicion of a bomb threat, but a several-hour police investigation determined the box was harmless, a University official said. 
The box -a package deliv­ered to Director of the Freimann Life Science Center Mark Suckow -actually con­tained "promotional materials for a scientific company," University spokesman Don Wycliff said Thursday night. 
"In this case, it was a false alarm, but better safe than sorry," he said. 
Police taped off a large area around Galvin as dedication ceremonies to honor the new Jordan Hall of Science pro­gressed just across now-closed Juniper Road. 
Suckow received the "small package" at his office in Galvin "around 2:30 or 3" Thursday afternoon, Wycliff said. He said he had "no idea who actually delivered" the package -a box with no return address, "excessive postage" with no cancelled stamps and, accord-
see SCARE/ page 1 0 
ND graduate reflects on Carroll mission 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
Many students at Notre Dame hope to earn a place in the public eye after they graduate. For Jake Cusack, a 2004 graduate, high­profile attention came in the form of an international news story -the Jill Carroll kidnap­ping. 
After Carroll, a freelance reporter for the Christian Science Monitor, was kidnapped in Baghdad on Jan. 7, Cusack helped bring those responsible to justice and took part in other sig­nificant operations for the mili­tary. 
Cusack, who has been home on leave since August, served as a Marine Corps sniper platoon commander during an eight­month tour of duty in Iraq. 
"I was on a ROTC scholarship while I was at Notre Dame from the Marines, so right after I grad­uated I [went] into my training," Cusack said, noting that three of his housemates during his senior year are also currently in the military. He was deployed to Iraq at the beginning of this year. 
"[I was] in charge of 18 snipers," he said, "and so we did recon and surveillance and then target acquisition, actual sniper missions." 
Cusack also played a role in the investigation following Carroll's release. She was freed on March 
see SNIPER/page 10 
Roemer tackles U.S. security issues 
Much progress needed, member of the 9/11 Com1nission warns 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
The U.S. isn't as safe as it needs to be -and lawmakers aren't doing enough, a former 
U.S. Representative and member of the 9/11 Commission said Thursday. 

Tim Roemer, current president of the Center for National Policy, spoke on "Safeguarding America: National Security in the 21st Century" to a packed audi­torium in DeBartolo Hall Thursday night. 
Roemer focused on three main 
see ROEMER/page 11 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Gallivanting abroad 
I was originally going to share these thoughts via email with family and friends shortly after arriving home from my semester abroad in Dublin, but lack of a deadline has kept them confidential until 
now. Tim Sullivan 
Things I'm 
thankful for after 
my semester Photographer 
abroad: Mass in 
the vernacular. 
Being lucky enough to attend Mass five 
consecutive Sundays in five different 
languages -German, Irish, French, 
Italian, and English -is something I 
will never forget. Though it was initial­
ly confusing, I was surprised at how 
(relatively) easy it was to follow along 
with the Mass by picking up on cog­
nates and other cues. The standardiza­
tion of the Catholic Mass is quite won­
derful. 
Secondly, the European train system, 
especially those of Switzerland and 
Germany. Think efficiency and preci­
sion. It would be difficult to imagine an 
easier way to travel. 
Like the Union Stations in many U.S. cities that saw their prime decades ago, the train stations of Europe are located smack in the city center, and one step outside puts you within walk­ing distance of anything {contrast this with Ryan Air flights that put you a two hour bus ride, price not included with flight, outside of town). The conven­ience is multiplied with overnight trains that get you to your destination well rested with the whole day ahead of you, and the scenery is second to none. 
Moving on, something I never thought I would be thankful for ­Notre Dame finals week. Not knowing my finals schedule until less than a month beforehand and having exams drag on for more than three weeks made me appreciate Notre Dame's whirlwind schedule. 
Next, Dublin's 1998 smoking ban which prohibits smoking in pubs. How great it was to be able to spend a night out and come back not smelling like you'd been in a chimney all night. 
MLB.tv: Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge soccer fan. I've played it my entire life and even traveled to Germany to see a pre-World Cup match between the U.S. and Poland. Rugby is also intriguing, especially when watching games in a pub with people who actually understand what is going on. 
But there is a point when enough is enough. British announcers for the Super Bowl don't cut it and you just need to watch some baseball. Baseball. even when your team is the Kansas City Royals, whose winning percentage was a poor batting average and whose best moment I witnessed on MLB.tv­Reggie Sanders' grand slam against the A's -was forever erased in history by a rainout. 
I'll close with the recommendation to capture any opportunity to travel. For in the words ofJohn Locke, "The last part usually in education is travel. which is commonly thought to fmish the work, and complete the gentle­man." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tim Sullivan at tsulliv4@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publiction and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

\
... 
• • • • a 
Friday, September 15, 2006 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE COLLEGE MASCOT OTHER THAN THE LEPRECHAUN? 



Andrew Winslow Candace Brian Lasky Cedric Joint Ben Mertz Dan McGowen Montgomery
senzor senior freshman grad student senior Stanford freshman O'Neill Keough offcampus O'Neill McGlinn 
..Washington ..Yellow Jackets ..Wake Forest ..Rose-Hulman ··Nittany Lions 
..Berkeley Bears 
Husky ... Ty because they Demon Deacon Fightin' because they're 
because rm
not?" have no sting. , because he has Engineers tame.·· 
from California and the bear is on our state 
flag., 

Man accused of biting 
U.S. border guard 
BLAINE, Wash. -A man driving into the United States from Canada is being held on charges that he bit a U.S. border guard's finger. Magistrate Judge Monica Benton on Monday ordered Michel Labadie held pending a detention hearing later this week in 
U.S. District Court. 
Labadie was driving into the U.S. on Saturday morning when he was told he had been selected for secondary inspection, according to a complaint filed by Immigration and 
a fitted hat. ,, because, come on, who doesn't like engineers?" 

IN BRIEF 
Tonight's pep rally will be held in Notre Dame Stadium and will begin at 6 p.m. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform "Hamlet" in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $16 for sen­iors/Notre Dame faculty and staff and $12 for students. 
The traditional marching band step-off will be at 4:30 p.m. today in front of the Main Building, heading through cam­pus to its practice in the Joyce Center parking Jot. 
Student Union Board will pres­ent the film "United 93" tonight at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Admission is $3 and is open to all Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and Holy Cross student.,, faculty and staff. 
Director Patrick Creadon ('89) will be present for screenings of his film "Wordplay," which wiJI be shown at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets will be $3 for students, $5 for fac­ulty and staff and $6 for the gen­eral public. 
Campus Ministry will hold the Daily Rosary, open to the public, at 6:45 p.m. tonight at the Grotto. 
Legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian will be signing copies of the book, "Notre Dame's Greatest Coaches," by Edward Moose Krause and Stephen Singular from 9 a.m. to 11. Saturday at the Hammes Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

67 50 

65 
45 

Customs Enforcement. 
While he was being questioned, a computer check found he had been involved in a previous incident at the border, involving an assault on officers during an inspec­tion, said Senior Special Agent Eric Lehmann of ICE. 
Pig withstands tasers, cops on major highway 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -A pig withstood taser shots from police officers and eluded authorities for more than an hour after wandering onto Green Bay's major highway. The 
150-pound pig was spot­ted by a passing driver on U.S. 41 at 6 p.m. Wednesday night, Green Bay Police Lt. Todd LePine said. 
The animal reportedly went into traffic several times, creating a hazard, he said. 
Officers located the pig about 7 p.m. and made two attempts to subdue it 
with  a  stun gun, he said,  
but  it  fled  both  times  
after  pulling  out  the  

Taser probes. . 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LIJ 
% 
!;t 
LIJ 
3: 
..... 

<t L________.

(.) 0 
~ HIGH 80 HIGH 85 LOW 57 LOW 65 

HIGH LOW 

82 60 

~-----~ 
Friday, September 15, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Alumnae to publish Hesburgh birthday letters 
Thousands offemale graduates write about coeducation at ND 
By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 
What started out as a birthday present for University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh from the "women of Notre Dame" is being turned into a book by a few ambitious and extremely grateful Notre Dame alumnae. 
After the first ever Notre Dame alumnae-only event, a luncheon, was held in Chicago in May, Ann Therese Darin Palmer, Esq. '73 BA and '7 5 MBA joined with four other Notre Dame alumna to form the Thanking Father Ted Foundation. Palmer is president of the foundation. 
The foundation is currently working on a book celebrating and documenting the history of coeducation at Notre Dame, highlighting "Father Ted's" role in bringing women to Notre Dame. 
Palmer said she was pulled onto the steering committee for the luncheon event last March by Illinois Appellate Court Justice and Notre Dame graduate Shelia O'Brien. 
The Alumni Association decid­ed to bring alumnae together at the luncheon at the Chicago Club on May 11 to discuss how wishes that were expressed in a survey that had been issued to Notre Dame Business College alumnae could be best fulfilled. 
The steering committee for this event asked Hesburgh to give the keynote address because "if it hadn't been for Father Ted, we wouldn't have had our degrees," Palmer said, in reference to Hesburgh's leadership in making Notre Dame coeducational. 
"When Father Ted agreed to come speak to us, I suggested that we do something that, to my knowledge, hadn't been done before -thank Father Ted," Palmer said. 
As Father Hesburgh's 89th birthday fell just a couple of weeks after the luncheon, Palmer thought a collection of thank you letters from Notre Dame alumnae would be a per­fect birthday present, she said. 
She requested the Alumni Association e-mail all of Notre Dame's undergraduate alumnae, about 17,000 women, and ask them to send her letters thanking Hesburgh for the gift of co-edu­cation and telling him the differ­ence that a Notre Dame educa­tion has made in their lives. 
At the luncheon, the women in attendance surprised Hesburgh with a birthday cake to celebrate his 89th birthday and four three­ring binders filled with letters of thanks from alumnae, Palmer said. 
"Your strong leadership and ethics have served as an unfail­ing example for all of us. And we, the loyal sons and daughters, are especially glad of every opportu­nity to see you. and hear your words of wisdom. You are a bea­con of love for the Notre Dame family," one anonymous Notre Dame alumna wrote. 
Another wrote to Hesburgh, "Thank you for having the vision and the courage so many years ago to break the mold and allow women to attend Notre Dame ... we are a powerful, spiritual, and responsible group who cherish life and seek justice and truth." 
In her May 16th column in the Daily Herald, Notre Dame alum­na Eileen O'Daday wrote that Hesburgh, upon receiving the gift of thank you letters, said, "You have made this old guy proud ­of what you are doing and what you have done." 
"Two weeks before the lunch­eon, I suddenly realized that we had the makings for a great book. I realized the letters had a lot of significant things that other members of the Notre Dame family might enjoy reading," Palmer said. 
Palmer joined with four other Notre Dame alumnae: O'Brien, Esq. '77 and '80 LW; Anne Giffels, '81 BBA; Julie Webb, Esq. '73 BA; and Paulita Pike '93 BA and '96LW, to incorporate the Thanking Father Ted Foundation. They are currently applying to the IRS for tax­exempt status and establishing an Advisory Board of NO women alumnae who have achieved sig­nificantly in their careers, Darin 
Palmer said. 
Two of Hesburgh 's nieces are 
on the Advisory Board, she s:tid. 
"We intend to publish a book with the letters next year in con­junction with Father Ted's 90th birthday, which coincidentally is also the 35th anniversary of co­education," Palmer said. 
"With the proceeds from the book's sales and other cash con­tributions from alumnae, our goal is to raise $100,000 to endow a scholarship in Father Ted's name as his 90th birthday present from the alumnae." 
Palmer is currently working in the archives to get photos and other memorabilia for the book. 
"The support we've received for our project both from past NO administrators and the cur­rent administration is phenome­nal ... they've agreed to submit their reminiscences on what it was like to take ND co-ed for the book," Palmer said. 
Palmer described herself and other early Notre Dame alumnae as "co-ed pioneers." 
"If we don't record our experi­ences, they'll be lost to history," she said. 
As the first woman to earn her Notre Dame undergraduate degree, Mary Davey Bliley received her diploma from Notre Dame in 1972 by a twist offate. 
Bliley said she began her col­lege career at Saint Mary's in 1968 as a math and history major. In 1970, when there were serious talks of a Notre Dame....Saint Mary's merger, 

Bliley transferred to Notre Dame 
and began taking classes in the 
business school. 
When the Notre Dame-Saint 
Mary's merger was called off on 
Dec. 1, 1971, Bliley was in a 
tough spot. She had been work­
ing toward her Bachelor's of 
Business Administration at Notre 
Dame, a major not offered at 
Saint Mary's at the time. 
"I went to the head of the busi­ness school, Dean Raymond ­didn't know what to do. I had no school to graduate from," Bliley said. "Dean Raymond told me they'd take care of me. He did, and he called me into his oflice in April of '71 and told me that I would graduate from Notre Dame." 
Bliley said she will be writing the foreword for the book and \\ill focus on "the vision of Father Hesburgh." 
She said she hopes the book will enable current and future Notre Dame women "to see the vision of the person that made it all happen -that they under­stand the history and vision behind co-education at Notre Dame." 
Palmer is accepting letters for the book through Oct. 15. Alumnae who would like to par­ticipate can contact her at ATpalmer42@aol.com or call 
(847) 234-9223 for further details. 
Contact Meghan Wons at 
mwons@nd.edu 

100 N. Center St. -The Boiler House Mishawaka. lN 46544 
• WWW.FUNNVBC>NEUSA.COM 
574-254-9999 
YOU MUST BE 21 WITH A VALID ID TO ENTER THE WORLD OF LA UGl-ITER 
J :MEDICINE HAT September 13-17 

Hilarious~ fast-paced stage hypnosis at iCs best!!! _J. Medicine Hat has appeared on Shovvtitne, HBO, and MTV. One ofthe n1ost requested hypnotists in the country. These shows are not for the easily offended. Sunday Special ~Erotic Hypnotic Show. 
"...

JOSH B UE ~.........-• Sunday, September ~4th 
Josh Blue has been a 'fast-rising star since 'first appearing on Comedy Central's "Mind o'f Mencia" be'fore gaining the attention and endearment o'f the country as a 'favorite on NBC's uLast Comic Standing." Josh is a diverse and triumphant individual_-hilarious stand-up cor-nedian, stand­
~ ~-••tl\iY'lH 00 out guest star on television, talented artist, and stellar U.S. Paralympic Soccer player -re'fusing to bow to any o'f theG~~~ challenges that come 'from living with Cerebral Palsy. 
PAULY ·..___,H¥0RE 
Thursday$) Septe~rnber 28th 
He gained national attention in 1990 "vhen his MTV precedent-setting sho~v~ Totally Pauly~ becatne an itntnediate hit and continued to run :for f'our years, opening the 
floodgates for television and film roles. He made his f'eature fihn debut in the 'vildly 
popular, Encino Man, the first in a three-picture deal ""'·ith Walt Disney Studios, ~vhich ·was 
f'ollo""·ed by Son-In-La,v. and In The Anny No,v. Starring roles in Jury Duty, Bio Don-.e, 
and The Curse of' Inferno continued to ensure Pauly's popularity 'With audiences 
'vorld~vide. Pauly recently 'vrapped his directional feature debut, Pauly Shore is Dead~ 
'Which he also ~vrote, produced~ and starred in. Pauly is also a regular on Ho,vard Stem~ 
David Letterman and The Craig Kilborn Sho,v. Novv catch hi1n "LIVE" (c_fj The Bone!!! 

. ' 

' ' .. "' ..
\ ' l , 

page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 15, 2006 
Roinn Theanga &Litriocht na Gaeilge I The Department of Irish Language & Literature 

.SONGS o IRELAND 
"Neili Ni Dhomhnaill and the West Donegal Song Tradition" A public performance/lecture by Ireland's renowned performance artists: 
Maighread Ni Dhomhnaill & Cathal Goan 
No opportunity to hear this unforgettable voice should be missed. Maighread Ni Dhomhnaill--one of Ireland's foremost singers--offers a rare opportunity to hear her unique vocal style and repertoire offolk songs. The recipient ofthe highest honor in Irish music, TG4's Traditional Singer ofthe Year in 2005, Maighread will perform songs celebrating the history, culture and people of Donegal and Ireland. The sound of her voice will linger long in your memory. This performance-her only North American concert this year-will celebrate the traditional repertoire of Rann na Feirste's legendary singer and oral 
' 
intellectual, Neili Ni Dhomhnaill. Cathal Goan, Director General ofRaidi6 Teilifis Eireann, will introduce the songs and provide a historical and cultural context. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 3:00 -4:00p.m. Friday, 15 September 2006 

Reception to follow 
All are welcome to this free public event Michigan and Irish Football fans welcome 




Friday, September 15, 2006 CotvlPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran revives uranium plan in secret 
NEW YOHK -Iran has secretly revived a program to enrich uranium using laser tech­nology, reportedly with favorable results, an Iranian opposition figure said Thursday cit­ing information from members of the resist­ance inside the country. 
Alireza Jafarzadeh said information about the laser enrichment program at Lashkar Ab' ad, about 15 miles northwest of Tehran, came from the same sources that led to his revelation in May 2003 that Iran had a clan­destine nuclear program. 

There was no independent confirmation of the latest information and Iran's U.N. Mission called the allegation "baseless and unfounded." 
Jafarzadeh, who heads the Washington­based Strategic Policy Consulting think tank, is credited with having aired Iranian military secrets in the past. But U.S. officials consid­ered some of his past assertions inaccurate. 
Tropical Storm Lane batters Mexico 
MEXICO CITY -Tropical Storm Lane lashed Mexico's Pacific coast with winds and rain on Thursday, flooding streets in Acapulco before setting on a course to hit the hurricanP-battered tip of the Baja California Peninsula. 
The storm was centered about 95 miles southwest of Manzanillo and was moving northwest at 14 mph. It had maximum sustained winds grew during the after­noon to 60 mph. 

A tropical storm warning and hurricane watch were issued for a stretch of coast southeast of the resort of Puerto Vallarta. The storm was expected to strengthen to a hurricane on Friday, then hit land near Cabo San Lucas late Saturday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Missing woman found after 10 years 
PITTSBURGH -A woman who ran away as a teenager and lived for a decade with a school security guard sued the city and school district Thursday, claiming they failed to fully investigate her disap­pearance. 
Tanya Nicole Kach, 24, came forward March 21 and told police that she had been living in Thomas Hose's house for 10 years. Kach told police that Hose, 48, kept her in a bedroom in the small, two-story home where he lived with his parents. 
Kach also claims in the lawsuit that Hose assaulted her and threatened to kill her and dump her body in a river. 
E. coli outbreak leaves one dead 
WASHINGTON -An outbreak of E. coli in eight states has left at least one person dead and 50 others sick, federal health officials said Thursday in warning consumers not to eat bagged fresh spinach. 
The death occurred in Wisconsin, where 20 others were also sickened, said Dr. David Acheson of the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. The outbreak has sickened others -eight of them seriously -in Connecticut, Idaho, Indiana, Michigan, New Mexico, Oregon and Utah. 
FDA officials do not know the source of the outbreak, other than it appears to be linked to bagged spinach. "We're advising people not to eat it," Acheson said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

tittle Calumet River floods after rain 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. -At least 1 ,000 homes in northern Lake County, including more than 800 in East Chicago alone, were swamped in the aftermath of heavy rains and rapidly rising floodwaters from the little Calumet River and several small streams, a county official said Thursday. 
State homeland security officials toured the area to assess damages, and Gov. Mitch Daniels declared a state of emergency for the county. 
"We found a lot of flooding, a lot of flooding," said Jeff Miller, a spokesman for the Lake County Emergency Management Agency. 
IRAQ 

Violence continues in Baghdad 
Car bombs and drive-by shootings kill two U.S. soldiers and at least 18 others 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD -Car bombs and drive-by shootings on Thursday killed at least 18 people -including two 
U.S. soldiers -in a series of attacks around central Iraq, officials said. 
The tortured bodies of 20 
men were also discovered 
across Baghdad, a day after 
more than 60 bodies were 
found dumped on the 
streets. 
The attacks came after a 
day that was especially 
bloody even by Baghdad's 
standards, when car 
bombs, mortars and othPr 
attacks killed at least 39 
people and wounded 
dozens. 
The top U.S. military spokesman in Iraq, Maj. Gen. William B. Caldwell, said the surge in violence was the result of sectarian "murder-executions" across the capital. Violence per­sists in Baghdad despite a monthlong security opera­tion by thousands of U.S. and Iraqi troops aimed mostly at stopping the killings carried out by Sunni and Shiite death squads. 
One of the U.S. soldiers 

died from wounds after his unit came under attack in An Iraqi man cleans the wreckage of a car bomb in front of his house in Baghdad Baghdad, while the second Thursday. Car bombs and drive-by shootings killed at least 18 and wounded dozens. 
was killed after his vehicle was struck by a roadside Diwaniyah, U.S. troops Mahmoudiya. 20 miles Fallujah before it was bomb south of the capital, raided the offices of an south of Baghdad, said Cap. attacked by U.S. troops in the U.S. military said. At organization loyal to radical Udai Abdel-Rihda. November 2004, Caldwell least 2,673 members of the Shiite cleric Muqtada al­In northern Tal Afar, a added. 
U.S. military have died Sadr, setting ofl' a gunbattle suicide bomber blew him­According to Caldwell, he since the beginning of the between al-Sadr supporters self up at a police check­was a "personal associate" Iraq war in March 2003, and security forces. One point, killing one police­of Abu Ayyoub al-Masri, according to an Associated person was killed and 10 man, said Mosul police Col. who took over al-Qaida in Press count. were injured, officials said. Abdel-Karim al-Jubouri. Iraq from Jordanian-born 
A car bomb exploded Authorities later imposed Also Thursday, the U.S. terrorist mastermind Abu near a police patrol in a a curfew on the city, 80 military said its forces have Musab al-Zarqawi after he Shiite neighborhood of miles south of Baghdad. arrested a senior al-Qaida was killed in a U.S. northern Baghdad, killing a Gunmen ~ Baqouba, 35 figure and personal associ­airstrike north of Baghdad civilian and wounding 13 miles northeast of ate of the group's new on June 7. others, police said. Baghdad, killed two police leader. In a separate announce­
Another car bomb then oflicers in a drive-by shoot­The man, who was not ment, Iraqi authorities said blew up near the govern­ing. Another group of gun­identified, was arrested police killed Abu Jaafar al­ment's passport office in men shot and killed three Tuesday and led assassina­Liby, a senior member of al­central Baghdad, killing people in Ghazaniya, just tion, kidnapping and bomb­Qaida in Iraq, during an nine people and wounding north of Baqouba. making cells in Baghdad, operation in Baghdad three 
17. The injured included Police also found the body Maj. Gen. William B. days ago, Interior Ministry four police officers, said of a brigadier in the former Caldwell said. director of operations police Lt. Bilal Ali. Iraqi army two days after He also played a key role Brigadier Abdul-Karim 
In the southern city of he was kidnapped in al-Qaida 's activities in Khalaf told the AP. 



House approves Mexican border fence 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The House voted for the second time in a year to erect a fence along a third of the U.S.-Mexican border, part of a Republican effort to keep illegal immigration an issue before voters. 
A new 700 miles of double-lav­ered fencing won approval on·a 283-138 vote, a bigger margin than last December when the House passed it as part of a broad­er bill that also would have made being an illegal immigrant a felony. The nearly 2,000-mile border now has about 75 miles of fencing.. 
Hep. Peter King, R-N.Y., said the separate fence bill was needed to show Americans .. we can take meaningful action to secure the border." 
The House's biil last December and one passed by the Senate last May are so far apart on issues that Republican leaders haven't even tried to negotiate a compromise. 
The main difference is that the Senate bill would provide legal sta­tus to millions of illegal immigrants already in the U.S., a concept sup­ported by President Bush but opposed by most House Republicans. The Senate bill calls 
for 370 miles of fencing along the Mexican border. 
Supporters of the new House bill said the new fencing would let Border Patrol agents focus more on apprehending illegal immi­grants crossing from Mexico rather than having to man the entire bor­der. 
"We have to come to grips with the fact that our Border Patrol agents need a border fence on our southern border ... where we're now facing infiltration by members of terrorist organizations like Hezbollah," said Rep. Ed Royce, H­Calif. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 15, 2006 

Professor confronts slavery 
NYU's Morgan speaks about historical prejudice against women 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
While the slave trade dehu­manized a race of people, women were especially objecti­fied, a visiting professor said Thursday. 
Jennifer L. Morgan, an asso­ciate professor of Social and Cultural Analysis at New York University, presented a lecture entitled "Accounting for Women in Slavery: Demography and the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade" in crowded McKenna Hall rooms 210-214 Thursday after­noon, 
Morgan discussed the dehu­manization of slaves and, more specifically, female slaves, whom she described as being "invisible" to their masters. 
The slave trade "reduced humans into mercantile units," Morgan said. She gave the example of the Dutch Colonial New York Ci~y. The original Dutch settlers brought only male slaves, bringing just three women a little later. 
This demonstrates, Morgan said, the prejudice that women slaves were only sexual outlets for the males. While female slaves were originally outnum­bered 4-to-1, they eventually outnumbered the population of Dutch settlers in New York City. 

In the aftermath of her first book, Morgan said she began to think about the process of dehumanization, which went on in the colonies and their parent countries during the slave trade. One idea she focused on was that Englishmen of the time viewed being counted ­taking a census -as an objec­tifying action. They had done this to the Irish and did the same to the Africans they were enslaving. 
"Wrath, I think. is intimately race and gender in African­American and American cul­ture. 

The reason for the lecture series, as well as the choice of Morgan as lecturer, was prima­rily a feeling of growing momentum building in the departments, Ardizzone said. That momentum began when the Gender History Reading 
connected in the transformation of a human being into a commodity," she said. citing the cause for dehu­manization of Africans. 
At the time, taking a census gave those being counted a specific value, Morgan said. Along with the idea of being 
"Wrath, I think, is intimately connected in the transformation ofa human being into a 
commodity. ,, 
Jennifer Morgan NYU professor 
Group read Morgan's book. The departments of American Studies and History along with the Gender Studies and African Studies Programs are involved, Ardizzone said. 
Morgan earned her Ph.D. in History in 1995 at Duke University and her B.A. in 1986 at Oberlin College. She is the 

counted, the ideas of difference were in the process of being articulated. Science played a key part in this, introducing the idea of race being in a person's blood. English colonists were ­for this reason and others ­reluctant to consider intermar­rying with natives. 
This was the first in a series of three lectures, according to American Studeprofessor Heidi Ardizzone. As the organizer of this lecture. Ardizzone explained that the series would concern different aspects of author of the book "Laboring Women: Gender and Reproduction in New World Slaw~ry" in addition to several other publications. She is cur­rently in the beginning stages of a new project. 
The lecture will not be Morgan's only event on campus. She will meet with graduate students at an informal dinner and will attend an African­American literature course. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO I @saintmarys.edu 
Swedish scholar named chair of peace research 
Wallensteen will head Kroc Institute projects 
Special to The Observer 
Peter Wallensteen, the Dag Hammarskold Professor in the Department of Peace and Conflict Research at Uppsala University in Sweden, has been appointed the inaugural holder of the Richard G. Starmann Sr. Research Chair in Peace Studies 'in the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame. 
The endowed chair is named after Richard G. Starmann Sr., a member of the Kroc Institute Advisory Council and a trusted friend and colleague of the late Joan B. Kroc. The institute is named in honor of Kroc, its princi­pal benefactor, who was one of the world's leading philanthro­pists. a passionate advocate for the poor and underprivileged, and an ardent supporter of nuclear disarmament and nonviolent con­flict transformation. 
The Starmann professorship is a named chair held fora three-year renewable term by a senior peace studies scholar who has built a distinguished research and publi­cation record in one or more of the sub-fields of peace research. Wallensteen will consult and col­laborate with Kroc faculty on institute research projects, super­vise graduate students in peace studies, make a major presenta­tion on research in progress, teach a graduate seminar in peace studies research, and offer a series of lectures to undergradu­ate students on the core concepts and methods of peace research. 
One of the world's leading peace researchers, Wallensteen is direc­tor of the Uppsala Conflict Data Program and leader of the Special Program on International Targeted Sanctions. 
The Conflict Data Program, established at Uppsala in the mid­1980s, continuously collects infor­mation on armed conflicts. The definitions and categories used by the project have gradually been refined to fit scholarly require­ments of global comparability. so that the data is useful for system­atic studies of the origins of con­flict, conflict dynamics and conflict resolution. With the creation of the global conflict database, this information is now available to anyone in the world. 
The Special Program on International Targeted Sanctions was initiated as the "Stockholm Process" by the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Department of Peace and Conflict Research at Uppsala University in \ November 2001. The Stockholm Report was delivered to the United Nations Security Council on Feb. 25 2003. The program deepens academic research on targeted sanctions with systematic studies and policy-related reports, and it keeps a Website continu­ously updated on developments on sanctions issues in the U.N. 
What's on the agenda? This is a question asked often on campus, with Notre Dame's unified, Web-based calendar system that lists events for all segments of the University community. It's the one place where students, faculty, staff and the general public can find out about all the major events scheduled on campus. Agenda organizes events by category, such as Arts & Entertainment, Academic Dates, Student Life, Lectures & Conferences, Health & Recreation, Religious\ Life, and Service, as well as by day, week, month and even year. Come visit our multipurpose calendar for your one-stop scheduling experience. The calendar link is on ND's home page or directly at http://agenda.nd.edu  


Friday, September 15, 2006 

page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 


11,527.39 +15.930
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,316 164 1,923 2,375,845,368 

FTSE IOO(London) 5,877.20 -15.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.45  -0.18  39.99  
INTEL CP (INTC)  ·0.25  -0.05  19.78  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.19  +0.01  5.23  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.35  +0.35  26.33  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  -0.89  +0.02  2.22  
,  Treasuries  .  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.59  +0.028  4.7993  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.63  +0.030  4.810  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.41  +0.020  4.919  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.83  +0.039  4.737  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE {$fbbl.)  -0.75  63.22  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -I 0.30  586.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.23  89.45  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  117.5750  
EURO  0.7860  
POUND  0.5300  
CANADIAN$  1.1 186  

IN BRIEF 
Gold and silver prices fall sharply 
NEW YORK -Gold and silver prices fell sharply late Thursday, pulled down by plum­meting energy prices. 
December gold fell $10.30 to settle at $586 a troy ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. December silver tumbled 25 cents, to finish at $10.95 an ounce. 
"The story earlier in the day was the ongo­ing weakness in the oil price," said Bernard Hunter. director of precious metals at Scotia Mocatta. "That has come under pressure again below $64" a barrel. 
"It seems that the new one (focus) is that natural-gas prices have fallen," Hunter added. "They're below $5. It's a significant drop in the natural gas price and that has put gold under some pressure." 
Meanwhile, October platinum fell $6.30 to settle at $1,179.50 an ounce. 
However, palladium was the strongest of the precious metals, with some help from fund buying. The December contract settled $8.85 stronger at $327.20 an ounce. 
December copper fell 1.05 cents to finish at $3.37 45 per pound. 
In energy trading on the Nymex, crude oil futures fell and hit $63 a barrel for the first time since March. Crude was weighed down by a slump in natural gas prices and the con­tinued easing of supply concerns.But Paulson let it be known that the Bush administration would firmly oppose any efforts by Congress to erect trade barriers in response to America's large and growing trade deficit with China, which last year hit a record $202 billion. 

Inflation concerns market investors 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street elosed mixed Thursday, with blue chips falling and technolo­gy stocks managing a slight gain while investors tussled with their concerns about inflation and the overall health of the economy. 
Lower oil prices that have helped drive stock rallies in recent days remained a bright spot, but another drop in crude Thursday wasn't enough to ofTset investor concerns about infla­tion ahead of next week's federal Reserve meeting. Investors grew uneasy Thursday after the Labor Department reported import prices rose a larger than expected O.R percent in August. 
SINGAPORE 





IMF's global growth forecast 
Projected values depend on U.S. economy, inflationary pressures, oil prices 
Associated Press 
SINGAPORE -A cooling housing market is likely to trigger a slowdown in the 
U.S. economy next year and could weigh on the global economy as well, the International Monetary Fund said Thursday. 
Growth in the United 
States, which was particu­
larly strong in the first half 
of this year, is expected to 
slow from 3.4 percent this 
year to 2.9 percent in 
2007, the IMF said in its 
semiannual World 
Economic Outlook. In April, 
it had projected U.S. 
growth next year would 
reach :~.3 percent. 
"The concern remains 
that a sharp adjustment in 
the housing sector would 
generate strong headwinds 
for the U.S. economy," it 
said. 
Citing strong growth in China, the IMF raised its global growth forecast a quarter percentage point to 
5.1 percent this year and 
4.9 percent in 2007. But it warned that inflationary pressures, high oil prices and a possible abrupt slow­down in the U.S. could undermine global growth. 
"The balance of risks to the global outlook is slant­ed to the downside," said the report, released in Singapore, where the IMF will be a premium on the adding the potential for "a deflation, or falling prices. and World Bank will be Federal Reserve clearly disorderly unwinding" of In the euro area, holding their annual meet­communicating its policy global imbalances stronger corporate balance ings next week. intentions" and suggested remained a concern. sheets have helped bring 
The Washington-based that it state more explicitly "Boosting national saving about increased invest­fund also suggested that its medium-term inflation in the United States -ment, rising employment further U.S. interest rate targets. through fiscal consolida­and a more balanced hikes might be necessary. It also said the U.S. could tion and increased private expansion to the 12 nations 
The Federal Reserve help reduce global imbal­saving-is a key compo­that use the common cur­"faces a difficult situation ances by setting a more nent of the multilateral rency, the report said. of rising inflation in a slow­ambitious deficit reduction strategy to reduce global Growth would rise to 2.4 ing economy, but given the path and put the budget in imbalances," the report percent in 2006 before importance of keeping a stronger position to said. moderating to 2 percent in inflation expectations in respond to future economic Japan, the world's sec­2007 largely due to sched­check, some further policy downturns. ond-largest economy, will uled tax increases in tightening may still be It projected the U.S. cur­likely grow 2. 7 percent this Germany, the report said. 
needed," it said. rent account deficit would year on the back of solid China's sizzling economy 
In August, the Fed decid­rise further to 6. 9 percent domestic demand, but will probably steam ahead ed to keep its key short­of its GOP in 2007 -with should ease next year to with 10 percent growth term lending rate at 5.25 large surpluses continuing 2.1 percent, the IMF said. this year and next, pro­percent after 17 straight in Japan, parts of emerging It also said Japan should pelled by surging exports. hikes dating back to June Asia, and oil-exporting be careful to raise interest But the region could be 2004. countries in the Middle rates gradually to avoid a hurt if China's investment 
The IMF also said "there East, the report said, "costly" reemergence of boom sours, it warned. 

Ford offers buyouts; tries to cut costs 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Ford Motor Co. will offer buyout and early retirement plans to all of its hourly U.S. employees -more than 75.000 of them -as part of a broad restruc­turing plan aimed at cutting its costs in light of slumping sales. 
Ford confirmed tho plans Thursday after union officials dis­closed the company would make the buyout offers of .up to $140.000 each to workers. 
The automaker had about 82,000 workers represented by the United Auto Workers at the end of last year, but about 6,500 have taken previous buyout and early retirement offers made P.1ail1ly at 
plants slated for closure, company spokeswoman Marcey Evans said. The new offer would cover the remaining unionized workers. 
The news came a day before the nation's second biggest automaker was to reveal details of a restruc­turing plan that likely will include massive job cuts and additional plant closures. 
The buybacks are aimed at help­ing Ford cut costs as its sales shrink under fierce competition from more fuel-efficient models from Asian automakers. 
The UAW announced the propos­al in a statement to its members Thursday, saying that the offers are available to all aetive Ford workers represented by the union. 
"Once again, our members are stepping up to make hard choices under difficult circumstances," UAW President Ron Gettelfinger said in a statement. "Now, it's Ford Motor Co.'s responsibility to lead this company in a positive direction -which means using the skills, experience and dedica­tion to quality that UAW members demonstrate every day in order to deliver quality vehicles to cus­tomers." 
The buyouts are part of a larger restructuring plan approved by the Ford board of directors during a two-day meeting that ended Thursday. Ford said Thursday that it would announce details of the new plan Friday morning. 

11am-1pm 
Fr. Monk Malloy 
Monk's Notre Dame 
Jason Kelly 
Mr. Notre Dame 


page 8 

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 15. 2006 

FRIDAY, SEPT. 15 

TOM P.o\GNA 
PRfF.!.C£>6¥ AIL\ PAASr.GI~'\l'i 
Tom Pagna 
The Phantom Letters 
3pm-5p111 
Ted Mandell 

Heart Stoppers and Hail Marys 



SATURDAY, SEPT. 16 
Signing limited to this title only 

t
HAMMES 

BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcatolog.com 
Events are subject to change. Please call574-631-5757 to confirm. 

9am-11am 
Signing by Ara Parseghian 
Notre Dame's Greatest Coaches 
by Stephen Singular 
Total sales of this title are donated to the Parseghian Foundation for the cure of Niemann-Pick Disease. 

11am-1pm 
Gerry Faust 
Tales From the Notre Dame Sideline 


Friday, Sept. ~ 5 
• 10:00 am 
• front lawn tent Guest Speaker: Charles Lennon Jr. -Executive Director of the 
Alumni Association 

-~­

. , . .. . . 
Friday, September 15, 2006 page 9 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
"People are dying because they solve it. He spoke at a conference "A lot of people do not know 1984, and Keri Oxley, Class of lack a dollar [required for clinical in the mountains of Kenya with exactly what is happening in 2004.
Forum 

treatment]." he said. "Are we try­thousands of villagers who had Africa. Knowledge is power ... Responding to Gaus, a former 
continued from page 1 
love of long division" -Sachs showed just how feasible it is to make the world healthy. 
A'i an economist, Sachs said, he understands market theory. But when countries are so poor and people are so poor that they are struggling just to feed themselves, market theory and globalization concepts are just not applicable. 

ing to prove a textbook theory, or are we trying to make a better world?" 
From malaria-stricken children lying comatose in Malawi hospi­tals -"What conceivable justifi­cation could there be for this?" ­to African farmers who lack basic fertilizer for their crops, Sachs has seen the problem firsthand. 
He's also seen how ready the African people themselves are to 

walked 20 or 30 miles to attend "a 
canyon filled with love, in the 
absolute real sense," he said. He's 
been to town conferences and lis­
tened to the locals' ideas. 
"Boy, are they helpful; boy, are they excited; boy, are they prag­matic; but boy, are they are poor," he said. "They are ready to work, but they need help." 
He offered five practical solu­tions for the year 2006: help Africans grow more food, control malaria, ensure clinical health services -"Starbucks clinics in Africa: there should be one in every village," he joked -provide safe water points and provide schooling for all children. 
"We have to understand the problem and we have to solve it. It's urgent," Sachs said. "Our own survival will depend on it as well." 
Speaking carefully through her thick Ugandan accent, Opwonya engaged in discussion with Ifill on the problem of HIV/AIDS in her country, advocating an equal focus on antiretroviral treatment and behavior education. 
The Ugandan government implemented prevention pro­grams in 1989, when the country was at its peak of HIV/AIDS preva­lence, with 23 porcent infected, she said. Through a combination of television and radio jingles, posters and other methods, the percentage dropped from 23 to six percent. 
While antiretrovirals have now become important, Opwonya emphasized the ongoing power of behavioral education. 
"Some teens go to high school and their peers have no idea how HIV is transmitted," she said. 
But Americans are unaware in their own right, too. 
We've all been given enough ­we should be able to distribute it. I look around... " Opwonya said, gazing at the rafters of the JACC. "I look around and there is noth­ing in Uganda like this. You people have been given a lot, and you should give back." 
Responding to various questions posed by Ifill, the panelists then explored the issue of corruption in poverty-stricken countries. 
"What's called 'corruption' is often simply [the] face of extreme poverty. When you bring in practi­cal solutions, you find, lo and behold, results can happen," Sachs said, citing the eradication of smallpox -which took the combined efforts of African gov­ernments -as proof that corrup­tion in Africa is a myth. 
A journalist from a radio station -which Farmer refused to iden­tify, saying only that "it's national, and it's public" -asked him about corruption, as well. Farmer echoed Sachs' idea that corrup­tion is simply "extreme poverty" and said he and his colleagues had succeeded in the middle of rural Haiti, a country with a histo­
• ry of coup d'etats. Asked about what the world should look like in their "wildest dreams" in 2025 (the fmal year of the Global Millennium Project), Farmer and Opwonya said they hoped to put an end to patients dying because of a lack of treat­ment or physicians. Sachs simply noted that "they weren't his wildest dreams -they were his practical calculations." 
Finally, the three panelists field­ed questions from two Notre Dame seniors, Michael Dewan and Ailis Tweed Kent; and two alumni, Dr. David Gaus, Class of 
business major, Sachs and Farmer 
delved into the issue of privatiza­
tion of health care. Sachs warned 
against thinking that because the 
current public health care system 
is problematic, that private sys­
tems would work better -the 
public system isn't working 
because the governments are 
broke. 
Once guaranteed access to health care is secured, he said, then it is possible to apply busi­ness logistics and work on depoliticizing health care. 
"Business is good at scale, logis­tics and management," he said. "Politics is not." 
After Opwonya brought up the issue of mother-to-child transmis­sion of HIV through breast-feed­ing -a "major problem, but we're working on it" -Farmer was quick to point out that treat­ing babies who contract HIV through breast milk is not a good goal. 
"We will never eradicate HIV among children if our main option is HIV-positive breast milk," he said. "The goal is that HIV-positive things do not get inside children." 
The four students and alumni closed out the forum. Dewan, who worked in Uganda, said he felt optimistic after the discussion. 
"(Studying in Uganda] I was frustrated that there was so much needless suffering and death, from diseases we've known the cures for, for over 300 years," he said. "But it's exciting for our gen­eration. We know these solutions -they're right in front of us. Now it's just a matter of us taking charge." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 

''1he Impact ofthe Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible'' 
Eugene Ulrich 
Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor of1heology 
12:00 Noon· 

Saturday, September 16 101 DeBartolo Hall 
Discovered between 1947 and 1956, the Dead Sea Scrolls include approximately 240 Hebrew and Greek biblical manuscripts that illuminate a previously undocumented period in the history of the books of the Bible. This lecture will examine how these manuscripts illustrate the developtnent of the biblical books and raise questions about revelation, inspiration, and the canon. 

Fall 2006 Schedule 
Experience an intimare discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
tJ 9/9-Penn State ''More Than a Movie? Assessing TheDa Vinci Lode" ( l 01 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Tefez;ision, and 1heatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor oflheowgy Charles Barber, Associate Professor ofArt, Art History, and Design 
~ 9/16-Michigan '~1he Impact of the Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" .Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor of7heology 
~ 9/30-Purdue ''Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, Chair and Professor ofPjychology 
~ 10/7-Stanford "The Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor £ifAnthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA ''Completing the Constitution: 1he 14th Amendment" ~ Michael Zuckert, Ntmcy Reet,es Dreux ProjesJor ofPolitical Science 
~ 11/4-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacdmilding" 
R. Scott Appleby, Proft:isor ofHistory, john M. &gan Jr. Director ofthe Joan B. Kroc Institute for Internationtt! Peace Studies John Paul Lederach, Pr~fe:isional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar_, Assistant Professional Specialist, Kroc Institute 
~ 11/18-Army "Seeds ofChange" AMusical Performance Georgine Resick Professor of/lrfwic John Blacklow, AsJisttmt Pmfe.~:~·ot ofJ.,fusic 
.3-112 hours before kickoffin the Annenberg Audirorium. Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http:/ /saturdayscholar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 


NOTRE DAME 
page 10 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 15, 2006 


REST!\LI RANT [,-; ALEHOUSE PUB 
ltrlll~lll~ '1,111~ llliSII '11\II..f.ll'l'l~. 
JII~FOitE. DtJIUN{i. 1lND AJi''J'I~R 'I'HI~ GAMJ~. 
FOO'l'Bi\tL 
WEEKENU HOIJUS 
l~IUDJ\Y 
Restaurant: u:oo am -Midnight Pub: 11:30 am · 2:oo am 
SA'fiJR))AY 
Restaurant: 8:oo am -Midnight Pub: 8:oo am -2:00 am 

Legends is located 100 yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. www.legendsofnotredame.org 574.6J1.2582 
row," said Bill O'Hayer, busi­"I love the building," soph­ness manager for the omore Chantalle Saucier
Jordan 
College of Science. "The said. "The lab materials, the 
continued from page 1 dedication was planned with classrooms -everything is 
the forum beca11se this is a so nice." 
faith. scientific facility." The building was under 
The private dedication cer-Jordan Hall cost approxi-construction for about two 
emonies mately $70 million years, and the dedication 
began with to build, but con­marked an arrival at a long­
a Mass in '"This is where struction was fund­anticipated destination. 
the Basilica we're going to ed by private gifts O'Hayer said workers had to 
at 3:45, fol­and a large dona­scramble to complete the
train students to be
lowed by tion from Notre building over the summer. Jenkins' the scientific Dame alum John W. "It took some extraordi­blessing of leaders of Jordan, who nary work to finish, but Jordan attended the dedi­everything went smoothly,"
tomorrow. ,,
Hall. For cation with his he said. the remain­family. Sophomore Rob der of the Bill 0'Hayer Those who enter Plasschaert worked for the evening, Jordan Hall come Chemistry Department ove·r
business manager 
benefac­face-to-face with a the summer and spent many
College of Science 
t o r s , breath-hours moving University taking material from Trustees and officers and view. The hall's '"It took some the old chem­the Advisory Councils for the atrium extends istry labs in
extraordinary
colleges of Science, four stories to Nieuwland 
Engineering and the ceiling, sur­work to finish, but into the new Architecture had the oppor­rounded by hall­everything went labs in tunity to meet with one ways lined with smoothly. ,, Jordan. another and explore the 200,000 square "There's 
facilities. feet of research considerably The event was held to space, 40 class­Bill O'Hayer more space in coincide with the Notre room laborato­business manager here than 
Dame Forum in the Joyce ries and a state­there was in
College of Science 
Center, where scholars and of-the-art plane­Nieuwland or students met to discuss the tarium. Jordan Galvin," he world health crisis. Hall impressed students, said. "It's much more open." 
"This is where we're going faculty and administrators to train students to be the when it opened for class this Contact Adrienne Ruffner at scientific leaders of tomor-fall. aruffner@nd.edu 
Those details raised flags, called the police," Wycliff Wycliff said, but Suckow's said. "There's so much con­
Scare 
concern was heightened troversy that surrounds that given his position as the cur­issue these days -he's par­
continued from page 1 
rent president of the ticularly alert to these ing to police officers, infor­American Association for things." 
mation missing from the Laboratory Animal Science. Suckow called the Notre address. "That's the reason he Dame Security/Police, who, upon arrival, "considered it 

Sniper 
continued from page 1 
30, but her kidnappers remained at large. 
"Over the next couple weeks [fol­lowing Carroll's release]. I started getting some different intelligence that she might have been held in our area," Cusack said. "Then in May I got another piece of [intelli­gence] that made me pretty confi­dent that she had been held in our area in a specific place." 
Once Cusack and his team locat­ed the house where they believed Carroll had been held, they planned a mission to confront the kidnappers at a time when intelli­gence indicated they would be there. 
"We hit a couple of ... roadside bombs and took a little bit of small arms fire," Cusack said of the trip. 
When they arrived, they found and questioned the house's owner while Cusack searched the premis­es. 
"[There was] a trap door in the shower room," he said. "[During the search] I found Jill Carroll's e­mail address and a lot of money ­crisp hundred dollar bills." 

After uncovering the evidence, Cusack said they "were confident that they were the right guys." 
i\lthough the takedown occurred in May, "the whole thing was kept classified for awhile," Cusack said. "It wasn't even made public until I got home." 
"[The story] was a pretty big deal when it first broke," he said. "There's been kind of a lot of attention. Obviously I was not the only person involved -there were a lot of other people who were important to it." 
Cusack also recalled an incident in June in which he and others were able to subdue a group of hostile insurgents and reclaim weapons taken from a Marine sniper unit that was overrun in 
2004. 

"The rille [the insurgents] were using [against us] was that same Marine Corps rifle ... taken back in 2004, and it was used to kill sever­al Marines since then," Cusack said. "So it was a good win to get that back." 
Cusack will return to his job as a sniper platoon commander once his leave is over. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 
important enough to call the South Bend police bomb

$ s: 
squad," Wycliff said. The bomb squad X-rayed 
the package and found it contained four compart­ments, but officers couldn't 

cP~i 
~BUCKi
I 
determine its density. "No detonator, no wires,"

One Per 'fiSit $ : $ Expires Moy 2007 : 
Wycliff said around 5 p.m. Thursday. "It's a matter now 

Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups 

of determining exactly what Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
this is." When asked if the threat Just oWalk from Campus 
could be connected to the Jordan. Hall dedication,
Open Every Day! 
Wycliff said, "You know, who 

Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 
knows. It may be a prank, it

' 
One Per Visit $ : 
may be anything."CREDIT &DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! $ Expires May 2007 ' 
Around 5:25 p.m., police Corry Out Available ------------J 
took down the tape perime­
ter. The two fire trucks, ambulance, South Bend bomb squad van and many of the police cars left. Wycliff said the bomb squad removed the package from Galvin and took it "some­where off site" in order to safely determine its contents. 
"They're still not sure what, if anything" is inside, he said at 5:30pm. 
An hour later, Wycliff said the squad had opened the box and found the promo­tional materials. 
While no other packages delivered to Galvin were investigated Thursday, Wycliff said he was "told some of the back ofliees" on the Juniper Hoad-side of Galvin were evacuated. 
He did not know of any past similar threats or inves­tigations. 
In September 2004, The Observer reported that police evacuated 200 stu­dents and siaff from the LaFortune Student Center after an employee discovered two suspicious packages, both of which turned out to be false alarms. 


Contact Maddie Hanna at mhanna1@nd.edu 

--~.~.-.----------------------.-.-.~.-.--.--------~--~--~---------.-.--.----------~~------------------------.~.~.~.----­
Friday, September 15, 2006 page 11
The Observer + NEWS 
Roemer 
continued from page 1 
topics -the current state of our national security, the restructuring of the intelligence community and the role of for­eign policy in achieving national security. 
"With the fifth anniversary of Sept. 11 just behind us, there couldn't be a more appropriate time to talk about this," Roemer said. 
Both Republicans and Democrats have been talking about progress, Roemer said, and 

questioning how "'There are so many allies know the U.S. is doing. good memories here "we care He said the about their
and rm so proud of the

Commission has ideas." 
suggested 41 teaching here -the "We need to reforms, and the teaching of let the Middle White House has East know we
values.··

passed about 20. care about 
"We're halfway them as peo­there, but it's not Tim Roemer ple," he said. good enough," former U.S. representative Ultimately, 
munity and politicians. 
"The restructuring of our intelligence community needs to occur with strong congressional oversight and balance," he said. 
He questioned whether Homeland Security was truly fit for going after such a "nimble threat." 
"Maybe we need to revisit Homeland Security. Was it cre­ated to fight the Cold War? Can it take on the threats of the 21st century.?" Roemer sat'd. . . . " We need to elevate this debate. If the candidates don't do it ... we need to. Your vote really mat­ters." 
The U.S. needs to reexamine 
its foreign 
policy and let 
Roemer said. 
"Our lawmakers are not acting on our ideas." 
In December 2005, the Commission, a bipartisan organization, issued a report card to the government to assess the progress the govern­ment had made on their recom­mendations. 
The government received twelve Ds, five Fs, and two incompletes, Roemer said. 
"Does that make you feel safer?" he asked the audience. 
Roemer cited the growth of al Qaeda, the 60 percent growth in the Afghani opium trade and the continued loss of U.S. troops as indicators of a disappointing lack of progress since Sept. 11. 
"The metrics, don't look good," he said. 
Roemer said the 9/11 Report suggested the need for a more direct line of communication between the intelligence com-the U.S. must 

foeus on building military and intelli­gence, protecting the homeland and rising to eonquer the jihadists. 
"We need to convey to the rest of the world that America's pri­orities and ideas are so much better than bin Laden's," Roemer said. 
Roemer spoke of the impor­tance of moving forward and taking action. He promoted micro enterprise loans for the poor and education and cultural exchanges. He spoke of the inspiration he drew, and hoped all Americans would draw, from the "Sept. 11 families." 
"They didn't stop -if a con­gressman wouldn't meet with them, they'd go to the local dis­trict ... they wouldn't let it go because they love this country so much," he said. "What a great example to us, Republicans and Democrats, of 
VATICAN CITY

how we can get involved." 
Roemer's talk was followed by a question and answer session that expanded the discussion 
Spokesman defends 
from national security to other issues such as U.S. involvement in Egypt:the U.S. detaine~ poli­cy and the Israel-Palestine 
Pope's jihad remarks 
debate. 

"We've got a lot to do, a lot of problems to take on. And we can do it because we are Americans," Roemer said. 
Roemer served the 3rd 
District of Indiana from 1991 to 
2003 in the U.S. House of 
Representatives. He was 
appointed in 2002 to the 
National Commission on 
Terrorist Attacks Upon the 
United States, more commonly 
known as the 9/11 Commission. 
But before that, he was a member of the Notre Dame family -literally. 
Roemer earned masters and doctoral degrees from Notre Dame, his mother worked at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns and his father served as Dean of Students, professor 
R. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute, said in his intro­duction Thursday evening. 
"If you cut him. he very well may bleed blue and gold," Appleby said. 
Roemer said he was "privi­leged to be back home at Notre Dame with people who do such fine research and academic work and endeavor to support peace and justice." 
"There are so many good memories here and I'm so proud of the teaching here ­the teaching of values," Roemer said. 
Roemer's appearance was sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Department of Political Science and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
Contact Meghan Wons at 
mwons@nd.edu 
mentary on holy war and forced conversion, the pontiff quoted from a 14th-century Byzantine 
IIEJ 

emperor, Manuel II Paleologos. "The emperor comes to speak 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
111111 
tllld 

II 
about the issue of jihad, holy war," the pope said. "He said, I
The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
quote, 'Show me just what Muhammad brought that was new, and there you will find things only evil and inhuman, such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he 
Proudly Present 
Quality 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
off-campus tiousing
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus • Washers & dryers
"What's Hot in Business Ethics" 
• 
Student neighborhoods • Dishwashers 

• 
Security systems • Internet ready 


11 

24-hour maintenance staff • Lawn service 
Nancy Thomas-Moore Director of Ethics and Business Conduct Weyerhaeuser Corporation 
Monday, September 18,2006 
Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
7:00p.m. 
(574J 315•5032 (celll
Jordan Auditorium 
(574) 234-2436(officeJ
Mendoza College of Business 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


preached."' 
Clearly aware of the sensitivity 
of the issue, Benedict added, "I 
quote," twice before pronounc­
ing the phrases on Islam and 
described them as "brusque," 
while neither explicitly agreeing 
with nor repudiating them. 
"The emperor goes on to 
explain in detail the reasons why 
spreading the faith through vio­
lence is something unreason­
able," Benedict said. 
"Violence is incompatible with 
the nature of God and the nature 
of the soul," the pope said. issu­
ing an open invitation to dia­
logue among cultures. 
Lombardi, who traveled with 
the pope, said he was not giving 
an interpretation of Islam as 
"something violent." 
In Egypt, Mohammed Mahdi Akef, the leader of Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood, also called for an apology. 
"The remarks do not express correct understanding of Islam and are merely wrong and dis­torted beliefs being repeated in the West," Akef said. 
The 57-nation Organization of the Islamic Conference, based in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia said it regretted "the pope's quote and for the other falsifications." It expressed hopes that "this sud­den campaign does not reflect a new trend for the Vatican policy toward the Islamic religion." 
Militant Islamic Web sites also unleashed a scathing campaign against the pope. 
Lombardi insisted that the pontifl' respects Islam. 
Benedict wants to "cultivate an attitude of respect and dialogue toward the other religions and cultures, obviously also toward Islam," Lombardi said in a state­ment released by the Vatican. 
Benedict, who has made the fight against growing secularism in Western society a theme of his pontificate, is expected to visit Turkey in late November. He was invited by the staunchly sec­ularist Turkish President Ahmet Necdet Sezer, who said the invi­tation was part of an effort to strengthen dialogue between religions. 
Associated Press 

Pope Benedict XVI did not 
intend to offend Muslims with 
remarks about holy war, the 
Vatican said Thursday, scram­
bling to defend the pontiff as 
anger built in the Islamic world 
over his comments during a trip 
to Germany. 

"It certainly wasn't the inten­tion of the pope to carry out a deep examination of jihad (holy war) and on Muslim thought on it, much less to offend the sensi­bility of Muslim believers," said Vatican spokesman the Rev. Federico Lombardi. 
Turkey's top Islamic cleric asked Benedict to apologize, raising tensions before the pon­tifT's planned visit to Turkey in November on what would be his first papal pilgrimage in a Muslim country. 
Religious Affairs Directorate head Ali Barda.koglu, a cleric who sets the religious agenda for Turkey, said he was deeply offended by remarks about Islamic holy war made Tuesday during the pilgrimage to the pontiffs homeland, ealling them "extraordinarily worrying, sad­dening and unfortunate." 
Bardakoglu said that "if the pope was reflecting the spite, hatred and enmity" of others in the Christian world, then the sit­uation was even worse. 
The pope, at Regensburg University, made a reference to jihad during an address about faith and reason, and how they cannot be separated and are essential for "that genuine dia­logue of cultures and religions so urgently needed today." 
Citing historic Christian com­

...---~--~~-:---------------~---------------......----------------------.----------,-~ r
. . 
p

page 12 
Friday, September 15, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Damt, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDrroR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeffAlbert ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 

Student tickets deserve respect 
Need a little pocket change? $500, say? When face value for the average one-game ticket is about That's about what Notre Dame tickets were going for in the $60, that's kind. minutes before kickoff last weekfmd. So don't try to profit ofT the University's generosity. In one quick transaction, that money could bPlong to any Scalping tickets docs not just break a University rule. It student. breaks a bond of trust created when Notre Dame sold the 
As Irish fortunes improve on the field and ticket prices rise tickets in the first place. on the street corner, the temptation for Notre Dame stu­The University doesn't have to allow every student the dents, faculty and staff to scalp their tickets chance to buy tickets. Don't make Notre Dame increases. O Th rethink this policy. 
oserver
It's not everyone. Just look at the student To those considering selling their ticket for section, swaying to the Alma Mater every the next Irish home game -stop. Think about Saturday afternoon. Notre DamP supports its returning some of the respect the school
Editorial 
football. 
But nothing is perfect. 
Lately, a handful of students have sold their tickets to the highest bidder. That's fine in most places in America, where capitalism rules. 
But here, a different set of rules should apply. 
Attending this University offers many privileges, one of those being discounted tickets. Notre Dame charged students $207 for admission to all seven home games this season. 
showed when it sold a ticket booklet for signifi­cantly less money than the rest of the crowd paid. 
Think about your life 20 years from now. Are you going to remember the extra few hundred bucks you earned selling your ticket? Or will you look back on the time you spent with your friends in the stands? 
To those attending this home game weekend and looking forward to the next one -enjoy. Wearing the green is worth more than attaining the green. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (57 4) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observn-policits should be directed tv Editor in ChiefMilu GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obacrvcr (USPS 5'!9 2-4000) is publish<.~ Monday through Fridoy accpt during ex.am .and nation perio$. A li.Uh«.riptiun ro The Obic:rv(r is $100 for one ~mK: 
yar; $55 lOr on< !;cmtstct.  
Tnc Ob.t:r•<r is published at:  PO~TMASTER  
024 South Dining Hall  Stond add.res:$ corrc:ction:s t-o:  
Nou< D11111e. IN 46556.0779  The Observer  
l'criodical postage p.id at Notte Dame  P.O. Box 779  
and •JJi.wn.l mailing olftCCS.  024 South Dining Hall  
Notre Dam..lN ~5%-0779  

The Obscn-.t is • m<mkr ofth< A.sociatcd Press. All ~<production righu .,. roscrvcd. 

Reviving the culture wars 
In the months after Sept. 11, 2001, Lynne Cheney joined a host of conserva­tive pundits in calling for the renewed study of American History. She argued that, if Americans had a proper knowl­edge of the facts of their history, they James would fall in love Matthew with the unparalleled Wilson greatness of our nation and become The Treasonous more confident, patri­Clerk otic citizens than they are in our present milieu of "political correctness," "white guilt," and liberal relativism. 
Cheney must hold a more optimistic opinion of the self-evident conclusions that follow from facts than do I. The leftist professors against whose unpatri­otic programs she aimed her proposal draw on much the same facts available to her, but reach irreconcilable conclu­sions. Or rather, such academics insert the same facts into an opposed system of thought to explain their meaning. 
This column will try to explore the vast field, which now looks like a waste land, where the facts of our experience are disputed in the name of any num­ber of systems of thought. I have no hope of setting out "plain and honest facts" only to presume they necessitate one conclusion or another about the various questions many of us face as students and professors committed to the life of politicization of knowledge for a rela­
tivistic or hedonistic end. 
The sad witness of universities, such as that bolus located in Ann Arbor, which have adopted hiring practices to guarantee job candidates with conser­vative (or, in one instance, pro-Israeli) sympathies will not find their way to the faculty, requires firm response. It seems appropriate to revive in more intelligent form the "culture wars" of two decades ago that sought to expose the absurdi­ties of an academy that has become the patron of a narrow regime of "post­humanist" ideology hunting and token political gestures. These things hurt the communal quest of the intellect for which end universities were founded in the first place. When a fair portion of our professoriate believes that knowl­edge is a mere tool of power that must be excised if we are to liberate "sub­
jects" from oppressive "discipline," the purpose and identity of the univer­which we interpret our experience is not merely a delusion projected onto that experience. And most of us under­stand that the truths we discover in this life will be determined, in part, by whether we enter into the tradition of a better or worse system, and how we develop it. 
That said, many balk at the notion of a right system, against which none other can stand. And yet, this is the necessary consequence of the above premises, in the same. way that truth follows from the discovery of what is false. 
The caricatures I have drawn of cer­tain conservatives suggests that they are more than willing to proclaim the reality of truth and falsehood; but they evidently refuse the labor to reason them out. This has led to horrible argu­ments for good causes, and, finally to 
the support of evil causes. 
A small error of method in 
the beginning leads to 

sity must either be accept­grave one in the end.
A small error of 
ed as dead -or defended Likewise, my caricatured
method in the 
and reconstituted. academics delude them­Second, however, we beginning leads to selves and us alike by shall confront those anti­a grave one ln clearly condemning cer­intellectuals who capital­tain acts and policies as
the end. 
learning, as citizens of the  These things hurt  empire whose professed  
most powerful country on  the communal  commitment to private  
earth, or as Catholics in a world torn by religious (and anti-religious) strife.  quest of the intellect for which  ownership and equal jus­tice is only skin deep. If too many academics  
I wish, first, to draw  end universities  believe knowledge but a  
attention not to idle facts taught in classrooms, but to the complex but debas­ were founded in the first place.  tool, too many of these tub-thumpers try to con us that the "facts will set  
ing theories that incr.eas­ us free." What a hard  
ingly make university  claim to tolerate in an age  

teaching seem a crude oppositional where left and the right alike distort activity. Often, university curricula supposed facts to justify the slaughter seem committed to platitudes of "trans­of innocents both at home and abroad. gression," "liberation" and "diversity," Most of us appreciate that what I which boil down to little more than the have called the "system of thought" by ize upon the foibles of the academy simply to silence all criticism of the United States' role in the world 
as a sometimes violent, 
frequently concupiscent, unjust, when their sys­
tems of thought agree 
only that "justice" is one 
lie among others. 

In this space, we cannot puzzle out every problem. But, by relying on the reasoning and love of truth manifest in the Thomistic tradition and the long experience of the Catholic Church, I hope to set forth my own humble rea­sons for suspecting ideologues on both the left and right without losing certain belief that truth has been discovered, can be discovered, and can be shared by all. 
James Matthew Wtlson is a Sarin research fellow at Notre Dame. He can be reached at jwilsonS@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Joe Piarulli Chris Khorey Katie Perry Dan Murphy What will be the most testing football game 
Submit aLetter
Marcela Berrios Ken Fowler for the Irish this season? 

'The release ofatomic energy has not 
Jennifer Metz Scene 

created a neu' problem. It has merely
8% 
made more urgent lhP necessity ofsoll,ing
Viewpoint Marty Schroeder 
an existing one.··

to the Editor at
Joey King 

27%
Graphics 
Albert Einstein physicist
Jarred Wafer 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
p

Friday, September 15, 2006 page 13 


The incredible shrinking university press 

One of the traditional functions of a university is to promote and disseminate worthwhile ideas that, either due to high costs or limited interest, would never have survived the demands of commer­cial publishing. The market for philology, for instance, is van­ishingly small, but its impact on our culture is nonetheless signifi­cant (ask, for instance, if Spanish will ever overtake English as the domi­nant language of the 
U.S. and now you are dealing with very controversial and important philology). Recognizing the value of these unpopu­lar works, universities have long subsi­dized literary and academic books by running their own publishing houses: the university presses. 
It is apparent on the face that the goal of a university press is not financial ­very few presses do better than break even-but rather historical and social. One function of a press is to preserve the ideas of those who would not other­wise be remembered by archiving their words in print, a task that they perform 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

in close conjunction with libraries, and which they carry out effectively. Another far more significant task is to ensure that ideas that are of enduring merit are made available to everyone who might benefit from them. This later mission is, in fact, a subset of the broader purpose of a university itself. 
In reality, though, practice nearly always falls short of the ideal. At the vast majority of universities large enough to house a press, the institutions tend to be viewed predominantly as a step in the tenure process, and a rather minor step at that. Having books pub­lished by an academic press can be a mark of status for a professor, but any sign of honestly considering a work's impact on the larger educational picture is first misunderstood, then ignored, and finally taken as insult. At its worst, a university press becomes so mired in politics that it cannot afford to reject the works of certain professors. It is forced to prostitute itself as a junk mill for books of dubious value, or worse, made to ignore works of true merit because of political infighting. 
At the same time, university presses do nothing to remind their parent uni­versities of the invalidity of the narrow understanding that many authors have of their role, while simultaneously cater-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Honoring student tickets 
As a recent graduate in May, I didn't expect to get all the tickets I wanted in the lottery this year. Especially being from the Philadelphia area, and with all the hype, I knew I would travel back to the Bend for the big game against Penn State. So I put all my eggs in one basket, threw everything on red 6 ... and lost. Strange how one goes from being guaranteed tickets (well, a spot on the field, I was in the band) to the bottom of the totem pole all in one turn of the tassle. 
Disappointed, to say the least, but not bro­ken, I was determined to get into ND stadi­um for my first home game as an alum. I asked my girlfriend to ask everyone she knew and put up signs everywhere. She got a phone call about a week before the game from a transfer student who was living ofT campus. This girl was interested in selling her ticket but wanted to know how much I would pay. 

So not only did this girl sell her ticket (way) above face value, she also treated it like a silent auction to get the best profit! She never inquired whether I would be cheering for the Irish or not. She went to the ticket office and had my name printed on the ticket, just as the new rule states. 
When I entered the stadium, I passed sev­eral ushers, not one of which asked for my 
10. The new rule does not work <tnd it is a pity that a better one needs to exist. It does happen. Many students do sell their tickets for profit, and it is a shame that they would risk hurting their team's home advantage. 
Maybe Admissions should have given this student's transcript a second thought. 
Dan Williamson alumnus Class of 2006 Sept. 14 
Exchange limit fails aims 
Unfortunately, I will be out of town for an interview this weekend, but I have found a friend whose sister (a 2004 NO alumna) is going to be visiting and needs a ticket. Upon having my ticket exchange request denied, I was provided with two reasons as to why there was a 300 person limit: 1} the Ticket Office is trying to crack down on scalping, and 2) they are trying to main­tain "the sanctity of the student section." This alumna is coming into town to see the Michigan game and if I cannot give her my ticket she will be forced to purchase one from a scalper, only further promoting the very activity the ticket office is attempting to stop. 
Additionally, Coach Weis has now spent two weeks begging for the student body to be as loud as possible. He sincerely feels that we are an integral part of this team's success and constantly emphasizes that point. If the ticket office is at all concerned with the sanctity of the student section, they would exchange this ticket so that an empty, silent seat may be filled with a screaming alumna. 
Finally, I am also an employee of the uni­versity and I am frequently reminded that as such I am a representative of the University of Notre Dame. Likewise, being on the staff of the Ticket Office would make them representatives of the University of Notre Dame. This university was built on a foundation of Catholic beliefs, a few of which include helping oth­ers and doing the right thing. Whether it is in providing service to the South Bend community or holding the door for some­one at LaFortune, we are constantly encouraged to go out of our way to help others. 

The way I see it, they have a chance to take 30 seconds out of their day and help a fellow member of the Notre Dame commu­nity by doing the right thing. Whether you are trying to maintain the sanctity of the student section, prevent scalping or offer a helping hand, one person can make a dif­ference. 
Brandon Burke sentor Siegfried Hall Sept. 14 
ing to those same egos. This has been 
going on for such a long time that the 
universities, having forgotten why they 
founded the presses, are themselves 
starting to wonder why they bother 
wasting the money. 
Consequently, the presses are to blame for their own increasing cultural and economic irrelevance. A combination of the fear of scrutiny from their parent universities and the fear of offending the professors that they have become enslaved to has caused the presses to close their minds to any new or innova­tive ideas. 
As they do this, their profits grow thin­ner with each passing day. Part of the problem is the increasing cost of pro­duction combined with the high expecta­tions of authors and booksellers as to the quality of materials to be used, com­bined with increased competition for dwindling self space at the major book­sellers. But part of the cause is also the presses' lack of vision in tapping into the pulse of the modern intellectual spirit and in seeing emerging trends that could have slowed the long slide. Unless something changes soon, the result will be the collapse of the national university press market with local presses consoli­dated into regional conglomerations under Chicago, Harvard and other major publishers. In short, the presses 
will have become just like the commer­
cial publishers they were originally cre­
ated to supplement. 
Who will be the ones harmed when this takes place? Not the universities and not the professors; it will be the consumers who will be hurt, and the overarching mission of the presses which will die. And because I believe in university presses, in the wide dissemi­nation of information, in the educational mission of a university and the close relationship of all three, I do not wish this to happen. University presses need to expand and rethink their visions and their marketing, and recommit them­selves to their mission. They need to do so now, while they still have a chance to succeed. 
Full disclosure: the author was employed by the University of Notre Dame Press between 2000 and 2006. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofthe University ofNotre Dame. He can be contacted at comments@tidewa­terblues.com This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution­NonCommercial-ShareAlike 2.5 License. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
True 'revitalization' 
Revitalization through the building and renovating of a neighborhood is a great idea. By increasing the appearance ofthe neighborhood, poverty rates and crime rates are likely to decrease. It also creates a friendlier environment to surround the campus. 
But does Notre Dame's attempts at revitalization mean anything else than changing the demographics of the neighborhood? The lots that are being pur­chased and renovated are not going to the people who lived there before, but rather to a different group ofpeople who are more affiuent, more educated. Can we really say that changing the people who live there is revitalizing? I would think it is more like creating something new rather than changing something old. 
Not only does the practice of buying lots to build monstrous abodes for the more affiuent create a nicer approach to our campus, but it also destroys the community that is already there. The predominantly black neighborhood south ofcampus is not going through revitalization. The term that would be more appropriate is ethnic cleansing. 
The residents are being displaced to move somewhere else that they can afford, thanks to the increasing taxes and pressure to vacate the neighbor­hood. They move to other locations in South Bend that have the same prob­lems. Notre Dame is not solving anything by building new houses south of campus. It only helps to isolate the university more and push the problem areas further away from campus. Hey, at least Notre Dame doesn't have to deal with them if they are in another part oftown. That always seems to work. 
Gary Nijak 
sophomore 
Knort Hall 
Sept. 13 

Reasoned discourse 
I find myself agreeing with the sentiments of the final paragraph of Ryan Davidson's recent letter ("Stop printing toxic letters," Sept. 14), exhorting you to refrain from publishing race-baiting and ad hominem attacks that do "nothing but unnecessarily inflame discussion with unrelated issues and [that have] no place in serious academic discourse." I must wonder, then, why you chose to publish his letter, as every other paragraph con­tains at least one instance of precisely this sort of undesirable, inflamma­tory rhetoric. 
Davidson seems to have listened to those who criticized his earlier letters -a sadly uncommon achievement, even in academia -and echoes our point that the usage of the racial label "Arab" is often quite sloppy. Yet we have generally refrained from making this point using hyperbolic hand­wringing about "the moral fabric of the student body" and "intractably paranoid anti-Semitism." I would suggest Davidson pay more attention to his own principles of reasonable discourse in his future letters. 
Dan Hicks grad student off campus Sept. 14 
. .. .. ... . 


page 14 Friday, September 15, 2006 
WASHINGTON HALL SPOTLIGHT 

AFTLS brings singular 'Hamlet' to campus 


By LAURA MILLER 
Scene Writer 
Ghosts have long haunted the realm of the theater, but none so famously as the Ghost in "Hamlet." 
"Hamlet," performed by the Actors from the London Stage (AFTLS), draws the audience into theater in its purest form. Now in its 13th year, the AFTLS represents one of the oldest and most well organized Shakespeare troupes in the world. Not only do their actors have a diverse , experience-laden background -sporting such accolades as degrees from Oxford, The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, roles in Royal Shakes­peare Company's productions and even a semi-professional rugby player -but they also embody the essence of a travel­ing troupe. 
While the company tours in America each semester, the actors are in constant flux -some are returning, some are new, all are very qualified. Each produc­tion brings together a unique combina­tion of people through a common love for William Shakespeare's work. 
While in the United States, the AFTLS visits colleges and universities that include Notre Dame, Wellesley, the University of Texas and the University of North Carolina. Not only do the Actors put on a show, but they visit classrooms, attend lectures and give workshops as well. These lectures typically aim to help students better connect with and gain a depth of understanding of Shakespeare's work. They prove knowledgeable in their domains and have a good rapport with students. These actors are not just play­ing the roles -they are living the art. 

AFTLS has performed in two different venues at Notre Dame -both the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Leighton Concert Hall and Washington Hall. Although still organized through the DPAC, the AFTLS performs in Washington Hall this week. Students might not be as dazzled by Washington as they are by Leighton's new-fangled technology, but it is really a far better stage for AFTLS. Because Washington's seating is so much more compact, it is easier for the actors to interact with their audience -it is this interaction that allows Shakespeare's plays to come into their truest form. The fourth wall that typically exists in other plays is sup­posed to be frequently interrupted by the actors -they jest with the audience, play off the audience's emotions and many of the characters' monologues are meant to provoke the audience to intense thought. 
The thrust stage is one of the reasons this fourth wall is so easily broken, both in Washington Hall and historically. Though far from a mirror image of a theater like the renowned Globe, Washington Hall's stage is more than sufficient. It would be a more accurate picture if the seats on the floor level were taken out and crowded in were a mosh-pit of plebeians. But perhaps a room packed with scruffy, tired college students is close enough. 
Actors from the London Stage is a small troupe. Despite the fact that 
"Hamlet" sports 26 separate roles, 
AFTLS uses only five actors. Geoffery 
Beevers (Polonius), Anna Northam 
(Gertrude, Ophelia). Robert Mountford 
(Horatio, Laertes, Rosencrantz, 
Guildenstern), Richard Stacy (Hamlet) 
and Terence Wilton (Claudius, Ghost) 
shift from role to role with ease. One of 
the primary goals of the AFTLS is to 
reflect Shakespeare's original company, 
The Lord Chamberlain's and then The 
King's Men, which is a very worthy 
cause in the present day. 
So much of Shakespeare's work has been remolded to quell a stubbornly close-minded audience. Baz Luhrmann's "Romeo + Juliet," starring Leonardo · DeCaprio and Claire Danes, is just one example of this unfortunate trend. Watered-down versions of Shakespeare's works rarely do justice to the works of the arguably best playwright to have ever lived. As a result, his witticisms and poignant commentary on the human condition are frequently overlooked and 
under appreciated. 
The AFTLS further emphasizes 
Shakespeare's text by minimizing the 
presence of distractions. The stage in 
Washington Hall is completely without 
backdrops and costumes. The actors and 
actress wear simple. versatile clothing 
and have only a few props to indicate a 
change in character (e.g. Ophelia always 
carries a white scarf while Gertrude ­
played by the same actress -carries 
nothing). 

This is an extremely unusual experi­
ence for the typical American audience. 
Most have never seen a Shakespearean play without elaborate costumes. Most companies imitate a Franco Zefferelli style of costuming, with a montage of colors accompanied by expensive sets and props. 
Like the loss of Shakespeare's original text. the overstimulation of the audience through ornate period costuming is also unfortunate. In avoiding this, the AFTLS accent their ability to differentiate char­acters by their acting skills rather than a change of costume, and this makes the audience more aware of the differences in how Shakespeare tailored speaking styles uniquely to each character. 
The AFTLS visits campus each semes­ter, always to sell-out crowds. Recent performances include: "Romeo and Juliet" (Spring 2004), "A Midsummer Night's Dream" (Fall 2004), "Othello" (Spring 2005), "Twelfth Night" (Fall 2005) and "The Merchant of Venice" (Spring 2006). Notre Dame can look for­ward to the performance of "Macbeth" in Fall 2007. 
"Hamlet" is funny, tragic and enter­taining. The text is so engaging that the lack of set is practically unnoticed and even allows the viewer to laugh at the text for the sake of itself. In another brilliant move, AFTLS does not have a director for any of their productions. Each production is self-directed by the actors and so there is no possibility of the play being "owned" by any one per­son. It remains, as it was in Shakespeare's day, a product of a com­munity of actors. 
Contact Laura Miller at lmiller8@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 
E
Friday, September 15, 2006 


page 15 
; -. 
~-:-...-:·_,... ­...-·-",. 

.. 
~c-~
~~etaJ"t!J 
Reissues and controlling cinematic creations 
Should directors seize control after initial release of their film? 



Photo courtesy of kinoweb.de Steven Spielberg, left, talks with Haley Joel Osment. This director was a part of the Influx of directors of the 1970s who brought the New Wave to America. 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
The "Star Wars" cash cow just never seems to run dry and George Lucas has been milking the franchise since "A New Hope" was released in 1977. Not that anyone blames him -the series has been wildly popular and if you can make the money, go for it. 
llowever, with the reissue of the origi­nal theatrical editions of "Star Wars" on individually retailed discs after Lucas supposedly released his definitive ver­sions in a box set two years ago, a major question arises that can be applied all over Hollywood and the American film industry -where does the artist's role end and when does the audience become the determiner of what a film should be and continue to be? 
The question does not stop with Lucas. In 2001, Francis Ford Coppola released "Apocalypse Now: Redux," which added many scenes to the well-known 1979 "Apocalypse Now." Certain scenes that were deemed too politically charged were added in "Redux." All in all, 49 minutes of extra footage were added in this re-release, not only on home for­mats but also in cinemas, which was very similar to what Lucas did with his special editions of the original "Star Wars" trilogy in the late 1990s. This allowed the director to give the audience what he thought was the definitive edi­tion of his opus -some audiences liked because it tackled issues better, others hated it and felt cheated out of the "Return of the Jedi" experience they cherished. This is the crux of the matter. 
While Coppola was filming "Apocalypse Now," his marriage almost fell apart, he suffered a nervous break­down and almost bankrupted his pro­duction company and himself in the process. Typhoons destroyed the sets and they had to be rebuilt, the helicop­ters he leased from the Philippino gov­ernment were constantly being recalled for actual fighting and his lead actor, Martin Sheen, suffered a near-fatal heart attack during principal shooting. Marlon Brando was also notoriously dif­ficult to work with as he showed up on the set overweight when his character was supposed to be emaciated and he refused to learn his lines. 
Can a director make what he wants to make when he's faced with difficulties like these? What gives directors the power t~1 go back and change films from their initial theatrical offerings? How would we as an audience react if we found out that Michael Curtiz was going to go back to the end of his famed "Casablanca" and change the ending? Some people would be rightfully angered. 
The notion that a director can return to a film with their name on it at any time and 
Where does the 
change things however Coppola, all household they see fit is a mindset artist•s role stop and names in this day, that grew out of the brought this idea to
when does the 
1970s. Beginning in the America and changed the
audience become the 
early '70s, a group of face of American cinema. American filmmakers determiner ofwhat a When Spielberg directs a graduated from this new­film, you know it's from
film should be and 
fangled education called Spielberg. If the guy who
continue to be?
"film school." 
They were familiar with the French New Wave -a group of French filmmakers and film critics whose ultimate goal was to make films that were driven by the personal vision of the director. Based at the Cinematheque Francaise in Paris, they claimed that art in the cinema sprang out of the artistic drive of the director and only he could drive his piece of art forward into greatness. Men like Welles, Hawks, Lang and Hitchcock made the films they wanted to make and their per­sonal styles emerged as a stamp on their films. According to the French New Wave, the film was the sole brainchild of the director and through his screening of it w a cinephile audience, a recognition of the influences and methods of the cin­ema would occur -there was art. 
Men like Lucas, 
Scorsese, Spielberg and 
brought you "Jaws" and 
"E.T." had been around in the '30s or '40s, we would have never heard of him. 
But because we now know who direc­tors are and these "auteurs" are noted for their achievements, we have a slew of DVDs that are released under the headline "Director's Cut." It is impossible to get the original theatrical version of Hidley Scott's "Blade Hunner." The only available DVD is the director's cut. If we had seen this movie in theaters when first released and wanted to have that expnrience again, it would be impossible because Scott says that's not the version we should be seeing, but instead, we should see this version. Where do direc­tors get the gall to do this'? 
Part of it could be the studios trying to make more money. The strategy of releasing a barebones DVD right away and then releasing a super-deluxe DVD with all the whistles and bells after­wards is going to bring in much more money than just one DVD release. Again, going back to "Star Wars," Lucas released the original trilogy in its origi­nal form on VHS tapes. Then came along the Special Editions in the late '90s on VHS. Then we had the box set a few years ago and now we have the 2004 versions plus the original theatrical cuts on three separate releases -and no box set. 
Which one is the definitive version and who says so? It all depends on what you grew up with. The generation that saw "Star Wars," "Jaws" and the "Indiana Jones" trilogy in theaters would proba­bly gobble up the chance to get these versions again. However, for a younger generation it may be another version their parents got for them because they could not get the original versions. "The new "Jaws" DVD has a different sound mix than the original -which mix is better is left up to th~ audience. 
For the cynical mind, all it comes down to is money. A brand spanking new version of the "Apocalypse Now" DVD was released not a few weeks ago by Paramount Home Video. They are call­ing it "The Dossier Version" and it includes both the 1979 and 2001 version of the film, much the same way as the "Star Wars" DVDs that were released this week. 
Maybe the studios are finally heeding the voices of audiences saying they are sick of all the changes and just want one version that they can enjoy and remem­ber. The studios, hearing this plea seem to be going through a phase where they are releasing all the versions in one package. Here is everything-watch the disc you want. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of wga.org 

Orson Welles was known for being a director with a personal vision. He often butted heads with studio execs during the prime years of his filmmaking career. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 15, 2006 
MLB 

Reds playoff hopes end in another loss to Padres 
... 
Ramirez's 100th RBI 
gives Chicago a one­
run victory at home 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -With another pursuer bumped to the road­side, the San Diego Padres packed up their wild-card lead and headed for a first-place showdown on the West Coast. 
This is going to be some weekend in Los Angeles. 
"It's a great way to get on an airplane," manager Bruce Bochy said Thursday, after a 4­2 victory over the Cincinnati Reds turned the Padres' next series into exactly what they wanted. 
Wlth the NL West-leading Dodgers losing to the Cubs 6-5, the Padres left town only a half­game out -their smallest deficit since Aug. 10. 
Up next: Four games with first place up for grabs. 
"Oh, man, it's about as big as it can get around here," said Mike Cameron, whose bases­loaded single broke open a scoreless game in the seventh inning. "We've got a little bit of energy and momentum going into LA. I'm sure they're going to be ready to go and every­thing. And it's going to be a big Friday night matinee in LA." 
Before they could think about moving up, the Padres had to take care of a team that's all but out of it. Cameron's two-run single ofT Aaron Harang (13-11) could go down as the hit that finally toppled the Reds, who lost two of three in a pivotal series. 
Since they moved within a percentage point of first place in the NL Central on Aug. 24, the Reds have lost 13 of 18. Cincinnati stands fifth in the wild-card race, trailing the 

Padres by 4 1/2 with 16 games 
left. 

"We've battled all year and 
showed a lot of heart and char­
acter, but we're not in a good 
spot," manager Jerry Narron 
said. 

The Heds have no more 
games with the Padres or the 
Central-leading St. Louis 
Cardinals, making it difficult to 
make up ground. The three 
games against San Diego 
amounted to a last chance. 
And they blew it. 
"Before, it was in our hands," first baseman Scott Hatteberg said. "It would have been nice to take two out of three or swe-ep these guys. That's what we wanted to do, and we didn't do it. It makes it hard to play in October." 
The Padres' pitching staff, among the NL's best, had a lot to do with it. 
Chicago 6, Los Angeles 5 
Aramis Ramirez's three-run homer gave him 100 RBis. More importantly, he said, it gave the struggling Chicago Cubs a victo­ry and a series win over the Los Angeles Dodgers, a team eyeing the playoffs. 
"Right now we are playing spoilers. We took two out of three from a first-place team and that's something we play for right now," Ramirez said after his 33rd homer rallied the Cubs to a win Thursday, knock­ing the Dodgers' lead to one­half game in the NL West. 
The Dodgers headed home after a series in which they lost twice by blowing leads at Wrigley Field. Los Angeles begins a key four-game series Friday with second-place San Diego, which beat the Reds 4-2 Thursday. 
"We've been through this· before. We've had some awfully tough losses," Dodgers manager Grady Little said. "This was another one today. We just have to put it behind us, come back tomorrow and start a big series with San Diego and see what happens." 
San Francisco 5, Colorado 0 
Matt Cain has dominated every opponent and inspired comparisons to baseball's greats during an incredible one­month stretch for the San Francisco Giants. 
The precocious right-hander is more interested in keeping his club in the playoff race until his 22nd birthday-which hap­pens to be the last day of the regular season. 
Cain allowed two hits in eight superb innings to win his fourth straight start, and the Giants gained ground in the NL West 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

During football season -Do not rent or Hotel it. Buy apartment complex. 10 one-bdrm furnished units. 4 mi to
WANTED 

ND. Great investment or convert to NO fam1ly needs sitter for 2-year-old condos. Call Larry 574-255·9363 or girl for PT eve & wknd hours. 3 ref-257-0039. 
erences required, experience with kids a plus. Pay negotiable. House 4 sale. 3bdrm,2.5 baths, Contact: hopkinskarl@ hotmail.com dormer 2nd fl. Finisherj basement. 7 
blks to ND. Estate auction. Sunday, Supervisor • Market Research. 9/17, 12:30 p.m. 1430 E. Madison. Opinions, Ltd. seeks detail oriented 574-291· 7746. 
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk  Deluxe Motor Home rental for ND  Immaculate furnished apt. avail. for  WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251·  
to stadium, Terrace Ln.  Rooms for ND home games. 574·  football weekends. Sleeps 4; sun­ 1570  
269-930-8038.  273-5035.  room, patio; 1 blk. to stadium shut­ 
swmient@qtm.net  tie, 1 mi. to stadium. 574-272-6177.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TICK- 
home games. NOT FOR TRAVEL.  ETS. BEST PRICES. 574-232·  
House for home games. 4 doors  Close to campus. Couple or small  B&B rooms for ND home games.  2378.  
from ND. Call Gary at 574·993­ family. 574-272-6857.  $125-$150 night 3 mi to ND. 574­ 
2208.  631-4632 work, 574-234-8507  Travel with STS to this years top 10  
4-bdrm 2 bath house w/jacuzzi. pool  home.  Spring Break destinations! Best  
RV NO home games. Sleeps 6-8.  table, 2 big screen TVs for ND  deals guaranteed! Highest rep com- 
Transportation, tailgating &lodging.  home games. 1/3 mi to ND. 574­ 2 bdrm house, fully furnished. 15  missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or  
574·243-5547.  532·8431.  min. to ND. Avail. ND home games.  call 1·800-648-4849. Great group  



supervisor for our office in University Park mall. Night/weekend Exquisite New Construction on flexibility a must. $8.50/hr. Call 574-River. 3,300 sq.ft. including lower­243-5719. level walk-out. 5 bedrooms, 3-1/2 
baths. $377,000. Sandy Hagen, Interviewer-Market Research. Coldwell Banker (574) 243-9575. Opinions, Ltd. seeks confident peo­pie to approach mall shoppers for market research surveys at 
FoR RENT 

House for rent for football week­ends. Sleeps 6-8. Call Kay evenings at 269-663-8203. 
House for Rent PSU/UM weekends. 25 min.away -2 blcks frm Lake Mich.Sieeps 11. Kit.,2 bath,grill. Call 708·525-4293. 
1 bdrm apt. 1 mi. to ND. Laundry. Avail. Fall &/or Spring semester. Quiet area. $550/mo. Call574-532­8718. 
ND home games rental. 1 mi to ND. Sleeps 2. Full accommodations. $900 3 nights. Call574-532-8718. 
$1200 Fri.thru Sunday. Call 574-discounts. 
229-1240. 

Travel with STS to this years top 10 4 bdrm, 2 bath, 1700 sf tri-level Spring Break destinations! Best house w!lots of living space, all deals guaranteed! Highest rep com-kitchen appliances, 2-car garage, missions. Visit www.ststravel.com or fresh paint & carpet, large deck & call 1-800·648-4849. Great group lawn care included. 574-272-5453. discounts. 
University Park mall. $8/hr. Call Home for ND games. Sleeps 4. Desperate for Tickets. Need tickets 574-243-5719. 2-3-4 bdrms. Share w/FRIENDS. B&B for home games in private B&B, 1/4 mile to stadium. Free Less than 2 mi. $600/wknd. 574-to the NO/Purdue game for family. 50% off dep. if rented by 10/1 . 255-home close to ND. Email: parking & ND tix. 274-3503. Call Blaine & leave message at 
Publishing Sales Internship w/local  7000.  white.131 @nd.edu  geocities.com/ndbandb@ sbcglob- 
ND alum: commission+  al.net for more info. Book your  
gas/expenses. financialservicespub- Rent a home ND football weekends.  Apt. for home games. 1.5 mi to ND.  game today! 574-302-7888.  
lishing.com  574-784-8638.  574·386-6014.  

BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam· FoR SALE pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Condo for sale 2 bdrm twnhse call 269-445-2765 Rental homes 3·6 bdrms. Close to 
ND. Call Gary 574-993-2208. Investment homes for sale near ND. 866·521-8989. ND Games 1-3M. 3 Bdrms priv. 
homes 57 4-273-2241. Enchanting 2-story 2-3 bdrm cot­tage on 3/4 acre lot across from 2·6 BDRM HOMES & ROOMS Warren Golf Course. Low taxes & NEAR CAMPUS AVAIL FOR FOOT-utilities. $145,000. BALL WEEKENDS &SCHOOL Call 574-277-2684 or YEAR. 574-329-0308. www.geoci­mascotte@ comcast. net ties.com/gillisrealty@ sbcglobal. net 11 bdrm house available for 2007­2008. Just renovated, 2 kitchens, 
5.5 baths, large common areas and backyard. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
One bdrm cottage on Lake Mich. 30 miles fr SB. www.Eastofedenatunionpier. com. $350 wkend. 513-697-7766. 
race with a victory over the Colorado Rockies on Thursday. 
Omar Vizquel scored the game's first run in the sixth inning on Moises Alou's double­play grounder, and the Giants rallied for four more in the sev­enth to win for the eighth time in 11 games. 
Cain (13-9) made it easy with another standout performance. The baby-faced rookie retired 10 of Colorado's first 11 hitters, then set down 13 straight after escaping a bases-loaded jam in the fourth. 
"Some kind of pitcher, huh?" Giants manager Felipe Alou said, later likening Cain to a young Tom Seaver. "That's what you call controlling the game. That curveball, he's throwing it where they have to swing at it. 
In my mind, he's as good as anybody." 
Cain had seven strikeouts and never tired in a 118-pitch out­ing. Vinnie Chulk completed the two-hitter. pitching a perfect ninth. 
"I'm just getting ahead of guys and trying to get to them early," Cain said. "I feel a little calmer in the second half.... We had a good battle going on early, and we finally got to Aaron (Cook)." 
Cain, whose 13 wins lead all NL rookies. has been nearly unhittable for a month now. He's 5-0 in six starts since Aug. 12 with a 0.21 ERA, allowing just one earned run in 42 innings -and he hasn't allowed an earned run in his last 30 2-3 innings. 

NOTRE DAME GAMES AND EVENT RENTAL AND PARKING. Furnished apartment, sleeps 4, walking distance to stadium, Linebacker, and restaurants. Call (574)339-1608. 
2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. 219-324-3241. Local pickup 
4 bdrm, 2 bath, 1700 sf tri-level  
house w/lots of living space, all  Wanted: UNC Tix. {574)273-9845  
kitchen appliances, 2-car garage,  
fresh paint & carpet, large deck & lawn care included. 574-272-5453.  PERSONAL  

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone
TICKETS 

you love needs confidential support FOR SALE: ND TICKETS. 232-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 0964 Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
$275 ND Football Wkends; $200  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
Non-Game Wkends. 630·238-0400.  Need ND tix & parking pass all  The Observer.  
home games. 574-276-8507.  

Big house on ND Ave. owned by  www.ndgamedayroom.com  
2 rooms in private home w/separate  alumni available for every home  WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS.  
entrance for football weekends.  game. Very reasonable. Email  TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY  ATIORNEY Lyn Leone available.  
Shared bath. Close to ND. 574­ Loretta800@aol.com or call 954­ WILL PAY MORE.  Underage consumption, DWI. 574­ 
259-8603.  921-1413.  57 4-288-2726.  272-1968.  

Friday, September 15, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Texans still looking for first win over Manning 

1-Iouston defenders confident they can handle Indianapolis 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON Peyton Manning's pointing, waving and gesturing at the line were so confusing to Houston Texans cornerback Dunta Robinson the first time he faced the Indianapolis Colts quarterback as a rookie that he thought about calling a timeout. 
Three years later, Hobinson is used to the theatrics, though the Texans are still looking for their first win over the Colts. Houston· · is 0-8 against Indianapolis, the only AFC South foe the Texans haven't beaten. 
If they want any chance to do it this week, Robinson and the rest of the secondarv will have to bounce back from a subpar Week 1 performance. 
Philadelphia's Donovan McNabb threw for 314 yards and three touchdowns in a 24­10 win that left the Texans ranked last in the league in pass defense. The secondary gave up completions of 31, 37 and 42 yards. 
"It was shocking because we expect a lot more from our­selves than what we put out as a secondary," Robinson said. "We're going to move on. We still feel comfortable and think 

. very highly of t~~ ability ,we . have on the back end." Joining Robinson in the sec­ondary are second-year pro ,C.C. Brown at free safety, strong safety Glenn Earl and corner­

back Lewis Sanders. Earl and Sanders have both struggled with injuries and have played sporadically before this year. 
Though only 24, the hard-hit­ting Robinson feels a responsi­bility to be a leader of the young group. The runner-up for defensive rookie of the year in 2004, Robinson started every game for Houston in his first two seasons, totaling 142 tack­les, seven interceptions and four sacks. 
"That's one of the things I've thought about for a long time," he said. "How can I get my team to follow me? Working hard and going out there and performing is the way to do that." 
He said discussing what hap­pened against Philadelphia wasn't necessary because they simply wanted to move on and focus on Manning and the Colts. 
"Everybody knows they have to be accountable for their own actions, and so it wasn't much to be said," Hobinson said. "Any mistake that was made, the guy knew he made a mistake so there was no need to go jump all over him. We can play better and we will play better so we're not worried." 
While acknowledging that there is room for improvement in thA secondary, coach Gary Kubiak believes some of the problems could be fixed with help from the rest of the defense. 
"We'Vf~ got to get more pres­sure up front to help those guys on the back end so they don't have to hold up so long," he said. "I think if we do that we'll play well in the back end." 
Manning has averaged 268 yards passing against the Texans in the eight meetings and has been held to fewer than 200 yards just once ­throwing for 190 in a 19-3 win in 2002. 


w~ When it's the ®©Gu©DCillCf®DlJD[p1? 
prestigious Luce scholarship, fl-Ing you an excltl-1-yr Job In the ._r east, sbateglcally chosen to lllatch your career goals. Apply by Nove111ber 3, 2006. 
lntarested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or wll you have by the end of May. 2007) an NO degree? No east Asia experience? For mora information. contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nrnee@nd.edu) 
Looking for a career instead of just a job? 
We're RSM McG!adrey! tho proh1ss1ona~ services firm for. people on the move~ with over 7~000 of the brightest mhuis in the industry. 'With a focus on rrdds1ze companies~ we provkfe valuable exposureJ soonert to the chaHang~s and rewards of developing innovative solutions to enhance our cHents~ businesses. VVarrt a career thaPs cha Uenging and inspiring, instead of tiJfl*Of*the*mm? learn more at rsmmcf.Jladrey.com, 
RSM McGiadrey 
ACCOUNTING • TAX • BUSINESS CONSULTING 

.... 
CSTV/AVCA Volleyball Top25 
team record previous 
1 Nebraska (47) 7~0 1 
2 Penn State (12) 8-0 2 
3 UCLA (1) 9-0 3 
4 Washington 8-1 5 
5 Texas 5-2 7 
6 Florida 6-1 6 
7 Stanford 6~1 8 
8 Santa Clara 6-1 4 
9 usc 9-0 10 
10 California 9-0 13 
11 Wisconsin 6-1 11 
12 Hawaii 5-3 9 
8_.1
13 Tennessee 12 14 Purdue 9-0 14 15 Ohio State 8-0 19 16 Ohio 6-2 17 17 Missouri 6-3 15 18 lSU 8-1 22 19 BYU 7-1 16 20 Pepperdine 4-4 18 21 Utah 6-2 24 22 Michigan 10-0 NR 23 Cal Poly 6-3 25 24 Arizona 7-2 21 24 Kansas State 8-2 NR 
NCAA Men's Soccer Adldas Top 25 
team record previous 
1  SMU  6-0-0  
2  Clemson  5~o-o  
3  Virginia  5-0-0  
4  Washington  5-D-0  
5  Duke  5-0-0  
6  Maryland  4-1-0  
7  Santa Clara  4·0-1  
8  West Virginia  5-0-1  
9  Indiana  3·2-1  
10  South Carolina  5·1-D  
11  San Francisco  4•0-1  
12  NOmE DAME  3-2-1  
13  Wake Forest  4-1-0  
14  Kentucky  5-0-1  
15  Fordham  4-0-1  
16  North Carolina  5-1-0  
17  Fairleigh Dickinson  2-1-1  
18  Illinois-Chicago  4·0-2  
19  Boston University  4-0-2  
20  Old Dominion  3-1-0  
21  South Florida  4-2--0  
22  Massachusetts  5-0-1  
23  UC Santa Barbara  3-2-D  
24  Virginia Tech  4-1-0  
251  Elon  6·1-0  
251  Memphis  4-0-1  
MIAA Women's  
Volleyball Standings  
Team  League  
1  calvin  3-0  
2  Hope  2-0  
3  Adrian  2·1  
4  SAINT MARY'S  2·1  
5  Tri·Stale  2·2  
6  Alma  1·2  
7  Albion  1-4  
8  Kala!Razoo  0·1  
9  Olivet  0-2  

3 4 2 6 9 1 14 10 10 21 13 8 5 20 12 
7 
15 22 23 NR NR NR 19 16 NR 23 
Overall 
7..0 
4~2 
5~3 
9-2 
3~7 
3-4 
2-6 
3-6 
0-10 
around the dial 

.... 
MLB Reds at Cubs 
2:20 p.m. Comcast 
Red Sox at Yankees 
7:05 p.m. ESPN 

-
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Kansas at Toledo 
8:00 p.m., ESPN2 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 
MOHGANTOWN, W.Va. ­Steve Slaton's speed and Maryland's sloppiness turned No. 5 West Virginia's first anticipated test of the season into a Iaugher. 
Slaton rushed for 19 5 yards and the Mountaineers forced two turnovers in a 28-0 first­quarter blitz on the way to a 45-24 victory over the Terrapins on Thursday night. 
Slaton, a sophomore, scored twice in the opening quarter of his first career action against Maryland, the school that offered him a scholarship, then with­drew it. 
"He's a great player. What more can I say?" Maryland coach Halph Friedgen said. "He's got great speed. He's a fine young man and I hope he wins the Heis man." 
Pat White threw for a TD and ran for another while Darius Heynaud scored twice, including a 96-yard kickoff return, for the Mountaineers (3-0), who extended their winning streak to 10 games, second in the nation to TCU's 12 in a row. 
With scouts from the Orange and Fiesta bowls and 15 NFL teams in atten­dance, West Virginia took a 38-10 halftime lead in beat­ing Maryland (2-1) for the 


IN BRIEF 
Liriano's MRI reveals same 
light strain from before start 
CLEVELAND -Francisco Liriano and the Minnesota Twins are some­what relieved, yet mostly mystifed over the rookie left-hander's latest test results. 
"The MRI came back exactly the same as the previous one," Twins general manager Gerry Ryan said Thursday. "He has a ligament strain, but there is no structural damage. That's the good news. 
"Now we have to find out why he's having pain. We're not going to mess around with his future." 
Ryan said the Twins will take an ultra-conservative approach with Liriano, who made only 28 pitches Wednesday against Oakland in his first start in more than a month ­then walked off the mound, saying he heard a pop in his elbow. 
Liriano, 12-3 with a 2.19 ERA, is done for the season, even if the Twins make the playoffs. 
third straight year, the first time that has happened since 1996-98. The teams have met every year since 1980. 
Marylau,,d, which had wins over Division I-AA William & Mary and unher­alded Middle Tennessee State, watched the Mountaineers compile more than 300 yards rush­ing for the third straight game. 
West Virginia's young defense, pressed to force more turnovers, also deliv­ered, finishing with five takeaways. Maryland's Sam Hollenbach was intercepted twice and the Terrapins fumbled the ball away three times, twice by Josh Wilson on kickoffs. 
West Virginia has outscored opponents 139­37 in three home games and heads on the road for four of its next five games. 
Slaton has 503 yards this season, exceeding 100 yards in the first half in all three games. The Mountaineers opened with wins over Marshall and Eastern Washington. 
"Steve looked like a human joy stick out there, like he was playing a video game," West Virginia cen­ter Dan Mozes said. 
Slaton had 149 yards in the first quarter against Maryland when West Virginia scored on all four possessions. 

Man convicted of bribing 8­
year-old to bean autistic kid 
UNIONTOWN, Pa. -A youth base­ball coach accused of offering an 8­year-old money to bean an autistic teammate so he couldn't play was convicted Thursday of two lesser charges against him, and evaded more serious charges. 
A jury convicted 29-year-old Mark 
R. Downs Jr. of corruption of minors and criminal solicitation to commit simple assault, Fayette County authorities said. 
Downs was acquitted of criminal solicitation to commit aggravated assault, and jurors said they were deadlocked on a charge of reckless endangerment. The judge declared a mistrial on the endangerment charge. 
Authorities said Downs offered to pay one of his players $25 to hit a 9­year-old autistic teammate with a ball while warming up before a June 2005 playoff game. 
Michelle Wie gets cut like 
wood in the 84Lumber 
FARMINGTON, Pa. -The course was too long, the competition too good. Michelle Wie has an excep­tional golf game for a 16-year-old, except when she's playing against the men. 
Heavy overnight rain softened up the third-longest course on the PGA Tour and created ideal scoring con­ditions Thursday at the 84 Lumber Classic, but not for Wie. 
Her sixth attempt to try to do what no woman has done in 61 years by making the cut in a tour event looks to be unsuccessful, much like the other five. 
Wie, playing in her third and last 

U.S. men's tournament this year, shot a 5-over 77 on a day when there were numerous scores in the 60s on the expansive Mystic Rock course, and has almost no chance to make a cut that was at even par a year ago. 

Friday, September 15, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 


Cowboys, T.O. open up at home against rival Redskins 
Associated Press adding urgency to this battle of NBC got this game for its sec­national television audience receiver to A-list personality. 
wits between coaching greats ond prime-time showcase. will be watching. And he knows ''I'm going to have to figure it 
IRVING, Texas -Terrell Bill Parcells and Joe Gibbs, and It's all about the guy wearing they'll be waiting for something out. I just haven't figured it out Owens has had six months to providing taunt-worthy materi­No. 81 on his shirt and a star outlandish. ideally one that yet," he insisted this week. come up with a memorable al for team owners Jerry Jones on his helmet -and what he invokes his look-at-me antics "I've about run out of touch­way to celebrate his first and Daniel Snyder. might do after a touchdown. on the logo in 2000, the move down dances and celebrations, touchdown at Texas Stadium as Yet those aren't the reasons Owens is well aware a that launched him from quality as far as something creative." 

openers. The loser will be 0-2, 

South Bend: 288-peep • Mishawaka: 271-peep 
-

a member of the Dallas Cowboys. 
Of course, it's got to involve the midfield star logo he stomped on six years ago. 
Pulling a marker out of his sock and signing the logo would be quite a spectacle. As would borrowing pompoms from one of the famous Cowboys cheerleaders and shimmying on the 50-yard line. Or he could just plow down and do some midfield sit-ups. 
But Owens prefers to be an innovator, not a copycat, even if those would merely be dig­ging into his own repertoire. 
So, T.O., what's it going to be? 
"I don't really know what I am going to do," he said. ''I'm just going to go out there and try to wing it, try to have fun with it." 
Owens will get his chance Sunday night against the Washington Redskins, provid­ing he reaches the end zone. 
The game itself should be a good one. The Cowboys and Redskins are division rivals that came into this season with playoff hopes, but made too many mistakes and lost their 
page 20 
SMC SOCCER 

Sal Vaccaro Invite will kick off this weekend 
Belles look to return 
. 
to winning ways zn two big matches 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will play two games this weekend at the annual Sal Vaccaro Tournament hosted by North Central College in Naperville, Ill. The Belles will play Saturday against Mount Mercy College and again on Sunday against the hosting Cardinals. 
Saint Mary's enters the tour­nament still in search of the season's first win. The team dropped their first two games to Albion and Manchester in very similar fashion. Both games were close 2-1 losses as Lauren Hinton provided the lone goal in both contests. 
Against Manchester, she scored with two minutes remaining in the first half to take the lead, but the young defense could not hold the lead and the Spartans were able to score on two of nine second-half 
..We will have to

shots. her effort. Daly "We are still play with a lot of had eleven goals trying to get used for the Cardinals
intensity and win 

to each other and last year.
-
I feel that we as many solso "I think [a win] don't have the balls as possible. ,, would be right connection extremely help­yet. Once we fig­ful to get us out
Colleen Courtney 

ure that out, we of a losing mode 
Belles forward 

will be able to especially with a score, senior big game coming times in a dominant win over Alverno College. 
Senior forward Keri Ludwig had a hat trick in the game while sophomore Kateri Bose led the team in points with assists on all three of Ludwig's goals as well as two of her own. Bose is only one goal and one assist away from matching her production for her fresh­man season. The experienced Mustang offense could cause problems for the Saint Mary's young defenders. 
"We will have to play with a lot of intensity and win as many 50/50 balls as possible," Courtney said. 
The Mustangs will start off the tournament facing North Central College (1-3) Friday at 
5:00 p.m. North Central comes into the tournament with a full head of steam, having won their first game in overtime last Saturday. 
Junior Michelle Daly scored on a penalty kick in the 94th minute to beat Marantha Baptist College 2-1. Daly, who also scored earlier in the game, was named College Conference of Illinois & 
Wisconsin Player of the Week for 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2006 PGA 
Tiger loses in match play 
Woods will need to rebound quickly for next week's Ryder Cup 
Associated Press 
Some of Tiger Woods' coun­trymen awoke to the news Thursday that he lost for the first time in two months and chased their morning coffee with a few aspirin. 
Relax. 
No one needs reminding how painful a Ryder Cup hangover can be, least of all Woods. But getting hammered 4 and 3 by Shaun Micheel at the World Match Play Championships ­matching Woods' worst loss in match play -will shake El Tigre's confidence for about as long as it takes to read this sentence. 
The Ryder Cup is still a week off and nobody on the other side is suddenly licking their chops at the thought of playing Woods head-to-head. Or Jim Furyk, for that matter ­despite how vulnerable they looked on yet another damp, cloudy afternoon in the British Isles. 
Then again, for U.S. captain Tom Lehman and all those already keeping score at home, those first-round results weren't the only thing that augurs poorly for the Americans. 
On European captain Ian Woosnam's side of the ledger, four of the live Europeans who will turn up at The K Club out­side Dublin next week won their opening matches. And the sole loser, Englishman David Howell, was beaten by team­mate Colin Montgomerie, a Scot whose brave heart will be front and center once the matches begin in earnest. 
Coincidence? 
Maybe. 

Momentum is everything at the Ryder Cup. Anyone who's watched the scoreboard change colors like the temper­ature gauge in an overheating car knows how quickly a cush­ion can become a hot seat. Think of how fast the Europeans slid down the drain just ahead of American Justin Leonard's putt on the final day of singles at Brookline in 1999. Or, conversely, how the knees of one American after another buckled at Oak Hill in 1995, when four pivotal matches went to the 18th green and the Euros won them all by choking less. 
So what to make of Thursday's little dress rehears­al? 
Nothing. 
Yet. 

Pacific Coast Concerts 
Proudly Prvscrnts In S0<1th Bernd 
the C:harter Bus Trip to The Rolling Stonesl 
The Rolling Stones! 

Wednesday October 11. 2006 
Soldier Field • Chicago. Illinois 
Umlted supply of Rolling Stones bus trip packages go on sale Monday September·18 at C:oveleski Stadium or charge by phone 574/235-99881 
forward Colleen Courtney said. 
Courtney, one of three cap­tains, finsihed last year with two goals and two assists. 
The Belles first opponent, the Mount Mercy Mustangs, have had an offensive explosion since ending their first game of the season in a 0-0 tie. The Mustangs have put up 16 goals

-while going 2-2 in the past four games. Last Saturday, the potent scorers struck eight 
up on Tuesday," Courtney said. 
The Belles will take on defending MIAA champion Calvin next week. The game will not count towards the team's conference record, but a victory over a conference foe would be a huge step in build­ing the young team's confi­dence. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

12 AcREs +I­
CLEVELAND RD / SR 23 
• 
PRIME CoMMERCIAL LAND 

• 
BETWEEN GRAPE Rn &:: MAIN STREET 

• 
782~ HIGHWAY FRONTAGE 

• 
1-80/90 ToLL RoAn [2 MILES] 

• 
NoTRE DAME CAMPUS [3 MILES] 

• 
NEAR HIGH-END RETAIL DEVELOPMENTS 


SANDY HAGEN 
(574) 243~9575 
... 
BAllOON BOUQUETS 
@ Irish Gardens 

the best student-run florist In the basement of Lafortune 
MON-THU 12:30-5:30 FRI-SAT 12:30-1:00 

--------------------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------~------------~----------------­
Friday, September 15, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS 

page 21 

SMC GOLF 
IWU Fall Classic tees off in Illinois Saturday 
Saint Mary's to join 2 4 other colleges this weekend at tourney 
By BECKY SLINGER Sports Writer 
After a rainout Wednesday, the Belles will compete against 23 teams this weekend when they attend the IWU Fall Classic hosted by Illinois­Wesleyan in Normal, Ill. 
Forming the 
"Our team is very focused on improving and playing our best," she said. "Nothing will distract us." 
A deep lineup ensures that distractions won't trouble the rest of the team, either. 
"Our lineup reflects our capabilities of raising the team's ranking," Sei said. "We're very focused on our ultimate goal of winning another MIAA Championship." 
Head coach Mark Hamilton was also confident the team 
would shoot a low 
round this week­
end. 

lineup will be "Our team is very The only obsta­junior captain cles the course
focused on
Katie O'Brien, poses to the team sophomores improving and are several Alex Sei, playing our best. ,, swamps, which Meredith Sei said would not Fantom, Perri be problematic if
Katie Mcinerney 
Hamma and the team stays on 
Belles sophomore 
K a t i e the fairways and 
Mcinerney, and freshman Kate Doornbos. 
The entire squad-save for freshman Doornbos -has played the "fair" 5,400-yard Ironwood Golf Course before, Sei said. 
And Doornbos, she said, will be very capable to handle the par-72 layout. 
The 18-hole course is sur­rounded by homes, but Mcinerney said that wouldn't be a distraction. 

hits accurate 
shots. 

"The key to shooting a low round is to focus and to take one shot at a time." Sei said. "We have a good chance of being the best in this tournament." 
After the Fall Classic, the Belles will attend the resched­uled MIAA Jamboree hosted by Albion on Sept. 22-23. 
Contact Becky Slinger at rslingO1@saintmarys.edu ­
' 

--------~----------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2006 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Pass-happy Badin opens season against Pyros 
Pangborn hopes to start title run against Farley; Welsh and Walsh square off; Ducks take on Chicks; BP faces PW 
By VINCE KENEALLY AND 
ROB GALLIC 
Sports Writers 
As the smallest women's dorm, Badin often finds itsPlf the under­dog, and this Sunday's contest with Pasquerilla Ea..'it is no exeep­tion. 
"I know they are a bigger dorm," Bullfrogs captain Meaghan Charlebois said. "Of course, every dorm is bigger than Badin, so that's always tough for us." 
In order to countP.ract the Pyros' depth, Charlebois said Bullfrog quarterback Katie-Rose Hackney will go to the air early and often. 
"[Hackney's) been doing a lot of work and definitely has been improving," Charlebois said. 
PE captain Molly Fox said her team is ready for Badin's pass­happy attack. 
"We've seen them with their receiving gloves," Fox said. "We're ready." 
Fox said the Pyros will use the running game to try to keep Hackney and the Badin offense off the field. 
"We have some good running backs," Fox said. "We have a very strong football team. Plus we're going to surprise them with some trick plays." 
Pangborn vs. Farley 
The Pangborn Phoxes and Farley's Finest will open their respective lnterhall football sea­sons this Sunday at 3 p.m. on 

-
West Quad in a game that should prove to feature two of this year's top teams. 
After losing last year's champi­onship game in the stadium, Pangborn is highly motivated to return. 
"Our goal last year was to get to the stadium, but our goal this year is to get to the stadium and win," senior captain Katie Riemorsma said. 
Riemorsma, a starting safety and wide receiver, is one of a number of athletic Phoxes who will be starting on both sides of the ball. Offensively, Pangborn will present a balanced attack and will rely on its athleticism as well as its experience. 
Defensively, the squad did lose several important players-but Riemorsma isn't worried. 
"We did lose some of our defen­sive starters, but we don't expect to lose a step," she said. 
For Farley, coming off a .500 season in which it barely missed the postseason, the goals are clear. 
"Our goal this year is to make it to the playoff.'i, and then go from there," junior captain and running back Kim Crehan said. 
Despite a new coaching staff, the Finest will have a lot of the same plays and strategies as last year, especially on offense where they return all but one starter. 
On the defensive end, Farley will be missing some defensive standouts from last year's squad who are currently studying abroad, but Crehan said she still expects to see a very strong defen­sive effort from this upperclass­man-heavy team. 
"We have great leadership and team chemistry," she said. "We know we have a tough first game, but we feel confident." 
Welsh Family vs. Walsh 
In a game that features two of last year's playoff teams, Welsh Family and Walsh will kick off their Interhall seasons this strong receiving core, which fea­Sunday at 1 p.m. on the West tures several girls who missed Quad. their junior seasons studying 

After a solid regular season abroad. earned them a bid to the playoffs The Wild Women. on the other last year, the Whirlwinds ended hand, will look to some of their their sea..'ion on a sour note with a younger players -most of their first round playoff defeat. squad is made up of sophomores 
Having put that behind them, and juniors -and a particularly the team has high expectations for strong freshman class. Offensively, this year -even thoughts of mak­quarterback Mary Sullivan and ing a run ali the way to the cham­receiver ('jgi Low return and pres­pionship game. ent a good matehup fbr the Welsh 
The Wild Women are entertain­Family defense. ing similar thoughts, however, looking to rekindle the magic that Howard vs. Lewis helped them win the champi­Howard and Le\\'is both hope to onship two years ago. start ofr the season on the right 
The Whirlwinds, led by dedicat­foot with a first game victory at ed and experienced coaches, have they square off on West Quad at 4 been known in prior years for a p.m. Sunday. stingy and intense defense and Lewis wilJ attempt to continue will look to that defense to uphold its exeellent play from last year their reputation over the coursn of when it entered the playoffs as a the season. three-seed, while Boward hopes 
On offense, they are led by a to rebound from a disappointing 
SENIOR SCIENTIST Provides support for Science Group external and/or 1nternal projects or· progran1s, interprets 
custorrter  requlrernents,  conceptualizes  and  
develops  radiation  detection  rneasun;:Jrnent  
syst:erns  and  design  specifications.  Re­ 
searches,  revievvs  and  recomn1ends  state  of  

the art technology for systEH1'1S product deve!­oprnent. Contributes to and participates in the developrnent of Request for Proposals, project design reviews, presentations, conferences and pr·epares required docurnentation. The candidate will participate in product conceptual design, product perforrnance evaluations and evaluations of potential useful technolo~)ies. Con1puter hardware and softvvare operating systerns including Microsoft Windows XP, and/ ot· UNIX using C++. Laborato1y equiprnent such as radiation detectors, gan'1rna spectros­copy systeJns, neutron detectors, NIM and other electronics. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS: Ph.D. in Nuclear Science, Nuclear Engineering, Physics or related physical science with an en1phasis on applied research airned at radiation rneasuring/ rnonitoring systerns. 1 0+ years experience in a position performing research, and designing at least at the conceptual stage, radiation rneas­uring/rnonitoring systems. 5 years experience working with diverse and cross-functional groups, including scientists, engineers, rnan­agement, marketing and other technical staff. Candidates rnust be a US citizen. USA and/or international travel ( 10 -15o/o per yr.) Applicants should send a cover letter and resutne to 
nucsafejobs@nucsafe. corn. 
For rnore infornl<:~tion, please visit www.nucsafe.co1n. 
Af1Tnnativo Action I Equal Opportunity Ernployer· 

2005 season where it missed the continue their winning ways this playoff.'i. season. The Babes hope to 
reverse their fortunes from last BreerH'hillips vs. Pasquerilla season and perhaps even make a West run at the championship. 
Pasquerilla West will begin its title defense Sunday at 5 p.m. on Contact Vince Keneally at West Quad against Breen-Phillips. vkeneall@nd.edu and Rob Gallic 
The Purple Weasels want to at rgallic@nd.edu 
NOW OPEN ~a~tJJZelo ~ 
of Macri\ formerly Macri's Deli. 
574.280.4824 
()/l~f 1-' r4' I· ~), 
.I. 

~__ /../tttrtenae ~_/TaltaH (:_JtttdtHe 
lunch: Mon-Fri llom-3pm dinner: Mon-Sot 5pm--10pm 

SHOW YOUR 
SCHOOL SPIRIT WITH PRIDE! 
Decorate your CAR with reusable, removable Green Shamrock magnets and let everyone know

$9.50/pack of 6 
(plus S&H) that you supportthe Type Notre Dame tn the comments when 
FIGHTING IRISH 

you order and we will wave the S&H tee 
www.stickems.biz 
. . 

Friday, September 15, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
-

Defending champs Zahm open against Knott 
Sarin captain talks tough about game with Carroll; Siegfried begins with St. Ed's; Knights face ~Roos 
By ANDREW KOVACH, 
KATE DONLIN and 
JOHN TIERNEY 
Sports Writers 
The reigning Interhall champi­ons begin their title defense Sunday against the Knott Juggerknott<> at 3 p.m. 
Zahm beat Keenan in the teams' last regular-season game in 2005 in a game closer than their final records would indicate. 
Keenan, which fmished 0-5, lost a hard-fought battle to the unde­feated soon-to-be champions, 8-0. 
"It was probably our toughest game of the season," Zahm cap­tain Sean Wieland said. 
For Keenan, the early-season rematch means the chance at revenge. 
"We're real. excited about the game," Keenan captain Matt Crosson said. "We felt like we played our best football against Zahm. Hopefully we'll have a good shot to knock them ofl." 
To do that, the Knights will have to slow down Zahm's explosive running backs and receivers. The Rabid Bats feature fullback Cameron Muhlenkamp and tail­backs Corey Brisee and Otheo Ossei-Anto. 
Wieland, who returns for his third year as Zahm 's starting quarterback, said the offense should be strong and ready to go. 
To counteract the returning Rabid Bat skill players, Crosson said Carroll has a comprehensive defensive strategy. 
"We know they have great skill players and we know they have a lot of speed," he said. "We're going to try and keep everything in the middle ofthe field. 
Part of that strategy will be 

Carroll's 4-4 defensive alignment. With four linebackers -two on the out<>ide to collapse on running plays -Carroll hopes to keep Zahm's feared running game in check. 
When asked if he considered growing the grass on Riehle Field extra long to neutralize Zahm 's speed, Crosson had a straightfor­ward response. 
"If we were in control of that, we would like to," he said. 
Sorin vs. Carroll 

Sorin is confident heading into its game against Carroll Sunday. Actually, make that very confi­dent. 
"I feel like we could skip a game and put our friends from Saint Mary's out there and they'd still win," Otters captain Pete Lavorini said. "We have a new quarter­back, a new running back, new wide receivers and a new offen­sive line." 
Lavorini said Sorin's "true excellence" didn't reveal its full potential last year in the team's second-round playoff loss to Keenan. Now, he said, that will change. 
"It's just a whole new mentality -that is to just beat the crap out of anyone possible," Lavorini said. "We're basically going to score as many points as possible in the short time we have." 
Meanwhile, Carroll is hoping for a balancing act Sunday. 
Vermin captain Mike Versagli said the team will look to exploit Sorin early to implement an even attack the rest of the way. 
"We're going to balance the game, try to balance it out," he said. 
Versagli said the team's experi­ence offense would be able to handle the playbook well. 
"I feel that we're used to [the offense]," he said. "We're not a team where a lot of our players are in for more than just one year. ... lButl we're just looking to see how we play in our first game." 
They will need to play well against a Sorin team that shut out a dangerous Fisher squad in the frrst round of the playoffs in 2005. 
And Lavorini was confident that the 2006 version of the Otters is far superior to the team that showed up a year ago. 
"I think this is the best team we've ever had," he said. "Really, I don't think there's any way we'll lose a game." 
Siegfried vs. St. Ed's 
Siegfried and St. Ed's, two dorms with playoff aspirations, will kick off their respective 2006 Interhall Football campaigns at Riehle Field tllis Sunday at 3 p.m. 
Led by junior captain Ge Wang, the Stedsmen will look to improve after a 0-4 season in 2005 while the Ramblers, 3-1 in the regular season last year, seek a return to the postseason. 
Starting at fullback and middle linebacker for St. Eds, Wang said his team will be ready to go this time around. 
"We have the talent this year, and anything short of [the play­off."] would be a disappointment," he said. 
Wang said the Stedsmen will run a balanced offensive attack, supplementing their passing game equally with their running game to move the ball do\\-nfield. 
Just like St. Eds, Siegfried has set very high goals for themselves this season. Tri-captains junior Tom Martin and seniors Matt Wopperer and Pat Manning came close to their goal of a champi­onship last year but ultimately fell short, losing to Morrissey Manor in the frrst round of the postsea­son. 
"Our obvious goal is the stadi­um this year, to win the whole thing. We're just going to take it one game at a time," said Martin, who starts at offensive guard and defensive end. 
Much like Wang, Martin said the Ramblers' offense is balanced. 
"We lost four· starters from our offensive line last year but we have good freshmen and new sophomores, and we're comfort­able throwing and running," he said. 
But Martin knows that Sunday's game will be a big one. 
"We have lots of new players," he said. "It's real big to see how everyone works together and comes together this Sunday." 
Siegfried has extra motivation this season, however. If the Ramblers take home the champi­onship, assistant rector Mike Hoefling has pledged to wear a dress and high heels to all of his classes for a full week following the championsllip game. 
Keenanvs.Keough 
The Keenan Knights will take on the Keough Kangaroos at 1 
p.m. Sunday at the Riehle Fields. 
The Knights are led by junior captain Matt Gibson, who said his team's past several weeks of prac­tice have been encouraging. 
Adding to Gibson's leadership is senior Alex Staffieri, the team's starting running back. He will take the field Sunday with a strong offensive line, which is returning four players from last year's team. Gibson said Keenan's success will depend on a complete 
Defensively, Dillon will be anchored by five returning starters including senior corner­back Francis Leyhane, senior defensive tackle Tom "Schooly" Bradley, junior linebacker Paul Carlson, junior defensive end Dan Avants and sophomore safety Figueredo. 

Dillon will start a relatively inexperienced lineup, with only nine total returning starters and just four on offense. Figueredo said the incoming freshmen replacing the lost upperclassmen are talented and eager to start playing. 
Since narrowing its squad to the maximum 24 players from the 45 who originally tried out, Dillon has had five practices in full pads. The first week, the team concen­trated mostly on physical condi­tioning and getting players into football shape. The following week, the practices' focus switched to the mental aspect of the game and installing the new playbook on both offense and defense. 
O'Neill will also come to this season-opening matchup with the desire to win a championship off of a 2-3 season. Conley described his team as one whose success will be dictated by all 24 players on the roster. The team has no star players, he said, and "won't win unless everyone is on their game that day." 
O'Neill looks to be equally bal­anced on both sides of the ball this season and will rely on team speed on both offense and defense. The squad plans to be aggressive on offense, but is unsure if it will develop as a run­ning-dominated or passing-domi­nated team. 

UN IVERSITV OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, lRELAND 
Fall 2007, SPRING 2008, A Y 2007-8, SUMMER2007 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Tuesday, September 19, 2006 5:30pm 102 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2006 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2007-8 MARCH I, 2007 FOR SUMMER 2007 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
team effort in order to defeat the 
talented Keough team. 
Kangaroos captain Steve Humphrey said he realizes this Sunday's game will be a tough battte, but he is confident his team will be able to finish on top. 
Despite losing sophomore run­ning back Mike Anello to the Irish varsity team, Keough has several returning contributors, including Tom Chesnick, Chaz Arnold, Rob Hallman and Tom O'Donnell. 
Keough's defense is shaping up well, but Humphrey is a little less confident about the team's offense because of practice schedule con­flicts by several starters. Still, he's excited to get his fourth season for the Kangaroos underway. 
"This is the most talented team we've had," he said. 
Dillon vs. O'Neill 
Hopes are high for both the Dillon and O'Neill football teams as they face off to start the new season Sunday at 3 p.m. on the Riehle Field. Both teams enter the new campaign after fmishing with a 2-3 record and a first-round playoff loss last fall. 
"This year's, like every other year's, goal is to win it all," Angry Mob captain Pat Conley said. 
Dillon sees itself as a defensively oriented team whose strength offensively lies in the running game. Th.e offense will be led by running back Alex DuffY and wide receiver Chad Krause. Last sea­son, Duffy, then a rookie to inter­hall football, developed into the team's key player on offense. Justin Figueredo, the team's co­captain alongside Duffy, said the running game will benefit from an offensive line that adds speed, but returns only one starter. 
Stanford vs. Alumni 
A major showdown is set this Sunday at 2 p.m. between two of the teams in the Gold League of the men's Interhall Football League. 
Alumni hopes to take down Stanford after a disappointing loss last year. Both teams expected an all-out battle, and that's what it came down to in the Griffms' 14-6 victory over the Dawgs. StanfQrd came out strong right from the start with a 40-yard touchdown pass on the first play of the game, and despite a valiant fight late in the game, Alumni was unable to stop Stanford's impressive offense. 
This year, Alumni captain 
··~

Richard Damey hopes the team's practice and talented roster will pay off. The Alumni defense will have its hands full again this year with the Stanford team, who has always been a dominant offensive force. 
Stanford captain senior Brandon McLeod will lead the Griffins. Both teams have their eyes set on the playoffs after a disappointing end to last season. Last year Alumni failed to make the playoffs despite an exciting, hard-fought win over rival Dillon in it'i final game. 
The Dawgs finished their sea­son with a final record of 1-2-1 and hope to build on that this year. 
Stanford lost their fmal game of the year, an 8-6 nail-biter to Morrissey that ended their hopes of a playoff" berth. 
Contact Andrew Kovach at akovach@nd,edu, Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu, and John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 15, 2006 
-
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Brown returns home for tourney 
NO looks to bounce back in Tempe at three game tournament 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wri[er 
Debbie Brown will travel to Tempe, Ariz., this weekend not only to the Sun Devil Invitational but also back to where she began her head coaching career. 
The Notre Dame coach land­ed her first head coach job at Arizona State in 1983 -she was the team's assistant coach from 1980-82 -after being a co-captain for the U.S. National Team. She led the Sun Devils until 1988 when she left to become an assis­tant coach for the U.S. team, eventually joining the Irish in 1992. 
Inr1 9&6, Brown coached the Sun Devils to a 27-7 record and was named Pacific-10 Conference Coach of the Year. 
But Tempe will not be as welcoming a place this time around for Brown when Notre Dame enters the desert for a three-game tournament. The Irish (4-4) will open Friday against Butler, play Saturday against Duke and conclude with a Sunday matinee against the Sun Devils. This will be the fifth time overall and the second consecutive year that the Irish have faced Arizona State. 

Brown and the team were unavailable for comment Thursday because they were traveling. 
The two teams met in the Shamrock Invitational Sept. 4, 2005 and played a close­Fought Five-game match. The Irish prevailed in the fifth game, taking the match 30­20, 28-30, 21-30, 30-23, 15­10. 
Notre Dame is looking to rebound after a two-loss weekend in the three-match University of Northern Iowa Invitational, where the Irish earned a 3-1 win against Alabama. 
Arizona State (6-2) lost to No. 14 Purdue and No. 15 Ohio State and is undefeated in three horne matches this season. The team is led by outside hitter Margo Giordano -the sophomore has 107 kills on the season for an average of 3.96 kills per game. 
Butler (5-5) has a strong start to open the season -the Bulldogs won Five of their first six games. But the team has struggled as of late, losing four straight matches, includ­ing one to Notre Dame's Big East rival DePaul. 
The Irish and Bulldogs were formerly adversaries in the North Star Conference prior to Notre Dame's inception into the Big East, Butler now plays in the Horizon League. The teams last met in 1994 -an Irish win -and Notre Dame holds a 13-6 all-time advan­tage. 
The Blue Devils have par­layed a strong finish in the 2005 season -a NCAA Tournament berth and sec­ond-round loss to No. 1 Nebraska -into a 5-1 record to open this season. 
Duke's only loss was a 3-0 loss Sept. 2 to No. 2 Penn State. The Blue Devils have defeated Marquette and West Virginia by 3-1 and 3-0 mar­gins respectively, both 2006 Irish opponents and confer­ence rivals. 
Junior Carrie DeMange is averaging 4.33 kills per game for the Blue D'evils with 78 kills total. The Irish have won the last four meetings between the two teams and hold a 5-1 edge all-time. 
The Irish fell out of the newest American Volleyball Coaches Association top-25 poll -they were ranked No. 23 last week. The team is now receiving 10 votes, while Duke is one spot ahead with 13 votes. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

MEN'S GOLF 

Irish shoot for top five in Minnesota 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Last season, after starting slowly in the Gopher Invitational in Wayzata, Minn., the Irish stormed back to finish fifth in the tournament. This year, the Irish will look for a similar -or better -result. 
"To Finish in the top Five or six would be nice," head coach Jim Kubinski said. "It would give us some good wins and move us up a bit in the rank­ings." 
The Irish will have to come out firing if they hope to finish high in a 12-team field that includes host No. 15 Minnesota and strong competition in Michigan State, Stanford, Indiana, Ohio State, SMU and Northwestern tf~ams. Saturday's opening round at the Spring Ilill Golf Club in Wayzata will mark Notre Dame's first competitive play of the season, so the Irish are not certain what to anticipate. 
"We aren't that experienced [as a teaml so we can't have really high expectations," sen­ior co-captain Cole lsban said. "At the sanie time, we realize that we're a good team." 
Kubinski echoed these senti­ments. 
"I know we're going to be competitive," he said. "It's just hard to tell at what level our play will be." 
The Irish will quickly find out where they stand relative to their opponents, which include Finland's national team. Two of the tournament's three rounds are to be held on Saturday, so there is a premium on getting a strong start. 
"Last year, we had a bad First round then played really well to get back into the pack," Kubinski said. "Hopefully, we can start off ISaturdayJ with the same kind of momentum we finished with last year." 
The Irish are also hoping to use this tournament as a step­ping stone for improvement. 
"I definitely feel like we're going to keep getting better as the year goes on," Kubinski said. "Some of the guys have been playing a lot better late­1y. " 
Freshman Doug Fortner played well enough over the past several weeks to earn a spot in Notre Dame's top-Five, allowing him to travel with the team to Minnesota. He and Isban will be joined by senior Adam Gifford, junior Mike King and sophomore Josh Sandman in representing the Irish this weeklmd. 
As Notre Dame's top golfer, lsban said he is hoping to win this event, but he would be happy with a top-1 0 result. 
"You can never complain about finishing in the top-10," the senior said. "A bunch of top-1 0 [scores] can make you an All-American." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 


......__.,..,.._.~~~---------­
llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--------·~·.....------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawou~ Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel. Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
CLASSIC ROCK PARODIES 
The Elec~ric Amish 
as heard on rhe "Boh & Torn" sfunv. 
.../ Saturday, September 16 
Sho""time 7:0() P~ 
Tickets $14. $16. $18 

-ALSC> APPEARING-Voted ..RI'st Blues Band'" by 1-+natz,up readers for 6 years in a row! 
11Gp ..,r A esh REVIE'-V 
Blues -Rock -Originals 

FEATURING: 
E:I_J~C> I'J.h.R J.~ 
rr 
I,ERFOR\11"\(~ -\RTS CE"'\TER 

410 S. MAIN ST~ ELKHART. IN 
574-293-4469 • 800-294-8223 • www.elcotheatre.com 


Friday, September 15, 2006 

The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

RO(:KNE EXIIIBIT AND YOU~I~I~ 
HEAR ABOUT IT. 
Now on display at the Northern Indiana Center for History is the most extensive exhibit ever developed on Knute Rockne. See 3,500 square feet ofNotre Dame football! 
Rockne's sweatshirt, whistle and clipboard ... 1924 Notre Dame National Chan1pions banner ... 1888 Notre Dame football program -the oldest ND football artifact known to exist ... George Gipp-signed photograph ... Rockne's 1924 coaching contract ... football 
frotn 1924 Notre Dame vs. Nebraska game ... 1932 Rockne automobile. These are just a few ofthe artifacts never before shown publicly. 
Plus, an audio tour narrated by Tony Roberts. 

ROCKNE 
CROSSING THE LAST 
CHALK LINE 

Northern Indiana Center for History 808 West \X'ashington. South Bend 
(574) 235-9664 
www.centerforhistory.corn 
MAJOR EXHIBIT SPONSORS 

1st Source Bank, Baker & Daniels LLP, Interlogic Outsourcing, Inc./ Najeeb and Nancy Khan, Rex and Alice A. Martin Foundation, Tina and Andy Nickle, St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, South Bend Tribune, WSBT Radio Group 
Road Trip 
continued from page 28 
improve our play. There are things we need to do different­]y. " 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said he's happy allow­ing just .33 goals per game, but said the Irish won't be .able to sustain that statistic unless they communicate better on defense. 
"We've been good in terms of the end result-we've kept the ball out of the net," Waldrum said. "If, at the end of the year, the stats still look good I'll be fine with it, but we're giving the ball away out of the back too often. Sometime, we might turn the ball over and some team might punish us for it." 
One player who might help Notre Dame improve defensive communication is sophomore defender Carrie Dew, who, along with fellow sophomore midfielder Brittany Bock, will return to full-time action this weekend after missing the first few weeks of the season to compete in the U-20 World Championships in Russia. 
"[Dew's) got kind of a calming effect," Waldrum said. "She's very calm and composed on the ball and very skillful." 
Bock and Dew arrived on campus Sept. 5, but Waldrum eased them back into the lineup so they could catch up academ­ically. 
The sophomores got signifi­cant minutes off the bench last weekend against TCU and SMU, but neither started either game. Bock scored her first goal of the 
season  against the  Horned  
Frogs.  
"Over  the  weekend  they  

weren't supposed to play that much, but we needed them to come in and help us out," soph­omore forward Kerri Hanks said. 
Hanks scored two goals against the Mustangs, pushing her season total to five and passing junior Amanda Cinalli, who has scored four, for the team lead. The sophomore said teamwork is the reason the Irish have hit the back of the net an average of 3.5 times per game this season. 

"It's not just one of us individ­ually-it's all of us combined," she said. 
Notes: 
+Freshman Michele Weissenhofer leads the NCAA in assists this season, picking up her seventh and eighth of the season against the Horned Frogs Saturday, employing both skill on crosses and her patent­ed flip throw-in technique to set up Irish goal scorers. 
"The flip throw-ins work because not every team does them," said Hanks, who scored a goal Aug. 27 against Ole Miss on one of Weissenhofer's throws. 
+DePaul's home field features brand-new FieldTurf, so the Irish practiced inside the Loftus Center Wednesday to prepare for the artificial surface. 
''The ball's got a little bit truer bounce to it and the pass­es are a little faster," Waldrum said. "The turf gives an advan­tage to the team that plays on it a lot." 
The field does not, however, feature flood lights, meaning kickoff on Friday will be at 4 p.m. 
The Blue Demons are 2-1 at home this season. 
+Notre Dame will return to campus after Friday afternoon's game, then head out on the road again Sunday to face the Wolverines in a 1 p.m. game in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

I!S)Iox~l ~xox~ !S)Ioi~ [~xox~l !S)Xoi~ ~xox~ 
TACO BELL® Geometry Test 
Draw a line from each shape to the matching TACO BELL® item! 
A./\­
1. Spicy ChickenBurrito 
( )
B. 
2. Nacho Chip 
-

c. 
3. Cruncbwrap Supreme~ D. 0 4. Mexican Pizza 

E. 
) _ 5. Crunchy orSoft Taco


_..:::;....__ 

r----------------­
THINK tr"' :OneFllliE Taco: 
-~ 
OUTSIDE --·c~o
TH£ BUN •~ 
® BEL• ._. ® 
©2006 TACO BEU CORP. 4804-6 
1 (Seasoned beef only. Crunchy orSoft) : :Q~!~~!!~~~ :
I ~ Sovth Beild TACO BELle locations. Off!"' exdua.s Chkk~ Steal 
~ and SIIJifeme versions. Please present this toupon when~-II TACO limit: One tauprm per person per mit.llot good with Oll'f other offer. Tax I 1 extra. Void if (opied, transferred, ~aKI or where ~ohibnd. Cash 
BELL redemption value 1/20th [ent. © TACO BEU COR. 4804-6 I
L----------------­
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------~--­
page 26 
Streak 
continued from page 28 
Justin McGeeney, who have five goals and three goals this season, respectively. 
The Cardinals will be led by midfielder David Guzman, who has tallied four goals and two assists in five games played for Louisville this season. Guzman scored Louisville's lone goal when the two teams met last year, a 2-1 Notre Dame victory. 
Throughout the week, the Irish have not tailored their approach to either of their specific opponents. 
"We focus on our system, [and] we practice on it," Clark said. "We don't change our system from week to week. It's not rock­et science -soccer -it's 
NCCs 
continued from page 28 
front of some Irish fans would probably help. Those are the two main advan­t ages. " 
Head men's coach Joe Piane decided to have his team run the race in a pack again this week, a strategy that led the Irish to a win last week in the Crusader Invitationa). 
"I want to go out there and 

The Observer + SPORTS 
pretty simple stuff. It's get­start dissecting and looking ting the execution right into Cincinnati," Clark and working." said. 
Cincinnati enters the Even when the Irish do weekend with only one goal begin preparing for in its last five games, and Cincinnati, Clark said too 
it broke a four-game scoreless 

'"It ·s not rocket science 
streak 

Sunday in -soccer-it's pretty a 2-1 to simple stuff. It's gettng 
Pittsburgh. 

the execution right and
Playing at 

working.,,
Cincinnati will repre­sent a new 

Bobby Clark 
challenge 

Irish head coach
for the Irish, as much oppo­nent-specific training can serve as a dis­traction. 
"You can look at a game tape, so that's all you need," he said. "We don't over worry about the opposi­tion. We 

the Bearcats will host them respect the opposition, but on an artificial turf field. at the end of the day we 
Notre Dame, however, is are much more concerned totally focused on its match with what we do in the with Louisville until it con­game." cludes Friday night. 
"We'll have all Friday Contact Eric Retter at night and all Saturday to eretter@nd.edu 
Clear Coat
0FF• 
• Premium Soft Cloth Wash
OUR
! • Polish-n-Sealer

:B E sT 

Wax Applied 1 • 2-Step Underbody 
t ! Protectant i 
52694 State Road 933 ~ South Bend, Indiana 46637 t 
~
:WASH •Spot-Free

1 Rinse Offer good at the South Bend location only l 
·--------------------------------~ 
Wanted: Old paintings by Indiana artists and Notre Dame artists. 
run with the big pack of guys we're going to have out there. I don't know if we're going to have a standout run­ner," Hagerman said. "But we're definitely [going to] have a pack of five to nine team members running the whole race together ... and try to get as many Irish jer­seys across the finish line as close to the front as we can." 
Joining Hagerman in that pack will be experienced runners like juniors Jake Watson and Mike Popejoy as well as freshmen like Matt, 
Tieuli, who already ran with the team in Valparaiso last weekend. Not running this week will be the team's over­all top two runners, Kurt Benninger and Patrick Smyth, who are being saved for tougher races down the stretch. 
The team's goal for this event is to win the overall race, a feat Notre Dame could not accomplish last season when Duquesne upset the Irish by a single point. 
"So our goal for the main part is to win tomorrow, •· 
Friday, September 15, 2006 
Belles 
continued from page 28 

Senior captain Katie White said the Belles will continue to focus on pacing and teamwork in both races this week. 
"For next week, we want to get the top pack tighter," she said. "Our one to five runners were really spaced out. We all finished about 1 0 to 12 seconds behind the [Saint Mary's] run­ner in front of us. I think Coach Bauters would really like to see us maintiain contact during the race use our teammate to attack runners and as motivation." 
The closest top finishers at last week's Aquinas Invitational for the Belles were Kelly Biedron and Katie White, with times of 21:09 and 21:17, respectively, that earned then the fourth and fifth best times for the team. Megan Gray was 
Hagerman said. "We've had a pretty rich tradition of win­ning this championship. Coach [and] the whole team [were] real upset about los­ing the National Catholic Championship because we should win this thing every year. So we're going to go after it and dominate the field. 
"We want to show everyone at the meet what we've got and go out there and really make a statement that's going to carry us through the rest of the season." 
the top BelJes finisher, placing 20th overall with a time of 20:03, followed by Sara Otto with 20:32 and Megan McClowry, who clocked in at 20:44. 
Bauters said she wants to see improvement this weekend against the tough competition. 
''I'm hoping for improvements at Notre Dame and hopefully for the first years [in Terre HauteJ. more experimenting with racing strategy, so they become more comfortable and confident," Bauters said. 
After this weekend, the Belles will head to the MIAA Cross Country Jamboree Sept. 23. 
Albion College was originally slated to play host to the meet, but due to recent heavy rains in the area, the team will now travel to Hope College in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Becki Domer at rdorner1@nd.edu 
The women's squad, which is coming off a second place finish last weekend at the Valparaiso Invitational, will be led by junior Sunni Olding. Olding, who won the event last year, is looking to become the second multiple­time champion. 
Notre Dame's Joanna Deeter, who won four in a row from 1996-99, is the only runner to achieve that feat so far. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

.. 
9th Annual South Bend Lions Club Bicycle Ride 
September 17th @ Bendix Woods 
Ht·gi"'lt·atiun 7 a.tn. -12 noon 
Adulll'l $2o•<:hild•·t•n 6-1 :J $() 

Tour Northern l11diana dr ChaUenge Your \ ° Riding Ability lX"h!J The Rolling Terrain. ,_ ..,_, 0 
Pancake Breakfast Starts @ 7:00a.m. (FREE to Ride Participants) 
~ 11mr R:dc Provi&> Eycgk-.sm f'o~· ~ ~ Nerdy Childrm In St. Joupb Counry. 
For horlhN· int<•nuation or tlo.,·nloa<lin~ "l'l•lic.·ntiuu JZO to w"·lt-.MJutblH~ntUittu~~K·I•a.f,.org ur ("all (571127:~ 1125 ."'~••q •t-m· .... ,.,.,,.,., ..-ith thioo a<l $2 oil"* 

The Observer. 



Friday, September 15, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE
JOCULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
'fOU ~.lCM/ I ' :TACL~NNE, \T5 ~EAu.'{ C:tE'fT\ tJ (:t 
cf?..A"l...~ 'Wtl\1 T~lS F<XYfBALL "T\ c..\::.ET (:1\~\... 1>\f -n-tE. \NI...t>o\IJ 'DEMP-Nt>. Net.\ lO '/OU "t>lt> ~!$..EAT:>'/. WE'~E--sue.:.\ 
U.•L \Nl:1 "T'\M.E:.. 
CROSSWORD 
WILL SHORTZ 
ACROSS 28 Excavation site 49 Great­grandfather of 

1 Hardly poker­30 Course in Davidfaced 
African history 50 Don't stop 

6 Hamper 31 Go as far down 
contents 51 Stop
as 15 Nancy's friend, 52 From then on 
32 Dialog box in the comics 53 In the main?

fill-ins16 It may be 54 Many amoderated 36 One may be conservativehereditary17 Hard to change 

55 Treasury 18 O.M.B. director 
37 Give the benefit under Carter 
of the doubt DOWN

19 Word with heat 38 Upwardly 1 Drought 
or meat mobile people 2 Fizzled out
20 Pays attention 
41 Tom Lehrer's 21 i 6-team grp. anti-censorship 3 Tony winner for song "Does a Tiger
22 _-wip 
Wear a 
42 Yacht heading:

23 Back cover Necktie?" 
Abbr.

24 Hirer of the 4 Argued stunt man in 43 Early 80's TV 
5 It goes on and"The Stunt Man" police comedy on 

25 Dollar 44 Is touching 6 Help in alternative 
constructing45 Separator of 

26 Skiing brothers sites
family names

of the 1984 7 They're made 26 Reason for a 34 Screeners' 41 Contact point? Olympics 46 Hot after a fight coup d'etat targets 
44 Vanguard a A Manhattan 27 Many Pribilof 
35 Make light of 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 47 Biblical verb 
restaurant is Islanders 
38 Tool with a
named for him 48 "Distant
29 Ones making spiral Correspondents"9 Angels' wishes sports writerpredictions 39 Swept off one's 
1o__ parmigiana 30 Connecticut feet 49 Big loss
11 They're 

resident
obviously 40 Completely 51 Campaign shocked 33 Frustrated cry filled, say statement listing 
12 Progressing sequentially For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
13 Divertissement Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 14 Metric volume crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

...,.+,..,.p.,,..,...f-.,.-1 units 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 20 Hebrew tribe past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
-=+-=+=+:::+,,.! 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
-=+-:+:+.==-+-=~ 22 Q-Tip, for 

solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
example 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame. IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address _______________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ARCTT 
j

I I [ I I 
@2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
JOMAR 
j 

I I ( I I 

MUBHEL 
WHE:N THE: 1.-UM­BE:RJAC.KS FORME:D A JAZZ GROUP,

I [ J 
THf=Y E:NDE:O UP WITH A­
I ROBUGE j
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

I [I I I 
Print~ here: ( I I J"(I I J" .. 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: NEWLY MOTIF PUNDIT EMBARK Yesterday's 
Answer: The doctor treated the cover girl because she was -A "MODEL" PATIENT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Prince Harry Windsor, 21; Tommy Lee .Iones, 59; Oliver Stone, 59; Amy Davidson, 26 
Happy Birthday: You'll be tom between two plans this year. Don't allow yourself to be a martyr. No one should expect you to give up an opportunity to fulfill your life dream. Question anyone who is selfish enough to stand in your way. Your numbers are 7, 20, 21, 22, 38, 41 ­
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You are headed upward and are definitely more in control of your life. Support will be available. A business partnership will allow you greater creative freedom. H** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You'll have conflict over what you should be doing vs. what you want to do. If you organize well, you can take care of both needs. Put career objectives first so you can enjoy more pleasurable events without worry. * * GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Popularity won't be an issue today. An opportunity may be too good to pass up even if it does infringe on time spent with someone who depends on you. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't let someone handle an investment you should be taking care of yourself. Contracts, agreements, settlements, and collecting old debts can be done successfully today. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The smallest personal concern will set you otTtoday. Try not to get involved in a disruptive discussion. Spend time nurturing what means most to you. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A chance to do something different will result in some fabulous ideas regarding future prospects. A chance to connect with others with similar interests will guide you to new professional levels. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything is going your way, so don't be lazy. Take on more and you will impress someone who has a plan you want to be a part of. Love is in a high cycle. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tom between the emotional and the practical, you aren't likely to move in either direction fast. Look at your options and choose the route that will lead to publishing, travel, art or music. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Today is all about working alongside others. It's about cooperation, longevity and fonning alliances that will stand the test of time. A team player is what is required.**** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Focus on the here and now. It's what you do today that counts. You have passion and drive, so strive to raise your profile and increase your popularity. Business trips will pay off *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Question your motives and those of anyone with whom you are intimately involved. Let go of the past and focus on the future. A change in lifestyle will be necessary if you want to head in a new direction. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Problems with colleagues or authority figures will arise if you confide in them. Keep your thoughts to yourself for now. Changes to your home or personal life may be necessary.*** ­
Birthday Baby: You are talented and able to get what you want. An unusual outlook and a unique way of presenting yourself and your ideas will always set you apart from the crowd . 
Eugenia's Web sites: avtroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

Friday, September 15, 2006 page 28 
ND/SMC CRoss CouNTRY 
Irish to host National Catholic meet at Burke Memorial Course 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will feel right at home this weekend. 
Hosting the National Catholic Championships, the Irish will compete on the familiar grounds of the team's practices -the Burke Memorial Golf Course. 
This year's race, which will begin at 4:15 p.m., will include 27 teams from across the country, from schools representing every NCAA division and the NAIA. 
The Irish have the clear advantage going into the race, since they've been able to practice on the course all week. 
"We definitely know the course, we know the footing, know how to run the course and make the times a little better," freshman Brock Hagerman said. "Running in 
see NCCS/page 26 

Home runners 

Irish runners, from left, sophomore Mark Moore, sophomore Patrick Smyth, junior James Millar and junior Brett Adams close in on a Duquesne runner In last year's National Catholic Championships. 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Squad looks to stay perfect 
Top-ranked, 6-0 ND has two non-conference contests this weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Non-conference play has treated Notre Dame welL 
The No. 1 Irish are 6-0 this season with games Friday and Saturday at DePaul and 

~ 
I Michigan before they begin I their Big East slate next week­
~ 
t end. 
~ 
I . Top-ranked Notre Dame has dominated its competition so far. outscoring its first six oppo­nents 21-2 and posting four shutouts. Although the Irish back wall has been statistically good, sen­ior captain Kim Lorenzen said there is still work to be done. 
"Part of [not allowing goals] is luck, and part of it is excellent goalkeeping," Lorenzen said. "Our defense as a team and our back line, we're looking to 
see ROAD TRIP/page 25 


Belles split squad, send half to NCCs, half to Terre Haute 
By BECKI DORNER Sports Writer 
The long hours and long runs will pay off for the Belles this week. 
The team will split in half to compete in two meets today­the National Catholic Championships at Notre Dame and the Indiana Intercollegiate Championships in Terre Ilaute. 
While the National Catholics -a yearly event on the Saint Mary's schedule -will feature teams from the Catholic schools across the country, the Indiana Intercollegiates, new to the Belles' slate, feature strong regional competition like Indiana, Michigan, Butler and Purdue 
"(The Indiana Intercolle­giates] should be a great opportunity to race against some wonderful Indiana com­petition," Saint Mary's coach Jackie Bauters said. 
see BELLES/page26 
MEN's SoccER 

Conference contests 
provide opportunity 
Irish have struggled in Friday night games so far this season 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
More than one. 

That's how many consecu­tive wins No. 12/18 Notre Dame is hoping it will have at the end of its two-game weekend road trip. 
The Irish (3-2 -1, 1-1-0 Big East) are looking for their first winning streak of the season this weekend when they face off against the Cardinals (2-3-1, 1-1-0 Big East) in Louisville Friday night before heading north to face Cincinnati (1-4-1, 1­1-0 Big East} Sunday. 
Notre Dame is coming off a 1-1 showing last weekend at AI umni Field, falling to South Florida 2-0 Friday night before topping DePaul 
3-0 Sunday. The Irish have struggled in their Friday night games, going 0-2-1 with no goals, while they are undefeated on Sundays with 12 goals in three games. 
While both opponents have had rough starts, Irish head coach Bobby Clark is not concerned with his team overlooking an opponent. 
"In our schedule, you can't overlook one team," he said. "St. Francis fwho the Irish beat 1-0 in an exhibition game) was 26 seconds away from beating lNo. 31 Virginia, and they're 1-5. If you start reading into results, then you're in trouble." 
The Irish will be led by All-American midfielder Greg Dalby, who scored his first goal of the season in Sunday's win over DePaul. He will share the load with forwards Joseph Lapira and 
see STREAK/ page 26 
en 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
NCAA FOOTBALL

MEN'S GOLF 
INTERHALL 
SMC SOCCER
SMC GOLF
1.1.1 
a: c.) z 
West ViiSinia 45
tm-
Irish coach Debbie 

Notre Dame will look 
Saint Mary's looks for 
Men's and women's 
The Belles travel to 
Marylan 24 
Brown will return to the 

to improve on last 
The Mountaineers

its first win of the sea­
interhall teams begin 
Normal, Ill., for the
::5
C) = scene of her first head 

year's fifth place finish 
blow out the Terrepins

Illinois Wesleyan 
son at the Sal Vaccaro
their quests for the 
coaching job as she 

at the Gopher 
in their first test of the

Invitational this week-
Stadium this weekend. 
Invitational.
a. cs: 
takes her team to the 

Invitational. 
season.

end.
Arizona State Invite. 

page 24 
pages 22,23 
page 18
page 24 
page 21 
page 20
en ~ 
' ' 
I 


I ' '· .· ' I ' 
-------------------------·------~~--~~~------------~--------~--------------------~.-----~----~--~~~--~----------~------~-------­
' ' • 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
ROle reversal sets stage for upset 
A national championship contender. 
A fully loaded arsenal of players. 
A team that's ripe for an upset from a regional rival. 
In what recent his­tory would consider a role rever­sal, this is Notre Dame's 

part to 
play in sto-Associate 
ried and Sports Editor 
emotional­
ly charged 
showdown with Michigan. In 
past years, Notre Dame has 
played the spoiler-2002, 
2004 and 2005. 
In 2002, the Irish validated (at least temporarily) the . "Return to Glory" theme. 
In 2004, students rushed 
the field during one of the 
season's few bright spots. 
In 2005, Charlie Weis' sec­
ond win, a 1 7-10 victory ­
which wasn't as close as the 
scoreboard flashed -showed 
Notre Dame's promise \vith 
Weis at the helm. 
This year, it's different. 
The seniors -including 
Brady Quinn, Ryan Harris, 
Jeff Samardzija, Chinedum 
Ndukwe and Rhema 
McKnight-remember the 
38-0 pasting at Ann Arbor in 
2003. 

They're coming off two emotional and difficult games. In hindsight, Georgia Tech will be one of the best wins of the season. A methodic demo­lition of Penn State last week­end sent the Irish back to No. 2 in the AP poll. 
Michigan, on the other hand, has been focused on this game since January. 
Although Vanderbilt's been known to hand out an upset or two, the balanced Wolverines didn't give it a chance last weekend, handing the Commodores a 41-17 loss. The next week, Central 
· Michigan was an appetizer to the regular season. Now, it's the main course. Michigan needs this win to 
prove that it belongs in the polls with the big boys again. And nothing would be sweeter than knocking off Notre Dame, summertime's media darling, with its cover boy quarterback Quinn and the respected Weis. 
Michigan has played what Notre Dame's defensive cap­tain Tom Zbikowski calls "smash-mouth football." The professional boxer would rec­
• ognize a 1-2 punch of Mike Hart and Kevin Grady as a potential knockout. This is a game where emo­tions run high. Geographic proximity and a history of hatred from past Michigan coaches mean that a lot of pride rides on the outcome. The face of college football 
could be different today had the field -and win every one. Michigan not opposed Notre But can they win this one? Dame's entry into the Big 10 Michigan is the most bal­so long ago. No NBC contract? anced team the Irish have Less national exposure? No faced so far -certainly the storied history that many con­most balanced team they face sider premier among sports? until USC in November. The 
Perhaps the  offensive line  
Big 10 did  is trimmed  
Notre Dame a favor. But the anti­ Michigan needs this win to prove that it  down, although it only returns  
Notre Dame bent of past Michigan leaders has  belongs in the polls with the big boys again. And nothing would be  two starters. Their receivers don't get the  
left a sour taste for decades. This year, the winner of  sweeter than knocking offNotre Dame, summertime·s media darling.  attention that the McKnight­Samardzija duo gener­ates, but  

the game will go home leading college football in all­time win percentage. It will also be a legitimate national title contender. 
Notre Dame faces USC to end the season. Michigan's finale is current No. 1 Ohio State. Those are their true rivals. 
But now that this matchup is annual, it's sure that no love is lost. 
This is Notre Dame's last chance to post a resounding win over a ranked team, assuming Michigan State doesn't jump into the polls in the upcoming week. This isn't a team that plays on tilt. The players are modest given the hype they generate. They want to prove themselves on Steve 
·~n,f

Breaston is dangerous every time he touches the ball 
Hart could be the best run­ning back Notre Dame sees this year, and it's hard to tell if the Irish are ready for him. Add Grady into the mix and Michigan could run the ball every down. 
Milk the clock, keep the offense off the field and tire the defense -that's what Michigan wants to do. 
It's a recipe for a Notre Dame disaster. 
The views experessed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd. edu. 
Friday, September 15, 2006 
game hype 

..In a gam£! like this, one ofthe fun things about it is all the hype, all the tension ... 
Uoyd Carr It'll be nonstop. Wolverines head coach 
..We have a shot at one of the top teams in the nation. That excites 

Shawn Crable 
anbody., 
Wolverines linebacker 


..We've got to win. That's what it comes down to; all you really care about is the win.,
Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
..We have a great respect for Michigan and we're expecting a great effort from them.·· 


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICKETS WANTED BUYING & TRADING ALL SEASONS ALL GAMES & LOCATIONS _,-18 YEARS CONFIDENTIAL SERVICE CASH PAID TODAY Preferred Tickets 234-5650  

I ' 
Friday, September 15, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
His father's son 
The kid of a Miami All-American, Maurice Crum Jr. has matured into the quiet leader ofthe Notre Dame defense 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sporrs Editor 
For Maurice Crum, Jr., it did­

n't matter that he had 10 solo 
tackles, four assists and a 
forced fumble that was 
returned for a touchdown in 
Notre Dame's win over Penn 
State last Saturday. The Irish 
middle linebacker already 
knew exactly what his dad 
would say when the two talked 
later that day. 
"Every game, I nev.er hear anything good from him," Crum Jr. said. "He said I did okay. He said I was around the ball. But he pointed out every­thing I did wrong." 
The younger Crum wouldn't have it any other way. 
"I think it can only help me and make my game better," he said. "I've got my teammates, my coaches, my father, and I'm hard on myself, so I think that's the only way I can con­tinue to elevate my game." 
Maurice Crum, Sr. has the credentials to back his words. The elder Crum was an All­American linebacker for Miami in 1990 and led the Hurricanes in tackles from 1988-90. 
"He's comfortable telling me things because he played line­backer," the junior said. "So he tells me every little thing that could make me better." 
For Notre Dame, Crum, Jr.'s acceptance of his father's criti­cism is a blessing. 
The 6-foot, 225-pound junior started at the "Apache" line­backer position (one of the two outside linebackers) as a soph­omore after red-shirting as a freshman. After back surgery in the offseason, Irish coach Charlie Weis had Crum study all three linebacker positions while the surgery kept him out of spring workouts. 
"Even though he wasn't physically repping, it gave him an opportunity to mentally rep all three positions," Weis said. "He really studied all three positions. He was going to be ready to put in wherever we needed." 
"Whatever the team needs" 
Before fall camp began, Weis 

told Crum he would be moving 
to middle linebacker to replace 
the void left after fifth-year 
senior and middle linebacker 
Corey Mays graduated -a 
challenge Crum embraced. 
''I'm a guy who prides myself 
on whatever the team needs 
me to do, I do for the team," he 
said. 

Crum 's willingness to help 
the Irish hasn't been lost on 
Notre Dame defensive coordi­
nator Rick Minter. 

"It's fortunate for us we're around guys like that who are playmakers and producers and take their jobs serious and their roles very seriously," Minter said. "[Crum has] really stepped up and accepted the challenged we issued to him back in the spring and into the summer about really ... assert­ing yourself and taking control of the huddle." 
That was one of the biggest hills for Crum to climb in his transition to middle linebacker. The once-quiet Crum now has the responsibility of relaying every defensive play from the sideline to his 10 teammates in the huddle. 
"Your middle linebacker has got to be the guy that runs your defense," Weis said. 
Once again, Crum 's steadfast desire to do what is best for the team pushed him to suc­ceed. 
"My biggest thing is doing whatever the team needs me to do to win," he said. "If that's what it takes -me being vocal -that's what I'll do." 
Irish safety and defensive captain Tom Zbikowski gave Crum high praise. 
"[Crum is] making all the cans in the huddle, and he has yet to mess any calls up," he said. "It sounds like a small part, but in the heat of battle in the third and fourth quarter to make sure everyone is get­ting the call every single play, it's a lot harder than it sounds." 
It wasn't easy for Crum. 
"From day one, I had to grow up quick," he said. "From the start of [fall] camp, I had to make the calls. The first day, I'd say, was pretty tough." 
But Crum said having experi­

enced leaders like Zbikowski 
and converted weak-side line­
backer and special teams cap­
tain Travis Thomas on the field 
eased the move. 
"It's not all the weight on my shoulders," Crum said. "We have a veteran defense, and everyone knows their job. My job is to just get it out there, and from there, everyone knows where to go." 
"Our best player" 
While Crum downplays the importance of his role in the defense, Weis only speaks higher of him -of both his physical play and his mental awareness. 
"To be honest with you, of all three of the starters last year -with Brandon [HoyteJ and Corey and Maurice -the guy who was the most fundamen­tally sound was Maurice," Weis said. "And I think that we have had minimal communication errors in our first two games, so obviously he's doing some­thing right." 
Crum said he puts a premi­um on leading the unit like fifth-year seniors Boyte and Mays did in 2005. 
"I watched them every day in practice get everybody started; when everybody was down get everybody up," Crum sard. "That's the biggest thing I've learned from them and applied it to my game this year." 
But Crum brings a better physical aspect to linebacker for Notre Dame than either Boyte or Mays did. 
"Just watching him last year for his first season, you know there's a great deal of talent that he has," Zbikowski said. "Week in and week out, he makes my job a lot easier, just coming in and making some clean-up tackles and [trying] to get some position while he's making most of the plays." 
Weis said there were some 

the run is so important. 
"You go ahead and put him in the middle, and everybody says, 'Well, he's only 225 pounds.' But 14 tackles later ... he's still 225 pounds. The thing is, he's got a knack for making plays." 
Crum said he knew going into the transition that offen­sive linemen are always look­ing to get a solid hit on the middle linebacker and that would be part of the challenge of converting positions. 
"Being in the middle, every­body knows where you are," Crum said. "So you've got to step up." 
After Crum 's performance against Penn State, Weis said Crum proved he had the ability to play his new position -and play it well. 
"Could he be suited well at loutside linebacker]'? Absolutely," Weis said. "But we like the fact that our best play­er is running the defense. So, therefore, for us at this time, that's the best place for him." 
Crum said much of the credit for his strong fundamentals and technique trace back to his childhood, growing up with a father who instilled a library of football knowledge in him. 
"That's just something that comes from playing football for a long time, again coming from my father, teaching me funda­mentals and techniques from d ay one, " h A sat'd. "S'. tnce I started playing, I've always been a linebacker. 
While the elder Crum never coached his teams, his son said, he sometimes "helped out" with the squads. 

That gave the younger Crum a great advantage in football but was also difficult for a kid growing up in south-central Florida. 
"Growing up was kind of tough because I was always in the shadows [of my father]," Crum Jr. said. "But now I'm growing into my own." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
by the numbers 
All-time matchups between Notre Dame and Michigan. Michigan holds an 18-14-11ead in the series. 
34 

0 
Times lloyd Carr has won a game at Notre Dame Stadium as Michigan's head coach. 
Road wins lloyd Carr has when playing the No. 2 team in the 
5 

nation, which has happened seven times. 
2 Kickoffs returned for touchdowns (by Raghib Ismail) in then-No. 1 Notre Dame's 24-19 win at then-No. 2 Michigan on Sept. 16, 1989. 
Total return yards Steve Breaston has recorded in his 
career-a Michigan record. 
2,874 

Observer file photo initial questions about Crum's Duration the Irish defense held opponents scoreless, from Maurice Crum, Jr. leaps over a blocker to tackle Michigan run­physique when taking on full­the second quarter Sept. 2 against Georgia Tech through ning back Mike Hart in the 17-10 Irish win Sept. 10, 2005. backs in a game when stopping the third quarter Sept. 9 against Penn State.
68:16 
. ' ' 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 15, 2006 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 2-0 AP: 2 Coaches: 3 

Charlie Weis 2nd season at Notre Dame career record: 
11-3 
at Notre Dame: 
11-3 
Charlie Weis against head coach Michigan: 1-0 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. 
1 D.J, Hord WR 6-1 
2 Darrin Walls DB 6-1 
3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 
4 Demetrius Jones QB 6-4 
5 Rhema McKnight WR 6-1 
6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 
7 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 
8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6-0 
9 Tom Zbikowski DB ·s-11 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 11 David Grimes WR 6-0 12 Zach Frazer QB 6-4 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 14 Bobby Renkes K 6-0 15 Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 17 Geoffrey Price p 6-3 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 19 George West WR 5-8 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 25 Munir Prince RB 5-10 26 Wade lams DB 5-9 26 Travis Thomas RB/LB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 29 Jake Richardsville WR 6-0 30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-1 32 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 33 Nate Whitaker K 5-9 34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 35 Tim Kenney DB 6-0 36 DexCure RB 6-1 37 Junior Jabbie RB 5-11 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 42 David Costanzo WR 5-9 43 Eric Maust p 6-1 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 44 Asaph Schwapp RB 6-0 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 45 Carl Gioia K 5-10 46 Michael Planalp TE 6-4 46 Kyle Charters LB 5-11 47 Mitchell Thomas LB 6-3 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-0 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 51 Dan Wenser OL 6-4 52 Joe Brockmgton LB 6-1 53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 54 Anthony Vernaglia DB 6-3 55 Eric Olsen OL 6-4 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 59 Chris Steward OL 6-5 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 61 J.J. Jansen LS 6-3 63 Jeff Tisak OL 6-3 64 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 69 Neil Kennedv DL 5-11 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-7 72 PaulDuncan OL 6-7 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 74 Sam Young OL 6-7 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 81 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 83 Jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 89 John Carlson TE 6-5 90 John Ryan DL 6-5 91 Travis Leitko DL 6-7 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Wl!)f:
NOTRE DAME 
RF.CEIVER
NOTREDAME-
MtKnloht
OFFENSE 

Anasta~lo 
West 

CORNERBACK

2006 Schedule 
l..EfTTACKUl Stewart 
H•rriJ · rurkovl<:h 
lnt 
OtTSIDE LINEBACKER 
aurqeu 
I 
~~ Graham . i

Sept. 2 Sept. 9 Sept. 16 Sept. 23 Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 21 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov.11 Nov.18 Nov. 25 
at Ga. Tech -W PENN SfA1E -W 
MICHIGAN 
atMSU 
PURDUE 
STANFORD 
UCLA 
at Navy 
UNC 
at Air Force 
ARMY 
at USC 
TAILBACK 
Walkt!r rr. Thomn) Prince FtlLL13ACK 
~S<:hwapp ~M<Con""ll 
RIGliT GUARD Morton Mattes 
TIGHT END 
Carlson 
WIDE 
RECEIVER 
Samardzija Grimes 
RIGHTEND 
Blg§JS •. ·.· 
·,. Jami;on c( 1,. 

DEI'EI~SIVE'>.w{, ~·. 

i 
t·~~ c)~t'f#
.,;.:j , MIDDLE~......•...·.... LINEBACKER . 
Harris 
J.·..·~-~ .·p·hompson A
.,# . r ~-. . 
#.· f I / 
giG.-'
-<-~ 
.1: 
~! li; 
<~
CJ 
STRONG SAFETY 
Marns 
YR 192 175 208 202 212 189 170 175 203 227 170 215 207 195 186 186 196 219 179 188 175 197 203 170 178 175 188 215 187 205 189 195 180 193 184 230 165 209 247 180 215 190 183 185 230 
220 
234 231 170 180 180 250 174 183 230 195 240 220 220 230 290 285 212 228 221 290 238 252 340 238 242 305 259 
263 
288 260 290 292 28H 292 268 292 290 298 285 200 192 185 216 250 245 245 239 255 240 270 301 265 247 260 267 220 293 261 
so 
FR 
JR FR SR 
so 
SR FR SR SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR JR SR 
so 
SR FR JR FR SR SR JR JR FR JR SR 
so 
SR 
so 
FR 
so 
SR FR FR FR FR SR SR FR JR JR FR FR JR 
so 
so 
so 
FR 
so 
so 
so 
SR 
so 
JR SR JR SR FR SR FR SR FR JR FR SR SR FR SR JR 
so 
SR SR SR JR FR 
so 
FR FR SR SR 
so 
SR SR FR JR FR SR FR JR SR FR SR FR SR 
so 
FR JR SR so 
FR SR JR 
c;...J \ ! 
0 }.J,; X Batritlger oli/ f p"' FREE SAFETY ' · ,c fir19lemon 'lllla M1mdy
c:.:.Jr, 
-<::,.J
.,IJ ,r 

Burgess ~ 
<:,_;I, 
CORNERBACK C 
MICHIGAN.A&
Hall 
Sears 
DEFENSE ,._.. 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
::E 
<t 
c 
LLI 
D: 
1­
0 
z 
z 
<t 
CJ 
::c ­
(.)
-
:E 

Charlie Weis attacked the Nittany Lions with precision last week. But he has a challenge getting the team up for its third big game in a row. He's shown the ability to make sharp in-game decisions and adjustments and the Irish look to be in good condition.  Brady Quinn -a. four years starter, a Heisman front-runner and a top name in the Notre Dame record books. After a slow start against Georgia Tech's aggressive front seven, Quinn went 25.for­36 for 287 yards and three touchdowns last week. He has yet to throw a pick.  Darius Walker's break­out game was against Michigan in 2002. After hitting the century mark in his first game, he's been a crucial part of the high­octane Irish offense. Travis Thomas, Asaph Schwapp and Munir Prince are solid backups, and all have seen time in games this season.  Brady Quinn's two favorite targets, Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight, have caught a touchdown apiece, and Walker picked up a receiving TD to go with one on the ground. Tight end John Carlson is averaging more than 13 yards per catch.  
Lloyd Carr has never won at Notre Dame Stadium -and that's not news to him or to football fans. After going 7-5 last year, he's in the hot seat, and a win over the Irish would keep the wolves at bay. New playcallers mean that he can throw new schemes at Weis.  Chad Henne's first road start was at Notre Dame in the 28-20 upset in 2004. Last year, the Irish domi­nated in their first Big House win since the Holtz era. Henne has a great deal of experience, and he'll be hungry for the win as an underdog on the road.  Michigan returns six defensive starters. The team allowed only 162 yards of rushing in two games. It hasn't allowed a rushing touchdown and gave up just four rushing first downs. As a team, Michigan's recorded 19 tackles for loss. But thi<> i<> to Central Michigan and  Michigan has a deep and talented secondary anchored by cornerback Leon Hall and ~irong safety Brandent Englemon. It's given up three passing touchdowns and 317 yards passing, but opponents have completed under 50 permnt of passes. Jamar Adams has six solo tackles.  
Carr's teams have underachieved since 1997's national title. He's had two fairly vanilla games, while Weis has had to show a bit more of the Irish playbook. But Weis' cool confidence will pick apart Carr's more conservative tendencies.  Henne is solid but Quinn is spectacular. Both are experienced, and looking at Henne, one can recall how Quinn went from being a decent sophomore to a phenomenal junior. But the experience of "Quarterback U" is hardly on par with Weis' tutelage of Quinn.  The Irish have faced on of the country's strongest front sevens in Georgia Tech and two of the nation's best linebackers in Penn State's defense. Darius Walker has proven he can put up yards on anyone, includ­ing Michigan. The ques­tion is how many.  How do you prepare for one of the country's top passers? Michigan is well acquainted with Brady Quinn and has never lost when he's started the game. He's fmding a stride after looking mediocre against Georgia Tech, and the Irish aerial attack will be potent.  


Bob Griffin 
Asst. M . 
EditrraJ10(111g 




Brady Quinn has struggled through the air Michigan has showcased its ability to control the every time he's played against Michigan. clock and run the football in its first two wins over Tomorrow is no different. The Wolverines give Vanderbilt and Central Michigan. Unfortunately for the Irish offense trouble, despite a typically intelli­the Wolverines, Charlie Weis has only lost a time-of­
Irish 

gent Charlie Weis gameplan. The difference will possession battle three times ~inr.,e he left Foxboro be Notre Dame's defense, which feeds off the loud -and it won't happen again Saturday. Notre Dame home crowd and stuffs Mike Hart. lloyd Carr is keeps the ball on offen..<>e ·with long, su<>tained drives
experts 

0-3 in Notre Dame Stadium. He's soon to be 0-4. in order to keep Mike Hart off the field. Next stop, East Lan.<>ing. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 20 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Michigan 13 Michigan 14 
Mike Gilloon 
Editor in Chief 
• ' • 4 

' '· .' ' 
' ' 
Friday, September 15, 2006 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


Michigan Wolverines 

WOLVERINES RUSHING WOLVERINES PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Mike Hart could be the best tailback the Irish face all season. Kevin Grady is a workhorse and Brandon Minor averages six yards per carry. Hart and Grady have recorded  Henne's completed barely 50 percent of his passes this season for just 248 yards and two touchdowns. But Steve Breaston could be poised for a breakout year and  After going 0-2 against Georgia Tech, Carl Gioia hit a pair of then-crucial 35­yard field goals against Penn State. Geoff Price has been a strong punter, and kicking ofT and receiving  Will the Irish come out flat? This has to be a worry after two games with emo­tions running high. But if anyone can keep this mature and seasoned group focused, it's WeL'i. Playing in  
five rushing touchdowns, and Hart is ready to avenge last year's injury against the Irish.  tight end Tyler Ecker is a huge target. Mario Manningham is a now a consistent deep threat.  are major strengths for the Irish. Tom Zbikowski is always a dangerous punt returner.  Notre Dame Stadium should be a point in Notre Dame's favor. The tesquadam just needs to stay focused.  
Notre Dame's defense has been solid so far, much to pundits' surprise. But Maurice Crum and the linebackers will have to step up against their toughest ground challenge  Henne will be the best and most accomplished passer the Irish have faced so far. He's not a threat out of the pocket, but fast receivers make him more dangerous. Chindeum  The Wolverines have two of the nation's best specialists in kicker Garrett Rivas and punter Ross Ryan. As a returner, Breaston is deadly with the ball in his hands.  This team needs a big win and needs it badly. It would go a long way to legitimizing Michigan after last year's 7-5 debacle, and after playing two cupcakes to start the season,  
aJI season in the Wolverine's running backs. The defensive line must hold strong.  Ndukwe had a pick against Penn State and the Irish allow less than 200 yards of passing per game.  Field position could loom large, putting pressure on the kickoff and punt team coverage.  Miehigan has a lot to prove. Carr will do everything in his power to get the team up for this win.  
Notre Dame's defense is improved since last year, but the linebackers have yet to face a running back of Hart's calbier. The Michigan offense relies heavily on the rushing attack, and it's unlikey the Irish ·can completely take that away from the Wolverines.  In the air and onthe ground, the Icjsh face their toughest test of the season -­a balanced offense. Michigan's struggled in the red zone a.nd>the ·ltish.have been abl to buckle down when it matters. Speed and conditioning will be two huge factors.  Both teams have dynamic offenses balanced by strong defenses. Michigan will have to rely on stopping Irish··ct~ive$ and··getting BreastonJ.he ball to keep up withthe bish p~ garrie~ This game could be a battle in the trenches, with deci­sions being made by special teams play.  ~----------------~ Notre Dame gets the edge in this category, but barely. The Wolverines have to be motivated and ready for a game against a challenging opponent. But playing before its home crowd in its last game against a ranked team until November in Los Arigefes, the Irish need a solid victory Saturday.  


Michigan Wolverines 

lloyd Carr 12th season at
MICillGAN 
Michigan career record:
2006 Schedule 
104-34 

at Notre Dame: 
Sept. 2 VANDERBnT-W 0-3 


against Notre Lloyd Carr Sept. 9 CMU-W Dame: 3-4 head coach 
Sept. 16 at Notre Dame Sept. 21 WISCONSIN 
No. 2 2 
3 3 4 
Sept. 30 at Minnesota 
4 
5 
6 
Oct. 7 MICHIGAN ST. 
7
Oct.14 at Penn State 8 8
Oct. 21 IOWA 9 10 12 12 13 13 
14 14 15 
Nov. 4 BALL STATE 
16 17 18 
Nov.11 at Indiana 
18 19 19 20 21 
Nov.18 at Ohio State 
22 22 23 24 25 25 26 26 27 27 28 28 29
INTANGIBLES 
30 31 32 33 33 34 34 35 
z 
36 
37 38 38 
0 
.... 

39
:::c 

40
m 

41 42c 43 44
l> 

44 
45
3: 

46
m 

49 50 51 52 54 55 55 
56 
57 58 59 
60 60 
61
-
(') 

62 62
:I: 

63 64 65 
-
Ci) l> 

67
:z 

70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 86 88 89 90 91 92 92 93 94 95 96 97 99 


This is a must-win game for both teams. Michigan needs this win to make the season a success and it wanl'i this win for the satisfaction of beating a No. 2 Notre Dame. Not enough of the Wolverines remember the 38-0 pasting in 2003. They're excited to be underdogs and eager to prove that they're the better, more balanced team on both sides of the ba11. The Irish will try valiant­ly but Michigan's emotion won't let it lose. 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan 24 Notre Dame 21 Kate Gales 

Associate Sports Editor 
Roster 
Name Pos. HI. Wt. YR Shawn Crable LB 6-5 241 SR Landon Smith WR 5-8 174 SR Kevin Grady RB 5-9 216 so RossRran p 6-1 203 SR 
Darnel Hood CB 5-11 192 SR Brandon Minor RB M) 210 FR Charles Stewart CB 6-1 196 JR Prescott Burgess LB 6-3 235 SR Chad Henne QB 6-2 224 JR Jonas Mouton 5 6-2 217 FR Nick Sheridan QB 6-1 190 FR Anton Campbell s 5-11 196 SR Jeff Zieter QB 6-6 205 FR David one QB 6-6 201 FR Matt Hornaday s 5-10 188 so Jeff Kastl QB 6-3 214 SR Greg Mathews WR 6-3 195 FR Tyrone Jordan II WR 5-10 193 SR Morgan Trent CB 6-1 184 JR Steve Breaston WR 6-1 180 SR Adrian Arrington WR 6-3 190 JR Carl Tabb WR 6-2 204 SR Antonio Bass WR M) 197 so Ben Wright WR 5-9 186 JR Willlis Barringer s M) 210 SR Jason Forcier QB 6-2 218 so Mike Hart RB 5-9 196 JR Ryan Mundy s 6-1 208 SR Jamar Adams s 6-2 210 JR Kyle Plummer CB 5-10 166 SR Carlos Brown RB M) 200 FR Jerome Jackson RB 5-11 206 SR Johnny Sears Jr. CB M) 184 so Robbie Thombladh FB 6-1 225 FR AliLah Bradley WR 5-6 171 SR Mi eCarl s M) 202 SR Shakir Edwards DB M) 207 JR Brandon Harrison S/CB 5-8 206 so Dan Moore LB M) 219 SR Chris Richards CB 5-11 176 so Leon Hall CB 5-11 193 SR Stevie Brown s M) 205 FR Branden! Englemon s 5-11 205 SR Mister Simpson RB 5-10 195 FR Cobrani M1xon LB 6-1 226 FR Mark Moundros FB 6-1 212 FR Jason Gingell K 5-9 188 JR Will Paul FB 6-3 251 SR Brian Thom8son TE 6-2 240 SR Quintin Pall Ia LB 6-1 216 FR Chris Graham LB 5-11 220 JR 
B.J. Opong-Owusu s 5-11 201 SR Garrett Rivas K 5-9 211 SR Andre Criswell FB 6-1 258 so 
ObiOI~bo FB M) 229 SR 
Zoltan esko p 6-4 230 so Chris McLaurin TE 6-3 234 so Bryan Wright K 6-1 206 FR Obinna Ezeh LB 6-2 213 FR James McKinney DT 6-2 285 so David Harris LB 6-2 239 SR Brandon Logan LB M) 218 so John Thompson LB 6-1 234 JR Jere"?; Van Alstyne DE 6-4 266 SR Max ollock LB 6-1 218 SR Stephen Schilling OL 6-5 300 FR Mark Bihl OL 6-5 299 SR Brandon Graham DE 6-2 274 FR Ohene ~:8-0wusu LB 6-1 230 so LaMarr ley DE 6-2 269 SR Adam Kraus OL 6-6 297 SR lim North DE 6-1 255 so Scan Griffin LS 6-2 229 JR Patrick Lyall OL M) 279 JR David Moosman OL 6-4 298 so Turner Booth LS 6-2 259 SR lim McAvoy OL 6-5 290 so 
Jon Sa~ 
OL 6-4 294 JR Mike ill DL 6-5 285 SR Grant DeBenedictis OL 6-5 286 JR Justin Boren OL 6-3 314 FR 

.. 
Terrance Tator DT M) 305 so Jeremy Ciu Ia OL 6-4 292 JR Mark Ortmann OL 6-6 298 so Rueben Rilell Jr. OL 6-4 305 SR Alex Mitche I OL 6-5 317 JR Brett Gallimore OL 6-4 308 JR Cory Zirbel OL 6-5 2% so Mike Kolodziej OL 6-7 305 SR 
Jake Lo~ 
OL 6-7 313 SR Justin S ifano OL 6-4 300 so Perry Dorrestein OL 6-7 317 FR Alan Branch DT 6-6 331 JR Dough Dutch Jr. WR 5-11 201 JR LaTerryal Savoy WR 6-2 205 so Mike Massey TE 6-4 234 JR 
K.C. Lo~ata K 6-2 215 JR Carson utler IE 6-4 247 so Mario Manningham WR M) 182 so Quintin Woods TE 6-6 220 FR i?;ler Ecker TE 6-6 246 SR 
mJamison DE 6-3 254 JR Rondell Biggs DE 6-3 278 SR Greg Banks DE 6-4 246 FR jason Olesnavage K 6-4 205 so Jason Kates DT 6-3 352 FR John Ferrara DT 6-4 285 FR Marques Walton DT M) 292 JR Euftene Germany DE 6-2 279 so 
Wi Johnson DT 6-5 291 JR Adam Patterson DE 6-2 250 FR 
Irish experts 
Michigan 20 

; . 

I ' ' 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 15, 2006 
==========------==--------=----=---.=---=-----=--=---=------=---=---==--···=---=------=-------=--=-----====---=------=-------=-------=--------=------=-----=--===-====--=----=------=--=--=---=----=-------=----=----=-===========------=-------=---=------======================= 

Game Program Cover Art Between the Wars 
'·' 't
·" i 

An exhibit of college football game programs in the 
( 
Department of Special Collections, 102 Hesburgh Library. 
• 

Open Friday, September 15, 9:00a.m. to s:oo p.m, and Saturday, September 16, 11:30 a.m. to 1:45 p.m. 

RARE BOOKS ECIAL COLLECTIONS 




Sizingup the hish and the Wolverines 
N'""'NNN>"•'•'•''-• ·.··.·, 
~ 
_Rushing......YardsAllo.w.ed_ .-.---.--------·-·wN~-·--·--· 


.·Passing Yards Allo\ved.._"·n~.-w-----.-·-w, 
~ 
' 


•'
·.. .,. 
IumoversRecovered 




NOTRE DAME 
LINEBACKERS 
Notre Dame surren­dered nearly five yards per carry against Penn State. The Irish can't allow that to happen against an explosive Michigan backfield if they hope to have suc­eess Saturday. The Irish rush defense must stop Mike Hart and force Mic:higa.n into passing downs so the Notre Dame defense G<\Il be prepared. 
This vvill be especial­ly important in eontain­i ng versatile wide receivers Steve Breaston and Mario Manningham, both speedy weapons who are dangerous every time t:hey touch the ball. 

. I ' 
' I . 
Friday, September 15, 2006 

The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
-
Hold the history, Quinn anticipates progress 
"Bight now our biggest foeus "Obviously it's going to beFinding rhythm is is just individually trying to tough, but at [some] point in make ourselves better," Quinn time we're not focusing on [what
rnain goal for Notre 
said during his press conference Michigan will do]," he said. 
Dame's quarterback Wednesday. "Sticking with Notre Dame coach Charlie working on your fundamentals Wcis agreed that the Irish have and techniques but also just not played their best game. He
By BOB GRIFFIN 
really focusing on how to get said it usually takes a few games 
Sports Writer 
better as a unit, whether ofl'en­for an offense to find its rhythm sively, defensively, or special -something Notre Dame did 
Notre Dame and Michigan will teams, as well. against Purdue last season. renew their annual rivalry That's tough to imagine given "You might have spurts where Saturday -and Irish quarter­what's at stake. With a win, everything seems to go well, but back Brady Quinn couldn't care Notre Dame would be 3-0 and ... tying all that stuff together less. have two victories over ranked with cohesion takes a little 
That's not to say Quinn isn't Division 1opponents. A loss, and time," Weis said Wednesday focused on beating the the Irish are, at best, in the one­during his press conference. Wolverines. He's just focused on loss club heading into "The learning curve has been winning -regardless of the December. greatly pushed along, so it opponent. And in order to avoid this real­shouldn't take as long to get into 
"Every game right now is just ity, and concentrate on execu­that groove ras it did last year]. the same to us," Quinn said. "We tion Saturday, Quinn is looking "I wouldn't say we're there look at this game like we did all at how much the Irish have yet, but it shouldn't take as the others." grown offensively heading into long." 
Notre Dame and Michigan this season -and what they are Part of finding a rhythm will share one of the biggest non­capable of once they find their be the continued effort for conference rivalries in the coun­groove. Quinn and senior wide receiver try. The two schools are top-two "I think we've improved a lot," Rhema McKnight to find a cohe­in overall winning percentage, Quinn said. "We've got a differ­sive connection. McKnight leads and this year they have the best ent group of players this year, so the Irish in catches (13) and combined ranking-No. 2 and I think we're still trying to figure receiving yards (167) this season No. 11, respectively -in out what type of offense we -but Quinn is still working on Quinn's four years. have, and I think the team faces being on the same page more 
But as far as hype is con­that every year obviously with consistently. cerned, Quinn is looking else­different personnel changes, "Rhema is one of those guys where. While he's prepared for people graduating." that sometimes he's shifty and important games against Part of Quinn's preparation hard to read, and it's really Michigan in the past -a four­this week has been watching tough to just grasp that consis­year starter, the senior quarter­film to anticipate how the Notre tently," Quinn said. "Again, back has three starts against the Dame offense will attack that's another thing that obvi­Wolverines and saw time during Michigan's new defensive ously week in and week out his freshman yP.-ar -Saturday is scheme of first-year coordinator we're putting in different just another game on the sched­Ron English. The quarterback is schemes, different types of ule. not so caught up in what the things we're trying to do." 
And another chance for the Wolverines might do, but rather, Irish to improve upon mistakes how the Irish will handle the Contact Bob Griffin at 
--· 
made earlier this year. pressure. rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Irish focus on fundamentals, technique 
demeanor -gave short,
Defense keeps quiet 

abbreviated answers and spent on tactics to tame no more than five minutes in the interview room. Despite
Wolverines' offense several questions about the Wolverine offense, he never mentioned Michigan.
By MIKE GILLOON The players were the same. 

Sports Writer 

"Do you have any thoughts on Michigan?" a reporter 
Notre Dame defensive end asked Abiamiri. Victor Abiamiri strode into a ''Working on fundamentals typical interview session and techniques, trying to get Wednesday without a worry. better," he responded. 
.....
There was no need to give "If you guys could speak your answers to any tough questions mind, you'd probably say about Notre Dame's upcoming something different, wouldn't game against No. 11 Michigan you?" another reporter asked -he would barely speak. defensive tackle Trevor Laws. 
"Fire away, you know what "I dunno," Laws laughed. I'm gonna say," said Abiamiri "All I know is that we've been as he stood in working a lot on the corner of the fundamen ta Is room of about and techniques, ... 
..All I know is that

25 reporters. that's pretty Repeating that we've been working a much it." all he was wor­It was even
lot on fundamentals

ried about this hard to get
and techniques.,.

week was "fun­Honald Talley to damentals and talk about technique," Trevor Laws tomorrow's Abiamiri showed game.
Irish defensive tackle

that Charlie The thick-Wcis is trying to voiced Irish curb the annual defensive end hype that leads up to every and Detroit native was remind­Michigan game. ed Wednesday about comments 
Everyone interviewed -attributed to him a few seemed to do their best to months after he signed a letter avoid giving Michigan any bul­of intent with Notre Dame ­letin-board material. The Irish that he "wanted to knock off weren't as quiet as Penn State the head of the Michigan quar­last week, when coach Joe terback." Paterno wouldn't let any Asked if he still felt that way, Nittany Lions even speak to the Talley toed the company line. press. "R'1ght now.?" he sm1r. k ed. 
But they might as well have ''I'm just trying to work on fun­been silent. damentals." 
Defensive coordinator Rick Minter -normally a media Contact Mike Gilloon at favorite with his native-Texan mgilloon@nd.edu 




-----~--------­
t 
:· 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 15, 2006 

Salon Services ~~~~sServices 1d_· 1l NE Dct) N N
. 

Hair: Cuts. ~lor 1-fighligllts, Physician choice peels ll::sJ 
Permanent 'ltWves. Microaermabrasion 
bistro and bar
Straighteners. Upjo's 
body wraps Cosmetics: casual and Airbrush !T'lake-up Massagee: Hot stone~ 
deep tissue and Prenata I Airbrush tanning 
Hydrotherapy trea trrlents Eyebrow tinting~ Eyelash porms Day package$ 
FuU body waxihg Day or night spa partes 
Nai I Services. n~anicures Couoies services in our and Pedicures special VIP Suite 
--.:·_ :\:-:=? :_:----_ iL.:~~ ~;:~;j tV__ Jf Ai 

A Ross 
Lunch -5pm M-Sat

salon and day spa 
..An Urban Resort•• 
Dinner 5 · ··· Opm f\,~-Thurs Monday-Saturday 9am-9pm 
5 1pm Fri & Sat Complementary Jacuzzi & Dry Sauna I 1 :00 Al\t1 
574.247.1050 
·.I 
1205 E. University Drive. Gianger.IN 46530 3-8888 
Award \f~nning Salon & Oav Spa 
I . "Salon Today Magazines Salot1 200 
•Global salon Awards
i ~ "\NNDU Vlew\'eB Cho;ce Award "Sooth Bend Trbune Rf!aders Choice Award 







