-----------------------------------------------~-------~ ------­

_The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

who apply for tickets to only one of those 
Parents granted access to 

two games may designate the game of 2007 their choice -and they will be guaranteed 
only one game next season 

two tickets to that game." Parents who apply to both games "will be guaranteed tickets to at least one ·of the
By JOE PIARULLI 

two games, but will not be able to specifY
Assistant News Editor 

the game for which tickets will be guaran­teed." 
Football at Notre Dame will undergo Parents would be entered into the gener­some changes next season, but not all of al alumni lottery for the second game. them will take place on the field. The parents' game for incoming stu­
As a result of record-high ticket demand dents will be announced in June. in the 2006 season, the University has "We're making changes based on the made some ticketing changes, according to record-setting demand from last year to a Sunday press release. make sure that we can preserve access for 
Parents are now guaranteed tickets for all of our constituency groups," said Josh only one game, but may apply for tickets to Berlo, director of Ticket Operations. two football games: Nov. 3 against Navy or The Michigan State game Sept. 22 next Nov. 10 against Air Force. 
According to the press release, "parents see TICKETS/page 4 



USC game draws fans, band to coast 
down by so much so quicklyBy JOHN-PAUL WITT took the energy away after the News Writer first quarter," Mader said. 
"Everyone sat down." 
After watching Notre Dame's Irish coach Charlie Weis per­fifth consecutive loss to USC on sonally requested the University Saturday, students returned to marching band play at the USC 
campus from Thanksgiving game because of the impact the break disappointed by the foot­band had at Michigan State ear­ball team's final regular season lier in the season. Weis' hand­performance and fans' lack of written request has been hung energy. in the band room. Junior Ge Wang and sopho­Band president John Cogill more Thomas Mader were said that the band was used to among the several hundred stu­playing in enemy territory. "But dents and 75 band members we expected a big USC game who traveled to Southern like last year where we could California over the break. make more of a difference," "The trip was a lot of fun, Cogill said. besides the game," Wang said. Students said they went to the 
Mader said he noticed a lack Coliseum expecting a closer of enthusiasm in the Notre score than the 44-24 Trojan vic­Dame student section. tory. 
"There was a lot of energy at "We were outmatched," Wang the start, but the combination of being on the road and being see GAME/page 8 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Moreau na111ed for beatification 
Holy Cross founder 'Will be honored by Pope 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Earlier this year Pope Benedict XVI green lighted the beatification of the Venerable Father Basil Anthony-Marie Moreau in Le Mans, France for next year, but the healing miracle the Vatican has attributed to him was hardly the only marvel he left the Catholic community. 
Father Moreau was also busy during the late 1830s and early 1840s founding the congregations of priests, brothers and sisters of Holy Cross, in the likeness of the Holy Family as well as the Marianites. 
He died in 1873, but the paper­work for his beatification was not filed until 1955, after the recovery of a bedridden Canadian mother suffering from complications from a premature birth was attributed to his divine intercession. 
"It was an illness following child­birth that was healed so quickly it could not be explained medically," said Sister Jeanette Fettig, the rep­resentative of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in the Vatican's beatifi­cation committee. 
"Once the promulgation of the miracle was approved by His Holiness Pope John Paul II we could start thinking about propos­ing Father Moreau's beatification." 
Beatification signals the Catholic Church's recognition of the per­son's ascension to the Kingdom of 
see MOREAU/page 8 


Volunteerism increases over holiday season 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Shopping is not the only area that experiences a boost during the holiday season. Feelings of "glad tidings" and service have already penetrated the campus­es of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
This year, over 300 student volunteers are expected to do service over winter break, said representatives at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Experiential Learning and Developmental Research at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns director Jay Brandenberger recognized the increase. 
"Students have a rather long break, compared to high school years, so they have more time to serve," he said. "And the Advent season calls us to action for a more just world." 
Carrie Call, director of civic and social engagement at Saint Mary's, echoed Brandenberger's sentiments. 
"Christmas lends itself to a general feeling of 'good will toward all' and people seem to be more cognizant of those who have greater needs during the holidays," Call said. 
Sheena Plamoottil, student senate social concerns commit­tee chair, attributed an increase in volunteerism to the holidays, as well as the principles of each schooL 
see VOLUNTEER/page 8 
Teach for America draws seniors 
1-in-1 0 students expected to participate in service programs 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
As spring semester draws near, seniors are exploring their post-undergraduate options, and for many Notre Dame students, this search leads them to teaching service programs like Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and Teach for America. 
One in 10 Notre Dame gradu­ates will enter into one or two yearlong service programs after graduation-including graduates who enter into teaching programs, according to the Center for Social Concerns. 
Notre Dame founded the Alliance for Catholic Education 
see ACE/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Strikethrough Saturday 
The Christmas season is now officially upon us, which means one thing -lists. Presents, party guests, Steve Spurier's ballot -whatever. Ultimately, they're all rash and petty. That's why you should set your sights on more impor­
Tim Dougherty
tant things, whose allotted duration of 
Sports Writer 
execution is infinitely more forgiving. Like forever. 
Everyone needs a list of 100 things to do before you die. Besides making you feel more ambitious, it also teaches you to procrastinate on a whole new scale. Most importantly, on that rare occasion where you do accomplish one of your life's goals, no matter how insignificant others think it is, it just feels so good to take out that sharpie, make an opaque black mark, look around the room as ifpeople actually care, and say in your best Ricky Bobby, "That just happened." 
Saturday was a big one for my list. All in all, I went 3-1, as an unprecedented four items were affected on what I will now refer to as Strikethrough Saturday. Most heinously, "Be present to watch my beloved Irish win a National Championship" was delayed, again. A big hit, as this one lies somewhere in the top five between being the Pope and having children of whom the first-born will be named D'Artagnon. 
Unfortunately, this one remained unscathed on the list as a direct result of my third cross-off of the day, watching an ND-USC game at the Coliseum. Yeah, everything I said for the next two hours would have made a post-double-secret­overturned-call Pete Carroll blush, but then I put it all in perspective when I real­ized, dude, I have a Mohawk. 
Yeah, I got it at a tailgate from some recent alumni with "Fear the 'Hawk" (pre-Tommy Z buzz) shirts and clippers (much more potent than the local vari~ty). I didn't know them, but judging by how they depantsed during "Escape," I assume they were Zahmbies. While half-naked­ness is common place in Southern California (Saddle House Chop House, for instance), more naive Notre Dame onlook­ers might call them philanderers. Hey, all I know is they helped me realize one of my long-oppressed childhood dreams. (Eat that Mom and Dad!) More like phi­lanthropists. 
The highlight of Saturday, however, occurred before the break of day, when just past midnight I risked the break of limb, as I climbed atop the final frontier of the American west-the mechanical bull. Oh, I'd yearned for this for upwards of a month. How fulfilling it'd be to con­quer steel, to prove the industrial revolu­tion was just a fad. Like John Henry, except small, white and with an injury lia­bility form for a hammer. 
So there I was in Saddle Ranch, just me and metal covered with a cowhide rug. Star Jones, I named her, and she made Traveler look like a song girl. Well I rode Star long and hard. Finally, she bucked me off, but that's the point really. Hey, if Tyler Palko was there, he'd have been so buckin' proud. 
And as I flew to the ground disoriented, I realized that my life does in fact have direction. 97 of them, actually. Only now my scalp points the way. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THANKSGIVING DISH? 



Julie McElroy Meghan Paladino Regina Gesicki Santiago Garces Shawn Finlen Tim Rohman 
senior junior junior freshman junior junior Breen-Phillips Pangborn Lyons Stanford Sarin Stanford 
"Ramen "Baba Ganoush. "Korean food "Green Bean 'Tofu. Because"I don't have noodles. It's a vacation because it is the Hot Dish.'' it is the way I


taste buds., 

Thanks, Mr. in my mouth.,, only one I Pilgrim, thank know.'' you! 
Jail web cam jeopardizes security 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -An East Tennessee county that has beamed live 24-hour video from its jail on the Internet for nearly six years may nix the practice following complaints of harassment and security concerns. 
Some viewers have been using the cameras to harass female jailers by calling them on the tele­phone and taunting them as they work, according to Anderson County sheriff's officials. 
In other cases, viewers are tracking inmate move-platform in Ramsey, about 20 miles northwest of New York City, on Wednesday afternoon. The line travels to Sullern, N.Y. 


"For a moment, it looked like the turkeys were wait­ing for the next outbound train," said Dan Stessel, a spokesman for NJ Transit. "Clearly, they're trying to catch a train and escape their fate." 
Transit workers followed the bird's movements on surveillance cameras. "I have no idea how they got there," Stessel said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
ments and using the infor­mation to coordinate deliv­eries of contraband to pris­oners on work details out­side the jail. 
"It shows the public what we are doing. I like that idea," said Anderson County sheriff Paul White. 
Turkeys try for fast train out of New Jersey 
RAMSEY, N.J. -Some wild turkeys, it appears, were trying to get out of New Jersey before Thanksgiving Day. A spokesman for the NJ Transit said train officials reported a dozen or so wild turkeys waiting on a station 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 
== 
....I 
c( (.) 



HIGH LOW 

55 
30 

35 18 
0 
HIGH 60
...I 
LOW 50 

like it, uh huh, uh huh.,, 

IN BRIEF 
The Gender Relations Center is sponsoring an event called "We Can Do It! Women & Leadership at ND" on Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. The program features the only three female student body presi­dents in the history of the University. 
Pasquerilla East Hall is holding their annual Silent Auction Wednesday at 7 p.m. in LaFortune Ballroom. 
Indiana State Senator John Broden, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate, will speak at 
7:30 p.m. Wednesday in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center about his service on the Indiana Assessment Team of the American Bar Association's Death Penalty Moratorium Implementation Project. 
A Thai and Cambodian fundraising dinner buffet will be held Thursday at 6 
p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Heather Connell, produc~r of the film "Small Voices," will discuss her work with Cambodian orphans and show clips from her upcom­ing film beginning at 7 p.m. A $5 donation is suggested for the dinner. 
Mike Henry, actor, writer and supervising producer for the show "Family Guy," will be speaking Thursday at 8 
p.m. in 101 DeBartolo. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

25 17 

25 20 

Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 



Group offers $750 in 
co-sponsorship grants 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members awarded a total of $750 to two different co-sponsor­ships at their meeting Monday night. 
The Saint Mary's Modern Language clubs were awarded $200 to assist with the costs of the Three Soprano Voices recital they held Monday in the Moreau Little Theater. The recital included Spanish, French, Italian and German students at the College. 
The senior seminar in the sociolo­gy department also received a $550 co-sponsorship to help with the cost of its annual trip to the North Central Sociological Association and Midwest Sociological Society joint meeting in the spring of 2007. The sociology department will send six students to the conference in Chicago titled "Social Policy, Social Ideology and Social Change." 
Members also discussed upcom­ing events that will take place over the next two weeks, including the "12 Days of Christmas" event spon­sored by the Senior Board, which raises money to help local families buy Christmas presents and decora­tions during the holidays. 
The five Christmas trees that the BOG pledged to donate to the event were bought and will be decorated in the five residence halls this week. At the end of the week, the trees will also be donated to the local families. 
Student Services commissioner Kelly Maus announced that "to-go" mugs will be sold Tuesday and Thursday this week outside the din­ing hall. Mugs will be sold for eight dollars and proceeds will benefit the Senior Board's "12 Days of Christmas" event. 
"[After buying the mug] you get free refills from the dining hall for the rest of the year," student body president Susan Mcllduff said. 
In other BOG News: 
+The sophomore board is hvsting a dance with Fisher Hall this Friday, sophomore class president Francesca Johnson announced. Tickets are on sale at dinner outside the dining hall until Thursday and at lunch on Friday. They cost $10 per person. 
+The Second Annual Saint Mary's Battle of the Bands will take place this Saturday. Proceeds from the competition will support the sec­ond annual Saint Mary's Dance Marathon, which benefits Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
+The Dance Marathon commit­tee is also hosting a semi-formal benefit reception on Saturday, Dec. 
9. Members of the community, alumni and anyone else interested are invited to attend. The event costs $50 per person. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Shappell pushes for results 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 

· News Writer 
At the Campus Life Council's (CLC) last meeting before winter break Monday, student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell told members she expected the four task forces to present resolutions to the Council in the spring as evidence of their planning this semes­ter. 
"I would like all the task forces to try to meet, if not Monday, then before the end of the year to draft a plan for next semester," Shappell said. "I hope that second semester is when we have a lot of resolutions coming out of brainstorming in the fall." 
Task force chairs briefly outlined their group's cur­rent undertakings at the short meeting. 
Welsh Family rector Candace Carson said her ad hoc committee has made progress correcting prob­lems in a resolution passed to provide resources to the Native American student population at Notre Dame. 
The resolution -passed unanimously by the Student Senate Nov. 2 -failed to pass through the CLC to Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. Carson raised the concern at the last CLC 

meeting that points in the resolution -calling for changes in academic areas and proposing the creation of an advisory position ­fell outside the purview of the CLC. 
The Council voted to defer the resolution to a commit­tee for further discussion. Carson said this committee hopes to meet again before winter break to work on the wording of the resolution. The committee aims to present a reworked version as the first order of new business at the CLC's meet­ing Jan. 22, Carson said. 
The ad hoc student safety task force has not met since the last CLC meeting, said chief executive assistant Liz Brown, but she and the other task force chairs pre­sented reports of their com­mittees' ongoing work. 
Brown, student voice and input chair, said her task force has made good progress with their initia­tives since the start of the semester. After speaking with Ryan Willerton, the assistant director for facili­ties in the Student Activities Office, Brown decided to set up a new Notre Dame e­mail account where com­mittee applications can be sent. 
"It's going to be a relative­ly simple process, but it should do a lot to stream­line the application process," Brown said. 
Her committee should have a working draft of the tentatively titled "duLac for Dummies" -a student­friendly guide to duLac reg­ulations -before winter break starts, Brown said. 
Alumni Hall senator Danny Smith said the stu­dent concerns task force's resolution regarding Domer Dollars is in its finishing stages. The resolution will be presented after break so it is not rushed and so it can first go through "all the proper channels," Smith said. 
Student body vice presi­dent Bill Andrichik contin­ued to look at dorm disori­entations with the conduct awareness task force. He sent a survey out to a com­piled e-mail list of every dorms' resident assistants to find out what alcohol and behavior education infor­mation is given to freshmen in each resident hall. 
"I have a good amount of responses from that, some better than others as far as disclosure of more informa­tion," Andrichik said. 
His committee will make a final assessment of the responses and will work toward making recommen­dations next semester, Andrichik said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
ACE accepts students from all dealing with children, parents,
as many people as possible, and 
majors and programs, colleagues -will help in any
that's never going to be easy, but 
ACE
Tickets 
Kowalski said. field," he said. 
those are the kinds of problems 
"We have applicants from all While graduates of the ACE
continued from page 1 that you like to have." 
continued from page 1 
majors ... from fine arts to program enter into all career
Heisler said the high demand 
(ACE) in 1993 to support even the most specific engi­fields, he said, 70 percent of
year will be the senior alumni made it clear that some changes 
under-funded Catholic schools neering degrees," he said. ACE graduates typically contin­
game and the Nov. 17 game would have to be made to the 
nationwide. Participants But ACE especially encour­ue to work in education. 
against Duke will be the alumni previous system. 
receive a master's degree in ages students with science, "Teach For America gradu­
family game. "Part of it is just trying to make 
education from Notre Dame, math and foreign language ates enter careers across all
The press release stated: "Notre as many people happy as you pos­
earn a teacher's salary and majors to apply, because the sectors including education,
Dame contributing alumni who sibly can, in terms of having some 
teach in a Catholic school for greatest need for teachers is in social policy, medicine, law,
graduated 35 or more years ago access," he said. "In some of 
two years after graduation. these areas, Kowalski said. business and other areas which
receive priority status on their these cases, as with the general 
Teach for America graduates The program usually has ultimately will address the
alumni ticket application for the lottery, some access may not 
teach in rural and urban public room to accept 90 applicants social inequity that ultimately
designated senior alumni game." mean four or six tickets, it may 
schools across the nation for each yea:r to serve in 31 cities, yields educational inequity,"
If the demand from senior only mean two, but that may give 
two years and also earn a Kowalski said, and in recent Blasing said. 
alumni exceeds supply and it is us, in general, the ability to satisfy 
teacher's salary. years the program has accept­Both Blasing and Kowalski
not possible to provide guaran­more people than we have 
Both programs are popular ed one in four applicants. agreed participants are better
teed ticket access for that game, before." 
for Notre Dame graduates who Notre Dame graduates con­off after participating in teach­
"tickets will be allotted in More than ever, the ticketing 
want to enter into a post-grad­tinue to make up a large por­ing programs. 
descending order to most senior system is based on demand, and, 
uate service program, said tion of ACE participants, "[Teaching service programs]
alumni." In other words, older like Berlo, Heisler said he expects 
Andrea Shappell, associate Kowalski said, but said "off­lead students down an out­
alumni will be given higher prior­demand to remain high even after 
professional specialist at the campus applications have standing path no matter what
ity for tickets than younger alum­players like Irish quarterback 
Center for Social Concerns, increased over the years." field you may ultimately find
ni. Brady Quinn and receiver Jeff 
who said that teaching pro­Blasing said that applicant yourself," Blasing said.
For the alumni family game Samardzija have graduated. 
gram participants make up pools vary from year to year, "Alumni have a greater social
against Duke, contributing alumni "The success of our team and 
one-third of all post-graduate with a roughly even distribu­impact regardless of the pro­
will be able to apply for up to four the excitement that has surround­
service participants. tion of majors and programs fessional sector they choose to
tickets on their lottery application. ed the whole program ... have 
ACE Assistant Director Chris represented. The number of enter."
Berlo cited several reasons for been a big part of that demand," 
Kowalski said the program is students accepted, she said, A Teach for America repre­
growing ticket demand, and he said. "Certainly this was a very 
meant to support a system that "varies from year to year as the sentative will address students
despite the graduation of many of attractive season and a very 
has provided an education for number of qualified students who are interested in the pro­
the team's stars, he does not fore­attractive home schedule ... but 
many graduates. varies. gram during an information
see a drop. as we continue to have success 
"You're serving a great "For instance, last year near­session Wednesday and will
"Certainly it's a combination of and move forward, you're antici­
need," Kowalski said. "It gives ly 19,000 students applied, also show a CNN documentary
our growing alumni population, pating that that's going to stay 
recent college graduates a with more than 2,400 actually about Teach for America
their loyal support and the suc­consistent, if not improve." 
great opportunity to give back." starting to teach this past fall," Thursday. Both sessions begin
cess of our wonderful program," Berlo said parents and alumni 
Teach for America Blasing said. at 7 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. 
he said. "I think that interest, should continue to stay aware of 
Communications Director Sara In 2005, 12% of Notre Seniors and all students
demand and support for Notre ticket information. 
Blasing stated that students Dame's senior class applied to interested in learning more
Dame football will remain high." "They should be on the lookout 
apply to the program because Teach for America and 37 about Teach for America
According to Associate Athletic for the application this spring ... 
"they believe educational Notre Dame graduates joined should attend, Blasing said. 
Director John Heisler, there are read the enclosed materials and 
inequity is our nation's most the program, she said. Both Teach for America and
worse problems than figuring out give the ticket office a call if they 
pressing issue -and that it is Two years in a teaching serv­ACE are currently accepting
which 80,000 bodies to put in the have any questions," he said. 
solvable." ice program gives students not applications for graduating
stands. The Notre Dame ticket office 
Both programs accept stu­only time to further discern a seniors, with deadlines this
"The last thing you'd want to can be reached at 574-631-7356 
dents from any institution as career path, but the chance to January.
have to be worried about is how or online at www.und.com/tickets. 
long as they have earned a gain and develop valuable
to move tickets," he said. "What 
bachelor's degree and meet skills, Kowalski said. Contact at Aaron Steiner at
we're trying to do is get in a posi­Contact Joe Piarulli at 
other specified criteria. "The skills you'll gain -asteiner@nd.edu
tion where we're going to satisfY jpiarull@nd.edu 



We now own the most popular student apartments and townhouses in the area! 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Notre Dame Apartments Lafayette Square Townhouses 
835 Notre Dame Avenue 424 N. Frances Street 
• 
2-bedroom Apartments • 4 and 5 Bedroom Townhouses 

• 
Spacious 1,1 00 sq. ft. units • 6 Blocks from Campus 

• 
Within Walking Distance to NO (2 Blocks] • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking • Off-Street Parking 

• 
On-Site Laundry • Washer and Dryer 

• 
Water Utility Included in Rent • Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air • Central Air 

• 
Secured Exterior Doors with Intercom System • Security System 



Call today -these units are renting quickly View all of our houses, apartments and townhouses at www.kramerhouses.com 
Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Britain tracks radioactive sights 
LONDON -The British government began tracking radioactive hotspots in London on Monday to trace the poison that killed a former KGB agent, and three peo­ple who reported possible symptoms of contamination underwent testing. 
Britain announced a formal inquest into the death of Alexander Litvinenko, but Home Secretary John Reid warned against rushing to conclusions over who might be responsible for the killing of the ex-spy turned Kremlin critic. 
Litvinenko died Thursday after falling ill from what doctors said was poisoning by polonium-210, a radioactive isotope usually manufactured in specialized nuclear facili­ties. High doses of polonium, which is deadly if ingested or inhaled, were found in Litvinenko's body. 
"The nature of this radiation is such that it does not travel over long distances, a few centimeters at most, and therefore there is no need for public alarm," Reid said in a special address to the House of Commons. 
Candidate pushes radical reform 
QUITO, Ecuador -Rafael Correa, the left­ist nationalist headed to victory in Ecuador's presidential race, is already planning radical reforms when he takes office in January. 
That is putting him on a fast track to a dangerous confrontation with the country's opposition-controlled Congress -a body he has called a "sewer" but which he needs to carry out his reforms. 
"We receive this triumph with deep sereni­ty and humility," the 43-year-old Correa, who calls himself a "personal friend" of Venezuela's anti-U.S. President Hugo Chavez, said at a news conference Sunday night. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Court turns down school vouchers case 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court decid­ed Monday not to plunge into the issue of school choice, passing up a dispute over a Maine law that bars the use of public funds to send students to private religious schools. 
A conservative group, the Institute for Justice, had asked the justices to take the case. The group is representing eight Maine families who would receive public tuition funds but for the fact that their children attend religious schools. 
Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and President Bush's homestate of Texas had weighed in, saying in filings to the Supreme Court that Maine is unconstitutionally discriminating against reli­gion. 

NBC names Iraq conflict a civil war 
NEW YORK-NBC News on Monday began referring to the Iraq conflict as a civil war, adopting a phrase that President Bush and many other news organizations have avoided. 
Matt Lauer said on the "Today" show that "after careful consideration, NBC News has decided that a change in terminology is war­ranted, that the situation is Iraq with armed militarized factions fighting for their own political agendas can now be characterized as civil war." 
The network's cable news outlet, MSNBC, drummed the point home repeatedly by using the phrase "Iraq: The Civil War" on the screen. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man pleads guilty in fatal car crash 
INDIANAPOLIS -A man pleaded guilty Monday to several charges stemming from a fatal crash that authorities said happened after he sped through red lights on downtown streets at speeds estimated at 100 mph. 
Anthony T. Sibley, 38, faces 12 years in prison and three years of probation under terms of an agreement with prosecutors. His sentencing was scheduled for Dec. 8 in Marion Superior Court. 
Witnesses estimated Sibley's sport utility vehi­cle was traveling faster than 100 mph on May 17 when it struck 25-year-old Ronald J. Golden's car. Police said the impact pushed Golden's car about 100 feet and killed him. 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WlRF SERVJCES page 5 
ENGLAND 
AIDS to join top causes of death 
Virus to follow heart disease and stroke as third-highest killer within 25 years 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Within the next 25 years, AIDS is set to join heart disease and stroke as the top three causes of death worldwide, according to a study published online Monday. 
When global mortality pro­jections were last calculated a decade ago, researchers had assumed the number of AIDS cases would be declin­ing. Instead, it's on the rise. 
Currently ranked fourth behind heart disease, stroke, and respiratory infections, AIDS is set to become No. 3, say researchers in a new report in the Public Library of Science's Medicine jour­nal. It accounts for about 2.8 million deaths every year, but could near 120 million by 2030. 
Overall, the researchers predict that in three decades, the causes of global mortality will be strikingly similar worldwide -apart from the prevalence of AIDS in poorer countries. Most people will be dying at older ages of noninfectious dis­eases like cardiovascular disease, stroke and cancer. 
The paper by Dr. Colin Mathers and Dejan Loncar of the World Health Organiz­ation estimates that at least 117 million people will die from AIDS by 2030. In an optimistic future projection, if new HIV infections are Ezzati, an associate profes­from cardiovascular disease laws and improved safety curbed and access to life­sor of international health at is expected to rise from 16.7 practices have sharply cut prolonging antiretrovirals is Harvard University, who was million in 2002 to 23.3 mil­the numbers of road-related increased, 89 million people not connected to the paper. lion in 2030. Overall, they deaths. will die from the disease. As populations age, he expect non-communicable Knowing the likely causes 
Mathers and Loncar ana­explains, they are naturally diseases to account for 70 of future mortality allows lyzed data from more than more susceptible to illnesses percent of all deaths globally, policy-makers to attempt to 100 countries. The authors like cancer and heart dis­up from 59 percent in 2002. improve the expected out­looked at the links between ease than from infectious Though economic develop­come. While Mathers and mortality trends and income diseases -even in the ment may bring better Loncar are unable to per capita, as well as factors developing world. Life health care, it also has an account for unforeseen including education levels expectancy is expected to unfortunate side effect: more events such as the emer­and tobacco use. Their increase worldwide, with the road accidents. Based on gence of new deadly dis­research also used U.N. esti­highest projected life rates of increasing car own­eases or major outbreaks mates for projected AIDS expectancy in 2030 to be in ership, the World Bank esti­like a flu pandemic, their infection rates and the World Japanese women, at 88.5 mates that traffic fatalities projections may help to set Bank's numbers for future years. will increase globally by 66 the agenda of global health. income per capita. Mathers and Loncar spec­percent by 2020. This might "I hope this paper inspires 
"This is an important con­ulate that by 2030, cancer be avoided, Mathers says, if change," said Mathers. "And tribution that will help us deaths will jump from 7.1 developing countries learn I hope our pessimistic pro­determine the priorities in million in 2002 to 11.5 mil­from the experience of jections turn out to be public health," said Dr. Majid lion. The number of deaths developed countries, where wrong." 
Small protests develop at papal visit 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL, Turkey -Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan is to meet Pope Benedict XVI on Tuesday, a change of plans that appears to signal openness to a visit that has angered many Turks. 
Small protests broke out in the cities of Ankara and Istanbul on Monday, but authorities said securi­ty measures for the pope -who angered Muslims worldwide with comments in September on Islam and violence -will be tighter than they were for President Bush's visit in 2004. 
Benedict, on his first papal visit to a predominantly Muslim country, was to arrive at the Ankara airport Tuesday around noon, where he will meet briefly with Erdogan, who waited until the day before the pope's arrival to announce that he would make time to see the pope. 
News reports say some 3,000 police officers have been assigned to guard the pope upon his arrival in the dusty, sprawling capital of Ankara. Snipers will watch from hillsides and tall buildings, and armored vehicles and riot police will be stationed near the areas he is scheduled to visit. 
Police also were staking out spots in Istanbul, where Benedict will spend most of his four days in Turkey. 
On Monday, a group of around 100 demonstrators displayed what 
they said were a million signatures for a petition demanding that the Haghia Sophia be declared a mosque and opened to worship for Muslims. 
In a speech Sunday, Benedict said he was coming to Turkey as a friend of the Turks and asked his followers to pray for him. That same day, more than 25,000 Turks protested in Istanbul, asking the pope to stay home. 
The visit to Turkey will be a test of whether the pope can soften some of the Christian-Muslim ten­sions that boiled over after he quot­ed a Byzantine emperor who char­acterized some of the teachings of Islam's Prophet Muhammad as "evil and inhuman." 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 28, 2006 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS

Tuesday, November 28, 2006 page 7 

Dow 
12,121.71 -158.46

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 626 121 2,681 2,723,897,790 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -2.22  -0.99  43.66  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -2.64  -0.57  . 21.02  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -3.60  -0.20  5.36  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.94  -0.28  29.48  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.22  -0.0 I 0  4.538  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.24  -0.0 I I  4.618  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.26  -0.0 12  4.537  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.08  60.32  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  + 11.70  647.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.18  90.40  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.9550  
EURO  0.7607  
POUND  0.5 I 57  
CANADIAN$  1.1 332  

IN BRIEF 
Stocks slide amid Wal-Mart concerns 
NEW YORK -Wall Street had its worst day in more than four months Monday as the dol­lar weakened and concerns about the strength of the retail industry arose following a rare sales decline at Wal-Mart Stores Inc. The Dow Jones industrials fell 158 points. 
Investors were uneasy after the dollar fell for the fifth straight day and after Wal-Mart, the world's largest retailer, reported a 0.1 per­cent drop in same-store sales, those from stores open at least a year. Same-store sales are the industry standard for assessing a retailer's strength, and while overall retail sales appeared strong last weekend, Wal­Mart's first deficit in a decade raised concerns about the strength of consumer spending dur­ing the holiday season. 
"There is now significant concern that the holiday retail season is going to underper­form," said Gregory Miller, chief economist at SunTrust Banks. "Traffic doesn't necessarily translate into profits," he said, referring to reports of crowded stores over the weekend. 
As the dollar's slide continued, it hit a 20­month low against the euro though it did for a time move higher against the Japanese yen. 
B. of A. becomes NASCAR's bank 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Banking on NASCAR fans' sponsor loyalty to drive more retail business to their ATMs and branches, Bank of America has signed a five-year deal as the official bank of the popular stock-car series. 
The bank shared details of the agreement with The Associated Press before Monday's public announcement. 
The multiyear deal greatly expands Charlotte-based Bank of Amerfca Corp.'s sponsorship of stock car racing, while also marking a change in how NASCAR lines up sponsors. NASCAR has begun to reduce its sponsor base by consolidating deals and seeking opportunities to cover entire indus­tries in one deal. 
Bank of America already has an "official bank" deal in place with baseball. long known as the national pastime. Now, the nation's No. 2 bank adds a similar deal with a sport widely viewed as the nation's fastest­growing. 


CDC establishes model facility 
Nation's top public health agency attempts to get employees to walk their talk 
Associated Press 
ATlANTA -For decades, the nation's top public health agency has promoted exercise and healthy eating -and offered its own employees high-fat cafeteria food and a lackluster fitness center. But no more. 
In the last three years ­seeking to become a health model for other government agencies -the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has revamped cafeteria menus, wheeled out produce carts and reno­vated its office plazas to encourage walking. 
But the centerpiece of those efforts is located in Building 20, a $21 million, five-story edifice on the east­ern edge of the CDC's main campus. On the main floor is a new state-of-the-art fit­ness center, open since June. 
"We want this to become a model for companies and others to copy," said Tom Skinner, a CDC spokesman. 
With 15,000 employees and contract workers and an $8 billion budget, the CDC is perhaps best known for investigating outbreaks of infectious diseases. But the public health agency also studies chronic diseases and funds a variety of meas­ures that promote exercise and good nutrition. 

An upgrade of the CDC's strength-training and car­add extra, welcoming touch­Zerbe, an occupational gym was long overdue, said d i ov as c ul a r-priming es. health and safety specialist some longtime employees, machines, including eight The gym also serves as a who oversees the contractor, who can recall the days of treadmills, parked under testing ground for new exer­Computer Sciences Corp., nothing more than a basket­television sets. And it's all cise equipment. Earlier this which operates the gym. ball court and one Universal free to employees. fall, a GameCycle -a cross The fitness center is clear­machine. There's more: A 12-bike between a Nintendo video ly drawing customers. The 
That gym was gradually indoor cycling room flashes game and a hand crank -number of employees get­upgraded. But even in images of the Tour de was set up on the gym's ting exercise there has more recent years, it was hardly France and other race main floor. than doubled, from around ideal. courses. An aerobics room "It's a lot harder than it 250 a month in July-October 
"They had just three has seven Gravity Training looks," said Tim Granade, a 2005 to more than 600 a treadmills, and one would System machines, tilted, 54-year-old cbc microbiolo­month for the same period always say 'Out of Order,"' sled-like devices that work gist, after finishing a session this year, since the new gym said Kelley Hise, 30, who the entire body. on the machine in opened. works with CDC's food­Two "quiet rooms, September. Despite the improvements, borne disease tracking sys­reminiscent of "Star So far, the GameCycle is the new fitness center isn't, tem. Trek,"allow employees to sit the only piece of equipment at frrst glance, clearly supe­
The new center is certain­in zero-gravity chairs in a that's been tested. But as rior to some top-level corpo­ly an improvement. The dark room listening to music CDC officials become aware rate centers or private gyms. 16,000-square-foot building and viewing a panel of of unique pieces of equip­"They don't have a lot of features a large light-filled changing pastel lights. ment, they will contact the free weights (here)," training room and about The architecture firm, manufacturers to see if they observed employee Michael $200,000 in equipment. Atlanta-based TVS, used will loan devices to the CDC Adams, a 40-year-old who That includes more than 70 bamboo and river stones to for evaluation, said Christie was working out. 

Wal-Mart looks to expand in Mexico 
Associated Press Walmex, bringing to 13 the number of 311 restaurants. 
new banking licenses granted this "This is a business meant to support 
MEXICO CITY-Wal-Mart, already year by fmancial authorities. the current retail o~eration and to 
Mexico's largest retailer, is hoping to "A large percentage of our clients do complement the services we otTer at 
tap into the country's booming con­not have access to banking services, our stores," said Solorzano, adding the 
sumer-loan market when it opens its Eduardo Solorzano, Walmex's presi­bank should boost traffic and sales at 
own bank in the second half of next dent, said in a conference call with Walmex's retail stores. 
year, executives said on Monday. reporters on Monday. However, he said the company does­
While its efforts to enter the banking Walmex said its bank, Banco Wal­n't expect its new banking unit to start 
business in the United States met Mart de Mexico Adelante SA, will start showing profits before 2011. 
opposition, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. has operations in the second half of 2007, Mexican banks are enjoying a boom 
benefited from Mexico's efforts to open offering savings accounts, debit cards, in consumer lending thanks to low 
the financial services industry to low­and credit lines to its individual and interest rates, a growing economy and 
income clients, a segment of the popu­small-business customers. pent-up demand for credit. Banks had 
lation largely ignored by Mexico's Solorzano said the bank will operate 338.4 billion pesos ($30.65 billion) in 
large retail banks. in the company's stores, but not its performing loans on their books at the 
Last week the Finance Secretary restaurants. Walmex has about 558 end of September, a 44.4 percent 
approved five new banks, including retail stores -including Wal-Mart increase in real terms from a year­
one by Wal-Mart de Mexico, or Supercenters and Sam's Clubs -and ago. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
Volunteer 
continued from page I 
"Through the very nature of the season, people are more compelled to volunteer, espe­cially at a service-oriented school like our own," she said. 
· "More than just volunteering, however, people during the hol­iday season also seem more compelled to help in other capacities," Plamoottil said. "A great example of that came just a couple weeks ago with our committee's Darfur petition signing initiative." 
The Social Concerns commit­tee recently encouraged stu­dents to sign a large flag that read "Save Darfur" to raise awareness about the ongoing genocide. The flag-with more than 1,000 signatures -was mailed to Foreign Relations committee chairman Sen. Richard Lugar (R-Ind). 
"We saw many people that were genuinely concerned with the progress of the global goal including those that had per­sonally worked on something· related and those that simply saw a need for action," she said. 
Plamoottil directly saw an increase in service through her own efforts in previous years. 
"Having done work in the past with soup kitchens, food pantries and even blood banks, I have seen firsthand the huge influx of food and service com­ing into these establishments during the holiday season," she said. 
"Unfortunately, people that work at these establishments also remark on a huge decline after Christmas," Plamoottil said. "While it is important to make the holidays bright, the rest of the year must not be for­gotten either." 
Since the 1970s, over 7,000 Notre Dame students have par­ticipated in the Urban Plunge through the Center for Social Concerns. This program involves a two-day immersion in a poverty-stricken city across. the United States. This year, 290 students plan to partici­pate. 
While the Urban Plunge proj­ect attraets the most p1mple, the Center for Social Concerns offers other projects during the holiday season such as the Border Issues Seminar, the Organizing, Power ·and Hope Seminar and the Holy Cross Mission in Education Seminar. 
The Border Issues Seminar focuses on immigration and other issues between the United States and Mexico. Students work with parish organizations and refugees and discuss relat­ed issues. 
The Organizing, Power and Hope Seminar is a 6-day pro­gram in Chicago in which stu­dents intend to experience the Gospel through service. 
The Holy Cross Mission in Education Seminar works in conjunction with the ministry of the Holy Cross in Phoenix to further the mission of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are invited to participate in the programs offered by the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame. All of these seminars have waiting lists. 
At Saint Mary's, the main service event during the holi­days is the "12 Days of Christmas" project, which is sponsored by the Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) and the Senior Board. 
From Nov. 27 to Dec. 8, gifts will be collected and money will be raised to provide gifts and food for several families in the local community. Last year, the event provided gifts for 12 fami­lies and 11 individuals. Typical items include clothing, toys, household items and grocery gift cards. 
There will be 3-foot-tall "giv­ing trees" displayed at various points on campus with gift tags containing gift ideas for the less fortunate families. 
The goal of the Senior Board this year, according to Call, is to raise $5,000, which would exceed last year's amount. This program is in its second year. 
Money for the initiative is raised through campus events which require a five-dollar "12 Days" pass to participate. 
Different committees and clubs will sponsor events for the remainder of the semester like candy grams, free food and pie­turns with Santa. 
Senior class president Kathleen Kindt is organizing the event. 
"My goal was to have this be a Saint Mary's community event," she said. "We have so much and can give so much more." 
The Senior Board will be responsible for selling the pass­es, publicity and buying and distributing the gills. 
Individual dorms are also gearing up for the holidays, said Carla DeMarzo-Sanchez, vice president of McGlinn Hall. 
"So many people have been e­m ailing and asking how they can help out with local organi­zations," she said. 
McGlinn is baking for the women of the local women's care center whnre they volun­teer twice a month. 
O'Neill Hall president Steve Tortorello is using his own call to service to motivate other stu­dents. 
"I personally always fep,J a call to be volunteering in sonw way each week, so I think that call just carries over more into the holidays," he said. 
Siegfried Hall plans on con­tributing to the Christmas spirit as well. 
Siegfried residents are volun­teering to help wrap donated Christmas presents for South Bend families and are adopting two families and raising money to give them Christmas pres­ents. 
"Siegfried Ilall is always about giving back to the com­munity and we show this through various volunteering activities," said Siegfried presi­dent Tom Martin. "But during the holiday season, it is espe­cially noticeable bP.cause there are so many more opportuni­ties." With so many organiza­tions willing to help during the holidays, students will have no problem contributing to their communities. 
"The holidays seem to reawaken a sense of connected­ness in us," Plamoottil said. 
"We somehow are reminded that we're in this world togeth­er." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Driver retried in smuggling case 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -A jury began deliberating Monday to deter­mine the fate of a truck driver whom a prosecutor called "vile and heartless" for his role in the nation's deadliest human smuggling attempt. 
Tyrone Williams is being retried in the deaths of 19 ille­gal immigrants who prosecu­tors say were among more than 70 illegal immigrants stuft'ed into his sweltering trail­er. They said he ignored their pleas for help. 
"These people did not have to die. There is OQly one reason they're dead, and he sits right over there," Assistant U.S. Attorney Daniel Rodriguez said in closing arguments. He point­ed at Williams. 
Defense attorney Craig Washington said that Williams is guilty only of transporting illegal immigrants and that he had no idea people were dying in the trailer and never meant them any harm. 
"The deaths of the 19 people in Victoria was a great, great tragedy. Whether it was, a crime of the magnitude that they want it to be, is up to you," he said. 
After both sides gave their closing arguments, the jury deliberated for about two hours Monday afternoon before stopping for the day. Deliberations were to resume Tuesday morning. 
Williams is charged with 58 counts of conspiracy, and of harboring and transporting illegal immigrants. lie. faces a possible death sentence if con­victed. 
Authorities say Williams was part of a smuggling ring that tried to transport the illegal immigrants from Mexico, Central America and the Dominican Hepublic in his air­tight traetor-trailer from South Texas to Houston in May 2003. 
Williams abandoned the trail­er at a truck stop near Victoria, about 100 miles southwest of Houston. During the journey; the immigrants' body tempera­tures rose as high was 113 degrees. 
Nineteen of them died from dehydration, overheating and suffocation. 
Prosecutors argued Williams failed to turn on his trailer's air conditioning unit, which they said might have prevented the deaths. Several survivors called by Williams' attorneys testified the air conditioning unit was turned on during the trip. 
Survivors testified they eould­n't understand how Williams didn't hear or feel as the immi­grants desperately banged on the trailer's walls, shouting that they were dying and need­ed to be released. 
A jury convicted Williams last y(lar of 38 transporting eounts, but he avoided a death sen­tence because jurors couldn't agref1 on his role in the smug­gling attempt. llowever, the 5th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejp,cted the decision, saying the verdict didn't eount because jurors failed to specify his role in the crime. 
Williams, 35, a Jamaican citi­zp,n who livnd in Seheneetady, N.Y., is the only one of 14 peo­ple ch;trged in the case who is faeing the death penalty. 
So far, seven people have been sentenced to prison in the case. Sentencing for three oth­ers is pending. Charges against two were dismissed, and onn man remains a fugitive. 

GaiDe 
continued from page I 
said. "I thought it would've bmm a closer game. It was frustrating. This was supposed to be the biggllSt game of the year." 
"The excitement was ruined from the start," said Mader, who said that he "expeeted it to be a dillieult game, but the team and student secHon should've been morn motivated by the challenge." 
Three hundred students were 

Moreau 
continued from page I 
I leaven and his eapaeity to inter­cede on behalf of those who pray in his name. 
The person must be proven to be responsible for one miracle to reeeive the title of "Blessed," and another miracle after that to be declared a saint, or canonized, Fettig said. 
"Hight now, we have all the papers approved but the date f(Jr tho beatification cnremony will not be announced until next year," she said. 
In the meantime, the Holy Cross congmgations will prepare the del­egations that will travel to Le Mans, as wnll as the lilstivities to celebrate tho beatification on ·the home front. 
"This is a great moment for the Congregation of Iloly Cross and for all the places where they minister, like Notre Dame," said Father Peter Jarret, Superior of the Holy Cross religious at Notre Dame. 
"Every five years, there is a gath­ering of all tho Holy Cross religious in the Indiana province. 
"Approximatnly 300 of u<> will be meeting in June, and the foeus of the assembly will definitely be Father Moreau's beatification and tho organization of a large celebra­tion on campus." 
When the daw of the anticipated ceremony arrives, the sisters, brothers and priests in Indiana, Canada and Bangladesh -among other locations -will join forees to celebrate Moreau's life and legacy across the globe as the beatifica­tion unfolds over the course of thrne days in France, Fettig said. 
She began overseeing the liturgi­ofl'en~d the chance to buy tickets to the game at face value. Some weren't so lucky, including Wang, who paid $320 for his ticket on eBay. 
The band members who trav­eled to USC performed at a small pep rally before kickoff and were on the sidelines during the game. 
The entire 380-member University marching band is expected to perform when Notre Dame goes to a bowl game. 
Contact John Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
cal committee that will prepare the prayer service the night before the official ceremony. 
The next day the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of the Sainlc; will turn Father Moreau into Blessed Father Moreau, and lawr a Mass of thanksgiving will put a fin­ishing touch on the event. 
In previous years, the Pope used to preside over beatification cere­monies, and these would take place strictly in Rome -but in the last year he and the Vatican shifted their attention to canonizations, and allowed representatives to otli­ciate beatification ceremonies in the hometowns of those awaiting the rite, Fettig said. 
One of the last times the Holy Cross family celebrated the beatifi­cation of one of their own was in 1982, when Brother Andre Bessette was blessed after being credited with numerous miracu­lous healings. 
Mother Marie Leonie Paraclis, a Canadian Holy Cross sister, was beatified in 1984. ­
Saint Mother Theodore Guerin, founder of Saint Mary of the Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind. was canonized last October. 
"All lloly Cross friends and stu­dents are invited to join us in a year of gratitude for the life and legacy of our founder, Basil Mary Moreau, to understand who he was and who we are today" Fettig said. 
"You can see today the fruits of the seed Father Moreau planted," she said. 
"Education was always one of hic; greatest priorities and here we are, living out those ideals," Fettig said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd.edu 




Prize will accept 
... 

more online works 
Associated Press gory, which has allowed 
material such as streaming 

NEW YOHK -The Pulitzer video and databases since Prize will allow newspapers 1999. to submit video and interac-Entries for the 2007 tive graphics as part of their Pulitzers may contain online entries for the top award in material such as video, blogs, American print journalism, databases and interactive prize offieials announced graphics for all print cate-Monday. gories. 
Allowing more online mate-The photography categories rial "was the next logical remain restricted to still step," said Sig Gissler, admin-images. In the categories of istrator of thP Pulitzers. "It breaking news reporting and emphasizes blended journal-breaking news photography, ism and that's where newspa-the board will eontinue to pPrs are today." allow entries consisting solely 
The Pulitzer Prize Board·-of work published online. also replaced the Beat Other categories must inelude Heporting category, created some material from the news­in 1991, with a Local paper's print edition. Heporting category. Beat reporters are still eli-
For the awards handed out gible to submit their work in earlier this year, online mate-other categories. rial was allowed as part of all The new rules apply to entries for the first time but work done during 2006 for limited to written stories or prizes awarded in 2007. The still images in 13 of the 14 deadline for entries is Feb. 1 categories. The exception and prizes will be announced was the Publie Service cate-April 16. 
-----------------------~---~------~-~ ­
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
10 killed in group home fire in southwest Mo. 
24 others treated in early morning fire Monday; worst fire recorded in the area at a healthcare facility since 2003 
Associated Press 
ANDERSON, Mo. ~ An early morning fire broke out in a group home for the elderly and mentally ill Monday, killing 10 people and injuring two dozen others in a blaze that the governor said was being treated as a crime. 
The blaze reduced the privately run Anderson Guest House to a skeleton of cinder blocks and stunned this rural community of about 1,800 people tucked in the Ozark hills of southwest Missouri. 
Gov. Matt Blunt said investiga­tors were treating the fire as sus­picious. 
"We're not saying it is definitely a crime scene, but we are treating it as ifit is and trying to determine if the fire was set by somebody who had a nefarious motive," Blunt said. 
The home had 32 residents and two employees inside when the fire was reported around 1 a.m. The dead ranged in age from early 20s to elderly. Another 18 people were taken to hospitals, and six were treated at the scene, authorities said. 
One of the dead was a worker in the home, and the other nine were residents, Blunt said. Authorities did not plan to release names until Tuesday because relatives of two victims haven't yet been notified. 
Asked whether two staff mem­bers were enough to look after 32 residents, Blunt said that was up to state health officials. 
"Again, it was late at night," the governor said. "That would impact to some degree the amount of care that is necessary." 
Neighbor Steven Spears, 47, saw the blaze erupt through secu­rity cameras posted outside his home. 
"I saw the front door blow open with fire," Spears said. "I know most of them (the residents). I've talked to all of them at one time or another. It still hasn't hit me." 
The home is operated by Joplin River of life Ministries Inc. Owner Robert Dupont issued a statement expressing sadness and saying all displaced residents were being cared for with the help of local agencies. 
"This is a very tragic situation that has saddened all of us at Joplin River of life Ministries," he said. 
One person was in serious con­dition at Joplin Hospital. All the other survivors who went to area hospitals were either in good or fair condition, or had been treated and released. 
Authorities were trying to deter­mine whether the blaze was linked to a smaller fire at the facil­ity Saturday morning, said Assistant Fire Marshal Greg Carrell. No one was injured in the first fire, which was still under investigation when the second blaze began. 

The home is a residential care center licensed by the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. The facility also has a license from the state Department of Mental Health that allowed mentally ill residents to live at the home and receive treatment else­where. 
The facility was cited in March for grease buildup in the kitchen, uncovered fluorescent light fix­tures, allowing meat to thaw on the kitchen counter instead of in a refrigerator, allowing a resident to take more than the prescribed dose of an inhaler and not requesting criminal background checks for new employees as quickly as required by law. All the deficiencies were corrected within three weeks, according to the health department. 
In October 2003, another group home operated by the same com­pany was cited for fire-code viola­tions, including intentionally dis­abling fire equipment, records show. That facility closed on July 15, 2004, said Nanci Gonder, a spokeswoman for the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. 
Monday's blaze was one of the worst fires at a health care facility since 2003, when a patient suffer­ing from dementia and multiple sclerosis, set fire to her bed and burned down a care center in Hartford, Conn., killing 16 resi­dents. Six months later, in September 2003, a fire killed 15 patients in Nashville, Tenn. 
Recently, the federal agency that oversees the safety of nursing homes asked for comments about a proposal to require all nursing homes to have comprehensive sprinkler systems. The rule would not address group homes like the one in Anderson because such facilities are not subject to the same federal oversight. 


Shooting concerns officials 
Mayor Bloomberg says excessive force was used outside NYC strip club 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Mayor Michael Bloomberg weighed in on the uproar over a deadly police shooting Monday, saying bluntly that officers appeared to use excessive force when they fired 50 shots at an unarmed man in a confrontation outside a strip club hours before his wedding. 
"I can tell you that it is to me unacceptable or inexplicable how you can have 50-odd shots fired, but that's up to the inves­tigation to find out what really happened," Bloomberg said at a news conference after meeting with elected officials and com­munity leaders including the Rev. Al Sharpton and Rep. Charles Rangel. 
The groom, Sean Bell, 23, was killed and two of his friends wounded early Saturday after a bachelor party at the strip club. Suspecting that one of the men had a gun, police fired 50 rounds into the vehicle. The men were unarmed. 
In her first public comments on the shooting, Bell's fiancee, Nicole Paultre, told a radio sta­tion Monday that the people who shot her husband shouldn't be called officers. 
"They were murderers, mur­derers," she told hip-hop sta­tion Power 105.1. "They were not officers. No one gives any­one the right to kill somebody." 
Sharpton called the confer­ence of leaders a "very candid" meeting. He said the message to Bloomberg was: "This city must show moral outrage that 50 shots were fired on three unarmed men." Some have also questioned whether the shoot­ing was racially motivated because the victims were all black men. The five officers who fired their guns included two blacks, two whites and one Hispanic. 
Of the victims, Bloomberg said Monday: "There is no evi­dence that they were doing any­thing wrong," referring to everything leading up to the moment they struck the officer with their car. 
For a mayor to question the actions of the officers and defend the shooting victims ­while reaching out immediately to the grieving community ­sets a decidedly different tone than in the past. Former Mayor Rudy Giuliani was hounded for what some viewed as a slow response to the killing of Amadou Diallo, an unarmed West African immigrant who was shot 19 times in the Bronx by four white officers. They were later acquitted of criminal charges. 
The gunfire in the current case stemmed from an under­cover operation inside the Kalua Cabaret, where seven officers in plain clothes were investigating alleged prostitu­tion and drug use. 
Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly has said the groom was involved in an argu­ment outside the club after 4 a.m., and one of his friends made a reference to a gun. An undercover officer walked closely behind Bell and his friends as they headed for their car. As he walked toward the front of the vehicle, they drove forward _ striking him and an undercover police vehicle, Kelly said. 
The officer who had followed the group on foot was apparent­ly the first to open fire, Kelly said. One 12-year veteran frred his weapon 31 times, emptying two full magazines, Kelly said. 
Bloomberg also said police appeared to have violated the policy stating that officers can­not shoot at a vehicle being used as a weapon if no other deadly force is involved. 
But Bloomberg was steadfast in his support for Kelly, who has been denounced by some activists since the shooting. 
The five officers were placed on paid administrative leave and were stripped of their guns during the investigation. 
Queens District Attorney Richard A. Brown said Monday that the results of his office's investigation would be present­ed to a grand jury. He said he had spoken with the mayor and police commissioner and had met with Sharpton, Bell's par­ents and Paultre. 

Police stage shootout with elderly woman 
Event prompts FBI probe; woman dead
"I will be guided only by the law and the facts," Brown said in a statement. "I will reach no conclusions until the investiga­tion is complete. There will be no rush to judgment." 
Michael Palladino, president of the Detectives' Endowment Association, defended the offi­cers' actions and said police were responding to the threat of the car. 
"The amount of shots fired does not spell out excessive to me," Palladino said. 
Giuliani's response to the 1999 Diallo killing sparked protests nearly every day for weeks around City Hall, where demonstrators accused his administration of trampling the civil rights of blacks and Latinos. 
Bloomberg's allies these days include some who were once at odds with Giuliani. Sharpton acknowledged that the tone has changed, but said courtesy only goes so far. 
"This man has better man­ners than his predecessor. Let's see if we have better policy ... because we're not just interest­ed in being treated politely," Sharpton said. "We're interest­ed in being treated fairly and rightly." 
Bloomberg told reporters he did not believe the shooting was racially motivated but said "it's clear that people in this city do feel that they are sometimes stopped, frisked, whatever, based on their ethnicity," and he said his administration would work to prevent that. 
The mayor planned to meet with the victim's family as soon as it was appropriate, and said he would also visit the commu­nity in Queens. 
Paultre made a quiet visit to the shooting site before dawn Monday, lighting candles clus­tered around a photo of the smiling couple with one of their daughters. 
The survivors were Joseph Guzman, 31, who was shot at least 11 times, and Trent Benefield, 23, who was hit three times. Guzman was in critical condition and Benefield in stable condition Monday. 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The FBI will lead the investigation into the shootout between plainclothes police officers and an 88-year­old woman who was killed in her home, which was suspect­ed to contain drugs, the city police dlief said Monday. 
Three officers were wound­ed when they entered Kathryn Johnston's home looking for cocaine based on tips from an informant, according to the search warrant released Monday by the Fulton County State Court. 
Police said the informant told officers he had purchased drugs in the home earlier, prompting investigators to get a warrant. But Atlanta Police Chief Richard Pennington said it was unclear whether there had been a drug deal or whether the suspected drug dealer actually exists. 
"That's what we're going to have to investigate and deter­mine," Pennington said. "The officers are saying one thing, the confidential informant is saying something else." 
Monday evening, WAGA-TV aired an interview with a man who said that he was the informant, and that he had never purchased drugs at Kathryn Johnston's home. The man, whose identity was obscured by the TV station, also said that police had asked him to lie about providing the information, but that that was before he knew the elderly woman had been killed in a shootout there. 
Seven narcotics investigators and a police sergeant were placed on paid leave until the inquiry is complete, Pennington said. Pennington said the informant is in pro­tective custody and would be a key part of the investigation. 

"There are many unan­swered questions," Pennington said. "I promise each and every citizen that the truth will eventually be known, but we must have patience." 
After the shooting, officers said they found marijuana inside the northwest Atlanta home, but "not a large quanti­ty," according to Pennington. 
Police had a "no-knock" warrant, which are frequently used to get inside a home before suspects have a chance to get rid of drugs, said Pennington, adding that his department would review its policy on such warrants and its use of confidential inform­ants. 
The U.S. attorney's office, Georgia Bureau of Investigation and Fulton County district attorney's office also will take part in the review of the circumstances surrounding the shootout. 
Sarah Dozier, Johnston's niece, has said her aunt lived alone. 
Johnston was described by neighbors and family as a woman living in fear in Vine City -a northwest Atlanta neighborhood in the shadow of the Georgia Dome. There were burglar bars on her one­story brick home, and she rarely let friends and neigh­bors inside. 
The medical examiner's office also reported Sunday that records show Johnston was 88, despite her family saying she was 92. 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 

Christmas and civil disobedience 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWs EDITORS: Kate Antonacci Mary Kate Malone VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

The ~(USPS 599 2-4000} i5 publishal Monday through Friday cxc!:!pt during exam and vacation petiods. A ~ub5cription to The O~rve:r is $100 for one academic year; $55 for one semester. 
l11c Ohserver is puhli..ffied n: POSTMASTER 024 South Dilling HaU Send a~ corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46);6-0779 Th<Ob.c= Pcri(ldical postage paid ar Notre Dame P.O. Boxn9 and addirional mailing offiet!S. 02-i South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, lN 46-556..0n9 
T'he Observer is a member ofthe Associate-d P.tCM. All reproduction rights: are 
«=VV<l 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Tim Dougherty Katie Kohler Fran Tolan 
Katie McDonnell Chris Wilson Viewpoint Scene Joey King Analise Lipari Graphics Jarred Wafer 
As we move into the Christmas season, maybe you think it has nothing to do with the political season we just sur­vived. If so, think again. 
The Magi were lateeomers lo lhe Christmas narrative. But they tell us a lot about Christmas as a political event. According to tradition their names were Melchior, Gaspar and Balihasar. They got some good press from Benedict XVI last year at World Youth Day in Cologne. In 1164 the relics of the Magi were formally transferred from Milan, across the Alps to Cologne where, in the words of Benedict, the people "produced the most exquisite reliquary of the whole Christian world and raised above it an even greater reliquary: Cologne Cathedral." 
So what do the Magi have to do with politics? In their day there was no recog­nized moral limit to the power of the state. The Magi proclaimed one by defy­ing Herod's command that they tell him where the Child was so "that I too may go and worship him, (Matthew 2:8}." He was, of course, a lying politician, which some may regard as a redundancy. When the Magi had departed for home, Joseph was warned by an angel to take the Child into Egypt because Herod wanted to kill him. Joseph obeyed and he and Mary joined the Magi as the first practitioners of civil disobedience in the 


Charles Rice 
Right or Wrong? 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
In defense of diversity 
I would like to submit a rebuttal to the Letter to the Editor by Lindsay Gilbertson that appeared on Nov. 20, entitled "Catholic Identity Valued." The author's essay was, in fact, a response to a previous article submitted five days prior on the subject of attracting more religious diversi­ty to Notre Dame, authored by a Muslim student. The response's myopic interpreta­tion of diversity represents a very unset­tling view that this university, in pursuit of academic credibility and intellectual devel­opment of its students, cannot afford to leave unadvised. 
A very confusing and inaccurate con­tention that the author makes on the nature of Catholic values is that they are inherently not secular. I beg to diller. I, per­sonally, come from a Catholic family. but an overwhelming majority of my friends do not. Catholic values rPgarding peace, responsible sexuality and, of course, lhc high respect for the figum of the matri­arch, among otl10rs, are not exclusive to Catholicism nor to Christianity as a whole. 
These values, aside from being endearnd by people devoid of religious faith, have immense secular implieations. Hegardless of religious and spiritual context, rnsponsi­ble sexuality has great secular impaet on society as can be extrapolated !rom legisla­tion encouraging healthy construetion of family units. I fear for the non-Catholic readers of the letter I write about, that they might receive the impression that our 

OBSERVER POLL 
Will you be watching the Notre Dame women's soccer team in the Final Four this weekend? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Christian era. 
What got into the Magi to make them challenge the King'? At World Youth Day, Benedict explained that the Magi had come sm~king the prophesied "King who would be intimately united with God, a King who would restore order to the world, aeting for God and in his Name." That King turned out to be "quite unlike what they were expecting." Still, "they knelt down bnfore this child and recog­nized him as the promised King. But they still had to ... change their ideas about power, about God and about man, and in so doing, they also had to change thmnselvns. Now they were able to see that God's power is ... the power oflove ... which constitutes the new divine intervention that opposes injustice and ushers in the Kingdom of God." 
Christmas made visible the Incarnation in which the second person of the Trinity became man. When that Child became an adult, he spelled it out for Pilate, that the power of the state is given by God and is subject to his law: "Thou wouldst have no power at all over me were it not given to you from above," (John 19:11}." This juridical impact of the Incarnation had become reality at Christmas in the eivil disobedience of the Magi and then of Joseph and Mary. 
Benedict asked the youth at Cologne, "what does all this mean for us?" lie answered his own question by giving them a short course on the nature of true revolution. "The saints," he said, "are the true reformers ... In the last century we experienced revolutions with a common programme -expecting nothing more 
beliefS do not line up with theirs in a prac­tical and secular manner -the secular arena being the most common place of interaction between interests from varying religious and spiritual backgrounds. While Ammar Tahir's Nov. 15 Letter to the Editor, "Attracting Diverse Students to Notre Dame," might have implied "universal" values:. he ee~!nly was not mistaken by use of secular. 
Furthermore, the primary concern I have for Gilbertson's argument is her claim that Notre Dame has no need for more diversity of religion on campus. While I agree, as most will, that Notre Dame has a duty to uphold it<> Catholic tradition, that certainly does not preclude the further inclusion of people of other faiths into our student body. I would assert, above Notre Dame's Catholic identity, Notre Dame has a !,>Teater attraction to prospective student<> as a more generally spiritual identity. If one came to Notre Dame, surrounded by noth­ing but other people of the same faith in Catholicism, he or she would not be receiv­ing the bnst quality of diversity possible and would be at a severe disadvantage upon graduation. 
The mal world will not consist of people like you, sharing your beliefs and religious practices. The real world is a world of varyingly nuanced faith, hybrid identities and, more signilkantly, of misunderstand­ings perpetuated by those who simply do not see the need to interact intimately with ideas other than their own. For anyone to claim that Notre Dame does not need reli­

.. 
Submit ~ t•·;etter ~ to the.Ediror·at 

11 www.ndsm~observ~r.com 
:·~ 
from God, they assumed total responsi­bility for the cause of the world in order to change it. [This I meant that a human and partial point of view was always taken as an absolute guiding principle. Absolutizing what is ... relative is ... totalitarianism. It does not liberate man, but takes away his dignity and enslaves him. 
"It is not ideologies that save the world, but only a return to the living God, our Creator, the guarantor of our freedom, the guarantor of what is really good and true. True revolution consists in simply turning to God who is the measure of what is right and who at the same time is everlasting love." 
The Magi sent a news flash to the world that there is a law higher than the state. That higher law, however, like any law, makes ultimate sense only if we can identify its lawgiver and discern his intent. That Lawgiver is the Child whom the Magi adored. As Benedict, the Vicar of that Child, told the youth at Cologne, "Here in the Sacred Host he is present before us and in our midst ... as he was then in Bethlehem." 
So Christmas tells us a lot about how to keep politics in perspective. That is so because that Child himself is still a cur­rent event. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He can be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
gious diversity on this campus speaks vol­umes about the troubles facing our world today. 
I have enjoyed the experience of inter­acting with such groups as the Muslim Student Association on a spiritual level, comparing our overlapping beliefS and tak­ing an open-minded look at where our cul­tural divides stand. Though these people do not share dogma specifically held by Catholics, they still pray to one God and treasure the value of life, liberty and reli­gious self-expression. To Gilbertson, I chal­lenge you to interact with people such as those who share beliefs starkly different from your own Catholic background and I hope you come to see how much you share in common. The Qu'ran and its believers are a beautiful example of religiosity and faith when you examine them with an unprejudiced mind, but they are only one example. 
I pray that Gilbertson comes to realize the implications of diversity, both religious and not, on thi<> campus, and rethinks the claims in her article. She will begin to real­ize what people of other religions can teach that cannot be learned in a class here at Notre Dame, but the full extent of these lessons cannot be had without at least some increase in their presence on our campus. God bless. 
Sean Anthony Rega freshman Alumni Hall Nov.21 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I don't own a cell phone or a pager. I just hang around everyone I know. all the time. Ifsomeone wants to get ahold ofme, they just say 'Mitch,' and I say 'what?' and turn my head slightly." 
Mitch Hedberg comedian 


THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 page 11 
Is race elective? 
Superficially, Anatole Broyard (1920­1990) possessed all of the classic attrib­utes of a New York intellectual and socialite: wealth, a powerful mind, pres­tige earned through decades as a high­profile New York Times book reviewer, a gift for words, and an insa­tiable appetite for self­gratification. From the very beginning Broyard was naturally suited to the lifestyle that he had made his own, save for one snag. In the middle of the 20th century, in a profoundly discrimina­tory era, and in an absolutely elitist profes­sion, Anatole Broyard was black. 
Broyard fought his entire life, more or less successfully, to conceal his birth race (He was aided in this by an uncommonly fair complexion). And while few should disagree that Broyard's reasons for his lifelong deception -primarily to protect his career -were petty, his modus operandi flawed, and his lifelong disguise ultimately harmful to himself (this tension is very clear in his writings), at the kernel of his deception lies a fascinating idea. For Anatole Broyard, his race was his choice. 
Although Broyard's life demonstrates 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 

beyond doubt that his idea has potential for abuse, there is nonetheless a com­pelling quality to the notion that race is ultimately elective. Part of this, I feel, stems from our subconscious realization that concepts of racial supremacy are dominated by the doctrine of absolute rigidity. For the supremacist, race is ordained by God or by nature, and its boundaries must never, under any cir­cumstances, be crossed. What could be more antithetical to this viewpoint then the idea of an elective race, where not only are those boundaries crossable, but they are altogether mutable? 
Of course in practice, few would dispute that the adoption of an elective notion of race could never reach this pure ideal. Were the idea to be grafted directly onto our society, I believe that three common responses would emerge. One portion of society would look upon the idea as a grave insult to its identity, a second would adopt Broyard's brand of hollow racial escapism, and a third would agree with the idea yet change nothing about the way it views the world. At best the entire situa­tion might devolve into an almost surreal game of "race tourism" with little depth or understanding. In no regard would it live up to what the pure ideal of elective race aims to be. 
But the failure of the idea itself is telling. The very reason that a Broyard-style sys-tern of elective race fails is because the idea of race that underlies is not equiva­lent to what most of society understands race to be (For Broyard race was skin color, nothing more.) But our reactions to the failure also show that our essential views of race itself are fundamentally fragmented. 
On the one hand there are those for whom, like Broyard, race is nothing more than a collection of visible characteristics (possibly with underlying genetics) the most common of these being skin color. Some of these people may be uncomfort­able with the idea of race in general and therefore they tend to favor a landscape in which, for all intents and purposes, race does not exist. These are the kind of peo­ple who voted to ban affirmative action in Michigan a few weeks ago. Their ultimate goal is to achieve complete and total "color blindness." 
However, for others, race is a state of being. It is not attached so much to the color of a person's skin, although that is undeniably part of it, as it is to his or her universal experience while wearing that skin. Race is both a kind of righteous anger and a kind of solidarity, such as was witnessed after Hurricane Katrina demol­ished New Orleans. Through this lens, it matters not so much what you are as what you know and what experiences you have been through. Sometimes the ulti­mate goal of this group is overcoming what faces it, sometimes it is to transcend it. 
But the very fact that both of these views can be held by the same culture simultaneously is partially a vindication of Broyard's ideal. In reality, it is not that I elect what race I shall call myself, but rather that I elect how I shall view race altogether and this limits all of my subse­quent choices. It is this election that really makes a black woman black and a white woman white, more than the color of either's skin. 
Perhaps, in realizing that the concept of race is already elective, we can go a step further to making the actuality of race elective as well. At the very least, our understanding of the choice we make in viewing what race will mean to us should inform our relations with others in this diverse culture. 
And maybe, just maybe, Broyard will have the last laugh after all. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofthe University ofNotre Dame. He can be con­tacted at comments@tidewaterblues.com. This work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial­ShareAlike 2.5 License. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
·Re~examining faith and education 
Is religion the best answer? 
In the Letter to the Editor "Combine Religion and Science in Education, Nov. 21" Krista Larsen brought to light the issue of a declining American education system and offered as a possible remedy a return to religious devotion. While, if it worked, such a solution may indeed aid the process of increasing the quality of American education, the fact stands that such a solution is most impractical and unnecessary. 
The simultaneous drop in religious attendance and math and science scores does not signify a direct correlation between the two. Likewise it does not lead to the conclusion that a spur in religious attendance will counteract the current downward trend. Instead of jumping to the conclusion that the cure lies in a religious movement of sorts, we would be wiser to consider the problem more carefully. Krista noted that Japan leads the academic race in the areas of math and science. Yet Japan's school system is, like America's, secular, and the Japanese as a whole are not consid­erably more devout in their faith than Americans. Therefore it is not a lack of religion which differentiates our school system from other, more successful school systems. 
Rather I would argue the difference lies in other important characteristics which Larsen admitted have some influ­ence on education. Namely, values such as obedience and perseverance are of fundamental worth in education. When concerned about how best to improve the quality of our education system we should focus on how best to instill these values in students. 
Here I will agree with Larsen that the religions of the world seek to instill these very values in believers, and so the argument for a correlation between religious attendance and education may hold some water. However, it is not nec­essary to believe in God to understand the inherent value of education and to be motivated to become educated. 
A secular community can certainly foster a strong commitment to educa­tion. This is evident in secular schools and universities throughout the nation. So when considering how to improve the schools of our nation, I do not see the argument for promoting religious devo­tion as highly relevant. Not only does common sense readily point out that such an argument would have little credit or effect in America, but promot­ing the values necessary for a good school system need not involve religion. The characteristics of a good education system and solutions for allowing our schools to adapt them more effectively can be determined through political debate. Likewise, while our faith may guide us in education, the intrinsic value of education can be determined without divine revelation. 
Benjamin Andersen freshman Carroll Hall Nov. 22 

Keep religion and science separate 
I would respectfully disagree with Kristen Larsen's Letter to the Editor ("Combine religion and science in educa­tion," Nov. 21). Now, more than ever, we need to encourage just the opposite. At present, religious leaders continue to project religion onto science, education, politics and the rights of private individu­als. We must encourage a clear separa­tion between science and religion because the two are inherently at odds, both in general and on many specific issues. 
Science attempts to make claims about the way the world is through continuous research and tireless experimentation. We do not accept scientific beliefs with­out good reason. We are under no pres­sure to accept someone's scientific claims without a sufficient display of evidence. Yet the rules seem to change when we turn the subject to religion. Christianity reports to be certain of things, of which, no one can ever be certain. It makes claims about the state of the world in conflict with a mountain of evidence and continues to draw its worldview out of books written thousands ofyears ago. 
According to an October 2005 CBS News Poll, 51 percent of Americans claimed not to believe in evolution but rather that God created humans in their present form. Evolution is an accepted scientific fact. Scientists are currently trying to understand the mechanisms by which evolution occurred, but there is no doubt among any respected scientist that evolution occurred. That such a stun­ningly low percentage of Americans are aware of this is a problem for science to which closer ties to religion is not a solu­tion. 

When you have Christian ministers preaching the sinfulness of certain scien­tific research (take embryonic stem-cell research or new advances in the preven­tion of cervical cancer for example), based on nothing more than beliefs pulled from books that claim the world was created around the time that the Sumerians were brewing beer, there really is a conflict. 
Science needs to be free from religious dogma. Religion may have its place in our society today (and according to an April 2006 CBS News Poll, 82 percent of Americans think it does), but its place is not in science. Science needs to advance without the constraints that blind faith in religious dogma would undoubtedly place upon it. Finally, I would just like to point out that in Japan, which, as Larsen informed us, is ranked first in math and science, 65 percent of the population reports not to believe in a higher power, according to The Cambridge Companion to Atheism. lfwe hope to continue on a path toward scientific advancement we need to be encouraging a separation of science and religion in our education, not a combination. 
John Kennedy 
law student 
offcampus 
Nov. 21 


-------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
MOVIE REVIEWS 

Aronofsky's 'Fountain' thrills, confuses viewers 
and the possibility of eternal life andBy MARTY SCHROEDER 
love are the themes that Aronofsky
Assistant Scene Editor 
explores in this film through stunning 
visuals and wonderful performances 
When a Christian angel in the guise from both Jackman and Weisz. of a Mayan warrior bows down before The visuals are the strongest aspect a time-traveling man who bears a of the lilm, from the jungles of South striking resemblance to a Buddha, and Central America to the cosmos of there is some-the third chapter ol' thing heavy going the story. "The on. In Darren The Fountain Fountain" travels Aronofsky's latest 
from the court of the release, "The Spanish Inquisition, Fountain," the through jungles, to director plays the l'rustration or around with reli­Director: Darren Aronofsky modern relation­gion, what it Writer: Darren Aronofsky ships and even the means to die Starring: Hugh Jackman, Rachel stars, and weavns and, more impor­Weisz, Ellen Burstyn, Ethan Supplee them all into a stun­tantly, with what and Sean PatrickThomas ning array of light it means to live. and sound. Thn nar-
Starring rative is not sup­Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz, "The posed to be understood coherently. Fountain" tells a tale of two lovers What little there is in the way of a story through three time periods. The film consists of the love two people have l'or 

Tommy (Hugh Jackman), left, relaxes with his dying wife, lzzie (Rachel Weisz) in
opens with Tomas, a conquistador each other and the strength it takes to 

"The Fountain." Director Darren Aronofsky's latest is a study in visual splendor.
attempting to seale a Mayan pyramid. stay and say goodbye. 

He makes it to the top, encountering The iUm is a departure for Aronofsky, a man with a burning sword standing whose previous films included 1998's something to be experienced. Aronofsky never meant for "The guard at a tree. The film then fast-for­"Pi" and his entrance to mass Perhaps the most stunning sequence Fountain" to be coherent. This is a film wards to the present day, where respectability, 2000's 'Requiem For a of the film is the climax, which meant to be enjoyed and savored, Tommy is trying to save his wife Isabel Dream." Always one attempts to tie the three nar­rather than simply understood. [lzzi] from cancer. to play around with This is a film meant to rative threads together. It is "The Fountain" is why we go to the­
"The Fountain" then goes on to tell imagery, he was one an explosion of light, sound aters, sit in the dark and watch movies.
be enjoyed and
the story of Thomas, a man who is of the main users of and emotion. Alongside this If every film were able to match this in traveling through space haunted and/or the hip-hop montage savored, rather than spectacle, however, is the terms of sensory pleasure, it could visited by specters of his past. Jackman effect, and he has a simply understood. fact that the story is rather hardly be considered a bad thing. plays all three of the male leads in maintained distinc­sporadic and the three When you walk into the theater, don't
'The Fountain" is why 
each time period and Weisz does the tive visual style. threads never really quite fit worry about the boy getting the girl or same for Isabelllzzi. However, his narra­we go to theaters, sit together in a completely the hero vanquishing his foe at the end. The story lines are all connected tives have always in the dark and coherent way. All audiences need worry about is rather tenuously. The primary concern been realistically fan­If suspension of disbelief is whether or not they can see the screen
watch movies. 
of Aronofsky is not so much to tell a tastical. an easy task, then this is a clearly. All the rest is periphery. story that is easy to follow. His concern "The Fountain" is film to see -its visuals is to tell a story that deals with issues not realistic, and is almost purely a more than make up for the incoherent and meanings bigger than ourselves. sensory experience. Understanding is narrative. Contact Marty Schroeder at Life, death, the possibility of rebirth not an issue, as the film is simply One should also consider that mschroel@nd.edu 

her numerous hours spent alone, Izzi is By ERIN McGINN writing a book, naturally entitled "The 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Fountain," about a quest for the 
Fountain of Youth in the 1500s. 
Movies, much like books, would do The narrative of her book is the 16th well to have coherent plots that an century plot line, which follows Tomas audience is able to follow. While it is (Jackman). a conquistador, who is possible for a film to seem abstract on working to save Spain's Queen Isabella the surface, it is still necessary for an (Weisz) from the Catholic Inquisitor. underlying story line to adequately tie Working off rumor and a piece of an all of the pieces together. old map. Tomas travels to Guatemala Unfortunately, director Darren and the Mayans, where there is sup­Aronofsky seems to have missed this posed to be a tree of life. day at film school, and "The Fountain" Lastly, there are flash-forwards to is the frustrating result. the 26th century where a man 
On the technical level, "The (Jackman) is floating in space and car­Fountain" is truly an impressive and ing for a dying tree. While there, he is gorgeous often visited by appari­film. As a tions of his wife (Weisz). moving The acting leaves hardly

The Fountain 
image, it is anything to com plain beautiful 
about, although the actors to watch. are given precious little to Moving work with. past the Weisz is hardly given an 

Tomas (Hugh Jackman) walks toward the Tree of Life in "The Fountain." Despite its 
experience actual role, instead serv­

impressive visual effects, the film's multiple plot lines do not form a cohesive whole. 
of watching and into the actual story ing as more of a vehicle for a feminine development is where problems begin ideal. to arise. Although the movie is only 96 Jackman's characters are only slight­three is well developed, leaving a very both its characters and story lines were minutes in length, its pace is plodding. ly more well-devel-undeveloped mess. fully developed, and it did not rely on 
The three interwoven plots of "The oped than Weisz's, The basic premise of three its visual beauty to maintain audience
The premise of "The
Fountain" take place in three different giving him a little separate story lines working interest. eras -the 16th century, the 21st cen­more room to dis­Fountain" certainly together to convey more The underlying premise of "The tury and the 26th century. The majority play his talents. had promise, but its abstract ideas has been done Fountain" certainly had promise, but of the film occurs in the contemporary It was an ambi­before, and with much more its potential goes unrealized because of
potential goes 

setting where Thomas Creo (Hugh tious task that success. poor plot development throughout the Jackman). an animal surgeon and director Aronofsky unrealized because Most notably is Hsiao-hsien film. In the end, "The Fountain" researcher, seeks a cure for the brain decided to take on ofpoor plot Hou's 2005 masterpiece amounts to little more than eye candy, tumor that is causing his wife Izzi in making "The "Three Times," which used the which is hardly worth the time or effort
development.

(Rachel Weisz) to slowly die. Fountain," it also same technique of profiling it takes to see it. 
Even though Izzi is dying, Creo would seems like the proj-three separate story lines fol­rather spend his nights working in the ect was more than he was able to han­lowing two characters in each, played lab to find a cure for her, rather than dle. Although he tries to tie the three by the same two actors throughout. Contact Erin McGinn at actually spending time with her. During story lines together, not one of the 'Three Times" was successful because emcginn@nd.edu 

-------~~-~~~~ 





NSIDER 
O
THE Tuesday, November 28, 2006 BSERVER USC 44, Notre Dame 24 
Devoured in the Coliseum 
Missed opportunities doom overmatched Irish in fifth straight loss to USC 

By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. ­Dwayne Jarrett scored three touchdowns and No. 3 USC beat No. 6 Notre Dame for the fifth straight time Saturday night in Los Angeles. 
Behind Jarrett's seven recep­tions for 132 yards, the Trojans rolled over the Irish 44-24 and kept their BCS title hopes alive. 
"They were better than us," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "They did a good job on offense and defense and special teams, [and] there's no excuses." 
Touchdown receptions of nine and five yards, respectively, by Jarrett from quarterback John David Booty ended the Trojans' first two drives, and the wideout was one of the principle figures in helping Southern California jump to a 21-3 lead. 
"He's a good receiver," Irish safety Tom Zbikowski said. "We didn't make the plays that we needed to, so give credit to their receivers." 
Notre Dame looked like it would threaten early, as quar­terback Brady Quinn completed a 38-yard pass to receiver Rhema McKnight on the first play from scrimmage. The drive stalled, however, on the Southern California 29 after Quinn failed to find McKnight on fourth-and-9. 
"The reason I why went for it around the 30 is that the range we had [for field goal kicker Carl Gioia] was getting to the 25," Weis said. "If I thought we would have been making a field goal from 48 yards, I would have been kicking a field goal." 
After Booty's two touchdown passes to Jarrett put the Trojans up 14-0, Gioia kicked a 27 -yard field goal to put the Irish on the board with 36 seconds left in the opening period. 
USC extended its lead on the ensuing possession, as a one­yard sneak by Booty capped a nine-play, 59-yard drive and gave the Trojans a 21-3lead. 
Notre Dame struggled offen­sively in the first quarter, and Quinn was just 4-13 for 7 8 yards in the period. 
In the second quarter, Notre Dame looked poised to finally enter the endzone after Quinn turned a broken play into a 60­yard rush -the longest run by a Notre Dame player this season -but running back Darius Walker fumbled on a first-and­goal from the 3-yard-,Hne and defensive tackle Fili Moala recovered to end the Notre Dame threat. 
"We didn't put the ball in the end zone early in the game when we were moving it," Weis said. 
On the ensuing USC posses­sion, however, Irish linebacker Steve Quinn blocked a punt and set up Notre Dame's first trip into the end zone. Irish receiver Chase Anastasio recovered the loose ball on the 7, and Brady Quinn found tight end Marcus Freeman in the endzone on the next play to cut the Trojan lead to 21-10 with 7:47 left in the half. 
"When you're playing in a game like this, you can't panic when things go badly or it'll be over early," Weis said. 
The Irish had an opportunity to reduce USC lead even more after Booty was intercepted by cornerback Mike Richardson and defensive tackle Trevor Laws on back-to-hack drives. Notre Dame, however, failed to convert on fourth down in each drive and stalled twice in Trojan territory. Overall, the Irish were just 2-for-6 on fourth down. 
"Especially on offense, we did­n't execute well," said Irish tackle. Ryan Harris, who was whistled for four penalties in the game. "We made some uncharacteristic mistakes." 

Notre Dame and Southern California traded touchdowns in the third quarter, as Trojan run­ning back Chauncey Washington's 2-yard run with 
10:03 left in the quarter gave the Trojans a 28-10 lead before Quinn connected with McKnight from the 2 to cut the lead back to 11. The touchdown gave McKnight -who finished with six catches for 109 yards -his 15th score of the season, tying him for first all-time at Notre Dame with the mark teammate Jeff Samardzija set last season. 
While Notre Dame stayed within striking distance for much of the game, Jarrett's final touchdown effectively sealed the game for Southern California. Booty, who passed for 265 yards with three touchdowns and two interceptions, connected with Jarrett for a 43-yard strike, the longest Trojan play of the night. 
"They call an aggressive game, give credit to them," Weis said. "When Jarrett had those three scores, it made that aggressive game plan look that much better." 
By the time Quinn connected with Samardzija for his third touchdown pass of the game with 3:39 to play, it was too lit­tle, too late for Notre Dame. While he threw for 27 4 yards and three touchdowns, Quinn completed only 22-of-45 passes. Quinn also led the Irish in rush­ing, with 11 carries for 74 yards. 
"I thought [Quinn] had a gutty performance to tell you the truth," Weis said. "He was far from perfect, but you know what, join the club." 
USC linebacker Brian Cushing returned the ensuing onside kick for a touchdown to provide the fmal margin. 
Though Saturday marked the second time the Irish have lost by 20 or more to a top-5 team -Michigan beat them 47-21 on Sept. 16 -Weis in confident Notre Dame will still receive an invitation to a BCS bowl. 
"You take away Cushing's kickoff return for a touchdown there at the end [that made it 44-24] ... and we lose by 13 and everyone's happy," he said. "I think we got beat pretty good and I think that we'll be very happy to go to any BCS game that'll pick us." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
player of the game 

Dwayne Jarrett 

The Trojan receiver torched the Irish secondary for I32 yards and three touchdowns. 
stat of the game 


2-of-6 
Notre Dame's fourth down conver­sion rate. The Irish were stopped on downs four times in USC territory. 

play of the game 
Desmond Reed's first quarter punt return 
The Trojans return man gave USC a short field which allowed his team to take an early I 4-o lead. 
quote of the game 

"They were better than us. They did 
a good job on offense, defense and 
special teams. There's no excuses." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 28, 2006 

report card 
8+ 
quarterbacks: Quinn's numbers weren't up to his usual standards, but his toughness 
was one of the few bright spots for the 
Irish. He was Notre Dame's leading rush­
er as well as passer. 

8 
running backs: Walker ran well against a stout defense despite only getting 14 car­ries, but his second quarter fumble was 
one of a long list of Irish missed opportu­nities. 
D-
receivers: Rhema McKnight dropped sev­eral key passes and JeffSamardzija dis­appeared for long stretches. Marcus 
Freeman played hard but couldn't fill 
John Carlson's shoes. 

c 
offensive line: The line faced one of their toughest challenges of the year and they couldn't keep the pass rush 
off Quinn. False start penalties killed drives. 
C+ 
defensive line: Like the rest of the defense, they had their moments, but for most of the game Booty had all 
day to throw and the Trojan line 
opened up big holes for the running 
game. 

linebackers: This unit stepped up in the 
C+ 
second quarter, but was ineffective for 
most ofthe game, especially in passing 
situations. The rarely got pressure when blitzing and were burned in coverage. 
defensive backs: They frequently looked lost, especially after Chinedum Ndukwe was injured in the third
D+quarter. Dwayne Jarrett ran free through the secondary for most of the evening. 
D 
special teams: Kickoffs were awful, punt coverage gave up a key long return early, and Geoff Price wasn't his 
usual self. Steve Quinn's blocked punt was the lone bright spot. 
coaching: Weis out-thought himself game-
D+ 
planning for the Trojans. Instead of let­ting his offensive players play, he tried to showcase his brilliance. Meanwhile, the defense and special teams looked lost. 
overall: The Irish were out­
classed at most positions on the 
field, but still had their chances 
1.93 
to make the game competitive. They just didn't take advantage. 

adding up the numbers 
Rushing yards by quarterback Brady Quinn to lead the Irish. Quinn had a 60-yard run in the 
74

second quarter. 
2 
Interceptions by the Notre Dame defense in the second quarter. 
Number of points the Irish scored off these inter­
0 

captions. Notre Dame was stopped on fourth down following both turnovers. 
4 
Number of times Notre Dame failed to convert on fourth down in USC territory, 
including three times in the first half. 
Yards receiving by Trojan wideout Dwayne Jarrett, who has had over 100 yards receiving 
132 

in all three of his games against Notre Dame. 
Game time it took for USC to take a 14-0 lead and force the Irish to play catch up
7:49 
for the rest of the game. 
Total yards for both the Irish and Trojans. Notre Dame ran 76 offensive plays to 
404 

USC's 60. 
42 
Distance of Trojan linebacker Brian Cushing's onside kick return for a touchdown to ice the 
game for USC. 

L ­
I SULLIVANfThe Observer Irish quarterback Brady Quinn tries to jump over Trojan linebacker Dallas Sartz In Saturday's 44-24 USC victory over Notre Dame. Quinn added 74 rushing yards to his 274 passing yards. 


Irish fall flat in year's biggest game 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. -You could almost see this coming. The thou­sand or so Southern California faithful that lined a campus walk­way to cheer the Trojans as they entered the Los Angeles Coliseum Saturday after­noon sure could. As it snaked through the crowd on its way to the sta­dium, Trojan fans saw a USC squad prepared for Notre Dame. The Trojans bounced around, slapped hands and smiled, obviously eager for a matchup a year in the making. 
The Irish could have used some of that energy. 
In its biggest game of the season -for most players, of their career -Notre Dame dropped passes, whiffed tackles and ultimately missed its opportunity to solidify the best season in over a decade in 

South Bend. 
USC was the more-talented football team. The Trojans defense was faster than Michigan's and Dwayne Jarrett could start for any team in the NFL right now. 
But the Irish knew that going in. They knew that only a focused, fiery effort would be enough to beat 
the Trojans in the Coliseum for the first time since Saturday night's color commentator roamed the Irish sidelines. 
So what happened? 

They knew that only a the chance to focused, fiery effort would spoil an archri­
val's national title

be enough to beat the 
hopes as motiva­

Trojans in the Coliseum tion. What hap­
for the time since pened? The Irish laid an
Saturday night's color egg.commentator roamed the 
Notre Dame Irish sidelines. started the first 
ing blame isn't easy. 
It's ridiculous to question the players' effort­especially the senior class, which is the biggest reason Notre Dame is competitive today. 
It's also ridicu­lous to blame everything on Notre Dame's athleticism. The Irish had more 
than enough talent to hang with the Trojans last season. There was no reason why they couldn't stay in the game with USC this time. 
The only reasonable blame has to fall on the head coach. Charlie Weis had all season to get 
Notre Dame up for this game. lie had last season's aching loss and 
quarter like it had never seen a football before. Sure-handed 

Rhema McKnight dropped it, Darius Walker fumbled it and the second­ary couldn't find it. 
Despite the mistakes, a little bit of hope shone down from the LA lights 
But the Notre Dame we thought we knew would 

In the biggest game ofthe have punched in 21 
quick points and

season -for most 
went into halftime players, oftheir career -with the lead. One 
Notre Dame dropped touchdown later 
later, Southern

passes, whiffed tackles 
California had 

and ultimately missed its weathered Notre 
opportunity to solidify Dame's only defen­sive storm of the
the best season in over a 
evening.

decade in South Bend. 
It was unexpected. 
This was the game 
the Irish had been 

gunning for since last October. The game Brady Quinn wanted to complete his already leg­endary resume. The game the whole country was waiting for. 
USC coach Pete Carroll can be criticized for showing too much spirit at times. But no one c.an say Carroll doesn't know how to coach in big games. The Trojans were fully prepared -mentally and physically. 
Weis showed Saturday night that he hasn't reached Carroll's level yet. He had to find a way to get the Irish ready for their biggest game of the year. He had a whole season to build them up, to get the Irish to peak at the right time. 
It took just one quarter to show that Notre Dame is much further from the top than anyone ever thought. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
The Irish began the game with little of the fire, not much of the intensity and none of the clutch plays that kept Notre Dame in the contest against an even-more-talented Trojan bunch last season. And plac­in the second quarter Saturday night. Steve Quinn blocked a punt. Mike Richardson and Trevor Laws came up with big interceptions. It looked like the Notre Dame we thought we knew. 
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Jarrett torches Irish secondary 
Trojan wide receiver records over 100 yards against ND for third straight year 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. -Dwayne Jarrett had just seven catches Saturday night. 
But three went for touchdowns as the junior accumulated 132 yards against Notre Dame in a 44-24 USC win. 
"They've never been conservative and I didn't expect them to do so," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "They called an aggressive game and give credit to them and aggressive game plans really come to a positive light when they make plays. Jarrett has those three scores, that makes that aggressive game plan look that much better, when he's running for those touchdowns." 
Jarrett scored a nine-yard, touch­down on the Trojans' opening drive and added another five-yard score within minutes. · 
Although Jarrett didn't score USC's third touchdown himself, he did have a 25-yard grab to keep the drive going. 
"He's a great player," Irish quarter­back Brady Quinn said. "Every time [USC's receivers] get a ball in their hands they're going to do good things. That's why Jarrett's broken all the records and done what he's done there." 
So far in 2006, Jarrett has 55 catches for 7 42 yards and 10 touchdowns. 
As a sophomore in 2005, he had 91 catches for 1,274 yards and 16 scores. Perhaps his most famous was a fourth­and-nine catch that went for 61 yards in the final drive of the Notre Dame­USC game on Oct. 15, 2005. He was a finalist for the Biletnikoff Award, given to the nation's top receiver, and received All-America honors. 
The Irish said they were prepared for the speed and talent of Jarrett and fel­low Trojans receiver Steve Smith, but still gave up 265 yards through the air. 
"They're a very talented group of receivers coming in and they really showed that today," Irish cornerback Mike Richardson said. 
Defensive lineman Chris Frome 
agreed. He also stressed the impact 
that first-year Trojans starting quar­
terback John David Booty had on USC's 
aerial attack. 
"Their receivers were making catch­
es, their quarterback was putting the 

ball where the receivers could make the plays," he said. "It's just disap­pointing for us now to go back home ­it's a long flight." 
Booty was 17-of-28 with two inter­ceptions and three touchdowns, all to Jarrett. Smith had three catches for 35 yards and Fred Davis had three for 33 yards. 
"We knew coming into this game that they were probably going to be some of the best receivers that we've seen so far and they proved to be very fast," Frome said. "We knew what to expect, we couldn't really perform, execute our plays and our game plan and they could." 

The Irish concluded their regular season Saturday. Next week, Jarrett and the Trojans face crosstown rival UCLA, whom the Irish defeated 20-17 on Oct. 21. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ND still eligible for a BCS paycheck 
Zbikowski returns kicks for first time; Weis inserts extra linemen in short yardage 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. ­After a 44-24 loss to USC Saturday, the most recent Bowl Championship Series (BCS) polls have the Irish at No. 10. 
The team is No. 10 in the Harris Interactive Poll, No. 12 in the USA Today/Coaches Poll and No. 8 in the computer rankings. The BCS rankings average these three components, with equal weight. 
The BCS now consists of the National Title game and the traditional Rose, Orange, Fiesta and Sugar Bowls. The Irish automati­cally go to a BCS bowl if they finish in the top eight teams, and are eligible for selection if they are within the top 14. 
After losing to USC, Irish coach Charlie Weis said the team would be happy to be selected for a BCS berth. 
"I think that we got beat 
pretty good and we'll be very happy to go to any BCS game that picks us," Weis said. A reporter asked if the rumors were true that the Sugar Bowl officials had said they would take the Irish if they were available regardless of other team's availability. 
Weis' response to that was simple. 
"If New Orleans ends up picking us, sign me up," he said. "Let's go." 
The four bowls have sev­eral conference tie-ins, meaning that the conference champions will automatical­ly go to those bowls unless selected for the national title game. The Rose Bowl is played between the Big Ten and the Pac-10 champions, the Fiesta Bowl is tied to the Big 12, the Orange Bowl is tied to the ACC and the Sugar Bowl is tied to the SEC. 
The bowl that loses its tie­ins to the national champi­onship game will pick before the other bowls. The Rose Bowl has already lost the Big 10 champion, Ohio State, to the national title game. Because the Buckeyes are No. 1, they will auto­matically receive the first pick of remaining teams. It could also lose the Pac-1 0 champion if the Trojans end up No. 2 in the BCS rank­ings, in which case it could pick any two teams not hosting bowls. 
After the replacement bids, the Sugar Bowl receives the first pick, fol­lowed by the Orange Bowl and the Fiesta Bowl. 
Zbikowski makes kickoff­return debut 
Safety Tom Zbikowski, who also returns punts for the Irish, particuparted in his first kickoff return Saturday. 
Weis said that Zbikowski has been preparing to spe­cialize in kickoffs for several weeks. 
"He's worked for the last few weeks in prep that he'd be doing that," Weis said. 

"He wasn't the only guy we had on special teams, we used every guy we had on special teams today." 
Weis said it was important for him to put the best ath­letes on the field. 
"You lose a game, you lose a game, but you're going to lose a game with your best guys doing it," he said. 
Different lineup on the offensive line 
To compensate for the loss of tight end John Carlson, Weis sometimes had extra linemen on the offensive line, which confused some onlookers. 
"They weren't unbalanced lines," he said. "Those line­men were just taking the place of tight ends." 
Carlson's replacement, Marcus Freeman, did catch a seven-yard touchdown pass from Quinn in the sec­ond quarter to put the Irish within.ll. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Notre Dame  3  7  7  7  24  
usc  14  7  7  16  44  
First quarter  

USC 7, Notre Dame 0 
Dwayne Jarrett 9-yard reception from John David Booty with 8:38 remaining.(Mario Danelo kick) Drive: 8 plays, 71 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
USC 14, Notre Dame 0 
Jarrell 5-yard reception from Booty with 5:16 remaining. (Danelo kick) Drive: 3 plays, 26 yards, 1:55 elapsed 
USC 14, Notre Dame 3 
Cark Gioia 27-yard field goal with 6:20 remain­ing. Drive: 14 plays, 71 yards, 4:40 elapsed 
Second quarter USC 21, Notre Dame 3 
Booty 1-yard run with 11:37 remaining. (Danelo kick) Drive: 9 plays, 59 yards, 3:59 elapsed. 
USC 21, Notre Dame 10 
Marcus Freeman 7-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 7:20 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 1 play, 8 yards, 0:27 elapsed. 
Third quarter USC 28, Notre Dame 10 
Chauncey Washington 2-yard run with 10:03 remaining. (Danelo kick) Drive: 10 plays,65 yards, 4:57 elapsed 
USC 28, Notre Dame 17 
Rhema McKnight 2-yard pass from Quinn with 
1:57 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 10 plays, 52 yards, 3:28 elapsed 
Fourth quarter USC 31, Notre Dame 17 
Danelo 34-yard lieldgoal with 11:43 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 65 yards, 5:14 elapsed 
USC 37, Notre Dame 17 
Jarrett 43-yard pass from Booty with 8:21 remaining. (Danelo kick failed) Drive: 2 plays, 57 yards, 1:DO elapsed 
USC 37, Notre Dame 24 
Jeff Samardzija 2-yard pass from Quinn with 3:39 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 14 plays, 78 yards, 4:42 elapsed 
USC 44, Notre Dame 24 
Brian Cushing 42-yard kickoff return with 3:31 remaining. (Danelo kick) 
statistics 
total yards N D  404  
usc rushing yards ND  404 130  
usc passing yards N D  139 274  
JSC return yards  265  


ND 30:53 usc 29:07 
. 

~ % 
31-130 rushes-yards 32-139 
22-45-0 ~ comp-att-int 17-28-2 
3-117 punts-yards 3-67 
1-1 fumbles-lost 0-0 
6-60 penalties-yards 5-50 
18 first downs 21 
passing 

Quinn 22-45-0 Booty 17-28-2 
rushing 

Quinn  11-74  Gable  20-115  
Walker  14-56  Washington  6-24  
receiving  

McKnight  6-109  Jarrett  7-132  
Samardzija  6-79  Smith  3-35  
Freeman  5-38  Davis  3-33  
Grimes  2-34  McFoy  2-24  
West  2-14  Gable  1-21  

tackles 

Richardson  9  Sartz  8  
Crum  9  Mays  7  
Brockington  6  Lua  65  

---~·------~~~~~~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

California nightmare 
Southern California jumped out to a 21-3 lead and never looked back against an overmatched Irish squad. Notre Dame had its chances ­including two second quarter interceptions -but squandered them, 
getting stopped on fourth down four times in Trojan territory and fumbling within five yards of the goal line. The win vaulted USC into a probable national title game matchup with Ohio State while Notre Dame became a virtual lock for a lesser BCS game. 
Photos by CLEM SUHENDRA AND TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 
Top left, Irish coach Charlie Weis exits the stadium amid taunts from Trojan fans. Top right, Notre Dame running back Darius Walker breaks through one of the few holes he saw all night. Center, Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija tries to fight past USC linebacker Dallas Sartz. Bottom left, Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn breaks free during his GO-yard run in the second quarter. Bottom right, Irish defensive end Chris Frome watches the final seconds tick away in frustration. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
page 13 
DIRECTOR SPOTLIGHT 
Guest takes satiric film into 'Consideration' 
Director's humorous, documentary-style movies thrive on spontaneity 
GUEST AND THE MOCKUMENTARY 

Despite this, since it still leaves room for improvisation and the cast is still popu­lated with familiar faces, it remains true to Guest's style. 
Christopher Guest has continued to dominate the mockumentary genre, even as works of a similar nature, such as "The Daily Show" or "The Office," gain popularity. "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America For Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan" may hold the highest lifetime gross in theatres for mockumentaries, but Guest's five films (including "For Your Consideration") hold five of the other top 10 slots, and "This is Spinal Tap," "Best in Show," and "Waiting for Guffman" all hold places on television channel Bravo's 100 Funniest Movies list. 
The appeal of the mockumentary comes from its semblance of realism. By framing the most outlandish characters in a familiar style and setting, Guest reminds us that we are all a little off­beat. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 
Movies are often used to escape real life, but writer, director and actor Christopher Guest has turned making fun of life into its own genre. The mock­umentary, exemplified by Guest's films, has turned what many audiences consid­er to be the most tedious film structure into th~ one of the most uproarious. 
A mockumentary is a film that is pre­sented as a documentary, but is actually a parody or satire of the events or theme it portrays. Mockumentaries are gener­ally filmed very quickly and are mostly improvised to maintain the realistic structure of the film. The first famous false documentary is probably Orson Well's radio production of "The War of the Worlds," but the word "mockumen­tary" was coined by director Rob Reiner in reference to his 1984 film, "This is Spinal Tap." 
In a somewhat similar vein, drama documentaries, like the recently released "Death of a President," are false documentaries that take on a seri­ous tone. 
Fellow screenwriters Michael McKean, Harry Shearer and Rob Reiner helped to lay the foundations for the modern mockumentary with the cult classic "This is Spinal Tap," but Christopher Guest brought the mockumentary into the mainstream. Since the rock and roll themed "Spinal Tap," Guest has satirized folk music in "A Mighty Wind," small town theatre productions in "Waiting for 
MOVIE REVIEW 
By CASSIE BELEK Assistant Scene Editor 
Christopher Guest may be the king of mockumentaries, but his latest project, "For Your Consideration," is styled as a narrative -a trait that displays hilarity but hinders the overall potential of the film. Guest successfully creates a stinging satire of the effects of Oscar buzz on Hollywood, but the narrative structure leads to under­developed characters and the absence of sight gags that are central to his films. 
"For Your Consideration" follows three actors in the fictional movie "Home for Purim" as they learn from Internet rumors and television shows that they will 
undoubtedly receive an Academy Award nomination. Egos inflate and art is abandoned for main­stream acceptance. The title of the movie is changed to "Home for Thanksgiving" to appeal to a wider audience, and the potentially nominated actors abandon their independent roots 
v. C 

and give in to the plastic surgery, fake tan­ning and hair dying temptations of Hollywood. 
As usual with Guest's projects, the film is largely improvised. The director's regular cast of comedians is back to fulfill new over-the-top roles. Standout performers include the perpetual scene-stealer Fred Willard ("Everybody Loves Raymond") as Chuck Porter, an entertainment television Guffman" and, most famously, champi­onship dog shows in "Best in Show." Guest's films specialize in taking mun­dane but offbeat worlds and hyperboliz­ing their characteristics just enough to make them into some of the most hilari­ous facets of life the audience has seen. 
Guest stays true to the mockumentary formula. His actors are generally only given a brief outline to know what should happen in the scene and then allowed to improvise the rest without rehearsal and a few takes. Shooting is very fast, but the large amounts of improvisation mean that editing takes much longer, making the time spent on each the inverse of most movies. "For Your Consideration" had 27 days of shooting but almost a year of editing. 
Guest's films include multiple other elements that make them more "real." In "A Mighty Wind," television cameras were actually used to film the sections that were supposedly broadcast on TV. Also, most of the "Mighty Wind" actors played their own instruments, as they did in "This is Spinal Tap." 
Guest uses many of the same actors in his films and has formed a comedy troupe of sorts in doing so. Eugene Levy, Catherine O'Hara, Parker Posey, Michael McKean, Jennifer Coolidge and others continue to be seen in Guest mockumen­taries and their chemistry has not dulled as the movies have been produced. 
Christopher Guest's latest film, "For Your Consideration," is not actually in the mockumentary style. Many of the scenes are heavily scripted and it is done as a narrative and not a documentary. 
host, and the tall and mighty Jane Lynch ("The 40-Year-Old Virgin") as his co-host Cindy Martin, a not-so-subtle imitation of Nancy O'Dell. Willard asks irrelevant per­sonal questions while Lynch parodies O'Dell's stance and walk in a hilarious fusion of a beauty queen and a robot. 
However, Willard and Lynch are not the only performers to receive laughs. Jennifer Coolidge ("Legally Blonde") portrays pro­ducer Whitney Taylor Brown with her now signature "dumb blonde" characteristics. Guest's co-writer Eugene Levy delights as clueless agent Morley Orfkin, and Guest himself produces enough laughs with his character's frizzy haircut. Ricky Gervais (BBC's "The Office"), already a comedic genius, is a natural addition to the Guest 
F

or IOUr onst erabon 

Director: Christopher Guest Writers: Christopher Guest and Eugene Levy Starring: Eugene Levy, Fred Willard, Jane Lynch and Jennifer Coolidge 
•d • 
troupe as studio suit Martin Gibb. 
The star of the ficti­tious movie, as well as "Consideration," is Catherine O'Hara ("Home Alone") as Marilyn Hack -a still-struggling inde­pendent actress who loses herself amongst the Oscar buzz. Similar to her performance in Guest's "A Mighty 
Wind," O'Hara brings comedy tinged with sadness, but this time adds a pathetic qual­ity to the fading actress. It takes talent to portray a mix of hope and desperation behind a face lift, but O'Hara does this with ease, perhaps prompting her own Oscar buzz. 
While "Consideration" is an interesting creative turn for Guest, his strength lies in the mockumentary, and one leaves the the-


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com From left, Christopher Moynihan, Harry Shearer, Catherine O'Hara and Parker Posey star in "For Your Consideration." The film's sense of satire fails to impress. 
ater wondering what could have been if this latest film had taken that route. In his other films, such as 1996's "Waiting for Guffman," characters often develop through fake, documentary-style inter­views. While some filmmakers might view this direct approach as an easy crutch, Guest uses them perfectly, aided by his tal­ented friends and actors. "Consideration" abandons this technique, but could per­haps benefit from it. The film may also have benefited from the addition of Guest's characteristic sight gags that produce memorable comedic moments. 
Just like "Home for Purim," the appeal of "Consideration" is limited. Guest's previous films focused on more obscure topics such as small-town musical productions, com­petitive dog shows, and a folk music trib­ute. Hollywood is a rather easy target that has been hit multiple times, and only those who closely follow the industry will under­stand all of the satire employed. "Consideration" may not be as strong a comedy as its predecessors but it still offers an amusing inside look into Hollywood and the effects of award-season buzz. Guest and company shine as they interact with ease and enjoyment, but the auteur must choose his next project carefully. While he should be lauded for this latest risk, the mockumentary is his best option. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
NFL 

Ravens destroy Pittsburgh's slim playoff hopes 
Montgomery in 1981 to produce and the Chargers looking all too 
Titans, Redskins, 
three straight 100-yard games. human against Oakland, the 

Patriots get narrow star running back keyed yet 
Patriots 17, Bears 13 another second-half rally to

victories Sunday After New England turned the give the AFC West-leading 
ball over three times inside the Chargers (9-2) their fifth Associated Press Chicago 20-yard line, tight end straight win. Benjamin Watson hung onto it Tomlinson, in the midst of an 
BALTIMORE -Any chance when Tom Brady's 2-yard pass MVP-type season, rushed for the Pittsburgh Steelers had of found him in the end zone. two touchdowns and threw for returning to the Super Bowl Patriots cornerback Asante another. He has 24 touchdowns was seemingly laid to rest by Samuel put an abrupt end to this season, needing five in the the Baltimore Ravens. the Bears' comeback hopes with last five games to break the 
The Ravens sacked Ben his third interception with 1 :46 NFL record of 28 set by Shaun Roethlisberger nine times to play. Alexander during his MVP sea­Sunday and coasted to their Playing on their new artificial son of 2005. fifth straight victory, a 27-0 turf, the Patriots (8-3) perse­Tomlinson threw a 19-yard blowout that left the Steelers vered against the Bears (9-2), touchdown pass· to tight end with only a mathematical who had allowed the fewest Antonio Gates to tie the game at chance of reaching the playoffs. points in the league, 120. But 14. Tomlinson threw his second 
Baltimore (9-2) limited the New England was the second TD pass of the season and the defending NFL champions to 36 stingiest at 131. sixth of his career. yards in the decisive first half. The Bears capitalized on the After the Raiders (2-9) punt­The nine sacks, which totaled fourth of their five takeaways -ed, Tomlinson broke a 44-yard 73 yards and matched a Ravens and Charles Tillman's second run on first down, then capped franchise record, included a interception -to tie the game the drive with a 10-yard scoring vicious hit by Bart Scott that 10-10 just 7 seconds into the run. It was his 21st touchdown forced Roethlisberger out of the fourth quarter on Cedric in seven games. game in the second quarter. Benson's 2-yard run. 
Roethlisberger missed only The Patriots then moved 73 Redskins 17, Panthers 13 one play, but for the rest of the yards after the kickoff and went Chris Cooley's 66-yard touch­afternoon he was harassed by a ahead with 8:22 left. Brady pro­down reception was the differ­relentless rush. It was the sec­vided the dramatics with a ence in Washington's win over ond time this year that the scrambling 40-yard completion Carolina. Steelers were shut out; the last to Watson and an 11-yard run The victory broke a two-game time Pittsburgh was blanked at for a first down that ended with losing streak for the Redskins least twice in a season was in him jumping up and making an (4-7) and gave quarterback 1989. emphatic first-down signal. Jason Campbell his first win in 
The Steelers (4-7) had won That put the ball at the his second NFL start. The team two straight following a 2-6 Chicago 14 and Watson scored returned to running the ball start, but their resurgence was five plays later. and stopping the run, but it emphatically squelched by the took the big play to Cooley with hated Ravens, who lead Titans 24, Giants 21 4:26 remaining to beat the Pittsburgh in the AFC North by Vince Young and Adam Panthers (6-5). five games with five to play. "Pacman" Jones never gave up, Campbell had only 52 yards 
Roethlisberger went 21-for-41 leading a stunning Tennessee passing when he hit Cooley on a bling Atlanta. Minnesota in 2002. for 214 yards and two intercep­fourth-quarter comeback. third-and-8 at the Washington New Orleans bounced back tions. Willie Parker got only 15 The Titans cornerback inter­34. Campbell finished 11-for-23 from losing three of four, boost­Bengals 30, Browns 0 yards rushing in the first half cepted two passes and had a for 118 yards with two touch­ed its playoff hopes and deliv­Cincinnati picked off and finished with 20. 23-yard punt return that downs and one interception. ered a crushing blow to an NFC Cleveland quarterback Charlie 
revived his teammates in the Ladell Betts, the Redskins fea­South rival. The Saints (7 -4) Frye four times in its first Colts 45, Eagles 21 fourth quarter. Then rookie tured running back now that won without rookie star shutout win since 1989 and Joseph Addai tied a franchise quarterback Young finished off Clinton Portis is out for the year, Marques Colston, who didn't Carson Palmer threw three record with four touchdowns. an improbable rally from a 21-ran for 104 yards on 24 carries. play because of a sprained touchdown passes for the 
Addai opened the game by point deficit. The Redskins defense had its ankle. Bengals. sandwiching a 10-yard score Young ran for a touchdown first good game, holding the The Falcons (5-6) lost their Palmer finished 25-of-32 for around two 15-yard runs to and threw for two more in the Panthers to 264 total yards. The fourth straight. 275 yards and connected with give Indy a 21-0 lead and added final 9:35 and finished with a much maligned secondary limit­Even though quarterback Chris Henry for two TD passes a late 4-yard run. The rookie career-high 249 yards passing. ed Smith to 34 yards on five Michael Vick ran for 166 yards, as the Bengals (6-5) stayed running back finished with 171 Rob Bironas kicked a 49-yard catches. Atlanta couldn't overcome five firmly in the AFC playoff race yards. field goal with 6 seconds left to Safety Sean Taylor made a dropped passes and a shocking by beating Cleveland for the 
Lenny Moore, Lydell Mitchell win it. tackle on fourth down to stop defensive breakdown just fifth straight time. and Eric Dickerson are the only The Giants (6-5) lost their Carolina's next-to-last drive, before halftime. Before piling up yardage dur­other Colts players with four third straight and fell a game and he intercepted Jake Brees had no such problems ing extended garbage time in TDs in one game. behind the Dallas Cowboys (7-4) Delhomme in the end zone on with his receivers, completing the fourth quarter, the Browns 
The Colt5 (1 0-1) can clinch in the NFC East going into next the Panthers' last possession. 21-of-30 for 349 yards -the (3-8) had only 167 yards after their fourth straight AFC South week's game in the Smith gave the Panthers a 13-fifth straight 300-yard game for three quarters. By then, they title with a win at Tennessee Meadowlands. 10 lead with 7:55 to play with the Saints' first-year quarter­were down 30-0 and on their next week. New York led 21-0 with in the an 8-yard touchdown catch. back. He burned the Falcons way to dropping to 1-5 at home. 
Philadelphia (5-6) played its second quarter. But the Giants right away, going deep to The shutout was the Bengals' first game without Donovan didn't score again, and Jones Saints 31, Falcons 13 Henderson -Colston's replace­first since Dec. 3, 1989, a span McNabb, who will miss the rest got the Titans (4-7) into the Drew Brees threw a 76-yard ment-on third-and-7 from the of 269 games. That one also of the season with a torn knee game when he intercepted an touchdown to Devery New Orleans 24. came against the Browns. ligament. Eli Manning pass with 12:55 Henderson on the third play of Vick challenged his NFL Following an interception, 
Brian Westbrook ran 20 times left. the game, then lofted a 48-record for yards rushing by a Browns receiver Braylon for 124 yards and one touch­yarder to Terrance Copper on quarterback, coming up 7 short Edwards and Frye angrily down, becoming the first Eagles Chargers 21, Raiders 14 the final play of the first half, of his 173-yard performance in exchanged words and had to be player since Wilbert With LaDainian Tomlinson leading New Orleans past bum-an overtime victory at separated. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms 
LOST AND FOUND www.NDstudentrentals.com 
LOST:  Furnished 1 bdrm Jamison condo.  
Adult cat from Angela Blvd. Dark gray with white 'bib'. Green eyes, 10 lb. neutered male. Kids miss him.  Nov-May 07. Call Mary Anne 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944.  
574-232-1584.  3-6 Bedroom homes, walking dis-lance, washer, dryer. MMM Rentals.  
FoR RENT  Contact Gary 574-993-2208.  

BLUE &GOLD HOMES, off-cam-BEST HOUSES &CHEAPEST pus homes &weekend rentals. RENT offered by ND GRADs. Available 07-08 or NOW. Bluegoldrentals.com Call 312-545-5123. 
One bdrm apt. in quiet historic area available Spring semester. Laundry &security. 
$575/mo. Call 574-283-0325. 
FoR SALE 
1991 Audi Model80. 4-dr. excellent condition. $2,000. 
Caii561-596-0J94. 
WANTED 

WINTER BREAK WORK $17.25 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. needed, may continue in the spring, cus­tomer sales/service, cond. apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, apply now, start after finals. 574-273-3835 
www. winterbreakwork.com 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. 
For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
I HATE COMPUTERS! 
I see the bad moon arising. I see trouble on the way. I see earthquakes and lightnin'. I see bad times today. 
Don't go around tonight, Well, it's bound to take your life, There's a bad moon on the rise. 

I hear hurricanes ablowing. I know the end is coming soon. I fear rivers over flowing. I hear the voice of rage and ruin. 



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsERVER'S 'WIRE SERVICES page 15 
BCS Standing 


AP Alabama coach Mike Shula reacts to a failed third down attept in a game against Auburn Nov. 19, 2005. Shula was dismissed Monday after the Crimson Tide finished 6-6. 
Tide rolls Shula out as coach at Alabama 
NCAA· Football 
team 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
g 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17. 18 19 20 21 Bri!)bam 22 Georgia Tecll .. 23 Hawaii 24 TexasA&M 25 Boston College 
team 

1 Ohio State 
2 usc 3 Michigan 4 Florida 4 5 LSU $ 
•.. 9

6 Wisconsin 1 Louisville 10 8 Arkansas 6 9 BoiseState 12 10 NOTRE DAME 5 11 Oklahoma 

·u 

12 Auburn 13 13 Rutgers 15 14 Virginia Tech 17•··· 
·1')''1:••;·;••• ,•••.... 7
15 West Virginia 16 Wake Forest 17 Texas 18 Tennessee 19 BrighamVoung 20 Nebraska 21 California 22 
23 24 25 
NCAA FooTBALL 


Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. Long famed for titles, bowls and Bear Bryant, Alabama is gaining a rep­utation for something far less complimentary: coaching turnover and turmoil. 
"It's what Alabama is known for right now," defensive end Wallace Gilberry said. "One day we're going to find the right fit who's going to come in here and turn the program around." 
The Crimson Tide is once again in the market for a head coach, its fourth in six years, after athletic director Mal 
IN BRIEF 
Blackhawks make change 
at head coach 
BENSENVILLE, Ill.-After losing 12 of 15 games, the Chicago Blackhawks went on the offensive Monday, switch­ing coaches and styles. 
The Blackhawks fired defense-ori­ented coach Trent Yawney, replacing him with assistant Denis Savard -a Hall of Fame player whose No. 18 hangs from the United Center rafters. With the new coach comes a faster pace. 
"We want to be a pressure team," said Savard, who joined the Blackhawks in 1997 as an assistant coach and will be behind the bench Wednesday against Dallas. "We've got to score more than one or two goals to be able to win.... We have to be responsible defensively, but offensively, we have to be a little more creative." 
Yawney, in his second season coach­ing the Blackhawks, had 33-55-15 record and one season left on his con­tract. 

Moore announced Mike Shula's firing on Monday. Moore said he would look for a "proven winner" and that defensive coor­dinator Joe Kines would serve as interim coach for the bowl-eligible Tide. 
Alabama thought for a time it had the right fit with Shula. While he had no previous head coach­ing experience, he was a former Crimson Tide quarterback and heir to a famous pro football name. And the Tide rewarded Shula with a lucrative new contract following last year's 10-2 season, clearly believing things were looking up heading into his fourth 
Fox to stay with Delhomme 
as Panthers quarterback 
CHARLOTTE-Jake Delhomme is getting too much of the blame for Carolina's offensive woes and will remain the starter, coach John Fox said Monday. 
"When you drop back to pass the ball it's a team effort," Fox said a day after the Panthers mustered only 264 yards in a 17-13 loss to Washington, which has the 30th­ranked defense. "Whenever you don't play well enough to win I'm not sure it's one guy. It's definitely not just Jake." 
Delhomme was 23-of-38 for 168 yards, one touchdown and two inter­ceptions against the Redskins. His second pick was costly. On first down from the Washington 41, Delhomme was pressured and his badly over­thrown pass for Steve Smith into double coverage was caught by Washington safety Sean Taylor with 2:09left. 
year. 

But a 6-6 season, end­ing in three straight loss­es -to SEC weakling Mississippi State along with LSU and Auburn, two Western Division rivals Shula never could beat -signaled the end. Shula was a combined 0­for-8 against LSU and Auburn and is the only Tide coach to lose four straight to Auburn. 
Moore and university president Robert Witt decided late Sunday afternoon to fire Shula and start over again. 
Moore praised Shula on Monday for providing "stability for our program through four years of 
AP survey has McGwire on 
outside of Hall 
NEW YORK -For one glorious summer, Mark McGwire was bigger than baseball itself. America stopped to watch each time he came to the plate, and cheered every time he sent a ball into orbit. 
He could do no wrong, it seemed. Surely he would be a shoo-in for the Hall of Fame someday. 
And then came that day on Capitol Hill. Over and over, the big slugger was asked about possible steroid use, and his reputation took hit after hit as he refused to answer, saying he wouldn't talk about his past. 
Now, with Hall ballots in the mail, McGwire's path to baseball immor­tality may have hit a huge roadblock. 
The Associated Press surveyed about 20 percent of eligible voters, and only one in four who gave an opinion plan to vote for McGwire this year. That's far short of the 7 5 per­cent necessary to gain induction. 
NCAA probation" that ends Feb. 1, 2007. 
"However, we did not make progress on the field this season and have not been able to maintain the positive momentum necessary to return Alabama football to a place among college foot­ball's elite programs," Moore said. 
Moore didn't name any potential candidates but said he was beginning a national search. The most high-profile names on Tide fans' wish list ­South Carolina's Steve Spurrier and the Miami Dolphins' Nick Saban ­both said Monday they were staying put. 
team 

1 Ohio State 
2 usc 
3 Michigan 4 Florida 5 LSU 6 Louisville 7 Wisconsin 8 Boise State 9 Arkansas 10 NOTRE DAME 11 Auburn 12 Oklahoma 13 Rutgers 14 Virginia Tech 15 West Virginia 16 Tennessee 17 Wake forest 18 California 19 Texas 20 Nebraska 
BCS tattff;g 
uoo 
;9460 ,9216 ;8897 s8106 
.'1'6"18 
~7096 
,6744 
.6616 
~6262 
·6183 .5509 .5500 
.4426•• 
.4014 .3705 .3471 ..3192···· .2967 ,2268 

around the dial 
NHL Boston at Toronto 7:30 p.m., TSN 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
NFL 
IBERIAN & LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES SPRING 2007 COURSE DESCRIPTIONS 
Dallas cuts Vanderjagt fro111 tea111 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -This is how serious Bill Parcells is taking the Dallas Cowboys' stretch drive: He cut inconsistent kick­er Mike Vanderjagt on Monday. 
Hailed as the answer to the Cowboys' kicking woes when signed in March, Vanderjagt · ··asn't living up to his statistical claim to fame as the most accu­
•·ate kicker in league history. He was only 13-of-18 on field goals, a 72.2 percent success rate that was the lowest of his nine-year career. 
Vanderjagt also didn't like having to kick off, one of many aspects of his quirky personali­ty that didn't always go over well with Parcells. 
Dallas gave Vanderjagt a $2.5 million signing bonus as part of a three-year, $5.4 million deal, so this is a costly move. The message could be worth it for Parcells as he tries to guide the Cowboys into the playoffs for the first time since 2003 and to their first division title since 1998. 
Dallas (7-4) has a one-game lead over the New York Giants in the NFC East going into their meeting Sunday at the Meadowlands. Parcells often talks of the swirling winds at the stadium where he spent the first eight years of his career, and he apparently wasn't ready to play a big game there with a kicker he didn't trust. 
But can he trust Martin Gramatica, who was signed Monday to replace Vanderjagt? 
Once so accurate that he was nicknamed "Automatica," Gramatica was out of the NFL last season and was cut by New England in the preseason. He played three games this season for Indianapolis while Adam Vinatieri was injured, making his only attempt, a 20-yarder. 
Cowboys players and coaches did not talk to the media Monday. The locker room will be open Tuesday, and Parcells will speak to reporters for the first time since Dallas beat Tampa Bay 38-10 Thursday. 
Vanderjagt made his only field goal attempt against the Buccaneers, but the 22-yarder seems to have been too close for comfort for Parcells. The previous week, facing his for­mer team, Indianapolis, Vanderjagt missed two first-half field goals. 
''I'm just hoping things take a turn for the better," Parcells said last week. "I think right now, we just have to give him the benefit of the doubt and think things will. Now if they don't, then that could be a dif­ferent deal." 
He added that he wasn't los­ing patience, but said "it needs to get better," and if it didn't, "you would definitely have to" make a change. 
Vanderjagt's five misses are near his career high. He was 28-of-34 in 2001 and 23-of-31 the following season, then went 37 -of-37 in 2003. He's missed a total of seven kicks the last two years. 
For his career, he's made 230-of-266. His accuracy rate -86.5 percent-is still tops in league history. 
ROSP :WHO INTERMEI.RATE GRAMM.<\R A Nil WRITING 
G. ;-'\mcdl~<:s 10:40-11:30 1\'1\VI<' 
ROSI' 20237 CONVF:RSAI'lON ANI) WHITING 
G. Ameriks VARIOUS TIMES 1\fWF 
ROSI' 20460 SI'ANISll I'OH MEiliC.<\I.I'ROFESSION 
M. Colomn !0:40-ll:Jfl MWF 
ROSI' 21205 I'IU>-STUJ)Y AIIIHlAU 
K. "'"""· s. >Villlams Tim~MOay• TBO 
HOS.I' 27500 A:l'l'HOACI·I.ES TO HIS!',\NIC CIH.:n.IRES THI{OIJGH VARIOUS TIMES MWF 

ROSP .•oS20-0I, 02 SURVEY OF. SPANISH-AM LIT. II 
T. Andet·son, M. Mot·eno-Andet·son 9:.,0-10:45 TIU. 11:45-1:00 J\1\V 
l<OSI' 40220 l~ENAISSANCE AMl HAROQl•E I'OETI{Y OF SI'AI'II 
F. .•Junrez 12:30-J :45 T!R 
ROSI' -10720 (OJ'I.EAT Sl'A.N-,\M l'OETS OF ·ruE 20TU CF:NTI.IRY ll. lf<."lle1· II:OO-l2:15T/R 
ROSI'-10767 WOMEN'S NARRATIVI'~ IN THE SO!JTHFRN CONF', 1\-'loR.. ()l.h,·era-\'ViUiam~ 2:.00-3~15 T/H. 
1{0SI'4US91  BIC\'ONOTIH: ISLANDS  
!VI. 1\tlorcno-Aru;le.rson  l:30-2::45 M'V  
1{0Sl'303W Tl':XTIJ..\LANALYSIS C. P~t·e:;r.-Abn~u ... J~ U:ussar, K~ rb~en, J\.1.R. Olh.e,·n-\\-'iUiums  IUISI'41590 SI'ANJSII THEATRE WORKSliOI' N. i\Ht·qtwz 5;00-<1:15 TfR (Time "1\.: date subject to ch~•nge)  
VAIUOI.IS TIMES T/R MW  
ROSP 30.320 AOVANCED GH4.!\1MAR .-., \VRITING l. Mene• 12:50·1 :-10,1:55-2:4~ MWF  ROSP ~3000 SEN. SE:M: Ct;BAN l.ITF:RA'l'URE.ARI~ANO I'OI'lJLAl{ Cl'lTliRf; T. A1uler$on J2:JU-I ;..,5 T/R  
ROSP 30710 Sl:RVEY OF SPANISII I.ITERATliRE I C. ,Jer~:.r.··Furdm. E. ,Ju.ure;,. ll:OU-·12;15 '1'/lt 1~30·<!:45 I\-1W  ROSI'IL'I490-0I  WOI\U:N NOVt~LJSTS IN CONTE:I\li'ORAin· Sl'AIN C ..Jet·tu:-Farrnn .\:.10-6:00 \\'  
IHISP63631HJI  COI..ONIAL<'OI'ff!NLITII•:S  
ROSP 3fl720-0I. 02  Sl'RVF:Y OF SPANISH LITERATliRF II  P. B<>yer  3:30-<1:00 T  
S. 1-'o.-cuddl  .I :.W-·2:45, 3:00---1:15 MW  
ROSP.\!lSJ0-01.02  Sl'RVEYOFSPANISH-AM LITERATt•RE  I  
,J. AundHn, S. Fo.-c.udeU  J :JO ..l:45, 8:00·9:.1~ f\.1'\\'  




Wednesday. November 29 
DeBartolo Hall Room 129 
7·00PM 

Thursday. November 30 DeBartolo Hall Room 129 7:00PM 

NFL 
,--------------------------------------­
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Braylon Edwards apologizes 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio -Braylon Edwards walkea into Cleveland's locker room nattily dressed in a dark, pinstriped sports coat instead of the usual sweats and sneakers he would normally wear the day after a game. 
He looked and acted cool Monday. On Sunday, he -was anything but. 
An embarrassed Edwards blamed "my passion for the game" for his showy sideline tantrum during the third quar­ter of Cleveland's 30-0 loss to the Cincinnati Bengals, a Terrell Owens-like display for the cocky second -year wide receiver. 
Following an interception by Browns quarterback Charlie Frye, an enraged Edwards lost his composure after leaving the field. He exchanged words with Frye and even grabbed the QB's jersey as other team­mates tried to settle him down as he angrily stormed around. 
Edwards, who didn't speak to the media following the game, never directly apolo­gized for his actions but he clearly regretted what hap­pened. 
"I don't feel like I embar­rassed my teammates," he said. "I embarrassed myself to some extent. That's not my character. That's not me. Nobody knows me as that type of guy. I've always been the clean cut, quiet, well-spoken 
guy, so that wasn't me. I 
embarrassed myself a little bit 
and I feel I embarrassed this 
organization to some extent. 
"I wish I could do it back, but 
I can't." 
Browns coach Romeo 
Crennel said any discipline 
against Edwards would be 
handled internally. I lis options 
would be to suspend, fine or 
bench the former first-round 
pick. 
Or, Crennel may choose to do 
nothing. 
"We are going to talk to 
Braylon and we are going to 
determine how we'll deal with 
it," Crennel said. "We are . going to keep it in-house." 
"It's family business and I'm 
not going t9 put it in the 
press." 


Does this Woman 
Intimidate 
you? 
Meet Jane HER way-OUT LOUD 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-night Cabaret for the Soul 
Readings, music, and open mike at Recker's Tuesdays 11 :00 pm-Midnight, starting Halloween contact Jonathan Couser, jcouser@nd.edu or 631-3923 

Rookie Cutler to start for Broncos Sunday 
Eleventh pick out of Vanderbilt will firwlly get a chance 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Jay Cutler's been the Denver Broncos' starting quarterback all of one practice and he's already a rattled rook­ie. 
Cutler, a former Indiana high school All-Star, was playing it cool in his first interview at the podium when fellow rookies Brandon Marshall and Tony Scheffler began heckling him from the side. Cutler tried to keep from laughing and could­n't. 
''I'm excited," Cutler said. "And a little nervous." 
The Cutler Era has officially started. Coach Mike Shanahan ended the speculation Monday by elevating the rookie to start­ing quarterback for the rest of the year, sending Jake Plummer to the bench. 
"He's our future, he's our present," Shanahan said. Cutler led his southern 
Indiana high school, Heritage Hills, to an unbeaten season and the Class 3A championship in 2000, when he was named first-team All-State by the AP. 
Cutler, the 11th pick out of Vanderbilt in the draft last April, hasn't taken a snap since the preseason. But Shanahan is hoping a quarterback change can ignite the Broncos' strug­gling offense. The team is 7-4, but ranks 26th in the league with 171 yards passing per game. 
"There's a lot of pressure on a first-year quarterback, no question about it," Shanahan said. "I think this kid can han­dle it. I think he gives us the best chance to win." 
His teammates figure it's worth the chance. "With the losing streak we're on, it doesn't hurt to try," 
..
receiver Javon Walker said. "If he does (well), we'll ride it all the way out. If not, obviously he's our quarterback of the future." 
A quarterback switch worked in Dallas when Tony Romo took over for Drew Bledsoe. The Cowboys have gone 4-1 with Romo as the starter. 
Students 
FIVCheaper 
Sample Fares from South Bend to: Sample Fares from Chicago to: 
Pittsburgh $151 Madrid $321 
Chicago $151 Florence $412 

$202 Singapore $755 
Terms: All faJeS are base<! on roundtrip travel and indude aStudentUnivelli service fee of $5. Domestic fare< include ai.s% US transportation tax. 
Other taxe< and fee< vary, depending on the itinerary and are not include<!. faJeS are subject to availability and change without notice. Dome<tic fligh~ 
valid Mon-Thu with an 8day advance purchase. 2day min stay including aSat night requ11e<l and max nay is lO days. International flights valid Man­
We<! with a 8 day advance purchase. Europe/Asia faJeS valid for departure< between Nov 1and Der 14. latin America fares valid for departuJeS through 
Dec 9. Aunralia fares valid for departures between Oct 1and Dec 8. 4day min stay required and max stay is 90 days. Blackout date< and other 
restrictions may apply. 

• StudentUniverse.com 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
NFL 
Vick apologizes for making obscene gesture 
Associated Press and the offensive line didn't 
,. 
ATLANTA -Michael Vick apologized for making an obscene gesture toward Atlanta fans as he walked off the field after the Falcons' fourth straight loss Sunday. 
Vick used both hands to deliver the gesture and flashed an angry look toward the hand­ful of fans remaining in the Georgia Dome. Those who hung around booed the home team loudly after its dismal 31­13 loss to the New Orleans Saints. 
"First and foremost, I would like to apologize for my inap­propriate actions with fans today," the quarterback said in a statement released by the Falcons. "I was frustrated and upset at how the game was going for my team, and that frustration came out the wrong way." 
Vick was the Falcons' main offensive threat with 166 yards rushing, just 7 off his NFL record for a quarterback. He had another rough day passing, completing nine of 24 for 84 yards, but that wasn't entirely his fault. 
The Atlanta receivers dropped at least five passes, 
provide much protection. Vick was sacked three times and hit a dozen more behind the line of scrimmage after throwing pa_sses. 
Leaving the field, he let his frustration get the best of him. 
"That's not what I'm about. That's not what the Atlanta Falcons are about," Vick said in his statement. 
"I simply lost my cool in the heat of the moment. I apologize and look forward to putting this incident ·behind me.". 
Vick did not address his actions at a postgame news conference. Heporters were not aware that he made the obscene gesture until after­ward, when replays of him leaving the field began airing on television. 
"I can't explain how I'm feel­ing right now," Vick said during the news conference. "Losing the game says it all." 
"It is not a good feeling when you lose four games in a row, and when you lose a game that you had a shot at winning." 
Vick said he did his best to keep the Falcons (5-6) from los­ing again. This is the first time since 2003 that Atlanta h.as been below .500. 
SPRING BREAK INFORMATION 800-488-8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 'VAliD FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS........ ....... The 34'h Annual Saint Mary's College ;fffiladrigal <!Christmas 71Binners Fri. and Sat., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 7 P.M. Sun., Dec. 3 at 2 and 7 P.M. in Regina North Lounge -~±~­Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instruments, SAINT jugglers, jesters and a Master of the MARY'S House entertain royally during a feast COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, INfit for a king or queen! For tickets call (574) 284-4626.  
Last year we pledged $2000 for I"As You Wish"t ©' hurricane relief in the Guatemalan village where we work. In the end,m por 5 -/--;, we spent $4400! Thank you for your support! Please stop in toLoads of Silver & Beaded Jewelry, Tapestry look, buy, or just visit!Wall Hangings. Hand Crafted Gift Items, Accessories. and Much, Much Morel DIRECT IMPORTS! LOW PRICES! Guatemala • Bolivia • Peru • Mexico • Thailand • India LaFortune-Sorln Room (1st Fl.) Proceeds from sales of jewelry guarantee the loving Nov. 27-Dec. 2 (Sat.) 11-Spm hands of Guatemalan families 3 times their average & M-F Evenings 7:3D-10pm salary, as well as funds for their education.  

•
I 



Get hig, chicken enchilada taste without the mess. Irs Taco Bell's Chicken Enchilada Grilled Stuft Burrito. Marinated all-white-meat chicken, melted cheese and savory, smothered enchilada taste. all wrapped up inside a flour tortilla that's grilled to go. So put the fork down and wrap your hands around one today. 
THINK~[~OUTSIDE'~
TACOTH& BUN~ HELL:> Umilud lime only d poflkipoling lota!iuns. f920061A(0 BHl WRP. -'>!38-6 

Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish disappointed in Hawaii tourney result 
An Evening of Prayer from Around the World 

Join us for an evening of 
Christian Taize Prayer 
as part ofa series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions. 
Wednesday, November 29, 2006 Walsh Hall Chapel 7-7:45pm 
Refreshment follows. 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, FOG Graduate Residences, Graduate Student Union, International Student Services & Activities, ND Muslim Student Association, University Village and Walsh Hall. 
Irish struggle to keep up with the rest of 9-team field 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame concluded its fall season with a disap­pointing eighth place finish in the Aloha Purdue College Invitational at the Kiahuna Golf Club in Poipu, Hawaii Thursday. No. 23 Texas won the event with a three­round tally of 847 -27 strokes better than Notre 
· Senior co-captain Adam Gifford tied for 23rd place in the tournament with a career-best 9-over-par 219. Junior Eddie Peckels and freshman Carl Santos­Ocampo rounded out the lineup for the Irish, who finished three shots behind top-ranked Alabama. Peckels carded a 14-over­par 2 24 and ended up in 36th place, while Santos­Ocampo wrapped up his first event for the Irish with a 26-over-par 236. 
After rising to No. 45 in the Golfweek rankings and defeating three teams that were ranked ahead of them at 

Dame. "When we come The Prestige Oct. The top two 16-17 in La
back, we,re going 
Irish players, Quinta, Calif., the 
to go at it hard.,, 
sophomore Irish finished 11th Josh Sandman in the CordeValle and senior co­Cole lsban Collegiate Nov. 6­captain Cole 7.
Irish senior 
Isban each fin­ished in the top 20 with scores of 215 and 216, respectively. 
Sandman's first-round 66 was a personal low, while lsban's opening-round 69 was his third score in the 60s this season. 
Neither Sandman nor Isban recorded an under­par total for the event. 
lsban, who finished at 6­over par, cited that incon­sistency as one of the rea­sons for the team's lacklus­ter performance. 
"Every week before this either Josh or myself has been under par," he said. "I think that had a big impact on the whole team." 
The team's 
hopes to finish on 
a high note were dashed Thursday. 
"We played pretty bad golf," said Isban, who placed 20th or better in all five of his tournaments this year. "The season wasn't great by any means. We weren't happy with our fin­ish here or at the CordeValle." 
The Irish will begin prac­tice for the spring season in January. . 
"We're going to take a lit­tle break," Isban said. "When we come back, we're going to go at it hard." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Ir----------------~ I 
HOLIDAY OPEN HOUSE 
this Friday & Saturday featuring: -15°/o off all Aveda products -Gift card specials -complimentary experiences -free refreshments I 
I I

SALON NOUVEAU 
I

227-6707 
I 

Ironwood at St. Rd. 23 I I 
Bring this coupon for 15% any service. Expiration 3/31/07 1 
~----------------~ 
Clear Coat
F F • 

• Premium Soft Clot!? WaSil

OUR 

• Polish-n-Sea!er 
mm~I!OO!I!!Imwi!Hnliililllmlli!lillllillllllilllllllliWR 
W1x Applied 
• 2·.Step Underborfv
BEST
Protectant 

52694 State Road 933 
South Bend. Indiana 46637

WASH • Spot-Free 
Rinse Just 2 miles north of Notre Oame on U.S. 31 
--... 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish earn bid to 15th straight NCAA Tourney 
Team set to take on No. 11 Wisconsin in Madison this weekend 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame celebrated its selection to its 15th consecu­tive NCAA Tournament on Sunday. But not after a near anxiety attack. 
The seeds for the 64-team Tournament were announced on ESPNews in brackets of 16, and Notre Dame's name was not called until the very last grouping, which caused a lot of tension according to Irish coach Debbie Brown. But when Notre Dame showed up on the screen, the relief was soon followed with celebration. 
"Everyone let out a huge shout, was yelling -we were jumping up and down," said Brown of the Irish reac­tion when their name was called. "[We were] just really excited that our season gets to continue." 
The Irish (18-13) were cho­sen as an at-large bid to face No. 11 Wisconsin in Madison this weekend -two days after the team dropped its final regular season match to No. 18 Ohio in the Louisville Invitational. 
"[The selection] was a sur­prise," Brown said. "We came in knowing we were a bubble team and obviously hoping we had a chance to get in, but certainly not assuming by any means." 
The Irish will take on the Badgers in the NCAA Tournament Friday for the second consecutive year. Then-No. 6 Notre Dame lost 3-2 to then-No. 11 Wisconsin in the third round last sea­son in College Station, Texas. The four-team Madison draw will see Iowa State play Wisconsin-Milwaukee on the other side of the bracket, with the winners of the two matches to meet in Madison for the second round. The winner of the grouping advances to the NCAA Regionals in Austin, Texas. 
Notre Dame won't be look­ing to avenge last year's loss, Brown said. 
"We still feel we have something to prove, but [revenge] won't be the major motivation coming in," she said. "As much as anything, we want to prove to our­selves and to other people that we are a team that has improved a lot." 
A weekend after a stunning run from first-round under­dog to the Big East tourna­ment championship, where they dropped a five-game match to Louisville, the Irish concluded their regular sea­son with a loss to the ranked Bobcats. 
Ohio (28-3) defeated the Irish 30-28, 27-30, 30-26, 30-23 Friday for its 21st consecutive win, before los­ing to Louisville in the Invitational championship. The Bobcats earned a first­round match against Kentucky after a Mid­American Conference regu­lar season and tournament title. 
The Irish were led on the 

attack by freshman Christina Kaelin (19 kills, . 2 50 hitting percentage). Junior captain Adrianna Stasiuk's double­double (17 kills, 16 digs), sophomore Mallorie Croat (13 kills, 12 digs) and fresh­man Serinity Phillips (15 kills, five digs) added contri­butions for the Irish, but Notre Dame couldn't over­come the streaking Bobcats. 
Ohio took the first game, but the Irish rallied in the second stanza, out-hitting the Bobcats .275 to .143 for the tying point. 
"I think had we had been able to win that first game and go into the break up two-zero, it would have been a much different situation," Brown said. "Ohio is a team that plays with a lot of confi­
dence.  We  needed  to  get  
them  a  little  more  out of  
their comfort zone."  

The Bobcats, however, reversed their anemic hitting 

percentage in the third and fourth games, out-hitting the Irish .327 to .237 and .333 to .204 to take the match and fmd Notrn Dame's regu­lar season. 
"We needed to have them be out of system a little bit more," Brown said. "We made some adjustments, but they were probably a little too late." 
Notes: 
+ 
Stasiuk's double-double against Ohio -her 18th of the year -tied her for the fourth-most double-doubles in a single season in Irish history. 

+ 
Senior captain Danielle Herndon recorded 18 digs against the Bobcats, giving her 565 digs on the season -the second-most in one season by an Irish player. 


Contact Kyle Cassity at 
kcassily@nd.edu 


ROn 17~\fi> ..JII lti 1'1' lnlt:DIA'I' C n ..\UAN H: G~O\A'i~ & <"·U;lUU.: I;):iif...l ~ :W .'1'./WF ~~. '>•n>lh< 
ROIT 175{!(;..1)2 !N'!'t'I'\'H.'D!Ap,: ITAUA'i II: ( ~'11-.:~B & t'I'U"\'H!.' it~·-*5..-.ll~35 M\\'1~· l\ \'hh:'itj> 
RU!'l' .<u:5JD-H!. fll 'ft.:>.:~.·\•,\LANAU SIC' llA5.. (dJn t\.lW, >•lfl..J:I5TiR I\ .!hiHn<. ('. :Siml'i.hm\ 

ROfl":LLH04(HPi.!63!11< HY'iiT !1 
9::J.n.-:~ {~~.-.3:5 'HH C, r~..:h~~~>'~ 

ROIT H5~Hl !TAU-\;\ 'r HL'<:rJU<: WO.'F:K~;HOI' 5:1Hl~kt:i ·un t" c~h,.~d<• 
kOIT SJMN i;LN!Ok H/1-l:UNKMA & UTER•\ITHE 1;,'0-1:4$ \l\V, RO!T •11$\)ft LAS J:\IU-2\;N T ,t Wdi<i 


( 1707-!793) by G. 13. Piazzetta 

ROIT 6:>!1~([ i'L\U..\N GR.\UL\.'IT.' Rli>\JHNG f>::l!P:45 MW 1'. lhln"' 
IH.H'!' 6:lfl9(l IllS fOR\' OF !TAUAN LA:-!<.;L,·\C!':(S) J;J<.HHW T L Ca~h~~ 
hOlT 1•354~ RKN. l1A!.JAN HIEATIU:; ORIG!N'i ll!W>n;H Tilt: COMMU~IA HELL'' A RIC l2:JU-CHl& R C, \l'"'''' 
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to rebound against Flying Dutch 
Henley hopes eight-day rest rejuvenates team 
By BILL BRINK and 
DAN COOPER 
Sports Writers 
Following a week of rest, Saint Mary's tips off MIAA con­ference play tonight as it travels to defending champion Hope. 
The Belles (1-3) have had a rough start to their season, playing their first four games in five consecutive days. Their last two losses were each by three points, one coming in overtime. 
Belles' head coach Jennifer Henley said the losses were in part a result of having so many games in so short a time. 
"If we had legs, that would have been a totally different game," Henley said of the Belles' loss to Manchester on Nov. 21. "We play the schedule handed down to us. It's tough for any team to pull off." 
Henley also believes that for the team to be successful, it must perform well in the paint. 
"Our post play needs to step up," she said. "They need to take pressure off the perimeter. Our team is dominated by [guard Allison] Kessler and [guard Bridget] Lipke. We have four six-footers that need to have more of an impact." 
Kessler and Lipke average 
19.3 and 12 points per game respectively. They run the offense and are constantly on the court, averaging 39 and 38 minutes per game. 
Saint Mary's will face a tough opponent in Hope junior guard Jordan Boyles. 
Boyles averages 16.5 points per game, while shooting 50 percent from the field including 55 percent from behind the arc. Henley acknowledges that stop­ping her will be a challenge. 
"She's a pretty legit player," she said. "If I knew how to stop her I'd be in pretty good shape. But good players will get their points. We want to contain her and mix it up with some differ­ent defensive looks." 
The Flying Dutch are 2-0 and average 81.5 points per game, good for second in the confer­ence and well above the Belles' 60 points per game. 
In order to compete with the Flying Dutch, Saint Mary's will have to cut down on its turnovers. The Belles average 
20.3 per game, giving them a minus 0.5 turnover margin with a 0.6 assists-to-turnovers ratio. 
Shooting efficiency will play an important role in tonight's game. Saint Mary's has con­nected on 41 percent of all its field goals, but play from behind the arc has hampered it so far this season. The Belles are shooting only 26 percent from 3-point range. 
Henley said the team will approach tonight's game the same way it would any other. 
"It doesn't really affect them," said Henley of the team's first conference game. "A game's a game, and it's important. But they're all important." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Dan Cooper at dcooper@nd.edu 
Trojans 
continued from page 24 
42-31 lead. 
The Trojan offense executed a balanced attack that saw four of its five starters score in double figures. Guard Eshaya Murphy led all players with 15 points and 17 rebounds, and guards Jamie Hagiya and Hailey Dunham and center Chloe Kerr each finished with 12 points. 
"They're a very talented team," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We did a poor job of guarding them. Every team has players that we're going to try and key on, and if we can handle them it'll make our job a little easier." 
Guard Charel Allen led the Irish with 13 points and eight rebounds, and freshman cen­ter Erica Williamson finished with 12 points and nine boards. 
Overall, however, the Irish were outrebounded 54-38. 
"We really made it hard on ourselves by giving them so many second chance opportu­nities," McGraw said. "Rebounding is a problem. It's been a problem all year and it's going to continue to be a problem because we lack the discipline or desire to block out." 
Notre Dame also struggled at the free throw line. The Irish shot just 7 -of-17, while the Trojans were 16-of-25 from the line, and they made 11 of their last 14. McGraw, however, does not anticipate that free throw shooting will be an issue as the season pro­gresses. 
"I think free throws is a strength of ours," she said. "Everyone except Erica [Williamson, who is shooting just .286 from the line] is shooting a really high per-



Irish forward Rob Kurz drives to the lane in Notre Dame's 93-87 win over Lehigh Monday at the Joyce Center. 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
lot as young guys and by the time they're juniors and sen­iors -they're Big East guards, they're not Patriot League guards anymore." 
Trailing by two at the half after Olivero nailed a 3-pointer as time expired before the break, Notre Dame found its groove with a balanced inside­outside attack. 
Falls scored the first four points of the half after nailing a 17 -foot jumper and following it with 2-of-3 from the line after he was fouled on a 3-point attempt with 18:46 remaining. 
Hillesland, who replaced for­ward Luke Zeller to open the second half, was there for the tip after Falls' miss, though, giving the Irish a two-point lead from which they would build momentum as the half progressed. 
Hillesland also finished with seven rebounds, three assists and two steals in addition to his double-digit point total. 
The two teams traded bas­kets for the next five minutes centage, so I think we'll do well from the line." 

The Irish will be back in action Tuesday against Richmond. The Spiders are 2­4 beating Bucknell 57-40 to snap a four-game losing streak. 
They will be led by guard Christina Campion, who is averaging 12 points and 5.5 rebounds a game. 
Notre Dame has three play­ers averaging double figures in scoring including Allen 
until Harangody missed a layup and Kurz was fouled on the putback. Kurz hit two free throws with 14:50 remaining, which ignited a 12-4 Irish run and put Notre Dame ahead 70­61. 
"I didn't know he had 25 ... I still think he turned down some shots," Brey said. "Great night offensively, but he's such a sta­bilizing force defensively in there too rotating and getting his hands on stuff." 
Kurz was 12-of-13 from the free-throw line in the victory and added eight rebounds. 
Notre Dame would maintain its lead, again going back and forth with Lehigh, until the Mountain Hawks began fouling down 92-83 with 26 seconds remaining. 
During that stretch, Carter was productive defending Olivero -who until that point was scoring at will for Lehigh. The senior guard attempted only two field goals inside five minutes remaining. 
"He was hitting everything. If he got a little bit of space he was pulling," Carter said. "His green light is like UV rate. If he's touching it, he's pulling it and he has such a quick 
(14.6) and guards Tulyah Gaines (11.2) and Ashley Barlow (10.4). 
Coming off the loss, McGraw hopes to see more offensive patience and consistency. 
"We're going to play the same way that we've been playing," she said. "We just have to come out and play our game. We're really looking for improvement." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
release." 
Lehigh came out of the gates firing on all cylinders in the first half. The Mountain Hawks opened a 12-5 lead four min­utes into the game before guard Kyle McAlarney hit a mid-range jumper to cut the lead to five before the media timeout. 
"I don't want to take away anything from Lehigh, they're really good," Brey said. "We had a hard time with them and a lot of it was their execution." 
But Lehigh's 9-of-11 3-point shooting in the first half allowed the team to maintain control -the Mountain Hawks led by 13 points with 8:29 remaining before the break ­despite Notre Dame's own 51­percent first half shooting. 
"On a night like tonight, thank God you're a good offen­sive team," Brey said. "You were gonna have to score some points tonight because they were in a rhythm." 
Notre Dame will return to action Wednesday against Winston-Salem State at 7:30 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 2006 

Hockey 
continued from page 24 
Sawatske were called for obstruction holding within a minute ofeach other. 
"It is the first time all year long that we have beaten our­selves," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "Obviously I'm disappoint­eel with that and it will be addressed in practice." 
Despite the outcome Jackson was still pleased overall with his teams play on Saturday night. Notre Dame controlled the puck for most of the game with plenty of opportunities to pull away late in the game, but the Irish could not sneak one past freshman goaltender Jeremie Dupont. Dupont finished the night with 25 saves. 
Notre Dame's two goals in the game came courtesy of the spe­cial teams unit. Senior defense­man Noah Babin got the scoring started with a shorthanded goal at 11:11 in the first stanza. 
The Mavericks answered just over a minute later with two goals of their own from Bryan Marshall and Mark Bernier on the first shift of the third period. 
Several minutes later, fresh­man Kevin Deeth got open along the crease and buried a Ryan Thang pass to tie the game on the power play. Sophomore Erik Condra also picked up an assist on the play to add to his team­leading 16 points. 
"Kevin has played consistently well for us," Jackson said. "The most important thing for a guy his size is that he competes and always gets himself in position to score goals." 
Deeth, who was named CCI-lA Rookie of the Week Monday, also had a goal and an assist in Friday's 4-2 Irish win. 
He picked up his assist when the line of Condra, Thang and Deeth capitalized on an odd­man rush just ovnr a minute into the game. Thang hit his fellow freshman breaking toward the net and Dneth shovolod the puck over to a wide-open Condra who redirected it past Maverick goal­tender Erie Aarnio to give Notre Dame an early lead. 
"We want to go out and estab­lish tho tempo of the game," Jackson said. "It is proven in hockey that the team that scores first usually wins about 70-75 percent ortho time." 
Senior Josh Seiba and fresh­man Dan Kissel kept things rolling as they both talliod their fourth goals on tho season to give the Irish a 3-0 lead heading into tho last pnriod. 
Nebraska-Omaha was able to cut the margin to one in the third period with two quick goals. 
Junior Brandon Scerco put the Mavs on the scoreboard when he dumped the puck on net from outside tho blue linn. The shot trickled past goalie Dave Brown and over the creasn. 
Senior defensoman Phil Angell quickly followed with his lirst goal of the year as sophomore Dan Charleston spotted him streaking in from the point and got him the puck in the high slot. 
The Irish once again callocl on their !if!11ine to provide an insur­ance goal with just over six min­utes remaining. Thang recov­ered a loose puck on the forecheek, which he fed in front of the net to Deeth, who secured a Notre Dame victory with his sixth score of the year. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurph6@nd.edu 

RUNNING FOR COVER 

Irish 
continued from page 24 

coach Randy Waldrum's eight years at the helm that the Irish have gone to the Final Four. 
The Irish and Lions played a scoreless first half Friday, with Notre Dame getting the majority of the chances and outshooting Penn State 13-3 before the break. 
"We did everything but score," sophomore forward Kerri Hanks said of the first half. "We just couldn't buy one." 
The Irish finally found the back of the net eight minutes into the second half. Senior mid­fielder Jen Buczkowski sent a free kick into the box where Hanks flicked it to Weissenhofer for the score. 
Barely two minutes later, the freshman scored again, this time on a rebound. Hanks sent a cross into the box which sopho­more forward Brittany Bock set­tled. Bock then rocketed a shot toward Lions goalkeeper Kate Milstead. Milstead got a hand on the ball but Weissenhofer charged in to knock it past her into the goal. 
"After we scored the second goal, you could see [Penn State] bow their heads," Waldrum said. "You could see they knew they were in some trouble." 
The freshman knocked in another rebound to complete the hat trick. Hanks lofted a free kick toward the net and Milstead came out to play it and seemingly batted it away, but Weissenhofer one-timed it back past her for a 3-0 lead. 
Weissenhofer let someone else score the final Irish goal -a diving header from senior mid­fielder Amanda Cinalli on a cor­ner kick from Hanks. 
The two goals off set piece plays by Hanks were the result of a recent change by Waldrum. The sophomore had taken cor­ner kicks all year, but only recently started taking most long-distance free kicks. 
"It's hard to find players that can hit spots on the field consis­tently," Waldrum said. "Kerri does that very well." 
Hanks credited the success of the move to her teammates being able to get to the ball once she sends it in. 
"We've been working a lot on getting a head on it or getting a body on it," she said. 
The Irish played defense in the second half as well, not allowing a shot to the Lions after the break and finishing with a 27-3 advantage in shots and an 11-2 advantage in shots on goal. 
Hanks' three assists gave her a team-high 20 for the season to go along with 22 goals. Weissenhofer's hat trick increased her scoring total to 18 goals and 17 assists. 
Notes: 
+ Hanks was named one of three finalists for the Hermann Award, given annually to college soccer's best player. 
"I didn't really expect it because I'm so young," the sophomore said. "There are a lot of other players out there that deserve an award like this. 
"If I win it, I would gladly give it back in exchange for a nation­al championship." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

half that pinned the Irish in a tight spot. 
Elite 8 

The opening minutes saw continued from page 24 pressure from both sides with Cristman having the golden 
and carried th1~ ball untouched to the end-line whore crossed to onrushing Adam Cristman, who smashed the shot home to push the Cavaliers' lead to 3-1. Though the Irish scored late, Virginia held on 3-2 to elimi­nate Notre Dame from the NCAA tournament one game short of the program's first­ever Final Four. 
Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said Cristman's chance before Irish keeper Chris Cahill stoned him in a one-on-one opportunity. Cristman would get his revenge in the 25th minute, however, when he opened the scoring with his first goal of the evening. 

Colaluca was again the 
provider as he sent a through ball to Cristman, putting him one­
goal took the wind "You can't be anything on-one 
out of Notre else but proud ofthe again with Dame's sails. Cahill. The
team."

"It was a tough senior for­goal because we w a r d started out the sec­Bobby Clark made no ond half very Irish coach mistake 
strongly, and we had the momen­tum once we scored," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "It's well known that after you score is a critical time to keep your focus, and we didn't do that." 
Notre Dame pulled within one goal in the 84th minute when Martin converted a penalty kick to record his first career multi-goal game for Notre Dame. The Irish pres­sured late, but were unable to find the tying goal. 
"Our guys showed a lot of character," Clark said. "A lot of guys would have caved in, but our guys kept fighting and managed to get a goal back." 
While Notre Dame put together a comeback effort in the second half, it was the first 
with his 
second 
opportuni­
ty slipping the ball past Cahill to give Virginia a 1-0 lead. 
Ten minutes later, the Cavaliers would double their advantage. Virginia, who was dangerous on set pieces all game, sent a free kick into the box that Notre Dame was unable to clear, and sopho­more forward Yannick Reyering made the Irish pay, depositing the loose ball into the back of the Notre Dame net. 
In the first half, the Irish were forced to do without starting sophomore defender Jack Traynor who left last weekend's Maryland game in the second half with an ankle injury. Traynor, who was a game-time decision to make Notre Dame's 18-man roster, came on at halftime to play the final 45 minutes. 
"We knew we could get one half out of [Traynor!, but the question was whether to play him in the first or the second half," Clark said. "You can sec­ond guess yourself until you're blue in the face, but it would have been nice to have the whole team fit for the game." 
After the loss, the Irish finish the season 15-6-2 with a resume that includes a victory over the defending national champion for the second straight season, an eight-game unbeaten streak and the pro­gram's first-ever trip to the NCAA quarterfinals. 
"You can't be anything else but proud of the team," Clark said. "You come off after the last game, and you know the team's given everything they have." 
Notes: 

+ Lapira was named as one of the three finalists for the Hermann Trophy annually given out to the nation's best player. He leads the nation in goals (22) and points (49). despite playing injured throughout the year. 
After Friday's loss, Clark revealed that Lapira tore car­tilage in his meniscus during the first game of the season against UAB. Lapira and the coaching staff considered sur­gery before deciding to play through the injury. For about the last month, Lapira has not trained at all between games. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 28, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE

JOCULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAVNA 

[IJ I I 
©2005 Tribune Media Setvices, Inc. All Rights Rese!Ved. 
SINEA 
[ J I
tTHUSIA ± 

J r J
1 j
www.jumble.com 
BLATUR 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT HE:R HUS­BAND SAID WHE:N HE: SAW THE: PRICE: OF HE:R NE:W WIG. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans:[ I I I J'D rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MAIZE GRIEF HARROW FORGOT Yesterday's Answer·. 
Hard to get out o1without paying ­A MORTGAGE 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 38 Bridgestones or 68 Actor Reeves -Seltzer Michel ins 69 Author 
-
39 So-so grade Neale Hurston
5 Serb or Pole 40 Sam who was a 70 Nerd
9 Botanical three-time 71 Bar, legallygardens display Masters champ 72 Mongolian tent14 "Metropolis" 42 Dander
director Fritz 73 Gaelic 43 Wee hour 
15 Astronomical effect 46 Farm equipment DOWN that's been put
16 Car that spends 1 One of TV's 
to another use? 

too much time "honeymooners" in the shop 2 Kind of paint 
49ltalian automaker

17 Brain passage 3 Prepared to
since 1906 pray, say18 Bygone award? 

51 Architect 4 Accept 20 Star Saarinen 5 Ursula Andress 22 Plenty 52 Old customs? 

film 23 Ring decision, 58 Court figures, 6 West Coast air briefly b'riefly 
hub 24 Schwarzeneg-61 Pennsylvania 7_Highway ger, today? port 
(old 1 ,500-mile 28 What a 62 Unlikely race route) handkerchief winner 
8 "There youmay wipe away 
63 Executive at have it!" 29 Turnstile locale American Motors 9 Complete and 33 Former train 
or Enron, e.g.? direct, as a 
station 67 One of the denial 35 Round end of a 47 Crafts' partner 57 Quench attendants? Aleutians 10 Rent hammer 
48 Just-made-up 58 Hockey feint 11 Skip 36 Alternative to word 
59 Fires ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Rover

12 Knight's 50 Longfellow's 
60 Public sceneneighbor 37 Full and happy bell town 
cause 13 Part of A.D. 
53 Posh
41 Eins + zwei 64 John Lennon's 

19 Little ones 
54 English quintet adopte~ middle 21 Rabbit name 44 Big name in 
hardware 55 Cowboy film 25 Gym floor stores 65 Bruin legend
56 Popularcovers 45 Befuddles footwear 66 Turner of note 

26 Singer Cara 27 Diamond stat. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a30 Legal order 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 31 Prefix with -naut 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 32 Belgian river crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
33 Area of E. P.A. 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

purview: Abbr. 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 34 TV's warrior solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.

princess 



EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jaleel White, 30; Brooke Langton, 36; Fisher Stevens, 43; Caroline Kennedy, 49 
Happy Birthday: Let go ofthe past. It's time to tum over a new leaf and begin the process of getting on with life. Don't let uncertainty deter you from moving forward and trying new things. Y mi will instinctively learn what you need to know along the way. Your numbers are 5, 12, 23, 25, 37, 42 · 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can do no wrong today so get things out ofthe way. Say what needs to be said and move on and upward. It's y9ur time, so enjoy the moment. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Think twice before you make a promise that might be difficult to keep. You don't want to disappoint someone who depends on you. A problem with finances is apparent. Don't get angry, get busy. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will make a very good impression if you are efficient and on top of what needs to be done. You will attract attention, not to mention love and romance. If single, someone new is heading your way. If partnered, enjoy one another's company. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Interacting with other people will bring about an interesting tum ofevents. Get involved in something that will add to your knowledge and up your earning potential. A conference, tradeshow or interest course will contribute to your getting ahead. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do something with children or get involved in something that will be just as much social as business. You need to get away from anyone who puts too much pressure on you. Overspending will only add to your problems. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be sure of what you say and do before you proceed. This is not the time to make rash decisions or to jump from one thing to another. A reliable friend will shed some light on your situation if you really don't understand what's going on. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your expressive way ofexplaining what you want will entice the exact person you need to help you follow through. Travel, getting involved with an organization that thinks the same way you do. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You may find yourself in trouble with someone you are close to or have to answer to. Focus on work, money and professional direction or school rather than on fixing emotional matters. Deception is apparent with parents, children and loved ones. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will attract attention and should be able to convince others to see what you have to offer and how it can be utilized. Travel, presentation and promotion are all in a high cycle today along with love and romance. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A strong sense ofjustice and fair play may deter you from following in the path of someone you have reipected in the past. Take a moment to clear your head and to realize your own potential. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything will be cloudy and unsure today, especially if you have been counting on things being a certain way. You may have to rethink your strategy or realign yourself with someone who is potentially better for you. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): As long as you don't put your own money on the line, you will do just fine today. Travel will not be in your best interest. It's a day for picking and choosing what works best for you and forgetting about accommodating anyone else. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are insightful, worldly and totally unpredictable. You are emotional, creative and willing to try new things. You are a doer, a crusader and an individual who cares. 
Eu!!enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fUn. eu!!enialast.com for confidential consultations 
---------------------------------------------------~---------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: · P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, November 28, 2006 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Kurz's 25, Falls' 21 highlight comeback win 
ry at the Joyce Center Monday. Monday after shooting 56 per­in double figures including formance after the game, asBy BOB GRIFFIN Guard Colin Falls scored 21 cent in the second half and Falls and Kurz. Guard Russell Notre Dame struggled finding
Sports Writer 

points on 6-of-11 shooting to nailing 15-of-16 from the free­Carter had 14 points on 6-of-ways to defend his erratic, yet assist Kurz, after the Irish throw line. 14 shooting, forward Zach efficient shots throughout the 
Notre Dame overcame trailed Lehigh (2-6) 46-44 at "We fought back. They were llillesland had 11 points on 4-game. Lehigh's 82-percent shooting the half. throwing everything in and we of-5 shooting and forward "[Olivero's] a senior guard from 3-point range in the first The Irish (4-1), after strug­still found a way to win," Falls Luke llarangody had 10 points whose played in a lot of half and Rob Kurz led the gling in close games last sea­said. "For this team, I don't on 4-of-7 shooting. games," Brey said. "I told him, comeback with a career-high son and earlier this year in a want to dwell on it, but we Lehigh senior Jose Olivero I said, 'you're a heck of a play­25 points on 6-of-9 shooting -71-69 loss to Butler, proved haven't won many games like led all scores with 32 points on er.' Kids like that they play a 15 points in the second half -they are capable of pulling this." 11-of-16 shooting. Irish coach to give the Irish a 93-87 victo-away down the stretch Notre Dame had l'ive players Mike Brey credited his per-see HOOPS/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Trojans take early lead in home win 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame attacked first, but played catch up the rest of the way, as Southern California handed the Irish their second loss of the year 69-58 Friday night in Los Angeles, Calif. 
After the Irish jumped ahead 2-0, the Trojans went on a 10­2 run and Notre Dame never recovered. The Irish (3-2) often struggled to put points on the board despite forcing 27 turnovers and surrendering 19. 
In the first half, Notre Dame twice cut the lead to one, the second time coming when sen­ior forward Crystal· Erwin hit the second 3-pointer of her career with 7:19 left in the half to make the score 19-18. The Irish could never get over the hump, however, and went into the half trailing 30-24. 
Early in the second half, the Irish cut the Trojan lead to 34­31, but Southern California again responded to the Notre Dame threat, going on an 8-0 run that gave it a comfortable 
see TROJANS/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Mavericks, Irish trade victories 
Uotila's late goal nets series draw for UNO 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 

Nebraska-Omaha defenseman Juha Uotila scored a power-play goal with 2:16 remaining in the third period to give the Mavericks a 3-2 win and a weekend split with No. 5 Notre Dame in Omaha. 
Uotila's goal was a result of two Notro Dame penalties that gave Nebraska-Omaha a 5-on-3 advantage late in the game. Seniors Jason Paige and Tom 
see HOCKEYIpage 21 

ND SoccER 

Freshman's hat trick vaults Irish to Final Four next weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Freshman forward Michele Weissenhofer scored three goals as No. 1 Notre Dame beat No. 8 Penn State 4-0 Friday to propel the Irish into the national semi­finals. 
The Irish (24-0-1) will face Florida State, who came back to beat Clemson 2-1 in its quarter­final, Friday in Cary, N.C. The winner of that game will take on the winner of UCLA and North Carolina in Sunday's final. 
It will be the fourth time in 
see IRISH/page 22 

Split results 

Irish forward Susan Pinnick (17) congratulates midfielder Amanda Cinalll after Cinalli's goal Friday at Alumni Field. Notre Dame beat Penn State 4-0 In the NCAA Quarterfinals. 
Notre Damefalls to No. 4 seed Virginia in Elite 8 showdown 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

In just 20 seconds, Notre Dame went from a team on the comeback trail to packing its bags. 
With 20 minutes remaining in Notre Dame's NCAA quarterfi­nal match against Virginia Friday, left forward Joseph Lapira found forward Kurt Martin near the net on a free kick to cut the Cavaliers' lead to 2-1. 
On the ensuing kick-off, Virginia junior midfielder Nico Colaluca got open on the wing 
see ELITE 8/page 22 

ND MEN'S GOLF
ND VOLlEYBALL

SMC BASKETBALl 
w 
The Irish finish eighth 

NFL 
USC44
Denver quarterback 
u Saint Mary's at 
Ohio 3 
out of nine teams in the 

Jay Cutler will make his 
Notre Dame 1 
z: Hope 
ND24
The Irish drop their 
Aloha Purdue College 

first pro start Sunday 
s 
season finale to the

= Today, 7:30 p.m. 
Invitational. 

for the Broncos. 
Irish
Bobcats, but make their

The Belles travel to
c:c 
laaidti
15th straight NCAA

Holland, Mich. to face 
= Tournament.2005-06 MIAA champs. 
:":iV'kissed opportunities doom 
page 19

page 21 
page 20 
page 17 

::~rulrish apinst talented Trojans 



