

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 28 FRIDAY. SEPTEMBER29. 2006 
New season tickets to fund stadium repairs 


Copyrighters track student offenders 

1. 
~· 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Some things in life are free -but they are also illegal. 
More than one third of col­lege students nationwide download pirated music files via peer-to-peer file sharing networks, according to an April 2006 University of Richmond survey. More than half of all illegal downloading cases occur on college cam­puses -and that includes Notre Dame. 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing dealt with 78 cases of illegal file sharing during the 2005-06 academic year, said Assistant Director Kathy Brannock. 

And that number is only increasing. This semester, the office has already encoun­tered 50 incidents, she said. 
"We seem to be having more cases this year," Brannock said. 
One of those cases is fresh-
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
In an effort to generate money for Notre Dame Stadium repairs, the University will offer 5,000 sea­son football tickets starting in 2007, University officials announced Thursday. 
The University has not offered season tickets in more than 30 years, and the increased ticket revenue will help fund "ongoing preventa­tive maintenance" on the sta­dium, which is estimated to cost about $40 million, Executive Vice President John Affieck-Graves said at a press conference Thursday after­noon. 

The tickets will be sold at their face value plus an annu­al rights fee based on the tick­et location: $2,000 per ticket for sideline seats, $1,500 for corner seats and $1,200 for end zone seats. 
People affiliated with the University will be given priori­ty in the ticket lottery, Affleck­Graves said. Season ticket applications will be mailed in January to everyone who signs up on an online list at Notre Dame's athletic Web site. 
If more than 5,000 people appeal for tickets, then the University will use a lottery system to allocate the tickets -taking into consideration one's affiliation with the University. 
By 4 p.m. Friday, more than 750 people had already signed up to receive an application, said Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown. 
The 5,000 tickets will come from a reduction in internal ticket allocations and from season tickets that have been returned during the last sev­eral years, Affleck-Graves said. 
"Internal tickets" refers to tickets allocated to academic departments, the University 
see TICKETS/page 4 

ResLifes for downloads on the rise 
man Federico Valiente, who had a ResLife meeting Thursday after he was caught sharing illegal files on Sept. 
21. He was notified when ORLH sent him an e-mail explaining how a copyright­owning company had "caught [himl and reported [himJ .tQ the University." 
"I got back to the dorm after my last class and checked my e-mail, hoping to get news from Facebook or something fun and interesting like that," Valiente said. "To my surprise though, there was an e-mail from ResLife, which freaked me out when I read the subject: 'Copyright Infringement."' 
Brannock said the University does not actively seek out students who violate copyright laws. Instead, the school is informed by "who­ever owns the copyright," she said. Notre Dame has been contacted by such groups as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), HBO, NBC Universal and Columbia Pictures. 
Students whe use file shar­
see DOWNLOADS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Movie follows migrants 

Priest will expound on filnz before Congress 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Father Daniel Groody wanted to show people the human face of the world's most vulnerable members -and he decided making a movie was the way to 


do that. 
A f t e r spending years visiting the canals, deserts, mountains and border towns of Mexico 
Groody and hearing 

the stories of countless immigrants -Groody has condensed his research into a 33-minute documentary entitled "Dying to Live: A Migrant's Journey." 
"This is not just about the border between Mexico and the United States. It's about the border between national secu­rity and human insecurity, civil law and natural law and citi­zenship and discipleship," said Groody, an assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame and the film's executive producer. "It's out of that that we want to acknowledge that this is a com­plex issue." 
Groody's film explores it by turning to those most deeply and directly affected by immi­gration along the U.S.-Mexico border: the immigrants them-
see GROODY/page 8 

ANNA AMBERKER 




Bookstore boasts impressive sales 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Football season comes every year to the Notre Dame Hammes Bookstore like Christmas to a toy store, as any item that could potential­ly have "Irish" printed on it makes its way to shelves, window displays and cash registers. . 
There is even Fighting Irish breakfast cereal for sale now -and judging from the waves of people that flock to campus every weekend dur­ing home football games, the Bookstore should have no problems selling its Notre 
see BOOKSTOREIpage 4 



Panel ponders papal remarks about Islam 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 

While Pope Benedict XVI's recent address on faith and rea­son at Germany's Regensburg University was not without flaw, five faculty members agreed Thursday at the Hesburgh Center, the media has presented an incomplete version of the speech. 
In his Sept. 12 remarks calling for "genuine dialogue of cultures and religions," the pope quoted an obscure 14th century Byzantine emperor as saying the Prophet Muhammad brought "things only evil and inhuman" to the world, "such as his command to spread by the sword the faith he preached." 
Director of the Center for Ethics and Culture W. David Solomon, theology professor Paul Kollman, history professor Brad Gregory, Director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies R. Scott Appleby and Kroc Institute scholar Rashied Omar debated just what the remarks meant ­and correct or not, now that they're out there, just what should be taken from them. 
The pope's words have incited a wave of backlash in the Muslim world, most notably the bombing of two West Bank churches and 
see POPE/page 8 


page 2 Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Worthy of the mohawk? 
There is a very limited amount of people who have ever been cool enough, crazy enough and tough enough to successfully maintain a mohawk. So to the growing cult of libby­wannabes: if 
Dan Murphy
you cannot 
meet at least a 
few of the fol­
Sports Writer 
lowing crite­
ria, please steer clear of 
the razor this weekend. 
We will start with perhaps the most recognizable mohawk of our generation: Mr. T. Despite spending his twilight eliminating long dis­tance phone costs, our exhibit A­and The A-team's finest-has brought cool to a whole new level. He established himself as a trend­setter with his shameless gold neck jewelry and countless earrings. 
And although he is necklace-free, our own Mr. Z is setting some trends of his own. 
Next we turn our attention to the world of heavy metal music, where Tommy Z comes 'hawk to 'hawk with world-class drummer Tommy Lee. The one-time husband of Baywatch babe Pamela Anderson is infamous for his crazy hotel parties and hardcore rock. As is evident in his short-lived film career, Lee lives his life in the fast lane and has the haircut to match. 
Tommy Z has never trashed a hotel room (that we know about), but he's torn apart enough punt cov­erages to land himself in the same category of Motley Crew's pride and joy. 
To find the toughest of mohawks we have to go back to World War II where members of the 101st Airborne paratroopers put an end to the crew cut and grew out their 'hawks. The "Filthy 13," as they called themselves, were the first to land at Normandy on D-Day and eliminated hundreds of enemy shooters in minutes. 
Although it took a little longer than 49 seconds to deliver their knockout blow, the men of the 101st are easily the toughest to use hair gel. 
The first Mohawk was discovered on a man from 300 B.C. who died in his twenties. The man, who used plant oil to cement his spike, was preserved in a bog outside of Dublin, Ireland. The Irish have come a long way in the past two millennia. but clearly we have not lost our roots. 
In conclusion, I strongly support backing your team. But unless you can compare with the esteemed list above I suggest you stick to the No. 9 jerseys. 
If you feel your personality can be summed up in a single letter, yet still be powerful enough to change a man's life in under a minute, then by all means break out the Bics. 
Otherwise, learn from Samson's mistakes and save your hair-and your dignity. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST PURCHASE YOU'VE EVER MADE FROM THE BOOKSTORE? 

Ben Andersen Cristina Romano Megan Schlichte Steph Nienaber Ryan Emptage Mary Mitsch 
freshman freshman freshman sophomore junior freshman Carroll Walsh Lewis Walsh O'Neill McGlinn 
·:4n lVD ··~wy Darius ..My ID card ..One ofthose ·:4n awesome ..My ND shot tracksuit, Walker jersey holder I monstrous ND Adidasjacket glass sure because it's -too bad I left lanyard. It sure cookies you can so I can pretend makes a great super it in the bag comes zn buy on I'm actually an candle holder!,, 





Atlanta 71 I 51 Boston 68 I 59 Chicago 59 I 37 Denver 79 I 44 Houston 79 I 57 Los Angeles 82 I 60 Minneapolis 58 I 40 New York 68 I 60 Philadelphia 66 I 61 Phoenix 100 I 73 Seattle 70 I 50 St. Louis 66 I 48 Tampa 87 I 71 Washington 66 I 57 


athlete. , 
IN BRIEF 

University President Emeritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy will be on hand in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. today to sign his book "Monk's Notre Dame." 
All are invited to watch stu­dents from the Department of Music give a free performance from 12:10-12:50 p.m. in the Penote Performers' Assembly of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets for the event, part of the "Bach's Lunch" series, are required and can be reserved by calling 631-2800. Audience members are encouraged to bring their lunches. · 
New York University's J.J. Lee will deliver a lecture enti­tled "Michael Davitt, the Catholic Church and Irish America" today at 4 p.m. in the Cushwa Center. All are welcome to the event, which is sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
The undefeated Notre Dame women's soccer team will take on West Virginia at 7:30 tonight at Alumni Field. Tickets for the game can be purchased at http://und.cstv.com/tickets/nd­tickets-soccer.html. 
Tonight's pep rally will take place in the Joyce Center from 6 to 7 p.m. Limited general public tickets will be on sale beginning at 5 p.m. at the tick­ets windows on the east side of Notre Dame Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
HIGH 75 LOW 57 

HIGH LOW 
comfortable. , with a rotten handy.,, game day.,, banana." 


ANNAAMBERKAR!The Observer 
Consultant and political analyst Heather Hurlburt, left, talks to students including Mike McKenna, right, in the Coleman Morse student lounge Thursday for the "Pizza, Pop and Politics" discussion. She served as a special guest for the Center for Social Concerns event, "Iraq War: Stay in or Get Out?" 
OFFBEAT 
Police find meth in man's prosthetic leg 
JAY, Okla. -Sheriff's deputies have arrested a Grove man on drug charges after finding crystal methamphetamine inside his prosthetic leg. Larry Clinton Harper, 64, was arrested at his busi­ness, Harper's Used Cars and Body Shop, last week. 
During a search, deputies found drugs inside a sock-like cover­ing inside Harper's pros­thetic leg, said Delaware County Sheriff's Capt. Larry Barnett. 
"They just tumbled out, and he just laughed," 
Barnett said. "He said he thought he was pulling 
the wool  over  our  eyes,  
but  we  had  the  last  
laugh."  

The arrest followed suc­cessful drug buys from Harper's business, Barnett said. 
Man allegedly seeks revenge over glasses 
HAMMOND, Ind. -A man upset that his neigh­bor's children helped break his wife's eyeglass­es is accused of trying to bomb the neighbor's house in retaliation. David Michielsen, 2 7, of Hammond is charged 
with detonating a destructive device with intent to intimidate or destroy and manufactur­ing a destructive device. He faces 58 years in prison if convicted on both counts. 
The neighbor told police she was visiting Michielsen's wife Sunday when her children and Michielsen 's broke the glasses. Michielsen ordered her and her chil­dren to leave, a probable cause affidavit said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a: 

1.1.1 :::1: 
!cc 
1.1.1 

~ 
_, 
c( 
(.) 


47 38 

63 47 

65 
48 
0 
HIGH 57

.... 
LOW 48 


Friday, September 29, 2006 page 3 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Law school hopefuls face exam 
Students to trade tailgating for test taking during Saturday's LSAT 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
While the atmosphere on most of campus tomorrow morning will be alive with tra­ditional home game excite­ment, the atmosphere in DeBartolo Hall will be signifi­cantly more serious when stu­dents hunch over and face the Law School Admission Test [LSAT]. 

"A lot of students express anxiety about [the LSAT] hap­pening on a game day," said Arts and Letters Associate Director Ava Preacher, who serves as the law advisor for the University. 
But Preacher said there have been at least nine LSATs administered on game days during the years since she has been advising those interested in law, and during those years, students have not come back to complain about the timing. 
Since students usually arrive early for the exam, tests are administered in DeBartolo's interior rooms and doors are locked during the exam, Preacher is sure test-takers "won't hear a whole lot of [ ... ] game day distractions." 
The LSAT contains an ana­lytical reasoning section, which Preacher said is "collo­quially known as 'the logic games."' There are also logical reasoning and reading com­prehension components. 
While the actual test time adds up to about three and half hours, Preacher said stu­dents should "plan to be there for about five hours," primari­ly because of breaks scheduled during the exam. 
Notre Dame students tend to fare well on the exam --the University's mean is 159 out of the highest possible 180, 
according to Preacher. Of the 182 senior law school applicants from the 2004-05 academic year, 15 7 students were accepted into law school. 
Students pre­pare for the exam in various ways, but Preacher said many take "com­mercial prep classes," like those offered by Kaplan. It is pos­
the range of schools.to which [students considering law school] can apply," Preacher said. "The higher the scores, the larger the range." 
In the past academic year, Preacher has had at least 300 meetings with undergraduates. graduates and alumni seeking advising in the past academic year. Law schools attract 
'11 lot ofstudents expressed anxiety about [the LSATJ happening on a game day., 
Ava Preacher law advisor and associate director of the College of Arts and Letters 

sible, she said, for students to do self-directed study. 
"However, if students are going to prepare on their own, the.Y need to talk to me," said Preacher, because it is impor­tant for students to know what materials to use and how to approach their study. 
Still, the LSAT is not every­thing when applying to law school. 
"Students always think it's a numbers game, and actually the LSAT and GPA only define applicants of var­ious backgrounds and experiences. 
"[People con­sidering law school] are very diverse," Preacher said. "We have stu­dents from every major, every type of personality. It's interesting." 
Some students who come to Notre Dame may be interested in staying to attend 
law school at the University. As for the prospects of current Notre Dame students applying to the law school, "I wouldn't say it's easier or harder," Preacher said. 
She did say, however, that the top-end applicants -and therefore, those accepted -to Notre Dame Law School often come from the University's stu­dent body. 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


Fans anticipating an easy win over Purdue 
By LAURA WILCZEK and 
EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writers 

Just a week after Notre 
Dame students doused them­
selves with Stonehenge 
waters in ecstatic celebration 
of the win over Michigan 
State, fans have to towel off 
their cocky attitudes and 
prepare for a new foe: 
Purdue. 

While the team found itself in dire straits last Saturday, students don't anticipate this game to be quite as daunt­ing. The stress that opened the fourth quarter in East Lansing has receded -or in sophomore Laura Benca's case, disappeared. 
''I'm not worried at all," she said. "We can definitely beat them." 
Purdue, though, wilJ ride into South Bend high on a four-win, no-loss record. And even considering that none of its opponents was ranked (while two of Notre Dame's four were), Purdue has still beaten Notre Dame 25 times in the series history. 
That's more times than any other school, besides University of Southern California's 29 times and Michigan State's 25, accord­ing to the University's Official Athletic Web site. 
Plus, Purdue beat the Irish 
Kim Missouri Kyocera KXS Remix 

• 
FREE CALL ME MinutessM 


• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
Unlimited Night and Weekend Minutes (starting at 7 p.m.> 

• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 


• 
No Long Distance Charges 


41-26 during their last visit to Notre Dame Stadium in 2004. 
In fact, Purdue coach Joe Tiller seems to be just as cocksure as Irish fans. 
"Obviously, [Notre Dame is] not connecting and gaining yards," he said in a recent press conference. " ... [That] helps your own team's confi­dence and allows you to work your way into the game." 
Sophomore Melissa Lee certainly hopes Notre Dame can wrangle a victory from the Boilermakers. For Lee, more than the football team's pride is on the line. 
"Practically my whole fami­ly went to Purdue," she said. "If we lose this weekend, I will not be able to show my face at Christmas." 
Whether coach Dan Devine was right in the movie "Rudy" when he said "nobody comes into our house and pushes us around" now lies in the hands -and feet -of the football players. 
They'll also set the post­game campus mood ­though whether the fountain will provide the setting for a second round of victorious revelry probably rests in the hands of Mother Nature. 
Contact Laura Wilczek at lwilczek@nd.edu and Eileen Duffy at eduffy1 @nd.edu 


. ' . . . . 
. . . . . .. 
~ ~ 
. 
• I . • ­
• • ' • ~ • ' • I • ' I -I • • • ' ' • • I • 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 29, 2006 stadium," Aflleck-Graves said. "It 'Yill be done piece by To increase ticket access for 
While the structural sup­piece as we go along," Affieck­alumni in the general football
Bookstore I Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Dame Wheaties. 
"The excitement surround­ing Notre Dame football brings more people to cam­pus, and while they're here the likelihood that they will pick up souvenirs for their families is very high," said Sally Wiatrowski, director of the Bookstore. · 
While bound by her employ­ment contract from dis­cussing any specific sales fig­ures, Wiatrowski did break into a smile when asked about the increase in profits observed during football weekends. 
Irish fans never fail to pur­chase rally beads, blue and gold porn poms, leprechaun temporary tattoos and Notre Dame hooded sweatshirts. 
The best-selling item before home games, however, con­tinues to be "The Shirt" ­more than 100,000 have been sold already, and the Bookstore recently restocked its supply of the navy blue T­shirts. 
With seven home games scheduled this fall -one more than previous seasons -Wiatrowski suspects the demand for "The Shirt" will extend itself further into. the year. 
New items such as the Irish­inspired Wheaties have also found a market among fans of both Notre Dame and its rival teams.. 
"General Mills came to us with this idea," Wiatrowski said. "I believe they also launched USC, Texas and Ohio State Wheaties, but we were the first university they contacted." 
The venture turned out to be a success, resulting in 12,000 boxes of Notre Dame Wheaties sold in a day and a half during the Michigan game weekend. 
The Bookstore promptly ordered 15,000 more boxes to sell on Saturday. 
"It's a fun and unique item, and people seem happy to buy it," Wiatrowski said. 
They should be even happi­er to know that their Bookstore purchases help fur­ther Notre Dame's academic mission, since a portion of the revenues are directed toward scholarship funds. 
Luis Castaneda, a 1996 MBA graduate, brought his wife and young sons to South Bend this weekend for the Purdue game and to the Bookstore Thursday to con­tribute to those revenues. 
"I came back from Mexico for the 10-year class reunion," said Castaneda, as his youngest boy eyed the shirt emblazoned with the new Popeye-looking lep­rechaun. "It's a dream come true to be here with my wife and kids." 
The Castafiedas beat the lines expected to form this Saturday. 
"Purdue is really a drive-in game for most people, so we don't really expect the major­ity of fans to come in until Saturday morning," Wiatrowski said. 
When teams like USC come to South Bend from more dis­tant places, fans also arrive earlier, and so the Bookstore traffic is heavy on Thursdays and Fridays and a little more relaxed during the hours before kickoff, Wiatrowski said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
porting frame of·the 76-year­Graves said. "The first phase ticket lottery, tickets have old stadium is in good condi­will be to clean up the most been reallocated and several
continued from page 1 
tion, the egregious dam­policy changes have been Relations office, the University weather has age." made, Affleck-Graves said. president's office and others. Jt deteriorated In addition to However, he did not disclose
"The first phase will 

does not include student, fac­the concrete the season ticket the details of those realloca­ulty or staff tickets. of the seating be to clean up the announcement, tions. Affleck-Graves said other bowl. the University also "One of the things we're
most egregious 

funding options for the stadi­Beginning announced that it strongly committed to is that
damage.··

um repairs were considered, this summer, is "committed to we don't want our tickets to be such as adding luxury box continuous actively monitor­only available to a subset of seats. But that was ruled out, repairs will John Affleck-Graves ing and enforcing our alumni," Affleck-Graves he said, since it would "change be made to executive vice president its ticket resale said. "We want every alum to the look and feel of Notre the stadium policy," according have a chance to come to a Dame Stadium." Officials also for the next to a statement game at least once a year. So ruled out using donor money. 20 to 25 released by the we changed our allocation to 
"We would not feel comfort­years, Affleck-Graves said. Office of News and give high priority to the indi­able naming the football stadi­The first concern will be Information. Roughly 1,700 vidual game lottery." um after somebody and we repairing the seating bowl tickets have already been sus­would not feel comfortable concrete, which is cracked in pended or revoked this year Contact Mary Kate Malone at putting a donor's name on the some areas. alone. mmalone3@nd.edu 



AlSO AVAH.A8LE AT 
NILES, Ml Basic Communications 
2010 S. 11th St. 269-357-0000 

GET THE ALL NEW KATANA™ by Sanyo~ 

.99

$ 
> Choose from three great colors 
Black, Blue Sapphire or Cherry Blossom Pink 
> Ultra-thin design > Twice the battery life of other thin phones > Built-in Bluetooth 
You can also choose from > Built-in VGA camera our great selection of 
> Sprint PCS Vision~ enabled > Large external display 
After savings equal to the value of the phone. 
Sprint PCS Vision Phone KATANATM by Sanyo~ After S180 instant savings and SSO Requires in·store purchase and activation with a mail-in rebate. reg. $279.99 each. Requires in-store purchase and activation of a 
new line of service on a 2-year agreement with Vision. new line of service on S39.99 or higher service plan with atwo·year subscriber 
agreement and Vision. 
New, improved coverage in the South Bend area. 

Wireless service is only as good as the network it runs on. With new and improved coverage in South Bend, Niles, Granger and Laporte, 
now is a great time to experience the most complete, all-digital, wireless network in the nation reaching more than 250 million people.




T.ulll 
OPEN SUNDAYS!  
SPRINT STORES  
SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  
Martin's Plaza  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge  Sunday ..... 12pm-Spm  
2035 South Bend Ave.  South of the Mall across  Mon.-Fri. .... 10am-8pm  
574-277-7727  from McDonald's  Sat.. ........ 9am-7pm  
Se habla Espanol  574-243-2100  CONVENIENT SUNDAY HOURS  

PREFERRED RETAILERS 
MISHAWAKA Sprint Store Express University Park Mall 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 
••Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.67% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required d1arges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store or Sprint.com for details. Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase and activation by 9/30/06. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts excluded. Phones Subject to availability. Mail-in Rebate: Requires purchase & activation by 9/30/06. Rebates cannot exceed purchase price. Taxes excluded. Line must be active 30 consecutive days. Allow 8 to 12 weeks for rebate. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2006 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint and the "Going Forward"logo are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. 


Friday, September 29, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S vv1 RE SERVlCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Lebanese troops slow in withdrawal 
JEHUSALEM -Despite repeated Israeli assurances of a quick troop withdrawal from Lebanon, Israeli officials said Thursday they vvcre reluctant to complete the pullout more than six weeks after a cease-fire agreement ended a month of bloody conflict. 
Several issues -large and small -remain unresolved, involving the future roles of Hezbollah guerrillas, U.N. forces and the Lebanese army in the border area, and the overall prospect of keeping the guns and rockets silent. Israel fears protests by Hezbollah supporters along the border are a harbinger of greater violence. 
Security oflicials say a few thousand Israeli troops are still just across the border in I .ebanon, left over from a large-scale Israeli offensive that followed a July 12 cross-bor­der raid by Hezbollah guerrillas who killed three soldiers and captured two others. 
Russia grants Cuba $350 million 
HAVANA-Russia agreed on Thursday to grant Cuba credit worth $350 million and restructure some of its recent debt during a visit by Russia's prime minister, officials said. The two countries also signed a military cooperation agreement. 
Cuban Defense Minister Raul Castro, who is acting president while his elder brother Fidel recovers from intestinal surgery, gave red-carpet treatment to Mikhail Fradkov, the highest-ranking Russian official to come to Cuba since a visit by President Vladimir Putin in 2000. 
Wearing a gray suit instead of his custom­ary military uniform, Castro escorted Fradkov through the halls of Havana's Palace of the Revolution, past rows of sol­diers playing Cuba's anthem. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Details of school standoff released 
BAILEY, Colo. -The gunman who killed a student and committed suicide during a high school standoff methodically selected six girls as hostages -apparently favoring blondes ­and sexually assaulted at least some of them, authorities and witnesses said Thursday. 
Sheriff Fred Wegener said the assaults went beyond touching or fondling. "It was pretty horrific," Wegener said, with­out elaborating. 
The killer was identified as 53-year-old Duane Morrison, a petty criminal who had a Denver address but had apparently been liv­ing in his battered yellow Jeep when he walked inside the school Wednesday with two handguns and a backpack that he claimed contained a bomb. Investigators did not immediately say what was in the backpack. 

Carter says divided U.S. in danger 
FALLON, Nev. -Former President Jimmy Carter said Wednesday major poli­cy changes are needed because the Iraq war has divided the nation "almost as much as Vietnam." 
"So there's no doubt that our country is in much more danger now from terrorism than it would have been if we would have done what we should have done and stayed in Afghanistan," he said on the campaign trail with his son, Democratic 
U.S. Senate nominee Jack Carter. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Killer tattooed with victim's name 
CARLISLE, Ind. -A man serving a life sen­tence for molesting and murdering a 10-ycar-old southern Indiana girl now carries a constant reminder of his crime -a scrawled tattoo of the young girl's name on his forehead. 
Anthony Ray Stockelman, 39, was placed in protective custody last weekend after authorities discovered the tattoo reading "Katie's Revenge," said Rich Larsen, spokesman for the Wabash Valley Correctional Facility in Carlisle, Ind. 
Stockelman wa'i sentenced to life in prison in March after pleading guilty to abdueting, molest­ing and killing Katlyn "Katie" Collman. 

Bush criticizes Democratic party 
President says opponents 'don't have the stomach to fight the war on terror' 
Associated Press 

BIRMINGHAM, Ala. ­
President Bush suggested 
Thursday that Democrats 
don't have the stomach to 
fight the war on terror, bat­
tling back in the election­
season clamor over admin­
istration intelligence show­
ing terrorism spreading. 

"Five years after 9/11, the 
worst attack on the 
American homeland in our 
history, Democrats offer 
nothing but criticism and 
obstruction and endless 
second-guessing," Bush 
said at a Hepublican 
fundraiser. 

"The party of FOR and the party of Harry Truman has become the party of cut and run," Bush told a con­vention-center audience of over 2,000 people. The event put $2.5 million in the campaign accounts of Alabama Gov. Bob Riley and the state GOP. 
Democrats immediately disputed the charge that they would hold back in the I 
I
anti-terror battle. 

I
"On his watch, five years after 9/11, he not only has failed to capture Osama bin Laden, but as the (National Intelligence Estimate) indi­
I
cates, his failed policies have made America less safe and spawned terror­ism, not decreased it," said Karen Finney, spokes­that Iraq has become a by fanning anti-U.S. senti­quoted Rep. Jane Harman woman for the Democratic "cause celebre" for ments and helping terror­of California, top Democrat National Committee. jihadists worldwide, whom ists recruit, is one reason to on the House Intelligence "Democrats will be tough it said have grown in num­change leadership in Committee, as saying that and smart, and will actually ber and geographic reach. Congress. because of the Iraq war "it fight the terrorists, not The report said the factors, On Thursday, Bush may become more likely" leave them to plan future such as the Iraq war, that accused the opposition that the U.S. will have to attacks." are fueling the jihadist party of cherrypicking contend with terrorists on 
Bush's no-holds-barred movement's growth out­pieces of the report "for its own soil again, rather speech, one of his harshest weigh its vulnerabilities partisan political gain" and than less likely as the presi­yet on the campaign trail, and that, if the current "to mislead the American dent argues. And he quoted came less than six weeks trend continues, risks to the people and justify their pol­Sen. Jay Rockefeller of West before midterm elections in U.S. interests at home and icy of withdrawal from Virginia, top Democrat on which Democrats are seek­abroad will grow. Iraq." the Senate Intelligence ing to strip Republicans of Portions of the five­"The greatest danger is Committee, as saying the their control of one or both month-old report were not that America's presence world would be better off houses of Congress. leaked over the weekend, in the war in Iraq is draw­without the Iraq war and if 
The war of words contin­and Bush ordered the key ing new recruits to the ter­former Iraqi leader Saddam ued a nearly weeklong tus­judgments -four of its 30 rorist cause," Bush said. Hussein were still in power. sle by both parties over the pages -declassified on "The greatest danger is "Some in Washington, implications of a newly Tuesday in hopes that that an American with­some decent people, patri­revealed estimate, an wider availability of most drawal from Iraq would otic people, feel like we analysis of terror trends put conclusions would quell the embolden the terrorists and should not be on the offen­together by the nation's top criticism. help them find new recruits sive in this war on terror," intelligence analysts in 16 Democrats continued to to carry out even more the president said. "We will spy agencies. point to the report to argue destructive attacks." fight them wherever they 
The document concluded that the 2003 Iraq invasion, Though not by name, he make a stand." 



Suspect in deputy shooting flees 
woods. Both officers and the dog locked in their classrooms and were
Associated Press 

were hit by gunfire, Judd said. safe. 
LAKELAND, Fla. -A man who had The suspect exchanged fire with Two other schools farther away been pulled over for a traffic violation more officers shortly afterward when also were locked down. shot two sheriff's deputies Thursday, they approached a house in the Authorities cordoned off a large killing one of them and prompting an wooded area, but he got away, Judd area around the suspect's car but intensive manhunt that forced a lock­said. had not evacuated any homes. down at three schools, officials said. "We will not sleep. We will not rest Helicopters circled in wide arcs as 
The shooter was first approached until we have the suspect in custody emergency vehicles raced up and during a traffic stop, but he fled into for this heinous action today," a visi­down roads. a wooded area when the officer bly shaken Judd said. Television video footage showed began asking him about his identity, The shooting occurred near officers with shields searching a Polk County Sheriff Grady Judd said. Kathleen High School, which was wooded area with traffic backed up 
That officer and a deputy who locked down, Wood said. A woman at on nearby Interstate 4, which runs arrived seconds later with a police the school who would identify herself through the city about 35 miles cast dog chased the suspect into the only as Mrs. Platt said students were of Tampa. 

Friday , September 29, 2006 
page6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
The letters sent by the RIAA University of Richmond study told the school that under the recognized that pirating
Download 

Digital Millennium Copyright media is illegal, but more continued from page 1 Act, if Keene State ignored than half of respondents said 
the notice. "[the] institution they weren't sure whether 
may also be liable for any illegal downloads wereing networks like Kazaa, resulting infringement." against their college or uni­Limewire, Morpheus, 
Seraichick told The Equinox versity's policies.
BitTorrent and Ares -the 
that her N o t r e
"big one" this year -are 
department Dame's policy,
monitored by the companies does not want as outlined in
who then contact the ..Ifyou have the files in 
to be "the du Lac's 
University, BrannGck said. your computer already 
police for the Responsible
Brannock said last year, 
RIAA," but and you ·ve got the file Use of 
most incidents involved the 
said the Information 
peer-to-peer program sharing program 
school is Technologies,
BitTorrent, which primarily running, you're virtually 
"obligated to explicitly
allows users to share video 
respond to letting everyone see states that
files. This year, about 85 per­
t h e s e "unauthorized
which files you ·ve 
cent of all cases at Notre 
[notices]" by copying or
Dame have been brought up downloaded.··
federal law. transmissionby the RIAA and concern 
The RIAA of copyright­
music files, she said. 

initiated four Federico Valiente protected
"This shows that [the RIAA] 
lawsuits material"
freshman

is incredibly committed, vigi­
against stu­might resultlant and determined," dent opera-in the termi­
Brannock said. 

tors of campus LAN networks nation of the individual's Campus crackdowns at Princeton University, access to University net-
The widespread use of per­Rensselaer Polytechnic works. sonal media players by col­Institute and Michigan Punishment for Notre Dame lege students might be a large Technological University in students who fail to abide to factor in the music-pirating April 2003. Now, the organi­the rules depends on "previ­trend at America's colleges. zation is targeting network ous history and previous Nearly three-quarters of stu­users as well. cases," Brannock said. first­dents think iPod use is "in," Some Notre Dame students time offenders are required according to a July 2006 sur­are caught for "downloading to delete illegal files and vey by the Student Monitor, a just a song," others have uninstall the program used to New Jersey-based research shared a few music files and obtain such files. More impor­group. Beer drinking was sec­others still have illegally tantly, however, students are ond most "in" at 71 percent. obtained television shows and educated about illegal down­
Earlier this month, the moviiJs, Brannock said. loading, she said. HIAA cited 45 students for Valiente used Ares to down­The ORLH Web site has a illegal downloading at Keene load "about two or three link on its main page about State College in New songs" -one of which was University policy and the Hampshire. In a Sept. 14 arti­not downloaded while he was risks of file sharing. cle in The Equinox, the week­at Notre Dame, he said. "[The Office of Residence ly student newspaper at KSU. "You don't necessarily have Life and Housing] wants to Information Technology to be downloading anything focus more on education," Manager Laura Seraichick to get in trouble," he said. "If Brannock said. "We want to said the RIAA was "looking you have the files in your be proactive and not reactive. for people who do this" and computer already and you've ... The potential liability for then notified the school. got the file sharing program students is big." , KSU's Information Technology running, you're virtually let­Brannock said her office department received letters ting everyone see which files does not see many repeat delineating who illegally you've downloaded." cases. For students who con­downloaded, what was down­tinue to defy du Lac policy,
Policies and pirating
loaded and which programs she said "more significant
About 7 5 percent of 18 to 
were used in the process. consequences" could result,
24-year-old students in the 

Tak~ a Br~ak! 
"It is no unusual thing -for a businessn"Inn to 
say casually, 'Well, let's <<!,o and.!.;et H cup of' ~· ' . •t . • f'L'-. k· 6
cof ,-ee, as a VJSI <".>r 1n 1n1s o nee •s n1a •nc> ready to depart. It is a little thing perhaps, this drinking of'coff(~e at odd times, but it is very characteristic of'the city itself:" -Lyle Saxon no~bulous Nevv (.Jrlc.:o~ns, 1928 
such as restricted access to Notre Dame servers -or no access at all. 
Keene State's current policy mandates that students caught pirating music sign a form recognizing that their actions were illegal. Students are then instructed how to disable file sharing on their computers. As at Notre Dame, repeat offenders face harsher penalties. 
Though copyright-owning organizations can take their own action against students caught for illegal download­ing at any time, Brannock said she did not know of any Notre Dame students sued by such groups. 
One way to avoid problems with copy­right-owning 
six dollars a month. 

But the effort failed, and so did similar projects at other schools. At Cornell University, students given legal subscrip­tions to Napster were told they could only keep their music until graduation. Purdue University students lost interest when they real­ized they would have to pay a fee to burn songs or load them on to an iPod. Consequently, both schools discontinued the services in 2006. 
One third of college stu­dents who engage in file shar­ing think the practice is inherently wrong, according to the University of Richmond study, but do it anyway to save money. The RIAA recognizes 
organiza­that as long as 
tions is to ..When I got the e-mail students -and seek out from ResLife, my first all Internet 
l e g a I users, for that
reaction was 
avenues for matter -have 
obtaining something like, ·oh my the opportunity 
music God, rm never going to to download though these their favorite
listen to music again.,,, 
methods do music free of not appeal to charge and with­many stu­Federico Valiente out limitation, dents. freshman they will. 
More than 120 universi­ties have tried providing legal file shar­ing networks to students over the past few years, according to a 2005 study by the Campus Computing Project. 
Approxirn ately seven per­cent of all four-year schools and 31 percent of private research universities offered free or subsidized subscrip­tions through private grants or student fees, Notre Dame has never offered such a pro­gram, although in spring 2005 the Student Senate dis­cussed the possibility of intro­ducing Ruckus Network -a legal file-sharing program that would have cost students 
"The pirate's 
credo is still the 
same," reads the RIAA W.eb site. "Why pay for it when it's so easy to steal?" 
Valiente warned students to "stay on the safe side" and refrain from file sharing ­and he plans to take his own advice. 
"When J got the e-mail from ResLife, my first reaction was something like, 'Oh my God, I'm never going to listen to music again,"' he said. "But that [is] somewhat impossi­ble, so I will probably end up getting [songs] from iTunes." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 










Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 3 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council for Gay and lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, the1r friends, and supporters to an ;r,formal coffee at the Co-Mo, 
Everyone 1s wek:ome and confidentiality IS assured. 


CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY llESBIAN 

STUDENTS 

C::on"lcr of'JeHerson F:r Michic:'>.~ln [ )o'vVnt:<"">vvn Sout:h [~end ­Mon--rhurs 6:30urn-6prn • r=ri 6:30unt-8pnt Snt-, 8mn-10prn (Live Music 7-10prn) ·Sun Barn-Gprn 


Friday, September 29, 2006 page 7 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.27  +0.11  40.83  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.86  +0.38  20.77  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.40  -0.02  4.98  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.40  -0.04  27.40  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  0.00  0.00  2.25  
Treasuries  ·  ·  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  +0.70  +0.032  4.626  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.21  -0.010  4.740  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.72  +0.034  4.767  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.44  +0.020  4.578  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.20  62.76  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  +7.60  610.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.98  90.40  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  117.6450  
EURO  0.7873  
POUND  0.5328  
CANADIAN$  1.1120  

IN BRIEF 
Delphi Corp. tries to avoid strike 
NEW YORK -Delphi Corp. said Thursday that 
a judge gave it more time to pursue negotiations 
with its labor unions, which could allow the trou­
bled auto-parts maker to cut labor costs without 
triggering a worker strike. 
The company said in a statement that U.S. 
Bankruptcy Judge Robert Drain granted renewed 
requests from Delphi to delay court hearings on 
its requests to scuttle its union contracts and to 
terminate thousands of supply contracts with 
General Motors Corp. 
Drain asked the company's lawyers to return to his chambers Oct. 19 for a closed-door meeting at which Delphi will be expected to provide a new progress report. On Thursday, a Delphi attorney said the company was making progress in its negotiations. 
"Delphi continues to believe there is constant progress being made on discussions of a plan framework, as well as our discussions with our labor unions," Jack Butler, an attorney for Delphi, said in an interview after he provided a progress report to Drain. 
New pension rules to affect investors 
NEW YORK-Now that corporate America's pension promises will be thrust into the spot­light by new regulations, investors should watch for accounting tricks companies may use to reduce their benefit obligations. 
New rules from U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board will force companies to report the status of their pensions and other post-retirement employee benefits -as an asset or, for most, a liability if they are under­funded -on their balance sheets rather than have them buried in a footnote to the financial statements. 
That means huge liabilities could suddenly drop like a bomb onto balance sheets, putting any deficits squarely in the public view and possibly throwing some lending agreements into question because it may lead to sharp drops in corporate net worth. 
Figuring out if any maneuvering is going on won't be an easy task. Investors will have to closely watch companies' assumptions for such things as health care and wage inflation that arc used to determine the costs of defined ben­efit plans, which promise retirees a monthly ·<.,heck and often medical coverage. 
Dow Jones reaches milestone 
Index briefly trades above record high in Wall Street's nearly seven-year recovery 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -The Dow 
Jones industrial average 
reached a milestone 
Thursday in Wall Street's 
nearly seven-year recovery 
from corporate upheaval, 
economic recession and ter­
rorism, briefly trading above 
its record high close of 
11,722.98 set on Jan. 14, 
2000. 

The index of 30 blue chip 
stocks surpassed its record, 
rising to a high of 11,728.46 
in early morning trading. 
Stocks closed only modestly 
higher amid a dearth of 
news that could motivate 
investors; still, it was the 
market's fourth straight 
advance. 

"These numbers some­
times tend to act as magnet.<; 
and the market is sometimes 
pulled up toward it," said 
Russ Koesterieh, senior port­
folio manager at Barclays 
Global Investments in San 
Francisco. 

The Dow rose 29.21, or 
0.25 percent. to 11, 718.45. It has yet to reach its all-time trading high of 11,750.28, also set Jan. 14, 2000. 
The broader Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq com­posite indexes are far off their all-time highs, although their records were reached around the same time. 
The S&P, which gained 2.56, or 0.19 percent, to close at 1,339.15, is still Traders raced to buy any 2002, nearly 38 percent off On Thursday, the econom­about 188 points below its stocks that looked remotely its record high close. ic news was mixed, and did­closing high of 1,527 .46, but promising, catapulting the Wall Street made its way n't appear to have much is at a 5 1/2-year high. The major indexes sharply high­back slowly, with investors impact on trading. The Nasdaq, which rose 6.63, or er. behaving more cautiously Commerce Department 
0.29 percent, to 2,270.02, is But after early 2000, the and limiting their exposure revised its gross domestic not expected to approach its market began to crumble, to risk as they slowly product number for spring high close of 5,048.62 any slowly at first as doubts regained faith in stocks. downward to 2.6 percent time soon. about the high-tech boom set What has also helped is from 2.9 percent. 
The Dow, whose large-cap in. Signs of recession accel­more than four years of stur­Meanwhile, the Labor stocks range from aluminum erated the decline, and then dy corporate profit growth Department reported that producer Alcoa Inc. to dis­the Sept. 11, 2001, terror despite the threat that ener­the number of new people count retailer Wal-Mart attacks and their aftermath, gy prices and interest rates signing up for unemploy­Stores Inc., wa.'l the first big including earnings declines would hurt consumer spend­ment benefits dropped last index to recover because it and losses in many indus­ing and companies' bottom week. The department said did not rise as much in value tries, sent stocks plunging. lines. new applications filed for as the S&P 500 and the It didn't stop there -cor­More recently, the Federal unemployment insurance ·Nasdaq in 2000. porate scandals including Reserve's decision to pause declined by a seasonally 
The last time the Dow the collapse of Enron Corp. after more than two years of adjusted 6,000 to 316,000 stood at these levels, Wall and WorldCom Inc. also interest rate hikes and evi­for the work week ending Street was propelled by shook Wall Street. The com­dence the economy is mod­Sept. 23. The latest showing wide-eyed investors eager bination of all these factors erating, not heading for a on claims was close to econ­for a slice of the wealth devastated stocks, sending hard landing, gave investors omists' expectations for being generated by the dot­the Dow to a five-year clos­the impetus to push the Dow claims to total around com and housing booms. ing low of 7,286.27 on Oct. 9, past it.'l high close. 315,000 last week. 



HP scandal still cloaked in mystery 
panel, an HP investigator had warned direct knowledge of the probe's meth­
Associated Press 

higher-ups, including the company's ods. 
WASHINGTON -The saga of now-fired chief ethics oflicer, that the "If Bill Hewlett and Dave Packard 
Hewlett-Packard Co.'s spying scandal­methods used to find the source of were alive today, they'd be appalled," he 
which ha." toppled the company's chair­boardroom leaks were possibly illegal said, referring to the company's revered 
woman, two other directors and at lea.<;t and at the very lea.'lt could damage the founders. 
two high-ranking executives-deep­company's reputation. Hurd said Dunn had told him of the 
ened in intrigue Thursday as lawmak­But few answers emerged. Ten people existence of the investigation but he was 
ers exploring the imbroglio summoned involved in the cloak-and-dagger opera­not involved in the probe itself. 
comparisons to Watergate and Enron. tion -including the former ethics offi­Earlier, during hours of questioning, 
Members of the House Ellf'rgy and cer and General Counsel Ann Baskins, Dunn stumbled ·at times and corrected Commerce Committee demanded to who resigned Thursday -asserted herself when asked how much she know how investigators for the respect­their Fifth Amendment right against knew of the shady tactics, including ed Silicon Valley anchor could use self-incrimination, refusing to answer when she learned that the investigators tawdry tactics such a.'l "pretexting," or questions. had used pretexting to obtain telephone impersonating IIP directors, employees The panel heard from CEO Mark records. While saying she was unaware and journalists to obtain their phone Hurd, who replaced Patricia Dunn as of the details, she repeatedly defended records. chair last week. lie apologized f(>r the the probe as neeessary to stern serious 
In one key document cited by the investigatory tactics but denied having leaks ofconfidential information. 


Friday, September 29, 2006 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 

"KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
CAMPUS CONCERT 
"Favela Rising" Bate-Papo Contra Cantos 
Monday, October 2 @ 7:30 pm Tuesday, October 3 @ 6 pm 8r Arabiando Hesburgh Center Auditorium Hesburgh Center Great Hall 
Thursday, October 5 @ 7 pm FAVELA RISING documents a man and a movement, a Fea1uring special guests Brazilian choir ContraCantos and Washington Hall city divided and a favela united. Anderson S6 is a former masters of choro, bossa nova, samba and frevo music, drug-trafficker who turns social revolutionary in Rio de the choro bond Arabiando. 13rozil Week is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for Janeiro's most feared slum. Through hip-hop music international Studies, the Program in Portuguese and and Afro-Brazilian dance he rallies his community to COMMUNITY CONCERT Brazilian Studies, the Department of Romance Languages 
counteract the violent oppression enforced by teenage and Literatures, International Student Services andContra Cantos Activities, the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre,
drug armies and sustained by corrupt police. the Institute for Latino Studies,

8c Arabiando
Irene Rizzini, Visiting Chair in the Study of Brazilian 
and made possible by generous Culture, will introduce the film and lead a discussion funding from the Brazilian
Wednesday, October 4@ 7 pm afterwords. Ministry of Culture.
John Adams High School Auditorium 
FILM BRAZILIAN SOCIAL HOUR 
views, which vary from one Islamic sect to another. 
"The pope selec­tively retrieved from a vast Muslim tradi­tion one viewpoint, thereby reducing Islam to one voice," Omar said. "Contemporary Muslim theories are a hybrid of cla..'isical Muslim schools. All are a very far cry from the monochro­matic pieture pre­sented by Pope Benedict." 
The decentralized 
nature of Islam can make dia­logue with that religion "daunt­ing," Gregory said. 
"The reality :;eems to be that while the overwhelming majority of Muslims denounce violence, the fact i'i, not all do," he said. "The sociological realities of the religion prevent the former from exercis­ing any categorical power over the latter." 
The pope, who has since issued an apology for his reference to the quotation from Manuel Palcologos II, deserves an "extraordinary amount of respect," Appleby said. But listeners often overestimate the authority of his words. 
"Contemporary Muslim theories are a hybrid ofclassical Muslim schools. All are a very far cry from the monochromatic picture presented by Pope Benedict.·· 
Rashied Omar Kroc Institute scholar 
Solomon said, and the broader community of institutions nf high­er education. 
"I want to suggest that maybe the target of the talk was us, meaning the modern university," Solomon said, explaining the pope was calling for more unity between various departments and colleges in a university. 
Nonetheless, Solomon called the pope's attempt to analyze faith and reason throughout the history of the Western world in just eight pages "utterly irresponsible." 
"He i'i, no doubt, at fault for try­ing to do too much, too quickly, in too short a compass," he said. 
was intended to lament the dehelleniza­tion of Christianity ­that is, a sepa­ration of the biblical inquiry from Greek philo­sophical think­ing. 
The pope's words were meant for those listening -the stu­dents of Hegensburg University, 

And no matter to whom the Pope is speaking, Appleby said, everyone is listening. 
"The pope only ha..'> one context, which is the globe," Appleby said. " ... lie does not, unfortunately for him, have the luxury of delivering a fine, nuanced, professorial talk at Hegensburg. If he didn't know that, he knows it now." · 
The media certainly was listen­ing, and what the faculty feels journalists gleaned from the pope's speech were the most extreme of his quotations. As Omar pointed out, it's likely no Muslims were present at .Regensburg University, and their understanding of the lecture came from the press. 
"The media is not playing a responsible game," Omar said. 
" ... They took it out of context." 
Making the media more respon­sible is a demand "incumbent upon us," Kollman said, and Solomon hoped that effort would start at the university level. 
"The shameful role played by the press ... to ignore the content of this document i'i unforgivable," Solomon said. "I hope we're train­ing a generation of students who will take journalism seriously enough to respond to documents like thi'i appropriately." 
Not only should the media report to the Muslim world accu­rately, it should also factually report from that world. 
"Muslims must not become weary of saying over and over again, loudly and unequivocally, that violence and hatred are con­trary to the teachings of Islam," Ornar said. "And the news media must be responsible enough to make sure our voices are heard." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

Mother threatened to harm son, father said 
Boy remains missing after mother's suicide 
Associated Press 

ORLANDO, Fla.-A missing 2-year-old boy was shuttled between two feuding parents and even into foster care in the months before he vanished and his mother committed sui­cide, newly released docu­ments show. 
The boy's father had report­ed Melinda Duckett threat­ened to harm their son on sev­eral occasions during their marriage. He even alleged she held a knife to his leg and threatened to kill him last year. 
Florida Department of Child & Families investiga­tors determined that was the only allegation that could be verified. In several others, there were "some indicators" for possible child neglect, but little evi­dence to support abuse, according to the five-page document released Wednesday. 
DCF spokesman Tim Bottcher said there were "never really any clear-cut indicators that Trenton was abused." 
Duckett committed suicide almost two weeks after reporting the boy missing Aug. 27 from his bedroom at her Leesburg home. She 
has since been named the primary suspect in the boy's disappearance after investi­gators found some of Trenton's toys, photographs and a sonogram photo in a trash bin in her apartment complex. 
The case has drawn national attention from a spot on America's Most Wanted and several nights' coverage on CNN Headline News' Nancy Grace pro­gram. Some blamed Duckett's suicide on Grace's aggressive questioning in an interview the day before she shot herself. Grace accused Melinda Duckett of hiding something because she refused to take a polygraph test after her divorce attor­ney advised her not to. 
The boy's father, Josh Duckett, has repeatedly crit­icized the state for allowing Melinda to have custody of their son. Court documents show he didn't complete the agency's requirements to keep the boy, such as taking sevcraJ counseling classes. 
Duckett told The Associated Press he didn't have enough money to com­plete the last class. 
According to the court document, the last known dispute between Josh and Melinda occured July 5, when she told authorities she received a threatening e-mail from him. 

Pope 
continued from page 1 
the gunning down of an Italian nun and her bodyguard in Somalia. 
While Omar, who is himself a Muslim, issued an apology for the actions of his coreligionist'i, he still took issue with the pope's "overly simplistic" presentation of Muslim 
"A pope can and does make mistakes when he is not speaking infallibly," Appleby said. "If the pope was intending to open dia­logue with Islam, one must acknowledge with humility that this was a less than artful way to do so." 
While the pope mentioned open­ing the door to religious dialogue, his remarks were not designed solely as a eatalyst for that effort. Rather, Kollman said, the lecture 

Friday, September 29, 2006 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 
ENGLAND 
immigration is one that religious ministry that reach­extends far beyond the es out to console, heal and
Groody 

nation's borders. build the lives of poor and "Migration is not the prob­desperate immigrants who
Blair, M usharraff meet continued from page 1 
lem," Groody said. "Migration come to the U.S. in search of 
Leaders discuss defeat of Afghani insurgents 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The leaders of Britain and Pakistan pledged their commitment Thursday to defeating insurgents in Afghanistan, brushing aside a leaked British military document that claimed Islamabad's securi­ty forces are indirectly support­ing terrorist groups. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Gen. Pervez Musharraf met for two hours, with both reinforcing their support of a NATO-led mission to support the Kabul government, a Blair spokesman said. 
The meeting, at Chequers, Blair's oflicial country residence west of London, followed Musharrafs visit to Washington, where he held talks with President Bush and Afghan leader Hamid Karzai. 
Thursday's meeting had threatened to be overshadowed by a military document obtained by the British Broadcasting Corp. in which n senior officer maintained Pakistan's Directorate of Inter Services Intelligence -the country's top spy agency -should be disman­tled. 
The broadcaster reported the document was written by an unidentified senior researcher at the Defense Academy, a defense · ministry think-tank and college. 
It said the author was also linked to the intelligence services and the document was part of a private British review of efl'orts across the world to combat ter­rorism. 
Musharraf rejected that allega­tions that its security forces had indirectly supported terrorist groups and raised the issue with 
12 

Blair during their meeting. 
"The president accepted that 
document is not government pol­
icy, so there was no further need 
to discuss it," said a spokesman 
for Blair's office, speaking on 
condition of anonymity in line 
with policy. 
He said Blair also assured 
Musharraf that British troops 
would remain in Afghanistan for 
the "long term," as part of the 
NATO mission. 
Musharraf told Blair he recog­
nized the need to continue work­
ing to reduce the amount of 
cross-border activity between 
Pakistan and Afghanistan. 
Britain's defense ministry said 
the material obtained by the BBC 
was in no way a report or a poli­
cy statement. 
Instead, the papers were 
merely research notes taken by 
an academic to reflect material 
seen or collected from a variety 
of sources -not a collection of 
facts meant to influence the gov­
ernment's position or policies, a 
ministry spokeswoman said, 
speaking on customary condition 
of anonymity in line with depart­
ment policy. 
The BBC quoted the document 
as saying that "indirectly, 
Pakistan (through the lSI) has 
been supporting terrorism and 
extremism -whether in London 
on (July 7. 2005) or in 
Afghanistan or Iraq." 
It reported that the document 
said "Pakistan is not currently 
stable but on the edge of chaos." 
The defense ministry spokes­
woman, reading a strongly 
wordecl ministry statement, said 
the "academic research notes 
quoted in no way represent the 
views of either the MoD (defense 
ministry} or the government." 
AcRES 
selves. Alongside prominent theologians, congressional leaders and activists, Groody's film fp,atures Mp,xican immigrants sharing their own stories and their reasons for migrating. 
Groody wants viewers to understand the theologi­cal issues 
stand the Christian story by understanding the human story," Groody said. 
Because of the religious component to the film, Groody was not sure how it would be received in the pub­lic forum. 
"Despite Ithe religious com­ponent], it also kind of is just another chapter in the rela­tionship between religion and politics," Groody said. 
And very quickly, the film caught thp, attention of politi­cians, particularly prominent Hispanic leaders, who arranged for Groody take his message to Capitol Hill today. 
"There were some Hispanic leaders in Washington who found out about the film," Groody said. "They are gath­ering together a group of con­gressional leaders ... and are organizing a forum with some congressional debate." 
Though his film is a rele­vant topic for congressman, Groody said the issue of 
is the symptom ... rooted in the global economy." 
With 200 million people around the world t h at are migrating -not just from Mexico, but from places like Chad, Sudan, Rwanda and 
Burundi ­
related to 

..Migration is not the
immigration 
problem. l~1igration is
-particularly the immi­the symptom ... grants' search 
rooted in the global 
to find God. ,, 
economy.
"[The film is] an attempt to invite peo­Fr. Daniel Groody ple to under­
theology professor 
Groody said it is important to look at this film, and its message, from a global perspective. 
"Out of that, we have to then just reflect on what is our col­lective response to what is hap­pening to these people," he said. 
For Groody, whose target audience was 
originally college campuses, the national and international suc­cess of the film is 
a better life," according to the Web site, propelled Groody to use a different medium to transmit his message. 
He wanted to create some­thing to help reshape the "imagination about migrants" and he thought film would be an effective way to get his message out. 
"If we really knew their sto­ries we would not be afraid of these people. If you knew their face, you would in many ways be inspired," Groody said. · 
An important consideration, Groody said, is the Church's view on migration and how Notre Dame is contributing to that. 
While a number of groups at Notre Dame have already contacted Groody about showing the film. he said he is open to finding new outlets 
at the 
University. 
"The topic is 

exciting. "The topic is so so ripe," he 
"I knew we said. "It's a
ripe. It's a
needed to do it beginning ...
beginning . . . we
even if it only we know there reached our stu­know there are are more dents. Our goal things that can
more things that 
was to get it on be done." 
can be done.,, 
PBS," Groody G r o o d y said. " ... Congress financed the is certainly a dif­Fr. Daniel Groody film through ferent ball game." individual
theology professor
Though the film is also slated to be shown at a variety of different international film festivals -including the Australian Film Festival in late October and the new Way Media Film Festival in November -Groody is mak­ing sure his original target audience sees the film. 
"We first showed it at Harvard, then Oxford over the summer," Groody said, adding that it is also being brought to Stanford University soon. 
The film, which was a Harry Chapin Media Award finalist in the category of "Outstanding Te levisinn/Film Coverage That Positively Impacts Hunger, Poverty and Self-Reliance," grew out of ideas Groody first explored in his book "Border of Death, Valley of Life." 
The firsthand account of "a 
benefactors 
and Our 

Sunday Visitor Catholic Publishing Company, as well as different depart­ments at Notre Dame includ­ing the Institute for Latino studies, the Department of Theology and the College of Arts and Letters. 
But support for the film was not just limited to academics. 
"Bruce Springsteen had given us two songs to use in the film," he said. 
Groody has already released a follow-up film called "Strangers No Longer," which he hopes will, in some small way, help with "making the lives and voices of these people known to people who might otherwise not see them." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

CLEVELAND AD/ SA 23 
-PRIM.:E CC)MM::ERC:I.AI._ .I_AN"l::l -BE""l~WEEN GR.A.PE Rn &::. l'viAIN s-rREET 
• 
782.. HIGI·IWAY FRONTAGE 

• 
1-80/90 Toi:...L Rc~AL""> [2 lVIILES] [3 JVt tl_Es] 

• 
NEAR HIGH-END RETAIL DEVELOPMENTS 



SAl'li>-y-I-IACi-:El'l 
(574) 243--95.75 
page 10 Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS 
IRAQ


Surgeon says injuries 


Al-Qaida head posts message 
serious in hazing case 
Group's Iraq leader laments insurgency losses, calls for more attacks 


that there was no muscle,
Men may be convicted 
nerve or vein damage; and 
Associated Press 

under anti-hazing law that the injury has healed nicely. Associated Press "I consider it a serious 
BAGHDAD -The new leader 
injury," Fern said. "He could 
of al-Qaida in Iraq purportedly
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -The have had other potential 
said Thursday in an audio mes­
surgeon who operated on an problems." 
sage posted on a Web site that
aspiring Florida A&M Jones briefly took the stand 
more than 4,000 foreign mili­
University fraternity member Thursday and was questioned 

testified Thursday in a hazing trial that he con­sidered the student's injuries seri­ous although he had no bro­ken bones, muscle dam­age or lasting effects other than a scar. 
The seriousness of the Gray, 22; Marcus Hughes, 21; 
The Arabic word he used indi­
injuries is a key issue. Five Michael Morton, 23; and 
cated he was speaking about
defendants are among the Jason Harris, 25. Harris is not 
foreigners who joined the insur­
first to be charged with vio­accused of wielding a cane or 
gency in Iraq, not coalition
lating Florida's new anti-haz­boxing gloves. 
ing law, which makes it a felony to cause serious bodily damage or death. 
Four men are accused of beat­ing Marcus Jones, 20, of Decatur, Ga., with canes and boxing gloves to the point that he suffered a 
tants have been killed in Iraq
about a fraternity 

since the U.S.-led invasion in 
investigator's tes­

2003 -the first apparent
timony on how he 

acknowledgment from the
"I consider it a 
could identify one 

insurgents about their losses. 
serious injury. He suspect -Brian 
"The blood has been spilled in 
Bowman, 23 ­

Iraq of more than 4,000 foreign­
could have had other 
while blindfolded. 

ers who came to fight," accord­
potential problems.·· 
"There's no 

ing to the Internet message by a 
doubt in my 

man who identified himself as 
mind," Jones

David Fern 
Abu Hamza al-Muhajir -also 
said. "I can iden­

known as Abu Ayyub al-Masri­
surgeon 
tify his voice." 

the leader of al-Qaida in Iraq.
Accused are 

The voice could not be inde­
Bowman, Cory 
pendently identified. 
troops.
Also Thursday, 

Al-Masri's message also urged 
Jones' father 

Muslims to make the holy month 
denied his family 

of Ramadan a "month of holy
·7 was angry, very 
has a financial 

war" and urged insurgents in 
angry. My wife was motive for seek­
Iraq to kidnap Westerners. Al­
ing the five men's

terrified.·· 
Masri is believed to have suc­
criminal prosecu­

ceeded Abu Musab al-Zarqawi,
tion. 

who died in a U.S. airstrike
Mark Jones Jr. 
Army Master 
north of Baghdad in June. 

victim's father Sgt. Mark Jones 
Al-Masri also called for explo­
perforated 

eardrum and needed surgery 
to  remove  a  blood clot from  
his buttocks.  
The  fifth  defendant  is  

accused of encouraging Jones and other candidates to bear up under the beatings and reviving them with water if they passed out. 
Dr. David Fern said the but­tock injury was as severe as anything he has seen in an auto accident but acknowl­edged that it affected only 1 percent of the victim·s body; 
Tuesday October 3, 2006 O'Laughlin Auditorium 7:30P.M. 


was angry, very angry. My wife was terrified." 
INTERRACE FORUM: 
Penalties for violating the anti-hazing law can range from probation to five years 
CELEBRAlr~ION OF HISPANIC 
Jr. acknowledged 
he has hired a 

civil law firm but said he wanted the attorneys to help him handle the news media. 
When asked whether he was planning to sue, he said he was interested only in making sure justice was carried out. 
"There was this big, huge purple ball protruding out of his right buttocks," he said. "I 
in prison. 
w 
~ 
w 
..... 
..... 
0 
u 
V) 
>­
ar: 
<( 
.... ~ 
z 
<( 
en 


sives experts and nuclear scien­tists to join his group's holy war against the West. He said U.S. military bases in Iraq were "good places to test your uncon­ventional weapons, whether bio­logical or dirty." 
Al-Masri urged Muslims to escalate their attacks during Ramadan, which Sunnis began observing in Iraq on Saturday 
1956-2006 


Featuring: 
• 
The New York Philomusica 

• 
Saint Mary's Women's Choir 

• 
Saint Mary's College music faculty artists Laurel Thomas and Jeffrey Jacob 

• 
latin-American poet Maria Auxiliadora Alvarez 

• 
Saint Mary's College alumna, mezzo-soprano Mary Nessinger '86 


AP 

A Web site posted an audio clip Thursday reportedly recorded by the new leader of ai-Qaida in Iraq, Abu Hamza ai-Muhajir. 
and Shiites on Monday. He called on insurgents in Iraq to capture Westerners so they could be traded for the impris­oned Egyptian sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who was con­victed in 1995 of conspiring to blow up New York City land­marks. 
"I appeal to every holy warrior in the land of Iraq to exert all efforts in this holy month so that God may enable us to capture some of the Western dogs to swap them with our sheik and get him out of his dark prison," the voice on the tape said. 
Al-Masri, a Sunni Muslim, has been relatively silent since tak­ing over control of al-Qaida in Iraq earlier this year -a sharp contrast. with al-Zarqawi, who frequently issued audiotapes and even a videotape that showed his face a few weeks before his death. 
Meanwhile, police found 40 more bodies in the capital, and bombings and shootings killed at least 21 people in a spike of violence with the onset of Ramadan. 
A car bomb exploded near a restaurant in central Baghdad, killing five people and wounding 34, police said. Many of the injured had serious burns and some were not expected to sur­vive, police Lt. Ali Mohsen said at the Kindi Hospital. 

HERITfAGE MON'I1H 
0'1
.•.• 0 

ThAMIGRATION: FIRST, SEC<OND, AND FU'I'URE 
::::r­
GENERA'riONS
)> 
z 

OCTOBER 4TI--I, 2006 5:30 P.M.
z
-
< 

COLE:MAN-MORSE LOUNGE
m 
Vt 
"' 

DINNER AND DISCUSSION
)> 
-<"' 


For tickets, contact the Saint Mary's Box Office at (57 4) 284-4626. 
$15 Adults $14 Senior Citizens $13 SMC/ND Staff $12 Students 
-1±4­

RSVP BY OCTOBER 2ND
SAINT 

MSPS@ND.EDlJ OR 631-6841
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 

SPONSORED BY MULTIClJLTURAL STUDENT
NOTRE DAMF., II'< 

PROGRAN1S AND SERVICES
More,ll/Ceuter.com 



Friday, September 29, 2006 page 11
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
THE BAHAMAS 
KAZAKHSTAN 
Smith: Son died from accidental overdose 
''SuccessfulAging" 
Cindy Bergeman 
Chair and Professor ofPsychology 
11:00 a.m.. Saturday, September 30 Annen berg Auditorium Snite Museum ofArt 
Why do some people manage to maintain good physical 
health and a positive outlook on life as they age, while 
others-under the same conditions-get sick or lose 
hope? How do these qualities develop and change across 
HIV infects child patients 
Injections, transfusions tainted with disease may be result ofblood trade 
Associated Press less than the official rate of $47 ing the investigation. 
for about a half-pint of blood. Some 13,000 children who 
SHYMKENT--This industrial "Was their blood properly were possibly infected have yet 
city is reeling after learning that checked? We are not sure," she to be tested. Adults, too, could be 
at least 63 children have been said. infected: so far, three mothers of 
infected with HIV through med­· Officials say they cannot com­infected toddlers have tested 
ical negligence many blame on ment on Skryabina's allegations positive for HIV. 
corruption and the illicit sale of until their investigation is over. Lawmaker Satybaldy
blood. Authorities do say, however, that lbragimov says nothing will 
At least five infected toddlers five blood donors who are sus-improve until Kazakhstan roots 
have died after receiving injec­pected to out corruption, which penetrates 
tions or blood be HIV­even universities where future 
transfusions in carriers doctors are graded according to
"Hospitals are offered
hospitals in weren't the amount of money they give
Shymkent, a blood, and not always found at professors -and later tnmt peo­
city in through the their regis­ple based on their ability to pay.
Kazakhstan's 

t e r e d President Nursultan
[official] blood center. 
most densely addresses. Nazarbayev's government has population People trade in blood like Parents taken tough action. The health region 1,000 they do in human organs. ,, in this city minister and the regional gover­miles south of of 400,000 nor were ftred this month, and the capital. are trying several top regional health offi­
Valentina Skryabina 
Valentina to conduct cials, the head of the regionalSkryabina, leader their own blood center and several senior leader of the AIDS prevention group investiga­doctors are under criminal nongovernment tion. They investigation. g r o u p say region­New governor Omyrzak Nadezhnaya Opora, which works al health officials were aware of Shukeyev, former mayor of the to prevent AIDS among drug the outbreak in March, and have capital Astana, called the situa­addicts, is convinced the illegal been trying to cover it up by tion in Shymkent's health care sale of blood is the source of the pulling pages from the infected system "a catastrophe." He HIV in Shymkent's hospitals. toddlers' treatment records to ordered an appraisal of medical 
"Blood is an article of trade ... eliminate any mention of blood staff in the region to root out Hospitals are offered blood, and transfusions. incompetent or corrupt staff. not always through the [official] The parents allege that up to Shukeyev, under orders from 
blood center. People trade in 40 HIV-infected children aged 3 Nazarbayev to urgently resolve blood like they do in human and under have died, but the the crisis, pleaded with experts organs." true cause of the deaths was at an AIDS crisis meeting this Skryabina said addicts and the being concealed or attributed to week: ''I'm waiting like nothing
homeless have been accepted by diseases such as cirrhosis. else for a moment when you say the regional blood center Authorities declined to comment that the virus has been con­because they agreed to be paid on these allegations, too, pend-tained." 
the life course? Join Cindy Bergeman, chair and professor ofpsychology, as she explores the psychosocial attributes 3-1/2 hours before kickoff in rhe Annenberg Auditorium, that promote stress resistance and resiliency in later life, Snite Museum of Art (unless otherwise noted). 

For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu
and the factors and processes that ultimately lead to more optimal outcomes. 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Fall 2006 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 9/9-Penn State "More Than a Movie? A~sessing 7he Da Vinci Code" (1 0 1 DeBartolo Hall) James Collins, Professor ofFilm, Television, and Theatre Mary Rose D'Angelo, Associate Professor of1heology Charles Barber, Associate ProfeJsor ofArt, Art History, and Design 


~ 9/16-Michigan "The Impact of rhe Dead Sea Scrolls on Our Bible" Eugene Ulrich, Rev. john A. O'Brien Professor ofTheology 
~ 9/30-Purdue "Successful Aging" Cindy Bergeman, (.nair and Professor ofPsychology 
~ 10/7-Stanford "The Bone Collector" Susan Sheridan, Associate Professor ojAnthropology 
~ 10/21-UCLA "Completing the Constitution: rlhe 14th Amendment" ~ Michael Zuckert, Nancy Reet,es Dreu.x Professor ofPolitical Science 
~ 1114-North Carolina "The Role of Religion in Peacebuilding" 
R. Scott Appleby, Professor ofHistory, john M. Regan Jr. 
· Director oftheJoan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies John Paul Lederach, Profmional Specialist, Kmc Institute 
A. Rashied Omar, Assistant Professional !>pecit:dist, Kroc Institute 
~ 11/18-Army "Seeds ofChange'' AMusical Performance Georgine Resick, Professor ofMusic John Blacklow, Assistant Professor ofMusic 
Antidepressant, pain reliever caused death 
Associated Press 
NASSAU -Anna Nicole Smith believes a pathologist's conclu­sion that her son died from an accidental lethal combination of drugs shows he didn't commit suicide and hopes that others will learn from the tragedy, a lawyer said Thursday. 
An American examiner hired by the family, Cyril Wecht, said 20-year-old Daniel Smith had methadone and two antidepres­sants in his system when he died Sept. 10 in his mother's hospital mom in the Bahamas. Low levels of the three drugs interacted to cause an acciden­tal death, Wecht said. 
"At least she knows the attacks on her son's reputation can be put to rest because it's clear he didn't intentionally take his life," said Wayne Munroe, a Bahamian attorney for the 38­year-old reality TV star and for­mer Playboy Playmate. 
Smith, who gave birth to a daughter three days before her son died at her bedside, is awaiting the conclusions of Wecht and the Bahamas pathol­ogist who performed a separate official autopsy, Munroe said. 
Wecht is waiting for test results on tissue samples before he completes his fmal report. 
Smith wants others to learn 
from her son's death, Munroe 
told The Associated Press. 
"She wants to see exactly what happened in a final report because she wants to make sure it doesn't happen to someone else's son,"he said. 
Daniel Smith, who reportedly was hospitalized for depression and back pain before he trav­eled to Nassau, had been pre­scribed the antidepressant Lexapro, Wecht said. He said he had not determined whether Smith had also been prescribed Zoloft, the other antidepressant found in his system. 
The two drugs can be lethal when taken together or in sequence, according to Ann Blake Tracy, the Des Moines, Iowa-based director of the International Coalition for Drug Awareness. 
"The residue can stay there for some time, and if they're prescribed one after they've taken another, they can end up in trouble," she said. 
Wecht said he did not know why Smith was taking methadone, a pain-reliever that is also used to ease heroin crav­ings for recovering addicts. 
The combination of the three drugs, even in low doses, could easily have killed Smith, said Lisa Johnson, a pharmacist at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in 
.  .  
.  .  
.  .  

. -' . -----. . . , -. ' . --· 
page 12 
Disfigured girl receives new face after surgery 
Doctors remove life­threatening growth 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -A Haitian teen who once hid her grossly distorted face smiled and danced Thursday, a sign of how far she has come since doctors removed a 16-pound tumor-like growth. 
When Martie Casseus arrived in Miami in December, the growth had stretched her facial features said Dr. Jesus Gomez, a maxillofa­cial surgeon at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. 
"In the future she's going to look like a normal person," Gomez said. 
The series of surgeries have progressively flattened Mar lie's cheeks, centered her eyes and defined her nose. Her face is still elongated and slightly asymmetri­cal, and Gomez said she will likely need additional cosmetic surger­ies once she stops growing. 
Martie suffers from a rare form 
so far apart that only her eyes, nos­trils and a single tooth were recog­nizable. 
Though her lower lip now hangs open, causing her to drool slightly, the 15-year­old smiled broadly and shimmied at reporters and tele­vision cameras. 
""Martie is very happy now. She is happy to see the face now.·· 
Maleine Antoine mother 
of polyostotic fibrous dysplasia, a nonhereditary, genetic disease that causes bone to swell and become jelly like. The growth began about six years ago, and eventually prevented Marlie from eating, breathing or 

Without music, she stood on her speaking on her own. Doctors in own, held up her anns and shook Haiti gave her no hope to live, them and her hips back and forth. Antoine said. 
Once she recovers The teen, who from another sur-wore a Disney gery next month, Cinderella T-shirt 
""In the future she's
Marlie will learn to and ribbons in the swallow and speak going to look like a braids in her hair again. Thursday,
normal person.,
"Marlie is very breathes on her happy now. She is own but cannot happy to see the face Dr. Jesus Gomez speak because of now," Maleine maxillofacial surgeon a tube implanted 
Antoine, the teen's mother, said in English, which she has learned since coming to Horida with her daughter. 
Surgeons removed the massive growth, narrowed the separation between her eyes and lips and rebuilt the interior of her nose and jaw in three surgeries in the past year at lloltz Children's I lospital. 
A reconstructive surgery to reshape a titanium plate previous­ly implanted in her jaw, scheduled Oct. 5, will be her last for now, in her windpipe 
for surgery. She 

also still has a feeding tube. 
Doctors will continue to monitor her condition, but the lesion that deformed her face is not expected to grow back once she completes puberty, Gomez said. 
The hospital's International Kids Fund, which seeks to provide medical care for needy children from around the world, is asking for donations to continue Martie's care. 
Next space shuttle to lift off during nighttime 
NASA relaxes daylight rulefor Discovery launch 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­For the first time in four years, the next space shuttle launch attempt most likely will be at night, NASA said Thursday. 
The first launch possibility for Discovery will be Dec. 7 at 9:38 
p.m. EDT, the first try at night since Endeavour lifted off Nov. 23, 2002 at 7:49 p.m. Discovery's launch window extends to Dec. 26. 
After the Columbia disaster in 2003, the U.S. space agency began requiring that launches be made in daylight so the space shuttle could be pho­tographed to spot possible dam­age during liftoff. Insulating foam from Columbia's external fuel tank struck the spacecraft's wing during launch, causing. a breach that allowed fiery gases to penetrate the vehicle when it returned through Earth's atmosphere. All seven astro­nauts were killed. 
NASA has launched three shuttle flights since the Columbia disaster, all in day­light and with new inspection equipment and techniques for checking for damage. The most recent two launches lost small amounts of foam that didn't threaten the shuttle. 
After last week's successful finish of Atlantis' 12-day mis­sion, NASA officials indicated they were willing to relax the daylight rule since there are now new methods for inspect­ing the shuttle for holes or cracks while in orbit. They said a night launch is needed to stay on schedule to finish construc­tion of the international space station in 14 more flights by 2010. 
"It is very important to us," Leroy Cain, launch integration manager, said last week. 
Discovery's launch on Dec. 7 would interfere with a sched­uled launch of an Atlas 5 rocket carrying satellites to space, so NASA officials must consult with Air Force officials about that date. 
During Discovery's 11-day mission, astronauts will rewire the space station's electrical system and drop oil' flight engi­neer Suni Williams for her six­month stay aboard the orbiting outpost. 
Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer + NEWS 

lnforntation Meeting 


Cairo, Egypt 

Tuesday, Oct. 3, 2006 
125 Hayes Healy 5:30pm-7:00pm 
Application deadline: November 15, 2006 Apply on-line: www.nd.edul-·intlstud 

Next Tuesday 
Join us tor ACE Kickoff Night. Oct. 3. Legends 7:oopm 


Friday, September 29, 2006 page 13 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Bloomberg pushes for trans fats ban in NYC 
Mayor cites De Niro's restaurant as example 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Days after city health officials proposed outlawing trans fats in eater­ies, Mayor Michael Bloomberg defended the ban and tried to drag Robert De Niro into the debate because the actor's restaurants do not use the man-made oil. 
De Niro, an owner and investor in several culinary hotspots, went to City Hall on Thursday for a news confer­ence related to his Tribeca Film Festival, but stayed for the mayor's general press briefing, at 
w h i c h "Ifyou look at some of food and Bloomberg there's no rea­
the best restaurants in 
was asked son to have
this city, including 
about the them," health depart­Robert De Niro's, they do Bloomberg ment's trans said.
not use trans fats
fats ban. De Niro, who
because they don't need 
The propos­won Oscars al is raising them in their food.·· for his roles in questions " T h e a b o u t Godfather:
Michael Bloomberg 
whether the Part II" and 
New York City mayor 
government "Raging Bull," 
should be playing head chef, causing restaurants and bakeries citywide to consider makeovers for the Big Apple's favorite treats. 
Confessing his love for french fries and oily popcorn, the mayor said everyone could still enjoy those snacks because they can be made without the artificial trans fatty acids, which arc thought to cause cholesterol problems and increase risk of heart dis­ease. 
Experts say corn, canola and soy oils are safer but general­ly taste and cost the same as the trans fats. 
"You're getting an ingredi­ent out that nobody's going to miss," Bloomberg said. 
With De Niro standing behind, him, the mayor point­ed out that many food makers already have eliminated trans fats, following the Food and Drug Administration's requirement this year that ingredient labels show trans fat content. Companies includ­ing Frito-Lay and Kraft have reconfigured recipes for many of their most popular pack­aged goods, including Doritos and Oreos, replacing the trans fats, which are typically listed as partially hydrogenated oil. 
Many restaurants have done the same. The example was already set by some city eater­ies that never used artificial oils in the first place, such as De Niro's Nobu and Tribeca Grill. 
"If you look at some of the best restaurants in this city, including Robert De Niro's, they do not use trans fats because they don't need them in their 
appeared 

slightly sur­prised by the mayor's plug for his restaurants but the 62­year-old actor did not add anything to the argument. A spokeswoman confirmed later that the mayor was correct. 
"We don't use man-made oils, we use natural oils," said Tanja Yokum, a spokeswoman for Myriad Restaurant Group. "There really isn't a price dif­ference, so it's not a difficult decision, and it has been our­chefs· practice all along." 
If the ban is approved by the end of this year, the city Department of Health would require restaurants to strip trans fats from their food by July 2008. 
The city chapter of the New York State Restaurant Association says the law would create culinary night­mares for chefs and maintains Bloomberg is going too far in trying to outlaw an ingredient. 
Expanswe City/Park/Golden Dome Vtews 1,544sq.ft.-2,122 sq.ft.-3,780 sq.ft. Private Parking Garages Private Entries Roof-top Garden 
Concierge Service 
Discover the ukimate in luxury Jiving in an historic, multiple-story, private enclave just stepsfrom South Bend'sentertainment district and the finest restaurants in Northern Indiana. Boasting 11 ' ft. ceilings and solid concrete floor~, these 10 exclusive units offer a luxurious, spadoosand maintenance--free lifesty1e wh:h exceptional amenities in Downtown South Bend. Located just steps from a Day Spa, a Health Oub,Museums,the Morris Performing Arts Center and the LaSalle'GrilL Units c.ustofn:.-~d and finished to meet individual taste. Startingaround"$250,000. CalRJan Ehton• (574) .234-2073,nt..l8. 
HOLLADAY PROPERTIES 
Space tourist details trip in blog 
Private citizen describes effects of weightlessness, smell of space 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. ­She says space smells like a "burned almond cookie." She praises the wonders of Velcro, and describes the hazards of trying to wash her hair in zero gravity. 
Space tourist Anousheh Ansari's blog offers uncom­mon insight into everyday life on the international space station through the eyes of an American busi­nesswoman. 
Her 10-day adventure ended Thursday night when she touched down in a Soyuz vehicle on the steppes of Kazakhstan along with Russian cosmonaut Pavel Vinogradov and U.S. astro­naut Jeff Williams. 
"It is hard for me to write tonight," she wrote Thursday in her last posting from space. "My emotions are AP 
U.S. entrepreneur Anousheh Ansari waves to the crowd after
high and there are millions 
her space shuttle landed in Kazakhstan Friday.
of thoughts going through my head." 
The 40-year-old Iranian­entry as if a columnist for my lip-gloss." born Dallas suburbanite, Cosmopolitan. One night, she discovered who sometime She then her toes were bruised from signed her described gripping bars along the walls entries "Space washing her of the space station. She Cadet," paid $20 ..Well my friends, I hair by open­informed readers that she million for her ing a water uses her big toe to hold her­
must admit 

adventure. She bag to make a self in one place.
keeping good 
was a last­huge bubble And she wrote about the minute substitute hygiene in space is over her head, smell of space -at least the for a Japanese rubbing in dry space inside the orbiting lab:
not easy!"

businessman shampoo and "It was strange ... kind of who failed a then being like burned almond cookie." medical test for Anousheh Ansari careful not to At least eight astronauts space flight. space tourist make sudden have kept onli11e diaries 
Although she has a master's degree in engineering and made a fortune in the telecommunications indus­try, Ansari's blog entries have been free of tech-heavy jargon, exhibiting an enthu­siastic, chatty style. She tackled topics that vintage, tough-guy astronauts such as Alan Shepard surely would have shirked from: motion sickness, the clumsi­ness of weightlessness and personal hygiene. 
"Well my friends, l must admit keeping good hygiene in space is not easy!" she wrote in the opening of one 
movements recording their stay at the that would space station, but they burst the bub­weren't traditional blogs ble into small since read­pieces of water ers couldn't floating every­p 0 s t where. "Clearly [the blog] is responses, as 
Zero gravity an inspiration as well they have on 
has made it Ansari's
for many
impossible to b l 0 g . 
keep objects individuals.·· Astronaut Ed from drifting Liu even away, she wrote. described
Eligar Sadeh 
"So God the nitty­
space studies professor 
invented Velcro gritty details 
for this very purpose. Shhhh! Don't te II any­one up here but I've lost a few little things already, like 
of going to 
the bath­
room at the space station. 
But few achieve the enter­taining, intimate tone of Ansari's entries. 
Her status as a private citi­zen gives her more liberty to describe the details of every­day life than active astro­nauts or cosmonauts, said Eligar Sadeh, professor of space studies at the University of North Dakota. 
"Given the constraints the astronauts operate under, not being able to necessarily speak freely or share the real insights or thoughts, given concerns of them being government employees," Sadeh said. "Clearly [the blog] is an inspiration as well for many individuals." 
Hundreds of those individ­uals from around the globe have left comments on Ansari's blog. 
"I've been involved with the theme of manned space­flight as a hobby (passion?) for more than 25 years, read a lot of books ... spoken to numerous astronauts and cosmonauts," wrote Lue van den Abeclen of the Netherlands in Ansari's blog. "But only reading your blog entries do I really get a taste of what it is like to be in space. 



THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EmTORS: Kate Antonacci 
Mary Kate Malone 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303"viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edti 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students ofthe 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Edirorial conrenr, including advertisements, is 
nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commenraries, lerters and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Leners to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact infOrmation. 
Quertions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gil!oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

flu: Observer (USPS 5!/'J 2-4000) is publi&hed Monday rhmut;h Fridoy <sc<pr during exam and vacation pc:ri~KI~. A subscriprJo.n to The Observer is $1 00 for une academic yc<~r; $55-for {me: ~mou:r. 
The Ob<crver is published •~ POSTMASTER 
024 5<>\lth Dining Hall Send addres5 cotrcctions to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556.()779 Th< Observer 
Ptriodial p<>SU~g< paid at Not« D;unc P.O.llo.m · and addirional =iling offi<<>. OH Sourh Dining Hall 
Norr< Dome. IN 46556-0779 

1ne Observer is a menll-cr \')f the As.rociatcd Prcu. All rqnuduction righu m rcsc:rvcd. 
TooAv's STAFF 

News  Sports  
Eileen Duffy  Kate Gales  
Kaitlynn Riely  Dan Murphy  
Jennifer Metz  Dan Cooper  
Viewpoint'  Scene  
Joey King  Marty Schroeder  
Graphics  
Jarred Wafer  

University-staff relations must improve 
The series of Town Hall sessions conducted Wednesday must evaluate the way they deliver that message. and Thursday by University President Father John Jenkins, "Core values are very important," Jenkins told staff. "They Provost Tom Burish and Executive Vice President John are things that absolutely everyone should have in mind, Affleck-Graves was intended to show staff members how because this is part of what it means to be part of Notre much they matter. Dame." 
It was a positive -and much needed -move by the No one's disputing the importance of core values. But University. integrity and accountability -two values emphasized by The lack of communication between administrators and Jenkins -aren't going to appease workers who feel under­
workers was formally acknowledged ("The most frustrating paid, and the ideological goal of "leadership in mission" isn't thing for many of you is that you work at Notre Dame, but going to comfort a staff member who feels underappreciat­find out about many projects from the newspa­ed. per instead of us," Afflcck-Graves told staff at O t!he The bigger picture can be motivating; Wednesday morning's meeting). userver grandiose visions of the Notre Dame to come 
Important developments in building upon may have stirred pride within staff members that seemingly weak University-staff communi­who attended the meetings. But those same
Editorial 
cation were announced, like a new program grandiose visions can be overwhelming if that will distribute surveys to staff members to workers feel left out of the "something more" respond anonymously about the positives and negatives of that Jenkins envisions as Notre Dame's destiny. their experience working for the University. Affleck-Graves That sense of isolation would be easy to understand, since also promised the implementation of a hotlinc run by an the vague wording of Jenkins' "mission" probably doesn't external party to field complaints workers might not feel strike a chord with every University employee. comfortable expressing to their supervisors. If the University wants to develop into that something 
It's commendable that so much time -four one-hour ses­greater, it's going to have to do more than expand, construct sions in little more than a 24-hour period -was devoted to and renovate -it must continually prioritize the people that reminding staff members of their importance to the make Notre Dame what it is. University. However, in order to truly include workers in the If that happens, no one will need to remind workers of Notre Dame community, Jenkins and other administrators their importance. They'll already know. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
,,~ fH( A~t(AN M~DIA, 
~~~ WANI '/tJl fo Tf;U,. f~M 
W~ DID A~flf~ Joe'Tk1tN.4 
io ~IU, Yo0--(~INToN tf­
~VSH~ 

..,....... .-/ 
~ caglecartoons.com 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Should Notre Dame continue c. 4% 
1Submit aLetter1
early action admission? 

') .,;,> .,...,.· .,,,.,.. ,. ,...,..., ,.. ,..... ,.,,..,., .,. ···. ..,. . .., ~ 
"Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place. but far more difficult
b. 13% 

still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing 
at the tempting moment.'' 
a. Yes 

f to the Editor at ' 
b.No 

I -' ,, ' ' 'I 
Benjamin Franklin
c. No opinion 
U.S. author

···~ vvvvw.ndsmcobserver.com rt 
i · 
p

Friday, September 29, 2006 
page 15 

The lecture nobody read 
On Sept. 12, Pope Benedict XVI deliv­sible. They are ultimately one, since rea­would break off one shard from the circle what one does the rest of the time is ered a short lecture at his former aca­soning is the conceiving of a mental word and mistake it for the whole. merely one's personal business is a demic home, the University of that describes the world to the intellect; In the 16th century, the Reformers vicious doctrine. To pretend society is Regensburg, on the subject of faith and and speaking allows for the expressing, seemed to break off faith from reason, merely a collection of minimal doctrines reason in the Western university. As with the in principle complete opening, of one dispensing with the latter. Horrified by to keep order between private interests so many of Benedict's intellect to another. the vision of "half-men" who condemned for another day invites catastrophe that cogent and eloquent James Benedict XVI then turns to a theme he as merely depraved the powers of their only the full breadth of reason (a reason works, this one went Matthew first explored many years ago in his natural reason. rationalist thinkers and that takes faith to its breast) can resolve. almost entirely unread. Wilson Introduction to Christianity (1968). Not by their obsession with mathematical and Benedict XVI wishes to restore to the Not, of course, unno­accident did Paul and the Apostles first empirical "certainty" emerged. That is, public life of Europe the understandingticed. Unread. The Treasonous take the Gospel into the heart of the rationalism broke off a small morsel of that it is not by disqualifying as "irra­
In brief, Benedict Clerk Hellenistic world. Although he avoids the reason from the circle of truth and mis­tional" everything not self-evident or sub­XVI's argument pro­word in his lecture as well as in that early took it for the whole. Though the story is ject to the grasp of mankind's power that ceeded as follows. He recalled that the work, he suggests Providence guided the more complicated than one simple break, one sustains a just political life. Only by faculties at Regensburg, including the good news about the Logos of God into it has traditionally been understood that plumbing the depths of our creation and Protestant and Catholic theological facul­the centers of Greek culture, where philo­reductive fideism and rationalism are the nature and sharing our findings can our ties, used to gather routinely for the sophical thinking about the logos, the rea­two camps into which much of the West experiences be made intelligible to each exchange of ideas. Although deep intellec­sonable structure of the cosmos, was has become more divided down the cen­other and our common good promoted. tual differences divided them on one level, most sophisticated. turies. The zealotry of Islamic extremism, with they were united in a sense of a "shared The Greeks understood that the cosmos Benedict XVI, like all his predecessors its burned effigies and bombed edifices responsibility for the right use of reason." was constructed according to rational before him, seeks to heal this rift. threatens the common life of reason. So This responsibility expressed itself in the laws, behind which was the superlatively Clarifying the problems with Intelligent also does the deafness of western ration­physical gathering of the members of the rational Intellect. This insight immensely Design Theory, though it grabs the head­alism, which seems intent on squandering University together, a ceremonial atfrrma­aided the Christian faith in a loving, per­lines in America, is an almost irrelevant a providential gift: the opportunity to help tion that, though opinions may be diverse, sonal God to unfold productively over the part of this healing. The pope's first duty, faith in revelation fulfill its destiny, by though disciplines may claim their own centuries. We could study God's free cre­as the voice of Christ, who healed the helping it to seek a rich rational under­methods and terrains of competence, the ation in the light of His free revelation, blind and deaf, is to correct a "reason standing of itself and a full life in this Truth is one, the fount at which all acts of and vice versa. One is powerless before which is deaf to the divine and which rel­world and the next. The West is decadent. reason drink. revelation; indeed one can only "suffer" it. egates religion into the realm of subcul­Not because it does not worship Allah. 
This image of the meeting of faculties But once living within its light, one has a tures." Rather, just as the Islamic East seems to from different disciplines in a Western responsibility to explore its reasonable­Liberal opinion has always claimed have forgotten how to read, the West has university rhymes conceptually with ness (its logos) and to join it by myriad that, by relegating to the private sphere forgotten how to hear. another meeting, that of the "erudite analogies to the other branches of human all ideas about which there can be signifi­
. I 
I with an educated Persian" in the four­Cardinal Newman justly expressed the minima moralia necessary for the mainte­Research Fellow. His daughter, Livia I teenth century. In the recorded dialogue, · Hellenic Christian vision of Truth as hav­nance of state sovereignty. One does not Grace, was born on the great and chal­the Emperor exclaims that "not acting ing the form of a perfect circle: it is eter­have to be a theocrat to see this is false. lenging day Pope Benedict XW delivered reasonably is contrary to God's nature. nal, and it is comprehensive, excluding Social, political questions have. to be his address in Regensburg, and he hopes Faith is born of the soul, not the body. nothing. There is no reason this capacious argued, and the best arguments are those she may grow and live a long life in the Whoever would lead someone to faith vision of the life of faith and reason could which provide the most complete intelligi­light and wisdom ofthe Holy Father's needs the ability to speak well and reason not survive in history for all perpetuity. As ble account of themselves -those that teachings. He can be reached at properly." Benedict XVI notes, however, it could not survive inquiry down to their deepest jwilson5@nd. edu. 
These two faculties -reasoning and survive unchallenged. Perhaps the great­foundations; and this always entails an The views expressed in this column are communicating -are what makes the est threat mankind faces is posed by the approach to Being and the divine. those ofthe author and not necessarily "meeting of faculties" in every sense pos-continued, various forms of zealotry that To pretend that what one worships and those ofThe Observer. 
Byzantine emperor Manuel II Paleologus inquiry. cant disagreement, one can preserve a James Matthew Wzlson is a Sorin 1 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsidering pope's remarks 
Professor Rice has, as usual, written well and I applaud Pope Benedict XVI's recent effort at peacemaking. However, his con­tentious and much lamented passage seems to strike as a noisy gong that continues to reverberate, jarring the sensibil­ities of many. It could have sounded much differently, had self-reflection-truly our tradi­tion -guided its telling. Bad things happen, as Jesus tells us, when we begin to obsess over the speck in our neighbor's eye. 
Had Benedict XVI, then, thought to cite Luther's "On War Against the Turks" (1529) mat­ters would today be different. Ian Hazlett, reader in ecclesiasti­cal history in the School of Divinity of the University of Glasgow, says of Luther's work: "In this (Luther) startlingly rejects the old concept of reli­gious crusade. This was based on his innovative notion that war on the grounds of religion was not permissible, since coercion in spiritual matters is unchris­tian." 
As a man of peace, Benedict XVI draws on a long tradition of peacemaking. That we might give thanks to God one day in the future that he has unceas­ingly employed that tradition to dispel, rather than encourage, this popular, yet specious, notion of a clash of civiliza­tions. 
C.J. Miller 
alumnus 
Class of I 971 
Sept. 26 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

...............................................................................& 
Friday, September 29, 2006 

page 16 


OVERBURDENED NARRATIVE DOOMS 'DAHLIA' 
By JENNIFER DAWN HOPKINS Scene Critic 
The story of the Black Dahlia is the stuff Hollywood dreams are made of. Brian De Palma's telling of the tale, however, is the stuff Hollywood nightmares are made of. 
The story of Elizabeth Short, a pinup girl found gruesomely murdered and bisected, provides more than adequate potential to be transformed into an art-,y masterpiece that would unite the lovers of film nair and CSI alike. The star-studded cast promised talent, or -at the very least -two solid hours of pleasing eye-candy. The failure of the film to deliver on all fronts is, then, almost as shrouded in mystery as the mur­der itself. 
The viewers who anticipate seeing the events of Elizabeth Short's grisly murder unfold will leave the theater knowing less than before. The plot follows the personal story of every possible character, branching 
The Black Dahlia 

Director: Brian De Palma 
Writer: Josh Friedman 
Starring: Josh Hartnett, Scarlett 
Johansson and Aaron Eckhart 
.tr..~·'!J:fs ~h ~~ 
• ~ .,l.!. .;..;, jiM 
ofr in so many directions the viewer is lost in a maze of story lines that tries entirely too hard to be fuJI of intrigue. Any identifi­able point of the film is lost and the viewer is left wondering who -or even what ­the film was about in the first place. 
The film begins reminiscent of a bad black and white detective story and is never able to climb out of that cliched mindset. The dialogue is uncomfortable and tries to cram in 1940s colloquialisms at the expense of any explanation of charac­ter background or motivation. Detective Bucky Bleichert's (Josh Hartnett)'s attempts to explain relevant background information through voiceover are unhelpful. There is no performance to fal1 back on, no stand­out actor that delivers a believable, deep and meaningful character. Even Scarlett Johansson's sex appeal seems forced -a feat once considered utterly impossible. 
The one interesting character is the only non-living character in the film. Elizabeth Short (Mia Krishner) is the only one that seems motivated in her actions, which include getting herself killed. Detective Lee Blanchard's (Aaron Eckhart) obsession with the Black Dahlia, on the other hand, is sudden and unmotivated, causing a char­acter so internally contrasting that it is no loss to the story when he, and his unneces­sary drama, die in an equally unnecessarily bloody scene. 
Near the end of the film, De Palma seems 
THE GENIUS/HACK CoMPLEx: BRIAN DE PALMA 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
Brian De Palma is one of the most polar­izing directors in Hollywood. Opinions of him range from genius "auteur" to com­plete and utter hack. Part of the "movie­brat" generation of filmmakers, De Palma has explored genres ranging from the Alfred Hitchcockian psychological thriller "Sisters" (1973) to gangland dramas focus­ing both on gangsters (1983's "Scarface") and the law that attempt-, to hinder them (1987's "The Untouchables"). 
De Palma emerged on the cinema scene alongside contemporaries George Lucas, Steven Spielberg and Martin Scorsese. These men, along with De Palma, graduat­ed from film schools and were overtly cine­literate. They had seen many films and were highly knowledgeable of cinema theo­ries. 
They rebelled against the "director as technician" mode of filmmaking predomi­nant in Hollywood up to that point and instead focused on an authorship mode of filmmaking in which their personal vision shaped their films. 
Unlike Lucas with his "Star Wars" trilogy and Spielberg with "Jaws," De Palma was not a director that had a mega-hit in the 1970s. Instead he focused on darker themes that did not appeal to as large of an audience as did the works of the aforemen­tioned directors. In this vein, De Palma released "Obsession" in 1976 starring John Lithgow. Written by Paul Schrader, a screenwriter that has worked with Scorsese and is also part of the "movie­brat" generation, this film focused on male­female relationships and explored further love and romance in the style ofHitchcock. 
This film, along with many others of De Palma's to come, was criticized because it was seen too much as an homage to Hitchcock (the script was based on Hitchcock's "Vertigo") and less than origi­nal. 
Following in the same remake vein, De Palma remade Howard Hawks' gangster film, "Scarface," in 1983. Starring AI 

to remember that the film is supposed to be 
about the most notorious murder in 
California, and attempts to makeup for the 
previous lack of grisly details with some 
uncomfortably long adult video clips and a 
murder flashback that makes even the 
most seasoned Nipffuck veterans look 
away in disgust. In the last five minutes of 
the film-and with the help of the trusty 
montage -De Palma tries to tie all of the 
loose ends into a neat package that gives 
closure to this most notorious of cases. 
By solving the crime, De Palma essential­ly takes away the heart of the mystery sur­rounding the case, an act that would be 1excusable if the solution was remotely 
Pacino, the violence and graphic language 
has been oft criticized; however, this partic­
ular film in De Palma's filmography is 
interesting due to the cult following. it has 
created. Instead of noticing the fact it is a 
remake, many fans of the film consider 
scenes of excess and violence part of its 
"cool factor." 

Next to "Scarface" and "The 
Untouchables" -both gangster pies popu­
lar with American audiences -De Palma's 
most noted film is the Stephen King adap­
tation "Carrie." Starring a young Sissy 
Spacek and John Travolta, this film was 
popular as a horror film but also explored 
teen issues and made use of De Palma's 
signature split screen and slow motion, 
showcasing his preference for visual story­
telling rather than dialogue. 
All his creativity aside, recent years have 
brought a blockbuster style to his filmmak­
ing. 2000's "Mission to Mars" was a sci-fi 
drama that seemed to have little to do with 
his previous films, and "Mission: 
Impossible" was a complete blockbuster 
with little room for exploration. While De motivated or even interesting. Instead, we are presented with a suspect out of left field, an unconvinciiJ.g and-if possible ­more confusing explanation that somehow motivates Bucky to right. the rest of the wrongs in the world, most of which have nothing at all to do with any aspect of the Black Dahlia case. 
"The Rlack Dahlia" attempts to cover far too many plotlines in far too little detail, and De Palma fails to convey the notoriety of the case that has stunned California for generations . 
Contact Jennifer Dawn Hopkins at jhopkinl@nd.edu 
Palma was able to explore interesting twists on love and romance, the star power of Tom Cruise tends to overshadow any directorial nuances that may have been present. 
2006 brings De Palma to "The Black Dahlia." This film melds his love of_gang­sters -albeit in a more noirish fashion than his previous films -his interest in gender relations and the perdition of male lust. Initial feedback has been negative, but, by this point, De Palma has thick enough skin to handle the critics. 
Loved and hated, De Palma has consis­tently been able to find films he wants to make. His vast knowledge of cinema makes his films a joy to watch -even if the narra­tives are not particularly strong. He has also made a diverse range of films, from horror to action to drama and everything in between. Not as well known as other film­makers, he is nonetheless a creative mind who is in love with movies. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 




Friday, September 29, 2006 page 17 

Childhood movies bring a tear to my eye 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
There are some fllms that I like to call "forgotten classics." Nobody else seems to remember them and ifwe talk about them today, only our peers seem to know what we're talking about. I don't mean movies like "Labyr­inth" or "Hook," because those movies are classics in a weird sort of way-and more importantly, people remember them. I mean the obscure stuff that nobody seems to ever think about except in the most '­inopportune times, like during tests or mass or interviews. The thing about these movies is that they're actually pretty good,exceptthatnobody seems to know they exist. With that in mind, let's take a trip down memory lane and remember some ofthose oldies but goodies from our younger days. 
The Rocketeer 
For years I thought Brendan Fraser was in this movie, mostly because it seems like the weird kind of part he would take. Turns out it's some guy named Bill Campbell (not to be confused with the truly awesome Bruce Campbell of "Evil Dead" 

Brian Doxtader 
Scene Editor 

fame) who stars in this period piece about a guy who gets a jetpack and becomes a symbol of patri­otic heroism triumphing over the Nazis. 
It's pulpy and serial­esque, but the concept is truly cool and the outfits and design are actually pretty decent. Timothy Dalton, a one-time James Bond, is the villain and Jennifer Connelly is the girlfriend. 
Dick Tracy 
Based on the old comic strip, "Dick Tracy" was directed by Warren Beatty, who also stars as the square-jawed detective. The film's design, which evokes old comic strips. is superb. And the cast is great. Really. Al Pacino plays Big Boy Caprice, the crotchety gangster baddie, Dustin Hoffinan is a mem­orable mumbling rat and Madonna is Breathless Mahoney ... actually, Madonna is really only eye candy until the twist end-. 
ing.· , ' ~ti I . ­
Pacino actually got nomi­nated for an Oscar for this role, which is surprising because he didn't get nom­inated for "The Godfather Part III" which came out the same year. It amazing­ly won a few awards and was nominated for a bunch more. And come on, how could someone not like a movie in which char­acters have names like Flattop, little Face, The Brow and 88 Keys? 
Tron 

Disney pumped a ton of money into this special effects-driven film about computer geeks who enter an electronic world and it shows -kind of. The effects are way outdated and the storyline and act­ing is pretty horrific. but all that overlooks how cool this film once was. The scenes in which characters drive around on a 2D plane on weird, futuristic motorcycles are worth the price ofadmission. The storyline is about some computer who wants to take over the world or something, but it doesn't really matter. All that mat­ters is the crazy 1980s spe­cial effects, which even manage to overshadow Jeff Bridges (who some­how managed to put this film behind him and become a legitimately good actor). The whole thing is kind of goofy, but iftaken on it<> own terms, "Tron" is still as much fun today was it was 20 years ago. 
There are other films I could talk about, like "Flight of the Navigator" or the original "Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles." Freud once said sometimes a cigar is just a cigar, and, a lot oftimes, nostalgia is simply that-nostalgia. But in these cases, I always wondered why these films don't get more attention. They awoke our sense of wonder as we were able to fly through the sky with jetpacks fighting Nazis, join the world of comic books and actually enter a video game. I loved all ofthese films. 
·while they may not be "good" movies when stacked up against the likes of "Citizen Kane" and "Casablanca," they make me remember better days, and I hope some ofyou remember them too. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy img1 OLimageshack.us 
"The Rocketeer," starring Bill Campbell and released in 1991, soon developed a cult following due to his trademark leather jacket and aerodynamic helmet. 
()n(}amnus 
ByMlO-IBlER~ 
bL'H Mi)\'1e ·•rmut--s.oftheCaribl):"An: Ik<-~ Afan's Olt'!it'' 'Ibis~ tDtbt-hir''P~ofdlf'(~~rt '01e Cl.ll'se<Jfft> Bl:tek Peuf'' fuLls (_:.q~ JrlSt-'tring(lUtD:1 ~h6 th.ld~ r>.w~ JOtlt".\ txillU~ all dx: d~terel"S fu.mlhe fu"='t tim ,W)l~ u!klile. Ftiity a~d Satunilr _('}run and l(t.JO p.m 101 fk> Barmto,S3 
DPAC Classic Hn 
11,f• 

Frilz Laslf(s fisroutd fiinard O'k! ofd1e fu:srgnw "'J.ri'lellSethrilets,~f' is ~·SiaL; of a hunrCOtma::d brlx..dltheprh.urld1e Berlin 1.11-~ 1i:xa 'khi::.ding~W:/~~ ((ietman ~~~~v;ith F..lwJis1titd>rirJe.;.) &!!day; 4pJnM d¥:'&~'llit~Gn.ema, $3 
~ 

fYx~bill Fridar C.cldJr4te d~ I.JfXOO-,_lg find~ ~ldwidl alivl:' mu~ put}'ar 8p.m. !trkh~ ~fW!bdF~Jayv.1» ~fuVOtm tium rhe 70s llixi8'Js. Ons~.qJ Hhil¥Jiifh willbespnniw;lllrlON\?the1;-uesr hits in ptn~~~ve llOO!ieo I!Wla', eutlJ(~~) aa.i tkcnu~-aon Eurodll1Ce n.f.tJ:lt G,u~ Nom: Dttm:\'i. Putdut:, allc:Ur~· 
.·.. ~i _·. Suite ~fu£ewn ofAtt ·.-.,_.··.... · 'I&e~YC;'nU,CnctzOtldt-NoStb:ttP~1kfbn~n Lit~ 
-~tnrnd~Unlad~"~~~~a.a~ ~init~~·l fO d'k! US. d~l OliP•no/llen:.an Wmtaas. " .n~~~ 1()...,.,;..~5 pnt.~': l p.tn.~ p.m. fmr< 
J~V(didm ~V~d~:wtnng~ 6omht'f''--4un.·~ \'ourH~;t whidu:l~twSQn~ ~pJPa~¥lppain~~. Fftdty; JpnJ..·1:45pm~~ l2p.m..-12:45f'"n fwnnW!I Notre 0Jn'le Bcd."iiCJJ~~; 6U! 



· f'Faci!~the Cnan~...Ind1ls inapimtimtl~.a~roadl and hL~; / ~ro th:xbill!l'Hin lW'n ~n Goi to&:, d)." in~~* ooan:lotfthe 6ell 
~'()p;:ll &--..t!i£Jt1.HThe O)f~atlU~ film 6nfnfl_iumJ~ P'¥-1UI~ W~ ~VOces ofAlilllm ~r;llldUu:rin I-B\V~ ;u1d oJs dk' ffrtyof~ll4t:J~ PJWlroo~r \Vb) fuJi& lwrl!idftmUdUin d1e ~-dlll!t! ~'S id!Jl!hunting 6e;N.J1. 
"Sct~d tidkrJIJll.hcis.10Jon 1-ftderof•~:JfXhll~ttatnirEH ~"3 at1urhkyrull dunsy ~~wOOetd~in afidni rhtt re.ldles sdf-a.tlftdt<t~ rull ~~, ~ dw1¥! cw1'\\ID dx: love nfl'lis mwh ~f§.'to:Jtl~ wl"Wtl it l1.m1S ourIii u1ll~~ illilllU-1nr<BirBobTint.lfr»l) ~•·the ~li'Tle gpi 
"U)I.! Gt.~Ul.tian/' ~..wh d~ hss ofl~ ~in ..,fumi~l, ~swilnn1ff Ben Rand!ll ~,.l C..DSII~ is D:'tts'ligpt'd rn ~.-:h arilndire sclvrl b tbtst(Jq;url ~ sv..Jrnmc't.~. ~lw ~J~ Fllidlef (Nilm~l ~lef). -a nnuirin !he t1JIJt.7W.TI. lkd1bdp t:$idl od~ ~) llJ!~ dw 1mtni1g(j~. 

.t\Jw)~~ 
+-\l~Jt4l AId~ N!~~ :\kn E.>.ll"J~lli'16 f~ 
1\t.l<¥ 
~--~~~ 
lm·illofj:­
J~~t.~: Nnmllf'i·T~YJ 
J« J.l:; Fl'l!dt-&; Tilt' BI.Jd (Mdj;-, 
TI~~:Cnm!llul 
·n~rlm.ir~ 


SlliJI01:Jb..-e lll (Bet<:..-,~.¥:~~,$5, lx-ti~e6 p.m. ss.::n ..~~ 6pill-$6""'llil IDi +\j d~~: N!lg!.;. ifftl 
.-.. ,._ ; '.:::...,.. ,,; ~ •.... 


Tilt' BkkPallk ­
En>t\< llli"1S Hrm f JJ."'J 1g tl:t" Gilllt5 Fhilo:,cs. Gwiironh.uJg ll~t· Cntl!-di:lll j:.cka"': J\"llllli~ Twu 
ft'r L'> h-,d·,; 
1~·\k>Siij~Wo.: 

. { ~X'Il ~-,i,,CJil 

GUARDIAN

PI!;H•>:>' Jt.dll•( :uJIJI:M':lJl: O.·.<~.l \l.uJ\, lk·;o~ 
Sdnd11)1. S.:nnaiu~ 

't a!.tJwk .\{swp () ,T·u l.ly/:,.lliij<i.<r -lrit1 () pm ~ odwt \l.'~~thl~"':i,qg;' \;JI "i.~ (~ Jnh; hll~J ~{1,.-.tf,k ~4uHI VI():' i\fr•wn Jiof.j~i<> ~~OIIli Jlil_. ~:flHlilH ~llili ~ 

Friday, September 29, 2006 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB-AL 
Detroit's lead drops to half-game With defeat 
Baltimore's Daniel Cabrera takes no-hitter into ninth inning as Orioles take down New York in the Big Apple 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Kenny Rogers slammed the ball off the rubber and it rose over his head just before he walked off the mound following an awful start. 
The Detroit Tigers will need him to bounce back in the play­offs. 
Rogers was roughed up by the Toronto Blue Jays, who built a seven-run lead before holding off Detroit for an 8-6 victory Thursqay, cutting the Tigers' lead to a half-game in the AL Central. 
The Minnesota Twins had a chance to pull into a tie at home Thursday night against Kansas City. But to win the division and secure home-field advantage next week, the Twins have to move past Detroit (95-64) because they lost the season series. 
Detroit closes the regular sea­son at home with a three-game series against Kansas City. 
"I'm not going to give them a Knute Rockne, 'let's go get 'em' type of thing. I can tell you that right now," manager Jim Leyland said. "If we win three games, we're the champs. That's one break we've got. If we can't take advantage of it, shame on us." 
Rogers, who will likely start Detroit's first playoff game since 1987, gave up seven runs-five earned -on eight hits, a walk and a hit batter. He lasted just 3 2/3 innings, his shortest outing in two months and one of the worst in what has been a stellar season. 
''I'm not going to dwell on it too long. I've done pretty well for a long period of time," Rogers said. 'Td rather have a mediocre to poor one now rather than later." 
The 41-year-old Rogers (17 -7) won seven of his previous 10 starts with a 1.72 ERA and had a chance to match his career high for victories, but it was quickly clear that Thursday would not be his day. 
Toronto's first two batters reached on errors, one by Rogers, to take a 2-0 lead. The Blue Jays added another run in 
CLASSIFIEDS 

the second and made it 7-0 in the fourth. 
"He was mixing up his pitches like he usually does," said Gregg Zaun, who scored two runs and had two hits. "But he got some of them up, and fortunately we were able to hit them." 
The Tigers pulled within a run with a three-run seventh, capped by Sean Casey's two-run homer, after scoring two runs in the sixth and one in the fourth. 
Toronto went ahead 8-6 in the eighth on a double-play ground­out. 
When Leyland went to the mound to take the baH from Rogers, the pitcher bounced it in disgust and walked otr the field. 
It was the second straight poor outing by a Detroit starter that led to a Joss. Nate Robertson allowed six runs in 4 2/3 innings Wednesday night, when ihe Tigers lost 7-4. 
''I'm not concerned, but that doesn't make any difference now because those are our guys and I'm very comfortable with them," Leyland said. "If they're good in the playoffs, we'll do OK. If they don't, we won't. 
Baltimore 7, New York 1 
Daniel Cabrera came within two outs of a no-hitter against the Yankees' mighty lineup before Robinson Cano slapped a clean opposite-field single in the ninth inning, and the Baltimore 
Orioles  beat  New  York  
Thursday night.  
Flashing  a  fastball  that  

touched 97 mph, Cabrera over­came three errors behind him and cruised into the ninth with a chance to make history at Yankee Stadium. 
But after Johnny Damon grounded weakly to first, Cano punched an 0-1 delivery to left field for New York's only hit, drawing a roar from the crowd of 54,046 and a pained expres­sion from Cabrera, who turned around to watch the ball and then grimaced. On the very next pitch, Bobby Abreu bounced into a game-ending double play. 
After coming tantalizingly close to Baltimore's first no-hit­ter in 15 years, Cabrera was left with his third career complete game and second this season. Baltimore. avoid becoming the first team in He struck out five and walked history to lose 99 games while two, throwing 71 of his 106 Cleveland 5, Tampa Bay 4 posting a winning home record. pitches for strikes. Ryan Garko doubled home the Sizemore hit the first pitch 

The 25-year-old right-hander go-ahead run in a three-run sev­from reliever Jon Switzer for his nearly became the first pitcher enth inning to help the Cleveland 28th homer, a two-run shot in to toss his own no-hitter against Indians rally past the Tampa the seventh inning that tied it at the Yankees since Orioles knuck-· Bay Devil Rays on Thursday 4. leballer Hoyt Wilhelm in 1958. night. Ruddy Lugo (2-4) then walked New York was no-hit at home by Grady Sizemore and Andy Jason Michaels. who scored on six Houston pitchers on June 11, Marte hit two-run homers and Garko's double into the left-field 2003. Paul Byrd (10-9) won for the corner. It gave the rookie first 
The Yankees, who already first time in five September baseman 21 RBis in his last 20 clinched the AL East title and starts for Cleveland. games. are just playing for home-field The Devil Rays, coming off Matt Miller pitched a scoreless advantage in the playoffs now, their largest shutout win in team eighth and Rafael Betancourt rested Alex Rodriguez and history, 11-0 Wednesday night in worked out of a bases loaded Derek Jeter. But every other reg­Boston, failed once again to win jam to earn his third save. ular in New York's powerful consecutive road games for the He gave up consecutive singles lineup was on the field. first time since June 16-17 at to Ben Zobrist and Rocco 
One night before, the Yankees Philadelphia. Baldelli and intentionally walked showed just how imposing their Tampa Bay dropped to 3-28 on Greg Norton with one out to load modern-day version of the road since the All-Star the bases. The right-hander then Murderers' Row can be, banging break. They must win all three struck out Ty Wigginton and out 18 hits in a 16-5 victory over remaining games in Cleveland to Jorge Cantu to end the threat. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
FALL WORK $15.50 base-appt. Flexible schedules, no exp. need­ed, customer sales/service, condi­tions apply, all ages 17+, Call Today 574-273-3835. 
$1 0 itunes or Burger King gift card 4 your tips on how to do well in col­lege 4 book by pub.wr. One 15 min.ph.interview 9/28,10/1. em sallybums@ hotmail.com for appt. 
Calculus tutor evenings preferred 574-276-8299. One or two nights a week. Fee negotiable. 
FoR RENT 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam· pus homes & weekend rentals. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Rental homes 3-6 bdrms. Close to NO. Call Gary 574-993-2208. 
Weekend rental: 3 BR Home, walk to stadium, Terrace Ln. 269-930· 8038. swmient@qtm.net 
House for home games. 4 doors from ND. Call Gary at 574-993­2208. 
RV ND home games. Sleeps 6-8. Transportation, tailgating & lodging. 574-243-5547. 
House for rent for football week· ends. Sleeps 6·8. Call Kay evenings at 269-663-8203. 
2 rooms in private home w/separate entrance for football weekends. Shared bath. Close to NO. 574· 259-8603. 
2 Bd Lakeview Home, LaPorte. $275 NO Football Wkends; $200 Non·Game Wkends. 630-238-0400. White Pigeon, Mllake house near toll road. 3 da wkend. Home games $1 k. 260-768-4422. 
2 rooms for rent this weekend. 272­0928. Just east of NO. 
45 minutes from Notre Dame Stadium. $125.00/night. Year round cabins sleep six. Call Lumberjack Resort 269-646-2181. 
HOUSING FOR 2007-2008 2-6 Bedrooms www. NDstudentrentals.com 
Upscale Football Weekend House ­Escort Optional. 574·993·8333 keszeicpa@ sbcglobal. net 
Home game lodging 20 min.to ND in a B&B log home in the woods. $200 for the weekend. 269-362· 0300. 
Granger house for rent-football wknds. 5 bdrm; 10 min to ND. 574­276-3929. 
2 rooms in ND staff home. 1.2 miles to ND. Grad student preferred. 574­876-9467. 
B&B rooms for NO games (not Stanford). $100-125 night 3 mi from ND. 574-631-4632 work; 574-234­8507 home. 
Bed & Breakfast,ND home games,2bedrms, private bath,6 miles west of South Bend Airport, call 574-289-2919 and leave mes· sage. 
Houses 4 Rent:W/Es-Home Fbaii,Sr Dad,JPW,Grad,B&G;SEMESTER-Spring/Summer. Mike:312-618­4722 
Home for Rent: 3 BR,garage, McKinley Terrace, $775 month, lease. no pets. Broker Owned. 574­968-4208 or 574-271-0111. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP DOLLAR PAID. NOBODY WILL PAY MORE. 574-288-2726. 
WANTED: Notre Dame tickets. 251­1570 
FOR SALE: NO TICKETS. 232­0964 FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TICK­ETS. BEST PRICES. 574·232­2378. 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL TICK­ETS FOR SALE HOME or AWAY games.Call517-351-1992 or order online 24/7 at WWW.JAMESTHET­ICKETMAN.COM we have tickets local or nationwide. 
FoR SALE 

Investment homes for sale near ND. 866-521-8989. 
During Football Season -Do not Rent or Hotel it. Buy apartment complex. 10 one-bdrm furnished units. 4 miles to ND. Great invest­ment or convert to condos. Call Larry 574-255-9363 or 257-0039. 
Special collection of vintage ND football items on display and avail­able for purchase at the College Football Hall of Fame every home game Friday starting 9/29 from 9 
a.m. to 6 p.m. Call 574·257-0039. 
Home For Sale: 531 W. Angela near NO, $107,000 2 BR w/den,basement,garage. Call Barb Foster,ReMax 100 (574)968-4208 or (574)271-0111. 
New construction on river w/3,300· sq.ft. Finished living area, 5 BR, 3.5 Baths, large deck, kitchen appli­ances. $377,000. Call Sandy Hagen 574-243-9575. 1999 HONDA CIVIC. Blk. 78K miles. 1 owner. Sporty. Runs great. $6,600. 286-1861. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ATIORNEY Lyn Leone available. Underage consumption, DWI. 574· 272-1968. 


Friday, September 29, 2006 
CoJ\1\PitED FROM THE OBSERVER's \YIRE srRvrcFs page 19 
NCAA Cross Country Coaches' Poll 

team  
1  Wisconsin  
2  Arkansas  
3  Colorado  
4  Stanford  
S  lonacollege  

tt\ tTilxas 
7> Arirona 8 Portland ~)'~~+~Oklahoma State .:r "f .; U.l~' 
10 BYU .. 
11 UTEP 12 Minnesota 
·.13 Georgetown 14 Virginia 15 Mit:higan 16 NOTRE DAME 17 Oregon 18 Ohio State 19 Arb:ona State 20 Alabama 21 Iowa State 22 William &Mary 23 Dartmouth 24 Florida State 25 Butler 
points 
450 432 412 401 382 371 355 344 
. ff 309 231 273 270 246 227 201 198 191 184 
175 
164 146 140 129 121 100 


Big East Women's Soccer. National Division Standings 
division  
Team  record  points  
1  Villanova  2-0-1  1  
2  Rutgers  2-0-1  7  
3  Notre Dame  2-G-0  6  
4  Louisville  2+0  6  
5  Cincinnati  1-1-0  3  
6  Seton Half  1-2-0  3  
7  Georgetown  O*l-0  0  
8  DePaul  0-3-0  0  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Rutgers at South Florida 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Astros at Braves 
7:05 p.m., ESPN 
White Sox at Twins 
8:10p.m., Comcast 
Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas -Dallas police have classified Terrell Owens' case as an "accidental overdose," not an attempted suicide, closing their investigation Thursday of the Cowboys receiver's hospitalization. 
Authorities also released a recording of the brief 911 call Thursday that brought rescue workers to Owens' home, in which publicist Kim Etheredge said "I think he took too many pills" but never men­tioned her client's name or said anything about a suicide attempt. 
Police Chief David Kunkle said he had "great confidence" in his offi­cers' initial report, which sairl rescue workers responded late Tuesday night to an attempted "suicide by prescription pain medication." 
"The report, in my opin­ion, reflects what the offi­cers were told and repre­sents their best interpre­tation of what happened," Kunkle said Thursday. "But that doesn't mean it's the definitive account of the incident. Like all these situations, we're dealing with incomplete information and facts that change." 
The report, obtained by media outlets Wednesday, said Etheredge described 
IN BRIEF 

SeekinS! to extend streak,
Woods Teads in England 
CHANDLER'S CROSS, England -The first two weeks in the British Isles have been match play and sour memories for Tiger Woods, whether it was a first­round loss at Wentworth or a resound­ing loss to Europe in the Ryder Cup. 
He returned to stroke play Thursday, and to the top of the leaderboard. 
Woods took advantage of a soft course with slick, smooth greens for his best start of the year, an 8-under 63 capped ofT by an eagle on the last hole that gave him a one-shot lead over Padraig Harrington and Ian Poulter in the American Express Championship. 
"I made a couple of putts and got things rolling and got the momentum on my side, and just kept rolling," Woods said. 
On the 567-yard closing hole, he hammered a driver down the middle and followed with a 3-wood from 267 yards that landed 20 feet from the cup. 
Owens as being depressed and indicated that he said "Yes" when rescue work­ers asked whether he had tried to harm himself. 
Owens said Wednesday he mistakenly mixed the painkillers for a broken hand with supplements he ordinarily takes, causing him to become groggy and incoherent. Etheredge became con­cerned and called 911. 
The 41-second call began politely, with Etheredge saying in an urgent tone, "Hi, I have an emergency please." 
Far from the anger and outrage she showed at a news conference Wednesday, Etheredge 
was a bit panicked but composed enough to say "thank you" before being transferred to a para­medic. She then told the second operator, "Hi. I need an ambulance please, immediately." 
"I think he took too many pills," she said. "Please. Now. What do 1 do if the pills are down the throat?" 
The paramedic instead said they were. on the way and asked if he was still breathing. Told that he was, the paramedic reas­sured Etheredge that res­cue workers were en route. 
"Thank you," she said. "Thank you." 
Charges dropped for sus~t in Duquesne basKetball shooting 
PITTSBURGH -Prosecutors on Thursday dropped charges against one of two men accused of shooting five Duquesne University basketball players, but filed charges against two additional suspects. 
All charges were dropped against Brandon Baynes, 18, of Penn Hills, in the Sept. 17 shooting after an on­campus dance party. 
Allegheny County District Attorney Stephen Zappala said Baynes was cleared after a witness recanted her story. He would not identify the wit­ness. 
Zappala also announced charges against two other people: Derek Lee, of Pittsburgh, and Erica H. Sager, of Wilkinsburg. 
Lee, 18, of Pittsburgh, is accused of shooting at the players. He is charged with five counts each of attempted homicide and aggravated assault. 
Nets sign former Duke star 
Williams 3 years after crash 
EAST RUTHERFOHD, N.J. -Three years after a motorcycle accident put his fledgling career in jeopardy, Jay Williams is getting a chance to return to the NBA with the New Jersey Nets. 
Williams signed a contract with the Nets on Thursday, giving him the right to attend training camp and try out for the team. Contract terms were not immediately available, but the deal is not guaranteed. 
"I would love for it to happen here," Williams said. "I pray to God it does. But if it doesn't, I'll have to go from there."With Jason Kidd being the Nets' starting point guard and Marcus \Villiams, the team's first-round draft pick, expected to be his backup. Williams is a bit of a long shot to make thP team. 
"I can stilllpass) the ball and make everyone around me look great, too," Williams said. "I just have to keep working hard." 
--~---~------­
Friday, September 29, 2006 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 

MLB-NL Oswalt leads Houston to ninth straight win Talk about Mr. September:Dodgers top Rockies Oswalt is 51-16 in his career during the second half of a sea­behind Loney's nine son. He is 9-1 in his last 13RBis in NL slugfest starts, with Houston winning 12 of those 13. And the right-han­der is 17-2 in 22 SeptemberAssociated Press starts since 2003. PITTSBURGH -They needed NL batting leader Freddy nearly five hours to win the Sanchez of the Pirates went 0­night before. This time, they for-4 after having six hits in the waited for 3 1/2 hours just to first two games of the series. He play. Time is running out on the is hitting .344, and his lead over Houston Astros, but it's not Florida's Miguel Cabrera -up stopping them from winning. to 11 points two days ago -is Roy Oswalt picked up a weary down to five points. Astros bullpen with seven Brad Lidge pitched a perfect shutout innings and the Astros ninth for his 32nd save in 38 ran their improbable late­opportunities, after Trever September winning streak to Miller and Chad Qualls com­nine games, enduring an after­bined to pitch the eighth. noon-long rain delay before Gorzelanny (2-5) gave up beating the Pittsburgh Pirates three hits, three runs and 3-0 Thursday. walked three in seven innings. A three-game sweep in Pittsburgh highlighted by a 7-6, Los Angeles 19, 15-inning marathon win Colorado 11 Wednesday night at least tem­Rookie James Loney tied the porarily cut Houston's deficit in Dodgers' franchise record with the NL Central to one game nine RBis, including a grand behind St. Louis, which had lost slam and a two-run homer, and seven of eight going into its Los Angeles outslugged night game against Milwaukee. Colorado Thursday to keep the The Astros were 8 1/2 games pressure on San Diego and out on Sept. 20, but still have a Philadelphia. chance to pull off one of base­The Dodgers started the day a ball's greatest stretch drive game ahead of Philadelphia in  Office of International Studies 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 INNSBRUCK 2007-2008 Academic Year Information Meeting with Hannelore Weber "Yes, you CAN... fit Innsbruck into your major!" Sunday, October 1, 2006 118 DeBartolo 7:00pm Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weber.l5(a)nd.edu Application Deadline: November 15, 2006  

comebacks as they head to Atlanta to finish the season. 
There weren't many witness­es for their latest victory. There were fewer than 500 in the stands after a rain delay pushed the starting time from 
12:35 p.m. Eastern to 4:01 p.m. -believed to be one of the longest delays to start a game in Pirates history. 
The Pirates probably wished it had kept on raining as they lost their seventh in a row, all against contenders, and were swept for the second series in a row after dropping three last weekend in San Diego. They must sweep three from Cincinnati over the weekend to avoid losing at least 95 games for the second season in a row. 

Houston manager Phil Garner said earlier in the week the Astros' goal was to not lose again -their streak is their longest since a 12-game run in August 2004 -and his players must be listening. 
Adam Everett's single drove in the first run of a three-run fifth notable mostly for rookie left-bander Tom Gorzelanny's wildness -he walked two and hit another batter after retiring the first 13 batters he faced. Houston's only three hits came in the inning, with Chris Burke and Jason Lane also getting sin­gles ahead of Everett's single. Oswalt and Morgan Ensberg walked with the bases loaded to force in the other two runs. 
Oswalt (15-8), winning his sixth in a row and fifth straight this month, didn't need any support after that to beat the Pirates for the third time in three starts, allowing only two runs in 20 innings. He gave up four hits, struck out six and walked two. 
The Pirates' biggest threat came when they loaded the bases in the sixth on singles by . Jack Wilson and Jason Bay and Oswalt hit Ryan Doumit with a pitch, but shortstop Adam Everett threw out Xavier Nady at first by a step on a slow roller for the third out. 
the NL wild-card race and a game behind San Diego in the NL West. Both the Phillies and Padres played later Thursday. 
Getting the start at first base with Nomar Garciaparra deal­ing with sore side and thigh muscles, Loney hit a grand slam in the first, a two-run dou­ble in the third, a run-scoring single in the fifth and a two-run homer in the seventh before striking out in the eighth. 
That tied the club record for RBis set by Gil Hodges for Brooklyn on Oct. 31, 1950, against the Boston Braves. It's the first nine-RBI game in the National League since Sammy Sosa did it at Coors Field on Aug. 10, 2002. 
The wild win was the Dodgers' 15th in 19 games against the Rockies this season. They blew a five-run lead when Colorado scored seven times in the fourth to take a 10-8 lead, but the Dodgers tied it in the fifth and then put together a seven-run rally themselves in the sixth. 
Kenny Lofton (third) and Marlon Anderson (12th) hit back-to-hack homers off Ray King (1-4), and Wilson Betemit added a two-run double off Jose Mesa, who also served up Loney's two-run shot. Lofton came around on an error to make it 17-10. 
Left-bander Mark Hendrickson (2-7), the fourth Dodgers pitcher, picked up the win. He gave up an unearned run on one hit in two innings. 
Dodgers right-hander Brad Penny left the game after one inning with stiffness in his lower back and is day to day, the team said. Penny, who has struggled since the All-Star break, allowed four hits, includ~ ing a three-run home run to Matt Holliday, as the Rockies batted around in the first inning. 
Penny was lifted for a pinch hitter in the top of the second, right after Loney's grand slam off Byung-llyun Kim gave Los Angelns a 4-3 lead. 
LIVE AND STUDY 


. .. . ' . . 
. . . ( . 
. . ' . . . . . . ' 
-... I • ' • • • • • • r .-• • 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles start five-game road trip in Kalamazoo 
After a big win against Alma to start off conference play, Saint Mary's continues MIAA action this weekend 
goalkeeper Laura Heline said. "Our defense has done a good
By DAN MURPHY 
"I am sure we will bring the job of staying organized and 
Sports Writer 
same intensity to Kalamazoo." coverage of key players has 
Kalamazoo (5-3) has been also been well done." 
Saint Mary's will start a tough on its home turf all sea­The four-year starter also long road trip this weekend son. The Hornets have hosted stressed the importance of when it travels to Kalamazoo five teams and came away putting pressure on the for its second conference with wins in all but one con­Hornets. As was evident in game of the year. The Belles test. The team's one loss came the Alma game, getting out to will play a stretch of five in a 2-1 overtime game a quick lead can go a long away games before returning against Manchester College. way in slowing down an oppo­to their home field Oct. 21. The Hornets have split two nent's attack. 
The team is 1-3 on the road conference games in the past The Belles looked sharp on so far this sea-week against the offensive side of the ball son with its only Calvin, a 3-0 this week, consistently con­win coming in a ..We have been loss, and a 1-0 necting on passes and push­3-1 victory over win over Tri­ing the action up the field
working very hard to 
Mount Mercy State. with authority. during the Sal find ourselves as a Sophomore "We created a lot of great V a c c a r o team, and Tuesday Kelly Lepper chances-it would have been Invitational scored the lone nice to put a few more in but
night I think we
Sept. 16. goal for it was good to see the offense
clicked.,,

Saint Mary's Kalamazoo in coming together," head coach comes into the the 76th minute. Caryn MacKenzie said follow­contest with a Lepper-who ing Tuesday's win.
Laura Heline 
full head of had three goals On several occasions the
Belles goalkeeper 
steam after win­and an assist Belles were a matter of inches ning its first against away from turning the game conference game against Rochester earlier that week into a blowout. The team will Alma Tuesday afternoon. -was named the MIAA need to capitalize on these Sophomore Lauren Hinton Offensive Player of the Week opportunities against Hornet scored twice and freshman for the first time in her goalkeeper Kassandra Colleen Ferguson added a career. Her six goals and Johnston, who has been solid third goal to beat the Scots 3-three assists are both team between the posts all year 0 at home. highs. with a 1.55 goals against 
"We have been working very "To shut down average. hard to find ourselves as a [Kalamazoo's] scorers we will team, and Tuesday night I need to continue to play solid Contact Dan Murphy at think we clicked," senior in the back," Heline said. dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Waterford Estates Lodge has hotel rooms for upcoming Notre· Dame football weekends. 
(And check out our low rates!) 
\'<le have even lower rates for the North C:arolina and Arrny weekends, too. C"':orne stay vvith us. And enjoy sorne hearty fare and a pint to \-vash it down vvith at Brigid's Irish Pub. It's your destinc1tion t"l-,r pre-and post-gan1e parties and open seven nights a vveek. 


Waterford  
estates lodge wwvv.waterfordestateslodge.com  ~-~ LisJfure  
877-783-8496  nne Cuisine  

. Waterford Estates Lod<cse is located at 52890 S. R. 933,just north ofthe Notre Dame campus. · . . . We arejust minutes from downtown South Bend and the South Bend Re(~ional Airport. 

Friday, September 29, 2006  The Observer + SPORTS  page 21  


\ \ 
.. ~ 
Friday, September 29, 2006 

\ \ page 22 The Observer + SPORTS · 
~ 
\ 
~ 
I 
., ~ 
I 
\ SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
I ~ 
Gray leads team into 
I 
I 
I 
I Sean Earl Invitational 
Saint Mary's travels to Chicago after solid performance last week 
By BECKI DORNER News Writer 
The Belles head into the 34th annual Sean Earl Lakefront Invitational hosted by Loyola University in Chicago this Saturday with confidence after a solid per­formance at the MIAA Jamboree and a focused 


"This week is a
week of train­and White, who ing. little different since both recorded a Megan Gray, 21:48. Ferris
we are doing mile 
recently named State University
repeats rather than 
Saint Mary's ,, Athlete of the I,OOOS. Week, clocked a 
20:14 at the 

Meaghan Herbst 
Jamboree, a 

Belles senior 
performance that teammate Katie White described as a "fantastic race ... [beating] some of the best runners in our conference." Her time helped the Belles fin­ish fifth in the eight team field, but Saint Mary's was just a small point spread of 18 away from third. 
Coach Jackie Bauters was especially pleased with her team's improved mental toughness in the Jamboree but still wanted to focus this week on strategy "with the last half mile of the race, which seemed to be the most difficult 

part of the race for the team." 
Practices this week, captain Meaghan Herbst said, may have made the difference. 
"This week is a little differ­ent since we are doing mile repeats rather than 1OOOs, which will help us build our endurance to sustain our strength for that last mile of the race," she said. 
Last year at the Invitational the Belles placed 18th in the 27-team field, led by perform­ances from current team members Sara Otto (20:50), 
Kelly Biedron 
(21:22) and Alicen Miller 

scenic 
took the team title last year. 
The course is one of the team's collec­tive favorites, Herbst said, since it takes a 
route along Lake 

Michigan. However, the course's design will test the Belles, she said. 
"Some goals that I think the whole team should focus on is pushing the hill that we need to run up three times," she said. "The last mile is away from any crowds, which means that it is easy to lose focus so we should work to keep up the momentum." 
Contact Becki Dorner at rdorner1@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Close battle ends in loss 
Belles force Bethel College to fifth game but cannot pull out a win 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
News Writer 

The Belles had a hard fought match last night, but just could not come through with the win. The team lost in five games to Bethel, 30­26, 19-30. 25-30, 30-22, 12­15. 
Junior Amanda David Setter had 44 assists and 11 digs. 
Anne Cusack Senior Libero led the team in digs with 25 digs. 
In addition to their strong play, Kristen Playko was once again played like a team leader with17 kills, 12 digs and 2 block assists. 
Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek was disappointed with the loss, but did have some encouraging words. 
"This was a well fought match by both teams," she said. "Unfortunately, in the last game of the match, we really beat ourselves by miss­ing 4 serves ... and, in the short game especially, you can't afford those kind of errors. 
She did see improvement in the Belles' play, though. 
"On the whole, I feel better about our play tonight than I do with how we played in our win against Tri-State earlier this week," Shroeder-Biek said. "Tonight, we compet­ed." 
Saint Mary's will take on Albion and Adrian in their second and third conference 
matches of the week tonight, at the Adrian Triangular. Albion has a record of 1-6 in the MIAA Conference with a 6-8 record overall. Adrian will prove to be tougher with a record of 4-2 in the MIAA Conference and 9-6 overall. 
Saint Mary's is tied for third in the conference with Adrian, but anything can happen in the tri-team con­ference match ups. The match against Albion will start at 6 p.m. and will be held at Adrian. At 8 p.m. Saint Mary's will take on 
Adrian. 
Senior outside hitter Kristen Playko believes the Belles are ready to handle the back-to-back games. 
"Intensity and excitement always leads to a better per­formance, and most impor­tantly having fun which always makes playing the game that much better," she said. "We just have to walk into the gym and step on the court ready to play." 
Contact Samanta Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

l I 
j 
~ 
f 
I I I ! I 
~ 
'I 
I
I ,. 
! ~ 
I 
I 
~ 
I 
( 
I 
I 
( 
I
'I 
' 
I 
t 
I 
• Clear Coat 
lntroduc n g
OFF 

• Premium Soft Cloth Wast1
OUR 

• Poffsh-n-Sealer 
Ita

Wax Applied 
• 2-Step Underbody
BEST 

Protectant 
52694 State Road 933 South Bend, Indiana 46637

• Spot-Free 
Just 2 miles north at Notre Dame afl U.S. 31
WASH Rinse 


A Combination Platter of Chicken Parmesan and Lasagna with Your Choice of Meat Sauce or ~1arinara Sauce. For a Limited Time. 
NOW OPEN Y!JmMI'teio ~ 
ot Mocri\ formerly Macri's Deli. 
574.280.4824 
/"'i_,r . . (2,:·
•.~t/he11/k• ~Yta/iaII (()tf,)iNf-' 
lunch: Mon-Fri 11om-3pm dinner: Mon-Sot 5pm-10pm 
& 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 

From Papa's Kitchen to Yours
271-1692 



Friday, September 29, 2006 page 23
The Observer + SPORTS 
CLUB SPORTS 
No. 12 Irish to compete in McGarity Tourney 
ND Sailing splits squad to compete in two races, teams finish ninth in Neu' York City and second at Iowa Cup 
Special to The Observer 
Men's Water Polo 
This past weekend, the Men's Water Polo Team trav­eled to the University of Dayton for CWPA Great Lakes Conference play. On Saturday, the No. 12 nationally-ranked Irish first squared off against new conference member Ohio. In a very physical, penalty­filled match, the Irish pulled away in the closing minutes, downing the Bobcats 10-7. Senior captain Jon Kelly inspired the team with a very hard-fought, intimidating defensive performance. Captain Patrick Connors led the Irish in scoring with three goals, while captain Stephen Shepard, junior Colin Dunn, and sophomore Tom Fletcher also contributed goals for Notre Dame. 
The afternoon game featured the Irish against their archri­vals, defending national cham­pion and second-ranked Grand Valley State in the battle of the top two seeds. The Lakers jumped to an early advantage, capitalizing on some Irish mis­cues and carried a 3-2 lead into the second quarter. However, thanks to the long range shooting of Shepard and great movement by junior Khaw Zhan Wei, Notre Dame 
jumped in front 5-4 by the middle of the second. During this stretch, goalkeeper Dave Mazur pulled off some out­standing saves to keep the Irish moving ahead. 
Unfortunately, turnovers and penalties were to be the team's ultimate undoing, as some key second half mistakes led to the Irish falling behind, and never really recovering, losing 14-8. 
In the final match of the evening, the Irish faced Ball State. In a game in which the Irish displayed the full extent of their depth, the men pulver­ized the Cardinals, winning 18-6. Sophomores Devin Fee, Joel Thielen, and Mike Mashura all played well in stepping up to fill the starters' roles, by scoring and leading the Irish counterattack. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame's final match saw the club fac­ing the host Flyers of Dayton. While the Irish got an early scare from a t~nacious Dayton team playing in front of a home crowd, the Irish man­aged to dispose of the Flyers with a 12-7 victory. Freshman C r a'i g Bentzen turne d i n a dominant performance on the offensive end, netting several goals, while Dunn, Fletcher, Shepard, and Connors also tal­lied for the Irish. Mazur was solid once again, while senior George Heidkamp and fresh­man Sean Hooney came in and put in two great all-around efforts. 
This upcoming weekend finds Notre Dame traveling to Miami (Ohio} for the Kyle McGarity Memorial Tourney, a twelve-team tournament in which nine of the teams are ranked nationally, including No. 1 Michigan State, No. 2 GVSU, No. 4 Arizona, and No. 10 Texas. The Irish are top­seeded in their bracket with No. 14 Miami and Indiana University. 
Ultimate 
ND Ultimate traveled down to Carbondale, Illinois, last weekend for its first tourna­ment of the year. The team brought an even mix of return­ing players and rookies. Saturday, ND Ultimate split their squad into two balanced teams. Most teams seemed to fight the driving persistent rain on Saturday but both halves of the Irish squad capi­talized taking advantage of a wet supple ground for a plenti­tude of defensive layouts. 
Freshman Brian Nelb and Tom Kenny helped lead Notre Dame Y to an undefeated 4-0 Saturday. The X half had simi­lar success. With strong play from freshman Michael Carilli they kept their opponents to a combined one point while scoring a combined 28 on the day. After losing some players due to schoolwork, ND Ultimate combined to form one squad for elimination Sunday. 
On Sunday the Irish advanced directly to the quar­ter finals against Southern Illinois A due to their strong play on Saturday. The stifling Irish defense never allowed the home team to get in the game. Three of the fifteen points were scored by the all­freshman line, led by strong handling of the disc by Bryan Wein. In the semis, Notre Dame faced Mayfield, the best team the Irish had seen thus far. Freshman Michael Moses came into his own pulling down the disc on offense and on defense helping the Irish secure the game. In the finals, ND Ultimate faced section rival Western Illinois. The game was hotly contested with both teams trying to open up the deep game. The teams took turns trading points up to 6-6 before the Irish pulled away to take an 8-6 lead at the half. Shea continued to lead the squad with strong defense. With their eyes fixed on the trophy the Irish contin­ued to dominate as freshman 
Michael Banning ruled the skies. The Irish wont the game 15-9, icing a combined 10-0 record on the weekend. The club will measure itself against stiffer competition in three weeks at Ohio State. 
Field Hockey 
The field hockey clubs games with Dayton and Ashland were cancelled due to inclement weather. The club currently boasts a 1-0 league record. 
Sailing 
Notre Dame's sailing club split its squad to compete in multiple events this weekend. The Irish placed ninth in the Jesuit School Intersectional, formerly known as the Jesuit Cup Hegatta. Fordham, Georgetown, Providence, Loyola, Holy Cross, and Fairfield were the top finishers in the New York City event. 
The club gave a much stronger showing at the Iowa Cup, finishing second overall to Wisconsin. Miami, Michigan State, Michigan, Iowa State, Illinois, Northwestern, Iowa, Hope, and St. Thomas followed in the 15-team field. Chris May and Ali Donahue raced in the A division's ten races for the Irish, finishing second. Tim O'Brien and Paul Cordes placed fourth in the B division 

Friday, September 29, 2006

page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners confident in 51st annual ND Invite 

14 of the nation's top 30 teams on campus for today's big race 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Wrirer 
In their second consecutive race at Notre Dame, the Irish are confident in their chances of winning. Unfortunately, 14 top-30 teams are coming to South Bend today to ensure that doesn't happen. 
The Notre Dame Invitadonal, now in its 51st year, will start at 2 p.m. today at the Burke Memorial Golf Course with the women's gold division. The Notre Dame women's varsity team will run at 4:15 p.m., the men's varsity team following at 5 p.m. 
Yesterday's rains will effec­tively slow the racers but could help the Irish, who already have a better lay of the course. 
"It will be a softer ground this week," Notre Dame coach Joe Piane said. "The times should be about what they were at the National Catholic Championship because every­one will be running slower." 
The Irish women are coming off an impressive win two weeks ago when they tied with then-No. 18 Marquette for first in the National Catholic Championship at 28 points. Led by junior Sunni Olding -the overall winner of th<' NCC and only second repeat winner of that event -the Irish have been successful in their two events this season. 
But Notre Dame will face its 

toughest challenge of the sea­
son when it matches up against 
seven top-ranked teams in the 
blue division race, including 
No. 3 Michigan and No. 7 
Illinois. 
Today will also prepare the 

Irish for their more important 
races later in the season. 
Having already squared off and 
performed well against Big 
East foes Marquette and 
Duquesne in the NCC, Notre Dame will get an early crack against some of the best teams in the Great Lakes NCAA Hegional. 
If Notre Dame hopes to advance to the NCAA Championship race later in the season, it will have to finish high in the Big East and NCAA Hegional meets later this year, and having a race now against future opponents will help it prepare. 
For the No. 16 Irish men, there's good reason to look for­ward to this race. The team will insert its top two runners ­Kurt Benninger and Patrick Smyth. 
"When you add those two guys into the lineup you can only get better," Piane said. "There's a reason they are the one and two runners for us this year." 
One main problem the Irish had in their race two weeks ago was their inability to run in a tight pack, something neces­sary to win against opponents like those Notre Dame faces today. While Jake Watson came in second and Brett Adams and Mike Popejoy were able to stay together near the front of the pack, the remainder of the Irish runners were spread out throughout the race. 
"Most of what we've been doing in practice was getting 

the guys to run together," Piane said. "If we can get Smyth and Benninger to do well at the front of the race and have a strong pack behind them, we can be very successful." 
Practice for the Irish this week has also included a lot of tough workouts to ready the team for the competition it will face. Not including Notre Dame, there are 14 top-30 teams in the race, with No. 1 
Wisconsin heading that group. 
"This will be our first big test," Piane said. "We're a little bit thinner than we were last year, but I think we'll do well." 
ContactJay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


$27.95 hardcover 
Ec.HoESOF 

NOTRE DAME 
FOOTBALL 

$27.95 hardcover 

Friday, September 29, 2006 page 25 
The Observer + SPORTS 

ROCKNE EXIIIBIT 
ANDYOU~LL 
HEAR ABOUT IT. 
Now on view at the Northern Indiana Center for History is the most extensive exhibit ever developed on Knute Rockne. See 3,500 square feet of Notre Dame football! 
Rockne's sweatshirt, whistle and clipboard ... 1924 Notre Dame National Champions banner ... 1888 Notre Dame football program -the oldest ND football artifact known to exist ... George Gipp-signed photograph ... Rockne's 1924 coaching contract ... football 
from 1924 ND vs. Nebraska game ... 1932 
Rockne automobile ... are just a few ofthe 
artifacts never before shown publicly. 
An audio tour is narrated by Tony Roberts. 
ROCKNE 
CROSSJl'o.'<; Tlt f: LAST 
CHALK LINE 
Northern Indiana Center for History 808 West Washington, South Bend 
(574) 235-9664 
www.centerforhistory.org 
MAJOR EXHIBIT SPONSORS 
. 1st Source Bank, Baker & Daniels LLP, 
Interlogic Outsourcing, Inc./ 
Najeeb and Nancy Khan, 
Rex and Alice A.l\ttartin Foundation, 
Tina and Andy Nickle, 
St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, · South Bend Tribune, \VSBT Radio Group 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish roll into Ann Arbor 
ND will take on Wolverines in a matchup of national powerhouses 

By DEIRDRE KRASULA Spores Writer 
The courts may be slick with the chance of rain, but Notre Dame heads to Ann Arbor today still enjoying the comforts of success. 
The Irish had a strong showing last weekend at their own Torn Fallon Invitational, a four-team tournament that included Notre Dame, Ball State, Purdue and Western Michigan -and head coach Bob Bayliss hopes that suc­cess will earry over against the Wolverines, one of the top five teams in the Big Ten. 
"Michigan has the potential to be one of the top teams in the nation, and we want to be right up there with them," Bayliss said. 
Last weekend, the first day defeated Western Miehigan's of the tournament brought Brady Crosby (No. 94) 4-6, 6­success from both ends for 2, 1-0 (10-7). Doubles team the Irish, who went 14-0 in Ryan Keckley and Sheeva singles and 2-1 in doubles Parbhu (No. 36) also tri­play. Junior Sheeva Parbhu umphed over Western defeated Ball State's Joe Michigan's Tim Bradshaw Epkey 7-5, 6-1 and Brady and Western Crosby 8-6. Miehigan 's Tim "!want our The Irish again 
Bradshaw 6-1, 4-doubles to stand saw success in 
6, 1-0 (11-9). the second day
up to any test we
Parbhu is ranked of the tourna­2Oth in the may face.·· ment, finishing nation and will 8-1 in singles travel to the ITA against Purdue
Bobby Bayliss 
All-American and 3-0 in dou­
Irish coach 
OCt. 7. Notre Dame's other top-20 player, senior Stephen Bass, sat out during the tour­nament so that he would not exeeed his playing date quota for the ITA All-American tournament. 
Sophomore Brett Helgeson 

RESTAURANT t1 ALEHOUSE PUB 
. \ 

lt7lll~ll.l~ 'I'IIE llliSII '11\ll..fill'l,l~.· 
IIEFOilE, I)IJIUN(;. ANI) ill:'t'ER 1'HI~ GA~IIL 
FOO'l'BAI.t WEEKENJ) HOlJitS 
l~lliUAY 

Restaurant: t1;oo am -Midnight Pub: 11:30 am · 2:ooam 
SA'l'IJRJ)AY Restaurant: 8:oo am ·· Midnight Pub: 8:ooam -2:oo am 

Legends is located too yards south of Notre Dame Stadium. www.legendsofnotredame.org 571t.631.2582 
.JOIN US l"C»R OIJR EYE OPENER IIRI~i\liFAS'I'! FOOTBAI~L SA'I'IJRJ)Jl'fS I~ROM U:OO AM -11:00 AM. 
bles  against  
Western  
Michigan.  
"We  had good  prepara­ 

tions," Bayliss said. "Our guys are excited about the season; there's been a great eommitment on their part to excellence." 
The team travels to the Michigan Invitational with plans to further improve its doubles game and its first hit from the baseline. 
"It's been pretty much busi­ness as usual," Bayliss said. "We've been working on our doubles game and our first strike." 
But the team will have to play without Parbhu this weekend, Bayliss said, so that he -like Bass -will not be over his playing date limit for the ITA All-American tourna­ment. Parbhu's doubles part­ner Keckley will have to adjust and work with another Irish player. 
Nothing is set for the Irish yet. Bayliss said the team will see how it plays its singles game and then adjust its dou­bles team accordingly. 
"I want our doubles to stand up to any test we may face," Bayliss said. "Then we can be one of the best teams out there." 
The Irish will take on Michigan, Vanderbilt, Boise State and Western Michigan at the Michigan Invitational. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

page 26 Friday, September 29, 2006
The Observer + SPORTS 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Lewis takes on streaking Weasels team Sunday 
Cavanaugh looks to continue strong play against PE; Walsh hopes to rebound against Lyons after heartbreaking loss 
clinching a playoff berth team can stop their streak. terback situation, as they season high five interceptionsBy ANDREW KOVACH, JOHN Tuesday, while the Pyros just "We don't think any team in rotate Claire Connell and Maria However, they will face a T.IERNEY and VINCE hope to keep their postseason our league has a chance for Petnuch depending on the situ­Babes team also coming off a KENEALLY 
hopes alive. runaway domination," she ation. The Lions plan to stick strong effort, defeating Lewis Sports Writers 
Cavanaugh is coming off an said. with this situation this week. 24-0 to improve to 2-1-1 on the emotional 6-0 win in the last Cavanaugh will use the rest "It keeps the other team's year. 
Two teams hungry for victory two minutes over Walsh of the regular season as prepa­defense on their toes since both "Our offense is really clicking will take the field Sunday after­Tuesday that captain Kerri ration for the playoffs, Bergen girls have very different throw­right now. Our receivers are noon when the PW Purple Bergen said "couldn't have got­said. "We want to make it to ing techniques and abilities," running great routes," Weasels square off against the ten more intense." Bergen the Stadium this year and win, said the cornerback Wilson. Meagher said. 
Lewis Chicks on Riehle Fields believes her team will avoid so that's what we're focused on Wilson insists that her team's at 5 p.m. the temptation to relax after right now," she said. key to victory will be its pass Howard vs. McGlinn 
The Purple Weasels, fresh off the remarkable victory, as the defense, as Badin's only offen­The Shamrocks of McGlinn a 20-0 victory over Farley, look Chaos is focused on remaining Walsh vs. Lyons sive touchdown in a 13-7 win will look for another strong to continue their winning ways undefeated and entering the Walsh and Lyons both enter over the Lions Tuesday came effort from their freshman this weekend. The defending playoffs on a high note. their matchup on Sunday at 2 on a deep ball. class this Sunday when they Interhall league champions Bergen's team was inspired p.m. on Riehle Fields coming "Our secondary needs to step face ofT with the Howard Ducks rebounded last weekend fol­Tuesday by Saturday's Notre off disappointing losses up," she said. at 3 p.m. on the McGlinn lowing a crushing 13-12 loss to Dame varsity game, as the dra­Tuesday despite playing well Sunday's game will be about Fields. Pangborn. In their two victo­matic outcome taught the enough to win the game. putting Tuesday's loss out of The Ducks enter this week­ries this season, the PW squad squad that anything can hap­Walsh lost 6-0 to Cavanaugh their memory for the Lions. end at 1-2-1, coming off a 28­has managed to outscore its pen, no matter how little time in a game that went down to "We can't let the 21 loss to Farley opponents 40-0, posting two is remaining on the clock. This the wire. Despite the loss, cap­past affect us neg­in which they 20-0 shutouts. lesson helped the team stay tain Mary Claire Sullivan atively so we can "We can •t let the threw five inter­
PW captain Maureen Spring focused after scoring its touch­summed up the game in one be more success­ceptions, two of
past affect us
knows her team needs to con­down with 1:37 left in game phrase. ful in the future," which were
negatively so we
tinue its consistency to post a time Tuesday and should also "We played well," she said. Wilson said. returned for win against a solid Lewis squad help with little at stake on Sullivan and the Wild Women can be more scores. on Sunday. Sunday. are not frustrated by the out­Farley vs. Breen­"That was a
successful in the
"We need to just play our This focused determination is come of Tuesday's game but Phillips heartbreaking
future.,,
game, when we play our game contrasted by Pyro captain insist that there still is room A North Quad loss," captain and execute we do well," she Molly Fox. for improvement. rivalry will renew Catherine Krugsaid. "Our heads were not in the "We will do what we've this Sunday, as Cheron Wilson said. However, Opposing the Purple Weasels, game," said Fox of her team's always done -play as a neighbors Farley she was quick to
Lions captain 
the Chicks have still yet to 25-0 loss to Welsh Family team," Sullivan said. "We're and Breen-Phillips note the posi­string together two halves of Tuesday. Fox says that this going to stiek to what we know square off at tives. Howard football good enough for a vic­lackadaisical attitude will best -having fun." Riehle Fields at 4 p.m. posted a season high 21 points, tory. change on Sunday, after Sullivan stresses fun as the "It's not that this game is and the offense seemed to be "We've improved every game, intense practices all week and team's most important goal for more important," said BP cap­heading in the right direction. just one big mis-a revised game the season, as well. tain Melissa Meagher. "But it's "We've been having a lot of take has always plan that calls for "We want to get to the a lot of fun since we know a lot fun, and we're almost there," cost us," Lewis "We want to make the team to be Stadium, but we want to have of the other girls. Krug said. "We still aren't quite captain Mia de la more aggressive some fun along the way," she Farley captain Kim Crehan getting the results that we're
it to the Stadium 
Rosa said. "We against the Chaos. said. and her team are also excited, looking for though." pushed the ball this year and win, The ultimate .The Wild Women have the but are preparing themselves The Ducks will get a boost on up and down the so that•s what goal of the Pyros talent to win any game they for a close game. defense, after several of their field and just is still to make the play, according to their cap­"Both teams are really going players missed the game on
we ·refocused on
couldn't get any playoffs. tain. to want to win, so it will be a Thursday night.
right now.,, 
points on the "We have noth­"We have so much talent on great match up," she said. The Shamrocks entered board." ing to lose going our team that it's been hard for The game comes at a good Thursday's play at 1-1, and De la Rosa into this game, so the coaches to maximize it," time for the Finest, as they although they are young, cap­
Kerri Bergen
emphasized that we're going to put she said. seem to be hitting their stride. tain Madeline Boyer's team
Chaos captain 
the Chicks need it all on the line," Lyons also believes that it has After an 0-2 start without scor­comes to play. to forget their Fox said. enough talent to qualify for the ing a touchdown, they explod­McGlinn's victory came over early season frus-"Basically, we playoffs. ed for 28 points in a 28-21 vic­Lewis in their opening game. trations and remain focused on want to get to the playoffs "It's just a matter of execut­tory over Howard on Thursday their future goals. where it's anyone's game." ing and getting the job done," night. Quarterback Brittany Contact Andrew Kovach at 
"We need to keep our spirits Fox acknowledged said captain Cheron Wilson. Baron led a strong offensive akovach@nd.edu, John Tierney up, we've lost the first few Cavanaugh's quality play so far The most unique aspect of effort, but got a lot of help from at jtiemel@nd.edu and Vince games but we've just got to this season, but thinks her this talent is the Lions' quar-her defense, which recorded a Keneally at vkeneall@nd.edu keep our spirits up and know we're not out of the race for the playoffs and we'll be a 
.::!!!It ..:!!!» · . • 
Ch·

c;;~~US ri'OUa'& :;anges
.i

tough team to beat," she said. While PW may be tempted to look ahead to the rest of the 

D ·.. ...·· .· ./ ,. ••o/.. ··,.r~ D····· ··
u· --r·n·•·· ,···.· ._,,.,•.............. 
regular season and their play­
.......... ···.·..·..··..····,.,······.o.-;,.;.\•.. r7J:.-.Je•..•.•..~C!"····· ...· ··•··
off matches, de Ia Rosa knows that mentality will not fly 
....... ·· .........· •..... ··~.·.... ····........... ·· ··.................... ..-···.... ···..... ··....·.··· ........ ··· ..... 
against her squad. "While our record is unfortu­
#7 and The Sweep
nate, it is not a true portrayal of our abilities, so we are not a 
The #5 bus vvi/1 bypass St. Mary,s
team that should be taken lightly., 
beginnit7g vvith the 9~·20 a~m~ 
' 
,( 
,I 
trip out oF South Bend and 
,I 
I Cavanaugh vs. PE 
,I 
vvi/1 continue that vvay f"or
I Cavanaugh and Pasquerella
,I East enter their women's 
the remainder ofthe day. 
) ,( ,I Interhall contest Sunday at 1 p.m. on Riehle Fields with two
~ 
I 
I mindsets. The Chaos will try to 
The #7 bus vvi/1 bypass the NO Campus beginning vvith 
I 
i finish its season strongly after 
I 
the 9:20 a.rn. trip out of South Bend. There vvi/1 be 
,( 
.~ 
,( 
NO service from 6:20p.m. to 8:20 p.rn~ After that!; the
,I ,I 
,( 
busses vvi/1 run to the NO library.
,' 
ERASMUS BOOKS

I 
,I 
• Used Books bought and sold

.I 
( 
I 
• 25 Categories of Books 


The .Svveep begins running
.r 
,( 
• 25,000 Hardback and 

,I 
I 
Paperback books in stock 

at 9:00 a_ rn. and vvi/1 stop at 
• Out-of-Print search service 

10:30 a.rn. It vvi/1 resurne
• Appraisals large and small 

service again at B:OO P-rn.
OPEN noon to six 
232-8444 

Please call our info line f'or more details 233-2 '1 3 "1 



Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
SMC GOLF 
Belles to fight illness, bunker-laden course 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will look to over­come illness to place well at the MIAA Jamboree Saturday. It will take place on Blackthorn, their home course. 
Despite being sick, several team members will play in the tournament. However, junior captain Katie O'Brien will be forced to sit out of the tourna­ment for health reasons, a major blow for the Belles. 
Without team leader O'Brien, the team will need to step up and prove it can com­pete at the top level. 
Illness won't be the only obstacle to a strong Saint Mary's showing. The team will also face the distraction of a nearby Notre Dame home football game -but the Belles said that won't deter them. 
"It is fun to attend the games but I will only be able to play in so many college 
tournaments," Katie Mcinerney said. "The team will be focusing on their per­formance -not the football game." 
The Belles' familiarity with the 18-hole course will be an asset, given the difficult 94 bunkers. 
"Every girl on our team has played Blackthorn and knows the ins and outs of that course," Mcinerney said. 
But the Belles know that familiarity doesn't guarantee them a win. Co-captain Alex 
Sei said the ball must be played in regulation, or haz­ards and tight fairways will "easily turn the day into a dif­ficult round." 
The teams to beat this tour­nament will be Saint Mary's toughest competitors, Olivet and Tri-State. Both schools placed above the team's fourth place finish last week­end at Olivet. 
The entire team "·ill com­pete in the Belles' second con­ference tournament of the season. 
Sophomore Perri IIamma and freshmen Theresa Tonyan and Caroline Doubeck will likely enter the tournament as individuals. 
Distractions and difficulties aside, the Belles said they have a solid shot at doing well on Saturday. 
"Blackthorn is a humbling course," Sei said. "But no other team knows it as well as we do." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO1@saintmarys.edu 
Trip 
continued from page 32 
East leaderboard, however, has not been driving the Irish. 
"At the end of the day, every game is very important," Clark said. "The fact that they're above us adds a little motivation to chip away, but it doesn't change anything." 
The Irish will be led by jun­ior forward Joseph Lapira, who tops the Big East with 11 goals. Lapira scored two goals in the first 11 minutes of Wednesday night's game, helping Notre Dame go on to win 4-0. 
Lapira has played the entire first half in each of the Irish's last two games -something forwards haven't generally done this season -but Clark was not sure that that trend would continue Saturday. 

"Every game takes a differ­ent look," Clark said. "It will depend on the game, the way Joe [Lapira] plays and the way the team plays. This isn't a thing you can decide on Thursday night [before a Saturday game]." 
Seton Hall will look to for­wards Eliseo Giusfredi -who leads the team with six goals -and John Raus, who is tied with Lapira for the Big East lead with four game-winning goals. It will also depend on support from senior goal­keeper Ian Joyce, who was the Big East goalkeeper of the week starting Sept. 15. 
For the Irish, Chris Cahill will again defend the net. Cahill, who has posted four shutouts in his eight games, was not challenged much in any of the last three matehups. Clark, however, is not worried about his senior. 
"The hardest games for goalkeepers are games like the last three, [where] he's had little to do but he's still had to keep his concentra­tion," Clark said. "I think it'll be easier for him once he gets a little more action." 
Ultimately, Clark is confi­dent that the momentum Notre Dame has built the past week will carry into Saturday's contest. 
"Winning is a habit, and losing is a habit," he said. "One of the hardest things to do is break a habit. Hopefully this habit [of winning] will be 

JENNIFER KANG/The Observer 

Forward Justin McGeeney, center, refuses to be held back by two Marquette defenders in a 4-0 win over the Golden Eagles Sept. 27. 
equally hard to break." deep bone bruise in his leg + Notre Dame will play the Saturday against Pittsburgh second game of its road trip Notes: and sat out Wednesday's at Michigan on Wednesday.
+ The Irish may play with­match against Marquette. His out senior midfielder Ian condition has been evaluated Contact Eric Retter at Etherington, who suffered a day-to-day. eretter@nd.edu 


page 28 
Milestone 
continued from page 32 
said. 
Junior co-captain Adrianna Stasiuk was named Big East Player of the Week Monday after she led the Irish in wins 
over Rutgers and Villanova last weekend. Stasiuk tallied 26 kills and 25 digs in Notre Dame's opening conference matches and had a hitting percentage of . 7 3 7 against Rutgers -the highest percent­
age since Malinda Goralski hit .833 Sept. 22, 2000. 
"I thought [Stasiuk] had a really good week, not just in her physical play but in leading the team," Brown said. "Whenever 
someone gets singled out for player of the week, certain­ly the team is a huge part of that, but defi­nitely it's good for Adrianna and good for the program." 
It was the second-time that Stasiuk earned Player 
of the Week honors. She also won the award Oct. 24, 2005. 
The Pirates are an experi­enced team with seven juniors and seniors -compared to four for Notre Dame -but have thrived off the superb play of 
Blank 
continued from page 32 
change for the Irish, who have seen teams pack their own boxes and play conserva­tively all year. 
"Ever since [a 3-1 win over] Santa Clara [Sept. 3], teams have been playing defensively against us," Waldrum said. "I don't know if it's 
scouting or if West Virginia
..At the end ofthe
we're doing because we have something to put day, we want to to turn around them on their run the table in the Pitt two days 
heels." later."
conference. We
For their part, And while he 
the Irish have want as many wins said the West held their last as we can get. ,, Virginia game five opponents -presents the Louisville, greater chal-
Randy Waldrum 
Michigan, lenge, Waldrum 
Irish coach 
DePaul, SMU and wants his team 
TCU -without a goal. While Waldrum chalked up the first few shutouts to luck and timely saves, he said Tuesday that he's impressed with the back wall's progress. 
"Our back four has really solidified," he said. "We've got five or six that play well back there. I feel much better about our defense than I did earlier this season." 
Waldrum attributed part of the defensive improvement to the health of senior captain Kim Lorenzen, who missed most of fall practice with an injury. Another significant asset is the return of sopho­more Carrie Dew, who missed the first few g2.mes of the season while competing with 
,, 
Team USA at the U-20 World Championships in Russia. 
"Having Carrie Dew back has been huge, with her experience and composure back there," he said. "Also Kim Lorenzen [is] back in her groove now." 
I. 
..I I know that the academic load is getting a lot tougher. I think it's the perfect time for us to have a weekend with one match. ,, 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
..I thought /Stasiuk] had a really good week, not just in her physical play but in leading the team.,, 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
their underclassmen. 
Freshman Allie Matters and sophomore Tricia Meyers have provided a one-two punch on the attack from the middle blocker position all year. Meyers leads Seton Hall in kills with 181 and averages 3.69 per game. Matters tallied 179 kills in her first 15 collegiate match-
digs for 5.11 per game. 
Brown said Notre Dame has scouted Seton Hall well and is determined that its greatest weakness lies in receiving the serve -something the Irish 
said. "We've spotted a couple of players that we think are a little weak in the way that they receiver serves." 
It will be the first weekend that the Irish will have only one game to play since the season 
Notre Dame will also host Pittsburgh Sunday at 1 p.m. Waldrum said his team can­not overlook the Panthers (6­2-2, 1-1-1 Big East), despite the big game on Friday. 
"This is one of those teams that can creep up on you if you're not ready," said 
Waldrum  of  Pittsburgh.  
"They're  a  team that's good  
enough to  beat you if you  

overlook them. We can't put too much on 
to remember that both games count equal­ly in the Big East standings and at the end of the season. 
"At the end of the day, we want to run the table in the conference," he said. "We want as many wins as we can get." 
Notes: 
+ 
With so many people on campus for Saturday's foot­ball game against Purdue, Waldrum said he's hoping for a "big turnout" at Alumni Field this weekend. 

+ 
This weekend's games will have an effect on each team's record, but not their relative positions in the con­ference standings. The Irish play in the Big East National Division. while both the Mountaineers and Panthers play in the American Division. 


Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
es and averages 
3.51 per game. 
Matters spe­cializes not only on the attack but also as a defensive and set-up player. She is second on the Pirates in digs with 163 -team leader Jessica Pompei has mined 281 
excel in deliv­ering, with 80 aces on the season for an average of 1.7 per game. 
"We've been a very strong serving team, and we can continue to use that as a very strong weapon for us," Brown 
\ 

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 29, 2006 

PHIL HUDELSONffhe Observer Missouri's Julianna Klein attempts to block a shot from Notre Dame outside hitter Mallorie Croal during a 3-2 loss to the Tigers in the Shamrock Invitational Sept. 2. 


Want a place to relax after the exciting NO games? 
House for rent. Sleeps 7-9, water front, fireplace, kitchen. Beautiful, quiet setting. $1800jweekend. 
This house is only for those who want solitude and quiet after the game. 
Can send pictures via email. Contact: Nekvasil05@comcast.net [or) 269-687-8882 
HAMMES NOTRE DAME IOOK:STORE 2001 ALUMNIIHDWCAIE 
Schedule of Performers 

The match will take place Saturday at noon in South Orange, N.J. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

started with a one-game stand Aug. 26 against Bowling Green. The past four weekends has seen the team play four, three, three and two matches apiece. 
"I know that the academic 
load is getting a lot tougher," Brown said. "I think it's the per­fect time for us to have a week­end with one match. It's a much needed break for the team right now." 
Friday 9-29-06 

Don Savoie 
David James 
James Casto 
Josephine Cameron 
Tim O'Neill 
Emily Lord 
Kennedy's Kitchen 
Step Dancers 
Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 

Saturday 9-30-06 

Emily Lord 9:00-9:45 a.m. 
James Casto 10:00-10:45 a.m. 
David James 11:00-11 :45 a.m. 
Josephine Cameron 12:00-12:45 p.m. 
Kennedy's Kitchen 1:15-2:00 p.m. 
The Undertones 1 hour post game 
The Alumni Showcase will take place atthe main stage on the front lawn ofthe bookstore 
10:00-10:45 a.m. 11:00-11:45 a.m. 12:00-12:45 p.m. 1 :00-1:45 p.m. 2:00-2:45 p.m. 3:00-3:45 p.m. 4:15-5:00 p.m. 5:00-5:30 p.m. 8:00-8:45 p.m. 

Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Two weeks removed from its coaching and mental intimida­couple different looks, some­back Joseph Garigliano and the
Men's defeat of defending champion tion," he said. "We just can't thing to make our ofiense a lit­rest of the Big Red's attack. Zahm, Knott is coming off a 16-beat ourselves, because we tle more threatening with both "I was real happy with the 
continued from page 32 6 loss to undefeated Siegfried. know they won't." the run and the pass," Salvi way the defense came out and 
extra game. 
Early season success has not been the case for St. Ed's who lost its starting quarterback, John Brewis, in their season opener and have struggled to get back up to speed. 
"It's been hard because we 
lost our starting QB," St. Ed's 
captain Ge Wang said. "Our 
defense has been playing well. 
We haven't given up a touch­
down in either of our first two 
games." 
Wide receiver Corey Fitzpatrick feels prepared for Sunday's matchup against the Vermin. After failing to capital­ize on a 200-yard guarantee last week due to "poor play calling," Fitzpatrick promises to redeem himself. He said he was spotted outside his dorm room doing a sit up and guar­anteed that he'll double his previous guarantee, accumu­lating 400 yards this week. 
That guarantee could be tough to accomplish on a strong Vermin defense that held Sorin to zero passing yards in a second half that included an interception. However, if Fitzpatrick can capitalize, it could be the turn­ing point for a St. Ed's team that is desperately looking for its first win. 
Knott vs. Sorin 
The Interhall football picture is taking shape as the con­tenders separate themselves from the rest of the pack. 
From here on out, a loss can be crippling. 
That is why Sunday's 3 p.m. game between Knott (1-1) and Sorin (1-1) at Riehle Fields is so pivotal. The winner will take a step closer to the playoffs, but the loser will be stuck on the outside looking in, and will need a lot of help to earn a post-season berth. 
"We were disappointed with 
the result last game, but we 
expect to be sharper this 
week," Juggerknott quarter­
back Justin Beltz said. "This 
week in practice we've been 
working on taking care of the 
ball, having better timing, and 
not giving up the big play." 
One of the key players for the Knott offense will be wide receiver Jeff Skroup, who Beltz says has all of the team's touchdowns this year. 
Meanwhile, Sorin evened up its record last week with a solid 6-0 win over St. Ed's. With all respect to the Stedsmen, this week will pro­vide a much stiffer test to the Otters. However, that did not prevent Sorin captain Pete Lavorini from tossing out a bit of pre-game ballyhoo. 
"I think that everyone knows how good we are," he said. "I don't know a lot about Knott, but they're not that good." 
"One thing that I will say is that we'll definitely be the bet­ter looking team out there, Sunday." 
The Otters may have a hard time maintaining that hand­some image, as they face a stout defense anchored by mid­dle linebacker Kevin Smith. Sorin will be helped by the return of receiver Kevin Tooke, who Lavorini said is coming back from a two-game suspen­sion. 
Defensively, Lavorini says that outside linebacker Chris Petersen will "bring the pain." Beltz, however, feels that his team can have some success against the Otter defense. 
"We've seen their defensive style before," he said. "We've had some injuries this year, but with another week of prepara­tion, we should come out on top." 
Lavorini begged to differ. 
"[We have] the advantage in 
Stanford vs. Keough 
The Stanford Griffins look to 
take advantage of their 
momentum, after a 13-7 win 
over Dillon last weekend, as 
they go head to head with 
Keough this Sunday at 3 p.m. 
at Riehle Fields. 
Stanford hopes to keep up its newly found defense against a struggling Kangaroo team, coming off of a 26-0 loss to O'Neill. 
"Our defense needs to keep doing what we're doing," Griffins quarterback Brian Salvi said. "I think a lot changed at half time against Dillion last week because our defense realized that they weren't playing like they should. Their adjustment came with their attitude. They're a little more angry and playing with a little more intensity, and that's what we need." 
With a win Sunday, Stanford would move to 2-1 and become part of a tight playoff race. 
"Every game from here on out, after our loss to Alumni, is our playoff hopes," Salvi said. "We've got to win every game from now on. We can't expect 2-2 to get us into the playoffs." 
Keough is trying to do any­thing in its power to prevent a showing like last week. With their 0-2 record, the Kangaroos are trying to find a way to win their first game of the season. 
"We've been practicing on our outside contain and our secondary." captain Steve Humphrey said. "We switched up our defense a little bit. Our goal this game is to establish a running game first. We have a pretty solid quarterback so we'll try to air it out as well." 
With the season still much in question, Stanford will try to be more creative on offense. 
"We've been throwing in a 
said. 
Siegfried vs. Fisher 
Sunday's 2 p.m. meeting at 
Riehle Fields between the 
Siegfried Ramblers and the 
Fisher Green Wave will be a 
clash of the unbeaten for the 
top position in the Blue League. 
In addition to that top spot, a 
win could also secure a place 
in the postseason for either 
squad. 
Fisher is coming off a big win in its season opener against last year's champions, the Rabid Bats of Zahm. According to Fisher captain Tom Bupalino, the secret to that vic­tory was winning the battle in the trenches. 
"Our key to success was our offensive line controlling the game," he said. "We really established the line of scrim­mage early. Our defensive line and offensive line handled the game." 
Siegfried is no stranger to victory either, coming out on top against the Juggerknotts of Knott Hall and the Stedsmen of St. Ed's. A solid running game and a defense that has only allowed six points in two games are the two main rea­sons for the Ramblers' early season success. 
However, the Green Wave is prepared for the Ramblers on both sides of the ball. 
"We know they run a compli­cated offense, the wing T, so we just have to communicate and complete our responsibili­ties defensively," Bupalino said. "Their strength is on defense. They have good safeties and a good senior middle linebacker. We've added a few wrinkles to our offense that could exploit different weaknesses in their defense." 
In a game where both teams have already tallied an early season shutout, the opening 

shut them down," said Klein of 
their victory over Alumni. 
He also feels that the cohe­
siveness of the defensive unit is 
crucial for the team's success. 
"The key is that the defense 
plays as a whole, it is not about 
individuals," he said. 
Keenan vs. O'Neill 
Sunday's 1 p.m. showdown between Keenan and O'Neill at Riehle Fields will be a battle of unbeatens. O'Neill (2-0) will look to continue its dominanee after a decisive win over Keough last week. Keenan (1­
0) wants to keep its winning ways alive after an off week. 
Last week, O'Neill exploded on the offensive side of the ball, something of which Keenan is well aware. 
"Our main focus has been our defense this week," Knights captain Matt Gibson said. "We know O'Neill has a good pass­ing game and we have worked on adjusting to their scheme." 
The passing game that Gibson is referring to is led by quarterback Matt Bruggeman and is complemented by a solid running game. O'Neill's focus this season has been on work­ing as a team. 
Angry Mob captain Pat Conley feels that the game is about much more than a single position or player. 
"Every player on our team has a job," he said. "We don't have any stars because if our linemen don't block well, our running backs will have nowhere to go. If our running backs don't hit the correct holes, we won't move the ball down the field and score." 
Keenan looks to be up to the challenge to stop the attack as it has an experienced defense led by senior linebackers Adam Fischer and Alex Staffieri. The defense has confidence after a late goal-line stand in the wan­

THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM 
presents 

Hibernian Lecture 
"Michael Davitt, the Catholic Church and Irish America" J.J. Lee 
Glucksman House New York University 
Friday, September 29, 2006 4:00p.m .Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
drive will be critical. The first ing minutes of its game against team to generate points could Keough two weeks ago. sit on that lead for the rest of On the offensive side of the the game. The play of the ball, Keenan is also led by respective quarterbacks, Kevin Staffieri, who spearheads a Rabil of Fisher and Max Young strong Knight running game of Siegfried, will be important while senior quarterback J.J. in the early minutes. Vega directs the offense. Conley 
That fact won't be lost on is well aware of Keenan's either team. strength as the O'Neill defense "We need to score early. The has concentrated on tackling opening drive is big," Bupalino and being aggressive on the 
..,.

said. "Our team is more organ­defensive side of the ball. ized than we were last year. We "Our defensive line will have have an intense group of guys to control the line of scrim­that really want to make it to mage to stop the strong run­the Stadium." ning attack of Keenan," Conley 
said. 
Dillon vs. Morrissey While many of the skill posi­There is a lot on the line for tions get the recognition, both the Manorites and the Big Gibson agrees with Conley that 
-"'

Red as Morrissey meets Dillon it will have to be a total team at 2 p.m. Sunday at Riehle effort. Fields. While Morrissey is fresh "The offensive and defensive off an impressive 18-0 win over lines have played well to this Alumni, Dillon has fallen short point, and we look for them to in two close losses. keep it up," Gibson said. 
In its win last week, As both teams look to stay in Morrissey shut down the the playoff hunt, this game Alumni offense with a swarm­holds great importance. Conley ing, tenacious defense that commented on how Keenan 
.... 

stopped drives in several key gave O'Neill trouble in their situations and even forced a contest last year. safety. "We plan to learn from it," he 
The offense, led by quarter­said. "We are looking forward back Joe McBrayer, put togeth­to another great matchup er several steady drives and between two strong teams." will look for much of the same Jt may be more than pure 
Sunday. The Manorites did turn skill at this point as both teams the ball over four times, and will look for experience to pre­this is something that captain vail as well. Steve Klein would surely like to "Senior leadership will be avoid against the Big Hed. key," Gibson said. 
"We were sloppy during some parts of the game, and in order Contact Matt Hopke at to keep winning we will need to mhopke@nd.edu, Colin Reimer eliminate the turnovers," Klein at creimer@nd.edu, Michael said. Burdell at mburdell@nd.edu 
The Morrissey defense has its and Amy Dixon at sights set on Dillon quarter-adixonO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Friday, September 29, 2006 

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS 
Thursday 
continued from page 32 
sacking Pangborn quarterback Katie Mooney for a loss. 

.. 
Boyer's defensive effort proved of little help when Mooney connected with Meghan Bescher in the end zone two plays later. 
With just under two minutes left in the half Bescher scored her third touchdown. Phoxes' captain Katie Riemersma made the reception in the extra point attempt to put Pangborn up 23-0 at halftime. 
Despite some very creative play-calling by the Shamrocks' offense, McGlinn continued to corning out of the half, but Farley's defensive smothered the Ducks' possession and took a 14-13 lead off a two-point conversion. 


The Finest then ran two interceptions back for touch­downs to seal the lead, going ahead 27-13 before giving up a late touchdown. 
After the interception early in the game, the Finest offense surged down the field, but the Ducks also showed their defensive abilities with a huge goal line stop. 
On their next series, Farley quarterback Brittany Baron threw a 25-yard touchdown pass to one of her receivers open in the end zone. The team was unable covert the extra 
struggle to con­..The offense hasn't point attempt, but vert first downs. the touchdown
been coming out
The Phoxes' put the Finest defense repeat­strong, so we have ahead 6-0. 
edly broke up focused on the The Ducks 
passes and answerefl right
offensive start.,, 
stuffed the run­back with a big ning game. touchdown of With just under Tom Holder their own. Despite 10 minutes Phoxes coach the slippery con­
remaining, Riemersma inter-

l 
! cepted a McGlinn pass and returned it for a touchdown. A fake hand off and pass to Bescher in the corner of the end zone put the Phoxes up 
30-0. After two incomplete passes and a fumbled handoff, the McGlinn offense was retired and the Pangborn offense showed off its depth using Brynn Johnson on a run to score their final touchdown of the game. A failed run for the extra point kept the Phoxes at 36-0. 
On its final possession McGlinn would convert a first down but time would expire, leaving the Shamrocks with no points on the board. 
"The offense hasn't been coming out strong, so we have focused on the offensive start," Pangborn coach Tom Holder said. 
Standing 4-0, the Phoxes look to be a formidable con­tender for the Stadium, and the way they took it to McGlinn shows that they are serious. 
"We are preparing for the playoffs," Holder said. 
The Phoxes have a bye this weekend and will rest up for their next contest against Lewis next Thursday at 9 p.m. 
McGlinn will face Howard this Sunday at 3 p.m. 
Farley 27, Howard 21 
In the opening quarter Thursday night, Farley's Caty Shepherd intercepted a Howard pass -one of three picks she would have in the game. 

It foreshadowed the defen­sive dominance that would c' give Farley its 27-21 victory
!.t 
! '· ' over the Ducks on Riehle West
! 
field. The Ducks would lead 13-6 

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
~--~~~~~--------~--­
Open: Tues.-Sat. Jlam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
--~---~.......~,~----------­
~.»"~ 
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, 
Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, 
I 
I 
Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... 
~ 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
~­
(574) 277-7239 South Bend. IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
f 
I 
;_ /, 
t
I 
ditions, the 
Howard running game, led by Beth Gribble, was able to break through the Farley defense. The touch­down came after a 40-yard pass to a wide-open Duck receiver. The Ducks earned their point after, giving them a small 7-6 advantage. 
Before heading into the half, Howard managed to put up six more points with a touchdown pass to Laura Giezeman. The Ducks held onto their 13-6 lead until the halftime break after a great defensive show­ing, led by junior captain Catherine Krug. 
Farley player Shannon Morrison gave her younger teammates a lot of credit for the team's success. " 
The freshmen really stepped it up this week," she said. "There were four total inter­ceptions, which really pushed the momentum in our favor." 
Howard made a final attempt to come away with the victory. Before the end of the game the Ducks added six to their score with a touchdown pass to Gribble. 
Despite their best efforts, the Ducks ran out of time and ended up losing with a final score of 27-21. 
Krug said she was not dis­couraged by the Howard loss. 
"We played hard tonight," she said. "A couple of plays just didn't go our way, and that made the difference tonight." 
Breen-Phillips 24, Lewis 0 
The battle between the Babes and the Chicks on Thursday night ended with an 24-0 BP victory after the Babes dominated on both sides of the ball. 
The Babes defense managed to shut out the Chicks in a stel­
\ 

lar performance. Not only did unable to turn things around. they not allow the Lewis team To the Chicks' frustration, yet to put any points on the board, another pass was intercepted it had five interceptions, giving by BP, and this one was taken the BP offense the advantage all the way back for a touch-
of good field posi­ down.  After  a  
tion all night long.  failed point-after  
After  its  first  "We know what we  attempt,  the  
interception, Breen-Phillips worked its way  need to work on this week, and we  Babes increased their lead to 18­0.  
down  the  field,  will come out  Before  the  
dodging through the Lewis defense. Quarterback  ready to play the next game.,,  final whistle, Lewis could not manage to get  
Melissa Meagher  anything going  
tossed the ball 10  Mia de Ia Rosa  on  offense  
yards  to  Tara  Chicks captain  against  the  

Johnson to give the Babes a 6-0 lead early in the game. 

The Lewis defense played strong, forcing the Babes to punt on their first two posses­sions. But the Chicks offense was plagued with turnovers, and after a big stop on defense, the Chicks once again lost the ball to a BP intercep­tion. 
With the pressure on them, the Chicks defenders stopped the BP charge after the inter­ception, but they were forced on the field seconds later when another pass was picked off by the tough BP defense. 
This time the Lewis defense was unable to stop the BP charge. Meagher's touchdown pass to Megan Ohlenforst gave the Babes a 12-0 lead at the end of the half. 
In the second half, Lewis was 
fierce BP 
defense. BP recorded a final touchdown right as time ticked away, making the Babe's final mar­gin of victory 24-0 over the Chicks. 
Meagher was impressed by her team's showing. 
''I'm really excited about the improvements we made tonight," she said. "I hope that we will be able to build on them in the future." 
Despite the loss, Lewis cap­tain Mia de Ia Rosa believes her team will be able to bounce back. 
"We know what we need to work on this week, and we will come out ready to play the next game," she said. 
Contact Sarah Thomas at sthomas6@nd.edu and Kate Donlin at kdonlin@nd.edu 

Qualityoff-campus tiousing 
Leasing for 2007-2008 school year 
Houses, Townhouses, Apartments 
• Close to campus  • Washers & dryers  
• Student neighborhoods  • Dishwashers  
• Security systems  • Internet ready  
• 24-hour maintenance stafF  • Lawn service  


Call today -properties rent quickly. Contact Kramer at 
(574) 315-5032 (ceiiJ (574J 234-24361office) 
To view all of our houses, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

Franceaco waa a chef at Notre Dame for 25 years 
WELCOME FANS & FAMILIES! GOOD LUCK CIIARLIE! GO IRISH! 
-~~  ~  0fldJtg otIIi But!  
574 ~56-1444 1213 Uncoln Way w. Mishawaka  Fine Italian Dining  
(Juat West OfThe 100 Center)  #allan & American Cuisine  

-ll 
I ' 
Padfic Coast Concerts 

Protldly Presents in South Bend HD/Army Footb<lll WttkQOd Concert CMFI &Grammy ftominns nBat Hew Country Artists" 

SOGARLAHD 
SpQCial Guest 
TAYLOR SWIFT FRIDAY tiOVEMBER 17 8:30p.m. 
Morris Ptrforming Arts Ctnttr South Btnd, Indiana 
Tickm On Salt Saturday Stpt. 30 at 10om at Morris Box Offict, Sounds in Goshvn. 
Palst FM Welcomes 
JAitS OF 
CLAY 
Matt Wertz 1Ltigh Hash Thorsday October 19 7:30p.m. 
OLIVIA HEWTOH·JOHH 
Friday October 20 8:30p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center Sooth Bend, lndianQ 

Rock fi Roll Hall of Famv Mvmbvrs 

THE BEACH 
BOYS 
SPECIAL GUEST ERIC BURDOH &THE ANIMALS 
Sunday tiovvmbvr 12 7:30p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center South Bcmd. lndianQ 

iKkm On Solt fit Morris Box OffiCt, Stlpqr Sounds In Goshtn 
.-,-~~-~ . 
. ' •"1;·'~ -.
~-·····_. {'({/.!
(horgt By Phont 574/llS..9190 Or Onlint www.rnorrisctnttr.org 


Friday, September 29, 2006 page 31
The Observer+ TODAY 
JOCULAR 
ALEC WHITE 

WE CAtJ Fl I'JP. \.U.f uE.I SACIC. "1t> NOPJo...\,._L­"])AME. ~f'F: 
"C..lu"' t-L>-/ , '{~ ~ IN 1HE. Sook:.s.-r~ ~C.,HT NOW.10-J. Hol..t>\Nl:f-A Bof"o« OF ME~ANt>\SE 
'lo..\ -:sus-r Pu~I><Se.t:> 'F1U:>t1 -rHt:. Soo..:.~-n;,ft.E W~\c~ 'f0\.4 
~"flU.. IN· 

"fOU \<ll:>S "THtN~ 
'IOU'RE SO SMAtt=r' &Ltl WI-'.\C..~ ONE OF ~~ IS Cr"Ot~ "t"o -{H£. CtAME \N H\$ 
NE.\1\1 s.n;.c:.t II\\.. t:.t:>mt'N "-'> l>\C."-\E7 
> 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

Jlt!JrOOlillrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 

~~~ 
to form four ordinary words. 
VAINE 


I'm 
r
always inspired-"' • when I
rJ 
1 

see C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
this All Rights Reserved. 
I
YANER 
~

I [ J 
=!I~
I SOUNIC 
WHf:N REVEil-l-E WAS SOUNDW, TH£:
[IJ 
C.OMMAN0£:1<. SAID 
~·
www.jumble.com 
IT WAS A--­
t t

GOTSDY Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
IJ I J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
ks 

"(IIIIIIJ"(IIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: CAPON EJECT FINISH DEFINE 
...,

s Answer: Sent to the showers, the hurler remained ­OFF "PITCH" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Steve _, 1980 51 Turn up on the Olympic gold­beach
1 Predicament 
medalist runner 

54 Religious
5 Tots' pops 
31 "Fat chance!" inscription10 See 12-Down 
34 Musical 55 Bypass 14 Metro Atlantic 
instruction 

56 EnthralledAthletic 
35 Where "Aida" 

57 Shade of blue Conference debuted
team 58 Cries out 36 Captured, after 
15 Rice/Lloyd 59 Junk
"on"

Webber work 37 In addition 
16 It's part of P.R. DOWN
38 Starch sources 

17 Backup troops 1 Paul McCartney
39 Provide food for 

and others 19 Dying words 40 Overseas 2 Foot specialist? 
20 Sweet German carrier 
bread 3 Watching 
41 Wags

21 Its use might 4 Engine 
42 Lincoln's

leave you out of attachment 
description of 

gas 5 Stand up for 
pre-Civil War 23 Old computer America ... or a 6 Opposite of networking hint to the apres protocol circled letters 7 Board member: 
26 One way to be 46 Brown v. Board Abbr. repaid of Education city 8 Bill holder 28 Torment 47 Movable 9 Refuses belonging
29 Tiptop, in 10 Lacost~­hip-hop 50 "_charmant!" wearing, maybe 11 Affordable ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE artwork, perhaps 12 One in a 1 0-Across 
of-Farner Robin 18 Actress Verdugo 22 Fails to be 24 Literally, "little 
turnips" 
25New (certain occultists) 
26 'Well, well," to Wellington 
27 Knot 

WILLSHORTZ 

30 Four-boat-31 Didn't like  39 Notes at the end?  44 Word with light or horse  
leaving 32 Little, e.g. 33 One of a matched set 35 Left 36 Words of defiance  40 Makes aware 41 Crusades 42 Where Christmas decorations go up in summer?  45 Screening device 48 "Aeneid" figure 49 Endurance 52 Greetings from Galba  
38 Mission  43 Ceratoid  53 Staff note  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Skye McCole Bartusiak. 13; Hilary Duff, 18; Gwyneth Paltrow, 33; Janeane Garofalo. 41 
Happy Birthday: Start making plans. This is a turning point--a time to look back and then forward. Don't rely on other people to make up your mind for you. fhat will not resolve anything or get you anywhere. The decisions you make this year will .mold your future. Your numbers are 13, 19, 27, 33, 36, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Money deals are in the works. Don't just think about doing things--take action. Work-related communication will bring clarity to future prospects. ***** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): A greater interest in your home and family may cause you some difficulties. A nice gesture could bring unwanted results. Consult with family members before making a decision. ** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Talk to experienced people to help you make an important decision about your future and educational pursuits. Consult a travel agent to find out what destinations you can afford to book. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't pour money into your home or make real estate deals today. Refuse to give a loved one financial help. Love interests are present, but don't let your heart rule your head. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Rely on your friends and relatives for sound advice. Emotional matters will escalate, causing you to make a mistake. Educate yourself before making a decision. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything will revolve around what you're going to do for a living and what it will take to make it happen. An experienced friend can help you get things right.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Lend a helping hand. The more you do, the more impressed everyone will be. Don't promise money as an alternative to doing hands-on work. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be thinking about love and romance, but things may backfire. Authoritative people can make your life difficult, so abide by the rules. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Partnerships can take a favorable tum. Do something special for someone who has stood by you in the past. Your gesture will ensure future help.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money matters won't be straightforward. Refuse joint financial deals. Go it alone or steer clear ofmaking financial moves altogether. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel personally and emotionally frustrated. Be observant to get the right signals. The time to commit to someone or something is now.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Invest in your future. A business venture looks promising, but only if you do the legwork yourself. An older relative has the information you require.*** 
Birthday Baby: You have great insight and the ability to get things done. You are emotionally sensitive, have creative talent and an impeccable memory. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The pbserver in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer ­and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year ·­
D 

Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ _ City _______________ State ____ Zip__________ 
\ l 
I 
' I 
THE OBSERVER 
I 
: 
I-­
' 
I 
I 

p,, : ' ' . ' 
-
Friday, September 29, 2006 

page 32 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Blank slate 
Irish look to extend shutout streak against West Virginia and Pittsburgh this weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
An unstoppable force will meet an immovable object tonight at Alumni Field. 

:. At 7:30, No. 6 West Virginia (8-0-2, 2-0-1 Big East) will bring its 3.4 goals per game average to No. 1 Notre Dame (9-0-0, 2-0-0 Big East), who hasn't been scored on in five contests. 

"They're one of the best teams in our conference and they're off to a good start," Irish coach Randy Waldrum 

I, 
said. "It's going to a go a long way toward determining how the conference turns out this year." 
Led by junior forward Kim Bonilla, the Mountaineers have scored four or more goals six times this season. Their attacking style will be a 
see BLANK/page 28 
MEN's SoccER 

Notre Dame takes on surging Seton Hall squad 

i 
By ERIC RETTER ·Associate Sports Editor 
With the pieces of the sea­

,' 
) } son finally falling into place, 
I 
No. 17 Notre Dame's road 

) l-trip to New Jersey will serve I 
)_ as an opportunity. 
I The Irish, undefeated in their last three games, will kick off a two-game road 
streak Saturday at noon against Seton Hall. The Pirates (7-3-0, 5-1-0 Big East) currently lead the Big East Blue Division. Notre Dame (6-3-2, 4-2-0} is tied with Providence for fourth place with 12 points. 
The Irish have begun to click offensively, and they now lead the Big East in goals, shots and corner kicks with 22, 196 and 79, respec­tively. Defensively, Notre Dame is tied with West Virginia with five shutouts in 11 games. It trails confer­ence leader St. John's by one. 
Those numbers have satis­fied Irish head coach Bobby Clark, who said he is pleased with the way the team has come together. 
"Winning reinforces what we already know -that we are a very good team," he said. "Anyone who plays sport knows confidence is a very big part of ·someone performing, [and] it's a very fragile commodity." 
The fact that Seton Hall currently sits atop the Big 
see TRIP/page 27 
INTERHALL 

Pangborn tops McGlinn; Carroll faces St. Ed's 
' 
' 
~ 
c 
'I I By KATE DONLIN and 
') 
/I SARAH THOMAS Sports Writers 
~ 
The Phoxes are on the prowl. 

Their most recent prey, McGlinn, fell victim Thursday night on a chilly Riehle West field, 36-0. 
Pangborn hit the ground running, scoring on its first two possessions and converting both point-after attempts. The Phoxes' defense never let the Shamrocks' offense get into a groove, sacking the quarterback on the first play after the Phoxes' second touch­down. McGlinn's captain Maddie Boyer answered back a few possessions later, 
see THURSDAY/page 30 
en w 

I 
( 1-c.,)
.f. 
~· z 
r $ cr:: ::5 
I 
I 
I­
=: 

i 
I 
I a..= 
I I 
!_ 
I en
I
'­
1 
I 
~. 
SMC GOLF 
Belles at MIAA Jamboree 
Saint Mary's hopes to be able to finish well at Blackthorn, the team's home course. 
page 27 

ANNAAMBERKAR and CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer 
Left, McGlinn quarterback Stephanie Grandits rolls out against Pangborn 
By MATT HOPKE, COLIN REIMER, 
MICHAEL BURDELL and AMY 
DIXON 
Sports Writers 
This weekend's 1 p.m. game at Riehle Fields between the Stedsmen of St. Ed's and the Vermin of Carroll features two of the smallest male halls on campus. It also features two teams headed in com­pletely different directions. 
Carroll opened its season with a bang, beating the Sorin Otters with a spectacular passing game. However, they are coming off a bye, so the Stedsmen have the advantage of an 
see MEN'S/page 29 
MLB -AL 
Baltimore 7 New York 1 
Daniel Cabrera took a no-hitter into the ninth inning as the Orioles dominated the Yankees. 
page 18 

Thursday, while a Fisher running back carries against Zahm Sunday. 
ND CROSS COUNTRY
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
SMC SOCCER 
Notre Dame 

Saint Mary's at
Cavanaufih vs. 
Invitational
Pasqueri a East 

Kalamazoo 
Saturday, 12 p.m.
Sunday, 1 p.m. 
Fourteen of the top 30 
teams will be at the 51st 
annual tournament, held 

The Belles take on 5-3
The Pyros are looking 
at the Burke Golf Course. 

Kalamazoo in the first
to hand undefeated 
Cavanaugh its first loss. 

game of a road tr~. 
page 24
page 26 
pa e 21 

Owens overdose "accidental" 
Police dosed the Terrell Owens possible suicide case, confirming his story that the drug overdose was not intentionaL 
page 19 
NFL 
ND VoLLEYBALL 
Brown up for SOOth 
• 
careerwm 
Irish coach focused on preparing for match, not milestone victory 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
A victory Saturday over Seton Hall would be No. 500 for Notre Dame coach Debbie Brown, but to her it's just another stop on the schedule. 
"I feel like we're very well 
prepared to play Seton Hall," she said. "I actu­ally haven't thought at all about what ·number win it is. We are prepared to 

go in and Brown have a good match and I'm very much look­ing forward to that." 
The Irish (8-5, 2-0 Big East) will travel to New Jersey for the second straight week to play Seton Hall in the second week­end of both team's conference schedule. The Pirates (9-6, 1-1 Big East) split their opening conference matches with a win over Georgetown and a loss to South Florida. 
And if that SOOth win does come Brown's way, there won't be a celebration afterward. 
"Just hanging out with the team like we always do," she 
see MILESTONE/page 28 





page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 29, 2006 

Time for backfield adjustments 
\\'hen word got out freshman running back James Aldridge wa.•; preparing this week with the first-team offense -Notre Dame fans everywhere stopped, gath-.--­ered their thoughts and breathed a collective sigh of relief. 
Because on an offense where sec­ond and eights are more com­mon than second and sixes ­the difference of which can't be emphasized enough -the highly touted, explosive fresh­man might be the solution. 
He al"o might be the key to the rest of Notre Dame's season. 
This is not a knock on Darius Walker -his elusiveness, strength in pass protection and threat he poses on third down make him a highly valuable commodity for the 2006 Irish. But the secret on Brady Quinn is out. And so is the jury on Walker as an every down back for Notre Dame, when the opposition's aim is to limit Quinn. 
Charlie Weis will not admit that Walker is a concern. He has praised the junior through­out the short season. And it's hard to argue against a guy with four Super Bowl rings and a 12-4 college record-espe­cially when the player in ques­tion is third all time at Notre Dame in yards per game (81.8), behind Allen Pickett (89.9) and 
Autry Denson (89.8). 
But let's take a look at some first-quarter numbers in 2006. So far this season, Weis has 
Bob Griffin 
Sports Writer 

called a run on first down 11 times in the first quarter. For a team that stresses the need to create better second-and third­down opportunities, it's difficult to ignore a glaring reality. 
Of those 11 times, the Irish have gained just 25 yards (2.27 per carry). That means Notre Dame is pigeonholed on second down. On second and four, the play-calling possibilities are endless. On second and nine, there is added pressure to avoid a third and long-a situ­ation the Irish have encoun­tered on 6-of-1 0 first-quarter third downs this season. 
These struggles gaining yards on the ground in the first quar­ter have yielded poor overall results. The Irish have scored only 10 first-quarter points this season -three against Penn State and seven against Michigan (on a 3-yard drive). 
What's more, Brady Quinn is 9-of-25 for 51 yards with one touchdown and one interception in the first quarter ofthe three games Notre Dame has trailed after 15 minutes. And how have Notre Dame's opponents done in those situations? They are outscoring the Irish 47-0. 
Notre Dame needs to find a way to gain more yards on frrst down-period. If the Irish can't find a way to do this, they can forget about being a one­loss team heading into USC. 
Without a balance between the run and pass, one that can only be achieved with a legiti­mate early down rushing threat, Notre Dame will contin­ue to play from behind. And with the Irish offense one­dimensional, somebody will fmd a way to beat them -and it will be ugly. 
Enter Aldridge. 
It's an undeniable fact the more explosive a running back is, the quicker he can hit the holes. 
And while Walker excels on cutbacks, draws and screens, Notre Dame needs another option at running back that can be more reliable in creating better situations on second and third downs. 
Sure, James Aldridge might not be the answer. He's a true freshman with no college expe­rience, and Weis would be put­ting a lot on his shoulders by expecting him to bear the responsibility of providing con­si<;tency in an offense that cur­rently can't spell the word. 
But with Travis Thomas roaming the defensive side of the ball, Aldridge is the only current choice to relieve Walker in situations where the freshman's size makes him a better fit. 
The problem Notre Dame faces can't be simply attributed to poor play from the offensive line. Yes, they have committed far too many penalties this sea­son. But thi" Lc:; a group with four seniors and one highly regarded freshman. It's tough to believe they totally forgot how to block. 
Weis said in his press confer­ence Tuesday he does not like coaching with a lack of balance on offense. He acknowledged the run-pass distribution can shift from game to game but also that it's important to achieve a 50/50 breakdown over the course ofthe season. 
Guess what? Through four games, Notre Dame has 269 plays from scrimmage -159 pass plays compared to 110 run plays. Factor in the 25 car­
ries from Quinn, most on 
scrambles, and the figure 
moves closer toward a 175-95· 
distribution. 
Notre Dame has played from behind in three of itc:; four games -that's why it is pass­ing more than it's running. But this would be a moot point if the Irish had a rushing attack that allowed them to control the game from the beginning. 
And if the Irish can't get more than 2.7 yards on first downs running the football, it's not going to happen. 
So getting Aldridge involved Saturday against Purdue could be the best thing that happens to Notre Dame all season. Aldridge might be able to hit the holes Walker has danced behind and give Quinn and Weis a viable chance to get to second and four with a first­down run. 
He could also allow Walker to be a bigger factor in sets where he does not have to pound the football. Imagine how danger­ous Walker's delays and screens could be when he and Aldridge are spelling each other. 
And, ifanything else, it will give Notre Dame a look at what it has for tl1e next four years. 
Weis said Tuesday he is not in the business of making friends ifone player gives the team a better chance of winning. Well, ifAldridge has a breakout first game, the old ball coach will be forced to prove it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3®nd. edu 
game hype 

..These games are all pressure games now. It isn't like you have any cake walks.·· 
·Charlie Weis Irish coach 
..It's a great opportunity to compete once again with one ofthe great programsm 

Joe Tiller

the country. ·• 
Boilermakers coach 
·we·u see Saturday what happens. Spirits are high here, I know that. Hopefully it will transfer over to 
the .field ... 

"7 think I can look at them and call them a rival because ofthe type ofgames we play and the atmosphere that surrounds [them]., 



Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Of faith and football 
An anchor of the Irish offensive line, Ryan Harris has gone from reality show star to freshman All-American to aspiring politician 

By KATE GALES Associare Sports Ediror 
MlV. ESPN. Next up, C-SPAN? 
Notre Dame senior left tackle 
Ryan Harris has started 36 games 
on the Irish offensive line and 
been featured on MTV's "True 
llie" series -but he really wants 
a career in politics. 
It might not be the typical life 
path for a student-athlete, but 
Harris isn't typical. 
He's a devout Muslim at one of 
the nation's most famous Catholic 
universities, where he embraced 
living on campus and being part of 
the Notre Dame community. After 
football, he's thinking about law 
school and politics. 
But right now, he's ready to help the Irish offense get back on track -even though his football career got off to an inauspicious start. 
"I don't know how" to hit 
The Minnesota native remem­bers watching the Minnesota Vikings at family events, sitting alone in front of the television and trying to make sense of the game. Later, he'd go to his father -who played college football at the University of Wisconsin-Stout ­with questions. 
"My first question I tried to fig­ure out was why they always ran into where everybody was, up the middle," he said. "When they were running the ball, why don't they just run around everybody?" 
Over time, he picked up on the nuances of the game. But eighth­grade football brought another humbling moment. 
"I'll never forget the first day we got pads, " l1e sal"d. "I'weryone made fim of me because someone said, 'Hey, let's hit,' and I said, 'No.' And they're like, 'Why not?' and I said, 'I don't know how.' Everyone laughed at me." 
Retelling the story, he even laughs at himself. He can laugh now because, as a standout at Cretin-Durham Hall in St. Paul, Harris starred on the defensive and offensive lines. 
"Especially being a bigger kid when you're younger, you go to a sport where they need bigger peo­ple," said the 6-foot-5, 292­pounder. "It's definitely something you can enjoy and be yourself in." 
He was widely recruited out of high school, but his decisions came down to two schools ­Notre Dame or Miami. 
"For all the reasons that people love Miami, I loved Miami," he said. 
But his family loved Notre Dame, and Harris felt it fit what he wanted in a school. 
"I wanted to come out with a degree that meant something,'' he said. "I also wanted to have the most competitive athletic schedule and environment I could, and Notre Dame-it doesn't get better than that." 
His own celebrity fit club 
Harris was the smallest lineman at Notre Dame when he arrived, and one of the smallest -if not the smallest -lineman recruited in his year. 
That's why, when MTV's "True life" wanted to do a segment on positive weight gain, they called up Cretin-Durham and asked for Harris. 
The segment aired without much fanfare for Harris and his family at home. But when he arrived at Notre Dame, it was clear that more than a few people had seen the show. 
So did his new teammates in South Bend make fun of him? "All the time," he said. "I mean, 
-all the time, especially when I first got here as a freshman. That was the joke, they were calling me names, MTV, 
tory for the Irish and a memorable experience for the true freshman. That was the night Julius Jones broke the school rushing record with 262 yards. 
He played right tackle and start­ed the final eight games of the sea­son for the Irish, becoming only the third true freshman in Notre Dame's history to start for the unit. Rivals.com rewarded him with a 
first-team 

you can imag­spot on its 
..Being in an environment
ine coming in Freshman 
as a fresh­where they practice faith and All-America man. They're appreciate faith and there,s team, and just looking The Sporting
so many opportunities for 
for a rea.'>on to News had
people to exercise their faith 
get on you, him as a sec­that was defi­really makes it easy for me to ond teamer. nitely my rea­As a sopho­
feel welcome. ,.
son." more, Harris 
Some on­moved to left lookers told Ryan Harris tackle, one of him he need­Irish left tackle football's 
ed to gain 50 pounds to be successful as a col­lege offensive lineman. 
Maybe that's not quite right. He's gained about 17 in the past four years and wa.'i on several pre­season All-American award watch list'>. 
Over the most recent ofl"-season, he focused on strength condition­ing, particularly in his upper body, which he perceived as a weak­ness. 
"I needed to get stronger," he said. "And that's still something I strive for, something I worked on 
all summer, from May until well, I'm still working on it."  - 
On down the line Harris' first  start  was  at  

Pitt'iburgh in 2003 -an upset vic-

most chal­

lenging positions, to protect Irish 
quarterback Brady Quinn's blind 
side. 
"I think there's a lot more expected of you," said Harris about the position. "I expect a lot of myself. I was very humbled because there's so many things that come with being the left tack­h~. so many things that I can take pride in, I just think being there's been real fun for me." 
Offensive linemen are judged by the success of the unit, and most of the facets of the offense depend on how strongly it plays. Harris has embraced the opportunity to excel as an individual and as part of a group. 
"You've got four other guys," he said. "If one of you makes a mis­take, it can cause problems across the board. As a unit, you protect the quarterback -everything starts there. If we don't prote<;t, Brady can't throw to [Jeffl Samardzija or Rhema [McKnight] or anyone else." 
And then there's the running game. 
"If we don't block, Darius [Walker] can't run in the holes and he can't get yards," Harris said. "We really take a lot of pride and onus of responsibility on ourselves, and that's what makes it so spe­cial, to b{~ part of a unit and also being an individual." 
At times, left tackle is a lonely position. Harris often finds himself in om~-on-one situations. 
"Every play I'm going against somebody -and usually it's alone," he said. "There's a lot of responsibility rPsting on my shoul­ders but that's what I love." 
by the numbers 
Teams in Division 1-A that have scored more points per game than 
Purdue's 40.75. Louisville leads the country, followed by 
4

Nebraska, Clemson, West Virginia and then the Boilermakers. 
29 
Passes completed by Irish quarterback Brady Quinn in Notre Dame's 
49-28 victory over Purdue in 2005. Quinn threw three touchdowns. 
Consecutive years in which Notre Dame and Purdue have played. 
61 The only longer-running series for the Irish is their annual matchup with Navy. 
127 Yards Purdue wide receiver Darien Bryant had in the 2005 con­test. He caught acareer-high 14 passes in the game. 
Passing yards Quinn threw for in the first half of the 2005 game, 
2 8 3 
a Notre Dame single-half record. 

33 
Passes completed by former Boilermaker quarterback Kyle Orton in Purdue's 41-16 win over Notre Dame in 2004. Orton's five touch­
down passes in the game are tied for the Irish opponent record. 
Offensive linemen don't usually 
make the stat sheets, but for 
Harris, winning the game means 
that they've done well enough. 

"If we win, we did something right," he said. "Then if Brady's been hit, if Darius doesn't get a lot of yards, those are definitely things that we look at the next day in film and try and correct for the next week in practice." 
As a freshman, Harris' highlight was Jones' record-breaking game against the Panthers. As a sopho­more, he recalls beating Michigan 28-20, and as a junior, nothing compared to the USC and Stanford gan1es. 
"But you think that's it, and then you come out with a game like last week against Michigan State," he said. "It's jlL'it tW(~ry year, it's some­thing phenomenal, and you're like, 'I could not have had that experi­ence anywhere else in the world.'" 
"My own way" 

I larris is far from finished with his football career. But he's already making plans to take what he's learned at Notre Dame out­side the campus. 
He hopes to go into politics or teaching after graduation. 
"I wanted to prove to myself that I could handle the academic rigors of Notre Dame and do both things -I'm not just an athlete," he said. "[There are] so many rivalries, every week, so much exposure, and you're in the classroom the next day. It's the best of both worlds. I'm just very happy I've been able to take advantage of both opportunities." 
Harris will graduate with a dou­

ble major in political science and 
economics -a subject he says 
"just makes sense to me." 
Service work and volunteering are an important part of the time he spends in South Bend, and he said he made lifelong friends as a resident of Siegfried Hall. 
But Harris' Muslim faith is also a central part of who he is. Being at a predominantly Catholic school, he said, doesn't make being Muslim harder. 
"It's easier," he said. "Because people understand the religious component of life, people under­stand that faith is an everyday thing -not something you do just once a week. Being in an environ­ment where they practice faith and appreciate faith and there's so many opportunities for people to exereise their faith really makes it ea.'>y for me to fBel welcome and for me to do the same in my own way." 
From faith to football, Harris has taken on every aspect of his life in his own way. 
Harris has many goals for his life after tllis season and his grad­uation. But wherever he goes, Notre Dame will go with him, he said. 
"The moraL'> and principles that Notre Dame teaches -to be a Notre Dame man," he said. "For me it definitely means someone who is a contributing member to the community and who stands for ethics and good things." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgalcs@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 29, 2006 
Notre Dame 



Fighting Irish Record: 3-1 AP: 12 Coaches: 14 

Charlie Weis second season at Notre Dame career record: 12-4 at Notre Dame: 
12-4 Charlie Weis against head coach Purdue: 1-0 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  D.J. Hord  WR  6-1  192  so  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  6-1  175  FR  
3  Darius Walker  RB  5-11  208  JR  
4  Demetrius Jones  QB  6-4  202  FR  
5  Rhema McKnight  WR  6-1  212  SR  
6  Ray Herring  DB  6-0  189  so  
7  Crai~ Cardillo  K  6-0  170  SR  
8  Raes on McNeil  DB  (M)  175  FR  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  5-11  203  SR  
10  Brady Quinn  QB  6-4  227  SR  
11  David Grimes  WR  6-0  170  so  
12  Zach Frazer  QB  6-4  215  FR  
13  Evan Sharpley  QB  6-2  207  so  
14  Bobby Renkes  K  6-0  195  SR  
15  Leo Ferrine  DB  6-0  186  JR  
17  Geoffrey Price  p  6-3  186  SR  
17  Dan Gorski  QB  6-3  196  so  
18  Chinedum Ndukwe  DB  6-2  219  SR  
19  George West  WR  5-8  179  FR  
20  Terrail Lambert  DB  5-11  188  JR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  WR  5-11  175  FR  
22  Ambrose Wooden  CB  5-11  197  SR  
23  Chase Anastasio  WR  6-2  203  SR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-10  170  JR  
24  Brandon Erickson  WR  6-0  178  JR  
25  Munir Prince  RB  5-10  175  FR  
26  Wade lams  DB  5-9  188  JR  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  215  SR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  187  so  
27 28  jolm Lyons Kyle McCarthy  RB DB  6-1 . 6-0  205 189  SR so  
29  jashaad Gaines  DB  6-0  195  FR  
29  Jake Richardsville  WR  6-0  180  so  
30  Mike Richardson  DB  5-11  193  SR  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-1  184  FR  
32  Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  230  FR  
33  Nate Whitaker  K  5-9  165  FR  
34  james Aldridge  RB  6-0  209  FR  
35  Ashley McConnell  RB  6-0  247  SR  
35  Trm Kenney  DB  6-0  180  SR  
36  Dex Cure  RB  6-1  215  FR  
37  Junior Jabbie  RB  5-11  190  JR  
38  Nick Possley  WR  6-1  183  JR  
39  Ryan Burkhart  K  5-11  185  FR  
39  Kevin Brooks  TE  6-2  230  FR  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  LB  6-0  220  JR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-3  234  so  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  231  so  
42  David Costanzo  WR  5-9  170  so  
43  Eric Maust  p  6-1  180  FR  
43  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  180  so  
44  Asaph Schwapp  RB  6-0  250  so  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  174  so  
45  Carl Gioia  K  5-10  183  SR  
46  Michael Planalp  TE  6-4  230  so  
46  Kyle Charters  LB  5-11  195  JR  
47  Mitchell Thomas  LB  6-3  240  SR  
48  Steve Quinn  LB  6-2  220  JR  
49  Matt Augustyn  FB  6-3  220  SR  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-0  230  FR  
50  Dan Santucci  OL  6-4  290  SR  
51  Dan Wenger  OL  6-4  285  FR  
52  Joe Brockin~ton  LB  6-1  212  SR  
53  Morrice Ric ardson  LB  6-2  228  FR  
54  Anthony Vemaglia  DB  6-3  221  JR  
55  Eric Olsen  OL  6-4  290  FR  
56  Nick Borseti  LB  6-4  238  SR  
57  Dwight Stephenson  DL  6-2  252  SR  
59  Chris Steward  OL  6-5  340  FR  
60  Casey Cullen  DL  6-1  238  SR  
61  J.J. Jansen  L5  6-3  242  JR  
63  jeff Tisak  OL  6-3  305  so  
64  Dan Chervanick  DL  6-1  259  SR  
66  Derek Landri  DL  6-3  263  SR  
68  Ryan Harris  OL  6-5  288  SR  
69  Neil Kennedy  DL  5-11  260  JR  
71  Bartley Webb  OL  6-7  290  FR  
72  Paul Duncan  OL  6-7  292  so  
73  Matt Carufel  OL  6-5  288  FR  
74  Sam Young  OL  6-7  292  FR  
75  Chris Frome  DL  6-5  268  SR  
76  Bob Morton  OL  6-4  292  SR  
77  Michael Turknvich  OL  6-6  290  so  
78  Jolm Sullivan  OL  6-4  298  SR  
79  Brian Mattes  OL  6-6  285  SR  
80  Richard Jackson  WR  6-3  200  FR  
81  Darrin Bragg  WR  6-1  192  JR  
82  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  185  FR  
83  jeff Samardzija  WR  6-5  216  SR  
84  Will Yeatman  TE  6-6  250  FR  
86  Mike Talerico  TE  6-5  245  JR  
87  Marcus Fn.>eman  TE  6-3  245  SR  
88  Konrad Reuland  TE  6-6  239  FR  
89  jolm Carlson  TE  6-5  255  SR  
90  jolm Ryan  DL  6-5  240  FR  
91  Travis Leitko  DL  6-7  270  SR  
92  Derrell Hand  DL  6-3  301  so  
93  Paddy Mullen  DL  6-5  265  FR  
94  justin Brown  DL  6-3  247  JR  
95  Victor Abiamiri  DL  6-4  260  SR  
96  Pat Kuntz  DL  6-2  267  so  
97  Kallen Wade  DL  6-5  220  FR  
98  Trevor Laws  DL  6-1  293  SR  
99  Ronald Talley  DL  6-4  261  JR  

Irish experts 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
NOTRE DAME 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 atGl'-W Sept. 9 PENNST.-W Sept. 16 MICIHGAN-L Sept. 23 at Mich. St. -W Sept. 30 PURDUE Oct. 7 STANFORD Oct. 21 UCLA Oct. 28 at Navy Nov. 4 North Carolina. Nov. 11 at Air Force Nov. 18 ARMY Nov. 25 at Southern Cal  

COACHING 
Weis kept his players
j;.lJ 

focused when things got 
bad in East Lansing and made the adjustments to let the team come back. 
< ~ 
0 

But the Irish haven't
j;.lJ 

played well in the first 
~ 

quarter yet this season and 
0 ~ 

have constantly played from behind. That needs to
z 
change this week. 

At 67-43, Tiller is one of the most successful coaches in Purdue history, but a 5-6 campaign in 2005 has crit­ics howling in West Lafayette. 

The Boilermakers are unbeaten so far this year, but Til1er has to prepare his young team for its first big road test. 
Last year, Boilermakers defensive coordinator Brock Spack was immortalized on ESPN looking confused after a Notre Dame touchdown. 

The Purdue coaching staff has the experience to avoid a similar melt­down. but they have their work cut out for them against Weis' playcalling. 

Do the Irish have anything left in the tank? Last week's emotional win in East Lansing might prime Notre Dame for a letdown ... if USC or Michigan were up next. But Michigan is in the past and USC is far in the future. Right now, the Irish just have to focus on Purdue. And a game with Purdue means Brady Quinn gets to update his Heisman resume against one of the nation's worst pass defenses as the Irish burn the 
1olif0£
NOTREDAMEM 
Rf.<'F.IVER 
McKnight
OFFENSE 'l't' 
AnastaWe 
TIGHT END 
Carbon 

QUARTERBACKS 
Brady Quinn has started slow in most games this season but generally has improved as games have worn on, especially last week against Michigan State. He's dropped down the Heisman rankings, but he has still thrown for 11 touchdowns and just four interceptions. 
Curtis Painter has com­
pleted 64.1 percent of his 
passes and thrown for 
eight touchdowns and five 
picks in his first full year a'i 
the starter in Tiller's 
spread oflense. 

He is a threat to run, with 
251 yards rushing last year, 
but has only collected 29 
on the ground this season. 
Painter has played well 
as in his first nine games 
as a starter, but Quinn is 
one of the best in the 
country. 

The Irish signal caller torched Purdue for 440 yards through the air last season and can do it again, especially lf he gets off to a fast start. 
West 
CORNERBACK 
Vinson 
Logan 
Ol'TSJDF. ~ 
l.INE6!1.CKFJt Bick 
~Ferguson 
. '-~­
-_.; i 
;'! 
STRONG SAfETY .. · · · Erwin 
}/..;~r smith 
"'·· ; •· · FREE SAFETY 
· :. · •· . Scott J~ Wolf 

'tf::.~ "'111~v'i '/; . 
Avril 
Durrett 
IRISH PASSING 
With the running game struggling, Notre Dame's passing game has carried the offense this season. Talented wide receivers Rhema McKnight and Jeff Samardzija have combined for eight touchdown catches, while tight end John Carlson is a big target in the middle of the field. 
The Purdue secondary is very inexperienced, start­ing two freshmen and two junior college transfers, none of whom was on campus for spring practice last May. They have strug­gled this season, allowing 
284.8 yards per game and nine touchdowns through the air. 
Quinn had his way with the Purdue secondary last season, and he should do so again. given its lack of experience and the fact that the Irish have the best quarterback and receivers Purdue has seen this year. Spack will need to disguise coverages and try to confuse Quinn. 
. ~·~ >.,.,: (<J; ~ .------------, CORNERBACK{-.<: PURDUE t:P·­
Adams 
Pender DEfENSE 
IRISH RUSHING 
The Notre Dame running game has been a non-fac­tor in most games this year, averaging just 7 4.8 yards per contest. Darius Walker leads the team with 227 yards on the ground. He might get some help with freshman James Aldridge ready to see his first action after being injured. 
The Boilermakers have been decent against the run, allowing 126 yards per game on the ground. 
Linebacker Dan Bick leads the team with 38 tackles and defensive end Anthony Spencer has been in opposing backfields all season, tallying nine tackles for loss. 
Notre Dame is determined to improve in the nm game, 
but this prob~  ~won't  be  
the week it d  ·  ,, ~Purdue's  
front S(.},if  r\))lg and  

~~~~~to·~~~ ~s~i~r~:a,;.,~:~tt ,~~~~
.. ;~. mainly of dQ-~ s"1t~1M5 by Quinn's passin~,; L :il 
~·>~*.¢,. 


Purdue is 4-0 but it hasn't played anyone yet. That changes Saturday when Notre Dame formally welcomes them to the 2006 season. The Irish need this one to begin building confidence for the rest of the year. Quinn doesn't disappoint with an efficient 350­yard, 4-TD game. The key question ,is whether or not the Irish get the running game going. If that doesn't happen, the score could 
Mike Gilloon 
Boilermakers. Bob Griffin be much closer. 
Editor in Chief FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 46 Asst. Managing FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 49 Purdue 13 Purdue 24
Editor 

Friday, September 29, 2006 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 


PURDUE .('-:"') 
OFFENSE c._;:., 
fAILBACI< Sheets 
_Taylor 

•. ( '.j 
~\ 
l
.·.·. ·'· ... ~· ~ i 
.· ' 
,... 
CORNF.RBA.CK ·<~.: L . 
Wooden ._., 
WaRs 

BOILERS PASSING BOILERS RUSHING 
Notre Dame's pass defense has been much improved over la<;t sea<;On, giving up an average of 181.2 yards per game through the air this year and holding Drew Stanton to 114 yard'> on just 1 0-of-22 completions last week. It will need to play well again this week against Purdue's spread offense.  

Painter has brutalized opposing defenses this year, Ouowing for over 1,100 yards in just four games. Wide receiver Dorien Bryant is fast and agile and torched Notre Dame last year with 14 catches for 12 7 yards and two touchdowns.  

Notre Dame has been susceptible to power backs, giving up big gains to Michigan State's Jehuu Caulcrick and Michigan's Mike Hart. They have also surrendered yards to mobile quarterback.'>, giving up 53 to the Spartans' Drew Stanton and 55 to Georgia Tech's Reggie Ball. 
Junior Kory Sheets and sophomore Jaycen Taylor have split carries at tail­back for the Boilermakers this year and combined for 553 yards. 
Painter has shown in the past that he's a threat to run, although he has only gained 29 yards on 19 car­ries this season. 
Charlie Weis said the Irish front four "played hard" against Michigan 

Purdue Boilermakers 
CORNiiRI!ACK Richardson lambert or McNeil 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Punter Geoff Price has averaged 4 7. 7 yards per kick this season, Tom Zbikowski is a threat to break a punt return every time he touches the ball, and kick returns have been solid. The Irish must avoid special teams turnovers, however, and need more consistency from kicker Carl Gioia. 
Field goal kicker Chris Summers has converted every attempt under 40 yards. Dorien Bryant is averaging 32.6 yards per kick return, but three other players who have returned kicks have averaged just 
13. Royce-Adams has returned six punts for a modest 7 .8-yard average. 
Notre Dame was bitten by the penalty bug last week as a holding call ~on Raeshon McNeil negated Tom Zbikowski's punt return for a touchdown. If the Irish can avoid those simple mistakes, they will have a huge advantage over Purdue on special teams. 
PURDUE 2006 Schedule  
Sept. 2 IND.ST.-W Sept. 9 MIAMI(OH)-W Sept. 16 BALLST.-W Sept.23 MINNESOTA-W Sept. 30 at Notre Dame Oct. 7 at Iowa Oct. 14 at Northwestern Oct. 21 WISCONSIN Oct. 28 PENN STATE Nov. 4 at Michigan St. Nov. 11 at Illinois Nov. 18 INDIANA  

INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame will honor Ara Parseghian and the 1966 national champi­onship team before Saturday's game. Brady Quinn may have saved his Heisman candidacy and Notre Dame its season Saturday against Michigan State. This week, they will try to continue the momen-
Purdue enters Notre Dame Stadium undefeated and confident. And while overconfidence could kill the Boilermakers this weekend, Joe Tiller brings a ealm demeanor to a team that will be prepared to take on the Irish. Look for Purdue to play relaxed and smoothly start the game. 
This is the biggest game for Purdue all season, and the Boilerm •·.. s have faced easier c · ,_ ption in 
the lead -:l:IP · 
whats 
wins ha.;fe 
Michigan last ~·· 
Purdue Boilermakers 
Joe Tiller 1Oth season at Purdue career record: 106-73-1 at Purdue: 67-43 

against Notre Joe Tiller Dame: 4-5 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
1  Selwyn Lymon  WR  6-4  210  so  
2  • Torri Williams  s  6-2  204  JR  
3  Frank Duong  s  5-8  176  JR  
3  Garret Bushong  TE  6-5  247  SR  
4  Fabian Martin  CB  5-11  188  JR  
5  Zach Logan  CB  5-11  186  JR  
6  Desmond Tardy  WR  6-1  192  JR  
7  Chris Ayers  RB  S-9  188  JR  
7  Brandon King  CB  5-11  184  so  
8  Casey Welch  K  5-9  167  SR  
9  Dorien Bryant  WR  5-10  175  JR  
10  Jake Swank  QB  6-3  180  FR  
10  Royce Adams  CB  6-0  180  FR  
11  Jared Armstrong  p  6-3  231  SR  
12  Curtis Painter  QB  6-4  228  JR  
13  Mario Swope  WR  5-10  200  FR  
13  Chris Summers  K  6-1  170  FR  
14  Joey Elliott  QB  6-3  210  so  
15  Brandon Blackmon  s  6-0  194  JR  
16  Jeff Panfil  QB  6-5  209  FR  
16  Brandon Erwin  s  6-0  180  FR  
17  Chris Bennett  QB  6-3  186  so  
17  Josh Furguson  LB  6-3  234  SR  
18  Roberto McBean  WR  6-0  190  JR  
19  Brandon Whittington  WR  6-2  206  JR  
20  Andre Chalmers  WR  6-0  198  SR  
21  Greg Orton  WR  6-3  191  so  
22  Dray Mason  RB  5-10  187  so  
23  Joe Williams  RB  5-8  204  so  
23  Justin Scott  s  6-0  200  JR  
24  Kory Sheets  RB  6-0  199  JR  
25  Paul long  s  6-2  194  SR  
26  Aaron Lane  CB  5-9  172  JR  
27  Kevin green  LB  6-2  228  FR  
28  Dustin Keeler  TE  6-4  244  SR  
29  Jason Werner  LB  6-4  208  so  
30  George Hall  LB  6-2  243  SR  
31  Dario Camacho  RB  5-10  205  JR  
32  Cliff Avril  LB  6-3  240  JR  
33  jaycen Taylor  RB  5-10  174  so  
34  Terrell Vinson  CB  5-9  175  JR  
35  David Pender  CB  6-1  175  FR  
36  Dan Bick  LB  6-1  218  JR  
37  Paul Dubler  CB  6-1  184  SR  
38  Tim Dougherty  K  5-10  165  FR  
39  John Humphrey  LB  6-1  210  FR  
40  Jonte Lindsey  CB  5-10  170  JR  
41  John Lampert  LB  6-3  219  SR  
42  Anthony Heygood  RB  6-2  221  JR  
43  Adam Wolf  s  5-11  201  so  
44  Frank Halliburton  FB  6-3  245  so  
45  E';fene Bright  DE  6-4  254  SR  
46  Je  Lindsay  LB  6-4  210  FR  
47  Mike Durrett  LB  6-0  226  SR  
48  Pat Kohtz  s  6-1  211  SR  
49  Anthony Spencer  DE  6-3  261  SR  
50  Eric Hedstrom  G  6-7  296  so  
51  Garret Miller  T  6-8  289  JR  
53  Nick Fincher  G  6-4  292  SR  
54  Jared Zwilling  DT  6-4  281  so  
55  Andy Deeds.  LB  6-3  221  JR  
56  Jonathon Patton  G  6-4  279  JR  
57  Dan McGowen  G  6-0  279  SR  
58  WaltH~bee  DE  6-2  256  FR  
59  Stanfor  Kegler  LB  6-2  240  JR  
60  Zach Smith  G  6-4  286  JR  
61  Chris Mattson  LS  6-0  201  SR  
62  Andy Huffman  LS  6-3  270  so  
64  Nick Raben  G  6-3  275  SR  
65  Mike Otto  T  6-5  304  SR  
66  Jordan Grimes  G  6-3  325  JR  
67  Uche Nwaneri  G  6-3  300  SR  
68  Robbie Powell  c  6-5  297  SR  
69  Neal Tull  c  6-3  294  SR  
70  Andrew Quintana  DT  6-1  273  FR  
71  Alex Magt>e  DT  6-5  275  so  
72  Justin Pierce  G  6-4  322  FR  
73  Dan Zaleski  T  6-4  291  JR  
74  Sean Sesler  T  6-8  309  so  
75  Zach Reckman  T  64,  274  so  
76  Jason Kaci'l.ko  T  6-6  303  so  
77  Ryan Prater  T  6-5  278  FR  
78  Cory Benton  c  6-3  286  JR  
79  Jermaine Guynn  DT  6-1  277  JR  
80  Jerry Wasikowski  TE  6-4  253  JR  
81  AI Royal  LB  6-0  228  SR  
82  Derek Benson  WR  6-1  191  so  
83  Joe Whitest  WR  6-2  190  JR  
84  Byron William  WR  6-3  191  SR  
85  KteAdams  TE  6-5  245  FR  
86  C  ase Lecklider  WR  6-0  204  SR  
87  Kris Staats  WR  6-1  188  FR  
87  Mike McDonald  DE  6-2  248  SR  
88  Jake Standeford  WR  6-2  189  SR  
89  Kyle Ingraham  WR  6-9  228  SR  
90  Ryan Baker  DT  6-5  282  JR  
91  Nick Cavallo  DE  6-3  259  SR  
92  Mike Neal  DT  6-4  270  so  
93  Jeff Benjamin  DE  6-2  250  SR  
94  Corey Chapman  DE  6-2  221  FR  
95  KeyonBrown  DE  6-3  230  so  
96  John Finch  TE  6-3  2._1()  FR  
97  Alex Huber  TE  6-5  240  so  




Kate Gales 
Associate Sports Editor 


Rrady Quinn won't throw more than 30 
Notre Dame was on a slippery slope to 2-2 passes Saturday -and that's a good thing. but regained its footing and its focus. The The Irish will slash through the Boilermakers Irish need a mor~ consistent showing againstand use the pass to set up a running game. Purdue, and this is the week that they'llWith a solid early lead, Charlie Weis 'hill be show up for all 60 minutes. An untested sec­
Irish

patient enough finally to allow any semblance ondary will be outmatched by the Irish aerial of a coherent ground game to get going. And attack and the running game should be suffi­part of that game will be James Aldridge. cient to control the clock. Chinedwn Ndukwe 
Expect the freshman to see four touches in the continues to come up with big plays, and 
experts

first half and more late in the rout. Dorien Bryant is no threat for the Irish. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 40 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Purdue 14 Purdue 17 

Ken Fowler 

Sports Editor 
-------~------­
------------... 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 29, 2006 
Sizing up the Irish and Boilers 
Notre Dame Purdue 
Points Allowed 
Total_Yards.Gained -~-­
Total Yards Allowed Rushing Yards Gained 74.8 



161.2 


_•

Passing Yards Gained 1 273.2 297.5 
.•.-.-.•,•,·,-,,-.•,-.-.•.·.·,·.·,·,.,u,•,•.-,-.-,. 
····· t 

.Passing Yards"Allowed 181.2 284.8 


PURDUE 
SECONDARY 
The Boilermakers have a lack of experi­ence in their defensive backfield. Two fresh­men and two junior college tranfers start in the secondary, which means this unit has only been playing together since the start of fall practice. 
Purdue has given up 
284.8 yards per game through the air, and Brady Quinn and the Irish are the best pass­ing team they've seen yet. In order for Purdue to win, they will have to slow down Notre Dame's aerial attack and make Darius Walker and the incon­sistent Irish running game take center stage. 
NOTRE DAME PASS OFFENSE 
Brady Quinn has thrown for over 1,000 yards and 11 touch­downs already this season, and he has three big targets to get the ball to -Jeff Samardzija, Rhema McKnight, and John Carlson. 
But Quinn has strug­gled at times this sea­son, especially at the beginning of games. With the Irish running game stuck in neutral, Quinn may to have to carry the offense with his arm once again. 
Against Purdue's high-powered offense, it will be important for Notre Dame to score early and often -and most of the responsi­bilty for that lies on Quinn's shoulders. 



Friday, September 29, 2006 page 7 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Irish hope to exploit inexperienced Purdue secondary 
A year after Notre Dame tore through Boilermaker defense, four new starters will play itz defensive backfield 

set the program single-game nerback Hoyce Adams is a 6­completion-percentage record foot, 180-pound freshman with a 29-of-36 (80.5 percent) from South Euclid, Ohio. His performance. counterpart on the other side 
"Brady picked them apart," of the field is 5-foot-9, 175­Irish coach Charlie Weis said pound Terrell Vinson, who in the post-game press confer­transferred to Purdue from 
ence.  Saddle back  
In Week 5 a year later, Notre Dame's passing game 'is once again the key to  ../think the difference between this year and last year is that Notre Dame is probably  College this year. Vinson was a corner­back at Wyoming in  
its Quinn  offense. has  more efficient.,,  2003 before he played at  
thrown  11  Saddleback. A  
touchdowns to  Joe Tiller  broken  right  
four  intercep­ Boilermakers coach  knuckle  kept  
tions  and  is  Vinson out for  

averaging 271.5 yards per the 2004 season. game, and senior wide The inexperience continues receivers Rhema McKnight at safety for Purdue. (who was injured for the 2005 Freshman Brandon Erwin contest) and Jeff Samardzija starts at free safety, and junior each have four touchdown college product Justin Scott, catches. Jr. plays strong safety. Scott 
But the Irish won't have the made 96 tackles and two inter­opportunity to burn the same ceptions at College of the secondary they did a year Sequoias in 2005. before. Purdue enters the con­In fact, the only player on test with two Purdue's two­freshmen and "These past few weeks, deep with 
two junior col­experience
you'll see {Purdue] 
lege transfers prior to this starting in the change up the season for the defensive back­defensive schemes Boilermakers 
field -none is cornerback
depending on the
who were even Zach Logan. 
connected with type offense they're who lost his the program going against ... starting spot to during the 2005 Vinson. Irish win. With that
Brady Quinn 
"Looking back inexperienced at [the 2005 Irish quarterback secondary fac­game], we just ing one of the try to dissect their defensive nation's premier passers, scheme [and] any personnel Purdue coach Joe Tiller said you can watch from last sea­continuous communication will son," Quinn said at his weekly be imperative for Purdue's press conference Wednesday. ability to shut down the Irish "Other than that, you can't air assault. take very much from it. It's a "I think the difference new game, new circumstance." between this year and last Boilermakers starting cor-year is that Notre Dame is 
probably·more efficient," Tiller 
said. "The same guy is throw­
ing, and with the exception of 
(McKnight], it's the same guys 
catching it. So identification 
and communication will be 
key." 
But Purdue has shown prob­lems in its first four games in shutting down teams with much less daunting passing games than Notre Dame. After games against Indiana State, Miami (Ohio), Ball State and Minnesota, the Boilermakers have the third worst pass defense in the country. They have surrendered 284.75 yards per game -including 355 to Miami quarterback Mike Kokal -against the 154th toughest schedule in all of Division I. 
But don't tell Notre Dame that. 
"They're a good team," Irish wide· receivers coach Rob Ianello said Tuesday. "The play physical, they play aggres­sive." 
Ianello said the Irish have studied tape of Purdue's first four game just like their usual routine and are focused on the shut-down defensive abilities of Adams, Vinson, Erwin and Scott.. 
Vinson and Scott each have one interception, and Erwin and Adams each have record­ed one pass deflection. 
"These past few weeks, you'll see them change up the defensive schemes depending on the type offense they're going ~gainst," Quinn said. "We've got to be prepared for a lot of different things." 
If Quinn prepares well, it could be a long day for Purdue's defense. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
• 
.. 
FOWLER/Observer 

By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
It was a night Purdue would rather forget. 
Underneath the lights in Ross-Ade Stadium last Sept. 29, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn torched the Boilermakers secondary early and often. Notre Dame staked a 41-14 lead after three quar­ters and soundly defeated Purdue in its biggest game of the year. 
Notre Dame scored four touchdowns on the ground, but the story of the game was the Irish passing machine. Quinn had streaks of bril­liance, completing seven and 11 consecutive passes at dif­ferent parts of the game, and 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 29, 2006 



11am-1pm 1pm-3pm 
TOM PAGNA 
f'RFPA.CfAW A~... f'.~l:'.tf.>o.N 

2pm-4pm 









Notre Dame Legend Rudy 
will be signing copies of the Sports Illustrated Notre 
Dame special issue* 
Fr. Robert Pelton, CSC 
Archbishop Romero: Martyr and Prophet For the New Millennium 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 30 
9:30am-11 :30am 11:30am-1 :30pm 
My·fitM.~.o-.wonr.. 
GO IRISH. 
Connie McNamara 
Go Irish 
Events are subject to change.
l 

Please call 574-631-5757 to confirm. 
*Only items supplied by Sports Illustrated will be signed. Sorry, no other memorabilia or personal items will be signed. limit one signed item per purchase. Due to the usual large turnout for celebrity appearances, Sports Illustrated cannot guarantee that 
all individuals will be able to obtain an autograph during his scheduled appearance. Offer and items available while supplies last. 'l 
!I 
I) 
~---------------­










