
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 116 TUESDAY. APRIL 4. 2006 
Saint Mary's searches for new VPs 
Incandela, Tiefenthaler engage with students, faculty, administrators in forums 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Edirqr 
As two of the top three Saint Mary's administrators prepare to step down from their positions this spring -marking a new era at the College -students and faculty have the opportunity to meet two candidates vying for the position of vice president and dean of faculty at open forums this week. 
Saint Mary's religious studies professor Joe lncandela and Dean of the Faculty at Colgate University Jill Tiefenthaler, a Saint Mary's alumna, will partici­pate in two open forums today and Thursday, as well as closed sessions specifically for faculty members. 
The candidate visits are part of a broader search to fill the vacancies soon to be left in the heart of the adminis­tration by current Vice President and Dean of Faculty Pat White and Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm -a gap that will give College President Carol Ann Mooney significant shaping power over the school's future. 


The search began when White announced on Jan. 28 that he 


was leaving the College to head Wabash College in Crawford­sville, Ind. 
T h i s announce­ment occur­red only days 
Timm after Timm 
announced she would leave Saint Mary's to serve as president of Mount Mary College in Milwaukee, WIS. 
The vacancies left by Timm and White's departure will be filled prior to the start of the 2006-07 school year, said Mooney, who hopes to name the vice president and dean of faculty before the conclusion of the spring semester. 
Although the specifics regard­ing the search for the vice presi­dent of student affairs have yet to be publicly released, Mooney, the search committee chair, said she plans to fill the position before August. 
Despite being faced with the challenge of hiring two head 
see SEARCH/page 8 
Jenkins chats with students 1Fireside' 
University president discusses first year 
By MAUREEN MULLEN 
News Writer 
When U.S. President Franklin Delano Roosevelt held "fireside chats" during the Great Depression, a living room radio was the closest the nation could get to its leader. 
With University President Father John Jenkins, however, a lireside chat is an intimate, face-to-face affair. 
Jenkins spoke with students Monday evening in the Coleman Morse lounge as part of the Studnnt Union Board's series. "l;ireside Chats." In the casual setting of armchairs and couches -complete with a 
see FIRESIDE/page 8 


Runners prepare for Holy Half 

By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
Nearly 400 runners will participate in the second annual Holy Half Marathon this Sunday in a race spanning 13.1 miles -that's 52.4 laps around a regulation track, more than 192 treks across Notre Dame's famed foot­ball field or the length of 138,336 LaFortune quar­ter dogs. 
"We have four times as many entries this year than we did last year," race coordinator Kathleen Coverick said. "I think that ND kids love a challenge -and this race definitely gives them something to go after." 
Coverick said most of the 383 entries are students, however Notre Dame fac­ulty and staff members ­as well as other local run­ning aficionados -will also lace up their sneakers for Sunday's race. 

Proceeds from the Holy Half's $12 entry fee will benefit Catholic Charities' Operation Helping Hands in New Orleans -a group that provides relief servic­es to people who have incurred heavy losses in the wake of Hurricane Katrina, namely the elder­ly and uninsured. 
Coverick said the event has already raised approx­imately $1,300-in addi­tion to the heart rates of those training for the physically demanding 
see RUN/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Duerson sentenced for battery 
Former ND trustee, football captain fined 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Editor 
Former Irish football cap­tain Dave Duerson, who resigned from the University Board of Trustees last February, was sentenced Monday on a misdemeanor 
charge of domestic battery that took place I a s t February on the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
St. Joseph 


C o u n t y Duerson Superior Court Magistrate Richard McCormick ordered Duerson, 45, to pay a fine of $950 plus court costs in addition to a· $50 state-required fee. He will not face any jail time or probation. 
Duerson was charged with two counts of battery and two counts of domestic battery in February 2005 after he pushed his wife, Alicia, out the door and into a wall out­side their hotel room at the Morris Inn, police said. The couple, from Highland Park. Ill., was on campus for the winter Board of Trustees meeting. 
On Jan. 17, Duerson plead­ed guilty to the domestic bat­tery charge in exchange for the dismissal of three other 
see FINE/page 4 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Leaders urge further input from members 
By KATHLEEN MCDONNELL 
News Writer 
Only three days into their new positions, members of the Council of Representatives (COR) focused on establishing goals for the upcoming year at the group's meeting Monday night. 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell urged COR members to bring issues to her atten­tion as they settle into their roles. 
"We set the agenda for COR," Shappell said. 
COR serves as a cabinet for Shappell. The Student Union Constitution defines the group as "the venue for leaders of student organizations to meet and advise the student body president." 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik echoed Shappell's call for input. 
"[COR] is especially useful for groups like CCC (Club Coordination Council) and HPC (Hall Presidents Council), typical programming bodies," Andrichik said. "This gives you your policy voice." 
Judicial Council president 
see COR/page 3 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, April4, 2006 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rallying Cry 
Anwrkans, those of my gen1~ration any­
way, have never been big on public 
dmnonstration. Even when we have some­
thing to gnt worknd up about we gennrally 
nmmin mute. 
Our unwillingrwss 
Megan O'Neil 
to participate in 
protests stands in Senior Staff 
stark contrast with 
Writer 
youth around the 
globe. Just look at the Fnmeh university 
students who camped out for days at a 
time in opposition to labor laws during the 
last month. They faend riot police and their 
doctors in order to make themselves 
heard. 
Studying in Spain in the spring of 2003 I remember well the tremendous public outpouring of 1-,rrinf li>llowing th1~ March 11 terrorist attack in the Madrid train station. Millions of Spaniards took to the streel'i, joined by members of the royal family, waving banners and vocali;ring their oppo­sition to violimee. 
Sueh massive demonstrations never 
seem to happen state-sid1~. however. 
I suppose this is why I was so heartened i<L'it weekend to see images of hundrnd'i of thousands of Angelenos gath1m~d in down­town Los Angeles protesting immigration legislation currently making its way through Congress. The rally was li>llowed by a week during whieh teenagers suc­cessfully organized and stagnd school walkouts via the Internet and word or mouth. 
Some might lind such protnsl'i threaten­ing or disruptive. Indeed thny are disrup­tivn -one group of student'> attempted to dosn a freeway by running up <Ul onramp. Aftnr a few days, Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa had to risk alienating his llisp<mic ba'in and tdl student'> to go back toda'is. 
But that's the point. 
No barrage of' phone call'i and no letter writing campaign eould ever have the ellPet of such demonstrations. If the old saying stands true Congress received a 500,000,000-word letter on March 26 ­1,000 words for each of the estimated 500,000 protesters who became the pic­turns that day. 
Pro-immigrant demonstrators' ell'orts cannot be ignored. The Latino demo­~-,rraphie in the Unitod States ha'i long bmm powerful in numbers, but now it has proven il'il~lf to be powerful in the political arena a'i well. 
It would be premature to label tho pro­immi~-,rrant righl'i rallies in Califbrnia and other parts of the country as an all-out success. It will take weeks and many debates bcfiJrl~ any nnw immi~-,rration legi'i­lation is finalized. 
They have proven, however, that such demonstrations are a powerful tool in a democratic sodety. There arc already talks of eompromise in Wa'ihington. or a possi­ble guest-worker program by which immi­gr<ml'i c<Ul work in thn United States legal­ly. 
Further, they provide hope that if we take the recent demonstrations a'> a exam­ple we c<Ul make ourselves heard on other prnssing issues such a<; the war in Iraq. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei090 l@n d. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, in the article "How sweep it is" in the April 3 edition ofThe Observer, Irish baseball pitcher Tom Thornton was identilied as a right-handed pitcher. He is a left-hander. Due to an editing error, in the March 31 edition of The Observer Irish men's lacrosse player Bill Liva was incorrectly identified as Jim Severin in a back page photo. Due to an editing error, in the March 30 edition of The Observer in the article "Men's Lacrosse: Irish defeat Brown at home," the Irish men's lacrosse team was incorrectly identified as belonging to the Big East Conference, when it actually is part of the Great Western Lacrosse League. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHATS THE FARTHEST YOU'VE EVER RUN? 






Christina Hill Szymon Ryzner Kerry McGuire Missy Reidy Katie Rehberger Jaime Luna 
junior freshman freshman freshman freshman freshman Walsh Morrissey Welsh Family Welsh Family Welsh Family Keough 
"Probably I o "I would walk "To the dining "Schfourteen-"I don 't run. I "I don't run. I miles. because I sao miles. and I hall." teen. It was power walk." fly." 
did cross-would walk sao glorious. .. country in high more ... school,·but it was horrible.,, 

JESSICA LEE!The Observer 
Sophomore Nicholas Mclees, president of Notre Dame's Swing Club, dips his partner, freshman Kaitlin Jensen, during a meeting of the Swing Club Monday night at the Rockne Memorial. 
OFFBEAT 
Mouth grills become hot and flashy new trend 
CLEVELAND -The hip­hop culture is sinking its teeth into a new fashion trend. Individual gold­capped teeth have given way to grills and fronts ­removable mouthpieces made of gold, platinum or silver and sometimes stud­ded with jewels. 
The trend has been boosted by hip-hop icons such as Nelly and rappers like Paul Wall. 
After Nelly's 2005 hit "Grillz," which glorifies the trend, young people all over scrambled to wrap their chops around a shiny grill. 

Jacob Owens, a 17 -year­old South High School stu­dent, snagged a diamond­studded silver grill a cou­ple of months ago for $200. 
"Everybody is getting grills," Owens said while hanging out at the food court at Tower City. He chose silver to set himself apart. 
Owens sheds his grill to eat and at bedtime, but wears it for hours at a time to match his earrings. 
High school teacher resigns after hickey inci­dent 
MISSOULA, Mont. -A Sentinel High School teacher, charged with mis­demeanor assault for allegedly giving a student a hickey, has resigned. 
Missoula County Public Schools said Dan Kucera, a business teacher, resigned several weeks ago. 
Kucera was suspended in January. Police said Kucera put a 17-year-old male student in a head lock and sucked on his neck, causing it to bruise. 
Kucera told KPAX televi­sion on Wednesday that he made a stupid mistake. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

...... 
..:( (,) 
0 

HIGH 49 HIGH 42 HIGH 57
-1 LOW 30 LOW 28 LOW 37 IN BRIEF 

Yolanda Martinez-San Miguel, graduate chair for Spanish, will give a lecture titled "Travesias: Imagining the Hispanic Caribbean from the Diaspora" today at 5 p.m. in 200 McKenna Hall. The lec­ture is part of the Spring 2006 Hispanic Caribbean Lecture Series "Encuentro Caribefio: Puerto Rico isla l'rontera" sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies. 
Father Willy Raymond, national director of Catholic production company Family Theater Productions, will give a lecture titled "Young Catholic Hollywood" today at 
7:30 p.m. in 127 Hayes-Healy Hall. It is part of the Center for Ethics and Culture's Spring Catholic Series "Hollywood: Mission Field or Mission Impossible?" 
The Annual Archbishop Romero Mass, in honor of Salvadoran Archbishop Oscar Romero, will be celebrated today at 4 p.m. in the Church of Loretto at Saint Mary's College. 
On Wednesday, Hector Dad Hirezi, former deputy in the Salvadoran Assembly, will give a lecture on Romero titled "Un hombre de Fe en Jesus de Nasaret" at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Barry Sharpless, the 2001 Nobel Prize winner in chem­istry, will speak on "Organic Azides: Later Bloomers" Wednesday at 4 p.m. in 127 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

63 40 

56 38 



-

Tuesday, April4, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Progratn to continue despite federal cuts 
Special to The Observer health concerns such as 
childhood obesity to higher 

Notre Dame, home since education and healthy 1991 to the National Youth lifestyles and provide educa­Sports Program (NYSP), will tional remediation and super­eontinue the program this vision while encouraging summer on a limited basis their participation in sports. despite the elimination of fed­Children also receive free eral funding. medical exams, insurance, 
NYSP will be held from USDA-approved meals and June 15 to July 14 on cam­transportation. During its 15 pus, and registration will years at Notre Dame, NYSP take place from 8:45 to 10:30 has served more than 3,500 
a.m. Saturday at the Charles young people from the South Black Youth Center, 3419 W. Bend area. Washington St. After 37 consecutive years 
Several University depart­of support, Congress elimi­ments have pledged support nated all NYSP funding for to allow the program to oper­2006. Nationwide, more ate this summer, though it than 250 programs are in will be able to accommodate jeopardy of closing their just 250 young people, corn­doors. pared with 600 last year. Notre Dame's Center for 
Established by the National Social Concerns in conjunc­Collegiate Athletic tion with the Offices of the Assoeiation in 1968, NYSP is President, University a five-week sports enrich­Relations, and Public Affairs ment eamp for children ages and Communication, has 10-16 who live at or below pledged support to continue poverty in South Bend and the program this summer Mishawaka. They are trans­while alternative long-term ported to and from campus to funding is sought. learn the fundamentals of NYSP traditionally has been football, soccer, golf, swim­funded by the USDA, the U.S. ming, basketball, volleyball Department of Health and and yoga, in addition to par­Human Services, the NCAA, ticipating in drug and alcohol participating institutions, and prevention, writing, math and state, local and private con­seience, eareer education and tributions. eomputer classes. Additional registration 
The primary objective of information is available by the program is to expose chil­calling the Center for Social dren who are at risk for Concerns at 574-631-5293. 

Math group to gather at ND this vveekend 
EmmaLU ana th~ 'B olofl:ical Life 

Join fellow students and faculty for dinner and an evening of faith-based discussion 
Tuesday, April 25th at 6:00 pm 
Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Featuring guest speaker Rev. Michael Heintz 
Rector o.f St. Matthew CathedraL an{) teacher in the TheoLogy Departnzent 
If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your name, local address, class and major. Spaces are limited to the first eighty students wh '~ respond. We welcome all students regardless of faith commitment. 
Spon<1ored hy the Notre Danze Center for EtbicJ and Culture 
http //ethtcscenter.nd.edu 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Liz Kozlow asked COR mem­bers to brainstorm ways to increase voting percentages and awareness of the Peer Advocacy program. 
Senior class president Sheldon Dutes said he plans to bring a discussion of off­campus living to COR, as the majority of his class will reside off-campus next year. 
With the future addition of four senators and a number of non-voting members who will be able to contribute input, Shappell said this year's COR promises to accomplish a great deal. 
In other COR news: 
+COR confirmed Matthew Russo as policy branch con­troller. 
Alex French was chosen as the director of communica­tions, a non-voting position. 
As director of communica­tions, French will work along­side chief executive assistant Liz Brown in managing the affairs of the student body president and vice president. 
"As the fourth in command, I want to work to lighten the load of [Shappell, Andrichik and Brown] because they have a heavy load to man­age," French said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 
Special to The Observer 

More than 400 mathemati­.cians will gather at the Notre Dame Saturday and Sunday for the 2006 Spring Central 
Sectional Meeting  of  the  
American  Mathemat ical  
Society.  

A conference highlight is the 2006 Erdos Memorial Lecture, "Inhomogeneous Random Graphs," by Bela Bolloblis, professor at the University of Memphis and fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, at 5:10 
p.m. Saturday in Room 101 DeBartolo Hall. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Erdos lecture is an annual invited address made possible by a fund created by Andrew Beal, a Dallas banker and mathematics enthusiast. The lecture is named for the late, prolific mathematician Paul Erdos, who published more than 1,500 papers and developed the theory of ran­dom graphs. 
A random graph is a collec­tion of points, called vertices, in which some or all of the points are connected by line segments, called edges. Graphs can be used to model networks such as the World Wide Web (in which Web pages are the vertices and links between pages are the edges) and social interactions (in which people are the ver­tices and edges connect people who know each other). In one interesting graph, the vertices correspond to movie stars and two vertices are connected by an edge if the stars involved have worked together on a film. The graph is the basis for the trivia game "Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon." 
Bollobas' lecture concerns graphs in which, for each pair of vertices, whether an edge is drawn between them is decid­ed at random. These random decisions are made in such a way that there can be a wide variation in the number of edges that come out of the dif­ferent vertices in a graph Gust as there can be a wide varia­tion in the number of links to a given Web page or in the size of a given person's social network). The study of ran­dom graphs has led to many interesting discoveries about the properties of graphs in general. 
More information about the sectional meeting can be found at http://www.ams.org/amsmt­gs/2130_program.html. 

Walkinlj U!y.iti,\CleopaJ: 
. . .... 
'''·' 
">. ···. ,..••.•.'•'

EAD 



r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 4, 2006 
Fine 
continued from page 1 
counts against him, Catherine Wilson, a spokeswoman for St. Joseph County Prosecutor Miehael Dvorak, told the Associated Press in January. 
Duerson had been a University trustee since 2001 and president of the Notre Dame Monogram Club since 2003. lie resigned from both positions following the charges. 
A 1983 graduate, Duerson was a two-time All-American defensive back for Notre Dame, where he played from 1979-83. 
lie went on to play 11 sea­sons in the NFL, earning Pro Bowl honors four times and winning two Super Bowl titles -first with the Chicago Bears in 1985 and later with the New York Giants in 1991. 
Duerson is president and CEO of Duerson Foods, LLC. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

University n1edalist passes on 
Special to The Observer 
Mary Elizabeth Carney of Lake Forest. Ill.. a recipient of thn University's Laetare Medal, died Sunday. 
A Notrn Dame benefactor and the wife of Thomas P. Carney, 1937 Notrn Dame alumnus and chairman emeritus of the Notre Dame Board ol' Trustees, Mrs. Carney, a native of Indianapolis, had suffered a stroke three years ago. 
In addition to her contribu­tions to the University, Mrs. Carney was aetive in numerous community service organiza­tions. She. served as president of the Saint Mary's Mother's Club, of the League of Women Voters of Lake Forest, the Lake County League, the Lake Forest-Lake Bluff Community Associates of the Art Institute of Chicago and the Lake Bluff Garden Club. She also served as secretary of the Lake Forest Caucus and as a member of the Gordon Community Center Board. The Carneys were awarded Notre Dame's highest honor, the Laetare Medal, in 1986. 
Mary E. McGuire and Thomas 

P. Carney were married Oet. 3, 1942, and years later she con­fessed that she could not imag­ine not being married to him. In a 1991 Chicago Tribune arti­cle, the late Msgr. Jack Egan, a friend of the Carneys, spoke of the couple's conspicuous love after half a century of mar­riage. 
"I always felt (Thomas) treat­ed her as a beautiful woman he was courting and hoped he would be able to marry," he said. "That gentle considera­tion for her, as if Tom didn't have any task more important than being her husband." 
Survivors include her hus­band and four children, all Notre Dame graduates. Thomas Jr., ('67) of Lake Forest, Ill.;' Sheila Hopkins ('74) of Hingham, Mass; James ('75) of Brooklyn Park, Minn; and Janet O'Brien ('77) of Glenview, Ill. 
pete in the Chicago Marathon "During my training, I ran the Coverick said was "a little inac­last October, but the Holy Half longest I ever have -nine curate."
Run 

will nonetheless be a new expe­miles," he said. "I am looking "I've run the course with a 
continued from page 1 
race. 
Senior Tim Stawicki prepped for the Holy Half with the help of a routine he found in Runner's World magazine that includes "some sprints, some fast[er] medium distance runs and the ever-important long run." 
"I've been training officially for about six weeks," he said. "But you could say that I've been training for the past two thousand plus days since I [first] started running." 
Stawicki completed his first marathon in Dublin during the fall of 2004 and went on to com­rience. 

"I have actually never run a half marathon, having jumped directly from the 1 OK to the full marathon in terms of racing," he said. 
Senior James Ehlinger said Sunday's race would be "a good first step" towards his ultimate goal of running a full marathon. 
"I wanted to force myself into better shape," he said. 
Ehlinger followed a nine-week training regimen that included a combination of long runs, speed work and cross training. Though he did not completely "stick to the schedule," Ehlinger said he still feels prepared for the race. 
forward to completing the Holy Half for my own personal achievement." 
Stawicki said he was unable to run the Holy Half last year, and "just had to sign up" for this year's race. 
"Personally, it was a way to get started training for some more marathons without the hassle of having to devote three hours on Sunday to running 20 miles," he said. "This involves a significant decrease in time devotion -about half as much, ironically." 
The 13.1 mile course follows two loops around the Notre Dame campus and is modeled off last year's route -which GPS watch to try to make it as accurate as possible this year," she said. 
The race will begin at 10 a.m. between South Dining Hall and Welsh Family Hall. Coverick said those still interested in running the Holy Half can register via e­mail at holyhalf@gmail.com or beginning at 8:30a.m. Sunday. 
The event is co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Women's Running Club, Circle K, the Class of 2008 and the Class of 2006. Coverick said a Council of Representatives grant would also help cover expenses. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

DrumroU please. 
Ernst & Young is proud to announce our newest additions. 
At Ernst & Young we've created an environment that contributes to your growth and success as much as you contribute to ours. Welcome to our in-coming class from The University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. 
ey.com,/usjcareers 
lan Anderson David Grabosky, intern Kristen Palombo Anne Bouse Robert Hallman, intern Jaclyn Paunicka Brett Brennfleck, intern Suzanne Hayes Catherine Peer Brian Burkavage Julie Higginson Burke Rainey 
Sandra Castro, intern PJ Hoffman, intern Katlyn Regan, intern Sam Chen, intern Richard King, intern Steven Rudnik Thomas Costigan Greg Kucaj, intern Andy Sawyer Douglas Durkalski David Kuck Jeffrey Schaffer 
loren Eggleton Benjamin larson, intern Jasmine Small David Finn, intern Caitlin Leiva Brad Springman Colin Flood Amy leonard Nicholas Tessalone, intern John Gaylord Edward Lerum, intern Allison Wright Brian Gerspach, intern Maggie Malone Timothy Wyne, intern
• 

Stephanie Gibson James Vesnik 
FOHTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 

Audit. Tax • Transaction Advisory Services i!J ERNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
©2006 ERNST & YOUNG LlP 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Australia to sell uranium to China 
CANBERRA -Australia agreed Monday to sell China uranium for nuclear power stations despite concerns that Beijing could divert the material to atomic weapons. 
The countries' foreign ministers signed two agreements containing assurances that China will not build bombs with uranium from Australia, which has 40 percent of the world's known deposits. No official estimates were available Monday but the deal is expected to generate billions of dollars in annual sales. 
"These agreements establish strict safe­guards, arrangements and conditions to ensure Australian uranium supplied to China, and any collaborative programs in applica­tions of nuclear technology, is used exclusively for peaceful purposes," said Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer. 
Sharon to undergo skull surgery 
JERUSALEM -Comatose Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon will undergo surgery Tuesday to restore part of his skull removed in previous operations after he suffered a debilitating stroke, the hospital treating him said Monday. 
The operation is to be conducted in the afternoon. the statement said. Sharon suf­fered the stroke on Jan. 4 and has not regained consciousness. 
Hospital officials said last week that a deci­sion would be made about whether to move Sharon to a long-term care facility. Experts agree that his chances of recovery are extremely slim. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Scientists engineer artificial bladder 
BOSTON -For the first time, scientists have rebuilt a complex human organ, the bladder, in seven young patients using live tissue grown in the lab -a breakthrough that could hold exciting promise for some­day regenerating ailing hearts and other organs. 
Only simpler tissues -skin, bone, and cartilage -have been lab-grown and trans­planted in the past. This is the first time that a more intricate organ has been mostly replaced with tissue grown from the patient's own cells. 
"This suggests that tissue engineering may one day be a solution to the shortage of donor organs in this country for those need­ing transplants," said Dr. Anthony Atala, the lead researcher. l-Ie said he believes the work provides a model for growing other tissues and organs. 
Father leaves children in burning car 
LOS ANGELES -The father of two young children found burned beyond recognition in a sport utility vehicle will be charged with murder. police said Monday. 
Dae Kwon Yun, 54, was found near the SUV with severe burns on his face, hands and legs, authorities said. lie was taken to a hospital, where he was listed in critical con­dition Monday. 
Yun and his wife had been separated for about two weeks, and he was living out of his vehicle, authorities said. 
"Detectives believe the killings were relat­ed to the estrangement of Yun and his wife," a police statenHmt released Monday said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Boy faces expulsion for having knife 
INDIANAPOLIS -A middle school princi­pal suspended an eighth-grader for 10 days and recommended he be expelled for carry­ing a pocket knife, even though the boy said he had forgotten the weapon was in his coat pocket and turned it over to school officials as soon as he entered the building. 
An expulsion hearing is scheduled for April 10. 
Elliot Voge, 14, told Stoneybrook Middle School principal Jimmy Meadows he forgot that he had left the Swiss Army knife in his pocket after using it to whittle wood on March 2. 
COMPILED FR0,\1 THE 0BSERVHZ'S WlRF SERVJCES page 5 
SIERRA LEONE 

Taylor accused of war cri~es 
Ex-president ofLiberia pleads not guilty to 11 brutal offenses amongst hostile crowds 
Associated Press 
FREETOWN -Former Liberian President Charles Taylor pleaded not guilty Monday before an interna­tional war crimes tribunal. denying 11 counts of help­ing destabilize West Africa through killings, sexual slavery and sending chil­dren into combat. 
Taylor at first told the court he could not enter a plea because he did not recognize its right to try him. 
But after Justice Richard Lussick insisted, Taylor said calmly and slowly: "Most definitely, your honor, I did not and could not have committed those acts against the sister republic of Sierra Leone." 
Lussick accepted that as a not guilty plea and instructed aides to set a start date for the trial. 
However, Lussick did not say where the next hear­ing might be held. 
As the hourlong hearing ended, Taylor stood, smiled and blew kisses to relatives who were in the courtroom. 
Although Taylor made his first court appearance in Sierra Leone, Special Court officials have requested that an interna­tional court in The Hague, Netherlands, host the trial. Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf has expressed fear that Taylor supporters could use the. trial as an excuse to mouot another insurgency in her country. 
Taylor said through his lawyer that he feared for his safety in Sierra Leone but wanted to be tried in the region, in part because it would be easier for defense witnesses to appear here. The court's chief prosecutor has said Taylor has no reason to fear for his safety. 
Desmond de Silva, chief prosecutor of the inde­pendent, U.N.-backed war crimes court trying Taylor, 


has dismissed such con­cerns. 
Taylor is the first former African president to face war crimes charges. He was brought to Sierra Leone last week after briefly escaping custody in Nigeria, where he was staying since 2003 under a deal to end Liberia's civil war. 
Security was tight at the court, with bulletproof glass and dozens of U.N. peacekeepers from Mongolia·and Ireland pro­tecting Taylor and officials 
who  received  death  
threats.  
Taylor  showed  little  

emotion as a court official, Krystal Thompson of the United States, read the indictment. l-Ie sat at a table, wearing headphones and flanked by two securi­ty officers. When the offi­cial read "murder, a crime against humanity," he laced his fingers on the table before him. 
More than 100 people, including Taylor relatives and Liberia's ambassador, were in the courtroom. Most reporters watched on closed circuit TV from elsewhere in the complex. 
Taylor was represented by a court-appointed lawyer, Vincent Nmehielle of Nigeria, because his own lawyers had not com­pleted proeedures neces­sary to appear before the court. 
Taylor met with his 
lawyers for the first time Monday morning shortly before his court appear­ance. Two lawyers from Liberia and two from Ghana "gave him our advice and he will consid­er it. We consider our mis­sion accomplished," said Kofi Akainyah, a Ghanian member of the team. 
Many were suspicious when Nigeria's govern­ment announced Taylor's disappearance last week, just days after Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo reluctantly agreed to hand him over from the exile haven he had been offered under an internationally brokered peace agreement ending Liberia's 14-year civil war. 
9/11 conspirator could face death 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -Afederal jury found al-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui eligible Monday to be executed, deciding that his lies to FBI agents led directly to at least one death in the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
The only person to face charges in this country in the nation's worst ter­rorist assault, Moussaoui now faces a second phase of his sentencing trial to determine if he actually will be put to death. That phase is to begin Thursday morning. 
Moussaoui sat in his chair and prayed silently as the verdict was 

read. He was asked to stand but refused. "You'll never get my blood, God curse you all," he said afterward. 
The nine men and three women of the jury will hear testimony on whether the 37 -year-old Frenchman, who was in jail at the time of the attack, deserves to be executed for his role. 
The testimony will include families of 9/11 victims who will describe the human impact of the al-Qaida mis­sion that flew four jetliners into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a Pennsyfvania field. 
Court-appointed defense lawyers, whom Moussaoui has tried to reject, will summon experts to suggest he is schizophrenic after an impoverished childhood during which he faced racism in France over his Moroccan ancestry. 
"By this verdict, the jury has found that death is a possible sentence in this case," court spokesman Ed Adams said. 
On the key question before the jurors, they answered yes on whether at least one victim died Sept. 11 as a direct result of Moussaoui's actions. 
Had the jury voted against his eli­gibility for the death penalty, Moussaoui would have been sen­tenced to life in prison. 
page 6 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April4, 2006 
Scandal-plagued Republican DeLay intends to resign 
Former House majority leader expected to step down in May or June, will not run for re-election 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Former 
llouse Majority Leader Torn 
DeLay, a Texan touehed by a lob­
bying scandal that ensnared 
sonw of' his f'ornwr top aides and 
cost tlw Hepublican his leader­
ship post, won't seek rn-eleetion 
to Congress and intends to 
resign, Hepublkan oflieials said 
Monday. 
Tlwy said DPLay would leave 
his seat in May or .June. 
It was not dear whether or 
how Dd.ay could rmnove his 
name from tlw November ballot, 
but if' lw did, party officials 
would presumably be able to 
select a replaeenwnt who could 
then run against Democratic 
nomirwe Niek Lampson. 
Also undear is exactly when 
DeLay reached his decision, but 
one official said the congress­
man began informing dose asso­
ciates late last week. That was 
around the same time as a see­
ond former DeLay aide, Tony 
Hudy, pleaded guilty in a federal 
corruption investigation that has 
reached into DeLay's oflice. 
DeLay was expected to dis­
close his plans Tuesday at a 
news conference in llouston, 
said the ollicials, who spoke on 
the condition of' anonymity 
because the congressman had 
not yet made that announce­
ment. 
Several otlkials said DeLay, an 
11-term congressman, callP.d 
Texas members of Congress to 
tell tlwrn he was abandoning his 
w-eledion race. 
"lle'll wsign," a limner senior 
DeLay aide added. 
In an interview with The 
Galveston County Daily News in 
Texas. DeLay said his decision 
was based partly on troubling 
internal polling rnsults, inducting 
a poll taken after the March 
Hepublkan primary that showed 
him narrowly ahead of' 
Lampson. 
"Hven though I thought l could win, it was a little too risky," DeLay told the Galveston pap1~r. 
Tho congressman told Tirnn magazine Monday that he plans to make his Virginia condomini­um his primary residence. "I 1:an do more on tlw outside of' the II ousn than l can on the inside right now. I want to eontinuo to light for the conservative causn. I want to continuo to work for a Hnpubliean majority." I>nLay told thn magazinn for its onlinn nd i­lion. 
Ilousn Majority Leader .John Bonhrwr, H-Ohio, eallnd his prnd­ocnssor "onn of tho most effec­tivn and gifted leaders tho Hopublican Party has ever known." 
"lin has serwd our nation with intngrity and honor, and I'm honornd to call him my eolleague and f'rinnd," Boehner said. 
I>nLay n~linquislwd the post as !louse majority leader last fall upon his indietment in Texas and deddod in January against try­ing to get tho leadership post back as an election-year corrup­tion scandal staggered Hopublieans and emboldened minority Dnmocrats. 
A Texas grand jury indicted DeLay on charges related to laundnring campaign funds in a Hepublican bid to win control of' the Texas legislature in the 2002 eleetions. He is accused of fun­neling eorporate donations to Hepublican candidates for the Texas !louse in violation of state laws. 
Federal prosP.cutors also are investigating DeLay's ties to con-

First-years and Sophomores encouraged to apply! 
Career Assistants use GO IRISH {the Career Center's. on-line recruiting system), assist students with on­line recruiting procedures; and provide career-related information and resources to visitors. 
For a complete description go to the Student Employment website: http:I /financialaid.nd.edu/jobboard/ 
The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ing plan for Texas that led to the defeat of live Dnmocrats in the state in 2004. The IIIIUS!~ ethics committee rebuked DeLay f'or using the Federal Aviation Administration in the search for Texas Democratie lawmakers trying to a void a vote on the redistricting proposal. 
DeLay was unabashed. "I'm the majority leader and we want morn snats," hn said. 
Elected to tlw !louse in 191-14 from the Ilouston suburbs, DnLay chafnd under Dnmocratic rule fi1r a decadn beforn the GOP seized control. Then, in 199R, he led the charge in impeaching Clinton over the sex scandal involving a White Ilousn intern. 
lie might have been House speaker in 1991-1 after Hep. Newt Gingrieh, R-Ga., stepped down and Hep. Bob Livingston, H-La., stunningly bowed out, but DeLay acknowledged that he was "too nuclear" to take the top job. lie instead ensured that his deputy, Hep. Dennis llastert, H-111., became speaker. 
victed lobbyist Jaek Abramoff. 
DnLay has denind any wrong­
doing in both cases. 
Earlier this year, DeLay had 
vowed to run a "very vigorous 
campaign" and win re-election. 
But the congress­.man's woes contin­with the lobbying probe. Michael Scanlon, a former DeLay press secretary who later became a lobbying partner with Abramoff, pleaded guilty last fall to con­spiring to bribe public ollieials. 

Hudy's plea 
agreement makes 
ued to build over no allegation that the past week. "/ can do more on DeLay did any­On Friday. Rudy, the outside of the thing wrong. DeLay's former Just days before
House than I can

chief of staff, Hudy's plea,
on the inside right 

pleadod guilty to Abramoff -who eonspiracy and now. " is helping the con­promised to help gressional corrup­with the federal tion investigation
Tom Delay

investigation of in Washington ­
congressman

bribery and lobby­was sentenced to ing fraud relating nearly six years in to Abramoll'. Hudy prison for fraud in admitted eonspiring with eonnection with a separate case, Abramon· -both while Rudy a casino boat business dna!. worked for the Texas congress­DeLay's annou-ncement man and after he left the law­Tuesday will trigger the end of a maker's staff to become a lobby­long career. ist himsnlf. Called "the Hammer" for his 
Hudy is the second former hard-nosed approaeh, DeLay DeLay staffer to plead guilty to ensured House passage of much federal charges in eonneetion of Bush's legislative agenda, ineluding tax cuts, trade agree­ments and a Medieare prescrip­tion drug plan. 
llis brass-knuckled political tactics drew the ire of Democrats, Washington lobbyists and good-government types. 
"His devotion to the cause has led him to push the envelope as hard as possible and not hold back," said Gary C. Jacobson, a professor of politieal science at the University of California at San Diego. 
DeLay has worked tirelessly to increase the Republican majority in the House since the GOP swept out the Democrats in 1994. He raised tens of millions for Hepublican candidates and used his own leadership political aetion committee to shower cash on GOP hopefuls. 
In 2002, he helped buek the historic trend of midterm con­gressional election losses for the party controlling the White llouse; instead Republieans gained in the House. 
He strong-armed a redistrict­Tuesday, April 4, 2006 


Dow 
11,144.94 +35.62

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,585 133 1,705 2,494,735,560 

AME.X l ,935.31 0:0.68 NASDAQ 2,336.74 -3.05 
NYSE. 8,269+65. if.3(ii11~{ S&PSOO 1,297.81 +2.99 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 17,333;3 l 6.00 FTSE. IOO(London) 6,024.30 +59.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ 
+0.12 +0.05 41.98 

INTEL CP (INTC) -0.57 -0.1 I 19.35 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.78 -0.04 5.09 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.29 +0.35 27.56 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) 
-2.16 -0.09 4.08 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0.43 +0.21 48.74 
13-WEEK BILL +0.27 +0.12 45.27 
30-YEAR BOND +0.20 +0.10 49.03 
5-YEARNOTE +0.58 +0.28 48.42 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.11 66.74 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +7.60 594.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.03 81.33 
f.xcha Rates 

YEN 117.8950 
EURO 0.8242 
POUND 0.5752 
CANADIAN$ 1.1722 
IN BRIEF 
Duke Energy expands into Midwest 
CHARLOTTE -In a deal that creates one of the nation's largest utilities, Duke Energy Corp. on Monday closed its $9 billion acquisition of Cincinnati-based Cinergy Corp., the company said. 
"The merger positions Duke Energy to meet future energy challenges and to grow," Paul M. Anderson, chairman of the board and formerly chief executive officer for Duke Energy, said in a statement. 
Last May, Duke Energy agreed to pay $9 billion for Cinergy, forming a company with about 5.4 million customers and $70 billion in assets. 
Cinergy Chief Executive Officer Jim Rogers becomes the new chief executive officer and Anderson will retain his title as chairman. 
Duke Energy and Cinergy shareholders over­whelmingly approved the acquisition in early March. 
The North Carolina Utilities Commission approved the deal last month to remove one of the final regulatory hurdles. The commission also placed more than 70 conditions on the com­pany, including a requirement that Charlotte­based Duke Energy give North Carolina cus­tomers a $117.5 million across-the-board cut in their electricity bills for one year. 
Market climbs despite late selling 
NEW YORK -A late-day selloff left stocks mixed Monday as investors put aside their enthusiasm over acquisitions and evidence of a moderating economy and cashed in profits from an early advance. 
Reporlo; showing an unexpected slowdown in manufacturing growth and an upswing in con­struction spending fed optimism about the economy's health and a possible end to the Federal Reserve's interest rate hikes. The early buying sent the Dow Jones industrials up 138 points and had the Standard & Poor's 500 and Nasdaq composite indexes near multiyear highs. 
The market's momentum waned late in the day as nervous investors chose to play it safe and take money out ofstocks and bonds. 
The mixed economic news nonetheless showed that the economy, while tapering, con­tinues to move forwar-d at a healthy pace, said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan, Beck & Co. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
FRANCE 

Alcatel and Lucent strike deal 
New unnamed company will enjoy broad consumer bases in Europe and the U.S. 
Associated Press 
PARIS-France's Alcatel 
SA will acquire rival tele­
com equipment maker 
Lucent Technologies Inc. in 
a $13.4 billion (11.1 billion 
euro) stock swap that 
would form an industry 
pmyerhouse with a product 
line broad enough to entice 
customers in a consolidat­
ing telecom industry. 
Company leaders said Sunday they plan to shed 10 percent of the combined work force -about 8,800 jobs -after the deal clos­es. 
The combined business, 
to be based in Paris, will 
work to capitalize on fast­
growing converged offer­
ings such as "triple-play" 
Internet, phone and TV 
packages that have 
become popular in the 
telecom field, the compa­
nies said. 

The new company will have annual sales of $25 billion (21 billion euros) ­ahead of LM Ericsson's $19.9 billion (16.4 billion euros) -and an 18 per­cent share of the fiercely competitive market for scale of their operations" field. In the past year, the a geographic reach few telecom gear. to stay competitive, said former SBC competitors could match, 
The tie-up will generate George Calhoun, a busi­Communications Inc. likely forcing other merg­annualized pretax savings ness and technology pro­bought AT&T Corp., while ers. of $1.7 billion (1.4 billion fessor at Stevens Institute Verizon Communications The companies said the euros) within three years, of Technology. He said Inc. acquired MCI Inc. Last deal's goal is significant the companies said. Just Alcatel needed "to become month, AT&T Inc. -the growth in revenues and over half the savings will an A-list infrastructure name SBC chose after buy­earnings based on "market come from job elimina­company in the U.S. mar­ing AT&T -proposed a opportunities for next-gen­tions, with the rest by con­ket." $67 billion deal for eration networks, services solidating purchasing, The new Alcatei-Lucent BellSouth Corp. and applications." research and development -whose new name is to "The newly formed com­Lucent CEO Patricia and support services such be announced later -pany will be a key player Russo, who will head the as sales and marketing. should be better equipped in several key telecom combined company from 
The combination should to weather both intense markets," including servic­Paris, told analysts during add to per-share earnings competition in the telecom es and wireless network a conference call that in in the first year, excluding equipment market and equipment, Prudential product and service areas restructuring charges pricing pressures from Equity Group analyst Inder where growth is expected, expected to total about larger telecom service Singh wrote in a research "the combined company $1.7 billion (1. 4 billion providers emerging from a note. will be either No. 1 or No. euros) and asset write­new wave of consolidation. With about one-third of 2." downs. The deal comes as the revenues coming each Alcatel Chairman and 
"Lucent was sooner or industry's major U.S. cus­from North America, CEO Serge Tchuruk will 
later going to have to do tomers have been rapidly Europe and Asia, he wrote, become non-executive 
something to address the consolidating the telecom the new company will have chairman. 

Ameristar builds on casino empire 
Associated Press Aztar agreed in March to be Las Vegas and Atlantic City, N.J., as 
bought out by Pinnacle for $38 per well as casinos in Missouri and 
LAS VEGAS -Ameristar Casinos share in cash, and reportedly Indiana. Inc. on Monday said it offered about received a $41-per-share offer from "Ameristar is prepared to enter $1.5 billion in cash to acquire Aztar real estate investment fund Colony into a merger agreement that, apart Corp., a Phoenix-based casino oper­Capital later that month. from providing superior value to ator, trumping previous offers from Aztar's holdings include Casino Aztar's shareholders, would be sub­Pinnacle Entertainment Inc. and Aztar, a riverboat on the Ohio River stantially identical t_o Aztar's merger Colony Capital LLC. at Evansville, Ind. Pinnacle owns agreement with Pinnacle," it said in 
The Las Vegas-based casino com­the Belterra Casino at Vevay. a statement. pany said it had offered $42 a Ameristar said the deal is "clearly The company said its proposal share. That is $1 a share higher superior to Pinnacle's and Colony's," would not be subject to financing than the current top offer for Aztar. and the combined operations would conditions, and it would expect to 
In a sign investors expect the bid­form the fifth largest public owner complete the deal by year-end, com­ding will continue higher, Aztar and operator of gambling properties parable to Pinnacle's timetable. shares rose $2.96, or 7.1 percent, to in the United States. The combined Ameristar said it expects the $44.95 in morning trading on the businesses would generate about $2 transaction, if approved, would New York Stock Exchange. billion in annual revenue, with "immediately and substantially" Ameristar Casinos shares were up a roughly 21,000 slot machines, 650 boost its earnings per share. penny at $25.80 on the Nasdaq table games and 7,000 hotel rooms. Analysts expect the company to Stock Market. Ameristar said its markets do not earn $1.33 per share for 2006, 
Officials at Aztar were not imme­overlap with that of Aztar, which according to a poll by Thomson diately available for comment. owns the Tropicana hotel-casinos in Financial. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April4, 2006 
for the College," biology profes­sor and search committee mem­ber Tom Platt said. "This is a critical point for the College to look toward the future both aca­demically and for student engagement in shaping their educational experience." 
Communication studies pro­fessor and search committee member John Pauley stressed 
Search 
continued from page 1 
administrators at once, Mooney 
said she dons not "foresee any 
period of instability during the 
seareh process" and said 
replacing morn than one admin­
istrator at a time is not "particu­
larly unusual." 
Mooney said the search com­
mitten is seeking "someone who 
will recruit and retain a strong 
and divnrse faculty, articulate a 
dear academic strategy for the 
Collngn, provide administrative 
lnadnrship to the faculty and be 
a strong spokespnrson and 
excelh~nt communicator." 
The primary role of the vice 
president and dean of faculty, 

White said. is to snrve as the 
chin!' academic officer of the 
Collegn and to lead faculty to 
continue personal development 
through reviewing and improv­
ing aeademic programs and 
promoting quality teaching, 

scholarship and service. 
This transition period within the administration eomes while the College is facing several challnnges as it strives to imple­ment initiatives to continue its tradition of academic excellence -something White is confident his replacmnent will be able to aehieve, he said. 
"I am sure the new vice presi­dent and dean of faculty, whoev­or that person is, will bring to the position personal and pro­fessional integrity, clarity of thought, a sense of humor and an am~etion for the College, our faculty, staff and studnnts, a commitment to the exenllenee of tnaching and learning at Saint Mary's College, a devotion to the education of Saint Mary's women and a passion for help­ing faculty and stu(lf~nts grow and develop," he said. 
White said he hoped the new vice prnsidnnt and dean of fac­ulty would continue to expand upon the potential of the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership and remain enthusi­astic about providing an educa­tion that fosters diversity while encouraging the Saint Mary's faculty and students to grow as both tnaehers and lnarners. 
White's positive outlook is apparnnt among othnr mnmbnrs of' the College community who say they mnbraee thn transition. 
"Anytimn you bring new lnad­nrship tlwre is an opportunity for nnw ideas and a new vision 
Fireside 
continued from page 1 
place-the several dozen stu­dents gathered were able .to ask Jenkins questions and lis­ten as he shared his experi­ences from his time as a Notre Dame undergraduate, as well 
as those from his lirst year as memory as an sueh a venture, it
the importance of students' 

''The great thing 
University president. undergradu­might happnn the
presence at the forums -one 

about Notre Dame 
The event opened with a ate?," "What year after. He
scheduled for lncandela today 

short address from Jenkins. lie dorm did you as I experienced explained that
from 10:30 a.m. to 11:30 in 

explained that he came to the live in?" and time is the issue,
Welsh Parlor in Haggar, the 

and as I hope you 
University as an undergraduate "What is your and that without
other for Tiefenthaler at the 

do, is that it is an
in 1973, and he found in Notrn favorite book?" having adequate
same time and place Thursday. 

Dame a place nurturing to both Jenkins' intellectually time to devote to
lie said the value Saint Mary's 

his intellect and spirituality. favorite memory a class in the
puts on student input was 

challenging place." 
'The great thing about Notre from his time as midst of all his
"almost uncharacteristic of 

Dame as l experienced and as I an undergradu­duties as presi­
other colleges and universities." 

Father John Jenkins 
hope you do, is that it is an ate is apparently dent, he fears his
"The !vice president and dean 

intellectually challenging place. having met, University president teaching might
of faculty! could in11uence the 

I had great teachers, great dis­befriended and
academic dimate of the College 

cussions ... but on top of that I spoken with
... something everyone should 

felt that it allowed me to culti­interesting and impressive peo­
care about quite a bit," he said. 

vate spiritual life more deeply ple. He lived in Grace llall, and 
Those who attend the open 

and to think about issues of a glance at his bookshelf' would 
forums, Mooney said, will have 

faith, issues of right and reveal Plato's "Republic,"
the ehange to submit an evalua­

wrong," Jenkins
tion form to be used in the final 
said.
selection process. 

Jenkins added
Both candidatos were selected 

that as a stu­
from an applicant pool and met 

dent, he also
privately with the search com­

made great
mittee prior to addressing the 

friends and
campus community as a whole. 

learned valu­
Mooney said these two candi­

able life lessons
dates do not nncessarily exhaust 

from his el ass­
the College's replacement 
mates.
options and a third may be visit 

Now, in his
campus in the near future. The 

position as pres­
candidate who best fits the 

ident of the
College's vision will be chosen 

University,
as the next vice president and 

Jenkins said it is 
dean of faculty, she said. 

his job to make
"The successful candidate 

Notre Dame a
must support our distinctive 

place where a
mission as a Catholic college 

current student
and as a women's college and 

may enjoy those
have a thorough understanding 

opportunities he
of the goals of a liberal arts edu­

Augustine's "Confessions," Aquinas' "Summa
"There's a lot of 
Theologica" and
stuffthat comes 
T.S. Eliot's poetry. · across your desk One student 
that needs to be 
asked Jenkins to explain his rea­
dealt with and that 
soning behind the can consume your 2004 firing of for­time, but the mer Notre Dame football coach
biggest challenge is 
T y r o n e 
to not be consumed Willingham. In his and to try to set a answer, Jenkins 
said the main eon­
direction. " 
cern behind the decision was the Father John Jenkins future of everyone 
University president involved in the football program. "We could have 
had "to excel academically ... stuck it out, but I didn't think
cation," she said. 

and to develop as a person of that was a good idea for the
White echoed Mooney's goals 

faith with moral purpose to players, a good idea for the
for the new vice president and 

life." program, or even a good idea
said he hopes that he or she will 

Jenkins then called for ques­for Tyrone himself considering 
continue to guide Saint Mary's 
in a positive direction. 

tions from students, and the that the pressure would have 
"I hope that Saint Mary's will 

discussion continued for the only gotten greater," he said. 
get better every day and that 
sufl'er from medi­
ocrity. 
Jenkins was also asked what quality he hoped those outside the University would identity with its students -generosity of spirit was his rnply. 
A student then inquired about what Jenkins had learned, from a leadership per­spective, over the last year. 
"There's a lot of stuff that comes across your desk that needs to be dealt with and that can consume your time, but the biggest challenge is to not be consumed and to try to set a direction," Jenkins said. 
To keep striving toward a larger goal despite all the dis­tracting details has been Jenkins' lesson and his chal­lenge, he said. 
''I've learned to keep an eye on the big picture and the direction ... to watch where you're going evnn though there might be a lot of pressure to deal with the latest crisis," Jenkins said. "I think that's a good lesson for anything no matter how big or small." 
Contact Maureen Mullen at mmullenl@nd.edu 
. under the loadership of the vice president and dean of faculty teaching and learniAg at Saint Mary's will achieve new heights of excellence," he said. "Saint Mary's College is a great col­lege, as we all know, but we are great in part because we are always striving to do better." 


mer 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Photography 
Class@ NO 
next 40 minutes with interac­tion between Jenkins and the audience. 
Questions concerning aca­demic freedom were intention­ally avoided -as SUB organiz­ers made clear when advertis­ing the event. Instead, students asked Jenkins such questions as, "What was your favorite "It didn't seem like the situa­tion would have helped any­body." 
Another student asked Jenkins whether or not he would like to return to the dassroom and tnaeh. lie gave an enthusiastic "yes," and explained that though next ynar was not the right time for 

'l"ou•re in1'itea to a gatliering to mar{tlie release oftlie JO'l}tJ(.;"\ ~'4. £ OlF 1.1~ ID'.E~~'4.0V.'4.'JfE ~'.ES'.E}I IJ(C'J{ 
q'uestlay, .ffpri{ 4tli great Haff ofO'Sfiaugfintssy 
4:30-S:JO 


Photography I -ARST 21401 01. CRN 1031, 3 Credits. 
.-----------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, April4, 2006 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
GUANTANAMO BAY 
Pentagon releases transcripts 
Associated Press 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE -In 2, 733 pages of declassified documents released Monday to The Associated Press, men accused of helping terrorist groups or Afghanistan's former Taliban regime pleaded for freedom while U.S. military officers often painstakingly tried .to find holes in their stories. 
The previously classified transcripts were the second batch of Guantanamo Bay detainee hearings released by the Pentagon in response to a lawsuit by the AP. They identi­fied more of the prisoners who have been secretly held without charges for up to four years while the U.S. military deter­mines how dangerous they may be. 
Most of the men said they were innocent and would pose no threat if set free. 
"My conscience is clear," said Algerian detainee Mohamed Nechla, who was accused of plotting to attack the U.S. Embassy in Bosnia. "If I left this place my only concern would be bread on the table for my wife and children." 
Zia Ul Shah, a Pakistani accused of being a driver for the Taliban, said he hated his American captors at first but his feelings softened after he learned about the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks. 
"In the beginning I did not like Americans at all," Shah said. "I had never seen Americans. In the beginning when I came here the interro­gations were tough and I start­ed hating them more, but then ... someone showed me pictures 
gained a wealth of knowledge by interrogating "My conscience is detainees, who 
clear. IfI left this 
are held in cell­
place my only
blocks behind barbed wire. concern would be "We've learned 
bread on the table 
about al-Qaida's 
for my wife and
pursuit of 
children. ,,
WMDs," Whitman said, referring to weapons of mass 
Mohamed Nechla
destruction. 
Algerian detainee 
"We've learned about their meth-

faced such a review hearing was previously determined by 
o t h e r Guantanamo Bay panels Combatant Status Review Tribunals 
to be an "enemy combat­ant," meaning they fought against the U.S. or its allies or provided support 

Trying To Decide What To Do Next Year? 
Become aHolv Cross Associate 
-1 year post-graduate volunteer program focusing on community, simple living, spirituality, and service 
-connection with Holy Cross in local communities: Associates are welcomed with open arms in each of their communities by Holy Cross community and Associate alumni 
-rich tradition: in existence for 28 years, well-established in each location 
-intimacy of program: despite program's long history, we have chosen not to expand much in order to maintain a stronger sense of community and connection among Associates, past and present 
-importance of communal prayer: rooted in faith, communal prayer is a necessary part of HCA life...journey of faith together in community 
-Unparalleled Support from local communities, alumni, staff, neighbors, your fellow Associates 


IPPIV bV April 15th! 
http://holycrossassociates.nd.edu 

SUDAN 
U.N. protests alleged attetnpt to hide region 
Humanitarian affairs official kept out ofDarfur 
Associated Press planned to leave southern Sudan 
for Chad on Tuesday, Bunker 
KHARTOUM -The United said. Nations· on Monday protested The state-run Sudan Media what it said was a decision by Center said the government of Suda,n to bar the U.N.'s top West Darfur state prevented humanitarian official from visit­Egeland's visit because it feared ing the capital and the troubled public anger against him since western Darfur region. he is from Norway, one of the 
Jan Egeland, U.N. under-sec­countries where caricatures of retary-general for Humanitarian the Prophet Muhammad were Affairs and Emergency Relief, published, angering many said the government was trying Muslims. to prevent him from seeing the It cited an unnamed West deteriorating situation in the Darfur official as saying resi­troubled Darfur dents formed a region. human chain at 
A statement from "I can only believe the airport to the U.N. mission in that they don't protest the visit. Sudan said "They claim
want me to see how
Egeland's flight that my nationali­into Sudan was not bad the ty is a problem given authorization situation has because of the to land Sunday and cartoons and me
become for the
that Sudanese offi­being a cials had civilian population Norwegian. This expressed opposi­in South Darfur, in is just an excuse," tion to his visit. Egeland told The
West Darfur. ,,
It quoted Sudan's Associated Press representative to by telephone. "I the United Nations Jan Egeland can only believe in New York as U.N. under-secretary­that they don't saying Egeland want me to see
general for 
would not be wel­how bad the situ­
Humanitarian Affairs 
come in Darfur or ation has become 
and Emergency Relief 
the capital, for the civilian 
from 9/11. Then I realized they have a right to be angry. My hate towards Americans was gone." 
Some 715 prisoners have passed through the cells of the 
U.S. 
military base since it began receiving men captured in the 

U.S. 
war on terror more than four years ago. Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said 490 of them are now held at the base, which hugs the arid southeastern shores of Cuba. 


Whitman told reporters at the Pentagon that authorities have International, a frequent critic of U.S. policies in its war on ter­ror, said the transcripts would most likely reveal information that was insignificant or had been previously released. 

"Nevertheless, Amnesty International welcomes today's actions, as even the seemingly minor details in these docu­ments may help shed light on the secrecy surrounding the detainees' cases," said Eric Olson, the group's acting direc­tor of government relations. 
Each of the detainees who 
ods of recruitment, location of recruitment centers. We've learned about their skill sets, their terrorist skill sets, both general and specialized opera­tive training." 
A reading of some of the doc­uments released Monday showed no such stark admis­sions, although any records of interrogations and the classi­fied portions of the hearings were not included in the tran­scripts. The hearings -called Administrative Review Boards -were held to determine whether detainees still posed threats to the United States. 
Human rights group Amnesty to the Taliban, al-Qaida or "associated forces." 

Shah said he felt his testimo­ny at the earlier tribunal had been ignored. 
"Should I consider (you all) the same or should I expect jus­tice?" he asked. 
The presiding U.S. military officer assured Shah all the evi­dence would be considered fairly: 
"Well, I hope that you would believe that we would do you justice after we review all the information," said the officer, whose name was censored from the transcript for security reasons. 
Khartoum. Egeland's spokes­woman, Stephanie Bunker, said Sudan told him it could not guarantee his security and said he should delay his visit for up to two weeks. 
Egeland had been scheduled to visit southern and western Sudan from Sunday to Thursday to assess relief operations. Instead, he went to southern Sudan, which has an autonomous government. 
He did visit southern Sudan, which is administered by the Government of Southern Sudan, a partner of the Khartoum gov­ernment that has its own leader­ship. 
He gave up on his efforts to get to Darfur or Khartoum and 


population in 

South Darfur, in West Darfur." 
The U.S. State Department criticized Sudan's refusal to per­mit Egeland's visit, calling the decision "deeply disturbing." 
Citing the "crying humanitari­an needs" in Darfur, spokesman Adam Ereli said it was hard to understand why Sudan rebuffed Egeland. 
"This certainly sends the wrong signal about where the government of Sudan stands on the issue of humanitarian relief in cooperation with the interna­tional community to address the problem of Darfur," he said. 
Egeland noted that he had been barred from visiting Darfur in 2004 "when ethnic cleansing was at its worst." 
The United Nations has described Darfur as the site of the world's gravest humanitari­an crisis. The 3-year-old conflict setting the Arab-dominated gov­ernment and militias against ethnic African tribes has left some 180,000 dead -most from disease and hunger -and displaced another 2 million from their homes. Sudan's govern­ment and rebels in Darfur have made little headway in peace talks in Ahuja, Nigeria. 
Happy Birthday, Joey, our favorite little pop-star! We know you will make it big some day! 
Love, Billy, Joe, Mike, Evan and all the other Fisher boys 

~----------------------· 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, April4, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 Ol4 Stlllth Dining Hoi!. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING ElllmR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala .A~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EmToRs: Amanda Michaels Mary Kate Malone SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDm>R: Kl'ily Meehan Puon> EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAI'IIICS EDITOR! Graham Ebctsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTII.OLLF.R: Jim Kirihara WEll ADMINISTII.ATOR: Damian Althotr SYSTEMS AIJMINISTII.ATOR Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@lhd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('574) 631-4541 obsme@'lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6.31-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4'543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 6.31-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 

Don't blame me 
I probably should not write this article. I should probably take a moment, calmly collect my thoughts and speak more soft­ly. But how many other libertarian­themed articles do you read? If you are a libertarian, you prob­ably read a bunch. If you are not, however, this one is probably it. 
So in the wake of the Senate's recent vote to raise the ceil­ing on U.S. borrowing authority to $8.965 trillion (an increase of $781 billion from last year) I have to say something loudly. 
I cannot take it any­more. 
The vote passed the Senate along most­ly party lines, 58-42. The legislation was the fourth time since 2002 that the gov­cmmcmt needed to borrow more money than allowed so as to again avoid default­ing on the federal debt. Now, according to the Congressional Budget Oflice, American taxpayers will be shelling out $217 billion this year on the interest accumulating on Washington's loans alone. 
Now, I am no fan of Bill Clinton and his sneaky rhetoric about a "budget surplus" (ima!-,Tine, if you will, paying $20 for a gal­lon of milk, and instead of giving you change, the cashier excitedly proclaims he now has a "budget surplus"-if that's a surplus, I'm Batman), but what has happnned in the last six years? Does any­one out there besides me care that the Bush Administration's fiscally irresponsi­ble behavior is abhorrent? Reprehensible? Atrocious? 
And, the truth is, I blame you. 
Libertarians are very keen on the notion of personal responsibility. As a lib­ertarian, I see politics as the following choice: more government or more liberty. 

Scott 
Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 

The problem is, when you consistently choose more government, it equals less liberty for me. You do not vote in a vacu­um. Voting is exercising political force; it is a form of' violence, like it or not, and my grandchildren will be paying for your irresponsibility. 
Today, the United States proudly claim (yes, that verb is plural) almost half of the world's military expenditures. In 20 years, Medicare will consume nearly 40 percent of our nation's GDP (not federal budget, GDP). Our country is the world's most powerful "superdebtor." Does it truly matter how quickly we can destroy Saddam Hussein's country when our "leaders" have sold so many Treasury bonds to China? 
Debtors used to be thrown in jail when they could not pay for their poor choices. If debtors' prison still existed, there would be no one lel\ in Washington and I would be a happy man. However, instead of throwing them in jail, we are giving them permission to take more and more money that they have no intention of repaying. With reelection rates as high as they are, politicians feel far too safe in the hal­lowed halls of Congress. They do not fear their constituents anymore. 
I am tired of the bickering between the wings of the Republierat Party. I saw a poster in O'Shaughnessy that asked for grassroots volunteers to light the extreme right wing and elect progressives into office. Because, obviously, once we kick the irresponsible, big-government imperi­alists out of' office, the world will be better with the irresponsible, big-government socialists who will happily replace them. 
Dear liberals and conservatives: Please stop fighting. You are both to blame for this mess. Bill Clinton killed plenty of civilians in Iraq during his reign, and under George W. Bush, federal spending on education has increased by 70 per­cent. Please cease the rhetoric, the apolo­getics, the spin. It is time to take responsi­bility for your politicians. I am tired of' them, their lies and the fact that you keep voting for them. 
I am not going to commit the sin of claiming outright that most Americans are capital-L Libertarians. However, I do believe that most Americans do not want "progressives" in Washington. Most Americans do not want imperialism, or foreign nation-building or more socialism. On a broad seale, we historically distrust our smiling leaders -and with good cause. I am convinced that most Americans want peace, freedom and to be left alone; and while the majority of Americans may or may not be Libertarians, those sentiments themselves are strikingly libertarian. 
Remember, politicians do not seek oflice simply to represent the voice of the voice­less. Leo Tolstoy wrote: "In order to get power and retain it. it is necessary to love power; but love of' power is not connected with goodness but with qualities that aw the opposite of' goodness, sueh as pride, cunning, and cruelty." Unfortunately, the people best suited to lead a nation are those who do not want the job. 
I am not proposing some sort of cure-all solution, because one does not exist. I am simply asking-well, demanding-that you respect the choice that you have: more government or more liberty. Considering Novel Laureate Friedrich Hayek's wise words that "in government, the scum rises to the top," I ask you to be very, very wary. 
The hand that fi~eds you can just as eas­ily strangle you to death, and, if !-,Tiven the chance, it will. 
Scott Wagner is president ofthe College Libertarians. He really doesn't like politi­cians. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily new.;paper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisemcms, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Obsern:r reserves the right to refuse advertisernems b<L'ed on content. 
The nt'WS is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. l lnsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the F.diwr in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nm n.:cessarily those ofThe ()bserver. 
Viewpoint space is available to all re-aders. The fi-ee expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Lent·rs to tilt' Editor must be signt•d and must include contact infi1rmarion. 
Qurstions regarding Observer policies should be dimted to F.ditor in Chief Mikr Gilloml. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
l11r ( llt<oervet (tl"'l'\ 'i'J<J !-•'100{)) t•puhiMr.l M~ukl.l)' tluuu~:h hui.tv ~;"xccpr tlurin~ rum ~~~~~ Y.tLJII<~tl Jlt'TifKk t\ •ul•u•~•rmn ru Tl~t: ( )hwrvcr 1~ S Iilii fur u1w ;w,:adcnm 
ynlt; $'\'\ lm IIIII' "''mnJrr.  
l11<: t l~rvc:r "puhlahru .u  1'0'iT.\1ASTEI<  
U14 !'imnh Dimn~ ll.dl  Send o~ddrr,. cnrrccuon' ru.  
Ntmc l'l.amt.IN 4M..,h-11.,:''1  Thc(ll'l~eMt  
l'~noch~-•1 P''"at(C )>.ttcl.u Nurre l>01mc  I'O.I~•lln'J  
-liltI JtltliiLUIIid III.UJLII~ ultkc­ Ol-1 Sntnh Dinmg llall  

Nnltt Do~mc, IN 41\')'if,.pn9 
n,c (.lhM:rvcr i~ .t mcmhcr uf the AA.\U(.l;ltt'tl Pr~. All rcpmducuun rightll Jrc 
l~fVt'I:J 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  
Amanda Michaels  Sports  
Kelly Meehan  Kate Gales  
Peter Ninneman  Eric Retter  
Pat Moore  Tim Kaiser  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Alyssa  Mark  
Brauweiler  Bemenderfer  
Graphics  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit aLetter
What do you think of the 

"Nothing in the world is more dangerous than sincere ignorance and conscientious
academic advising system? 
stupidity."

,to the Editor at
I . ... ·. ... . .. . , .. 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
civil rights leader
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

,, www.ndsmcobserver.com
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Graham Ebetseh 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 page 11 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keep the coach, build the program 
This letter is concerning the decision to not renew Steve Bender's contract as head basketball coach at Saint Mary's. The decision to not renew his con­tract has come as a great shock to many people inside and outside of the Saint Mary's community. The basketball program has had its ups and downs (more downs than ups) in the past years on and off the court, but this year was dif­ferent. The team was happy and competitive; it had its best season record­wise and was positive about last season and the upcoming one. The program finally had a strong foundation to build on. I am by no means implying that Bender was the single factor in the above successes, but he was a factor that strongly impacted those successes. He was -and still is-committed to his team as well as his assistant coaches even though the athletic department chose to not renew his contract. 
Saint Mary's athletic department has a "revolving door" for coaches. A coaching position at Saint Mary's is only offered as a part time position which does give some reasoning why the department cannot keep coaches. This does not apply to why Bender's contract was not renewed -he is a teacher and does not need another full-time job. It seems a coach is also never guaranteed any more than a one year contract. If this is the case, this allows the athletic department to cut the coach after one season. If the athletic department has a hard time keeping coaches because of this reason, why would it not renew the contract for one who created so much success for the basketball program? 
Support the canned food drive 
I want to thank all of those people who have volunteered to take part in Notre Dame's second annual Canned Food Drive this Saturday. I thank you for your support in advance because I appreciate the fact that you realize the importance of this effort. You realize how much of an impact this campus-wide collection has on those families genuinely lacking the necessities of life right here in Northern Indiana. 
According to the Northern Indiana Food Bank Web site, more than 118,000 Indiana families live in poverty and are therefore at risk of hunger. Last year, in our first annual campus-wide Canned Food Drive, 6,500 pounds of food were collected for the Northern Indiana Food Bank, setting the first benchmark for the event. This year, with your help, we expect to surpass 10,000 pounds of food, a substantial contribution to the Northern Indiana Food Bank. 
The Canned Food Drive will be taking place from 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m. outside of Stepan Center this Saturday. Volunteers will work two-hour shifts in which they will drive out into the neighborhoods of the community to collect cans door-to-door. WVFI will be DJing the event as groups return to campus to drop off their collected food. At the conclusion of the Canned Food Drive, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh will say a blessing over the collected food. Last year, I participated, and it was a very rewarding experience. The community appreciates our efforts to fight hunger in Northern Indiana, and if you come out on Saturday, you will see for yourself just how much two hours of your time can positively impact the lives of so many people. Thanks again to those who have already volunteered to come out Saturday. If you haven't signed up and are still interested, contact your dorm service commissioner as soon as possible or e-mail jcorker@nd.edu. 
Michael Sciortino junior Keenan Hall April2 

How can any sport build a program if it keeps getting new coaches? Why would the Saint Mary's athletic department not want to renew the contract of a coach who has led a team with the best record it has ever had, stayed posi­tive, created a strong bond among teammates and gotten them enthusiastic about next year? I have heard no reports of rule breaking or unethical inci­dences among coaches or players that could justify the decision of the athletic department. Why is the athletic department taking away a good thing? If Saint Mary's has to rebuild a program every year it is going to get harder and harder to get competitive recruits to come and play for the school. If nothing changes and the athletic department has the opportunity to do away with coaches as they please then the athletic programs will never attract competi­tive athletes to play for the school and raise the bar. The athletic department is working against its idea of making athletics more important at Saint Mary's. Athletes want to be a part of a strong competitive program, and until Saint Mary's builds a program it will stay in the rut it has been in for many years. 
Jessica Binhack junior off-campus April3 
U-WIRE 

'Diplomatic immunity' 
This week will be a busy week for college athlet­ics as men's basketball plans to wrap up its season with the Final Four in Indianapolis, ending an exciting NCAA Tournament. However, when it's all said and done, that will be the least important topic in college sports because another event has 
Ronnie Turner 
come to the forefront. 
Accusations have arisen at University of Duke University that mem­Houston bers of its men's lacrosse The Daily team assaulted an exotic Cougar dancer hired to perform at an off-campus party. The alleged victim, a student at North Carolina Central University, claimed that she was pulled into a restroom, beaten, choked and raped by three men. So far, the players aren't talking, but Duke president Richard Brodhead decided that he would suspend the highly ranked Blue Devils indefinitely pending the results of a rape investigation, saying the suspension is not a punishment. I would have to agree; it's not punish­ment enough. 
Police collected DNA samples from 46 lacrosse players last week, excluding the 47th player, an African-American, because the victim said her attackers were white. Not surprisingly, the lacrosse team has been known for past scrapes with the law; 15 of its members have previously been charged with offenses ranging from under­age alcohol possession to public urination. Many times, the players escaped criminal convictions through deals made with prosecutors. 
It's a shame that more wasn't done by the uni­versity. There's a high probability that someone on that team had something to do with the alleged rape or that they know someone else who did. If these lacrosse players truly want to proclaim their innocence, then they need to cooperate with the authorities. Likewise, ifuniversities truly wanted to make its athletes better citizens, it would stop making concessions for them and let them answer to the law when they commit crimes. 
We've all heard the same stories before. We know about the athletes who get arrested for drunk driving, speeding, theft, drug possession and sexual assault.·What we're not hearing enough about are the athletes who receive ade­quate punishment for their crimes. Instead, they're getting brokered deals to accompany sus­pensions from their teams. 
One well known cases stems from the University of Colorado, which, in 2004, was sued in federal district court for allegedly contributing to a situa­tion in which the plaintiff was gang-raped by CU football players and recruits. The case alleged that the CU Athletic Department marketed its program to recruits through alcohol use and sex with female CU students, while overlooking criminal activities, such as rape. The judge dismissed the suit in the spring of 2005, but some top CU heads had resigned over the embarrassment. 
It's about time universities' officials stopped cod­dling their athletes. Because ifthey don't deal with them properly now, they may have to deal with them later when it's their daughters who are being sexually assaulted. 
This column first appeared in the March 31 edi­tion ofThe Daily Cougar. the daily publication of the University ofHouston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Professors gripe about student e-mails 
With seemingly the whole world centered on the Internet, it is no surprise e­mail has fast become a popular form of communication. However, some students fail to realize how they come off in an e-mail and that it can have a negative or positive affect on how they are perceived by professors and can even affect grades. 
"Many students have no idea how their e-mails read," said 
Rachel Gorr

Marvin Hill, Northern Illinois University professor of business administration. "Do they ever use spell check? Do they use nouns and verbs in a consistent manner? Alas, God did not cre­Northern ate everyone equal. One week of reading student e-mails will Illinois demonstrate this to all concerned." University 
While e-mail does allow students to contact teachers outside Northern Star 
of class, some fail to use proper English, punctuation or tone. 
The failure to do so may lower the professor's opinion of the 
student and can even be found offensive by professors. 
"My biggest gripe about student e-mails is the lack of attention paid to basic 
grammar and spelling," said Kay Forest, associate professor and chair of the soci­
ology department. "Sloppy e-mails read like sloppy papers or poor exams. This is 
especially defeating when the student is requesting leniency in grading or some 
other reconsideration of his or her course performance or a job recommenda­
tion." 
Students should pay attention to the appropriateness of the questions. Questions 
too in-depth should have been asked in class, or were answered in class and have
l 7 
no place in professor e-mails, Forest said. Requesting lecture notes or asking about the importance of a missed lecture also are complaints of professors. While Hill does not have specific guidelines for his students to follow when e­mailing him, he has received many inappropriate e-mails. 
"For example, 'I missed class today. Did you cover anything important?"' Hill said. "This is a mass lecture where we never, never take roll. The response: 'No, we didn't cover anything important, just went in and talked about unimportant material that we intend to include on the exam.'" 
No matter how perfect the grammar, how eloquent the salutation or how profes­sional the signature, not all questions are best suited for e-mail. This is why, in this information age, professors still hold office hours and allow questions in class. 
"Anything that takes me longer than five minutes to answer, however, triggers a request for a face-to-face meeting," Forest said. "I often find that a brief meeting after class can resolve most issues that exceed e-mail treatment, particularly when I need to ask follow-up questions. Generally I reserve office appointments for conversations about a student's grade in the course or other confidential infor­mation." 
This column first appeared in the April 3 edition of the Northern Star. the daily publication ofNorthern Illinois University. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 
There's a recent phenomenon running  stand in a line. Depending on the quality  
rampant across Ameriean television  of the interaction between the contestant  
screens. It's a new twist on the dating  and the animal, our mutually exclusive  
show fad. Gone are the days of classies  furry friend will walk to the contestant  
such as "Singled Out."  that is the ideal fit. Interesting dialogue a  
The newest hot  problem'? Hardly. Wait until that llama  
thing is "Date My  spits in your face ­the verbosity that  
Mom," a surpris­ follows will truly be a thing of beauty.  
ingly popular show  Another idea I was thinking of is "Date  
on MTV where sev­ My Possessive Spouse." While this show  
eral unsuspecting  may be a little controversial since the  
young men take a  final decision will take place in a divorce  
young woman's  court, the idea is still great. Few people  
mom out on a date,  will be able to judge who is more suitable  
allowing the mom  for a woman than her spouse. It's fool­ 
to choose which lad Chris McGrady  proof.  
is suitable to date  The next idea I have is "Date My Nosy  
her teenage daugh­Assistant  Family Physician." A doctor is one person  
ter. The show is Scene Editor  who knows your most intimate secrets­ 
obviously scripted  disease history, immunizations records  
-poorly so-and  and family past ­and thus is able to  
is so mind-numbing  determine your ideal mate. Furthermore,  
that tho viewer would bo better served  a doctor can run all sorts of tests on the  
by simply packing his or her head in a  various contestants. This is an ideal situ­ 
tub of ieo for half an hour to achieve the  ation to get to know someone. You don't  
same eJTect.  want to be dating someone who's more  
The n~ason this show still exists is  riddled with STDs than a Tijuana prosti­ 
bneause no one has said anything to the  tute ­or do you? Who wants a biologi­ 
malevolent producers of such trivial  cal game of Russian roulette? This one is  
trash. Fear no more. Because I am a  fun for the whole family.  
man of action, I will propose several dif­ Furthermore, there's "Date My Sloppy,  
ferent ideas for dating shows that are in  Inconsiderate, Smelly Roommate with a  
the same vein, but of significantly more  Ridiculously Screwed Up Biological  
interest.  Clock." If you can make it through a day  
The first show I suggest is "Date My  dealing with the putrid, insensitive oaf  
Senile Aunt." Think about it-we all  you can live through anything. This  
have that relative. The one who insists  would be an interesting series because  
that you are still live years old and sends  rather than making a decision at the end  
you a "Happy Bar Mitzvah" card every  of the day, the winner would be the per­ 
year on your birthday with a newspaper  son that manages to stay alive. Who  
dipping that she found interesting. This  doesn't want a boyfriend with a strong  
is the same aunt with the mismatched  immune system?  
pantyhose who pinches your cheek when  Some other ideas that may not need as  
she opens the door, when she leaves and  much explanation are "Date my Ex-Con  
overy time she sneezes. What better way  Father," "Date My Grandma" and the  
to lind a new sihTflificant other than to  Notre Dame exclusives "Date My Rector"  
spend an afternoon with the senile aunt  and "Date My ResLife Officer."  
of someone you've never met, reminisc­ With the influx of shows like this and  
ing about that time she ate dinner with  the popular "Parental Control" (also on  
the Pope (never actually happened)? It  MTV), something needs to be done.  
makes so much sense!  These ideas would be much more enter­ 
The seeond show I suggest is "Date My  taining and well received than "Date My  
Farm Animal." I know at first mention  Mom." All these shows would be  
this seems insane. But these cuddly and  unscripted and the dialogue would be  
misunderstood mammalian creatures  candid. This way, the shows would be  
have a sixth-sense and can almost  more believable and definitely more  
always tell good from evil. My proposal:  watched.  
The contestanL'i spend an afternoon with  Anyway; I have to go-"Simple Life" is  
the benevolent beast, be it a llama, a pig  on.  
or bovine creature of any kind. During  
this afternoon, the contestants will walk  The views expressed in this column are  
the animal, dean it and feed it-you  those ofthe author and not necessarily  
know, generally wine and dine the thing  those ofThe Observer.  
the way you would anyone else. At the  Contact Chris McGrady at  
end of the afternoon, the contestant<; will  cmcgradl@nd.edu  

lsc~&~nl 
The future of MTV 


Photo courtesy of davidhasselhoffonline.com MTV's Jenny McCarthy poses with ex-Baywatch star David Hasselhoff on the set of "Singled Out." The show places contestants within Interesting dating situations. 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
'Shin Budokai' brin1 
power to their digital avatar. By MARK BEMENDERFER Fans of the show will recognize all of' th1 Assistant Scene Editor characters, adding a proper level of dept! 
to the cut-scenes. llowlwer, people new tc 
Welcome to the world of Dragonball. The Dragonball may lind themselves ignoran diverse world of Japanese anime has been and confused as to thn events that unfold shrunk down to portable size in the PSP For example, there is little explanation i1 game "Shin Budokai." Despite some short­regards to Fusions and Potara earrings comings when compared to its big console and they have a significant impact later i1 brethren, the latest foray into the the game. Dragonball universe packs a punch for The cut-scenes are simple, consisting o fans and newcomers alike. a basic exchange between two character5 
Based off the recent "Fusion Reborn" The voice actors for the characters do pro Jilm, "Shin Budokai" takes 18 fan favorites vide some of the voices, but they don't eon and places them within an on-the-go expe­tribute nearly as much as they did for th rience. The plot isn't too complex. The bar­larger releases. riers between heaven and hell have disap­The actual game itself should be instant peared, creating an excuse for major ly familiar with most gamers. Featurin: defeated villains to return. In addition to the traditional side view seen in most light these familiar foes is a new menace, the ing video games, it is reminiscent o mysterious and powerful entity titled "Tekken" and "Soul Calibur." However, th Janemba. control scheme has been simplified fror 
All of the 18 characters are unique with the aforementioned games. The player i their own benefits and pitfalls. Most of able to light in mid-air, suspended abov them have multiple forms, such as a pow­the Earth with no loss of control. ered-up version that comes with a new Simply pressing a button, instead of three-dimensional image. Fans will be convoluted ritual, gives the player the abt pleased to know that characters can level ity to perform the most powerful sped~ up in the middle of the match, adding more moves. Heserving a button for kick! 
punches, blocks and speciE moves levels the playing !ielc eliminating the need to mem< rize complex attack pattern! However, it is easier to eithe block or completely avoid thes attacks than in previou games. Using the ultimat attack and missing will leav the player open for a swif retaliation, making strateg key for success in this game. 
There are a diverse numbe 

solve problems. Rotor blades on a helicoptmBy MARK BEMENDERFER could be slowed by slowing time, causing thf 
Assistant Scene Editor 
machine to fall under gravity's influence. 
One of the latest in Capcom's line of games This is where "Red !lot Humble" falls flat slated for the PSP, "Viewtiful Joe: Red Hot Essentially a party game like "Super Smast Humble" is by far the weakest entry in the Brothers," this entry into the franchisE series. While not a horrible game, it is firmly retains the time manipulation element! entrenched in the shadows of its brothers. without fully exploring them. The mair 
That's a shame, because the "Viewtiful emphasis is on completing simple mini· Joe" license is one ripe for decent spin-offs games and short trials. Very rarely do th€ and sequels. Essentially a satire on famous time elements play anything beyond an Hollywood and Japanese movies, "Viewtiful insignificant role within the game, leaving Joe" the franchise hits several common garners to wonder why it was titled notes and themes to humorous effect. "Viewtiful Joe." The game would have been 
The franchise begins with Joe and his girl­just as strong if it had been an original title friend getting pulled into a movie in a the­without the franchise tie-in. ater. There, he runs into his hero Captain However, the game is not devoid of merit. Blue, and acquires the power to go viewtiful. There is a wealth of unlockables, including The power, and the main draw of the game, quite a few hidden characters. Movies can is the ability of the player to distort time as if be earned, as well as new levels and mini­he held the remote for the movie. The player games. can rewind, fast-forward or record his own The gameplay itself isn't too bad, despite movements, creating a virtual duplicate, all its flaws. It's a frantic, fast-paced experience in real-time. All this goes towards slowing with up to four lighters roaming a multi­time down, undoing mistakes or doubling tiered playing field. It gets so frantic that it the damage the player does. becomes easy to lose the characters in the 
Needless to say, this created some interest­chaos however, which can lead to several ing puzzles within the first two games of the cheap deaths. The attacks are easy to do, franchise. Since time itself could be manipu­with spedal moves mappod to a single but­lated, it forced players to think creatively to ton. 
The mini-games are varied, 



but most of them fall flat. Most of them are games of dexterity and visual comprehension.' Unfortunately, they cannot be turned off and are completely tied with playing the game. They even occur in the middle of matches, throwing off the flow of the fight. The lighL'i are fun, however, even with the frantic action. 
But the characters are unbal­


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, April4, 2006 
page 13 
s Dragonball to PSP 
Photo courtesy of ign.com 

The Legendary Super Saiyan Broly powers up a special move to finish off his opponent. "Shin Budokai" is a treat for fans but has appeal for newcomers as well. 
of game modes, but they manage to feel petitively wirelessly, adding to the replay light compared to bigger predecessors. value of the game. There is the Dragon Road, which is this Once again, if you don't know the differ­game's equivalent to a story mode. It is ence between a Frieza and a Cooler, this also in this mode that the rest of the locked game may not be for you. Based upon your characters are made playable. Following love for either anime or fighting games, that is the Arcade mode, which is exactly "Shin Budokai" may have some appeal. But what one expects from modern fighting for fans, this is the best portable games. There is a mode titled Z Trial as Dragonball experience on the market. well, which is used to unlock cards and pictures within the game. Another friend Contact Mark Bemenderfer at with a PSP can play "Shin Budokai" com-mbemende@nd.edu 
Joe' falls flat on PSP 
Photo courtesy of gamespot.com 

The four-playered fighting action is fast and furious in Capcom's "Viewtiful Joe: Red Hot Rumble." However, the game fails to deliver on the franchise's namesake. 
anced, some obviously more powerful than May Cry" series, is a playable character and others. This hurts the game when it comes plays a key role in the story that unfolds. He to playing with friends, as player favorites is also one of the most powerful and first­will quickly arise from the super-powered attained characters. characters. Similar games, such as "Super "Viewtiful Joe: Red Hot Rumble" is a Smash Brothers," do a better job of balanc­straight mediocre title. Some people may ing characters and as a result earn longer have fun with it, but it's a disappointment shelf lives in gamer libraries. when comparing it to its predecessors. 
The PSP release of this title is marked with some exclusive content and characters. Contact Mark Bemenderfer at Dante, from the critically acclaimed "Devil mbemende@nd.edu 

DPAC REVIEW 
'Grapes' a bittersweet experience 

shortcomings.
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Fonda controls the film from begin­
Scene Ediror 
ning to end, and his sensitive perform­
A truly great film is both timely and ance is the centerpiece of a solid cast. timeless, at once encapsulating and He is galvanizing, inflecting Tom Joad simultaneously transcending its era. with a haunted exhaustion -yet there Director John Ford's "The Grapes of is a strange kind of power in his eyes, a Wrath" (1940) is such a film-a social­sense of hopefulness that prevents his ly aware examination of the Great character from tumbling over the edge. Depression and a moving story about a The audience finds itself rooting for the family's resilience in the face of impos­Joad family, hoping their luck will turn sible odds. around even as they get further and 
Based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning further away from their home. And novel by John Steinbeck, "The Grapes unlike the novel, which ends ori a dis­of Wrath" follows the Joad family on a turbing and disquieting note, Ford's trek from the Dust Bowl to California in film ends with a sense of enthusiasm search of a new life. Led by recently about the future, a belief in the released con-endurance of vict Tom 
the human Joad (Henry 
spirit.

Grapes ofWrath
Fonda, in one 
Ford made of his finest 

his reputa­and most 
tion on the moving per­
Western, and formances). 
although the Joads 
"The Grapes suffer 
Director: John Ford 
of Wrath" through the 
Writer: Nunnally Johnson (screenplay) 
isn't techni­trials and 
Starring: Henry Fonda, Jane Darwell, Doris 
cally an tribulations 
Bowden, John Carradine oater, its set­
0 f 
ting and con­Depression-tent lend era class struggles as they travel across themselves well to his grand style. America looking for work. The family While the director may have better includes the resilient Ma Joad (Jane films in his impressive canon (1939's Darwell), pregnant sister Rosasharn "Stagecoach," 1956's "The Searchers" (Doris Bowden) and for a time, ex­and 1962's "The Man Who Shot Liberty preacher Casey (John Carradine). Valance"), few are as enduringly time­Through it all, the Joad family learns to less as "The Grapes of Wrath." The endure and find hope in the confusion Joad family becomes an effective sym­and stark reality of Depression-era bol of the Everyman, explained first by America. Tom to Ma Joad in the film's most 
Everything about "The Grapes of famous scene (''I'll be everywhere. Wrath" is a cut above. Nunnally Wherever you can look") and then by Johnson's adaptation of Steinbeck's Ma Joad to her husband: "We're the book is less depressing than the origi­people that live. They can't wipe us out. nal text, but is still as emotionally They can't lick us. And we'll go on for­affecting. The starkly beautiful cine­ever, Pa ... 'cause we're the people." matography by "Citizen Kane" photog­Ford understood people with an insight rapher Gregg Toland is striking and and power matched by few directors effective. Ford always had an eye for before or since. "The Grapes of Wrath" composition, and it doesn't fail him will certainly endure as a snapshot of here, allowing for some truly wonderful its time, but beyond even that, it will shots -the camera, unfortunately, is endure as a testament to the resilience often static (it was, after all, the pre­and power of the human spirit. "Citizen Kane" days of complex camera movements), but the editing and fram­Contact Brian Doxtader at ing make up for any other cinematic bdoxtade@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April4, 2006 
MLB-AL 
Los Angeles reels in Mariners with late-inning smallball 
Angels bunt and steal their way to victory after Cabrera's single knocks in winning runs, K-Rod earns first save 
Associated Press times. "All of 2004. I was getting 
SEATTLE Orlando shot in the ankle after April. So Cabrera's two-run single in the this has been almost two years ninth inning lifted the Los since I felt anything remotely 
Angnlns Angnls past the Seattle close to this," Schilling said. Marinnrs Monday in the snason "This is what I was like in opnnnr. 2002." 
With tlw game tied 3-3, That year, Schilling won a rnlinver G!Hlrgn Slwrrill walked career-high 23 games and was Casny Kotehman. Jose Molina the runner-up in the NL Cy saerificnd pinch-runner Maieer Young Award voting to Arizona lzturis to SfH~ond and Tim teammate Handy Johnson for Salmon advaneed him to third the second straight year. on a groundout. Heliever J.J Schilling began last season l'utz walked Chone Figgins, the disabled list after surgery who stole second before to rnpair a tendon in his right Cabrera's two-run single for ankle (Hemember the bloody tlw Angels. sock in the 2004 World 
It was Los Angeles' first vic­Series?). Schilling bruised that tory since losing four straight ankle after coming back and games in thn ALCS to the White went on the DL another 2 1/2 Sox. Tho Angels had won the months before returning as a s1~ries opener. closer. lie went 8-8 with nine 
Scot Shields pitelwd 1 1-3 saves and a 5.69 EHA -more innings in relic!' for the victory. than two runs above his career 
Francisco Hodriguez earned mark. the save. giving up a solo homer to pinch-hitter Huberto Baltimore 9, Tampa Bay 6 l'ntaginn in the ninth. Petagine The Baltimore Orioles were had orw horner in 18 games supposed to be a better team last season with Boston. It was this season because of the his first major league season addition of esteemed pitching since 1998. coach Leo Mazzone. 
Kenji .Johjima, playing in the So what happened Monday? first major league game for a The Orioles put on their most .laparwso catcher, homered in prolific power-hitting display in the lil'th inning for Seattle. The 24 season openers since 1982, Mariners scored two more runs using a four-homer attack to that inning to tie the game at 3 beat thn Tampa Bay Devil on HB I singles by Yuniesky Hays. Betancourt and .Jose Lopez. Luis Matos and Melvin Mora 
Seattle loaded the bases with hit successive home runs in the as the Detroit Tigers' manager. out RBI single to Heggie The 15 runs were the most no outs in the sixth inning off fifth inning, and Miguel Tejada Hogers combined with two Sanders in the fourth. allowed by the A's on opening starter Bartolo Colon. but and Jeff Conine also connected relievers on a four-hitter, Chris Joel Zumaya made his major day, surpassing the 14 the reliever J.C. Homero, who for the Orioles, who hit an AL­Shelton homered twice and the league debut when he relieved Philadelphia A's gave up in a pitched the previous six sea­low 14 homers during spring Tigers began the season with a Rogers to start the seventh, 14-8 loss to the Washington sons in Minnesota, struck out training. victory over the Kansas City giving up a leadoff walk and Senators on April 17, 1945. Jeremy Heed, got Betancourt to "We basically have a veteran Royals on Monday. Doug Mientkiewicz's two-out Hideki Matsui homered on lly out and lchiro Suzuki to hit bunch of players, so they know Carlos Guillen also homered single, but he escaped when opening day for the second into a force play. what to do once the light for the Tigers, and Fernando he got Berroa to ground into a straight year, hitting a three­
switch goes on," hitting coach Rodney got the save in his first forceout. run shot in the fourth. He fin­Boston 7, Texas 3 Terry Crowley said. ''I'm very game as closer in place of ished with four hits and four 
Big Papi and the Boston Hed happy with the outcome today." injured Todd Jones. New York 15, Oakland 2 HBis. Sox certainly like having the For good reason. The Orioles Leyland, who replaced Alan Manager Joe Torre might be Damon doubled twice and "old" Curt Schilling back. batted .260 in spring training Trammell after last season, right about this Yankees line­hit' an HBI single in the second 
Looking as good as he said and went 14-for-36 (.389) on managed in the major leagues up being among the best he's to end an 0-for-16 streak on he felt, Schilling struck out five Monday. The four homers tied for the first time since he quit had. opening day as New York and allowed two runs over the team mark for an opener, the-Colorado Rockies in 1999. Alex Rodriguez hit a grand knocked A's ace Barry Zito out seven strong innings in set against Kansas City. Leyland started his profession­slam and drove in five runs, after 1 1-3 innings, the short­Boston's season-opening victo­It all added up to Baltimore's al baseball career in 1964 as a Johnny Damon drove in a run est outing of his career. Zito, ry over the Texas Hangers on sixth straight win on opening minor league catcher for the in his Yankees' debut, and tagged for seven runs and four 
.. Monday . day, and a memorable debut Tigers Randy Johnson exhibited the hits, was done after 59 pitches "I saw him pitching the last for first-year manager Sam Rogers left Texas after a dominant form he lacked for -the first time he hasn't last­game he pitched in spring Perlozzo. stormy season in which he was much of last season in a sea­ed two innings. training and it was obvious he ''I'm glad it's over with a W," suspended for 13 games after son-opening rout of the So much for a close game in was right back where he likes Perlozzo said. "It was a good shoving two television camera­Oakland Athletics on Monday this matchup of two teams to be," said David Ortiz, who day for all of us." men. The 41-year-old left-han­night. considered postseason con­was 3-l'or-5 with three HBis. "I Newcomer Hamon der gave up one run and three Rodriguez's 12th career tenders. Oakland general saw him making his pitches, Hernandez went 3-for-3 with a hits in six innings, struck out grand slam highlighted New manager Billy Beane knew his doing his thing. lie looked walk, and eight different play­five and walked none in his York's seven-run second team was in for a tough time groat to me." ers for the Orioles had at least first opening-day victory since inning that staked Johnson to starting the season against the Schilling said he was still one HBI. Hernandez had six 2000. . a big lead early. Johnson Yankees. strong after a 117 -pitch outing hits in spring training and bat­He faced the minimum nine allowed one run and five hits "It's like having calculus first in which he walked one and ted .167. batters through the first three in seven strong innings, an period," Beane said. "You are allowed only one extra-base innings, with a double play impressive 106-pitch perform­not real happy when the alarm hit, a two-run homer by Hank Detroit 3, Kansas City 1 wiping out Angel Berroa's ance for the 42-year-old lefty goes off, but by second period Blalock in the sixth inning. His Kenny Hogers helped get Jim third-inning infield single. to kick off his second season it's already over and you are velocity was in the mid-90s at Leyland a win in his first game Rogers gave up a tying, two-with the Yankees. running off to wood shop." 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED  FoR RENT  
Nanny to care for our toddler. Full  WALK TO SCHOOL  
time weekdays during summer. Part  2-6 BEDROOM HOMES  
time or full time in the fall. Previous  
experience required. Fax resume or  MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408  
letter to 574-251-1898.  
3,4,5,6 bedroom homes.  
Web site:mmmrentals.com  
FoR SALE  Contact:Gary 574-993-2208 or  
grooms @ourwebspot.net  
4 bdrm/2bth newly remodeled  
house near campus. $87,000. 220·  4 bdrm/2 bth house near campus.  
8666.  $1350. 220-8666.  

1.5 blks to NO -626 Peashway. Very nice. clean newly painted & carpeted, 2 bdrm brick ranch 1 blk. west of new IU Medical Ed.Ctr. Large living room. 2 large bdrms, large closets, one full bath, large kitchen & 1-car attached garage. Private, fenced-in backyard,quiet & safe area. Neighborhood ordi­nances apply. $1125/mo. 574-272­9944 or 574-272-4796 eve. 
1-bdrm apt. $400 + utilities. A!C,security system, fenced yard, carpeted, laundry, on bus route. No smoking or pets, lease deposit required. 574-289-9365. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Looking for lodging for home foot­ TOP DOLLAR PAID FOR YOUR  
ball games? Call 574-276-8417 for  FOOTBALL SEASON TIX.  Pluto: You are a big, fat liar in need  
details.  of a smack down. See ya soon.  
PLEASE CALL 277-1659.  Jupiter.  
Just 1 block from campus!  
For lease, 4 brand new 3 bedroom  NEW! http://ndrental.tripod.com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
condos ranging from $1500-$2200  not go it alone. If you or someone  
per month.  you love needs confidential support  
574-243-4554 ext.203. No utilities  THE BEST HOME IS NOW AVAIL­ or assistance. please call Sr. M.L.  
included.  ABLE FOR THE COMING  Gude, esc at 631-7819. For more  
SCHOOL YEAR  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
O.A.R. tix first 3 rows & James  IDEAL FOR 3-6 STUDENTS  THE OBSERVER.  
Taylor. Call  272-7233.  ALL THE AMENITIES 2773097  
Happy 21st Birthday John!ll  
TICKETS  PERSONAL  Adam Dunn likes to drop fly balls and make me wish we traded him  

Tuesday, April4, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB-NL 
Cincy rolls out Reds' carpet to President, Cubs hitters 
Bush throws ceremonial first pitch in pro baseball's oldest home; Braves dodge late LA charge with Langerhans homer 
Associated Press Coming off consecutive 20-place and 48 to break Hank win seasons, Oswalt struck out Aaron's record. He's hit 81 off 
CINCINNATI -With another eight in eight innings, walked the Padres, his most against 16-run outburst, the Cubs one and allowed five hits to any team. showed they've mastered the win for the 13th time in 14 The crowd at Petco Park art of the fast start. decisions at home. booed Bonds every chance it 
Of course. finishing has Brad Lidge walked Jeremy got -during pre-game intro­always been this franchise's Hermida leading off the ninth, ductions, when he went to left problem. then struck out Miguel Cabrera field in the first inning, when 
Chicago rolled to its fourth and got the save when Mike he caught Dave Roberts' slic­straight opening day victory Jacobs grounded into a game­ing liner for the Padres' first Monday, 16-7 over a Cincinnati ending double play. out, when he came to bat lead­Reds team that could bring the Florida, with a major league­ing off the second, when he president to town but couldn't low payroll of about $15 mil­scored and even when he stop the Cubs' run of first­lion and six rookies in its start­chased down Adrian game success. ing lineup, couldn't generate Gonzalez's double in the sec­
Matt Murton homered in a any offense to support ond. live-run first inning, and Todd Dontrelle Willis, who held Walker singled home a pair of Houston hitless for the first 4 Colorado 3, Arizona 2 runs in a seven-run sixth that 2-3 innings but walked three No exciting walkoff homer sent most or the capacity and was removed after five this year. Only a soft ground­crowd to the exits on a windy, innings and 107 pitches. Josh ball that was every bit as satis­raw afternoon. Johnson was the loser in his fying for the Colorado Rockies. 
"It went better than we could first major league decision. A year after Clint Barmes hit have hoped," said Walker, who Houston managed just four a game-winning homer on was 3-for-4 with three RBis. hits off Willis, who was making opening day, the Rockies "The only thing I can think is his first opening-day start, and pulled out a dramatic win over that we did the same thing last three relievers. The only hit the Arizona Diamondbacks on year and dropped the next two Willis gave up was Willy Monday when Matt Holliday to Arizona." Taveras' two-out single in the dashed home on a grounder 
The Cubs set a franchise fifth. Willis then struck out and dived in ahead of the record for opening day runs in Lance Berkman. throw for the winning run in a 16-6 victory over Arizona Biggio started the rally that the 11th inning. last year, then wound up fin­led to the run when he doubled With one out, Holliday and ishing in fourth place in the NL into the left-field corner with pinch-hitter Jason Smith hit Central, right ahead of two outs in the seventh. It was back-to-hack singles off Jason Cincinnati. the 605th double of his career, Grimsley, putting runners at 
The Reds hadn't given up so tying Paul Molitor and Paul the corners for Brad Hawpe, many runs on opening day Waner for 10th place. who grounded softly to first since '77-1877, that is, in a baseman Conor Jackson. 24-6 loss to Louisville during San Diego 6, San Francisco 1 Jackson was playing in on the ninth before Chris Reitsma, Scott Rolen hit a grand slam the third month of Rutherford The only way Barry Bonds the grass and didn't grab the the seventh Atlanta pitcher, got and the St. Louis Cardinals' 
B. Hayes' presidency. got the ball out of the yard was ball cleanly out of his glove. the final out. potent offense pounded out 17 
"In the sixth inning, it didn't by bouncing a ground-rule That split second was all hits in the victory. seem like anything went our double. Holliday needed to slide head­Milwaukee 5, Pittsburgh 2 Rollins was 0-for-3 with a way," manager Jerry Narron Not so for Mike Piazza and first across the plate before the At 36, Jeff Cirillo has trans­sacrifice fly before he lined a said. "It was a nightmare Khalil Greene, who homered to throw got to catcher Chris formed himself into the wise shot off Adam Wainwright inning for anybody. You don't lead the defending NL West Snyder. veteran who tries to stay down the right-field line. like to see that happen to any­champion San Diego Padres to "I rushed it a little bit," young by occasionally hiking "If he had thrown a ball and body, especially your own a win over Bonds and the San Jackson said. "I couldn't get a up his socks or blowing chew­I couldn't get to it, I wouldn't team." Francisco Giants on Monday. good grip on it. It was a bang­ing-gum bubbles at home have swung," Rollins said 
President George W. Bush Piazza homered in his first bang play, a 50-50 shot. We plate. about swinging with a 3-0 threw a ceremonial pitch at at-bat with the Padres in the had talked about it right before He's also become the guy the count. "I wasn't going to give the invitation of new Reds second inning and Greene hit a that if it was a ball to me, I Milwaukee Brewers turn to the at-bat away." owner Bob Castellini, one of two-run shot into the second was going home no matter when they need a big hit to Chris Carpenter pitched five his former ownership partners deck in left -practically over what. If he was staying I was­beat the Pittsburgh Pirates on effective innings for the win, in the Texas Rangers. No cur­Bonds' head -in the sixth. n't going to turn two. I knew I opening day. though he wasn't as sharp as rent president had ever thrown Greene finished with three was going home the whole Cirillo delivered a pinch-hit, he was most of last season, an opening day pitch in RBis. way, I just couldn't get it quick two-run single in the seventh when he went 21-5 and won Cincinnati. Bonds did come out swing­enough." inning and Milwaukee won the NL Cy Young Award. 
ing, driving the first pitch he Monday, spoiling Jim Tracy's Carpenter allowed four runs Houston 1, Florida 0 saw from ace Jake Peavy into Atlanta 11, Los Angeles 10 debut as Pittsburgh's manager. and nine hits. 
The Astros began the defense center field leading off the sec­When Ryan Langerhans "Even with opening day of their first National League ond, missing a homer by about homered to open the eighth being what it was, I was very New York 3, Washington 2 title with a shutout. 20 feet. The ball bounced over inning, just about everyone at calm, very relaxed," said With Billy Wagner looming in 
Roy Oswalt and Brad Lidge the fence into the Padres' Dodger Stadium believed all it Cirillo, who homered and dou­the bullpen, the New York Mets combined on a five-hitter, bullpen. Bonds scored on did was provide the Atlanta bled in last season's opening­are going to be tough to catch Craig Biggio doubled and Lance Niekro's two-out single. Braves with another run in a day victory at Pittsburgh. in the late innings. scored on Joe Borowski's wild Under investigation by base­one-sided victory. Cirillo's tiebreaking single Especially if they get this pitch in the seventh inning, ball for alleged steroid use, It turned out to be the differ­Monday came off Damaso kind of help from the umpires. and Houston beat the Florida Bonds entered the season with ence on opening day. Marte, the winning pitcher in Tom Glavine outpitched Marlins and new manager Joe 708 homers, needing seven to Adam LaRoche and Andruw Game 3 of last year's World Livan Hernandez in a matchup Girardi Monday night. pass Babe Ruth for second Jones hit three-run homers off Series for the Chicago White of World Series MVPs, new­
Derek Lowe to stake Atlanta to Sox. comer Xavier Nady went 4-for­a big lead Monday, and the Brewers manager Ned Yost 4 and David Wright homered Braves held on to beat the summoned Cirillo from the to help New York edge the Dodgers to spoil manager bench with runners on second Washington Nationals Monday. Grady Little's debut and disap­and third and one out. "Our defense and pitching point a turnout of 56,000 -"I put him up there with the carried us today," new first the largest single-game regu­intent of him winning the baseman Carlos Delgado said. lar-season crowd in Dodger game," Yost said. "You know, Alfonso Soriano certainly Stadium history. he's had such a great spring looked competent in his first 
"When I hit it, that was the for us, he's such a veteran-type game as a major league out­furthest thing from my mind -player who really is comfort­fielder -and he was the play­that that would be the run that able in those situations." er thrown out at the plate held up," said Langerhans, when Tim Tschida missed a who hit Franquelis Osoria's St. Louis 13, Philadelphia 5 key call in the eighth inning. first pitch over the right field Down eight runs with four With the Nationals trailing by fence. "The first three at-bats, outs left, Jimmy Rollins wasn't one, Soriano singled leading I was a little jumpy. He got a looking for a walk with his hit­off and -with none out -was two-seamer up I could hit. I ting streak on the line. curiously waved around third was just happy to have a good Rollins kept up his pursuit of by coach Tony Beasley on Ryan swing, hit one out of the park Joe DiMaggio's major league Zimmerman's double into the on opening day." record 56-game hitting streak left-field corner. 
The Braves, beginning their with a double off a 3-0 pitch in Jose Reyes' accurate relay 
AP quest for a 15th straight divi­the eighth inning, but it was throw to the plate beat a div­sion championship, led 11-5 the lone bright spot for the ing Soriano, but replays after Langerhans' homer. The Philadelphia Phillies in their showed new catcher Paul Lo Dodgers scored three in their season opener on Monday. Duca juggled and dropped the half of the eighth and two in Albert Pujols homered twice, ball after applying the tag. 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2006 
LPGA 
Webb wins seventh major in whirlwind finish 
A birdie putt on the 18th hole in a playoff put the career Grand Slmn winner atop Ochoa and ended a two-year drought 
Associa1cd Press 
HANCIIO MIHACE. Cali!'. Karrin Wnhh knpt putting in tlw work on tho prarticn ran~n without 11V1~r s1wing rnsults on the golf course. dnsporato to rodiseovnr Hw joy of winning a major. 
Sho onr.n ruled women's golf, winning tlw earner Grand Slam q uickor than anyone, oven Tig1w Woods. 
The only thing that felt uncomfortable was the fame. 
"I didn't really, really enjoy winning and what comes with that," sho said. "And that's why I was probably trying so hard. I wanted to feel this again, and IHljoy it and really appreciato it." 
II or s e von t h major carne when she least expected it Sunday in the Kraft Nabisco Championship. 
And it was an experience likn no othor. 
Wnbb enwrged an unlikely wimH~r aftnr a whirlwind finish at Mission llills when she made a 7 -foot birdie putt on the 18th holo in a playoiT to boat Lorena Ochoa. ending a two-ynar drought without winning. 
It began with one of the most drarnatk shots over struck in a major, when Webb's pitching wedge from 116 yards on tho par-5 dosing hole to an island in the first n1t for eagle. 
She took wedge, not putter, and had the pin rernoved. Wie wanted the win. 
"Obviously, I was thinking I could make it," Wie said. 
lnstnad, her chip eamB out hot and rolled 10 feet by the cup, a putt she needed for birdie to force a playofT. 
Gulbis' birdie putt never had much of a chance, and she had to settle for a 68. 
Back to Wie, who hit what she thought was the perfect putt. It ran slow and true toward the lnft edge of the cup, but instead of diving into the hole, caught the left lip and spun a way. Wie crouched in disbelief, holding the hands over her head as she came up one shot short of a playoff. She shot 70. 
That left it to Ochoa, who had gone from a three-shot lead at the start of a sunny afternoon to a two-shot deficit, another chapter in her growing legacy of being unable to finish the deal. 
'Not this time. She made the eagle putt for 72 and headed for a playofT. 
"I thought, 'I can't believe I have to play a hole after doing that,"' Webb said of her eagle on the 72nd hole. "It took me 15 minutes to calm down." 
And it took her only a little longer to earn the privilege of 

green covered the flag, trickled into tho cup for eagle and gave hnr a 7-under 65. 
"My hoart just about jumped out of my chest," she said. 
It pounded even more when she was finished rngulation at 'J-under 279. 
Webb was one shot ahead of 16-year-old Michelin Wie and 23-year-old Natalie Culbis. with Lorena Odwa sm~mingly out of the picture after a back-nine collapse in tho rough. 
llore's how the f'inal hole unfolded: 
+ 
Culbis laid up short of the green and hit wedge to 18 feet, giving hnr a good chance at her fourth birdie in the final six holes to force a playofT.

+ 
Ochoa needed eagle, so she went after the l'lag with a 5­wood. It deared the water and began rolling toward the cup. the cheers rising until the ball stoppml 6 font away. 

+ 
Win hit her best drive undor the most intense pres­sure she felt all day, leaving hnr 200 yards away. She smoked a 5-iron that hit tlw green, but instead of rolling down a ridge toward tlw hole, went over the green and curled toward the water until settling 25 feet away 





go head-to-head six ynars ago, with the 31-year-old Australian winning most of the major bat­tles. Webb retooled her swing with Ian Triggs. and didn't have much to show for it. 
She had not won a major since the 2002 Women's British Open at Turnberry. 


jumping into the pond, a tradi­tion at this tournament. 
Webb went over the green with a 3-wood and flopped a nice pitch to 7 feet. After Ochoa ran her chip some 15 feet by the cup and missed, Webb holed her birdie putt on the first extra hole. 
How to explain it all? 
"Destiny, definitely," she said. 
Defending champion Annika Sorenstam never got to first base in her annual pursuit of the Grand Slam. She closed with a 70 to tie for sixth, one shot behind Juli Inkster (68). 
Sorenstam and Webb used to 
Information Session for University of Notre Dome's International Study Program in 
Dublin, Ireland Summer 2007 
Tuesday, April 4 5;30 pm 11 7 Hayes Healy with Seona MacReamoinn, USIT 
www.nd.edu/-intlstud 

--------· ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
CLUB SPORTS 
Cyclists ride Lavery's perfor:rnance to victory at Purdue 
Volleyballers qualifyfor nationals after upending three top-15 teams; women's water polo outfights Illini, falls to Spartans 
Special to The Observer posting the fastest time by fourth in walk-trot, Hayden 
almost 30 seconds and taking Piscal was fifth in novice 
Mike Lavery, Matt Prygoski, home another team victory. fences, and Brittany Gragg and Tim Campbell and Andy Steves In Sunday's Criterium, Steves Piscal were fourth and sixth, represented the Notre Dame raced in the 45-minute Men's respectively, in novice flat. cycling club at Purdue this C race, staying near the lead Lauren Derosiers qualified for weekend in individual and riders for the entire time. On Regionals in both intermediate team time trials Saturday and the last lap Steves moved to fences and intermediate flat, a criterium Sunday. the front, and with 400 meters but did not advance. 
It was one of the most suc­to go, sprinted away to his sec­cessful events ever for the ond victory of the season. Women's Ice Hockey Irish, as Lavery, team captain, Lavery, Prygoski and The Irish ended their season bested the field by 50 seconds Campbell raced in the Men's B by taking two of three games to claim 11rst place. The Irish race two hours later. Lavery in Chicago over the weekend. also captured first in the team got himself into an early three­The Irish split a pair of games event and took a first and a man breakaway, while with Northwestern, winning 6­second in the criterium. Prygoski and Campbell stayed 3 Friday before dropping a 4-2 
The time trial course in the main pack, working to contest on Saturday, The team Saturday was a 10.25-mile slow the pace in Lavery's favor. then defeated a women's club out-and-back style course, With two laps to go, heavy team, Chicago Frozen with a climb to the turn rain set in, and Lavery and Snappers, by an 8-0 score around point, and strong another rider in the break­later that day. crosswinds. Riders were sent away slid out in a corner and In Friday's contest, the Irish out on 30-second intervals for crashed. Thanks to a com­broke a scoreless tie 29 sec­their solo race against the manding lead on the main o.nds into the second period. clock. The Men's C Time Trial field, both riders were able to Senior co-captain Holly Law went off first. Steves, a fresh­remount their bikes, and assisted fellow senior co-cap­man, rode hard and took ninth Lavery was able to ride on to a tain Jacky Kehler, who scored place, adding to his growing second-place finish. off a shot to the upper left cor­tally of NCAA points. In the ner of the net. Kehler capital­Men's B, Prygoski and Equestrian ized on a rebound off a shot Campbell brought home third Equestrians Molly Schmiege, from Law later in the period to and 14th place times in the 40-Alie Minnis, Heather LaDue notch her second goal of the man race. Lavery had the and Alisha Wilkinson qualified game, as Mindy Stack blanked strongest ride of the day, post­for Zones at this weekend's the Wildcats in the second ing the fastest Men's B time by IHSAA Regionals. The four rid­period. 50 seconds and taking his first ers will next compete at Northwestern scored twice in NCAA victory. Purdue this Sunday. the first two minutes of the · 
The afternoon brought Schmiege took first in inter­third period to tie the game stronger wins and colder tem­mediate fences, with Caitlin before freshman Lauren Beuke peratures as Notre Dame lined Landuyt fourth and Julia scored unassisted for the Irish. up for the four-man team time Burke fifth. LaDue and Amy Wilhelmy added an insur­trial on the same course. Wilkinson claimed a one-two ance goal, and after · Steves and Campbell fell off finish in walk-trot-canter, and Northwestern scored to close after the turn, leaving Lavery Minnis finished second in open to within one goal, Law and and Prygoski as the two riders flat, with Kelsey Ostberg in Beuke both found the net to required to finish in order to sixth. Ostberg also finished secure the win. post a time. Once again, the third in open fences. On Saturday, Notre Dame Irish proved their strength, Courtney Hofman finished scored early in the first period 
Got 3 weeks?· Get 3 credits! 
Get summer credits ... and still have a summer break. 
Saint Mary's offers an intensive three-week summer session that lets you get the credits-and the break-you need! The Saint Mary's summer session offers courses in a variety of topics including Native American literature, human anato11Jy, ceramics, Is~, rpysi?, dance, theatre, business, and ~any others. , '+1...~· ":1. .. i. i• ••••·. .: ..~, .. 
Interested 1n study abroadtlitssummei'? Travetopportumt1es to Korea and 
Applications will be accepted 

with a goal from freshman Margaret Knoedler, assisted by junior Hannah Starner and Wilhelmy, but Northwestern answered back quickly. After a scoreless second period, Northwestern drew first blood in the third 
Beuke scored to tie the game, ,but the Wildcats soon took the lead again. The Irish pulled their goalie in the last minute of the game for the opportunity to tie the score, but Northwestern gained con­trol of the puck and had an open-net goal with 30 seconds remaining to win 4-2. 
In their second game of the day, the Irish came out strong against the Frozen Snappers women's team. The already fatigued Irish squad was strug­gling against the physical play from the Snappers, but Beuke, with her fourth goal of the weekend, put the Irish up 1-0 during the first period. 
Notre Dame's Julia LaPointe took advantage of a power play, scoring the only goal of the second period to put the Irish ahead 2-0. Notre Dame's strong offense dominated the entire third period, putting six more goals on the scoreboard for the Irish. Knoedler had a hat trick in the third period, and Law, Beuke and Kehler each had a goal. Freshman defender Liz Lefebvre record­ed two assists and solid defen­sive play. 
Irish goalie Stack, with con­sistent play and several spec­tacular stops in the first and third periods, withheld the efforts of the Snappers to earn a shutout. The final score was 8-0. 
Men's Volleyball 
Notre Dame traveled to Sheboygan, Wis. for the Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association tourna­ment to take on the top teams in the Midwest and qualify for Nationals in April. After vault­ing into the Top-25 rankings, the Irish were motivated to prove they belonged among the nation's elite. 
During pool play on Saturday, the No. 21 Irish were up against some of the strongest opponents of the season. In the early morning, Notre Dame took on No. 15 Minnesota. 
In this first match, the Irish were determined to set the tempo for the day and the rest of the tournament. Quickness and intensity carried Notre Dame to upset the Golden Gophers 25-22, 25-21. 
Next on their schedule was the fifth-ranked Fightin' Illini. The Irish and Illini had split matches already this season, but behind solid passing and consistent attacks, the Irish stunned the Illini in a quick 25-21, 25-20 victory. 
Notre Dame continued pool play against Bowling Green State. The Irish won 27-25, 25-14 to go on a three-game winning streak. With this win, Notre Dame clinched second place in its pool behind No. 2 Lakeland College, which previ­ously defeated the Irish in February. 
After a mental letdown against Ohio Northern, the Irish finished the day with a 3­1 record and earned a first­round bye in the gold bracket. 
Their first opponent was the Flames of the University of Illinois-Chicago. Although sluggish throughout the match, the Irish were able to defeat the Flames 25-20, 25-21. Advancing to the quarterfinals, the Irish faced conference rivals No. 8 Marquette. In February, Marquette defeated Notre Dame in two close matches. 
Be-hind aggressive serving from Dan Zibton and Drew Williams, the Irish easily took the first game 25-18. Marquette tried to make adjustments to help its cause, but with every strategic move the Golden Eagles made, the Irish had a counterattack. With perfect passing and defense from Frank (Ryan) Dax, the Irish rolled on to a 26~24 victory, topped off by an eight-footline bounce by junior James Foresman. 
For the second straight tour­nament, Notre Dame advanced to the semifinal match to face No. 1 OW-Oshkosh again. 
In both previous matches against the Titans, the Irish fell behind early and lost. On Sunday afternoon, however, the Irish did not let that hap­pen again. 
In the first game, the Irish jumped ahead to a 5-1 lead, which they held for most of the game behind accurate passing and smart offensive attacks. The Titans finally caught up to the Irish and tied the game 21­21, going on to defeat the Irish 25-21. 
Game two played out much like the first, as the score was tied at 11-11 when the Titans put together a mini run to go up 15-11. 
From there, the Irish played catch-up. Unfortunately, the Irish lost a tough second game 25-19. 
Notre Dame finished the tournament with a 5-2 record and upset victories over the No. 15 Minnesota, No. 8 Marquette, and No. 5 Illinois, ending up in third place. It marks the best finish Notre Dame has ever had at the MIVA Championship tourna­ment. 
Senior Ryan Goes was recog­nized as an All-Conference Team Honorable Mention. This is the first time Goes has been recognized to the All­Conference Team and the first Notre Dame player to do so in the last two seasons. 
The Irish finish their season in Salt Lake City, Utah over Easter in Nationals, competing against the top 50 teams in the nation. The Alumni Club of San Diego hosted the rowers and coach. 
Women's Water Polo 
The Notre Dame water polo club competed at Miami University (Ohio) this weekend against several top-10 teams. 
On Friday night they played the Illinois Illini, winning deci­sively, 9-6. The Irish opened play Saturday with a 9-2 loss to top-ranked Michigan State. The club then beat Purdue, 11­
6. The Irish ended their week­end Sunday losing to Northwestern, 9-7. 
The Irish look to avenge this loss to the Wildcats this week­end at Rolfs Aquatic Center. Notre Dame will also host Wisconsin. 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 18 
NBA Standings 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division tnam rPcord pd. GB New Jersey 44·28 .611 
Philadelphia 34·38 .472 10 Boston 30-43 .411 14.5 Toronto 26-47 .356 18.5 New York 19-53 .264 25 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
tnam rPcord pet. GB 
Detroit 459·14 .808 Cleveland 44·29 .603 15 Milwaukea. 37-36 .507 22 Indiana 35·37 .486 23.5 Chicago 33·40 .452 26 

Eastern Conference, Southeast Division loam r·nnwd peL CB 
Miami 48·25 .658 Washington 37·35 .514 10.5 Orlando 29·44 .397 19 Atlanta 22·50 .306 25.5 Charlotte 20-54 .270 28.5 

Western Conference, Northwest Division Inam record pd. GB Denver 41·33 .554 
Utah 35-38 .479 5.5 Minnesota 31-42 .425 9.5 Seattle 30·43 .411 10.5 Portland 20-53 .274 20.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
to/UTI rncord pet. GB Phoenix 49·24 .671 LA Clippers 42-30 .583 6.5 LA lakers 40-35 .533 10 Sacramento 38-36 .514 11.5 Golden Slate 30-42 .417 18.5 

Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
San Antonio 57-16 .781 Dallas 55·19 .743 2.5 Memphis 42-32 .568 15.5 New Orleans 35-37 .486 21.5 Houston 32-41 .438 25 
NCAA Women's Softball Big East Conference 
tHam conf. overall 
NOTRE DAME 4·0 18-10 USF 4·0 32-18 Pittsburgh 7-1 23-12 Syracuse 7-1 18·14 Louisville 3·1 23-5 DePaul 3·1 14·9 Providence 4-4 19-8 Connecticut 4·4 14·15 Sl. John's 3·5 20·16 Rutgers 1-7 6·25 Seton Hall 1·7 16-20 Villanova 0·8 6·23 

around the dial 
NBA Philadelphia at Cleveland, 7 p.m., NBATV Sacramento at Dallas, 8:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL Philadelphia at New York Rangers, 7 p.m., OLN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Game, set, match -and a cham­pionship, too -for Joakim Noah and the Florida Gators . 
The tennis star's son dominated UCLA with 16 points. nine rebounds and a record six blocks Monday night to key a 73­57 blowout for Florida's first national title in bas­ketball. 
The championship for Billy Donovan's team comes 10 years after Steve Spurrier led the Gators to a title in that "other" sport. Spurrier is long gone, and the days of Florida being only a foot­ball school appear to be, too . 

For 40 lopsided minutes, the Gators (33-6) were too big, too long and too quick for UCLA. which came up a win short of its 12th national title on a night when legendary coach John Wooden watched from a hospital bed in LA after being admitted for an undisclosed illness that was said not to be serious. 
Florida and Noah won by putting on a thorough dis­play of versatility and unselfishness, a trademark of this team all season. 
The Bruins (32-7) were on a defensive tear coming 
IN BRIEF 
Maryland women excited 
to pfay in Final Four 
BOSTON -During Maryland's last visit to this city, for a regular-season game against Boston College, coach Brenda Frese took her team on a surprise bus trip. 
The destination was undisclosed. 
The players were puzzled. 
But when they unloaded at the new Boston Garden, the site of the NCAA women's Final Four, the message was clear. 
"If you want to come back here. the next time will be for the Final Four," Maryland guard Shay Doron recalled on Monday. a day before the Terrapins play Duke for the NCAA title. "That feeling was unbelievable. You just want to get back here no matter what." ' 
Maryland (33-4) reached the title game by beating top-ranked North Carolina in the semi!inals Sunday ­its second victory this year over the Tar Heels. a team no one else beat even once. 

into the championship game, shutting down LSU's Glen Davis in the semifi­nals and allowing a total of 90 points in the last two games. Florida, though, was just too much to han­dle. 
Noah capped it ofT with a monster dunk with 1:09 left. When the buzzer sounded, he laid flat on his back at halfcourt and let the confetti rain on him. His teammates were in a pile a few feet away and Donovan was sharing hugs with his longtime assistant Anthony Grant. 
The Gators won this by taking it right to UCLA early, looking to Noah, Corey Brewer and senior Adrian Moss down low, making the extra pass in the key and finishing with 21 assists, 10 of them from their frontcourt 
The scrappy junior Lee Humphrey, the only non­sophomore in Florida's starting five, spotted up for a couple open looks against a collapsing defense early in the second half. 
Humphrey's first 3, 80 seconds into the half. gave Florida a 39-25 lead and forced Howland to call timeout. A sloppy offensive possession ensued, then Humphrey came back with another 3. 

Average MLB ticket prices
havensen Get ready to pay more to go out to the ol' ballgame this year. 
Baseball ticket prices are up an average of 5.4 percent, and the Boston Red Sox have the highest average for the ninth straight sea­son. 
Tickets in the major leagues aver­age $22.21, the Team Marketing Report said Monday, up from a revised average of $21.08 last year. The NFL averaged $58.95 last year, the NBA $45.92 this season and the NHL $41.19. 
"From the standpoint of family entertainment, baseball remains very affordable compared against comparable entertainment," said Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operat­ing officer. 
"MLB is a special, but fairly priced, family fare." 
Boston, which has the smallest major league ballpark, hiked its ayerage 4.3 pP.rcent to $46.46. 
French Open to award 
female1 male champions samepnze 
PARIS -The French Open will otTer equal prize money to the men's and women's champions for the first time. 
Each champion will receive $1.13 million, the FrP.nch Tennis Federation said Monday. 
"We're following the evolution of tennis," said Stephane Simean, the federation official in charge of prize money. "On the women's side, there has been a very positive changP., with the arrival of many new stars." 
Wimbledon remains the only Grand Slam tournament that pays the men's winner more than the women's champion. 
The U.S. and Australian Opens have offered equal prize money for years. 
"Once upon a time, thern were only three or four dominant women," Simean said. "Now. there are 10 to 15 who can vie for a Grand Slam." 
Tuesday, April 4, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Two for Tuesday matchup 
Belles make up game against Robert Morris playing doubleheader 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Spans Writer 
The Belles take on Robert Morris today in a resched­uled doubleheader at 4:30 
p.m. The game was cancelled last Tuesday, March 28, because of poor field condi­tions. Saint Mary's is coming off a strong showing Saturday when they swept Adrian 5-0 and 7-0. 
Hobert Morris traveled to Lebanon, Ill. this weekend for the two-day McKendree College Tournament. 
The Lady Eagles lost both of their games Saturday falling 3-1 to Williams Baptist College and 8-3 to the University of Illinois, Springfield. Their two games on Sunday were cancelled because of rain. 
Robert Morris (11-9) is ranked second in the games." The Belles will try to come Chicagoland Collegiate The Belles will once again out prepared in the same Athletic Conference (CCAC) look to the guidance from way today turning to strong with a 4-0 conference record. Grall as well as freshman defense from pitchers Grall · The Belles step on the field pitcher Kristin Amram. and Amram. The two will today with a 12-4 record Amram struck out twelve at look to shut down the Lady overall and the confidence the plate, nearing her record Eagles as they did of Adrian from two solid wins on thirteen. on Saturday. Saturday. Senior Bridget Head coach Erin Sullivan Gajor said that the team Grall threw her first career said that her team came into was on target both defensive­no-hitter and dominated from the game against Adrian pre­ly and offensively Saturday. behind the plate as well. pared both physically and They will look to bring this 
"Her pitching was out­mentally. combination again as they standing as she threw a no­"The team came out ready search for their 13th and hitter the first game," senior to play," Sullivan said. "Even 14th wins. Audrey Gajor said. "But she in tough conditions, and also really came through at [they] never backed down Contact Deirdre Krasula at the plate as well in both offensively." dkrasula@nd.edu 

REV. ROBERT A. SIRICO 
Founder and President The Acton Institute 
www.acton.org 
"Can a Rich Man Go To Heaven?" 
Wednesday, AprilS, 2006 4:00p.m.· 5:00p.m. 
Mendoza College of Business Jordan Auditorium 
Reception following in Potenziani Atrium 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles illlprove MIAA record vvith 8-1 victory 
much."
Team rebounds from 
Picking up wins for the Saint weekend loss, raises Mary's in singles were No. 1 Kristen Palombo, No. 2 Kellyleague record to 3-1 McDavitt, No. 4 O'Brien, No. 5 Melissa Dingler and No. 6 Grace Gordon. All of the play­By GREq ARBOGAST ers needed only two sets to 
Spans Writer complete their matches. 
In doubles action, the teams 

Saint Mary's returned to the of McDavitt and Calie Mulcahy, winner's circle Monday after­Palombo and Gordon and noon as it O'Brien and Mary defeated confer­Elizabeth Campbell ence foe Alma 7 think we're swept the competi­by the convinc­tion as they all won
happy with how we 
ing score of 8-1. their matches in
played on
The win puts just two sets. the Belles over­Monday." The team admit­all record at 8-6 ted that it was still and improves feeling the effects of 
Tara O'Brien 
their record to its two matches this 
Saint Mary's junior 
3-1 in the past weekend, but Michigan the Belles were Intercollegiate Athletic able to turn that fact into a pos­Association (MIAA). After open­itive. ing the season with conference "We were all still lagging a lit­victories over Olivet and tle from this weekend as well as Adrian, Saint the long car ride Mary's lost its to Alma, so it was first conference really good to see
"[l]t was really good 
match last week that we can still
to see that we can
against Hope. win even when we Monday after­still win even when don't have our 'A' noon, the Belles game," Palombo
we don't have our :4' 
looked more said.
game.
like the team of Saint Mary's will their first two have little time to conference Kristen Palombo rest after matches. Saint Mary's co-captain Monday's match 
"I think we're as it has a home happy with how conference match we played on against Tri-State Monday," junior Tara O'Brien today at 3 p.m. Tri-State is 7-4 said. "Especially considering on the season. that we didn't play up to our potential, I think we did a real Contact Greg Arbogast at good job to beat Alma by so garbogas@nd.edu 
IUJ,er·a Notre Dame presents a scandal ofepic propnrit;,,n__ J 
April 7 and 8, 2006 
7:30 PM, WASHINGTON HALL 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Tickets ($5-10) available at LaFortune Box Office or by phone at (574) 631-81 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 
The Top 32 Teams of Bookstore Basketball 
1. 
UGot ABad Draw 

2. 
Jack's Shorts 

3. 
The Caged Bears 

4. 
Club Fever 

5. 
Clover Ridge Apartments 

6. 
What Would Jeremey Crouch Do 

7. 
Castle Point 

8. 
Bad Boyz 


10. 
Hannah's Storm 

11. 
KPMG 

12. 
The Saltines 

13. 
Rocco's Pizza 

14. 
Insurance Waivers 

15. 
Malicious Prosecution 

16. 
Jay Morris 

17. 
Finish Line 

18. 
Bookmakers 

19. 
We're Ron Burgundy? 

20. 
Sparkle Motion 

21. 
Linebacker Lounge 

22. 
Team Walk-On 

23. 
Huggie's Place 

24. 
The League of Shadows 

25. 
The Nickelodeon Moon Shoes 

26. 
Craig Fencing 27, Indian Peaks 


28. 
Taking a Paige Out of the Playbook 

29. 
PC Load Letter 

30. 
Two of us are dating 

31. 
team god shamgod 

32. 
Overrated 


Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
nated marketing, team regis­
tration. ranking the top 32 
teams and placing each entry 
into a bracket. 
In addition to the fun of the tournament, there is a loftier goal -raising money for the charity JumpBall. 
"For the last few years in Bookstore Basketabll. all the proceeds, the profits from the tournament have gone towards the JumpBall tournament," Maher said. "It's a charity organization in Jamaica whkh holds camps for underprivileged youth in t lw Jamaica area, mainly Kingston ... it gives kids an opportunity to build charac­ter. learn to play on a team, learn to be good solid leaders ­dedication and commitment." 
This year's tournament fea­tures a familiar top team -U Cot a Bad Draw, captained by Erie Laumann and led by Irish quarterbaek Brady Quinn and saldy Chi1wdum Ndukwe. Thn team feels confident about its chances this year, having never lost a game against eompdition, Quinn said. 
"We feel as if we are by far thn best team in the tourna­nwnt," Quinn said. "Last year the tournament was tainted. and this year we are going for blood." 
The team has talent in all aspeets of the game, especially size and speed. It boasts three Irish football players, with offensive lineman David Fitzgerald joining Ndukwe and Quinn as the three non-basket­ball athletes on the team. 
"Me and Chinedum go way back, and we knew we just wanted a big body in the post, and that ended up being David IFitzgerald I." Quinn said explaining his deeision to choose Fitzgerald. 
Hounding out the squad are Chris Devitt and Eric Laumann, two non-varsity athletes who Quinn lauds as the best in the school. 
Devitt and Laumann should 

The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2006 

not take their selection to U Got 
a Bad Draw lightly, as being the 
non-varsity athletes has spelled 
good things in the past. The 
most successful former 
Bookstore Basketball teammate 
of Quinn was Chris Murphy, now 
a walk-on player for the Notre 
Dame men's basketball team. 
"We del'initely work on improving the caliber of our teammates," Quinn said. "I take credit for Chris making the !var­sityI team because of his time playing with us." 
Although mueh of lhe lime­light has been on Quinn's squad, .one of' the great qualities of Bookstore Basketball is that it gives countless teams a chance lo win. 
"I decided to play Bookstore 
Funniest Names of Bookstore Basketball Pop culture, movie quotes, self-deprecation and everything in between 
+ 
We Shoot Like Dick Cheney (you should wear orange) 

+ 
Don't Cha Wish Your Girlfriend Was Hot Like Us 

+ 
We Lost ALot Of Good Men Out There 

+ 
Shawn Kemp Is My Daddy ... and his daddy ... and his daddy ... and his daddy ... and his daddy 

+ 
We Always Make It to Oregon Before You +Trying to Outscore Vince Young's Wonderlic Test 

+ 
Sending Kids to BC since 1842 

+ 
WEGOTABAD DRAW 

+ 
Adam Morrison's



because I wanted to experience that one shining moment," Mustache freshman Niek Trapp, captain of "The Saints of Fort Washington" + We Don't Pay 40 G's a said. 
Year to Lose in Bookstore

But despite hope for his team's success, Trapp remains Basketball realistic about the Saints' chances this year facing such a + We Could Go .500 in huge field. 
the Missouri Valley

"We have a lot of athletieism, but once ~e get into the later 
Conference 

rounds I think our lack of size 
+Top 5 Reasons Why

will end up hurting us against the better teams," he said. 
Admissions Is Flawed 
+ Google Maps are the

Kate Gales also contributed to 
this report. 
best, true that, double true 
+ Picked Last in Grade 

Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
School

jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
•

c?:--r/:Y3I /; 
liS. #IM811111118SI8111 1:8&111181 T81111iS 1:811181 :IBB• 
1188 88111 ll81118S 1-SIIItiS 18 1118 lltSI 11111 IBIISI 1188 Jjtlf111SSI811 
Irish S<>ftbCA11 

~~--~-~ "'"'''''·'·
.lAth
Tuesday, A ·
p~:1\l k'::, 

esday, April 5th 
vs. Eastern Michig 

vs.Akron
·ooubleHeildetf 

First Pitch @ 4:00pm
First Pitch @ 4;00pm 

Tuesday, April4, 2006 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Softball 
continued from page 24 
10 to raise their record to 16-13. The Eastern Michigan offense is led by Ashley Strauss, who is hitting .283 with 19 RBis. Strauss was named the MAC West's Player of the Week last week after belting three home runs, including a game-winning two run shot in extra innings to secure a victory over Northern Illinois April 1. 
"This year the team plays with a lot of intensity and fire," Notre Dame's Stephanie Brown said. "We have an extreme amount of talent." 
The Irish pitching staff will worked hard out there," said have its hands full with the Booth, who raised her record Eagles' offense, but starters to 7-6 on the season. Heather Booth and Brittney The Irish offense is coming 
Bargar  have  off  a  strong  
effectively shut down their com­petition so far  ..This year the team plays with a lot of  weekend per­formance at Ivy Field. The  
this season. Bargar was named the Big East's Pitcher of  intensity and fire. We have an extreme amount of  sluggers have put up 23 runs in their last four games  
the  Week  this  talent.''  including a 9-0  
week  after  win  against  
recording a no­hitter against Connecticut  Stephanie Brown Irish second baseman  Connecticut and an 8-0 win over Provi- 

Saturday. The dence. eight-inning shutout was the "We come to practice and first recorded in Notre continue to stay fresh on Dame's history. offense and defense," infield­
"She is a fighter and she er Sara Schoonaert said. "I 
think right now things are really gelling for us and we are having a lot of fun out there." 
Brown, Notre Dame's lead­off hitter, has been unstop­pable at home this season. The team had seven hits in 13 at bats including three home runs. 
The team will continue to look to the top of its batting order as well as a stingy defense to overcome the Eagles and move its home winning streak to seven. The streak dates back to a 7-3 win over Syracuse on May 1 of last season. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
At Ernst &Young you'll get the on-the-job training you need to succeed on your own. 
We know you're new to the work force. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young we're offering an opportunity to learn from some of the best talent in the industry. If you're looking for agreat start, look for us on campus. Or visit us on the Web at ey.com/usjcareers. We won't steer you wrong. 

NHL 
Avalanche takes lead in division 
Denver tops Chicago 4-3 in comeback win 
Associated Press 
DENVER -For 59 minutes, the Colorado Avalanche were on their way to a bad loss. The final 58 seconds of regulation changed all that. 
Dan Hinote and Rob Blake scored in the last minute, and the Avalanche moved within three points of the Northwest Division lead with a victory over the Chicago Blackhawks on Monday night. 
"This was big because we needed these points," Blake said. "I got a power play at the end and Danny made a strong move down the wall, put the puck to the net and it went in." 
Blake scored two goals and became the 17th NHL defense­man to score 200. Andrew Brunette added a goal, and Joe Sakic had three assists. 
Calgary lost one point off its division lead by falling in a shootout to Detroit at home Monday. Both the Flames and Avalanche have seven games remaining. Colorado will play its final three games on the road. 
"It was a tremendous sense of relief to see the last goal go in," Colorado coach Joel Quenneviile said. "We were thinking before if we could get it to overtime, then we get a free point and then we got a really lucky break after that." 
Curtis Brown, Patrick Sharp and Rene Bourque had goals for the Blackhawks, who are out of playoff contention. 
"We made a generous gift to them," goalie Nikolai Khabibulin said. "They really needed one and we gave it to them." 
Brown gave Chicago a 3-2 lead with 5:21 left in the third when he took a centering pass from Bourque from behind the net and sent a backhander over goaltender Peter Budaj's glove. 
But with 2:03 remaining, Michal Barinka was sent off for cross-checking. Blake tied it 3-3 at 19:03, sending the puck through a pileup in front of the net and past Kbabibulin. 
Hinote scored from a tough angle after Sakic had dumped the puck into Chicago's zone. Hinote skated along the right boards and sent a shot off the back of Kbabibulin's right pad and into the net with 12 sec­onds left. 
"I only get the lucky ones," Hinote said. "I knew there was about 15 seconds left so I just wanted to throw it to the net and maybe get a faceoff down there. I wasn't trying to score from there." 
"He's right," Khabibulin said of Hinote's goal. "That puck shouldn't go in. I'll take the blame for that one." 
Chicago outshot Colorado 9­6 in the first period and showed some grit after Khabibulin gave up a rebound goal to Blake at 5:09. Sakic's wrist shot was stopped but the puck bounced right to Blake, who tapped it in for his first of the night. 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 2006 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
against the Cougars Tuesday. 
"We might make a couple of ehangcs and givn some guys a chancn to play, not beeause we'rfl taking an opponent likely, but more because some of our guys have some nicks and bruises and we want to rnst them up," he said. 

One of those changes will be to start freshman Jeremy Barnes at shortstop instead of senior Greg Lopez. Barnes started at designated hitter Sunday against the Panthers and drove in the winning run in the ninth inning. 
Mainieri said that Lopez's starting spot is not in jeop­ardy, but he wants to get Barnes' bat into the lineup any way possible. 
"Lopez is a little sore and we want to rest him a little bit," Mainieri said. "I always felt that IBarnes] was a start­ing player and had the capa­bility to be one of our best hitters and all-around play­ers. The problem is that we had a full starting infield coming back and they're all good players." 

The Irish pitching staff has been a catalyst in Notre Dame's winning streak, throwing two shutouts and allowing a little over two runs per game over the seven contests. 
"When you look at our three weekend starters, Samardzija, Manship, and Thornton, I'd put them up against anyone in the coun­try," Mainieri said. "Then Wade Korpi has really emerged as a solid fourth starter. 
"I also like what I've seen out of our bullpen." 
The Cougars have struggled this season, going just 3-17, but almost upset Kansas State on the road March 28, falling 8-7. 
"Kansas State is one of the best teams in the country," Mainieri said. "[Chicago State) could be a very tough game." 
Ball State is 14-11 this year and 5-1 in the MAC. The Cardinals beat the Irish last year, 14-5, at Frank Eck Stadium. 
After the midweek games, Notre Dame will travel to Tampa, Fla., for a three­game Big East series against South Florida. The Bulls are new to the conference this season, and the Irish have only faced them once before, in South Bend in 2001. South 

An Irish infielder makes a play at first against Pittsburgh Saturday in a 4-3 victory. Notre Dame swept the Panthers in the three-game weekend series, extending its winning streak to seven games. 
Florida won that game, 6-1. Both the Chicago State and 
"We know they're going to Ball State games will begin at be tough, especially at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck home," Mainieri said of the Stadium. Bulls. "They're a Florida school and they've got good Contact Chris Khorey at players and a good coach." ckhorey@nd.edu 

May 16-June 17,2007 
vi' All returning ND & St. Mary's undergrads eligible vi' Study in London vi' Travel in Europe vi' Earn 6 credit hours vi' Still have 2 months of summer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2007 & 2008 Prograntmes: 

Drop in anytime • 11:45 to 12:35 P.M. or 5:00 to 6:00P.M. • 231 Hayes Healy HaJJ Applications are available at 223 Brownson HalJ or on-line at www.nd.edu/·-sumlon 
Tuesday, April4, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE and ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
A LOO'K INIO NOTP--t.. t>AME.. \N 20\'S ... 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JJ~ffilliJK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BEPOR 
t 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~~fl)
tBULJEM j 
WHAT THE: DR.IVE:R.5

J r
1 
DID IN THE: DE:MO­

www.jumbte.com 
LITION DE:R.BY.

IGOBUTHj 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rxx 
1 1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: ...
A ·1 I I xJ-ITJ" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BASSO TRAIT INCOME ADAGIOSaturday's 
I Answer: The exotic dancer quit because her paycheck was-TOO "MODEST' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Onetime Heathrow sight: 

1 Ones called to 
Abbr.

an accident, briefly 32 Former secretary of 
5 Pic 
state Powell 

9 Oval letter with 
33 Lumberjack's

a line through 
tool

the middle 
34 Holy Roman 

14 Italian money, 
emperor_ 

once 
the Great 15 Tramp 35 Occasionally 16 Autos, maybe, 39 Items split in 
after owners soup miss their 40 "Much payments About Nothing" 
17 Foul mood 41 Pipe attachment 18 Traitor Aldrich 
42 Author Rand 43 Nitewear 19 Hoover 44 Singer/actress competitor Kazan 46 Info supplier for 
20 Always 
a natl. security

23 Rules, for short 
briefing 24 Moines 
47 Couch 25 Chlorine or 48 Time that won't bromine come in all compound eternity 28 Be bedridden 55 Swindler's aide 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Ceremony 57 Get in over 
one's head? 58 Hi 59 Opposite of 
sans 60 Tag on a sale item 61 Provide, as with 
funds 62 Role 63 Dish with tuna 
and cheese 
DOWN 1 "Do it or !" 2_Cooper 
(car) 3 Math class before calc. 4 Clockmaker Thomas 5 Under a parasol, e.g. 6 Payment of 
respect 1 Takes orders a Coin action 9 Bricklayer's tool 
10 "_Johnny!" 11 Fencer's blade 
12 Clock sound 13 Query 21 Singer Lopez 22 "Farewell, mon 
ami" 25 Sweetheart 26 Highway through 
the Yukon 27 Tall tales 28 Rock's 
Rose 29 Popular vodka, informally 
31 Television knob 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 "Hottest spot  38 Water f;:om  49 Word repeated  
north of  France  before West  
Havana," in  43 Kind of talk  50 Snare  
song 33 Blood-typing  44 Opportunist of a sort  51 Cheese type  
system 34 Arabian  45 Influence  52 Workbench attachment  
sultanate 36 Holy Shi'ite city 37 Show  46 Bass's relative 47 Jewish mourning period  53 Demonic 54 What is left  
i nte rru pte rs  48 Not now  55"- Loves You"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amanda Bynes, 20; Jennie Garth, 34; Eddie Murphy, 45; Alec Baldwin, 48 
Happy Birthday: You'll be tom between what you want to do and what you must do. Stop fretting and prepare to put in extra hours. You have the discipline and the stamina to see matters through to the end this year. The more you do, the better you will feel. It's all about keeping the momentum flowing. Your numbers are 4, 17, 19, 23, 27, 33 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Talk about your plans and keep everyone in the loop who can contribute to what you are doing. A business trip will ensure you seal the deal you are working on. Love is looking good, so mix business with pleasure.**** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Money matters must be taken care of. If you owe someone or someone owes you, it's time to pay up or collect. You will do well if ­you engage in a little evening romance. Someone you meet today will give you something to think about.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will do really well today if you do your own work and don't trust anyone else with your ideas. You have what it takes to advance but someone is likely to try to take credit for your ideas. Take control. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have trouble differentiating between what you are supposed to be doing and what you are being told to do. Ask pointed questions so you don't make a mistake. Don't overspend trying to impress. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You willleam a lot from the people you are with today. Love is in the air and you should be able to hook up with someone special. A creative hobby will impress someone you want to get to know better. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Watch your back. Someone you least expect will do something to make you look bad. Refrain from getting angry --by remaining composed you will end up looking good. Rely on your knowledge and business savvy. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The more you juggle, the better you will do. You will have a good idea what will work and what won't and can impress people with the solutions you come up with. Love, romance and socializing are all in a high cycle. 
***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't let someone you are close to confuse you about what you can and can't do. Forge ahead with a creative project regardless of how much it pays. It's the end result that will count and bring you recognition.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are likely to confuse the people closest to you. Your unpredictability will leave everyone wondering what you'll do next. A chance to travel may entice you but it will probably tum out to be stressful.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An uncertainty at work will leave you wondering. You are.probably overreacting and should continue to go about your business incorporating new and interesting dimensions to your work. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take the initiative and follow through with your plans. It's when you become wishy-washy that you lose ground. Someone special will want to spend more time with you. Get involved in a new pastime. *** ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep things to yourself today. Someone is likely to steal your idea or try to take credit for your work. A disagreement with someone you love will escalate ifyou don't back down. * * 
-

Birthday Baby: You are dynamic, ingenious, creative and quick to take control of any situation you face. You are a doer who is compassionate, caring and willing to bend over backwards for others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Tuesday, April 4, 2006 page 24 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXV 
Hoping for history 
The world's largest outdoor five-on-five basketball tournament tips off today 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
The coming of spring in South Bend has brought the return of a unique Notre Dame tradition -Bookstore Basketball. 
The tournament this year fea­tures 56H teams, a drop from last year's field of over 600 in the largest 5-on-5 tournament
• 
in thn world. 
Executive commissioner Luke Maher attributed this drop in part to team registration coin­eiding with spring brnak. 
"It took a lot of momentum out of our marketing cam­paign," Maher said. "We learnnd from that for sure." 
Since last year's tournament concluded, Maher has been 
Anthony Travel relied on defense
working with the logistieal chal­lenges of such a large event. 
in last year's title game, while the
With executive board members Dan Carey, Christine fledge, 
men's side featured sharp shooting.
Brandon MacLeod, .Jim Hodgers, Patriek Schafer and Mary Sullivan, he has eoordi­
• 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY 
NO SoFTBALL 
Streaking Eagles to face Irish 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continues its home schedule tonight with a doubleheader against Eastern Michigan. The Irish arc undefeated 
at home after a 4­0 start, and hope to main­tain their perfect record t h i s weekend 

a g a i n s t Bargar 
confer­ence foes Connecticut and Providence. 
The Eagles come into South Bend red hot, hav­ing won nine of their last 
see SOFTBALL/page 21 

BASEBALL 
Non-conference foes loon1 for Irish 
Squad can continue seven-game streak 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

The Irish will try to extend their seven-game winning streak this week with non­confnrence games against Chicago State today and Ball State Wednesday at Frank Eek Stadium. 
Notre Dame (17-8, 5-1 Big East) is coming off a three­game sweep of Pittsburgh at home last weekend and has­n't lost since March 25 at Georgetown.
-
"It sure is a lot more fun to win than lose," Notre Dame eoach Paul Mainieri said. "I'm sure the players are aware that we've won sever­al games in a row and I'm all for thinking about it, but you can't rest on your laurels. Just because you won the last game doesn't mean you'll win the next one." 
Mainieri said he will make some lineup changes for the midweek games, especially 
see STREAK/ page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 
SMC won't speak on Bender issue 
Players met with Mooney Monday 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's Director or Public Information Melanie McDonald said Monday that the College could not com­ment on the speeirics or the decision not to renew the contract of first-year head coaeh Steve Bender. 
"This is entirely a person­nel manner," she said. 
The Observer reported in Monday's edition that Bender was not retained as coach after leading Saint Mary's to its best conference record in program history this season. 
Several players met with College President Carol Ann Mooney Monday to discuss the situation, said a member of the team who wished to remain anonymous. Specifics of the meeting were unavail­able to The Observer. 
It remained unel11ar what members of tho coaching staff would return to the team for thn 2006-07 season. 
McDonald said the athletic: department would providn any support to baskntball team members ncedP.d during tlw transition period. 
"Our athletic dirnetor. Lynn Kachmarik, has always pieked up where ever any­thing has left o!T, so I'm sure she is in complete control of the situation," MeDonald said. "And this will not be a major detriment to Saint Mary's or to the basketball team." 
Bender led Saint Mary's to an 11-15 record this season and a 9-7 mark in Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA) play. 
Bender was unavailable for comment Monday, and tele­phone calls made to players by The Observer were not returned. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

en 
SMC TENNIS
SMC SOFTBALL 
FINAL FOUR 

MLB -NL
WOMEN'S HOCKEY 
MLB-AL 

li: LLI 
u Belles look to 
Saint Mary's 8 
Florida 73 

Irish win two of 
Angels 5 

Cubs 16 
z strong pitchers 
Alma1 

three games 
UCLA 57 

Reds 7 
Mariners 4 
=:5 
The Gators, led by

=c:s Saint Mary's faces 
Nearly flawless play 

The Irish split a pair 
Todd Walker went 3­
Orlando Cabrera's 
Robert Morris in a 
against conference foe 
Joachim Noah, won 

of contests with 
for-4 with three RBis in 
two-run single in the
cs: 
Alma puts the Belles at 
their first national title 

Northwestern and beat
rescheduled double­

Chicago's home opener. 
ninth gave the Angels 
8-6 (3-1 MIAA).
header today. 
Monday night. 

the Chicago Frozen 
an Opening Day win. 

a.. t:c 
Snappers.
en page 19 
page 19 
page 18 

page 17 
page 15 
page 14 




