THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 98 WEDNESDAY. MARCH l. 2006 
Wwes balance studies, military men 
Married students have husbands in war 
mer. 

Her position is a unique one. Dantzscher is suspended between worrying about midterm grades and the safety of her husband. But she also shares this position with at least one other woman on campus. 
.Junior Elizabeth Clillon-Lyon, 20, is married to 22 year-old Army Spc. Mark Lyon. Lyon is a combat medic just back from a year serving in Iraq. 
Dantzscher and Clifton-Lyon met randomly in a Chines<~ dass and have leaned on each other for support ever since. 
"(Clifton-Lyon! has experieneed the same fe<~lings I'm experienc­ing, and someone like that is almost impossible to find at Notre 
see WIVES/page 6 
Bush assistant exatnines faith-based groups 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
Nt·ws Writer 
Amnrka's poor should receive the most o!Tective govemmont­sponsorml aid possibln, mgardlnss ol' whnthnr the agencies chargod with their earn are sn1:ular or litith­bw;ml, lL'isist.ant to Prnsidnnt Bush .Jim Towny said at Notre Dame '1\wsday. 
A standing room-only crowd of studnnts, faculty and administra­tors packnd tho llnsburgh Center to !war Towey -director of the WhitP llousn Ollien I(Jr Faith-Basnd ami Community Initiatives ­nxa.rninn tho ehall<mgns lilith-bcL'ind nonprofit groups face in constitu­tionally gaining tbderal funding. 
Titled "Compassion for America's Poor: What Ilappens when God and Government Mix," Towey's speech also indud<~d his views on the merits lhith-ba-;od over secular initiativ()s. 
"When a govornmnnt attempl'> to express compassion, it often fails, because government can't form relationships with people ... beeausn tim gov()rnment can't love, what are we to do?" Towey asked. "Can wo do this in partnership with litith-based organization, or is that unconstitutional?" 
The fnderal government should support successful programs, 
see TOWEY/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Brow-n takes CEA position 
Sophomore will be assistant to Shappell 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 
A<> student body president-elect Lizzi Shappell and vicn prnsident­elect Bill Andriehik prnpare to assume ollko April I, they havo taken the lirst step in shaping their administration by naming sophomore and Cavanaugh smut­tor Liz Brown as thoir Chinl' Executive A-;sistant (CEAI. 
Brown will replace Liz Kozlow, the current CEA under student body president Dave Baron and vice prnsident Shappell. 
Brown was planning to study abroad in Toledo, Spain next year, but changed her mind when she was offered the CEA position. Brown said she is thankl'ul Kozlow will be around next year to help hnr make thn transition and adjust to her nnw roln. 
"IKozlowl dnlinitely gave me an idea of how much work it will entail," Brown said. 
Shappnll and Andrichik chos11 Brown -who servod as ono of their campaign managnrs -in rncohrnition of tho hard work shn put into hnr managerial dutins and the energy she brought to tho campaign. Shappnll said. 
Shappoll said during tho coursn of tho campaign, Brown helpnd the candidates introduce their platforms and spread thoir mns­sagn and idnas to all thn dorms. She also had an organizational 
see BROWN/page 4 


SMC elections lead to runoff for class of 2007 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
A~sist:tnt News Editor 
Whilo tho Saint Mary's elass exocutivn hoard elnetions nndod in a swoeping sueeoss for class or 2008 prnsidnnt­nlnet C1~llonn Kielty and dass of 2009 president-Hied Franensea Johnson Tuesday, intense eam­paigning continund af'ter class of 2007 nlnetion results proved votes cast hetweon Kat Kindt and Heidi Gonppinger's tickets too dosn to eall. 
With 21 <J current juniors vot­ing. Goeppinger's ticket ­comprised of vio~ presidential candidate Christin Molnar, sec­retarial candidatn Bridget Gorman and treasurer candi­date Maggio Wickstrom ­receivnd 50.23 percent of the votes, fallin-g a little over half a pnrcontag<~ point short of clinching the 51 percent or the vote necessary to win. 
Kindt, along with vieo presi­dential candidate Meghan Mackinnon, treasurer candi­date Laura Baumgartner and secretarial candidate Erica Antonucci, received 46.12 per­cent of the vote ...,.--putting thorn in a close second, something they hope to change in today's run-off election. 
"We are very happy with the lvotingl turnout;" Kindt said. "I am excited we can campaign again ... our fourth time out. It just shows how mueh we really want Ito winl." 
The two tickets seized the opportunity to campaign one last time Tuesday before today's runoff election, which 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 

Panel discusses juvenile justice 
Speakers, audience argue for better treatment for young delinquents 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Juvenile delinquents awaiting sentencing need to receive better treat­ment regardless or the circumstances that led to their erimes, a panel con­eluded Tuesday night at the Hobinson Community Learning Center. 
A group of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's s"tudents and faculty and Michiana residents gathered Tuesday night to listen to a collection of South Bend juvenile justice experts. 
Speakers at the event 

included  Magistrate  
Harold  Brueseke, KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer  
Panel members discuss the treatment of juvenile delinquents see PANEL/page 8 at the Robinson Community Learning Center Tuesday night.  



By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Assistant News Editor 
Relaxing in a booth in LaFortune with textbooks and notebooks piled beside her, Dayna Dantzscher looks like a typical Notre Dame student tak­ing a break between classes. 
Only the set of etched dogtags she wears around her neck hinl'> at a part of her life that is any­thing but the norm. 
Dantzscher isn't just a senior who is 22 years old and lives with friends off-campus. She is also a military wife. Her husband -21 year-old Sgt. Corbin Cody Dantzscher -is in Baghdad lighting with the U.S. Army. Gone since last August, he isn't expect­ed to return until late this sum-


Wednesday, March 1, 2006

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Elections ethics 

Campaigning. Now there's an interest­ing concept. We've all been exposed to our fair share recently with student gov­ernment elections taking place on our campuses, and by now it's probably safe to say people are get­
Laura

ting a little tired ofit. This time, howev-·Baumgartner er, I want to talk 
News Wire

about it with a twist. 
Editor

Billions of dollars · (and probably more) are spent each year on various campaigns around the world; whether they are advertising, political. public service, etc. Advertising, public relations and other related fields often come under fire because of the vast amounts of money spent to persuade people to buy a particu­lar product or vote a certain way. The question that arises is ethics. 
Is it ethical to spend a..<;tronomical amount<; of money on packaging, bill­boards and television advertisements when people around the world and in our own country are living below the poverty level? . 
Is it ethical for cigarette companies to create advertising eampaigns advocating the eause to keep ehildren from smoking or to help eurrent smokers quit? 
Is it ethieal for presidential candidates to be allowed to aceept money from pri­vate donors who have eonneetions with major eompanies, or for that matter to accept money from major companies because of loopholes in our legal system? 
Is it etltieal for government oflieials to ereate advertising campaigns that throw a negative light on their opponents, but then to tum around and be the first to eomplain when it happens to them? 
Ethics, I would say, are like a conun­drum wrapped in an enigma ... and how­ever else that saying carries on. Basically, they're confusing and they're subjective. I would think. though. that in a society as advanced as ours where we know more and are able to do more than we have ever before, that we would have advanced our morals a..<; much as we have advanced our technology. 
Unfortunately, this isn't always the case. People lie. People cheat. People distort laws and situations bending and stretch­ing them so until they encompass their needs and actions. People spread rumors. People evade the truth. 
Oftentimes. in the consumerist society we have created, the self-serving bia..<; takes over. Human beings are competitive by nature; it's part ofour genetics. Sometimes people just go too far. 
There should be a line where ethics takes over and people know to stop. Unfortunately moral compasses don't always point north, and the line is either lost or smudged off the map. Depending on whom you ask, the line could be on dif­ferent sides of the world to begin with. 
Shouldn't there be a point in a situation when a majority of people should be able to realize and agree that something is no longer ethical? Isn't that why we come equipped with that little voice in our heads that tells us (hopefully) when we're doing something that isn't quite right? 
Maybe it's just the way of the world today, and ignoring ethics is something we all have to do to get by on occasion. I may be naive, but I'd like to think that there is hope. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumg01 @saintrnarys.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a reponing error, the names oflrish fencers Matt Stearns, Adrienne Nott, Valerie Providenza and Maddeine Stephan were misspelled in the Feb. 27 edi­tion ofThe Observer. Due to a reporting error, Srudenr Activities Board president Jackie Wright's name was misspelled in the Feb. 28 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT? 



Kendra Jackson  Maurice Stovall  Lindsey Ney  
freshman  senior  senior  
Walsh  O'Neill  off-campus  
''The dining  "Sunflower  ''I'm a heathen  
hall's hot  seeds."  ... so I'm not  
,chocolate.  giving  
,anything up.  


OFFBEAT 
Barry Bonds strikes out with Abdul impersonation 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. ­Paula Abdul probably could hit a fastball about as well as Barry Bonds could imperson­ate Paula Abdul. 
Bonds entertained and delighted a small gathering of fans and teammates Tuesday by dressing up as Abdul to judge the San Francisco Giants spin-off of the hit Fox show "American Idol," called Giants Idol. 
Bonds, who wore a strap­less dress and a blonde wig, surprised everyone watching the mock contest, where young players had to sing in front of the judges. 
TODAY 

a:: 

around." 


of guy running a school board," Jeremy Parks, 21, told the St. Louis Post­Dispatch. "If he's that great of a guy, with good morals. he wouldn't be running strip clubs." 
Micheal Ocello is president and director of VCG Holding Corp., based in Lakewood, Colo.. a company that says on its Web site that its clubs fea­ture "premium quality female performers" with "highest standards" for "appearance, attitude, demeanor, dress and person­ality." 
Information compiled• from the Associated Press. 
JESSICA LEE/The Observer 
Freshman Stephanie Bendinelli accepts a pizza from a Domino's delivery man Feb. 
28. Many students will be giving up junk food as part of their Lenten sacrifice beginning today. 
'Til never tell my wife to hurry up any more," Bonds said. "Because it took me for­ever to get ready. I'll never do that again. I couldn't get my hair right. There were a lot things I went through during the 30 minutes I was getting ready." 
Strip club owner runs for district school board 
ST. LOUIS -The president and director of a Colorado~ based adult entertainment company is running for the school board of a suburban St. Louis district, and already many residents are giving the candidacy a thumbs down. 
"I wouldn't want that kind 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.&.1 ::::1: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
...I 

~ 
<C 
(.) 
0 



Andrew Karl  Laura Marrs  Meghan Jebb  
sophomore Knott  sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  
''I'm going to try to get out of the dorm more. I'm always  "Skipping class, because my roommate is ,making me.  "Desserts, so my roommate feels bad about herself"  

IN BRIEF 
Award winning author Ed Falco will give a reading today at 7:30 p.m. in the Hospitality Room of Recker's. Falco's latest novel. "Wolf Point," was a 2005 New York Times Editor's Choice.· The event is free and open to the public. 
Dalloway's Board will sponsor a Saint Mary's version of the classic game show "Family Feud" tonight at 8 p.m. in Dalloway's Clubhouse. 
There will be a Jazz Coffeehouse at 8 p.m. tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Asian American Association will sponsor a "Grotto Walk" tonight. They will meet in front of Bond Hall at 11 p.m. 
The Saint Mary's Book Club will meet Thursd~y at 6:30 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge to discuss "The Handmaid's Tale" by Margaret Atwood. The book is available in the bookstore. 
The opening meeting of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference will take place in O'Laugblin Auditorium Thursday at 8 p.m. 
AcoustiCafe will take place at 10 p.m. Thursday in the LaFortune basement. 
Senior Ashley Peltier will pres­ent her senior comprehensive play "Angel: A Nightmare in Two Acts" Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the IJttle Theater in Moreau Hall. The play is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­
mation  about  an  event to  
obsnews@nd. edu  
SATURDAY  SUNDAY  

~ 


HIGH 55 HIGH 32 HIGH 45 HIGH 35 HIGH 37 HIGH 40
.... 
LOW 36 LOW 23 LOW 35 LOW 22 LOW 25 LOW 28 
Atlanta 70 I 53 Boston 33 I 22 Chicago 44 I 36 Denver 57 I 33 Houston 80 I 60 Los Angeles 65 I 47 Minneapolis 31 I 24 New York 40 130 Philadelphia 45 I 27 Phoenix 80 I 59 Seattle 47 I 38 St. Louis 66 I 44 Tampa 72 I 47 Washin9ton 48 I 30 

Wednesday, March 1, 2006 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Lenten obligations affect student habits, dining halltnenus 
12ttj~_Now! 
MRGR··60?10 BAUG<302 'I 0 

This one-credit -hour course will explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect business and society over the next decade. A series of separate lectures on selected Friday mornings will feature a wide range of experts. business.nd.edu/tenyearshence 
StweJv Rtwoeufw~ 
Erik Petersor1, Senior Vice President. The Cer1ter for Strategic and lntemational Studies 
7ofAA, P& in 7ofAA, 7~ 
Jor1n Poterson, F'reskjent, The Arlington nstitulo 
Pubk~:J~ ilv~ 7~: ~adB~otul 
Dr. James Curran, Dean, Rollins School of Public Health of Emory Urwersity 
~~ 7~o~ ~ !~iJv~-A.:J~o~ 7~adS~ 
Harry Attndge, M.,6... , Fl1. 0. , Dean, 'r13Je Urwors1ty Dv1n1ty School ,bus1ness. nci. ociu/tc;nyearsr1ence 
Pvnrywhern. Basilica of thn Sacn1d llnarl rector Father I'Pler l!occa  "Rather than give something up, I will instead do  than giving something up. "I will go to tho (;rotto every  
said tho purpose of' LPnt is to prPparn <:atlu;lks li1r tho rom­ something extra that is positive."  day," ho said­something he has alrnady  
ing l·:astnr and rPrww tlwir baptismal prom­isPs through prayPr.  Clare Lawless sophomore  been doing for twH weeks. While many  
liLsl and almsgiving.  students  are  
Notre  Damn  stu­ focusing on the  

dents will lw expressing this individual aspocts of the season, r·nnPwal in many ways. there is also a dorni-wide aspect 
Whiln freshman Natali Chavoz of Lent at Notre Dame. is giving up soda for Lont, she Keough llall reetor Fathi1r said many of her frinnds' Lenten Pnter .Jarrnt said students in his msolutions deal spocilically with hall are sponsoring a Grab-and­computnrs and tho common Go program. Instead of getting snarns Uwy hold for students -the meals for themselves, they including tlw game spider soli­will collect non-perishable items taire and lntPrrwt usage. for donations to eharity. 
"Ill know one girl giving up Food plays a major role in sae­Facebook," Chavez said. riliee during the Lenten season. 
Some students are still sorting Hoeea said Ash Wednesday and out what tlwir resolutions should Good Friday are days of fast and b(l. .Junior Erie Mail said Tunsday abstinence on which meat is not lw "has no plans as ofyet." eaten, and only one full large meal and two small meals are permitted. And while not all Fridays during Lent are days of abstinence, they are days of fast­ing from meat. 
The Univnrsity's dining halls have devised ways to help stu­dents fullill this Lenten obligation. 
Dan Patterson, the Operations Manager of South Dining llall, said the dining halls will modi(y the menu so there is no meat on Fridays. In order to compensatP for this, he said, new items have boon addnd that werP not avail­able last year. 
Mare Poklinkowski, the Gnnnral Manager of South Dining llall, said tlw dining hall menus will have more variety. Substitute items will include grilled pizza, grilled vogotables, cinnamon sticks, garlie cheese pjzza, unli·ind lish, quesadillas and bosco sticks -"lots of grilled items whieh are fairly popular and lots of cheese." 
Patterson said the dining halls will end the season with a Lenten bum1t on April 7, one week before Good Friday. 
Since Lent is a time to prepare for the celebration of Christ's death and resurrection, Hocca said the Basilica has made addi­tional plans for Lent to prepare Catholics for Easter. 
Ashes will be distributed at both tho 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. Masses today, with the Eshola Cantorum providing music for the 
11:30 Mass and the Notre Dame Liturgical choir singing at the 
I 

The Basilica will hold Ash Wednesday Masses to start the Lenten season today. Above, a choir sings in the Basilica in 2003. 
5:15 Mass. of Initiation (Baptism. 
On all Fridays of Lent, the Conlirmation and HeeoneiliationI Basilica will host the Stations of' during tho Easter Vigil Mass. In the Cross, with various choirs addition, candidates for full com­providing music throughout the munion -Protnstants who wish season. to become Catholic: -will be 
Rocca said Lent is also the time received into full communion on when catechumens -people April2. wishing to become Catholic ­prepare to enter into the Church Contact Ryan Sydlik at before receiving the sacraments rsydlik@nd.edu. 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
While som(1 Notrn Damn stu­dents are complaining about their la<'k of phorw and lnt.Prrwl usage dun to ongoing dorm upgrades, othPrs are voluntarily dnnying thmnselvns those privilegos today. 
Today is Ash Wndrwsday, which marks t.lw bnginning of Lent ­and with it romn individual sacri­ficns by Catholics 
Sophomoro Clare Lawless is Episcopalian, but she said she will got ashes and abstain from meat on Fridays and that sho participated in Fat Tuesday. llownver, she said she was not quito sure about making a Lenton sacrilko. 
"Hather than give up some­thing. I will instead do something oxtra that is positive," she said. 
Sophomore Andy Matthnws also said he is doing something positive rather 
"Ten Years Hence" is listed as BAUG-3021 0 and MBGR-6021 0, and is open to all Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students, and Saint Mary's students. There are no prerequisites to enroll. See your academic advisor or your department chair for additional detail. You are expected to attend all lectures and be prepared to engage speakers. No unexcused absences. This is a "Satisfactory/Unsatisfactory" course. This course requires no textbook purchases, examinations or term papers. Use an add form to register; registration Is not available online. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
allows the class of 2007 to vote on PRISM from 12 a.m. until 
11:59 p.m. tonight. 
While hopeful for her ticket, current junior class president Goeppinger was not as opti­mistic about voter turnout. 
"I think that the election will again be close, and I fear that voting numbers may even diminish due to the fact that people get tired of the cam­paigning process and having to vote candidate Brooke Trudeau, secretarial candidate Katie Soller and treasurer candidate Cailene Pisciotta. 

Kielty's fellow executive board officers will be vice pres­ident Erin Hogan, secretary Elizabeth Bush and treasurer Shawn Redington. 
Kielty said she hopes to immediately begin planning for an Ovarian Cancer Walk at the College in September to raise funds for cancer research. 
"I feel that since I served as first year class president, I can set realistic goals," she said of her plan to have at least one class 

Towey 
continued from page 1 
regardless of whether they are secular or faith-based, Towey said. 
"When we start talking about compassion, we have to talk about effective compassion," he said. 
Towey, who said he is a Democrat, provided legal counsel for Mother Teresa of Calcutta for 12 years. In 1990, he lived as a full-time volunteer in a home for AIDS patients that Mother Teresa set up in Washington, D.C. 
"The men were broken, the

a second time," "I feel that since I activity each 
Goeppinger said. month. 
women [were] prostitutes and

served as first year 
Goeppinger said Sophomore 
addicts," he said. 

class president, I 
The people needed clothing,

she thought the class president­
reason for the ini­can set realistic elect Francesca 
food and housing, but there was 
also a "spiritual poverty" in the

tial close conclu­Johnson, along
goals."
sion of the elec­with ticketmates 
house, Towey said. 

tion was due to vice president 
Towey discussed Thomas 

the tickets sharing Colleen Kielty Pauline Kistka, 
Jefferson's views on the separa­
tion between church and state.

mutual friends president-elect secretary Sarah 
within the class Voss and treasur­
Although Jefferson wrote of a

class of 2008 
and all candidates being members of her "very successful" junior board. 
"The women on my ticket are still very excited about the prospect of representing the upcoming senior class and will be working very hard tonight to encourage women to vote," she said. 
Kindt said she was not about to back down from the chal­lenge and mirrored her oppo­nent's goal to spark desire to vote amongst her classmates. 
"I am not pushed over by a 
few percentages," she said. "We are going around to every [junior's dorm room] tonight to get our message across." 
While the Kindt and Goeppinger tickets spent their time Tuesday attempt­
"wall" between the two, the for­
er Maggie 
Johnson said they 
mer president later scratched it 

hope to increase attendance at 
out and attended church service 

class activities. The ticket won 
· 
"Regardless of which ticket wins, our class will be well-represented next year. " 
Erica Antonucci secretarial candidate 
brings us togeth­er." 
While Kielty and Johnson are busy making plans for the future, Goeppinger and Kindt must wait until Thursday to find out their presidential fate. 
"Both tickets are in a government building, Towey said. 

The Constitution envisioned a "dynamic tension" between church and state, and not a barri­er keeping religion from the pub­lic square, Towey said. 
"When you have a public square hostile to religious values ... who suffers?" Towey asked. "The poor do." 
Towey used a recent lawsuit against the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) as an example of how the poor suffer from a lack of religious volunteer organizations. ACE co-sponsored the lecture with the Center for Social Concerns. 
"The real stakeholders in that decision were not the first amend­ment specialist<> or the [American Civil Liberties Union]," Towey· said. "They were those [poor] stu­dents who were denied contact with Notre Dame students in their schools." 
Towey advocated free competi­tion for federal grants between secular and faith-based organiza­tions based on the organizations' effectiveness. He said while it may now appear there is competition, 
freshman year. 
Brown said she was excited and surprised Shappell and Andrichik chose her for the posi­tion. 
"I've been very impressed with what Lizzi and Bill have done in my work with them in the cam­paign," Brown said. "I know they have a lot of great initiatives that they want to get done next year, and I am excited to be a part of it." 
Brown said she feels her lead­ership experiences thus far will help her transition to the position of third in command of the stu­dent government. 
"I think I've done a good job this year in my position as Cavanaugh senator as far as bringing through initiatives that have been brought up," Brown many large secular nonprofits often squeeze out small, effective faith-based groups -even if the larger organizations are not very effective. 
"We don't measure success. There's no accountability ... You have to be incredibly inept to lose funding," Towey said. "It really is a cruel hoax to put forward a pro­gram that we're not going to [keep track oil" 
Towey said the federal govern­ment gave $2 billion to faith­based nonprofits last year, and that the amount continues to increase. 
He said when President Bush came into power, the president believed regulations in place were "forcing" faith-based groups to secularize in order to gain fund­ing. The groups were becoming less effective in the process, he said. 
"The little groups in the neigh­borhoods, often minority neigh­borhoods, that were not well-con­nected politically were cut off from funds," Towey said. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 

the election after members achieved the majority of the vote in their unopposed cam­paign. 
Johnson, who currently serves as first year class presi­dent, said she has learned a lot from her involvement in stu­dent government. 
"I have learned how to work with all kinds of people," she said. "I hope to do stuff that unites the class and really said. "I hope I can help push through what Bill and Lizzi want to get done, especially in terms of community relations." 
As CEA, Brown will serve as chair of the Executive Programming Board, coordinate Student Senate activities and run the daily logistics of the student government office. 
Shappell called the CEA posi­tion an "integral part" of student government and said a new per­son will bring a different energy to the job. 
"The position will change with the person's personality, because it is only its third year in cre­ation," Shappell said. 
Baron served as the first CEA. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Brown 
continued from page 1 
role, hanging posters and send­ing e-mail updates to the cam­paign's contact people in each dorm. 
"We ·chose Liz because we are impressed with her leadership and organization within her role as campaign manager this year and impressed with her work as Cavanaugh senator," Shappell said. "She will bring that dedica­tion to the office." 
Brown is a dual political sci­ence and Spanish major. In addi­tion to her current role on Student Senate, she served on student government's communi­cations committee during her 

ing to clinch sen­class of 2007 very strong with ior class execu­dedicated people · tive positions, the who will do a rising junior and sophomore good job for our class," Kindt class executive board winners said. began planning and executing Her running mate, Antonucci, their platforms. could not help but agree. 
"We are really excited to win "Regardless of which ticket and start planning for next wins, our class will be well­year," junior class president­represented next year," she elect Kielty said after receiving said. 
64.63 percent of the vote to beat Michelle Michalak's ticket, Contact Kelly Meehan at comprised of vice presidential kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
COMWt'TT£1( ON GAYAti!Ol..-...fAff 
$T!II>ItH1' ,.ll:lfl>il 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. ;\-fL. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lqfferty at Lafferty .3@nd.edu 
For more information, check out our web site: hth!;//www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ 

A Discussion on Issues Surrounding th~ Academic Freedom Debate 
All Students are invited to Attend 

Wednesday, March 1 7:30PM Coleman-Morse Lounge (1st floor) 
An opportunity for all students to come together and discuss the issues surrounding the Academic Freedom debate. Students wi11 be broken up into small groups (randomly selected) to discuss the issues and then will reconvene in a large group to share the discussions. 
Please, only students. No faculty, staff, or alumni. Sponsored by Student Government. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March l, 2006 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Court views evidence against Hussein BACHI>AI> -Prosneutors prnsented documenL'i Tuesday thny said show Saddam Hussein approvnd executions or morn than 140 Shiites in tlw IIJHOs. tlw most direct evid•m•:e yet against tlw f(wmnr Iraqi lnadnr in his f(nn·-month trial. Among thosn snntnnend to hang was an 11-ynar­old boy. 
Tim most si1-,rnificant document f(mturnd a sig­naturn said to bn Saddam's on a court list of pno­pln to bP nxneutP<I. though it was not dnar hn W<L'i awarn of tlu~ir U).,"'lS. Thn list on that particular dor.unwnt only had nanws. 
About [j() or thosn snntnrH:nd dim! during intm·­mgation h.-f(u·p tlwy could go to thn gallows. Onn man. his hrotlwr and two sons wnrn llXncuted by mistakn, ami Saddam allngndly ordnrod thnm dndan~d "martyrs" to covnr up tlw IWror. 
Putin optimistic about Iran talks 
BUDAI'Jo:S'L llungm-y --Hussia's prnsidnnt said TuPsday that lw is optimistic that his country will sl.rikn an agr.-nm!lnt with Iran ovnr iL'i disputnd nudnar program. 
A dt-lngation lnd by top Iranian negotiator Ali l.arijani is nxpnct1~d to arrive in Moscow on WPdnnsday f(w discussions on a Krmnlin proposal to nnrir.h uranium I(Jr Iran on Hussian territory to ensurn thn nudPar f'unl eannot be divertnd l'or al.omir bombs. Enridmwnt is a proeess that can produce f'ud I(Jr a nudnar rmu:t.<ir or lissiiP mat.l~ri­alliw a wnapon. 
"Wn arn optimisls," Vladimir l'utin t.llld rnportnrs on a visit to llungar-y. "It's quit.11 possibln filr us 1.11 mach an agrmmwnt on thn nstablishnwnt of a joint vnnturP on Hussian tnrrit.lu-y to nnrkh uranium fill' Iranian nur.lear Pnnrgy nnnds." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawmakers resist a quick port vote 
WASIIINCTON -Congressional Hepublicans and I >nmocral'i on Tw1sday tmnpewd calls for an imnwdiate vote to bl01:k a l>ubai-b1L'ind eompa­ny's takeov11r of somn U.S. port operations as l'rPsidPnt Bush proddml them to avoid a eon­lh m tation. 
Hntuming to the Capitol in !'oren for the lirst limn sinen news of 1>1' World's takeovnr brokn, lawmaknrs from both partins eritieiznd the White I louse fi1r fitiling to lnt thnm know about the deal hl'fim1 it becarm~ publk. 
But many also said stnps taknn over thn wnnk­mul by tlw Whit•~ llousn and thn Unitnd Arab l·:miratPs company f(Jr a 45-day invnstigation of tlw transaction's sm:urity issues rnassurnd thmn and rwgatPd tlw need fi1r legislation fi1r now. 
Bush praises Iraqis, visits South Asia 
WASIIIN<;TON-Prnsidnnt Bush praisnd Iraqis' "df'fiance of' tiW tPrrorisls and tile killers" bnfim~ Pmharking Ttwsday on a ties-strnngthening visit to South Asia -tiJP prnsumnd hiding place of Osama bin l.ad11n and a part or the world whtlru t.hn war on terror is ollen dosu at hand. 
With a waw but no words, Bush lnll liw India, Pakistan ami, possibly, Alglmnistan. 
"I ran go to Pakistan as a friend of India's and h11 able to havu a good dialogue. And go to India. as a l'riPIHI of Pakistan's and be able to haw a good dialogup," Bush told ABC News on Tu11sday. "ThP good nPws is that it's ll'ss ddicatn than fWPr hf'lili'P." 
Bush nxitPd W<L'ihingt.<m lilr live days at a Limn of turmoil fi lf' his prnsidnnc:y. 
A nnw CBS poll shows Bush's approval rating droppPd to 34 pnrennt from 4.2 percent in January. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Response to Toll Road bill mixed 
INDIANAPOLIS-Hundreds paeked tho Statnhousn on Tuesday li1r a rally designed to build monwntum lilf' (;ov. Mitch Daniels' "Major Moves" highway initiative. But as some cheered support. ot.lwrs shouted jeers that sometimos drownnd out the governor and other spnakers. 
Daninls told thn erowd that the legislation. which would allow him to lease the Indiana Toll Hoad for $3.H!i billion, would crnate tens of thousands of jobs by help funding many high­way projeeL'i that havn languishnd li1r years. 
"This will make promisns and dreams a reality in this state," Daniels said. 
IRAQ 

At least 68 killed in bombings 
Sunnis, Shiites exchange mortarfire against religious targets on day after cuifew lifted 
Associated Press 

BAGIIDAD -Sunnis and Shiitns tradnd bombings and mortar lire against mainly religious targets in Baghdad w•~ll into the night Tunsday, killing at least 6H people a day after authoritios lilled a curfew that had briefly calmnd a series of seetarian reprisal attacks. 
At least six of Tuesday's attacks hit dearly rnligious targnts. eoncluding with a ear bombing after sundown at the Shiite Abdel Hadi Chalabi mosque in the llurriyah neighborhood that killnd .23 and wounded 55. A separate suicide bombing killnd 23 people at an east Baghdad gas station, where people had lined up to buy kerosine. 
In addition to those known to have been killed Tuesday, police lilund nine morn bul­let-riddled bodies, induding a Sunni Muslim tribal sheik, oiT a road southeast ol' Baghdad. It was unelear whnn they died. 
The surge of violence deepened the trauma of res­idents already shaken by fears the country was teeter­ing on the brink of sectarian civil war, threatened talks among Iraqi politicians struggling to form a govern­ment and raised questions about U.S. plans to begin Agency chief Lt. Gen. shrine in the Kazimiyah Baghdad's Mansour distrid, drawing down troop Miehael Maplns said the sec­neighborhood on the oppo­killing a guard. strnngth this summer. tarian violence stems from a site side of the Tigris Hivnr, Latn Tunsday polien 
Iraq began to tilt seriously core ol' Sunni Arab insur­killing one and wounding reportnd linding thn body or toward outright civil war gents who can exploit 10. Shiite dnrie llani lladi hand­aftnr the Feb. 22 bombing of' "social, economic, historical Those attacks appeared to eufli~d. blindf'oldml and shot the important Shiite and religious grievances." have been in retaliation for in the hnad nnar a Sunni A<ikariya shrine in the main­"Networks based on these assaults on Sunni places of mosqun in Baghdad's notori­ly Sunni dty of Samarra, 60 relationships remain the worship earlier in the day. ous Dora neighborhood. miles north of Baghdad. greatnst thrnat to long-term North of Baghdad, a blast One of the day's bloodinst 
President Bush deeried the stability in Iraq," Maples badly damaged a Sunni attal'.ks nunn wlwn a suidd11 latest surgn in seetarian ·vio­said. mosque whern thn !'ather or bombnr d•~tonatnd an nxplo­lenen Tunsday and said that The sectarian violence has Saddam I lussein was buried sivns vnst p;u:knd with ball !'or Iraqis "the choiee is hit Baghdad hardest in the family's anenstral bnarings among pnopln linnd chaos or unity." because the population in hometown, Tikrit. Tlw Iraqi up to buy knrosinn at a 
In congressional testimo­the eapital is about evenly lslamie Party reported a erowdnd filling station in ny, National lntnlligeneo divided betwmm Shiites and bomb hit tlw Sunni Thou nasi Baghdad. Tlw blast Dirnc.tor .John Negroponte Sunnis. more so than in any Nitaqain mosque in thn killnd .2:{ pnopln and wound­said a eivil war in Iraq could othor region of the country. I lurriyah nPighborhood at X nd 51. lnaving lwhind tlw lead to a broader eonlliet in At about the same time as a.m. Tuesday, killing thi'IHl charn~d and twist.Pd the Middle East, pitting the the attaek on the Shiite and wounding 1I. Gunmnn rmnains ol' wlwnlnd nu·t.s n~gion's Sunni and Shiitn Abdnl Iladi Chalabi mosque, in two spemling ears opnnnd that. <·ust.omnrs had used lo pownrs against one another. a mortar round landed nnar fire on thn Sunni ai-Salam transport. l'uol eanistnrs to 
Dofense lntollignneo the Shiite Imam Kadhim mosqun in the westnrn thn st.at.ion. 

High Court favors abortion protesters 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -A 20-year-old legal light over protests outside abor­tion clinics ended Tuesday with the Supreme Court ruling that f'nderal extortion and racketoering laws can­not be used against demonstrators. 
The 8-0 decision was a setback for abortion clinics that were buoyed when the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals kept their case alive two years ago despite the high court's 2003 ruling that had eleared the way for lifting a nationwide injunction on anti-abortion leader Joseph Scheidler and others. 
Anti-abortion groups appealed to 
the justices after the lower court sought to determine whether the injunction could be supported by findings that protesters had made thrnats of violence. 
In Tuesday's ruling, Justice Stephen Breyer said Congress did not create "a freestanding physieal vio­lence offense" in the federal extor­tion law known as the Hobbs Act. 
Instead, Breyer wrote, Congress addressed violence outside abortion clinics in 1994 by passing the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, which allows for court injunctions to set limits for such protests. 
"It's a great day !'or pro-lifers," said Troy Newman, prnsidnnt of' Operation Heseue. 

Kim Gandy, president of the National Organization for Women, said the decision was disappointing because the injunction had decreased violence outside dinics nationally. 
She said tho elinic accnss act is problematic becausn it requires abortion providers to sm1k injunc­tions "city by eity" and turns baek the elock to thn late 19H0s whnn NOW played eat and mousn with Opnration Heseue in trying to antiei­pate the cities and clinics that abor­tion protesters planned to targnt next. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
nication," she said. "We are very "We had wanted to wait, but difficult side of marriage, having to Clifton-Lyon said her first months open with one another, and that's since he was getting into the war, live in an apartment together and back on campus after her mar­
Wives 
where a lot of military families go  he wanted something to keep him  share space all the time."  riage were the most overwhelm­ 
continued from page 1  wrong. They don't talk to their sig­nificant others as often as they can,  going over there," Clifton-Lyon said. "We threw the wedding  How to deal  ing. "I was trying to deal with school  
Dame," Dantzscher said.  and that creates a huge barrier."  together in a few days. Thankfully,  One of the hardest things about  and deal with fears about my hus­ 
Though their stories may be dif­ Their wedding was last July 2.  his mom used to be a wedding  being a student and a military wife,  band at the same time, and no one  
ferent, both women share the diffi­ Corbin Cody was deployed less  planner, and one of hi<> sisters is a  both women said, is balancing the  was around who understood," she  
culties of leading almost double  than two months later on Aug. 12.  florist while the other is a photog­ two worlds.  said. "I mean, I could talk to the  
lives -carefree college students  They did, however, find time to  rapher, so that made life easy."  "It's a lot easier being a student  people who were married, but they  
one moment and wives who face  squeeze in a honeymoon.  While she said she does not  when he's gone, but believe me, I  didn't really understand what it  
real fear the next.  "We actually went"to Bermuda  regret her decision to get married,  would take the hit on the grades  was like to be separated for a long  
with  his  entire  family,"  she  Clifton-Lyon said life has been far  just to have him back," Dantzscher  time. I could talk to friends in the  
Their stories  explained, laughing. "It was his  more difficult than she anticipated.  said. "I actually use schoolwork as  military, but they didn't know what  
Dantzscher met her husband  grandmother's 25th anniversary  "I was depressed 364 days out of  a way to distract myself from the  it was like to be married. That was  
Corbin Cody in their Minnesota  and the trip had been planned for  the year when he was gone. It was  worry that him being away causes,  tho hardest thing, not having any­ 
high school, where they became  a while, it just happened to fit per­ the worst time of my  from thinking the  where to turn."  
friends, and later, when he was shipped to Afghanistan, pen pals.  fectly with our wedding. Everyone was respectful and accommodat­ life, spent just con­stantly worrying  "When your  haunting thought that people die over  The Notre Dame family, howev­er, pulled together for her, Clifton­ 
They didn't start dating until he returned to the U.S. -but three months after they did, in July 2004, he proposed.  ing though, knowing it was our honeymoon, and it was great for him to spend time with his family before he went to Iraq."  about him," she said. "I never gave it much thought, him being in the Army  husband is in the military, you focus on the challenges  there every day." Dantzscher said while it is hard to find anyone who  Lyon said. "ND is definitely a community and all my friends came together to help me. My old roommates  
The plan was, Dantzscher said, to have a two-year engagement  Dantzscher has tried to talk to her husband at least every other  and how that would change things. I just  ofevery day."  can relate to her situation on cam­ helped me move into my apart­ment, and my friends in grad  
before they finally tied the knot. They went a year, seeing each  day on his cell phone since he's been in Iraq, although she said it  knew this was the man I wanted to  Elizabeth Clifton-Lyon  pus, her friends have been instru­ school would cook for me because I just didn't have time to do any­ 
other as often as her education  was impossible to know where he  marry, and that was  junior  mental in getting  thing," she said. "It was impossible  
and his stationing in New York  would be at any time.  his job. I didn't real­ her through this  for me to find a balance."  
would allow, before he found out  "If I can't.get ahold of him, I just  ize until later that it  time.  
he would be deployed to Iraq.  keep calling until I know he's OK,"  comes with some prices."  "I have a hard time spending a  What next?  
"We just had to do  she said.  Because Mark was stationed in a  lot of time by myself, because then  If there's one thing Dantzscher  
it before he left," Dantzscher said. "That way, we wouldn't have to worry about plan-.J ning a wedding  "If I can't get ahold ofhim, I just keep calling until I know he's OK."  In the manner of traditional high school sweetheart tales, Clifton-Lyon met her husband Mark when she  less urban area with little cell phone reception, the couple was forced to rely on handwritten let­ters to communicate for several months. "That was a very hard time,  I tend to think about him more," she said. "My friends give me something el<>e to focus on, and a vent for my feelings. They don't necessarily understand, but they sympathize."  and Clifton-Lyon were reluctant to talk about, it was the future. Dantzscher speculated about joining the Air Force and her hus­band going for a master's degree when he was done with service.  
while he was in Iraq,  was a freshman in  because we just didn't feel con­ She also said apart from her  Clifton-Lyon, whose husband will  
and he would be able to participate in putting everything  Dayna Dantzscher senior  a California board­ing school and started dating him  nected, You start to have some doubts after you go a month with­out talking to your spouse," she  friends, it was sometimes difficult to find support from the campus in general.  leave this month for a year of training around the continental U.S., just laughed.  
[for the wedding]  when she was a  said.  "Support for the war on campus  "You can't make concrete plans,"  
together."  senior. By her freshman year at  Her  husband  returned  in  is minimal, and I have a hard time  Clifton-Lyon said. "You don't know  
Given his long deployment, there  Notre Dame, she was engaged.  February, and for the first time  with people making comments in  what's going to happen. When  
was a lot of pressure to reconsider  They had intended to get mar­ since their wedding, the two had to  elass that are just insensitive.  your husband is in the military, you  
the  marriage,  Dantzscher  ried in the Basilica of the Sacred  adjust to married life.  People here may be sympathetic,  foe~~ on the challenges of every  
explained.  Heart her senior year, she said, but  "I missed him so  much and  but they're almost negligent," she  day.  
"Everyone kept telling us that  the world had other plans.  thank God every minute he's back,  said. "They see there's a war going  
people change in a year, but we  On Dec. 27, 2004 -just three  but this is the first time we're real­ on, see the news, say, 'Wow, that's  
knew that we could make it togeth­ days before Mark was deployed to  ly spending time together," she  terrible,' and go on living their  Contact Amanda Michaels at  
er if we maintained good commu­ Iraq-the two were wed.  said. "People sometimes miss the  lives."  amichael@nd.edu  




Have at a cam for kids 
co ing with their 
nts'cancer 
We are looking for COUNSELORS to work at CK!! 
• August 13-18, t•ight before ND stat"ts 
APPLY TODAY at www_cam pkesem-nd _ org 
• Applications due Friday! 

*Camp Kesem is a free summer corn p provided for kids ~es of 6-13 who have a parent with a history of cancer. We provide on exciting, nurturing, and comfortable environment for these kids to have a fun-fi lied week. 

Wednesday, March 1, 2006 


MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,993.41 -104.14
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,035 140 2,237 2,421,090,200 
AMEX 1.847.22 +7;69 NASDAQ 2J2X I ~39 -25.79 NYSf 8,060.61 -79.06 S&PSOO I ,280.66 -13.46 NIKK.fi(Tokyo) 15.938.02 -267.41 FTSf IOO(London) 5,791.50 -84.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.35 +0.27 20.24 
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) 
-1.49 -0.62 41.10 INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.39 +0.08 20.60 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
-0.67 -0.18 26.87 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) 
-3.52 -2.50 68.49 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE -0.94 -0.43 45.47 
13-WEEK BILL +0.38 +0.17 45.07 
30-YEAR BOND -0.92 -0.42 45.03 
5-YEAR NOTE -1.10 -0.51 46.01 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.41 61.41 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6. 90 563.90 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.18 89.40 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
115.8700 
EURO 
0.8376 
POUND 0.5700 
CANADIAN$ 1.1375 

IN BRIEF 
Bankrupt Twinkie-maker lays off 230 
K/\NS/\S CITY, Mo. -lntnrstatn Baknries Corp., tlw bankrupt mak1~r of Twinkins and Wondnr Brmtd, said Tunsday it will layoff around 2:m Pmployens in Indiana and Michigan as it consolidates routns. depots and retail out­lnL<; in tlw uppPr Midwest. 
Tlw company said tlw moves, nxpndod to be complntml by March I:{ if approvnd by bank­rupti~Y ollkials. will rPquin~ a $700.000 charge, including $400,000 in snvnranco payments. In addition, the company said it expeets to pay $:!00,000 in the futurn li1r capital nxpnnditurns lind to tho consolidation. 
Ttwsday's announcement eondudes the com­pany's nvaluation of opnrations in its I 0 rngional "profit contnrs." Since liling for bankruptcy in Snptnmber 2004, the eompany has dosed nine bakeries and trimmnd its national work force by 5,000 jobs in a bid to bring down operational 
I~OSl<;. 
/\lso Tw1sday, Interstate Bakeries said it may have to raisn the price of its bread producL<> and snack ~~akes bocausn of higher costs for ingredi­nnL<;, such as flour and sugar, and fuel. Such an incrnasn, it warnml, could furthnr crimp sales. 
Stocks fall on mixed economic data 
NI~W YOHK-!\ mixnd nconomic pkturn snnt stocks tumbling Tunsday, with thn Dow Jones industrials falling more than 100 points aftnr investors worn UIIIHH'vnd by wmtknnss in home salns, consumnr conlidnnen and manul'aeturing. /\n upward rPvision in thn l'ourth-quartnr gross domnslic product, nwanwhiln, raisnd worrins about higlwr intnn~st ratns. 
Tlu~ (a >I' shownd that thn m~onomy grow at an annual ratn or l.h pnrcPnt, much bnttnr than the 
1.1 J>PrcPnt thP Conunnn~n l>npartnwnt initially nstimatPd and !waling llw 1.5 pnrcnnt IH~ono­mists prPdictPd. Tlw Cl>l' is thn broadnst mnas­urn ol' tlw P!'onomy's JWrformancn -and onn indicator of wlwtlwr thn n1~onomy eontinuns to grow fitst nnough to prompt additional intnrnst ratn hikns by llw FndPral Hnsnrvn. 
Tlw day's othPr data shownd soil spots in the nconomy. Salns of nxisting homns fi~ll ((Jr thn firth mnsncutivn month January, nx<u~nrhating some invnstors' COIH'.!\rns that a fall in homos salns and rntinandngs muld dwkn oll' a sourcn of wealth f(Jr mnsunwrs, slowing thnir spnnding. 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Steel merger opposition softens 
Proposal to combine world's two largest steel companies receives decreasing criticism 
Associated Press  
CIIICAGO ­Opposition to  
thn disputod proposal to  
combine tho world's two  
largest stnel manufacturers  
is sol'toning, the president of'  
Mittal Steel Co. maintained  
Sunday in defending his  
firm's hostile takeover bid  
lbr rival Arcolor SA  
/\ditya Mittal, who also is  
chief financial otlicer of tho  
world's largest stenlmaker,  
prodieted the controversial  
deal will dose by the end of  
June after gaining approval  
from European regulators  
and Areelor sharnholders.  
"Them has been a reduc­ 
tion in terms of the negative  
reaction to this ofl'er as gov­ 
ernments have begun to  
rnalizo tho stratcgie ration­ 
ale, the industrial rationale  
land I begin to understand  
what Mittal Steel is about,  
what Mittal Steel wants to  
do with Areelor," he told  
reporters. "The reaction is  
turning morn in our favor."  
Tho company's No. 2  
executive and other Mittal AP  
officials spokn at a news A wrapped coil of steel is shown at Mittal Steel's Burns Harbor, Ind., plant. Mlttal's exec­ 
conference in Chicago, their utives predicted Sunday that the proposal to combine with Arcelor SA will close by June.  
latest effort in what has  
been widnly referred to as a  whose billionaire father  lay out a long-term plan at  Japan. Mittal nstimatns  
"charm ofl'nnsivn" aimed at  Lakshmi Mittal is chairman  investor meetings starting  annual savings of roughly  
ovnreoming resistancn. to  and CEO, said the company  Tuesday to show sharehold­ $1 billion from eomhining  
the unsolieitnd takeovnr  will start sharing spneific  nrs why they should reject  the two.  
ofl'er.  post-merger plans this  it. Arcelor managnment  Thn head of Mittal's U.S.  
Sevnral European coun­ week with the countries  alrnady has told sharnhold­ division rejeetnd a suggns­ 
tries are leery of tho pro­ involved. The proposed  ers in a lettl~r that a Mittal  tion that tho proposnd  
posed $22.1 billion (18.6­ acquisition. hn argued, will  takeover would dilu.tn value,  mnga-company ~~ould havn  
billion nuro) merger, f~mring  be good f(w both companies  thrnatnn shareholdnr intl~r­ a nngativ1~ impaet on tlw  
the possibility of job cuts at  and their shareholders and  ests and undermine future  U.S. automotivn industry by  
plants now owned by  will create more growth  prospects for the stock.  rnsulting in higlwr prices  
Luxembourg-based Arcelor,  opportunities for the indus­ /\ditya Mittal also plans to  for stenl.  
the world's second-largest  try.  return to Chicago in mid­ "We havn a commitment  
steel producer. Mittal Stool  "We expnct as wn share  March for investor mentings  as a company to say wn'rn  
is hosting about four dozen  with them thn industrial  connected with the  not going to disadvantagP  
reporters, mostly from  plan and the strategic plan.  takeovnr. lie said hn expecl<>  any eustomnr of ours on tlw  
Europn, on a two-day mndia  they will bneome more and  regulators to takn another  price front," said Lou  
tour of its Chicago-area  more understanding or  four to six wonks to clear  Schorsch, CEO of Mittal  
operations, hoping to polish  what wn're trying to pro­ the bid, al'tnr which Arcelor  Stnnl USA.  
its imago by showing where  pose and realize that it's  shareholders would have as  Mittal, which has hnad­ 
it makes some of its high­ actually a great thing for  long as 60 days to vote on it.  quartnrs in Hottn)'(larn and  
est-quality steel. Those  Arcelor and a great thing  The acquisition would  London, selncted Chieago as  
operations include Indiana  for the stnel industry," he  create a stnel powerhousn  iL<; U.S. headquartnrs short­ 
mills at East Chicago and  said.  with the ability to produce  ly before launching the dis­ 
Burns llarbor that employ  Those meetings will eoin­ close to 130 million tons a  puted /\rcelor bid last  
about 10,000 people com­ eide with a stepped-up  year, more than triple the  month. Its mills in Indiana  
bined.  effort to block the merger  output of the nearest com­ and Ohio makn steel for the  
The 30-year-old Mittal, ·  by Areelor, which plans to  petitor, Nippon Stenl of  auto industry.  

Dana meets with banks, stock rises 
company lnd to oxtrnmely heavy trad­''I'm suro thorn arn people thinking
Associated Press 

ing and' speculation that the eompany that Dana's nnxt," said David Siino, an 
TOLEDO, Ohio-Dana Corp.'s stock eould be facing bankruptey. analyst with (;abnlli & Co. n~bounded 18 pnreent on Monday Dana also has bnen hurt by soaring Dana still has assots that would af'tnr thn auto parts maknr said it was onnrgy and stool priens and said in allow it to borrow mo1wy and it has working with banks and othnr londers January that it lost nnarly $1.3 billion little long-limn dobt dtw in thn nnxt on its financing plans. in thn third quartnr last ynar while two ynars, hn said. "Tlwy have a littiP 
Thn company issund a short statn­maligning its business. bit ol'broathing room," he said. rnnnt bnforn trading bngan on tho In 2000, Dana had morn than (>,400 But Slwlly Lombard, a snnior ana­Nnw York Stoek Exchange, saying it mnployoos at 11 Indiana plants. Sinc.n lyst with (;imnw cn~dit, a corporal.!' hopes to eomn to a resolution within then the eompany has downsized, bonds rnsnarrh snrvkn, said Dana's two wm~ks on its financing. soiling raetorios and announcing n~sponsn to tho bankruptcy spnntla­
Dana's shares, which tumblod 52 plans to -dosn and snll morn, trimming tion was latP and not nnough. pnrennt on Friday to llwir lownst hwel its work !'oren in tho stato to 2,000. "It did nothing to assure inwstors in morn than throe dneados, dimbnd Auto parts suppliors over thn last that a dPal is imminnnt," Lombard 27 cents, to doso at $1. 78. year havn strugglnd. Dnlphi Corp., tho said 
Thn company's stock has bonn nation's loading supplinr, f'ilnd for Soan Egan, managing dirnet.or of falling since Dana said last fall that it Chaptnr 11 bankruptcy proteetion in 1\gan-Jonns Batings Co., said Dana is was 1·estating earnings and lowering Oetobor. Vistnon Corp., thn nation's lik1~ly rovinwing a numbnr of timuH~­its profit forecast for 2005 bncause of seeond biggest parts supplinr, is clos­ing options, but first it must li1w up accounting nrrors. ing thron plants and putting another funding with its banks and 1~alm fears 
Bnports that tho struggling auto six up for sale undnr its restructuring of invostors and tho company's suppli­parts maker had hirnd a rostrueturing plan. nrs owed money. 
Wednesday, March 1, 2006

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
relationships," he said. "We said. Prosecuted delinquents bility of establishing techni­come from dysfunctional sit with the young person in and teenagers awaiting trial cal vocation programs. Such families with problems of
Panel 
trouble and with those who continued from page 1 are directly affected by his 
[or] her behavior and we Magistrate for the St. help develop a plan to repair Joseph's County Probate those relationships and any Court; Dr. Jeff Burnett, consequences that may have Director of the Residential arisen -avoiding prosecu­Treatment program at the tion if possible." Juvenile Justice Center; Mark In fact, when a teenager is Geissler, a social worker with found delinquent, the court the South Bend Community determines which course of School Corporation; Peter action will contribute most to Morgan, Coordinator of the the youth's rehabilitation. Youth Justice Program at the Some of the options and Hobinson Community Center programs that can await an and Kenneth Cotter, Chief adjudicated delinquent are Deputy Prosecutor. family counseling, residential 
Notre Dame's Children's treatment programs, sub-Defense Fund stance abuse (CDF) sponsored treatment, com­
"We think ofthe

the event in an munity service
delinquent acts of

effort to generate and for constructive dia­these children not more serious logue regarding offenders
in terms ofbroken

the virtues and penalties such
laws, but rather in 

shortcomings of as fines and South Bend's terms ofbroken prison time. juvenile justice Most of the
relationships. '' 

system. teenagers in The panelists detention cen­
Peter Morgan 

and their listen­ters and correc­ers assessed the Youth Justice Program tion facilities effectiveness of Coordinator are not there the outreach pro­serving a court

Robinson Community

grams in high sentence, but

Center

schools and the rather awaiting conditions indi-trial or sentenc­viduals face in the detention ing hearings. and correction centers. The "Sometimes the child is so group also discussed the unruly he may pose a threat involvement of parents in the to the community, or he may rehabilitation process. be considered likely to l'lee 
Morgan explained the con­before his trial begins, and cept of restorative justice, ·a since there are no bails principle that drives the allowed in the juvenile jus­entire juvenile justice sys­tice system, temporary tem. detainment may be the only 
"We think of the delinquent available course of action," acts of these children not in Burnett said. terms of broken laws, but That's a large problem rather in terms of broken within the system, panelists 
are placed in programs help domestic violence and alco­the same facili-offenders inte­holism. ties and receive "I really do grate into the Either way, the counselors, the same treat­workforce. attorneys, social workers and
question how much 

ment as prison­Brueseke said volunteers at the Robinson ers. the authorities and high schools are Center Tuesday night were Notre Dame the people in charge making focused on the rehabilitation freshman improvements of these troubled youths
ofthese programs 

Martha Calcutt, in the outreach regardless of the circum­a mathematics monitor the programs by stances. tutor at the rehabilitation ofthe testing children "I really enjoy working with South Bend for emotional children and teenagers, so
boys, or care about

Juvenile and psychologi­would really like to help Correction the direction their cal disorders. these kids get their lives back Facility, lives will take after Sixty percent of together, and make an honest expressed her teenagers who living," CDF member and
they are released. " 

concern regard­get in trouble Notre Dame freshman Rachel ing the treat­with the juve­Wiehoff said. "Some of them ment the Martha Calcutt nile justice sys­really do have the potential detainees freshman tem are either to become contributing mem­sometimes affected by bers of society." receive at the these conditions Many of these juveniles hands of their wardens. or have substance abuse actively work to achieve that 
"Some of the boys I work problems, he said. goal. One drawing by an with in the correction center However, Brueseke and unknown child at the tell me all about the snide other panelists said these Hobinson Center conveys a comments the guards make, programs are still in the message that suggests poten­and how they even get away early develop-tial for reform. with beating some of the ment stages. "I will be nice," boys," Calcutt said. "I really In the mean­"Some ofthem the poster reads. do question how much the time, panelists "I will be loud
really do have the
authorities and the people in said, the juve­outside, not charge of these programs nile justice sys­potential to become inside." monitor the rehabilitation of tem is still contributing The panelists the boys, or care about the struggling to urged the com­
members of
direction their lives will take strike a balance munity to
society.''

after they are released." between protect­become involved 
Other volunteers pointed ing the commu­and help these out the unsatisfactory educa­nity from offend­Rachel Wiehoff children by tional programs in the deten­ers and deter­becoming Big

freshman

tion centers. Seventh and minfng a course Brothers and 1Oth graders are given the of action that Sisters, tutors or same mathematics assign­will rehabilitate and re-inte­mentors. Sueh actions, they ments, and there is a short­grate the offender into socie­said, will help juveniles over­age of teachers to help the ty. eomn their problems and children, they said. Every case is different and frustrations in healthy ways 
Brueseke spoke about pro­every child has a different -and stay away from delin­gritms implemented within story to tell. Some come from quency. the detention centers to help homes with supportive par­teenagers obtain GED certifi­ents who failed to discipline Contact Marcela Berrios at cation, as well as the possi-an unruly child, while others aberrios@nd.edu 


Italian pri111e 111inister visits Bush 
U.S. president gives Iraq ally Berlusconi support in re-election bid 
lay the foundations for peace," from Homano Prodi, a former
Associated Press Bush said. "If a government is European Commission presi­WASHINGTON -Italian changing every year, it requires dent, who defeated Berlusconi Prime Minister Silvio a person in my position to con­and became premier in 1996. Berluseoni, facing a tough elec­stantly have to reacquaint The Italian economy is tion to stay in power, got a yourself. And that's what I foundering and Berlusconi's boost Tuesday from his ally meant by stability. It's much support for the war in Iraq has President Bush. who effusively easier to make common policy been deeply unpopular in Italy. praised Berlusconi as a strong when you're dealing with a Berlusconi has expressed confi­leader who has "brought sta­person from one year to the dence repeatedly that he would bility to the Italian govern­next." win re-election, and recent ment." "Thank you very much, Mr. opinion polls show him nar­Berlusconi had breakfast President, for your words of rowing Prodi's lead. with Bush, followed by formal appreciation, which give me a The Italian's visit "is a bold talks. lot of satisfaction," Berlusconi move but not a defining one "lie's a man of his word," replied. and may not have any effect on Bush said of Berlusconi as they Bush and Berlusconi are both his political fortunes," said sat side by side in the Oval conservatives who came to Moises Naim, a specialist on Office. "Obviou.sly, it's impor­head their governments in Italy at the Carnegie tant for an American president 2001. Endowment for International to be able to work with some­Italy initially was among the Peace, a Washington research body in a consistent most important group. manner and I U.S. allies in Another specialist on Italy, appreciate the sta­the Iraq war, Michael Calingaert of the
"I appreciate the 

bility the prime having provided Brookings Institution, a think
stability the prime 

minister has 3,000 troops to tank, said that by closely ally­brought to our close minister has the effort in ing himself with the United ally and friend." 2003 after U.S.­States, Berlusconi has demon­
brought to our

Asked whether the Ied invaders strated Italy is a major interna­
close ally and

friendly U.S.-Italian had brought tional player. relations would con­friend.'' down President "This visit is the icing on the tinue if Berlusconi's Sad dam cake in that relationship," opponent won, Bush Hussein's gov­Calingaert said, "and the cen­
President Bush 

hastened to say that ernment. Italy terpiece is the address to he was keeping his now has 2,600 Congress." distance from troops in-coun­The Italian premier speaks Italian politics. Yet, he again try and is in the process of before a joint meeting of spoke of the value of a leader removing them all by the end Congress on Wednesday, then with whom he has developed of the year. heads to New York City to close ties remaining in power. Berlusconi's almost five years receive an award for promot­
"My relationship is not a in power make him Italy's ing freedom and democracy. political relationship with this longest-serving premier since Speaking before Congress is man. It's a strategic relation­World War II. His is the 59th an honor the United States ship and this strategic relation­postwar government. accords to close allies. Others ship is important for both our But he faces a tough battle in who have addressed joint peoples and it's important to the April 9-10 Italian elections meetings during Bush's presi­dency include Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Manmohan Singh of India and Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai. 
For Bush, the visit comes as his administration reels from setbacks in Iraq, criticism of its response to Hurricane Katrina, a series of criminal investiga-tions affecting Republicans in Congress and the White House and an uproar over a deal to allow a Dubai company to manage six U.S. seaports. 


Bush will try to put some of those difficulties behind him when he leaves Tuesday on a trip to India, Pakistan and pos­sibly Afghanistan. 
~ ----------­

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
THE OBSERVER 
eO. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 465'i6 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR . BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Heather Van Ho~garden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR! Graham Ebetsch ADVER11SING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB AoMINIST~TOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme'@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(57 4) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Obstm:r (USPS 5~9 2-4:000) ifpublished Monday thrOI.!gh Friday excc'pt during_ ex.am and v.acacion periods. A subsCription to The Obstrvtt Is $100 fur OJ'l¢ ac-ademic year, $55 fiH one s=ester. 
The Ol»erver is published at: POSTMAS'I'ER 024 South Dining Hall Send add~ (.tlrf«tions ro: Nouc Dame, IN 46556-0719 The Observer Periodical ponage paid at No[[c Dame P.O. Box779 and .uididonal mailing offices. 024 Soum Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, fN 46556-0719 
11le O~r is a mttnbct uf rhc Associao:d Press. All reproduciion righQi an" 
="'«!. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Kate Gales Kaitlynn Riely Chris Khorey 
Maureen Mullen Ken Fowler ·Viewpoint Jay Fitzpatrick Laura Sonn Chris Hine Graphics Scene Matt Hudson Brian· Doxtader Tae Andrews Ram a Gottumukkala 

On surfing naked 
It has been my privilege (and misfor­tune) to see many "hot" Internet trends come and go over the last few years. Most of them, while initially promising, never lived long enough to make any lasting mark on society, or even on other tech­nologies, and they were soon forgotten by everyone -except of course by their dumbstruck investors. 
The Internet, largely because of its novelty, has been both aided (commercially) and hindered (soeially) by attempts in the media and in business to define "what it all means." The major problem with this approach is that the Internet, just like any other freeliJrm collection of human inter­actions, has no actual goals, and very lit­tle focus. Local trends may shape the needs of Internet in the short term, but over the long haul it is moved by little else but sociology and psychology. Forgetting this, and forgetting the critical role of the individual, is the first step in creating a 
' soon-to-be failed dot-com, and the next unimportant trend. 
I bring this up because right now many pundil<> want to place blogs (and their cousins, like LiveJournal and MySpace) in this category of big-hype, low-impact tech­nologies. And worse, well-meaning parents and educators, having learned of these new social constructs from the media and believing that they understand their pur­pose and extent, are trying to restrict their sons' and daughters' access to these new media without first asking why they were interested in the first place. 
And actually, I don't entirely di<>agree 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
with either group on the underlying point, even though do I have a blog, (and I have no plans to dismantle it even ifblogs in general should fall out of favor). I think most of the current attraction is pure hype, and so the entire phenomena, as it is understood in the m·edia, is not worth much long-term attention. Blogs are too hyped and too misunderstoud, and there will shortly come a day when the blog-bub­ble will collapse, around the same time that people realize that there is not really money in blogs or blogging. 
I look forward to this day because I think that the current emphasis on blogging and on iL<> "moral," "moneymaking" or "popu­larity building" potential completely misses the real and significant trend of what blogs are doing, and what they have done, to the Internet and which gives a major hint toward were it may be going. 
In truth, a blog is nothing more than a publishing tool-an easy to use Web based interface that permits almost eflort­less personal publishing and community building, without the normal technical knowledge. It has always been possible liw a person to create something like a blog on the Internet, but only lately have program­mers worked together to make the task triviaL · 
Unfortunately, once blogs took off, their early writers began focusing on areas that called certain kinds of attention to them: foreign policy, politics and news. This iS the cause of the blog hype: politicians who were taken unaware and paranoid media companies who wondered ifblogs were a threat to their entrenched business model. This initial interest drew more individuals to blogging, but only as a pale clone of the earliest journalist/bloggers, in the hopes of emulating some of that fame. 
However, these media blogs are only business as usual. They are the direct equivalent of a bricks-and-mortar compa­
ny that cwates a Web site in order 4J move 
its business online but which otherwise 
does not alter il<> business model. 
The real power of blogs, and the real 
future of the Internet, does not lie in tl1ese 
popular media commentaries. It lies in the 
unseen blogs. There are, at last count, 
between 30 and 40 million blogs, the vast 
majority of which are written by teenagers 
lilr their immediate friends or for some 
small, but dosely-knit Internet community 
(such as DeviantART). The younger the 
blogger, tho greater the probability that he 
or she will share something quite personal, 
and in many cases, shockingly remarkable 
in iL<> naked honesty. 
It is this spiritual nudity, which also takes 
other limns depending on the artistic taste 
of the author, that I think hints at the 
future of the Internet. Blogs are important 
because they are a sort of vast soeial group 
therapy, created by a collection of other­
wise uninhibited people who have discov­
ered that, in this case, there may be more 
to gain from opmmess than from privacy. 
What was once confined to a book and 
read, perhaps, by a rnally nosy little sister 
is now sprnad, with il<> author's blessing, to 
the entire world. 
And iftl1is trend lasL<>, if the psychology 
of the computer screen, which gives both · intimacy and great distance and which 
completely changes what is "public" and 
what is "porsonal" takes hold, then the 
widespread social impact of this trend will 
dwarf anything a political blog could ever 
dream of attaining. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate ofNotre 
Dame. Comments should be e-mailed to 
comments@lidewaterblues. com More ofhis 
opinions can be found at www.tidewa­
terblues.com 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Lent is time to reflect on values 
As we enter the season of Lent, members of the Campus next school year, Jenkins can give all interested parties Labor Action Project would like to extend a wide invita­-students, workers, faculty and administrators-a tion to all members of the Notre Dame family to a com­place at the table to draw up a Just Employment policy munal examination of conscience on our University's and to decide an appropriate implementation of a living relationship with our Catholic values of community, wage. Notre Dame has, in the past, advocated for living worker justice and campus employees. This Lenten sea­wages for workers outside our campus. Our apparel son, as we continue to ponder our Catholic Character in licensing code of conduct prohibits the use of sweat­relation to Academic Freedom, we feel it is imperative to shops. It states, "The University of Notre Dame du Lac explore how our tradition is exercised in our business ('Notre Dame') is committed to conducting its business practices. Our call, from Biblical justice to Catholic Social affairs in a socially responsible manner consistent with Teaching, compels us to do more than what is competi­its religious and educational mission. Notre Dame tive in the market. The economy should work for the peo­expects nothing less of its business partners and ple, not the other way around. The call to Christian love licensees." Our commitment to just treatment to workers is horizontal as well as vertical. We find the call to love abroad is admirable. Let us reflect on this past action in our neighbors in 1 John 3:17: "If someone who has light of current struggles of workers here and work for a worldly means sees a brother in need and refuses him living wage. compassion, how can the love of God remain in him?" Scripture reminds us that we must "Be doers of the This compassion is neither charity nor welfare. A living word and not hearers only" (James 1:22). Instead of giv­wage is paying people enough to live on and have a dig­ing up something for Lent, give of your talents, passion nified quality of life. and efforts to creating a just community here at Notre 
In this season of preparation, CLAP would like to chal­Dame. CLAP is only one of many paths to take. We invite lenge every member of the University and President you all, through attending meetings, signing petitions and Father John Jenkins, as our leader, in particular, to turn coming to our Labor Prayer Service this Lenten season te our commitments to Catholic Social Teaching and to end­walk with us in solidarity towards a better Notre Dame. ing poverty into real actions on this campus. This semes­ter, by committing publicly to the principle of living wage Campus Labor Action Project and commissioning a Joint Taskforce to begin meeting Feb. 28 

OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE; DAY 
What do you think about the 
Submit aLetter 

"Character is like a tree and reputation like its shadow. The shadow is what we think ofit; the tree is the real thing." 
tuition hike? 

to the Editor at

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Abraham Lincoln 

former U.S. president
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
·www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 1, 2006 page I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Higher standards for men's basketball 
A'> Notro Danw 's men's bask11tball team hurtiP.s toward it<; worst rnmrd in 14 most­ly mndiocn~ seasons in thn Big East, it is appropriatt1 to ask when wn all knew lor tlw lirst limn that the currnnt eoach might not be the right man for the job. For me, it W<L'> during the Sweet 16 makhup with the Uniwrsity of Arizona in Man~h 2003, when he choso llw highly irrational and sublime slrateh'Y of trying to "out'ieorn" the top­sm~dnd. NBA-talent ladm1 Wildcats, only to bP (surprisn!l blown out by halftime. A'i I sat just onn snat bnhind tlw athlntic dime­tor. KPvin Whit(\ I said to mysnlf. I wonder if hn is as pnrplnxnd by this stratngy as I am'? For sonw. it may havn bonn in March ol' 2004 wlwn. in rnsponsn to lt~arning that his tnam was not selndnd lilr the NCAA 

. tournanwnt, hn suggnstnd that missing tlw 
. NCAA tournanwnt was sonwthing that had to bn nxpnetnd pnriodimlly at Notm Damn. For many morn, it was nvichmt in March of 2005 aftor Iw wastod two consecutive sea­sons of Notrn I>arne basketballlilr the sake of appn<L'>ing thn interests of a maleontent­(1d prima donna, ratlwr than putting the loam's goals lirst. And now. lilr just about nveryorw, it boeamn shockingly transparnnt on Fob. 25. as Marquette marchod into South B(md and turned the JACC into their homo court and thn Irish into their person­al W<L'ihington Cencrals (snc history of the Ilarlnm <;lobntrotters). 
Since I am not a professional basketball (~Oach or player, I do not suggest that my two varsity lettnrs in high school basketball qualify me to pass judgm1mts on the eoach­ing acumnn of Notro Damn's exceedingly W(1ll-eompensatnd and wnll-conneetnd lwad eoaeh. For nxample, I am willing to admit that what appears to me to be a highly uneonvnntional stratngy of complete abandonment of a low post game, coupled with an alternative strategy of "have two guards dribble it around with no other motion or oll'-the-ball screening and then dwek up a thren-ball from 35-feet with one seeond loft on the shot clock and two hands in your fan~ ... is a potentially more cutting­edge, sophisticated, winning strategy than tho trind-and-trun approach of feeding the low post f(lr two to four-foot bueket<; or a li1ul shot ovory other timn down the floor. I will also admit that it may bo incmdibly innovative to take the rarely pursued approach of rneruiting only two eolleg<H~al­iber big men during six years as eoach and combinP that with a complete laek of atten­tion to teaching those players how to play the low post so <L'> to ensurn no-semblance of an inside game <L<; an option lhr your oll\msn lhr thrm~ straight sea'ions. La'>tly, it may bn the vnritable futuro of the sport to 
state a<; your goal "if they shoot 48 perecnt, we're gonna try to shoot 55 percent beeausn that is who we are," and eombine that with the rarely-employed defensive philosophy that consist<; of "stand nat-foot­ed, keep your hands at your side, play as passivoly as possible, never jump out on high semens even when wn are ahead by three point<; with two seconds left in the game and never, ever, box out as if you intend to actually obtain the rebound." These may be the mandates of' a true visionary, and it is not lilr me to suggest that other programs, lilr example, Indiana and Duke, which have combined li1r seven national championships via total commit­ment to dnfense and fundamentals, know any bett1~r than the curnmt Notre Dame eoaehes as to how to aehiove success on the eourt. 
llowover, I do feel qualified to state that at Notm Dame, where cxeP.IIence in men's b<L'ikotball was once a staple (see long-f(Jr­gotten nra from 1973-1981), mediocre-to­awful basketball as displayed in such his­torieally astounding fashion the past three years, should never be accepted. Tho ques­tion is: why has Notre Dame, which is arguably the national bnnchmark or com­bined academic and athletic excellence, tol­erated essentially two decades of non-exis­tent mnn's basketball? At a school that annually eompetes for national honors in women's soceer, women's basketball, fenc­ing, cross eountry, baseball, women's ten­nis and lacrosse, why has the administra­tion treated the men's basketball program Like the infirmed little sibling, as if unable to meet the standards to whieh everyone else in the family is held? This is particu­larly galling and ironic given that the lega­cy of suceess in men's basketball at Notre Dame needs to take a back seat to no other program on campus, save to that of the football program. 
Perhaps the "soft bigotry of low expecta­tions" surrounding men's basketball h<L'i come directly from the head coach alone. We certainly have all grown weary of his pathetic six-year running refrain of "we are just trying to steal enough wins to make it on to the tournament bubble." A.-, likely, I suspect it is the combined failing of the head coach's vision and that of the ath­letic director, who hailing from Arizona State, may have no working knowledge of Notre Dame's once-high standards of excel­lence in men's basketball; after all, this is the same athletic director who tolerated the Davie era far too long, panicked in hastily selecting two consecutive unworthy coaches for the football program (as if he never considered that Davie would ever 
Fan appreciation 

In short. on behalf of your Notre Dame hockey team, thank you to our studnnts and the members of our fae­ulty and stall' who have come to the Joyce Center to cheer on thn Fighting Il'ish icers this season. With your support. wn'vt~ lillcd tho Joyee Center to eapaeity each wenknnd this semester, and without a doubt, that lwlped us earn oaeh of tho victories that allowed us to host the first round of the CCI lA's postsnason tourna­nwnt this wenk1md. 
On that noto, your vocal support will bn a key ele­mnnt in our sueenss in this bost two out of three serios against a vory worthy opponont, the Nanooks or the University of Alaska-Fairbanks. As has been the policy all y1~ar. admission for students (of Notro Dame, Saint Mary's and Iloly Cross) is free to eaeh game (while the supply of seats anywhere in the Joyce Center Fioldhouse last). 
In dosing, we hop1~ we'II soc (and hear) many of you in tho stands at eaeh game again this weekend. Thanks again for your support. Go Irish! Beat Nanooks! 
Jeff Jackson head coach Notre Dame Hockey Feb. 28 

leave as head coach), had to be ordered to fire tho last football coach when it wa'> obvious that success would never be in the offing and then, again, having not learned his previous lesson, pathetically pandered to the wrong coaching target again (in Utah) in a very public and embarrassing manner. Hegardless of where this tolerance of mediocrity originated, the curmnt prob­lem at Notre Dame is not that "the land­scape of college basketball ha<; changed since Digger was the coach" or that "the JACC nneds to be renovated and new prac­tice facilities are necessary" or "the aea­demie standards impnde mcruiting the best playnrs." The curront problem is that the Notrn Dame leadership needs to a<;sign the same high standard to men's basketball as it does to football and every other sport at the school. When University Prnsidcnt Fathnr John Jenkins overhauled tho !(lOt­ball program 14 months ago, he statnd that, in order for Notrn Dame to bn suc­cessful in football, they needed to succeed "ethically, academieally and with wins on the lield." Out of simple respect for the cur­rent players on the basketball roster, that same mandate needs to be applied imme­diately to the men's b<L'iketball program. Thanks to a lack of accountability and high standards for the basketball team, Chris Quinn, a splendid basktltball player who might otherwise be this generation's John Paxson, has gone to the NCAA tournament once in his four years of labor at Notre Dame. For the administration to allow the men's basketball program to continue to languish in its current vegetative state does a disservice to all the younger players on the team, the incoming recruits, the stu­dent body who support the team and those who built this once-storied program. 
A.-, a final point, I would remind the administration that, the last time I checked, the men's basketball coaching position at Notre Dame was indeed a "job," not a vol­unteer camp counselor position. In fact, I suspect it ranks as one of the most highly­compensated positions at the University. As such, there should be fundamental standards and milestones which are required to be met. As an ordinary exam­ple, in my job as a new faculty member at a university medical center, I was given . three years of fmancial support up front, with the stipulation that I would achieve external (National Institutes of Health) grant funding to pay the entirety of my salary and research budget by the end of that time frame. If I failed in those goals, I would be at imminent risk of losing my university support and position. By virtu­ally any other professional standard, six 
years is plenty of time to objeetivoly assi~ss the milestones achieved by this basketball program. Short of simply existing, it is not eloar what goals am bPing met, other than the most dubious ones of failing to qualify for the 12-tnam Big East tourna­ment and having the worst confenmce weord in Notro Damn's history. I would submit to the administration that simply holding the men's basketball coach to standards that are appropriatn li1r Notn• Dame would be a good place to start. For example, 1) annually compete lilr th1~ Big East conference title. 2) Annually finish in the top 10 or tho national rankings. 3) Annually compntn for one of tho top 16 sends in the NCAA tournamnnt braekd. If theso goals semn outrageous, consider that from 1970-1981, Notn~ Dame lin­ishnd in the top tm1 final national rankings seven times and garnerod sevnralnurnb1•r. one to four scndings in tlw NCAA tourna­ment! Consider also that Notrn Damn is the ll th winningnst mon's basketball pro­gram in NCAA history (behind Indiana and ahead of UCLA) and has thn second­most 2,000-point scorers in NCAA history. DiggQr Phelps obviously undnrstood Emerson's fundamental tenet of human competition: "You have to aim abovo tho target to hit the target!" 
The history of college athletics has shown, more than at any other level, the impact that the right eoaeh can have at the right institution. The basketball pro­grams at UClA and Indiana como to mind as good examples. I work at an institution, Duke University, which, in 1982, had a comparable, if not inferior, history of achievement in men's basketball com­pared to Notre Dame's to that point. In that year, a single individual, a now head coach, came to that university, which had an antiquated arona and mediocre pra(:­tice facilities, and through his shncr, unrn­lenting commitment to excellence, they have become what they like to be eonsid­ered, "the Notre Dame of collngn basket­ball." Notre Damn needs a baskntball coach and athletic dirnctor who, recogniz­ing Notre Dame's own legacy in men's basketball, will commit to bring the Irish back to the top of the rankings, not to a seat on the annual bubble. And anyone who doubts the impact that hiring thn right coach can make for an institution should ask the men who hirod Charlie Weis at Notre Dame. 
John P. Chute alumnus Cia&~ of I 986 feb.27 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 



In other nominations, Spielberg's "Munich," mired in controversy and less­than-stellar box office returns, seems like an after­thought (though it garnered a few key nominations). while George Clooney finally comes into his own as a reg­ular Orson Welles with no 

.less than three nominations (acting, directing and writing, and his film "Good Night and Good Luck" was also nom­inated for Best Picture). 
In an unusual turn of events, all five of the Best Picture nominees were matched by nominations for their directors, something that has only happened three times before (in 1957, 1964 and 1981). 
While few of these categories are wide­open races, there's also no Scorsese, which means no guaranteed loser either. The 78th Annual Academy Awards will be aired on Sunday at 8 p.m. on ABC. Here's a look at the major categories: 
Best Picture What will win: Brokeback Mountain Why it will win: Bluntly put, there's not a 
whole lot of competition. "Crash" may be the closest contender, but· mixed critical consensus and the ensemble cast will sink its chances. "Brokeback Mountain" has work, as Hoffman controls "Fargo, " has ther the film with a perfectly been an Oscar ra~ modulated performance, 
oriented around s
proving once and for all that the one-time character many smaller film, 
actor is capable of carrying a picture by himself. Hoffman is an actor known for disappearing into his characters, and his affected turn as the eponymous ornery writer-journalist is both memorable and effective. The Academy will certainly not overlook Hoffman, who has become a criti­cal favorite over the years. 
Who should win:. Heath Ledger, "Brokeback Mountain" 
Why he should win: His staggeringly brave performance -an absolute revela­tion. Ledger does so much with so little that he commands the screen throughout "Brokeback Mountain," acting as the aching emotional core of the fllm, anchor­ing it with such presence that it's hard to believe that this is an actor whose past credits indude "A Knight's Tale" and 'Ten Things I Hate About You." His turn as the cowboy Ennis is heartbreaking in its emo­tional scope and breathtaking in its meas­ured control. Without doubt one of the best performances of the year, it should instant­ly move Ledger to the top of the A-list in Hollywood and make him a future Academy Award candidate. 

with a ~ finest 1 Giamatt1 Gould "Cinden but it's "Sidewa 
Whos: 
Whyh His perf moving, hearteni Things" Mary." feature and Sa them a ing the dimens· film. 
BestS 
Who Consta 
Why 
2000 2001 2002 

Best Picture: Best Picture: Best Picture: "Gladiator" "A Beautiful Mind" "Chicago" 
Best Director: Best Director: Best Director: Steven Soderbergh Ron Howard Roman Polansl "li:affic" ~ Beautiful Mind" "The Pianist" 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
page 13 
-

best things about Fernando Meirelles' largely inconsistent "The Constant Gardener." ller steady performance as the aetivist Tessa gavn thn film an emotional anehor and she brought strong emotional impact to the difficult role. Weisz, whose prnvious crAdits include "The Mummy" and "Envy," has Amerged as the leading critical favorite after a win at the Golden Globes. An acting award here would also be an award for "The Constant Gardener" as a whole, which failed to garner any other major nominations. 
Who should win: Catherine Keener, "Capote" 
Why she should win: This was a tough, tough eall. Keener is an excellent actress, veering from comedy ("The 40 Year-Old Virgin") to drama seem­ingly at ease. ller turn as 


"To Kill a Mockingbird" tion of' McCarthy-era
If "Brokeback
author Harper Lee was hypocrisy is subtle and touchingly sensitive with­Mountain" wins, it will shaded ("Crash," for all its out being cloying. Does mark the finest Best many attributes, is any­Kenner deserve the thing but subtle). Unlike
Picture winner in a
award more than Weisz? many of the other nomi­The fact is that Keener is decade -maybe longer. nees in this category, "Good 
Best Original Screenplay 
Who will win: Paul Haggis and Bobby Moresco, "Crash" 
Why they will win: Quentin Tarantino once quipped that the screenplay Oscar is the consolation prize for being the hippest f11rn of the year. And no film was hipper than "Crash," with its interlocking story­lines, clever dialogue and topical subject matter. Haggis' script for "Million Dollar Baby" lost to 1\lexander Payne's "Sideways" last year, so expect a win here for the tal­ented writer/director. 
Who should win: George Clooney and Grant 1-Ieslov, "Good Night and Good Luck" 
Why they should win: Clooney and lleslov's acute, insightful screenplay isn't as flashy as Haggis' work on "Crash," but it is 
in many ways more 
impressive. The examina-, 
in a better film, and that makes her performance stand out more. None of the actresses in this eategory dominated thnir picture (Weisz alongside Ralph Fiennes, K(~ener alongside Hoffman. Michelle Williams alongside Ledger), but KAnner held her own against Hoffman, which is no small feat. She did the same against Steve Carrell in "The 40 Year-Old Virgin," which, while slightly easier than playing against Hoffman, is still diflicult. 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
· Who will win: Larry McMurtry and Diana Ossana, "Brokeback Mountain" 
Why they will win: This is a tough call. The screenplay for "Brokeback Mountain" has been mocked almost as much as it has been praised, but it is still a solid achieve­ment. The writing is generally good, aside from a few poor lines (all of which appar­ently made it into the film's trailer). MeMurtry is a Pulitzer Prize-winner, which should give him some leverage with 1\cademy voters who like his prestige fac­tor. 
Who should win: Dan Futterman, "Capote" 
Why he should win: Futterman's screen­play for "Capote" is about as measured and exquisite as they come. Overshadowed by llofl'rnan's pnrforrnance, it's easy to forget just how well written this film is -yet the skillful dialogue and strong characteriza­tion is evident throughout. Futterman, who was also executive producer of thA film, is better known as an actor (he starred in "The Birdeage" and the TV show "Judging !\my") but it's obvious that he could have quite the earner in screenwriting. 

Night and Good Luck" sur­vives on the strength of its words alone. The writing 
handles a controversial topic with grace, fortitude and even a little style. 
Oscar Oversights 
+ 
"Star Wars Episode III: Hevenge of the Sith" received only a single nomination, for Best Makeup, inexplicably failing to garner even a Best Visual Effects nomination (marking the first "Star Wars" film to not receive even an Effects nomination). 

+ 
David Cronenberg's "A History of Violence" failed to receive a Best Picture nomination or a Best Director nomination. 

+ 
Hon Howard's "Cinderella Man," a box office disappointment during its summer release, received no nomination for Best Picture, Best Actor (Russell Crowe) or BAst Director. 

+ 
TArrence Malick's "The New World" received no major nominations. It also failed to garner a nomination for James Horner's excellent score. 

+ 
Woody Allen's "Match Point," praised by critics as his finest in years, was nominated for Best Original Screenplay but no other major awards. 

+ 
Fernando Meirelle's "The Constant Gardener" received only an acting nomina­tion, for lead Hache! Weisz, overlooking lead Halph Fiennes. 

+ 
Peter Jackson's "King Kong" received no major nominations. 

+ 
Christopher Nolan's "Batman Begins" received only a single nomination, for Best Cinematography. 


Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
2003 


Best Picture: 
Best Picture: "The Return of "Million the King" Dollar Baby" 
Best Director: Best Director: Peter Jackson Clint Eastwood "The Return of "Million the King" DollarBa 
()Jetl/Y ()d~ 
Best Picture 

.... 
~ 

.... 
·­
.... 
u.Brok.eback Mountain,. "Capote• 
"Crash"" 

"Good Night, and Good Luck:" 
"Munich"' 

Best.Ador 
P~ur Hoffman 
llo 

te"' Te:rre.nce Howard u.Hmtk &: FJowlP Heath Ledger "'Brokebad. Mountain• 
~Phoenix

atk the I...ine. David Strathaim 
~Night~ and Good Luck"' 
BatA.cans JudiDcoch 
"'Mn.. Hmdrnoo Presmts"' Felicity Huffman 
~;a"' 
Krira Knigbtky 

~&Pre~ 
Olarlize Theron 

~Coon~ 
RaK Wttlxnpoon "w...k the LilX'"' 
Bat s.pportiiiJAdor 
George Clooney 
~~ 
MutDillon '"Cr.uli" 

Paul GimJatti -ci.Jiduena Man"' 
.Jake'1J~Mountain" 
WilliamHwt 

'1l HBtmy ofVJOimc~ 
Bat s.ppona.,AdftH 
A~Adaou 
Gat~ 

It~ Fr:~JJCn McDmmand 'Worth Counny" KacbelWmz "'The Constmt Gardenn" Micbelk Wdli:um "Brolreback Mountain" 

AngLee "Bcolreback Mountain"' Bennett M.illn "Capote"' PauJllagp 
"Crafi' GeMge Clooney "GOod NJ,dtt, and Good Luck" Steven Sp!el6erg ..Murucb" 
1/Jo 
u.h 
Ih 
ISh 
7h 
I/9 100 
sh 
Ltls 
}811 
zsh 
2h 
2.2h 
2bh 
J/6 
z/3 
Bh 
113 
}II 
w!J 
7h 
ull 
'Y' 
t/4 411 
roll 

tress 
ill win: Hnesn Withnrspoon, "Walk 
he will win: She's a lock. Look at lntition -two past winners (Judi tr I1JIJH's "Shakespeare in Love" ·Iizo Theron for 2003's "Monstor"), ts ynt unproven talent (Keira ) and thn largely untouted Fnlieity . !\side from Knightley's "Pride and .n," nobody has seen any of thn lms (l>nnch's "Mrs. llendnrson ," Tlwron's "North Country" and 's "Transanwrica"), which gives oon a major publieity boost. Plus, mlly pmtty good as .June Carter in e Linn," which makos this one of t contl~stahlll catngorins in the 
IW. 
ho~1h~. win: Hense Witherspoon, ~Lmn 
e should win: !\gain, lack of corn­. llufTrnan's performance in nrka" has hmm praisod, but it's in as a good actrnss in a bad film. loon's dnad -on porf'ormancn as 
tor was onn of the most notable of tho yoar, as she even over­shadowed fellow lead .Joaquin Phoenix as Johnny Cash. 
at Best Supporting Actor 
Who will win: Paule Giamatti, "Cindnrnlla Man" Why he will win: 
e Consider it a consolation prize. (;iamatti has been snubbed time and time 
~-again by the 1\cademy (he didn't even get nominated for last year's "Sideways"), so thny'll compnnsatn him 
tid statuntto this year. It's not the erforrnancn of his career, but s turn as fast-talking manager .Joe 
as onn of the highlights of Ia Man." If he wins, he deserves it, mon1 of a makn-up award for s" and "1\rneriean Splnndor." ould win: Matt Dillon, "Crash" ~ should win: Yns, that Matt Dillon. 
trnHuH~n as bigot cop .la1~k Hyan is suhtln and dnnp -surprising and 1g from thn guy who was in "Wild and "Thorn's Something !\bout n a fantastic~ onsmnble east that I Don Cheadln, Terrnnce lloward Jra Bullo1~k. Dillon stood tall above , dominating his sc1mns and allow­1 to lingnr. lin gives his charactAr ·n and providns the crux of llaggis' 
1portlng Actress 
..-ill win: Haehel Weisz, "The (;ardnnnr" w will win: Weisz was onn of thn 





THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
..... . SCENE FEATURE 
Cinematic combat: Hollywood's modem warfare 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Scene Writer 
Plato once famously said, "Only the dead have seen an end to war." For film fans, this means there will never be an end to war movies. · 
Since the invention of cinema, war films have come in various types and styles. With the arrival of computer­technology, war films about contempo­rary war have undergone broad trans­formations in the years before and after the turn of the twentieth century. The Thin Red Line (1998) 
This serious, brooding film from Terrence Malick details the ordeals, emotions and struggles of a young band of Marines fighting at Guadalcanal dur­ing World War II. Sean Penn headlines the all-star cast that also includes Adrien Brody, George Clooney and John 
C. Heilly. As with every other Malick film, "The Thin Red Line" is clearly his brainchild, a film he spent many years developing. Malick's cinematography is both superb and unique, especially in battle scenes. The most distinctive fea­ture is the film's slow pace. The three­hour-long movie uses numerous flash­backs that highlight the difference between war and home and ultimately question the pain and evil associated with war. 
Three Kings (1999) 
"Three Kings" can best be described as a comedic war movie. It begins at the end of the Gulf War, when three American soldiers try to find and steal Saddam Hussein's gold amid the turmoil and confusion at the end of Operation Desert Storm. The war scenes provide realistic and authentic visuals, and the comedy stems from good performances from Clooney, Mark Wahlberg and even rapper-turned-actor Ice Cube. Director David 0. Russell crafts a movie that is smart and intelligent, and he manages to provide a good moral lesson at the end. There is also a distinct style to "Three Kings," a gritty, bleached feel that makes the viewing experience vis­ceral and powerful, as if one were really living and fighting in the sands of Iraq. 

Black Hawk Down (2001) 
Ridley Scott's "Black Hawk Down" relates how a standard U.S. military operation in Mogadishu, Somalia went terribly wrong on Oct. 3, 1993. The acclaimed director assembled a stand­out cast featuring Josh Hartnett, Ewan McGregor and Eric Bana in this intense and bloody film. Unlike most other war movies, "Black Hawk Down" completely forgoes any political or cultural pretens­es and depicts events strictly from the point of view of the soldiers. During filming, Scott created a 360-degree war with pyrotechnics and used dozens of hidden cameras to film the reactions of the actors. As a result, the actors exhibit a genuine fear that viewers can feel and comprehend. This film is so successful because of the frankness with which it allows viewers to experience both the horrors and heroics of war. 
Saving Private Ryan (1998) 
Without doubt the best war movie in recent history -and perhaps the great­est war film of all time -Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" is a masterpiece. Tom Hanks is the leader of a military unit that must venture behind enemy lines to rescue a comrade after experiencing the dread of the D-Day invasion at Normandy. The opening minutes of the film constitute some of the most graphic war footage ever, and a constantly moving camera adds to the total chaos of the situation. 

After the surreal D-Day invasion, "Saving Private Ryan" becomes a char­acter study of men at war who must decide whether orders from distant superiors are moral and feasible. Incredible performances by all the actors, especially Hanks, dominate the rest of the movie and leave viewers pon­dering powerful themes and questions long after the movie ends. 

While it is possible to debate whether a good war film must either be for or against war, it may be more accurate to say that good war films depict charac­ters with whom an audience can sympa­thize and relate. 
Films like these four allow viewers to experience war realistically in order to understand and discuss its implications beyond the walls of a theater or living room. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Human characters fail to eclipse canine standards 
By ERIN MCGINN Scene Critic 
"Eight Below" is an inspirational story with a very strong message ­animals are far better actors than

-· humans. The movie is based on a true story from 1957. A fierce blizzard forced two Japanese scientists to evacuate their station, and the helicopter that took them to their ship didn't have room for their 15 sled dogs. The scientists were so certain a rescue team would be back soon that they chained the dogs to posts. But the storm made the rescue impossible. When the scientists finally got a ride back 11 months later, they were shocked and thrilled to find two of ute dogs had freed themselves and survived. "Antarctica," Koreyoshi Kurahara's 1983 movie about 
When geologist Dr. McLaren (Bruce Greenwood, "Thirteen Days") hires Gerry to take him to a remote moun­tain region, they get caught in a killer snowstorm, and McLaren gets badly hurt. Thanks to the heroic dogs, McLaren survives, and both men make it back to the base camp. 
The eight dogs are then --left behind when the exploration team has to sud­denly make an emergency evacuation. Gerry agrees to leave them because he thinks it's only going to be hours before they can return for the dogs, but a sec­ond trip turns out to be impossible ­and so begins the saga of the dogs' sur­vival. 
The movie switches back and forth between Gerry's efforts to return for his dogs and the story of the brave dog team's fight to survive alone in the wilderness. The film is at its best when it goes to the dogs. Not only are they 
adorable with 
the event, was a big incredibly expres­
Eight Below

hit in Japan, but sive faces, but for­American producers 
tunately they also found it too dark. don't talk -the Frank Marshall, bet­pitfall of many ter known for his movies with ani­
Director: Frank Marshall

other survival movie, mals. They comfort 
Writers: David Digilio and Mike Rich

"Alive," about the each other, they
Starring: Paul Walker, Jason Biggs, 

ol. Uruguayan rugby take care of each
Bruce Greenwood and Wendy Crewson

team, was chosen to .other and they 
direct this new ver­sion. Under his guidance, the dog crew shrank from 15. to eight, and the sur­vival rate rose. 
The expedition is also updated to take place in 1993, conducted by American scientists. Gerry Shepherd (Paul Walker) works in Antarctica as a guide for a research and exploration facility. He has a team of amazing sled dogs, each with their own personality. 

stand out against the beautiful backdrop of Antarctica (which was actually filmed in Canada and Greenland). Their struggles on the ice, complete with a ferocious attack by a Jeopard seal, are reminiscent of the highly successful "March of the Penguins." 
The people, not the animals, are where this movie falls to pieces. None of the characters ever experience any real development -they only serve to take the action away from the dogs and make the movie run longer than it should. While Walker isn't bad as the scientist Shepard, he also isn't very convincing in his role. 

There is also an undeveloped and pointless love interest between him and the pilot, played by Moon Bloodgood. Jason Biggs is Walker's friend on the research team and is meant to provide comic relief, but serves instead as a good indicator of when it is safe to go to the bathroom or refill a tub of pop­corn. 

With a little tweaking "Eight Below" could have been a great movie ­namely if they edited out the people and let the movie be strictly about the dogs. But overall, '"Eight Below" is a good movie worth watching for the endearing performances of the eight dogs. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March I, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISMENT page 15 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 

EDGAR MEYER 
-----AND ----­
MIKE MARS HALL 
ROBERT AND REBECCA BLUESTONE 
WOVEN -HARM 0NV SAT. MAR. 4 AT 8 PM 
CLASSICAL GUITAR AND 
""'.i.' 

LARG E·SCALE TEXTILE ART 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE I STUDENT TICKETS $15 
•> "' ' '' " " :r.c'~ ' 
-• lr ' ­
"­
< v ' -,~~ 

KIROV ORCHESTRA 
OF THE MARIINSKY THEATRE 

THURSDAY, MARCH 23 AT 7:30PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL ~ STUDENT TICKETS: $20 
-' ' 
I 
I 
----------------------.. 
page 16 The Observer+ CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Schaefer dominates Albonetti in quarterfinals 
By GREG ARBOGAST and JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writers 
Senior Greg Schaefer dominated his fight with graduate student Phil Albonetti, as he earned a unanimous decision victory in the 160-pound weight division Tuesday. 
Schaefer was the more aggres­sive of the two fighters, and he had Albonetti on the defensive for the entire evening. Schaefer was able to land repeated combos as Albonetti often retreated after the initial punch. 
Schaefer was often able to pin Albonetti into the corner, which allowed him to unleash some of his combos. In the third round, the ref had to stop the fight at one point to allow Albonetti to recover from one of Schaefer's combos. 
Charlie Gough vs. Andrew Massari 
Senior Charlie Gough finished strongly in his fight with freshman Andrew Massari to earn a unani­mous decision in the 165-pound weight division. 
In the fmal round, Gough took over a fight that was fairly even through the first two rounds as he consistently landed punches on Massari. Near the end of the round, Gough landed a combo that caused Massari to start bleed­ing and forced the ref to stop the fight. 
Gough continued this momen­tum immediately after the time­out as he landed multiple punches to the face of Massari right before the bell rang signaling the end of the match. 
Christopher Jordan vs. Adam Burns 
Junior Adam Burns used an aggressive style to narrowly defeat sophomore Christopher Jordan by a split decision in their 165-pound division fight. 
Burns opened the fight quickly as he threw a furious combination of punches, landing a couple to the body and face. Jordan countered by using his long reach, which allowed him to land consistent punches. The ref had to stop the fight twice. 
Burns, however, continued to land punches throughout the fight, including a final combo right before the final bell rang. The ref had to stop the fight once in the third round to check on Jordan. 
Stephen Hansen vs. Brad Amiri 
Junior Stephen Hansen domi­nated MBA student Brad Amiri as Hansen won a unanimous deci­sion in the 165-pound weight divi­sion. 
Hansen was on the attack all night, repeatedly forcing his oppo­nent into a defensive position on the ropes. Amiri often succumbed helplessly to vicious combos from Hansen, and the judges easily awarded the victory to Hansen. 
Mike Hazlebeck v. Billy Hederman 
-Law student Billy Hederman defeated sophomore Mike Hazlebeck by knockout in the sec­ond round in the last quarterfinal of the 165-pound weight class. 
Hazlebeck started off punching very frenetically, throwing many punches but only landing a few of them. Hederman took advantage of Hazlebeck's wild punching and went on the attack. While Hazlebeck danced around the ring, Hederman waited stoically in the middle, defending himself while landing his own onslaught. 
By the second round, Hazlebeck had taken a good deal of punish­ment, leading the referee to stop the fight. 
Brian Nicholson v. Stephen "The Wrecker" Klein 
Law student Brian Nicholson used his height and his aggressive nature to defeat junior Stephen "The Wrecker" Klein in a unani­mous decision in the first 170­pound quarterfinal. 
In the first round, Klein was able to get in close and tried com­binations and uppercuts, but was unable to overwhelm his oppo­nent. Nicholson came out aggres­sively in the second round, using an onslaught of various combina­tions to take the upper hand in the bout. 
Michael "The Uberator" O'Connely v. Gregory "Busta" 
Brown 
Senior Michael "The Liberator" O'Connely was able to avoid a strong attack from Gregory "Busta" Brown in the first round and came back to win the fight by knockout early in the third round. 
Brown attacked O'Connely with an almost constant onslaught in the first round, but his punches were so wild that it appeared that not even Brown knew where they were going to land. Luckily for Brown, many of these early attacks did connect, but not enough to give him the clear advantage in the fight. 
Early in the third round, O'Connely resumed his attacks on Brown, so much so that the refer­ee had to stop the fight in the third in a knockout victory for O'Connely. 
Jeffrey Schaal v. O'Neil "Prime Time" Peart 

Junior O'Neil "Prime Time" Peart was able-to stay competitive at the start of his fight with senior Jeffrey Schaal, but quickly lost control of the round and the fight, losing by a knockout in the third. 
Schaal showed his agility and quickness throughout the fight, dancing around Peart, who stood in the center of the ring. The jun­ior was able to move in and out quickly, delivering his attack and while not letting Peart counter. He used this advantage throughout the round, easily hitting Peart hard in the head and body. 
Peart was lucky enough to make it to the third round, as he was saved by the bell in each of the first two rounds, but could not escape the third, when he was knocked out. 
Brian Kantar v. Andrew Breslin 
In the final quarterfinal of the 170 pound weight class, senior Andrew Breslin delivered an enor­mous uppercut in the second round to defeat freshman Brian Kantar. 
Breslin had tried to use his uppercuts earlier in the first round, but Kantar was too quick for him, countering with quick jabs. The first was a relatively equal match, with the two fighters trading punches throughout the round. 
But the freshman-could do noth­ing to defend himself from the knockout punch in the second, after which the referee was com­pelled to stop the fight, giving the win to Kantar. 
Daniel "Pound Town" Ward v. Andy "Doogie".Houser 
The first fight in the 180 pound division was a blowout by junior Daniel ''Pound Town" Ward over fellow junior Andy "Doogie" Houser. 
Ward had the clear advantage in height, speed and strength, and merely toyed with Houser for three rounds. Almost none of Houser's punches landed because Ward was able to block or dodge most of them. Ward would then attack Houser quickly and move away to avoid any counterattack. 
Robert Lochridge v. Brian Bylica 
The bout between seniors Robert Lochridge and Brian Bylica featured wild, frantic punching by both fighters, result­ing in a split decision win for Lochridge. 
Lochridge and Bylica traded punches for much of the first round, but Lochridge took the advantage by working Bylica's body at the end of the round. Brian fought back throughout the second, forcing Lochridge to go on the defensive, including being forced by the referee to have a standing eight count. 
In a relatively equal third round, Lochridge was the slightly better fighter and won in a split decision. 
Jeffrey "The Golenator" Golen v. Ben O'Brien 
Despite throwing many big punches, sophomore Ben O'Brien lost to senior Jeffrey "The Golenator" Golen in a unanimous decision. 
One of the biggest assets for Golen in the fight was O'Brien's inaccuracy, which left him wide open to counterattacks. In the sec­ond round, O'Brien was able to slightly even things up, but Golen was still stronger throughout the round.. 
Eric Retter v. Daniel Stypula 
The last 180-pound quarterfinal was a sloppy fight between juniors Eric Retter and Daniel Stypula, one that Stypula won in a split decision. 
The two traded punches throughout the fight, but many of the punches thrown were highly inaccurate. Retter started off strong in the second round, chas­ing Stypula around the ring, but was not able to take a clear advantage over his opponent due to a high rate of missed punches. Retter was more aggressive in the third round, but Stypula was able to land several punches, giving him the win in a split decision. · 
Pat Bloniarz v. Peter Courtney 
The first cruiserweight fight of this year's Bengal Bouts featured a knockout win for sophomore Peter Courtney over freshman Pat Bloniarz by knockout in the first. 
After three consecutive big hit<> by Courtney, Bloniarz already was in a standing eight count, and would receive his second in the first round shortly thereafter. Courtney hit him with just a few more punches until the referee stopped the fight in the first, advancing Courtney to the semifi­nals. 
Patrick K. Ryan v. Benford Begay 
A relatively equal fight between sophomore Patrick K. Ryan and freshman Benford Begay ended abruptly in tl1e third round when Begay went down suddenly with what appeared to be a di<>located jaw. 
The fight started off in favor of Ryan, who used his height advan­tage to stop Begay. Begay tried to get in low against Ryan, and deliv­er combinations as a counterat­tack. 
Ryan continued to work tliese combinations in the second and third rounds while Begay began to fight higher, attacking Ryan's face and evening up the fight. 

In the middle of the third round, Begay suddenly and quickly went to the mat, although he was not hit. The referee stopped the fight then and checked on the fresh­man, who stood up and was fine after being treated by the medical staff on site. Ryan was declared the winner by knockout in. the third round. 
Patrick Mcinerney v. Chiistopher Nanovic 
The first heavyweight fight of the evening, between S!Jphomore Patrick Mcinerney and junior Christopher Nanovic, was another sloppy fight characterized by wild · punches. 
The wild punching was mainly done by Nanovic, who swung frantically at Mcinerney without hi-tting him consistently. Mcinerney, on the other hand, was able to get in some big hits in the second round to gain the clear ­advantage. He won in a unani­mous decision. 
Clarence Ervin Ill v. Kevin Lynch 
The evening's penultimate fight featured senior Clarence Ervin III knocking out law student Kevin Lynch in the third round. 
Although the first round was mostly defensive, with the two boxers protecting themselves and trying to get a read on the other fightflr, the second round was very aggressively fought, especially by Ervin. Ervin attacked Lynch, working the face throughout the round and forcing multiple stand­ing eight counts. Ervin was still much stronger than Lynch in the third, and won by knockout early in the third round. 
Matt "Bad to the" Bono v. John Bush 
The final quarterfinal bout was a heavyweight match-up bfltween freshman Matt "Bad to the" Bono and junior John Bush, who won the fight in a unanimous decision. 
Bush started off the fight aggressively, keeping Bono at bay with his advantage in height and reach. But Bono was still able to respond somewhat by getting inside on occasion and working the body. 
Bono came out strong in the third round, but was too tired from Bush's onslaught, leading to the junior's victory by unanimous decision. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at 
garbogas@nd.edu and 
Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED FoR RENT 

3·6 BDRMS. $195/PERSON Marc Mejaki, this is for you: Watch the World Baseball Classic A 4 bdrm, 2bth house near campus. MO.,AVAIL.NOW,SUMMER,06/07 " Johnny's in the basement or else the terrorists win All appliances included. 329-0308 Mixing up the medicine Pets welcome. $1350. Call220· I'm on the pavement Congratulations to all the Bengal 
Chieftains tix. 273-9845 WALK TO SCHOOL 2·6 8666. Thinking about the government Bouts fighters, but really just Litschi, BEDROOM HOMES PERSONAL The man in the trench coat Joey Leary and Duffy. MMMRENTALS.COM 5;32·1408 2-3-4"BEDROOMS. Immediate & Badge out, laid off Go Big Red 
FoR SALE 2006·07. Security,phone included. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don Says he's got a bad cough 
123 NO Ave. 3-bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call 315-3215. ndstudentrentals.com not go it alone.lf you·or someone Wants to get it paid off Let's bring the Jeffrey Robinson A 4 bdrrn, 2bth newly remodeled 574-229-0149. you love needs confidential support Look out kid Community Learning Center to house near campus. $90,000. 515 St.Joe: 7 bdrm,area of student or assistance, please call Sr. ML It's somethin' you did ND...I heart you Joey B. Call 220-8666. 3,4,5,6 bedroom homes. Web rentals, $1200/mo. 574·250-7653 Gude, CSC, at 1·7819. For more God knows when 
site:mmmrentals.com Contact:Gary information, see our bi-weekly ad in But you're doin' it again Requiem for Ken Fowler 3 BDRM RANCH ON JUDAY 574-993-2208 or grooms@ourweb· 1-7 bdrm. homes starting @ THE OBSERVER. You better duck down the alley way LAKEWALK TO CAMPUS. spot. net $200/student, 24-hr.maint.,free pool Lookin' for a new friend I think animal crackers make people 
tables, 1st mo.free. Call574·250-MISSING: Enchanted fiddle. The man in the coon-skin cap think that all animals taste the 329·0308 COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI· 7653 or visit bluegoldrentals.com Pitched by wife into cornfield during In the big pen same. "What's a giraffe taste like?" UMS AVAILABLE FOR 06-07 tantrum. Please return to Crowley Wants eleven dollar bills "A hippopotamus! I had 'em back· 1993 Volvo 850 GLT, superb SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED-TWO BDRM BEAUTIFULLY FUR· Hall of Music. Orpheus. You only got ten" to-back!" 
condition, 95,000 mi. $4200. 631-ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY. 235-NISHED CONDO. $1,100. CALL 5082. 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 509-999-1755. Happy Ash Wednesday everybody! Kickball is a contact sport. ONE MORE DAY 

OUNDTHE NATION 
Wednesday, March I, 2006 CoMPILED fROM Ttu: OBSERVER'S wrR£ SERVICEs page 17 
NCAA Men's Basketball RPI Rankings 
team record previous 

1 Duke 25·1 1 2 Villanova 21·2 2 3 Connecticut 23·2 4 4 Tennessee 19·4 3 5 Memphis 24·2 5 6 Pittsburgh 20·4 6 7 Ohio St. 19·4 8 8 Michigan St. 19·7 10 9 Gonzaga 23·3 12 10 Iowa 20·7 9 11 Texas 22·4 7 12 Illinois 22·4 13 13 Wisconsin 18·7 16 14 UCLA 20·6 11 15 Oklahoma 18·6 14 16 LSU 18·7 15 11 Arizona '16·10 20 18 North Carolina St. 21·5 22 19 North Carolina 17-6 23 20 George Mason 21·5 27 21 Marquette 18·8 35 22 Florida 22·4 18 
23 UNI 22·6 17 24 Wichlla St. 21·7 21 25 Missouri St. 18·7 25 
NCAA Women's Basketball RPI Rankings 
tc•am record pretJious 

1 Tennessee 24·3 1 2 North Carolina 25·1 5 3 Duke 24·1 4 4 Connecticut 24-3 2 5 LSU 23·2 3 6 Oklahoma 23-4 6 7 Maryland 24·3 7 8 Ohio St. 23·2 9 9 Rutgers 21-3 8 10 Baylor 19·5 12 11 Arizona St. 22·5 11 12 North Carolina St. 16-10 10 13 DePaul 22-5 15 
14 Virginia Tech 18-7 16 15 Georgia 18·7 18 16 Brigham Young 20·3 13 17 Old Dominion 16·7 24 18 Michigan St. 20·8 20 19 Stanlord 19·6 14 20 Kentucky 19·6 17 21 St. John's (N.Y.) 19·6 23 22 Boston College 19·8 19 23 Western Ky. 20·5 25 24 New Mexico 18·7 22 25 Utah 19·5 26 
NCAA Men's Basketball Big East Conference 

u•am COl{{. ooerall str. 
Connecticut 12·2 25·2 Won 3 VIllanova 12·2 22·3 Lost 1 West Virginia 11·4 20·8 Won 2 Pittsburgh 10·5 21·5 Lost 1 Georgetown 10·5 19·7 Won 2 Marquette 9·5 19·8 Won 3 Syracuse H 19·9 Lost 1 Cincinnati 1·1 18-10 Lost 1 Seton Hall 7-7 16-10 lost3 Rutgers 6-9 16-12 Won 1 louisville 5·9 17·10 Lost 1 Providence 5·9 12-13 Lost 1 St. John's (N.Y.) 5-9 12·13 Won 1 NOTRE DAME 4·10 13-12 lost 2 DePaul 4·10 11-14 Won 1 South Florida 0·14 6·21 losl16 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Duke at Florida State, 6 p.m., ESPN Texas at Texas A & M, 7 p.m., ESPN2 Utah at TCU, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -NFL labor talks broke off Tuesday three days before the start of free agency, leaving teams and players in a quandary about negotiat­ing now contracts. 
Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFL Players Association, spent tho last throe days meeting in New York and Washington with commissioner Paul Tagliabu11. 
"We're deadlocked. There's nowhere to go," Upshaw said. "There's no rnason to continue meet­ing." 
The NFL acknowledged the talks had broken oiT and said no further discus· sions were scheduled. The league said it would not extend Friday's deadline for the start of free agency. 
Although the contraet docs not expire until after the 2007 season, this is a critical period in the nego· tiations to extend the 12­year-old agreement. Talks have been going on for more than a year. 
Free agency is scheduled to start Friday. If the deal is not extended, this would be the last year with a salary cap, so agents and team o!Ticials want to know how to structuro contracts. 
For example, if thern is no extension, the salary cap is expected to be about $95 million this sea­son and annual raises after 2006 in a long·tlmn deal would be limited to 30 percent. II' the deal is extended the cap could be $10 million or more high­er. 
The sides have agreed on a numbnr of issues. The biggest one is changing the formula for the amount of money to go to the players from "designated gross revenues" -primarily tel· evision and ticket salns ­to "total gross nwenues," which include almost every bit of money a team generates. 
They differ, IH>WilVI1r, on the pnrenntagn of.revnnuns 

to b11 allocated to the play­ers -the union is asking for (J() pnrcent and the league's current offer is 
56.2 pnrennl. 
But there are also dis­putns among groups of owners on that issue, too. Tagliabun has called a league ment.ing in Nnw York for Thursday. 
Teams with lower rnv­enuns -mostly small­market dubs -say that if the contributions to thP playnrs' fund an1 equally a p p or t i o n P d a m o n g :{ 2 franl'.hisns, tlwy will have 
-
to pay a substantially larg­er proportion of t.lwir non­tehwision and tickd mon­nys bneaus!' thny havP lnss. 
IN BRIEF 

Federer breezes by first­
round opponent 

I>UBAI, United Arab Emirates­Top-rankod Hoger Fndnror returned !'rom a month's vacation and began his bid !'or a fourth straight Dubai Opnn titln Tuesday, beating Stanislaus Wawrinka 7-6 (3), 6-3 in an all-Swiss match in the first round. 
Also advancing was second-ranked l{afael Nadal, who defeated beat Franco's Paul-Henri Mathieu 6-7 (5), 6-1' 6-2. 
Federer has been resting in his hometown of Oberwill since winning the Australi.an Open in .January. lie said Wawrinka pressured him into snveral unforced errors. 
"I am quite pleased with the way I played," Pederor said. "I really don't earn about the bad shots as long as the end result is fine." 
Fnderer, a seven-time Grand Slam champion, will next play 488th­ranked Kuwaiti wild card Mohammed AI Ghareeb. 
Primeau saY.S season over 
after head injury 
VOOHIIEES, N.J. -Keith Primeau promised his wife he wouldn't brnak down while talking about the prema­ture end of' his soason because of' lin­gering symptoms from a concussion !'our months ago. 
lin had good reason to kePp his word. llis wife, Lisa, threatened to eome into the news conference from a nnarby room and smack him on the head if he became too emotional. 
"That's probably not what I can use right now," Primeau said Tuesday, cracking a brief smile. 
Primeau won't be taking any whacks to the head on the ice any time soon. The Philadelphia Flyers captain is done for the season, still feeling the effects of an Oct. 25 hit from Montreal's Alexander Perezhogin, the latest and most severo in a list of head injuries the center has sustained in a 15-year career. 
Autistic hoopster returns to 
the bench 

(;HJ\ECI\, N.Y. -Alonn in tlw gym after praetico, Jason Md·:lwain wnnt through his nlaboratn pn~ganw ritu­al. 
Tho 17-year-old snnior, managnr of tho Grnnee Athona lligh School bas­ketball tnam, drairwd a 3-pointnr. a doublo-pump layup and a frno throw, kissnd tho bal'k of his ring fingnr at enntor court and spnd ofT to thn dressing room to oxhort and amusn his tnammatos. 
"You'vn gotta give it nvorything you got!" McElwain sang in rap vnrse. "The winner goes homo all happy/Tho loser goos horne and says/Mommy wn lost thn game, wah wah wah!"' 
McElwain, who is autistic, was back in his role as an all-around motivator on tho evn of a soetional somil'inal game Tunsday night­handing out watnr bottles, dispensing tips, helping run drills. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
NFL DRAFT 
Vandy quarterback 

..­
impresses experts 
Cutler wows scouts ·at pre-draft combine 
Associated Press NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Jay Cutler will be leaving Vanderbilt with much more than an excellent education. Cutler, who was Indiana's Class 3A All-State quarter­back in 2000 at Heritage Hills, is the current hot topic of the NFL draft, shooting so far up the charts after a strong performance at the combine that some analysts now consider him the top 
player Ron Mercer. 
Cutler started wowing coaches and scouts at the Senior Bowl with his strong arm and decision-making. Not working out at the com­bine wasn't much of a consid­eration, and it's paid off with NFL Network analyst Mike Mayock calling Cutler the top qu&rterback in the draft. 
"He's a fan of mine, so I'm a fan of his," Cutler said. 
Other raves came from Sean Payton, the new coach of the New Orleans Saints, who hold the No. 2 pick over­all. He compared Cutler to a young 
quarterback "It's an honor to be Brett Favre. available ~ "It's an honor to
linked to someone
ahead of even be linked to Matt Leinart [Brett Favre] at that someone at that and Vince level." level," said Cutler, Young. who spoke to A quarter­Favre before back from Jay Cutler signing with his Vanderbilt? Vanderbilt quarterback agent, Bus Cook. 

De. La Hoy a ready to defend his WBC belt 
Associated Press 
BEVERLY HILLS, Calif. ­With their fight more than two months away, Oscar De La Hoya and Ricardo Mayorga are tun­ing up with some verbal spar­ring. 
The 33-year-old De La Hoya has said he hopes to close out his career with the May 6 bout against Mayorga, and a grand finale against either Floyd Mayweather Jr. or Felix Trinidad in September. 
Mayorga, a wild-swinging WBC champion from Managua, Nicaragua, talked a great game on Tuesday, saying that he intends to spoil De La Hoya's plans. 
"This clown sitting here to my right has disrespected me," the animated Mayorga said at a news conference. "He keeps saying that he's going to be fighting in September or October, like he's fighting a nobody in May. 
''I'm the champion. You've got to recognize that. My strongest hand is my right hand. You see his eye? I'm going to detach his retina," Mayorga said through a translator. 
"I recognize that at one point that you were a great champi­on. But I'm going to prove on May 6 that you have nothing left in the. tank. You remind me 

Traditionally, the worst team in the Southeastern Conference? A program that last had a quarterback draft­ed in 1990 -in the long­defunct 12th round? 
Now you know why Cutler was determined not only to attend the combine that con­cluded earlier this week, but also answer every question and run every drill. 
"With Matt and Vince not working out, the spotlight wasn't going to be on them. It was going to have to go some­where else. That was the rea­son I wanted to step up and throw and get some of that media attention and kind of ride that wave a little bit," the SEC player of the year said Tuesday. 
"You want to try to keep your name positive in the media as much as possible up until the draft." 
So what if he nearly rallied the Commodores to victory in double overtime at Florida or beat Tennessee last November for Vandy's first 

-
victory in the series since 1982? Young almost single­handedly led Texas to a national championship last season. Leinart left USC with two national titles and a Reisman Trophy on his resume. But the 6-foot-3, 223-pound Cutler from the southern Indiana town of Santa Claus has a strong arm and was smart enough to be accepted by the SEC's only private uni­versity, a picky school that 
"He's one of the 
best quarterbacks ever. But I've got a long way to go before that comparison is going to be a reality." 
The idea that Cutler might be among the first five draft picks hasn't hit him yet. Vanderbilt's best-known quarterback drafted by the NFL was Bill Wade, the top pick in 1952. 

BOXING 
Mayorga vies for WBC title 
FRIDllY NIGHT 
• FREE CCHA PlAYOFF 
T·SHIRT TO FIRST 300 FANS (GATES OPEN AT 8:30) 
•FREE PAPA JOHN'S PIZZA TO EARLY ND/SMC/HCC STUDENTS 
of an old lady that's past her prime that should be sitting home in a rocking chair doing nothing." 
De La Hoya sat staring coldly at Mayorga. 
At one point, after Mayorga said he was going to bust up De La Hoya's face, the two traded shoves before others quickly stepped in to separate them. 
When De La Hoya's time at the podium came, he spoke in a measured tone. 
"This will be," he said and then took a long pause, "the fight of my life. I've never had 
SllTURDllY NIGD1, 
• lfIN A SEMESTER OF BOOKS 
FROM. THE HAM.M.ES ND BooKSTORE 
•FREE PAPA JoHN's 11IZZA TO EARLY ND/SHC!DCC STUDENTS 

FREE ADMISSION FOR ND/SMC/HCC STUDENTS 
(WHILE SUPPIJIES lAST) 
any anger toward anybody, or disrespect, except for one man out there who got knocked out," De La Hoya said, ostensibly alluding to Fernando Vargas. "This guy here, May 6, believe me, he will get knocked out. 
"He's throwing fuel at the flame. I'm not a talker at all, but inside the ring, he's going to pay." 
Again staring at Mayorga, De La Hoya added, "''m not afraid of you at all, nothing. Fighters are not afraid. But inside the ring, I'm going to knock you out. Believe it." 


Wednesday, March I, 2006 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Friars 
continued from page 24 
The Irish must win tonight at Providonce and Sunday at home against DePaul to earn six wins and a Big Hast tour­narnont berth. 
The Friars ( 12-13, 5-IJ in the Big East) arn fighting for a postseason life of tlwir own behind leading seorer and sen­ior guard Donn i•~ MeG rath 
(15.4 Big East average) and freshman guard Sharaud Curry, who led Providnnen with 24 points and seven assists in an X 1-6X loss to Pittsburgh Saturday. 
If' the snason ended today, tlw Friars would be tho 12th and linal loam in tho Big East tournamnnt. But Notre Dame won thn first nweling of' the two teams, 92-77, on Jan. 14 altho Joyce Cnntnr. 
Providnnen will sneure a con­f'nrenen tournanwnt berth if it beats Notrn Damn tonight ­regardless of the outcome of look to open the floor and push its game against Marquette the ball early and often, estab­March 5 -because the Friars lishing their own tempo would have at least six wins against opponents. Brey said and would win tiebreakers if Monday he was concerned necessary with the loser of tho about Notre Dame's transition Hutgors vs. St. John's game defense, which allowed March 5 and with DePaul. Marquette to start Saturday's 
"For both teams, the Big game shooting 6-of-8 from the East tournament starts lield. Wednesday," Brey said. "Both In contrast to Saturday's per-teams know formance, Quinn what's on the and Falls could line." "For both teams, the not miss when 
Notre Dame Big East the Irish played also knew what Providence last
tournament starts 
was on tho line in the 92-77 vic­last Saturday, but Wednesday. " tory Jan. 14. the Irish came out Quinn (11-of-14) flat, and point and Falls (8-of-
Mike Brey

guard Chris 12) combined
Irish head coach 
Quinn and shoot­for 55 points ing guard Colin and shot 10-of-Falls nrwer got 16 from tho 3­going on offense. Marquette point arc. capitaliznd and handed Notre Notre Dame averages almost Dame its most lopsided defeat, exaetly 10 points more than statistically, of its Big East sea­Providence in Big East games. son, 80-72. The Irish lead the league in 
Providence plays a similar scoring average (79.4), while style to Marquette. The Friars the Friars are seventh (69.5). 
Brey said Monday he feels Providence is more confident heading into its Senior Night because its younger players have gained experience in Big Eas~ play. And while Notre Dame has bounced back from defeats all year to play with top conference opponents, the "Irish are on a two-game losing streak. 
Some critics point to Notre Dame's 4-10 conference record and see 10 losses for a bottom­level conference team. Other critics believe Notre Dame is good but unlucky, dropping its first nine losses only by a com­bined 32 points. 
But Irish forward Torin Francis put the losses and the season in perspective Monday as his team heads into the home stretch. 
"It's 10 losses," said Francis, who is third in the Big East in rebounds per game (9.6). "The fact that we're good enough to possibly have won any of those games doesn't change the fact that we have 10 losses. But that's in the past ... After a frustrating loss, I you have to I get over it and look forward to the next game. 


"Wn had a hard, frustrating loss against Marqunttn. It was at horne. Thny swept us in tho series. But wn're over it. Wn're looking forward to getting a win ltonightl." 
Notes 
+ Quinn has benn named to tlw National Association of Basketball Coaches Association IN/\BC) District I 0 team. lin was chosen from among 150 players in 15 dis­tricts for thn tnarn, joining Terence Dials (Ohio State), Marco Killingsworth (Indiana), Erie llieks (Cindnnali) and Brian Thornton (Xavinr) on tlw live-man team. 
Tho selnetion makes Quinn eligible for national team hon­ors that will be announeod fol­lowing the season. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
0 
p 
E R A 
N 
0 
T R 
E 
D 
A M E 
TICKETS AT 
LAFORTUNE 
BOX OFFICE 
CALL 
631·8128 


Wednesday, March 1, 2006

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
Shutout 
continued from page 24 
team. The win also ties the pro­gram with its best start -at 10 
wins  - since  becoming  a  
Division  1 pro­ 
gram  in  1985-86.  

Notre Dame (1 0-0) began the contest by claiming its 1Oth consecutive doubles point this season. 
"It's amazing that we are all playing so well and confident­ly," senior Kiki 
said.
Stastny 
"It's amazing that 
"We're just click­through anything," ing right now ... we are all playing Stastny said. "She's it's just been so able to keep dis­
so well and so 
much fun for all tractions away and
confidently."
of us." focus on what 
The first Irish needs to be done. mateh finished Kiki Stastny I'm so proud of her was was the No. because she is a
Irish senior 
29 pairing of true lighter." sophomore Sophomore Brook Buek and freshman Bailey Louderback said she Kelcy Tefft with an 8-4 triumph looks forward to seeing just over the Hoosiers' Brianna how successful the team will be Williams and Sigrid Fischer at later in the season in doubles. No. 2. The Irish twosome is 9-1 "We are so deep in doubles this season after last weekend's that I don't see us losing all loss to Wisconsin's Caitlin season," Louderback said. "But Burke and Nicole Beck. we are not going to look past 
The next finished was Notre any teams." Damn's No. 49 senior duo of In singles, No. 28 Catrina Stastny and captain Lauren Thomspon recorded a 6-3, 6-4 Connelly, who beat Indiana's Cecile Perton and Alba Berdala Caitlin 8-2 at No. 2 and secured the doubles points. 
The Irish completed the sweep when the nationally ranked No. 2 pairing of juniors Catrina and Christian Thompson defeated Sarah Batty and Laura McGafligan 8­
4. The victory marked the return of Catrina Thompson after being sidelined against Wisconsin Sunday due to a wrist injury. 
"[Catrina Thompson] is so mentally tough that she's able to play win over Batty at No. 1. The win improved Thompson's record to 14-6 on the season. 

No. 2 Christian Thompson topped McGaffigan 6-3, 6-1, then No. 3 Buck recorded a 6­1, 6-0 win over Williams and now stands at 12-6 on the sea­son. 
Tefft continued the trend with a 6-2, 6-4 win at No. 4 over Berdala, a freshman from Spain. 
The win at No. 5 came from an intense third set tiebreaker from Stastny, who rallied back after being down one set in the mateh. This marks the second consecutive third set tiebreaker the senior has won after defeating Wisconsin's Elizabeth Carpenter 6-3, 4-6, 1-0 (11-9) Sunday. 
"[Third set tiebreakers! are challenging, but I feel so confi­dent going into them," Stastny said. "I've had a. pretty good record [this season] when play­ing them." 
FrBshman Katie Potts com­pleted the sweep for the Irish with a 6-3, 6-3 victory over the Hoosiers' Perton. 
The Irish return to play Sunday, facing Illinois at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 11 a.m. 
I nuLit:L<>UI" 

Contact Dan Tapetillo at Irish freshman Kelcy Tefft hits a shot during the team's 7-0 jtapetil@nd.edu home win over Indiana Tuesday at Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Baldwin 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame's eighth top-six lin­ish in 11 tournaments under coach Jim Kubinski. 
Tuesday's tournament, howev­er. belonged to the tri-captain Baldwin. Dedicating this tourna­ment to his father, who passed away during Christmas break, 
Baldwin shot a six-under par 210 (72-69-69). tying his career low and giving him the second­best three rounds in Notre Dame history. 
Baldwin's score was good enough to put him in a fourth place tie in 

s100 back! 
Receive $100 back through Kaplan's Rebate 
when you enroll in a Kaplan course in March! 
Take advantage of this limited-time offer. Enroll today. 
1·800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com/rebate 
HIGHER TEST SCORES GUARANTEED OR YOUR MONEY BACK.. 
·rest !lames are regiSieftK!IrBOOmarM of their ~e o""ners ··cooai!!ons and restnctlons apply. For oomp:ete guara~e eligibt6ty tt-qwemems. visit 
;<aptsst.comth"'. Tho 11Js:;her Score Guarantee >JPplll!'& onlY to Kaplan cou~ take~ and compteleC ~A~ittHn the United Sta:et and Canada tThis o!fe~ app:ie& on!)' 
lo ef'l(olrne:nf!l fot' Kapliln Test Prep arm~ Classroom Cour~ Is.. 2~. ano 35-hour Prrvate Tutonr:g Programs and Prem:um Online Courses in the 
50 United~ tne Otstm::t of Cotunmta ar.<1111 Montreal anc ~. Canadiil. Cannot t:e COI"l".binec! .with any ~er o!fer. aiswunt, or prom01:0n. To be c:ig~le. 
you mustemoll befweer. Mardl1. 20De and March.31. 2006 Certain conditions appt'f. See redemption fonn for(O(npteta details. Re<iemphon !'orms avrnlableat 
!taptesteom'r&bate or at Kaplan cen!ers 
"When facing adversity, I just had to have faith in my ability to turn things around." 
Mark Baldwin Irish senior 
just had to have faith in my abili­ty to turn things around very quickly, and that's what I did." 
Baldwin turnBd things around just about as fast as anyone in the tournament. 
Through seven holes in Monday's first round, he was playing near-bogey golf, shooting five-over par. 
"If I had just played even over the first seven holes, I would have won the tournament," 
Baldwin said. 
Baldwin set­tled down after that and played solid golf. His recovery was important given his desire to play the tournament in remembrance of his father. 
"I dedicated this tournament to my dad," he ent he would have been proud of. 

"I guess his birthday present was the 12 birdies," said Baldwin, who is entering his forth and final season for the Irish. 
If Baldwin has it his way, he'll be able to dedicate a bit more than 12 birdies to his dad later this spring. 
"We, as a team, obviously want to reach the ultimate goal -the N a tiona! Championship," Baldwin said. "This was just the beginning of our championship run." 
Kubinski was equally opti-
Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Spring Break Service Trip to the Gulf Coast-March 13-March 17 Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Applications available in the ACE office, 112 Badin Hall 
mistic about the upcoming sea­son. While he was able to pin­point a few negatives from the tournament such as Notre Dame's decision-making and bogies throughout the round, Kubinski feels all the Irish need is just to get the rust from the long winter ofl'. 
"I think we just need to get a few tournaments under our belt," Kubinski said. "By the time the Big East Championships roll around, we'll be feeling a lot bet­ter about how we're playing." 
Contact Joe Quinn at jquinn6@nd.edu 
Offering 
affordable 
flying lessons fTom Sooth Bend Regional Airport 
Naples. But for the Irish senior, the weekend was more impor­tant than a golf tournament. 
"It was a test of faith," Baldwin said. "When facing adversity, I said. "He passed away over Christmas and this would have been his birthday." 
With that on his mind, Baldwin gave his father a birthday pres­

•·. 
Wednesday, March I, 2006 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
more Lawrenee "The Boston in the J'irst round, landing Brawer landed multiple dominated all three rounds to Massacre" Sullivan. blows in an evenly-contested punches, ineluding ono to the defeat senior Miehael (;ibbons
Bouts 
Sullivan got out to an early opening. face, near the end of the first by a unanimous decision in continued fromyage 24 advantage by throwing a set of Hodgnrs used his height to round. lie then continued his the 155 lb. w11ight division. 
eornbinations in the first jab Barret while keeping him­momentum as the second .lara was ono of the seeded victory from sophomore Chris round that kept Drath from self out of harm's way. In the round began, landing a big fighters in the 155 lb. weight lzaguirro. doing any serious damage. later rounds, Hodgers boxed countorpuneh to Pepe's head. division, and he showed that 
Both lighters started quickly, Drath retaliated early in the "Bulldog" into the corners to Pepe was clearly dazed from he deserved the ranking. but it was Izaguirre who lnd seeond round, but "The gain a slight advantage. The this point on. Using a dodge and counter­throughout the match. A Boston Massacre" was ablo to fight was evenly contested Pepe attnm pted to use a attaek stylo, hn ropeatedly strong series of combinations regain his momentum as he throughout but Rodgers was dance and counter stylo caused Gibbons to whitT on temporarily stoppod the fight landod a crushing uppercut at able to hold on for the win. throughout the fight that was his punches, which gave .lara in tlw second round. Navare the conclusion. The final largely ineffective. Pepe did the opportunity to eounter. all1~red his strategy and was round continued to go in Robert "Golden Boy" Cimino not aggressively land punches .lara landed repeated com­abln to land a f'nw punches Sullivan's favor as he shook up vs. Tommy "Fightin' for until the third round, by which bos as well as punches to early in the third round by Drath and drew a standing Milk" Ford point the fight was largely Gibbons' head in every pinning his opponent against eight count in the closing sec­After an even first round, determined. round. The ref had to stop thn ropns, but the effort was onds to take the unanimous junior Tommy "Fightin' for the fight in the third round not enough to hold back victory. Milk" Ford took control of the Chris "The People's Champ" after .lara delivered a series Izaguirre, who was able to fight and went on to. win a Calderone vs. Anthony of punehes to Gibbons' head. work his way out of trouble Michael "Soldier" Schmitt unanimous decision. Schweiss and stay in control. vs. Brian "Mad Dog" Sophomore Robert "Golden Junior Chris Calderone was Mark Basola vs. Jeffrey 
Despllnter Boy" Cimino managed to fight effective enough to convincp, Hausfeld James "The Beast from the Senior Michael "Soldier" Ford into a corner early in the the judges to give him a split Sophomore JefTrny Hausfeld Beach" Carlson vs. Josef­Schmitt used his experience to second round, but the O'Neill decision victory over junior broke through noar the end Dmytro "Fun Size" Aponte win a unanimous decision junior landed a few strong Anthony Schweiss in the 155 of his fight with senior Mark 
Arter a strong start, sncond over freshman Brian "Mad jabs to bloody Cimino's nose lb. weight division. Basola to earn for himself a year law student Josef-Dmytro Dog" Desplinter, as his speed and temporarily stop the fight. The fight started out slowly split docision victory in the "Fun Size" Aponte fell to soph­helped overcome a slight Ford repeated the perform­in the first round, as both 160 lb. weight division. omore James "Thn Bnast from height disadvantage for the ance in the third, once again fighters danced around one Basola, who owned a signif­the Beach" Carlson. win. drawing blood, which caused another feeling each other icant height advantage, uti­
"Fun Size" kllpt Carlson In the first round Desplinter the referee to end the fight out. Calderone landed a few lized his long reaeh to keep along the rop11s narly in the was able to sprinkle in -a few and award him the final semi­quick punches to Schweiss' his opponent at bay. seeond round but a series of strong punches, but "Soldier" final spot in the 145-pound head, but not many overall. In the first round, llausfeld strong rights soon took away held the advantage from bell division. The pace picked up in the was unable to penetrate the law student's advantage. to bell, continuously backing second round as Calderone Basola's reach, and neither Carlson outlasted Aponte in his opponent into a corner. John "The Hlghllghter" used his jab effectively, open­fighter landed significant the third round as he strug­Schmitt's aggressive style kept O'Connell vs. Guillermo ing Schweiss up to round­punches. gled to protect his face, allow­"Mad Dog" from mounting any "Almost done with law house blows to the head. In the second and third ing "The Boast from the kind of a comeback in the school" Tijerina Schweiss attempted to use his rounds, both f'ighters started Bnaeh" to land enough punch­later rounds, as he had to Freshman John "The jab in return but that was to land punehes as they trad­es to secure a split decision. spend most of his time defend­Highlander" O'Connell won a largely ineffective. ed combos back and forth. 
ing himself from the constant unanimous decision over The third round featured the Hausfeld, who started to use David Rowinski vs. John blows. Schmitt moves on to Guillermo "Almost Done with two fighters trading blows a counter punch style to get Biddle the semifinals with the unani­Law School" Tijerina. back and forth as they tired, inside of Basola's reach, 
Sophomore John Biddle mous decision. O'Connell led off the second but Calderone had done landed enough punches to upset junior David Howinski round by trapping Tijerina in enough to win the decision by convince the judges to give 
·with a unanimous vietory in Calvin Evangelista vs. a corner and landing a strong this point. him the vietory. thn rwxt fight using a slight Michael "Just Call Me combo. "The Highlander" was )wight advantage and a steady Merck" Hennig able to keep his momentum Bryan "The Polish Sausage" Mark Hlnken vs. Daniel !wiping ofjahs. Junior Michael "Just Call Me throughout the remainder of Marek vs. Nathan Dyer Llem 
Howinski hngan the first Merek" Hennig wasted no time the round, preventing Tijerina Junior. Nathan Dyer saved his In perhaps tho most exeit­round with a quick flurry, but in his quarterfinal bout from landing any solid blows. best for last as he dispatched of ing fight of the evening, was kPpt on thn defensive for against freshman Calvin "Almost Done with Law junior Bryan Marek by a split freshman Mark llinken out­much of the remainder of the Evangelista. School" mounted a small decision in the 155 lb. weight lasted senior Daniel Liem to fight. In the elosing seconds, Hennig landed six consecu­comeback early on in the final division. win a split decision in the Biddle finished with multiple tive punches in a span of 30 round, but O'Connell finished The fight started out slowly, 160 lb. ·weight divisiou. right hooks that won him a seconds, which caused tho ref­strong for the victory. but got progress.ively more The pace of the fight was ehanee to fight in the semifi­oren to stop the fight. exciting with the biggest hitting extremely fast as both fight­nals next week. The effort cemented Joey Leary vs. Brian Tyrrell coming in the final round. Both ers exchanged numerous 
Hennig's place in the semifi­Freshman Joey Leary lost in fighters still had energy left as blows in every round. The Anthony "The Desire" Steier nals in impressive time. a close split decision to junior they had spent the first round crowd spurred both fighters vs. Krls "EI Azteca" Perez Brian Tyrrell. largely feeling each other out. on as they traded combos 
In the next bout, senior Andrew McGill vs. John "The Tyrrell started off well with Dyer took con(rol of the fight in back and forth. Anthony "Tho l>osiro" Steier Iceman" Cooney a series of lefts. In the second the third round as he landed Liem, who used a duck and facml off against second-seed­Junior Andrew McGill star't­round, Leary stayed low and multiple punches, including a counter style, landed multiple od froshman Kris "EI Azteca" ed off the 145-pounders with a worked the body. However, the couple to Marek's face. punches to tho head and the PP.roz. similar speedy win over soph­junior from O'Neill came back The second round featured ref had to stop the fight three 
Peroz -the quicker of the omore John "The Iceman" with another set of lefts and aggressive combos from both times to allow Ilinken to two fighters -!'lew around Cooney. uppercuts to punch his ticket boxers, but neither fighter real­elean the blood off his face. the ring, trapping his oppo­Cooney lasted only one into the semifinal round. ly took control of the match in llinken, however, respond­nent in the corners on several minute and 17 seconds as the earlier rounds. ed to nearly evory one of occasions in the lirst and sec­McGill started off with a killer Patrick O'Brien vs. Bret I.iem's combos. The most ond rounds. "EI Azteca" went combination causing a stand­Shapot Andrew "The Fuzzy Raptor" important of these came at for the kill in the third, and ing eight count. Sophomore Bret Shapot used Litschl vs. David "The the very end of the third halfway through the finaJ Only seconds after the fight an aggressive style to win a Southern Gun" Wlerson round when Ilinken closed round he landed a huge left resumed, McGill landed an unanimous decision victory In one of the most exciting out the fight with four big hook that knocked Steier to identical combo, giving Cooney over sophomore Patrick fights of the night, junior David hits. the canvas for good. The his second eight count and O'Brien in the 150 pound Wierson landed enough key knoekout win was the first of ending the fight. weight division. Both fighters punches to defeat senior Sean Wieland vs. Alex Duffy the night. landed punches throughout Andrew Litschi by a split deci­Freshman Alex Duffy got 
Christian "The Count of the light, often trading blows sion in the 155 lb. weight divi­stronger as the fight pro­Jason "The Jackhammer" Monte Flsto" Kondratowlcz with one another. sion. gressed, earning a unani­Rodulfa vs. Patrick vs. Chris "C.F." Hanlon Shapot, however, landed Wierson looked as though he mous deeision victory over "Homewrecker" Garrison Junior Chris "C.F" Hanlon more of his punches, the would have no trouble with sophomore Sean Wieland in 
Sophomore Patrick defeated Christian "The Count biggest coming in the second Litschi as he, utilizing his long the 160 lb. weight divisi1m. "llomewreeker" (;arrison won of Monte Fisto" Kondrarowicz round as he lande'd a flurry on reach, opened the fight by The fight started out slowly a unanimous decision against in a unanimous decision in the O'Brien, causing the ref to unleashing a huge combo with­as neither fighter attempted freshman Jason "The 145-pound division. stop the fight. in the first five seconds of the to throw many punches in the .Jaekhammer" Hodulf'a. After an even first round, Shapot also delivered an fight. first round. Duffy did land 
Gurrison started the fight Hanlon delivered a string of effective combo in ·the first But Litsehi responded later in one puneh to the head of with a few strong right hooks left jabs drawing a standing round that caused O'Brien to the round with a vicious combo Wieland. that got Hodulfa on the run for eight count in the second stumble to the ground. of his own that caused Wierson The fight pickP.d up in the the remainder of the first round. Kondrarowicz was able The fight proceeded at a fre­to stumble into the ropes. later rounds as Duffy started round. With standing eight to keep his hands up high for netic pace all night, as the two The fight continued at a fast to land punches with consis­eounts in both tho first and most of the fight defending fighters preferred to go right pace throughout the three tency. second rounds, against Hanlon. "C.F." then after one another rather than rounds as the two fighters trad­Wieland was on the defen­"Jiornewrecker" had a strong resorted to using uppercuts to dance back and forth. ed punches. sive for the entire fight, and lead going into the third. He sneak between his opponent's This pace finally slowed In each round, both fighters he was unable to land many kept tlw pressure on by stay­gloves, landing enough puneh­down in the third round as the landed numerous combos as significant punches. ing aggressive throughout the es for the win and a berth into fighters tired and resorted well as blows to the head. In Duffy's best combo of the third round and came out with the semifinals. more to grabbing. the end, the judges decided night came in the third round the unanimous victory. Wierson had landed the more when he caused Wieland to 
Brian "Bulldog" Barret vs. David Pepe vs. Jesse Brawer effective series of blows. stumble. The ref had to stop James Drath vs. Lawrence Dan Rodgers Sophomore Jesse Brawer the fight to allow him to "The Boston Massacre" In a split decision, freshman delivered the pain early and Michael Gibbons vs. Zachary recover. Sullivan Dan Hodgers held off graduate often on his way to a unani­"Zach Attack" Jara 
Two Fishermen faced off in student Brian "Bulldog" mous decision victory over With one of the most impres­Contact Dan Murphy at the next bout as freshman Barret for the win. S{)phomore David Pepe in the sive performances of the daurphy6@nd.edu and Greg .lames Drath took on sopho-Both fighters came out fast 150 lb. weight division. night, junior Zachary Jara. Arbogast at garhogas@nd.edu 
..r 
Wednesday, March 1, 2006

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duffy honored for academic success 
Senior point guard earned 3.821 Grade Point Average in fall 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Notre Dame senior point guard Megan Duffy earned first-team Academic All­American honors Tuesday when f~SPN The Magazine announced this season's hon­orees. 
"I couldn't have asked for a better situation both academi­cally and athletically," Duffy said Monday before learning of the award. ''I'm going to get my degree from here ... and the overall atmosphere of this uni­versity is something I'll never forget." 
Duffy, a psychology and com­puter applications major in the College of Arts and Letters, earned a 3.821 grade-point average in the fall semester and a 3. 917 last spring. She has a cumulative 3.555 GPA. 
She is only the second player in team history to garner first­team honors. Former Irish cap­tain Ruth Riley earned the dis­tinction twice -in 2000 and 2001. 
Duffy qualified for the award when she earned Academic All­District V status for the second straight year earlier this sea­son. She is also a finalist for the Nancy Lieberman Award, given annually to the nation's top point guard. 
The preseason consensus All­American said she would likely to reflect on her accolades more after Notre Dame finishes . its season. 
"I feel like I'm going to savor it more after the season's over," she said. "I think when it's all over I'll be able to enjoy and look back at my experience a little more than I am right now." 
The other first-team honorees were Indiana State guard Melanie Boeglin, Kent State for­ward Lindsay Shearer, Michigan State forward Liz Shemik and Tennessee guard Shanna Zolman. 
Two other Notre Dame ath­letes have earned first-team Academic All-America status this school year. 'Irish women's soccer goalie Erika Bohn and midfielder Annie Schefter earned the distinction Nov. 24. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Check Us Out!! =~~GI ICB www.homecityice.com -.::.:~ 
Great Job Opportunities!! 
Hiring Sludona Parl-Timfl NOW and Fuii·Timo During Summer & B111al<s 
Flexible. Hours & GREAT ~!! We offer 1 0-40+ hours/week 
Route Delivery 
$9.00 -$12.00/ Hour 
574-234-5309 
Located, Just Minutes from Campus 
We Also Have Facilities in Other Cities, Call Us! 
Sollingbrook 1-80~0.0152 North Wob.>ler 1-ll00-622-65116 FfW"}'Tlo 1-800-622-GS!iG Morfoo 1-80().642-8994 
Benton Harbor 1-800-i57-'1423 Soutl Bona 1-800-i57-4423 Clown Poin11-800-i57-44Z3 Springfook11-8CO-S42·8994 
No Experienc:11 Necessary. Trnin In one~ dUlfng tJChoof snd work in ~dwing :sumtr~er bmu!<. We offw SC/Isdul!! Fltt>Mv. S1art llainlng ti.QI'l'. 
Schedule an Interview A.S.A.P. Bring a Friend I 
www.homeci ice.com 

Panthers 
continued from page 24 
Dame's NCAA Tournament prospects and ensured the Irish of the No. 10 seed in this weekend's Big East Tournament in llariford, Conn. Notre Dame's first game of the tournament will 
be Saturday at 6 p.m. against South Florida in the Hartford Civic Center. 
"This team has a lot of p r i d e , " McGraw said. "To get back to .500 was really impor­tant for us for our NCAA Tournament hopes." 
The Irish used a 1 7-5 run in the first eight minutes of the second half Tuesday to turn a 41-31 deficit at the break into 48-46 lead. Allen capped the run with 12:21 left in the game when she hit a 15-foot jumper from the left side after she grabbed one of Notre Dame's eight second­half offensive rebounds. 
Senior Megan Duffy sparked the high intensity second half for Notre Dame when the 5-foot-7 point guard made a hard foul on Panthers 6-foot~3 space-eat­ing center Marcedes Walker -and both players fell to the floor. 
".I just tried to make a play on the ball," Duffy said. "I just wanted to not get crunched afterwards." 
Walker, who had eight inch­es on Duffy, had to come out of the game because of blood on her arm, and the Irish played motivated ball from that point forward. 
Walker tied her season high with 12 points and 18 rebounds in the game, but said Irish senior forward Courtney LaVere and Notre Dame's help defense improved dramatically in the second half. 
"I compliment their whole team for playing great defense and coming out aggressive," Walker said. 


"This team has a lot of pride. To get back to .sao was really important for us for our 
NCAA Tournament hopes." 
Muffet McGraw Irish head coach 
"It was 
there. People were definitely playing for something," she said. "In the second half, the 
crowd got into it and all of a sudden, it looked like our crew got ·shell­shocked." 
A f t e r Allen's. shot gave the Irish the 48­46 lead, the two teams battled back and forth "And as a team, we did­n't match their aggres­siveness in the second hall'." 
Pittsburgh head coach A g n u s Berenato said Notre Dame's intensity in the second half was the key difference in the game. 
really -a war out 

"It was really a war out there. People were definately playing for something." 
Agnus Berenato Panthers head coach 
was the sec­ond largest in Notre Dame history. The largest come­back for a vic­tory in team history is Notre Dame's win over Connecticut in the 2001 Final Four when the Irish came back from a 47-31 halftime 
for the next eight minutes. With Notre Dame clinging to a two-point lead, senior Courtney LaVere converted a layup in transition on a pass from Duffy to put the Irish up 63-59. 
The assist was one of six on the night for Duffy, who also had 11 points and four 

hole against the Huskies to win 90-75. 
+ With Duffy, LaVere and Allen scoring more than 10 points, it was the ninth straight game the Irish had three players in double digits. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
4.0 Student Living At Notre Dame (888) 278-5962 
rebounds. Sophomore guard Tulyah Gaines led Notre Dame's 21-assist perform­ance with eight dishes of her own. 
LaVere had success on the defensive end to go along with her offense. She finished the night with 14 points, five rebounds and five blocks. She held Walker to 2-of-12 shoot­ing in 31 minutes of physical play before fouling out with 
1:29 remaining in her final game in the Joyce Center. 
"She's so big in the lane ­she takes up so much space -I thought we did a decent job," LaVere said of the Irish defense on Walker. "I thought we did a good job at getting more bodies there and mak­ing it hard to shoot.". 
Pittsburgh's biggest lead of the night came with 2:26 left in the first when guard Maddy Brown hit a 3-pointer off the glass from the left side to put the Panthers ahead 38­23. 
Notes: 
+ The 15-point comeback 


NOW LEASING FOR 2006! 
Mention This Ad And The Application Fee Is FREE! 
1710 E. Turtle Creek Drive

Apply Online At 
South Bend, Indiana 46637 www.campuscribs.net Turtlecreek-IN@aimco.com 
Wednesday, March l, 2006 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 

IH AI I HAVE. A MASSIVE. L.l BR.I-\~l 
NAME.t> ,t>..FTEI2.. ME.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Israeli legi?lature 60 Facility 


21 Big name in California wines 
22 Former Pirates slugger Ralph 
25 Chest material 

-=t-:":+::ioiiol-::+.::-~=+=+:-:t-::-loli.l-:-817.-1 26 Nitrogen compound 

28 N.B.A. star ~~~~~ Jason 
......_...-:-+-:+:=+::,-! 27 Sounding like one has a cold, say 
~__...__.__,__, 29 Lush 
THE OBSERVER 
61 Spoil, with "on" 62 Tripmeter 
feature 63 Tore 64 Brain part 
DOWN 1 Antediluvian 2 Impecuniosity 3 Cartel city 4 Like a soap 
opera 5 Against, with 
uto" 6 Lama 7 Some are 
slipped 8 Snick and 9 Give in 
· 10 Big strings 11 Caboo(;le, e.g. 12 Glimpse 13 _Plaines, Ill. 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Corum unity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE 
saw Katie heading into her l'oom last night with a box of fudge and a tall 
mocha lotte. She was pigging out before 40 days without chocolate and coffee. 
30 Aunt "Oklahoma!" 


ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\--\CA.'\ S\-\N\¥:.E..E..S ~ 
l\-\A"I F:.u I L'\:)INl:t 
HA'f. M'-j "NAME 
01'--l 11\ 
WILLSHORTZ 
51 Fateful date 
In years past 5 Throws on 9 Took steps 
14 of faith 
15 Mirror-conscious 
16 Halt 
17 Supermarket 
section 18 "What ?" 19 Film reviewers' 
showings 20 Shame a star of "Singin' in the Rain"? 23 Well-developed area? 24 Words said while holding hands 25 It may be brought out during a blackout 
32 Netzero.com seNice 33 Radio's " & Anthony Show" 35 Corrida call 36 Pay no attention to a vampire? 40 Santa 41 Essential for an investigator 42 Sad sack 43 Softens 46 Rising stars 47"Yes,_!" 48 Rugby formation 50 Send a president out 55 Vanishes 56 Kind of horse 57 Actor Wyle 59 Gladiator's venue 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 44 Ancient ascetic 
52 Lashes 31 A sad thing to 
45 Barely catches, 
be in 53_ court, law 
as the heels 
student's33 Wallet fillers 
46 Stretched in exercise order to see34 School grp. 
54 Make full 48 Deep-six
37 Prefix with 55 Distant
sound 49 Selected 38 Not silently 50 Bell the cat 58 Bottom line? 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
JIJJ/Ji~ill~JR
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, 
Gimme You've almost another finished the boHie
to form four ordinary words. 
I DUTOO j
rJ r 
<02006 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
l;fflrJ 
BLIRME 
(lJ I 
www.jumble.com 
FLASTE 
1 rJ (] 

I 
Answer here: Jumbles: CURRY LIMBO TYPING PANTRY

Yesterday's 

Answer: When the beauty queen beat the bowie( by one, she was a-"PIN UP" 

EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIHS I>A Y: Eric Lindros. 33; Bernadette Peters, 5!!; Mario Andrctti. 66; Gavin MacLeod, 76 
Happy Hirtlulay: Don't stop until y(iU reach your goal this year. lle strong, resilient and willing to go the distance. The potential is there and vktory is written on the wall, so step up to the plate and do your thing. Money and good ll>rtune arc heading your way. Your numbers arc 5, 9, 17, 18, 26,32 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take extra care and pride to do things right and 
cover your back. Money matters can be resolved if you work hard to make deals 
happen. Make some changes to your living arrangements and you will li:cl more 
at ease. *** 

TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Although you will have some opportunities crop 
...... 
up and partnerships open up. you will have to concentrate on matters of home m)d family. Someone you arc indebted to will need your assistance. Don't let anyone at work stand in your way. •••• GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): You aren't likely to getlhc help you need or ask fi>r. Refrain from getting into a debate that will waste your time and get you all rikd up. You will do your best working on your latest invention, scanning the Internet or taking a short trip. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone you used to know will be on your mind and should probably be in your life. Don't hesitate to make contact --il will turn into a worthwhile venture and a long-lasting connection. lly looking hack you can let go of the past and move li>rward. ••• • • LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Share your thoughts regarding an investment that interests you. Money will come your way and deals can be scaled. You can make important changes to your future, your home environment and your position. • • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Today, put your efforts into both business and personal partnerships. If you aren't involved with anyone. now is the time to search fi>r the person who can bene!it you the most. The more interaction you have with others, the better. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Now is the pcrlcct time to get a job !inishcd, push your ideas and deal with your colleagues. A change of position is apparent and interviews will go extremely well. You will have the upper hand, regardless of what you decide to do. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Focus on home, tamily and your creative dreams. You have the discipline to get things off the ground hut don't let someone hold you back or make you feel guilty for putting time and effort into your ideas. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Don't take chances with money, while tmvcling or when dealing with others. You aren't likely to get your way. A problem at home will escalate and anger and harsh reactions should be expected. •• CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Today, all you have to do is show up. You have laid the foundation and now you can reap the rewards. Changes will be to your benefit. You can choose your course and proceed with confidence. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): Partnerships will take a tum. If you have been striving for equality and treating the people around you with respect, your relationships will flourish. If you haven't, expect to he put in your place. Arguing won't do any good. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stay calm, don't jump to conclusions and do your best to turn your ideas into moneymaking projects. Your imagination will be working overtime. Keep things plain and simple and you will get favorable results. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are outgoing, outspoken and even outrageous at times. You have a sense of what's to come and you arc willing to put yourself on the line. You are goal-oriented and quick to take advantage of any oprortunity. 
Eugenia's Web sites: avtroadvice.comfor fun, ''Ul{t.'nialast.comjhr cof!ficlential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 1, 2006 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Comeback kids 
Squad erases 15-point second-half deficit to beat Pittsburgh 72-65 on Senior Night 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Freshman Lindsay Schrader 

-
scored 20 points and sopho­more Charel Allen added 16 as Notre Dame erased a 15­point deficit to top Pittsburgh 72-65 on Senior See Also Night at 
"Duffy honored
the Joyce Center for academic 
Tuesday. 
success." 
" 0 n 
page22
Senior Night, it was the day of the underclassmen," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought Charel and Lindsay both played really well." 
The win helped Notre 

Left, Irish guard Lindsay Schrader drives to the basket. Right, forward Courtney LaVere takes see PANTHERS/page 22 a shot in Notre Dame's 72-65 home win over Pittsburgh Tuesday. 

MEN'S GOLF 
Baldwin 
. 
leads team 
•
1n opener 
By JOE QUINN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame kicked off the spring season with a fifth-place finish in the Lexus Naples Intercollegiate Invitational in Naples, Fla. Tuesday. 
The Irish picked up where they left off last fall behind a record-tying performance by senior Mark Baldwin and strong showings by junior Cole lsban and sophomore Mark King. 
This was the fifth top-six finish by the Irish in six tournaments. The only time Notre 'name didn't finish in the top six was a dis­qualification in the CordeValle Invitational Oct. 31. It is also 
see BALDWIN/page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Team fights for its life versus Friars 
.-· 
Notre Dame needs a win to keep Big East Tourney hopes alive 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
.Facing elimination from the Big East tournament and an empty schedule in March, Notre Dame must win the first of its final two regular 
season games where it has been least successful -on the road. 
The Irish {13-2, 4-10 in the Big East) are 1-6 in confer­ence away games this season. They close their road sched­ule tonight in a 7:30 p.m. tipoff with Providence at the Dunkin Donuts Center in Providence, R.I. 
"I think we've played well on the road. We've compet­ed," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said Monday, referring to his team's resilience but poor results away from the Joyce Center. "We played well against [Providence] before, and we've played well in the Dunkin Donuts Center histori­cally. No one in· [our] locker room has lost in that build­ing." 

Notre Dame has won three straight at the Dunkin Donuts Center, most recently winning 62-61 on Feb. 19, 2005. 
see FRIARS/page 19 
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish shut out Hoosiers, 7-0 

Irish freshman Kelcy Tefft backhands a shot in Notre Dame's 7­0 win over Indiana Tuesday at Eck Pavillion. 

Team is 7-0 against opponents ranked in the nation's Top 30 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish proved their strength and depth as a top-five program after shutting out the No. 27 
. Hoosiers 7-0 Tuesday ­their seventh consecutive victory against a top-30 
see SHUTOUT/page 20 
Talks in New York between players and owners broke down, leading to a possible end to the salary cap after next season. 
page 17 
Roger Federer won 

Philadelphia Flyers 
his opening round 

captain Keith Primeau 
match at the Dubai 

will miss the rest of the 
Open, beating 

season after sustaining a 
Stanislaus Wawinka. 
concussion. 
page 17 

page 17 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Veterans dominate 
quarterfinal round 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer Law student Guillermo Tijerina lands a punch against freshman John O'Connell during quarterfinal Bengal Bouts action Tuesday. 
Izaguirre defeats Navarre in 132 pound division 
By DAN MURPHY and GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writers 
The first quarterfinal fight ·of 2006 ended with 26 sec­onds remaining in the final round as sophomore Will Marra defeated sophomore 
Nicholas  "Spiderman"  
McClees.  
Marra used his  height  

advantage to keep "Spiderman" at bay while con-
TENNIS 
necting on solid combos throughout. After landing a strong right jab to draw a standing eight count in the second round, Marra kept his opponent along the ropes for the remainder of the fight to earn the victory. 
Sagar Navare vs. Chris Izaguirre 
The 132-pound division opened up with another Zahm 
see BOUTS/page 21 
BENGAl BOUTS 
Senior Greg Schaefer defeated graduate stu­dent Phil Albonetti in 160-pound quarterfinal action. 
page 16 
Former Vanderbilt quarterback Jay Cutler impressed NFL scouts during this weekend's Draft combine in Indianapolis. 
page 18 
Oscar De la Hoya and Ricardo Mayorga exchanged verbal blows two months before their fight. 
page 18 










